Institute, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Universiteit 
Maastricht, Maastricht, The Netherlands. hans.savelberg@bw.unimaas.nl

BACKGROUND: In this study the effect of a changed load/capacity ratio on 
sit-to-stand performance and on the underlying net joint moments was 
investigated. In subjects with muscle weakness the load/capacity ratio is 
increased due to reduced muscle capacity. In the current study this ratio was 
manipulated by changing the load. This approach allowed studying the isolated 
effect of an increased load/capacity ratio on sit-to-stand strategy.
METHODS: Ten healthy women performed sit-to-stand movements under four load 
conditions. The load/capacity ratio was manipulated by adding 0%, 15%, 30% and 
45% of the body mass to a weight vest. To determine changes in sit-to-stand 
strategy flexion of the trunk and temporal characteristics were assessed. Joint 
moments at ankle, knee and hip joints and activation patterns of major leg 
muscles were determined from the kinematics and kinetics.
FINDINGS: Increasing the extra load from 30% to 45% changed the sit-to-stand 
performance. In the 45% condition maximal trunk flexion was increased and 
movement time significantly elongated. The strategy change was associated with a 
disproportionate increase of the net hip extension moment and a delayed peak of 
the net knee extension moment.
INTERPRETATION: This study shows that experimentally observed changes in 
sit-to-stand strategy can be attributed to an increase in the load/capacity 
ratio. For treatment purposes this implies that increasing muscle strength, 
reducing body mass or a combination of these could be a suitable approach to 
improve sit-to-stand performance. The experimental model applied will be useful 
to study the isolated effect of the load/capacity ratio.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2007.05.002
PMID: 17573167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2007;127(1-4):153-7. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncm267. Epub
2007  Jun 15.

Reassessment of tritium dose coefficients for the general public.

Melintescu A(1), Galeriu D, Takeda H.

Author information:
(1)Horia Hulubei National Institute of R&D for Physics and Nuclear Engineering, 
Department of Life and Environmental Physics, 407 Atomistilor St., PO Box MG-6, 
RO-077125 Bucharest-Magurele, Romania. ancameli@ifin.nipne.ro

Concerns of increased risk from tritium intake by humans have been claimed in 
the past. The arguments concerning the radiobiological effectiveness of tritium, 
its longer retention in the human body and the presence of tritium in the DNA 
hydration shell are analysed in this paper. A biokinetic model for tritiated 
water and organically bound tritium retention in the human body is used, based 
on a common approach for mammals using energy and hydrogen metabolism and tested 
separately with animal experiments. Extension to this model to humans considers 
the increased role of the brain, food quality and unique growth patterns of 
humans. Various ages and genders for Caucasians are considered. For an intake of 
tritium in organic forms in the diet, the retention for the female is of about a 
factor 2 compared with ICRP recommendations. Effective dose coefficients are 
estimated to be about a factor of 2 to 3 higher than those of the ICRP.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncm267
PMID: 17573366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Lancet. 2007 Jun 16;369(9578):2001-2009. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60941-6.

Hazardous alcohol drinking and premature mortality in Russia: a population based 
case-control study.

Leon DA(1), Saburova L(2), Tomkins S(3), Andreev E(4), Kiryanov N(5), McKee 
M(3), Shkolnikov VM(4).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Electronic 
address: david.leon@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Social Technologies Institute, Izhevsk, Russia.
(3)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.
(5)Izhevsk Medical Academy, Izhevsk, Russia.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2007 Jun 16;369(9578):1975-6.
    Lancet. 2007 Aug 18;370(9587):561-2.

BACKGROUND: The reason for the low life expectancy in Russian men and large 
fluctuations in mortality are unknown. We investigated the contribution of 
alcohol, and hazardous drinking in particular, to male mortality in a typical 
Russian city.
METHODS: Cases were all deaths in men aged 25-54 years living in Izhevsk 
occurring between Oct 20, 2003, to Oct 3, 2005. Controls were selected at random 
from the city population and were frequency matched to deaths by age. Interviews 
with proxy informants living in the same household as cases were done between 
Dec 11, 2003, and Nov, 16 2005, and were obtained for 62% (1750/2835) of cases 
and 57% (1750/3078) of controls. We ascertained frequency and usual amount of 
beer, wine, and spirits consumed and frequency of consumption of manufactured 
ethanol-based liquids not intended to be drunk (non-beverage alcohol), and 
markers of problem drinking. Complete information on markers of problem 
drinking, frequency of alcohol consumption, education, and smoking was available 
for 1468 cases and 1496 controls.
FINDINGS: 751 (51%) cases were classed as problem drinkers or drank non-beverage 
alcohol, compared with 192 (13%) controls. The mortality odds ratio (OR) for 
these men, compared with those who either abstained or were non-problematic 
beverage drinkers, was 6.0 (95% CI 5.0-7.3) after adjustment for smoking and 
education. The mortality ORs for drinking non-beverage alcohol in the past year 
(yes vs no) was 9.2 (7.2-11.7) after adjustment for age. Adjustment for volume 
of ethanol consumed from beverages lowered the OR to 8.3 (6.5-10.7), and further 
adjustment for education and smoking reduced it to 7.0 (5.5-9.0). A strong 
direct gradient with mortality was seen for frequency of non-beverage alcohol 
drinking independent of volume of beverage ethanol consumed. 43% of mortality 
was attributable to hazardous drinking (problem drinking or non-beverage alcohol 
consumption, or both) adjusted for smoking and education.
INTERPRETATION: Almost half of all deaths in working age men in a typical 
Russian city may be accounted for by hazardous drinking. Our analyses provide 
indirect support for the contention that the sharp fluctuations seen in Russian 
mortality in the early 1990s could be related to hazardous drinking as indicated 
by consumption of non-beverage alcohol.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60941-6
PMID: 17574092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. J Comp Pathol. 2007 Jul;137 Suppl 1:S2-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2007.04.003.
Epub  2007 Jun 15.

Challenges and issues of early life vaccination in animals and humans.

Pastoret PP(1).

Author information:
(1)World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), 12, rue de Prony, 75017 Paris, 
France. pp.pastoret@oie.int

This overview considers the major issues related to successful neonatal 
vaccination of domestic animals. A major factor is the balance between the 
essential protection provided by maternally derived immunity and the potential 
inhibitory effects of this immunity on generation of the neonatal vaccinal 
immune response. The design of vaccine programs should also take into account 
the predicted life expectancy and husbandry of the animal species concerned. 
Relatively short-lived production animals or wildlife species may have different 
vaccination requirements from long-lived companion animals. The purpose of 
vaccination also differs depending upon the animals concerned, and may range 
from the establishment of protective immunity in the individual animal or herd, 
through to programs designed to eliminate an infectious agent from a specific 
geographical area.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2007.04.003
PMID: 17574267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Health Policy. 2007 Dec;84(2-3):321-31. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.05.004.  Epub 2007 Jun 18.

What difference does it make? The calculation of QALY gains from health profiles 
using patient and general population values.

McNamee P(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
Foresterhill, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK. 
p.mcnamee@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To compare the Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY) values produced 
from a direct health profile QALY calculation method, using patient values, with 
those derived from a conventional QALY calculation method, using general 
population values.
METHODS: Comparison of QALY values generated from patient valuations of health 
profiles, using a chained version of the Time Trade-Off method, with QALY values 
derived from a conventional QALY calculation method, using general population 
values of EQ-5D states, an observational survey of MS patients, and a randomized 
controlled trial.
RESULTS: Using patient valuations of health profiles, QALY values of treatment 
and placebo were 2.610 and 2.568, respectively, generating a gain of 0.042. The 
conventional QALY method gave values of 2.042 versus 1.998, producing a gain of 
0.044. These findings were generally robust under sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: QALY values were dependent on the calculation method used, but QALY 
gains were similar between methods. QALY values from the conventional QALY 
calculation method appeared robust to most changes in the assumptions used to 
derive values. The direct health profile QALY method was however more able to 
account for heterogeneity in preferences.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.05.004
PMID: 17574293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Neurobiol Aging. 2008 Dec;29(12):1917-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2007.05.003. Epub 2007 Jun 15.

Role of VEGF gene variability in longevity: a lesson from the Italian 
population.

Del Bo R(1), Ghezzi S, Scarlato M, Albani D, Galimberti D, Lucca U, Tettamanti 
M, Scarpini E, Forloni G, Bresolin N, Comi GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Dino Ferrari Centre, University of 
Milan, IRCCS Foundation Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Mangiagalli and Regina 
Elena, Padiglione Ponti, Milano, Italy. roberto.delbo@unimi.it

Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) gene polymorphisms have been 
associated with an increased risk of developing a wide variety of disorders from 
diabetes to neurodegenerative diseases suggesting functions not confined to its 
vascular effects originally described. Based on the VEGF protective roles 
undisclosed in pathological conditions, we evaluate whether VEGF variability 
might be a determinant also for longevity. Four polymorphisms (-2578C/A, 
-1190G/A, -1154G/A and -634G/C) within the VEGF gene promoter region in 490 
unrelated Italian healthy subjects have been analysed. Significant changes of 
allele, genotype (-2578/AA versus -2578/CC: OR=2.08, p=0.007; -1190/AA versus 
-1190/GG: OR=2.01, p=0.011) and haplotype (AAGG: 10.4% versus 14.9%, p=0.03) 
frequency distributions were observed between young/elderly (25-84 years old) 
and long-lived (85-99 years old) subjects. These results suggest that VEGF gene 
variability can be inserted among the genetic factors influencing the lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2007.05.003
PMID: 17574707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Heart. 2008 May;94(5):e18. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2006.106716. Epub 2007 Jun 17.

Echocardiographic risk stratification for early surgery with endocarditis: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Liao L(1), Kong DF, Samad Z, Pappas PA, Jollis JG, Lin SS, Wang A, Fowler VG Jr, 
Chu VH, Sexton DJ, Corey GR, Cabell CH.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. liao0002@mc.duke.edu

Comment in
    Heart. 2008 May;94(5):549-51.

BACKGROUND: Despite widespread acceptance of echocardiography for diagnosis of 
infective endocarditis, few investigators have evaluated its utility as a 
risk-stratification tool to aid therapeutic decision-making.
METHODS: A decision tree and Markov analysis model were constructed using 
published and institutional data to estimate the cost-effectiveness of an 
echocardiographic risk-stratification strategy for infective endocarditis. The 
models compared surgery for high-risk patients based on clinical factors 
("standard care") and surgery for high-risk patients based on echocardiographic 
findings ("echocardiography-guided").
RESULTS: The cost per patient for standard care and echocardiography-guided 
strategies was $47,766 and $53,669, respectively. The expected quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY) for standard care and echocardiography-guided strategies were 
5.86 years and 6.10 years, respectively. Compared with standard care, the 
echocardiography-guided strategy cost an additional $23,867 per QALY saved. In 
one-way sensitivity analyses, the incremental cost of this strategy remained 
<$50,000/QALY across a broad range of scenarios. Baseline stroke risk had the 
greatest effect on cost-effectiveness. For populations with stroke risk less 
than 3.65%, the echocardiography-guided strategy was not cost-attractive (ICER 
>$50,000/QALY). At stroke risk between 3.65% and 14%, the ICER for the 
echocardiography-guided strategy was attractive (<$50,000 /QALY). The 
echocardiography-guided strategy became economically dominant at any baseline 
stroke risk greater than 18.3%.
CONCLUSION: Echo-guided risk stratification for early surgery in patients with 
large vegetations is a cost-attractive treatment strategy for IE, as it improves 
outcome for an incremental cost <$50,000/QALY.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2006.106716
PMID: 17575328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. JSLS. 2006 Oct-Dec;10(4):479-83.

Laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis in elderly patients.

do Amaral PC(1), Azaro Filho Ede M, Galvão TD, Ettinger JE, Silva Reis JM, Lima 
M, Fahel E.

Author information:
(1)General Surgery Division, São Rafael Hospital, Department of Surgery, Escola 
Bahiana de Medicina e Saúde Pública, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil. 
pcgamaral@terra.com.br

BACKGROUND: Acute cholecystitis is the major complication of biliary lithiasis, 
for which laparoscopic treatment has been established as the standard therapy. 
With longer life expectancy, acute cholecystitis has often been seen in elderly 
patients (>65 years old) and is often accompanied by comorbity and severe 
complications. We sought to compare the outcome of laparoscopic treatment for 
acute cholecystitis with special focus on comparison between elderly and 
nonelderly patients.
METHOD: This study was a prospective analysis of 190 patients who underwent 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy due to acute cholecystitis or chronic acute 
cholecystitis, comparing elderly and nonelderly patients.
RESULTS: Of 190 patients, 39 (21%) were elderly (>65 years old) and 151 (79%) 
were not elderly (< or =65 years), with conversion rates of 10.3% and 6.6% 
(P=0.49), respectively. The incidence of postoperative complications in elderly 
and nonelderly patients were the following, respectively: atelectasis 5.1% and 
2.0% (P=0.27); respiratory infection 5.1% and 2.7% (P=0.6); bile leakage 5.1% 
and 2.0% (P=0.27), and intraabdominal abscess 1 case (0.7%) and no incidence (P 
= 1).
CONCLUSION: According to our data, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is a safe and 
efficient procedure for the treatment of acute cholecystitis in patients older 
than 65 years of age.

PMCID: PMC3015745
PMID: 17575761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Herz. 2006 Dec;31 Suppl 3:74-82.

A multi-country health-economic evaluation of highly concentrated n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids in the secondary prevention after myocardial 
infarction.

Lamotte M(1), Annemans L, Kawalec P, Zoellners Y.

Author information:
(1)HEDM-IMS, Bruxelles, Belgium.

Patients who survive an acute myocardial infarction (MI) are at increased risk 
of subsequent major cardiovascular events and cardiac (often sudden) death. The 
use of highly concentrated and purified omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 
PUFAs), in addition to standard secondary prevention after MI, results in a 
significant reduction in the risk of sudden death. This study assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of adding n-3 PUFAs to the current secondary prevention 
treatment after acute MI in 5 countries: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Germany, 
Poland. Based on the clinical outcomes of GISSI-Prevenzione (MI, stroke, 
revascularisation rate and mortality), a decision-model was built in DataPROTM. 
The implications of adding n-3 PUFAs to standard treatment in patients with a 
recent history of MI were analysed from the health care payer's perspective. The 
time horizon was 3.5 years (identical to GISSI-Prevenzione). Event costs were 
based on literature data. Life expectancy data for survivors of cardiac disease 
were taken from the Saskatchewan database and then country-adjusted. Results are 
expressed as extra cost (Euro) per life-year gained (LYG). Annual discounting of 
5% was applied to health effects and costs. Treatment with highly concentrated 
n-3 PUFAs yielded between 0.260 (Poland) and 0.284 (Australia) LYG, at an 
additional cost of Euro 807 (Canada) to Euro 1,451 (Belgium). The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) varied between Euro 2,867 (Canada) and Euro 
5,154 (Belgium) per LYG. Sensitivity analyses on effectiveness, cost of 
complications and discounting proved the robustness of the results. A 2nd order 
Monte Carlo simulation based on the 95% CIs obtained from GISSI showed that 
highly concentrated n-3 PUFAs are cost-effective in more than 99% of patients 
(assuming societal willingness to pay threshold of Euro 20,000/LYG). Including 
health care costs incurred during the remaining life-years considerably 
increased total costs, but had no impact on the ICER-based treatment 
recommendation. Adding highly concentrated n-3 PUFAs to standard treatment in 
the secondary prevention after MI appears to be cost-effective in the 5 
countries studied.

PMID: 17575809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Notes Rec R Soc Lond. 2007 Jan 22;61(1):23-9. doi: 10.1098/rsnr.2006.0160.

Darwin's illness: a final diagnosis.

Orrego F(1), Quintana C.

Author information:
(1)Origin of Living Beings, Faculty of Medicine, Universidad de los Andes, 
Santiago 6782468, Chile. forrego@uandes.cl

We have re-examined many of the abundant publications on the illness that 
afflicted Charles Darwin during most of his life, including some of the 416 
health-related letters in his correspondence, as well as his autobiographical 
writings. We have concluded that he suffered from Crohn's disease, located 
mainly in his upper small intestine. This explains his upper abdominal pain, his 
flatulence and vomiting, as well as his articular and neurological symptoms, his 
'extreme fatigue', low fever and especially the chronic, relapsing course of his 
illness that evolved in bouts, did not affect his life expectancy and decreased 
with old age, and also the time of life at which it started. It apparently does 
not explain, however, many of his cutaneous symptoms. We do not support other 
diagnoses such as Chagas' disease, lactose intolerance or the many psychiatric 
conditions that have been postulated.

DOI: 10.1098/rsnr.2006.0160
PMID: 17575947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Curr Oncol. 2006 Apr;13(2):47-54.

The do-not-resuscitate order: incidence of documentation in the medical records 
of cancer patients referred for palliative radiotherapy.

Bradley NM(1), Sinclair E, Danjoux C, Barnes EA, Tsao MN, Farhadian M, Yee A, 
Chow E.

Author information:
(1)Rapid Response Radiotherapy Program and Bone Metastases Clinic, 
Toronto-Sunnybrook Regional Cancer Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario.

Patients with symptomatic metastases referred for outpatient palliative 
radiotherapy for symptom control at the Rapid Response Radiotherapy Program 
(RRRP) and the Bone Metastases Clinic (BMC) at the Toronto-Sunnybrook Regional 
Cancer Centre have a limited life expectancy. Relevant medical information is 
missing from the files of many referred patients when they arrive at the 
clinics, potentially causing delayed treatment and ambiguity in the best 
management of their needs in situations of worsening condition. Clear 
documentation of the do-not-resuscitate (DNR) order is imperative to avoid panic 
and the taking of unnecessarily aggressive measures in situations in which 
cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) has no benefit or is not desired. Here, we 
report the current practices of CPR code status documentation for patients 
referred to the RRRP and the BMC for out-patient palliative radiotherapy.We 
reviewed referral notes and accompanying medical records for 209 consecutive 
patients seen in the RRRP and the bmc during May-August 2004 for documentation 
of CPR-related advance directives. Patient demographics and cancer history were 
also recorded.Only 13 (6.2%) of the 209 patients had any documented reference to 
CPR code status. Of these 13 patients, 8 were DNR-coded, and 5 were full code. 
As compared with patients having no documented cpr code status, patients with 
documented status were significantly older (median age: 77 years; p = 0.0347), 
had poorer performance status (median Karnofsky performance status score: 40; p 
= 0.0001), and were more likely to be referred hospital inpatients (69%, p = 
0.0004).Only a small proportion of symptomatic advanced cancer patients had any 
documentation of CPR code status upon referral for outpatient palliative 
radiotherapy. In future, our clinics plan to request information about CPR code 
status on our referral form.

PMCID: PMC1891171
PMID: 17576441


747. Arch Dermatol. 2007 Jun;143(6):719-26. doi: 10.1001/archderm.143.6.719.

Long-term safety and efficacy of 50 mg of etanercept twice weekly in patients 
with psoriasis.

Tyring S(1), Gordon KB, Poulin Y, Langley RG, Gottlieb AB, Dunn M, Jahreis A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, The University of Texas Health Center at Houston, 
6655 Travis, Suite 120, Houston, TX 77030, and Evanston Northwest Healthcare, 
Skokie, IL, USA. styring@ccstexas.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of long-term treatment of 
psoriasis with etanercept, 50 mg twice weekly.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: A phase 3, randomized, double-blind trial with an 
open-label extension. A total of 618 adult patients with moderate to severe 
plaque psoriasis were studied at 39 medical centers in the United States and 
Canada from May 23, 2003, through June 22, 2005.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomized to receive placebo or etanercept for 12 
weeks. Beginning with week 13, all patients (N=591) received etanercept.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Exposure-adjusted adverse event rates were calculated. 
Efficacy measures included efficacy and patient global assessment of psoriasis.
RESULTS: Exposure-adjusted rates of adverse events, serious adverse events, 
infections, and serious infections were similar for placebo and etanercept 
treatments. Nonneutralizing antibodies to etanercept, observed in 18.3% of 
patients, had no apparent effect on safety or efficacy. Patients responded 
within 2 weeks to etanercept, with statistically significant differences in the 
Psoriasis Area and Severity Index and Dermatology Life Quality Index between the 
etanercept and placebo groups at week 12. At week 24, after 12 weeks of 
open-label etanercept treatment, patients in the original placebo group had 
clinical benefits comparable to those of patients in the original etanercept 
group. As both groups progressed through the open-label period, the Psoriasis 
Area and Severity Index response peaked at week 48. At week 96, 51.6% of the 
original placebo-treated patients and 51.1% of the original etanercept-treated 
patients had improvements from baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index 
of at least 75%.
CONCLUSIONS: Extended exposure to 50 mg of etanercept twice weekly resulted in 
exposure-adjusted rates of adverse events and infections similar to those in 
patients receiving placebo. Improvements in physician- and patient-reported 
measures of psoriasis severity were observed for up to 96 weeks of continuous 
etanercept therapy. Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier 
NCT00111449.

DOI: 10.1001/archderm.143.6.719
PMID: 17576937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. CMAJ. 2007 Jun 19;176(13):1853-8. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.060955.

Prostate-specific antigen in the early detection of prostate cancer.

Thompson IM(1), Ankerst DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San 
Antonio, San Antonio, Tex 78229, USA. thompsoni@uthscsa.edu

Throughout Canada, the United States and much of Europe, prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) screening for prostate cancer has proliferated over the past 2 
decades, leading to dramatic increases in detection rates of prostate cancer. 
Although it has unquestionably led to increased detection of cancer and a 
migration to lower-stage and -volume tumours, it is still unknown whether PSA 
screening significantly reduces mortality from prostate cancer. Often thought to 
be dichotomous (i.e., either normal or elevated), PSA measurements actually 
reflect cancer risk, with the risks of cancer and of aggressive cancer 
increasing with the level of PSA. The recently developed risk calculator from 
the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial, which integrates family history of 
prostate cancer, digital rectal examination findings, PSA test result, age, 
ethnicity, and history of a prior prostate biopsy with a negative result, allows 
clinicians to assess a patient's individual risk of cancer. This risk should be 
examined in the context of a patient's life expectancy and comorbidity as well 
as his concern about the possibility of prostate cancer. The terms "normal" and 
"elevated" as descriptors of PSA results should be abandoned.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.060955
PMCID: PMC1891131
PMID: 17576986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jun 19;146(12):848-56. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-146-12-200706190-00006.

Different ways to describe the benefits of risk-reducing treatments: a 
randomized trial.

Halvorsen PA(1), Selmer R, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. phalvor@online.no

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jun 19;146(12):891-2.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jun 19;146(12):I50.

BACKGROUND: How physicians communicate the risks and benefits of medical care 
may influence patients' choices. Ways to communicate the benefits of 
risk-reducing drug therapies include the number needed to treat (NNT) to prevent 
adverse events, such as heart attacks or hip fractures, and gains in 
disease-free life expectancy or postponement of adverse events. Previous studies 
suggest that the magnitude of the NNT does not affect a layperson's decision 
about risk-reducing interventions, but postponement of an adverse event does 
affect such decisions.
OBJECTIVE: To examine laypersons' responses to scenarios that describe benefits 
as postponing an adverse event or the equivalent NNT.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional survey with random allocation to different scenarios.
SETTING: General community.
PARTICIPANTS: Respondents to a population-based health study.
INTERVENTION: The survey presented scenarios regarding a hypothetical drug 
therapy to reduce the risk for heart attacks (1754 respondents) or hip fractures 
(1000 respondents). The data sources for both scenarios were clinical trials. 
Respondents were randomly assigned to a scenario with 1 of 3 outcomes after 5 
years of treatment. For the drug to prevent heart attacks, the outcomes were 
postponement by 2 months for all patients, postponement by 8 months for 1 of 4 
patients, or an NNT of 13 patients to prevent 1 heart attack. For the drug to 
prevent hip fractures, the outcomes were postponement by 16 days for all 
patients, postponement by 16 months for 3 of 100 patients, or an NNT of 57 
patients to prevent 1 fracture.
MEASUREMENTS: Consent to receive the intervention and perceived ease of 
understanding the treatment effect.
RESULTS: The overall rate of response to the survey was 81%. In the heart attack 
scenarios, 93% of respondents who were presented with the NNT outcome consented 
to drug therapy, 82% who were presented with the outcome of large postponement 
for some patients consented to therapy, and 69% who were presented with the 
outcome of short postponement for all patients consented to therapy (chi-square, 
89.6; P < 0.001). Corresponding consent rates for the hip fracture scenarios 
were 74%, 56%, and 34%, respectively (chi-square, 91.5, P < 0.001). Respondents 
who said that they understood the treatment effect were more likely to consent 
to therapy.
LIMITATION: Decisions were based on hypothetical scenarios, not real clinical 
encounters.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment effects expressed in terms of NNT yielded higher consent 
rates than did those expressed as equivalent postponements. This result suggests 
that the description of the anticipated outcome may influence the patient's 
willingness to accept a recommended intervention.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-146-12-200706190-00006
PMID: 17577004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Rev Prat. 2007 Feb 15;57(3):294-8.

[Lung transplantation].

[Article in French]

Stern M(1), Bonnette P.

Author information:
(1)Groupe de transplantation pulmonaire, service de pneumologie, hôpital Foch, 
92151 Suresnes. m.stern@hopital-foch.org

Lung transplantation is now an effective therapy for patients of less than 60 
years-old with chronic end-stage lung diseases which life expectancy is less 
than 12 to18 months in spite of maximal medical therapy. The various surgical 
procedures (single or bilateral lung or heart-lung transplantation) offer an 
adapted solution to all the candidates whatever the cause of the respiratory 
disease. The early postoperative mortality is less than 10% and the survival 
rates regularly improve and reach 65 to 7% at 3 years and more than 50% at 5 
years for experienced programmes. Primary graft dysfunction, infections and 
airways complications are the main causes of early morbidity. Bronchiolitis 
obliterans is the main limiting factor of the long-term survival. Malignancies 
and drug toxicity, such as renal or vascular complications, occur also at that 
time.

PMID: 17578030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Obes Rev. 2007 Jul;8(4):339-45. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2006.00307.x.

A review of weight loss interventions for adults with intellectual disabilities.

Hamilton S(1), Hankey CR, Miller S, Boyle S, Melville CA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Psychological Medicine, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

Obesity is more prevalent in adults with intellectual disabilities than in the 
general population, and has been shown to contribute to their reduced life 
expectancy, and increased health needs. Relatively few studies have examined the 
effectiveness of weight loss interventions for adults with intellectual 
disabilities. However, there is evidence to support interventions that take 
account of the context of the lives of adults with intellectual disabilities, 
including carer involvement in interventions. To reduce the health inequalities 
experienced by adults with intellectual disabilities, there is a clear need to 
develop accessible, evidence-based clinical weight management services.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2006.00307.x
PMID: 17578383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Obes Rev. 2007 Jul;8(4):363-71. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2007.00352.x.

The cost-effectiveness of sibutramine in non-diabetic obese patients: evidence 
from four Western countries.

Ara R(1), Brennan A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK. r.m.ara@sheffield.ac.uk

This paper aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of sibutramine in treating 
obese patients in the Western countries. The model estimates the costs and 
quality of life benefits directly associated with weight losses combined with 
the costs and benefits associated with the reduced incidence of coronary heart 
disease (CHD) and diabetes. The pivotal effectiveness evidence is derived from a 
German multicentre, double-blind, randomized clinical trial on obese (body mass 
index >/= 30 Euro kg m(-2)) patients. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life year ranges from 10,734 Euro in Switzerland to 13,707 Euro in Germany. The 
total number of CHD events avoided ranges from 1.96 for the UK to 4.49 for 
Switzerland. The number of diabetes cases avoided is in the region of 3.0 
(ranges from 2.58 for Germany to 3.28 for Switzerland). The majority of costs 
and benefits are accrued through sibutramine treatment and monitoring. 
Univariate sensitivity analyses show that results are sensitive to changes in 
the utility directly attributable to weight losses. The results demonstrate that 
the benefits associated with sibutramine-induced weight losses are obtained at a 
reasonable cost in each of the settings explored and suggest that sibutramine 
treatment could be considered as a viable option for pharmacotherapy treatment 
alongside diet and exercise.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2007.00352.x
PMID: 17578385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2007 Summer;23(3):337-42. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462307070419.

Value of information analysis for a new technology: computer-assisted total knee 
replacement.

Dong H(1), Coyle D, Buxton M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Tropical Hygiene and Public Health, Heidelberg University, 
Germany. dong@uni-heidelberg.de

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to demonstrate how value of information 
analysis can measure the upper limit on returns to future research and identify 
the research priorities for computer-assisted total knee replacement (CAS-TKR).
METHODS: Using a previous economic analysis of CAS-TKR compared with 
conventional TKR, the population expected value of perfect information (EVPI) 
was calculated using Monte Carlo simulation to provide an estimate of the upper 
limit on returns to future research. The population expected value of partial 
perfect information (EVPPI) for both individual parameters and groups of 
parameters was estimated to inform specific future research priorities.
RESULTS: The UK individual EVPI would be pound21.4 if the willingness to pay for 
one QALY (quality-adjusted life-year) were pound30,000. The population EVPPI 
would be pound8.3 million, assuming a 10-year time horizon for CAS-TKR. In this 
instance, the expected value of information is positively related to willingness 
to pay for one QALY for the range of pound0 to pound50,000. Although each 
individual parameter had an EVPPI of pound0, groups of utility parameters had 
positive EVPPI. Population EVPPI was pound5.6 million for utility parameters, 
pound20,000 for transition probabilities relating to CAS-TKR, and pound5,000 for 
transition probabilities related to conventional TKR.
CONCLUSIONS: The study provides evidence on which parameters further information 
may be of most value. Focusing research on the utility values associated with 
health states relating to TKR would be of greatest value.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462307070419
PMID: 17579936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2007 Summer;23(3):362-7. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462307070523.

Assessing automated external defibrillators in preventing deaths from sudden 
cardiac arrest: an economic evaluation.

Sharieff W(1), Kaulback K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. doc.sharieff@utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
on-site automated external defibrillators (AEDs) in the initial management of 
cardiac arrest in Ontario.
METHODS: This was a cost-effectiveness analysis based on published literature 
and data from the Canadian Institute of Health Information. The participants 
were fictitious male and female cardiac arrest patients who were initially 
managed with on-site AEDs, compared with similar patients managed without 
on-site AEDs. This group included a subgroup of high-risk patients (i.e., heart 
failure and left ventricular ejection fraction<35 percent). The analysis was 
conducted in a variety of settings including hospitals and homes in Ontario, 
Canada. The main outcome evaluated was cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained from a payer's perspective.
RESULTS: Cost per QALY (all costs reported in Canadian dollars) was $12,768 when 
AEDs were deployed in hospitals, $511,766 when deployed in office buildings, 
$2,360,023 when deployed in apartment buildings, $87,569 when deployed in homes 
of high-risk patients, and $1,529,371 when deployed in homes of people older 
than 55 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: Indiscriminate deployment of AEDs is not a cost-effective means of 
improving health outcomes of cardiac arrest. Their use should be restricted to 
emergency response programs, high-risk sites (such as hospitals), and high-risk 
patients.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462307070523
PMID: 17579940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2007 Summer;23(3):368-75. doi: 
10.1017/s0266462307070432.

Comparison of the cost-effectiveness of infliximab in the treatment of 
ankylosing spondylitis in the United Kingdom based on two different clinical 
trials.

Kobelt G(1), Sobocki P, Sieper J, Braun J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University of Lund, Sweden. gisela 
Kobelt@he-europe.com

OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-effectiveness of the treatment of ankylosing 
spondylitis (AS) with infliximab in the United Kingdom over lifetime estimated 
from two different clinical trials and adjusted for clinical practice 
guidelines.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model was developed to incorporate clinical, 
epidemiological, and economic data and allow extrapolation of trial results and 
incorporation of long-term treatment. Assumptions regarding treatment beyond the 
trials were based on open extensions from the trials and treatment guidelines by 
the British Society for Rheumatology. Results are presented for both the 
societal perspective and the perspective of the National Health Service (UK 
pound, discounted 3.5 percent).
RESULTS: Under the assumption that disease activity would be controlled and 
functional capacity would remain stable while on drug, treatment with infliximab 
(5 mg/kg every 6 weeks) dominates standard treatment in the societal 
perspective. In the National Health Service perspective, the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained over lifetime was pound28,300 and 
pound26,800 for the two trials. If functional capacity were to deteriorate at 
half the rate of untreated patients, the cost per QALY gained would be 
pound35,300 and pound34,100, respectively. The results are sensitive to the 
dosing regimen adopted, the discontinuation rate, and assumptions concerning 
disease progression while on treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The two clinical trials yield the same cost-effectiveness results 
and the cost per QALY gained with treatment was found to be in the acceptable 
range.

DOI: 10.1017/s0266462307070432
PMID: 17579941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2007 Jun;60(6):639-54. doi: 10.1157/13107121.

[Abdominal aortic aneurysm and renovascular disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Riambau V(1), Guerrero F, Montañá X, Gilabert R.

Author information:
(1)Cirugía vascular, Instituto del Tórax, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, Spain.

Recent technological advances in the diagnosis and therapy of abdominal aortic 
aneurysm and renovascular disease are continuing to bring about changes in the 
way patients suffering from these conditions are treated. The prevalence of both 
these conditions is increasing. This is due to greater life-expectancy in 
patients with arteriosclerosis, a pathogenetic factor underlying both 
conditions. The application of diagnostic imaging techniques to non-vascular 
conditions has led to the early diagnosis of abdominal aortic aneurysm. Clinical 
suspicion of reno-vascular disease can be confirmed easily using high-resolution 
diagnostic imaging modalities such as CT angiography and magnetic resonance 
angiography. Endovascular intervention is successfully replacing conventional 
surgical repair techniques, with the result that it may be possible to improve 
outcome in both conditions using effective and minimally invasive approaches. 
Future technological developments will enable these endovascular techniques to 
be applied in the large majority of patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm or 
renovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1157/13107121
PMID: 17580053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Semin Vasc Surg. 2007 Jun;20(2):121-7. doi:
10.1053/j.semvascsurg.2007.04.001.

Who should we operate on and how do we decide: predicting rupture and survival 
in patients with aortic aneurysm.

Fillinger M(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03750, USA. Mark.Fillinger@Hitchcock.org

The decision to operate on a patient with an aortic aneurysm is based on the 
risk of aneurysm rupture versus the risk of aneurysm repair, within the context 
of the patient's overall life expectancy. Risk of rupture is still primarily 
based on the maximum aneurysm diameter, with some allowances made for factors 
that modify rupture risk, such as gender and current smoking. Newer methods for 
determining rupture risk, such as aneurysm-wall stress analysis, appear 
promising, but are not yet broadly available. Until then, diameter-based 
prediction rules for rupture risk will "fail" 10% to 25% of patients with both 
small and large abdominal aortic aneurysms. With regard to predicting operative 
mortality and life expectancy after open or endovascular aneurysm repair, 
multiple risk-stratification algorithms have been created. The best of these 
algorithms are accurate in 75% to 80% of patients, meaning that they fail in 20% 
to 25% of cases. Prediction algorithms provide significant guidance, but cannot 
take the place of an experienced clinician at this point. Somehow, experienced 
surgeons are able to sift through a massive amount of information and properly 
select patients who are appropriate for surgery, with quite reasonable 
perioperative and long-term mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semvascsurg.2007.04.001
PMID: 17580250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Int J Prosthodont. 2007 May-Jun;20(3):239-41.

Clinical evaluation of Procera AllCeram crowns in the anterior and posterior 
regions.

Zitzmann NU(1), Galindo ML, Hagmann E, Marinello CP.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Reconstructive Dentistry and Temporomandibular Disorders, Basel, 
Switzerland. N.Zitzmann@unibas.ch

The aim of this prospective clinical study was to investigate the long-term 
survival of Procera AllCeram all-ceramic crowns in the anterior and posterior 
regions. Between 1997 and 2005, 155 Procera crowns with aluminum oxide cores 
were placed in 50 patients. Patients were recalled in 2005 for a clinical 
assessment. Thirty-nine patients with 135 crowns attended the recall 
examination. Of the 135 total crowns, 103 were located in the posterior region 
and 32 were located in the anterior region. The cumulative survival rate was 
100% in the anterior region and 98.8% in the posterior region (1 crown fracture) 
after 5 and 7 years. Clinical success was achieved irrespective of the tooth 
position, cement used (resin composite or glass-ionomer cement), or the core 
design with reduced or conventional margins. Procera AllCeram seems to be a 
predictable technique for esthetic all-ceramic single crown restorations in the 
anterior and posterior regions.

PMID: 17580452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J AOAC Int. 2007 May-Jun;90(3):802-9.

Discriminatory power, typability, and accuracy of single nucleotide extension 
microarrays.

Berget I(1), Heir E, Petcovic J, Rudi K.

Author information:
(1)Matforsk, Oslovn 1, 1430 As, Norway and Cigene, Norwegian University of Life 
Sciences (UMB), 1430, As, Norway.

Despite great conceptual promise, the use of microarrays in typing approaches 
has not yet gained wide acceptance. The establishment of proper criteria for 
determining discriminatory power as well as typability and the accuracy of 
microarray data remains to be solved. Purely experimental estimations of these 
parameters would far exceed what is experimentally practical. We therefore used 
simulations in combination with experimental results in parameter estimations. 
Our assay was based on 26 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) identified in 
the Campylobacterjejuni Multi Locus Sequence Typing (MLST) database 
(http:///pubmist.org/campylobacter/). The SNPs were detected using a single 
nucleotide extension (SNE) typing microarray. Unknown isolates were assigned to 
the known sequence type(s) by calculating weighted sum of matches minus a 
weighted sum of mismatches between predicted and candidate genotype. The weights 
were set according to the Bayesian posterior probability of the SNP 
classification. These studies showed that any typing or profiling method based 
on binary data requires an accuracy of <2-3% error for each datapoint (in our 
case SNPs) to classify the isolates to the correct allelic profile in 90% of the 
cases. The classification error for our experimental data was 3.2% (after 
removing 5 high error SNPs). We therefore conclude that SNE microarrays are 
promising for future high-throughput typing of bacteria.

PMID: 17580633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Health Stat Q. 2007 Summer;(34):35-45.

[Inequalities in health expectancies in England and Wales--small area analysis 
from the 2001 Ccensus.

Rasulo D(1), Bajekal M, Yar M.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This study investigates inequalities in the expectation of life without 
disability and life in good health using 2001 Census data at small area (ward) 
level for England and Wales. Inequalities were examined both nationally and 
within regions by computing life expectancies and health expectancies in groups 
of wards (twentieths) aggregated according to the Carstairs deprivation score. 
The results showed that the inequality gaps were significantly larger for health 
expectancies compared with life expectancy; they were wider for disability-free 
life expectancy than healthy life expectancy; and, for all measures, were wider 
for males. Within regions, the gradient in health inequalities with increasing 
deprivation varied. Those living in the least deprived wards had similar levels 
of health expectations across all regions. There was more geographical variation 
in the most deprived areas with lowest health expectations in the northern 
regions.

PMID: 17580646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Crit Care Med. 2007 Aug;35(8):1918-27. doi:
10.1097/01.CCM.0000275391.35834.10.

An economic evaluation of prolonged mechanical ventilation.

Cox CE(1), Carson SS, Govert JA, Chelluri L, Sanders GD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Duke University, Durham, NC, USA. christopher.cox@duke.edu

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2007 Aug;35(8):1994.
    Crit Care Med. 2007 Dec;35(12):2881; author reply 2881-2.

OBJECTIVE: Patients who receive prolonged mechanical ventilation have high 
resource utilization and relatively poor outcomes, especially the elderly, and 
are increasing in number. The economic implications of prolonged mechanical 
ventilation provision, however, are uncertain and would be helpful to providers 
and policymakers. Therefore, we aimed to determine the lifetime societal value 
of prolonged mechanical ventilation.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: Adopting the perspective of a healthcare payor, we 
developed a Markov model to determine the cost effectiveness of providing 
mechanical ventilation for at least 21 days to a 65-yr-old critically ill 
base-case patient compared with the provision of comfort care resulting in 
withdrawal of ventilation. Input data were derived from the medical literature, 
Medicare, and a recent large cohort study of ventilated patients.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We determined lifetime costs and survival, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and cost effectiveness as reflected by costs 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained. Providing prolonged mechanical 
ventilation to the base-case patient cost "dollars"55,460 per life-year gained 
and "dollars"82,411 per quality-adjusted life-year gained compared with 
withdrawal of ventilation. Cost-effectiveness ratios were most sensitive to 
variation in age, hospital costs, and probability of readmission, although less 
sensitive to postacute care-facility costs. Specifically, incremental costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained by prolonged mechanical ventilation provision 
exceeded "dollars"100,000 with age >or=68 and when predicted 1-yr mortality was 
>50%.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost effectiveness of prolonged mechanical ventilation 
provision varies dramatically based on age and likelihood of poor short- and 
long-term outcomes. Identifying patients likely to have unfavorable outcomes, 
lowering intensity of care for appropriate patients, and reducing costly 
readmissions should be future priorities in improving the value of prolonged 
mechanical ventilation.

DOI: 10.1097/01.CCM.0000275391.35834.10
PMCID: PMC2745076
PMID: 17581479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Radiology. 2007 Aug;244(2):505-13. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2442060713. Epub 2007
Jun  20.

Renal artery stenosis: cost-effectiveness of diagnosis and treatment.

van Helvoort-Postulart D(1), Dirksen CD, Nelemans PJ, Kroon AA, Kessels AG, de 
Leeuw PW, Vasbinder GB, van Engelshoven JM, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
University Hospital Maastricht, P Debyelaan 25, 6229 HX Maastricht, the 
Netherlands. debby.van.helvoort@home.nl

Comment in
    Radiologe. 2007 Dec;47(12):1069-70.

PURPOSE: To use a decision analytic model to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
performing diagnostic digital subtraction angiography (DSA), computed 
tomographic (CT) angiography, or magnetic resonance (MR) angiography or 
proceeding immediately to tentative percutaneous revascularization in patients 
suspected of having renovascular hypertension.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With use of a Markov-Monte Carlo decision model, 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed from a societal perspective. Data were 
derived from the Renal Artery Diagnostic Imaging Study in Hypertension and from 
published literature. The base-case analyses were used to evaluate a 50-year-old 
patient with a diastolic blood pressure higher than 95 mm Hg and one or more 
clinical clues suggestive of renovascular hypertension. Outcome measures were 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), lifetime costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: For a 50-year-old male patient, immediate tentative revascularization 
was the least costly (euro54 415) and most effective (12.265 QALYs) strategy. 
For the other strategies, costs and QALYs, respectively, were euro55 570 and 
12.195 for DSA, euro55 191 and 12.163 for CT angiography, and euro56 890 and 
12.088 for MR angiography. For a 50-year-old female patient, costs and QALYs, 
respectively, were euro66 731 and 13.731 for MR angiography, euro63 970 and 
13.749 for CT angiography, and euro63 079 and 13.902 for DSA. Immediate 
tentative revascularization yielded more QALYs (13.937) and was more costly 
(euro63 329) than DSA. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was euro7143 per 
QALY. As the prior probability increased, use of a more invasive diagnostic 
imaging strategy became justified. Also, the sensitivities of CT angiography and 
MR angiography and the costs of DSA influenced the results.
CONCLUSION: Given currently accepted incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, 
immediate tentative percutaneous revascularization is a cost-effective strategy 
