598. Sao Paulo Med J. 2007 Jan 4;125(1):50-6. doi:
10.1590/s1516-31802007000100010.

Hepatorenal syndrome: an update.

Genzini T(1), Torricelli FC.

Author information:
(1)HEPATO, Hospital Beneficiencia Portuguesa, São Paulo, Brazil.

Comment in
    Sao Paulo Med J. 2008 Jan 2;126(1):67; author reply 67.

Hepatorenal syndrome (HRS) is the development of renal failure in patients with 
chronic previous liver disease, without clinical or laboratory evidence of 
previous kidney disease. It affects up to 18% of cirrhotic patients with ascites 
during the first year of follow-up, reaching 39% in five years and presenting a 
survival of about two weeks after its establishment. HRS diagnosis is based on 
clinical and laboratory data. The occurrence of this syndrome is related to the 
mechanism for ascites development, involving vasoconstriction, low renal 
perfusion, water and sodium retention, increased plasma volume, and consequent 
overflow at the splanchnic level. Renal vasoactive mediators like endothelin 1, 
thromboxane A2, and leukotrienes are also involved in the genesis of this 
syndrome, which culminates in functional renal insufficiency. The treatment of 
choice can be pharmacological or surgical, although liver transplantation is the 
only permanent and effective treatment, with a four-year survival rate of up to 
60%. Liver function recovery is usually followed by renal failure reversion. 
Early diagnosis and timely therapeutics can increase life expectancy for these 
patients while they are waiting for liver transplantation as a definitive 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1590/s1516-31802007000100010
PMID: 17505686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Abdom Imaging. 2008 May-Jun;33(3):278-84. doi: 10.1007/s00261-007-9240-2.

Complications of colonic stenting: a pictorial review.

Dharmadhikari R(1), Nice C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Queen Elizabeth Avenue 
Sheriff Hill, Gateshead, Tyne and Wear, NE9 6SX, UK. rahuld@doctors.org.uk

Surgical resection of colorectal carcinoma is the only curative treatment 
currently available. In the elective setting peri-operative mortality is low and 
refinements in surgical technique and peri-operative care have resulted in high 
primary anastamosis rates and progressively reduced postoperative morbidity. In 
those presenting with large bowel obstruction the mortality and morbidity 
remains high. Many of those undergoing surgery will have incurable disease and a 
short life expectancy. Increasingly self-expanding metal stents are being 
deployed as either a 'bridge to surgery' or for palliation. This review covers 
the imaging appearances, detection and management of complications of colonic 
stenting.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-007-9240-2
PMID: 17505852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Osteoporos Int. 2007 May;18(5):703-9. doi: 10.1007/s00198-006-0295-7.

Comparative study of axial and femoral bone mineral density and parameters of 
mandibular bone quality in patients receiving dental implants.

Amorim MA(1), Takayama L, Jorgetti V, Pereira RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Bone Mineral Metabolism Laboratory, University of 
São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Corrected and republished from
    Osteoporos Int. 2006 Oct;17(10):1494-500.

INTRODUCTION: In view of the increase in the life expectancy of humans and in 
edentulism of the population above 50 years of age, in which the prevalence of 
osteoporosis is also higher, it is fundamental to better understand the effects 
of systemic bone mass loss on the healing process of dental implants and to 
determine the quality of the bone that surrounds them. The objective of the 
present study was to compare systemic osteoporosis (axial and femoral) and 
parameters of mandibular bone quality, and to evaluate osseointegration in 
postmenopausal women receiving dental implants.
METHODS: The sample consisted of 39 women aged 48-70 years, 19 with a 
densitometric diagnosis of osteoporosis in the lumbar spine and femoral neck and 
20 controls with a normal densitometric diagnosis. Bone mineral density was 
measured in the patients and controls by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. 
Eighty-two osseointegrated dental implants were placed in the mandible, 39 of 
them in the osteoporosis group and 43 in the control group. Mandibular bone 
quality was evaluated by classifying mandibular inferior cortical and trabecular 
bone on panoramic radiographs and by histomorphometric analysis of a mandibular 
bone biopsy. Osseointegration was analyzed after 9 months.
RESULTS: No significant difference was observed between patients with 
osteoporosis and controls when comparing individuals with a normal cortex and 
those with a severely or moderately eroded cortex determined on panoramic 
radiographs, although patients with MEC/SEC had lower femoral neck BMD than 
those with NC (0.688 +/- 0.17 vs. 0.814+/- 0.144 g/cm2, P<0.012). 
Histomorphometric analysis also revealed no difference in the parameters of bone 
formation or resorption between the two groups. Implant failure was observed in 
only one case.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that there is an association between low femoral neck 
BMD and poor mandibular bone quality as assessed by panoramic radiography. The 
loss of one implant (1.2%) is compatible with the literature and cannot be 
attributed to systemic osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-006-0295-7
PMID: 17506127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Curr Pharm Des. 2007;13(13):1335-45. doi: 10.2174/138161207780618768.

Role of renin angiotensin system inhibitors in cardiovascular and renal 
protection: a lesson from clinical trials.

Stojiljkovic L(1), Behnia R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Management, John H. Stroger Jr. 
Hospital of Cook County, Chicago, IL 60612-5773, USA. ssilj@aol.com

Beneficial effects of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) and 
angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1) blockers in patients with cardiovascular and 
renal diseases have been clearly demonstrated in numerous large outcomes 
studies. In patients with heart failure (HF), ACEI have been shown to reduce 
overall mortality, mortality from cardiovascular causes, to increase life 
expectancy, as well as to preserve the renal function (CONSENSUS, SAVE, TRACE, 
AIRE, AIREX, CATS trials). In addition, in the PROGRESS study ACEI substantially 
decreased the risk of stroke and transient ischemic attacks in patients with 
cerebrovascular disorders. The HOPE and EUROPA studies confirmed that long term 
therapy with ACEI provides significant survival benefit in patients with broad 
range of atherosclerotic cardiovascular diseases. After these large and well 
designed clinical studies, ACEI have become standard therapy for routine 
secondary prevention in all patients with cardiovascular diseases, unless 
contraindicated. AT1 receptor blockers have been recently added to the 
cardiovascular therapeutic armamentarium. They are believed to provide 
additional protection by inhibition of locally synthesized angiotensin II on the 
level of AT1 receptor. The ELITE II, ValHeFT and CHARM studies have shown that 
AT1 receptor blockers are equally effective as ACEI in reduction of mortality 
and morbidity in patients with HF. Importantly, they may be used together with 
ACEI, or as alternative treatment in ACEI intolerant patients. Renal protection 
is another important effect of both ACEI and AT1 blockers that has been 
confirmed in several large clinical trials. The North American Microalbuminemia 
Study group and EUCLID group demonstrated significant reduction in progression 
of diabetic nephropathy in patients with insulin dependent diabetes mellitus 
(IDDM) treated with ACEI. AT1 receptor blockers are mainly studied in the 
non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) nephropathy. Four recent 
clinical trials (IRMA-2, DETAIL, RENAAL and IDNT) examined the effect of AT1 
receptor blockers in patients with NIDDM nephropathy. These studies confirmed 
the beneficial effect of AT1 receptor blockers in patients with NIDDM 
nephropathy that was extended beyond the blood pressure reduction. Ongoing 
studies (ONTARGET, TRANSCEND and PROTECTION) should provide us with additional 
insights about cardiovascular, renal and other end-organ protective effects of 
these therapeutics.

DOI: 10.2174/138161207780618768
PMID: 17506719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Anaesthesia. 2007 Jun;62(6):547-54. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.2007.04997.x.

Cost effectiveness of adult intensive care in the UK.

Ridley S(1), Morris S.

Author information:
(1)Glan Clwyd Hospital, Rhyl, Denbighshire LL18 5UJ, UK. 
saxon@ridley.waitrose.com

We wished to investigate whether intensive care represents good value for money 
to the National Health Service in the UK using cost-effectiveness analysis. We 
developed a cost-effectiveness model using secondary data sources to estimate 
the incremental cost per quality adjusted life year gained of treatment in 
intensive care vs non-intensive care treatment in adults. Estimates of hospital 
mortality with and without intensive care were obtained from seven published 
studies and from data published by the Intensive Care National Audit and 
Research Centre. Quality of life estimates were obtained from a literature 
review and NHS reference costs were used. Relative to non-intensive care 
treatment, the incremental cost per quality adjusted life year gained of 
treatment in intensive care is 7010 pounds. This figure is sensitive to the 
mortality risk reduction associated with intensive care. Despite the high daily 
cost of intensive care, its cost-effectiveness is excellent and compares 
favourably with other commonly used health interventions. Our findings suggest 
that adult intensive care represents good value for money.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2044.2007.04997.x
PMID: 17506731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Int Psychogeriatr. 2008 Apr;20(2):347-60. doi: 10.1017/S1041610207005352.
Epub  2007 May 16.

A cross-national study of the relationship between elderly suicide rates and 
life expectancy and markers of socioeconomic status and health care.

Shah A(1), Bhat R, Mackenzie S, Koen C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Ethnicity and Health, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, 
UK. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Socioeconomic status may influence cross-national variations in 
elderly suicide rates.
METHODS: The relationship between suicide rates in both sexes in the age-bands 
65-74 years and 75+ years and (i) life expectancy, (ii) measures of 
socioeconomic status (per capita gross national domestic product (GDP) and the 
Gini coeffcient), and (iii) measures of the quality and quantity of available 
healthcare services (the proportion of GDP spent on health, per capita 
expenditure on health and child mortality rates) was examined using data from 
the World Health Organization and the United Nations.
RESULTS: The main findings were: (i) a significant negative correlation between 
the Gini coefficient and suicide rates for both sexes in both age-bands; (ii) a 
significant positive correlation between per capita expenditure on health and 
suicide rates for both sexes in both age-bands; (iii) the significant positive 
correlation between the proportion of GDP spent on health and suicide rates was 
only evident in males in both age-bands; (iv) a significant negative correlation 
between child mortality rates and suicide rates for both sexes in both 
age-bands; and, (v) the significant positive correlation between life expectancy 
and suicide rates was evident in females in both age-bands.
CONCLUSIONS: A potentially testable model with five sequential stages was 
proposed to explain these findings.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610207005352
PMID: 17506909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Development. 2007 Jun;134(11):2125-35. doi: 10.1242/dev.000216.

Wnt signals provide a timing mechanism for the FGF-retinoid differentiation 
switch during vertebrate body axis extension.

Olivera-Martinez I(1), Storey KG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cell and Developmental Biology, College of Life Sciences, 
Wellcome Trust Biocentre, University of Dundee, Dow Street, Dundee DD1 5EH, UK.

Differentiation onset in the vertebrate body axis is controlled by a conserved 
switch from fibroblast growth factor (FGF) to retinoid signalling, which is also 
apparent in the extending limb and aberrant in many cancer cell lines. FGF 
protects tail-end stem zone cells from precocious differentiation by inhibiting 
retinoid synthesis, whereas later-produced retinoic acid (RA) attenuates FGF 
signalling and drives differentiation. The timing of RA production is therefore 
crucial for the preservation of stem zone cells and the continued extension of 
the body axis. Here we show that canonical Wnt signalling mediates the 
transition from FGF to retinoid signalling in the newly generated chick body 
axis. FGF promotes Wnt8c expression, which persists in the neuroepithelium as 
FGF signalling declines. Wnt signals then act here to repress neuronal 
differentiation. Furthermore, although FGF inhibition of neuronal 
differentiation involves repression of the RA-responsive gene, retinoic acid 
receptor beta (RARbeta), Wnt signals are weaker repressors of neuron production 
and do not interfere with RA signal transduction. Strikingly, as FGF signals 
decline in the extending axis, Wnt signals now elicit RA synthesis in 
neighbouring presomitic mesoderm. This study identifies a directional signalling 
relay that leads from FGF to retinoid signalling and demonstrates that Wnt 
signals serve, as cells leave the stem zone, to permit and promote RA activity, 
providing a mechanism to control the timing of the FGF-RA differentiation 
switch.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.000216
PMID: 17507413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2007 May;62(3):S160-8. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/62.3.s160.

An interpersonal continuity of care measure for Medicare Part B claims analyses.

Wolinsky FD(1), Miller TR, Geweke JF, Chrischilles EA, An H, Wallace RB, Pavlik 
CE, Wright KB, Ohsfeldt RL, Rosenthal GE.

Author information:
(1)Iowa City Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Iowa, USA. 
fredric-wolinsky@uiowa.edu

OBJECTIVES: This article presents an interpersonal continuity of care measure.
METHODS: We operationalized continuity of care as no more than an 8-month 
interval between any two visits during a 2-year period to either (a) the same 
primary care physician or (b) the same physician regardless of specialty. 
Sensitivity analyses evaluated two interval censoring algorithms and two 
alternative intervals. We linked Medicare Part A and B claims to baseline survey 
data for 4,596 respondents to the Survey on Asset and Health Dynamics Among the 
Oldest Old. We addressed the potential for selection bias by using propensity 
score methods, and we explored construct validity.
RESULTS: Interpersonal continuity with a primary care physician was 17.3%, and 
interpersonal continuity of care with any physician was 26.1%. Older 
participants; men; individuals who lived alone; people who had difficulty 
walking; and respondents with medical histories of arthritis, cancer, diabetes, 
heart conditions, hypertension, and stroke were most likely to have continuity. 
Individuals who had never married, were widowed, were working, or had low 
subjective life expectancy were least likely to have continuity.
DISCUSSION: Researchers can measure interpersonal continuity of care using 
Medicare Part B claims. Replication of these findings and further construct 
validation, however, are needed prior to widespread adoption of this method.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/62.3.s160
PMCID: PMC2914469
PMID: 17507591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Genetics. 2007 Jul;176(3):1609-24. doi: 10.1534/genetics.107.073569. Epub
2007  May 16.

Defective decapentaplegic signaling results in heart overgrowth and reduced 
cardiac output in Drosophila.

Johnson AN(1), Burnett LA, Sellin J, Paululat A, Newfeld SJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, Arizona 85287-4501, 
USA.

During germ-band extension, Decapentaplegic (Dpp) signals from the dorsal 
ectoderm to maintain Tinman (Tin) expression in the underlying mesoderm. This 
signal specifies the cardiac field, and homologous genes (BMP2/4 and Nkx2.5) 
perform this function in mammals. We showed previously that a second Dpp signal 
from the dorsal ectoderm restricts the number of pericardial cells expressing 
the transcription factor Zfh1. Here we report that, via Zfh1, the second Dpp 
signal restricts the number of Odd-skipped-expressing and the number of 
Tin-expressing pericardial cells. Dpp also represses Tin expression 
independently of Zfh1, implicating a feed-forward mechanism in the regulation of 
Tin pericardial cell number. In the adjacent dorsal muscles, Dpp has the 
opposite effect. Dpp maintains Krüppel and Even-skipped expression required for 
muscle development. Our data show that Dpp refines the cardiac field by limiting 
the number of pericardial cells. This maintains the boundary between pericardial 
and dorsal muscle cells and defines the size of the heart. In the absence of the 
second Dpp signal, pericardial cells overgrow and this significantly reduces 
larval cardiac output. Our study suggests the existence of a second round of BMP 
signaling in mammalian heart development and that perhaps defects in this signal 
play a role in congenital heart defects.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.107.073569
PMCID: PMC1931542
PMID: 17507674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2007 Jul-Aug;30(4):705-10. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-007-9043-4.

Initial experience with the resonance metallic stent for antegrade ureteric 
stenting.

Wah TM(1), Irving HC, Cartledge J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St. James's University Hospital, Beckett Street, 
Leeds, LS9 7TF, UK. Tze.Wah@leedsth.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: We describe our initial experience with a new metallic 
ureteric stent which has been designed to provide long-term urinary drainage in 
patients with malignant ureteric strictures. The aim is to achieve longer 
primary patency rates than conventional polyurethane ureteric stents, where 
encrustation and compression by malignant masses limit primary patency. The 
Resonance metallic double-pigtail ureteric stent (Cook, Ireland) is constructed 
from coiled wire spirals of a corrosion-resistant alloy designed to minimize 
tissue in-growth and resist encrustation, and the manufacturer recommends 
interval stent change at 12 months.
METHODS: Seventeen Resonance stents were inserted via an antegrade approach into 
15 patients between December 2004 and March 2006. The causes of ureteric 
obstruction were malignancies of the bladder (n = 4), colon (n = 3), gynecologic 
(n = 5), and others (n = 3).
RESULTS: One patient had the stent changed after 12 months, and 3 patients had 
their stents changed at 6 months. These stents were draining adequately with 
minimal encrustation. Four patients are still alive with functioning stents in 
situ for 2-10 months. Seven patients died with functioning stents in place 
(follow-up periods of 1 week to 8 months). Three stents failed from the outset 
due to bulky pelvic malignancy resulting in high intravesical pressure, as 
occurs with conventional plastic stents.
CONCLUSION: Our initial experience with the Resonance metallic ureteric stent 
indicates that it may provide adequate long-term urinary drainage (up to 12 
months) in patients with malignant ureteric obstruction but without 
significantly bulky pelvic disease. This obviates the need for regular stent 
changes and would offer significant benefit for these patients with limited life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-007-9043-4
PMID: 17508238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Neurologia. 2007 Jun;22(5):312-9.

[Neurological complications of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Moncó JC(1), Pinedo Brochado A, Escalza Cortina I.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital de Galdácano, Vizcaya. 
cmonco@hgda.osakidetza.net

Human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV) is entering into its third decade 
affecting more than 40 million persons on the plane, with an extraordinary 
incidence in the underdeveloped world, especially in the African continent where 
more than 25 million are affected, with more than 3 million new yearly 
infections and where the life expectancy is at 47 years. Although the 
vaccination is still far away, the introduction of combined antiretroviral 
therapy in the middle of the 90's was an important advance that contributed to 
converting an infection that previously had a very high rate of short-term 
mortality into a chronic disease. The neurological complications of this 
infection vary enormously. They affect any location of the neuroaxis and can 
appear at any stage of infection. It is not rare that more than one neurological 
complication exists. Such complications may be a consequence of the infection 
itself (primary) or related with immune depression accompanying it (secondary). 
Among the former, dementia associated to HIV and peripheral polyneuropathy stand 
out. Among the latter, opportunistic viral and fungal infections and lymphoma of 
the nervous systems stand out. In recent years different tests that help to 
establish the diagnoses of these entities have been developed, a necessary step 
to initiate adequate therapies. The immune state of the patient, reflected by 
the peripheral count of CD4 lymphocytes and serum viral load, helps us to 
establish the most likely causes of the neurological problems that appear in the 
context of this infection. We briefly review the most outstanding 
characteristics of each one of them in this work.

PMID: 17508305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. J Urol. 2007 Jun;177(6):2231-6. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2007.01.130.

Efficacy of botulinum toxin-A for treating idiopathic detrusor overactivity: 
results from a single center, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled 
trial.

Sahai A(1), Khan MS, Dasgupta P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Guy's, King's and St. Thomas's Hospitals, King's 
College London School of Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2007 Dec;52(6):1793-4.

PURPOSE: We evaluated the use of botulinum toxin-A in treating patients with 
idiopathic detrusor overactivity refractory to anticholinergics.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This double-blind, placebo controlled trial randomized 
participants to intradetrusor injections of 200 U botulinum toxin-A (16 
patients) or placebo (18 patients). The primary outcome measure was change in 
maximum cystometric capacity. Secondary outcome measures included changes in 
overactive bladder symptoms, post-void residual, maximum detrusor pressure 
during filling cystometry and reflex detrusor volume. Quality of life was 
assessed using the Incontinence Impact Questionnaire short form 7 and Urogenital 
Distress Inventory short form 6. Followup occurred at 4 and 12 weeks after 
injection, at which point the study was unblinded. Further followup in the 
botulinum toxin-A group occurred at 24 weeks.
RESULTS: Significant increases in maximum cystometric capacity were observed at 
4 weeks (difference 144.69 ml, 95% CI 100.95 to 215.75, p <0.0001) and 12 weeks 
(difference 95.71 ml, 95% CI 47.47 to 172.45, p = 0.001) in patients treated 
with botulinum toxin-A compared to placebo. Botulinum toxin-A reduced frequency 
(p <0.001, p = 0.003) and urgency urinary incontinence (p = 0.03, p = 0.008) 
episodes at 4 and 12 weeks, respectively. Urgency was reduced at 4 weeks (p = 
0.005) in the botulinum toxin-A group. In patients receiving botulinum toxin-A, 
post-void residual increased at 4 weeks (p = 0.024) but became insignificant by 
12 weeks (p = 0.406). Of these patients 6 required intermittent 
self-catheterization. Significant improvements in quality of life were observed 
following botulinum toxin-A. The extension study suggests that the beneficial 
effects of botulinum toxin-A are maintained for at least 24 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: Botulinum toxin-A at 200 U is safe and effective for idiopathic 
detrusor overactivity and the beneficial effects persist for at least 24 weeks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2007.01.130
PMID: 17509328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Endod. 2007 Jun;33(6):676-9. doi: 10.1016/j.joen.2007.03.009.

Clinical and radiographical evaluation of a resin-based root canal sealer: a 
5-year follow-up.

Zmener O(1), Pameijer CH.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program for Specialists in Endodontics, Faculty of Medicine, 
School of Dentistry, University of El Salvador, AOA, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

A retrospective clinical and radiographical analysis of 5-year postendodontic 
treatment with a resin-based sealer (EndoRez; Ultradent Products Inc, South 
Jordan, UT) and gutta-percha was conducted. The results after 14 to 24 months 
were reported previously. Of 180 patients, 120 responded to the 5-year recall. 
Success of root canal treatments was based on absence of clinical symptoms, a 
normal or slightly widened periodontal ligament, and absence or reduction of 
periapical radiolucencies in patients who had preexisting lesions. Root canals 
had been adequately filled to the working length in 92 teeth (76.66%) and short 
in 13 (10.83%). Fifteen cases (12.50%), filled flush at the initiation of the 
experiment, showed slight resorption of the filling material at the apex within 
the lumen of the root canal. Of the 10 roots with extrusion, none had 
radiographic evidence of sealer in the periradicular tissues after 5 years. All 
patients were free of clinical symptoms. Four cases (3.3%) showed partial 
healing, whereas 8 cases (6.66%) were judged failures. A life table analysis 
revealed a cumulative probability of success of 86.3% at the 5-year recall with 
a 95% confidence interval of 79.7 to 91.0. The clinical and radiographical data 
suggest that the tested resin-based sealer used in conjunction with gutta-percha 
performed very well as a root canal sealer over a period of up to 5 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joen.2007.03.009
PMID: 17509405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2008;40(3):324-33. doi:
10.1016/j.biocel.2007.04.003.  Epub 2007 Apr 8.

Lipid metabolism and diet: possible mechanisms of slow aging.

Puca AA(1), Chatgilialoglu C, Ferreri C.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Multimedica, Milano, Italy. puca@longevita.org

The ability to survive to an extremely old age is a consequence of complex 
interactions among genes, environment, lifestyle and luck. In the last two 
centuries, life expectancy in western countries has doubled, increasing from 40 
to 81 years (79 for males and 82 for females). The candidate factors to 
determine such mortality reduction are reduced exposure to infections and the 
subsequent reduction in inflammatory responses, and to some extent, improvement 
in diet and nutrition. Among the people born at the beginning of the previous 
century, a small portion of individuals (1 in 10,000 born) have reached 100 
years, surviving approximately 20 years more than the general population. The 
successful longevity of these individuals shows a familial component, possibly 
genetic, as underlined by the centenarian sibling's increased chance of reaching 
100 years of age compared to the general population. Genetic studies on long 
living individuals have led to the discovery of potential genetic causes of 
extreme longevity. These discoveries have highlighted the role of lipid 
metabolism as a potential key player in the ability to survive to extreme old 
age. Additional studies on the longevity phenotype have confirmed the role of 
lipids and lipid-associated cell activities in the predisposition to longevity, 
from lower eukaryotes to humans. The main focus of this review is the 
appreciation of demographic survival data and changes in recent diet with the 
above mentioned genetic and phenotypic biomarkers of longevity, in order to 
elucidate hypotheses on mechanisms of slow aging and disease resistance.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2007.04.003
PMID: 17509925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2007 Oct 29;362(1486):1813-9. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2007.2073.

Coevolution of compositional protocells and their environment.

Shenhav B(1), Oz A, Lancet D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Genetics and Crown Human Genome Centre, The Weizmann 
Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, Israel. barak.shenhav@weizmann.ac.il

The coevolution of environment and living organisms is well known in nature. 
Here, it is suggested that similar processes can take place before the onset of 
life, where protocellular entities, rather than full-fledged living systems, 
coevolve along with their surroundings. Specifically, it is suggested that the 
chemical composition of the environment may have governed the chemical 
repertoire generated within molecular assemblies, compositional protocells, 
while compounds generated within these protocells altered the chemical 
composition of the environment. We present an extension of the graded 
autocatalysis replication domain (GARD) model--the environment exchange polymer 
GARD (EE-GARD) model. In the new model, molecules, which are formed in a 
protocellular assembly, may be exported to the environment that surrounds the 
protocell. Computer simulations of the model using an infinite-sized environment 
showed that EE-GARD assemblies may assume several distinct quasi-stationary 
compositions (composomes), similar to the observations in previous variants of 
the GARD model. A statistical analysis suggested that the repertoire of 
composomes manifested by the assemblies is independent of time. In simulations 
with a finite environment, this was not the case. Composomes, which were 
frequent in the early stages of the simulation disappeared, while others 
emerged. The change in the frequencies of composomes was found to be correlated 
with changes induced on the environment by the assembly. The EE-GARD model is 
the first GARD model to portray a possible time evolution of the composomes 
repertoire.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2007.2073
PMCID: PMC2442395
PMID: 17510019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Risk Anal. 2007 Apr;27(2):467-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00898.x.

Health-based population forecasting: effects of smoking on mortality and 
fertility.

Akushevich I(1), Kravchenko JS, Manton KG.

Author information:
(1)Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708-0408, USA. 
igor.akushevic@duke.edu

A microsimulation model, allowing one to forecast short- and long-term 
population changes conditional on the prevalence of a risk factor in a 
population, is presented. In this model, population changes result from the 
aggregation of changes in individual event histories, which, in turn, result 
from mortality and infertility rates recalculated in accordance with their known 
relative risks in population groups exposed to a risk factor. Smoking, being the 
most widespread and influential preventable public health risk factor, is chosen 
to demonstrate the abilities of the model to forecast the population effects of 
different hypothetical smoking prevalences. The demographic and population 
health effects on 20-, 50-, and 100-year projections with the current, 
hypothetically doubled, and hypothetically halved the current smoking prevalence 
are analyzed in detail. The model predicts an increase in life expectancy (0.99 
year for males and 0.64 years for females), and an increase in population size 
(2.2-7.5% dependent on the age group) if smoking prevalence is reduced by half. 
Sensitivity analyses of all findings are performed. The generalization of the 
model to account for multiple risk factors (e.g., the simultaneous effects of 
alcohol consumption, obesity, and smoking) and effects on medical expenditures 
are discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2007.00898.x
PMID: 17511712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Radiat Oncol. 2007 May 18;2:17. doi: 10.1186/1748-717X-2-17.

The median non-prostate cancer survival is more than 10 years for men up to age 
80 years who are selected and receive curative radiation treatment for prostate 
cancer.

Blood PA(1), Pickles T.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology, BC Cancer Agency and University of British Columbia, 
Victoria, BC, Canada. pblood@bccancer.bc.ca

Treatment guidelines recommend that curative radiation treatment of prostate 
cancer be offered only to men whose life expectancy is greater than 10 years. 
The average life expectancy of North American males is less than 10 years after 
age 75, yet many men older than 75 years receive curative radiation treatment 
for prostate cancer. This study used the provincial cancer registry in British 
Columbia, Canada, to determine median non-prostate cancer survival for men who 
were aged 75 to 82 years at start of radiation treatment. Median survival was 
found to be greater than 10 years in men aged up to 80 years at the start of 
their radiation treatment. This finding suggests that radiation oncologists are 
able to appropriately select elderly men with greater than average life 
expectancy to receive curative radiation treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1748-717X-2-17
PMCID: PMC1887532
PMID: 17511871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Ageing Res Rev. 2007 Aug;6(2):128-40. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2007.04.001. Epub
2007  Apr 19.

Sir2 and calorie restriction in yeast: a skeptical perspective.

Kaeberlein M(1), Powers RW 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. 
kaeber@u.washington.edu

Activation of Sir2-family proteins in response to calorie restriction (CR) has 
been proposed as an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for life span extension. 
This idea has been called into question with the discovery that Sir2-family 
proteins are not required for life span extension from CR in yeast. We present 
here a historical perspective and critical evaluation of the model that CR acts 
through Sir2 in yeast, and interpret prior reports in light of more recent 
discoveries. Several specific cases where the Sir2 model of CR is inconsistent 
with experimental data are noted. These shortcomings must be considered along 
with evidence supporting a role for Sir2 in CR in order to fully evaluate the 
validity of this model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2007.04.001
PMID: 17512264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Am J Surg. 2007 Jun;193(6):749-55. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.07.019.

Pancreatic cysts: a proposed management algorithm based on current evidence.

Goh BK(1), Tan YM, Chung YF, Chow PK, Cheow PC, Thng CH, Mesenas S, Wong WK, Ooi 
LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, Outram Road, Singapore 
169608. bsgkp@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Currently, the management strategy of pancreatic cyst (PC) remains 
controversial because of the inability to diagnose this type of cyst accurately 
and the limited knowledge of its natural history. Previously, many clinicians 
have advocated an aggressive resectional policy. This approach is no longer 
appropriate, and the number of PCs detected incidentally has increased. This 
study reviews the present literature and attempts to provide a management 
algorithm of pancreatic cysts based on currently available evidence.
METHODS: A Medline search was conducted to identify studies investigating PC, 
with particular emphasis placed on studies addressing its diagnosis and 
management. Additional articles were obtained from the reference lists of key 
articles and recent reviews.
COMMENTS: Based on current evidence, the optimal management of PC remains an art 
and should be individualized based on the risk-benefit ratio of surgery, which 
is influenced by multiple factors, such as the patient's potential life 
expectancy, surgical risk; and malignant potential of the cyst. Our proposed 
management algorithm is based on an individual's predicted risk-benefit ratio of 
surgery. Prospective evaluation of the algorithm is needed to determine its 
integrity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2006.07.019
PMID: 17512290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Gynecol Obstet Biol Reprod (Paris). 2007 Sep;36(5):459-67. doi: 
10.1016/j.jgyn.2007.03.012. Epub 2007 May 21.

[Prosthetic repair of genito-urinary prolapses by the transobturateur 
infracoccygeal hammock technique: medium-term results].

[Article in French]

Sergent F(1), Sentilhes L, Resch B, Diguet A, Verspyck E, Marpeau L.

Author information:
(1)Clinique gynécologique et obstétricale, CHU de Charles-Nicolle, 1, rue de 
Germont, 76031 Rouen cedex, France. fabrice.Sergent@chu-rouen.fr

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the anatomical and functional 
medium-term efficacy and possible complications of vaginal prosthetic surgery 
with transobturator and infracoccygeal support to treat genital urinary 
prolapse.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A prospective and monocentre study was conducted, from 
February 2002 till February 2005. All the patients with or without stress 
urinary incontinence (SUI), who presented either a recurrent prolapse, either a 
voluminous genital prolapse of stage 3 or 4 notably a dominant cystocele, either 
a post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse or even a prolapse of lesser 
importance but in a context of obesity, were operated according to the 
transobturator infracoccygeal sling technique.
RESULTS: One hundred and three patients with a mean age of 65+/-11 years (41-84) 
were enrolled, with once on two SUI. Thirty percent of the patients had 
recurrent prolapse and 44% post-hysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse. With a mean 
follow-up of 32+/-13 months (12-53), the success rate of the technique was 
estimated to be 97% anatomically (three failures) and 89% in terms of urinary 
symptoms (69% of patients were cured, 20% were improved and 11% failed). Quality 
of life of the patients was sharply improved and their degree of satisfaction 
was high. Sexuality of the population which was limited here (44% of active 
patients) did not seem very modified by surgery. Complications were represented 
by a case of urinary retention observed with a secondarily pelvic haematoma, a 
low rectal injury without consequence, three blood transfusions. Three patients 
developed de novo overactive bladder. The prostheses exposure rate was 16%, once 
requiring on two one re-intervention. Prostheses were perceived during the 
postoperative evaluation by the examiner for 43% of the patients. But 
examination was painful only in 9,7% of the cases.
CONCLUSION: Combined treatment of vaginal prolapse and associated urinary 
incontinence is possible by the use of a single transvaginal prosthesis. The 
medium-term anatomical and functional results are very good. The results on 
continence are good and a subsequent specific procedure is always possible in 
the case of failure or insufficient improvement. The prostheses exposure rate is 
similar to that observed with synthetic transvaginal prostheses. The exact 
tolerance of vaginal prosthetic repair of the prolapse of young women being this 
day an unknown, we remain careful on the extension of the indications of this 
technique in this category of population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgyn.2007.03.012
PMID: 17513068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Pediatr Orthop. 2007 Jun;27(4):476-9. doi:
10.1097/01.bpb.0000271311.87997.e7.

The transition to adulthood for children with cerebral palsy: what do we know 
about their health care needs?

Young NL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laurentian University, Sudbury, Ontario, Canada. nyoung@laurentian.ca

DOI: 10.1097/01.bpb.0000271311.87997.e7
PMID: 17513974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Stress. 2007 Jun;10(2):213-9. doi: 10.1080/10253890701292119.

Glucocorticoid action networks and complex psychiatric and/or somatic disorders.

Chrousos GP(1), Kino T.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Pediatrics, Athens University Medical School, 11527 
Athens, Greece. chrousog@mail.nih.gov

Glucocorticoids contribute fundamentally to the maintenance of basal and 
stress-related homeostasis in all higher organisms. These hormones influence a 
large percentage of the expressed human genome and their effects spare almost no 
organs or tissues. Glucocorticoids influence many functions of the central 
nervous system, such as arousal, cognition, mood and sleep, the activity and 
direction of intermediary metabolism, the maintenance of a normal cardiovascular 
tone, the activity and quality of the immune and inflammatory reaction, 
including the manifestations of the sickness syndrome, as well as growth and 
reproduction. The numerous actions of glucocorticoids are mediated by a set of 
at least 16 glucocorticoid receptor (GR) isoforms forming homo- or 
hetero-dimers. The GRs consist of multifunctional domain proteins operating as 
ligand-dependent transcription factors that interact with many other cell 
signaling systems. The presence of multiple GR monomers and dimers expressed in 
a cell-specific fashion at different quantities with quantitatively and 
qualitatively different transcriptional activities suggests that the 
glucocorticoid signaling system is highly stochastic. Based on ample evidence, 
we present our conception that glucocorticoids are heavily involved in human 
pathophysiology and influence life expectancy. Common psychiatric and/or somatic 
complex disorders, such as anxiety, depression, insomnia, chronic pain and 
fatigue syndromes, obesity, the metabolic syndrome, essential hypertension, 
diabetes type 2, atherosclerosis with its cardiovascular sequelae, and 
osteoporosis, as well as autoimmune inflammatory and allergic disorders, all 
appear to have a glucocorticoid component.

DOI: 10.1080/10253890701292119
PMID: 17514590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Med Care. 2007 Jun;45(6):480-8. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318030fff9.

Multimorbidity is associated with better quality of care among vulnerable 
elders.

Min LC(1), Wenger NS, Fung C, Chang JT, Ganz DA, Higashi T, Kamberg CJ, MacLean 
CH, Roth CP, Solomon DH, Young RT, Reuben DB.

Author information:
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California 90095-1687, 
USA. lmin@mednet.ucla.edu

Comment in
    Med Care. 2007 Jun;45(6):477-9.
    Med Care. 2007 Dec;45(12):1233.

BACKGROUND: Older patients with multiple chronic conditions may be at higher 
risk of receiving poorer overall quality of care compared with those with single 
or no chronic conditions. Possible reasons include competing guidelines for 
individual conditions, burden of numerous recommendations, and difficulty 
implementing treatments for multiple conditions.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to determine whether coexisting combinations of 8 common 
chronic conditions (hypertension, coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, osteoarthritis, diabetes mellitus, depression, osteoporosis, 
and having atrial fibrillation or congestive heart failure) are associated with 
overall quality of care among vulnerable older patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using an observational cohort study, we enrolled 372 
community-dwelling persons 65 years of age or older who were at increased risk 
for death or functional decline within 2 years. We included (1) a comprehensive 
measure (% of quality indicators satisfied) of quality of medical and geriatric 
care that accounted for patient preference and appropriateness in light of 
limited life expectancy and advanced dementia, and (2) a measure of 
multimorbidity, either as a simple count of conditions or as a combination of 
specific conditions.
RESULTS: : Multimorbidity was associated with greater overall quality scores: 
mean proportion of quality indicators satisfied increased from 47% for elders 
with none of the prespecified conditions to 59% for those with 5 or 6 conditions 
(P < 0.0001), after controlling for number of office visits. Patients with 
greater multimorbidity also received care that was better than would be expected 
based on the specific set of quality indicators they triggered.
CONCLUSIONS: Among older persons at increased risk of death or functional 
decline, multimorbidity results in better, rather than worse, quality of care.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318030fff9
PMID: 17515774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. J Rheumatol. 2007 Jun;34(6):1241-7. Epub 2007 May 15.

Quantification of reduced health-related quality of life in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis compared to the general population.

Uhlig T(1), Loge JH, Kristiansen IS, Kvien TK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
till.uhlig@nrrk.no

OBJECTIVE: To compare levels of health-related quality of life (HRQOL) among 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to those of the general population.
METHODS: Disease burden was assessed using a generic health status instrument 
(Medical Outcome Study Short Form-36) for measurements of HRQOL and SF-6D to 
calculate utility scores in representative patients aged 20 to 79 years from the 
Oslo RA Register (n = 1052), and in individuals in the general population (n = 
2323). Comparisons were performed with respect to sex and age, and standardized 
difference scores (s-scores) were calculated for comparisons with the norm.
RESULTS: HRQOL in patients with RA was reduced compared to the general 
population on all scales of the SF-36 for both males and females and for all age 
groups. s-scores adjusted for age and education ranged from -1.39 for physical 
functioning to -0.27 for mental health. The overall difference in utility was 
0.16 and ranged from 0.13 (in female patients below 50 yrs) to 0.20 (patients 
50-60 years). This implies that RA of 1 year duration entails a disease burden 
of 14-20 quality-adjusted life-years in 100 RA patients.
CONCLUSION: RA inflicts a substantial disease burden, and the disease affects 
all HRQOL dimensions as measured by the SF-36 in both sexes and in all age 
groups. Physical functioning is predominantly affected, but RA has social and 
mental consequences.

PMID: 17516624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Milbank Q. 2007 Jun;85(2):213-57. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2007.00485.x.

Counting backward to health care's future: using time-to-death modeling to 
identify changes in end-of-life morbidity and the impact of aging on health care 
expenditures.

Payne G(1), Laporte A, Deber R, Coyte PC.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

In most developed countries, as the largest population cohorts approach the age 
of sixty-five, the impact of population aging on health care expenditures has 
become a topic of growing interest. This articles examines trends in elderly 
disability and end-of-life morbidity, estimations of the cost of dying, and 
models of expenditures as a function of both age and time-to-death and finds 
broad improvement in mortality and morbidity among the elderly in the developed 
world. Reduced mortality and low growth in the costs associated with dying could 
reduce forecasted expenditures, but high growth in expenditures for those not 
close to death and for nonhospital services could create new economic pressures 
on health care systems.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2007.00485.x
PMCID: PMC2690327
PMID: 17517114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Jun;10(2):235-6. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.0522.

SENS: an engineer's point of view on feasibility and bioethics dialogue.

Wilkes R.

Comment on
    Rejuvenation Res. 2006 Winter;9(4):494-5.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.0522
PMID: 17518697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Jun;10(2):157-72. doi: 10.1089/rej.2006.0513.

The olive constituent oleuropein exhibits proteasome stimulatory properties in 
vitro and confers life span extension of human embryonic fibroblasts.

Katsiki M(1), Chondrogianni N, Chinou I, Rivett AJ, Gonos ES.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological Research and Biotechnology, Laboratory of Molecular 
and Cellular Aging, National Hellenic Research Foundation, Athens, Greece.

Normal human fibroblasts undergo replicative senescence due to both genetic and 
environmental factors. Senescence and aging can be further accelerated by 
exposure of cells to a variety of oxidative agents that contribute among other 
effects to the accumulation of damaged proteins. The proteasome, a 
multicatalytic nonlysosomal protease, has impaired function during aging, while 
its increased expression delays senescence in human fibroblasts. The aim of this 
study was to identify natural compounds that enhance proteasome activity and 
exhibit antiaging properties. We demonstrate that oleuropein, the major 
constituent of Olea europea leaf extract, olive oil and olives, enhances the 
proteasome activities in vitro stronger than other known chemical activators, 
possibly through conformational changes of the proteasome. Moreover, continuous 
treatment of early passage human embryonic fibroblasts with oleuropein decreases 
the intracellular levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), reduces the amount of 
oxidized proteins through increased proteasome-mediated degradation rates and 
retains proteasome function during replicative senescence. Importantly, 
oleuropein-treated cultures exhibit a delay in the appearance of senescence 
morphology and their life span is extended by approximately 15%. In summary, 
these data demonstrate the beneficial effect of oleuropein on human fibroblasts 
undergoing replicative senescence and provide new insights towards enhancement 
of cellular antioxidant mechanisms by natural compounds that can be easily 
up-taken through normal diet.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2006.0513
PMID: 17518699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Nurs Inq. 2007 Jun;14(2):114-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1800.2007.00358.x.

The exodus of health professionals from sub-Saharan Africa: balancing human 
rights and societal needs in the twenty-first century.

Ogilvie L(1), Mill JE, Astle B, Fanning A, Opare M.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Edmonton, Canada. linda.ogilvie@ualberta.ca

Increased international migration of health professionals is weakening 
healthcare systems in low-income countries, particularly those in sub-Saharan 
Africa. The migration of nurses, physicians and other health professionals from 
countries in sub-Saharan Africa poses a major threat to the achievement of 
health equity in this region. As nurses form the backbone of healthcare systems 
in many of the affected countries, it is the accelerating migration of nurses 
that will be most critical over the next few years. In this paper we present a 
comprehensive analysis of the literature and argue that, from a human rights 
perspective, there are competing rights in the international migration of health 
professionals: the right to leave one's country to seek a better life; the right 
to health of populations in the source and destination countries; labour rights; 
the right to education; and the right to non-discrimination and equality. 
Creative policy approaches are required to balance these rights and to ensure 
that the individual rights of health professionals do not compromise the 
societal right to health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1800.2007.00358.x
PMID: 17518823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 May;23(5):1057-65. doi: 10.1185/030079907x182130.

High- versus low-dose fluconazole therapy for empiric treatment of suspected 
invasive candidiasis among high-risk patients in the intensive care unit: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Chen H(1), Suda KJ, Turpin RS, Pai MP, Bearden DT, Garey KW.

Author information:
(1)University of Houston, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: High-dose fluconazole is an alternative for patients with candidemia 
caused by Candida glabrata or other Candida species with decreased fluconazole 
susceptibility. However, empiric high-dose fluconazole is not currently 
