30. AIDS Educ Prev. 2007 Aug;19(4):321-33. doi: 10.1521/aeap.2007.19.4.321.

Current sexual activity and risky sexual behavior in older men with or at risk 
for HIV infection.

Cooperman NA(1), Arnsten JH, Klein RS.

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY 
10467, USA. nicooperm@montefiore.org

In a cross-sectional analysis, we investigated frequency of sexual activity and 
factors associated with risky sexual behavior among 624 oldermen, aged 49-80, 
with or at risk for HIV infection. During the prior 6 months, 75% reported 
sexual activity with at least one partner, and one quarter of both the 
HIV-negative and HIV-positive men had more than one sexual partner. Only 18% of 
the HIV-negative men and 58% of the HIV-positive men always used condoms with 
their sexual partners. Factors independently and positively associated with 
risky sexual behavior included lack of HIV infection, any drug use in the past 6 
months, greater importance of sex in one's life, weekly or more frequent sexual 
activity in the past 6 months, and ever taking sildenafil. These results suggest 
that older men with or at risk for HIV infection are sexually active, 
participate in risky sexual behavior, and need safer sex interventions.

DOI: 10.1521/aeap.2007.19.4.321
PMCID: PMC2505189
PMID: 17685845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. ANZ J Surg. 2007 Sep;77(9):782-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04226.x.

Is laparoscopic colectomy for cancer cost-effective relative to open colectomy?

Hayes JL(1), Hansen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Dunedin Hospital and Dunedin School of Medicine, 
Dunedin, New Zealand. jhayes@adhb.govt.nz

BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic-assisted colectomy (LAC) for cancer has been shown to 
be safe, with equivalent long-term survival rates to conventional open colectomy 
(OC) and better short-term patient outcomes. However, LAC tends to require more 
operating theatre time and disposable equipment. This study investigated, in the 
context of the New Zealand public hospital system, the extent to which LAC for 
cancer is cost-effective relative to OC.
METHODS: Estimates of the hospital resources used and patient recovery times for 
LAC and OC for colorectal cancer were obtained from a meta-analysis of published 
international randomized controlled trials. Using prices from a representative 
New Zealand public hospital, the additional resources for LAC (relative to OC) 
were summed to obtain an estimate of LAC's total incremental (additional) cost. 
The recovery time savings from LAC were also represented in quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY), enabling a cost-utility analysis of LAC, which was subjected 
to a one-way sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: On average, a LAC costs New Zealand public hospitals $1267 (range: 
$259-$3808; all dollars referred to are New Zealand dollars) more than an OC. 
Average recovery time savings of 12 and 33 days (from two randomized controlled 
trials) translate into QALY gains of 0.018 and 0.049. Thus, relative to an OC, 
an LAC costs $38 and $106 per recovery day saved, or $70 389 and $25 857 
(combined range: $14 389-$211 556) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: LAC for cancer appears to be cost-effective relative to OC (per 
recovery day saved and QALY gained, respectively) for the lower of the average 
cost estimates and is probably not cost-effective for the higher estimate. 
Expected future reductions in operating times, conversion rates and 
postoperative stays will further improve cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-2197.2007.04226.x
PMID: 17685959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Sep;61(9):1569-79. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01423.x.

Under-diagnosis of common chronic diseases: prevalence and impact on human 
health.

Falagas ME(1), Vardakas KZ, Vergidis PI.

Author information:
(1)Alfa Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Athens, Greece. m.falagas@aibs.gr

Comment in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Sep;61(9):1422-3.

AIMS: The disability-adjusted life years (DALY) and its components, namely the 
years lived with disability and the years of life lost, are measures of the 
impact of disease on human health. Our impression was that several common 
chronic diseases responsible for many DALYs are frequently under-diagnosed.
METHODS: We attempted to summarise data regarding the under-diagnosis of common 
chronic diseases of the developed world, which are associated with considerable 
mortality and/or disability. We searched PubMed and Current Contents to identify 
relevant studies (1980-2005). Two reviewers extracted data concerning DALYs and 
prevalence of under-diagnosis of common chronic diseases.
RESULTS: Studies regarding the first 15 diseases (or group of diseases) based on 
DALYs were reviewed. The under-diagnosis of common chronic diseases in the 
developed world ranges from about 20% for dementia and cirrhosis to 90% for 
depression and osteoarthritis. The delay in the prompt diagnosis and initiation 
of treatment is associated with increased morbidity and mortality for most of 
the reviewed diseases.
CONCLUSION: The available evidence suggests that the prevalence of 
under-diagnosis of common chronic diseases is considerable. Physicians should be 
aware of the prevalence of under-diagnosis of chronic diseases and its impact on 
human health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01423.x
PMID: 17686096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Exp Gerontol. 2008 Feb;43(2):95-101. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.011. Epub
2007  Jul 4.

Smoking, aging and the centenarians.

Nicita-Mauro V(1), Lo Balbo C, Mento A, Nicita-Mauro C, Maltese G, Basile G.

Author information:
(1)Cattedra di Geriatria e Gerontologia, Scuola di Specializzazione in 
Geriatria, Universit√† degli Studi di Messina, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria 
Policlinico G. Martino, I-98125 Messina, Italy. nicitav@unime.it

The smoke of cigarettes represents an important accelerator of the aging 
process, both directly through complex mechanisms mediated prevalently by 
excessive formation of free radicals, and indirectly by favoring the appearance 
of various pathologies in which smoke is a recognized risk factor. This means 
that smoke compromises not only life expectancy, but also the quality of the 
life, favoring the occurrence of non-autosufficiency. Smoking is an important 
risk factor for many diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular and respiratory 
diseases. These are also the main causes of death in the industrialized 
Countries, where the habit of smoking is also largely diffused. Non-smokers have 
a much higher life expectancy than smokers, and the suspension of smoking is 
accompanied, even in the elderly, by an increase in the survival time due to the 
reduction of smoke-induced biological damage. Therefore, cigarette smoking is 
opposing the longevity, particularly the extreme one, as it is confirmed by the 
observations obtained on centenarians. Among them, smoking is extremely rare, 
and even when it occurs among them, it is correlated almost exclusively to bad 
health conditions and non-autosufficiency, indicating that it compromises health 
status and the quality of life even in extremely long living subjects. 
Considering the demonstrated beneficial effects of suspension of smoking, all 
practitioners and geriatricians in particular, should promote the abstinence 
from smoking as a behavioral norm for a correct life style. Non-smokers can 
delay the appearance of diseases and of the aging process, thus attaining 
longevity; further, non-smoking habit allows genetically predisposed subjects to 
reach the extreme longevity and maintain an acceptable health status and 
autosufficiency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.011
PMID: 17686596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Aug 14;104(33):13355-60. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0706121104. Epub 2007 Aug 8.

Expression of dominant-negative Dmp53 in the adult fly brain inhibits insulin 
signaling.

Bauer JH(1), Chang C, Morris SN, Hozier S, Andersen S, Waitzman JS, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Division of 
Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI 02903, USA.

In Drosophila melanogaster, p53 (Dmp53) is an important mediator of longevity. 
Expression of dominant-negative (DN) forms of Dmp53 in adult neurons, but not in 
muscle or fat body cells, extends lifespan. The lifespan of calorie-restricted 
flies is not further extended by simultaneously expressing DN-Dmp53 in the 
nervous system, indicating that a decrease in Dmp53 activity may be a part of 
the CR lifespan-extending pathway in flies. In this report, we show that 
selective expression of DN-Dmp53 in only the 14 insulin-producing cells (IPCs) 
in the brain extends lifespan to the same extent as expression in all neurons 
and this lifespan extension is not additive with CR. DN-Dmp53-dependent lifespan 
extension is accompanied by reduction of Drosophila insulin-like peptide 2 
(dILP2) mRNA levels and reduced insulin signaling (IIS) in the fat body, which 
suggests that Dmp53 may affect lifespan by modulating insulin signaling in the 
fly.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0706121104
PMCID: PMC1948898
PMID: 17686972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


35. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2007 Aug;34(8):1227-31.

[Clinical characteristics of cancer of unknown primary (CUP)--a summary of 22 
cases].

[Article in Japanese]

Kato S(1), Yasuda K, Nishino Y, Ohori H, Takahashi M, Takahashi S, Yamaura G, 
Ohtsuka K, Kakudo Y, Chiba N, Shimodaira H, Sakayori M, Kato S, Suzuki T, 
Murakawa Y, Gamoh M, Shibata H, Yoshioka T, Ishioka C.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Clinical Oncology, Iwate Prefectural Central Hospital.

Cancer of unknown primary site (CUP) is not a rare entity and accounts for 3-5% 
of all malignant neoplasias. CUPs are diagnosed with metastatic lesion so they 
are all in the advanced stage. Systemic chemotherapy is applied in many cases, 
but the ideal therapeutic strategy has not yet been determined. CUP shows much 
histological and therapeutic heterogeneity. Histologically, half of CUPs are 
adenocarcinoma and the rest are undifferentiated carcinomas. We analyzed the 
clinical and therapeutic characteristics 22 cases of CUP patients. Most CUP 
patients are found from lymph node swelling. There is no significant tendency as 
to the site of lymph node metastasis. Bone metastases are frequently 
encountered. It seems undifferentiated carcinomas are more responsive to 
chemotherapy. Chemo-sensitive patients are likely to have a longer life 
expectancy. In our experience all of the chemo-responsive cases are treated with 
platinum-based chemotherapy. Today several platinum-based combination 
chemotherapies are reported, but there is no large-scale randomized study. 
Because of its variety, individualized therapy may be ideal for CUP.

PMID: 17687203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Nurs Health Sci. 2007 Sep;9(3):228-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2018.2007.00328.x.

Health status, trends, and issues in Sri Lanka.

Jayasekara RS(1), Schultz T.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Nursing, JBI Research Unit, School of Population Health and 
Clinical Practice, The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. 
rasika.jayasekara@adelaide.edu.au

It is widely recognized that better health is a prerequisite for the overall 
economic and social development of a nation. Sri Lanka, like many other 
countries experiencing the epidemiological transition, will have to make 
effective decisions on health-care service management and the development of 
education and training programs for health-care professionals. This paper 
provides a comprehensive review of current health service administration, health 
status, trends and issues, and health financing and resource allocation in Sri 
Lanka. The review revealed that Sri Lanka has achieved a relatively high health 
status given a low level of spending on its health-care services; however, Sri 
Lanka still experiences vital health problems in all stages of the life cycle, 
mainly related to lifestyle and the epidemiological transition associated with 
widespread societal and economic crises.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2018.2007.00328.x
PMID: 17688482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Biometrics. 2007 Jun;63(2):405-12. doi: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2006.00710.x.

Testing goodness of fit of a uniform truncation model.

Mandel M(1), Betensky RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. micha.mandel@huji.ac.il

Several goodness-of-fit tests of a lifetime distribution have been suggested in 
the literature; many take into account censoring and/or truncation of event 
times. In some contexts, a goodness-of-fit test for the truncation distribution 
is of interest. In particular, better estimates of the lifetime distribution can 
be obtained when knowledge of the truncation law is exploited. In 
cross-sectional sampling, for example, there are theoretical justifications for 
the assumption of a uniform truncation distribution, and several studies have 
used it to improve the efficiency of their survival estimates. The duality of 
lifetime and truncation in the absence of censoring enables methods for testing 
goodness of fit of the lifetime distribution to be used for testing goodness of 
fit of the truncation distribution. However, under random censoring, this 
duality does not hold and different tests are required. In this article, we 
introduce several goodness-of-fit tests for the truncation distribution and 
investigate their performance in the presence of censored event times using 
simulation. We demonstrate the use of our tests on two data sets.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2006.00710.x
PMID: 17688493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Oct;42(10):1020-32. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.002. Epub
 2007 Jun 29.

Regulation of life history determines lifespan of worker honey bees (Apis 
mellifera L.).

Rueppell O(1), Bachelier C, Fondrk MK, Page RE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, 312 Eberhart Building, University of North Carolina, 
Greensboro, 1000 Spring Garden Street, Greensboro, NC 27403, USA. 
olav_rueppell@uncg.edu

Life expectancy of honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) is of general interest to 
gerontological research because its variability among different groups of bees 
is one of the most striking cases of natural plasticity of aging. Worker honey 
bees spend their first days of adult life working in the nest, then transition 
to foraging and die between 4 and 8 weeks of age. Foraging is believed to be 
primarily responsible for the early death of workers. Three large-scale 
experiments were performed to quantitatively assess the importance of flight 
activity, chronological age, extrinsic mortality factors and foraging 
specialization. Forager mortality was higher than in-hive bee mortality. Most 
importantly however, reducing the external mortality hazards and foraging 
activity did not lead to the expected strong extension of life. Most of the 
experimental effects were attributable to an earlier transition from hive tasks 
to foraging. This transition is accompanied by a significant mortality peak. The 
age at the onset of foraging is the central variable in worker life-history and 
behavioral state was found more important than chronological age for honey bee 
aging. However, mortality risk increased with age and the negative relation 
between pre-foraging and foraging lifespan indicate some senescence irrespective 
of behavioral state. Overall, honey bee workers exhibit a logistic mortality 
dynamic which is mainly caused by the age-dependent transition from a low 
mortality pre-foraging state to a higher mortality foraging state.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.002
PMCID: PMC2398712
PMID: 17689041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Int J Cardiol. 2008 Aug 18;128(2):285-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2007.06.031.
Epub  2007 Aug 8.

A broken heart--or anguish in top-sport in antiquity.

Van Tellingen C.

Cardiovascular disease is a major determinant of sudden death. Nevertheless the 
impact of autonomic dysregulation is grossly underestimated not to say ignored. 
The limited life expectancy of retired gladiators is a fine example of the 
interactive influence of an occupational- and socio-cultural hazard at the time. 
Possibly the fate of retired athletes in antiquity is sealed by autonomic 
dysregulation, cardiac adaptation and noxious exposure in fatal interaction. 
Observations like these could be helpful in the understanding of complex 
pathofysiological mechanisms, and may have implications in medical practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2007.06.031
PMID: 17689742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Exp Gerontol. 2008 Feb;43(2):102-5. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.012. Epub
2007  Jul 4.

Diabetes mellitus in the extreme longevity.

Motta M(1), Bennati E, Capri M, Ferlito L, Malaguarnera M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Senescence Sciences, University of Catania, Cannizzaro 
Hospital, Via Messina, 829, I-95126 Catania, Italy. lmotta@unict.it 
<lmotta@unict.it>

Epidemiological studies have revealed a progressive increase in the prevalence 
of diabetes mellitus in the elderly. Numerous factors are responsible for this 
trend, among them there are (a) the long-lasting disease due the improved 
therapeutic remedial (pharmacological, dietary treatments and physical 
activity), (b) the increased life span expectancy. The prevalence of diabetes 
mellitus in long living subjects is lower than in elderly people (subjects aged 
from 65 to 84). Senile diabetes is prevalent in long living people, and usually 
begins after 90 years. The incidence of neodiagnosed diabetes is higher in the 
oldest old than in the elderly people. Based on the results, diabetes mellitus 
is a negative factor for survival, and does not usually allow to achieve very 
old age, i.e. centenarian.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.06.012
PMID: 17689906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. S Afr Med J. 2007 Jun;97(6):438, 440.

A clarion call for action based on refined DALY estimates for South Africa.

Bradshaw D, Norman R, Schneider M.

PMID: 17691472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Aug;5(7):699-702. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0061.

Counterpoint: the case for immediate active treatment.

Loeb S(1), Catalona WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington, 
DC, USA.

Comment on
    J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Aug;5(7):693-8.

Active monitoring strategies recently have received attention as possible 
treatment options for men with low-risk prostate cancer who have a life 
expectancy of more than 10 years. However, no current criteria sufficiently 
predict outcomes for individuals with clinically localized disease and an 
otherwise long life expectancy who undergo either immediate or delayed 
treatment, or no treatment. This article describes the available evidence 
regarding treatment outcomes in men with low-risk prostate cancer and presents 
the case for immediate active treatment.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0061
PMID: 17692174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Aug;5(7):703-8. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0062.

Point: the value of predicting life expectancy in men with clinically localized 
prostate cancer.

Clayton DB(1), Urban DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294, USA.

Comment in
    J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Aug;5(7):709-13.

The prediction of life expectancy in prostate cancer screening and treatment is 
a controversial topic that evokes various opinions regarding its validity. The 
authors believe incorporating life expectancy prediction into the treatment 
algorithms for prostate cancer is important. Using a combination of clinical 
judgment and specific predictive tools, physicians can estimate the life 
expectancy of patients with prostate cancer. These estimates can then be used to 
help guide treatment discussion. Estimating life expectancy benefits older men 
in whom decisions regarding the best form of treatment may be difficult.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0062
PMID: 17692175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Aug;5(7):709-13. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0063.

Counterpoint: prostate cancer life expectancy can not be accurately predicted 
from currently available tools.

McCloskey SA(1), Kuettel MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Medicine, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New 
York 14263, USA.

Comment on
    J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Aug;5(7):703-8.

A large and growing percentage of prostate cancers are diagnosed among men of 
advanced age. Current guidelines stratify treatment recommendations based on 
life expectancy; therefore, accurate determination of life expectancy is 
essential. Evidence shows that patient-related factors, including age, 
comorbidities, and functional status, are critical determinants of life 
expectancy. Equally strong evidence supports tumor-related factors, including 
Gleason score, tumor stage, and prostate-specific antigen, and efficacy of 
treatment. Currently, no available tools comprehensively consider all pertinent 
factors in determining life expectancy.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0063
PMID: 17692176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Clin Ther. 2007 Jun;29(6):1184-202. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.06.020.

Cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in myocardial infarction with ST-segment 
elevation: a European model based on the CLARITY and COMMIT trials.

Berg J(1), Lindgren P, Spiesser J, Parry D, J√∂nsson B.

Author information:
(1)European Health Economics, Stockholm, Sweden. jenny.b@healtheconomics.se

BACKGROUND: Several health economic studies have shown that the use of 
clopidogrel is cost-effective to prevent ischemic events in non-ST-segment 
elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and unstable angina.
OBJECTIVE: This study was designed to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
clopidogrel in short- and long-term treatment of ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction (STEMI) with the use of data from 2 trials in Sweden, Germany, and 
France: CLARITY (Clopidogrel as Adjunctive Reperfusion Therapy) and COMMIT 
(Clopidogrel and Metoprolol in Myocardial Infarction Trial).
METHODS: A combined decision tree and Markov model was constructed. Because 
existing evidence indicates similar long-term outcomes after STEMI and NSTEMI, 
data from the long-term NSTEMI CURE trial (Clopidogrel in Unstable Angina to 
Prevent Recurrent Events) were combined with 1-month data from CLARITY and 
COMMIT to model the effect of treatment up to 1 year. The risks of death, 
myocardial infarction, and stroke in an untreated population and long-term 
survival after all events were derived from the Swedish Hospital Discharge and 
Cause of Death register. The model was run separately for the 2 STEMI trials. A 
payer perspective was chosen for the comparative analysis, focusing on direct 
medical costs. Costs were derived from published sources and were converted to 
2005 euros. Effectiveness was measured as the number of life-years gained (LYG) 
from clopidogrel treatment.
RESULTS: In a patient cohort with the same characteristics and event rates as in 
the CLARITY population, treatment with clopidogrel for up to 1 year resulted in 
0.144 LYG. In Sweden and France, this strategy was dominant with estimated cost 
savings of euro 111 and euro 367, respectively. In Germany, clopidogrel 
treatment had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of euro 92/LYG. 
Data from the COMMIT study showed that clopidogrel treatment resulted in 0.194 
LYG at an incremental cost of euro 538 in Sweden, euro 798 in Germany, and euro 
545 in France. The corresponding ICERs were euro 2772/LYG, euro 4144/LYG, and 
euro 2786/LYG, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of these STEMI patients with clopidogrel appeared to be 
cost-effective in all 3 European countries studied. Predicted ICERs were below 
generally accepted threshold values.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.06.020
PMID: 17692733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Lancet. 2007 Aug 11;370(9586):483-4; author reply 484. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61229-X.

Measurement of health and disability.

Valderas JM.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2007 May 12;369(9573):1658-63.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61229-X
PMID: 17693173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Eur J Intern Med. 2007 Sep;18(5):369-79. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2007.02.021.
Epub  2007 Jul 26.

Stress-induced cardiomyopathy: A review.

Cocco G(1), Chu D.

Author information:
(1)Marktgasse 10a, Postfach 119, CH-4310 Rheinfelden 1, Switzerland.

In clinical practice it is essential to bear stress-induced cardiomyopathy 
(SICMP) in mind as it is an insufficiently known cardiac pathology that mimics 
acute coronary syndromes (ACS), often with signs of cardiac failure. In the 
chronic phase, it poses differential diagnostic problems with regard to coronary 
artery pathology. Taxonomic confusion, due to the pathology also being called 
"takotsubo" or "ampulla cardiomyopathy", has resulted in inappropriate diagnoses 
and therapy. Available evidence strongly suggests that, in the presence of 
several cardiac risk factors, excessive sympathetic stimulation may induce this 
cardiomyopathy. The predilection of this cardiomyopathy for Mediterranean and 
Indo-Asian women, who represent 85% of cases, is probably explained by the fact 
that there is a significant correlation between female gender, a short (<158 cm) 
stature, a small (<1.9 m(2)) body surface area, and hypoplastic coronary 
arteries. Furthermore, 40% of SICMP patients have a hypoplastic branching of the 
coronary arteries in the apical region of the heart. This anomaly strongly 
favors the apical localization of the dyskinesia. The prognosis of SICMP is good 
as far as life expectancy is concerned. However, in most cases, the symptoms 
become chronic, medical treatment rarely improves dyspnea and chest pain, and 
the quality of life is, therefore, reduced. In this paper, we address diagnostic 
misunderstandings and we review the clinical and pathophysiological features of 
SICMP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2007.02.021
PMID: 17693225


48. Med Klin (Munich). 2007 Aug 15;102(8):659-64. doi: 10.1007/s00063-007-1082-8.

[Financial incentives and dialysis].

[Article in German]

Keller F(1), Dress H, Mertz A, Marckmann G.

Author information:
(1)Nephrologie und Dialyse Fachpflege, Medizinische Fakult√§t, Universit√§t Ulm, 
Ulm.

Comment in
    Med Klin (Munich). 2008 Jan 15;103(1):47; author reply 51.
    Med Klin (Munich). 2008 Jan 15;103(1):48-9; author reply 51.
    Med Klin (Munich). 2008 Jan 15;103(1):49-50; author reply 51.
    Med Klin (Munich). 2008 Jan 15;103(1):47-8; author reply 51.

Chronic renal replacement therapy by hemodialysis costs 55,000 Euros per year 
and constitutes the upper limit of a cost-effective treatment. Since 
reimbursement for dialysis is high, every patient who is in need of it will 
receive dialysis. Nephrology outside the hospital, however, is moving into a 
progress trap. Financial incentives tempt physicians to avoid complex or 
delicate treatments such as immunosuppression of IgA nephritis. The decision to 
forgo or withdraw dialysis and the referral to kidney transplantation conflict 
with the nephrologists' economic interests. High-tech medicine needs a shift in 
thinking since not all medically possible diagnostic and therapeutic procedures 
can be financed anymore. The costs urge to do more for prevention and treatment 
of kidney disease. Alternative possibilities to extend the cost-effective kidney 
transplantation should be discussed without moral rigorism. Since it is in 
competition with other cost-intensive disciplines, it is hard for nephrologists 
to start with the required mind-changing process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-007-1082-8
PMID: 17694285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Dysphagia. 2008 Mar;23(1):88-97. doi: 10.1007/s00455-007-9096-1.

The impact of aging on eating, drinking, and swallowing function in people with 
Down's syndrome.

Lazenby T(1).

Author information:
(1)NHS Lothian Primary and Community Division, Southwest Edinburgh Community 
Learning Disabilities Service, 86 Longstone Road, Edinburgh, EH14 2AS, UK. 
tracylazenby@hotmail.com

Many people with Down's syndrome (DS) experience eating, drinking, and 
swallowing (EDS) difficulties, which can potentially lead to life-threatening 
conditions such as malnutrition, dehydration, and aspiration pneumonia. As the 
life expectancy of people with DS continues to improve, there is an increasing 
need to examine how the aging process may further affect these conditions. 
Published research studies have yet to address this issue; therefore, this 
article draws on the literature in three associated areas in order to consider 
the dysphagic problems that might develop in aging people with DS. The areas 
examined are EDS development in children and adolescents with DS, EDS changes 
associated with aging, and EDS changes associated with dementia of the 
Alzheimer's type (DAT) because this condition is prevalent in older adults with 
DS. This article concludes that unlike in the general population, the aging 
process is likely to cause dysphagic difficulties in people with DS as they get 
older. Therefore, it is suggested that longitudinal studies are needed to 
examine the specific aspects of EDS function that may be affected by aging and 
concomitant conditions in DS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00455-007-9096-1
PMID: 17694411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Health Econ. 2008 Mar;17(3):435-40. doi: 10.1002/hec.1274.

Presenting results of probabilistic sensitivity analysis: the incremental 
benefit curve.

Bala MV(1), Zarkin GA, Mauskopf J.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research, Centocor Research & Development, Inc., Malvern, PA, USA. 
mbala@cntus.jnj.com

Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves have become a common way of presenting 
the results of probabilistic sensitivity analysis. However, these curves do not 
provide information on what the loss of welfare or net benefit (NB) is for cases 
where a given intervention is not the optimal one. We describe an alternate 
approach to presenting the results of probabilistic sensitivity analysis called 
the incremental benefit curve that presents the entire distribution of 
incremental NB of each intervention for a given WTP value. The incremental 
benefit curve provides the decision maker information regarding the potential 
welfare loss with a given intervention for scenarios in which it is not the 
optimal intervention, and thus would be a useful complement to the acceptability 
curve.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1274
PMID: 17694580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. J Med Entomol. 2007 Jul;44(4):568-74. doi: 
10.1603/0022-2585(2007)44[568:radola]2.0.co;2.

Reproduction and development of laboratory and wild house dust mites (Acari: 
Pyroglyphidae) and their relationship to the natural dust ecosystem.

Hart BJ(1), Crowther D, Wilkinson T, Biddulph P, Ucci M, Pretlove S, Ridley I, 
Oreszczyn T.

Author information:
(1)Royal Agricultural College, Stroud Road, Cirencester, Gloucestershire GL7 
6JS, United Kingdom. drbarbarahart@googlemail.com

Life histories of "wild" house dust mites, Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus 
(Trouessart) (Acari: Pyroglyphidae), were compared with laboratory cultures by 
using a diet consisting of skin and dust or a laboratory diet consisting of 
dried liver and yeast. Under constant conditions of 25 degrees C and 75% RH, 
fecundity and rate of reproduction were higher in laboratory cultures on both 
diets compared with wild mites. There were also trends for a shorter 
prereproductive period and more rapid egg development of laboratory mites 
compared with wild mites. Overall, there was little effect of diet on either 
strain of mites at 75% RH. At low RH (64%), fecundity was significantly lower 
(for both strains on both diets), and there were also trends for longer 
prereproductive period, reduced rate of reproduction, reduced adult survival, 
prolonged egg and juvenile development, or a combination compared with 75% RH. 
Additionally egg and juvenile mortality were significantly higher on the liver 
and yeast diet. Overall, the skin and dust diet favored both strains of mites at 
64% RH. On the liver and yeast diet at 64% RH, wild mite adults performed 
significantly better than laboratory mites, and egg mortality was lower. These 
results suggest that laboratory mites have stronger reproduction and development 
than wild mites, except when under environmental stress and that diet is a 
significant factor, particularly in suboptimal conditions. This could have 
important implications for predictive models of house dust mite populations in 
their natural habitat. Ideally, such models should be developed using data from 
wild dust mite populations reared on a natural diet.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-2585(2007)44[568:radola]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17695009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Sep;23(9):2269-82. doi: 10.1185/030079907X210796.

Mapping MOS Sleep Scale scores to SF-6D utility index.

Yang M(1), Dubois D, Kosinski M, Sun X, Gajria K.

Author information:
(1)QualityMetric Incorporated, 640 George Washington Highway, Lincoln, RI 02865, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: Deriving preference scores for the Medical Outcomes Study (MOS) Sleep 
Scale would enable its use in cost-utility analyses. The objective of this study 
was to map scores of the MOS Sleep Scale to a preference-based health-state 
utility index (SF-6D) scored from the SF-36 Health Survey (SF-36).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Three datasets were used: (1) the MOS study, a 
4-year observational study of chronically ill patients, (2) a 7-week open-label, 
non-comparative clinical trial of an osmotic controlled-release oral delivery 
system (OROS) hydromorphone in the treatment of chronic low back pain (CLBP), 
and (3) a 6-week open-label randomized controlled trial of OROS hydromorphone in 
the treatment of pain associated with chronic osteoarthritis (OA). Various 
models were tested, where SF-6D was regressed onto the Sleep Problem Index-II 
(SLP9) in 1000 random half (developmental) samples of the MOS (n = 1413). The 
best fitting model was applied to the other 1000 random half (cross-validation) 
samples of the MOS (n = 1412), and to the two trial samples (n = 199 in the CLBP 
trial; n = 124 in the OA trial).
RESULTS: The best fitting model in the MOS samples included a quadratic term for 
the SLP9 which explained 34% of the variance in SF-6D in the developmental 
samples. Errors in prediction were greatest at higher SLP9 scores. Addition of 
demographic and clinical variables to the model explained minimal incremental 
amounts of variance (< 5%) in SF-6D scores. These results were replicated in the 
cross-validation MOS samples. In both developmental and cross-validation MOS 
samples, mean predicted and observed SF-6D scores were nearly identical. When 
the mapping algorithm developed in the MOS was applied to the CLBP sample, mean 
predicted SF-6D scores were 0.09 points higher than observed SF-6D scores at 
both baseline and final visits, while changes in predicted and observed SF-6D 
scores were identical.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate that it is possible to map MOS SLP9 to SF-6D 
yielding useable preference-based scores essential for cost-utility analyses. A 
limitation concerns the interpretation of SF-6D scores estimated from SLP9 
scores above 60, where the prediction errors increased considerably.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907X210796
PMID: 17697450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Am J Cardiol. 2007 Aug 15;100(4):684-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.03.086.
Epub  2007 Jun 26.

Evidence for the continued safety and tolerability of fixed-dose isosorbide 
dinitrate/hydralazine in patients with chronic heart failure (the extension to 
African-American Heart Failure Trial).

Yancy CW(1), Ghali JK, Braman VM, Sabolinski ML, Worcel M, Archambault WT, 
Franciosa JA.

Author information:
(1)Baylor University Medical Center, Heart and Vascular Institute, Dallas, 
Texas, USA.

The benefits of fixed-dose combination isosorbide dinitrate plus hydralazine 
(ID/H) in African-Americans with heart failure (HF) were established by the 
African-American Heart Failure Trial (A-HeFT), which was terminated early 
because of a significant survival benefit of ID/H. The Extension to A-HeFT trial 
(X-A-HeFT), designed to make ID/H available for ethical reasons after A-HeFT 
termination, afforded an opportunity to further observe responsiveness and 
compliance with ID/H. In total 198 patients completing the A-HeFT took ID/H for 
an additional 209 +/- 116 days. Their age (57 +/- 13 years), cause and duration 
of HF, and HF medications were not different from all A-HeFT patients. New York 
Heart Association class at X-A-HeFT baseline was > or =III in 51% of patients 
versus 100% of all patients at A-HeFT baseline, remained unchanged in most 
patients, improved in 24%, and worsened in only 9% during X-A-HeFT. The average 
number of ID/H tablets taken during X-A-HeFT was 3.7 +/- 1.8 per day with 
compliance averaging 87 +/- 25%. The most common adverse events, headache (34%) 
and dizziness (16%), were less than in patients taking ID/H in A-HeFT, with only 
6% discontinuations for adverse events. The 6% annualized mortality rate in 
X-A-HeFT was the same as for ID/H in A-HeFT. There were no statistically 
significant differences in baseline characteristics or outcomes in X-A-HeFT 
patients analyzed according to their A-HeFT randomization. In conclusion, these 
results confirm the good compliance, tolerability, and responsiveness, with low 
mortality and improved symptoms, during treatment with ID/H observed in A-HeFT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.03.086
PMID: 17697829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Clin Ther. 2007 May;29(5):950-962. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.05.005.

A disease-specific measure of health-related quality of life in adults with 
chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura: psychometric testing in an open-label 
clinical trial.

Mathias SD(1), Bussel JB(2), George JN(3), McMillan R(4), Okano GJ(5), Nichol 
JL(5).

Author information:
(1)Ovation Research Group, San Francisco, California, USA. Electronic address: 
smathias@ovation.org.
(2)New York Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center, New York, New 
York, USA.
(3)University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, USA.
(4)The Scripps Research Institute, LaJolla, California, USA.
(5)Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Immune Thrombocytopenic Purpura Patient Assessment Questionnaire 
(ITP-PAQ) was developed to assess disease-specific quality of life (QoL) in 
adults with ITP. It is a 44-item questionnaire that includes scales for physical 
health (symptoms, fatigue/sleep, bother, and activity), emotional health 
(psychological and fear), overall QoL, social activity, women's reproductive 
health, and work. A previous study reported preliminary evidence of its 
reliability and validity.
OBJECTIVES: The present study was conducted to ascertain the responsiveness 
(ability to detect a clinically important treatment effect), reliability, and 
validity of the ITP-PAQ and to corroborate the earlier findings. The women's 
reproductive health scale was evaluated for psychometric evidence of the 
existence of separate menstrual symptoms and fertility subscales.
METHODS: The ITP-PAQ was evaluated in the context of an ongoing open-label 
extension study assessing the tolerability and durability of increases in the 
platelet count with AMG 531 (a thrombopoiesis peptibody that increases platelet 
production by targeting the thrombopoietin receptor) administered by 
subcutaneous injection once weekly in adult patients with ITP It was 
self-administered at baseline and at weeks 4, 12, and 24. The responsiveness of 
the questionnaire was evaluated by calculating and comparing the change scores 
of patients who showed clinical improvement-categorized as platelet responders 
(those with a platelet count > or =50 x 10(9) cells/L and a doubling of baseline 
values at week 24) and durable platelet responders (those with a platelet count 
> or =50 x 10(9) cells/L and a doubling of baseline values on > or =6 occasions 
during weeks 17-24)-with the change scores of patients wh did not show clinical 
improvement. The reliability (internal consistency and test-retest) and validity 
(convergent, discriminant, and known groups) of the questionnaire were also 
evaluated. Validity was examined in terms of correlations between the ITP-PAQ 
and the 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36), a generic measure of 
health-related QoL.
RESULTS: Thirty-four patients completed the ITP-PAQ. Most of the scales were 
found capable of detecting clinically important treatment effects, with the 
scales for symptoms, fatigue/sleep, bother, and activity being particularly 
responsive. All scales were found to have internal consistency reliability 
(Cronbach's alpha, 0.700-0.950), with the exceptions of the menstrual symptoms 
subscale (0.988 and 0.959 at weeks 12 and 24, respectively) and the work scale 
(0.691 at week 24). Test-retest reliability was acceptable (intraclass 
correlation coefficient, 0.725-0.867), with the exceptions of the scales for 
symptoms (0.677) and women's reproductive health (0.592) and the fertility 
subscale (0.171). Construct validity was supported by correlations between 
specific ITP-PAQ and SF-36 scales, with the exceptions of the menstrual symptoms 
and fertility subscales. Discriminant validity was reported for the symptoms, 
fatigue/sleep, bother, and activity scales. Durable platelet responders had 
significantly better scores than nonresponders on the symptoms (P = 0.022), 
bother (P = 0.008), psychological (P = 0.033), and overall QoL scales (P = 
0.032). Compared with those who had undergone splenectomy, patients without 
splenectomy had significantly higher scores on the women's reproductive health 
scale (P = 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this analysis indicate that the ITP-PAQ has 
acceptable responsiveness, reliability, and validity. Further study of the 
minimal clinically important difference in ITP-PAQ scale scores is needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.05.005
PMID: 17697914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Clin Ther. 2007 May;29(5):963-971. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.05.014.

An economic assessment of losartan-based versus atenolol-based therapy in 
patients with hypertension and left-ventricular hypertrophy: results from the 
Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction (LIFE) study adapted to The 
Netherlands.

Boersma C(1), Carides GW(2), Atthobari J(3), Voors AA(4), Postma MJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Groningen Research Institute of Pharmacy (GRIP), University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands. Electronic address: c.boersma@rug.nl.
(2)Merck Research Laboratories, North Wales, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Groningen Research Institute of Pharmacy (GRIP), University of Groningen, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The Losartan Intervention For Endpoint reduction (LIFE) study was a 
randomized, doubleblind trial that compared the effects of losartan-based 
treatment with those of atenolol-based treatment on cardiovascular disease 
(CVD)-related morbidity and mortality in 9193 patients with hypertension and 
left-ventricular hypertrophy (LVH). Compared with atenolol, losartan reduced the 
combined risk for CVD-related morbidity and mortality by 13% (P = 0.021), and 
reduced the risk for stroke by 25% (P = 0.001), with comparable blood pressure 
control in both trial arms.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of 
losartan compared with atenolol in the treatment of stroke from the Dutch health 
care perspective.
METHODS: Utilization of losartan and atenolol within the trial period (mean, 4.8 
years) and an estimation of direct medical costs of stroke for The Netherlands 
were combined with estimates of reduction in life expectancy through stroke. 
Medication costs and stroke incidence during 5.5 years of patient follow-up were 
estimated separately, adjusted for the baseline degree of LVH and Framingham 
risk score. To estimate lifetime stroke costs, the cumulative incidence of 
stroke was multiplied by the lifetime direct medical costs attributable to 
stroke. All costs are in 2006 Dutch prices and discounted following the former 
(4% costs and effects) and new Dutch guideline (4% costs, 1.5% effects) for 
conducting pharmacoeconomic analyses.
RESULTS: With 4% discounting, prevention of stroke was associated with a gain of 
3.7 life-years. As a consequence, losartan treatment was associated with 0.059 
life-year gained (LYG) per patient treated with losartan. Losartan reduced 
stroke-related costs by 1,076 Euros (US $1,349) per patient. After inclusion of 
study medication cost, net cost per patient was 51 Euros ($64) higher for 
losartan than atenolol. The net cost per LYG was 864 Euros ($1083), which is 
below the Dutch pharmacoeconomic threshold of 20,000 Euros/LYG (~$25,000/LYG) 
for accepting interventions. The corresponding probability of a 
cost-effectiveness ratio below this Dutch threshold was 0.95. Discounting money 
and health following the new Dutch guideline resulted in an even more favorable 
cost-effectiveness for losartan.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from the present analysis suggest that, in The Netherlands, 
treatment with losartan compared with atenolol may well be a cost-effective 
intervention based on the reduced risk for stroke observed in the LIFE trial.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.05.014
PMID: 17697915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Sci Med Sport. 2008 Jun;11(3):299-307. doi: 10.1016/j.jsams.2007.04.005.
Epub  2007 Aug 14.

Physiological and psychological responses to a 12-week BodyBalance training 
programme.

Khan RS(1), Marlow C, Head A.

Author information:
(1)School of Human and Life Sciences, Roehampton University, London, UK. 
r.khan@roehampton.ac.uk

BodyBalance is a popular mind-body program practised at numerous leisure centres 
throughout the western world that makes many unsubstantiated claims as to the 
benefits of participation. This study examines physiological and psychological 
responses in adults, aged (mean+/-S.D.) 43.9+/-10.9 years, to a 12-week 
'BodyBalance' exercise program. An exercise intervention group (n=17) undertook 
three 1-h classes, each week for 12 consecutive weeks while the control group 
(n=17) attended three 90-min 'health lectures'. ANCOVA demonstrated significant 
differences between the control and exercise groups in body mass, skinfold 
measures, total girth circumference from six sites, maximal isometric back 
strength, five measures of flexibility and state anxiety. Post-hoc tests on the 
experimental group data showed body fat decreased significantly by 1.10+/-1.02% 
(t=4.44; P<0.01), girth by 4.40+/-5.80cm (t=3.13; P<0.01) and back strength 
increased by 17.12+/-15.39kgf (t=-4.59; P<0.01). Flexibility was also 
significantly enhanced with performance of the modified sit-and-reach test 
increasing by 5.90+/-2.56cm (t=-9.50; P<0.01), hip flexion by 9.84+/-8.41 
degrees (t=-4.82; P<0.01), hip extension by 7.65+/-4.48 degrees (t=-7.04; 
P<0.01), hip abduction by 10.00+/-4.91 degrees (t=-8.40; P<0.01) and lateral 
trunk flexion by 3.06+/-5.72 degrees (t=-2.21; P<0.05). Finally, state-anxiety 
(STAI) was significantly reduced intra-class at weeks 1, 6 and 12 by 9.24+/-9.46 
(t=4.02; P<0.01), 6.59+/-6.26 (t=4.34; P<0.01) and 7.18+/-5.50 (t=5.38; P<0.01), 
respectively. The findings of this study suggest mind-body exercise programs 
like BodyBalance could significantly benefit state-anxiety as well as strength, 
flexibility, and anthropometry around the trunk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsams.2007.04.005
PMID: 17698412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Jan;1(1):117-29. doi: 10.2215/CJN.00370705. Epub 
2005 Oct 19.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy and the kidney: an update on antiretroviral 
medications for nephrologists.

Berns JS(1), Kasbekar N.

Author information:
(1)Renal, Electrolyte and Hypertension Division, Department of Medicine, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Penn Presbyterian Medical Center, 
51 N. 39th Street, Medical Office Building #240, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. 
bernsj@uphs.upenn.edu

Highly active antiretroviral therapy has dramatically altered the treatment and 
life expectancy of individuals who are infected with HIV. More than 20 
antiretroviral drugs and drug combinations now are available in the United 
States. Nephrologists need to have an understanding of the pharmacokinetics of 
antiretroviral medications and the proper dosing of these medications in 
patients with impaired kidney function. It is also important for nephrologists 
to be aware of drug-drug interactions that can occur between antiretroviral 
medications and other medications that they may prescribe, including 
immunosuppressive medications that are used for renal transplantation, as this 
becomes more common in HIV-infected patients. Adverse reactions that affect the 
kidneys and cause fluid-electrolyte complications occur with certain 
antiretroviral agents, although most are relatively free of nephrotoxicity. This 
article reviews the clinical pharmacology and dosing modifications of the newer 
antiretroviral medications in patients with reduced kidney function; important 
drug-drug interactions involving these medications, particularly with other 
medications that are likely to be prescribed by nephrologists; and renal 
toxicities of antiretroviral agents.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.00370705
PMID: 17699198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 May;1(3):532-8. doi: 10.2215/CJN.01130905. Epub
2006  Feb 8.

Which renal transplant candidates should accept marginal kidneys in exchange for 
a shorter waiting time on dialysis?

Schold JD(1), Meier-Kriesche HU.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Hypertension, and Transplantation, Department of 
Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Florida, PO Box 100224, 
Gainesville, FL, USA. scholjd@medicine.ufl.edu

Renal transplantation has been established as a life-saving procedure for 
patients with ESRD. Deceased donor kidneys convey variable life expectancies for 
recipients. However, limited information is available to guide patients and 
patient advocates concerning the appropriateness to list for expanded criteria 
donations (ECD). Half-lives for wait-listed transplant candidates were estimated 
from the time of ESRD onset on the basis of recipient age, primary diagnosis, 
and organ quality using survival models. In addition, we evaluated the 
likelihood of candidates' receiving a transplant on the basis of age and other 
characteristics by duration of waiting time. Older patients (65+) had longer 
life expectancy when they accepted an ECD within 2 yr of ESRD onset (5.6 yr) 
compared with waiting for a standard kidney (5.3 yr) or a living donation (5.5 
yr) after 4 yr of dialysis. Conversely, younger recipients (18 to 39 yr) had 
longer life expectancy with a living donation (27.6 yr) or standard kidney (26.4 
