(c) 2007 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22806
PMID: 17592827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Diabet Med. 2007 Sep;24(9):982-1002. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2007.02188.x.
Epub  2007 Jun 25.

PROactive 06: cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone in Type 2 diabetes in the UK.

Valentine WJ(1), Bottomley JM, Palmer AJ, Br√§ndle M, Foos V, Williams R, 
Dormandy JA, Yates J, Tan MH, Massi-Benedetti M; PROactive Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, A Unit of IMS Health, Allschwil, Switzerland.

AIMS: To determine the cost-effectiveness of adding pioglitazone to existing 
treatment regimens in patients with Type 2 diabetes with a history of 
macrovascular disease who are at high risk of further cardiovascular events.
METHODS: We conducted two analyses. A within-trial cost-effectiveness analysis 
(CEA) based on data from the PROspective pioglitAzone Clinical Trial In 
macroVascular Events (PROactive) Study was performed to estimate the impact of 
additional pioglitazone treatment on life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) and macrovascular events. PROactive data was then used as a 
basis for a lifetime modelling analysis using a modified version of the 
validated CORE diabetes model that simulated the same outcomes over a 35-year 
time horizon. We accounted for direct medical costs from a health-care payer 
perspective and related these to the clinical outcomes from the study. Costs and 
benefits were discounted at 3.5% per annum and extensive sensitivity analyses 
were performed to account for uncertainty in input parameters.
RESULTS: (i) Within-trial CEA: compared with placebo, pioglitazone was 
associated with improved life expectancy (undiscounted 0.0109 years), increased 
QALE [0.0190 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)] and slightly higher costs ( 
pounds 102 per patient). After a mean treatment period of 3 years, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of pioglitazone vs. placebo was 
pounds 5396 per QALY gained. The ICERs were relatively insensitive to cost and 
utility values and were most sensitive to event rates in the pioglitazone arm. 
(ii) Long-term CEA: pioglitazone was associated with improvements in clinical 
outcomes based on model projections beyond the PROactive Study. Patients treated 
with pioglitazone could expect improved life expectancy (undiscounted 0.406 
years), increased QALE (0.152 QALYs) and higher costs of care ( pounds 619 per 
patient) compared with those on existing treatment alone. The base case analysis 
indicated that the ICER of pioglitazone vs. placebo was pounds 4060 per QALY 
gained. The cost-effectiveness acceptability curve showed there was an 84.3% 
likelihood that pioglitazone would be considered cost-effective in the UK using 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of pounds 30 000 per QALY gained. These long-term 
results were most sensitive to variation in the time horizon, the duration of 
cardiovascular benefit of pioglitazone, and changes in mortality rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of pioglitazone to existing therapy in patients with 
Type 2 diabetes at high risk of further cardiovascular events is cost-effective 
and represents good value for money by currently accepted standards in the UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2007.02188.x
PMID: 17593245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Clin Exp Nephrol. 2007 Jun;11(2):147-150. doi: 10.1007/s10157-007-0468-5.
Epub  2007 Jun 28.

Prognosis of bedridden patients with end-stage renal failure after starting 
hemodialysis.

Sugaya K(1), Hokama A(2), Hayashi E(3)(4), Naka H(3)(4), Oda M(3), Nishijima 
S(3), Miyazato M(3), Hokama S(3), Ogawa Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Organ-Oriented Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa, 903-0215, Japan. 
sugaya@med.u-ryukyu.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Kitakami Central Hospital, Chatan, Okinawa, 
Japan.
(3)Division of Urology, Department of Organ-Oriented Medicine, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa, 903-0215, Japan.
(4)Department of Urology, Nishizaki Hospital, Itoman, Okinawa, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The mean age of starting hemodialysis (HD) in patients with 
end-stage renal failure is gradually increasing in Japan. It is not uncommon for 
HD to be commenced in bedridden elderly patients who cannot give informed 
consent, because of brain damage. However, we have not been able to provide 
useful advice to their families because there was no relevant information 
available about the prognosis of bedridden patients on HD. Therefore, we 
examined the prognosis of bedridden HD patients.
METHODS: Two hundred and nineteen patients who received HD were enrolled. These 
subjects were divided into five groups; (aged <50, 50-59, 60-69, 70-79, and 
>or=80 years at the commencement of HD), and we compared the overall prognosis 
between bedridden and nonbedridden patients, as well as that for each age group.
RESULTS: There were 76 bedridden patients among the 219 HD patients, and the 
main cause of their bedridden state before starting HD was cerebrovascular 
disease. The 50% survival time after the start of HD was 120 months for the 
nonbedridden patients versus 56 months for bedridden patients. However, the mean 
(+/-SD) age of the bedridden patients was higher than that of nonbedridden 
patients (70 +/- 13 versus 64 +/- 14 years). In patients under age 50 years at 
the start of dialysis, the survival rate was lower in the bedridden than in the 
nonbedridden patients, but there were no differences between survival rates for 
bedridden and nonbedridden patients in the other four age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis of HD patients is poor compared with the general life 
expectancy of the Japanese population, but whether these patients are bedridden 
or not has little influence on their survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s10157-007-0468-5
PMID: 17593514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2007 Jun;38(3):484-7.

[Social functions of the longevous elderly population in Dujiangyan].

[Article in Chinese]

Wu JH(1), Ren XH, Zhang Q, Deng JL, Dong BR, Wu HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics Medicine, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the social functions of the longevous elderly population 
in Dujiangyan.
METHODS: A questionnaire survey was undertaken in Dujiangyan in 875 elderly 
people who were over 90 years old.
RESULTS: Poor social economic status was prevalent in the longevous elderly 
population. The elderly people had limited social contacts except from their 
families. The daily lives of 65. 0% of the longevous elderly were taken care of 
by their families. More than 81. 8% of the longevous elderly people were 
financially supported by their families. About 89. 2% of the longevous elderly 
people had accessed to spiritual supports in difficult circumstances, among 88. 
7% came from families.
CONCLUSION: Thanks to the family supports, the longevous people in Dujiangyan 
have maintained good social functions.

PMID: 17593838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2007 Jun;38(3):488-91.

[The predictive value of the Tokuhashi revised scoring system for the survival 
time of patients with spinal metastases].

[Article in Chinese]

Zeng JC(1), Song YM, Liu H, Gong Q, Li T, Liu LM, Hu YZ, Pei FX, Rao SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu 610041, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the predictive value of the Tokuhashi revised scoring 
system for the life expectancy of patients with spinal metastases.
METHODS: A retrospective review of 447 patients with spinal metastases was 
performed, which comprised 291 men and 156 women with a mean age of 56. 1 years. 
All of the patients were scored with the Tokuhashi revised scoring system based 
on the available clinical, pathological and radiographic data. The relation 
between the survival time and the Tokuhashi revised score was analyzed.
RESULTS: The patients had a median survival time of 7. 9 months and a mean 
Tokuhashi revised score of 8. 23 points. The median survival time of 155 
patients with high grade primary tumor of lung, liver, gastrointestinal tract, 
esophagus, bladder and pancreas was 4. 7 months. The median survival time of 146 
patients with low grade primary tumor of thyroid, breast and prostate was 12 
months. The median survival time of 146 patients with medium grade primary tumor 
of kidney, lymphoma, ovary and uterus, and unknown primary tumor was 7. 1 
months. The median survival time of 211 patients with the Tokuhashi revised 
score of 0 to 8 points was 4 months. The median survival time of 147 patients 
with the Tokuhashi revised score of 9 to 11 points was 10 months. The median 
survival time of 89 patients with the Tokuhashi revised score of 12 to 15 points 
was 29 months. The differences between the groups were significant (P<0. 01 or 
0. 0001). The Tokuhashi revised score was positively correlated with survival 
time (r=0. 833, P<0. 001).
CONCLUSION: The Tokuhashi revised score could support decision making with 
reliable estimation of life expectancy of patients with spinal metastases. 
Surgery could be a better choice to extend life span for those patients with 
solitary spinal metastasis of slow-growth primary tumor and those with the 
Tokuhashi revised score of 12 to 15 points.

PMID: 17593839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Can J Cardiol. 2007 Jun;23(8):657-61. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70228-3.

The dilemma of a left ventricular assist device explantation: a decision 
analysis.

Delgado DH(1), Ross HJ, Rao V.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology and Transplantation, Toronto General Hospital, 
Toronto, Canada. diego.delgado@uhn.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Left ventricular assist devices (LVADs) are an important adjunct to 
the management of end-stage heart failure patients. Uncertainty remains 
regarding whether to remove an LVAD in a clinically stable, asymptomatic patient 
who displays signs of ventricular recovery.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate, from a patient's perspective, the quality-adjusted life 
expectancy of an LVAD explantation.
METHODS: A Markov state transition model was used to assess the benefits of two 
strategies: remove an LVAD or continue the LVAD support. Effectiveness was 
measured in quality-adjusted life months. Utility and probability scores were 
derived from the literature and expert opinion. The base case focused on a 
35-year-old man with dilated cardiomyopathy, an implantable LVAD and signs of 
ventricular recovery, with New York Heart Association class I heart failure 
symptoms.
RESULTS: In the base case, continuing LVAD support was strongly preferred and 
improved quality-adjusted life expectancy by nine quality-adjusted life months. 
In sensitivity analyses for the utility post-transplant, removal of the device 
would have been preferred if the utility was less than 0.7. The model was also 
sensitive to the probability of late complications post-LVAD implantation. As 
the probability of complications increased (greater than 28%), the preferred 
strategy was to remove the LVAD.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuing LVAD support in asymptomatic patients with signs of 
ventricular recovery appears to be the preferred strategy for conveying greater 
quality-adjusted life months compared with LVAD explantation. As the probability 
of complications after LVAD implantation increases, the preferred strategy is to 
remove the LVAD.

CONTEXTE : Les dispositifs d‚Äôassistance ventriculaire gauche (DAVG) constituent 
une intervention d‚Äôappoint importante dans le traitement de l‚Äôinsuffisance 
cardiaque terminale. Cependant, il subsiste des doutes sur la pertinence de 
retirer le DAVG chez les patients cliniquement stables et asymptomatiques, qui 
montrent des signes de r√©cup√©ration ventriculaire.
BUT : L‚Äô√©tude avait pour but d‚Äô√©valuer, du point de vue du patient, l‚Äôesp√©rance 
de vie pond√©r√©e par la qualit√© de l‚Äôexistence, li√©e au retrait du DAVG.
M√âTHODE : Nous nous sommes appuy√©s sur un mod√®le markovien de transition d‚Äô√©tats 
pour √©valuer les bienfaits de deux strat√©gies : le retrait du DAVG ou son 
maintien en place. L‚Äôefficacit√© a √©t√© mesur√©e en mois de vie pond√©r√©e par la 
qualit√©. Les scores d‚Äôutilit√© et de probabilit√©s ont √©t√© tir√©s de la 
documentation et d‚Äôavis d‚Äôexperts. Le sc√©nario de r√©f√©rence √©tait celui d‚Äôun 
homme de 35 ans, porteur d‚Äôune myocardiopathie dilat√©e et d‚Äôun DAVG implantable, 
qui pr√©sentait des signes de r√©cup√©ration ventriculaire, accompagn√©s de 
sympt√¥mes d‚Äôinsuffisance cardiaque de classe 1 selon la New York Heart 
Association.
R√âSULTATS : Dans le sc√©nario de r√©f√©rence, le maintien du dispositif √©tait 
pr√©f√©r√© de loin et permettait de prolonger l‚Äôesp√©rance de vie pond√©r√©e par la 
qualit√© de l‚Äôexistence de neuf mois de vie pond√©r√©e. Dans les analyses de 
sensibilit√© relativement √† l‚Äôutilit√© de la pose, il √©tait pr√©f√©rable de retirer 
le DAVG si le poids de l‚Äôutilit√© √©tait inf√©rieur √† 0,7. Le mod√®le s‚Äôest 
√©galement montr√© sensible aux complications tardives du port du dispositif. 
Comme les probabilit√©s de complications augmentaient (sup√©rieures √† 28 %), la 
meilleure strat√©gie s‚Äôest r√©v√©l√©e celle du retrait.
CONCLUSIONS : Le maintien en place du DAVG chez les patients asymptomatiques, 
qui montrent de signes de r√©cup√©ration ventriculaire semble la meilleure 
strat√©gie en ce qui concerne le prolongement de la vie pond√©r√©e par la qualit√©, 
par rapport au retrait de l‚Äôappareil. Par contre, √† mesure qu‚Äôaugmentent les 
probabilit√©s de complications, il est pr√©f√©rable de retirer le DAVG.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70228-3
PMCID: PMC2651946
PMID: 17593992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Yonsei Med J. 2007 Jun 30;48(3):488-94. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2007.48.3.488.

Pancreaticoduodenectomy of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma in the elderly.

Kang CM(1), Kim JY, Choi GH, Kim KS, Choi JS, Lee WJ, Kim BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 250 Seongsanno, 
Seodaemun-gu, Seoul 120-752, Korea.

PURPOSE: Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma has the highest incidence between the 
ages of 60 and 70 years. As the elderly population has been increasing in the 
last several decades, the proportion of patients older than 70 years of age with 
resectable pancreatic cancer is expected to increase in our society. This 
retrospective observation was performed to evaluate surgical value of 
pancreaticoduodenectomy for the elderly patients with pancreatic ductal 
adenocarcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From January 1990 to June 2005, among the patients who 
underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, the 
elder patients older than 70 years of age were retrospectively reviewed. 
Perioperative surgical outcomes, including general clinicopathologic features, 
morbidity, mortality, and survival outcomes, were investigated based on 
available medical records.
RESULTS: Seventy-seven patients underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) for 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. Among them, 11 patients (14.3%) were 70 years 
older. More frequent incidences of morbidity (8 out of 11 vs. 25 out of 65, 
p=0.049), especially delayed gastric emptying (3 out of 8 vs. 3 out of 66, 
p=0.035), were observed and overall length of hospital stay was also longer in 
the elderly (49.2 +/- 13.9 days vs. 36.1 +/- 13.2, p=0.012). However, no 
significant differences in mortality rate and survival outcomes were noted when 
comparing with those of the younger patients (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: We agree with the opinion that age factor can not be absolute 
contraindication for pancreaticoduodenectomy, however, appropriate preoperative 
evaluations, proper patient selection considering life expectancy, advanced 
surgical techniques and detailed perioperative management are mandatory to 
guarantee the safety of pancreaticoduodenectomy performed in the elderly with 
pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2007.48.3.488
PMCID: PMC2628082
PMID: 17594158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2007 Jun;18 Suppl 3:151-67. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01446.x.

The bases for using a particular occlusal design in tooth and implant-borne 
reconstructions and complete dentures.

Klineberg I(1), Kingston D, Murray G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Oral Health, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Sydney, Westmead 
Hospital, Westmead, Australia. iven_klineberg@wsahs.nsw.gov.au

Erratum in
    Clin Oral Implants Res. 2008 Mar;19(3):326-8.

Comment in
    Clin Oral Implants Res. 2007 Jun;18 Suppl 3:189-92.

OBJECTIVES: A systematic review identified randomised and other trials 
(1966-2006) of studies of occlusal design of crowns, complete (CRP) and partial 
(PRP) removable prostheses and implant-borne reconstructions, and whether 
occlusal design influenced diet, quality of life, bruxism and attrition.
METHODS: The search primarily included Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 
and Central Register of Controlled Trials, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of 
Effectiveness, Ovid Medline and PreMedline.
RESULTS: The search yielded 1315 studies: 20 on CRP--1 RCT, one systematic 
review, four clinical trials, 10 case series; 22 on PRP - one cohort study, two 
experimental studies, 15 case reports or case series, three clinical trials; 23 
on implant superstructures, and 24 reports on implant failure, 37 on oral health 
related quality of life, eight on attrition; and four studies on masticatory 
function.
CONCLUSIONS: CRP--Studies of occlusal form and tooth arrangements, included 
balanced, lingualised and monoplane arrangements--lingualised posterior 
occlusion was preferred. Early studies on CRP design were observational as case 
reports, however data suggested that optimum function is achieved by 
modification of the maxillary occlusion, irrespective of the opposing mandibular 
occlusion. PRP--Edentulous ridge resorption is patient-specific, has a 
multifactorial aetiology and there is no objective data to confirm that 
mechanical factors cause bone loss; oral hygiene management is crucial for 
long-term health. Studies on distal extension PDs confirmed a link between bite 
force and masticatory function; preservation of two functioning posterior tooth 
units ipsilateral to the distal extension optimises function. Data indicate that 
patient-specific factors, rather than PD design-specific features, influence 
long-term PD outcomes. Implant superstructures--There is little scientific 
evidence specifying occlusal and superstructure design for fixed prostheses for 
teeth or implants. Occlusal scheme design and occlusal form have evolved through 
clinical experience, but there is no evidence to indicate that a particular 
design is superior. Complex neurophysiological mechanisms allow the jaw muscle 
system to accommodate to oral and dental changes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01446.x
PMID: 17594379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. BMC Geriatr. 2007 Jun 26;7:14. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-7-14.

The Newcastle 85+ study: biological, clinical and psychosocial factors 
associated with healthy ageing: study protocol.

Collerton J(1), Barrass K, Bond J, Eccles M, Jagger C, James O, Martin-Ruiz C, 
Robinson L, von Zglinicki T, Kirkwood T.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK. j.c.collerton@ncl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The UK, like other developed countries, is experiencing a marked 
change in the age structure of its population characterised by increasing life 
expectancy and continuing growth in the older fraction of the population. There 
is remarkably little up-to-date information about the health of the oldest old 
(over 85 years), demographically the fastest growing section of the population. 
There is a need, from both a policy and scientific perspective, to describe in 
detail the health status of this population and the factors that influence 
individual health trajectories. For a very large proportion of medical 
conditions, age is the single largest risk factor. Gaining new knowledge about 
why aged cells and tissues are more vulnerable to pathology is likely to 
catalyse radical new insights and opportunities to intervene. The aims of the 
Newcastle 85+ Study are to expose the spectrum of health within an inception 
cohort of 800 85 year-olds; to examine health trajectories and outcomes as the 
cohort ages and their associations with underlying biological, medical and 
social factors; and to advance understanding of the biological nature of ageing.
METHODS: A cohort of 800 85 year olds from Newcastle and North Tyneside will be 
recruited at baseline and followed until the last participant has died. Eligible 
individuals will be all those who turn 85 during the year 2006 (i.e. born in 
1921) and who are registered with a Newcastle or North Tyneside general 
practice. Participants will be visited in their current residence (own home or 
institution) by a research nurse at baseline, 18 months and 36 months. The 
assessment protocol entails a detailed multi-dimensional health assessment 
together with review of general practice medical records. Participants will be 
flagged with the NHS Central Register to provide details of the date and cause 
of death.
DISCUSSION: The Newcastle 85+ Study will address key questions about health and 
health-maintenance in the 85+ population, with a particular focus on 
quantitative assessment of factors underlying variability in health, and on the 
relationships between health, nutrition and biological markers of the 
fundamental processes of ageing.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-7-14
PMCID: PMC1924857
PMID: 17594470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Jun 26;7:94. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-94.

Bismarck or Beveridge: a beauty contest between dinosaurs.

van der Zee J(1), Kroneman MW.

Author information:
(1)NIVEL (Netherlands Institute of Health Services Research), Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. j.vanderzee@nivel.nl <j.vanderzee@nivel.nl>

BACKGROUND: Health systems delivery systems can be divided into two broad 
categories: National Health Services (NHS) on the one hand and Social Security 
(based) Health care systems (SSH) on the other hand. Existing literature is 
inconclusive about which system performs best. In this paper we would like to 
improve the evidence-base for discussion about pros and cons of NHS-systems 
versus SSH-system for health outcomes, expenditure and population satisfaction.
METHODS: In this study we used time series data for 17 European countries, that 
were characterized as either NHS or SSH country. We used the following 
performance indicators: For health outcome: overall mortality rate, infant 
mortality rate and life expectancy at birth. For health care costs: health care 
expenditure per capita in pppUS$ and health expenditure as percentage of GDP. 
Time series dated from 1970 until 2003 or 2004, depending on availability. 
Sources were OECD health data base 2006 and WHO health for all database 2006. 
For satisfaction we used the Eurobarometer studies from 1996, 1998 and 1999.
RESULTS: SSH systems perform slightly better on overall mortality rates and life 
expectancy (after 1980). For infant mortality the rates converged between the 
two types of systems and since 1980 no differences ceased to exist.SSH systems 
are more expensive and NHS systems have a better cost containment. Inhabitants 
of countries with SSH-systems are on average substantially more satisfied than 
those in NHS countries.
CONCLUSION: We concluded that the question 'which type of system performs best' 
can be answered empirically as far as health outcomes, health care expenditures 
and patient satisfaction are concerned. Whether this selection of indicators 
covers all or even most relevant aspects of health system comparison remains to 
be seen. Perhaps further and more conclusive research into health system related 
differences in, for instance, equity should be completed before the leading 
question of this paper can be answered. We do think, however, that this study 
can form a base for a policy debate on the pros and cons of the existing health 
care systems in Europe.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-94
PMCID: PMC1934356
PMID: 17594476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2007 Jun;15(6):431-6.

[An economic evaluation of different treatments for HBeAg-positive chronic 
hepatitis B in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Larry L(1), Lu XZ, Alison T.

Author information:
(1)LaceySolutions Ltd., The Beaches, South Strand, Skerries, County Dublin, 
Republic of Ireland.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the economic evaluation of short- and long-term antiviral 
treatments of HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B from the perspective of the 
Chinese health care system.
METHODS: A 10-health state Markov model was developed to estimate long-term cost 
and effectiveness of different treatments of HBeAg-positive CHB. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness analysis was then carried out.
RESULTS: In comparison with no antiviral treatment, lamivudine administered for 
1-year was a highly cost-effective short-course treatment for HBeAg-positive 
CHB. However, of the treatments evaluated, lamivudine plus adefovir as a rescue 
medication or adefovir plus lamivudine as a rescue medication administered for 5 
years resulted in a more sustained decrease in the rate of disease progression. 
In comparison with 1 year lamivudine treatment, the incremental cost per Quality 
Adjusted Life Year (QALY) for treatment with lamivudine plus adefovir or 
adefovir plus lamivudine as a rescue medication for 5 years was CNY 25 115 and 
35 577 respectively, which was 55.2% and 36.5% lower than the estimated 
international threshold value for China.
CONCLUSION: In comparison with no antiviral treatment, lamivudine administered 
for 1-year is a highly cost-effective short-course treatment. Longer duration 
antiviral treatments, lamivudine plus adefovir or adefovir plus lamivudine as a 
rescue medication are both cost-effective strategies, resulting in a more 
sustained decrease in the rate of disease progression.

PMID: 17594808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Ugeskr Laeger. 2007 Jun 18;169(25):2398-403.

[Sex mortality differences in Denmark 1840-2005. Women live longer than men, but 
great changes during the last 50 years].

[Article in Danish]

Juel K(1), Christensen K.

Author information:
(1)Syddansk Universitet, Statens Institut for Folkesundhed. kj@niph.dk

INTRODUCTION: The study examines sex mortality differences in Denmark 1840-2005 
with focus on time trends.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The material is based on cause of death statistics. The 
mortality is expressed for men and women by life expectancy and age and cause 
specific mortality rates.
RESULTS: Since 1840 life expectancy has increased for both sexes, and Danish 
women have constantly had a longer life expectancy than Danish men. Until 1950 
the difference was 2-3 years, but then the difference increased to 6 years and 
is now about 4 years. Since 1900 the mortality rate for children below one year 
of age has constantly been 20-40% higher among boys than among girls. From 1900 
until 1950 only a minor sex difference was seen among adults, but then 
substantial sex differences appeared. Since 1920 there have only been minor sex 
differences for deaths due to influenza, infections and colorectal cancer. For 
heart diseases, diabetes and stroke the male excess mortality increased. For 
deaths related to smoking and alcohol great changes in sex differences have 
appeared since 1950, likewise for suicide, traffic accidents and accidental 
poisonings.
CONCLUSION: In the last 160 years Danish women have had a longer life expectancy 
than Danish men. Notable changes in sex difference in life expectancy in the 
last 50 years can mainly be attributed to diseases and causes of deaths closely 
related to life style and health behaviour interacting with living conditions.

PMID: 17594827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Health Econ. 2007 Jul;16(7):653-65. doi: 10.1002/hec.1263.

If it ain't broke, don't price fix it: the OFT and the PPRS.

Towse A(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, London, UK. atowse@ohe.org

The Office of Fair Trading (OFT) Report on the UK Pharmaceutical Price 
Regulation Scheme (PPRS) recommends that when the current five-year PPRS expires 
in 2010 it be replaced with 'value-based pricing' which involves pre-launch 
centralised government price setting based on a cost-per-QALY threshold plus 
periodic ex post reviews. I examine the validity of the OFTs criticisms of the 
existing PPRS, review its proposals and propose an alternative way forward. I 
conclude that PPRS has performed well as a procurement bargain between industry 
and the UK government. It does not, however, incentivise efficient relative 
prices. That is not its job. I identify a number of problems with the OFT 
proposals. I recommend that key elements of a reformed UK pharmaceutical 
environment for 2010 should include an expanded role for HTA but with companies 
retaining freedom to set prices at launch; HTA use targeted via a contingent 
value of information approach; a retained backstop PPRS, perhaps moving to an 
RPI-X type control; the use of risk sharing and non-linear pricing arrangements; 
measures to ensure more effective therapeutic switching at local level; and 
measures to improve the take up of cost-effective treatments.

Copyright (c) 2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1263
PMID: 17595047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2007 Oct;22(10):2867-78. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfm367.
Epub  2007 Jun 25.

Economic evaluation of sevelamer in patients with end-stage renal disease.

Manns B(1), Klarenbach S, Lee H, Culleton B, Shrive F, Tonelli M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Alberta T6B 2b7 Canada.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2007 Oct;22(10):2742-5.

BACKGROUND: There is uncertainty about the most cost-effective way to treat 
hyperphosphataemia in patients with end-stage renal disease. Methods. We 
performed an economic analysis which compared the use of sevelamer with calcium 
carbonate in a simulated cohort of North American dialysis patients, using the 
perspective of the health care purchaser and a lifetime horizon. Outcomes 
considered were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and health care 
costs. To account for uncertainty, we considered four separate modelling 
strategies, obtaining data on the relative effectiveness of sevelamer from the 
recent Dialysis Clinical Outcomes Revisited study.
RESULTS: In the base analysis, the use of sevelamer was associated with a cost 
per QALY gained of CAN$157,00, compared with calcium carbonate. Assuming no 
survival or hospitalization advantage for sevelamer, use of sevelamer resulted 
in an incremental cost of CAN$17,00 per patient. In alternate models which 
assumed sevelamer to be more effective than calcium-based phosphate binders, the 
use of sevelamer was associated with a cost per QALY gained ranging from 
CAN$127,00-$278,00. Assuming that sevelamer resulted in a differential reduction 
in mortality in patients > or = 65 years of age, use of sevelamer in this 
subgroup was associated with a cost per QALY of CAN$105,500. Results were 
similar in groups defined by age > or = 55 or by > or = 45 years. Since dialysis 
is expensive, interventions for dialysis patients that improve survival without 
reducing the need for dialysis will be associated with a cost-utility ratio at 
least as great as that of dialysis itself. As such, we repeated the primary 
analysis excluding the costs of dialysis and transplantation and found that the 
cost per QALY gained for sevelamer was $77,600.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost per QALY gained for treating all dialysis patients with 
sevelamer exceeds what would usually be considered good value for the money. 
While the high cost per QALY was in part due to the inclusion of the costs of 
dialysis and transplant in the analysis, the cost per QALY gained remained 
relatively unattractive even when these costs were excluded. Although a lower 
cost per QALY gained is realized when only patients older than 65 years are 
treated, this strategy remains economically unattractive, particularly given the 
uncertainty of clinical benefit in this group.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfm367
PMID: 17595182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2007 Jun-Jul;41(3):200-5. doi:
10.1177/1538574407301141.

Restenosis after carotid endarterectomy performed with routine intraoperative 
duplex ultrasonography and arterial patch closure: a contemporary series.

Schanzer A(1), Hoel A, Owens CD, Wake N, Nguyen LL, Conte MS, Belkin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. aschanzer@partners.org

The restenosis rates of 5% to 15% have been reported after carotid 
endarterectomy (CEA). We undertook this investigation to determine whether the 
routine practice of carotid artery patch closure and intraoperative completion 
duplex ultrasonography would result in lower rates of carotid restenosis after 
CEA. All consecutive carotid endarterectomies performed between 2000 and 2004 at 
a single institution were reviewed retrospectively. Patients underwent CEA using 
a longitudinal arteriotomy, followed by routine patching and intraoperative 
completion duplex ultrasonography. Only patients with at least one postoperative 
duplex scan performed at a minimum of 180 days after CEA were included. During 
the 5-year study period, 407 consecutive carotid endarterectomies were 
performed, with a combined 30-day stroke and mortality rate of 2.5%; 217 
patients (53%) had one or more duplex ultrasound examinations performed at least 
180 days after CEA. The mean follow-up duration was 692 days. Of the patients 
who underwent intraoperative intervention based on the results of the completion 
duplex study, none experienced restenosis, stroke, or death. CEA that is 
performed with routine patching and intraoperative duplex completion 
ultrasonography is a safe, durable operation with restenosis rates below those 
commonly reported.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574407301141
PMID: 17595385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2007 Jun-Jul;41(3):206-11. doi: 
10.1177/1538574407299600.

Natural history of symptomatic and asymptomatic carotid artery occlusion 
contralateral to carotid endarterectomy: a prospective study.

Ballotta E(1), Da Giau G, Santarello G, Meneghetti G, Gruppo M, Militello C, 
Baracchini C.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section of the Geriatric Surgical Clinic, Department of 
Surgical and Gastroenterological Sciences, University of Padua, School of 
Medicine, Padua, Italy. enzo.ballotta@unipd.it

The natural history of carotid occlusion (CO) has generally been analyzed in the 
presence of a contralateral patent but diseased internal carotid artery (ICA). 
Few previous studies have focused on the fate of CO contralateral to the side of 
a prior carotid endarterectomy (CEA). The aim of this study was to analyze the 
mortality rate and the incidence of cerebrovascular events in the hemisphere 
ipsilateral to CO (HICO) in patients who had undergone contralateral CEA. The 
30-day and long-term outcomes of 153 consecutive patients who had CEA for severe 
symptomatic and asymptomatic ICA lesions contralateral to a symptomatic or 
asymptomatic CO over a 15-year period were considered. The endpoints of the 
study were mortality and neurological events in the HICO. Overall, the 30-day 
mortality and stroke rates were 0.6% (1/153) and 1.9% (3/153), respectively; the 
only death was stroke-related and the stroke was ipsilateral to the operated 
side. The other 2 strokes were ipsilateral to a symptomatic CO. The follow-up 
was completed for all patients (mean, 7.7 years; range, 1-172 months). Overall, 
there were 4 late strokes (2.6%), one of them lacunar in a patient with a 
symptomatic CO, whereas the other 3 were atheroembolic and ipsilateral to the 
operated ICA. The risk of late stroke in the HICO at 5 and 12 years was 2%. 
Overall, there were 19 late deaths, none of them stroke-related. CO, with or 
without symptoms, contralateral to CEA could be considered a locally benign 
condition in the long term.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574407299600
PMID: 17595386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2007 Jun;62(6):616-23. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/62.6.616.

Efficacy of resistance and task-specific exercise in older adults who modify 
tasks of everyday life.

Manini T(1), Marko M, VanArnam T, Cook S, Fernhall B, Burke J, Ploutz-Snyder L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging and Geriatrics, College of Medicine, Institute on Aging, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32605, USA. tmanini@aging.ufl.edu

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy of 10 weeks 
of resistance (RT), functional (FT), or functional plus resistance (FRT) 
training in older adults who modify tasks of everyday life and are at risk for 
subsequent disability.
METHODS: Thirty-two older adults (75.8 +/- 6.7 years) were tested following a 
control period and training. The primary outcome of the study was the number of 
task modifications and timed performance on eight tasks of daily life. Secondary 
outcomes included knee and elbow strength (extension and flexion), body 
composition, self-reported physical function, single-leg balance time, walking 
speed, and time to vacuum a carpet. The RT group performed progressive intensity 
training, and the FT group performed task-specific exercises 2 days per week. 
The FRT group performed 1 day of each training type.
RESULTS: No changes occurred in the control period. All three training groups 
reduced the need to modify tasks of everyday life (RT: 21%, FRT: 26%, and FT: 
28%) and improved self-rated function and time to vacuum a carpet. Individuals 
who performed FT either 1 or 2 days per week also reduced their timed 
performance (RT: 2.5% [p = 0.48], FRT: 18.5%, and FT: 23%). Strength gains were 
primarily found in groups that performed RT either 1 or 2 days per week (RT and 
FRT). No significant changes occurred in walking speed, single-leg balance, or 
body composition.
CONCLUSION: The benefits of exercise are dependent on tasks performed during 
training. Exercise recommendations for low-functioning older adults should 
reflect task-specific exercise to prevent the onset of disability.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/62.6.616
PMID: 17595417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Healthc Pap. 2007;7(4):29-33; discussion 68-70. doi: 10.12927/hcpap..18994.

Chronic disease prevention and management: some uncomfortable questions.

Trypuc J(1), Hudson A.

Author information:
(1)Access to Services and Wait Times, Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term 
Care, Toronto, ON.

Comment on
    Healthc Pap. 2007;7(4):6-23.

Morgan, Zamora and Hindmarsh make a compelling case for a national strategy on 
chronic disease prevention and management. The truths raised in the lead paper 
are not particularly inconvenient, but they do raise a number of uncomfortable 
questions: (1) Why are physicians not taking a more responsible and active role 
to prevent and manage chronic diseases on behalf of their patients? (Physicians 
must recognize that it is their professional responsibility and their job to 
provide their patients with the appropriate level of care for chronic 
conditions.) (2) Why are non-physician healthcare providers not playing a larger 
role to prevent and manage chronic diseases? (3) Why is there a greater focus on 
managing chronic diseases than on preventing or delaying them from happening? 
(4) Have we forgotten the profound impact of the social determinants of health 
on illness, life expectancy and death?

DOI: 10.12927/hcpap..18994
PMID: 17595548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2006 Oct 27;Suppl 1:13-5.

[Nobody is too old for cancer treatment].

[Article in German]

Lenzen-Schulte M.

PMID: 17595809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2008 May-Jun;46(3):349-57. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2007.05.009. Epub 2007 Jun 27.

Environmental and social determinants of aging perception in metropolitan and 
rural areas of Southern Italy.

Lucchetti M(1), Corsonello A, Gattaceca R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontological Research, National Institute of Research on 
Aging (INRCA), Via S. Margherita 5, I-60124 Ancona, Italy. m.lucchetti@inrca.it

The increasing life expectancy is accompanied by a growing request of social and 
health care services, and social inequalities may contribute to a poor quality 
of life (QoL) and an increased risk of cognitive impairment and disability. The 
purpose of the present study was to investigate the role of social, 
environmental, and economic factors in determining subjective perception of 
aging in older people coming from two different areas (metropolitan and rural) 
of Southern Italy. We used data from a survey carried out in three metropolitan 
and three rural communities in Southern Italy. The cross-sectional descriptive 
study was performed by conducting structured interviews and assessments during 
home visits. Life conditions and health at older ages were investigated with a 
questionnaire. Elderly people were divided into two population cohorts, namely 
304 subjects (152 from metropolitan and 152 from rural area) controlling 
demographic, social, environmental, and health characteristics. For this study 
we used the multiple correspondence analysis (MCA), a statistical technique used 
to highlight the interrelationships between qualitative variables describing a 
population. More significant environmental and social variable categories linked 
to negative aging perception were poor education, low income, female gender, 
widowhood, unsatisfactory health perception, perceived high functional 
disability, life arrangements, difficulty in reaching services, and 
environmental problems. Social, ecological, and environmental factors could play 
a relevant role in determining health status and disability with increasing 
request of social and health care services.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2007.05.009
PMID: 17597236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2007 Jun;36(6):403-8.

Cross-cultural adaptation and validation of Singapore Malay and Tamil versions 
of the EQ-5D.

Wee HL(1), Loke WC, Li SC, Fong KY, Cheung YB, Machin D, Luo N, Thumboo J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Singapore General Hospital, 
Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: The aims of this study were to cross-culturally adapt and evaluate 
the validity of the Singaporean Malay and Tamil versions of the EQ-5D.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The EQ- 5D was cross-culturally adapted and translated 
using an iterative process following standard guidelines. Consenting adult 
Malay- and Tamil-speaking subjects at a primary care facility in Singapore were 
interviewed using a questionnaire (including the EQ-5D, a single item assessing 
global health, the SF-8 and sociodemographic questions) in their respective 
language versions. Known-groups and convergent construct validity of the EQ-5D 
was investigated by testing 30 a priori hypotheses per language at attribute and 
overall levels.
RESULTS: Complete data were obtained for 94 Malay and 78 Indian patients (median 
age, 54 years and 51 years, respectively). At the attribute level, all 16 
hypotheses were fulfilled with several reaching statistical significance (Malay: 
4; Tamil: 5). At the overall level, 42 of 44 hypotheses related to the EQ-5D/ 
EQ-VAS were fulfilled (Malay: 22; Tamil: 20), with 21 reaching statistical 
significance (Malay: 9; Tamil: 12).
CONCLUSION: In this study among primary care patients, the Singapore Malay and 
Tamil EQ-5D demonstrated satisfactory known-groups and convergent validity.

PMID: 17597964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Am J Cardiol. 2007 Jun 18;99(12A):21i-33i. doi:
10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.03.003.  Epub 2007 Apr 16.

Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial: design and 
methods.

ACCORD Study Group(1); Buse JB, Bigger JT, Byington RP, Cooper LS, Cushman WC, 
Friedewald WT, Genuth S, Gerstein HC, Ginsberg HN, Goff DC Jr, Grimm RH Jr, 
Margolis KL, Probstfield JL, Simons-Morton DG, Sullivan MD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina School of Medicine, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7172, USA. jbuse@med.unc.edu

Most patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus develop cardiovascular disease 
(CVD), with substantial loss of life expectancy. Nonfatal CVD contributes 
greatly to excess healthcare costs and decreased quality of life in patients 
with diabetes. The current epidemic of obesity has raised expectations that CVD 
associated with type 2 diabetes will become an even greater public health 
challenge. Despite the importance of this health problem, there is a lack of 
definitive data on the effects of the intensive control of glycemia and other 
CVD risk factors on CVD event rates in patients with type 2 diabetes. The Action 
to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial is a randomized, 
multicenter, double 2 x 2 factorial design study involving 10,251 middle-aged 
and older participants with type 2 diabetes who are at high risk for CVD events 
because of existing CVD or additional risk factors. ACCORD is testing the 
effects of 3 medical treatment strategies to reduce CVD morbidity and mortality. 
All participants are in the glycemia trial, which is testing the hypothesis that 
a therapeutic strategy that targets a glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) level of 
<6.0% will reduce the rate of CVD events more than a strategy that targets an 
HbA1c level of 7.0%-7.9%. The lipid trial includes 5,518 of the participants, 
who receive either fenofibrate or placebo in a double-masked fashion to test the 
hypothesis of whether, in the context of good glycemic control, a therapeutic 
strategy that uses a fibrate to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
and lower triglyceride levels together with a 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl 
coenzyme A reductase inhibitor (statin) to lower low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol will reduce the rate of CVD events compared with a strategy that 
uses a statin plus a placebo. The blood pressure trial includes the remaining 
4,733 participants and tests the hypothesis that a therapeutic strategy that 
targets a systolic blood pressure of <120 mm Hg in the context of good glycemic 
control will reduce the rate of CVD events compared with a strategy that targets 
a systolic blood pressure of <140 mm Hg. The primary outcome measure for all 3 
research questions is the first occurrence of a major CVD event, specifically 
nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke, or cardiovascular death. Upon 
the expected completion of participant follow-up in 2009, the ACCORD trial 
should document for the first time the benefits and risks of intensive glucose 
control, intensive blood pressure control, and the combination of fibrate and 
statin drugs in managing blood lipids in high-risk patients with type 2 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.03.003
PMID: 17599422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Am J Cardiol. 2007 Jun 18;99(12A):90i-102i. doi:
10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.03.027.  Epub 2007 Apr 13.

Health-related quality of life and cost-effectiveness components of the Action 
to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial: rationale and design.

Sullivan MD(1), Anderson RT, Aron D, Atkinson HH, Bastien A, Chen GJ, Feeney P, 
Gafni A, Hwang W, Katz LA, Narayan KM, Nwachuku C, O'Connor PJ, Zhang P; ACCORD 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, Washington 98195-6560, USA. 
sullimar@u.washington.edu

Diabetes mellitus affects not only life expectancy but also quality of life. The 
Action to Control Cardiovascular Risk in Diabetes (ACCORD) trial's 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and cost-effectiveness components will 
enable the assessment of the relative importance of the various outcomes from 
the point of view of patients, provide an understanding of the balance between 
the burdens and benefits of the intervention strategies, and offer valuable 
insights into adherence. The HRQOL measures used include the Diabetes Symptoms 
Distress Checklist; the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey, Version 2 (SF-36) 
(RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA); the Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) 
depression measure (Pfizer Inc, New York, NY); the World Health Organization 
(WHO) Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ); and the EuroQol 
Feeling Thermometer (EuroQol Group, Rotterdam, Netherlands). The 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) in ACCORD will provide information about the 
relative economic efficiency of the different interventions being compared in 
the trial. Effectiveness will be measured in terms of cardiovascular event-free 
years gained and quality-adjusted life-years gained (using the Health Utilities 
Index Mark 3 [HUI-3] [Health Utilities Inc., Dundas, Ontario, Canada] to measure 
health-state utility). Costs will be direct medical costs assessed from the 
perspective of a single-payer health system collected by means of patient and 
clinic cost forms and hospital discharge summaries. The primary HRQOL and CEA 
hypotheses mirror those in the main ACCORD trial, addressing the effects of the 
3 main ACCORD interventions considered separately. There are also secondary 
(pairwise reference case) comparisons that do not assume independence of 
treatment effects on HRQOL. CEA will be done on a subsample of 4,311 ACCORD 
participants and HRQOL on a subsample of 2,053 nested within the CEA subsample. 
Most assessments will occur through questionnaires at baseline and at 12, 36, 
and 48 months.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.03.027
PMID: 17599429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Jul;134(1):1-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.09.067.

Rewards, risks, and responsibilities of globalization for the cardiothoracic 
surgeon.

Jonas RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Children's National Heart Institute, 
Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC 20010, USA. rjonas@cnmc.org

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.09.067
PMCID: PMC7118771
PMID: 17599479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2007 Jun-Jul;24(3):185-90. doi: 
10.1177/1049909106299062.

The effect of underlying health status on patient or surrogate preferences for 
end-of-life care: a pilot study.

Bambauer KZ(1), Gillick MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ambulatory Care and Prevention, Harvard Medical School/Harvard 
Pilgrim Health Care, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA.

This study explored the role of health status, as measured by the Palliative 
Performance Score, in shaping patient preferences for end-of-life care. Scores 
were correlated with 3 potential goals of care: prolonging life, maintaining 
function, and maximizing comfort among patients seen in palliative care 
consultation. Eighty-six patients expressed treatment preferences: 16 (19%) 
preferred prolonging life, 23 (27%) preferred maintaining function, and 47 (54%) 
preferred maximizing comfort (P < .0001); their average scores +/- standard 
deviation were, respectively, 51.9 +/- 19.4, 56.5 +/- 16.7, and 45.3 +/- 14.1 (P 
= .0459). There was a significant relationship between patient preferences and 
Palliative Performance Score, with lower scores indicating preferences for 
comfort and higher scores indicating a preference for maintaining function and 
life expectancy. Further research is needed to test the sensitivity of health 
status, as measured by the Palliative Performance Score, in affecting patient 
preferences.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909106299062
PMID: 17601841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Obstet Gynecol. 2007 Jul;110(1):10-7. doi:
10.1097/01.AOG.0000263470.89007.e3.

First- and second-trimester evaluation of risk for Down syndrome.

Ball RH(1), Caughey AB, Malone FD, Nyberg DA, Comstock CH, Saade GR, Berkowitz 
RL, Gross SJ, Dugoff L, Craigo SD, Timor-Tritsch IE, Carr SR, Wolfe HM, Emig D, 
D'Alton ME; First and Second Trimester Evaluation of Risk (FASTER) Research 
Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology, and Reproductive Sciences, UCSF, San 
Francisco, CA 94143-0132, USA. fetus@surgery.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2007 Jul;110(1):2-4.
    Obstet Gynecol. 2007 Dec;110(6):1426; author reply 1426-7.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the differences in costs and outcomes of Down syndrome 
screening using data from the First and Second Trimester Evaluation of Risk 
(FASTER) Trial.
METHODS: Seven possible screening options for Down syndrome were compared: 1) 
Triple Screen-maternal serum alpha fetoprotein, estriol, and hCG; 2) 
Quad-maternal serum alpha fetoprotein, estriol, hCG, and Inhibin A; 3) Combined 
First-nuchal translucency, pregnancy-associated plasma protein A (PAPP-A), free 
beta-hCG; 4) Integrated-nuchal translucency, PAPP-A, plus Quad; 5) Serum 
Integrated-PAPP-A, plus Quad; 6) Stepwise Sequential-Combined First plus Quad 
with results given after each test; and 7) Contingent Sequential-Combined First 
