pleural effusion. The most common primary cancer sites were lung (30 cases), 
breast (25) and ovarium (11). Average duration of the operation was 46 (range 
10-120) min. Median duration of postoperative drainage was 3 (range 1-20) days 
and postoperative hospitalisation 7 (range 3-70) days. Twenty-eight patients had 
postoperative complications (fever in 17 cases). In seven cases pleurodesis was 
ineffective. Median survival was 8.4 months. Six-, 12- and 24-month survival was 
58% (95% CI [0.47-0.67]), 39% [0.29-0.49] and 20% [0.12-0.29], respectively. 
Survival data after VATS talc pleurodesis advocate use of this invasive 
treatment method despite the advanced stage of cancer.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2005.118018
PMID: 17670576
1. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2006 Aug;5(4):398-402. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2005.122382. Epub 2006 May 5.

Does the type of biological valve affect patient outcome?

Kappetein AP(1), Takkenberg JJ, Puvimanasinghe JP, Jamieson WR, Eijkemans M, 
Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery and the Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 
CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.kappetein@erasmusmc.nl

Patient background mortality and excess mortality related to aortic valve 
disease may play a greater role than implanted valve type in explaining the 
observed survival differences after aortic valve replacement. This study 
attempts to identify the differences between the performance of selected 
biological valves, given similar patient characteristics and excess mortality. 
Four biological valve types, the Carpentier-Edwards pericardial and 
supra-annular valve, Medtronic Freestyle valve and allografts were used for this 
analysis. Primary data calculated observed patient-survival and median time to 
structural valvular deterioration. We then used a microsimulation model to 
calculate age-specific patient survival and reoperation- and event-free life 
expectancies. The model incorporated the US population mortality and a uniform 
excess mortality, while the hazards of valve-related events after implantation 
of the four valve types were estimated from corresponding meta-analysis and 
primary data. Observed 10-year survival (60-69)-year age group survival and 
median time to SVD for the different valve types did not differ. Microsimulation 
calculated, for a 65-year-old male for example, a 10-year survival of 51%, 51%, 
53% and 56% for Carpentier-Edwards pericardial and Supra-annular valve, 
Freestyle and allografts, respectively. Patient life expectancy was 10.8, 10.8, 
11.0 and 11.4 years, respectively. Assuming uniform patient characteristics and 
excess mortality, the observed difference in performance between the four 
biological valve types is less marked. Patient selection and the timing of 
operation may explain most of the observed differences in prognosis after aortic 
valve replacement with biological prostheses.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2005.122382
PMID: 17670601


2. Nature. 2007 Aug 23;448(7156):938-42. doi: 10.1038/nature06069. Epub 2007 Aug
1.

A central integrator of transcription networks in plant stress and energy 
signalling.

Baena-González E(1), Rolland F, Thevelein JM, Sheen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston Massachusetts 02114, USA. baena@molbio.mgh.harvard.edu

Photosynthetic plants are the principal solar energy converter sustaining life 
on Earth. Despite its fundamental importance, little is known about how plants 
sense and adapt to darkness in the daily light-dark cycle, or how they adapt to 
unpredictable environmental stresses that compromise photosynthesis and 
respiration and deplete energy supplies. Current models emphasize diverse stress 
perception and signalling mechanisms. Using a combination of cellular and 
systems screens, we show here that the evolutionarily conserved Arabidopsis 
thaliana protein kinases, KIN10 and KIN11 (also known as AKIN10/At3g01090 and 
AKIN11/At3g29160, respectively), control convergent reprogramming of 
transcription in response to seemingly unrelated darkness, sugar and stress 
conditions. Sensing and signalling deprivation of sugar and energy, KIN10 
targets a remarkably broad array of genes that orchestrate transcription 
networks, promote catabolism and suppress anabolism. Specific bZIP transcription 
factors partially mediate primary KIN10 signalling. Transgenic KIN10 
overexpression confers enhanced starvation tolerance and lifespan extension, and 
alters architecture and developmental transitions. Significantly, double kin10 
kin11 deficiency abrogates the transcriptional switch in darkness and stress 
signalling, and impairs starch mobilization at night and growth. These studies 
uncover surprisingly pivotal roles of KIN10/11 in linking stress, sugar and 
developmental signals to globally regulate plant metabolism, energy balance, 
growth and survival. In contrast to the prevailing view that sucrose activates 
plant SnRK1s (Snf1-related protein kinases), our functional analyses of 
Arabidopsis KIN10/11 provide compelling evidence that SnRK1s are inactivated by 
sugars and share central roles with the orthologous yeast Snf1 and mammalian 
AMPK in energy signalling.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06069
PMID: 17671505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2007;119(13-14):412-6. doi: 10.1007/s00508-007-0813-4.

Incidence of complications in intrahospital transport of critically ill 
patients--experience in an Austrian university hospital.

Lahner D(1), Nikolic A, Marhofer P, Koinig H, Germann P, Weinstabl C, Krenn CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and General Intensive Care, Medical University 
of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, Vienna, Austria. 
daniel.lahner@meduniwien.ac.at

BACKGROUND: During the past decade, considerable changes and advances have been 
made in intrahospital transport of critically ill patients. Despite the fact 
that intrahospital transport is nowadays regarded an extension of the intensive 
care continuum, it still poses a risk for the patient.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This prospective, observational study was designed to 
determine the occurrence rate of transport-related complications in the altered 
setting of intrahospital transports and to identify possible confounding sources 
of increased risk. In an eight-month period, adults and infants from 
anesthesiologic intensive care units were analyzed.
RESULTS: A total of 226 patients underwent 452 intrahospital transports. The 
overall rate of critical incidents was low (4.2%) and no direct association 
between mortality and intrahospital transport was observed. In addition to the 
known risk factors of ventilatory support with positive end-expiratory pressure 
and requirement for catecholamine support, the necessity for intrahospital 
transport in the acute vs. elective situation was found to significantly 
increase the risk of complications.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that advances in the management of intrahospital 
transport of critically ill patients have led to an overall decrease of 
complications. However, an undeniable risk remains, especially in relation to 
disease severity and the urgency of such transports.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-007-0813-4
PMID: 17671822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Alcohol Alcohol. 2007 Nov-Dec;42(6):567-74. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agm055. Epub 
2007 Aug 1.

The relative contribution of metacognitive beliefs and expectancies to drinking 
behaviour.

Spada MM(1), Moneta GB, Wells A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Health Psychology Research Centre, School of Human and Life 
Sciences, Roehampton University, Whitelands College, Holybourne Avenue, London 
SW15 4JD, UK. M.Spada@roehampton.ac.uk

AIM: Alcohol expectancies refer to the effects of alcohol use anticipated by an 
individual. Metacognitive beliefs about alcohol use are a specific form of 
alcohol expectancy relating to the beliefs individuals hold about the effects of 
alcohol on cognition and emotion.
METHOD: A community sample of 355 individuals completed measures of alcohol 
expectancies, metacognitive beliefs about alcohol use, and drinking behaviour.
RESULTS: Correlation analyses indicated that alcohol expectancies and 
metacognitive beliefs about alcohol use were positively correlated with drinking 
behaviour. Structural regression modelling revealed that three of the four 
facets of metacognitive beliefs about alcohol use were independent contributors 
to drinking behaviour, and that, when controlling for such beliefs, only 
negative social performance alcohol expectancies explained additional variance 
in drinking behaviour.
CONCLUSIONS: These results add to the argument that there is a value in 
differentiating between metacognitive beliefs about alcohol use and alcohol 
expectancies in predicting drinking behaviour.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agm055
PMID: 17673482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2007 Jul;62(4):S209-17. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/62.4.s209.

Baseline health, socioeconomic status, and 10-year mortality among older 
middle-aged Americans: findings from the Health and Retirement Study, 1992 2002.

Feinglass J(1), Lin S, Thompson J, Sudano J, Dunlop D, Song J, Baker DW.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Northwestern Feinberg School of 
Medicine, 676 St. Clair No. 200, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. 
j-feinglass@northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: This study analyzed whether socioeconomic status in older middle age 
continues to be associated with 10-year survival after data are controlled for 
baseline health status.
METHODS: We confirmed deaths through 2002 for 9,759 participants in the Health 
and Retirement Study, aged 51 to 61 in 1992. We used discrete time survival 
models to examine hazard ratios over 10 years of follow-up. We examined 
associations of demographic characteristics and socioeconomic status measures 
before and after adjustment by health status and behavioral risk factors.
RESULT: The 10-year mortality rate was 10.9%, ranging from 4.7% for respondents 
reporting excellent health to 35.8% for those reporting poor health at baseline. 
Lower levels of education, income, and wealth were strongly associated with 
higher mortality risk after we controlled for just demographic characteristics. 
After further adjustment for health status and behavioral risk factors, only 
household income remained significant.
DISCUSSION: Baseline health by age 50 is an important pathway in the association 
between midlife socioeconomic status and mortality risk to age 70. The 
continuing effect of low household income on mortality risk was concentrated 
among respondents reporting excellent to good health at baseline. Socioeconomic 
disparities in middle-age health continue to limit disability-free life 
expectancy at older ages.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/62.4.s209
PMID: 17673534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2007 Aug;4(8):451-4. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro0861.

Radical prostatectomy for clinical T3 disease: expanding indications while 
optimizing cancer control and quality of life.

Hill JR(1), Fine SW, Zhang J, Eastham JA.

Author information:
(1)Lenox Hill Hospital, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: A 61-year-old male presented with a history of gradually rising PSA 
over several years. His PSA had increased from 3.3 to 7 ng/ml over 3 years.
INVESTIGATIONS: Digital rectal examination, prostate biopsy, bone scan, and 
endorectal MRI were carried out to confirm the diagnosis and evaluate the extent 
of the cancer, with subsequent histopathologic examination of the radical 
prostatectomy specimen.
DIAGNOSIS: Preoperative clinical stage (based on the digital rectal examination 
alone) was cT3a. Biopsy demonstrated extraprostatic extension in one core 
(Gleason 9 [4 + 5]). Endorectal MRI suggested a large volume cancer with 
probable extraprostatic extension in the posterior midline at the apex. 
Examination of the radical prostatectomy specimen demonstrated a pT3aN0 prostate 
cancer (Gleason 4 + 3 = 7 with a minor component of Gleason pattern 5). 
Extraprostatic extension was seen in the right posterior apex in the area of the 
dominant tumor mass. Surgical margins and seminal vesicles were negative for 
cancer.
MANAGEMENT: Radical retropubic prostatectomy with preservation of both 
neurovascular bundles plus bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection was performed. 
Postoperative PSA has been nondetectable. The patient is continent and, with the 
aid of vardenafil HCl, has erections sufficient for intercourse.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro0861
PMID: 17673916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Radiol Med. 2007 Aug;112(5):660-80. doi: 10.1007/s11547-007-0171-3. Epub 2007 
Jul 23.

Role and effectiveness of cardiovascular magnetic resonance in the diagnosis, 
preoperative evaluation and follow-up of patients with congenital heart 
diseases.

[Article in English, Italian]

Lovato L(1), Giardini A, La Palombara C, Russo V, Gostoli V, Gargiulo G, Picchio 
FM, Fattori R.

Author information:
(1)US di Radiologia Cardiovascolare, Università di Bologna, Bologna, Italy. 
bibilov@hotmail.com

The substantial advances in the medical and surgical treatment of congenital 
heart diseases have dramatically improved patients' life expectancy, as well as 
increased the number of those needing lifelong monitoring to identify 
complications and residual defects. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is an ideal 
imaging modality for the follow-up of these young patients owing to its 
noninvasiveness, high reproducibility and morphological and functional accuracy. 
This paper describes the most appropriate MRI techniques and sequences for the 
study of cardiovascular heart diseases on the basis of an analysis of MRI 
studies carried out between January 2003 and June 2006 on 274 patients affected 
by all of the main congenital cardiovascular malformations, as well as a review 
of the literature. The advantages of MRI with respect to other imaging 
techniques, the problems encountered and the main clinical applications and 
indications of MRI, with special reference to the most common disease entities, 
are then discussed to define the role, the utility and the future perspectives 
of this imaging technique in the study of congenital heart diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11547-007-0171-3
PMID: 17673954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Physiol Behav. 2007 Dec 5;92(5):911-23. doi: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2007.06.017.
Epub  2007 Jul 3.

Behavioral impairments of the aging rat.

Altun M(1), Bergman E, Edström E, Johnson H, Ulfhake B.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Neurogerontology, Department of Neuroscience, Karolinska 
Institutet, Retziusväg 8, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

Several disturbances occurring during aging of humans and rodents alike stem 
from changes in sensory and motor functions. Using a battery of behavioral tests 
we have studied alterations in performance with advancing age in female and male 
rats of some frequently used strains. In parallel, we collected survival and 
body weight data. The median survival age was similar for female and male 
Sprague-Dawley rats, inbred female Lewis and outbred male Wistar rats (29-30 
months). In contrast, male Fisher 344 had a significantly shorter median life 
span. During aging there is a gradual decline in locomotor activity and 
explorative behavior while disturbances of coordination and balance first became 
evident at more advanced age. In old age, also weight carrying capacity, limb 
movement and temperature threshold were impaired. While whole body weight 
continues to increase over the better part of a rats' life span, the behavioral 
changes in old age associated with a decrease in both total body weight and 
muscle mass. Dietary restriction increases median life span expectancy; retards 
the pace of behavioral aging and impedes sarcopenia. Housing in enriched 
environment did not improve the scoring in the behavioral tests but tended to 
increase median life span. Finally, there was an agreement between behavioral 
data collected from longitudinal age-cohorts and those obtained from multiple 
age-cohorts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physbeh.2007.06.017
PMID: 17675121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Health Educ Res. 2008 Apr;23(2):310-8. doi: 10.1093/her/cym024. Epub 2007 Aug
4.

Cost-effectiveness analyses of health promotion programs: a case study of 
smoking prevention and cessation among Dutch students.

Vijgen SM(1), van Baal PH, Hoogenveen RT, de Wit GA, Feenstra TL.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention.ealth Services Research, National Institute of Public 
Health and the Environment, 3720 BA Bilthoven, the Netherlands.

Little research has been done to connect health promotion programs to outcomes 
in terms of life expectancy, health care costs and cost-effectiveness. For a 
policy maker, economic evaluation may be an important tool to support decisions 
on how to allocate the health care budget. The aim of this paper was to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of a Dutch school-based smoking education 
program. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the school program was 
estimated at euro19 900 per quality adjusted life year gained. For a complete 
analysis, not only intervention costs but also savings for smoking-related 
diseases and differences in total health care costs should be taken into 
account. As several assumptions had to be made in order to estimate 
cost-effectiveness, the study outcomes should be interpreted with caution. Main 
problem in estimating the cost-effectiveness was the lack of proper 
effectiveness data on daily smokers among adolescents. Absence of specific 
effectiveness data often is an obstacle in the economic evaluation of public 
health interventions. While some problems may be the result of insufficient 
sample size or follow-up, another possible explanation might be the different 
basic principles of analysis of health promoters and economists.

DOI: 10.1093/her/cym024
PMID: 17675649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Ortop Traumatol Rehabil. 2004 Aug 30;6(4):503-8.

Current methods for monitoring the treatment of osteoporosis: increased bone 
mineral density or reduced fracture risk?

Kaleta M, Gaździk TS, Wroński S.

Bone fractures are the most serious complication of osteoporosis. Fractures 
occurring in vertebrae or the proximal epiphysis of the femur directly increase 
the risk of mortality. As a result of the aging of our society and the prolonged 
average life expectancy, it is becoming increasingly important to develop 
diagnostic methods that will enable the early and accurate diagnosis of 
osteoporosis, and testing methods to measure the factors that are decisive for 
the mechanical endurance of bones. The most important diagnostic test, despite 
certain defects and the danger of a false result, is still the densitometric 
measurement of bone tissue using the DEXA method. By contrast, the monitoring of 
treatment based on the testing of bone tissue density remains a dubious method. 
The new definition of osteoporosis introduced in 2001 has concentrated our 
attention on reducing the risk of fracture. Thanks to large, randomized 
epidemiological studies, we can identify those drugs which reduce the risk of 
first and subsequent osteoporotic bone fractures. Alendronian, rizedronian, and 
parathormon have been demonstrated to have effects that reduce the risk of 
fractures, both in vertebrae and in the proximal epiphysis of the femur. The 
overarching goal of our treatment is still avoiding osteoporotic fractures, and 
not merely trying to improve the results of densitometric tests.

PMID: 17675978


11. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2007 Aug;69:4-7. doi: 10.1080/14034950701525906.

Health, population and social transitions in rural South Africa.

Tollman SM, Kahn K.

DOI: 10.1080/14034950701525906
PMCID: PMC2830106
PMID: 17676497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2007 Aug;69:26-34. doi:
10.1080/14034950701355668.

Mortality trends in a new South Africa: hard to make a fresh start.

Kahn K(1), Garenne ML, Collinson MA, Tollman SM.

Author information:
(1)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, University of Witwatersrand, South Africa. 
Kathleen.Kahn@wits.ac.za

Comment in
    Scand J Public Health Suppl. 2007 Aug;69:66-7.

AIMS: This paper examines trends in age-specific mortality in a rural South 
African population from 1992 to 2003, a decade spanning major sociopolitical 
change and emergence of the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Changing mortality patterns are 
discussed within a health-transition framework.
METHODS: Data on population size, structure, and deaths, obtained from the 
Agincourt health and demographic surveillance system, were used to calculate 
person-years at risk and death rates. Life tables were computed by age, sex and 
calendar year. Mortality rates for the early period 1992-93 and a decade later, 
2002-03, were compared.
RESULTS: Findings demonstrate significant increases in mortality for both sexes 
since the mid-1990s, with a rapid decline in life expectancy of 12 years in 
females and 14 years in males. The increases are most prominent in children 
(0-4) and young adult (20-49) age groups, in which increases of two- and 
fivefold respectively have been observed in the past decade. Sex differences in 
mortality patterns are evident with increases more marked in females in most 
adult age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Empirical data demonstrate a marked "counter transition" with 
mortality increasing in children and young adults, "epidemiologic polarization" 
with vulnerable subgroups experiencing a higher mortality burden, and a 
"protracted transition" with simultaneous emergence of HIV/AIDS together with 
increasing non-communicable disease in older adults. The health transition in 
rural South Africa is unlikely to predict patterns elsewhere; hence the need to 
examine trends in as many contexts as have the data to support such analyses.

DOI: 10.1080/14034950701355668
PMCID: PMC2825807
PMID: 17676500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Am J Hum Biol. 2007 Nov-Dec;19(6):763-73. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20636.

The sex ratio and age-specific male mortality: evidence for culling in utero.

Bruckner T(1), Catalano R.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, California 
94720-7360, USA. brucknet@berkeley.edu

While adverse conditions early in life reportedly predispose individuals to 
increased mortality in adulthood, controversy remains as to whether exogenous 
insults in utero, especially among male fetuses, induce similar cohort "damage" 
in populations. A rival theory postulates that exogenous stressors in gestation 
may "cull" frail male members of the cohort before birth, leaving a smaller but 
hardier cohort with improved survival. Recent tests, which use the sex ratio 
(i.e., the odds of a male live birth) as a gauge of insults inflicted upon 
cohorts in gestation, support the culled cohort argument. These tests, however, 
examined only aggregate male lifespan, thereby obscuring potential heterogeneity 
of both damaged and culled cohorts at specific ages over the life course. Using 
time-series methods, we explore associations between the sex ratio and cohort 
male mortality in infancy (before age 1), childhood (1-4 years), youth (5-19 
years), adulthood (20-54 years), and old-age (55-79 years). We examine males 
born in Sweden (1751-1913), Denmark (1835-1913), and England and Wales 
(1841-1912). Our findings generally support culled cohorts in that male 
mortality across all ages fell below its expected value among cohorts in which 
the sex ratio dropped below its expected level. These findings suggest that 
exogenous shocks to gestation, as measured by a lower than expected sex ratio, 
may cull males in utero, leaving behind a less frail cohort over the entire life 
course.

Copyright 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20636
PMID: 17676612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. PLoS Genet. 2007 Jul;3(7):e125. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.0030125.

Genetic determinants of human health span and life span: progress and new 
opportunities.

Martin GM(1), Bergman A, Barzilai N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America. gmmartin@u.washington.edu

Comment in
    PLoS Genet. 3:e24.
    PLoS Genet. 3:e57.
    PLoS Genet. 3:e84.
    PLoS Genet. 3:e37.
    PLoS Genet. 3:e129.

We review three approaches to the genetic analysis of the biology and 
pathobiology of human aging. The first and so far the best-developed is the 
search for the biochemical genetic basis of varying susceptibilities to major 
geriatric disorders. These include a range of progeroid syndromes. Collectively, 
they tell us much about the genetics of health span. Given that the major risk 
factor for virtually all geriatric disorders is biological aging, they may also 
serve as markers for the study of intrinsic biological aging. The second 
approach seeks to identify allelic contributions to exceptionally long life 
spans. While linkage to a locus on Chromosome 4 has not been confirmed, 
association studies have revealed a number of significant polymorphisms that 
impact upon late-life diseases and life span. The third approach remains 
theoretical. It would require longitudinal studies of large numbers of 
middle-aged sib-pairs who are extremely discordant or concordant for their rates 
of decline in various physiological functions. We can conclude that there are 
great opportunities for research on the genetics of human aging, particularly 
given the huge fund of information on human biology and pathobiology, and the 
rapidly developing knowledge of the human genome.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.0030125
PMCID: PMC1934400
PMID: 17677003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests. The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


15. Lancet. 2007 Aug 4;370(9585):387; author reply 387. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61189-1.

Tunnelled pleural catheters in malignant pleural effusion.

Tremblay A.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2007 May 5;369(9572):1494-6.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61189-1
PMID: 17679012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Scand Cardiovasc J. 2007 Aug;41(4):235-41. doi: 10.1080/14017430701422454.

The validation of a new quality of life questionnaire for patients with 
congestive heart failure-an extension of the Cardiac Health Profile.

Mannheimer B(1), Andersson B, Carlsson L, Währborg P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm Söder Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden. buster.mannheimer@sodersjukhuset.se

OBJECTIVE: To study the validity and reliability of the new disease-specific 
extension of the CHP, Cardiac Health Profile congestive heart failure (CHPchf), 
used to assess QoL specifically for patients with heart failure.
METHODS: Eighty-three consecutive patients with chronic heart failure were 
enrolled. Criteria and construct validity were studied by correlating the Global 
Mean Score (GMS) for the CHPchf with the total sum score of the Minnesota Living 
with Heart Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ) and other measures predicted to 
correlate with QoL. Reliability was evaluated on the basis of internal 
consistency.
RESULTS: Significant correlations for CHPchf were found with MLHFQ (r=0.76, p= 
<0.0001), the Boston Heart Failure Score (BHFS) (p<0.001), the generic second 
section of the CHP, maximal workload at exercise test (p<0.05) and the New York 
Heart Association (NYHA) classification (p<0.01). Cronbach's alpha was 
calculated to 0.82.
CONCLUSIONS: CHPchf was shown to be valid and reliable. CHPchf has favourable 
psychometric properties. Further studies are needed to explore its 
discriminative abilities.

DOI: 10.1080/14017430701422454
PMID: 17680511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Hepatology. 2007 Sep;46(3):785-92. doi: 10.1002/hep.21749.

Increased prevalence of antimitochondrial antibodies in first-degree relatives 
of patients with primary biliary cirrhosis.

Lazaridis KN(1), Juran BD, Boe GM, Slusser JP, de Andrade M, Homburger HA, Ghosh 
K, Dickson ER, Lindor KD, Petersen GM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Basic Research in Digestive Diseases, Division of Gastroenterology 
and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
lazaridis.konstantinos@mayo.edu

Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disorder that can 
progress to cirrhosis, shortening life expectancy. PBC patients are often 
asymptomatic, present with biochemical cholestasis, and test positive (>or=90%) 
for antimitochondrial antibodies (AMAs) in serum. Although AMA positivity 
without biochemical cholestasis may indicate increased risk of future PBC 
development, the contribution of these antibodies to pathogenesis remains 
enigmatic. Environmental risks and genetic determinants are likely implicated in 
PBC etiology. Given the familial aggregation of PBC, we hypothesized that AMAs 
also aggregate among relatives of PBC probands. We investigated the prevalence 
of AMAs in first-degree relatives (FDRs) of PBC probands to examine whether AMAs 
aggregate in such pedigrees. Using a PBC family registry, we prospectively 
screened for AMAs in the serum of 306 FDRs in 145 pedigrees, 350 PBC probands, 
and 196 controls who were age-matched, sex-matched, race-matched, and 
residence-matched to probands. The prevalence of AMA in FDRs and controls was 
13.1% and 1%, respectively. Greater prevalence of AMA was found in female FDRs 
of PBC probands [sisters (20.7%), mothers (15.1%), and daughters (9.8%)] than in 
male FDRs [brothers (7.8%), fathers (3.7%), and sons (0%)].
CONCLUSIONS: AMAs aggregate among FDRs of PBC probands. Our data have clinical 
implications for FDRs of PBC probands because AMA positivity may suggest 
susceptibility to PBC. Thus, the identification and follow-up of these relatives 
may lead to earlier disease diagnosis and treatment. Furthermore, if AMA 
development is heritable, this trait will provide a basis to dissect the genetic 
predisposition to PBC.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.21749
PMID: 17680647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Clin Lung Cancer. 2007 Jul;8(7):425-8. doi: 10.3816/CLC.2007.n.026.

Erlotinib as a single agent in select subsets of patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer.

Carrión RP(1), Gracián AC, Hernandez PS.

Author information:
(1)M. D. Anderson International, Spain. rpcarrion@seom.org

Erlotinib is an orally active inhibitor of the epidermal growth factor receptor 
that is effective for the treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
Patients with a poor performance status (PS) of 2 constitute up to 40% of 
advanced NSCLC. This group of patients have a lower life expectancy and are 
thought to have a greater degree of treatment-related toxicity. The clinical 
benefit on 238 patients with poor PS included in an open-label, nonrandomized, 
phase II trial of erlotinib in advanced/metastatic NSCLC was 57.58% defined as 
complete response plus partial response plus stable disease. Median time to 
progression was 2.9 months. This review will summarize available data about 
erlotinib on patients with a PS of 2.

DOI: 10.3816/CLC.2007.n.026
PMID: 17681095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2007 Sep;37(9):975-84. doi:
10.1016/j.ibmb.2007.05.006.  Epub 2007 May 18.

Cloning and characterization of an autophagy-related gene, ATG12, from the 
three-host tick Haemaphysalis longicornis.

Umemiya R(1), Matsuo T, Hatta T, Sakakibara S, Boldbaatar D, Fujisaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Veterinary Science, The United Graduate School of 
Veterinary Sciences, Gifu University, Yanagito, Gifu 501-1193, Japan.

Ticks are obligate hematophagous ectoparasites with a life cycle characterized 
by a period of starvation; many ticks spend more than 95% of their life off the 
host. Autophagy, which is the process of bulk cytoplasmic degradation in 
eukaryotic cells, is induced by starvation and is essential for extension of the 
lifespan. Therefore, we hypothesized that autophagy also occurs in ticks; 
however, there has been no report on autophagy-related (ATG) genes in ticks. 
Here, we show the homologue of an ATG gene, ATG12, and its expression pattern 
from the nymphal to adult stages in the three-host tick Haemaphysalis 
longicornis. The sequence analysis showed that H. longicornis ATG12 (HlATG12) 
cDNA is 649bp, has a 411bp ORF coding for a 136-amino acid polypeptide with the 
carboxy-terminal glycine residue, and has a predicted molecular mass of 15.2kDa. 
Moreover, RT-PCR revealed that HlATG12 was downregulated at the beginning of 
feeding, upregulated after engorgement, and downregulated again after molting. 
The expression level of HlATG12 was highest at 3 months after engorgement. By 
immuno-electron microscopy, it was demonstrated that HlAtg12 was localized to 
the region around granule-like structures within midgut cells of unfed adults. 
In conclusion, HlATG12 might function during unfed and molting stages.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2007.05.006
PMID: 17681237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Vaccine. 2007 Aug 29;25(35):6511-21. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.05.067. Epub
 2007 Jun 21.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of influenza vaccination for people aged 65 and over 
in Japan.

Hoshi SL(1), Kondo M, Honda Y, Okubo I.

Author information:
(1)University of Tsukuba, Graduate School of Comprehensive Human Sciences, 
Doctoral Program in Human-Care Sciences, Department of Health Care Policy and 
Management, Japan. s0335772@ipe.tsukuba.ac.jp

In 2001, Japan launched a national influenza immunisation program for the 
elderly which provides a subsidy. In order to evaluate the efficiency of the 
strategy taken in this current program which provides 71% subsidy for all and 
explore alternative strategies, authors carried out a cost-effectiveness 
analysis. Authors compared strategies with different levels of subsidy and the 
use of risk-base targeting by constructing a decision tree model based on the 
literature. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of alternative strategies were 
estimated deterministically and probabilistically from societal perspective. 
Probabilistically estimated mean incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of current 
strategy is US$ 15,535 per YOLS, which can be concluded that current program is 
cost-effective. Authors also conclude that switching from current strategy to 
strategy which provides 100% subsidy for all, or strategy which provides 100% 
subsidy for high-risk elderlies only, can be cost-effective as well.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.05.067
PMID: 17681651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Nihon Rinsho. 2007 Jun 28;65 Suppl 6:226-8.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of breast cancer screening with mammography].

[Article in Japanese]

Iinuma T(1).

Author information:
(1)The National Institute of Radiological Sciences.

PMID: 17682158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Ethn Dis. 2007 Spring;17(2):214-20.

Guidelines for management of high-risk African Americans with multiple 
cardiovascular risk factors: recommendations of an expert consensus panel.

Williams RA(1), Flack JM, Gavin JR 3rd, Schneider WR, Hennekens CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.

African Americans have higher rates of cardiovascular disease (CVD) than do 
Caucasians, which contributes significantly to their reduced life expectancy. 
Most African American adults have at least one major risk factor for CVD. 
Nonetheless, African Americans are often underdiagnosed and undertreated, 
despite presenting to the healthcare system late in their course, often after a 
CVD event. Patients with multiple risk factors have a CVD risk far greater than 
the sum of their individual risks. Metabolic syndrome tends to be clustered to a 
greater degree in African American women. Aggressive management of African 
Americans is necessary. In this report, we provide guidelines for the management 
of high-risk African Americans. For each individual risk factor, we address 
existing data and guidelines in the general population, existing data in African 
Americans, and proposed guidelines for African Americans based on evidence or 
extrapolation. In particular, for elevated cholesterol and blood pressure, 
evidence is emerging that lower is better, so aggressive management strategies 
are necessary. For dyslipidemia, statins alone will generally reach the goal, 
but for hypertension, multiple drugs are usually necessary. We conclude that 
further research in African Americans is necessary to complete the totality of 
evidence.

PMID: 17682348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Mar;23(3):437-44. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2007.05054.x. Epub 2007 Aug 6.

Cost-effectiveness of the surveillance program of hepatocellular carcinoma 
depends on the medical circumstances.

Nouso K(1), Tanaka H, Uematsu S, Shiraga K, Okamoto R, Onishi H, Nakamura S, 
Kobayashi Y, Araki Y, Aoki N, Shiratori Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hiroshima City Hospital, Hiroshima, Japan. 
nouso@cc.okayama-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND AND AIM: The clinical features of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and 
the medical environment are diverse in different geographic areas. The aim of 
this study is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the surveillance of HCC in 
different medical circumstances.
METHODS: The Markov model focused on variables that differ from country to 
country and may change in the future, especially in regards to the proportion of 
small HCC detected incidentally. The target population was 45-year-old patients 
with Child-Pugh class A cirrhosis, and the intervention was surveillance with 
ultrasonography every 6 months.
RESULTS: The additional cost of the surveillance was $US15 100, the gain in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was 0.50 years, and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $US29 900/QALY in a base-case analysis 
(annual incidence of HCC = 4%). If 40% of small HCC were detected incidentally 
without surveillance, the gain in QALY decreased to 0.15 and the ICER increased 
to $US47 900/QALY. The increase in the annual incidence of HCC to 8% resulted in 
the increase of QALYs to 0.81, and the decrease of the ICER to $US25 400/QALY. 
The adoption of liver transplantation increased the gain in QALYs and the ICER 
to 0.84 and $US59 900/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The gain in QALYs and the ICER due to the surveillance of HCC 
varies between different patient subgroups and it critically depends on the rate 
of small HCC detected incidentally without surveillance, as well as the annual 
incidence of HCC and the adoption of liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2007.05054.x
PMID: 17683496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. BMC Public Health. 2007 Aug 6;7:195. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-195.

Modelling the impact and cost-effectiveness of the HIV intervention programme 
amongst commercial sex workers in Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India.

Fung IC(1), Guinness L, Vickerman P, Watts C, Vannela G, Vadhvana J, Foss AM, 
Malodia L, Gandhi M, Jani G.

Author information:
(1)MSc Control of Infectious Diseases, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. i.fung@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Ahmedabad is an industrial city in Gujarat, India. In 2003, the HIV 
prevalence among commercial sex workers (CSWs) in Ahmedabad reached 13.0%. In 
response, the Jyoti Sangh HIV prevention programme for CSWs was initiated, which 
involves outreach, peer education, condom distribution, and free STD clinics. 
Two surveys were performed among CSWs in 1999 and 2003. This study estimates the 
cost-effectiveness of the Jyoti Sangh HIV prevention programme.
METHODS: A dynamic mathematical model was used with survey and 
intervention-specific data from Ahmedabad to estimate the HIV impact of the 
Jyoti Sangh project for the 51 months between the two CSW surveys. Uncertainty 
analysis was used to obtain different model fits to the HIV/STI epidemiological 
data, producing a range for the HIV impact of the project. Financial and 
economic costs of the intervention were estimated from the provider's 
perspective for the same time period. The cost per HIV-infection averted was 
estimated.
RESULTS: Over 51 months, projections suggest that the intervention averted 624 
and 5,131 HIV cases among the CSWs and their clients, respectively. This equates 
to a 54% and 51% decrease in the HIV infections that would have occurred among 
the CSWs and clients without the intervention. In the absence of intervention, 
the model predicts that the HIV prevalence amongst the CSWs in 2003 would have 
been 26%, almost twice that with the intervention. Cost per HIV infection 
averted, excluding and including peer educator economic costs, was USD 59 and 
USD 98 respectively.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated that targeted CSW interventions in India can 
be cost-effective, and highlights the importance of replicating this effort in 
other similar settings.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-195
PMCID: PMC1999496
PMID: 17683595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. JAMA. 2007 Aug 8;298(6):629-37. doi: 10.1001/jama.298.6.629.

Cost-effectiveness of bone densitometry followed by treatment of osteoporosis in 
older men.

Schousboe JT(1), Taylor BC, Fink HA, Kane RL, Cummings SR, Orwoll ES, Melton LJ 
3rd, Bauer DC, Ensrud KE.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology, Park Nicollet Health Services, Minneapolis, MN 55416, USA. 
john.schousboe@parknicollet.com

Comment in
    JAMA. 2007 Nov 14;298(18):2136-7; author reply 2137.

CONTEXT: Osteoporotic fractures are common among elderly men.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate among older men the cost-effectiveness of bone 
densitometry followed by 5 years of oral bisphosphonate therapy to prevent 
fractures for those found to have osteoporosis (femoral neck T score < or 
=-2.5), compared with no intervention.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND POPULATION: Computer Markov microsimulation model using a 
societal perspective and a lifetime horizon. Simulations were performed for 
hypothetical cohorts of white men aged 65, 70, 75, 80, or 85 years, with or 
without prior clinical fracture. Data sources for model parameters included the 
Rochester Epidemiology Project for fracture costs and population-based 
age-specific fracture rates; the Osteoporotic Fractures in Men (MrOS) study and 
published meta-analyses for the associations among prior fractures, bone 
density, and incident fractures; and published studies of fracture disutility.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for 
the densitometry and follow-up treatment strategy compared with no intervention, 
calculated from lifetime costs and accumulated QALYs for each strategy.
RESULTS: Lifetime costs per QALY gained for the densitometry and follow-up 
treatment strategy were less than $50,000 for men aged 65 years or older with a 
prior clinical fracture and for men aged 80 years or older without a prior 
fracture. These results were most sensitive to oral bisphosphonate cost and 
fracture reduction efficacy, the strength of association between bone mineral 
density and fractures, fracture rates and disutility, and medication adherence.
CONCLUSIONS: Bone densitometry followed by bisphosphonate therapy for those with 
osteoporosis may be cost-effective for men aged 65 years or older with a 
self-reported prior clinical fracture and for men aged 80 to 85 years with no 
prior fracture. This strategy may also be cost-effective for men as young as 70 
years without a prior clinical fracture if oral bisphosphonate costs are less 
than $500 per year or if the societal willingness to pay per QALY gained is 
$100,000.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.298.6.629
PMID: 17684185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Braz J Otorhinolaryngol. 2007 May-Jun;73(3):378-83. doi: 
10.1016/s1808-8694(15)30082-3.

Study of the fundamental frequency in elderly women with hearing loss.

Baraldi Gdos S(1), Castro de Almeida L, Calais LL, Borges AC, Gielow I, Raymundo 
De Cunto M.

Author information:
(1)UNIFESP, Speech therapy.

Increased life expectancy raises demands for special attention for the elderly 
population; speech, language and hearing science deals with their communication 
disorders. Hearing loss is a common disorder affecting this age group. It is 
known that the auditory feedback system is essential to human vocalizing, as it 
organizes voice production.
AIM: To assess and correlate the hearing system and the Fundamental Frequency 
(F0) of women who have variable degrees of sensorineural hearing loss.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: a cross-sectional descriptive study. 30 women with a mean 
age of 75.95 (SD = 7,41) were included. Inclusion criteria were: symmetric 
sensorineural hearing loss, a high-frequency sloping configuration, and a type A 
tympanogram. Subjects underwent Pure Tone Audiometry, a Word Recognition Test, 
Tympanometry, and Voice Assessment.
RESULTS: Patients with higher degrees of hearing loss showed an increased 
fundamental frequency.
CONCLUSION: In aged individuals with hearing loss, audiovocal monitoring is 
altered, resulting in voice parameter changes.

DOI: 10.1016/s1808-8694(15)30082-3
PMCID: PMC9445741
PMID: 17684659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Urologe A. 2007 Sep;46(9):1211-8. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1507-2.

[Seven years of botulinum toxin type A in the treatment of neurogenic detrusor 
hyperactivity].

[Article in German]

Stöhrer M(1), Wolff A, Kramer G, Steiner R, Löchner-Ernst D, Leuth D, Steude U, 
Rübben H.

Author information:
(1)Uni Essen, Urologie-Neurourologie, Albanstrasse 1, 82418 Murnau. 
manfred@stoehrer.com

BACKGROUND: A decompensated storage function with high pressures is the greatest 
risk factor regarding life expectancy and quality of life in patients with 
neurogenic detrusor hyperactivity. Previously, this problem could only be 
managed with administration of anticholinergic medications or--if this approach 
was either not effective enough or the patients exhibited drug intolerance--by 
invasive surgical interventions. The use of botulinum toxin type A to treat 
these patients rapidly proved to be a beneficial alternative to those two 
therapeutic options ever since its introduction in Germany in 1998 as a 
minimally invasive procedure and has become established worldwide.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The medical records of first-time users at the clinic were 
retrospectively analyzed for a 7-year period. The total of 492 injections in 277 
patients--of which 365 injections in 216 patients were performed following a 
standardized protocol--represents the largest number of cases worldwide. The 
treatment was indicated in patients experiencing insufficient efficacy of 
anticholinergic agents or drug intolerance who were capable of 
self-catheterization.
RESULTS: The standard injection contained either 300 MU Botox or 750 MU Dysport. 
Urodynamic parameters before and up to 8 months post-intervention showed 
significantly lowered detrusor pressure and improved cystometric capacity. This 
corresponded to the clinical assessment and subjective impression of the 
patients that detrusor activity had been reduced to a large extent with improved 
continence. Evacuation was carried out in all cases without any difficulty by 
aseptic intermittent catheterization. The average duration of the effect was 
subjectively determined to be 8.7 months. In the vast majority of cases, 
anticholinergic medications could be discontinued or considerably reduced. Side 
effects not requiring treatment developed in only four instances. Antibody 
formation no longer occurred with those products available on the market since 
2001. Even after repeated injections (up to ten times) there was no evidence for 
decreased efficacy.
CONCLUSION: Due to its reliable effect and low rate of side effects, botulinum 
toxin type A quickly became accepted worldwide for the treatment of neurogenic 
detrusor hyperactivity and has contributed to a substantial enrichment of the 
more conservative therapy options. Prospective studies focusing especially on 
injection site and optimizing the duration of efficacy are desirable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1507-2
PMID: 17684720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Middle East J Anaesthesiol. 2007 Jun;19(2):311-33.

Rheumatoid arthritis: current pharmacologic treatment and anesthetic 
considerations.

Reddy D(1), Trost LW, Lee T, Baluch AR, Kaye AD.

Author information:
(1)Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA.

A diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis carries with it a lifelong progressive 
disease; however twenty percent of patients enjoy periods of partial to total 
remission. After remission, the disease will frequently plague previously 
unaffected joints. Life expectancy is reduced by an average of three to seven 
years. Complications of RA include vasculitis and amyloidosis affecting any 
vessel, including the aorta. Additionally, complications of therapy such as 
chronic NSAID use leading to GI bleeding and infections associated with long 
term steroid use, can add to the difficulties of the disease. The recent 
discovery and use of anticytokines and DMARDs has lead to greatly reduced 
symptomology associated with RA and greater patient comfort. Side effects of 
drugs should be well understood including the risk of bleeding from NSAIDs. 
Management and surgical intervention of problems that arise from this disease 
vary dramatically. The anesthesiologist must be aware of airway pathologies, 
pain management techniques, and available pharmacology parameters.

PMID: 17684873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Acta Chir Belg. 2007 Jun;107(3):331-5. doi: 10.1080/00015458.2007.11680069.

Re-operation for recurrent lymph node metastasis of medullary thyroid cancer--is 
it useful?

Vriens B(1), Van Hee R.

Author information:
(1)Academic Surgical Centre Stuivenberg, University of Antwerp, Belgium.

Recurrent disease in medullary thyroid cancer (MTC) occurs frequently. Repeated 
measurements of calcitonin levels as well as imaging techniques may help detect 
such recurrence or metastatic disease. Re-operative tumour excision may be a 
good therapeutic option to treat patients with recurrence and is believed to 
substantially lengthen life expectancy. However, it only leads to cure in 50% of 
patients. Two repeatedly operated patients with recurrent MTC are presented and 
the literature is discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2007.11680069
PMID: 17685266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


