analysis are discussed, and the potential role of microsimulation is illustrated 
by means of a step-by-step explanation of building, testing, and using such a 
model.
RESULTS: Total life expectancy, event-free life expectancy, and reoperation-free 
life expectancy for a 65-year-old male patient were 10.6 years, 9.2 years, and 
9.8 years, respectively. Lifetime risk of reoperation due to structural valve 
deterioration was 13.3%.
CONCLUSIONS: Microsimulation is capable of providing accurate estimates of 
age-related life expectancy and lifetime risk of reoperation for patients who 
underwent aortic valve replacement with the Carpentier-Edwards supra-annular 
valve. It provides a useful tool to facilitate and optimize the choice for a 
specific heart valve prosthesis in a particular patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2007.03.051
PMID: 17723821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2007 Jul;34(4):841-6. doi: 10.1188/07.ONF.841-846.

Activities of daily living in women with advanced breast cancer.

DeSanto-Madeya S(1), Bauer-Wu S, Gross A.

Author information:
(1)Phyllis F. Cantor Center, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, USA. 
susan.desantomadeya@umb.edu

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To detail the daily activities of women with advanced breast 
cancer.
DESIGN: Descriptive, qualitative.
SETTING: Six clinical sites in New England. Of the six sites, three were urban, 
one was suburban, and two were rural, with three sites being comprehensive 
cancer centers.
SAMPLE: 84 women with a confirmed diagnosis of stage IV breast cancer with a 
life expectancy of four months or more.
METHODS: A secondary analysis of an expressive writing intervention study 
control group. As part of the control writing group, participants kept 
handwritten activity logs for four consecutive days. Standard content analysis 
procedures were used to analyze the transcribed activity logs.
MAIN RESEARCH VARIABLES: Activities of daily living in women with advanced 
breast cancer.
FINDINGS: 22 codes were identified that depicted the daily activities of 
participants. Subsequent analysis merged the 22 codes into six themes.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings demonstrated that patients with advanced breast cancer are 
living very full, active lives despite numerous symptoms and cancer treatments.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: The study serves as a foundation for the development 
of interventions to enhance daily functioning. Oncology nurses should counsel 
women with advanced cancer regarding pacing and self-care activities.

DOI: 10.1188/07.ONF.841-846
PMID: 17723984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Bras Pneumol. 2007 Mar-Apr;33(2):213-21. doi:
10.1590/s1806-37132007000200017.

Diabetes mellitus in patients with cystic fibrosis.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Alves Cde A(1), Aguiar RA, Alves AC, Santana MA.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology Residency Program, Universidade Federal da Bahia, 
School of Medicine, Salvador, BA, Brasil. cresio.alves@uol.com.br 
<alves@uol.com.br>

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is the principal extra-pulmonary 
complication of cystic fibrosis, occurring in 15-30% of adult cystic fibrosis 
patients. The number of cystic fibrosis patients who develop diabetes is 
increasing in parallel with increases in life expectancy. The aim of this study 
was to review the physiopathology, clinical presentation, diagnosis and 
treatment of CFRD. A bibliographic search of the Medline and Latin American and 
Caribbean Health Sciences Literature databases was made. Articles were selected 
from among those published in the last twenty years. Insulin deficiency, caused 
by reduced beta-cell mass, is the main etiologic mechanism, although insulin 
resistance also plays a role. Presenting features of type 1 and type 2 diabetes, 
CFRD typically affects individuals of approximately 20 years of age. It can also 
be accompanied by fasting, non-fasting or intermittent hyperglycemia. Glucose 
intolerance is associated with worsening of nutritional status, increased 
morbidity, decreased survival and reduced pulmonary function. Microvascular 
complications are always present, although macrovascular complications are 
rarely seen. An oral glucose tolerance test is recommended annually for patients 
> or = 10 years of age and for any patients presenting unexplained weight loss 
or symptoms of diabetes. Patients hospitalized with severe diseases should also 
be screened. If fasting hyperglycemia persists for more than 48 h, insulin 
therapy is recommended. Insulin administration remains the treatment of choice 
for diabetes and fasting hyperglycemia. Calories should not be restricted, and 
patients with CFRD should be managed by a multidisciplinary team.

DOI: 10.1590/s1806-37132007000200017
PMID: 17724542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Prescrire Int. 2007 Aug;16(90):153-6.

Leukaemia due to mitoxantrone.

[No authors listed]

(1) Cases of acute leukaemia (usually myeloblastic) have been attributed to 
mitoxantrone. (2) A French epidemiological study showed an increased risk of 
leukaemia in women treated with mitoxantrone for breast cancer, with a relative 
risk of about 7. The results of studies conducted elsewhere are similar. (3) The 
time to onset of leukaemia after mitoxantrone exposure ranges from 8 months to 
several years. The risk is dose-dependent. The excess risk is particularly high 
when the cumulative dose is above 13 mg/m2. The prognosis for leukaemia due to 
mitoxantrone is worse than the prognosis for leukaemia with no known cause. (4) 
Cases of leukaemia have also been reported after the use of mitoxantrone to 
treat other cancers and multiple sclerosis. (5) This serious adverse effect must 
be taken into account when choosing a treatment for patients with a relatively 
long life expectancy. Patients treated with mitoxantrone should be monitored.

PMID: 17724842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Rev Med Liege. 2007 May-Jun;62(5-6):335-43.

[What's new in orthopaedic surgery: hopes and facts in total hip and spine 
arthroplasty].

[Article in French]

Gillet P(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Anatomie et Chirurgie de l'Appareil locomoteur, CHU Sart Tilman, 
Liège, Belgique. philippe.gillet@chu.ulg.ac.be

Progress in implant design and surface properties have improved long-term 
survival of total hip prosthesis and lowered the incidence of dislocation. New 
materials, particularly ceramics and metals, decrease the risk for implant 
loosening because they induce less particle disease than polyethylene debris. 
These new materials have been submitted to simulator studies before being 
released for clinical use. They have been used since a sufficient amount of time 
in clinical practice to consider them as being part of our current 
armamentarium. They enable the orthopaedic surgeon to tailor the optimal hip 
prosthesis to each patient's need, depending on his/her bone stock, activity 
level and life expectancy. Disk prostheses and the general concept of non fusion 
surgery in spine surgery seems attractive, since intervertebral fusion carries a 
number of drawbacks, particularly at the level of adjacent segments. However, 
the documented follow-up of non-fusion spine surgery is at present insufficient 
to consider a widespread use of these new technologies. Their own possible 
complications are largely unknown and they do not replace bone fusion in the 
most clear-cut accepted indications for spine surgery. The use of disk 
prostheses should therefore be strictly limited according to present knowledge.

PMID: 17725204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Med Sci Law. 2007 Jul;47(3):244-52. doi: 10.1258/rsmmsl.47.3.244.

Elderly suicide rates: cross-national comparisons and association with sex and 
elderly age-bands.

Shah A(1), Bhat R, McKenzie S, Koen C.

Author information:
(1)West London Mental Health NHS Trust and Imperial College School of Medicine, 
London, United Kingdom. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

Suicide rates generally increase with age. Examination of cross-national 
variations in elderly suicide rates may allow the generation of aetiological 
hypotheses. Suicide rates for males and females in the age-bands 65-74 years and 
75+ years were ascertained from the World Health Organisation website for all 
the listed countries. Cross-national variations were examined by segregating 
different countries into four quartiles of elderly suicide rates. Suicide rates 
between males and females and between the two age-bands were compared across 
different countries. The main findings were: (i) there is wide cross-national 
variation in elderly suicide rates; (ii) elderly suicide rates were the lowest 
in Caribbean, central American and Arabic countries, and the highest in central 
and eastern European, some oriental and some west European countries; (iii) 
suicide rates were higher in men compared to women for both the age-bands; and, 
(iv) suicide rates were higher in the age-band 75+ years compared to the 
age-band 65-74 years for males and females. Potential explanations for regional 
and cross-national variations in elderly suicide rates include cross-national 
differences in genetic and environmental factors, prevalence of mental illness 
in the elderly, life expectancy, socio-economic deprivation, social 
fragmentation, cultural factors, the availability of appropriate healthcare 
services, and public health initiatives to improve the detection and treatment 
of mental illness, mental health and suicide prevention.

DOI: 10.1258/rsmmsl.47.3.244
PMID: 17725239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Ugeskr Laeger. 2007 Jun 25;169(26):2526-8.

[Social inequality in the burden of disease].

[Article in Danish]

Brønnum-Hansen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Statens Institut for Folkesundhed, København K. hbh@niph.dk

INTRODUCTION: Social inequality in health status is apparent in different life 
expectancy as well as expected lifetime with illness. The purpose of the study 
was to estimate the difference in expected lifetime with cancer, cardiovascular 
diseases and diseases of the musculoskeletal system between Danes with high and 
low educational levels.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was based on data from the Danish Health 
Interview Survey in 2000 and registered data on education and mortality in the 
period 1995-1999. Expected lifetime with and without long-standing, limiting 
illness based on observed data was compared with expected lifetime with and 
without long-standing, limiting illness after elimination of specific diseases 
and causes of death. The expected lifetime for persons with high and low 
educational levels between the age of 30 and 75 with and without illness was 
compared.
RESULTS: Cancer contributes by 0.3 years to the difference in partial life 
expectancy (age 30-75) between persons with high and low educational levels. 
Cardiovascular diseases cause men with low educational levels a loss of 0.6 life 
years and women 0.4 life years compared to men and women with high educational 
levels. Because of co-morbidity elimination of cancer would increase social 
inequality in expected lifetime with illness. The same was seen for women if 
cardiovascular diseases were eliminated. If diseases of the musculoskeletal 
system were eliminated, the difference in expected lifetime without 
long-standing, limiting illness from age 30 to 75 between persons with high and 
low educational levels would be reduced by 1.2 years.
CONCLUSION: Social inequality in life expectancy would be reduced by the 
elimination of cancer and cardiovascular diseases. Socially disadvantaged suffer 
from the largest burden of disease.

PMID: 17725899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Ugeskr Laeger. 2007 Jun 25;169(26):2529-32.

[Survival in patients with HIV infection].

[Article in Danish]

Lohse N(1), Hansen AB, Pedersen G, Kronborg G, Gerstoft J, Sørensen HT, Vaeth M, 
Obel N.

Author information:
(1)Odense Universitetshospital, Infektionsmedicinsk Afdeling. nl@dce.au.dk.

Republished from
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jan 16;146(2):87-95.

It has been difficult to measure the median survival of HIV-infected patients by 
comparing selected HIV samples and control groups. Data from the Danish HIV 
Cohort Study combined with the Central Registration System has made it possible 
to accurately compare the survival of HIV-infected persons and uninfected 
persons. In 2000 to 2005, the median remaining lifetime at age 25 years in the 
general population was 51 years and 39 years for HIV-infected persons without 
hepatitis C virus infection. In conclusion, persons with HIV infection have a 
good, albeit far from normal, life expectancy.

PMID: 17725900


123. Gastrointest Endosc. 2007 Sep;66(3):544-50. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2007.01.008.

Survival of elderly persons undergoing colonoscopy: implications for colorectal 
cancer screening and surveillance.

Kahi CJ(1), Azzouz F, Juliar BE, Imperiale TF.

Author information:
(1)Indiana University Medical Center, Roudebush Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
Indiana University Department of Biostatistics, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: In the elderly, the increased prevalence of colorectal neoplasia and 
the protective effect of colonoscopy may be offset by advancing age and 
comorbidity.
OBJECTIVE: To describe and quantify the endoscopic findings, survival, and 
predictors of mortality of elderly persons after colonoscopy.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: Retrospective cohort study of persons aged>or=75 
years who underwent colonoscopy in 1999 and 2000 at a U.S. Veterans Affairs 
facility and urban county hospital.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Advanced neoplasms were defined as colorectal cancer 
(CRC), polyp with high-grade dysplasia, villous histologic features, or tubular 
adenoma>or=1 cm. Comorbidity was measured with the Charlson comorbidity index. 
Subjects were followed until death or study closure.
RESULTS: Of 469 eligible subjects, 65 were excluded and 404 were included in the 
study. Fifty-nine of 404 (15%) had an advanced neoplasm, including 8 (2%) with 
CRC. There were 167 deaths (41%); the mean overall survival was 4.1+/-0.1 years 
(median 5.95 years). A symptomatic indication for colonoscopy was not predictive 
of death. Mortality was predicted by age (hazard ratio 1.16 for each year 
increase beyond age 75 years, 95% CI 1.07-1.3, P=.0003) and Charlson score 
(hazard ratio 8.3 for each point increase, 95% CI 1.4-48.5, P=.02). The median 
survival of patients aged 75 to 79 years was >5 years if the Charlson score was 
<or=4. Among patients aged>or=80 years, the median survival was <5 years 
regardless of Charlson score.
LIMITATIONS: Retrospective design.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort of elders, age and comorbidity were predictors of 
death. The protective effect of younger age lessens as comorbidity increases. 
These findings may have important implications for CRC screening and 
surveillance in elders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2007.01.008
PMID: 17725944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Lancet. 2007 Aug 25;370(9588):643-4. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61321-X.

Experts disagree over NICE's approach for assessing drugs.

Hoey R.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61321-X
PMID: 17726791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 2007 Aug;27(4):358-67.

A 1- to 12-year clinical evaluation of 106 endosseous implants supporting fixed 
and removable prostheses.

Aykent F(1), Inan O, Ozyesil AG, Alptekin NO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Selcuk University Faculty of Dentistry, Konya, 
Turkey. faykent@hotmail.com

The purpose of this article is to report on the long-term clinical evaluation of 
patients treated with dental implants. A total of 106 implants were placed in 34 
patients and restored with fixed partial dentures and overdentures. The 12-year 
cumulative implant survival and success rates were 95.2% and 90.2%, 
respectively. Probing depths around mandibular implants were significantly lower 
than those around maxillary implants (P < .05). The cumulative implant success 
rate in nonsmokers was 97.7%, but this dropped to 75.81% in smokers. Also, 
patients rehabilitated with implant-supported overdentures had more peri-implant 
tissue inflammation than patients with fixed prostheses.

PMID: 17726992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jul 21;151(29):1612-5.

[The importance of comprehensive transition of care in women with Turner's 
syndrome].

[Article in Dutch]

Keizer-Schrama SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC-Sophia Kinderziekenhuis, afd. Kindergeneeskunde, Postbus 2060, 
3000 CB Rotterdam. s.demuinckkeizer-schrama@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Oct 20;151(42):2354-5; author reply 2355.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Oct 20;151(42):2353-4; author reply 2354.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jul 21;151(29):1616-22.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jul 21;151(29):1630-4.

Turner's syndrome is the most common chromosomal abnormality in females; it 
affects 1:2000 live female births. It is the result of the complete or partial 
absence of one X chromosome. The most frequently occurring clinical features are 
short stature and ovarian failure. Adults with Turner's syndrome have a reduced 
life expectancy, mainly due to an increased cardiovascular risk. Other 
morbidities include hypothyroidism, skeletal problems, renal and 
gastrointestinal disease, and hearing loss. While most females with Turner's 
syndrome present during childhood and adolescence, one quarter are diagnosed 
with primary or secondary amenorrhoea in adulthood. Girls with Turner's syndrome 
usually receive intensive medical care during childhood. Early diagnosis is 
important for the prevention and treatment of morbidities, as well as attaining 
optimum adult height and age-appropriate puberty induction. This requires a 
multidisciplinary approach for which a protocol has been formulated by the Dutch 
Advisory Group on Growth Hormone. This protocol also provides the rationale for 
a structured transition of these patients. The emphasis throughout the 
transition to adult care is on educating the adolescent with Turner's syndrome, 
her family and adult care providers. Several follow-up studies indicate that the 
necessary continuum of care is not optimal.

PMID: 17727181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jul 21;151(29):1616-22.

[Turner syndrome in adulthood: the need for multidisciplinary care].

[Article in Dutch]

Freriks K(1), Beerendonk CC, Timmermans J, Braat DD, Hermus AR, Timmers HJ.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Endocriene Ziekten (471), Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, 
Postbus 910I, 6500 HB Nijmegen.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jul 21;151(29):1612-5.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Oct 20;151(42):2354-5; author reply 2355.
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Oct 20;151(42):2353-4; author reply 2354.

Turner syndrome is the result of the complete or partial absence of one 
X-chromosome. As well as short stature and gonadal dysgenesis, a wide range of 
abnormalities which may not present themselves until adulthood, are seen in 
nearly every organ system. Adult women with this syndrome have a reduced 
estimated life expectancy due to the greatly increased risk of structural 
abnormalities of the heart and aorta, and of other cardiovascular disease. The 
latter is due to the higher prevalence of hypertension, type-2 diabetes mellitus 
and dyslipidaemia. Furthermore, Turner syndrome in adulthood is characterized by 
infertility and oestrogen substitution is often necessary. Due to the diverse 
and interconnected nature of these problems, women with Turner syndrome benefit 
from coordinated medical care provided by a multidisciplinary outpatient team 
including an internist-endocrinologist, a gynaecologist and a cardiologist. We 
advise a periodic medical screening of women with this syndrome.

PMID: 17727182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Drugs Aging. 2007;24(9):717-32. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200724090-00002.

Membranous nephropathy in the older adult: epidemiology, diagnosis and 
management.

Deegens JK(1), Wetzels JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. j.deegens@nier.umcn.nl

Membranous nephropathy is the most important cause of the nephrotic syndrome in 
elderly patients (aged >65 years). The clinical presentation is similar in older 
and younger patients, although elderly patients more often present with renal 
failure. Notably, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is usually lower in the 
elderly due to the physiological decline in GFR after the age of 30 years. 
Secondary causes, especially malignancies, are more common in older patients 
with membranous nephropathy. Therefore, elderly patients should undergo a 
thorough examination to exclude a secondary cause. The prognosis of elderly 
patients with idiopathic membranous nephropathy is not very different from that 
of younger patients. All elderly patients should receive symptomatic treatment 
aimed at reducing hypertension, oedema, proteinuria and hyperlipidaemia. It is 
recommended that elderly patients with a low serum albumin (<2 g/dL) receive 
prophylactic anticoagulation because of a high risk for thrombosis. 
Immunosuppressive therapy should be reserved for elderly patients at high risk 
of progression to end-stage renal disease because the elderly are particularly 
prone to the adverse effects and infectious complications of immunosuppressive 
therapy. High-risk elderly patients are characterised by renal insufficiency 
(GFR <45 mL/min/1.73m(2)), an increase in serum creatinine of >25% or a severe 
persistent nephrotic syndrome not responding to symptomatic treatment. In 
addition, elderly patients with a relatively normal GFR (>or=45 mL/min/1.73m(2)) 
and high urinary excretion of beta(2)-microglobulin and IgG are also at 
increased risk of developing end-stage renal disease; however, the deterioration 
in renal function is usually a slow process. Therefore, such patients benefit 
from immunosuppressive therapy only if their life expectancy is good. If 
immunosuppressive therapy is started, first-line treatment consists of 
prednisone and cyclophosphamide. If cyclophosphamide is contraindicated or fails 
to induce a remission, ciclosporin could be used. Treatment with ciclosporin 
should be limited to patients with a relatively normal renal function (GFR >60 
mL/min/1.73m(2)) in view of its nephrotoxicity in patients with renal 
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200724090-00002
PMID: 17727303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Malar J. 2007 Aug 29;6:115. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-6-115.

How human practices have affected vector-borne diseases in the past: a study of 
malaria transmission in Alpine valleys.

Sérandour J(1), Girel J, Boyer S, Ravanel P, Lemperière G, Raveton M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire Ecologie Alpine, UMR CNRS N 5553, Equipe Pertubations 
Environnementales et Xénobiotiques, Université Joseph Fourier, BP 53X, 38041 
Grenoble Cedex 09, France. julien.serandour@ujf-grenoble.fr

BACKGROUND: Malaria was endemic in the Rhône-Alpes area of eastern France in the 
19th century and life expectancy was particularly shortened in Alpine valleys. 
This study was designed to determine how the disease affected people in the area 
and to identify the factors influencing malaria transmission.
METHODS: Demographic data of the 19th century were collected from death 
registers of eight villages of the flood-plain of the river Isère. Correlations 
were performed between these demographic data and reconstructed meteorological 
data. Archive documents from medical practitioners gave information on symptoms 
of ill people. Engineer reports provided information on the hydraulic project 
developments in the Isère valley.
RESULTS: Description of fevers was highly suggestive of endemic malaria 
transmission in the parishes neighbouring the river Isère. The current status of 
anopheline mosquitoes in the area supports this hypothesis. Mean temperature and 
precipitation were poorly correlated with demographic data, whereas the 
chronology of hydrological events correlated with fluctuations in death rates in 
the parishes.
CONCLUSION: Nowadays, most of the river development projects involve the 
creation of wet areas, enabling controlled flooding events. Flood-flow risk and 
the re-emergence of vector-borne diseases would probably be influenced by the 
climate change. The message is not to forget that human disturbance of any 
functioning hydrosystem has often been linked to malaria transmission in the 
past.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-6-115
PMCID: PMC2042507
PMID: 17727700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2007 Nov;99 Suppl 1:S10-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijgo.2007.06.011. Epub 2007 Aug 28.

Social and economic consequences of obstetric fistula: life changed forever?

Ahmed S(1), Holtz SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population, Family and Reproductive Health, Johns Hopkins 
Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. 
sahmed@jhsph.edu

OBJECTIVES: To summarize the social, economic, emotional, and psychological 
consequences incurred by women with obstetric fistula; present the results of a 
meta-analysis for 2 major consequences, divorce/separation and perinatal loss; 
and report on improvements in health and self-esteem and on the possibility of 
social reintegration following successful fistula repair.
METHODS: We conducted a review of the literature published between 1985 and 2005 
on fistula in developing countries. We then performed a meta-analysis for 2 of 
the major consequences of having a fistula, divorce/separation and perinatal 
child loss.
RESULTS: Studies suggest that surgical treatment usually closes the fistula and 
improves the physical and mental health of affected women.
CONCLUSION: With additional social support and counseling, women may be able to 
successfully reintegrate socially following fistula repair.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijgo.2007.06.011
PMID: 17727854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2007 Sep;14(3):139-51. doi: 
10.1080/00207720701500534.

Trends in injury-related deaths before and after dissolution of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics.

Peck MD(1), Shankar V, Bangdiwala SI.

Author information:
(1)Injury Prevention Research Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, USA. mpeck@med.unc.edu

The relationship of death rates due to injury with the dissolution of the Soviet 
empire deserves special focus because of the impact of injury deaths on the 
productive working population between the ages of 15 and 65 years. A 
retrospective review was performed of annual mortality rates due to intentional 
and unintentional injuries, using WHO data from 1980 to 2003. Using data from a 
comparison group in Western Europe, the nations of the former Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics (USSR) were studied. Annual death rates were examined using 
polynomial regression after 3-year moving averages smoothed the plots. The 
majority of trends in injury-related death noted in the comparison group 
decreased constantly over time. In contrast, many nations of the former USSR 
experienced an initial decrease, reaching a nadir in 1985 - 1987, followed by an 
increase in injury-related deaths. Moreover, many of these nations experienced a 
subsequent decrease following the dissolution of the USSR in 1991. The 
monitoring of trends in injury mortality in countries experiencing social and 
political upheavals is warranted.

DOI: 10.1080/00207720701500534
PMID: 17729133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. World J Gastroenterol. 2007 Sep 14;13(34):4646-8. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v13.i34.4646.

Alcohol binging causes peliosis hepatis during azathioprine therapy in Crohn's 
disease.

Elsing C(1), Placke J, Herrmann T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 
410, Heidelberg, Germany.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease have normal life expectancy and, due to 
modern immunosuppressive therapies, also a normal quality of life. Since mostly 
young people are affected, their social behaviour suits this environment. 
Alcohol binging is an increasingly disturbing factor among young people. We 
describe a patient with Crohn's disease, treated with azathioprine, who 
developed peliosis hepatis after three epsiodes of alcohol binging. Liver 
toxicity was not observed previously during the course of the treatment. 
Azathioprine-induced peliosis hepatis is thought to be idiosyncratic in humans. 
From animal studies, however, it is clear that hepatic depletion of glutathione 
leads to azathioprine toxicity to the sinusoidal endothelial cells. Damage of 
these cells causes peliosis hepatis. Since alcohol binging leads to hepatic 
glutathione depletion, we conclude that in our patient the episodes of binging 
have reduced liver gluathione content and therefore this has increased 
azathioprine toxicity causing peliosis hepatis. The problem of alcohol binging 
has not yet been addressed in IBD patients undertaking immunosuppressive 
therapy. This should be reviewed in future considerations regarding patients 
advice.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v13.i34.4646
PMCID: PMC4611844
PMID: 17729423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. HIV Med. 2007 Oct;8(7):439-50. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2007.00491.x.

The long-term benefits of genotypic resistance testing in patients with 
extensive prior antiretroviral therapy: a model-based approach.

Yazdanpanah Y(1), Vray M, Meynard J, Losina E, Weinstein MC, Morand-Joubert L, 
Goldie SJ, Hsu HE, Walensky RP, Dalban C, Sax PE, Girard PM, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Service Universitaire des Maladies Infectieuses et du Voyageur, Centre 
Hospitalier de Tourcoing, Tourcoing, France. yyazdan@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: Resistance testing in HIV disease may provide long-term benefits 
that are not evident from short-term data. Our objectives were to estimate the 
long-term effectiveness, cost and cost-effectiveness of genotype testing in 
patients with extensive antiretroviral exposure.
METHODS: We used an HIV simulation model to estimate the long-term effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of genotype testing. Clinical data incorporated into the 
model were from NARVAL, a randomized trial of resistance testing in patients 
with extensive antiretroviral exposure, and other randomized trials. Each 
simulated patient was eligible for up to three sequential regimens of 
antiretroviral therapy (i.e. two additional regimens beyond the trial-based 
regimen) using drugs not available at the time of the study, such as 
lopinavir/ritonavir, darunavir/ritonavir and enfuvirtide.
RESULTS: In the long term, projected undiscounted life expectancy increased from 
132.2 months with clinical judgement alone to 147.9 months with genotype 
testing. Median survival was estimated at 11.9 years in the resistance testing 
arm vs 10.4 years in the clinical judgement alone arm. Because of increased 
survival, the projected lifetime discounted cost of genotype testing was greater 
than for clinical judgement alone (euro313,900 vs euro263,100; US$399,000 vs 
US$334,400). Genotype testing cost euro69,600 (US$88,500) per quality-adjusted 
life year gained compared with clinical judgement alone.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with extensive prior antiretroviral exposure, genotype 
testing is likely to increase life expectancy in the long term as a result of 
the increased likelihood of receiving two active new drugs. Genotype testing is 
associated with cost-effectiveness comparable to that of strategies accepted in 
patients with advanced HIV disease, such as enfuvirtide use.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2007.00491.x
PMCID: PMC3073616
PMID: 17760736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2007 Jun;21(6):345-56. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892007000500002.

Cost-effectiveness of childhood hepatitis A vaccination in Argentina: a second 
dose is warranted.

Ellis A(1), Rüttimann RW, Jacobs RJ, Meyerhoff AS, Innis BL.

Author information:
(1)Secretariat of Health of the City of Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cost-effectiveness of childhood vaccination 
against hepatitis A in the five geographic regions of Argentina, and to 
determine whether adding a second dose to the current one-dose schedule would 
provide health gains justifying its added cost.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to consider four immunization options for the 
2005 birth cohort: (1) no vaccination; (2) vaccination at 12 months of age, (3) 
vaccinations at 12 and 72 months of age; or (4) vaccinations at 12 and 18 months 
of age. Hepatitis A costs and consequences were predicted over 50 years. The 
cost-effectiveness of first and second vaccine doses was assessed through a 
range of vaccine prices and assumptions regarding the duration of vaccine 
protection. Costs and health gains (measured in quality-adjusted life years) 
were adjusted to present values using a 3% annual discount rate.
RESULTS: The one-dose vaccination policy is predicted to reduce each birth 
cohort member's 50-year probability of overt hepatitis A from 7.2% to 4.1%. A 
second dose would reduce the probability to between 2.0% and 2.2%. Vaccination 
at 12 months of age, at 12 and 72 months, or at 12 and 18 months would reduce 
cases among personal contacts by 82%, 87%, and 92%, respectively. The first 
vaccine dose would meet accepted standards of cost-effectiveness in each region, 
and reduce costs in the Northeast, Central, and South regions. Adding a second 
dose at age 18 months would be cost-effective in each region, and further reduce 
costs in the Cuyo region. If the duration of protection with one dose is less 
than anticipated, the second dose would be more cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Greater health gains are derived from the first than second 
hepatitis A vaccine dose. However, this analysis supports the cost-effectiveness 
of providing both first and second doses to Argentina's children.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892007000500002
PMID: 17761046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Child Neurol. 2007 Aug;22(8):946-51. doi: 10.1177/0883073807305673.

Spinal muscular atrophy: clinical classification and disease heterogeneity.

Russman BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health and Science University, Shriners 
Hospital for Children-Portland, Portland, Oregon, USA. russmanb@ohsu.edu

The clinical classification of spinal muscular atrophy, caused by deletion of 
the survival motor neuron 1 gene (SMN1), is based on age at onset and maximum 
function achieved. Evidence suggests that maximum function achieved is more 
closely related to life expectancy than age at onset. Therefore, it is important 
to wait for a period before assigning a patient to 1 of 5 classes of the 
disorder. Several diseases result from degeneration of the anterior horn cell 
but are not caused by SMN1. The classification for these conditions is evolving. 
This article offers an attempt at organizing one's thinking about this disease 
group.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073807305673
PMID: 17761648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Med Ethics. 2007 Sep;33(9):534-7. doi: 10.1136/jme.2006.018341.

Autonomy or protection from harm? Judgements of German courts on care for the 
elderly in nursing homes.

Sammet K(1).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Centre Hamburg-Eppendorf, Department of History and Ethics 
of Medicine, Martinistr. 52, D-20246 Hamburg, Germany. sammet@uke.uni-hamburg.de

The increase in life expectancy in developed countries has lead to an increase 
in the number of elderly people cared for in nursing homes. Given the physical 
frailty and deterioration of mental capacities in many of these residents, 
questions arise as to their autonomy and to their protection from harm. In 2005, 
one of the highest German courts, the Bundesgerichtshof (BGH) issued a seminal 
judgement that dealt with the obligations of nursing homes and with the 
preserving of autonomy and privacy in nursing home residents. An elderly woman 
had sustained a fracture of the neck of the femur during a fall. The health 
insurance company held that the nursing home had breached its obligations to 
protect her from falling and sued the home for the hospital costs of her 
treatment. However, the BGH maintained that the case of the health insurance was 
not justified. It held that obligations of nursing homes have to be limited to 
normal arrangements within reasonable financial and personal effort, and that 
the autonomy of residents had to be protected from unnecessary interference. 
Permanent control or even restraining measures to reduce each risk would deprive 
the patient fully of her autonomy, and must therefore be hindered. Other 
judgments of other courts have emphasised the "protectionist" approach. The 
article deals with these different approaches and comments on both rationales. 
It will be shown that both approaches must be differentiated to establish fully 
autonomy and protection for nursing home residents.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2006.018341
PMCID: PMC2598198
PMID: 17761823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2007 Nov;27(11):2284-91. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.107.148221. Epub 2007 Aug 30.

Links between adipose tissue and thrombosis in the mouse.

Bodary PF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Science, College of Liberal Arts and 
Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, Mich, USA. pfbodary@wayne.edu

Obesity has become a global epidemic and carries a considerable negative impact 
in regard to quality of life and life expectancy. A primary problem is that 
obese individuals are at increased risk of suffering from cardiovascular disease 
complications such as myocardial infarction and stroke. Because fat accumulation 
is a consistent aspect of obesity, mechanisms that may link adipose tissue to 
cardiovascular disease complications should be considered. Proteins expressed 
from adipose tissue, known as adipokines, are hypothesized to have important 
effects on the progression and incidence of cardiovascular disease 
complications. This review examines the evidence that adipokines play a direct 
role in vascular thrombosis, an important event in cardiovascular disease 
complications.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.107.148221
PMID: 17761944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Neurosurgery. 2007 Aug;61(2):361-8; discussion 368-9. doi: 
10.1227/01.NEU.0000255522.42579.EA.

Spinal cord stimulation versus reoperation for failed back surgery syndrome: a 
cost effectiveness and cost utility analysis based on a randomized, controlled 
trial.

North RB(1), Kidd D, Shipley J, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 
21287, USA. RNorth@jhmi.edu

Erratum in
    Neurosurgery. 2009 Apr;64(4):601.

Comment in
    Neurosurgery. 2008 Aug;63(2):E376; author reply E376.

OBJECTIVE: We analyzed the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of treating 
failed back-surgery syndrome using spinal cord stimulation (SCS) versus 
reoperation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A disinterested third party collected charge data for the 
first 42 patients in a randomized controlled crossover trial. We computed the 
difference in cost with regard to success (cost-effectiveness) and mean 
quality-adjusted life years (cost-utility). We analyzed the patient-charge data 
with respect to intention to treat (costs and outcomes as a randomized group), 
treated as intended (costs as randomized; crossover failure assigned to a 
randomized group), and final treatment costs and outcomes.
RESULTS: By mean 3.1-year follow-up, 13 of 21 patients (62%) crossed from 
reoperation versus 5 of 19 patients (26%) who crossed from SCS (P < 0.025) 
[corrected]. The mean cost per success was US $117,901 for crossovers to SCS. No 
crossovers to reoperation achieved success despite a mean per-patient 
expenditure of US $260,584. The mean per-patient costs were US $31,530 for SCS 
versus US $38,160 for reoperation (intention to treat), US $48,357 for SCS 
versus US $105,928 for reoperation (treated as intended), and US $34,371 for SCS 
versus US $36,341 for reoperation (final treatment). SCS was dominant (more 
effective and less expensive) in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and 
incremental cost-utility ratios. A bootstrapped simulation for incremental costs 
and quality-adjusted life years confirmed SCS's dominance, with approximately 
72% of the cost results occurring below US policymakers' "maximum willingness to 
pay" threshold.
CONCLUSION: SCS was less expensive and more effective than reoperation in 
selected failed back-surgery syndrome patients, and should be the initial 
therapy of choice. SCS is most cost-effective when patients forego repeat 
operation. Should SCS fail, reoperation is unlikely to succeed.

DOI: 10.1227/01.NEU.0000255522.42579.EA
PMID: 17762749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Ren Fail. 2007;29(6):653-9. doi: 10.1080/08860220701459634.

Factors affecting survival in advanced chronic kidney disease patients who 
choose not to receive dialysis.

Wong CF(1), McCarthy M, Howse ML, Williams PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Aintree University Hospital Foundation Trust, 
Liverpool, UK. chriswong@doctors.org.uk

Erratum in
    Ren Fail. 2008;30(3):343.

INTRODUCTION: Non-dialytic treatment (NDT) has become a recognized and important 
modality of treatment in end stage renal disease (ESRD) in certain groups of 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients. However, little is known about the 
prognosis of these NDT patients in terms of hospitalization rates and survival. 
We analyzed our experience in managing these NDT with a multidisciplinary team 
(MDT) approach over a three-year period.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The Renal Unit at the Royal Liverpool University Hospital 
set up a dedicated MDT clinic to manage NDT patients in January 2003. Patients 
approaching end stage chronic kidney disease who chose not to dialyse were 
recruited from other nephrologists. The study group was classified according to 
age band (<70 years, 71-80 years, and >80 years), estimated glomerular 
filtration rate (eGFR) (<10 ml/min, 11-20 ml/min, and >20 ml/min) according to 
the Modified Diet In Renal Disease formula and Stoke comorbidity grade (SCG). 
The SCG is a validated scoring system for the survival of patients on renal 
replacement therapy. We also used the ERA-EDTA primary renal diagnosis codes. As 
there are no existing standards for NDT patients, we used the U.K. national set 
for haemodialysis patients as a reference and target for our NDT patients. Data 
was collected prospectively.
RESULTS: The median age was 79 years and the male: female ratio was 
approximately 1. The most common primary cause of kidney disease in the NDT 
study population was chronic renal failure of unknown cause n = 22 (31%), but 
the most common identifiable cause was diabetic nephropathy, n = 20 (28%). The 
most common comorbidity was ischaemic heart disease n = 25 (34%). Those 
achieving the standards for anaemia were 78% at referral. Only 30% of the NDT 
patients achieved the standard for blood pressure (<130/80 mmHg) at referral. 
Forty-three patients (60%) had no admissions at all. There were a total of 30 
patients admitted on 58 occasions. Thirty-one (53%) of these were due to a 
non-renal cause. The median length of stay for the other NDT patients was 10 
days. The median overall survival (life expectancy) was 1.95 years. The one-year 
overall survival was 65%. SCG was an independent prognostic factor in predicting 
survival in NDT patients studied (p = 0.005), the hazard ratio being 2.53, for 
each incremental increase in the SCG. At one year, the survival for comorbidity 
grade 0, 1 and 2 were 83%, 70% and 56% respectively. Of the 28 patients who 
died, 20 did so at home (71%).
DISCUSSION: The NDT of ESRD has become an important alternative modality in 
renal replacement therapy. With the emergence of epidemic proportions of CKD, 
more elderly patients with progressive renal disease will need to make informed 
decisions regarding renal replacement therapy. There is likely to be increasing 
number of elderly patients that will tolerate dialysis badly and who will be 
very dependent on others. We believe that there should be a multidisciplinary 
approach to assist the ESRD patients in choosing their modality of renal 
replacement therapy, and with an agreed care plan to support these patients in 
managing their chosen modality to achieve the best possible quality of life. 
There should be integrated services with primary care, community nurses, and 
palliative care teams to enable the majority of the patient's treatment to be 
carried out at home and to allow a dignified death. However. there was a 
statistically significant trend for shorter survival among those with greater 
comorbidities, as determined by the SCG. This is the first report of the 
potential importance of SCG as an independent prognostic factor in NDT patients. 
This will help us to counsel our patients in the future about their prognosis if 
they choose NDT as their modality of renal replacement therapy.
CONCLUSION: Our prospective study is the first and currently the largest 
observational study of a multidisciplinary approach in the management of NDT 
patients. SCG was an independent prognostic factor in predicting survival. In 
those patients who chose not to dialyse, SCG provides a potentially useful 
indication of expected prognosis.

DOI: 10.1080/08860220701459634
PMID: 17763158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Liver Transpl. 2007 Sep;13(9):1330-8. doi: 10.1002/lt.21247.

Employment and quality of life in liver transplant recipients.

Saab S(1), Wiese C, Ibrahim AB, Peralta L, Durazo F, Han S, Yersiz H, Farmer DG, 
Ghobrial RM, Goldstein LI, Tong MJ, Busuttil RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA. SSaab@mednet.ucla.edu

The purposes of liver transplantation (LT) include the extension of survival, 
improvement in quality of life, and the return of the recipient as a 
contributing member of society. Employment is one measure of the ability to 
return to society. The aim of this study is to determine the factors affecting 
employment/subemployment after LT. A total of 308 adult liver transplant 
recipients who were seen at the University of California, Los Angeles were 
administered the Medical Outcomes Short Form 36 (SF-36) and a questionnaire 
regarding work history and insurance coverage. Multivariate analysis were used 
to identify independent variables associated with posttransplantation 
employment. Interaction terms were used to examine effect modification. Of 308 
transplant recipients, 218 (70.8%) worked prior to transplantation, and 78 (27%) 
worked posttransplantation. Pretransplant variables that were independently 
associated with posttransplantation employment included the following: lack of 
disability income (odds ratio [OR] = 1.86; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
1.32-7.18; P = 0.36); health maintenance organization (HMO)/preferred provider 
organization (PPO) insurance (OR = 3.08; 95% CI, 1.32-7.18; P < 0.01); the 
number of hours worked (OR = 1.17; 95% CI, 1.08-1.28; P < 0.01); and the lack of 
diabetes mellitus (OR = 0.23; 95% CI, 0.70-0.73; P < 0.01). An interaction term 
between disability income and hours worked prior to transplantation (OR = 0.16; 
95 % CI, 0.03-0.83; P = 0.03) was independently associated with 
posttransplantation employment. In a separate regression model of SF-36 
responses, posttransplantation physical functioning (OR = 1.17; 95% CI, 
1.10-1.26; P < 0.01) and role-physical (OR = 1.1; 95% CI, 1.02-1.16; P < 0.01) 
were independently associated with employment after transplantation. In 
conclusion, HMO or PPO insurance, lack of disability income coverage prior to 
transplant, the absence of diabetes mellitus, the number of hours worked prior 
to transplantation, and high physical functioning were associated with 
posttransplantation employment.

Copyright 2007 AASLD.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.21247
PMID: 17763388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Sep;55 Suppl 2:S147-67. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-965414.

Alternatives to heart transplantation. Symposium of the "Treatment of End-stage 
Heart and Lung Failure" working group on October 22, 2005 in Munich.

Strüber M(1), Lange R, Gummert JF, Beyersdorf F, Jurmann M, Schmid C, El 
Banayosy A, Hoppe UC, Steinbeck G, Reichenspurner H, Liebold A, Franz WM, 
Ruhparwar A, Schmoeckel M; Working Group for Therapies of End Stage Cardiac and 
Pulmonary Disease; German Soeciety for Thoracic and Cardiocascular Surgery.

Author information:
(1)Herz-, Thorax-, Transplantantions- u. Gefässchirurgie, Medizinische 
Hochschule Hannover, Germany. strueber.martin@mh-hannover.de

Heart transplantation is currently the treatment of first choice in patients 
with end-stage refractory heart failure. But already the demand for donor organs 
cannot be met, and patients face long waiting times for transplantation. In the 
future waiting times will become even longer as life expectancy increases and 
the number of heart-failure patients requiring transplantation grows. 
Consequently, in view of the poor prognosis of the disease in its advanced 
stages, alternatives to heart transplantation are increasingly gaining 
importance. In recent years new innovative treatment methods and techniques have 
been developed which have already proved clinically successful in patients with 
end-stage heart failure, especially as bridging measures. Some of these 
techniques appear suitable for long-term use and could therefore serve as an 
alternative to heart transplantation in some patients. Interesting new avenues 
of research may even lead to cardiac cell replacement therapies in the future. 
These approaches are currently undergoing initial clinical trials. This report 
presents surgical and cardiologic treatments for end-stage heart failure that 
have already been clinically investigated as well as techniques that are still 
in the preclinical stage and discusses their potential as alternatives to heart 
transplantation.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-965414
PMID: 17764064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Ann Emerg Med. 2008 May;51(5):561-70, 570.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.annemergmed.2007.05.016. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Do emergency department patients with possible acute coronary syndrome have 
better outcomes when admitted to cardiology versus other services?

Katz DA(1), Aufderheide TP, Bogner M, Rahko PS, Hillis SL, Selker HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa 
City, IA, USA. david-katz@uiowa.edu

STUDY OBJECTIVE: Emergency physicians need to consider potential differences in 
quality of care across admitting services in their triage decisions. For 
emergency department (ED) patients with possible acute coronary syndrome who 
require hospitalization, there are relatively few data to guide emergency 
physicians in deciding whether admission to a cardiology service bed yields 
better outcomes than admission to a noncardiology service.
METHODS: We enrolled 544 ED patients who were admitted for symptoms of possible 
acute coronary syndrome after a nondiagnostic initial evaluation during a 
quality improvement trial at 2 university hospitals. Adverse events, inhospital 
treatment, and follow-up care were assessed by 30-day telephone interview and 
medical record review. We used a modified version of the Medical Outcomes Study 
Short Form 20 and the Duke Activity Status Index to assess functional status. To 
account for selection bias, we analyzed process and outcome variables after 
adjustment for the estimated propensity of being admitted to cardiology and 
predicted probability of acute cardiac ischemia.
RESULTS: Overall, 34% of admitted patients had confirmed acute coronary 
syndrome. Patients admitted to a cardiology service were significantly more 
