for the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis. Management decisions should be 
conditional on the prior probability.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2442060713
PMID: 17581886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 Jul;18(7):2125-34. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2006091048. Epub
2007  Jun 20.

Effect of age, gender, and diabetes on excess death in end-stage renal failure.

Villar E(1), Remontet L, Labeeuw M, Ecochard R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation, Lyon Sud Hospital, 
Pierre-Bénite, Lyon, France. emmanuel.villar@chu-lyon.fr

Life expectancy is short in elderly individuals with end-stage renal failure 
(ESRF). This study aimed to compare mortality in patients with ESRF versus the 
general population (GP) to assess the evolution of excess mortality by age, 
gender, nephropathy, and dialysis modality after first dialysis. All incident 
adult dialysis patients from January 1,1999, to December 31, 2003, who lived in 
Rhône-Alpes Region (France) were included and followed up to death or December 
31, 2005. Standardized mortality ratios (SMR) in comparison with GP were 
computed in the first to the fifth years after first dialysis. In the whole 
cohort (3025 incident patients), SMR decreased during these 5 yr from 7.4 to 5.2 
(P = 0.002). In the 18- to 44-, 45- to 64-, 65- to 74-, 75- to 84-, and > or 
=85-yr-old groups, SMR decreased from 26.7 to 6.2 (P = 0.01), from 12.8 to 8.1 
(P = 0.03), from 8.6 to 5.6 (P = 0.051), from 7.1 to 4.5 (P = 0.02), and from 
3.5 to 1.2 (P = 0.14), respectively. Among age categories, differences were 
significant in the first 3 yr (P < 0.05). SMR were higher 1.5-fold in women than 
in men in the first 4 yr (P < 0.05). In patients with diabetic nephropathy (DN), 
SMR increased during the first 3 yr (P = 0.045) and were higher than in patients 
without DN in the second, third, and fourth years (P < 0.05). SMR were higher in 
the peritoneal dialysis than in the hemodialysis group in the fourth year (P < 
0.01). Patients with ESRF have a high excess mortality compared with the GP. 
Older patients with ESRF experienced less excess mortality. ESRF cancels out 
women's survival advantage noted in the GP. SMR evolution in patients with DN 
was different from that in patients without DN.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2006091048
PMID: 17582163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Comput Biol Med. 2007 Dec;37(12):1741-9. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiomed.2007.04.010.  Epub 2007 Jun 19.

Making relative survival analysis relatively easy.

Pohar M(1), Stare J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics, University of Ljubljana, Vrazov trg 2, 
SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia. maja.pohar@mf.uni-lj.si

In survival analysis we are interested in time from the beginning of an 
observation until certain event (death, relapse, etc.). We assume that the final 
event is well defined, so that we are never in doubt whether the final event has 
occurred or not. In practice this is not always true. If we are interested in 
cause-specific deaths, then it may sometimes be difficult or even impossible to 
establish the cause of death, or there may be different causes of death, making 
it impossible to assign death to just one cause. Suicides of terminal cancer 
patients are a typical example. In such cases, standard survival techniques 
cannot be used for estimation of mortality due to a certain cause. The cure to 
the problem are relative survival techniques which compare the survival 
experience in a study cohort to the one expected should they follow the 
background population mortality rates. This enables the estimation of the 
proportion of deaths due to a certain cause. In this paper, we briefly review 
some of the techniques to model relative survival, and outline a new fitting 
method for the additive model, which solves the problem of dependency of the 
parameter estimation on the assumption about the baseline excess hazard. We then 
direct the reader's attention to our R package relsurv that provides functions 
for easy and flexible fitting of all the commonly used relative survival 
regression models. The basic features of the package have been described in 
detail elsewhere, but here we additionally explain the usage of the new fitting 
method and the interface for using population mortality data freely available on 
the Internet. The combination of the package and the data sets provides a 
powerful informational tool in the hands of a skilled 
statistician/informatician.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2007.04.010
PMID: 17582396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Sep;8 Suppl 1:S5-31. doi: 10.1007/s10198-007-0063-4.

Methods for determining cost-benefit ratios for pharmaceuticals in Germany.

von der Schulenburg J(1), Vauth C, Mittendorf T, Greiner W.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Management, Centre for Health Economics and Health 
System Research, Leibniz University Hanover, Hannover, Germany.

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Sep;8 Suppl 1:S3.

The aim of this methodological paper is to summarize evidence on how to 
implement cost-benefit assessment according to the new German legislative 
framework (Competition Enhancement Act). Given the complexity of existing health 
policy frameworks within industrialised countries in adapting health economics 
in their respective regulatory scheme, no clear international scientific 
consensus on which health economic methods should be chosen for assessment can 
be determined. Nevertheless, a broad consensus on the internal properties of 
methods itself can be found. Based on these common international standards in 
methodology, this work provides a minimum catalogue of methods and criteria that 
meet legal and local German requirements with regard to specific factors of its 
health care system. Aside from categorising clearly defined standards (e.g., 
study forms, cost and benefit categories) the suggested catalogue specifies some 
intensively debated areas in Germany (e.g., the QALY, modelling, the perspective 
used in the assessment). After the proposition of certain methods the paper 
leads to a first recommendation of a detailed assessment-process itself specific 
for the German way in implementing cost-benefit ratios within regulatory 
decision making in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0063-4
PMID: 17582539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jan 6;151(1):89-92.

[Doctors should not rest in an uneven world].

[Article in Dutch]

Mackenbach J.

PMID: 17583050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Jan 6;151(1):93.

[Physicians burn up faster].

[Article in Dutch]

van Putten BM.

PMID: 17583051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2007;3(1):11-22.

A review of pulmonary arterial hypertension: role of ambrisentan.

Barst RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)New York Presbyterian Pulmonary Hypertension Center, Columbia University 
College of Physicians & Surgeons, 3959 Broadway, BHN 2-255, NewYork, NY 10032, 
USA. rjb3@columbia.edu

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare fatal disease. Current 
disease-specific therapeutic interventions in PAH target 1 of 3 established 
pathways in disease pathobiology: prostacyclin, nitric oxide, and endothelin-1. 
Endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) act on the endothelin pathway by blocking 
binding of endothelin-1 to its receptors (endothelin type-A [ET(A)] and/or 
type-B [ET(B)]) on the surface of endothelial and smooth muscle cells. 
Ambrisentan is an oral, once-daily, ET(A)-selective ERA in development for the 
treatment of PAH. In Phase 3 clinical trials in patients with PAH, ambrisentan 
(2.5-10 mg orally once-daily) improved exercise capacity, Borg dyspnea index, 
time to clinical worsening, WHO functional class, and quality of life compared 
with placebo. Ambrisentan provided durable (at least 2 years) improvement in 
exercise capacity in a Phase 2 long-term extension study. Ambrisentan was well 
tolerated with a lower incidence and severity of liver function test 
abnormalities compared with the ET(A)/ET(B) ERA, bosentan, and the 
ET(A)-selective ERA, sitaxsentan. Ambrisentan does not induce or inhibit P450 
enzymes; therefore, ambrisentan is unlikely to affect the pharmacokinetics of 
P450-metabolized drugs. The demonstration of clinical efficacy, low incidence of 
acute hepatic toxicity, and low risk of drug-drug interactions support the role 
of ambrisentan for the treatment of PAH.

PMCID: PMC1994051
PMID: 17583171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Reprod Med. 2007 May;52(5):422-4.

Leiomyomatosis peritonealis disseminata presenting with intravascular extension 
and coexisting with endometriosis: a case report.

Haberal A(1), Kayikcioglu F, Caglar GS, Cavusoglu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, SSK Ankara Maternity and Women's 
Health Teaching Hospital, Ankara, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Leiomyomatosis peritonealis disseminata is a benign disease of women 
of reproductive age. Female gonadal steroids play the major role in 
pathogenesis, but reported cases in postmenopausal women suggests other factors. 
A few cases in the literature with coexisting endometriosis confirm the 
hypothesis that both originate in submesothelial multipotential mesenchymal 
cells. The clinical behavior can be life threatening due to extension through 
the pelvic veins.
CASE: A 46-year-old woman with endometriosis diagnosed at laparotomy 3 years 
earlier presented with a huge pelvic mass. Postoperative histologic examination 
of the peritoneal nodules confirmed the diagnosis. Magnetic resonance 
angiography performed postoperatively revealed intravenous leiomyomatosis. 
Surgical castration was satisfactory after 2 years of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Although malignant transformation of the disease is known, 
intravascular extension of the tumor increases the risk of mortality. Close 
follow-up by clinical examination and radiologic evaluations is required.

PMID: 17583244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Environ Health. 2007 Jun;69(10):86, 85.

Rethinking retirement--and a footnote on diversity.

Fabian N.

PMID: 17583301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Rev Neurol. 2007 Jun 16-30;44(12):733-8.

[Mild cognitive impairment: a prevalence and sociodemographic factors study in 
the city of Córdoba, Argentina].

[Article in Spanish]

Mías CD(1), Sassi M, Masih ME, Querejeta A, Krawchik R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neuropsicología, Facultad de Psicología, Universidad Nacional de 
Córdoba, Córdoba, Argentina. cdmias@psyche.nc.edu.ar

INTRODUCTION: The increase in life expectancy and the significant growth in the 
population of the elderly have generated an interest in secondary prevention of 
different diseases, especially from the age of 50. In Argentina, those over 65 
represent 10% of the total population, what makes important to research into 
their mental health. A trans-sectional descriptive study has been carried out in 
four neuropsychology services in the city of Cordoba, within the framework of a 
campaign assessing memory for people over 50.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: In three months, 418 volunteers took part, with an average 
age of 64.24 years and 12.76 years of instruction, mostly belonging to a urban 
environment (80%). They were administered Folstein's Minimental State, 
neuropsychological tests and behavioral measures in two work sessions.
RESULTS: The majority was found to have normal performances (75.6%, n = 316) at 
both behavioral and neuropsychological levels. A lower percentage was found at 
the borders of normality (8.6%, n = 36). 9.1% (n = 38) of those studied were 
found to have an amnesiac type of mild cognitive impairment, and 4.5% (n = 19) a 
multidomain type of deterioration. In sum, about 13.6% of people have a greater 
chance of developing dementia in coming years.
CONCLUSION: The socio-demographic variables that most influence cognitive state 
appear to be the female gender, age higher than 65 years, lower levels of 
instruction, fewer children and fewer siblings.

PMID: 17583866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Curr Med Chem. 2007;14(13):1399-407. doi: 10.2174/092986707780831195.

Pharmacologic therapy in growth hormone disorders and the heart.

Climent V(1), Marín F, Picó A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, General Hospital of Alicante, Spain.

Growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) axis is not only 
involved in the regulation of somatic growth but also has important 
physiological functions in adults. Several studies have shown that GH deficiency 
in adults is associated with abnormalities in body composition, metabolic 
derangements, and suboptimal physical performance. Furthermore, GH/IGF-I axis 
plays an important role in the maintenance of heart structure and function. 
Until recently, GH therapy was only used to treat short stature children, with 
or without established GH deficiency, and it remains common practice to 
discontinue GH replacement therapy when final height is achieved. Acromegaly, 
entity characterized by GH hypersecretion, is associated with an increased risk 
of premature death. Cardiac complications are known to be major determinants of 
the shortened life expectancy. Treatment of acromegaly accounts for a 
substantial decrease in morbidity and mortality. Surgery, radiation therapy and 
bromocriptine have only been able to reduce GH levels to normal levels in 10-30% 
of patients. The synthesis of somatostatin analogs has provided a new approach 
to acromegaly treatment. These drugs reduce GH and IGF-I levels in 80% of cases 
and normalize them in 40-60% of cases. Finally, GH/IGF-I system improves left 
ventricular systolic function and has also indirect effects on the 
cardiovascular system, mainly as a consequence of the peripheral vasodilatation. 
These effects are important in the understanding of the potential role of GH on 
improving ventricular systolic dysfunction and point to the use of GH as a 
potential therapy for chronic heart failure. The aim of the present review is to 
provide an update overview describing the role of GH on acromegaly, adult GH 
deficiency and heart failure, as well as the influence of GH-based therapy on 
heart structure and function.

DOI: 10.2174/092986707780831195
PMID: 17584052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Br J Ophthalmol. 2007 Dec;91(12):1675-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2007.118687. Epub
2007  Jun 21.

Falls and health status in elderly women following first eye cataract surgery: 
an economic evaluation conducted alongside a randomised controlled trial.

Sach TH(1), Foss AJ, Gregson RM, Zaman A, Osborn F, Masud T, Harwood RH.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of East Anglia, Norwich 
NR4 7TJ, UK. T.Sach@uea.ac.uk

AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of first eye cataract surgery compared 
with no surgery from a health service and personal social services perspective.
METHODS: An economic evaluation undertaken alongside a randomised controlled 
trial of first eye cataract surgery in secondary care ophthalmology clinics. A 
sample of 306 women over 70 years old with bilateral cataracts was randomised to 
cataract surgery (expedited, approximately four weeks) or control (routine, 12 
months wait); 75% of participants had baseline acuity of 6/12 or better. 
Outcomes included falls and the EuroQol EQ-5D.
RESULTS: The operated group cost a mean pounds sterling 2004 (bootstrapped) more 
than the control group over one year (95% confidence interval (CI), pounds 
sterling 1363 to pounds sterling 2833) (p<0.001), but experienced on average 
0.456 fewer falls, an incremental cost per fall prevented of pounds sterling 
4390. The bootstrapped mean gain in quality adjusted life years (QALYs) per 
patient was 0.056 (95% CI, 0.006 to 0.108) (p<0.001). The incremental 
cost-utility ratio was pounds sterling 35 704, above the currently accepted UK 
threshold level of willingness to pay per QALY of pounds sterling 30 000. 
However, in an analysis modelling costs and benefits over patients' expected 
lifetime, the incremental cost per QALY was pounds sterling 13 172, under 
conservative assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: First eye cataract surgery, while cost-ineffective over the trial 
period, was probably cost-effective over the participants' remaining lifetime.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2007.118687
PMCID: PMC2095519
PMID: 17585002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


774. Med Decis Making. 2007 Jul-Aug;27(4):414-22. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07302128.
Epub  2007 Jun 21.

Abnormal outcomes following cervical cancer screening: event duration and health 
utility loss.

Insinga RP(1), Glass AG, Myers ER, Rush BB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economic Statistics, Merck Research Laboratories, North 
Wales, Pennsylvania, USA. Ralph_insinga@merck.com

BACKGROUND: For decision analytic models, little empirical data are available 
from which to model the amount of time women spend with various cervical 
cytologic and histologic diagnoses following an abnormal Pap smear or the 
associated loss in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
METHODS: The authors retrospectively examined administrative and cytopathology 
data for women with abnormal routine cervical smears within the Kaiser 
Permanente Northwest (Portland, OR) health plan during 1998. Data were examined 
through the conclusion of follow-up, with final outcomes categorized as cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grades 1 to 3 (n = 201) or a false-positive 
result (n = 722) if no CIN or cancer was detected on follow-up. CIN outcomes 
were assigned according to the initial grade of dysplasia observed during the 
care episode in the primary analysis. The number of months spent with various 
cytologic and histologic diagnoses during the course of follow-up was tabulated, 
and utility weights were assigned using data from a prior study reporting time 
tradeoff scores for cervical health states.
RESULTS: The average total duration of follow-up was between 18 and 22 months 
for women with CIN, compared with 10 months for a false-positive Pap smear. The 
number of months spent with either an abnormal cytologic or histologic diagnosis 
was greater (P = 0.01) for women with CIN 1 (12.6 months) than CIN 3 (9.2 
months), although this relationship was reversed for time spent receiving 
negative follow-up Pap smears and biopsies to rule out the presence of CIN and 
cancer. Total QALY losses per episode of care were estimated to be 0.11 for all 
3 grades of CIN and 0.04 for a false-positive Pap smear.
CONCLUSIONS: The health and psychosocial burdens associated with follow-up for 
abnormal Pap smears translate into tangible QALY losses in a decision analytic 
context, with women receiving many months of follow-up and a variety of 
cytologic and histologic diagnoses over the course of a care episode.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07302128
PMID: 17585005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Med Decis Making. 2007 Jul-Aug;27(4):406-13. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07302127.
Epub  2007 Jun 21.

Extrinsic goals and time tradeoff.

van der Pol M(1), Shiell A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Scotland. 
m.vanderpol@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The aim of this article is to investigate the extrinsic goals 
hypothesis in time tradeoff (TTO). The extrinsic goal of interest here is seeing 
children through to maturity. In TTO, the time it takes to attain this goal 
becomes a target life expectancy, with no trades happening below the critical 
value implied by the target, no matter how severe the health state.
METHODS: A combined quantitative and qualitative approach was used to elicit 
values for 4 EQ-5D states from 30 recent mothers. The qualitative analysis 
allowed the researchers to explore with participants whether a target life 
expectancy was being used.
RESULTS: The differences in the visual analogue scale and TTO scores of the 
mothers compared with the general population suggest that the mothers value 
life-years differently than the general population does. The finding was also 
consistent with the target life expectancy hypothesis. However, the interview 
data were not so strongly supportive of the target life expectancy hypothesis. 
Although some women suggested this had motivated their responses to the TTO, the 
interviews paint a more complicated and nuanced picture of what drives a 
person's responses to health valuation surveys.
CONCLUSIONS: A higher value was assigned to life-years relative to quality of 
life by recent parents, but there was no reduction in the willingness to trade 
per se. Parenthood affects how much one will trade for better health but not 
whether one will trade in the 1st place. This conclusion became apparent only 
when the qualitative and quantitative data were combined.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07302127
PMID: 17585007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Asian J Surg. 2002 Jan;25(1):13-7.

Necrotizing fasciitis of head & neck: the Pakistani experience.

Ikram M(1), Saeed O, Ali SS, Salahuddin I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, Aga Khan University 
Hospital, Stadium Road, Karachi, Pakistan. mubasher.ikram@aku.edu

Necrotizing fasciitis is a potentially life threatening, rapidly spreading 
polymicrobial infection rarely seen in the head and neck region. We present our 
experience of managing five patients with necrotizing fasciitis of head and neck 
at the Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan. One patient had 
necrotizing fasciitis of the facial region only; three had necrotizing fasciitis 
of the neck region; and one patient had necrotizing fasciitis of the neck with 
extension to the chest. None of these patients was immunocompromised. Dental 
foci of infection was the root cause in three of the patients. Imaging was not 
only diagnostic but also helped to identify the extent of the disease. All five 
patients had early extensive multiple debridments, and received multiple 
antibiotic therapy and intensive care support. Four patients survived. We 
conclude that necrotizing fasciitis is a very aggressive infection, which may be 
misdiagnosed unless imaging examination is performed early. Aggressive medical 
and surgical treatment results in good survival but extension of disease beyond 
the neck into the chest carries a poor prognosis.

PMID: 17585440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Surg Neurol. 2007 Jul;68(1):112-3. doi: 10.1016/j.surneu.2007.04.012.

What will you do with the rest of your life?

Ausman JI.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surneu.2007.04.012
PMID: 17586245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. RNA. 2007 Jul;13(7):1017-26. doi: 10.1261/rna.548807.

Selection of an improved RNA polymerase ribozyme with superior extension and 
fidelity.

Zaher HS(1), Unrau PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Simon Fraser University, 
BC, Canada.

Our current understanding of biology suggests that early life relied 
predominantly on RNA for catalysis and replication. Here, we report the 
isolation of an RNA polymerase ribozyme called B6.61 that exhibits superior 
extension and fidelity relative to its progenitor, the Round-18 polymerase. The 
B6.61 polymerase was selected from a mutagenized pool containing approximately 9 
x 10(14) sequence variants through the use of a novel large-scale in vitro 
compartmentalization system. B6.61 polymerized all tested primer-template (PT) 
complexes faster than the Round-18 variant. For one PT, B6.61 exhibited 
dramatically faster elongation past one full helical turn and incorporated at 
least 20 nucleotides of sequence, setting a new extension record for an RNA 
polymerase ribozyme. The increased efficiency of the B6.61 construct was related 
to improvements in fidelity, with the new variant incorporating less incorrect 
wobble base pairs than its parent. This new polymerase demonstrates the 
feasibility of evolving an artificial RNA replicase ribozyme in the foreseeable 
future.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.548807
PMCID: PMC1894930
PMID: 17586759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Lifetime Data Anal. 2007 Sep;13(3):381-97. doi: 10.1007/s10985-007-9040-6.
Epub  2007 Jun 21.

Distribution of the random future life expectancies in log-bilinear mortality 
projection models.

Denuit M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Statistique & Institut des Sciences Actuarielles, Université 
Catholique de Louvain, Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium. denuit@stat.ucl.ac.be

Projected life tables are obtained from forecasting methods and account for 
future improvements in longevity. Since the future path of mortality is unknown, 
working with projected life tables makes the survival probabilities stochastic. 
The resulting demographic indicators in turn become random variables. This paper 
aims to study the distribution of period and cohort life expectancies derived 
from projected life tables. To fix the ideas, we adopt here the standard 
Lee-Carter framework, where the future forces of mortality are decomposed in a 
log-bilinear way. Exact formulas are derived for period life expectancies, and 
approximations are proposed for cohort life expectancies. In the latter case, 
numerical illustrations based on Belgian population data show that the relative 
accuracy is remarkable.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-007-9040-6
PMID: 17587177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Aug;42(8):798-806. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.04.013. Epub
 2007 May 10.

Modifications of plasma proteome in long-lived rats fed on a coenzyme 
Q10-supplemented diet.

Santos-González M(1), Gómez Díaz C, Navas P, Villalba JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología Celular, Fisiología e Inmunología, Facultad de 
Ciencias, Campus Rabanales, Ed. Severo Ochoa, 3a planta, Universidad de Córdoba, 
E-14014 Córdoba, Spain.

Dietary coenzyme Q(10) prolongs life span of rats fed on a PUFAn-6-enriched 
diet. Our aim was to analyze changes in the levels of plasma proteins of rats 
fed on a PUFAn-6 plus coenzyme Q(10)-based diet. This approach could give novel 
insights into the mechanisms of life span extension by dietary coenzyme Q(10) in 
the rat. Serum albumin, which decreases with aging in the rat, was significantly 
increased by coenzyme Q(10) supplementation both at 6 and 24 months. After 
depletion of the most abundant proteins by affinity chromatography, levels of 
less abundant plasma proteins were also studied by using 2D-electrophoresis and 
MALDI-TOF mass fingerprinting analysis. Our results have shown that lifelong 
dietary supplementation with coenzyme Q(10) induced significant decreases of 
plasma hemopexin, apolipoprotein H and inter-alpha-inhibitor H4P heavy chain (at 
both 6 and 24 months), preprohaptoglobin, fibrinogen gamma-chain precursor, and 
fetuin-like protein (at 6 months), and alpha-1-antitrypsin precursor and type II 
peroxiredoxin (at 24 months). On the other hand, coenzyme Q(10) supplementation 
resulted in significant increases of serine protease inhibitor 3, vitamin 
D-binding protein (at 6 months), and Apo A-I (at 24 months). Our results support 
a beneficial role of dietary coenzyme Q(10) decreasing oxidative stress and 
cardiovascular risk, and modulating inflammation during aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.04.013
PMID: 17587521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Jul;43(11):1687-93. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.05.001. Epub
 2007 Jun 22.

An economic evaluation of oxaliplatin for the adjuvant treatment of colon cancer 
in the United Kingdom (UK).

Aballéa S(1), Boler A, Craig A, Wasan H.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, Middlesex, United Kingdom.

The MOSAIC study was the first trial to show a statistically significant 
disease-free survival benefit for a treatment regimen for stage III colon cancer 
in the adjuvant setting. At 4 years, there was a 25% reduction in the risk of 
disease recurrence in these patients for the combination of oxaliplatin/5-FU/FA 
compared with 5-FU/FA alone (p=0.002). This analysis evaluates the long-term 
cost effectiveness of oxaliplatin given in combination with 5-FU/FA from the 
perspective of the NHS in the United Kingdom (UK). The cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained over a lifetime was calculated using patient level data from 
the MOSAIC trial. Trial data were available for a median of 4 years of 
follow-up, these data were then extrapolated to a lifetime horizon. The 
estimated incremental lifetime cost per quality-adjusted life-year of 
oxaliplatin/5-FU/FA compared with 5-FU/FA alone in patients with stage III 
postoperative colon cancer is pound 4805. This compares favourably with other 
accepted interventions in oncology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.05.001
PMID: 17587564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Jul;23(7):1715-32. doi: 10.1185/030079907x210534.

Evidence-based guidelines for the management of lower urinary tract symptoms 
related to uncomplicated benign prostatic hyperplasia in Italy: updated summary.

Spatafora S(1), Conti G, Perachino M, Casarico A, Mazzi G, Pappagallo GL; 
AURO.it BPH Guidelines Committee.

Author information:
(1)Urology Complex Structure, Department of Surgery, Azienda Ospedaliera Santa 
Maria Nuova, Reggio Emilia, Italy. sebastiano.spatafora@auro.it

BACKGROUND AND SCOPE: Despite the high prevalence and huge socio-economic impact 
of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) in Italy, no national guidelines have been 
produced so far. This is a summary of the first Italian guidelines on the 
diagnosis and treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) related to 
uncomplicated BPH, prepared by a multidisciplinary panel under the auspices of 
the Italian Association of Urologists and introduced in Italy in 2003. An update 
compiled by the authors is also included.
METHODS: Relevant papers published from 1998 to 2003 (updated to 2006) were 
identified through a structured literature review and the quality of evidence 
presented therein was graded according to the Centre for the Evaluation of 
Effectiveness in Health Administration (CeVEAS) system. Recommendations were 
based on evidence from the literature, but also on feedback from practitioners 
and specialists. MAIN FINDINGS/RECOMMENDATIONS: Given the prevalence of BPH, all 
men aged > or = 50 years of age should be asked about LUTS and informed about 
disease characteristics and therapeutic options, while sexual function should 
always be assessed in patients with severe and long-standing LUTS. Initial 
assessment should include medical history (including drug and co-morbidity 
history), digital rectal examination, urinalysis, International Prostate Symptom 
Score-Quality of Life (IPSS-QoL) and a voiding diary, while prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) and measurement of prostate volume by suprapubic ultrasonography 
are indicated in fully informed patients with a life expectancy of > or = 10 
years in whom BPH progression could influence treatment choices. QoL 
considerations should dictate whether to start active treatment. When QoL is not 
affected by LUTS, watchful waiting is indicated if symptoms are mild, acceptable 
if they are moderate. When QoL is affected, medical therapy with alpha1-blockers 
or 5alpha-reductase inhibitors (the latter indicated in patients with increased 
prostate volume) is appropriate. Combined therapy with alpha1-blockers + 
5alpha-reductase inhibitors should only be considered in patients at high risk 
for progression (prostate volume > 40 mL or PSA > 4 ng/mL), since the 
incremental cost of combination therapy vs. monotherapy with alpha1-blockers or 
finasteride is prohibitive. Selection of the type of surgery should be based on 
the surgeon's experience, the presence of co-morbid conditions and the size of 
the prostate. Open prostatectomy and transurethral resection of the prostate 
(TURP) are recommended in patients with acute or chronic retention of urine, and 
acceptable in obstructed patients with moderate/severe symptoms and worsened 
QoL. Transurethral incision of the prostate (TUIP) is acceptable when prostate 
volume is < or = 30 mL. Holmium laser enucleation of the prostate (HoLEP) may be 
proposed to motivated patients where expert surgeons are available. 
Transurethral microwave thermotherapy (TUMT) or transurethral needle ablation 
(TUNA) may be proposed to motivated patients who prefer to avoid surgery and/or 
do not respond to medical treatment. The possible effects of medical or surgical 
treatments on sexual function should always be discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: These guidelines are intended to provide a framework for health 
professionals involved in BPH management in order to facilitate decision-making 
in all areas and at all levels of healthcare.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907x210534
PMID: 17588302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Jul;84(1):134-41. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.03.052.

Combined strategy using myoblasts and hepatocyte growth factor in dilated 
cardiomyopathic hamsters.

Kondoh H(1), Sawa Y, Fukushima N, Matsumiya G, Miyagawa S, Kitagawa-Sakakida S, 
Imanishi Y, Kawaguchi N, Matsuura N, Matsuda H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Osaka University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: There are few reports on treating dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) with 
myoblast transplantation, and these show limited efficacy. Hepatocyte growth 
factor has cardioprotective effects on failed myocardium. Here, we combined 
these two treatments and analyzed cardiac function in DCM hamsters.
METHODS: Twenty-seven-week-old BIO TO-2 hamsters, which show moderate cardiac 
remodeling, were divided into four treatment groups: myoblast transplantation (T 
group, n = 24), human hepatocyte growth factor gene transfection (H group, n = 
29), combined treatment (T+H group, n = 21), and medium alone (C group, n = 26).
RESULTS: Significantly better fractional shortening was observed in the T+H 
group compared with the others (14.9% +/- 1.0%, 11.7% +/- 1.5%, 11.3% +/- 1.3%, 
and 8.6% +/- 1.1 %, in the T+H, H, T, and C groups, respectively). 
Immunohistochemical analysis showed alpha- and beta-sarcoglycan expression in 
the hearts of the H and T+H groups but not in the other groups. There was less 
myocardial fibrosis in the H and T+H groups than in the other two, and 
neovascularization in the T+H group was significantly greater than in the other 
groups (266 +/- 24, 209 +/- 27, 199 +/- 36, and 96 +/- 17 vessels/mm2, in the 
T+H, H, T, and C groups, respectively). Survival was significantly prolonged in 
the H and T+H groups compared with the other groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Hepatocyte growth factor gene transfection and myoblast 
transplantation preserved the cardiac function of DCM hamsters, probably through 
different mechanisms, and the combined treatments preserved cardiac performance 
better than either treatment alone. The combined therapy is a promising strategy 
for treating DCM.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.03.052
PMID: 17588400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Artif Intell Med. 2007 Jul;40(3):171-86. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2007.04.004.
Epub  2007 Jun 27.

Selecting treatment strategies with dynamic limited-memory influence diagrams.

van Gerven MA(1), Díez FJ, Taal BG, Lucas PJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Computing and Information Sciences, Radboud University 
Nijmegen, Toernooiveld 1, 6525 ED Nijmegen, The Netherlands. marcelge@cs.ru.nl

OBJECTIVE: The development of dynamic limited-memory influence diagrams as a 
framework for representing factorized infinite-horizon partially observable 
Markov decision processes (POMDPs), the introduction of algorithms for their 
(approximate) solution, and the application to a dynamic decision problem in 
clinical oncology.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A dynamic limited-memory influence diagram for high-grade 
carcinoid tumor pathophysiology was developed in collaboration with an expert 
physician. Three algorithms, known as single policy updating, single rule 
updating, and simulated annealing have been examined for approximating the 
optimal treatment strategy from a space of 10(19) possible strategies.
RESULTS: Single policy updating proved intractable for finding a treatment 
strategy for carcinoid tumors. Single rule updating and simulated annealing both 
found the treatment strategy that is applied by physicians in practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Dynamic limited-memory influence diagrams are a suitable framework 
for the representation of factorized infinite-horizon POMDPs, and the developed 
algorithms find acceptable solutions under the assumption of limited memory 
about past observations. The framework allows for finding reasonable treatment 
strategies for complex dynamic decision problems in medicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2007.04.004
PMID: 17588729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2007 Jul-Aug;22(4):279-85; quiz 286-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.JCN.0000278958.98124.6e.

Women's prehospital delay associated with myocardial infarction: does race 
really matter?

McSweeney JC(1), Lefler LL, Fischer EP, Naylor AJ Jr, Evans LK.

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, 
AR 72205, USA. jcmcsweeney@uams.edu

BACKGROUND/RESEARCH OBJECTIVE: Well-documented disparities in cardiovascular 
health account for approximately one third of the difference in life expectancy 
between blacks and whites. Mortality from cardiovascular disease is greater 
among black women than among white women, and black women report longer delays 
in treatment seeking following onset of symptoms of acute myocardial infarction 
(AMI). Despite this disparate burden, there is little race-specific data on 
correlates of delay for black or white women. This secondary data analysis 
compares duration and correlates of delay in treatment seeking by race following 
onset of AMI symptoms.
SUBJECTS/METHODS: We analyzed self-report data from 509 black and 500 white 
women, interviewed 4 to 6 months after AMI, using multivariable logistic and 
linear regression.
RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Median delay time was nonsignificantly shorter for black 
than for white women (1.0 vs 1.5 hours). Equal proportions of black and white 
women (57% vs 54%) sought treatment within 2 hours of symptom onset. In 
multivariable analyses, correct attribution of symptoms to AMI was a significant 
predictor of treatment seeking within 2 hours of symptom onset for black and 
white women (odds ratios = 2.79 and 3.86, respectively); eligibility for public 
insurance was a significant predictor for black women only (odds ratio = 2.3). 
Common comorbidities, AMI risk factors, and other demographics were not 
significantly associated with delay time. Insurance coverage and the correct 
attribution of symptoms to cardiac causes are substantial and modifiable 
predictors of delay in seeking treatment of AMI.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JCN.0000278958.98124.6e
PMID: 17589279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Rural Remote Health. 2007 Apr-Jun;7(2):738. Epub 2007 Jun 22.

Improving access to medicines in urban, regional and rural Aboriginal 
communities--is expansion of Section 100 the answer?

Stoneman J(1), Taylor SJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, The University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
jsto8579@mail.usyd.edu.au

The poor health of Indigenous Australians is highlighted by the fact that their 
life expectancy is 17 years less than that of non-Indigenous Australians. The 
cause of this health disparity is multifactorial, and includes the under use of 
health services and medications. Distance, cost, and embarrassment, or fear of 
seeking help from culturally inappropriate services have all contributed to the 
reduced health status of Indigenous Australians. The introduction of Aboriginal 
medical services (AMS), Aboriginal health workers, and Section 100 (S100) of the 
Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS) have been important steps 
towards improving Aboriginal access to health services and medications. Despite 
this, spending on pharmaceuticals under the PBS per capita among the Indigenous 
population remains significantly lower than that of the non-Indigenous 
population. Because Aboriginal people from all areas experience similar barriers 
in their access to medicines, it has been suggested that the S100 scheme be made 
available to all AMS. Ensuring quality use of medicines needs to be addressed 
because patient counselling is carried out by the clinic staff, rather than the 
pharmacist and, therefore, in this case the pharmacist's role converts to one of 
training and providing information to the AMS. This expansion of S100 services 
may lead Indigenous health down a path of separation from mainstream services, 
which in turn would require nearly no adjustment by pharmacies and pharmacists 
to meet the needs of Indigenous people. Unfortunately, for no known reasons, 
previous suggestions to improve Aboriginal people's utilisation of mainstream 
health services and pharmacies have not been actioned.

PMID: 17590140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Soc Secur Bull. 2005-2006;66(4):37-45.

Coping with the demographic challenge: fewer children and living longer.

Reznik GL(1), Shoffner D, Weaver DA.

Author information:
(1)Office of Retirement Policy, Office of Policy, Social Security 
Administration, USA.

Due to demographic changes, the U.S. Social Security system will face financial 
challenges in the near future. Declining fertility rates and increasing life 
expectancies are causing the U.S. population to age. Today 12 percent of the 
total population is aged 65 or older, but by 2080, it will be 23 percent. At the 
same time, the working-age population is shrinking from 60 percent today to a 
projected 54 percent in 2080. Consequently, the Social Security system is 
experiencing a declining worker-to-beneficiary ratio, which will fall from 3.3 
in 2005 to 2.1 in 2040 (the year in which the Social Security trust fund is 
projected to be exhausted). This presents a significant challenge to 
policymakers. One policy option that could help keep the Social Security system 
solvent is to reduce retirement benefits, either by raising the normal 
retirement age or through life expectancy indexing, to reflect the fact that 
people are living longer. However, these reductions in benefits have the 
potential to harm economically vulnerable retirees. Other options, such as 
progressive price indexing proposals, explicitly protect the retirement benefits 
of low lifetime earners. Still other options would seek to raise additional 
revenue for the system. Since individuals will be living longer in retirement, 
many policymakers believe it is important to encourage older workers to delay 
retirement so that they can maintain a quality standard of living throughout 
their retirement. One proposal to encourage continued work would be to increase 
the early eligibility age for Social Security benefits from age 62 to age 65. 
This could possibly hurt individuals who need to retire from physically 
demanding jobs but would ensure that people receive higher benefit amounts once 
they were able to fully retire. Other proposals that could promote more work at 
older ages include expanding phased retirement options and reforming pension and 
defined contribution systems to create incentives to work and save.

PMID: 17590983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Minerva Med. 2007 Jun;98(3):191-201.

Menopause and related problems.

Gambacciani M(1), Pepe A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pisa University Hospital, Pisa, 
Italy. margamba@tin.it

Due to the increase in life expectancy and the constant age at menopause, women 
at the West, can now expect to spend more than 1/3 of their lifetime after 
menopause. This leads to increased concern regarding not only short-term 
symptoms, but also long-term consequences of estrogens deficiency. Understanding 
the natural history of menopausal symptoms and long-term consequences of 
estrogen deficiency requires long-term data on numerous women from different 
backgrounds. We have evaluated scientific evidences for the association between 
menopause and somatic or psychological problems; the temporal association of 
different symptoms with stage of the menopausal transition and the consistency 
of risk factors for symptoms.

PMID: 17592440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. J Gastrointestin Liver Dis. 2007 Jun;16(2):189-91.

How can a pancreatic neoplasm be diagnosed by colonoscopy? A case report.

Molnar T(1), Kurucsai G, Tiszlavicz L, Nagy F, Lazar G, Lonovics J.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Szeged, 
Koranyi fasor 8, H-6720 Szeged, Hungary. Mot@in1st.szote.u-szeged.hu

Gastrointestinal bleeding frequently manifests as a severe, life-threatening 
condition. The pathological conditions of the pancreas rarely associate with 
rectal hemorrhage. The history of a male patient with cancer of the tail of the 
pancreas, which invaded the large bowel and manifested clinically as a severe 
lower gastrointestinal bleeding, is reported. Repeated colonoscopy diagnosed a 
necrotising tumor mass which was communicating with the bowel through a fistula. 
Neoplasms of the tail of the pancreas usually do not cause early symptoms, 
therefore extra pancreatic extension and invasion of other organs are relatively 
common at the time of diagnosis. When managing patients with distal 
gastrointestinal bleeding, the possibility of malignancy originating from other 
organs other than the large bowel must always be borne in mind.

PMID: 17592569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Clin Breast Cancer. 2007 Jun;7(8):608-18. doi: 10.3816/CBC.2007.n.018.

Cost-effectiveness of letrozole versus tamoxifen as initial adjuvant therapy in 
hormone receptor-positive postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer.

Delea TE(1), Karnon J, Sofrygin O, Thomas SK, Papo NL, Barghout V.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc., Brookline, MA 02445, USA. tdelea@pai2.com

BACKGROUND: In Breast International Group (BIG) 1-98, a randomized, double-blind 
trial comparing 5 years of initial adjuvant therapy with letrozole versus 
tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast 
cancer, letrozole significantly improved disease-free survival by 19% and 
reduced risk of breast cancer recurrence by 28% and distant recurrence by 27%.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained with 5 years of initial adjuvant 
therapy with letrozole versus tamoxifen from a US health care system 
perspective. Probabilities and costs of breast cancer recurrence and 
treatment-related adverse events and health-state utilities were based on 
published results of BIG 1-98 and other published studies. Costs and QALYs were 
estimated over the lifetime of a cohort of postmenopausal women with hormone 
receptor-positive early breast cancer, aged 60 years at initiation of therapy. 
In our base case, we assumed that benefits of letrozole on risk of breast cancer 
recurrence are maintained for 5 years after therapy discontinuation ("carry-over 
effect") and examined the effects of this assumption on results in sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, letrozole yields an additional 0.409 QALYs 
versus tamoxifen at an additional cost of $9705, yielding a cost per QALY gained 
for letrozole versus tamoxifen of $23,743 (95% confidence interval, 
$14,087-$51,129). Assuming no carry-over effects, letrozole yields 0.264 QALYs 
at a cost of $10,341, for a cost per QALY gained of $39,098 (95% confidence 
interval, $23,968- $83,501).
CONCLUSION: In postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive early breast 
cancer, initial adjuvant treatment with letrozole is cost-effective from the US 
health care system perspective.

DOI: 10.3816/CBC.2007.n.018
PMID: 17592673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Cancer. 2007 Aug 1;110(3):499-508. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22824.

Cost-effectiveness of switching to exemestane versus continued tamoxifen as 
adjuvant therapy for postmenopausal women with primary breast cancer.

Risebrough NA(1), Verma S, Trudeau M, Mittmann N.

Author information:
(1)HOPE Research Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Sequential tamoxifen/exemestane therapy reportedly improves 
disease-free survival in women with primary breast cancer compared with 
continued tamoxifen therapy. The objective of the current study was to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of switching to exemestane after 2 to 3 years of 
tamoxifen versus continued tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with primary breast 
cancer for a total of 5 years of adjuvant therapy.
METHODS: A Markov model based on the Intergroup Exemestane Study (IES) 
population compared switching to exemestane versus continued tamoxifen for 2.5 
years of therapy and 5 years of postadjuvant therapy follow-up. Disease 
progression and hazards ratios (HR) for recurrence and survival were determined 
from datasets (IES and the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results program 
of the National Cancer Institute) and from the published literature. An expert 
panel validated treatment patterns, outcomes, and resource utilization. Direct 
medical costs were included based on published sources. Cost-effectiveness 
ratios were determined, and extensive sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Exemestane was found to be more effective than tamoxifen alone with 
regard to disease-free survival (2.6% absolute improvement), life-years gained 
(0.1028 LY), and quality-adjusted life-years gained (0.1195 QALY), at an 
additional cost of 2,889 Can dollars per person over 7.5 years. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were 28,119 Can dollars/LY gained and 24,185 Can 
dollars/QALY gained. The model was most sensitive to distant recurrence HR but 
was robust to variations in clinical, cost, and utility parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Switching to adjuvant exemestane after 2 to 3 years of tamoxifen is 
cost-effective in postmenopausal women with primary breast cancer.

(c) 2007 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22824
PMID: 17592825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Cancer. 2007 Aug 1;110(3):489-98. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22806.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting for treatment 
of HER2-positive breast cancer.

Garrison LP Jr(1), Lubeck D, Lalla D, Paton V, Dueck A, Perez EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. 
lgarrisn@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Adding trastuzumab to adjuvant chemotherapy provides significant 
clinical benefit in patients with human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2)-positive breast cancer. A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to 
assess clinical and economic implications of adding trastuzumab to adjuvant 
chemotherapy, based upon joint analysis of NSABP B-31 and NCCTG N9831 trials.
METHODS: A Markov model with 4 health states was used to estimate the cost 
utility for a 50-year-old woman on the basis of trial results through 4 years 
and estimates of long-term recurrence and death based on a meta-analysis of 
trials. From 6 years onward, rates of recurrence and death were assumed to be 
the same in both trastuzumab and chemotherapy-only arms. Incremental costs were 
estimated for diagnostic and treatment-related costs. Analyses were from payer 
and societal perspectives, and these analyses were projected to lifetime and 
20-year horizons.
RESULTS: Over a lifetime, the projected cost of trastuzumab per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY; discount rate 3%) gained was 26,417 dollars (range 9,104 
dollars-69,340 dollars under multiway sensitivity analysis). Discounted 
incremental lifetime cost was 44,923 dollars, and projected life expectancy was 
3 years longer for patients who received trastuzumab (19.4 years vs 16.4 years). 
During a 20-year horizon, the projected cost of adding trastuzumab to 
chemotherapy was 34,201 dollars per QALY gained. Key cost-effectiveness drivers 
were discount rate, trastuzumab price, and probability of metastasis. The 
cost-effectiveness result was robust to sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Trastuzumab for adjuvant treatment of early stage breast cancer was 
projected to be cost effective over a lifetime horizon, achieving a 
cost-effectiveness ratio below that of many widely accepted oncology treatments.

