Of the two major classes of theories, the one class that is tenable is 
derivative of a single common denominator that results in only one fundamental 
theory of aging. In order to address this complex subject, it is necessary to 
first define the four phenomena that characterize the finitude of life. These 
phenomena are aging, the determinants of longevity, age-associated diseases, and 
death. There are only two fundamental ways in which age changes can occur. Aging 
occurs either as the result of a purposeful program driven by genes or by events 
that are not guided by a program but are stochastic or random, accidental 
events. The weight of evidence indicates that genes do not drive the aging 
process but the general loss of molecular fidelity does. Potential longevity is 
determined by the energetics of all molecules present at and after the time of 
reproductive maturation. Thus, every molecule, including those that compose the 
machinery involved in turnover, replacement, and repair, becomes the substrate 
that experiences the thermodynamic instability characteristic of the aging 
process. However, the determinants of the fidelity of all molecules produced 
before and after reproductive maturity are the determinants of longevity. This 
process is governed by the genome. Aging does not happen in a vacuum. Aging must 
be the result of changes that occur in molecules that have existed at one time 
with no age changes. It is the state of these pre-existing molecules that 
governs longevity determination. The distinction between the aging process and 
age-associated disease is not only based on the molecular definition of aging 
described above but it is also rooted in several practical observations. Unlike 
any disease, age changes (a) occur in every multicellular animal that reaches a 
fixed size at reproductive maturity, (b) cross virtually all species barriers, 
(c) occur in all members of a species only after the age of reproductive 
maturation, (d) occur in all animals removed from the wild and protected by 
humans even when that species probably has not experienced aging for thousands 
or even millions of years, (e) occur in virtually all animate and inanimate 
matter, and (f) have the same universal molecular etiology, that is, 
thermodynamic instability. Unlike aging, there is no disease or pathology that 
shares these six qualities. Because this critical distinction is poorly 
understood, there is a continuing belief that the resolution of age-associated 
diseases will advance our understanding of the fundamental aging process. It 
will not. The distinction between disease and aging is also critical for 
establishing science policy because although policy makers understand that the 
funding of research on age-associated diseases is an unquestioned good, they 
also must understand that the resolution of age-associated diseases will not 
provide insights into understanding the fundamental biology of age changes. They 
often believe that it will and base decisions on that misunderstanding. The 
impact has been to fund research on age-associated diseases at several orders of 
magnitude greater than what is available for research on the biology of aging. 
There is an almost universal belief by geriatricians and others that the 
greatest risk factor for all of the leading causes of death is old age. Why then 
are we not devoting significantly greater resources to understanding more about 
the greatest risk factor for every age-associated pathology by attempting to 
answer this fundamental question-"What changes occur in biomolecules that lead 
to the manifestations of aging at higher orders of complexity and then increase 
vulnerability to all age-associated pathology?"

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1395.001
PMID: 17460161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Apr;1100:46-59. doi: 10.1196/annals.1395.004.

Postponement of postmenopausal mortality acceleration in low-mortality 
populations.

Milne EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Riverside House, The Waterfront, Goldcrest Way, Newburn Riverside, Newcastle 
upon Tyne, NE15 8NY, UK. eugene.milne@ntwsha.nhs.uk

Mortality analyses commonly disregard postmenopausal acceleration. This study 
examined period log mortality in World Health Organization (WHO) data for 34 
low-mortality countries in 2000, demonstrating significant gradient increases 
for women (33/34 countries) and men (22/34), from a later age than previously 
reported, dividing the postmenopausal period into phases. "Break points" were 
identified as intersects of lines of best fit to these and the same approach was 
used in analysis of Human Mortality Database data for 19 countries. There has 
been an upward migration of about 10 years in female age at break point since 
1850. Male data flipped from mortality acceleration to deceleration and back in 
the late 20th century with no apparent shift in break point. Altered age at 
mortality acceleration appears genuine, gender-specific, and internationally 
consistent. Its timing prompts the hypothesis that it may relate to falling 
fertility.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1395.004
PMID: 17460164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Apr;1100:409-23. doi: 10.1196/annals.1395.046.

The natural biogerontology portfolio: "defeating aging" as a multi-stage 
ultra-grand challenge.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Methuselah Foundation, P.O. Box 1143, Lorton, VA 22199, USA. aubrey@sens.org

The early days of biogerontology were blessed with an undiluted forthrightness 
concerning the field's ultimate goals, epitomized by its leaders. Luminaries 
from Pearl to Comfort to Strehler declared the desirability of eliminating aging 
with no more diffidence than that with which today's oncologists aver that they 
seek a cure for cancer. The field's subsequent retreat from this position 
garnered a modicum of political acceptability and public financial support, but 
all biogerontologists agree that this fell, and continues to fall, vastly short 
of the funding that the prospect of even a modest postponement of aging would 
logically justify. The past 20 years' discoveries of life-extending genetic 
manipulations in model organisms have weakened the argument that a policy of 
appeasement of the public's ambivalence about defeating aging is our only 
option; some of the biogerontologists responsible for these advances have 
espoused views of which our intellectual forefathers would be proud, without 
noticeably harming their own careers. With the recent emergence of a detailed, 
ambitious, but practical roadmap for the comprehensive defeat of aging, this 
process has moved further: our natural and most persuasive public stance is, 
more than ever, to reembrace the same unassailable logic that served pioneering 
biogerontologists perfectly well. In particular, we are in a position to explain 
that the disparate strands of contemporary biomedical gerontology are not in 
conflict, but rather that they constitute a portfolio of approaches with a range 
of potential efficacies and degrees of difficulty of implementation, which can 
save more lives together than any can save individually, and all of which thus 
merit intensive pursuit.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1395.046
PMID: 17460206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Apr;1100:449-54. doi: 10.1196/annals.1395.050.

Prior chronic in vivo glucocorticoid excess leads to an anabolic phenotype and 
an extension of cellular life span of skin fibroblasts in vitro.

Kletsas D(1), Pratsinis H, Gioni V, Pilichos K, Yiacoumettis AM, Tsagarakis S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cell Proliferation and Ageing, Institute of Biology, National 
Centre for Scientific Research Demokritos, 15310 Athens, Greece. 
dkletsas@bio.demokritos.gr

Intense stress can be detrimental for tissue homeostasis and accelerates aging. 
On the other hand, repeated mild stresses can have beneficial and even 
life-prolonging effects. Hypersecretion of glucocorticoids (GCs) represents the 
major hormonal response to stress. However, besides its life-sustaining role, GC 
excess can promote a "catabolic" phenotype. Accordingly, we have studied the 
effect of long-lasting exposure to high GC levels in vivo on several parameters 
of tissue homeostasis, as well as cellular senescence, in cells removed from the 
high-GC milieu in vivo and then cultured in vitro. To this end, we have used 
human skin fibroblasts from (a) Cushing's syndrome patients that are 
characterized by chronic endogenous GC excess and (b) patients treated with 
exogenous GC administration. Interestingly, when Cushing's syndrome fibroblasts 
were cultured in vitro under standard conditions they express an "anabolic" 
phenotype, i.e., they restore their ability for collagen synthesis, secrete 
reduced levels of metalloproteases, and have an increased proliferative capacity 
and contractility. Furthermore, these cells exhibit a significant extension of 
their proliferative life span, while they respond better to exogenous stress by 
producing significantly higher levels of heat-shock protein-70 (HSP70). In 
addition, preliminary results with fibroblasts from patients subjected to 
chronic exogenous GC administration indicate that they express a similar 
behavior in vitro, at least with regard to the restoration of collagen 
expression. These data suggest that prior exposure to elevated GC concentrations 
is not associated with persisting adverse effects on fibroblasts and may also 
have a beneficial outcome in some aspects of cell physiology, including 
longevity in vitro.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1395.050
PMID: 17460210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Exp Anim. 2007 Apr;56(2):79-84. doi: 10.1538/expanim.56.79.

Pharmacokinetic interactions of flunixin meglumine and enrofloxacin in ICR mice.

Ogino T(1), Arai T.

Author information:
(1)National Veterinary Assay Laboratory, Tokura, Kokubunji, Tokyo, Japan.

We examined the pharmacokinetic interactions of enrofloxacin and flunixin in 
male ICR mice that were subcutaneously (SC) administered with both or either one 
of the drugs. The experiments were performed on the following three groups: 
flunixin alone (2 mg/kg, SC), combination of flunixin (2 mg/kg, SC) and 
enrofloxacin (10 mg/kg, SC), and enrofloxacin alone (10 mg/kg, SC). Blood 
samples were collected at 5, 15 and 30 min, and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 h after the 
drug administration, and the pharmacokinetic parameters of flunixin and 
enrofloxacin were evaluated from the plasma drug concentrations. Significant 
changes were detected in the pharmacokinetics of flunixin following its 
coadministration with enrofloxacin. Coadministration of flunixin and 
enrofloxacin resulted in a 41% increase of the area under the curve (AUC) and a 
53% extension of the terminal half-life of flunixin; moreover, flunixin attained 
the maximum plasma drug concentration 2.75 times faster than when administered 
alone. The terminal rate constant and the maximum plasma drug concentration 
showed significant decreases of 34% and 33%, respectively, following the 
coadministration of enrofloxacin and flunixin as compared to those following the 
administration of flunixin alone. In contrast, no significant difference in the 
pharmacokinetics of enrofloxacin was detected following its coadministration 
with flunixin, as compared to those following the administration of enrofloxacin 
alone. Following the administration of enrofloxacin alone or its 
coadministration with flunixin, the plasma level of ciprofloxacin, the 
metabolite of enrofloxacin, was very low or undetectable. In conclusion, the 
pharmacokinetics of flunixin in ICR mice are altered by the coadministration of 
flunixin and enrofloxacin.

DOI: 10.1538/expanim.56.79
PMID: 17460352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Neurosurgery. 2007 May;60(5):860-4; discussion 860-4. doi: 
10.1227/01.NEU.0000255426.08926.95.

Safety of radiosurgery applied to conditions with abnormal tumor suppressor 
genes.

Rowe J, Grainger A, Walton L, Radatz M, Kemeny A.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the risk of radiosurgery inducing malignancy in 
neurofibromatosis-2 (NF2) and von Hippel-Lindau disease.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study of 118 NF2 and 19 von Hippel-Lindau 
disease patients, totalling 906 and 62 patient-years of follow-up data, 
respectively.
RESULTS: Two cases of intracranial malignancy were identified, both of which 
occurred in NF2 patients. One of these was thought to have arisen before the 
radiosurgery; the other was a glioblastoma diagnosed 3 years after radiosurgery.
CONCLUSION: Because gliomas may occur in as many as 4% of NF2 patients, this may 
not represent an increased risk. We continue to offer radiosurgery treatment to 
selected NF2 and von Hippel-Lindau disease patients and consider that the late 
risk of malignancy arising after irradiation must be put in the context of the 
condition being treated, the treatment options available to these individuals, 
and their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1227/01.NEU.0000255426.08926.95
PMID: 17460521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Acta Neurochir (Wien). 2007 Jun;149(6):601-4. doi:
10.1007/s00701-007-1156-7.  Epub 2007 Apr 26.

Primary malignant lymphoma of the cranial vault.

Fukushima Y(1), Oka H, Utsuki S, Nakahara K, Fujii K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Kitasato, 
Sagamihara, Kanagawa, Japan.

A 60-year-old woman presented with a subcutaneous mass on her scalp. Computed 
tomography (CT) showed a homogeneously enhanced mass of the parietal bone with 
both intra- and extra-calvarial extension and having destroyed the right 
parietal bone. The mass was hypointense on the T1-weighted magnetic resonance 
image, slightly hyperintense on the T2-weighted image and homogenously enhanced 
with Gd-DTPA. Bone scintigraphy showed prominent accumulation of radioisotopes 
in the scalp lesion. The tumour was removed, including the involved bone and 
dura mater. Histologic diagnosis was non-Hodgkin's B-cell lymphoma, and tumour 
cells had infiltrated into the dura mater. The patient was treated with 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy. She returned to ordinary daily life and has been 
well without recurrence for 3 years. Although primary malignant lymphoma of the 
cranial vault is rare, it should be considered in the differential diagnosis 
when a mass is encountered in the cranial vault. We have found only fourteen 
such cases in the literature, and we review these cases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00701-007-1156-7
PMID: 17460815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Ter Arkh. 2007;79(2):26-31.

[Colon diverticula: origin, prevalence, clinical manifestations].

[Article in Russian]

Osipenko MF, Bikbulatova EA.

AIM: To study prevalence of colon diverticula (CD) and phenotypical features of 
patients with this anomaly.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: At the first stage of the study we analysed colon x-ray 
evidence for 3 years to assess prevalence of CD. At the second stage we examined 
59 patients with CD. Sixty patients with idiopathic constipation and 48 patients 
with irritable colon syndrome served control.
RESULTS: We discovered the following independent factors associated with a high 
CD risk: history of CD in the relatives of the patients (OR 24.6; 95% CI 
5.23-116.23; p = 0.0001) and age of the patient (OR 2.5; 95% CI 1.03-1.13; p = 
0.0010). Age-dependent CD occurrence, similar anomalies in the relatives, other 
structural gastrointestinal anomalies in them, hyperaminociduria suggest that CD 
represent a metabolic involutionary process with hereditary predisposition. CD 
manifested clinically with abdominal pain and problems with colon passage. 
Abdominal pain related to defecation occurred with low pain threshold to 
extension. Abdominal pain risk in CD patients is significantly associated with 
intestinal infections (OR 4.56; 95% CI 1.09-18.97; chi-square = 4.34; p = 
0.0372) and connective tissue dysplasia syndrome (OR 2.21; 95% CI 1.23-3.95; 
chi-square = 7.08; p = 0.0078). Independent risk factors of constipation in CD 
are non-morning defecation (OR 8.68; 95% CI 1.55-48.51; chi-square = 6.06; p = 
0.0138), connective tissue dysplasia syndrome (OR 1.77; 95% CI 1.0-3.20; 
chisquare = 3.65; p = 0.0501), sedentary life style (OR 7.42; 94% CI 1.24 - 
44.57; chi-square = 4.81; p = 0.0284).
CONCLUSION: Incomplete CD reflect colon involution. Abdominal pain associated 
with defecation has much in common with irritable colon syndrome.

PMID: 17460964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2007 Apr;31(2):184-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2007.00039.x.

Northern Territory indigenous life expectancy improvements, 1967-2004.

Wilson T(1), Condon JR, Barnes T.

Author information:
(1)School for Social and Policy Research, Charles Darwin University Northern 
Territory. tom.wilson@cdu.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To assess the extent of changes in life expectancy at birth for the 
Indigenous population of the Northern Territory (NT) over the period 1967-2004, 
and to determine which age-specific mortality rates were mostly responsible for 
such change.
METHODS: Life expectancy at birth figures were obtained via life table 
calculations using a high-quality and internally consistent dataset of NT 
Indigenous deaths and populations covering the period 1967-2004. A life 
expectancy at birth age decomposition technique was then applied.
RESULTS: Indigenous life expectancy at birth has risen considerably in the NT, 
increasing from about 52 years for males and 54 years females in the late 1960s 
to about 60 years for males and 68 years for females in recent years. 
Significantly, for NT Indigenous females the gap with total Australian life 
expectancy has narrowed.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to popular perception, Indigenous life expectancy in 
the Northern Territory has improved substantially from the late 1960s to the 
present.
IMPLICATIONS: The widespread pessimism that surrounds Indigenous health and 
mortality is largely unfounded, at least for the NT. Although much remains to be 
done to reduce Indigenous mortality, the results in this paper demonstrate that 
improvements are occurring and that sustained and increased effort is worthwhile 
and will succeed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2007.00039.x
PMID: 17461012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Palliat Support Care. 2007 Mar;5(1):11-7. doi: 10.1017/s1478951507070034.

Caregiving at the end of life: perspectives from spousal caregivers and care 
recipients.

Jo S(1), Brazil K, Lohfeld L, Willison K.

Author information:
(1)St. Joseph's Health System Research Network, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to examine the perspectives of both the 
spousal caregiver and care recipient on the caregiving experience in home-based 
palliative care.
METHODS: A qualitative research strategy involving home-based face-to-face 
interviews with older palliative care patients and their spousal caregivers was 
used to examine the caregiving experience.
RESULTS: Ten spousal caregivers and care recipient dyads participated in the 
study. Most informal caregivers viewed caregiving as an extension of the family 
relationship where caregiving responsibilities evolved over time. Spousal 
caregivers identified many negative reactions to caregiving, such as fatigue or 
weariness, depression, anger and sadness, financial stresses, and lack of time. 
Care recipients acknowledged the emotional and financial strain and expressed 
concern for their spouses. Both caregivers and care recipients were appreciative 
of home care services although they identified the need for additional services. 
They also identified difficulties in communication with formal providers and 
poor coordination of care among the various services. Both caregivers and care 
recipients disclosed some challenges with informal supports, but on the whole 
felt that their presence was positive. Additional positive aspects of caregiving 
reported by spouses included strengthened relationship with their spouse and 
discovering emotional strength and physical abilities in managing care.
SIGNIFICANCE OF RESULTS: Health care and social service professionals need to 
recognize and understand both caregiver and care recipient perspectives if they 
are to successfully meet the needs of both members of the dyad.

DOI: 10.1017/s1478951507070034
PMID: 17461367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. J Clin Nurs. 2007 May;16(5):911-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2006.01833.x.

Nursing home placement: perspectives of community-dwelling older persons.

Tse MM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Kowloon, Hong Kong, 
China. hsmtse@inet.polyu.edu.hk

OBJECTIVES: To explore nursing home-related beliefs among older Hong Kong 
Chinese and identify strategies that make nursing homes a better place to live.
BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy has markedly increased the prevalence of 
age-related disease and disability, which limits the self-caring ability of 
older persons. Nursing home placement offers one possible alternative. However, 
the perspectives of older persons on nursing home admission have been seriously 
neglected and under-reported.
METHODS: The research was a qualitative descriptive study. Clients of a 
community centre for older people were approached and invited for an interview.
RESULTS: Participants included 118 older persons (61 female and 57 male) age 
from 60-89 years. Ninety per cent had chronic diseases and needed regular 
follow-up. Half of participants had never visited a nursing home. Of them, 85% 
would not want to live in a nursing home upon getting old and their nursing 
home-related beliefs were found to be negative. Participants expressed the 
feeling of being abandoned by their family members, insecure and lonely 
regarding the nursing home placement. Living in a nursing home was considered as 
'living in jail' and that their privacy would be lost. Nevertheless, positive 
aspects of nursing home placement were mentioned, and strategies were explored 
that would make nursing homes a better place for older people to live.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Positive aspects of nursing home placement need 
to be promoted. Nurses should be advocates for the health of the elderly, and 
help make nursing homes a better place to live.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2006.01833.x
PMID: 17462041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Health Technol Assess. 2007 May;11(18):iii, xi-xiii, 1-167. doi: 
10.3310/hta11180.

The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of cinacalcet for secondary 
hyperparathyroidism in end-stage renal disease patients on dialysis: a 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Garside R(1), Pitt M, Anderson R, Mealing S, Roome C, Snaith A, D'Souza R, Welch 
K, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group, Peninsula Medical School, Universities 
of Exeter and Plymouth, Exeter, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To establish the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of cinacalcet 
for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (SHPT) for people on dialysis 
due to end-stage renal disease (ESRD).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched up to February 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: Included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on the clinical 
effectiveness of cinacalcet for SHPT in ESRD were critically appraised, had 
relevant data extracted and were summarised narratively. A Markov (state 
transition) model was developed that compared cinacalcet in addition to current 
standard treatment with phosphate binders and vitamin D to standard treatment 
alone. A simulated cohort of 1000 people aged 55 with SHPT was modelled until 
the whole cohort was dead. Incremental costs and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were calculated. Extensive one-way sensitivity analysis was undertaken 
as well as probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Seven trials comparing cinacalcet plus standard treatment with placebo 
plus standard treatment were included in the systematic review. A total of 846 
people were randomised to receive cinacalcet. Cinacalcet was more effective at 
meeting parathyroid hormone (PTH) target levels (40% vs 5% in placebo, p < 
0.001). In those patients meeting PTH targets, 90% also experienced a reduction 
in calcium-phosphate product levels, compared with 1% in placebo. Significantly 
fewer people treated with cinacalcet were hospitalised for cardiovascular 
events, although no difference was seen in all-cause hospitalisation or 
mortality. Significantly fewer fractures and parathyroidectomies were also seen 
with cinacalcet. Findings on all patient-based clinical outcomes were based on 
small numbers. The authors' economic model estimated that, compared to standard 
treatment alone, cinacalcet in addition to standard care costs an additional 
21,167 pounds and confers 0.34 QALYs (or 18 quality-adjusted weeks) per person. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 61,890 pounds/QALY. In most 
cases, even extreme adjustments to individual parameters did not result in an 
ICER below a willingness-to-pay threshold of 30,000 pounds/QALY with 
probabilistic analysis showing only 0.5% of simulations to be cost-effective at 
this threshold. Altering the assumptions in the model through using different 
data sources for the inputs produced a range of ICERs from 39,000 pounds to 
92,000 pounds/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Cinacalcet in addition to standard care is more effective than 
placebo plus standard care at reducing PTH levels without compromising calcium 
levels. However, there is limited information about the impact of this reduction 
on patient-relevant clinical outcomes. Given the short follow-up in the trials, 
it is unclear how data should be extrapolated to the long term. Together with 
the high drug cost, this leads to cinacalcet being unlikely to be considered 
cost-effective. Recommendations for future research include obtaining accurate 
estimates of the multivariate relationship between biochemical disruption in 
SHPT and long-term clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11180
PMID: 17462168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Health Technol Assess. 2007 May;11(19):iii, ix-xi, 1-62. doi:
10.3310/hta11190.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of gemcitabine for metastatic 
breast cancer: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Takeda AL(1), Jones J, Loveman E, Tan SC, Clegg AJ.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, University of Southampton, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
gemcitabine, used in combination with paclitaxel, as a second-line treatment for 
people with metastatic breast cancer who have relapsed following treatment with 
anthracycline-based chemotherapy.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched from inception to March 2006. 
Clinical advisers were also consulted.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was undertaken to appraise 
the clinical and cost-effectiveness of gemcitabine. A Markov state transition 
model was developed for the economic evaluation.
RESULTS: The systematic review identified only one randomised controlled trials 
(RCT), and this has not yet been fully published. The methodological quality and 
quality of reporting of the included trial were assessed to be poor using 
standard criteria, but this may be due to the lack of information in the limited 
publications rather than being a fair reflection of the trial's quality. This 
RCT compared gemcitabine and paclitaxel therapy with paclitaxel monotherapy in 
529 patients with metastatic breast cancer who had previously received 
anthracyclines, but no prior chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer. 
Approximately 71% of the gemcitabine/paclitaxel patients survived for 1 year, 
compared with 61% of the paclitaxel group. The hazard ratio showed a 26% lower 
chance of survival in the paclitaxel group, and time to progressive disease was 
also shorter in this group. The overall response rate was higher in the 
gemcitabine/paclitaxel group than in the paclitaxel group. Adverse events, 
particularly neutropenia, were more common with gemcitabine/paclitaxel 
combination therapy than with paclitaxel therapy alone. The economic model was 
run for a simulation of 1000 patients, assuming that chemotherapy continued 
until patients' disease progressed. This base-case analysis found an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 58,876 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained and 30,117 pounds per life-year gained. The model was re-run with 
treatment restricted to a maximum of six cycles per patient, reflecting normal 
practice. This yielded an ICER of 38,699 pounds per QALY gained and 20,021 
pounds per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The review of clinical effectiveness is based on data from a single 
RCT that has not yet been fully published. While only tentative conclusions can 
be drawn from this, the evidence may indicate that treatment with gemcitabine 
and paclitaxel confers an improved outcome for patients in terms of survival and 
disease progression, but at the cost of increased toxicity. An economic model 
developed for this review reflects high costs per QALY for this treatment 
combination. The base-case analysis shows high ICERs, with costs per QALY gained 
close to 60,000 pounds. Adopting a more realistic treatment protocol, with 
chemotherapy limited to a maximum of six cycles, gives a more favourable 
cost-effectiveness estimate. However, this was still higher than would usually 
be considered to be a cost-effective treatment from the NHS's perspective. 
Future research recommendations include an update of this review in 12-18 
months' time, by which time the included RCT should be fully published. It would 
also be useful to compare gemcitabine with currently used treatments for 
metastatic breast cancer, including capecitabine and vinorelbine.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11190
PMID: 17462169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Health Technol Assess. 2007 May;11(20):iii-iv, xi-xiii, 1-184. doi: 
10.3310/hta11200.

A systematic review of duplex ultrasound, magnetic resonance angiography and 
computed tomography angiography for the diagnosis and assessment of symptomatic, 
lower limb peripheral arterial disease.

Collins R(1), Cranny G, Burch J, Aguiar-Ibáñez R, Craig D, Wright K, Berry E, 
Gough M, Kleijnen J, Westwood M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the diagnostic accuracy and cost-effectiveness of 
duplex ultrasound (DUS), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and computed 
tomography angiography (CTA), as alternatives to contrast angiography (CA), for 
the assessment of lower limb peripheral arterial disease (PAD).
DATA SOURCES: Ten electronic databases were searched in April 2004, with an 
update in May 2005. Six key journals and bibliographies of included studies were 
also searched and experts in the field were consulted.
REVIEW METHODS: Data extraction and quality assessment were performed in 
duplicate. Data were analysed according to test type and diagnostic threshold. 
For the economic analysis, a decision tree was developed and a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis performed to incorporate statistical uncertainty into the 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 113 studies met the inclusion criteria (including six 
economic evaluations). For the detection of stenosis greater than 50% in the 
whole leg, contrast-enhanced (CE) MRA (14 studies) had the highest diagnostic 
accuracy, with sensitivity ranging from 92 to 99.5% and specificity from 64 to 
99%. Two-dimensional (2D) time-of-flight (TOF) MRA (11 studies) was less 
accurate, with sensitivity ranging from 79 to 94% and specificity from 74 to 
92%. 2D phase-contrast (PC) MRA (one study) had a sensitivity of 98% and 
specificity of 74%. CTA (seven studies) also appeared slightly inferior to CE 
MRA, with a sensitivity ranging from 89 to 99% and specificity from 83 to 97%, 
but better than DUS (28 studies), which had a sensitivity ranging from 80 to 98% 
and specificity from 89 to 99%. There was some indication that CE MRA and DUS 
were more accurate for detecting stenoses/occlusions above the knee than below 
the knee or in the pedal artery. The four studies of patient attitudes strongly 
suggested that patients preferred CE MRA to CA. CA was considered the most 
uncomfortable test, followed by CE MRA, with CTA being the least uncomfortable. 
Half of the patients (from a sample who did not suffer from claustrophobia and 
had no metallic implants) expressed no preference between undergoing TOF MRA or 
DUS; most of those who did express a preference favoured TOF MRA. In the 55 
studies identified for adverse events, MRA was associated with the highest 
reported proportion. However, the most severe adverse events were more common in 
patients undergoing CA; although these were rare for both tests. The economic 
evaluation showed DUS dominated the other alternatives when the whole leg was 
assessed, by presenting higher effectiveness at a lower cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY; i.e. 13,646 pounds per QALY). When the 
assessment was limited to a section of the leg, either above the knee or below 
the knee, 2D TOF MRA was the most cost-effective preoperative diagnostic 
strategy. The incremental cost per QALY for below-the-knee comparisons was equal 
to 37,024 pounds when 2D TOF MRA was compared with DUS. For above-the-knee 
comparisons, 2D TOF MRA presented the lowest cost and slightly lower 
effectiveness compared with CE MRA, with a cost per QALY equal to 13,442 pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the review suggest that CE MRA has a better overall 
diagnostic accuracy than CTA or DUS, and that CE MRA is generally preferred by 
patients over CA. Where available, CE MRA may be a viable alternative to CA. The 
only controlled trial suggested that the results of DUS were comparable to those 
of CA, in terms of surgical planning and outcome. This finding conflicts with 
the results of diagnostic accuracy studies, which reported poor estimates of 
accuracy for DUS in comparison with CA. There was insufficient evidence to 
evaluate the usefulness of CTA for the assessment of PAD, particularly newer 
techniques. The results of the economic modelling suggest that for PAD patients 
for whom the whole leg is evaluated by a preoperative diagnostic test, DUS 
dominates the other alternatives by presenting higher effectiveness at a lower 
cost per QALY. However, when the analysis of stenosis is limited to a section of 
the leg, either above the knee or below the knee, 2D TOF MRA appears to be the 
most cost-effective preoperative diagnostic strategy. Further research is needed 
into a number of areas including the relative clinical effectiveness of the 
available imaging tests, in terms of surgical planning and postoperative 
outcome.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11200
PMID: 17462170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 May;83(5):1628-33; discussion 1633-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.12.070.

Survival benefit of endovascular descending thoracic aortic repair for the 
high-risk patient.

Patel HJ(1), Shillingford MS, Williams DM, Upchurch GR Jr, Dasika NL, Prager RL, 
Deeb GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Hospitals, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
USA. hjpatel@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Despite acceptable results reported with endovascular thoracic 
aortic repair (TEVAR), recent studies have questioned the merit of repair in 
asymptomatic patients considered high risk for open surgery. In this group, 
advanced age or comorbid conditions may reduce life expectancy, thus limiting 
the benefit of elective aneurysmectomy. This study was conducted to determine 
whether elective TEVAR improves survival for this cohort.
METHODS: Forty-six asymptomatic patients with descending thoracic aortic disease 
were considered high risk for open surgery for reasons of age of 80 years or 
older (47.8%) or comorbid conditions (84.8%), and were subsequently evaluated 
for elective TEVAR. Of these, 21 underwent TEVAR, while another 25 patients were 
excluded from TEVAR on the basis of unfavorable anatomy or refused intervention.
RESULTS: The mean age of the cohort was 77.0 +/- 7.0 years (p = 0.9 between 
groups). Prevalent comorbid conditions were similar between groups, and included 
coronary artery disease (p = 1.0), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (p = 
1.0), and peripheral vascular disease (p = 0.23). Mean maximum aortic diameter 
was 6.0 +/- 1.4 cm (p = 0.54 between groups). Indications for intervention 
included fusiform aneurysm (65.2%) and pseudoaneurysm or penetrating ulcer 
(32.6%). No 30-day mortality was observed after TEVAR. All-cause mortality in 
the entire cohort was 50%. Median actual time to mortality was different between 
groups (control, 9.2 months versus TEVAR, 24.9 months; p = 0.01). Life-table 
analysis demonstrated improved survival for TEVAR at 24 months (p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the overall prognosis for the asymptomatic patient with 
descending thoracic aortic disease at high risk for open surgery is poor, 
elective endovascular repair improves survival and should be considered a 
therapeutic option in this setting.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2006.12.070
PMID: 17462370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2007 Mar-Apr;22(2):226-34.

Clinical evaluation of a prospective multicenter study on 1-piece implants. part 
1: marginal bone level evaluation after 1 year of follow-up.

Finne K(1), Rompen E, Toljanic J.

Author information:
(1)k.finne@kolumbus.fi

PURPOSE: The aim of the present investigation was to evaluate the marginal bone 
level after 1 year of follow-up of 1-piece implants after immediate provisional 
restoration fabrication.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients received NobelDirect and NobelPerfect 1-piece 
implants (Nobel Biocare, G6teborg, Sweden) that were immediately restored and 
placed into function as part of a 3-year, multicenter investigation. Life table 
analysis was used for evaluation of implant cumulative survival rates. The 
Student t test (for dichotomous variables) and Pearson correlation (for 
continuous and ordered categorical variables) were used to estimate the 
influence of separate parameters on marginal bone.
RESULTS: Eighty-seven patients received 152 NobelDirect or NobelPerfect 1-piece 
implants. Of these, 81 patients returned for the 1-year follow-up and 21 for the 
2-year follow-up. Three implants were lost, resulting in a cumulative survival 
rate of 97.9% after up to 2 years. The average marginal bone level at implant 
placement was 0.33 mm (SD 1.20, n = 141) superior to the reference point (lower 
edge of the implant collar). Marginal bone level was -0.77 mm (SD 1.33, n = 138) 
at 6 months and -0.98 mm (SD 1.38, n = 123) at 1 year. Average bone level at the 
2-year follow-up was 0.17 mm (SD 1.20, n = 26). After 1 year of loading, bone 
level in the maxilla was more apical compared to that in the mandible (P = .05), 
and a positive correlation was found between bone level at placement and bone 
level at 12 months (P = .008). Shallow implant positioning resulted in less 
marginal bone remodeling compared to deep implant positioning.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of this prospective multicenter study, stable marginal 
bone level and soft tissue support the hypothesis that the 1-piece implant has 
the capacity to preserve both hard and soft tissue.

PMID: 17465347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Regen Med. 2007 Jan;2(1):95-7. doi: 10.2217/17460751.2.1.95.

Genzyme: 15 years of cell and gene therapy research.

De Bie C(1).

Author information:
(1)Genzyme Corporate Affairs Europe, Ikaroslaan, Belgium. 
caroline.debie@genzyme.com

Finding solutions for patients with unmet needs is at the heart of Genzyme's 
innovative medical research. While small molecules and enzyme-replacement 
therapies have made significant strides in improving patients' quality of life 
and expectancy, the solutions to many conditions, such as heart disease or CNS 
diseases, rely on the capacity of the body to regenerate cells. Cell and gene 
therapy lend themselves well to providing solutions for these illnesses with no 
current cure, by harnessing the body's natural ability to heal. Promising 
research in these fields continues to evolve and constitutes a long-term 
investment in addressing serious unmet medical needs in various therapeutic 
areas. Over the past 15 years, Genzyme has established itself as a pioneer in 
shaping the research and commercial application of cell and gene therapy. 
Genzyme's first commercially available innovative cell therapies--Carticel and 
Epicel--have provided a solid foundation to move into new, cutting-edge areas.

DOI: 10.2217/17460751.2.1.95
PMID: 17465780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Apr 27;7:62. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-62.

Individual differences in the use of the response scale determine valuations of 
hypothetical health states: an empirical study.

Essink-Bot ML(1), Stuifbergen MC, Meerding WJ, Looman CW, Bonsel GJ; VOTE group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC/University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.essink-bot@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: The effects of socio-demographic characteristics of the respondent, 
including age, on valuation scores of hypothetical health states remain 
inconclusive. Therefore, we analyzed data from a study designed to discriminate 
between the effects of respondents' age and time preference on valuations of 
health states to gain insight in the contribution of individual response 
patterns to the variance in valuation scores.
METHODS: A total of 212 respondents from three age groups valued the same six 
hypothetical health states using three different methods: a Visual Analogue 
Scale (VAS) and two variants of the Time trade-off (TTO). Analyses included a 
generalizability study, principal components analysis, and cluster analysis.
RESULTS: Valuation scores differed significantly, but not systematically, 
between valuation methods. A total of 36.8% of variance was explained by health 
states, 1.6% by the elicitation method, and 0.2% by age group. Individual 
differences in the use of the response scales (e.g. a tendency to give either 
high or low TTO scores, or a high or low scoring tendency on the VAS) were the 
main source of remaining variance. These response patterns were not related to 
age or other identifiable respondent characteristics.
CONCLUSION: Individual response patterns in this study were more important 
determinants of TTO or VAS valuations of health states than age or other 
respondent characteristics measured. Further valuation research should focus on 
explaining individual response patterns as a possible key to understanding the 
determinants of health state valuations.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-62
PMCID: PMC1868724
PMID: 17466068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Public Health. 2007 Aug;121(8):578-87. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2006.10.018. Epub
 2007 Apr 30.

A composite index to explain variations in poverty, health, nutritional status 
and standard of living: use of multivariate statistical methods.

Antony GM(1), Rao KV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, National Institute of Nutrition (Indian Council of 
Medical Research), Jamai Osmania (P.O.), Hyderabad 500 007, India. 
graceantonym@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: To calculate the Human Development Index (HDI) and Human Poverty 
Index (HPI) of Indian states; to trace the indicators useful for finding 
variations in poverty; and to develop a composite index that may explain 
variations in poverty, health, nutritional status and standard of living.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: The HDI and HPI were calculated for different Indian states. A set of 
possible indicators varying between rich and poor states of India was identified 
with the use of discriminant function analysis. A composite index has been 
developed for measuring the standard of living of Indian states with the help of 
factor analysis.
RESULTS: Demographic, socio-economic, health and dietary indicators play a major 
role in determining the real standard of living. Poverty, standard of living and 
human development depend on multiple factors. The existing indices, such as HDI 
and HPI, use income indicators to measure the standard of living, and do not 
take into account diet and nutritional status indicators. The proposed index was 
found to be more suitable for measuring the real standard of living and human 
development, as it is a comprehensive index of income and non-income indicators. 
Further validation may be carried out for different populations.
CONCLUSIONS: Discriminant function analysis and factor analysis were used to 
assess health inequality and standard of living among Indian states. The 
proposed multi-dimensional index may provide a better picture of human 
development. Further work is of interest for other populations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2006.10.018
PMID: 17467017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 May;133(5):1186-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.12.040.

Results of esophagectomy for esophageal cancer in elderly patients: age has 
little influence on outcome and survival.

Ruol A(1), Portale G, Zaninotto G, Cagol M, Cavallin F, Castoro C, Sileni VC, 
Alfieri R, Rampado S, Ancona E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, Clinica Chirurgica III, 
University of Padova School of Medicine, Padova, Italy.

Comment in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2008 Feb;135(2):468-9; author reply 469-71.

OBJECTIVE: The aging of the population and a longer life expectancy have led to 
an increased number of elderly patients with esophageal cancer being referred 
for surgical treatment. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of age 
on the outcome of surgery for esophageal cancer at a single institution.
METHODS: Perioperative outcome and long-term survival of patients at least 70 
years old undergoing esophagectomy between 1992 and 2005 for cancer of the 
esophagus or esophagogastric junction were compared with findings in younger 
patients. Patients who underwent an abdominal procedure only were excluded from 
the analysis.
RESULTS: The analysis considered 580 patients younger than 70 years and 159 at 
least 70 years old. Clinical presentation in the two groups was similar, as were 
postoperative morbidity and mortality, despite significant differences in 
perioperative risk factors. Irrespective of age, overall survival was 34% at 5 
years for all patients and 37% for patients with R0 resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased experience and refinements in perioperative care explain 
the better results of esophagectomy in elderly patients in recent years. Short- 
and long-term outcomes after esophagectomy for carcinoma in patients older than 
70 years are comparable with those of their younger counterparts. Advanced age 
per se thus should not be considered a contraindication to esophageal resection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2006.12.040
PMID: 17467427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Lancet. 2007 Apr 28;369(9571):1415-1416. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60648-5.

Value-based pricing of drugs in the UK.

Webb DJ(1), Walker A(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Queen's Medical Research Institute, Edinburgh 
EH16 4TJ, UK. Electronic address: d.j.webb@ed.ac.uk.
(2)Robertson Centre for Biostatistics, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60648-5
PMID: 17467498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Lancet. 2007 Apr 28;369(9571):1428-1429. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60664-3.

The women's conspiracy.

Braillon A(1).

Author information:
(1)Public Health, University hospitals of Amiens, Place Victor Pauchet, 80000 
Amiens, France. Electronic address: braillon.alain@chu-amiens.fr.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2007 Mar 3;369(9563):715.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60664-3
PMID: 17467507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Drug Discov Today. 2007 May;12(9-10):355-64. doi:
10.1016/j.drudis.2007.03.003.  Epub 2007 Mar 23.

Communicating the risks and benefits of medicines.

Schmid EF(1), Smith DA, Ryder SW.

Author information:
(1)Strategic Management, Sandwich Laboratories, Pfizer Global Research and 
Development, Sandwich, Kent, UK. Esther.Schmid@Pfizer.com

Pharmaceutical innovation, together with rising education, sanitation and 
wealth, prolonged life expectancy in industrialised countries throughout the 
20th century. At the turn of the 21st century, with many, formerly common, 
lethal diseases confined to the developing world, the benefits of medical 
intervention are taken for granted in industrialized countries, and the 
expectations of safety have risen considerably. The perception and tolerance of 
risk has changed largely in the absence of immediate, population-wide health 
threats. Here, we review selected examples of drug withdrawals and adverse drug 
effects, and their impact on public perception. We analyse the role of major 
players, such as the media, patients, prescribers, regulators and pharmaceutical 
companies, and what actions are needed to better describe and communicate the 
risks and benefits of medicines to the public.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2007.03.003
PMID: 17467571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Prev Med. 2007 Jul;45(1):49-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.03.010. Epub 2007
Mar  31.

Impact of selected risk factors on expected lifetime without long-standing, 
limiting illness in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Juel K, Davidsen M, Sørensen J.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Øster Farimagsgade 5 A, DK 1399 
Copenhagen K, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the impacts of tobacco smoking, high alcohol consumption, 
physical inactivity and overweight on expected lifetime with and without 
long-standing, limiting illness.
METHODS: Life tables for each level of exposure to the risk factors were 
constructed, mainly on the basis of the Danish National Cohort Study. Expected 
lifetime without long-standing, limiting illness was estimated for exposed and 
unexposed persons by combining life tables and prevalence data from the Danish 
Health Interview Survey 2000 (14,503 participants aged 25+).
RESULTS: The life expectancy of 25-year-olds was 9-10 years shorter for heavy 
smokers than for those who never smoke, and all the lifetime lost would have 
been without long-standing, limiting illness. Similarly, all 5 years of expected 
lifetime lost by men with high alcohol consumption would have been without 
illness. The expected lifetime without long-standing, limiting illness was 8-10 
years shorter among sedentary than physically active people. Obesity shortened 
lifetime without illness by 5 years for men and ten years for women.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study could be used in health policy-making, as 
the potential gains in public health due to interventions against these risk 
factors could be evaluated, when the prevalence of exposure to the risk factor 
is available.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.03.010
PMID: 17467783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Eur Urol. 2007 Oct;52(4):1028-35. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.04.002. Epub
2007  Apr 9.

The 20-Yr outcome in patients with well- or moderately differentiated clinically 
localized prostate cancer diagnosed in the pre-PSA era: the prognostic value of 
tumour ploidy and comorbidity.

Adolfsson J(1), Tribukait B, Levitt S.

Author information:
(1)Oncologic Center, CLINTEC, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. 
jan.adolfsson@karolinska.se

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2007 Oct;52(4):948-50.

OBJECTIVE: This observational cohort study describes the long-term outcome of 
patients with clinically localized prostate cancer managed with watchful 
waiting, the prognostic value of tumour ploidy, and the impact of comorbidity.
METHODS: A total of 119 patients with clinically localized (T1-2) prostate 
cancer consecutively diagnosed from 1978 to 1982 were prospectively managed by 
watchful waiting, with treatment given if progression occurred.
RESULTS: Median age was 68 yr. Median observation time was 24 yr+/-6.25 (SD). Of 
the 112 patients who died, 42 died of prostate cancer. Disease-specific survival 
rates were 85% (95% CI: 77-93%), 58% (46-70%), and 32% (19-46%) at 10, 15, and 
20 yr, respectively. Treatment-free survival rate was 43% (95% CI: 33-54%) at 10 
yr. Patients aged 70 yr and over had a statistically significant increased risk 
of dying from any cause. There was a statistically significant increased risk of 
dying from prostate cancer for patients with nondiploid tumours.
CONCLUSION: In the present series from the pre-PSA era, watchful waiting yielded 
a relatively high long-term disease-specific survival rate in patients with 
well- or moderately differentiated clinically localized prostate cancer, and 
almost half were not treated 10 yr after diagnosis. Watchful waiting may be an 
option at least for such patients with a 10- to 15-yr life expectancy. Age of 70 
yr or more predicted an increased overall mortality. High comorbidity increased 
the risk (although not statistically significant) for death from any cause and 
for death from prostate cancer. Patients with nondiploid tumours were at an 
increased risk to die from prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.04.002
PMID: 17467883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. J Rehabil Med. 2007 May;39(4):334-42. doi: 10.2340/16501977-0038.

Developing human functioning and rehabilitation research. Part II: 
Interdisciplinary university centers and national and regional collaboration 
networks.

Stucki G(1), Celio M.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Paraplegic Research, Nottwil, Switzerland. 
gerold.stucki@med.uni-muenchen.de

There is a strong movement towards interdisciplinary research around common and 
scientifically competitive themes, both at universities and at the national and 
regional level. Human functioning and rehabilitation is a new, highly innovative 
and relevant theme. It has the potential to attract researchers from a wide 
range of disciplines, institutions and organizations. It is thus of interest for 
universities seeking to embark upon a new and unique research area. Similarly, 
it is a promising theme for individual researchers, institutions and 
organizations aiming to develop a national or regional collaboration network for 
interdisciplinary research. Human functioning and rehabilitation complements 
established themes from the biomedical perspective. In the context of the life 
sciences, it can be seen as an extension of the biosciences towards a 
comprehensive understanding of human life, including human interaction and 
communication, against the background of the natural and social environment. 
Based on a better understanding of human functioning and disability, there is a 
wide range of largely unexplored possibilities to optimize populations' 
