Anaesthesia for the elderly patient.

Sophie S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi.

As life expectancy increases, the number of geriatric patients coming for 
surgery and anaesthesia will make up an increasing portion of our practice. 
Advancing age, comorbidities, altered pharmacokinetics and dynamics increase the 
morbidity and mortality of these patients. The importance of doing a thorough 
preoperative evaluation and identifying risk factors cannot be over emphasized 
in this frail and vulnerable group. Not all elderly patients have medical 
problems, stressing that physiological age is more important than chronological 
age. Current medical history and physical activity is a good indicator of how 
the surgical procedure will be tolerated. Addressed in this article is Post 
Operative Cognitive Dysfunction (POCD) which is being recognized as a 
significant issue facing the elderly patient. It is one of the problems 
specifically related to the geriatric age group. No ideal anaesthetic technique 
has been described, but if a thorough understanding of changes that occur in 
physiology and pharmacology is there, an optimal anaesthetic technique can be 
individually designed.

PMID: 17489529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. BMC Bioinformatics. 2007 May 9;8 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):S2. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2105-8-S3-S2.

Advancing translational research with the Semantic Web.

Ruttenberg A(1), Clark T, Bug W, Samwald M, Bodenreider O, Chen H, Doherty D, 
Forsberg K, Gao Y, Kashyap V, Kinoshita J, Luciano J, Marshall MS, Ogbuji C, 
Rees J, Stephens S, Wong GT, Wu E, Zaccagnini D, Hongsermeier T, Neumann E, 
Herman I, Cheung KH.

Author information:
(1)Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Cambridge, MA, USA. alanruttenberg@gmail.com 
<alanruttenberg@gmail.com>

BACKGROUND: A fundamental goal of the U.S. National Institute of Health (NIH) 
"Roadmap" is to strengthen Translational Research, defined as the movement of 
discoveries in basic research to application at the clinical level. A 
significant barrier to translational research is the lack of uniformly 
structured data across related biomedical domains. The Semantic Web is an 
extension of the current Web that enables navigation and meaningful use of 
digital resources by automatic processes. It is based on common formats that 
support aggregation and integration of data drawn from diverse sources. A 
variety of technologies have been built on this foundation that, together, 
support identifying, representing, and reasoning across a wide range of 
biomedical data. The Semantic Web Health Care and Life Sciences Interest Group 
(HCLSIG), set up within the framework of the World Wide Web Consortium, was 
launched to explore the application of these technologies in a variety of areas. 
Subgroups focus on making biomedical data available in RDF, working with 
biomedical ontologies, prototyping clinical decision support systems, working on 
drug safety and efficacy communication, and supporting disease researchers 
navigating and annotating the large amount of potentially relevant literature.
RESULTS: We present a scenario that shows the value of the information 
environment the Semantic Web can support for aiding neuroscience researchers. We 
then report on several projects by members of the HCLSIG, in the process 
illustrating the range of Semantic Web technologies that have applications in 
areas of biomedicine.
CONCLUSION: Semantic Web technologies present both promise and challenges. 
Current tools and standards are already adequate to implement components of the 
bench-to-bedside vision. On the other hand, these technologies are young. Gaps 
in standards and implementations still exist and adoption is limited by typical 
problems with early technology, such as the need for a critical mass of 
practitioners and installed base, and growing pains as the technology is scaled 
up. Still, the potential of interoperable knowledge sources for biomedicine, at 
the scale of the World Wide Web, merits continued work.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-8-S3-S2
PMCID: PMC1892099
PMID: 17493285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Mayo Clin Proc. 2007 May;82(5):575-82. doi: 10.4065/82.5.575.

Cost-effectiveness of long-acting bronchodilators for chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease.

Oba Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Environmental Medicine, University 
of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO 65212, USA. obay@health.missouri.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate and compare the cost-effectiveness of long-acting 
bronchodilators by estimating incremental costs per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained in patients with moderate to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease.
METHODS: This cost-effective analysis was conducted from a third-party payer's 
perspective. The study was a retrospective pooled analysis, and the 
effectiveness evidence was derived from a systematic review of literature 
published from January 1, 1980, to April 14, 2006. Incremental QALYs were 
estimated by converting the St George's Respiratory Questionnaire scores into 
EuroQoL-5D scores and using these combined scores as the summary benefit 
measure.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per additional QALY was $26,094 (range, 
$11,780-$77,214) for tiotropium and $41,000 (range, $23,650-$98,750) for 
salmeterol compared with placebo. The cost per QALY gained was lower with 
tiotropium compared with salmeterol or ipratropium based on either the pooled 
data of available trials or a head-to-head trial. Treatment with tiotropium 
could save $391 per year while gaining 13 quality-adjusted days compared with 
ipratropium.
CONCLUSION: Tiotropium appears to be more cost-effective than the alternatives 
and may be the preferred agent for maintenance therapy in patients with moderate 
to severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Compared with ipratropium, 
tiotropium could be cost saving. Because of the wide ranges of 
cost-effectiveness ratios for tiotropium and salmeterol and the significant 
overlap between them, a large prospective head-to-head trial would help address 
the uncertainty and confirm the results of this analysis.

DOI: 10.4065/82.5.575
PMID: 17493425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J Clin Epidemiol. 2007 Jun;60(6):616-24. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2006.09.006.  Epub 2006 Dec 22.

Not all "quality-adjusted life years" are equal.

Marra CA(1), Marion SA, Guh DP, Najafzadeh M, Wolfe F, Esdaile JM, Clarke AE, 
Gignac MA, Anis AH.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: There is evidence that utility elicitation methods used in the 
calculation of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) yield different results. It 
is not clear how these differences impact economic evaluations.
METHODS: Using a mathematical model incorporating data on efficacy, costs, and 
utility values, we simulated the experiences of 100,000 hypothetical rheumatoid 
arthritis patients over 10 years (50,000 exposed to infliximab plus methotrexate 
[MTX] and 50,000 exposed to MTX alone). QALYs, were derived from the Health 
Utilities Index 2 and 3 (HUI2 and HUI3), the Short Form 6-D (SF-6D), and the 
Euroqol 5-D (EQ-5D). Incremental cost-utility ratios were determined using each 
instrument to calculate QALYs and the results were compared using 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: Using the different utility measurement methods, the mean difference in 
QALYs between the infliximab plus MTX and MTX groups ranged from a high of 1.95 
QALYs (95% CI=1.93-1.97) using the HUI3 to 0.89 QALYs (95% CI=0.88-0.91) using 
the SF-6D. Adopting the commonly cited value of society's willingness to pay for 
a QALY of $50,000, 91% of the simulations favored the cost utility of infliximab 
plus MTX when using the HUI3 to calculate QALYs. However, when using the EQ-5D, 
HUI2, or the SF-6D utility values to calculate QALYS, the proportion of 
simulations that favored the cost utility of infliximab were 63%, 45%, and 12%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Depending on the method for determining utility values used in the 
calculation of QALYs, very different incremental cost-utility ratios are 
generated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2006.09.006
PMID: 17493521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. BMJ. 2007 May 12;334(7601):981. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39206.640903.94.

Exploitation and apology.

Heath I(1).

Author information:
(1)iona.heath@dsl.pipex.com

Politicians have recently apologised for Britain's role in the slave trade, but 
the West's exploitation of the human resources of the world's poorest countries 
continues in other guises

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39206.640903.94
PMCID: PMC1867898
PMID: 17494016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Eur Urol. 2007 May;51(5):1435-6.

The motion: Radical cystectomy in the elderly is becoming a standard treatment 
for bladder cancer.

Brausi MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, AUSL Modena, Modena, Italy. brausi@interfree.it

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2007 May;51(5):1436-7; discussion 1437-8.

PMID: 17494113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. FASEB J. 2007 Oct;21(12):3107-17. doi: 10.1096/fj.06-7827com. Epub 2007 May
10.

Bcl-2 overexpression delays caspase-3 activation and rescues cerebellar 
degeneration in prion-deficient mice that overexpress amino-terminally truncated 
prion.

Nicolas O(1), Gavín R, Braun N, Ureña JM, Fontana X, Soriano E, Aguzzi A, del 
Río JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

Prnp knockout mice that overexpress an amino-truncated form of PrPc (deltaPrP) 
are ataxic and display cerebellar cell loss and premature death. Studies on the 
molecular and intracellular events that trigger cell death in these mutants may 
contribute to elucidate the functions of PrPc and to the design of treatments 
for prion disease. Here we examined the effects of Bcl-2 overexpression in 
neurons on the development of the neurological syndrome and cerebellar pathology 
of deltaPrP. We show that deltaPrP overexpression activates the 
stress-associated kinases ERK1-2 in reactive astroglia, p38 and the 
phosphorylation of p53, which leads to the death of cerebellar neurons in mutant 
mice. We found that the expression of deltaPrP in cell lines expressing very low 
levels of PrPc strongly induces the activation of apoptotic pathways, thereby 
leading to caspase-3 activation and cell death, which can be prevented by 
coexpressing Bcl-2. Finally, we corroborate in vivo that neuronal-directed Bcl-2 
overexpression in deltaPrP mice (deltaPrP Bcl-2) markedly reduces caspase-3 
activation, glial activation, and neuronal cell death in cerebellum by improving 
locomotor deficits and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.06-7827com
PMID: 17494993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Med Care. 2007 Apr;45(4):315-21. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000254582.85666.01.

Predicted quality-adjusted life years as a composite measure of the clinical 
value of diabetes risk factor control.

Schmittdiel J(1), Vijan S, Fireman B, Lafata JE, Oestreicher N, Selby JV.

Author information:
(1)Kaiser Permanente Northern California Division of Research, Oakland, 
California 94612, USA.

BACKGROUND: Control of blood pressure, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol 
(LDL-c), and A1c can lower the risk for diabetes complications. These quality 
indicators often are examined separately and weighted equally in performance 
measurement, potentially discarding important information.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to create a composite indicator of the clinical benefit, 
or value, of diabetes risk factor control that appropriately weights the 
clinical importance of A1c, LDL-c, and blood pressure, and to test its usability 
for quality measurement.
METHODS: The combined value of control for 3 diabetes risk factors, measured by 
predicted quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), was compared in diabetes patients 
(n = 129,236 in 2001; n = 185,006 in 2003) in Kaiser Permanente Northern 
California across 16 medical center populations in 2001 and 2003 using 
hierarchical linear regression to adjust for case-mix differences. Patient-level 
QALYs, simulated from risk factor and case-mix variables in a Markov model, was 
the main outcome variable.
RESULTS: There was significant cross-sectional variability in average case-mix 
adjusted QALYs for diabetes patients across centers in 2003. QALYs increased 
from 2001 to 2003 as the result of improved risk factor control; longitudinal 
improvements in QALYs also showed variation across centers. Regression analyses 
demonstrated the greater impact of blood pressure versus LDL-c or A1c control on 
QALYs, and the greater value of risk factor control in those with poor versus 
near or in-control blood pressure.
CONCLUSION: Using predicted QALYs to measure value holds promise as a sensitive 
composite indicator for quality measurement. Complex, evidence-based quality 
indicators such as these can potentially provide accurate and useful information 
to health plans, providers, and consumers.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000254582.85666.01
PMID: 17496715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Med Care. 2007 Apr;45(4):357-62. doi: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000256971.81184.aa.

Depression-free day to utility-weighted score: is it valid?

Pyne JM(1), Tripathi S, Williams DK, Fortney J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Mental Health and Outcomes Research, Central Arkansas Veterans 
Healthcare System, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, 
Arkansas 72114, USA. jmpyne@uams.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost-utility analyses using formulas to convert depression-free days 
(DFDs) to utility-weighted scores are increasingly common. These formulas are 
based on linear extrapolation of data documenting the correlation between 
depression symptom severity and generic health-related quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to examine the validity of formulas converting DFDs to 
utility weights.
METHODS: We undertook an observational study with data collection at baseline, 1 
week and 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months on 77 subjects (42 inpatient, 35 outpatient) 
diagnosed with current major depression. Subjects were divided into treatment 
response categories based on changes in depression severity. Depression severity 
measures used were the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-17) and Beck 
Depression Inventory (BDI) and the health-related quality of life measure was 
the self-administered Quality of Well-Being scale (QWB-SA). DFD calculations 
were based on depression severity scores and converted to utility weights using 
available formulas. Utility-weighted data collected over the course of 1 year 
were used to estimate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: QALYs estimated from the QWB-SA were significantly lower than those 
based on utility-weighted DFD calculations but the incremental QALYs were not 
significantly different. Using a slightly lower utility-weighted conversion 
factor for the BDI or a larger BDI severity range to calculate DFDs resulted in 
a better fit compared with the QWB-SA.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results support the validity of the existing HAM-17 
utility-weighted formula and suggest modifications for the BDI formula. If 
generic health-related quality of life measures are not available for conducting 
cost-utility analyses of depression interventions then the existing HAM-17 and 
modified BDI formulas appear to be reasonable alternatives.

DOI: 10.1097/01.mlr.0000256971.81184.aa
PMID: 17496720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Lancet. 2007 Jun 16;369(9578):2010-2014. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60677-1.

Assessment of Swedish snus for tobacco harm reduction: an epidemiological 
modelling study.

Gartner CE(1), Hall WD(2), Vos T(1), Bertram MY(1), Wallace AL(1), Lim SS(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Herston, 
Queensland, Australia.
(2)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Herston, 
Queensland, Australia. Electronic address: w.hall@sph.uq.edu.au.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2007 Jun 16;369(9578):1976-8.
    Lancet. 2007 Oct 6;370(9594):1206; author reply 1206-7.
    Lancet. 2007 Oct 6;370(9594):1206; author reply 1206-7.

BACKGROUND: Swedish snus is a smokeless tobacco product that has been suggested 
as a tobacco harm reduction product. Our aim was to assess the potential 
population health effects of snus.
METHODS: We assessed the potential population health effects of snus in 
Australia with multistate life tables to estimate the difference in 
health-adjusted life expectancy between people who have never been smokers and 
various trajectories of tobacco use, including switching from smoking to snus 
use; and the potential for net population-level harm given different rates of 
snus uptake by current smokers, ex-smokers, and people who have never smoked.
FINDINGS: There was little difference in health-adjusted life expectancy between 
smokers who quit all tobacco and smokers who switch to snus (difference of 
0.1-0.3 years for men and 0.1-0.4 years for women). For net harm to occur, 14-25 
ex-smokers would have to start using snus to offset the health gain from every 
smoker who switched to snus rather than continuing to smoke. Likewise, 14-25 
people who have never smoked would need to start using snus to offset the health 
gain from every new tobacco user who used snus rather than smoking.
INTERPRETATION: Current smokers who switch to using snus rather than continuing 
to smoke can realise substantial health gains. Snus could produce a net benefit 
to health at the population level if it is adopted in sufficient numbers by 
inveterate smokers. Relaxing current restrictions on the sale of snus is more 
likely to produce a net benefit than harm, with the size of the benefit 
dependent on how many inveterate smokers switch to snus.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60677-1
PMID: 17498798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Int J Pharm. 2007 Aug 1;340(1-2):223-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.03.026.
Epub  2007 Mar 25.

New analytical techniques to facilitate preformulation screening in propellant 
systems.

Mogalian E(1), Kuehl PJ, Myrdal PB.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA. 
mogalian@pharmacy.arizona.edu

The objective of these studies was to investigate the applicability of an online 
direct inject HPLC method for the preformulation screening of pharmaceutical 
agents in pressurized metered dose inhalers (MDIs). The technique was initially 
utilized for the solubility determination of solid solutes. This study explores 
the extension of the online direct inject method for the evaluation of drug 
stability in propellant systems as well as for the analysis of MDI vials crimped 
with metered valves. Through-life content analysis confirmed that a single vial 
may be repeatedly sampled, thus facilitating the stability evaluation of a 
single unit over time. The method was successfully used for evaluating the 
stability of a model drug, as a function of several different formulation 
configurations, with minimal sample numbers. Additionally, studies determined 
that after modifications were made to the injection coupler, the technique was 
also feasible for use with 50 and 100 microL metered valves, however further 
modifications are necessary for 25 microL valves.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2007.03.026
PMID: 17498897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Urol. 2007 Jul;178(1):98-102. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2007.03.029. Epub 2007
May  11.

Clinical judgment analysis of the parameters used by consultant urologists in 
the management of prostate cancer.

Clarke MG(1), Wilson JR, Kennedy KP, MacDonagh RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Taunton and Somerset Hospital, Taunton, United 
Kingdom. mgclarkey@doctors.org.uk

PURPOSE: We assessed which clinical parameters consultant urologists use to 
recommend treatment for early prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 30 consultant urologists reviewed 70 paper 
representations of patients with prostate cancer. Each contained 7 commonly 
available cues, including prostate specific antigen, Gleason grade, rectal 
examination, magnetic resonance imaging/laparoscopic stage, medical history, 
patient choice and age, in addition to 2 cues not yet routinely available, that 
is predicted life expectancy and 10-year survival probability, as calculated 
using actuarial formulas based on noncancer comorbidity. Consultants indicated 
how strongly they would recommend radical prostatectomy, radiotherapy with or 
without hormones, or active surveillance/hormones. Judgment analysis was 
performed using multiple regression analysis with significance considered at 
p<or=0.01 to identify which cues consultants had used.
RESULTS: Consultants varied in the treatments that they recommended. An average 
of only 3 of the possible 9 cues was used to formulate decisions. Prostate 
specific antigen and predicted 10-year survival probability were most commonly 
used for recommending all 3 treatment options. Patient choice, predicted life 
expectancy, rectal examination and age were all used infrequently. Consultants 
were inconsistent in an average of 31.4% of judgments when repeat cases were 
analyzed with the greatest inconsistency observed when recommending radiotherapy 
with or without hormones and the least inconsistency when recommending radical 
prostatectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Consultants were inconsistent in their decisions regarding the 
management of early prostate cancer and they used only a small number of 
available clinical parameters. Ensuring that all relevant information is 
available and providing clinicians with further education and training would 
ensure that treatment decisions become more reliable, appropriate and targeted 
toward patient choice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2007.03.029
PMID: 17499280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Lancet. 2007 May 12;369(9573):1658-63. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60752-1.

Measuring health and disability.

Mont D(1).

Author information:
(1)Disability and Development Team, The World Bank, H Street, Washington, DC 
20433, USA. dmont@worldbank.org

Comment in
    Lancet. 2007 Aug 11;370(9586):483-4; author reply 484.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)60752-1
PMID: 17499607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Radiother Oncol. 2007 Jun;83(3):277-82. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2007.04.022.
Epub  2007 May 17.

Interrelation amongst differentiation, senescence and genetic instability in 
long-term cultures of fibroblasts exposed to different radiation qualities.

Fournier C(1), Winter M, Zahnreich S, Nasonova E, Melnikova L, Ritter S.

Author information:
(1)Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung/Biophysik, Darmstadt, Germany. 
c.fournier@gsi.de

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The goal of the present study was to investigate aging 
and genetic instability in the progeny of human fibroblasts exposed to X-rays 
and carbon ions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Following irradiation, cells were regularly subcultured 
until senescence. At selected time-points BrdU-labelling index, expression of 
cell cycle related proteins, cell differentiation pattern and chromosome 
aberrations were assessed.
RESULTS: After exposure, an immediate cell cycle arrest occurred followed by a 
period of a few weeks where premature differentiation and senescence were 
observed. In all cultures cycling cells expressing low levels of cell cycle 
inhibiting proteins were present and finally dominated the populations. About 
5months after exposure, the cellular and molecular changes attributed to 
differentiation and senescence reappeared and persisted. Concurrently, genetic 
instability was observed, but the aberration yields and types differed between 
repeated experiments. The descendants of cells exposed to carbon ions did not 
senesce earlier and displayed a similar rate of genetic instability as the X-ray 
progeny. For high doses an impaired cell cycle regulation and extended life span 
was observed, but finally cell proliferation ceased in all populations.
CONCLUSIONS: The descendants of irradiated fibroblasts undergo stepwise 
senescence and differentiation. Genetic instability is frequent and an extension 
of the life span may occur.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2007.04.022
PMID: 17499869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Midwifery. 2007 Dec;23(4):433-42. doi: 10.1016/j.midw.2007.01.011. Epub 2007
May  17.

Past and present midwifery education in Turkey.

Sogukpinar N(1), Saydam BK, Bozkurt OD, Ozturk H, Pelik A.

Author information:
(1)Ege University Izmir Ataturk School of Health, Department of Midwifery, 35100 
Bornova, Izmir, Turkey. neriman.sogukpinar@ege.edu.tr

Among criteria relating to the level of development in a country are health 
indicators such as total fertility, maternal mortality, infant mortality, and 
rates of life expectancy at birth. These have a close relationship with the 
quality of health-care services, especially those provided by midwives. An 
improvement in midwifery services can be achieved to a great extent by 
standardised and high-quality midwifery education. Until recently, midwifery 
education has not been standardised in Turkey. Although improvements have been 
made, more needs to be accomplished. In this paper, we report the development of 
midwifery education in Turkey from a historical perspective, dealing with past 
and present applications, and make recommendations to overcome existing 
problems.

DOI: 10.1016/j.midw.2007.01.011
PMID: 17499895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Ann Vasc Surg. 2007 Jul;21(4):474-80. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2007.01.014. Epub
2007  May 14.

Percutaneous therapy to maintain dialysis access successfully prolongs 
functional duration after primary failure.

Bakken AM(1), Galaria II, Agerstrand C, Saad WE, Surowiec SM, Singh MJ, Rhodes 
JM, Lee D, Patel NC, Illig KA, Waldman DL, Davies MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Center for Vascular Disease, University of Rochester, 
601 Elmwood Avenue, Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

The role of endovascular therapy for thrombosed dialysis access has grown 
despite the paucity of data on its viability. The purpose of this study was to 
characterize the outcomes of a universal endovascular dialysis declot policy at 
a tertiary medical center. A database of patients undergoing endovascular 
treatment of thrombosed dialysis access between 1997 and 2003 was maintained. A 
two-puncture, combined percutaneous mechanical and pharmacologic thrombectomy 
technique was used. Data were collected on the success rate, complication rate, 
long-term patency, and presence and location of stenosis. Fistulograms were 
reviewed in all cases to assess lesion characteristics and pre- and 
postprocedure results. Results were standardized to current Society of 
International Radiology and Society for Vascular Surgery criteria. Failure was 
considered as either an anatomic defect requiring therapy or loss of 
functionality of the fistula. Life-table analyses were performed to assess 
time-dependent outcomes. Cox's proportional hazard analyses were performed to 
identify factors associated with outcomes. Values are the mean +/- standard 
error of the mean. There were 114 patients (50% male; average age 58 years, 
range 21-78) who presented with 174 thrombosed grafts. Therapy was performed for 
237 thrombotic events (median 2, range 1-5 thrombotic events per hemodialysis 
access). After successful declot, anastomotic venous stenoses were encountered 
in 72% and central venous stenoses in 18% of cases; no cause was found in 10%. 
All stenoses were treated with balloon angioplasty. The technical failure rate 
was 4.6%. The 30-day all-cause mortality rate was 1.7%, and major morbidity rate 
was 2.4%. There were 413 interventions (236 percutaneous transluminal 
angioplasty and/or 183 declot) performed to maintain patency, which amounted to 
2.3 interventions per patient. Average primary functional dialysis life span was 
6.7 months up to the primary thrombotic event. Aggressive endoluminal therapy 
added a further average of 12 months of functionality (defined as continued 
dialysis access). A universal policy of endovascular therapy for occluded 
dialysis access results in reestablishment of function in the majority of 
patients and will triple functional longevity. Furthermore, while this approach 
remains procedure-intensive, it carries low morbidity and mortality and 
preserves future sites of access.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2007.01.014
PMID: 17499964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Bone Miner Res. 2007 Sep;22(9):1317-28. doi: 10.1359/jbmr.070510.

Osteoporosis in patients with diabetes mellitus.

Hofbauer LC(1), Brueck CC, Singh SK, Dobnig H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, 
Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany. lorenz.hofbauer@uniklinikum-dresden.de

Demographic trends with longer life expectancy and a lifestyle characterized by 
low physical activity and high-energy food intake contribute to an increasing 
incidence of diabetes mellitus and osteoporosis. Diabetes mellitus is a risk 
factor for osteoporotic fractures. Patients with recent onset of type 1 diabetes 
mellitus may have impaired bone formation because of the absence of the anabolic 
effects of insulin and amylin, whereas in long-standing type 1 diabetes 
mellitus, vascular complications may account for low bone mass and increased 
fracture risk. Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus display an increased 
fracture risk despite a higher BMD, which is mainly attributable to the 
increased risk of falling. Strategies to improve BMD and to prevent osteoporotic 
fractures in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus may include optimal glycemic 
control and aggressive prevention and treatment of vascular complications. 
Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus may additionally benefit from early 
visual assessment, regular exercise to improve muscle strength and balance, and 
specific measures for preventing falls.

DOI: 10.1359/jbmr.070510
PMID: 17501667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Biometrics. 2008 Mar;64(1):157-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2007.00826.x.
Epub  2007 May 14.

Nonparametric inference on median residual life function.

Jeong JH(1), Jung SH, Costantino JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, 
USA. jeong@nsabp.pitt.edu

A simple approach to the estimation of the median residual lifetime is proposed 
for a single group by inverting a function of the Kaplan-Meier estimators. A 
test statistic is proposed to compare two median residual lifetimes at any fixed 
time point. The test statistic does not involve estimation of the underlying 
probability density function of failure times under censoring. Extensive 
simulation studies are performed to validate the proposed test statistic in 
terms of type I error probabilities and powers at various time points. One of 
the oldest data sets from the National Surgical Adjuvant Breast and Bowel 
Project (NSABP), which has more than a quarter century of follow-up, is used to 
illustrate the method. The analysis results indicate that, without systematic 
post-operative therapy, a significant difference in median residual lifetimes 
between node-negative and node-positive breast cancer patients persists for 
about 10 years after surgery. The new estimates of the median residual lifetime 
could serve as a baseline for physicians to explain any incremental effects of 
post-operative treatments in terms of delaying breast cancer recurrence or 
prolonging remaining lifetimes of breast cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1541-0420.2007.00826.x
PMID: 17501936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2007 Aug;18(4):432-40. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01351.x. Epub 2007 May 14.

Autogenous onlay bone grafts vs. alveolar distraction osteogenesis for the 
correction of vertically deficient edentulous ridges: a 2-4-year prospective 
study on humans.

Chiapasco M(1), Zaniboni M, Rimondini L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery, and Dentistry, Unit of Oral Surgery, San 
Paolo Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: The purposes of this study were to compare: (a) autogenous bone 
grafts (ABG) and distraction osteogenesis (DO) for their ability in correcting 
vertically deficient mandibular ridges and their capability in maintaining over 
time the vertical bone gain obtained before and after implant placement; and (b) 
the survival and success rates of implants placed in the reconstructed or 
distracted areas.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a 2-year period (2001-2002), 17 patients presenting 
with vertically atrophied partially edentulous mandibles requiring 
implant-supported prosthetic rehabilitation, were included in this study. 
Patients were randomly assigned to two groups. Eight patients (group 1) were 
treated with ABG harvested from the mandibular ramus, while nine patients (group 
2) were treated by means of DO. In group 1, patients received implants 4-5 
months after the reconstructive procedure, while in group 2 implants were placed 
at the time of distraction device removal (approximately 3 months after the 
completion of distraction). A total of 19 endosseous implants were placed in 
group 1, and 21 implants were placed in group 2 patients. For both groups, after 
an additional 3-5-month period, prosthetic rehabilitation was started.
RESULTS: Bone resorption before implant placement was significantly higher in 
group 1 (P=0.01), while no statistically significant differences were found 
between the two groups as far as survival and success rates of implants and 
peri-implant bone resorption after the start of prosthetic loading were 
concerned.
CONCLUSION: The results suggested that: (a) both techniques may effectively 
improve the deficit of vertically resorbed edentulous ridges; (b) survival and 
success rates of implants placed in the reconstructed/distracted areas are 
consistent with those of implants placed in native bone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01351.x
PMID: 17501979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Med Decis Making. 2007 May-Jun;27(3):327-34. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07301822.
Epub  2007 May 14.

The implications of using US-specific EQ-5D preference weights for 
cost-effectiveness evaluation.

Noyes K(1), Dick AW, Holloway RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community and Preventive Medicine, University of Rochester 
School of Medicine, Rochester, New York 14620, USA. 
katia_noyes@urmc.rochester.edu

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to examine the effect of 
country-specific EQ-5D preference weights on the cost-effectiveness (CE) of 
initial pramipexole versus levodopa strategy in patients with Parkinson disease 
(PD).
METHODS: A total of 301 subjects with PD were randomized to initial pramipexole 
or levodopa and followed every 3 months over a 4-year period. Subjects' 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) was measured using EQ-5D, and their 
health preferences were calculated using both the UK and US sets of weights. The 
effectiveness of pramipexole was defined as the additional quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) gained compared to levodopa and was estimated as the area 
between the treatment-specific HRQOL profiles adjusted for baseline difference.
RESULTS: Using the original UK weights, the incremental effectiveness was 0.155 
QALYs, which resulted in the incremental CE ratio (ICER) of $42,989/QALY and a 
probability that pramipexole was cost-effective relative to levodopa of 0.57, 
0.77, and 0.82 when a QALY was valued at $50,000, $100,000, and $150,000, 
respectively. Using the US-specific weights resulted in lower incremental 
effectiveness (0.062 QALYs), higher ICER ($108,498/QALY), and a lower 
probability that pramipexole was cost-effective compared to levodopa at any 
valuation of QALY (0.23 for $50,000, 0.48 for $100,000, and 0.58 for $150,000).
CONCLUSIONS: Country-specific preference weights in clinical-economic trials 
might have important effects on estimates of incremental cost-effectiveness. 
Using US preference weights rather than UK preference weights reduced the 
probability that pramipexole was cost-effective compared to levodopa.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07301822
PMID: 17502449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Circulation. 2007 May 15;115(19):2549-69. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107.182615.

Acute coronary care in the elderly, part I: Non-ST-segment-elevation acute 
coronary syndromes: a scientific statement for healthcare professionals from the 
American Heart Association Council on Clinical Cardiology: in collaboration with 
the Society of Geriatric Cardiology.

Alexander KP(1), Newby LK, Cannon CP, Armstrong PW, Gibler WB, Rich MW, Van de 
Werf F, White HD, Weaver WD, Naylor MD, Gore JM, Krumholz HM, Ohman EM; American 
Heart Association Council on Clinical Cardiology; Society of Geriatric 
Cardiology.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, USA.

BACKGROUND: Age is an important determinant of outcomes for patients with acute 
coronary syndromes (ACS); however, community practice reveals a 
disproportionately lower use of cardiovascular medications and invasive 
treatment even among elderly patients with ACS who would stand to benefit. 
Reasons include limited trial data to guide the care of older adults and 
uncertainty about benefits and risks, particularly with newer medications or 
invasive treatments and in the setting of advanced age or complex health status.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This 2-part American Heart Association scientific statement 
summarizes evidence on patient heterogeneity, clinical presentation, and 
treatment of non-ST-elevation ACS in relation to age (< 65, 65 to 74, 75 to 84, 
and > or = 85 years). In addition, we review methodological issues that 
influence the acquisition and application of evidence to the elderly patients 
treated in community practice. A writing group combining international 
cardiovascular and geriatric perspectives convened to summarize available data 
from trials (5 combined Virtual Coordinating Center for Global Collaborative 
Cardiovascular Research [VIGOUR] trials) and 3 registries (Global Registry of 
Acute Coronary Events, National Registry of Myocardial Infarction, and the Can 
Rapid risk stratification of Unstable angina patients Suppress ADverse outcomes 
with Early implementation of the American College of Cardiology/American Heart 
Association guidelines national quality improvement initiative [CRUSADE]) to 
provide a conceptual framework for future work in the care of the elderly with 
acute cardiac disease. Treatment for non-ST-segment-elevation ACS (Part I) and 
ST-segment-elevation myocardial infarction (Part II) are reviewed. In addition, 
ethical considerations pertaining to acute care and secondary prevention are 
considered (Part II). The primary goal is to identify the areas in which 
sufficient evidence is available to guide practice, as well as to determine 
areas that warrant further study. Although treatment-related benefits should 
rise in an elderly population with high disease risk, data to assess these 
benefits are limited, outcomes of importance vary, and heterogeneity among the 
elderly increases treatment-related risks. Although a uniform approach to care 
in the oldest of the old is unlikely, understanding the major contributors to 
benefits and risks from treatment will advance the ability to apply 
guideline-based care in this subset of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a few recent trials have described treatment effects in 
older patients, others continue to exclude patients on the basis of age. Going 
forward, prospective trials should enroll elderly subjects proportionate to 
their prevalence among the treated population to define risk and benefit. 
Findings from age subgroup analyses should be reported in a consistent manner 
across trials, including absolute and relative risks for efficacy and safety. 
Outcomes of particular relevance to the elderly, such as quality of life, 
physical function, and independence, should also be considered. Creatinine 
clearance should be calculated for every elderly patient to enable appropriate 
dosing. In addition, physicians need an understanding of conditions unique to 
older patients (eg, frailty, cognitive impairment) that influence treatment 
goals and outcomes. With these efforts, treatment risks can be minimized, and 
benefits can be placed in the health context of the elderly patient with ACS.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107.182615
PMID: 17502590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Ann Intern Med. 2007 May 15;146(10):758; author reply 758-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-146-10-200705150-00017.

Life expectancy and colorectal cancer screening.

Burack RC.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2006 Nov 7;145(9):646-53.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-146-10-200705150-00017
PMID: 17502641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Qual Life Res. 2007 Aug;16(6):1007-17. doi: 10.1007/s11136-007-9208-2. Epub
2007  May 15.

Responsiveness to change [corrected] due to supportive-expressive group therapy, 
improvement in mood and disease progression in women with metastatic breast 
cancer.

Lemieux J(1), Beaton DE, Hogg-Johnson S, Bordeleau LJ, Hunter J, Goodwin PJ.

Author information:
(1)Département d'hématologie, Unité de recherche en santé des populations, 
Centre hospitalier affilié universitaire de Québec, pavillon St-Sacrement, 
Quebec, Canada. julie.lemieux@uresp.ulaval.ca

Erratum in
    Qual Life Res. 2007 Oct;16(8):1451.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the responsiveness of six questionnaires using three 
hypotheses of change: (i) change due to supportive-expressive group therapy 
(SEGT), (ii) improved mood defined as a small effect size (.2) on Profile of 
Mood States (POMS) Total Mood Disturbance score and (iii) progression of 
disease.
METHOD: Data from the "Breast Expressive-Supportive Therapy" study, a 
multicentre randomized controlled trial of change due to SEGT versus standard of 
care in women with metastatic breast cancer were used. Questionnaires studied 
were: POMS, Impact of Event Scale, Psychosocial Adjustment to Illness Scale 
(PAIS), EORTC QLQ-C30, Mental Adjustment to Cancer and a Pain visual analog 
scale (VAS). Responsiveness to change was evaluated using the standardized 
response mean. POMS was used as the standard.
RESULTS: POMS was the most responsive questionnaire to change due to SEGT. 
Questionnaires measuring psychosocial attributes were responsive to improvement 
in mood. EORTC QLQ-C30, PAIS, PAIN VAS and MAC were the most responsive to 
disease progression. More responsive questionnaires were associated with the 
smallest sample size required to detect an effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Responsiveness to change is context specific. The POMS was the most 
responsive questionnaire to psychosocial therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-007-9208-2
PMID: 17503220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2007;64(3):263-97. doi: 10.2190/L0K1-87W4-9R01-7127.

Aspirations for older age in the 21st century: what is successful aging?

Bowling A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Population Sciences, University College 
London. a.bowling@ucl.ac.uk

The literature on successful aging reveals a wide range of definitions, 
generally reflecting the academic discipline of the investigator. Biomedical 
models primarily emphasise physical and mental functioning as successful aging; 
socio-psychological models emphasise social functioning, life satisfaction and 
psychological resources as successful aging. Several studies also identify these 
factors as the precursors of successful aging. Moreover, research shows that 
older people consider themselves to have aged successfully, but classifications 
based on traditional medical models do not. Fewer studies have explored lay 
views, and most of these have been exploratory or restricted to specific groups 
of areas. A model of successful aging needs to be multi-dimensional, incorporate 
a lay perspective for social significance, use a continuum rather than 
dichotomous cut-offs for "success" and lack of, and distinguish clearly between 
predictor and constituent variables.

DOI: 10.2190/L0K1-87W4-9R01-7127
PMID: 17503689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Sports Med. 2007;37(6):533-45. doi: 10.2165/00007256-200737060-00006.

The contribution of physical activity and sedentary behaviours to the growth and 
development of children and adolescents: implications for overweight and 
obesity.

Hills AP(1), King NA, Armstrong TP.

Author information:
(1)School of Human Movement Studies, Institute of Health & Biomedical 
Innovation, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia.

The obesity epidemic is a global trend and is of particular concern in children. 
Recent reports have highlighted the severity of obesity in children by 
suggesting: "today's generation of children will be the first for over a century 
for whom life expectancy falls." This review assesses the evidence that 
identifies the important role of physical activity in the growth, development 
and physical health of young people, owing to its numerous physical and 
psychological health benefits. Key issues, such as "does a sedentary lifestyle 
automatically lead to obesity" and "are levels of physical activity in today's 
children less than physical activity levels in children from previous 
generations?", are also discussed.Today's environment enforces an inactive 
lifestyle that is likely to contribute to a positive energy balance and 
childhood obesity. Whether a child or adolescent, the evidence is conclusive 
that physical activity is conducive to a healthy lifestyle and prevention of 
disease. Habitual physical activity established during the early years may 
provide the greatest likelihood of impact on mortality and longevity. It is 
evident that environmental factors need to change if physical activity 
strategies are to have a significant impact on increasing habitual physical 
activity levels in children and adolescents. There is also a need for more 
evidence-based physical activity guidelines for children of all ages. Efforts 
should be concentrated on facilitating an active lifestyle for children in an 
attempt to put a stop to the increasing prevalence of obese children.

DOI: 10.2165/00007256-200737060-00006
PMID: 17503878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. J Clin Psychiatry. 2007 May;68(5):e12. doi: 10.4088/jcp.0507e12.

Series introduction and cardiovascular disease in patients with schizophrenia.

Hennekens CH(1), Newcomer JW.

Author information:
(1)Center of Excellence and Department of Biomedical Science, Florida Atlantic 
University, Boca Raton, Fla, USA.

DOI: 10.4088/jcp.0507e12
PMID: 17503970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Jun;61(6):999-1014. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01385.x.

Long-term complications of antiretroviral therapy: lipoatrophy.

Waters L(1), Nelson M.

Author information:
(1)Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, Department of HIV/GU Medicine, London, UK. 
laura.waters@btinternet.com

The effective use of potent antiretroviral therapy has dramatically improved the 
life expectancy for HIV-infected individuals. Long-term complications of both 
HIV-infection and antiretroviral agents are therefore of increasing concern. 
Lipoatrophy (LA) or fat wasting is a complication most frequently associated 
with nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors, thymidine analogues 
particularly. LA can be stigmatising and is associated with psychosocial 
complication. It can occur in isolation or as part of the 'metabolic' or 
'lipodystrophy' syndrome, a triad of LA, fat accumulation and metabolic 
disturbance (insulin resistance and dyslipidaemia) with a subsequently increased 
risk of cardiovascular events. We aimed to review the definition, prevalence, 
pathogenesis, implications and treatment of HIV/highly active antiretroviral 
therapy-associated fat loss. We performed a review of PubMed, Medline and recent 
conference abstracts for information on LA. The current treatments available for 
treating LA are limited. Switching away from thymidine analogues can provide a 
small benefit but improvement is, at best, slow and partial. Specific medical 
therapies such as glitazones, metformin and stating have been disappointing to 
date. Surgical fillers can yield marked results but are costly, time consuming 
and only of value for facial LA, not other sites. Ultimately, prevention of this 
condition is the best approach by avoiding thymidine analogues wherever possible 
or careful monitoring with early switching away from these agents. New therapies 
to treat pre-existing fat loss are required.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01385.x
PMID: 17504362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Apr;13(2):125-7.

Successful surgical repair of an elderly patient with tetralogy of Fallot: a 
case report.

Tsutsumi K(1), Ito T, Takeda N, Kobayashi M, Nagumo M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Ashikaga Red Cross Hospital, Ashikaga, 
Japan.

We report on a rare case of a 61-year-old female patient with tetralogy of 
Fallot who had a late radical repair. The patient had no previous surgical 
interventions, and her postoperative course was uneventful. One year after the 
repair, the patient is doing well and has no symptoms of cardiac failure. 
Surgical treatment greatly benefited our patient by improving her functional 
status and extending her life expectancy.

PMID: 17505422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2007 Mar;51(2):327-33. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-27302007000200024.

[Percutaneous coronary intervention in diabetes mellitus: an updated analysis of 
medical practice].

[Article in Portuguese]

Quadros A(1), Diemer F, Lima T, Abdalla R, Vizotto M, Gottschall CA, Schaan BD.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Hemodinâmica, Instituto de Cardiologia do Rio Grande do Sul, 
Fundação Universitária de Cardiologia, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Patients with diabetes and coronary artery disease are frequently considered for 
myocardial revascularization procedures, aiming at cardiovascular events risk 
reduction and a better quality of life. In clinical practice, decisions 
concerning surgery or percutaneous coronary intervention are frequently 
difficult, because of cases' severity, disease extension and co-morbidities 
association. Beyond that, the bulk of literature information was generated by 
subgroup analysis of randomized clinical trials, which were designed for the 
general population, not for diabetics. The aim of this study was to review 
literature on coronary percutaneous intervention in diabetic patients, and also 
to show recent data from the experience in this procedure at the Catheterization 
Laboratory of the Cardiology Institute of RS.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-27302007000200024
PMID: 17505642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


