S.E.M., 0.027) and the aortic stiffness index (P=0.0029; coefficient, 0.334; 
S.E.M., 0.423) predicted longitudinal SR. Despite the presence of a successful 
repair for AoC, in the absence of hypertension, longitudinal deformation 
properties were significantly impaired. Moreover, the degree of longitudinal SR 
impairment was correlated with age at repair and aortic stiffness. Early repair 
can delay the onset of hypertension in postcoarctectomy patients, but cannot 
prevent the innate structural and functional abnormalities of the aorta and 
their deleterious effect on myocardial deformation properties.

DOI: 10.1042/CS20070085
PMID: 17477843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. BMC Geriatr. 2007 May 3;7:10. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-7-10.

Ten commandments for the future of ageing research in the UK: a vision for 
action.

Franco OH, Kirkwood TB, Powell JR, Catt M, Goodwin J, Ordovas JM, van der 
Ouderaa F.

Increases in longevity resulting from improvements in health care and living 
conditions together with a decrease in fertility rates have contributed to a 
shift towards an aged population profile. For the first time the UK has more 
people over age 60 than below 16 years of age. The increase in longevity has not 
been accompanied by an increase in disease-free life expectancy and research 
into ageing is required to improve the health and quality of life of older 
people. However, as the House of Lords reported, ageing research in the UK is 
not adequately structured and a clear vision and plan are urgently required. 
Hence, with the aim of setting a common vision for action in ageing research in 
the UK, a 'Spark Workshop' was organised. International experts from different 
disciplines related to ageing research gathered to share their perspectives and 
to evaluate the present status of ageing research in the UK. A detailed 
assessment of potential improvements was conducted and the prospective secondary 
gains were considered, which were subsequently distilled into a list of 'ten 
commandments'. We believe that these commandments, if followed, will help to 
bring about the necessary implementation of an action plan for ageing research 
in the UK, commensurate with the scale of the challenge, which is to transform 
the manifold opportunities of increased longevity into actual delivery of a 
society living not only for longer, but also healthier, wealthier and happier.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-7-10
PMCID: PMC1868025
PMID: 17477869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. MCN Am J Matern Child Nurs. 2007 May-Jun;32(3):140-7; quiz 148-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.NMC.0000269561.97239.d8.

Using reflective nursing practice to improve care of women with congenital heart 
disease considering pregnancy.

Kilpatrick K(1), Purden M.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
kelley.kilpatrick@mail.mcgill.ca

This article examines the issue of congenital heart disease (CHD) in women, 
specifically women who are considering pregnancy. Some of the authors' 
experiences with women with CHD are described, and a reflective approach to 
clinical practice is used to gain a greater understanding of the women's 
perspective. Women with CHD need to balance general lifespan developmental tasks 
with issues specific to their CHD, such as changes in functional abilities or 
the possibility of a shortened life expectancy. In women with CHD, 
physiological, psychological, and family issues need to be considered when they 
are contemplating pregnancy. As women with CHD move through this debate, nurses 
may play a key role in assisting them in their decision-making process by 
exploring issues related to pregnancy and CHD. This exercise in reflective 
nursing practice allowed us to review the literature, gain new knowledge from 
our patients, use that knowledge to help other patients, and thoughtfully 
consider what still needs to be discovered in the care of reproductive-aged 
women with CHD. The subject of pregnancy contemplation in women with CHD in 
requires systematic research.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NMC.0000269561.97239.d8
PMID: 17479048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Qual Life Res. 2007 Aug;16(6):1019-28. doi: 10.1007/s11136-007-9210-8. Epub
2007  May 4.

Validity, reliability and clinical relevance of EORTC QLQ-C30 and LC13 in 
patients with chest malignancies in a palliative setting.

Nicklasson M(1), Bergman B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergology, Göteborg University, 
Gothenburg 413 45, Sweden.

AIMS: To evaluate the reliability and validity of the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and LC13 questionnaire in a 
palliative setting, and to undertake a broad clinical evaluation of the 
questionnaire.
PATIENTS: One hundred and twelve patients with advanced lung cancer or pleural 
mesothelioma, not amenable to curative or life-prolonging treatment, were 
consecutively included.
METHODS: Construct validity and reliability of the EORTC questionnaire were 
examined by multitrait analysis and internal consistency. Criterion validity was 
examined by variance by and correlation with an array of clinical measures, 
including tumour stage, performance status, 6-min walk test, spirometry, and 
blood tests. Concurrent validity was evaluated by established scales for 
emotional distress and pain.
RESULTS: With the exception of cognitive functioning, reliability and construct 
validity of the QLQ-C30 was confirmed. Criterion and concurrent validity was 
supported for most of the functioning and symptom scales. In a multivariate 
stepwise regression analysis, EORTC physical functioning was predicted by 
performance status and 6-min walk distance (r (2)=.70), emotional functioning by 
HADS anxiety ratings (r (2)=.59), and global quality of life by performance 
status, HADS depression ratings, and FEV1 %predicted (r (2)=.50).
CONCLUSION: The results support the validity and clinical relevance and of the 
EORTC questionnaire in a palliative setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-007-9210-8
PMID: 17479356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 2007;28(2):152-4.

Brain metastasis and carcinomatous meningitis from vulvar squamous cell 
carcinoma: case report.

Vázquez JP(1), Cobo SL, Antón FM, Asado AC, Vidart JA, Coronado P, Díaz-Rubio E.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department, Hospital Clinic San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Brain metastasis and carcinomatous meningitis from gynecological 
tumors are an uncommon event, usually related to choriocarcinoma, ovarian and 
cervical cancer.
CASE: A 74-year-old woman was diagnosed with locally advanced vulvar squamous 
carcinoma. Initial therapy consisted of multiagent chemotherapy and vulvar, 
pelvis and groin irradiation. The patient subsequently developed widely spread 
metastatic disease including brain and meningeal metastases.
CONCLUSION: The rising incidence of central nervous system metastasis in the 
last two decades is probably associated with treatment-related improvement in 
life expectancy. To our knowledge, this is the first case reported of brain 
metastases and meningeal carcinomatosis associated with vulvar squamous cell 
carcinoma.

PMID: 17479684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Gynecol Oncol. 2007 Jul;106(1):164-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.015. Epub
 2007 May 3.

A multicenter phase II study of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin and oxaliplatin 
in recurrent ovarian cancer.

Recchia F(1), Saggio G, Amiconi G, Di Blasio A, Cesta A, Candeloro G, Carta G, 
Necozione S, Mantovani G, Rea S.

Author information:
(1)Unità operativa di Oncologia, Ospedale Civile di Avezzano, AQ, Italy. 
frecchia1946@libero.it <frecchia1946@libero.it>

OBJECTIVE: Pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) and oxaliplatin (LOHP) are 
active as single agents in the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer (ROC). This 
phase II study investigated the safety and activity of PLD and LOHP used in 
combination to treat ROC.
METHODS: Eligibility criteria included disease recurrence after one (45%) or 
more lines (55%) of chemotherapy, performance status <or=2 and life expectancy 
>3 months. Treatment was 40 mg/m(2) PLD and 120 mg/m(2) LOHP, administered over 
2 days, every 3 weeks. Response to therapy was assessed using the RECIST 
criteria.
RESULTS: Forty patients with ROC enrolled in the study from 10/2001 to 10/2005; 
27 patients were platinum-sensitive and 13 were platinum-resistant. Major 
toxicities included grade 3-4 neutropenia (37%) and grade 2 palmar-plantar 
erythrodysesthesia (10%). The overall response rate was 67.5%, with 30% stable 
disease rate and 2.5% progressive disease rate. The median progression-free 
survival (PFS) was 9.6 months, while median overall survival was 18.3 months, 
with no statistically significant difference in PFS between platinum-resistant 
and platinum-sensitive patients.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the combination of PLD and LOHP shows activity in 
ROC with a manageable toxicity profile and can be safely administered in heavily 
pre-treated patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2007.03.015
PMID: 17481704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Prev Med. 2007 Jul;45(1):83-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.03.007. Epub 2007
Mar  20.

Impact of influenza vaccination disparities on elderly mortality in the United 
States.

Fiscella K(1), Dressler R, Meldrum S, Holt K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Rochester School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, NY 14620, USA. Kevin_Fiscella@URMC.rochester.edu

Comment in
    Prev Med. 2007 Jul;45(1):88-9.

PURPOSE: Racial and ethnic disparities in influenza vaccination among the 
elderly are well documented, but their impact on minority mortality is unknown.
METHODS: We model racial and ethnic parity in influenza vaccination on reduction 
in annual minority deaths among the elderly using age-, sex-, race-, and 
ethnicity-specific influenza vaccination data from the 2002 Medicare Current 
Beneficiary Survey, national mortality data and a relative risk (0.89; 95% 
confidence interval 0.80-0.98) for all-cause mortality during influenza season 
associated with vaccination. We also estimate the impact of 90% influenza 
coverage (Healthy People 2010 objective) on annual minority and white deaths. 
Lastly, we estimate years of minority lives saved from parity in annual 
vaccination beginning at age 65.
RESULTS: Parity in influenza vaccination would reduce elderly minority deaths by 
1880 annually. Achievement of 90% vaccination coverage would reduce minority and 
White deaths by 3750 and 11,840 annually. Parity in vaccination beginning at age 
65 and continuing through out life would save more than 33,000 minority years of 
life.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on conservative estimates, elimination of racial and ethnic 
disparities in influenza vaccination would significantly reduce elderly minority 
mortality and save substantial years of minority life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.03.007
PMID: 17481720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Spine J. 2007 May-Jun;7(3):292-300. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2006.04.004. Epub
2006  Nov 14.

Preoperative use of recombinant human erythropoietin in pediatric orthopedics: a 
decision model for long-term outcomes.

Vitale MG(1), Roye BD, Ruchelsman DE, Roye DP Jr.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University and New York Presbyterian Hospital, 600 W. 168th Street, 
7th Floor, New York, NY 10032, USA. mgv1@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Spine surgery for scoliosis is associated with significant 
blood loss and may require blood transfusion. The risks inherent in blood 
transfusion have inspired interventions, including human recombinant 
erythropoietin (rHuEPO), which has emerged as a safe and effective adjunct in 
minimizing exposure to allogenic blood in children undergoing scoliosis surgery. 
However, there is little information in the literature on their economic impact 
on the health-care system.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
rHuEPO in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: We designed a decision analytic model capturing costs and 
potential long-term outcomes of transfusion-related complications to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of preoperative rHuEPO with a control group and a common 
alternative, preoperative autologous donation (PAD).
PATIENT SAMPLE: This is a decision analytic model. Decision modeling relies on a 
summation of the probability of different clinical studies; no patients were 
specifically studied.
OUTCOME MEASURES: The standard cost-effectiveness ratio (C/E) of $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) was used as the threshold value for 
determining the cost-effectiveness of these two preoperative intervention 
strategies.
METHODS: From the model we calculated the probability that a patient would 
experience transfusion-related complications based on the mean number of 
allogenic units transferred as a result of scoliosis surgery. The standard C/E 
of $50,000 per QALY was used as the threshold value for determining the 
cost-effectiveness. Some aspects of the model were derived from retrospective 
data from the literature. Sensitivity analyses were also conducted to discover 
which variables, when changed within the accepted range, caused the final result 
of the model to change significantly.
RESULTS: Results indicated a cost per year-of-life-saved exceeding $1 million 
for the PAD arm and over $1.5 million for the rHuEPO arm. The low rates of 
transfusion in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis surgery and the relative safety 
of the blood supply create a scenario where even inexpensive interventions are 
not cost-effective. However, rHuEPO would become cost-effective if decreased 
transfusion rates or higher postoperative hematocrit resulted in decreased 
length of stay.
CONCLUSION: The use of rHuEPO preoperatively and the use of PAD are not 
cost-effective although both techniques remain clinically effective tools.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2006.04.004
PMID: 17482112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Jul;43(10):1514-28. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.03.017. Epub
 2007 May 4.

Cytotoxic therapy for the elderly with metastatic breast cancer: a review on 
safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy.

Hamberg P(1), Verweij J, Seynaeve C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Daniel den 
Hoed Cancer Center, PO Box 5201, 3008 AE Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
a.hamberg@erasmusmc.nl

As the incidence of invasive breast cancer, mainly developing at older age, is 
rising, the absolute number of elderly developing metastatic disease is also 
increasing. In view of improved life expectancy, sociocultural changes and 
better supportive measures for chemotherapy-induced toxicity, there is an 
increasing request for the administration of chemotherapy in elderly. At the 
moment, medical oncologists are still reluctant to use chemotherapy in elderly 
partly because of concern about increased toxicity and poor tolerability of this 
patient cohort, and the inability to appropriately select elderly that may 
benefit from chemotherapy. The question is whether this attitude remains 
justified. In this review, the current status of clinical research in the area 
of metastatic breast cancer regarding toxicity and activity of chemotherapy in 
older breast cancer patients is discussed. Further, data on pharmacokinetics are 
emphasised as age-related physiologic changes may affect these features with 
consequences for toxicity and decision-making. Moreover, data on assessment 
tools trying to characterise the 'functional age' are reviewed. In general, the 
literature data are scarce and hampered by major limitations, while 
pharmacokinetic data indicate that a different approach in older breast cancer 
patients does not always seem justified. To increase our knowledge aiming at 
optimisation of cancer treatment in elderly, there is a clear necessity for 
prospective, well-designed studies with emphasis on the particular requirements 
of older patients and incorporation of pharmacokinetic and -dynamic evaluation 
of cytotoxic agents used in this specific group. As in other research areas, 
maximal progress will be achieved by joined efforts of co-operative research 
groups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.03.017
PMID: 17482454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. QJM. 2007 Jun;100(6):383-8. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcm030. Epub 2007 May 4.

The time horizons of formal decision analyses.

Benbassat J(1), Baumal R.

Author information:
(1)Myers-JDC Brookdale Institute, PO Box 13087, Jerusalem 91037, Israel. 
benbasat@jdc.org.il

Clinical decision analyses use time horizons that vary from hours to the 
patient's entire life. Analyses of decisions with a lifetime horizon commonly 
use Markov models, which simulate the patient's lifespan by dividing it into 
equal periods (cycles). At each cycle, the model exposes a hypothetical cohort 
to the competing hazards of normal aging and of the disease in question 
(disease-specific hazards), and the results are presented as years of life 
expectancy. This paper highlights two limitations of lifetime Markov models that 
have been ignored in recent publications. First, since there are no readily 
available data on changes in disease-specific hazards over time, these hazards 
are often derived from short-term follow-up studies, and assumed to be constant 
over the patient's entire life. Second, results may be better presented in terms 
of health states (i.e. proportions of patients expected to recover completely, 
recover with a disability or die) rather than life expectancy. Although 
well-known, these two limitations require re-emphasis. They may be avoided by 
restricting the time horizon of decision analyses and presenting results as 
health states as well as life expectancies. When a lifetime horizon is 
necessary, the performance of Markov models may be improved by the using of 
time-variant disease-specific hazards derived from long-term follow-up studies, 
or from theoretical models that simulate more closely the disease progression 
over time, rather than assuming constant disease-specific hazards.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcm030
PMID: 17483495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Heart Valve Dis. 2007 Mar;16(2):151-8.

Single-center outcome analysis of 1,161 patients with St. Jude medical and ATS 
open pivot mechanical heart valves.

Bernet FH(1), Baykut D, Grize L, Zerkowski HR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital Basel, Spitalstrasse 
21, 4031 Basel, Switzerland. bernetf@uhbs.ch

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: The clinical performance of mechanical heart 
valves and valve-related complications are important safety endpoints in 
patients after heart valve replacement. In this retrospective analysis, the mid- 
to long-term clinical outcomes of two similar bileaflet heart valves, routinely 
implanted at the authors' institution over an 11-year period, were compared.
METHODS: Between January 1993 and December 2003, a total of 1,161 patients (758 
males, 403 females) received either a St. Jude Medical (SJM) or ATS mechanical 
heart valve. Follow up was obtained via an in-house Quality Management Database, 
ascertained by telephone questionnaire of the patients and/or family physicians. 
Follow up was 98.9% complete; the median follow up was 4.6 years; total follow 
up was 5,624 patient-years (pt-yr).
RESULTS: A total of 604 SJM and 601 ATS prostheses was implanted as isolated (n 
= 669) or combined (n = 492) procedures. The overall 30-day mortality for SJM 
and ATS was 4.1% and 3.4%, respectively (p = 0.45). Cumulative survival and 
freedom from valve-related mortality at 10 years for SJM and ATS valves were 66 
+/- 3% versus 68 +/- 5% (p = 0.84) and 96 +/- 1% versus 97 +/- 1% (p = 0.36), 
respectively. No structural valve failure was encountered for both valve types. 
Freedom from overall valve-related complications at 10 years was 79 +/- 4% for 
SJM and 66 +/- 6% for ATS (p = 0.08). The linearized rates for valve-related 
adverse events for SJM and ATS valves, respectively, were: thromboembolism 0.9 
and 1.1%/pt-yr; major bleeding requiring transfusion 0.3 and 0.5%/pt-yr; 
prosthetic endocarditis 0.03 and 0.1%/pt-yr; paravalvular leak 0.1 and 
0.6%/pt-yr.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of an 11-year experience, both bileaflet valves showed 
very good clinical results, with low incidences of adverse events during the 
mid-term outcome. Gender and/or concomitant coronary artery disease were not 
predictors for reduced life expectancy.

PMID: 17484464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2007 Apr;9(2):90-8. doi: 
10.1007/s11936-007-0002-9.

Renal artery stenosis.

Zeller T(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Angiologie, Herz-Zentrum Bad Krozingen, Südring 15, D-79189 Bad 
Krozingen, Germany. thomas.zeller@herzzentrum.de

Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) and aortoarteritis are the most frequent causes of 
secondary hypertension induced by renal artery stenosis (RAS). Revascularization 
of this disease entity usually cures arterial hypertension. Demographic 
evolution leads to an increasing incidence of atherosclerotic RAS, one of the 
major causes of end-stage renal failure. Furthermore, atherosclerotic RAS leads 
to deterioration of primary hypertension, progression of atherosclerosis 
manifestation such as occlusive and aneurysmatic peripheral artery disease, and 
chronic or acute organ damage such as left ventricular hypertrophy and recurrent 
flash pulmonary edema. Despite the lack of sufficiently powered randomized 
controlled trials, each hemodynamically relevant RAS (eg, > or = 70%) should be 
considered for stent angioplasty in patients without end-stage ischemic 
nephropathy or limited life expectancy due to concomitant disease (eg, cancer). 
Drug-eluting stents will probably reduce the overall low in-stent restenosis 
rate of 10% to 20%. Interventions in patients with dialysis-dependent end-stage 
nephropathy are left to appropriate clinical study protocols.

DOI: 10.1007/s11936-007-0002-9
PMID: 17484811


554. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 2007 May-Jun;29(3):223-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2007.01.005.

Improving treatment of depression among low-income patients with cancer: the 
design of the ADAPt-C study.

Ell K(1), Quon B, Quinn DI, Dwight-Johnson M, Wells A, Lee PJ, Xie B.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-0411, USA. ell@usc.edu

OBJECTIVE: This article describes the randomized clinical trial methodology for 
a population-based study of oncology patients receiving cancer care in a public 
sector medical center. The primary goal is to test the effectiveness of 
socioculturally tailored collaborative care intervention in improving depression 
and quality of life outcomes among low-income ethnic minority patients with 
major depression and cancer.
METHODS: The Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) depression scale was used to 
identify patients meeting criteria for major depression (one cardinal depression 
symptom plus a PHQ-9 score of > or =10). Study-eligible patients were >/=90 days 
from cancer diagnosis who were receiving acute cancer treatment or follow-up 
care in oncology clinics. Patients with advanced disease limiting life 
expectancy to <6 months, acutely suicidal or on antipsychotic medication were 
excluded. Allowing for attrition due to death or loss to follow-up, the study 
was powered at the 80% level to detect a 20% difference between study arms in 
the proportion of patients with >/=50% reduction in PHQ-9 symptoms at 12 months.
RESULTS: Of 2330 patients screened, 23.2% met criteria. An 82.4% enrollment rate 
resulted in 446 primarily women being recruited and randomized to intervention 
or usual care.
CONCLUSION: The study applies methods used in primary care depression trials 
with adaptations for oncology care clinics and for low-income minority patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2007.01.005
PMCID: PMC1868447
PMID: 17484939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2007;60(6):577-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjps.2006.11.012. Epub 2007 Jan 24.

Analysis of functional results and quality of life following free jejunal flaps 
for reconstruction after upper aerodigestive neoplastic resection: the St 
James's experience.

Hanson RP(1), Chow TK, Feehan E, Eadie PA, Timon CT, Keogh S.

Author information:
(1)Plastic and Reconstructive Department, St James's Hospital, St James's Gate, 
Dublin 8, Ireland. rhanson@eircom.net

Surgical treatment of hypopharyngeal cancers with extension to the postcricoid 
region generally requires a circumferential pharyngolaryngoesphagectomy followed 
by reconstruction of the upper aerodigestive tract. Many techniques have been 
described in order to achieve a safe and functional reconstruction. 
Interposition of the jejunal free flap (JFF) is a well-established technique and 
is the flap of choice in our unit. This is a retrospective review of all 
patients who required a JFF following pharyngolaryngoesphagectomy over an 9-year 
period. We studied medical charts, histological reports, and speech and language 
therapy assessments. Eight of the nine surviving patients completed a quality of 
life questionnaire. Analysis was carried out on patient demographics, flap 
survival, patient survival and quality of life including swallow function and 
speech restoration. A total of 23 patients had 24 jejunal free flaps. There were 
four perioperative deaths. Two flaps failed, and were salvaged with a second JFF 
in one case and a gastric pull-up in the second. Functioning swallow was 
established in 74% of patients with four patients complaining of dysphagia. 
Speech was restored using an electrolarynx or Blom Singer valve in 70% of 
patients. Most patients required radiotherapy as part of their adjuvant 
treatment. In our hands the JFF for reconstruction following 
pharyngolaryngoesophageal resection allows restoration of function following 
major ablative surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2006.11.012
PMID: 17485043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 May-Jun;26(3):684-95. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.26.3.684.

Assessing a structured, quantitative health outcomes approach to drug 
risk-benefit analysis.

Garrison LP Jr(1), Towse A, Bresnahan BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, USA. 
lgarrisn@u.washington.edu

Regulatory authorities make difficult risk-benefit decisions when approving new 
drugs. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) advisory committees and reviewers must 
consider a complex body of evidence, including efficacy and safety results of 
trials, disease epidemiology, potential side effects, and patients' needs. 
However, this menu of information is not usually presented in a consistent and 
integrated framework. The members of an FDA review panel vote with some 
unobserved, implicit weighting of the evidence. This paper argues that outcomes 
research tools for modeling long-term health outcomes, measuring health 
preferences, and establishing the value of additional information could provide 
a more structured, transparent, and quantitative process of assessing 
risk-benefit balance.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.26.3.684
PMID: 17485745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2007 Jan-Feb;40(1):25-8. doi: 
10.1590/s0037-86822007000100005.

[Population parameters for Triatoma sordida Stal, 1859: the most frequent vector 
for Chagas disease in the Triângulo Mineiro (Heteroptera, Triatominae)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pelli A(1), da Silva MA, Sarmento FR, Martins E, da Mata SA, Domingues MA, 
Ramirez LE.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ciências Biológicas, Universidade Federal do Triângulo 
Mineiro, Uberaba, MG. apelli.oikos@dcb.uftm.edu.br

Triatoma sordida is the most frequent vector for Trypanosoma cruzi, Chagas, 
1909, in Uberaba, State of Minas Gerais. The objective of this study was to 
construct a dynamic life table for Triatoma sordida with the aim of supplying 
support data for controlling its populations.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822007000100005
PMID: 17486249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Acta Neurol Taiwan. 2007 Mar;16(1):7-12.

Health-related quality of life after stroke: review of the literature and 
implications for future research.

Tseng MC(1), Lin HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Business Management, National Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Limits on health care resources mandate that resource-allocation decisions be 
guided by consideration of cost in relation to the associated expected benefits. 
It therefore leads to an increased demand for economic evaluation and medical 
technology assessment. Nowadays, cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) has emerged 
as a favored analytic technique for economic evaluation in health care. 
Currently the leading standard in Western countries is the use of 
health-adjusted life years (HAYLs) in CEA of medical care and health 
interventions, as well as in estimating burden of disease. Being an umbrella 
term of a family of measures, HALYs include quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). In this review we give a concise 
overview on QALYs and DALYs, and examine variations in QALYs and DALYs estimates 
currently used in stroke studies. Given the lack of reliable and valid 
measurement methods in eliciting utility values in QALYs or disability values in 
DALYs, CEA needs to be addressed in a clear and transparent way to ensure its 
proper use in practice.

PMID: 17486727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2007 Jan;85(1):1-15. doi: 10.1139/Y06-105.

Donor cell transplantation for myocardial disease: does it complement current 
pharmacological therapies?

McMullen NM(1), Pasumarthi KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Sir Charles Tupper Medical Building, Dalhousie 
University, Halifax, Canada.

Heart failure secondary to ischemic heart disease, hypertension, and myocardial 
infarction is a common cause of death in developed countries. Although 
pharmacological therapies are very effective, poor prognosis and shorter life 
expectancy of heart disease patients clearly indicate the need for alternative 
interventions to complement the present therapies. Since the progression of 
heart disease is associated with the loss of myocardial cells, the concept of 
donor cell transplantation into host myocardium is emerging as an attractive 
strategy to repopulate the damaged tissue. To this end, a number of donor cell 
types have been tested for their ability to increase the systolic function of 
diseased hearts in both experimental and clinical settings. Although initial 
clinical trials with bone marrow stem cells are encouraging, long-term 
consequences of such interventions are yet to be rigorously examined. While 
additional laboratory studies are required to address several issues in this 
field, there is also a clear need for further characterization of drug 
interactions with donor cells in these interventions. Here, we provide a brief 
summary of current pharmacological and cell-based therapies for heart disease. 
Further, we discuss the potential of various donor cell types in myocardial 
repair, mechanisms underlying functional improvement in cell-based therapies, as 
well as potential interactions between pharmacological and cell-based therapies.

DOI: 10.1139/Y06-105
PMID: 17487241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Can J Physiol Pharmacol. 2007 Jan;85(1):179-83. doi: 10.1139/y06-095.

The public health and safety consequences of sleep disorders.

Sigurdson K(1), Ayas NT.

Author information:
(1)Sleep Disorders Program, UBC Hospital, 2211 Westbrook Mall, Vancouver, BC V6T 
2B5, Canada.

Sleep deprivation and medical disorders of sleep are common in today's society 
and have significant public health implications. In this article, we address 3 
specific issues related to the public health and safety consequences of sleep 
disorders. First, we review data that has linked sleep restriction to a variety 
of adverse physiologic and long-term health outcomes including all-cause 
mortality, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. Second, we will review recent 
data that has demonstrated that therapy for obstructive sleep apnea (the most 
common respiratory disorder of sleep) is an extremely efficient use of 
healthcare resources (in terms of dollars spent per quality adjusted life year 
gained), and compares favorably with other commonly funded medical therapies. 
Finally, we will review data that illustrate the potential adverse patient and 
occupational safety impacts of the extreme work schedules of housestaff 
(physicians in training).

DOI: 10.1139/y06-095
PMID: 17487258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Can J Cardiol. 2007 May 1;23(6):467-73. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70786-9.

Preventing cardiovascular disease among Canadians: what are the potential 
benefits of treating hypertension or dyslipidemia?

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Kaouache M, Lowensteyn I.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Division of General Internal 
Medicine, The Montreal General Hospital, Montreal, Canada. 
steven.grover@mcgill.ca

BACKGROUND: Treatments for hypertension and dyslipidemia to prevent the 
development of cardiovascular disease compete for the same finite number of 
health care dollars. Therefore, the potential benefits of treating Canadians 
without cardiovascular disease or diabetes who would currently be targeted by 
the national treatment guidelines were estimated and compared.
STUDY DESIGN: Canadian Heart Health Surveys data were used to estimate the 
number of Canadians requiring intervention. The Cardiovascular Life Expectancy 
Model, a previously validated Markov model, was used to calculate the increased 
life expectancy and decreased morbidity associated with treating risk factors to 
target.
RESULTS: Among 8.44 million adults 40 to 74 years of age without cardiovascular 
disease or diabetes, it was estimated that approximately 2.33 million would 
require treatment for dyslipidemia and 2.34 million for hypertension. The 
estimated Framingham 10-year coronary risk averaged 12.4% versus 9.6%, 
respectively. Treating dyslipidemia was associated with an average increased 
life expectancy of 1.67 years and 1.81 years of life free of cardiovascular 
disease. Treating hypertension was expected to increase life expectancy by 0.94 
years and years of life free of cardiovascular disease by 1.29 years. The 
population benefits associated with treating dyslipidemia or hypertension would 
be 2.5 million and 1.4 million person years of life saved, respectively. 
Overall, the person years of treatment required to save one year of life was 
estimated to average 20 years for dyslipidemia therapy and 38 years for 
hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: The potential benefits associated with treating hypertension or 
dyslipidemia to prevent cardiovascular disease are substantial. However, 
compared with hypertension guidelines, dyslipidemia guidelines target 
higher-risk patients. Accordingly, given the relative efficacy of each 
treatment, the forecasted benefits associated with treating dyslipidemia are 
substantially greater than those associated with hypertension therapy.

HISTORIQUE : Les traitements antihypertensifs ou hypolipidémiants qui visent à 
prévenir les maladies cardiovasculaires sont, comme toute autre mesure 
thérapeutique, en butte aux contraintes budgétaires qui prévalent en santé. 
C’est pourquoi les auteurs ont voulu évaluer et comparer les avantages 
potentiels du traitement prophylactique chez les Canadiens indemnes de maladie 
cardiovasculaire ou de diabète, mais néanmoins actuellement ciblés par les 
directives thérapeutiques nationales.
MODÈLE DE L’ÉTUDE : Les données de l’Enquête canadienne sur la santé 
cardiovasculaire ont été utilisées pour estimer le nombre de Canadiens 
nécessitant une intervention. Le Cardiovascular Life Expectancy Model, un modèle 
de Markov déjà préalablement validé a été utilisé pour calculer l’augmentation 
de l’espérance de vie et la baisse de la morbidité pouvant découler d’une 
correction des facteurs de risque correspondant à des objectifs précis.
RÉSULTATS : Parmi les 8,44 millions d’adultes de 40 à 74 ans indemnes de maladie 
cardiovasculaire ou de diabète, on estime qu’environ 2,33 millions auraient 
besoin d’un traitement pour dyslipidémie et 2,34 millions, d’un traitement pour 
hypertension. Le risque coronarien moyen à dix ans estimé selon la méthode de 
Framingham a été de 12,4 % et de 9,6 %, respectivement. Le traitement de la 
dyslipidémie a été associé à une augmentation moyenne de l’espérance de vie de 
1,67 an et à 1,81 an de vie sans maladie cardiovasculaire. Le traitement de 
l’hypertension pour sa part permettrait une augmentation de l’espérance de vie 
de 0,94 an et 1,29 an sans maladie cardiovasculaire. Pour la population, les 
avantages d’un traitement hypolipidémiant ou antihypertensif correspondraient 
donc à 2,5 millions et 1,4 million d’années de vie-personnes sauvées, 
respectivement. Globalement, les années-personnes de traitement nécessaires pour 
sauver une année de vie ont été estimées à une moyenne de 20 ans pour le 
traitement de la dyslipidémie et de 38 ans pour l’hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS : Les avantages potentiels associés au traitement antihypertensif ou 
hypolipidémiant dans le but de prévenir les maladies cardiovasculaires sont 
substantiels. Par contre, comparativement aux directives antihypertensives, les 
directives hypolipidémiantes ciblent des patients à risque plus élevé. Par 
conséquent, compte tenu de l’efficacité relative de chaque traitement, les 
avantages escomptés du traitement de la dyslipidémie sont substantiellement plus 
grands que les avantages attendus du traitement antihypertensif.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70786-9
PMCID: PMC2650667
PMID: 17487292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(5):413-28. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725050-00005.

Economic evaluation of treatment administration strategies of ganciclovir for 
cytomegalovirus retinitis in HIV/AIDS patients in Thailand: a simulation study.

Teerawattananon K(1), Iewsakul S, Yenjitr C, Ausayakhun S, Yenjitr W, Mugford M, 
Teerawattananon Y.

Author information:
(1)Ophthalmology Unit, Chiangkhum Hospital, Phayao, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: There are many effective interventions, via various routes 
(intravenous [IV], oral [OR], intravitreal injection [IVT] and intraocular 
implantation [IMP]), for treating cytomegalovirus retinitis (CMVR) that have 
become available. There are large variations in treating CMVR in clinical 
practice in Thailand.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
providing (i) IVT, (ii) IV/OR and (iii) IMP ganciclovir to patients with 
HIV/AIDS and CMVR versus providing no treatment.
DESIGN: A simulation study for which the input parameters were derived from a 
systematic review of the literature, a hospital-based survey and patient 
interviews.
SETTING: The analysis assumed a Thai healthcare system perspective. However, the 
model was run using both societal and healthcare provider perspectives.
RESULTS: Our results suggest that IVT ganciclovir was cost effective and the 
best option for treating patients with CMVR irrespective of whether patients 
received antiretroviral treatment (ART). In patients receiving ART, moving from 
IVT to IV/OR ganciclovir was also likely to be a cost-effective option. Offering 
IMP ganciclovir was not likely to be cost effective. Providing treatments for 
patients with bilateral CMVR was more cost effective than providing treatments 
for those with unilateral CMVR, and offering treatments for patients receiving 
ART was better value for money than treating patients without ART.
CONCLUSIONS: Our models suggest that IV/OR ganciclovir should be recommended for 
the treatment of unilateral and bilateral CMVR for patients receiving ART in the 
Thai healthcare system. IVT ganciclovir may also have a role in the treatment of 
CMVR patients not receiving ART.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725050-00005
PMID: 17488139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Haematologica. 2007 Apr;92(4):493-501. doi: 10.3324/haematol.10730.

A dose exploration, phase I/II study of administration of continuous 
erythropoietin receptor activator once every 3 weeks in anemic patients with 
multiple myeloma receiving chemotherapy.

Dmoszynska A(1), Kloczko J, Rokicka M, Hellmann A, Spicka I, Eid JE.

Author information:
(1)Haematooncology and Bone Marrow Transplantation Department, Medical 
University of Lublin, Lublin, Poland. annadmosz@o2.pl

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Continuous erythropoietin receptor activator 
(C.E.R.A.) is an innovative agent with unique erythropoietin receptor activity 
and a prolonged half-life, which has the potential for administration at 
extended dosing intervals. The objectives of this dose-finding study were to 
evaluate the hemoglobin (Hb) dose-response, pharmacokinetics, and safety of 
repeated doses of C.E.R.A. given once every 3 weeks to anemic patients with 
multiple myeloma (MM) receiving chemotherapy.
DESIGN AND METHODS: This was an exploratory two-stage, open-label, 
parallel-group, multicenter study. Patients received C.E.R.A. doses of 1.0, 2.0, 
3.5, 4.2, 5.0, 6.5, or 8.0 mg/kg once every 3 weeks by subcutaneous injection 
initially for 6 weeks, followed by a 12-week optional extension period. The 
primary outcome measures were the average Hb level and its change from baseline 
over the initial 6-week period, based on values of the slope of the linear 
regression analysis and the area under the curve. Rates of Hb response (defined 
as an increase in Hb of > or =2 g/dL without transfusion) and blood transfusion 
were also evaluated.
RESULTS: Sixty-four patients entered the study. Dose-related increases in Hb 
levels were observed during the initial 6-week treatment period for C.E.R.A. 
doses of 1.0-4.2 mg/kg, with a similar response observed at higher doses. At 
least 70% of patients receiving 2.0-8.0 mg/kg of C.E.R.A. had Hb responses 
during the 18-week study. The elimination half-life of C.E.R.A. was found to be 
long (6.3-9.7 days [151.2-232.8 hours]). All doses were generally well 
tolerated.
INTERPRETATION AND CONCLUSIONS: Based on its unique, long elimination half-life, 
C.E.R.A. has been demonstrated to be an effective and well-tolerated treatment 
of anemia given once every 3 weeks to patients with multiple myeloma receiving 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.10730
PMID: 17488660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Haematologica. 2007 May;92(5):666-73. doi: 10.3324/haematol.10324.

Cost analysis of a domiciliary program of supportive and palliative care for 
patients with hematologic malignancies.

Cartoni C(1), Brunetti GA, D'Elia GM, Breccia M, Niscola P, Marini MG, Nastri A, 
Alimena G, Mandelli F, Foà R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Cellular Biotechnologies and 
Hematology, Policlinico Umberto I, University La Sapienza of Rome, Italy. 
cartoni@bce.uniroma1.it

The costs of home care (HC) programs may be tailored to the specific needs of 
patients with hematological malignancies. The aim of this study was to analyze 
the use of resources and the costs of a program of HC for four different 
prognostic groups of patients subdivided according to disease status. Over 2 
years, 144 patients with hematological malignancies were assisted at home. 
Patients were subdivided according to disease status and life expectancy in the 
following groups: (i) terminal phase, with a life expectancy of 3 months or 
less; (ii) advanced phase, with a life expectancy of 6 months or less; (iii) 
chronic phase, with a life expectancy of more than 6 months; (iv) discharged 
early from the hospital with curable disease, following anticancer chemotherapy. 
Median mean monthly costs (MMC) in Euro (x) have been compared with the costs of 
hospitalization (DRG). Among the 4 groups of patients, those discharged early 
and in terminal phase required the highest mean monthly number of home visits 
(27.2 and 24.1), transfusions (6.1 and 6.8) and days of care (22.8 and 19.7) 
respectively. MMC were affected by the following variables: disease status and 
transfusion requirements. MMC for terminal patients (4,232.50x) and those 
discharged early (3,986.40x) were higher than those for advanced (2,303.80x) and 
chronic patients (1,488,30x). The cost of HC was lower than the corresponding 
DRG charges, but exceeded the district fares for HC of cancer patients. In 
hematological patients, the costs of HC differ according to disease status and 
transfusion requirements. For some categories of patients, costs of HC are lower 
than those of hospitalization, although higher than the current national fares 
for HC programs.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.10324
PMID: 17488691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. J Clin Oncol. 2007 May 10;25(14):1858-69. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.4208.

Older female cancer patients: importance, causes, and consequences of 
undertreatment.

Bouchardy C(1), Rapiti E, Blagojevic S, Vlastos AT, Vlastos G.

Author information:
(1)Geneva Cancer Registry, Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine, Geneva 
University, Geneva, Switzerland. christine.bouchardymagnin@imsp.unige.ch

Despite increased interest in treatment of senior cancer patients, older 
patients are much too often undertreated. This review aims to present data on 
treatment practices of older women with breast and gynecologic cancers and on 
the consequences of undertreatment on patient outcome. We also discuss the 
reasons and validity of suboptimal care in older patients. Numerous studies have 
reported suboptimal treatment in older breast and gynecologic cancer patients. 
Undertreatment displays multiple aspects: from lowered doses of adjuvant 
chemotherapy to total therapeutic abstention. Undertreatment also concerns 
palliative care, treatment of pain, and reconstruction. Only few studies have 
evaluated the consequences of nonstandard approaches on cancer-specific 
mortality, taking into account other prognostic factors and comorbidities. These 
studies clearly showed that undertreatment increased disease-specific mortality 
for breast and ovarian cancers. For other gynecological cancers, data were 
insufficient to draw conclusions. Objective reasons at the origin of 
undertreatment were, notably, higher prevalence of comorbidity, lowered life 
expectancy, absence of data on treatment efficacy in clinical trials, and 
increased adverse effects of treatment. More subjective reasons were putative 
lowered benefits of treatment, less aggressive cancers, social marginalization, 
and physician's beliefs. Undertreatment in older cancer patients is a 
well-documented phenomenon responsible for preventable cancer deaths. Treatments 
are still influenced by unclear standards and have to be adapted to the older 
patient's general health status, but should also offer the best chance of cure.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.4208
PMID: 17488984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Clin Oncol. 2007 May 10;25(14):1870-5. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.3457.

Adjuvant therapy in the elderly: making the right decision.

Muss HB(1), Biganzoli L, Sargent DJ, Aapro M.

Author information:
(1)University of Vermont and Vermont Cancer Center, Burlington, VT 05401, USA. 
hyman.muss@uvm.edu

Adjuvant chemotherapy has led to improvements in relapse-free and overall 
survival in patients with breast, colon, and non-small-cell lung cancer, yet 
many older patients are not offered these potentially life-saving treatments. 
Moreover, older patients have been either excluded or under-represented in most 
adjuvant trials, limiting the generalizability of these treatments to older 
populations. Limited data in elders suggest that older patients derive 
significant benefits from adjuvant therapies provided they have life 
expectancies exceeding 5 years. Making treatment decisions in elders is 
challenging. Many have major comorbidities that may substantially limit life 
expectancy and minimize or negate the benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy. In this 
review, we discuss the potential benefits of adjuvant treatment in older 
patients with solid tumors with a focus on general principles involved in the 
selection of adjuvant therapy for patients with breast, colon, and 
non-small-cell lung cancer. In addition, we discuss the role of comorbidity and 
how it factors in treatment decisions. Finally, we discuss future research 
directions and funding for elders with cancer.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.3457
PMID: 17488985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. J Clin Oncol. 2007 May 10;25(14):1882-90. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.2079.

Breast cancer in the elderly.

Crivellari D(1), Aapro M, Leonard R, von Minckwitz G, Brain E, Goldhirsch A, 
Veronesi A, Muss H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology C, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico National 
Cancer Institute, Aviano, PN Italy. dcrivellari@cro.it

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Oct 1;25(28):4501-2; author reply 4502-3.

Screening and adjuvant postoperative therapies have increased survival among 
women with breast cancer. These tools are seldom applied in elderly patients, 
although the usually reported incidence of breast cancer is close to 50% in 
women 65 years or older, reaching 47% after 70 years in the updated 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) database. Elderly breast 
cancer patients, even if in good medical health, were frequently excluded from 
adjuvant clinical trials. Women age 70 years who are fit actually have a median 
life expectancy of 15.5 years, ie, half of them will live much longer and will 
remain exposed for enough time to the potentially preventable risks of a relapse 
and specific death. In the last few years, a new concern about this issue has 
developed. Treatment now faces two major end points, as in younger women: to 
improve disease-free survival in the early stages, and to palliate symptoms in 
advanced disease. However, in both settings, the absolute benefit of treatment 
is critical because protecting quality of life and all its related aspects 
(especially functional status and independence), is crucial in older persons who 
have more limited life expectancy. Furthermore, the new hormonal compounds 
(aromatase inhibitors) and chemotherapeutic drugs (capecitabine, liposomal 
doxorubicin), are potentially less toxic than and equally as effective as older 
more established therapies. These new treatments bring new challenges including 
higher cost, and defining their benefit in elderly breast cancer must include an 
analysis of the cost/benefit ratio. These issues emphasize the urgent need to 
develop and support clinical trials for this older population of breast cancer 
patients both in the adjuvant and metastatic settings, a move that will take us 
from a prejudiced, age-based medicine to an evidence-based medicine.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.2079
PMID: 17488987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. J Clin Oncol. 2007 May 10;25(14):1936-44. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.2954.

A practical approach to geriatric assessment in oncology.

Rodin MB(1), Mohile SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
mrodin@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

More than half of new cancers are diagnosed in elderly patients, but data from 
randomized clinical trials do not represent the elderly population. 
Comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) can contribute valuable information to 
oncologists for risk stratification of elderly cancer patients. Functional 
impairments, frailty markers, cognitive impairments, and physical disabilities 
increase the risk for adverse outcomes during cancer treatment. Evidence is 
accumulating that selected elderly cancer patients benefit from CGA and 
geriatric interventions. However, perceived barriers to CGA include time, 
familiarity, cost, and lack of a well-defined procedure to interpret and apply 
the information. We present a model for rapid selection of elderly who would 
benefit from CGA using screening tools such as the Vulnerable Elders-13 Survey. 
We also define important geriatric functional risk factors, including mobility 
limitation, frailty, and dementia, and demonstrate how brief screening tests can 
make use of data realistically available to clinical oncologists to determine a 
stage of aging. Summary tables and a decision tree demonstrate how these data 
can be compiled to determine the risk for toxicities and to anticipate ancillary 
support needs.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.2954
PMID: 17488994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. J Pak Med Assoc. 2007 Apr;57(4):196-201.

