and only those with risk between 1:30 and 1:1,500 have Quad screen. The 
detection rates for each option were used given a 5% false-positive rate except 
for Contingent Sequential with a 4.3% false-positive rate. Outcomes included 
societal costs of each screening regimen (screening tests, amniocentesis, 
management of complications, and cost of care of Down syndrome live births), 
Down syndrome fetuses identified and born, the associated quality-adjusted life 
years, and the incremental cost-utility ratio.
RESULTS: Based on the screening results derived from the 38,033 women evaluated 
in the FASTER trial, the Contingent Sequential screen dominated (lower costs 
with better outcomes) all other screens. For example, the Contingent Sequential 
cost 32.3 million dollars whereas the other screens ranged from 32.8 to 37.5 
million dollars. The Sequential strategy led to the identification of the most 
Down syndrome fetuses of all of the screens, but at a higher cost per Down 
syndrome case diagnosed ($719,675 compared with $690,427) as compared with the 
Contingent Sequential. Because of the lower overall false-positive rate leading 
to fewer procedure-related miscarriages, the Contingent Sequential resulted in 
the highest quality-adjusted life years as well. The Contingent Sequential 
remained the most cost-effective option throughout sensitivity analysis of 
inputs, including amniocentesis rate after positive screen, rate of therapeutic 
abortion after Down syndrome diagnosis, and rate of procedure-related 
miscarriages.
CONCLUSION: Analysis of this actual data from the FASTER Trial demonstrates that 
the Contingent Sequential test is the most cost-effective. This information can 
help shape future policy regarding Down syndrome screening.

DOI: 10.1097/01.AOG.0000263470.89007.e3
PMID: 17601890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Pediatr Rev. 2007 Jul;28(7):259-68. doi: 10.1542/pir.28-7-259.

Sickle cell disease.

Driscoll MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Hematology Program, Children's Hospital at Montefiore, Bronx, NY, USA.

DOI: 10.1542/pir.28-7-259
PMID: 17601938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Br J Psychiatry. 2007 Jul;191:14-22. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.106.028654.

Cost-effectiveness of first- v. second-generation antipsychotic drugs: results 
from a randomised controlled trial in schizophrenia responding poorly to 
previous therapy.

Davies LM(1), Lewis S, Jones PB, Barnes TR, Gaughran F, Hayhurst K, Markwick A, 
Lloyd H; CUtLASS team.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, University of Manchester, Rawnsley Building, MRI, 
Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9WL, UK. Linda.davies@manchester.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: There are claims that the extra costs of atypical 
(second-generation) antipsychotic drugs over conventional (first-generation) 
drugs are offset by improved health-related quality of life.
AIMS: To determine the relative costs and value of treatment with conventional 
or atypical antipsychotics in people with schizophrenia.
METHOD: Cost-effectiveness acceptability analysis integrated clinical and 
economic randomised controlled trial data of conventional and atypical 
antipsychotics in routine practice.
RESULTS: Conventional antipsychotics had lower costs and higher quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) than atypical antipsychotics and were more than 50% likely to 
be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The primary and sensitivity analyses indicated that conventional 
antipsychotics may be cost-saving and associated with a gain in QALYs compared 
with atypical antipsychotics.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.106.028654
PMID: 17602120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 2007 Jun;39(3):206-14. doi: 
10.1055/s-2007-965311.

[Six treatment principles of the basle pressure sore concept].

[Article in German]

Rieger U(1), Scheufler O, Schmid D, Zweifel-Schlatter M, Kalbermatten D, Pierer 
G.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Plastische, Rekonstruktive und Asthetische Chirurgie, Klinik 
für Wiederherstellende Chirurgie, Universitätsspital Basel, Basel, Schweiz. 
riegeru@uhbs.ch

The treatment of pressure sores has gained importance due to the increase of 
geriatric patients and general life expectancy as well as improved therapeutic 
options in patients with spinal cord injuries. The aetiology of pressure sores 
is multifactorial. Risk factors such as immobility, malnutrition, and other 
co-morbidities have to be considered. Therapy of pressure sores is time- and 
cost-consuming and recurrence rates are high. Successful treatment is based on 
the interdisciplinary cooperation between conservative and surgical disciplines, 
nursing, as well as on continuous patient education. The Basle pressure sore 
concept consists of six principles. Over a total treatment period of 
approximately three months usually two operative interventions are performed. 
For effective relief of pressure (1st principle) patients are placed on 
low-airloss beds. Operative debridement of pressure sores is performed early and 
systemic or local infection is treated (2nd principle). The wound is then 
conditioned with moist dressings or VAC (3rd principle). Simultaneously 
concomitant malnutrition is quantified clinically and chemically and treated by 
oral or, if necessary, parenteral nutrition. Other risk factors are optimised as 
well as possible (4th principle). Hereby optimal conditions for plastic-surgical 
coverage are provided (5th principle). Postoperatively a standardised concept of 
pressure relief and mobilisation is adhered to (6th principle). This multimodal 
treatment concept is well established at the University Hospital of Basle for 
many years. Combined with an effective prevention, the rate of pressure sores 
could be significantly reduced, wounds could be healed, and the number of 
recurrences diminished. In a two-year period between January 2004 and December 
2005 the Basle plastic surgery team treated 170 pressure sores in 142 patients 
according to this concept in the Swiss paraplegic centre in Nottwil. In 2006, 78 
% of these patients (111 patients) were followed up and recurrence rates of 23 % 
(26 pressure sores) were found. The Basle pressure sore concept is well 
established for an interdisciplinary and structured treatment of geriatric and 
paraplegic patients with pressure sores and provides a reliable basis for 
effective treatment for this complex disease.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-965311
PMID: 17602385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Am J Med. 2007 Jul;120(7):574-80. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2007.02.018.

The HIV-positive traveler.

Bhadelia N(1), Klotman M, Caplivski D.

Author information:
(1)Samuel Bronfman Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious 
Diseases, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA.

Antiretroviral therapy has led to a substantial increase in the life expectancy 
and quality of life for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients. 
Increasingly, physicians are asked to counsel them before international travel 
to regions in which infectious diseases are more prevalent. The pretravel 
evaluation requires an accurate assessment of the patient's level of immune 
compromise as well as an understanding of the risks involved in travel to 
tropical countries. We review the safety and efficacy of travel medicine-related 
vaccines, important considerations when selecting antimalarial prophylaxis, and 
strategies for management of traveler's diarrhea. The prevention of sexually 
transmitted infections while abroad also is an important public health 
intervention for both the traveler and the potential sexual partners abroad. 
Beyond the health-related issues in international travel, HIV-positive patients 
may confront some significant legal hurdles in crossing international borders. 
We provide guidance in navigating the diverse and complex issues that arise for 
the HIV-positive traveler.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2007.02.018
PMID: 17602926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2007 Jun;10(2):101-8.

Cost-effectiveness analysis in severe mental illness: outcome measures 
selection.

Stant AD(1), Buskens E, Jenner JA, Wiersma D, TenVergert EM.

Author information:
(1)Office for Medical Technology Assessment, University Medical Center 
Groningen, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB Groningen, the Netherlands. 
a.d.stant@mta.umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Most economic evaluations conducted in mental healthcare did not 
include widely recommended preference-based health outcomes like the QALY 
(Quality-Adjusted Life Years). Instead, studies have mainly been designed as 
cost-effectiveness analyses that include single outcome measures aimed at a 
(disease) specific aspect of health.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: To raise awareness about the potential problems related to 
the selection of outcome measures for economic studies in patient populations 
with severe mental illness. Furthermore, to make suggestions that may prevent 
these problems in future economic evaluations.
METHODS: Data of a previously conducted economic evaluation assessing the 
cost-effectiveness of the HIT (Hallucination focused Integrative Treatment) 
intervention in patients with schizophrenia were used for the analyses presented 
in the current paper. Economic analyses based on the results of the selected 
primary health outcome (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale: PANSS) were 
compared with results based on various other health outcomes assessed during the 
study, including QALYs.
RESULTS: No relevant differences between groups were found on the single primary 
health outcome initially included in the cost-effectiveness analysis. In 
contrast, relevant and significant differences were identified on three of the 
four additionally assessed health outcomes. Conclusions based on the results of 
multiple cost-effectiveness analyses and acceptability curves were strongly in 
favour of the experimental intervention when including these three additional 
instruments. QALY results did not show differences between groups.
DISCUSSION: Selecting between outcome measures for cost-effectiveness analysis 
in the field of mental healthcare appears to be a complicated process, which may 
have considerable consequences for the results of economic studies and 
subsequent policy decisions. It was argued that inconsistent results across the 
selected primary health outcome and additionally assessed health outcomes should 
explicitly be presented to decision-makers. Until there is consensus on a 
preference-based instrument suited for severe mental illness, QoL instruments 
could be applied instead of instruments aimed at specific aspects of health.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: Decision-makers in the field of mental 
healthcare should be careful when interpreting results of economic studies that 
included outcome measures aimed at a specific aspect of health. Such instruments 
may provide too narrow a view on relevant changes in health and findings may be 
difficult to generalise. Due to current reservations on the use of QALYs in 
mental healthcare, QALY outcomes should be considered in the context of the 
results of additionally assessed health outcomes.

PMID: 17603150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Photomed Laser Surg. 2007 Jun;25(3):205-13. doi: 10.1089/pho.2007.2041.

Effects of low-level laser and plyometric exercises in the treatment of lateral 
epicondylitis.

Stergioulas A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Human Movement & Quality of Life, Peloponnese University, Sparta, 
Greece. asterg@uop.gr

OBJECTIVE: This study was undertaken to compare the effectiveness of a protocol 
of combination of laser with plyometric exercises and a protocol of placebo 
laser with the same program, in the treatment of tennis elbow.
BACKGROUND DATA: The use of low-level laser has been recommended for the 
management of tennis elbow with contradictory results. Also, plyometric 
exercises was recommended for the treatment of the tendinopathy.
METHODS: Fifty patients who had tennis elbow participated in the study and were 
randomised into two groups. Group A (n = 25) was treated with a 904 Ga-As laser 
CW, frequency 50 Hz, intensity 40 mW and energy density 2.4 J/cm(2), plus 
plyometric exercises and group B (n = 25) that received placebo laser plus the 
same plyometric exercises. During eight weeks of treatment, the patients of the 
two groups received 12 sessions of laser or placebo, two sessions per week 
(weeks 1-4) and one session per week (weeks 5-8). Pain at rest, at palpation on 
the lateral epicondyle, during resisted wrist extension, middle finger test, and 
strength testing was evaluated using Visual Analogue Scales. Also it was 
evaluated the grip strength, the range of motion and weight test. Parameters 
were determined before the treatment, at the end of the eighth week course of 
treatment (week 8), and eighth (week 8) after the end of treatment.
RESULTS: Relative to the group B, the group A had (1) a significant decrease of 
pain at rest at the end of 8 weeks of the treatment (p < 0.005) and at the end 
of following up period (p < 0.05), (2) a significant decrease in pain at 
palpation and pain on isometric testing at 8 weeks of treatment (p < 0.05), and 
at 8 weeks follow-up (p < 0.001), (3) a significant decrease in pain during 
middle finger test at the end of 8 weeks of treatment (p < 0.01), and at the end 
of the follow-up period (p < 0.05), (4) a significant decrease of pain during 
grip strength testing at 8 weeks of treatment (p < 0.05), and at 8 weeks 
follow-up (p < 0.001), (5) a significant increase in the wrist range of motion 
at 8 weeks follow-up (p < 0.01), (6) an increase in grip strength at 8 weeks of 
treatment (p < 0.05) and at 8 weeks follow-up (p < 0.01), and (7) a significant 
increase in weight-test at 8 weeks of treatment (p < 0.05) and at 8 weeks 
follow-up (p < 0.005).
CONCLUSION: The results suggested that the combination of laser with plyometric 
exercises was more effective treatment than placebo laser with the same 
plyometric exercises at the end of the treatment as well as at the follow-up. 
Future studies are needed to establish the relative and absolute effectiveness 
of the above protocol.

DOI: 10.1089/pho.2007.2041
PMID: 17603862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. BMC Public Health. 2007 Jun 29;7:130. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-130.

Invasive meningococcal disease epidemiology and control measures: a framework 
for evaluation.

Caro JJ(1), Möller J, Getsios D, Coudeville L, El-Hadi W, Chevat C, Nguyen VH, 
Caro I.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, Concord, MA, USA. jcaro@caroresearch.com

BACKGROUND: Meningococcal disease can have devastating consequences. As new 
vaccines emerge, it is necessary to assess their impact on public health. In the 
absence of long-term real world data, modeling the effects of different 
vaccination strategies is required. Discrete event simulation provides a 
flexible platform with which to conduct such evaluations.
METHODS: A discrete event simulation of the epidemiology of invasive 
meningococcal disease was developed to quantify the potential impact of 
implementing routine vaccination of adolescents in the United States with a 
quadrivalent conjugate vaccine protecting against serogroups A, C, Y, and W-135. 
The impact of vaccination is assessed including both the direct effects on 
individuals vaccinated and the indirect effects resulting from herd immunity. 
The simulation integrates a variety of epidemiologic and demographic data, with 
core information on the incidence of invasive meningococcal disease and outbreak 
frequency derived from data available through the Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention. Simulation of the potential indirect benefits of vaccination 
resulting from herd immunity draw on data from the United Kingdom, where routine 
vaccination with a conjugate vaccine has been in place for a number of years. 
Cases of disease are modeled along with their health consequences, as are the 
occurrence of disease outbreaks.
RESULTS: When run without a strategy of routine immunization, the simulation 
accurately predicts the age-specific incidence of invasive meningococcal disease 
and the site-specific frequency of outbreaks in the Unite States. 2,807 cases 
are predicted annually, resulting in over 14,000 potential life years lost due 
to invasive disease. In base case analyses of routine vaccination, life years 
lost due to infection are reduced by over 45% (to 7,600) when routinely 
vaccinating adolescents 12 years of age at 70% coverage. Sensitivity analyses 
indicate that herd immunity plays an important role when this population is 
targeted for vaccination. While 1,100 cases are avoided annually when herd 
immunity effects are included, in the absence of any herd immunity, the number 
of cases avoided with routine vaccination falls to 380 annually. The duration of 
vaccine protection also strongly influences results.
CONCLUSION: In the absence of appropriate real world data on outcomes associated 
with large-scale vaccination programs, decisions on optimal immunization 
strategies can be aided by discrete events simulations such as the one described 
here. Given the importance of herd immunity on outcomes associated with routine 
vaccination, published estimates of the economic efficiency of routine 
vaccination with a quadrivalent conjugate vaccine in the United States may have 
considerably underestimated the benefits associated with a policy of routine 
immunization of adolescents.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-130
PMCID: PMC1925079
PMID: 17603880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Steroid Biochem Mol Biol. 2007 Aug-Sep;106(1-5):55-61. doi: 
10.1016/j.jsbmb.2007.05.002. Epub 2007 May 24.

Aromatase inhibitors--socioeconomical issues.

Lønning PE(1), Geisler J.

Author information:
(1)Section of Oncology, Institute of Medicine, University of Bergen, Department 
of Oncology, Haukeland Univeristy Hospital, N-5021 Bergen, Norway. 
per.lonning@helse-bergen.no

With costs of health care in general and for cancer therapy in particular 
escalating due to implementation of novel compounds, there is an increasing 
focus on therapy costs in most countries. A common way of assessing therapeutic 
utility versus cost is by assessing cost per additional life year gained or cost 
per additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained with a novel therapy. 
While endocrine therapy in general is associated with low costs, the fact that 
aromatase inhibitors are administered over several years to each patient in the 
adjuvant setting, together with the substantial number of postmenopausal breast 
cancer patients that are candidates for adjuvant treatment with aromatase 
inhibitors, advocates critical examination of cost-utilities related to 
implementation of such therapy in the adjuvant setting. While cost-utility 
estimates for treatment with aromatase inhibitors in the adjuvant setting look 
favorable, the estimates are sensitive to variations with respect to long-term 
benefits but also side effects. For patient groups with a low-risk of relapse 
but also patients with a limited life expectancy due to high age, cost-utility 
estimates may exceed the upper limits generally proposed for costs per 
quality-adjusted life year gained.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsbmb.2007.05.002
PMID: 17604616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Nitric Oxide. 2007 Aug;17(1):44-9. doi: 10.1016/j.niox.2007.05.003. Epub
2007  Jun 2.

Use of a solid mixture containing diethylenetriamine/nitric oxide (DETANO) to 
liberate nitric oxide gas in the presence of horticultural produce to extend 
postharvest life.

Wills RB(1), Soegiarto L, Bowyer MC.

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Newcastle, P.O. Box 
127, Ourimbah, NSW 2258, Australia. Ron.Wills@newcastle.edu.au

Postharvest treatment of fruit and vegetables with a low concentration of nitric 
oxide gas can extend postharvest life but application of nitric oxide by release 
from a gas cylinder is not feasible for many horticultural situations. This 
paper reports on development of a solid mixture to generate nitric oxide gas in 
the presence of horticultural produce. The solid NO-donor compound, 
diethylenetriamine/nitric oxide (DETANO) was found to quantitatively liberate 
nitric oxide in the presence of a range of acidic substances including citric 
acid. A solid mixture of DETANO and citric acid with wheat starch added as a 
filler and moisture absorbent in the ratio of 1:10:20 was found to be stable for 
at least six months when stored in dry air. However, in humid air, absorption of 
moisture from the atmosphere led to reaction of DETANO with citric acid and the 
evolution of nitric oxide gas. When the dry mixture was placed in a container 
with strawberry and mushroom, the moisture given off by produce activated the 
mixture and resulted in a similar extension in postharvest life as achieved by 
direct fumigation with nitric oxide gas. Commercial use of such a solid mixture 
could be through tablets or sachets which are more manageable in a farm or 
packing house than gas fumigation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.niox.2007.05.003
PMID: 17604663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2007 May;38(2):77-87.

[Psychiatric function disorders: association with cognitive function, activities 
of daily living and biographical data].

[Article in Dutch]

Bakker TJ(1), Duivenvoorden HJ, van der Lee J, Ribbe MW.

Author information:
(1)tjembakker@argoszorggroep.nl

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of non-cognitive, psychiatric function disorders 
(PFD) in psychogeriatric patients, staying in a nursing home is high; it varies 
from 70 to 8%. It has a negative impact on the quality of life and 
life-expectancy. It affects caregiver distress and is an important predictor of 
permanent admission to an institution. In addition the PFD has predictive 
potentialities for discharge from reactivation programmes and survival. Although 
there is a relationship between PFD (measured by NPI) and cognitive function 
disorders it has to be stated explicitly that from psychiatric point of view 
these two entities have to be distinguished. This distinction, already been 
studied by this research group, needed to be replicated in another population. 
OBJECTIVE is to estimate 1) to which degree the prevalence of PFD in 
psychogeriatric patients, referred to a policlinics for cognitive function 
disorders (Index condition), differs from community dwelling psychogeriatric 
patients at referral to clinical and transmural nursing home programmes 
(Reference condition); 2) to which degree PFD is associated with both cognitive 
function disorders, activities of daily living for the two conditions; 3) to 
which degree PFD is associated with relevant general details of the patient, 
particularly gender, age and marital status, for the two conditions.
METHODS: In the Index condition particated patients aged > or = 65 years 
suffering from cognitive function disorders (N=70) who were referred to a 
policlinic for cognitive function disorders who were suspected to suffer from 
psychiatric function disorders. For 35 patients of them complete data on NPI, 
MMSE en Barthel Index (BI) were available. In the Reference condition 
participated patients (age 2> or = 65), who were referred to clinical and 
transmural nursing home programmes and who suffered from cognitive function 
disorders (MMSE < 29) (N=487). For 385 patients of them all data on NPI, MMSE 
and BI were available.
RESULTS: Of all patients 92% suffered from at least one NPI symptom; 82% from 
two or more. Depression, Apathy, Anxiety and Irritability had high prevalences 
in the two samples. Application of logistic regression analysis for the 
prediction of total as well as individual NPI-symptoms showed that the 
prognostic potentialities of MMSE, BI and biographic data were very limited 
(R(2) = 0.11; max.). The non-metric princal component analysis and confirmatory 
factor analysis of NPI, MMSE and BI for the two samples, showed that MMSE and BI 
loaded highly on the dimension 'Cognition' and NPI on the dimension 'Psychiatric 
function disorders'. The dimensional structure of the two samples did not show 
significant differences.
CONCLUSION: The dimensional structure of the Index condition highly corresponded 
to the Reference condition; that is to say that the PFD appeared to be 
relatively independent of cognition and ADL. High prevalences of PFD (NPI), the 
broad variance of NPI-symptoms and the limited prognostic importance of MMSE, BI 
and general details for total NPI-score as well as individual NPI-symptoms were 
confirmed in both conditions. The dimension 'Psychiatric function disorder' was 
relative independent of the dimension 'Cognition'. As a result it is of clinical 
interest - in case of referral to clinical and transmural programmes - to 
distinguish the psychiatric dimension from the cognitive dimension.

PMID: 17605285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. BMC Med Genet. 2007 Jul 2;8:42. doi: 10.1186/1471-2350-8-42.

Cost-utility analysis of genetic screening in families of patients with germline 
MUTYH mutations.

Nielsen M(1), Hes FJ, Vasen HF, van den Hout WB.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human and Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands. m.nielsen@lumc.nl

BACKGROUND: MUTYH associated polyposis (MAP) is an autosomal recessive inherited 
disorder. Carriers of bi-allelic MUTYH germline mutations have a risk of 
approximately 60% to develop colorectal carcinoma (CRC). In the general 
population about 1.5% is a heterozygous MUTYH mutation carrier. Children of MAP 
patients have an increased risk of inheriting two MUTYH mutations compared to 
the general population, implicating an increased risk for developing CRC.
METHODS: Using data from the literature and Dutch MAP patients (n = 40), we 
constructed a Markov model to perform a societal cost-utility analysis of 
genetic screening in MAP families. Genetic screening was done by testing the 
spouse first and, in case of a heterozygous spouse, also testing of the 
children.
RESULTS: The cost of genetic screening of families of MAP patients, when 
compared to no genetic screening, was estimated at 25,000 euros per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The presence of Fecal Occult Blood testing 
(FOBT) population screening only slightly increased this cost-utility ratio to 
25,500 euros per QALY. For a MUTYH heterozygote index-patient, the ratio was 
51,500 euros per QALY. The results of our analysis were sensitive to several of 
the parameters in the model, including the cost assumed for molecular genetic 
testing.
CONCLUSION: The costs per QALY of genetic screening in families of MAP patients 
are acceptable according to international standards. Therefore, genetic testing 
of spouses and/or children should be discussed with and offered to counselees.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-8-42
PMCID: PMC1941726
PMID: 17605803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Mayo Clin Proc. 2007 Jul;82(7):851-8. doi: 10.4065/82.7.851.

Diagnosis and invasive management of carotid atherosclerotic stenosis.

Meschia JF(1), Brott TG, Hobson RW 2nd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 4500 San Pablo Rd, Jacksonville, FL 
32224, USA. meschia.james@mayo.edu

Comment in
    Mayo Clin Proc. 2007 Sep;82(9):1141; author reply 1141.

Carotid atherosclerotic stenosis is a known risk factor for ischemic stroke. 
Methods for detecting stenosis and revascularization abound. The objective of 
this review was to summarize the evidence for diagnosing carotid artery stenosis 
and treating symptomatic or asymptomatic stenosis with endarterectomy or 
stenting. An Ovid MEDLINE search identified relevant original research published 
between 1990 and 2006. With acceptable surgical risk and patient life 
expectancy, carotid endarterectomy is clearly indicated for symptomatic stenosis 
of more than 70%. Carotid endarterectomy is also recommended for symptomatic 
stenosis of more than 50%, but the health impact is less compelling. The US Food 
and Drug Administration has approved several stents for a subset of patients 
with carotid stenosis. Randomized comparisons of endarterectomy vs stenting have 
been performed in average- and high-risk patients with asymptomatic and 
symptomatic carotid artery stenosis with mixed results.

DOI: 10.4065/82.7.851
PMID: 17605967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Jul;46(1):41-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.02.055.

Restenosis after eversion vs patch closure carotid endarterectomy.

Crawford RS(1), Chung TK, Hodgman T, Pedraza JD, Corey M, Cambria RP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery of the General Surgical 
Services, Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 15 Parkman 
Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Recurrent stenosis after carotid endarterectomy (CEA), previously 
reported to occur in 1%/year after operation, is the finite limitation of CEA. 
Eversion endarterectomy has a perceived lower incidence of recurrent stenosis, 
although data to support this contention are conflicting. The goal of the 
present study was to compare the late anatomic results of patch closure (PC) vs 
eversion CEA.
METHODS: Between January 1, 1995 and June 30, 2005, 950 CEA were performed by 
the senior author with adoption of eversion (EV) as the primary technique as of 
January 1, 2001. With minimum of 1-year follow-up by study inclusion criteria, 
complete follow-up data (including a duplex scan) was available for 155 PC and 
135 EV patients. Incidence of moderate (50% to 70%) and severe (>70%) restenosis 
was examined at < or =2 months and >1 year after operation. Study end-points 
included late stroke, survival, and freedom from restenosis (moderate and 
severe) and were assessed by actuarial methods.
RESULTS: There were no differences in relevant demographic/clinical parameters, 
indication for surgery (69% overall asymptomatic) or early perioperative 
stroke/death (1.1% overall; P = .25) between PC and EV. After correction for 
different mean follow-up intervals (PC = 5.5 years vs EV = 3.5 years) by 
actuarial methods, there was no significant difference in late moderate (P = 
.91) or severe (P = .54) recurrent stenosis between PC and EV. In the group of 
patients with at least 1-year follow-up, 11/290 (3.8%) patients (4/135 EV, 7/155 
PC; P = .39) required reintervention on their operated carotid artery at a 
cumulative follow-up interval of 4.5 years. Three strokes (3/290; 1.1%) occurred 
during late follow-up, all in the PC group, with only one related to the 
operated carotid artery. Late survival was similar between EV and PC, (P = .86). 
Female gender (odds ratio [OR] 3.72[1.02-13.5], P = .046) was associated with 
severe restenosis irrespective of surgical technique. Univariate analysis also 
showed that female gender (OR 7.6[CI: 0.88-66.7], P = .042) was associated with 
late stroke.
CONCLUSION: These findings indicate that restenosis rates are similar between 
eversion and patch CEA and likely represent biological remodeling phenomenon 
rather than technical variations of operations. While EV offers distinct 
advantages in certain anatomic circumstances, adoption of EV with the hope of 
decreasing restenosis is not warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.02.055
PMID: 17606120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Jul;46(1):71-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.02.058.

Selective application of sartorius muscle flaps and aggressive staged surgical 
debridement can influence long-term outcomes of complex prosthetic graft 
infections.

Armstrong PA(1), Back MR, Bandyk DF, Johnson BL, Shames ML.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, University of South Florida 
School of Medicine, 4 Columbia Drive, Tampa, FL 33606, USA. 
wvuvascular@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The complexity of variables associated with vascular surgical site 
infections (VSSI) often contribute adversely to reinfection, limb salvage, and 
mortality rates. This report details our experience with the selective use of a 
sartorius muscle flaps (SMF) as part of an overall treatment strategy focused on 
staged surgical debridement (SSD) to control prosthetic graft bed infection 
prior to a graft preservation or revision plan.
METHODS: From our vascular registry, we identified 422 VSSI of which 89 (21%) 
had SMF for 24 aorto-bifemoral (ABF), 19 extra-anatomic bypasses (EAB), 34 
infrainguinal bypasses, and 12 combined inflow/outflow reconstructions. All 86 
patients had Szilagyi grade III prosthetic (Dacron-36, polytetrafluoroethylene 
[PTFE]-50) graft infections. The treatment algorithm included: SSD, 
culture-directed parenteral antibiotics, graft preservation (n = 3), or 
reconstruction (graft excision/EAB, n = 4; rifampin-bonded PTFE, n = 22; 
autologous conduit, n = 57) based on microbiology and consideration for SMF for 
extensive soft tissue defects (n = 43) or non-sterilized graft beds (n = 40). 
Analysis of microbiology, recurrent infection, vascular reconstruction, limb 
salvage, and mortality was completed over a mean follow-up of 52 months (range: 
12 to 132 months).
RESULTS: Thirty-day mortality was 2% with two aortic graft infections dying from 
sepsis. Survival by life table analysis at 1, 3, and 5 years was 94%, 92%, and 
90%, respectively. Wound isolates were most commonly gram positive organisms (n 
= 58, 65%), with gram negative isolates and mixed infections accounting for 19% 
and 10%, respectively. A single recurrent groin infection was documented at 30 
days. Freedom from recurrent infection (n = 6) at 1 and 5 years was 98% and 92% 
by life tables. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) was involved 
for 50% of reinfections. No amputations were attributable to uncontrolled VSSI 
and graft patency was 100% in surveillance monitored patients.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that selective utilization of SMF as part of 
SSD treatment plan in an attempt to achieve graft bed sterilization can 
effectively control the complex infectious process allowing for potentially 
improved outcomes for in situ or preservation graft salvage techniques. Lifelong 
graft surveillance is recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.02.058
PMID: 17606124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Exp Gerontol. 2007 Oct;42(10):944-50. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.05.003. Epub
 2007 May 21.

Telomeric DNA length in cerebral gray and white matter is associated with 
longevity in individuals aged 70 years or older.

Nakamura K(1), Takubo K, Izumiyama-Shimomura N, Sawabe M, Arai T, Kishimoto H, 
Fujiwara M, Kato M, Oshimura M, Ishii A, Ishikawa N.

Author information:
(1)Research Team for Geriatric Diseases, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of 
Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan.

Many studies have demonstrated the association between telomere length in 
mitotic cells and carcinogenesis and mortality, but little attention has been 
focused on post-mitotic cells and human life expectancy. We assessed the 
relationship between telomere length in cerebral gray and white matter and 
longevity in 72 autopsied Japanese patients aged 0-100 years using Southern blot 
hybridization. The mean telomere lengths in the gray and white matter were 
12.3+/-2.5 kilobase pairs and 11.4+/-2.1 kilobase pairs, respectively. The mean 
telomere lengths in 60-69 year decadal group were less than those of neonates, 
and declined further in the 70-79-year age group, but those in groups of further 
advanced age were longer than in the 70-79 year group (70-79<80-89<90-100 years 
of age). Thus, the 90-100-year age group possessed significantly longer 
telomeres than the 70s (p=0.029). Autopsy protocols showed a decrease in the 
rate of cancer death in individuals in their 80s (p=0.041) and 90s (p=0.017) 
versus those in their 60s, and in their 80s the mean telomere length in the gray 
matter from cancer death patients was significantly shorter than that of 
patients who died of other diseases (p=0.04). These data suggest that innate 
telomere lengths are maintained very well in the cerebrum, and are associated 
with longevity. Our study lends indispensable support to the hypothesis that 
longer telomeres protect the genome from instability (a major cause of 
carcinogenesis) and are beneficial for longevity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2007.05.003
PMID: 17606349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jul 3;147(1):1-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-147-1-200707030-00002.

Outcomes of using high- or low-dose atorvastatin in patients 65 years of age or 
older with stable coronary heart disease.

Wenger NK(1), Lewis SJ, Herrington DM, Bittner V, Welty FK; Treating to New 
Targets Study Steering Committee and Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 
30303, USA. nwenger@emory.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):321-2; author reply 322-3.
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):321; author reply 322-3.
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):322; author reply 322-3.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Jul 3;147(1):I32.

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy is associated with an increase in the 
burden of chronic cardiovascular disease.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the efficacy and safety of high-dose atorvastatin in 
patients 65 years of age or older.
DESIGN: A prespecified secondary analysis of the Treating to New Targets study, 
a randomized, double-blind clinical trial.
SETTING: 256 sites in 14 countries participating in the Treating to New Targets 
study.
PARTICIPANTS: 10,001 patients (3809 patients > or =65 years of age) with 
coronary heart disease (CHD) and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels less 
than 3.4 mmol/L (<130 mg/dL).
INTERVENTION: Patients were randomly assigned to receive atorvastatin, 10 or 80 
mg/d.
MEASUREMENTS: The primary end point was the occurrence of a first major 
cardiovascular event (death from CHD, nonfatal non-procedure-related myocardial 
infarction, resuscitated cardiac arrest, or fatal or nonfatal stroke).
RESULTS: In patients 65 years of age or older, absolute risk was reduced by 2.3% 
and relative risk by 19% for major cardiovascular events in favor of the 
high-dose atorvastatin group (hazard ratio, 0.81 [95% CI, 0.67 to 0.98]; P = 
0.032). Among the components of the composite outcome, the mortality rates from 
CHD, nonfatal non-procedure-related myocardial infarction, and fatal or nonfatal 
stroke (ischemic, embolic, hemorrhagic, or unknown origin) were all lower in 
older patients who received high-dose atorvastatin, although the difference was 
not statistically significant for each individual component. The improved 
clinical outcome in patients 65 years of age or older was not associated with 
persistent elevations in creatine kinase levels.
LIMITATION: Because the study was a secondary analysis, the findings should be 
interpreted within the context of the main study results.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis suggests that additional clinical benefit can be 
achieved by treating older patients with CHD more aggressively to reduce 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels to less than 2.6 mmol/L (<100 mg/dL). 
The findings support the use of intensive low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol-lowering therapy in high-risk older persons with established 
cardiovascular disease. Click here for related information on atorvastatin.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-147-1-200707030-00002
PMID: 17606955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Clin Calcium. 2007 Jul;17(7):1029-34.

[Absolute risk for fracture and WHO guideline. Economic analysis of 
pharmacotherapy for osteoporosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Harada A(1); World Health Organization.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Geriatrics & Gerontolory, Department of Restorative 
Medicine.

A cost about osteoporotic fracture and an outline by a pharmacotherapeutic 
cost-effectiveness study were described. The burden of osteoporosis is usually 
due to osteoporotic fractures. In Japan, medical and care expenditures on hip 
and spine fractures were estimated at 7,974 approximately 9,895 hundred million 
yen. The cost-effectiveness of pharmacotherapy for osteoporosis is markedly 
affected by age, a cost of intervention, and its offset time. Therefore, more 
favorable cost-effectiveness is expected if a fracture risk of a subject is 
higher. An active treatment for the aged patient with osteoporosis is greatly 
significant for medical economy. With a threshold of US dollars 30,000 per QALY 
(quality adjusted life years) gained, an intervention for osteoporosis is 
decided to be cost-effective.

PMID: 17607069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2007 Jul 5;132(28-29):1505-9. doi:
10.1055/s-2007-982060.

[Fabry disease: demographic data since introduction of enzyme replacement 
therapy].

[Article in German]

Cybulla M(1), Walter K, Neumann HP, Widmer U, Schärer M, Sunder-Plassmann G, 
Jansen T, Rolfs A, Beck M.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Abteilung für Nephrologie, Albert-Ludwigs-Universität, 
Freiburg, Germany. markus.cybulla@uniklinik-freiburg.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Fabry's disease is a rare, X-chromosome linked 
recessive lysosomal storage disorder. In its course multiple organ damage 
occurs, e.g. in skin, nerves, kidneys and heart. The disease not only markedly 
impairs the quality of life but also shortens life expectancy if untreated. As 
it is a rare and not widely known disease with considerable variability of its 
symptoms it is often not or only belatedly diagnosed. Since 2001, enzyme 
replacement has become available as an option in the causal treatment. It was 
the aim of this study to analyse the demography and clinical expression of the 
disease.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data were obtained from the Fabry Outcome Survey (FOS), a 
Europe-wide data bank for the documentation of the disease's clinical course, on 
262 patients (130 males, 132 females; mean age 37.5 and 34 years, respectively 
on entry in the FOS) in Germany, Switzerland and Austria.
RESULTS: Typical symptoms - acroparesthesias, joint pain, hypohidrosis, fever 
and angiokeratoma - have their onset in childhood (mean age nine years). 
Symptoms start significantly earlier in males than females. The interval between 
onset of the first symptoms and establishment of the diagnosis is about 15 
years. The severity of the clinical picture, as measured in the POS Mainz 
severity score index (MSSI), correlates significantly with the person's age (p = 
0.0001). Main causes of morbidity and death in Fabry's disease are involvement 
of the kidneys or heart, the one or other occurring in 75% of patients. 171 
patients (38 [65.3%]: 92 males, 79 females) are at present being continually 
treated with enzyme-replacement (ERT), agalsidase-a, i.e. 70.8% of all male and 
59.8 of all female patients in the FOS.
CONCLUSIONS: It is of great importance for the prognosis and quality that 
Fabry's disease is diagnosed as early as possible and treated adequately before 
the onset of organ damage. If the listed symptoms by themselves remain 
unexplained, Fabry's disease should be considered in the differential diagnosis. 
National and international observational studies, such as the FOS, significantly 
contribute to gaining important clinical data on this heterogeneous disease.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-982060
PMID: 17607649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Cancer. 2007 Aug 15;110(4):885-95. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22848.

Cost effectiveness of mammography screening for Chinese women.

Wong IO(1), Kuntz KM, Cowling BJ, Lam CL, Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing 
Faculty of Medicine, the University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, China.

Erratum in
    Cancer. 2010 Jan 15;116(2):540.

BACKGROUND: Although the cost effectiveness of screening mammography in most 
western developed populations has been accepted, it may not apply to Chinese 
women, who have a much lower breast cancer incidence. The authors estimated the 
cost effectiveness of biennial mammography in Hong Kong Chinese women to inform 
evidence-based screening policies.
METHODS: For the current study, a state-transition Markov model was developed to 
simulate mammography screening, breast cancer diagnosis, and treatment in a 
hypothetical cohort of Chinese women. The benefit of mammography was modeled by 
assuming a stage shift, in which cancers in screened women were more likely to 
be diagnosed at an earlier disease stage. The authors compared costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) saved, and life years saved (LYS) for 5 
screening strategies.
RESULTS: Biennial screening resulted in a gain in life expectancy ranging from 
4.3 days to 9.4 days compared with no screening at an incremental cost of from 
US $1,166 to US $2,425 per woman. The least costly, nondominated screening 
option was screening from ages 40 years to 69 years, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US $61,600 per QALY saved or US $64,400 per 
LYS compared with no screening. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, the 
probability of the ICER being below a threshold of US $50,000 per QALY (LYS) was 
15.3% (14.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: The current results suggested that mammography for Hong Kong 
Chinese women currently may not be cost effective based on the arbitrary 
threshold of US $50,000 per QALY. However, clinicians must remain vigilant and 
periodically should revisit the question of population screening: Disease rates 
in China have been increasing because of westernization and socioeconomic 
development.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22848
PMID: 17607668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Hist Methods. 2000;33(2):115-30. doi: 10.1080/01615440009598954.

The effects of migration, place, and occupation on adult mortality in the 
American north, 1740-1880.

Kasakoff AB, Adams JW.

DOI: 10.1080/01615440009598954
PMID: 17607877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2007 Jul;55(7):1049-55. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2007.01204.x.

Mortality risk in older inner-city African Americans.

Malmstrom TK(1), Andresen EM, Wolinsky FD, Miller JP, Stamps K, Miller DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, School of Medicine, Saint Louis University, St. 
Louis, Missouri 63104, USA. malmsttk@slu.edu

OBJECTIVES: To investigate mortality risks in a sample of poor, 
inner-city-dwelling, older African Americans.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: St. Louis, Missouri.
PARTICIPANTS: Six hundred twenty-two African Americans aged 68 to 102 at the 
time of their 1992 to 1994 baseline interviews.
MEASUREMENTS: Risk factors previously identified in the literature were examined 
for seven categories: demographic, socioeconomic, psychosocial, biomedical, 
disability and physical function, perceived health, and health services 
utilization. Vital status was ascertained through 2002.
RESULTS: Three hundred eighty-six subjects (62.1%) were deceased and 236 were 
alive (mortality higher than in matched controls). Significant risks for 
mortality were older age, male sex, annual income less than $10,000, cancer, 
cerebrovascular disease, dependencies in lower-body function, and number of 
physician visits in the 12 months before baseline.
CONCLUSION: In addition to improving the risk factors for stroke and malignant 
disease in this population, studies focused on improving lower-body functioning 
may be warranted as a part of efforts aimed at enhancing longevity in older 
African-American adults.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2007.01204.x
PMID: 17608878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2007 Sep;60(3):461-3. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkm241. Epub
2007  Jul 2.

Improved survival in HIV-infected persons: consequences and perspectives.

Lohse N(1), Hansen AB, Gerstoft J, Obel N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Arhus University Hospital, DK-8000 Arhus 
C, Denmark. nl@dce.au.dk

A human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) patient in 2007 has the option to commence 
an antiretroviral regimen that is extremely efficacious in suppressing the virus 
and has few side effects. In a recent study, we estimated the median remaining 
lifetime of a newly diagnosed 25-year-old HIV-infected individual to be 39 
years. The prospect of a near-normal life expectancy has implications for the 
HIV-infected persons as well as for the handling of the disease in the 
healthcare system. The patients can now on a long-term perspective plan their 
professional career, join a pension plan and start a family. Further, they may 
expect to be treated equally with other members of society with respect to 
access to mortgage, health insurance and life insurance. As the infected 
population ages, more patients will contract age-related diseases, and the 
disease burden on some individuals may even come to be dominated by 
non-HIV-related conditions that may have a worse prognosis and therefore become 
more important than HIV-related conditions. Despite the improvements in 
antiretroviral therapy, there is still an excess mortality among HIV patients, 
which appears to be only partially attributable to immunodeficiency, with 
lifestyle factors potentially playing a pronounced role. Consequently, an effort 
to further increase survival must target risk factors for both HIV-related and 
-unrelated mortality. The continuation of the positive trend may be achieved by 
increased HIV testing, earlier initiation of antiretroviral therapy, improved 
drug adherence, prevention and treatment of HIV-unrelated co-morbidity and 
collaboration with other medical specialists to treat an ageing 
co-morbidity-acquiring HIV population.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkm241
PMID: 17609196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Blood. 2007 Oct 1;110(7):2296-301. doi: 10.1182/blood-2007-02-075960. Epub
2007  Jul 3.

Oral maintenance clinical trial with miglustat for type I Gaucher disease: 
switch from or combination with intravenous enzyme replacement.

Elstein D(1), Dweck A, Attias D, Hadas-Halpern I, Zevin S, Altarescu G, Aerts 
JF, van Weely S, Zimran A.

Author information:
(1)Gaucher Clinic, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. 
elstein@szmc.org.il

Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with imiglucerase reduces hepatosplenomegaly 
and improves hematologic parameters in Gaucher disease type 1 within 6-24 
months. Miglustat reduces organomegaly, improves hematologic parameters, and 
reverses bone marrow infiltration. This trial evaluates miglustat in patients 
clinically stable on ERT. Tolerability of miglustat and imiglucerase, alone and 
in combination, pharmacokinetic profile, organ reduction, and chitotriosidase 
activity were assessed. Thirty-six patients stable on imiglucerase were 
randomized into this phase II, open-label trial. Statistically significant 
changes from baseline were assessed (paired t test) on primary objectives with 
secondary analyses on biochemical and safety parameters. Liver and spleen volume 
were unchanged in switched patients. No significant differences were seen 
between groups regarding mean change in hemoglobin. Mean change in platelet 
counts was only significant between miglustat and imiglucerase groups (P = 
.035). Chitotriosidase activity remained stable. In trial extension, clinical 
endpoints were generally maintained. Miglustat was well tolerated alone or in 
combination. Miglustat's safety profile was consistent with previous trials; 
moreover, no new cases of peripheral neuropathy were observed. Gaucher disease 
type 1 (GD1) parameters were stable in most switched patients. Combination 
therapy did not show benefit. Findings suggest miglustat could be an effective 
maintenance therapy in stabilized patients with GD1.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2007-02-075960
PMID: 17609429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(7):591-603. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725070-00005.

The use of disease-specific outcome measures in cost-utility analysis: the 
development of Dutch societal preference weights for the FACT-L scale.

Lamers LM(1), Uyl-de Groot CA, Buijt I.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

INTRODUCTION: The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Lung (FACT-L) is a 
validated, sensitive and reliable patient questionnaire that evaluates and 
quantifies quality of life (QOL) across several domains, including lung 
cancer-related symptoms. The FACT-L was not designed for use in economic 
evaluation and does not incorporate preferences into its scoring system.
OBJECTIVE: To derive a set of Dutch preference weights for FACT-L health states 
that can be used to convert FACT-L into a single value that can be used in 
cost-utility analyses.
METHODS: A representative sample of the Dutch population (n = 1076) directly 
valued an orthogonal set of eight FACT-L health states on a 100-point rating 
scale with the anchor points 'worst imaginable health state' and 'best 
imaginable health state'. Eleven FACT-L items were selected to describe the 
FACT-L health states that were directly valued. Regression analysis was used to 
interpolate values for all other possible health states. Scores were transformed 
into values on a scale where 0 indicated dead and 1 indicated full health.
RESULTS: The estimated values for FACT-L health states ranged from 0.08 to 0.93. 
The estimated value sets were applied to FACT-L data of lung cancer patients 
participating in a clinical study. Significant differences in the mean value and 
mean gain of 0.12 and 0.07, respectively, were found between patients in 
remission and patients with progressive disease at 4 weeks' follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Our results reaffirmed that the methodology used here is a feasible 
option to convert data collected with a disease-specific outcome measure into 
preferences. We concluded that the sensitivity of the derived set of societal 
preferences to capture differences and changes in clinical health states is an 
indication of its construct validity.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725070-00005
PMID: 17610339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. BMC Gastroenterol. 2007 Jul 4;7:25. doi: 10.1186/1471-230X-7-25.
