yr) after 4 yr on dialysis compared with an ECD after 2 yr of dialysis (17.6 
yr). Increased candidate age was associated with the likelihood of not receiving 
a transplant during the period on the waiting list as a result of mortality and 
separately related to morbidity and delisting. Older and frailer transplant 
candidates benefit from accepting lower quality organs early after ESRD, whereas 
younger and healthier patients benefit from receiving higher quality organs even 
with longer dialysis exposure. These findings are important for transplant 
candidates and advocates decision-making and for potential further 
implementation in allocation policy.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.01130905
PMID: 17699256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Jul;1(4):710-7. doi: 10.2215/CJN.01581105. Epub
2006  Jun 8.

Incident renal events and risk factors in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney 
disease: a population and family-based cohort followed for 22 years.

Dicks E(1), Ravani P, Langman D, Davidson WS, Pei Y, Parfrey PS.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit and Division of Nephrology, Memorial University of 
Newfoundland, St. John's, Newfoundland, Canada.

For determination of the incidence of renal events in autosomal dominant 
polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) all patients who had ADPKD and attended 
nephrology/urology clinics in Newfoundland in 1981 were identified, and members 
of 18 families who were at 50% risk for inheriting ADPKD were followed 
prospectively for 22 yr, including research clinics at 6-yr intervals. Time to 
hypertension treatment, stage 3 chronic kidney disease (CKD), ESRD, and death 
was measured, and the impact of genotype, gender, gender of parent who 
transmitted PKD, family, family history of essential hypertension, parity, and 
oral contraceptive pill was assessed. Nine (50%) families had PKD1, four (22%) 
had PKD2, and one had both PKD1 and PKD2. The number of family members with PKD1 
was 136 and with PKD2 was 60. In PKD1 median age to hypertension treatment was 
46 yr, to CKD stage 3 was 50 yr, to ESRD was 53 yr, and to death was 67 yr. In 
PKD2, median age to hypertension treatment was 51 yr, to CKD stage 3 was 66 yr, 
to death was 71 yr, and ESRD was infrequent. Although the incidence of CKD was 
later and ESRD occurred infrequently in PKD2 compared with PKD1, early onset of 
hypertension occurred and life expectancy was compromised. Genotype, family, and 
proteinuria were identified as risk factors for incident renal events. Gender, 
gender of parent who transmitted PKD, family history of essential hypertension, 
multiparity, and use of the oral contraceptive pill were not identified as risk 
factors for renal events in ADPKD.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.01581105
PMID: 17699277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Sep;1(5):1000-5. doi: 10.2215/CJN.00470705. Epub 
2006 Jul 26.

Dementia as a predictor of mortality in dialysis patients.

Rakowski DA(1), Caillard S, Agodoa LY, Abbott KC.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Service, Walter Reed Army Medical Center, Washington, DC 
20307-5001, USA.

The life expectancy of patients who have dementia and are initiated on dialysis 
in the United States has not been described in the medical literature. A 
retrospective cohort study was conducted of 272,024 Medicare/Medicaid primary 
patients in the US Renal Data System who were started on ESRD therapy between 
April 1, 1995, and December 31, 1999, and followed through December 31, 2001. 
Cox regression was used to calculate adjusted hazard ratios for risk for death 
after initiation of dialysis for patients whose dementia was diagnosed before 
the initiation of dialysis as shown by Medicare claims. The average time to 
death for patients with dementia was 1.09 versus 2.7 yr (P < 0.001) with an 
adjusted hazard ratio of 1.87 (95% confidence interval 1.77 to 1.98). The 2-yr 
survival for patients with dementia was 24 versus 66% for patients without 
dementia (P < 0.001 via log rank test). Dementia that is diagnosed before 
initiation on dialysis is an independent risk factor for subsequent death. Such 
patients should be considered for time-limited trials of dialysis and careful 
discussion in choosing whether to pursue initiation of dialysis or palliative 
care.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.00470705
PMID: 17699319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2006 Nov;1(6):1284-92. doi: 10.2215/CJN.01480506. Epub
 2006 Sep 20.

Risk factors for cardiovascular disease in children and young adults after renal 
transplantation.

Becker-Cohen R(1), Nir A, Rinat C, Feinstein S, Algur N, Farber B, Frishberg Y.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Nephrology, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel. 
rbeckercohen@yahoo.com

Despite good outcomes in pediatric renal transplantation, life expectancy is 
reduced, mostly as a result of accelerated atherosclerosis. A comprehensive 
evaluation of cardiac status and risk factors for cardiovascular disease was 
performed in 60 patients after renal transplantation (age 3 to 29 yr; mean 
15.8). Posttransplantation diabetes was diagnosed in 7%. Half of the patients 
did not engage in any physical activity, and this was associated with increased 
body mass index. Uncontrolled hypertension was found in 13% of patient, and 53% 
were on antihypertensive medications. BP index was associated with left 
ventricular mass index (LVMI). Dyslipidemia was relatively uncommon, with 
hypercholesterolemia found in 15% and elevated LDL cholesterol found in 10% of 
patients. Hyperhomocysteinemia was frequent (58%); in most patients, it was not 
due to folate or B(12) deficiency. Lipid and homocysteine abnormalities were 
associated with cyclosporine therapy. Echocardiography demonstrated normal LVMI 
in 93% of patients, although LVMI was higher than in healthy control subjects. 
Cardiac troponin I was normal in all patients, but N-terminal pro-brain 
natriuretic peptide was elevated in 35% and was associated with LVMI and renal 
function. Although present cardiac status is relatively normal in pediatric 
renal transplantation patients, cardiac risk factors are common, and strategies 
to prevent cardiovascular disease need to be developed.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.01480506
PMID: 17699360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 Jan;2(1):89-99. doi: 10.2215/CJN.01170905. Epub
2006  Nov 29.

Predictors of early mortality among incident US hemodialysis patients in the 
Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS).

Bradbury BD(1), Fissell RB, Albert JM, Anthony MS, Critchlow CW, Pisoni RL, Port 
FK, Gillespie BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Epidemiology, Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, California 
91320, USA. bradbury@amgen.com

Comment in
    Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 Jan;2(1):143-5.

Mortality risk among hemodialysis (HD) patients may be highest soon after 
initiation of HD. A period of elevated mortality risk was identified among US 
incident HD patients, and which patient characteristics predict death during 
this period and throughout the first year was examined using data from the 
Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS; 1996 through 2004). A 
retrospective cohort study design was used to identify mortality risk factors. 
All patient information was collected at enrollment. Life-table analyses and 
discrete logistic regression were used to identify a period of elevated 
mortality risk. Cox regression was used to estimate adjusted hazard ratios (HR) 
measuring associations between patient characteristics and mortality and to 
examine whether these associations changed during the first year of HD. Among 
4802 incident patients, risk for death was elevated during the first 120 d 
compared with 121 to 365 d (27.5 versus 21.9 deaths per 100 person-years; P = 
0.002). Cause-specific mortality rates were higher in the first 120 d than in 
the subsequent 121 to 365 d for nearly all causes, with the greatest difference 
being for cardiovascular-related deaths. In addition, 20% of all deaths in the 
first 120 d occurred subsequent to withdrawal from dialysis. Most covariates 
were found to have consistent effects during the first year of HD: Older age, 
catheter vascular access, albumin <3.5, phosphorus <3.5, cancer, and congestive 
heart failure all were associated with elevated mortality. Pre-ESRD nephrology 
care was associated with a significantly lower risk for death before 120 d (HR 
0.65; 95% confidence interval 0.51 to 0.83) but not in the subsequent 121- to 
365-d period (HR 1.03; 95% confidence interval 0.83 to 1.27). This care was 
related to approximately 50% lower rates of both cardiac deaths and withdrawal 
from dialysis during the first 120 d. Mortality risk was highest in the first 
120 d after HD initiation. Inadequate predialysis nephrology care was strongly 
associated with mortality during this period, highlighting the potential 
benefits of contact with a nephrologist at least 1 mo before HD initiation.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.01170905
PMID: 17699392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 Jan;2(1):107-11. doi: 10.2215/CJN.03080906. Epub 
2006 Nov 8.

Nephrologists' changing practices in reported end-of-life decision-making.

Holley JL(1), Davison SN, Moss AH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA. jlh4qs@virginia.edu

Because the dialysis patient population is increasingly composed of older 
patients with high symptom burden, shortened life expectancy, and multiple 
comorbid conditions, nephrologists often engage in end-of-life decision-making 
with their patients. In the 1990s, reported practices of nephrologists' 
end-of-life decision-making showed much variability. In part as a reaction to 
that variability, the Renal Physicians Association (RPA) and the American 
Society of Nephrology (ASN) developed a clinical practice guideline on 
end-of-life decision-making. To determine whether nephrologists' attitudes and 
reported practices had changed over time, survey responses from 296 
nephrologists completing an online survey in 2005 were compared with 318 
nephrologists who completed a similar mailed survey in 1990. In 2005, less 
variability was noted in reported practices to withhold dialysis from a 
permanently unconscious patient (90% would withhold in 2005 versus 83% who would 
withhold in 1990, P < 0.001) and to stop dialysis in a severely demented patient 
(53% in 2005 would stop versus 39% in 1990, P < 0.00001). In 2005, significantly 
more dialysis units were reported to have written policies on cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation (86% in 2005 versus 31% in 1990, P < 0.0001) and withdrawal of 
dialysis (30% in 2005 versus 15% in 1990, P < 0.0002); nephrologists were also 
more likely to honor a dialysis patient's do-not-resuscitate order (83% in 2005 
versus 66%, P < 0.0002) and to consider consulting a Network ethics committee 
(52% in 2005 versus 39%, P < 0.001). Nephrologists' reported practices in 
end-of-life care have changed significantly over the 15 years separating the two 
surveys, suggesting that the development of the clinical practice guideline was 
worthwhile.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.03080906
PMID: 17699394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 Jan;2(1):143-5. doi: 10.2215/CJN.03711106. Epub
2006  Dec 6.

Predialysis nephrology care improves dialysis outcomes: now what? Or chapter 
two.

Golper TA.

Comment on
    Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2007 Jan;2(1):89-99.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.03711106
PMID: 17699398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Sep;19(9):733-9. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0b013e3282748f1f.

The cost-effectiveness of the new protocol reflecting rapid virologic response 
to peginterferon alpha-2b and ribavirin for chronic hepatitis C.

Nakamura J(1), Kobayashi K, Toyabe S, Aoyagi Y, Akazawa K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Information Science and Biostatistics, Niigata University 
Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan. 
ichirojn@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: Recent studies have reported the effectiveness of shorter courses of 
treatment with peginterferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin for patients with chronic 
hepatitis C, who achieved a rapid virologic response (RVR), defined as 
undetectable hepatitis C virus (HCV-) RNA at week 4. The aim of this study was 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the new protocol for treatment, from the 
perspective of RVR.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis based on the rate of sustained virologic 
response was performed. A Markov cohort model of hepatitis C was constructed to 
demonstrate the clinical states on the basis of the assigned transition 
probabilities over 30 years. The treatment strategies were classified into five 
subgroups taking into consideration the viral genotypes, viral load, and RVR. 
The lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were compared between 
the new and standard protocols for treatment.
RESULTS: Genotype 1-infected patients in the new protocol for treatment compared 
with the standard one could prolong QALYs by 0.33 and reduce lifetime cost by 
euro 5993. Genotype 2 or 3-infected patients in the new protocol for treatment 
compared with the standard one could prolong QALYs by 0.02 and reduce lifetime 
cost by euro2851.
CONCLUSION: Treatment strategies that consider viral load and RVR for patients 
with a low viral load infected with genotype 1 and those infected with genotype 
2 or 3 are more cost-effective compared with the standard protocol for 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e3282748f1f
PMID: 17700257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Optom Vis Sci. 2007 Aug;84(8):656-8. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e31814db01e.

Vision-related quality of life.

Elliott DB, Pesudovs K, Mallinson T.

Comment on
    Optom Vis Sci. 2007 Aug;84(8):729-37.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e31814db01e
PMID: 17700329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Optom Vis Sci. 2007 Aug;84(8):809-16. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3181337638.

Preference-based quality of life measures in people with visual impairment.

Kymes SM(1), Lee BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, Washington University School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63110-1093, USA. kymes@vrcc.wustl.edu

The use of preference-based measures of quality of life represents the 
application of principles of decision theory and welfare economics to the 
measurement of health-related concepts. In this Perspective, we present the 
theoretical basis of preference-based measures in the assessment of the impact 
of vision-related disease on quality of life and their role in 
cost-effectiveness analysis. We discuss the use of the standard gamble and time 
trade-off in eliciting utilities and the limitations of both methods. Scaling 
issues related to utility are discussed, in particular the reasons for use of 
the "policy scale" (i.e., a scale where utilities are anchored at 1.0 for 
perfect health and 0 as death). This is contrasted with the use of the 
"vision-truncated scale" (i.e., a scale with 1.0 representing perfect vision and 
0 being death), which is commonly used in assessment of vision-related 
utilities. We discuss problematic aspects of using the truncated scale in 
conducting cost-effectiveness research for vision-related disease, and provide a 
theoretical and empirical discussion of these limitations. In particular, we 
point out how these results raise questions concerning the conceptual 
relationship between vision- and health-related quality of life. Finally, we 
present the results of previous cross-cultural and trans-national studies of 
vision-related quality of life to demonstrate how utility studies might provide 
insight into the meaning of disease across cultures.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3181337638
PMID: 17700344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Kidney Int. 2007 Nov;72(9):1122-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.ki.5002459. Epub 2007 Aug
15.

The economic burden of end-stage renal disease in Canada.

Zelmer JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management, and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Canada.

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2007 Nov;72(9):1045-7.

End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is a serious illness with significant health 
consequences and high-cost treatment options. This study estimates direct and 
indirect cost associated with ESRD from a societal perspective. A 
prevalence-based approach was used to estimate direct health-care costs and 
productivity losses from short- and long-term disability. An incident-based 
human capital approach was used to estimate mortality costs as the sum of the 
discounted present value of current and future productivity losses from 
premature deaths. Less than 0.1% of Canadians have ESRD; however, the disease 
generated direct health-care costs of $1.3 billion in the year 2000. The amount 
of direct spending per person with ESRD is much more than the average spending 
per person for all health-care conditions. Adding indirect morbidity and 
mortality cost brings the total burden associated with ESRD to $1.9 billion. 
This economic impact is higher than that for skin or infectious diseases, about 
the same as for genitourinary or endocrine diseases, but lower than that for 
conditions such as cancer or stroke. This economic weight is borne by a 
relatively small number of individuals. With the rapid increase in the incidence 
of ESRD, these findings may be useful in setting priorities for research, 
prevention programs, and in the planning of treatments. A better understanding 
of the scope and magnitude of the total economic burden of ESRD would help to 
inform those making policy decisions.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ki.5002459
PMID: 17700643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Urologe A. 2007 Sep;46(9):1104-12. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1445-z.

[The interdisciplinary approach to improve treatment quality of prostate cancer. 
Optimized nerve sparing in radical prostatectomy].

[Article in German]

Sievert KD(1), Anastasiadis AG, Hennenlotter J, Schilling D, Merseburger AS, 
Nagele U, Lichy MP, Schlemmer HP, Ulmer A, Vogel U, Sotlar K, Kuczyk M, Stenzl 
A.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum Tübingen, 
Hoppe-Seyler-Strasse 3, 72076 Tübingen. karl.sievert@med.uni-tuebingen.de

BACKGROUND: After sufficient oncological treatment of prostate cancer the life 
quality becomes most important. A multi disciplinary research network aims to 
optimize the diagnostics and the resulting treatment of prostate cancer.
METHODS: Main characteristics of the interdisciplinary cooperation are the 
interlocked individual projects. A major research field is investigation of the 
whole mounted prostate sections to study the peripheral nerves and the 
comparison of histological tumor locations with the MRI. Using serial sections 
of prostate specimens, three-dimensional computer-animated models are created 
illustrating the tumors histological and immunohistochemical distributions. For 
nodal staging, a new methodology is investigated to demonstrate single tumor 
cells in lymphatic tissue lysates. A retrospective evaluation of life quality 
including the functional outcome is performed by using questionnaire surveys.
RESULTS: Anatomical studies gave new insights into the exact localizations of 
peripheral nerves which may lead to an improvement of the surgical approach in 
nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy. For the preoperative planning the MRI 
imaging might need a different interpretation in relation to the topographic 
location. Studies using molecular markers and their relation and distribution 
patterns gave new insights regarding interpretation of histological biopsy 
results concerning the tumor extension. Numerical quantification of tumor cells 
in each lymph node demonstrated micro metastases in histological negative nodes 
contributing to the nodal staging. A close connection of the nerve-sparing 
technique was demonstrated with quality of life aspects and functional results.
CONCLUSION: An interdisciplinary approach is mandatory for translational 
prostate cancer research. As a result, individualized diagnostic and therapeutic 
approaches improve oncological results and at the same time provide the best 
quality of life in these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1445-z
PMID: 17701393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Ann Med. 2007;39(5):335-45. doi: 10.1080/07853890701408194.

Sirtuins: the 'magnificent seven', function, metabolism and longevity.

Dali-Youcef N(1), Lagouge M, Froelich S, Koehl C, Schoonjans K, Auwerx J.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Génétique et de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire de Strasbourg 
(IGBMC), INSERM/CNRS/ULP, Illkirch, France.

The sirtuin family of histone deacetylases (HDACs) was named after their 
homology to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene silent information regulator 2 
(Sir2). In the yeast, Sir2 has been shown to mediate the effects of calorie 
restriction on the extension of life span and high levels of Sir2 activity 
promote longevity. Like their yeast homologs, the mammalian sirtuins (SIRT1-7) 
are class III HDACs and require NAD(+) as a cofactor to deacetylate substrates 
ranging from histones to transcriptional regulators. Through this activity, 
sirtuins are shown to regulate important biological processes ranging from 
apoptosis, adipocyte and muscle differentiation, and energy expenditure to 
gluconeogenesis. We review here the current knowledge regarding the role of 
sirtuins in metabolism, longevity, and discuss the possible therapeutic 
applications that could result from the understanding of their function in 
different organs and pathologies.

DOI: 10.1080/07853890701408194
PMID: 17701476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Heart Valve Dis. 2007 Jul;16(4):423-8; discussion 429.

Predicted patient outcome after aortic valve replacement with Medtronic 
Stentless Freestyle bioprostheses.

Kappetein AP(1), Puvimanasinghe JP, Takkenberg JJ, Steyerberg EW, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. a.kappetein@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Knowledge on long-term patient outcome after 
implantation with the Medtronic Stentless Freestyle bioprosthesis is incomplete 
due to a limited follow up. In the present study, microsimulation was used to 
extrapolate the available primary data and to calculate the life expectancy and 
lifetime risks of valve-related events after aortic valve replacement (AVR) with 
the Freestyle bioprosthesis.
METHODS: Eleven-year follow up data from 725 patients (mean age 72 +/- 8 years; 
range: 36-92 years) who underwent AVR with a Medtronic Freestyle bio-prosthesis 
were used to calculate the hazards of structural valvular deterioration (SVD) 
and of other valve-related events. Age-dependent Weibull distributions were used 
to model SVD. These results were incorporated into a mathematical 
microsimulation model, which then calculated the long-term outcomes for patients 
of any given age and gender.
RESULTS: The annual hazards for thromboembolism and endocarditis were 2.9% and 
0.45% per patient-year, respectively. For example, for a 72-year-old male 
patient the median time to SVD was 20.0 (17.8-22.4) years. The life expectancy, 
reoperation-free life expectancy and event-free life expectancy of this patient 
was 10.4, 9.7, and 7.2 years, respectively. The patient had a higher life 
expectancy compared to age and gender-matched persons in the general population. 
His lifetime risk of reoperation due to SVD was 15%.
CONCLUSION: The Medtronic Stentless Freestyle bioprosthesis performs well and 
offers a low lifetime risk of reoperation for elderly patients requiring AVR. 
The performance of the valve and the selective patient population might explain 
the higher life expectancy compared to age and gender-matched persons in the 
general population.

PMID: 17702369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Can J Gastroenterol. 2007 Aug;21(8):491-500. doi: 10.1155/2007/182383.

Management of solitary 1 cm to 2 cm liver nodules in patients with compensated 
cirrhosis: a decision analysis.

Bremner KE(1), Bayoumi AM, Sherman M, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)Toronto General Research Institute, Toronto General Hospital, University 
Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. kbremner@uhnresearch.ca

OBJECTIVES: Current guidelines, based on expert opinion, recommend that 
suspected 1 cm to 2 cm hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) detected on screening be 
biopsied and, if positive, treated (eg, resection or transplantation). 
Alternative strategies are immediate treatment or observation until disease 
progression occurs.
METHODS: A Markov decision model was developed that compared three management 
strategies - immediate resection, biopsy and resection if positive, and 
ultrasound surveillance every three months until disease progression - for a 
single 1 cm to 2 cm liver nodule suspicious for HCC following ultrasound 
screening and computed tomography confirmation. The cohort included 55-year-old 
patients with compensated cirrhosis and no significant comorbidities. The model 
used in the present study incorporated the probabilities of false-positive and 
false-negative results, needle-track seeding, HCC recurrence, cirrhosis 
progression and death. The quality-adjusted life expectancy (LE) and the 
unadjusted LE were evaluated and the model's strength was assessed with 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, biopsy, resection and surveillance yielded 
an unadjusted LE of 60.5, 59.7 and 56.6 months, respectively, and a 
quality-adjusted LE of 46.6, 45.6 and 43.8 months, respectively. In 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses, biopsy was the preferred strategy 69.5% of 
the time, resection 30.5% of the time and surveillance never. Resection was the 
optimal decision if the sensitivity of biopsy was very low (less than 0.45) or 
if the accuracy of the imaging tests resulted in a high percentage of 
HCC-positive patients (greater than 76%) in the screened cohort, as with expert 
interpretation of triphasic computed tomography.
CONCLUSIONS: The present model suggests that biopsy is the preferred management 
strategy for these patients. When postimaging probability of HCC is high or 
pathology expertise is lacking, resection is the best alternative. Surveillance 
is never the optimal strategy.

OBJECTIFS : Les lignes directrices actuelles, fondées sur l’avis d’experts, 
recommandent que les carcinomes hépatocellulaires (CHC) présumé de 1 cm à 2 cm 
décelés au dépistage fassent l’objet d’une biopsie et soient traités lorsqu’ils 
sont positifs (p. ex., résection ou greffe). D’autres stratégies consistent à 
procéder à un traitement immédiat ou à poursuivre l’observation jusqu’à ce que 
la maladie évolue.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : On a mis au point un modèle décisionnel de Markov pour comparer 
trois stratégies de prise en charge (résection immédiate, biopsie suivie d’une 
résection en présence de résultats positifs et surveillance par échographie) 
tous les trois mois jusqu’à l’apparition d’un seul nodule hépatique de 1 cm à 2 
cm susceptible d’être un CHC après confirmation par échographie et 
tomodensitométrie. La cohorte était formée de patients de 55 ans atteints d’une 
cirrhose compensée, sans comorbidités importantes. Le modèle utilisé dans la 
présente étude intégrait les probabilités de résultats faux positifs et faux 
négatifs, d’ensemencement par piqûre d’aiguille, de récurrence du CHC, 
d’évolution de la cirrhose et de décès. On a évalué l’espérance de vie (EV) 
pondérée par la qualité de l’existence et l’EV non rajustée ainsi que la 
solidité du modèle au moyen d’analyses de sensibilité.
RÉSULTATS : Dans l’analyse du scénario de référence, la biopsie, la résection et 
la surveillance ont donné lieu à une EV non rajustée de 60,5, 59,7 et 56,6 mois, 
respectivement, et à une EV pondérée par la qualité de l’existence de 46,6, 45,6 
et 43,8 mois, respectivement. Dans les analyses probabilistes de sensibilité, la 
biopsie était la stratégie favorisée dans 65, 9% des cas, la résection, dans 
30,5 % des cas et la surveillance, dans aucun cas. La résection était la 
décision optimale lorsque la sensibilité de la biopsie était très faible (moins 
de 0,45) ou que les tests d’imagerie donnaient un fort pourcentage de patients 
positifs au CHC (plus de 76 %) au sein de la cohorte dépistée, tout comme 
l’interprétation de la tomodensitométrie triphasique par des experts.
CONCLUSIONS : D’après le présent modèle, la biopsie est la stratégie de prise en 
charge favorisée pour ces patients. Lorsque la probabilité de CHC est élevée 
après l’imagerie ou en l’absence de compétences en pathologie, la résection 
devient la meilleure solution. La surveillance n’est jamais la stratégie 
optimale.

DOI: 10.1155/2007/182383
PMCID: PMC2657973
PMID: 17703248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Can J Cardiol. 2007 Aug;23(10):779-81. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70826-7.

The role of enhanced external counterpulsation in the treatment of angina and 
heart failure.

Arora RR(1), Shah AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Chicago Medical School, Chicago, IL 60064, USA. 
rohit.arora@med.va.gov

As the incidence of angina and heart failure continue to rise, new therapeutic 
options will be needed to treat patients who remain symptomatic or who are 
intolerant to current treatment. Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) is a 
noninvasive modality being investigated in both angina and congestive heart 
failure patients. It has been proven to provide symptomatic benefit in angina 
patients, but has not been proven to show an increase in life expectancy or 
decrease in cardiovascular events. EECP in heart failure has been proven to be 
safe, but its efficacy is still uncertain. The present paper summarizes the 
current literature on the clinical use of EECP in angina and heart failure.

À mesure que l’incidence d’angine et d’insuffisance cardiaque continuera 
d’augmenter, il faudra de nouvelles options thérapeutiques pour traiter les 
patients qui demeurent symptomatiques ou qui ne tolèrent pas leur traitement 
courant. La contrepulsation externe à haut rendement (CEHR) est une modalité non 
effractive qui fait l’objet d’études auprès de patients atteints autant d’angine 
que d’insuffisance cardiaque. Il est démontré que cette modalité a des effets 
bénéfiques chez les patients angineux, mais pas qu’elle accroît l’espérance de 
vie ou qu’elle diminue les événements cardiaques. La sécurité de la CEHR est 
établie en cas d’insuffisance cardiaque, mais son efficacité n’est pas certaine. 
Le présent article résume les publications scientifiques actuelles sur l’utilité 
clinique de la CEHR en cas d’angine et d’insuffisance cardiaque.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70826-7
PMCID: PMC2651381
PMID: 17703254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Infect Dis. 2007 Sep 15;196(6):853-60. doi: 10.1086/520094. Epub 2007 Aug
14.

Tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta play a critical role in the 
resistance against lethal herpes simplex virus encephalitis.

Sergerie Y(1), Rivest S, Boivin G.

Author information:
(1)Research Center in Infectious Diseases, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de 
Quebec-Centre Hospitalier de l'Universite Laval, Laval University, Quebec City, 
Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The innate immune response after herpes simplex type 1 (HSV-1) 
encephalitis could be protective or, paradoxically, implicated in neuronal 
damage. We investigated the role of the innate immune response in such infection 
using a C57BL/6 mouse knockout (KO) model for tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha 
and/or interleukin (IL)-1beta.
METHODS: Encephalitis was induced by intranasal infection with a clinical strain 
of HSV-1 in 1-month-old KO or wild-type (WT) mice. Mice were monitored for 
survival, brain viral load was quantified by real-time polymerase chain 
reaction, and the inflammatory response was assessed by in situ hybridization in 
groups of mice killed on days 3-7.
RESULTS: WT mice had a significantly higher mean life expectancy (P=.0001, 
log-rank test) than other groups. IL-1beta and TNF-alpha KO mice had a similar 
mean life expectancy, and encephalitis was lethal to all TNF-alpha 
/IL-1beta-deficient mice. Brain viral loads were lower in WT than in KO mice 
that had disseminated viral replication in the pons and medulla. Moreover, TNF- 
alpha and IL-1beta KO mice failed to initiate an adequate immune response, as 
shown by the virtual absence of expression of proinflammatory molecules in the 
brain.
CONCLUSION: These data clearly demonstrate the importance of TNF-alpha and 
IL-1beta in protection against HSV-1 encephalitis in this mouse model.

DOI: 10.1086/520094
PMID: 17703415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Heart Advis. 2007 Jul;10(7):12.

Ask the doctors. I sustained major damage to my heart two years ago. My ejection 
fraction is around 20 percent. My most recent echocardiogram indicates that my 
heart is slightly enlarged. I am on an ACE inhibitor and a beta blocker at the 
maximum doses. Other than the heart damage, I am in good health. I have no 
trouble walking two miles or riding my bike. I go to work every day. I wonder 
what things will look like for me as I get older? What about life expectancy?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17703514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3563-4. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2007.12.2721.

Predicting outcomes in prostate cancer: how many more nomograms do we need?

Ross RW, Kantoff PW.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):690-1; author reply 691-3.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3576-81.
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3582-8.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2007.12.2721
PMID: 17704399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3565-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2007.11.9768.

The Titanic and the Iceberg: prostate proton therapy and health care economics.

Zietman AL.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3603-8.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2007.11.9768
PMID: 17704400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3576-81. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.3820.

A nomogram predicting 10-year life expectancy in candidates for radical 
prostatectomy or radiotherapy for prostate cancer.

Walz J(1), Gallina A, Saad F, Montorsi F, Perrotte P, Shariat SF, Jeldres C, 
Graefen M, Bénard F, McCormack M, Valiquette L, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3563-4.
    Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2008 Mar;5(3):138-9.
    J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):690-1; author reply 691-3.
    J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):690; author reply 691-3.

PURPOSE: Candidates for definitive therapy for localized prostate cancer (PCa) 
should have life expectancy (LE) in excess of 10 years. However, LE estimation 
is difficult. To circumvent this problem, we developed a nomogram predicting 
10-year LE for patients treated with either radical prostatectomy (RP) or 
external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT) and compared it with an existing tool.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1989 and 2000, 9,131 men were treated with either 
RP (n = 5,955) or EBRT (n = 3,176), without any secondary therapy and all deaths 
were considered unrelated to PCa. Age and Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) 
predicted 10-year LE in Cox regression models. We used 200 bootstrap resamples 
to internally validate the nomogram.
RESULTS: Median age was 66 years, median CCI was 1, median follow-up was 5.9 
years and median actuarial survival was 13.8 years. Advanced age (P < .001), 
elevated CCI score (P < .001) and treatment type (EBRT v RP, P < .001) were 
independent predictors of poor 10 year LE. The nomogram predicting 10 year LE 
after either RP or EBRT was 84.3% accurate in split sample validation and was 
2.9% (P = .007) more accurate than the existing tool. A cutoff of 70% or less 
was 84% accurate in identifying men who did not survive beyond 10 years.
CONCLUSION: Our nomogram can accurately identify those individuals who do not 
have sufficient LE to warrant definitive PCa treatment and can help optimizing 
therapy decision-making.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.3820
PMID: 17704404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3603-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.09.0811.

Is proton beam therapy cost effective in the treatment of adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate?

Konski A(1), Speier W, Hanlon A, Beck JR, Pollack A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, 333 Cottman Ave, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. andre.konski@fccc.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3565-6.

PURPOSE: New treatments are introduced routinely into clinical practice without 
rigorous economic analysis. The specific aim of this study was to examine the 
cost effectiveness of proton beam radiation compared with current state-of-the 
art therapy in the treatment of patients with prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov model was informed with cost, freedom from 
biochemical failure (FFBF), and utility data obtained from the literature and 
from patient interviews to compare the cost effectiveness of 91.8 cobalt gray 
equivalent (CGE) delivered with proton beam versus 81 CGE delivered with 
intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). The length of how many years the 
model was run, patient's age, probability of FFBF after treatment with proton 
beam therapy and IMRT, utility of patients treated with salvage hormone therapy, 
and treatment cost were tested in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Analysis at 15 years resulted in an expected mean cost of proton beam 
therapy and IMRT of $63,511 and $36,808, and $64,989 and $39,355 for a 
70-year-old and 60-year-old man respectively, with quality-adjusted survival of 
8.54 and 8.12 and 9.91 and 9.45 quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), 
respectively. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio was calculated to be 
$63,578/QALY for a 70-year-old man and $55,726/QALY for a 60-year-old man.
CONCLUSION: Even when based on the unproven assumption that protons will permit 
a 10-Gy escalation of prostate dose compared with IMRT photons, proton beam 
therapy is not cost effective for most patients with prostate cancer using the 
commonly accepted standard of $50,000/QALY. Consideration should be given to 
limiting the number of proton facilities to allow comprehensive evaluation of 
this modality.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.09.0811
PMID: 17704408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Perit Dial Int. 2007 Sep-Oct;27(5):589-91.

Patients with chronic kidney disease stages 3 and 4 demand survival information 
on dialysis.

Fine A(1), Fontaine B, Kraushar MM, Plamondon J.

Author information:
(1)Section of Nephrology University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. 
afine@sbgh.mb.ca

PMID: 17704452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Lancet. 2007 Aug 18;370(9587):547-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61271-9.

NICE vindicated in UK's High Court.

Horton R(1).

Author information:
(1)The Lancet, London NW1 7BY, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61271-9
PMID: 17707735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Gend Med. 2007 Jun;4(2):97-105. doi: 10.1016/s1550-8579(07)80024-6.

Why females are mosaics, X-chromosome inactivation, and sex differences in 
disease.

Migeon BR(1).

Author information:
(1)McKusick-Nathans Institute of Genetic Medicine, 459 Broadway research 
Building, 773 N Broadway, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. bmigeon@jhmi.edu

At every age, males have a higher risk of mortality than do females. This sex 
difference is most often attributed to the usual suspects: differences in 
hormones and life experiences. However, the fact that XY males have only one X 
chromosome undoubtedly contributes to this vulnerability, as any mutation that 
affects a gene on their X chromosome will affect their only copy of that gene. 
On the other hand, cellular mosaicism created by X inactivation provides a 
biologic advantage to females. There are 1100 genes on the X chromosome, and 
most of them are not expressed from the Y chromosome. Therefore, sex differences 
in the expression of these genes are likely to underlie many sex differences in 
the expression of diseases affected by these genes. In fact, this genetic 
biology should be considered for any disease or phenotype that occurs in one sex 
more than the other, because the disease mechanism may be influenced directly by 
an X-linked gene or indirectly through the consequences of X inactivation.

DOI: 10.1016/s1550-8579(07)80024-6
PMID: 17707844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Sep;10(3):387-95. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0598.

The cancer-aging interface and the significance of telomere dynamics in cancer 
therapy.

Tallen G(1), Soliman MA, Riabowol K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Oncology and Haematology, Charité, 
Universitätsmedizin-Berlin, Campus Virchow, Berlin, Germany.

The efficacy of most cancer treatments depends markedly on the high replication 
rate of cancer cells, a characteristic frequently observed in neoplasms with 
higher grades of malignancy. Yet, the same characteristic is present in many 
normal regenerative tissues of the body, which makes them susceptible to the 
cytotoxic effects of chemotherapeutics and accounts for many of the toxic side 
effects of these drugs. In response to cell killing by chemotherapeutics, normal 
regenerative tissues replicate at a faster rate to regenerate, resulting in 
accelerated telomere attrition and leaving different cell populations with 
telomeres shorter than they would normally have in the absence of treatment. 
This accelerated erosion has implications regarding the recurrence of cancers at 
secondary sites because reduced replicative ability may compromise effective 
subsequent immune responses. In this review we discuss recent reports describing 
the effect of chemotherapeutics on telomere loss, how this may impact healthy 
tissues in an age-dependent manner, and describe in brief emerging cancer 
treatments that may avoid this telomere erosion effect.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0598
PMID: 17708685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Orthop Surg (Hong Kong). 2007 Aug;15(2):167-9. doi: 
10.1177/230949900701500208.

Omnifit acetabular component: a solution to preventing and treating dislocation.

Jones SA(1), John A, Mahesen M, Blom AW, Wharton R, Bannister GC.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, UK.

PURPOSE: To assess short- to medium-term outcome of the Omnifit constrained 
acetabular component in preventing dislocation in at-risk patients after total 
hip arthroplasty (THA).
METHODS: 81 patients (mean age, 77 years) underwent either primary or revision 
THA with an Omnifit constrained acetabular component and were followed up 
clinically and radiologically for a mean period of 24 months.
RESULTS: There was one dislocation and one revision for avulsion of the 
acetabulum. The remaining prostheses remained well fixed.
CONCLUSIONS: In the short- to medium-term, the Omnifit constrained acetabular 
component is effective in preventing primary and recurrent dislocation in 
at-risk patients. Long-term follow-up is needed to assess whether good fixation 
is maintained. The Omnifit acetabular cup is recommended for elderly patients 
with limited life expectancy and functional demands.

DOI: 10.1177/230949900701500208
PMID: 17709854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. PLoS One. 2007 Aug 15;2(8):e750. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000750.

The costs, benefits, and cost-effectiveness of interventions to reduce maternal 
morbidity and mortality in Mexico.

Hu D(1), Bertozzi SM, Gakidou E, Sweet S, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Program in Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States of America.

BACKGROUND: In Mexico, the lifetime risk of dying from maternal causes is 1 in 
370 compared to 1 in 2,500 in the U.S. Although national efforts have been made 
to improve maternal services in the last decade, it is unclear if Millennium 
Development Goal 5--to reduce maternal mortality by three-quarters by 2015--will 
be met.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We developed an empirically calibrated model 
that simulates the natural history of pregnancy and pregnancy-related 
complications in a cohort of 15-year-old women followed over their lifetime. 
After synthesizing national and sub-national trends in maternal mortality, the 
model was calibrated to current intervention-specific coverage levels and 
validated by comparing model-projected life expectancy, total fertility rate, 
crude birth rate and maternal mortality ratio with Mexico-specific data. Using 
both published and primary data, we assessed the comparative health and economic 
outcomes of alternative strategies to reduce maternal morbidity and mortality. A 
dual approach that increased coverage of family planning by 15%, and assured 
access to safe abortion for all women desiring elective termination of 
pregnancy, reduced mortality by 43% and was cost saving compared to current 
practice. The most effective strategy added a third component, enhanced access 
to comprehensive emergency obstetric care for at least 90% of women requiring 
referral. At a national level, this strategy reduced mortality by 75%, cost less 
than current practice, and had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $300 
per DALY relative to the next best strategy. Analyses conducted at the state 
level yielded similar results.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Increasing the provision of family planning and 
assuring access to safe abortion are feasible, complementary and cost-effective 
strategies that would provide the greatest benefit within a short-time frame. 
Incremental improvements in access to high-quality intrapartum and emergency 
obstetric care will further reduce maternal deaths and disability.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000750
PMCID: PMC1939734
PMID: 17710149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


86. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2007 Oct;275(1):146-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6968.2007.00872.x. Epub 2007 Aug 15.

Heterogeneous rRNAs are differentially expressed during the morphological 
development of Streptomyces coelicolor.

Kim HL(1), Shin EK, Kim HM, Ryou SM, Kim S, Cha CJ, Bae J, Lee K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Pochon CHA University, 
Seongnam, Korea.

It is generally assumed that all mature rRNA molecules assembled into ribosomes 
within a single cell are identical. However, sequence analysis of Streptomyces 
coelicolor genome revealed that it harbors six copies of divergent rRNA operons 
that may express and constitute three and five different kinds of small subunit 
(SSU) and large subunit (LSU) rRNA molecules, respectively, in a single cell. 
Phylogenetic analyses of the LSU rRNA genes and the internal transcribed spacer 
between SSU and LSU genes indicated that the LSU gene of rrnA and rrnE operons 
might be the result of interspecies recombination between rRNA genes in closely 
related streptomycetes. Profiling of rRNA species using primer extension 
analysis showed that heterogeneous rRNA transcripts are expressed and assembled 
into ribosomes in the cell. As the cells developed from germination to 
sporulation, the relative amount of LSU rRNA molecules derived from three rRNA 
operons (rrnA, D, and E) gradually decreased from approximately 85% to 
approximately 60%, whereas the distribution of LSU rRNA molecules from two other 
operons (rrnB and F) and rrnC operon gradually increased from approximately 10% 
to approximately 20% of the total LSU rRNA. These findings indicate that 
heterogeneous rRNA molecules are differentially expressed during the life cycle 
of this developmentally complex microorganism.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2007.00872.x
PMID: 17711457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007 Sep;46(9):1495-501. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/kem183.

Randomized trial of two physiotherapy interventions for primary care back and 
neck pain patients: cost effectiveness analysis.

Manca A(1), Dumville JC, Torgerson DJ, Klaber Moffett JA, Mooney MP, Jackson DA, 
Eaton S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Alcuin A Block, University of York, York YO10 
5DD, UK. am126@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a brief physiotherapy pain 
management approach using cognitive-behavioural principles (Solution-Finding 
Approach) when compared with a commonly used traditional method of physical 
therapy (McKenzie Approach).
METHODS: Economic evaluation conducted alongside a randomized trial. The study 
related incremental differences in costs and benefits associated with the 
Solution Finding and McKenzie approaches over 12 months. Costs were measured in 
UK pounds sterling. Benefit was measured as health-related quality of life using 
the EQ-5D, which was used to estimate patient-specific quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The McKenzie treatment required, on average, one extra physiotherapist 
visit (4.15 vs 3.10). Over a 12-month period, Solution Finding was associated 
with a lower per patient cost of pound-24.4 (95% CI pound-49.6 to 0.789 pounds). 
The mean difference in QALYs between the two groups was -0.020 (95% CI -0.057 to 
0.017); favouring those receiving McKenzie. Relating incremental mean costs and 
QALYs gave an incremental cost effectiveness ratio of 1220 pounds (-24.4/-0.020) 
suggesting the McKenzie treatment is cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that the additional cost associated with the 
McKenzie treatment when compared with the Solution Finding Approach may be worth 
paying, given the additional benefit the approach seems more likely to provide. 
Further research is needed to assess the extent to which the difference in 
physiotherapy visits between the two strategies is generalizable to other 
treatment settings.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kem183
PMID: 17711873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Lupus. 2007;16(8):657-62. doi: 10.1177/0961203307078975.

Measuring permanent damage in pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus.

Hiraki LT(1), Hamilton J, Silverman ED.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Hospital for Sick Children, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Canada.

The survival rates in pediatric systemic lupus erythematosus (pSLE) have 
improved greatly over recent decades. Increased life expectancy has meant that 
more children are growing up with the consequences of chronic disease and 
