and subendocardial resections, endocardial cryo-ablation, the Jatene- and 
Dor-operation for the treatment of ischemic ventricular arrhythmias. Out of the 
original indications, today the therapy of atrial fibrillation has become more 
and more important and represents a booming part of rhythm surgery in the last 
decade. The unsatisfactory results of medical treatment, new understanding of 
the pathophysiology of atrial fibrillation and the introduction of simplified 
ablation procedures have led to a markable increase of rhythm surgery 
procedures. One reason is the increasing life expectancy of the population 
leading to a higher incidence of atrial fibrillation, which makes this 
arrhythmia to the most common rhythm disturbance. This growing number of 
patients is a challenge for cardiac surgery today and leads the focus on this 
special part.

DOI: 10.1007/s00399-007-0567-8
PMID: 17646936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Herzschrittmacherther Elektrophysiol. 2007 Jun;18(2):77-82. doi: 
10.1007/s00399-007-0568-7.

[Surgical ablation therapy - lessons learned].

[Article in German]

Diegeler A(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachbereich Herzchirurgie, Herz-und Gefässklinik Bad Neustadt, Salzburger 
Leite 1, 97616 Bad Neustadt a.d. Saale, Germany. a.diegeler@herzchirurgie.de

Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most frequent sustained arrhythmia affecting 
more than 5% of the population above 65 years resulting in loss in quality of 
life and life expectancy. Since the introduction of the MAZE procedure, an 
increasing number of surgical approaches have been implemented for the treatment 
of AF. During past years a variety of devices such as application of unipolar 
and bipolar radiofrequency, cryothermal therapy, microwave, laser and ultrasound 
have been described. All new methods have undergone thorough evaluations; in 
that course technical systems have been re-designed and surgical approaches were 
modified. Before reaching a widespread clinical application a thorough analysis 
in terms of therapeutic benefit and possible complications is required. Several 
reports have reported success rates leading to reinstitution of atrial rhythm in 
60 to 80% of the patients treated. However, there is no overview on possible 
complications using surgical ablation therapy. In this report we have focused on 
different energy sources, time of occurrence of postoperative arrhythmias, 
patient's symptoms and related diagnostic processes. Various published reports 
of surgical ablation therapy were evaluated with regard to complications that 
have occurred. In addition, our own extensive experience was considered as well.

DOI: 10.1007/s00399-007-0568-7
PMID: 17646939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Qual Life Res. 2007 Oct;16(8):1439-49. doi: 10.1007/s11136-007-9237-x. Epub
2007  Jul 24.

Choosing between measures: comparison of EQ-5D, HUI2 and HUI3 in persons with 
hearing complaints.

Grutters JP(1), Joore MA, van der Horst F, Verschuure H, Dreschler WA, Anteunis 
LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
University Hospital Maastricht, PO Box 5800, 6202 AZ Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. janneke.grutters@maastro.nl

OBJECTIVES: To generate insight into the differences between utility measures 
EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D), Health Utilities Index Mark II (HUI2) and Mark III (HUI3) 
and their impact on the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for hearing 
aid fitting
METHODS: Persons with hearing complaints completed EQ-5D, HUI2 and HUI3 at 
baseline and, when applicable, after hearing aid fitting. Practicality, 
construct validity, agreement, responsiveness and impact on the ICER were 
examined.
RESULTS: All measures had high completion rates. HUI3 was capable of 
discriminating between clinically distinctive groups. Utility scores (n = 315) 
for EQ-5D UK and Dutch tariff (0.83; 0.86), HUI2 (0.77) and HUI3 (0.61) were 
significantly different, agreement was low to moderate. Change after hearing aid 
fitting (n = 70) for HUI2 (0.07) and HUI3 (0.12) was statistically significant, 
unlike the EQ-5D UK (0.01) and Dutch (0.00) tariff. ICERs varied from 647,209 
euros/QALY for the EQ-5D Dutch tariff to 15,811 euros/QALY for HUI3.
CONCLUSION: Utility scores, utility gain and ICERs heavily depend on the measure 
that is used to elicit them. This study indicates HUI3 as the instrument of 
first choice when measuring utility in a population with hearing complaints, but 
emphasizes the importance of a clear notion of what constitutes utility with 
regard to economic analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-007-9237-x
PMCID: PMC2039846
PMID: 17647093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Feb;28(2):203-4.

[Years of potential life lost of chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases among 
residents in Nanjing from 1997 to 2005].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu F(1), Liang YQ, Shen HB, Xu YC.

Author information:
(1)Nanjing Municipal Center for Diseases Control and Prevention, Nanjing 210003, 
China.

PMID: 17649698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Anticancer Res. 2007 Jul-Aug;27(4A):1887-91.

Tumor markers as useful predictors of survival rate after exploratory laparotomy 
for liver malignancies.

Liska V(1), Holubec L, Treska V, Skalicky T, Sutnar A, Topolcan O, Kormunda S, 
Finek J.

Author information:
(1)DepartmentS of Surgery, University Hospital in Pilsen, Czech Republic.

BACKGROUND: Tumor markers are used for the prediction of relapse and in 
determining the effect of postoperative or post-oncological therapy as a 
standard component of follow-up. Metastatic processes of the liver and primary 
malignancies of the liver and gall bladder are very common in the European 
population. The aim of this study was to demonstrate the behaviour of malignancy 
in patients who have not undergone surgical therapy and to study serum levels of 
the monitored tumor markers in relation to the life expectancy of these 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The Log-rank test and Wilcoxon test were used for 
statistical evaluation. Survival was computed using the Kaplan-Meier method. 
Serum levels of the tumor markers conventionally used in clinical practice in 
patients with gastrointestinal tumors (CEA, CA19-9, C724) and the markers of the 
proliferation activity in malignancy (TK, TPA, TPS) were studied.
RESULTS: One hundred and nine patients who underwent exploratory laparotomy 
without any surgical therapy between September 1999 and June 2005 were studied. 
For patients with a serum level of CEA, CA19-9 and CA72-4 that was higher than 
the calculated cut-off hazard ratios of early death were respectively 3-, 5- and 
9-fold higher than for patients with serum levels of the same tumor markers 
below the calculated cut-off. Preoperative serum levels of proliferative tumor 
markers (TK, TPA and TPS) were not statistically significant for the prediction 
of early death.
CONCLUSION: The results of the pilot study suggest the importance of tumor 
markers for the prediction of the short-term survival rate. These markers could 
be used to supplement classic clinical, laboratory and radiodiagnostic 
parameters. It would be very helpful for the planning of palliative oncological 
therapy for patients with liver malignancies who cannot be treated by surgical 
therapy.

PMID: 17649789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Oral Rehabil. 2007 Aug;34(8):590-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2842.2007.01755.x.

Dental endosseous implants in the medically compromised patient.

Scully C(1), Hobkirk J, Dios PD.

Author information:
(1)Eastman Dental Institute, University College London, London, UK. 
c.scully@eastman.ucl.ac.uk

The literature contains numerous observations on the significance of systemic 
disorders as contraindications to dental endosseous implant treatment, but the 
justification for these statements is often apparently allegorical. Although 
implants are increasingly used in healthy patients, their appropriateness in 
medically compromised patients is less equivocal. Perhaps surprisingly, the 
evidence of their efficacy in these groups of patients is quite sparse. Indeed, 
there are few if any randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in this field. 
Furthermore, any health risks from the placement of implants are unclear. We 
review the current evidence for the risks associated with endosseous implants in 
a range of systemic disorders. There is clearly a need for prospective 
systematic trials. The degree of disease-control may be far more important that 
the nature of the disorder itself, and individualized assessment, including the 
medical condition, quality of life and life expectancy is indicated. The 
benefits of implants to many of these patients may outweigh any risks. However, 
proper informed consent is mandatory.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2842.2007.01755.x
PMID: 17650169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. J Viral Hepat. 2007 Aug;14(8):523-36. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2893.2006.00831.x.

A health economic model to assess the cost-effectiveness of PEG IFN alpha-2a and 
ribavirin in patients with mild chronic hepatitis C.

Gerkens S(1), Nechelput M, Annemans L, Peraux B, Mouchart M, Beguin C, Horsmans 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Université catholique de Louvain, Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc, 
Brussels, Belgium.

According to the current guidelines, it is advised not to treat patients with 
mild chronic hepatitis C. However, discussions as to giving immediately a 
treatment (direct treatment) to these patients have started and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of such strategy is still unknown. The aim of 
this study was to estimate, in the health care payer perspective, the ICER of a 
direct treatment of patients with mild chronic hepatitis C in comparison with 
the strategy of monitoring these patients and treat them when the disease will 
progress to the state of moderate chronic hepatitis. The treatment assessed was 
the current standard treatment composed of pegylated interferon alpha-2a and 
ribavirin. At the beginning of the study, patients were aged 45. Long-term 
economic and clinical outcomes over a 30-year period were predicted using a 
Markov simulation model. Data were obtained from published literature. Monte 
Carlo simulations were used to determine 95% confidence intervals of results. 
The ICER of a direct treatment with PEG IFN alpha-2a and ribavirin is 23,046 
euro/QALY (CI 95% 3,882 euro-42,392 euro) for genotypes 1-4-5-6 and 4,631 
euro/QALY (CI 95% 797 euro-7,881 euro) for genotypes 2-3. Sensitivity analysis 
shows that it is only in extreme circumstances related to the utilities that the 
ICER for genotypes 1-4-5-6 is unacceptably high for the society (>50,000 euro). 
Even though a direct treatment is more expensive, it gives the advantage of 
curing greater number of patients and of increasing quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), implying that such strategy is generally cost-effective at a threshold 
of 50,000 euro/QALY.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2893.2006.00831.x
PMID: 17650286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2006 Nov;190(8):1745-59.

[Generalized neonatal screening based on laboratory tests].

[Article in French]

Ardaillou R, Le Gall JY.

Implementation of a generalized screening program for neonatal diseases must 
obey precise rules. The disease must be severe, recognizable at an early stage, 
amenable to an effective treatment, detectable with a non expensive and widely 
applicable test; it must also be a significant public health problem. Subjects 
with positive results must be offered immediate treatment or prevention. All 
screening programs must be regularly evaluated. In France, since 1978, a 
national screening program has been organized by a private association 
("Association française pour le dépistage et la prévention des handicaps de 
l'enfant") and supervised by the "Caisse nationale d'assurance maladie" and 
"Direction Générale de la Sante". Five diseases are now included in the 
screening program: phenylketonuria, hypothyroidism, congenital adrenal 
hyperplasia, cystic fibrosis and sickle cell disease (the latter only in at-risk 
newborns). Toxoplasmosis is a particular problem because only the children of 
mothers who were not tested during the pregnancy or who seroconverted are 
screened. Neonatal screening for phenylketonuria and hypothyrodism is 
unanimously recommended. Screening for congenital adrenal hyperplasia is 
approved in most countries. Cases of sickle cell disease and cystic fibrosis are 
more complex because--not all children who carry the mutations develop severe 
forms;--there is no curative treatment;--parents may become anxious, even though 
the phenotype is sometimes mild or even asymptomatic. Supporters of screening 
stress the benefits of early diagnosis (which extends the life expectancy of 
these children, particularly in the case of sickle cell disease), the fact that 
it opens up the possibility of prenatal screening of future pregnancies, and the 
utility of informing heterozygous carriers identified by familial screening. 
Neonatal screening for other diseases is under discussion. Indeed, technical 
advances such as tandem mass spectrometry make it possible to detect about 50 
diseases in a single run. In addition to issues of cost and organization, any 
increase in the number of screened diseases will raise ethical problems, such as 
how to inform parents of an incurable disease, a late-onset disease, or an 
entirely asymptomatic disorder. It is unanimously agreed that only Mendelian 
diseases should be screened for (excluding genetic polymorphisms). Analysis of 
the present situation suggests the following changes:--guidelines for choosing 
new diseases for neonatal screening should be updated;--all new screening 
programs should be tested locally before nationwide implementation;--an 
evaluation committee of paediatricians and epidemiologists should be created, 
and the children's long-term outcome should be studied;--the conditions in which 
heterozygous carriers are informed after familial investigations need to be 
precisely defined;--blood samples should be banked for epidemiological studies.

PMID: 17650757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. J Med Food. 2007 Jun;10(2):239-43. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2006.251.

Estimating the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease and its economic 
consequences, by the level of adherence to the Mediterranean diet: the ATTICA 
study.

Panagiotakos D(1), Sitara M, Pitsavos C, Stefanadis C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition-Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece. 
d.b.panagiotakos@usa.net

In this study this traditional diet was assessed in relation to coronary heart 
disease risk and its economic consequences, in a cross-sectional study with 
economic analysis. From May 2001 to December 2002 we randomly enrolled 1,514 
adult men and 1,528 women, without any clinical evidence of cardiovascular 
disease. Adherence to the Mediterranean diet was ascertained through a 
food-frequency questionnaire and a special diet score that incorporated the 
inherent characteristics of this dietary pattern. The 10-year absolute risk for 
coronary heart disease was derived from the Framingham equations. Persons with a 
10-year risk greater than 10% were considered as potential hospitalized 
patients. The health care cost of hospitalization due to an event was estimated 
in 690euro per patient. Of the participants who were "closer" to the 
Mediterranean diet (i.e., above the median diet score) and of those "away" from 
this dietary pattern, 4.2% and 39.8%, respectively, had a 10-year coronary risk 
greater than 10% (P < .001). Moreover, participants "closer" to the 
Mediterranean diet had a 43% (odds ratio = 0.57, 95% confidence interval 0.38 to 
0.86) lower likelihood of having a 10-year coronary risk greater than 10%, after 
adjusting for potential confounders. Total health care cost was estimated to be 
336.720euro in those who were "away" and 35.880euro in those who were closer to 
this diet pattern. Life-years lost due to disability was 6.8 in those who were 
"away" and 0.9 in those "close" to this pattern. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 50.989euro (i.e., the additive health care cost due 
to an unhealthy diet for each year lost). The implementation of the 
Mediterranean dietary pattern may lead to an improvement in life expectancy, a 
net gain to health, and a reduction in total lifetime costs.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2006.251
PMID: 17651058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Evol Dev. 2007 Jul-Aug;9(4):319-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-142X.2007.00167.x.

Evolution of death and Michael Rose's fantasy planet.

Shostak S(1).

Author information:
(1)Biological Sciences, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. 
sshostak@pitt.edu

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-142X.2007.00167.x
PMID: 17651354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Aug;26(3):593-604. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05699.x.  Epub 2007 Jul 25.

Subventricular zone neuronal progenitors undergo multiple divisions and retract 
their processes prior to each cytokinesis.

Coskun V(1), Falls DL, Lane R, Czirok A, Luskin MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Emory University School of Medicine, Whitehead 
Biomedical Research Building, 615 Michael Street, Room 548, Atlanta, GA 30322, 
USA.

Mitotically active progenitor cells from the anterior portion of the forebrain 
subventricular zone (SVZa), which give rise throughout life to olfactory bulb 
interneurons, bear processes and express neuronal markers. To understand how 
rodent SVZa neuronal progenitors coordinate division and process formation, we 
used time-lapse videomicroscopy to analyse the proliferative behavior of SVZa 
progenitors in dissociated cell culture continuously for up to five generations. 
The cell cycle time of these cultured SVZa cells assessed videomicroscopically 
(cytokinesis to cytokinesis) was similar to the cell cycle time along the 
rostral migratory stream in vivo (14-17 h). The relationship between process 
extension, process retraction and cytokinesis was assessed quantitatively for 
120 cells undergoing cytokinesis. Although all of these cells had elaborated 
processes, virtually all of them completely withdrew their processes prior to 
cytokinesis. Process withdrawal was rapid and tightly coupled to cytokinesis; 
50% of the cells studied initiated process retraction within 30 min of 
cytokinesis and 96% had begun to withdraw their processes within 60 min of 
cytokinesis. In SVZa progenitor cell lineages, the sequence of process 
extension, process retraction and division is repeated over multiple 
generations. This complete withdrawal of processes prior to division 
differentiates SVZa progenitor cells from the characteristics reported for 
several other process-bearing types of neural progenitor cells, including 
sympathetic neuroblasts, cerebral cortical radial glia, and cerebellar and 
retinal progenitors. Collectively, our findings indicate that SVZa progenitors 
employ different cellular mechanisms than other neural progenitors to regulate 
proliferation and differentiation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05699.x
PMCID: PMC4222250
PMID: 17651424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Aug;11(29):1-226, iii. doi: 10.3310/hta11290.

Prenatal screening and treatment strategies to prevent group B streptococcal and 
other bacterial infections in early infancy: cost-effectiveness and expected 
value of information analyses.

Colbourn T(1), Asseburg C, Bojke L, Philips Z, Claxton K, Ades AE, Gilbert RE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Paediatric Epidemiology and Biostatistics, UCL Institute of Child 
Health, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of prenatal strategies for 
preventing group B streptococci (GBS) and other serious bacterial infections in 
early infancy and to establish the expected value of further information.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched up to March 2006. Expert 
opinion was also sought.
REVIEW METHODS: Twelve mutually exclusive maternal risk groups were defined at 
presentation in labour and the consequences considered of early-onset GBS and 
non-GBS bacterial infections and late onset GBS infection, measured in terms of 
lifetime NHS costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). These were for 
preterm delivery (<37 weeks): (1) planned Caesarean section, (2) previous baby 
with GBS disease, (3) positive urine or vaginal swab for GBS in current 
pregnancy, (4) fever >or=38 degrees C during labour, (5) membrane rupture >or=2 
hours before labour onset, (6) membrane rupture <2 hours before labour onset. 
For term delivery (>or=37 weeks): (7) planned Caesarean section, (8) previous 
baby with GBS disease, (9) positive urine or vaginal swab for GBS in current 
pregnancy, (10) fever >or=38 degrees C during labour, (11) membrane rupture 
>or=18 hours, and (12) none of the above risk factors. Fourteen intervention 
strategies were applied to each maternal risk group. Data inputs were obtained 
from systematic reviews, primary data and expert opinion. The model parameters 
were simultaneously estimated from the data inputs using Bayesian evidence 
synthesis. The expected net benefit was calculated relative to no intervention 
for each intervention within each risk group for two scenarios, with and without 
vaccination. Interventions with more than a 1% probability of being 
cost-effective (i.e. maximising net benefit at a threshold of 25,000 pounds per 
QALY gained) in a specific risk group were combined to form strategies. To limit 
antibiotic exposure, women who were low risk at presentation could not be 
treated without a positive culture or polymerase chain reaction result.
RESULTS: Current best practice, comprising intravenous treatment for pyrexia, 
previous GBS baby and previous GBS swab or urine culture, and oral treatment for 
preterm pre-labour membrane rupture (groups 2-5 and 8-10) was not 
cost-effective. All cost-effective options involved treatment of all preterm 
groups and high-risk term groups (groups 8-10). Testing high-risk women for 
maternal GBS colonisation would not be cost-effective, as even those with 
negative results would be better off treated to reduce the risk of early-onset 
non-GBS infection. In the absence of vaccination, culture-based testing of women 
in groups 11 and 12, combined with treatment for the rest, would be the most 
cost-effective strategy. If vaccination was available, vaccination for all and 
treatment for groups 1-10 would be marginally more cost-effective than treatment 
for groups 1-10 and culture for groups 11 and 12, but this is uncertain and is 
based on expert opinion on vaccine efficacy. The expected value of perfect 
information results suggest that moderate investment in research would be 
worthwhile.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our findings, immediate extension of current practice to 
treat all preterm and high-risk term groups would be beneficial. Further 
research aimed at the realisation of a GBS vaccine should be prioritized.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11290
PMID: 17651659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Gene. 2007 Oct 1;400(1-2):158-65. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2007.06.013. Epub 2007
Jun  29.

Drosophila DJ-1 mutants are sensitive to oxidative stress and show reduced 
lifespan and motor deficits.

Lavara-Culebras E(1), Paricio N.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Genética, Facultad CC Biológicas, University of Valencia. 
Doctor Moliner, 50. E-46100 Burjasot, Spain.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive movement disorder caused by the 
selective and massive loss of dopaminergic neurons (DA) in the substantia nigra 
pars compacta (SNc). DJ-1 loss-of-function mutations are involved in inherited 
early-onset PD forms and result in dysfunction of the oxidative stress response. 
In mice models, DJ-1 loss provokes sensitivity to oxidative insults but does not 
produce neurodegeneration. Similar results have been found when analyzing 
Drosophila mutants for the DJ-1 orthologous genes, DJ-1alpha and DJ-1beta. Here, 
we report the analysis of two new mutations for the Drosophila DJ-1 genes. Both 
ubiquitous induction of DJ-1alpha knockdown by RNAi and loss of function of 
DJ-1beta caused by an insertional mutation result in increased sensitivity to 
paraquat insults, reduced lifespan and motor impairments. However these 
mutations do not lead to DA neuron loss. Besides, we find that targeted 
inhibition of DJ-1alpha function in DA neuron results in certain DA 
neurodegeneration. Our results, together with findings in other Drosophila DJ-1 
mutants, indicate that both Drosophila DJ-1 genes are implicated in the 
protection against the chemical induced oxidative stress response, but also in 
fly survival. The differences observed in DA neurodegeneration suggest that the 
motor impairments exhibited by the mutants could be caused by different 
pathways.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2007.06.013
PMID: 17651920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Radiology. 2007 Sep;244(3):755-66. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2443061278. Epub 2007
Jul  24.

Treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms: decision and cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Takao H(1), Nojo T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Showa General Hospital, and Department of Radiology, 
Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8655, Japan. takaoh-tky@umin.ac.jp

Comment in
    Radiology. 2008 Apr;247(1):294; author reply 294.

PURPOSE: To prospectively perform a decision and cost-effectiveness analysis of 
surgical and endovascular treatments of unruptured intracranial aneurysms, with 
incorporation of the results of the prospective International Study of 
Unruptured Intracranial Aneurysms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With use of a Markov model, a decision and 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed for comparison of surgical or 
endovascular treatment with no treatment. Twelve clinical scenarios were defined 
on the basis of aneurysm size and location. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were performed for 50- and 40-year-old patient cohorts. Treatment was considered 
to be cost-effective at an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio less than 
$100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year.
RESULTS: In 50-year-old patients, no treatment was the most cost-effective 
strategy for aneurysms located in the cavernous carotid artery. For aneurysms 
smaller than 7 mm located in the anterior circulation, no treatment was the most 
cost-effective strategy. Endovascular treatment was the most cost-effective 
option for 7-24-mm aneurysms, whereas surgical treatment was the most 
cost-effective option for aneurysms 25 mm or larger. For aneurysms smaller than 
7 mm or 25 mm or larger located in the posterior circulation, no treatment was 
the most cost-effective strategy. Surgical treatment was the most cost-effective 
option for 7-12-mm aneurysms, whereas endovascular treatment was the most 
cost-effective option for 13-24-mm aneurysms.
CONCLUSION: For 50-year-old patients, treatment of aneurysms that are small (<7 
mm), that are located in the cavernous carotid artery, or that are large (>or=25 
mm) and located in the posterior circulation is ineffective or not 
cost-effective.

Copyright (c) RSNA, 2007.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2443061278
PMID: 17652191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Dent Res. 2007 Aug;86(8):713-7. doi: 10.1177/154405910708600805.

Quality of life and disability weights associated with periodontal disease.

Brennan DS(1), Spencer AJ, Roberts-Thomson KF.

Author information:
(1)Australian Research Centre for Population Oral Health, School of Dentistry, 
The University of Adelaide, South Australia 5005. david.brennan@adelaide.edu.au

Comment in
    J Evid Based Dent Pract. 2008 Jun;8(2):101-2.

Burden-of-oral-disease studies have been hampered by lack of data on disability 
weights. It is likely that disability weights will vary between conditions such 
as gingivitis and periodontal pockets. The aims of this study were to assess 
health-related quality of life and disability weights for periodontal 
conditions. A random sample of 45- to 54-year-olds was surveyed during 2004-05 
(n = 879, response rate = 43.8%), with oral examinations on n = 709 persons 
(completion rate = 80.7%). Oral disease symptoms were recorded by the EuroQol, 
from which disability weights were calculated. Reported pain/discomfort ranged 
from 6.1% of persons (gingivitis) to 25.8% of persons (6+ mm pockets). Lower 
disability weights were associated with gingivitis (0.001) and 6+ mm gingival 
recession (0.004), with higher weights for 6+ mm loss of attachment (0.012) and 
6+ mm pocket depth (0.018). Variation in symptom experience indicated the need 
for investigators to identify periodontal conditions and apply appropriate 
disability weights in burden-of-disease studies.

DOI: 10.1177/154405910708600805
PMID: 17652197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Tob Control. 2007 Aug;16(4):255-60. doi: 10.1136/tc.2006.017657.

Costs and benefits of smoking cessation aids: making a case for public 
reimbursement of nicotine replacement therapy in Australia.

Bertram MY(1), Lim SS, Wallace AL, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Mayne Medical 
School Herston Road, Herston QLD 4006, Australia. m.bertram@uq.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Tobacco smoking is the leading preventable cause of morbidity and 
mortality in Australia and other developed countries. Of the pharmacological 
aids that are available for smoking cessation, bupropion (Zyban SR) is eligible 
for public reimbursement on the Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS), 
whereas nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) is not. Information on the 
cost-effectiveness and financial impact of public reimbursement of these 
strategies can better inform debate about their inclusion or exclusion in public 
reimbursement schemes.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of bupropion and NRT, and the 
potential financial impact of public reimbursement of NRT in Australia.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis using a deterministic Markov model, and 
cost per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted over a lifetime as the 
outcome measure.
POPULATION: Current smokers, motivated to quit, in Australia in 2000.
INTERVENTIONS: (1) NRT; (2) bupropion; and (3) a combined strategy using 
bupropion as the first-line treatment and NRT in those who fail to quit smoking 
or have adverse reactions to bupropion.
RESULTS: Quitting smoking can increase life expectancy of current smokers by 
1-7.6 years depending on age at cessation and sex. Providing bupropion to 
current smokers who are motivated to quit would cost A$7900 (95% uncertainty 
interval A$6000 to A$10,500) for each DALY averted; NRT patches would cost 
A$17,000 (A$9000 to A$28,000) for each DALY averted, with similar results even 
if used as a second-line treatment following initial failure to quit using 
bupropion. If 6% of current smokers were to use NRT following inclusion on the 
PBS, this would result in an annual cost of A$40-110 million to the PBS 
depending on the listed price.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with other drugs included on the PBS, bupropion and NRT 
are both highly cost-effective smoking cessation interventions, and including 
NRT on the PBS would have a moderate financial impact. Given the sizeable health 
burden of smoking, and the large individual benefits of quitting smoking, 
increasing the availability of alternative aids and uptake of these strategies 
through public reimbursement would be a positive and rational step towards 
further reducing tobacco-related disease burden in Australia and other countries 
where NRT is currently not subsidised.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2006.017657
PMCID: PMC2598534
PMID: 17652241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


959. J Soc Biol. 2006;200(4):387. doi: 10.1051/jbio:2006042.

[Secrets of longevity].

[Article in French]

Robert L.

DOI: 10.1051/jbio:2006042
PMID: 17652974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Minerva Cardioangiol. 2007 Aug;55(4):497-502.

Vascular aging and geriatric patient.

[Article in English, Italian]

Nicita-Mauro V(1), Maltese G, Nicita-Mauro C, Basile G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Department of Geriatrics and Gerontology, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy. nicitav@unime.it

Advancing age is associated with changes in structure and function of different 
segments of the vascular system and is the dominant risk factor for 
cardiovascular diseases. The oxidative stress represents a key event of vascular 
aging, mainly characterized by endothelium dysfunction and reduced arterial 
elasticity. Age-related changes include intimal and medial thickening, arterial 
calcification, increased deposition of matrix substances, thus leading to a 
reduced compliance and increased wall stiffness, that significantly contributes 
to an increase in systolic blood pressure. Frail elderly patients, because of 
their complex clinical presentations and needs, require a special approach: the 
comprehensive geriatric assessment, a multidimensional process intended to 
determine medical, psychosocial and functional capabilities and problems in 
order to develop a plan for treatment and continued care. All physicians, and 
geriatricians in particular, must, therefore, educate their patients to healthy 
lifestyle to prevent or delay vascular aging, cardiovascular diseases, and to 
maintain a good quality of life and increase life expectancy.

PMID: 17653026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. PLoS One. 2007 Jul 25;2(7):e639. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000639.

Vision and foraging in cormorants: more like herons than hawks?

White CR(1), Day N, Butler PJ, Martin GR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Ornithology, School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Great cormorants (Phalacrocorax carbo L.) show the highest known 
foraging yield for a marine predator and they are often perceived to be in 
conflict with human economic interests. They are generally regarded as 
visually-guided, pursuit-dive foragers, so it would be expected that cormorants 
have excellent vision much like aerial predators, such as hawks which detect and 
pursue prey from a distance. Indeed cormorant eyes appear to show some specific 
adaptations to the amphibious life style. They are reported to have a highly 
pliable lens and powerful intraocular muscles which are thought to accommodate 
for the loss of corneal refractive power that accompanies immersion and ensures 
a well focussed image on the retina. However, nothing is known of the visual 
performance of these birds and how this might influence their prey capture 
technique.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We measured the aquatic visual acuity of great 
cormorants under a range of viewing conditions (illuminance, target contrast, 
viewing distance) and found it to be unexpectedly poor. Cormorant visual acuity 
under a range of viewing conditions is in fact comparable to unaided humans 
under water, and very inferior to that of aerial predators. We present a prey 
detectability model based upon the known acuity of cormorants at different 
illuminances, target contrasts and viewing distances. This shows that cormorants 
are able to detect individual prey only at close range (less than 1 m).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We conclude that cormorants are not the aquatic 
equivalent of hawks. Their efficient hunting involves the use of specialised 
foraging techniques which employ brief short-distance pursuit and/or rapid neck 
extension to capture prey that is visually detected or flushed only at short 
range. This technique appears to be driven proximately by the cormorant's 
limited visual capacities, and is analogous to the foraging techniques employed 
by herons.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0000639
PMCID: PMC1919429
PMID: 17653266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


962. Cad Saude Publica. 2007 Aug;23(8):1924-30. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2007000800019.

[The effect of chronic diseases on functional status of the elderly living in 
the city of São Paulo, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Alves LC(1), Quinet Leimann BC, López Vasconcelos ME, Sá Carvalho M, Godoi 
Vasconcelos AG, Oliveira da Fonseca TC, Lebrão ML, Laurenti R.

Author information:
(1)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brasil. luciana.alves@ensp.fiocruz.br

The main focus of this study was the effect of chronic disease (hypertension, 
diabetes mellitus, heart disease, lung disease, cancer, and arthropathy) on the 
functional status (activities of daily living - ADL, instrumental activities of 
daily living - IADL) among the elderly, controlling for age, gender, living 
arrangements, education, and comorbidity. The analysis was based on information 
provided by the SABE Project, from the city of São Paulo, Brazil, including 
individuals 60 years of age and over (n = 1,769), from January 2000 to March 
2001. A multinomial logistic regression model was used. Compared to the absence 
of dependency category, heart disease (OR = 1.82), arthropathy (OR = 1.59), lung 
disease (OR = 1.50), and hypertension (OR = 1.39) were the main diseases that 
affected the IADL dependency category. Lung disease (OR = 2.58), arthropathy (OR 
= 2.27), hypertension (OR = 2.13), and heart disease (OR = 2.10) had important 
impact on the IADL and ADL dependency categories. The results were statistically 
significant (p < 0.05).

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2007000800019
PMID: 17653410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Neuroradiology. 2007 Oct;49(10):789-93. doi: 10.1007/s00234-007-0240-2. Epub
 2007 Jul 26.

Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa): its potential role as a hemostatic agent.

Hedner U(1), Brun NC.

Author information:
(1)University of Lund, Lund, Sweden. uhe@novonordisk.com

Recombinant activated coagulation factor VII (rFVIIa) was developed for the 
treatment of patients with hemophilia who have developed inhibitors against the 
factor they are missing. Hemophilia is a serious bleeding disorder and patients 
with hemophilia develop repeated spontaneous CNS, joint and muscle bleeding. Any 
trauma, even mild events, may cause life-threatening bleeding, and without 
treatment, these patients have a life expectancy of about 16 years. Thus, 
hemophilia can be regarded as a model of severe bleeding, and an agent capable 
of inducing hemostasis in severe hemophilia independent of the hemophilia 
proteins (FVIII or FIX) may also be effective in patients without hemophilia who 
experience serious bleeds. The availability of rFVIIa stimulated research on the 
role of FVII and tissue factor (TF) in the hemostatic process. As a result, a 
picture partly different from the one suggested by previous models has emerged. 
These previous models basically neglected the role of cells and cell membranes. 
The importance of platelets and platelet membrane phospholipids in hemostasis 
has been demonstrated, and the new concept of the hemostatic process, focusing 
on cell surfaces, has been outlined.

DOI: 10.1007/s00234-007-0240-2
PMID: 17653706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2008 Apr;108(3):375-87. doi:
10.1007/s10549-007-9607-7.  Epub 2007 Jul 26.

Cost-effectiveness of letrozole versus tamoxifen as initial adjuvant therapy in 
postmenopausal women with hormone-receptor positive early breast cancer from a 
Canadian perspective.

Delea TE(1), El-Ouagari K, Karnon J, Sofrygin O.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc (PAI), Brookline, MA 02445, USA. tdelea@pai2.com

BACKGROUND: In the primary core analysis of BIG 1-98, a randomized, double-blind 
trial comparing 5 years of initial adjuvant therapy with letrozole versus 
tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with hormone receptor-positive (HR+) early 
breast cancer, letrozole significantly improved disease-free survival by 19% and 
reduced the risk of breast cancer recurrence by 28% and distant recurrence by 
27%.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained with 5 years of initial adjuvant 
therapy with letrozole versus tamoxifen from a Canadian healthcare system 
perspective. Probabilities of recurrence and side effects for tamoxifen were 
based on published results of BIG 1-98 and other published population-based 
studies. Corresponding probabilities for letrozole were calculated by 
multiplying probabilities for tamoxifen by estimated relative risks for 
letrozole versus tamoxifen from BIG 1-98. Other probabilities, costs of 
breast-cancer care and treatment of side effects, and health-state utilities 
were obtained from published studies. Costs and QALYs were estimated over the 
lifetime of a cohort of postmenopausal women with HR+ early breast cancer, aged 
60 years at initiation of therapy, and discounted at 5% annually.
RESULTS: Compared with tamoxifen, letrozole yields an additional 0.368 
life-years (12.453 vs. 12.086) and 0.343 QALYs (11.582 vs. 11.239). These 
benefits are obtained at an additional cost of Can$ 8,110 (Can$ 30,819 vs. Can$ 
22,709). Cost per QALY gained for letrozole versus tamoxifen is Can$ 23,662 (95% 
CI Can$ 15,667-Can$ 52,014).
CONCLUSION: In postmenopausal women with HR+ early breast cancer, initial 
adjuvant treatment with letrozole is cost-effective from the Canadian healthcare 
system perspective.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-007-9607-7
PMID: 17653859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2007;47(6):543-60. doi: 10.1080/10408390600846390.

Tools to maintain postharvest fruit and vegetable quality through the inhibition 
of ethylene action: a review.

Martínez-Romero D(1), Bailén G, Serrano M, Guillén F, Valverde JM, Zapata P, 
Castillo S, Valero D.

Author information:
(1)Department Food Technology, University Miguel Hernández. Ctra. Beniel km. 
3.2, Orihuela Alicante, Spain.

Ethylene is a plant hormone controlling a wide range of physiological processes 
in plants. During postharvest storage of fruit and vegetables ethylene can 
induce negative effects including senescence, over-ripening, accelerated quality 
loss, increased fruit pathogen susceptibility, and physiological disorders, 
among others. Apart from the endogenous ethylene production by plant tissues, 
external sources of ethylene (e.g. engine exhausts, pollutants, plant, and fungi 
metabolism) occur along the food chain, in packages, storage chambers, during 
transportation, and in domestic refrigerators. Thus, it is a great goal in 
postharvest to avoid ethylene action. This review focuses on tools which may be 
used to inhibit ethylene biosynthesis/action or to remove ethylene surrounding 
commodities in order to avoid its detrimental effects on fruit and vegetable 
quality. As inhibitors of ethylene biosynthesis and action, good results have 
been found with polyamines and 1-methylcyclopropene (1-MCP) in terms of 
maintenance of fruit and vegetable quality and extension of postharvest 
shelf-life. As ethylene scavengers, the best results can be achieved by 
adsorbers combined with catalysts, either chemical or biological (biofilters).

DOI: 10.1080/10408390600846390
PMID: 17653980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Harv Heart Lett. 2007 Jun;17(10):5.

COURAGE to make choices. When it comes to treating angina or a narrowed coronary 
artery, angioplasty is no better than medical therapy for preventing heart 
attacks or premature death.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 17654799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Transfusion. 2007 Aug;47(8):1503-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2007.01290.x.

Nineteen years of experience with autotransfusion for elective surgery in 
children: more troublesome than we expected.

Tasaki T(1), Ohto H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Iwate Medical University, 19-1 Uchimaru, 
Morioka City, Iwate 020-8505, Japan. ttasaki@jikei.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Under the rationale that children undergoing elective surgery are 
the best candidates for autologous blood donors because of their long life 
expectancy, aggressive donations of autologous blood, even from infants, have 
been reported. A number of problems are associated with the procedure, however, 
whereas the risks of homologous blood are very low.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: From 1987 through 2005, of 5792 patients referred to 
blood transfusion services at two Japanese university hospitals for autologous 
blood donations, 314 children younger than 16 years old served as subjects for 
assessment.
RESULTS: Of 314 children, 7 were not suitable as autologous donors. In most 
cases this was due to uncooperative behavior. Over a follow-up period of 19 
years, the authors encountered 53 cases (17.3%) of donation-related problems, 
and this rate was higher than the 6 percent rate recorded for adult cases 
(316/5305). Nine children suffered crucial complications such as vasovagal 
reactions, and one 14-year-old boy required a vasopressor drug. Important 
findings were that 6 of these were first-time donors, and the amount of blood 
drawn was under 10 percent of their estimated blood volume.
CONCLUSION: Of 53 donation-related problems, 9 (17.0%) were accompanied by 
marked hypotension. Drawing autologous blood from children has become easier 
with advanced devices; however, lessening of anxiety and tension are essential 
for the safety of children's autologous blood donation programs. Aggressive 
donation should be avoided.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2007.01290.x
PMCID: PMC7201863
PMID: 17655595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Acta Ophthalmol Scand. 2007 Aug;85(5):508-18. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0420.2007.00947.x.

Cost effectiveness and cost utility of an organized screening programme for 
glaucoma.

Vaahtoranta-Lehtonen H(1), Tuulonen A, Aronen P, Sintonen H, Suoranta L, Kovanen 
N, Linna M, Läärä E, Malmivaara A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Turku City Hospital, Turku, Finland.

PURPOSE: To assess the cost effectiveness and cost utility of an organized 
screening programme for glaucoma. The previous cost-effectiveness studies of 
screening show inconsistent results, and the cost utility of screening has not 
been assessed.
METHODS: An organized screening programme was simulated using Markov modelling 
in a population aged 50-79 years at 5 year intervals. The programme ended when 
the subjects reached the age of 80 years. The comparator was opportunistic case 
finding. The main outcome measures were cases and years of severe visual 
disability avoided, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained and direct 
healthcare and non-healthcare costs.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of 1 year of avoided visual disability by 
screening was euro32 602. The cost of one QALY gained by screening was euro9023 
with a discount rate of 5%. During the average 20 year time horizon considered, 
the cumulative incremental costs of screening in a population of 1 million 
people would be euro30 million, producing 3360 incremental QALYs and 930 years 
of avoided visual disability for 701 persons. The results were sensitive to the 
estimates of several parameters, especially screening cost and specificity of 
screening tests (96-99% specificity required).
CONCLUSION: An organized screening programme could be a cost-effective strategy 
especially in older age groups, in which screening is clearly more likely to be 
acceptable to decision makers at any level in terms of their willingness to pay 
for a QALY. Modelling includes some uncertainty especially concerning the 
specificity of diagnostic tests and screening cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0420.2007.00947.x
PMID: 17655612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2007 Oct;43(4):517-22. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2007.06.003.
 Epub 2007 Jun 21.

Pharmacological inhibition of epsilon PKC suppresses chronic inflammation in 
murine cardiac transplantation model.

Koyanagi T(1), Noguchi K, Ootani A, Inagaki K, Robbins RC, Mochly-Rosen D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Systems Biology, Stanford University School of 
Medicine CCSR, Rm 3145A, 269 Campus Drive Stanford, CA 94305-5174, USA.

Comment in
    J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2007 Oct;43(4):404-8.

Epsilon protein kinase C (epsilonPKC) plays pivotal roles in myocardial 
infarction and in heart failure. Although cardiac transplantation is a 
well-established therapy for severe heart failure, allograft rejection and host 
inflammatory responses limit graft function and reduce life expectancy. Here we 
determined whether sustained epsilonPKC inhibition beginning 3 days after 
transplantation suppress allograft rejection and improve cardiac transplantation 
using a murine heterotopic transplantation model. Hearts of FVB mice (H-2(q)) 
were transplanted into C57BL/6 mice (H-2(b)). Delivery of the epsilonPKC 
inhibitor, TAT(47-57)-epsilonV1-2 (epsilonV1-2, n=9, 20 mg/kg/day), or the 
carrier control peptide, TAT(47-57) (TAT, n=8), by osmotic pump began 3 days 
after transplantation and continued for the remaining 4 weeks. epsilonV1-2 
treatment significantly improved the beating score throughout the treatment. 
Infiltration of macrophages and T cells into the cardiac grafts was 
significantly reduced and parenchymal fibrosis was decreased in animals treated 
with epsilonV1-2 as compared with control treatment. Finally, the rise in 
pro-fibrotic cytokine, TGF-beta and monocyte recruiting chemokine MCP-1 levels 
was almost abolished by epsilonV1-2 treatment, whereas the rise in PDGF-BB level 
was unaffected. These data suggest that epsilonPKC activity contributes to the 
chronic immune response in cardiac allograft and that an epsilonPKC-selective 
inhibitor, such as epsilonV1-2, could augment current therapeutic strategies to 
suppress inflammation and prolong graft survival in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2007.06.003
PMID: 17655859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2007 Dec;104(6):738.e1-13.
 doi: 10.1016/j.tripleo.2007.04.008. Epub 2007 Jul 26.

A review of the association between osteoporosis and alveolar ridge 
augmentation.

Erdoğan O(1), Shafer DM, Taxel P, Freilich MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Faculty of Dentistry, Cukurova 
University, Adana, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Because of increasing life expectancy and popularity of dental 
implants, surgeons face a larger number of osteoporotic patients who require 
bone augmentation. Relationship between low bone density/osteoporosis and bone 
graft success is still not clear. The purpose of this article is to review and 
summarize the literature regarding the success of alveolar bone augmentation in 
osteoporosis.
STUDY DESIGN: The study design includes a literature review of relevant 
preclinical and clinical articles that address the association between 
osteoporosis and alveolar bone augmentation.
RESULTS: Increased rate of complications such as resorption of bone graft, 
non-integration of bone graft, delayed healing time, and implant failure in 
augmented bone especially in the maxilla may be associated with compromised bone 
health.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the decreased success rate, osteoporosis is not an absolute 
contraindication for bone augmentation and dental implant placement. The 
modifiable risk factors for osteoporosis should be eliminated before surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tripleo.2007.04.008
PMID: 17656117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Psychopharmacol. 2007 Jun;21(4):357-73. doi: 10.1177/0269881107075509.

Minimising metabolic and cardiovascular risk in schizophrenia: diabetes, obesity 
and dyslipidaemia.

Barnett AH(1), Mackin P, Chaudhry I, Farooqi A, Gadsby R, Heald A, Hill J, 
Millar H, Peveler R, Rees A, Singh V, Taylor D, Vora J, Jones PB.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham Heartlands Hospital, Birmingham, UK. 
anthony.barnett@heartofengland.nhs.uk
