No differences between stent placement and gastrojejunostomy were found in 
technical success (96% vs. 100%), early and late major complications 7% vs. 6% 
and 18% vs. 17%, respectively) and persisting symptoms (8% vs. 9%). Initial 
clinical success was higher after stent placement (89% vs. 72%). Minor 
complications were less frequently seen after stent placement in the patient 
series (9% vs. 33%), however the pooled analysis showed no differences (OR: 
0.75, p = 0.8). Recurrent obstructive symptoms were more common after stent 
placement (18% vs. 1%). Hospital stay was prolonged after GJJ compared to stent 
placement (13 days vs. 7 days). The mean survival was 105 days after stent 
placement and 164 days after GJJ.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that stent placement may be associated with 
more favorable results in patients with a relatively short life expectancy, 
while GJJ is preferable in patients with a more prolonged prognosis. The paucity 
of evidence from large randomized trials may however have influenced the results 
and therefore a trial of sufficient size is needed to determine which palliative 
treatment modality is optimal in (sub)groups of patients with malignant gastric 
outlet obstruction.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-7-18
PMCID: PMC1904222
PMID: 17559659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2007 Aug;60(2):385-93. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkm196. Epub
 2007 Jun 7.

Economic evaluation of targeted treatments of invasive aspergillosis in adult 
haematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients in the Netherlands: a modelling 
approach.

Ament AJ(1), Hübben MW, Verweij PE, de Groot R, Warris A, Donnelly JP, van 't 
Wout J, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Organization Policy and Economics (HOPE), Faculty of 
Health Sciences, Maastricht University, Maastricht, and Department of General 
Internal Medicine, Bronovo Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands. 
a.ament@beoz.unimaas.nl

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of a 
targeted treatment model of antifungal treatment strategies for adult 
haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients in the Netherlands from a 
hospital perspective, using a decision analytic modelling approach.
METHODS: The economic evaluation of desoxycholate amphotericin B, liposomal 
amphotericin B, voriconazole and caspofungin was undertaken. These drugs could 
be used alone, in various combinations or sequentially. In our model, first-line 
therapy consisted of either voriconazole or liposomal amphotericin B. If 
necessary, treatment was switched to a second-line treatment, including 
combination antifungal therapy. The theoretical population in this model 
consisted of adult HSCT recipients with proven or probable invasive 
aspergillosis (IA). Long-term survival was extrapolated from survival after 12 
weeks of treatment and life expectancy.
RESULTS: First-line antifungal treatment strategies with voriconazole were both 
more effective and less costly over first-line strategies employing liposomal 
amphotericin B at a dosage of 4 mg/kg/day. The strategy of voriconazole followed 
by caspofungin (voriconazole/caspofungin) was dominant over the strategies of 
voriconazole followed by liposomal amphotericin B (voriconazole/liposomal 
amphotericin B) or desoxycholate amphotericin B (voriconazole/desoxycholate 
amphotericin B). However, the voriconazole followed by the combination of 
liposomal amphotericin B and caspofungin strategy (voriconazole/liposomal 
amphotericin B+caspofungin) was more effective though more expensive than the 
voriconazole/caspofungin strategy resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of about euro107,000 for a life-year saved. At a dosage of 1 
mg/kg/day of liposomal amphotericin B, the voriconazole/caspofungin strategy was 
more effective but more costly than the voriconazole/desoxycholate amphotericin 
B strategy with an ICER of euro10,000 for each extra life-year saved. Between 
the voriconazole/liposomal amphotericin B+caspofungin and the 
voriconazole/caspofungin strategies, the ICER was euro40,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Probabilistic analyses on net monetary benefit showed that the 
voriconazole/caspofungin strategy had the highest probability of being the most 
cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkm196
PMID: 17561501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2007 May;14(3):182-9. doi:
10.1065/espr2007.02.388.

A study of climate change and anthropogenic impacts in West Africa.

Wittig R(1), König K, Schmidt M, Szarzynski J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, J.W.Goethe-University, 60323 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany R.Wittig@em.uni-frankfurt.de

BACKGROUND, AIM AND SCOPE: During the last decades ecological conditions in West 
Africa have dramatically changed. Very evident is the climate change, which has 
resulted in a southward shift of the climate zones, e.g. a spread of the desert 
(Sahara) into the Sahelian zone. After the drought period of the early 1970s and 
1980s, livestock density increased resulting in an intensification of grazing 
pressure. This anthropogenous phenomenon leads to similar landscape changes as 
those caused by the climate. Only very few investigations exist on vegetation 
dynamics, climate changes and land use changes for the Sudanian zone. The paper 
presents data on changes of precipitation, of land use, of the geographical 
range of species, and of the composition of the flora, which have to be regarded 
as proofs of the sahelisation of large areas of the Sudanian zone.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Area of investigation: Burkina Faso. Precipitation data 
analysis: precipitation data from 67 stations; time series analysis and 
geo-statistical spatial interpolation. Analysis of land use change: Landsat 
satellite MSS and ETM+ data, acquired for two different dates between 1972 and 
2001 analyzed by the software ERDAS/IMAGINE version 8.6 and ArcView 3.2 with the 
Spatial Analyst extension. Intensive ground truthing (160 training areas). 
Inventory of the flora: based on the data of the Herbarium Senckenbergianum (FR) 
in Frankfurt, Germany, and of the herbarium of the university of Ouagadougou 
(OUA), Burkina Faso, as well as on various investigations on the vegetation of 
Burkina Faso carried out in the years 1990 to 2005 by the team of the senior 
author. Life form analysis of the flora: based on the inventory of permanent 
plots.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Precipitation: Remarkable latitudinal shift of isohyets 
towards the South translates to a general reduction of average rainfall in great 
parts of the country. The last decade (1990-1999) shows some improvement, 
however, the more humid conditions of the 1950's and 1960's are not yet 
established again. Landcover change: In the study region the extent of arable 
fields and young fallows increased during the last 30 years from 580 km(2) in 
1972 to 2870 km(2) in 2001. This means an average land cover conversion rate of 
0.9% per year for the 6 departments considered. Change of the distribution of 
Sahelian and Sudanian species: Several species, mentioned in older literature as 
strictly Sahelian, today also occur in the Sudanian zone. Parallel to the spread 
of former strictly Sahelian species into the Sudanian zone, some former 
Sahelo-Sudanian species have withdrawn from the Sahel. Changes of the life form 
spectra of the flora: Considering their life form spectra, the flora of heavily 
grazed and of protected areas in the Sudanian zone show great differences. On 
areas intensively grazed the percentage of therophytes is evidently higher than 
on protected areas. Just the opposite is true for the phanerophytes. Their 
percentage is higher on the protected area than on the grazed zones. At the 
first glance, it is obvious to link the changes in flora and vegetation with the 
climate changes that have occurred during the last five decades (decrease of 
annual precipitation). However, not only climatic conditions have changed, but 
also population has increased, the percentage of land intensively used for 
agriculture and pasturing has increased and the time for soil regeneration today 
is much shorter than it was some decades ago. Thus, the landscape of the 
Sudanian zone has become a more Sahelian character. A comparison of the flora of 
an intensively used area of the Sudanian zone with that of a protected area 
shows a remarkable change in the life form spectra. The spectrum of the 
intensively used area is almost identical with that of the typical Sahelian 
flora. This comparison shows that the anthropogenic influence plays a greater 
role in the sahelisation of the Sudanian zone than the climate change.
CONCLUSION: Climate change and anthropogenic influence both, lead to a 
sahelisation of landscape and flora. Thus in many parts of the Sudanian zone of 
West Africa sahelisation phenomena will remain and even increase independently 
from the reestablishment of the more humid climate conditions of the 1950ies.
RECOMMENDATIONS AND PERSPECTIVES: In order to maintain some parts of the 
characteristic Sudanian landscape with its characteristic flora and vegetation, 
the number and size of protected areas should be augmented. For all protected 
areas it has to be ensured, that protection is reality, i.e. respected an 
understood by local people, not only fiction. As long as the enlargement of 
intensively used areas continues the sahelisation of flora, vegetation and 
landscape will continue too.

DOI: 10.1065/espr2007.02.388
PMID: 17561777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007 Aug;46(8):1345-54. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kem115.  Epub 2007 Jun 11.

Modelling the cost effectiveness of TNF-alpha antagonists in the management of 
rheumatoid arthritis: results from the British Society for Rheumatology 
Biologics Registry.

Brennan A(1), Bansback N, Nixon R, Madan J, Harrison M, Watson K, Symmons D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
(ScHARR), The University of Sheffield, UK. a.brennan@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    Rheumatology (Oxford). 2008 Jul;47(7):1106-7; author reply 1107.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of TNF-alpha antagonist therapies 
for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in the United Kingdom using data from the British 
Society for Rheumatology Biologics Registry (BSRBR).
METHODS: A simulation model is constructed to quantify the cost effectiveness of 
the TNF-alpha antagonist therapies (infliximab, etanercept and adalimumab) as a 
group versus traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, with a time 
horizon over the full patient lifetime. Participants are UK NHS patients in the 
BSRBR with RA who have failed at least two traditional disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs. The BSRBR aims to recruit all RA patients starting on a 
TNF-alpha antagonist agent and follows them 6 monthly via consultant and patient 
administered questionnaires. Data collected include disease activity scores 
(DAS28), the Health Assessment Questionnaire and the SF-36. Costs include drug, 
monitoring and hospitalisations. Benefits are measured in disability and quality 
of life improvements. The main outcome measure is the incremental cost per 
quality adjusted life-year gained (discounted).
RESULTS: The basecase cost per quality adjusted life-year gained by using 
TNF-alpha antagonist therapies is estimated at pound23 882, with probabilistic 
uncertainty analysis suggesting that the probability that treatments are below 
30,000 pounds per QALY is around 84%. The results are most sensitive to 
assumptions concerning long-term disability progression, discount rates and the 
validity or otherwise of SF6D derived utility measures. Subgroup analysis, 
monotherapy versus combination with methotrexate, and a limited analysis of 
sequential therapy with two TNF-alpha antagonist agents, suggest 
cost-effectiveness ratios around 20,000 pounds to 30,000 pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: The BSRBR data provide valuable evidence for estimating 
cost-effectiveness. The analysis concludes that current policies and practice 
for the use of TNF-alpha antagonist therapies, after RA patients have failed at 
least two traditional disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, appear 
cost-effective in the context of the NICE re-appraisal of 2006 for England and 
Wales, thus supporting their decision to continue their reimbursement. 
Decision-makers worldwide might adapt this analysis because differential costs, 
discount rates and other factors could affect results. There remains 
uncertainty, particularly on long-term disease progression. Further data 
collection using the BSRBR is recommended, together with a revision to this 
analysis when data become available.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kem115
PMID: 17562686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Exp Bot. 2007;58(10):2699-707. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erm120. Epub 2007 Jun 11.

C-terminal extension of rice glutamate decarboxylase (OsGAD2) functions as an 
autoinhibitory domain and overexpression of a truncated mutant results in the 
accumulation of extremely high levels of GABA in plant cells.

Akama K(1), Takaiwa F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Science, Shimane University, Nishikawatsu 1060, 
Matsue, Shimane, Japan. akama@life.shimane-u.ac.jp

Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) converts L-glutamate to gamma-aminobutyric acid 
(GABA), which is a non-protein amino acid present in all organisms. Plant GADs 
carry a C-terminal extension that binds to Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM) to modulate 
enzyme activity. However, rice possesses two distinct types of GAD, OsGAD1 and 
OsGAD2. Although they both have a C-terminal extension, the former peptide 
contains an authentic CaM-binding domain (CaMBD), which is common to 
dicotyledonous plants, while the latter does not. Therefore, the role of the 
C-terminal extension in functional expression of OsGAD2 was investigated. An in 
vitro enzyme assay using recombinant OsGAD2 proteins revealed low activity in 
the presence or absence of Ca(2+)/CaM. However, a truncated version of GAD2 
(OsGAD2DeltaC) had over 40-fold higher activity than wild-type GAD at 
physiological pH. These two DNA constructs were introduced simultaneously into 
rice calli via Agrobacterium to establish transgenic cell lines. Free amino 
acids were isolated from several lines for each construct to determine GABA 
content. Calli overexpressing OsGAD2 and OsGAD2DeltaC had about 6-fold and 
100-fold the GABA content of wild-type calli, respectively. Regenerated 
OsGAD2DeltaC rice plants had aberrant phenotypes such as dwarfism, etiolated 
leaves, and sterility. These data suggest that the C-terminal extension of 
OsGAD2 plays a role as a strong autoinhibitory domain, and that truncation of 
this domain causes the enzyme to act constitutively, with higher activity both 
in vitro and in vivo.

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erm120
PMID: 17562689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Mol Cell Biol. 2007 Aug;27(16):5737-45. doi: 10.1128/MCB.02265-06. Epub 2007
Jun  11.

Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species trigger hypoxia-inducible factor-dependent 
extension of the replicative life span during hypoxia.

Bell EL(1), Klimova TA, Eisenbart J, Schumacker PT, Chandel NS.

Author information:
(1)The Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 
60611, USA.

Physiological hypoxia extends the replicative life span of human cells in 
culture. Here, we report that hypoxic extension of replicative life span is 
associated with an increase in mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) in 
primary human lung fibroblasts. The generation of mitochondrial ROS is necessary 
for hypoxic activation of the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor 
(HIF). The hypoxic extension of replicative life span is ablated by a dominant 
negative HIF. HIF is sufficient to induce telomerase reverse transcriptase mRNA 
and telomerase activity and to extend replicative life span. Furthermore, the 
down-regulation of the von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor protein by RNA 
interference increases HIF activity and extends replicative life span under 
normoxia. These findings provide genetic evidence that hypoxia utilizes 
mitochondrial ROS as signaling molecules to activate HIF-dependent extension of 
replicative life span.

DOI: 10.1128/MCB.02265-06
PMCID: PMC1952129
PMID: 17562866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Arch Intern Med. 2007 Jun 11;167(11):1145-51. doi:
10.1001/archinte.167.11.1145.

Associations of diabetes mellitus with total life expectancy and life expectancy 
with and without cardiovascular disease.

Franco OH(1), Steyerberg EW, Hu FB, Mackenbach J, Nusselder W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. oscar.franco@unilever.com

BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus is a recognized risk factor for cardiovascular 
disease (CVD) and mortality. However, limited information exists on the 
association of diabetes with life expectancy with and without CVD. We aimed to 
calculate the association of diabetes after age 50 years with life expectancy 
and the number of years lived with and without CVD.
METHODS: Using data from the Framingham Heart Study, we built life tables to 
calculate the associations of having diabetes with life expectancy and years 
lived with and without CVD among populations 50 years and older. For the life 
table calculations, we used hazard ratios for 3 transitions (healthy to death, 
healthy to CVD, and CVD to death), stratifying by the presence of diabetes at 
baseline and adjusting for age and confounders.
RESULTS: Having diabetes significantly increased the risk of developing CVD 
(hazard ratio, 2.5 for women and 2.4 for men) and of dying when CVD was present 
(hazard ratio, 2.2 for women and 1.7 for men). Diabetic men and women 50 years 
and older lived on average 7.5 (95% confidence interval, 5.5-9.5) and 8.2 (95% 
confidence interval, 6.1-10.4) years less than their nondiabetic equivalents. 
The differences in life expectancy free of CVD were 7.8 and 8.4 years, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase in the risk of CVD and mortality from diabetes 
represents an important decrease in life expectancy and life expectancy free of 
CVD. Prevention of diabetes is a fundamental task facing today's society in the 
pursuit of healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.167.11.1145
PMID: 17563022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Clin Drug Investig. 2007;27(7):443-52. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200727070-00001.

Cost effectiveness of lopinavir/ritonavir compared with atazanavir plus 
ritonavir in antiretroviral-experienced patients in the US.

Simpson KN(1), Jones WJ, Rajagopalan R, Dietz B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration and Policy, College of Health 
Professions, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. 
simpsonk@musc.edu

Erratum in
    Clin Drug Investig. 2007;27(8):564.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness and long-term combined effects of 
HIV disease and antiretroviral (ARV) therapy-related risk for coronary heart 
disease (CHD) on quality-adjusted survival and healthcare costs for 
ARV-experienced patients.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov model was updated and supplemented with 
the Framingham CHD risk equation. The representative patient in the model was 
male, aged 37 years and had a baseline 10-year CHD risk of 4.6%. Patients 
started with either lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) or ritonavir-boosted atazanavir 
(ATV+RTV) as the protease inhibitor (PI). The proportions of patients with viral 
suppression below 400 and 50 copies/mL, respectively, at week 48 reported in 
clinical trials were used to estimate the differences between these two 
therapies. The daily ARV costs were $US 24.60 for LPV/r capsules (2005 costs) 
and $US 26.54 for LPV/r tablets (2006 costs), $US 29.76 for ATV and $US 8.57 for 
ritonavir (2005 costs). Costs of other ARV drugs were taken from average 
wholesale drug reports for 2005. The cost of AIDS events was estimated from 
Medicaid billing databases and reflected a medical care system perspective and 
2005 treatment costs. Cost-effectiveness calculations assumed a lifetime time 
horizon. The effects of different model assumptions were tested in a multiway 
sensitivity analysis by combining extreme values of parameters.
RESULTS: The model estimated a clinical and economic advantage to using LPV/r 
over ATV+RTV, which varied depending upon the use of LPV/r capsules or tablets. 
Using LPV/r capsules was comparatively beneficial for ARV-experienced patients 
in quality-adjusted life-months (QALMs) of 4.6 (corrected for differences in CHD 
risk) compared with ATV+RTV. In addition, there were 5- and 10-year overall 
per-patient cost savings of $US 17,995 and $US 21,298, respectively. Estimates 
for the LPV/r tablet formulation approved in 2005 (assuming similar efficacy) 
improved cost savings over 5- and 10-year periods to $US 19,598 and $US 23,126 
per patient, respectively, because of a drug price differential. Sensitivity 
analysis tested numerous assumptions about the model cost and efficacy 
parameters and found that the results were robust to most changes. Model 
limitations were the uncertainty associated with the model parameters used.
CONCLUSION: LPV/r appears to be a highly cost-effective regimen relative to 
ATV+RTV for the treatment of HIV. The long-term CHD risk associated with LPV/r 
was minimal compared with the increased risk of AIDS/death and costs projected 
for a less efficacious PI-based regimen.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200727070-00001
PMID: 17563124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2007 Jul-Aug;13(4):383-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.PHH.0000278032.87314.6d.

Public health laws and implications for a national accreditation program: 
parallel roadways without intersection?

Beitsch LM(1), Landrum LB, Chang C, Wojciehowski K.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medicine and Public Health, Florida State University College of 
Medicine, Tallahassee, USA. les.beitsch@med.fsu.edu

Public health law has been one of the leading contributors to the extension of 
life expectancy in the 20th century. Nonetheless, the legal infrastructure 
supporting public health law in the United States is underdeveloped and 
nonuniform. With national interest growing in public health agency 
accreditation, the individual legal approach taken by states may pose an 
obstacle to wholesale adoption of a proposed voluntary national model. This 
article describes the legal foundations supporting accreditation or assessment 
programs in states participating in the Multi-State Learning Collaborative, a 
project funded by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. The Turning Point Model 
State Public Health Act is recommended as one option to resolve the current 
impasse, assist in acceptance of a national accreditation model, and provide a 
common public health legal infrastructure.

DOI: 10.1097/01.PHH.0000278032.87314.6d
PMID: 17563627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Kardiol Pol. 2007 Feb;65(2):223-28.

[Guidelines of National Consultant in the issue of cardiologic care of patients 
with Duchenne's and Becker's muscular dystrophy and cardiomyopathy prevention in 
woman with DMD/BMD mutations (mothers and sisters of patients with dystrophies].

[Article in Polish]

Sinkiewicz W(1), Droźdź J, Dubiel JS, Filipiak KJ, Rozentryt P, Wierzchowiecki 
M, Opolski G.

Author information:
(1)Oddział Kardiologii z Zakładem Diagnostyki Kardiologicznej, akład Klinicznych 
Podstaw Fijoterapii, Szpital Wojewòdzki, ul. Ujejskiego 75, 85-168 Bydgoszcz. 
wsinkiewicz@cm.umk.pl

PMID: 17563944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Practitioner. 2007 May;251(1694):37-40, 42-3, 46 passim.

GPs have pivotal role in managing MS.

Jenkins TM(1), Thompson AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Repair and Rehabilitation, Institute of Neurology, Queen 
Square, London.

PMID: 17564135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2007 Jul;26(4):369-78. doi: 10.1080/09595230701373883.

The costs and consequences of three policy options for reducing heroin 
dependency.

Moore TJ(1), Ritter A, Caulkins JP.

Author information:
(1)Turning Point Alcohol and Drug Centre. Fitzroy, VIC, Australia.

INTRODUCTION AND AIMS: This study compares the costs and consequences of three 
interventions for reducing heroin dependency: pharmacotherapy maintenance, 
residential rehabilitation and prison.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Using Australian data, the interventions' cost - consequence 
ratio was estimated, taking into consideration reduction in heroin use during 
the intervention; the length of intervention; and post-intervention effects (as 
measured by abstinence rates). Sensitivity analyses were conducted, including 
varying the magnitude and duration of treatment effects, and ascribing positive 
outcomes only to treatment completers. A hybrid model that combined 
pharmacotherapy maintenance with a prison term was also considered.
RESULTS: If the post-programme abstinence rates are sustained for 2 years, then 
for an average heroin user the cost of averting a year of heroin use is 
approximately AUD$5000 for pharmacotherapy maintenance, AUD$11,000 for 
residential rehabilitation and AUD$52 000 for prison. Varying the parameters 
does not change the ranking of the programmes. If the completion rate in 
pharmacotherapy maintenance was raised above 95% (by the threat of prison for 
non-completers), the combined model of treatment plus prison may become the most 
cost-effective option.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: Relative performance in terms of costs and 
consequences is an important consideration in the policy decision-making 
process, and quantitative data such as those reported herein can provide 
insights pertinent to evidence-based policy.

DOI: 10.1080/09595230701373883
PMID: 17564872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Rev Diabet Stud. 2007 Spring;4(1):6-12. doi: 10.1900/RDS.2007.4.6. Epub 2007
May  10.

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes in adults: where can we go from here?

de Valk HW(1), van der Graaf EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Centre Utrecht, 
Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Cystic fibrosis (CF), a dysfunction of the exocrine glands, is one of the most 
frequently diagnosed genetic diseases. It is characterized by chronic pulmonary 
disease and pancreatic deficiency. Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is a 
complication of CF and develops from impaired glucose tolerance via postprandial 
hyperglycemia with fasting normoglycemia to full-blown diabetes with fasting and 
postprandial hyperglycemia. CFRD is related to decreased life expectancy, most 
notably in female patients, as well as to decreased pulmonary function and body 
weight reduction, which can be improved with adequate insulin therapy. Insulin 
therapy is accepted in full-blown diabetes but the treatment required by lesser 
degrees of abnormal glucose metabolism is unknown and needs to be clarified. 
Chronic organ complications of diabetes are seen only in full-blown diabetes 
with a particular tendency to affect the autonomous nervous system. Continuous 
glucose measurement techniques have opened new fields of investigation, 
particularly in relation to CF-related complications. Insulin therapy needs to 
be intensified and insulin pump therapy should receive more attention. While 
improvements in therapy, including lung transplantation, have resulted in 
increased life expectancies, other issues, such as fertility problems and 
pregnancy, have raised new questions. All of these need to be addressed to find 
new treatment options for CFRD patients. In this article we aim to illustrate 
how these new questions in the treatment of adult patients with CFRD could be 
answered.

DOI: 10.1900/RDS.2007.4.6
PMCID: PMC1892524
PMID: 17565411


723. Clin Exp Immunol. 2007 Sep;149(3):410-23. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2249.2007.03432.x.  Epub 2007 Jun 12.

Recognition, clinical diagnosis and management of patients with primary antibody 
deficiencies: a systematic review.

Wood P(1), Stanworth S, Burton J, Jones A, Peckham DG, Green T, Hyde C, Chapel 
H; UK Primary Immunodeficiency Network.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology, St James's University Hospital, Leeds, UK. 
philip.wood@leedsth.nhs.uk

The primary purpose of this systematic review was to produce an evidence-based 
review of the literature as a means of informing current clinical practice in 
the recognition, diagnosis and management of patients with suspected primary 
antibody deficiency. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) were identified from a 
search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, DARE (CRD website) and CINAHL 
by combining the search strategies with The Cochrane Collaboration's validated 
RCT filter. In addition, other types of studies were identified in a separate 
search of MEDLINE and EMBASE. Patients at any age with recurrent infections, 
especially in the upper and lower respiratory tracts, should be investigated for 
possible antibody deficiency. Replacement therapy with immunoglobulin in primary 
antibody deficiencies increases life expectancy and reduces infection frequency 
and severity. Higher doses of immunoglobulin are associated with reduced 
infection frequency. Late diagnosis and delayed institution of immunoglobulin 
replacement therapy results in increased morbidity and mortality. A wide variety 
of organ-specific complications can occur in primary antibody deficiency 
syndromes, including respiratory, gastroenterological, hepatic, haematological, 
neurological, rheumatological and cutaneous. There is an increased risk of 
malignancy. Some of these complications appear to be related to diagnostic delay 
and inadequate therapy. High-quality controlled trial data on the therapy of 
these complications is generally lacking. The present study has identified a 
number of key areas for further research, but RCT data, while desirable, is not 
always obtained easily for rare conditions. Few data from registries or large 
case-series have been published in the past 5 years and a greater focus on 
international collaboration and pooling of data is needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2249.2007.03432.x
PMCID: PMC2219316
PMID: 17565605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Adv Ther. 2007 Mar-Apr;24(2):273-90. doi: 10.1007/BF02849895.

Therapy conversion to insulin detemir among patients with type 2 diabetes 
treated with oral agents: a modeling study of cost-effectiveness in the United 
States.

Valentine WJ(1), Erny-Albrecht KM, Ray JA, Roze S, Cobden D, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)CORE, Centre for Outcomes Research, a unit of IMS, Allschwil, Switzerland.

The aim of this study was to gain a preliminary indication of the long-term 
clinical and economic implications of converting treatment for patients with 
type 2 diabetes to insulin detemir+/-oral hypoglycemic agents (OHAs) in a 
routine clinical practice setting in the United States. With the use of outcome 
data and patient characteristics reported from an ongoing prospective 
observational trial, a validated computer simulation model of diabetes was used 
to project the clinical and cost outcomes associated with therapy conversion to 
insulin detemir over a 35-y period from (1) OHA only, (2) neutral protamine 
Hagedorn insulin (NPH)+/-OHA, and (3) insulin glargine+/-OHA. Cost-effectiveness 
was assessed from a third-party healthcare payer perspective for the year 2005. 
Costs and clinical outcomes were discounted at a rate of 3%. Treatment with 
insulin detemir+/-OHA was associated with increases in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy of 0.309, 0.350, and 0.333 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) versus 
treatment with OHA alone, NPH+/-OHA, and insulin glargine+/-OHA, respectively. 
Increases in pharmacy costs were partially offset by reduced complications, 
rticularly renal complications and neuropathy. Projected incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were well within the range considered to represent 
good value in the United States, at $7412, $6269, and $3951 per QALY gained for 
treatment with Idet+/-OHA versus OHA alone, NPH+/-OHA, and Iglarg+/-OHA, 
respectively. On the basis of preliminary evidence of short-term improvements in 
glycemic control and reduced hypoglycemia, therapy conversion to insulin 
detemir+/-OHA from OHA alone, NPH+/-OHA, or insulin glargine+/-OHA was projected 
to increase quality-adjusted life expectancy and to represent a cost-effective 
treatment option in the United States.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02849895
PMID: 17565917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Plant Cell Physiol. 2007 Jul;48(7):1022-35. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcm073. Epub
2007  Jun 12.

A nitrite transporter associated with nitrite uptake by higher plant 
chloroplasts.

Sugiura M(1), Georgescu MN, Takahashi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Life Sciences, Graduate School of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, Osaka Prefecture University, 1-1 Gakuen-cho, Naka-ku, 
Sakai, Osaka, 599-8531 Japan.

Chloroplasts take up cytosolic nitrite during nitrate assimilation. In this 
study we identified a nitrite transporter located in the chloroplasts of higher 
plants. The transporter, CsNitr1-L, a member of the proton-dependent 
oligopeptide transporter (POT) family, was detected during light-induced 
chloroplast development in de-etiolating cucumber seedlings. We detected a 
CsNitr1-L-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein in the chloroplasts of 
leaf cells and found that an immunoreactive 51 kDa protein was present in the 
isolated inner envelope membrane of chloroplasts. CsNitr1-L has an isoform, 
CsNitr1-S, with an identical 484 amino acid core sequence; however, in CsNitr1-S 
the 120 amino acid N-terminal extension is missing. Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
cells expressing CsNitr1-S absorbed nitrite from an acidic medium at a slower 
rate than mock-transformed control cells, and accumulated nitrite to only 
one-sixth the concentration of the control cells, suggesting that CsNitr1-S 
enhances the efflux of nitrite from the cell. Insertion of T-DNA in a single 
CsNitr1-L homolog (At1g68570) in Arabidopsis resulted in nitrite accumulation in 
leaves to more than five times the concentration found in the wild type. These 
results show that it is possible that both CsNitr1-L and CsNitr1-S encode 
efflux-type nitrite transporters, but with different subcellular localizations. 
CsNitr1-L may possibly load cytosolic nitrite into chloroplast stroma in the 
chloroplast envelope during nitrate assimilation. The presence of genes 
homologous to CsNitr1-L in the genomes of Arabidopsis and rice indicates that 
facilitated nitrite transport is of general physiological importance in plant 
nutrition.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pcm073
PMID: 17566055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2007 Sep;293(3):R1127-34. doi: 
10.1152/ajpregu.00110.2007. Epub 2007 Jun 13.

Enhanced susceptibility to suicidal death of erythrocytes from transgenic mice 
overexpressing erythropoietin.

Föller M(1), Kasinathan RS, Koka S, Huber SM, Schuler B, Vogel J, Gassmann M, 
Lang F.

Author information:
(1)Physiologisches Institut, der Universität Tübingen, Gmelinstrasse 5, D 72076 
Tübingen, Germany.

Eryptosis, a suicidal death of mature erythrocytes, is characterized by decrease 
of cell volume, cell membrane blebbing, and breakdown of cell membrane asymmetry 
with phosphatidylserine exposure at the cell surface. Triggers of eryptosis 
include increased cytosolic Ca(2+) activity, which could result from activation 
of Ca(2+)-permeable cation channels. Ca(2+) triggers phosphatidylserine exposure 
and activates Ca(2+)-sensitive K(+) channels, leading to cellular K(+) loss and 
cell shrinkage. The cation channels and thus eryptosis are stimulated by Cl(-) 
removal and inhibited by erythropoietin. The present experiments explored 
eryptosis in transgenic mice overexpressing erythropoietin (tg6). Erythrocytes 
were drawn from tg6 mice and their wild-type littermates (WT). 
Phosphatidylserine exposure was estimated from annexin binding and cell volume 
from forward scatter in fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) analysis. The 
percentage of annexin binding was significantly larger and forward scatter 
significantly smaller in tg6 than in WT erythrocytes. Transgenic erythrocytes 
were significantly more resistant to osmotic lysis than WT erythrocytes. Cl(-) 
removal and exposure to the Ca(2+) ionophore ionomycin (1 microM) increased 
annexin binding and decreased forward scatter, effects larger in tg6 than in WT 
erythrocytes. The K(+) ionophore valinomycin (10 nM) triggered eryptosis in both 
tg6 and WT erythrocytes and abrogated differences between genotypes. An increase 
of extracellular K(+) concentration to 125 mM blunted the difference between tg6 
and WT erythrocytes. Fluo-3 fluorescence reflecting cytosolic Ca(2+) activity 
was larger in tg6 than in WT erythrocytes. In conclusion, circulating 
erythrocytes from tg6 mice are sensitized to triggers of eryptosis but more 
resistant to osmotic lysis, properties at least partially due to enhanced Ca(2+) 
entry and increased K(+) channel activity.

DOI: 10.1152/ajpregu.00110.2007
PMID: 17567717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Cancer. 2007 Aug 1;110(3):678-85. doi: 10.1002/cncr.22823.

Costs of uncontrolled chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting among working-age 
cancer patients receiving highly or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy.

Tina Shih YC(1), Xu Y, Elting LS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Health Services Research, Department of Biostatistics, Division of 
Quantitative Sciences, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas, USA. yashih@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) is among the most 
feared side effects of cancer treatment. Poorly controlled CINV may lead to 
additional office visits or emergency room admissions, thus increasing the 
overall costs of cancer care. The objective of the project was to estimate the 
societal costs of uncontrolled CINV among working-age cancer patients.
METHODS: The 1997-2002 Health and Productivity Management database, a 
proprietary database linking medical claims to work loss information, was used. 
The study population consisted of employees or their spouses who were cancer 
patients treated with highly or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy regimens. 
Costs of uncontrolled CINV were estimated by comparing the direct medical costs 
and indirect costs between those with and without uncontrolled CINV; all costs 
were normalized as monthly costs and updated to 2006 US dollars. The Wilcoxon 
Mann-Whitney test was used to compare the costs differences in univariate 
analyses, followed by multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: In all, 2,018 patients were identified; 1,771 (88%) received 5-HT(3) 
receptor antagonists, and uncontrolled CINV was found in 563 (28%). The 
estimated monthly medical costs associated with uncontrolled CINV were 
approximately 1,300 dollars higher for cancer patients at working ages. Subgroup 
analysis concluded that indirect costs per patient per month were 433 dollars 
higher for those in the uncontrolled CINV group.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a prevalent use of the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists, 
uncontrolled CINV remained a common and costly problem among cancer patients 
treated with highly or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy.

(c) 2007 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.22823
PMID: 17567835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2007 Jun;14(3):451-5. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e32804955a0.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a European primary-care physician training in 
smoking cessation counseling.

Pinget C(1), Martin E, Wasserfallen JB, Humair JP, Cornuz J.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Assessment Unit, Lausanne University Hospital, Switzerland. 
Christophe.Pinget@chuv.ch

BACKGROUND: Physician training in smoking cessation counseling has been shown to 
be effective as a means to increase quit success. We assessed the 
cost-effectiveness ratio of a smoking cessation counseling training programme. 
Its effectiveness was previously demonstrated in a cluster randomized, control 
trial performed in two Swiss university outpatients clinics, in which residents 
were randomized to receive training in smoking interventions or a control 
educational intervention.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We used a Markov simulation model for effectiveness 
analysis. This model incorporates the intervention efficacy, the natural quit 
rate, and the lifetime probability of relapse after 1-year abstinence. We used 
previously published results in addition to hospital service and outpatient 
clinic cost data. The time horizon was 1 year, and we opted for a third-party 
payer perspective.
RESULTS: The incremental cost of the intervention amounted to US$2.58 per 
consultation by a smoker, translating into a cost per life-year saved of US$25.4 
for men and 35.2 for women. One-way sensitivity analyses yielded a range of 
US$4.0-107.1 in men and US$9.7-148.6 in women. Variations in the quit rate of 
the control intervention, the length of training effectiveness, and the discount 
rate yielded moderately large effects on the outcome. Variations in the natural 
cessation rate, the lifetime probability of relapse, the cost of physician 
training, the counseling time, the cost per hour of physician time, and the cost 
of the booklets had little effect on the cost-effectiveness ratio.
CONCLUSIONS: Training residents in smoking cessation counseling is a very 
cost-effective intervention and may be more efficient than currently accepted 
tobacco control interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e32804955a0
PMID: 17568248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Life Sci. 2007 Jun 20;81(2):109-14. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2007.04.028. Epub
2007  May 6.

Cryptotanshinone inhibits macrophage migration by impeding F-actin 
polymerization and filopodia extension.

Chiou WF(1), Don MJ.

Author information:
(1)National Research Institute of Chinese Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC. 
wfchiou@nricm.edu.tw

We evaluated the anti-inflammatory effects of cryptotanshinone and tanshinone 
IIA, two major tanshinones isolated from Salvia miltiorrhiza, on 
chemoattractant-induced cell migration in RAW264.7 macrophages. Results showed 
that cryptotanshinone inhibited cell migration toward complement 5a (C5a) and 
macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha (MIP-1alpha) in a concentration-dependent 
manner. In contrast, tanshinone IIA displayed less or even no effect on cell 
migration evoked by these chemoattractants. Both C5a- and MIP-1alpha-induced 
migration were clearly inhibited by cytochalasin B (an inhibitor of actin 
polymerization), but not by colchicine (an inhibitor of microtubule 
polymerization). Fluorescence staining demonstrated that cryptotanshinone as 
well as cytochalasin B, effectively reversed cell polarization and filopodia 
extension induced by both chemoattractants. Furthermore, C5a-evoked increase in 
F-actin fluorescence intensity was significantly suppressed by cryptotanshinone. 
Based on these observations, we suggest that cryptotanshinone exerts 
anti-migrating activity possibly by impeding F-actin polymerization and 
filopodia formation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2007.04.028
PMID: 17568618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Public Health. 2007 Oct;121(10):774-80. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.03.002.
Epub  2007 Jun 12.

Estimation of potential health gains from reducing multiple risk factors of 
stroke in Korea.

Lee H(1), Yoon SJ, Ahn HS, Moon OR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Control and Epidemiology, National Cancer Center, Goyang 
City, Gyeonggi Province, South Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the burden of diseases caused by stroke using 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY), and to compare the attributable burdens 
of risk factors with the avoidable burdens.
METHODS: First, we estimated the disease burden of stroke due to premature death 
and disability using 2001 morbidity and mortality data in Korea. Second, we 
selected risk factors and exposure variables of stroke, and decided, via 
systematic review, on the prevalence and relative risks of these risk factors. 
Third, we calculated the attributable burdens of stroke in relation to the 
current prevalence of risk factors, and calculated the avoidable burden of 
stroke in relation to the counterfactual prevalence of risk factors.
RESULTS: The burden of stroke per 100000 people was determined to be 3394.9 
person-years for males, and 2532.2 person-years for females. The burden of 
stroke at its current prevalence for males per 100000 people was attributed 
primarily to smoking (1940.4 person-years), alcohol (864.3 person-years), and 
hypertension (667.3 person-years). The burden of stroke at its current 
prevalence for females per 100000 people was attributed primarily to alcohol 
(462.8 person-years), physical inactivity (455.7 person-years), and smoking 
(407.7 person-years). The joint population attributable fraction (PAF) to risk 
factors was determined to be 80.2% for males, and 52.4% for females.
CONCLUSIONS: The modification of risk factors constitutes a crucial component of 
any serious effort to reduce the burden of stroke. In order to reduce the burden 
of stroke, a health policy in regard to risk factors is clearly required.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.03.002
PMID: 17568640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. J Biochem. 2007 Jun;141(6):769-74. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvm104.

FOXO transcription factors in the regulatory networks of longevity.

Daitoku H(1), Fukamizu A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Tsukuba Advanced Research Alliance, Graduate School of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-8577, Japan.

FOXO (Forkhead box O) transcription factors constitute an evolutionally 
conserved subgroup within the large Forkhead family of transcription regulators. 
FOXO factors are important regulators of the cell cycle, apoptosis, DNA repair, 
metabolism, oxidative stress resistance and longevity. Genetic studies of 
Caenorhabditis elegans demonstrated that FOXO factors are major targets of the 
insulin-like signalling implicated during the regulation of glucose metabolism 
and lifespan extension. Recently, emerging evidence has also shed light on 
signalling pathways under oxidative stress that regulate FOXO activity by 
various post-translational modifications, including phosphorylation, acetylation 
and ubiquitination. Thus, FOXO factors react to external stimuli by altering 
their modifications, modulating target gene expression that may be involved in 
longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvm104
PMID: 17569704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2007;119(9-10):309-17. doi: 10.1007/s00508-007-0790-7.

Causes of death contributing to educational mortality disparities in Austria.

Schwarz F(1).

Author information:
(1)Vienna Institute of Demography, Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, 
Austria. franz.schwarz@oeaw.ac.at

BACKGROUND: Many studies have shown that mortality increases with decreasing 
level of education. This paper aims to identify those causes of death that 
contribute most to educational mortality differentials in Austria, and to reveal 
those causes of death for which the relative differentials are 
higher-than-average.
METHODS: Individual-level 1991 census and death registry records for the entire 
Austrian population were linked for a follow-up period of one year. Mortality 
differentials were measured using the regression-based Relative Index of 
Inequality (RII).
RESULTS: Causes of death contributing most to educational mortality disparities 
among men were lung cancer (13%), digestive diseases (13%), ischemic heart 
disease (12%) and the category 'other circulatory diseases' (11%); among 
females, corresponding conditions were all circulatory diseases combined (58%) 
and 'other neoplasms' (14%). Compared to all-cause mortality differential among 
men (RII = 0.72), larger relative disparities were observed for 
alcohol-associated deaths (RII = 1.71), followed by digestive and respiratory 
diseases (RII = 1.21 and 1.07, respectively), stomach and lung cancer (RII = 
1.04 and 1.08, respectively), injuries (RII = 1.15) and suicides (RII = 0.97). 
Among females, disparities that were considerably larger than for all-cause 
mortality (RII = 0.46) were identified for diabetes (RII = 1.35), injuries (RII 
= 1.12), cerebrovascular disease (RII = 0.94), respiratory diseases (RII = 0.84) 
and ischemic heart disease (RII = 0.75). For causes of death combined that are 
amenable to medical intervention, the differentials were surprisingly large 
(RII(males) = 0.57; RII(females) = 0.48), given that Austria has a 
comprehensive, social health-care system.
CONCLUSION: Efforts to reduce high death rates among the less-educated for 
identified diseases that contribute largely to overall mortality disparity could 
increase average life expectancy and improve the general health status of the 
Austrian population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-007-0790-7
PMID: 17571236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Br J Surg. 2007 Jul;94(7):910; author reply 910. doi: 10.1002/bjs.5923.

Re: Cholesterol and serum albumin as risk factors for death in patients 
undergoing general surgery.

Fujita T.

Comment on
    Br J Surg. 2007 Mar;94(3):369-75.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.5923
PMID: 17571295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2006 Jul-Sep;110(3):711-7.

[The medical and social impact of the gross domestic product on the life 
expectancy and infantile mortality in Romania].

[Article in Romanian]

Rada C(1), Albu A, Baciu A, Gavăt V, Petrariu FD.

Author information:
(1)Academia Română Bucureţi.

In this study we have analyzed the correlations between the GDP reported on 
every inhabitant and the life expectancy respective the infantile mortality 
rates. Analysis cover 11 countries, divided in four categories: three former 
countries members of EU (France, Italy, Sweden), three countries recently 
admitted (2004) in E.U. (Poland, Slovenia, Hungary), two countries which will 
join E.U. in 2007 and other three countries none located in Europe (Canada, 
Japan, USA). In the countries that invest a lot in health care system the life 
expectancy at birth is bigger that in other countries, but this relation is not 
a linear one. Infantile mortality in modern society is strongly influenced by 
the socio-economic status.

PMID: 17571571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2007 Jun 15;32(14):1474-81. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318067dc26.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of three types of physiotherapy used to 
reduce chronic low back pain disability: a pragmatic randomized trial with 
economic evaluation.

Critchley DJ(1), Ratcliffe J, Noonan S, Jones RH, Hurley MV.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of Physiotherapy, School of Biomedical and Health 
Sciences, King's College London, London, UK. duncan.critchley@kcl.ac.uk

STUDY DESIGN: Pragmatic, randomized, assessor blinded, clinical trial with 
economic analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of three kinds of 
physiotherapy commonly used to reduce disability in chronic low back pain.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Physiotherapy reduces disability in chronic back 
pain, but there are several forms of physiotherapy and it is unclear which is 
most effective or cost effective.
METHODS: A total of 212 patients referred to physiotherapy with chronic low back 
pain were randomized to receive usual outpatient physiotherapy, spinal 
stabilization classes, or physiotherapist-led pain management classes. Primary 
outcome was Roland Disability Questionnaire score 18 months from baseline; 
secondary measures were pain, health-related quality of life, and time off work. 
Healthcare costs associated with low back pain and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) were also measured. RESULTS.: A total of 71 participants were assigned 
to usual outpatient physiotherapy, 72 to spinal stabilization, and 69 to 
physiotherapist-led pain management. A total of 160 (75%) provided follow-up 
data at 18 months, showing similar improvements with all interventions: mean 
(95% confidence intervals) Roland Disability Questionnaire score improved from 
11.1 (9.6-12.6) to 6.9 (5.3-8.4) with usual outpatient physiotherapy, 12.8 
(11.4-14.2) to 6.8 (4.9-8.6) with spinal stabilization, and 11.5 (9.8-13.1) to 
6.5 (4.5-8.6) following pain management classes. Pain, quality of life, and time 
off work also improved within all groups with no between-group differences. Mean 
(SD) healthcare costs and QALY gain were pound474 (840) and 0.99 (0.27) for 
individual physiotherapy, pound379 (1040) and 0.90 (0.37) for spinal 
stabilization, and pound165 (202) and 1.00 (0.28) for pain management.
CONCLUSIONS: For chronic low back pain, all three physiotherapy regimens 
improved disability and other relevant health outcomes, regardless of their 
content. Physiotherapist-led pain management classes offer a cost-effective 
alternative to usual outpatient physiotherapy and are associated with less 
healthcare use. A more widespread adoption of physiotherapist-led pain 
management could result in considerable cost savings for healthcare providers.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318067dc26
PMID: 17572614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 2007 Aug;22(7):805-12. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2007.05.002. Epub 2007 Jun 15.

The load/capacity ratio affects the sit-to-stand movement strategy.

Savelberg HH(1), Fastenau A, Willems PJ, Meijer K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Movement Science, Nutrition and Toxicology Research 
