likely to undergo evaluation for ischemic heart disease than those admitted to a 
noncardiology service (adjusted odds ratio for noninvasive testing 2.7; 95% 
confidence interval 1.7 to 4.2) but were not more likely to receive recommended 
therapies. The incidence of ED revisits and rehospitalizations, functional 
status, and adverse cardiovascular events were similar in both groups.
CONCLUSION: ED patients admitted for evaluation of possible acute coronary 
syndrome do not experience worsened short-term outcomes if admitted to a 
noncardiology service bed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2007.05.016
PMCID: PMC7710008
PMID: 17764781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Vaccine. 2007 Sep 28;25(39-40):6900-10. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.07.033.
Epub  2007 Aug 6.

The cost effectiveness of influenza vaccination for adults aged 50 to 64 years: 
a model-based analysis for Spain.

Aballéa S(1), De Juanes JR, Barbieri M, Martin M, Chancellor J, Oyagüez I, 
Verwee B, Largeron N.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, UK. saballea@i3innovus.com

An economic evaluation of reducing the age threshold for routine influenza 
vaccination in Spain from 65 to 50 years was performed. A probabilistic model 
was used to compare a policy based on a recommendation to vaccinate all adults 
aged 50-64 with the existing vaccination policy for that age group, during 
interpandemic periods. Two perspectives were considered: third-party payer (TPP) 
and societal. Model inputs were obtained primarily from the published literature 
and validated through expert opinion. From TPP perspective, incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated at euro14,919 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained and euro9731 per life-year gained. From societal 
perspective, the corresponding results were euro4149 per QALY and euro2706 per 
life-year gained. Extending routine influenza vaccination to people over 50 
years of age is likely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.07.033
PMID: 17764790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2007 Sep 4;50(10):953-60. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2007.03.066.  Epub 2007 Aug 20.

Ethnic differences in the prognostic value of coronary artery calcification for 
all-cause mortality.

Nasir K(1), Shaw LJ, Liu ST, Weinstein SR, Mosler TR, Flores PR, Flores FR, 
Raggi P, Berman DS, Blumenthal RS, Budoff MJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac MRI PET CT Program, Massachusetts General Hospital Boston, Harvard 
School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2007 Sep 4;50(10):961-3.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of 
coronary artery calcium (CAC), a known marker of subclinical atherosclerosis, in 
a large, ethnically diverse cohort of 14,812 patients for the prediction of 
all-cause mortality.
BACKGROUND: Disparities in case fatality rates for heart disease among ethnic 
groups are well known. In 2001, rates of death from heart disease were 30% 
higher among African Americans (AA) than non-Hispanic whites (NHW). Some of this 
variability may be due to differing pathophysiological mechanisms and effects of 
underlying atherosclerosis.
METHODS: Ten-year death rates from all causes (total deaths = 505) were compared 
using risk-adjusted Cox proportional hazards models in AA (n = 637), Hispanic 
(HS, n = 1,334), Asian (AS, n = 1,065), and NHW (n = 11,776) populations.
RESULTS: Ethnic minority patients were generally younger (0.3 to 4 years), more 
often persons with diabetes (p < 0.0001), hypertensive (p < 0.0001), and female 
(p < 0.0001). The prevalence of CAC scores > or =100 was highest in NHW (31%) 
and lowest for HS (18%) (p < 0.0001). Overall survival was 96%, 93%, and 92% for 
AS, NHW, and HS, respectively, as compared with 83% for AA (p < 0.0001). When 
comparing prognosis by CAC scores in ethnic minorities as compared with NHW, 
relative risk ratios were highest for AA with CAC scores > or =400 exceeding 
16.1 (p < 0.0001). Hispanics with CAC scores > or =400 had relative risk ratios 
from 7.9 to 9.0, whereas AS with CAC scores > or =1,000 had relative risk ratios 
6.6-fold higher than NHW (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Consistent with population evidence, AA with increasing burden of 
subclinical coronary artery disease were the highest-risk ethnic minority 
population. These data support a growing body of evidence noting substantial 
differences in cardiovascular risk by ethnicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2007.03.066
PMID: 17765122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Atherosclerosis. 2008 Feb;196(2):633-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2007.07.019. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Familial hypercholesterolaemia in Portugal.

Bourbon M(1), Alves AC, Medeiros AM, Silva S, Soutar AK; Investigators of 
Portuguese FH Study.

Author information:
(1)Unid. Investigação Cardiovascular, Inst. Nacional de Saúde, Lisbon, Portugal. 
mafalda.bourbon@insa.min-saude.pt

Familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) is characterised clinically by an increased 
level of circulating LDL cholesterol that leads to lipid accumulation in tendons 
and arteries, premature atherosclerosis and increased risk of coronary heart 
disease (CHD). Although Portugal should have about 20,000 cases, this disease is 
severely under-diagnosed in our country, this being the first presentation of 
Portuguese data on FH. A total of 602 blood samples were collected from 184 
index patients and 418 relatives from several centres throughout Portugal. 
Fifty-three different mutations were found in 83 index patients, 79 heterozygous 
and 4 with two defective LDLR alleles. Additionally, 4 putative alterations were 
found in 8 patients but were not considered mutations causing disease, mainly 
because they did not co-segregate with hypercholesterolaemia in the families. 
Three unrelated patients were found to be heterozygous for the APOB(3500) 
mutation and two unrelated patients were found to be heterozygous for a novel 
mutation in PCSK9, predicted to cause a single amino acid substitution, D374H. 
Cascade screening increased the number of FH patients identified genetically to 
204. The newly identified FH patients are now receiving counselling and 
treatment based on the genetic diagnosis. The early identification of FH 
patients can increase their life expectancy and quality of life by preventing 
the development of premature CHD if patients receive appropriate pharmacological 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2007.07.019
PMID: 17765246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Mech Ageing Dev. 2007 Oct;128(10):574-6. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2007.07.004.
Epub  2007 Jul 27.

CRP gene is involved in the regulation of human longevity: a follow-up study in 
Finnish nonagenarians.

Hurme M(1), Kivimäki M, Pertovaara M, Lehtimäki T, Karhunen PJ, Jylhä M, 
Hervonen A, Eklund C.

Author information:
(1)University of Tampere Medical School, Tampere, Finland. mikko.hurme@uta.fi

Chronic low-grade inflammation is involved in the pathogenesis of many disease 
conditions in humans and it is frequently quantified by measuring the blood 
concentration of C-reactive protein (CRP). Here we show that the CRP 
concentration in old people (nonagenarians) is, at least partially, genetically 
determined, and that the high producer genotype is associated with a shorter 
life expectancy during follow-up. Thus, the data imply that the CRP gene may be 
a longevity gene in humans.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2007.07.004
PMID: 17765290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Med Hypotheses. 2008;70(3):515-21. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2007.07.016. Epub
2007  Aug 31.

For others: epistasis and the evolutionary survival of an extreme tail of the 
quantitative distribution of autistic assets.

Ijichi S(1), Ijichi N, Ijichi Y, Kawamura Y, Hashiguchi T, Morioka H.

Author information:
(1)Health Service Center, Kagoshima University, 1-21-24 Korimoto, Kagoshima 
890-8580, Japan. jiminy@ms.kagoshima-u.ac.jp

The ongoing paradigm shift from the traditional qualitative dichotomy concept to 
the quantitative framework increases the necessity of an evolutionary 
implication and interpretation of the presence of a hypo-reproductive behavioral 
extreme (autism) with strong genetic contribution. As a theoretical challenge to 
explain the survival of the dimensional distribution of autistic traits, an 
epistasis-associated oscillation of fitness outcomes is proposed. In this 
hypothesis, an allele could contribute to the existence of both phenotypic 
extreme tails and the hypothesized genetic machinery (quantitative trait loci) 
for autism would necessarily be common in the entire human population. The 
postulated autism genes would allow autistics to enjoy autistic traits and 
assets and all of the residual non-autistic individuals could owe their social 
skills and reproductive advantages to the same autism genes. Importantly, the 
reported modest correlations between core autistic dimensions can be illustrated 
using unsynchronized epistatic pleiotropy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2007.07.016
PMID: 17765402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Oct;46(4):701-708; discussion 708. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2007.05.045. Epub 2007 Aug 31.

Prospective decision analysis for peripheral vascular disease predicts future 
quality of life.

Brothers TE(1), Robison JG, Elliott BM.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, SC 29425, USA. 
brothete@musc.edu

OBJECTIVE: Decision making for peripheral vascular disease can be quite complex 
as a result of pre-existing compromise of patient functional status, anatomic 
considerations, uncertainty of favorable outcome, medical comorbidities, and 
limitations in life expectancy. The ability of prospective decision-analysis 
models to predict individual quality of life in patients with lower extremity 
arterial occlusive disease was tested.
METHODS: This was a prospective cohort study. The settings were university and 
Veterans Administration vascular surgery practices. All 214 patients referred 
with symptomatic lower extremity arterial disease of any severity over a 2-year 
period were screened, and 206 were enrolled. A Markov model was compared with 
standard clinical decision-making. Utility assessment and generalized (Short 
Form-36; SF-36) and disease-specific (Walking Impairment Questionnaire; WIQ) 
quality of life were derived before treatment. Estimates of treatment outcome 
probabilities and intended and actual treatment plans were provided by attending 
vascular surgeons. The main outcome measures were generalized (SF-36) and 
disease-specific (WIQ) variables at study entry and at 4 and 12 months.
RESULTS: Primary intervention consisted of amputation for 9, bypass for 42, 
angioplasty for 8, and medical treatment for 147 patients. Considering all 
patients, no improvement in mean overall patient quality of life measured by the 
SF-36 Physical Component Score (27 +/- 8 vs 28 +/- 8; P = .87) or WIQ (39 +/- 22 
vs 39 +/- 23; P = .13) was noted 12 months after counseling and treatment by the 
vascular surgeons. Individually considered SF-36 categories were improved only 
for Bodily Pain (40 +/- 23 vs 49 +/- 25; P = .03), with the most significant 
improvement observed among patients with the most severe pain (68 +/- 25 vs 37 
+/- 23; P = .02) and among those undergoing bypass (60 +/- 29 vs 31 +/- 22; P = 
.02). It is noteworthy that when the treatment chosen was incongruent with the 
Markov model, patients were more likely to report a poorer quality of life at 1 
year (Physical Component Score, 25 +/- 8 vs 29 +/- 8; P < .001). The quality of 
life predicted at baseline by the Markov model correlated positively with the 
Physical Component Score (r = 0.23), Bodily Pain (r = 0.33), and Fatigue (r = 
0.44) and negatively with WIQ (r = -0.08) observed 1 year later.
CONCLUSIONS: Prospective application of an individualized decision Markov model 
in patients with vascular disease was predictive of patient quality of life at 1 
year. The patient's outcome was worse when the treatment received did not follow 
the model's recommendation. This decision analysis model may be useful to 
identify patients at risk for poor outcomes with standard clinical decision 
making.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.05.045
PMID: 17765449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Cyst Fibros. 2008 Jan;7(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2007.07.005. Epub 2007
Sep  4.

The risk of gastrointestinal malignancies in cystic fibrosis: case report of a 
patient with a near obstructing villous adenoma found on colon cancer screening 
and Barrett's esophagus.

Alexander CL(1), Urbanski SJ, Hilsden R, Rabin H, MacNaughton WK, Beck PL.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Research Group and Inflammation Research Network, Institute 
of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.

The life expectancy for cystic fibrosis (CF) patients has increased dramatically 
over the last 30 years. Although the overall cancer risk for CF patients does 
not appear to be increased there is a marked increased risk of gastrointestinal 
malignancies especially in the post lung transplant population. CF patients that 
do develop gastrointestinal malignancies do so at an earlier age and there is 
often a lag in the diagnosis and management of these individuals. We present a 
39 year old male CF patient that underwent a colonoscopy for colon cancer 
screening and a large, near obstructing, villous adenoma of his ileum was found. 
The polyp was removed successfully via endoscopy without incident and there was 
no evidence of malignancy. An upper endoscopy revealed a long segment of 
Barrett's esophagus with no evidence of dysplasia. We present this case as well 
as a detailed review of the literature on cancer risk in CF and a discussion of 
the mechanisms that may be involved. We also present the risk of GI malignancies 
in non-CF patients as a guide on how to assess and manage the risk of GI 
malignancies in this ever-changing patient population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2007.07.005
PMID: 17766191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Oncologist. 2007 Aug;12(8):952-9. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.12-8-952.

New criteria for selecting elderly patients for breast cancer adjuvant treatment 
studies.

Dellapasqua S(1), Colleoni M, Castiglione M, Goldhirsch A.

Author information:
(1)European Institute of Oncology, Via Ripamonti 435, 20141 Milan, Italy. 
silvia.dellapasqua@ieo.it

About 50% of breast cancers occur in women aged 65 years and older, and both the 
incidence and prevalence of breast cancer among older women are expected to 
increase in the future. Aging implies a reduction in life expectancy and 
tolerance to treatments that should be considered in elderly patients with early 
breast cancer. In fact, treatment options often carry short-term risks and 
toxicities that might be tempered by long-term survival gains. The choice of 
adjuvant treatment for elderly patients should be based on the same criteria 
that are currently used for younger patients: endocrine responsiveness and 
assessment of risk of relapse. Adjuvant endocrine therapy should be considered 
for women with endocrine-responsive disease, regardless of age. The value of 
adjuvant chemotherapy is controversial. Older women are frequently undertreated 
with adjuvant chemotherapy and are underrepresented in clinical trials. In 
particular, no convincing data are available on the role of adjuvant 
chemotherapy in endocrine nonresponsive tumors, partly because most of the time 
these tumors represent a relatively small subset in adjuvant studies focusing on 
the elderly population. Several phase III trials are currently ongoing in 
elderly patients with early breast cancer to evaluate different options of 
adjuvant treatments. Only one trial, coordinated by the International Breast 
Cancer Study Group, is investigating the role of adjuvant chemotherapy for 
postmenopausal women of advanced age with endocrine nonresponsive early breast 
cancer. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of 
this article.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.12-8-952
PMID: 17766654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Br J Psychiatry. 2007 Sep;191:238-45. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.106.035063.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of reduced tardive dyskinesia with 
second-generation antipsychotics.

Rosenheck RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale Department of Psychiatry, New Haven, CT, USA. Robert.Rosenheck@Yale.Edu

BACKGROUND: Second-generation antipsychotics may have few advantages over older, 
cheaper drugs, except for possibly reduced risk of tardive dyskinesia.
AIMS: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of second-generation antipsychotics 
with regard to reducing tardive dyskinesia.
METHOD: Literature was reviewed on risk of tardive dyskinesia with 
second-generation antipsychotics; on severity, duration and impairment of 
tardive dyskinesia; and on the relationship of this disorder to quality of life 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Diverse cost and benefit assumptions 
and of 1-year and 5-year planning horizons were examined in a deterministic 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Estimating 0.143 QALYs lost per case of severe tardive dyskinesia, 
1-year cost-effectiveness cumulative estimates ranged from pounds 74,000 
(dollars 149,000) to pounds 342,000 (dollars 683,000) per QALY, all above the 
conventional policy threshold of pounds 25,000 (dollars 50,000).
CONCLUSIONS: Reduction of tardive dyskinesia with second-generation 
antipsychotics appears unlikely to meet standards for cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.106.035063
PMID: 17766765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Clin Calcium. 2007 Sep;17(9):1349-54.

[Hormone replacement Up-to-date. Hormone replacement therapy and brain 
function].

[Article in Japanese]

Mori K(1), Takeda M.

Author information:
(1)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry, 
Japan.

Estrogen has its receptor in the brain and affects the nervous system in various 
ways. To date, it has been paid attention whether the cognitive function and the 
risk of depression change due to estrogen deficiency and also whether these 
changes respond to hormone replacement therapy (HRT). The increase in female 
life expectancy accelerates the prevalence of dementia like Alzheimer Disease, 
so the efficacy of HRT in the cognitive function got the public attention. On 
the contrary, a series of large-scale randomized controlled trials (Women's 
Health Initiative Memory Study: WHIMS) in aged 65 years or older women showed 
HRT increases the risk of dementia. However, certain studies indicate HRT may 
have beneficial effect on dementia when being started earlier. Therefore direct 
application of the result of WHIMS for the climacteric women is still 
controversial.

PMID: 17767023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Clin Calcium. 2007 Sep;17(9):1355-63.

[Hormone replacement Up-to-date. The effect of estrogen on vascular function and 
atherosclerosis].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayashi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Department of Geriatrics, 
Japan.

Not only life span but also life expectancy in all ages are longer in female 
than male. The incidence of ischemic coronary diseases are drastically increased 
after menopause and reached almost same severity with that of male after 75 
years old. An abundance of epidemiological data confirms this atheroprotective 
effect of estradiol. The antiatherosclerotic effects of estradiol were thought 
to be partly attributable to changes in plasma lipid levels (ie, the increase in 
HDL cholesterol and decrease in LDL cholesterol). However, the contribution of 
these changes to the total antiatherosclerotic effect of estrogen is only 50%, 
based on multiple regression analyses. Recently, estrogen receptors have been 
found in the vascular endothelium and smooth muscle cells, as well as in blood 
cells such as monocytes. Interest has focused on the role of nitric oxide (NO), 
because NO has antiatherosclerotic effects. Direct evidence was shown that NO 
mediates the antiatherosclerotic effect of estrogen. We have found that estrogen 
acts via an NO-mediated system in vivo and in vitro. However, adverse effects 
such as thrombosis were reported in estrogen/progesterone replacement therapy in 
mega clinical trials such as WHI study. We would like to explain and discuss 
these biphasic effects of estrogen on atherosclerotic diseases including their 
risk factors such as hyperlipidemia, diabetes mellitus and hypertension.

PMID: 17767024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Crit Care Resusc. 2007 Sep;9(3):248-50.

Is cardiac surgery now a geriatric specialty?

Nashef SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, UK. sam.nashef@papworth.nhs.uk

Like all medical specialties that deal with degenerative disease, cardiac 
surgery is increasingly being offered to older patients. This is driven by 
longer life expectancy, an increase in the prevalence of degenerative cardiac 
lesions, a substantial improvement in cardiac surgical results and competition 
from interventional cardiology in younger patient groups. Although there is no 
agreed definition of "geriatric", decision-making and the conduct of surgery and 
postoperative care in the elderly all require some modification of strategy to 
ensure the best results. Excellent outcomes can now be achieved (albeit at 
greater financial cost) in the older population, and these results hold well in 
the long term. Current trends suggest that both the provision and range of 
cardiac surgical services for the elderly may increase further. Despite this, 
there is still evidence of reluctance in considering older patients for cardiac 
surgery.

PMID: 17767450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Sep;11(34):1-206. doi: 10.3310/hta11340.

Surveillance of cirrhosis for hepatocellular carcinoma: systematic review and 
economic analysis.

Thompson Coon J(1), Rogers G, Hewson P, Wright D, Anderson R, Cramp M, Jackson 
S, Ryder S, Price A, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), Peninsula Medical School, 
Exeter, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and cost-utility 
of surveillance of patients with cirrhosis [alcoholic liver disease (ALD)-, 
hepatitis B (HBV)- and C virus (HCV)-related], using periodic serum 
alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) testing and/or liver ultrasound examination, to detect 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), followed by treatment with liver transplantation 
or resection, where appropriate.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched up to March 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review was carried out using standard 
methodological guidelines. A computerised decision-analytic model was then 
developed to compare various surveillance strategies.
RESULTS: No studies were identified that met the criteria of the systematic 
review. Based on the assumptions used in the model, the most effective 
surveillance strategy uses a combination of AFP testing and ultrasound at 
6-monthly intervals. Compared with no surveillance, this strategy is estimated 
to more than triple the number of people with operable HCC tumours at time of 
diagnosis, and almost halves the number of deaths from HCC. On all effectiveness 
measures and at both testing frequencies, AFP- and ultrasound-led surveillance 
strategies are very similar. This may be because test sensitivity was varied 
according to tumour size, which means that AFP testing is capable of identifying 
many more small tumours than ultrasound. The best available evidence suggests 
that AFP tests will detect approximately six times as many small tumours as 
ultrasound. Increasing the frequency of either test to 6-monthly intervals is 
more effective than performing combined testing on an annual basis. The 
undiscounted lifetime cost of the surveillance strategies, including all care 
and treatment costs, ranges from 40,300 pounds (annual AFP triage) to 42,900 
pounds (6-monthly AFP and ultrasound). The equivalent discounted costs are 
28,400 pounds and 30,400 pounds. Only a small proportion of these total costs 
results from the cost of the screening tests. However, screening test costs, and 
the cost of liver transplants and caring for people post-transplant, accounted 
for most of the incremental cost differences between alternative surveillance 
strategies. The results suggest that different surveillance strategies may 
provide the best value for money in patient groups of different cirrhosis 
aetiologies. The surveillance of people with HBV-related cirrhosis for HCC 
provides the best value for money, while surveillance in people with ALD-related 
cirrhosis provides the poorest value for money. In people with HBV-related 
cirrhosis, at an assumed maximum willingness to pay (WTP) for a quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) of 30,000 pounds, both the deterministic and probabilistic 
cost-utility analyses suggest the optimal surveillance strategy would be 
6-monthly surveillance with the combination of AFP testing and ultrasound. In 
contrast, for those with ALD-related cirrhosis, annual screening with AFP as a 
triage test is the only surveillance strategy that is likely to be considered 
cost-effective at this WTP. The probabilistic analysis implies that the 
estimated benefits of a 6-monthly AFP triage strategy will only be worth the 
cost in those with ALD when society's WTP for a QALY exceeds around 40,000 
pounds. For people with HCV-related cirrhosis, the model suggests that the most 
cost-effective surveillance strategy at a WTP threshold of 30,000 pounds/QALY 
would be surveillance with a 6-monthly AFP triage strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: In a mixed-aetiology cohort, the most effective surveillance 
strategy is to screen each patient with AFP assay and ultrasound imaging on a 
6-monthly basis. However, when costs are taken into account it is doubtful 
whether ultrasound should be routinely offered to those with blood AFP of less 
than 20 ng/ml, unless policy-makers are prepared to pay over 60,000 pounds per 
QALY for the benefits achieved. Furthermore, the cost-effectiveness of 
surveillance for HCC varies considerably depending on the aetiology of 
cirrhosis; it is much more likely to be cost-effective in those with HBV-related 
cirrhosis, and much less likely to be cost-effective in those with ALD-related 
cirrhosis. Further development of the model would help to enable refinement of 
an optimal screening strategy. Research into the use of contrast-enhanced 
ultrasound technology for HCC detection would also be valuable, as would 
research into the epidemiology and natural history of ALD-related cirrhosis. 
Studies are also needed to investigate the influence of cirrhosis aetiology on 
tumour AFP expression.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11340
PMID: 17767898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Cell Metab. 2007 Sep;6(3):153-4. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.08.007.

Aging: all in the head?

Bartke A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Internal Medicine and Physiology, Southern Illinois University 
School of Medicine, Springfield, IL 62794-9628, USA. abartke@siumed.edu

Global reduction in insulin signaling has been linked to extended life span in a 
range of organisms. New work on mice with brain-specific or whole-body 
reductions in insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS2) (Taguchi et al., 2007) points 
to a role for insulin/IGF-1 signaling in the central control of mammalian aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.08.007
PMID: 17767900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Nov;32(5):702-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2007.07.027. Epub 2007 Sep 4.

A health economic evaluation of concomitant surgical ablation for atrial 
fibrillation.

Lamotte M(1), Annemans L, Bridgewater B, Kendall S, Siebert M.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Brussels, Belgium. 
MLamotte@be.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVE: Current drug treatment for atrial fibrillation is suboptimal and 
percutaneous catheter-based ablation techniques may be associated with 
complications. The aim of this study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of (1) 
high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU)-assisted surgical ablation, (2) the 
classic 'cut and sew' maze procedure and (3) percutaneous ablation, all 
concomitant to cardiac surgery (e.g. CABG, valve repair) in comparison with 
non-interventional (drug) treatment.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to predict the cost-effectiveness of the 
interventional approaches. The model consisted of four disease states (sinus 
rhythm without complications, atrial fibrillation without complications, stroke 
and death), allowing for 3-monthly transitions between these states and using 
direct UK costs from the National Health Service perspective. Clinical input 
data are obtained from literature and cost input data from National Health 
Service sources and literature. Five-year total and incremental costs are 
calculated. Incremental effects are expressed in 
quality-adjusted-life-years-gained (QALYG).
RESULTS: All interventional treatments show good incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios in all atrial fibrillation types, compared to drug treatment. For classic 
maze the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio compared to non-interventional 
atrial fibrillation treatment varies from 1343 to 3471 GBP/QALYG, for 
HIFU-assisted surgical ablation from 4005 to 7448 GBP/QALYG and for percutaneous 
ablation from 7041 to 17,372 GBP/QALYG depending on the atrial fibrillation 
type. Sensitivity analyses showed the robustness of the data.
CONCLUSIONS: Performing a classic maze procedure or HIFU-assisted surgical 
ablation concomitant to a scheduled CABG or valve procedure is highly 
cost-effective. Performing a percutaneous ablation in a subsequent procedure is 
also cost-effective, but to a lower extent. Both the maze procedure and the 
HIFU-assisted surgical ablation are cheaper and more effective than percutaneous 
ablation in a subsequent procedure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2007.07.027
PMID: 17768060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Pediatrics. 2007 Oct;120(4):e1107-16. doi: 10.1542/peds.2006-2002. Epub 2007
Sep  3.

Preventing stroke among children with sickle cell anemia: an analysis of 
strategies that involve transcranial Doppler testing and chronic transfusion.

Mazumdar M(1), Heeney MM, Sox CM, Lieu TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital Boston, 300 Longwood Ave, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. maitreyi.mazumdar@childrens.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography can identify children with 
sickle cell anemia who are at elevated risk of stroke and may benefit from 
chronic transfusions. Uncertainty about the risk/benefit trade-offs of chronic 
transfusion has led some clinicians to decide not to offer transcranial Doppler 
ultrasonography screening.
OBJECTIVES: Our goals were to (1) compare the projected benefits and risks of 6 
primary stroke-prevention strategies, (2) estimate the optimal frequency of 
screening, and (3) identify key assumptions that influence the risk/benefit 
relationship.
METHODS: We designed a decision model to compare 6 primary stroke-prevention 
strategies: (1) annual transcranial Doppler ultrasonography screening until age 
16 with children at high risk of stroke receiving monthly transfusion for life; 
(2) annual transcranial Doppler ultrasonography until age 16 with transfusions 
until age 18; (3) biannual transcranial Doppler ultrasonography until age 16 
with transfusions until age 18; (4) annual transcranial Doppler ultrasonography 
until age 10 with transfusion until age 18; (5) 1-time screening at age 2 with 
transfusion until age 18; and (6) no intervention. Assumptions were derived from 
the published literature.
RESULTS: For a hypothetical cohort of 2-year-old children, the optimal strategy 
was transcranial Doppler ultrasonography screening annually until age 10 with 
children at high risk receiving monthly transfusions until age 18. The optimal 
strategy would prevent 32% of strokes predicted to occur without intervention. 
The optimal strategy led to benefits similar to more intensive screening and 
transfusion strategies but resulted in fewer adverse events. All the 
intervention strategies resulted in net losses in life expectancy, because the 
projected mortality averted by stroke prevention was outweighed by the projected 
increase in mortality from transfusion. Results were sensitive to adherence 
rates to iron-chelation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimal stroke-prevention strategy was projected to be annual 
transcranial Doppler ultrasonography screening until age 10 with transfusion for 
children at high risk until age 18. Better adherence to chelation therapy would 
improve life expectancy in all intervention strategies.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2006-2002
PMID: 17768181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Bull World Health Organ. 2007 Aug;85(8):607-14. doi: 10.2471/blt.06.038802.

Mortality in the Islamic Republic of Iran, 1964-2004.

Khosravi A(1), Taylor R, Naghavi M, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Reliable information on the pattern, level and trend of mortality is 
essential for evidence-based policy to improve health. Various sources of 
mortality data in the Islamic Republic of Iran have not been critically 
assessed. This paper aims to document and evaluate the completeness of the 
different data sources on mortality and to estimate the level and trends of 
mortality over the past 40 years according to various mortality indices such as 
child mortality, adult mortality and life expectancy.
METHODS: We undertook a systematic review of all available studies on infant 
mortality from 1964 to 2004 and estimated the most probable trend in child 
mortality. Death registration data from between 1992 and 2004 were assessed for 
completeness to estimate the level of adult mortality. Life tables for 2004 were 
constructed for the Islamic Republic of Iran based on these data, corrected for 
under-registration of death.
FINDINGS: Infant mortality decreased from an estimated 154 deaths per 1000 live 
births in 1964 to 26 in 2004. The risk of adult mortality in 2004 was estimated 
to be 0.124 and 0.175 for females and males respectively. According to adjusted 
death registration data, life expectancy at birth in 2004 was 71.2 for females 
and 68.7 for males. The average completeness of death registration for ages 5 
years and older across all systems was 76% for the period 2001-2004.
CONCLUSION: There has been a general decline in child mortality in the Islamic 
Republic of Iran over the past three decades. Adult mortality levels also have 
declined, but less substantially. Mortality information systems have improved, 
yet serious concerns remain regarding the completeness and quality of data.

OBJECTIF: Des informations fiables sur les caractéristiques, le niveau et les 
tendances de la mortalité sont essentielles à une politique d’amélioration de la 
santé reposant sur des bases factuelles. On n’a pas évalué d’une manière 
critique les diverses sources de données sur la mortalité en République 
Islamique d’Iran. Nous souhaitons dans cet article documenter et évaluer 
l’exhaustivité des différentes sources de données sur la mortalité et estimer le 
niveau et les tendances de cette dernière au cours des 40 dernières années, 
grâce à plusieurs indices tels que la mortalité de l’enfant, la mortalité de 
l’adulte et l’espérance de vie.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons procédé à une revue systématique des études disponibles sur 
la mortalité infantile de 1964 à 2004 et estimé la tendance la plus probable de 
la mortalité de l’enfant. Nous avons évalué le degré d’exhaustivité des données 
provenant de l’enregistrement des décès entre 1992 et 2004 pour estimer le 
niveau de la mortalité adulte. Nous avons établi les tables de survie pour la 
République islamique d’Iran pour 2004 sur la base de ces données, en les 
corrigeant pour tenir compte du sous-enregistrement des décès.
RÉSULTATS: La mortalité infantile a diminué, passant de 154 décès pour 1000 
naissances vivantes en 1964 à 26 en 2004 selon les estimations. Le risque de 
mortalité adulte en 2004 a été estimé à 0,124 pour les femmes et 0,175 pour les 
hommes. Selon les données ajustées provenant de l’enregistrement des décès, 
l’espérance de vie à la naissance en 2004 était de 71,2 ans pour les femmes et 
de 68,7 ans pour les hommes. Le degré d’exhaustivité de l’enregistrement des 
décès pour les personnes âgées de 5 ans et plus a été de 76% pour la période 
2001 - 2004 pour l’ensemble des systèmes d’enregistrement.
CONCLUSION: Il y a eu au cours des trois dernières décennies une baisse générale 
de la mortalité de l’enfant en République islamique d’Iran. La mortalité adulte 
a elle aussi diminué, mais moins fortement. Les systèmes d’information sur la 
mortalité se sont améliorés, mais il subsiste de sérieux problèmes quant à 
l’exhaustivité et à la qualité des données.

OBJETIVO: La disponibilidad de información fidedigna sobre las pautas, niveles y 
tendencias de la mortalidad es fundamental para poder formular políticas de 
mejora de la salud basadas en la evidencia. Algunas de las fuentes de datos 
sobre la mortalidad en la República Islámica del Irán no han sido objeto de una 
evaluación crítica. Este artículo tiene por objeto documentar y evaluar la 
completud de las diferentes fuentes de datos sobre la mortalidad y estimar el 
nivel y las tendencias de la mortalidad durante los últimos 40 años a partir de 
diversos índices, como la mortalidad en la niñez, la mortalidad de adultos y la 
esperanza de vida.
MÉTODOS: Emprendimos una revisión sistemática de todos los estudios disponibles 
sobre la mortalidad infantil entre 1964 y 2004 y estimamos la tendencia más 
probable de la mortalidad en la niñez. Los datos de los registros de defunción 
correspondientes al periodo 1992-2004 fueron evaluados para determinar su 
completud a fin de estimar la mortalidad de adultos. A partir de esos datos se 
confeccionaron las tablas de vida de 2004 para la República Islámica del Irán, 
corrigiendo los valores en función del subregistro de las defunciones.
RESULTADOS: La mortalidad infantil disminuyó de las 154 defunciones por 1000 
nacidos vivos estimadas en 1964 a 26 en 2004. El riesgo de mortalidad de adultos 
en 2004 fue de 0,124 para las mujeres y 0,175 para los hombres. Según los datos 
ajustados de los registros de defunción, la esperanza de vida al nacer en 2004 
fue de 71,2 años para las mujeres y 68,7 para los hombres. El grado medio de 
completud de los registros de defunción para las personas de 5 y más años en 
todos los sistemas fue del 76% durante el periodo 2001-2004.
CONCLUSIÓN: Durante los tres últimos decenios se ha registrado una disminución 
general de la mortalidad en la niñez en la República Islámica del Irán. La 
mortalidad de adultos también ha descendido, pero de forma menos marcada. Los 
sistemas de información sobre la mortalidad han mejorado, pero el tema de la 
completud y calidad de los datos sigue suscitando gran preocupación.

الغرض: تعتبر المعلومات التي يُعول عليەا حول نمط ومستوى واتجاە معدل الوفيات 
عنصراً أساسياً في السياسات المسندة بالبيانات والرامية إلى تحسين الوضع الصحي. ولم 
يسبق تقييم عدد من المصادر المختلفة للمعطيات المتعلقة بمعدل الوفيات في جمەورية 
إيران الإسلامية تقييماً نقدياً. وتستەدف ەذە الورقة توثيق وتقييم مدى اكتمال مختلف 
مصادر المعطيات المتعلقة بمعدل الوفيات، وتقدير مستوى واتجاەات معدل الوفيات خلال 
الأربعين سنة الماضية وفقاً لمجموعة مختلفة من مؤشرات الوفيات، مثل معدل وفيات 
الأطفال، ومعدل وفيات البالغين، ومأمول الحياة.
الطريقة: قمنا في ەذە الدراسة بمراجعة منەجية لجميع الدراسات المتاحة حول وفيات 
الرضَّع من عام 1964 إلى عام 2004، وقمنا بتقدير الاتجاە الأكثر احتمالاً لمعدل 
وفيات الأطفال. وتم تقييم مدى اكتمال معطيات تسجيل الوفيات من عام 1992 إلى عام 
2004، من أجل تقدير مستوى وفيات البالغين. وتم إعداد جداول مجريات الحياة لعام 2004 
لجمەورية إيران الإسلامية بناءً على ەذە المعطيات مع تصحيحەا لتدارك النقص في 
التسجيل.
الموجودات: لوحظ انخفاض معدل وفيات الرضع من 154 وفاة لكل 1000 مولود حي في عام 
1964 إلى 26 في عام 2004. أما المخاطر المقدَّرة لتعرض البالغين للوفاة في عام 2004 
فبلغت 0.124 للإناث و 0.175 للذكور. ووفقاً لمعطيات تسجيل الوفيات المصححة، بلغ 
مأمول الحياة عند الولادة 71.2 للإناث و 68.7 للذكور في عام 2004. وبلغ متوسط 
اكتمال تسجيل الوفيات لمن ەم في سن 5 أعوام فأكثر، في جميع نظم التسجيل، 76% للفترة 
2001 – 2004.
الاستنتاج: حدث انخفاض عام في معدل وفيات الأطفال في جمەورية إيران الإسلامية خلال 
العقود الثلاثة الأخيرة. كما انخفضت مستويات وفيات البالغين، ولكن بنسبة أقل. 
وتحسنت نظم المعلومات الخاصة بمعدل الوفيات، ولكن لايزال ەناك قلق شديد بشأن اكتمال 
جودة المعطيات.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.06.038802
PMCID: PMC2636375
PMID: 17768519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Science. 1977 Oct 21;198(4314):291-3. doi: 10.1126/science.198.4314.291.

Paleodemography of the libben site, Ottawa county, ohio.

Lovejoy CO, Meindl RS, Pryzbeck TR, Barton TS, Heiple KG, Kotting D.

The Libben site, a Late Woodland ossuary and occupation site from the Great 
Black Swamp of northern Ohio has yielded a well-preserved skeletal sample of 
1327 articulated individuals. The outstanding preservation and completeness of 
the site and the utilization of an exhaustive aging methodology make this the 
largest and most comprehensively censused North American prehistoric cemetery. 
Survivorship data indicate a robust, successful population. Life expectancy at 
birth was 20 years. Among adults, male mortality was consistently higher than 
female, a condition possibly related to high interpersonal and intergroup 
aggression. Infant mortality was generally low, and a general hypothesis 
concerning the elevation of infant mortality and the simultaneous depression of 
adult mortality among aboriginal peoples after European contact is suggested.

DOI: 10.1126/science.198.4314.291
PMID: 17770502


161. Science. 1990 Apr 20;248(4953):356-8. doi: 10.1126/science.248.4953.356.

Developmental arrest during larval life and life-span extension in a marine 
mollusc.

Miller SE, Hadfield MG.

The length of larval life in the nudibranch Phestilia sibogae is determined by a 
chance encounter with a specific metamorphic stimulus associated with the 
post-larval benthic habitat. A developmental hiatus begins at the onset of 
larval metamorphic competence and ends at metamorphosis; aging is suspended 
during this hiatus. Because the duration of post-larval life is unaffected by 
the duration of larval life, total life-span varies with the length of the 
larval period. Developmental control of the timing of expression of life-history 
stages is an important factor regulating aging and senescence in animals with 
complex life cycles.

DOI: 10.1126/science.248.4953.356
PMID: 17784491


162. Med Trop (Mars). 2007 Jun;67(3):263-6.

[Lumbar spinal stenosis in an outpatient clinic in Lome, Togo].

[Article in French]

Oniankitan O(1), Magnan A, Fianyo E, Mijiyawa M.

Author information:
(1)Service de rhumatologie CHU, Tokoin de Lomé, Togo.

The purpose of this study was to determine the frequency and semiological 
characteristics of lumbar spinal stenosis in patients attending the rheumatology 
outpatient clinic at the Lomé Teaching Hospital. Medical records of 13081 
patients seen over a 15-year period were retrospectively reviewed. A total of 
760 (5.8%) had lumbar spinal stenosis. There were 556 women (73.2%) and 204 men 
(26.8%) with a mean age at onset of 52 years (range, 25 to 65 years). The mean 
duration of lumbar spinal stenosis was 4.5 years. The main symptom was nerve 
root pain in 712 (93.7%) involving one root in 248 cases and more than one root 
in 464. Most patients in this group were between the ages of 35 and 65 years. 
Pain was relieved by bending the spine forward in 456 patients (60%) and 
claudication was present in 643 patients (84.6%). Walking distance was less than 
500 meters in 491 patients and more than 500 meters in 152. Pain was exacerbated 
by extension of the spine in 475 patients (62.5%) and associated with 
paresthesia in 532 patients (70%) and sphincter dysfunction in 155 patients 
(20.4%). Roentgenography of the lumbar spine was performed in 504 patients and 
showed abnormalities in 475. The most common radiographic abnormality was 
degenerative disk disease (n = 251). Myelography was performed in 56 patients, 
showing a rosary-like image in 31 cases and disk herniation in 23. Lumbar spinal 
stenosis in Black Africa appears to be more common than in industrialized 
countries and to affect mainly women in the fifth decade of life. The 
semiological profile of lumbar spinal stenosis appeared to be similar in Black 
Africa and industrialized countries.

PMID: 17784679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. J Telemed Telecare. 2007;13(6):318-21. doi: 10.1258/135763307781644843.

The cost-utility of a care coordination/home telehealth programme for veterans 
with diabetes.

Barnett TE(1), Chumbler NR, Vogel WB, Beyth RJ, Ryan P, Figueroa S.

Author information:
(1)VA HSR&D/RR&D Rehabilitation Outcomes Research Center, North Florida/South 
Georgia Veterans Health System, and Department of Health Research, Management 
and Policy, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida 32608, USA. 
Tracey.Barnett@va.gov

We examined the cost-effectiveness of a care coordination/home telehealth (CCHT) 
programme for veterans with diabetes. We conducted a retrospective, pre-post 
study which compared data for a cohort of veterans (n=370) before and after the 
introduction of the CCHT programme for two periods of 12 months. To assess the 
cost-effectiveness, we converted the patients' health-related quality of life 
data into Quality Adjusted Life Year (QALY) utility scores and used costs to 
construct incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). The overall mean ICER 
for the programme at one-year was $60,941, a value within the commonly-cited 
range of cost-effectiveness of $50,000-100,000. The programme was cost-effective 
for one-third of the participants. Characteristics that contributed to 
cost-effectiveness were marital status, location and clinically relevant 
co-morbidities. By targeting the intervention differently in future work, it may 
become cost-effective for a greater proportion of patients.

DOI: 10.1258/135763307781644843
PMID: 17785029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Genes Dev. 2007 Sep 1;21(17):2234-47. doi: 10.1101/gad.430107.

Deficient mismatch repair improves organismal fitness and survival of mice with 
dysfunctional telomeres.

Siegl-Cachedenier I(1), Muñoz P, Flores JM, Klatt P, Blasco MA.

Author information:
(1)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National 
Cancer Centre (CNIO), Madrid 28029, Spain.

Mismatch repair (MMR) has important roles in meiotic and mitotic recombination, 
DNA damage signaling, and various aspects of DNA metabolism including 
class-switch recombination, somatic hypermutation, and triplet-repeat expansion. 
Defects in MMR are responsible for human cancers characterized by microsatellite 
instability. Intriguingly, MMR deficiency has been shown to rescue survival and 
proliferation of telomerase-deficient yeast strains. A putative role for MMR at 
mammalian telomeres that could have an impact on cancer and aging is, however, 
unknown. Here, we studied the role of MMR in response to dysfunctional telomeres 
by generating mice doubly deficient for telomerase and the PMS2 MMR gene 
(Terc-/-/PMS2-/- mice). PMS2 deficiency prolonged the mean lifespan and median 
survival of telomerase-deficient mice concomitant with rescue of degenerative 
pathologies. This rescue of survival was independent of changes in telomere 
length, in sister telomere recombination, and in microsatellite instability. 
Importantly, PMS2 deficiency rescued cell proliferation defects but not 
apoptotic defects in vivo, concomitant with a decreased p21 induction in 
response to short telomeres. The proliferative advantage conferred to 
telomerase-deficient cells by the ablation of PMS2 did not produce increased 
tumors. Indeed, Terc-/-/PMS2-/- mice showed reduced tumors compared with PMS2-/- 
mice, in agreement with a tumor suppressor role for short telomeres in the 
context of MMR deficiencies. These results highlight an unprecedented role for 
MMR in mediating the cellular response to dysfunctional telomeres in vivo by 
attenuating p21 induction.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.430107
PMCID: PMC1950861
PMID: 17785530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Indian J Med Sci. 2007 Sep;61(9):511-6.

Alcohol expectancy responses from first year medical students: are they prone to 
alcoholism?

Ganaraja B(1), Kotian MS, Bhat RM, Ramaswamy C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Kastubra Medical College, Centre for Basic 
Sciences, Bejai, Mangalore, India. grajb@yahoo.co.in

CONTEXT: Modern life style and affluence lead to changes in people's outlook on 
various habits, including alcohol intake. Some of them will fall prey to the 
addictive nature of the drink.
AIMS: Present study was done to evaluate the responses to comprehensive alcohol 
expectancy questionnaire (comprehensive effects of alcohol--CEOA) in order to 
test the tendency towards alcohol intake among the First Year Medical (MBBS) 
students of our college--that is, to assess the positive or negative 
reinforcement they would expect if they consumed alcohol.
SETTINGS AND DESIGN: The study was done by giving a set of questionnaires to be 
answered by the students.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Questionnaires of CEOA had 38 responses, in which both 
negative and positive feelings were represented. All questions were again 
grouped into four groups of positive and three groups of negative responses. 
Each question was rated to what degree they agreed, by 4-point Likert-type scale 
(1 = disagree, 2 = slightly disagree, 3 = slightly agree, 4 = agree). The 
positive and negative responses were analyzed to group them into agreeing or 
disagreeing type.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS USED: Analysis of responses by Student 't' test and 2-way 
ANOVA was done to analyze the results. 'P' RESULTS: Results showed that negative 
expectancies outweighed positives significantly (2.8017 +/- 0.58554 vs. 2.3055 
+/- 0.67604, t = 7.526; P< 0.001.). Females rated the negatives more firmly (P< 
0.001). However, there was no statistically significant difference with respect 
to different religious beliefs, places of origin or incomes of the respondents. 
An experience of alcohol had a significant effect on the responses where they 
had stronger positive expectancy, which is an important point revealed in this 
study.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we have observed a general acceptance that alcohol 
could provide positive reinforcement, especially among those who have had a 
prior experience of intake of alcohol. Thus, this study throws light on whether 
there is likelihood of youngsters falling into addiction in the later part of 
their life; hence it can act as a useful predictor for parents, health 
professionals, social counselors and the society as a whole so that they can 
take preventive measures against alcohol addiction.

PMID: 17785887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Prog Cardiovasc Nurs. 2007 Summer;22(3):159-65. doi: 
10.1111/j.0889-7204.2007.05743.x.

Taking the pressure off type 2 diabetes mellitus: implementing hypertension 
guidelines.

Grubbs RS(1), Sica DA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Virginia Commonwealth University Health System, 
Richmond, VA, USA. grubbsr@vcu.edu

Successful treatment of hypertension in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
increases life expectancy and reduces the risk of many of the complications 
associated with diabetes, such as heart disease, stroke, and retinopathy. 
Controlling blood pressure also protects against advancing renal disease, with 
several recent studies having clearly shown the advantage of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers in 
slowing the progression of renal disease. Here, the authors review current 
guidelines for the management of hypertension in patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus and explore ways in which nurse practitioners can improve care for 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.0889-7204.2007.05743.x
PMID: 17786092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Oncol Rep. 2007 Oct;18(4):793-800.

Prognostic value of differential expression of Laminin-5 gamma2 in oral squamous 
cell carcinomas: correlation with survival.

Gasparoni A(1), Della Casa M, Milillo L, Lorenzini G, Rubini C, Urso R, Lo Muzio 
L.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Farmacologia G. Segre - Sezione di Anatomia, Università degli 
Studi di Siena, 53100 Siena, Italy. albertogasparoni@yahoo.com

In oral squamous cell carcinomas of the head and neck, Laminin-5 gamma2 has been 
associated with tissue invasion, lymph node metastasis and histopathological 
grading. In the present study, we compared the expression of the subunit gamma2 
of Laminin-5 under normal, dysplastic and invading epithelia in 65 biopsies 
previously diagnosed for oral squamous cell carcinoma. The number of 
gamma2-positive cells were analyzed in relation to patients' survival, tumor 
grading, size of the lesion, TNM stage, histopathological pattern of invasion 
and inflammatory reaction. Biopsies of oral squamous cell carcinomas were 
deparaffinised, processed for antigen unmasking procedures and stained with 
antibody anti-Laminin-5 gamma2. By light microscopy, 4 optical fields of x200 
were selected in three different areas including normal, dysplastic and invading 
epithelia. Positive cells were counted and divided into three categories, which 
included <20 cells, between 21 and 50 cells and >50 stained cells. Patient 
survival was analyzed by Kaplan-Mayer curves. gamma2-positive cells were found 
in the basal layer of dysplastic epithelium, within inflammatory infiltrate, at 
the margins of differentiated invading islands and at the forefront of 
undifferentiated invading nests. Observations showed that an increased number of 
gamma2-positive cells correlated significantly with a shorter life expectancy 
under invading epithelia (log-rank test p<0.05), not when a count was performed 
