
DOI: 10.1016/j.medmal.2007.05.003
PMID: 17628372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Urologe A. 2007 Aug;46(8):897-903. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1518-z.

[Therapy indications and options for skeletal metastases].

[Article in German]

Schultheiss M(1), von Baer A, Gebhard F, Kinzl L, Arand M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Unfallchirurgie, Hand-, Plastische- und 
Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Zentrum für Chirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Ulm, 
89075, Ulm. markus.schultheiss@uniklinik-ulm.de

Pathological fractures are dreaded complications due to skeletal metastasis. 
Modern oncological therapies and more sophisticated new radiological techniques 
such as MRI and positron emission tomography have improved multimodal treatment 
concepts. Surgical intervention is determined by the primary disease, general 
condition and life expectancy of the patient. The goals of surgical treatment 
are improvement of life quality, pain relief and maintenance of mobility.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1518-z
PMID: 17628767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Urol J. 2005 Spring;2(2):93-6.

Kidney transplantation in older adults: does age affect graft survival?

Ahmadnia H(1), Shamsa A, Yarmohammadi A, Darabi M, Asl Zare M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Ghaem Hospital, Mashhad University of Medical 
Sciences, Mashhad, Iran. ahmadnia2001@yahoo.com.

INTRODUCTION: There is a paucity of data on long-term patient and graft survival 
in the older kidney recipients. Our aim was to evaluate the long-term outcomes 
of kidney transplantation in patients aged 50 years and older and compare them 
with outcomes in younger recipients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-seven recipients aged 50 years and older and 47 
recipients aged younger than 50 years were randomly assigned to two groups 
(groups 1 and 2, respectively). Patients who had received a cadaveric kidney 
allograft were excluded from the study. Data including demographic and clinical 
characteristics, early complications, early mortality, and actuarial patient and 
graft survival rates were collected, and the two groups were compared, 
accordingly.
RESULTS: The rates of early complications and mortality were not different 
between the two groups. Patient survival rates at 1, 3, 5, and 7 years were 72%, 
58%, 41%, and 41% for patients in group 1 and 95%, 86%, 86%, and 86% for 
patients in group 2, respectively (P = 0.007). Graft survival rates were 72%, 
58%, 41%, and 41% for patients in group 1 and 95%, 85%, 85%, and 85% for 
patients in group 2, respectively (P = 0.006). Graft loss due to patient death 
was 33.33% in group 1 compared with 4.25% in group 2 (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Kidney transplantation should be considered in patients older than 
50 years, since the graft survival rate is acceptable in this population, and 
early mortality and complications in this group are not different than those of 
younger recipients. Although older patients have a shorter life expectancy, they 
benefit from renal transplantation in ways similar to younger kidney transplant 
recipients.

PMID: 17629878


896. J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Jul 13;2:33. doi: 10.1186/1749-8090-2-33.

Aortic valve replacement in octogenarians.

Bose AK(1), Aitchison JD, Dark JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The Freeman Hospital, High Heaton, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, NE7 7DN, UK. amal@doctors.net.uk

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: As our population ages and life expectancy increases the 
number of people aged over 80 and more referred for cardiac surgery is growing. 
This study sought to identify the outcome of aortic valve replacement (AVR) in 
octogenarians.
METHODS: 68 patients aged 80 years or more underwent AVR at the Freeman 
Hospital, between April 2001 and April 2004. A retrospective review of the notes 
and outcomes from the patients' GP and the NHS strategic tracking service was 
performed. 54% (37) underwent isolated AVR whilst 46% (31) underwent combined 
AVR and CABG.
RESULTS: Follow up was 100% complete. The mean age was 83.1 +/- s.d. 2.9 years, 
a mean gradient of 83 +/- s.d. 31 mmHg and mean AVA of 0.56 cm2. The mean 
additive EuroSCORE was 8.6 +/- s.d. 1.2, the logistic EuroSCORE mean 12.0 +/- 
s.d. 5.9. In hospital 30 day mortality was 13 %. Survival was 80% at 1 year and 
78% at 2 years. Median follow up was for 712 days. Stepwise logistic regression 
identified chronic obstructive airways disease as an independent predictor of 
mortality (p < 0.05). Survival was not adversely affected by the addition of 
coronary artery bypass grafts to aortic valve replacement, the presence of 
peripheral vascular disease, hypertension or diabetes. In this study duration of 
cross clamp or bypass time were not found to reach significance as independent 
predictors of mortality.
CONCLUSION: Our study demonstrates that the operative mortality for AVR in the 
over eighties is good, whilst the mid to long term outcome is excellent There is 
a very low attrition rate with those undergoing the procedure living as long 
than their age matched population. This study confirms AVR is a safe, acceptable 
treatment for octogenarians with excellent mid term outcomes.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-8090-2-33
PMCID: PMC1947977
PMID: 17629905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 Jul-Aug;26(4):1040-51. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.26.4.1040.

Adult health in the Russian Federation: more than just a health problem.

Marquez P(1), Suhrcke M, McKee M, Rocco L.

Author information:
(1)World Bank. Washington, DC, USA. pmarquez@worldbank.org

In this paper we discuss the Russian adult health crisis and its implications. 
Although some hope that economic growth will trigger improvements in health, we 
argue that a scenario is more likely in which the unfavorable health status 
would become a barrier to economic growth. We also show that ill health is 
negatively affecting the economic well-being of individuals and households. We 
provide suggestions on interventions to improve health conditions in the Russian 
Federation, and we show that if health improvements are achieved, this will 
result in substantial economic gains in the future.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.26.4.1040
PMID: 17630447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 Jul-Aug;26(4):1197-8. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.26.4.1197-a.

DALYs and QALYs in developing countries.

Zarate V.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 Jan-Feb;26(1):13-24.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.26.4.1197-a
PMID: 17630466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. PLoS Comput Biol. 2007 Jul;3(7):e139. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.0030139.

A first-principles model of early evolution: emergence of gene families, 
species, and preferred protein folds.

Zeldovich KB(1), Chen P, Shakhnovich BE, Shakhnovich EI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, USA.

In this work we develop a microscopic physical model of early evolution where 
phenotype--organism life expectancy--is directly related to genotype--the 
stability of its proteins in their native conformations-which can be determined 
exactly in the model. Simulating the model on a computer, we consistently 
observe the "Big Bang" scenario whereby exponential population growth ensues as 
soon as favorable sequence-structure combinations (precursors of stable 
proteins) are discovered. Upon that, random diversity of the structural space 
abruptly collapses into a small set of preferred proteins. We observe that 
protein folds remain stable and abundant in the population at timescales much 
greater than mutation or organism lifetime, and the distribution of the 
lifetimes of dominant folds in a population approximately follows a power law. 
The separation of evolutionary timescales between discovery of new folds and 
generation of new sequences gives rise to emergence of protein families and 
superfamilies whose sizes are power-law distributed, closely matching the same 
distributions for real proteins. On the population level we observe emergence of 
species--subpopulations that carry similar genomes. Further, we present a simple 
theory that relates stability of evolving proteins to the sizes of emerging 
genomes. Together, these results provide a microscopic first-principles picture 
of how first-gene families developed in the course of early evolution.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.0030139
PMCID: PMC1914367
PMID: 17630830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests. The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


900. Curr Drug Targets. 2007 Jul;8(7):786-93. doi: 10.2174/138945007781077418.

The large and growing burden of stroke.

Paul SL(1), Srikanth VK, Thrift AG.

Author information:
(1)National Stroke Research Institute, Austin Health-Repatriation Campus, 
Heidelberg Heights, Victoria, Australia.

Stroke is a disease with impacts ranging from death and disability, to reduced 
health-related quality of life and depression. To truly understand the burden of 
this disease we must investigate not only the mortality and prevalence of 
stroke, but also its incidence within populations. Stroke mortality and 
incidence declined rapidly during the 1980s and early 1990s; however, this trend 
appears to have slowed in more recent times. Despite many studies being 
conducted in Europe, and Australasia, there is a lack of reliable data from 
developing regions such as Asia and Africa. There are indications that although 
the mortality rate of stroke in such regions may be less than in developed 
countries, the simple fact that the populations are large means that the burden 
of stroke is considerable. Furthermore, as a result of epidemiological 
transition and rapid urbanization and industrialization many developing regions 
are exhibiting increased life expectancy, as well as changes in diet and other 
risk behaviors, such as smoking. This is contributing to a looming epidemic of 
stroke in these regions, as greater proportions of the population are now at 
risk of stroke. Fortunately, stroke is largely a preventable disease. The major 
risk factor for stroke, hypertension, can be controlled using both 
population-wide approaches, such as changes in the salt content of processed 
foods, and high-risk individual approaches, such as use of antihypertensive 
medications. Implementation of effective primary and secondary prevention 
strategies is likely to have an enormous benefit in reducing the burden of 
stroke, particularly in developing regions.

DOI: 10.2174/138945007781077418
PMID: 17630931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2007 Nov;134(3):301-11. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20670.

Reconstruction of paleodemographic characteristics from skeletal age at death 
distributions: perspectives from Hitotsubashi, Japan.

Nagaoka T(1), Hirata K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy, St. Marianna University School of Medicine, 2-16-1 
Sugao, Miyamae Ward, Kawasaki, Kanagawa 216-8511, Japan. 
nagaoka@marianna-u.ac.jp

This is a demographic exploration of the city of Edo, which reveals the changes 
that accompanied its urbanization and analyzes the skeletal remains of 207 
individuals from a specific site in Tokyo (Hitotsubashi), using several 
paleodemographic approaches. A comparison of the three methods employed herein 
suggests that the Bayesian and maximum likelihood estimation techniques provide 
more plausible mortality patterns than the direct method of age estimation 
because the direct method of age estimation relies on published age intervals 
for the auricular surface and that would account for the underestimation of old 
people relative to the other two methods. Analyses using these new approaches 
indicate a short life span tendency for the people of Hitotsubashi. Although we 
cannot rule out methodological problems of adult-age estimation, one plausible 
interpretation of that life expectancy is an inadequate food supply and a poor 
public health situation. This study suggests that, in Tokugawa Japan, 
urbanization might have imposed health risks, increasing the risk of mortality. 
Analysis of demographic data from Hitotsubashi has refined our understanding on 
the impact of urbanization on the Edo period, and presents new perspectives on 
paleodemography in Japan.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20670
PMID: 17632803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Rozhl Chir. 2007 May;86(5):249-53.

[Current trends of the treatment of the femoral neck fractures in seniors].

[Article in Slovak]

Rasi R(1), Rasiová M, Morochovic R, Cibur P, Zivcák J.

Author information:
(1)Klinika urazovej chirurgie, FN L. Pasteura, Kosice, Slovenská republika.

INTRODUCTION: Proximal femur fracture of the seniors is often "omen" for their 
life. These fractures are the most frequent cause of acute hospitalization of 
the aged and on the contrary to previous years the procedures are considered as 
emergent - life saving.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to find out which of the contemporary used 
surgical procedures for the treatment of unstable femoral neck fractures at the 
Department of Trauma Surgery in Kosice yield in the lowest number of failures 
and postoperative complications. Subsequently we have analyzed changes in 
surgical treatment of these fractures in two time periods (1999-2001) and 
(2002-2004) respectively. According to review of the literature and our 
knowledge we tried to suppose algorithm of their treatment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: There were 563 patients over 65 years were assigned to the 
retrospective clinical trial. They underwent the internal fixation or 
arthroplasty for unstable femoral neck fractures between January 1999 and 
December 2004 and were registered at least one year after the surgery.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The results from the clinical trial show that it is more 
suitable to use internal fixation for biologically younger seniors with 
fractures of proximal femur. Hemiarthroplasty is indicated for the patients with 
assumed short-term life expectancy and total hip arthroplasty remains the method 
of choice for the treatment of the failure of the other surgical procedures. 
There is decrease of number of implanted hemiarthroplasties in comparison of two 
analyzed time periods. Moreover, number of treated patients in the later period 
has increased.

PMID: 17634014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Neurophysiol. 2007 Sep;98(3):1501-25. doi: 10.1152/jn.00640.2006. Epub
2007  Jul 18.

Seizures and reduced life span in mice lacking the potassium channel subunit 
Kv1.2, but hypoexcitability and enlarged Kv1 currents in auditory neurons.

Brew HM(1), Gittelman JX, Silverstein RS, Hanks TD, Demas VP, Robinson LC, 
Robbins CA, McKee-Johnson J, Chiu SY, Messing A, Tempel BL.

Author information:
(1)Virginia Merrill Bloedel Hearing Research Center, Box 357923, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7923, USA.

Genes Kcna1 and Kcna2 code for the voltage-dependent potassium channel subunits 
Kv1.1 and Kv1.2, which are coexpressed in large axons and commonly present 
within the same tetramers. Both contribute to the low-voltage-activated 
potassium current I Kv1, which powerfully limits excitability and facilitates 
temporally precise transmission of information, e.g., in auditory neurons of the 
medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB). Kcna1-null mice lacking Kv1.1 
exhibited seizure susceptibility and hyperexcitability in axons and MNTB 
neurons, which also had reduced I Kv1. To explore whether a lack of Kv1.2 would 
cause a similar phenotype, we created and characterized Kcna2-null mice (-/-). 
The -/- mice exhibited increased seizure susceptibility compared with their +/+ 
and +/- littermates, as early as P14. The mRNA for Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 increased 
strongly in +/+ brain stems between P7 and P14, suggesting the increasing 
importance of these subunits for limiting excitability. Surprisingly, MNTB 
neurons in brain stem slices from -/- and +/- mice were hypoexcitable despite 
their Kcna2 deficit, and voltage-clamped -/- MNTB neurons had enlarged I Kv1. 
This contrasts strikingly with the Kcna1-null MNTB phenotype. Toxin block 
experiments on MNTB neurons suggested Kv1.2 was present in every +/+ Kv1 
channel, about 60% of +/- Kv1 channels, and no -/- Kv1 channels. Kv1 channels 
lacking Kv1.2 activated at abnormally negative potentials, which may explain why 
MNTB neurons with larger proportions of such channels had larger I Kv1. If 
channel voltage dependence is determined by how many Kv1.2 subunits each 
contains, neurons might be able to fine-tune their excitability by adjusting the 
Kv1.1:Kv1.2 balance rather than altering Kv1 channel density.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00640.2006
PMID: 17634333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Methods Mol Biol. 2007;371:111-41. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-361-5_10.

Methods for nutrigenomics and longevity studies in Drosophila: effects of diets 
high in sucrose, palmitic acid, soy, or beef.

Ye J(1), Cui X, Loraine A, Bynum K, Kim NC, White G, De Luca M, Garfinkel MD, Lu 
X, Ruden DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health Sciences, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, USA.

Nutrigenomics is the study of gene-nutrient interactions and how they affect the 
health and metabolism of an organism. Combining nutrigenomics with longevity 
studies is a natural extension and promises to help identify mechanisms whereby 
nutrients affect the aging process, life span, and, with the incorporation of 
age-dependent functional measures, health span. The topics we discuss in this 
chapter are genetic techniques, dietary manipulations, metabolic studies, and 
microarray analysis methods to investigate how nutrition affects gene 
expression, life span, triglyceride levels, total protein levels, and live 
weight in Drosophila. To better illustrate nutrigenomic techniques, we analyzed 
Drosophila larvae or adults fed control diets (high sucrose) and compared these 
with larvae or adults fed diets high in the saturated fat palmitic acid, soy, or 
95% lean ground beef. The main results of these studies are, surprisingly, that 
triglyceride and total protein levels are significantly decreased by the beef 
diet in all adults, and total protein levels are significantly increased in male 
flies fed the soy diet. Furthermore, and less surprisingly, we found that all 
three experimental diets significantly decreased longevity and increased the 
length of time to develop from egg to adult. We also describe preliminary 
microarray results with adult flies fed the different diets, which suggest that 
only about 2-3% of the approx 18,000 genes have significantly altered mRNA 
expression levels compared with flies fed a control sucrose diet. The 
significance of these results and other types of nutrigenomics and longevity 
analyses is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-361-5_10
PMID: 17634578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Methods Mol Biol. 2007;371:151-65. doi: 10.1007/978-1-59745-361-5_12.

Extension of cell life span using exogenous telomerase.

Kang MK(1), Park NH.

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, David Geffen School of Medicine, and Jonsson 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, Los Angeles, CA, USA.

Normal human somatic cells undergo limited cell division cycles and enter 
irreversible replication arrest called senescence. Cellular senescence of many 
human cell types is regulated by the length and status of telomeric sequences, 
which is shortened after each round of DNA replication. Telomeres can be 
rejuvenated by telomerase, an enzyme which carries out de novo synthesis of 
telomeric DNA. Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein complex composed minimally of 
telomere reverse transcriptase gene (hTERT) and RNA template (hTR), and its 
enzyme activity in cells is primarily limited by the level of hTERT expression. 
Therefore, telomerase activity in cells can be reconstituted by overexpression 
of hTERT, frequently resulting in extension of replicative life span or 
immortalization. It is well established that the effect of telomerase 
reconstitution on cellular life span is clearly cell type-dependent because 
telomere shortening is not the only limiting factor of cellular life span. 
However, telomerase activity appears to be a requirement for cellular 
immortalization, irrespective of the cell types. In this article, we discuss the 
detailed methods to extend the in vitro replicative life span of primary human 
cells by ectopic expression of hTERT.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-59745-361-5_12
PMID: 17634580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Med Klin (Munich). 2007 Jul 15;102(7):515-23. doi:
10.1007/s00063-007-1065-9.

[Impact of vaccination against oncogenic human papillomavirus on the incidence 
and mortality of cervical cancer in Germany].

[Article in German]

Schneider A(1), Schwarz TF, Hammerschmidt T, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Gynäkologie und gynäkologische Onkologie, Charité, Berlin. 
achim.schneider@charite.de

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Human papillomavirus (HPV) is a necessary cause for 
cervical cancer. HPV vaccines covering genotypes 16 and 18 for the prevention of 
cervical cancer are or will be available soon (status: May 2007). Vaccination 
against HPV in order to reduce the burden of cervical cancer is recommended by 
the Standing Committee on Vaccination (STIKO) for female adolescents aged 12-17 
years in Germany. The study aims to evaluate the achievable long-term impact of 
HPV vaccination on invasive cervical cancer (ICC) incidence and mortality in 
Germany, a country with an opportunistic Pap screening program and suboptimal 
participation.
METHODS: The authors developed a decision-analytic discrete-event model and used 
Monte Carlo simulation to assess the impact of vaccination on ICC incidence and 
life expectancy of a cohort of 399,400 10-year-old girls. HPV-16 and HPV-18 
account for 73.5% of cancers. In the model, a 100% vaccination rate between 10 
and 25 years, and a vaccine efficacy of 95.1% were assumed.
RESULTS: Without vaccination, 4,563 ICC cases occur in the cohort (cumulative 
lifetime incidence: 1.14%), 1,376 women will die from ICC (fatality: 30.2%). 
Vaccination at age 10 can reduce incidence and mortality by 70% resulting in a 
gain of 17,819 life-years. 416 girls have to be vaccinated to prevent one death 
from ICC. Delaying vaccination to women aged 25 years still leads to a 50% 
reduction of deaths.
CONCLUSION: Despite cytological screening, a high disease burden of cervical 
cancer remains in Germany. Vaccination in early adolescence can drastically 
reduce the disease burden. Vaccination of adult women still offers significant 
benefits. Therefore, HPV vaccination should be added to existing cancer 
prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-007-1065-9
PMID: 17634869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2007 Aug 1;26(3):383-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03382.x.

Cost-effectiveness of suppressing hepatitis B virus DNA in immune tolerant 
patients to prevent hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis.

Enriquez AD(1), Campbell MS, Reddy KR.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

BACKGROUND: For patients with hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in the immune 
tolerant phase, the current standard of care is to not offer treatment. However, 
the recent Risk Evaluation of the Viral Load Elevation and Associated Liver 
Disease/Cancer-In study results show a striking relationship between high HBV 
DNA levels and risk for hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis.
AIM: In a cost effectiveness analysis, to assess whether immune tolerant 
patients with high HBV DNA levels should undergo treatment.
METHODS: We created a lifetime Markov model to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of two strategies for immune tolerant hepatitis B: (i) HBV DNA suppression with 
lamivudine, (ii) no treatment. Patients cycled between the following health 
states: viral suppression, ongoing viremia, seroconversion, hepatocellular 
carcinoma, cirrhosis and death.
RESULTS: Compared with the no treatment strategy, lamivudine therapy was more 
expensive but more cost-effective with an additional cost of $5784 and $12 584 
per quality adjusted life year gained in males and females, respectively. 
Treatment resulted in a gain in life expectancy and a decrease in lifetime risk 
of hepatocellular carcinoma and cirrhosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Suppressing HBV DNA to prevent hepatocellular carcinoma and 
cirrhosis in immune tolerant patients is very cost-effective, and treatment of 
these patients may be considered. Future prospective clinical trials will need 
to be undertaken to confirm our findings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03382.x
PMID: 17635373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007 Sep;46(9):1454-9. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kem157.  Epub 2007 Jul 17.

Cost-effectiveness of Spa treatment for fibromyalgia: general health improvement 
is not for free.

Zijlstra TR(1), Braakman-Jansen LM, Taal E, Rasker JJ, van de Laar MA.

Author information:
(1)1Medisch Spectrum Twente Hospital, Department of Rheumatology, Enschede, The 
Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of an adjuvant treatment course 
of spa treatment compared with usual care only in patients with fibromyalgia 
syndrome (FM).
METHODS: 134 patients with FM, selected from a rheumatology outpatient 
department and from members of the Dutch FM patient association were randomly 
assigned to a 2(1/2) week spa treatment course in Tunisia or to usual care only. 
Results are expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for a 6-month as 
well as a 12-month time horizon. Utilities were derived form the Short Form 6D 
(SF-6D) scores and the visual analogue scale (VAS) rating general health. Costs 
were reported from societal perspective. Mean incremental cost per patient and 
the incremental cost utility ratio (ICER) were calculated; 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs) were estimated using double-sided bootstrapping.
RESULTS: The data of 128 (55 spa and 73 controls) of the 134 patients (96%) 
could be used for analysis. Improvement in general health was found in the spa 
group until 6 months of follow-up by both the SF-6D (AUC 0.32 vs 0.30, P < 0.05) 
and the VAS (AUC 0.23 vs 0.19, P < 0.01). After 1yr no significant between-group 
differences were found. Mean incremental cost of spa treatment was 1311 Euro per 
patient (95% CI 369-2439), equalling the cost of the intervention 
(thalassotherapy including airfare and lodging), or 885 Euro per patient based 
on a more realistic cost estimate.
CONCLUSIONS: The temporary improvement in quality of life due to an adjuvant 
treatment course of spa therapy for patients with FM is associated with limited 
incremental costs per patient.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kem157
PMID: 17636181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Eur Heart J. 2007 Sep;28(17):2142-7. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehm272. Epub
2007  Jul 18.

Contribution of changes in incidence and mortality to trends in the prevalence 
of coronary heart disease in the UK: 1996 2005.

Davies AR(1), Smeeth L, Grundy EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Centre for Population 
Studies, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 49-51 Bedford Square, 
London WC1B 3DP, UK. alisha.davies@lshtm.ac.uk

AIMS: To assess how trends in the incidence of coronary heart disease (CHD) and 
mortality rates among people with CHD have affected the prevalence of CHD in the 
UK.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A time trend analysis using computerized general practice 
clinical records of people aged 35 years and over was performed. From 1996 to 
2005, age-standardized incidence of CHD decreased by 2.2% in men and 2.3% in 
women per year (average percentage change). Age-standardized all-cause mortality 
among those with CHD decreased by 4.5% in men and 3.4% in women per year 
(average percentage change). Age-standardized prevalence increased by 1.3% in 
men and 1.7% in women per year (average percentage change). Although the decline 
in incidence had some impact on limiting the increase in prevalence, its effect 
was offset by the increase in prevalence occurring as a result of improved 
survival among people with CHD.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that increasing prevalence is largely due to 
decreasing mortality among people with CHD. Further increases in prevalence are 
likely even if the incidence of CHD continues to fall.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehm272
PMID: 17636307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Jul 18;(3):CD000454. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD000454.

WITHDRAWN: Support for carers of people with Alzheimer's type dementia.

Thompson C(1), Spilsbury K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Area 2, 1st Floor Research Section, University 
of York, York, Nth Yorkshire, UK, YO1 5Dd. cat4@york.ac.uk

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2000;(2):CD000454.

BACKGROUND: Research has highlighted the problems for carers of people with 
dementia. These include the effective loss of companionship and support of a 
life partner, social isolation and complex financial, legal and social decision 
making. The burden of caring is financially, emotionally and physically 
significant. Studies of the effects of ways of supporting carers and reducing 
the burden of caring often examine a range of outcomes. Probably because of 
these characteristics, no formal overview of this area of service provision has 
been undertaken. Moreover, the term 'intervention' in relation to caregivers of 
people with Alzheimer's disease is open to wide variations in interpretation at 
the level of service provision. Interventions range from the application of 
'hi-tech' computer technology for socially isolated carers, to the formation of 
specialist support groups and respite services.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this review is to provide an assessment of the 
effectiveness of health and/or social interventions designed to help support the 
carers of people with Alzheimer's-type dementias.
SEARCH STRATEGY: The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register was searched using the 
terms 'carer*' and 'caregiv*'. See the Cochrane Dementia & Cognitive Impairment 
group's details for the full search strategy.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All randomised trials in which primary carers of people with 
Alzheimer's disease are allocated to either intervention or 
non-intervention/control groups and where the intervention was provided by 
healthcare and/or social services.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data was extracted by both reviewers and was found 
to be unsuitable for quantitative synthesis. A qualitative overview is presented 
and structured according to the comparisons used in the review. Weighted Mean 
Differences (weighted by sample size) for each outcome and its subcategories are 
also presented.
MAIN RESULTS: The results of the review are inconclusive. No evidence was found 
for the following comparison interventions:1) individualised service assessment 
and planning versus conventional support2) technology-based carer networking 
(via computers or telephones) versus conventional support3) 
carer-education/training versus conventional support4) multi-faceted/dimensional 
strategies (such as specialised carer assessment and training) versus 
conventional supportWhilst the overview suggests little or no evidence that 
interventions to support caregivers of people with Alzheimer's disease are of 
quantifiable benefit, the poor quality and small sample sizes of the studies, as 
well as the diversity of interventions examined and outcomes reported, mean that 
this conclusion cannot be put forward without the need for caution, particularly 
as some of the studies put forward qualitative evidence which contradicts this 
conclusion.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: With the limited nature of the research evidence in mind, 
it is not possible to recommend either wholesale investment in caregiver support 
programmes or withdrawal of the same. With the addition of further studies in 
future updates of this review, expected in early 1999, this presently 
inconclusive picture may become clearer.A number of conclusions relating to 
future areas of research can be put forward with more conviction. 
Specifically,1) Future trials need to examine interventions included in the 
existing knowledge base on Alzheimer's carer-supportive interventions.2) Outcome 
measures used should mirror those in similar studies.3) Outcome measures need to 
be clinically and 'lay' relevant.4) Trials need to be of longer duration given 
the 7-10 years median life expectancy of people with Alzheimer's Disease.5) 
Sample sizes need to be increased and calculated properly given the likelihood 
of a moderate intervention effect (if any).7) Blinding at the outcome assessment 
stage needs to be a part of future basic trial designs if bias is to be 
avoided.8) If reviews are to have their power increased then quality of 
reporting results needs to be improved.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD000454
PMID: 17636637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007 Jul 18;(3):CD006652. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006652.

Parenteral anticoagulation for prolonging survival in patients with cancer who 
have no other indication for anticoagulation.

Akl EA(1), van Doormaal FF, Barba M, Kamath G, Kim SY, Kuipers S, Middeldorp S, 
Yosuico V, Dickinson HO, Schünemann HJ.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Buffalo, Medicine, ECMC, CC-142, 462 Girder 
Street, Buffalo, New York, 14215, USA. elieakl@buffalo.edu

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(1):CD006652.

BACKGROUND: Basic research and clinical studies have generated the hypothesis 
that anticoagulation may improve survival in patients with cancer through an 
antitumour effect in addition to the antithrombotic effect.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of heparin (including 
unfractionated heparin (UFH) and low molecular weight heparin (LMWH)) and 
fondaparinux to improve survival of patients with cancer.
SEARCH STRATEGY: A comprehensive search for studies of anticoagulation in cancer 
patients including (1) A January 2007 electronic search of the following 
databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, 
EMBASE and ISI the Web of Science; (2) Hand search of the American Society of 
Clinical Oncology and of the American Society of Hematology; (3) Checking of 
references of included studies; and (4) Use of "related article" feature in 
PubMed.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in cancer 
patients without clinical evidence of venous thromboembolism comparing UFH, LMWH 
or fondaparinux to no intervention or placebo and RCTs comparing two of the 
three agents of interest.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Using a standardized form we extracted in 
duplicate data on methodological quality, participants, interventions and 
outcomes of interest including all cause mortality, venous thrombosis, 
symptomatic pulmonary embolism, major bleeding and minor bleeding.
MAIN RESULTS: Of 3986 identified citations five RCTs fulfilled the inclusion 
criteria. In all included RCTs the intervention consisted of heparin ( either 
UFH or LMWH). The overall methodological quality of the included studies was 
acceptable. Overall, heparin therapy was associated with a statistically and 
clinically significant survival benefit (hazard ratio (HR) = 0.77; 95% CI: 0.65 
to 0.91). In subgroup analyses, patients with limited small cell lung cancer 
experienced a clear survival benefit (HR = 0.56; 95% CI: 0.38 to 0.83). The 
survival benefit was not statistically significant for either patients with 
extensive small cell lung cancer (HR = 0.80; 95% CI: 0.60 to 1.06) or patients 
with advanced cancer (HR = 0.84; 95%: 0.68 to 1.03). The increased risk of 
bleeding with heparin was not statistically significant (RR = 1.78; 95% CI: 0.73 
to 4.38).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Heparin has a survival benefit in cancer patients in 
general, and in patients with limited small cell lung cancer in particular. 
Heparin might be particularly beneficial in cancer patients with limited cancer 
or a longer life expectancy. Future research should investigate the survival 
benefit of different types of anticoagulants (in different dosing, schedules and 
duration of therapy) in patients with different types and stages of cancers.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006652
PMID: 17636846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Hepatol. 2007 Nov;47(5):658-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2007.05.012. Epub 2007
Jun  18.

Resection of hepatocellular adenoma in patients with glycogen storage disease 
type Ia.

Reddy SK(1), Kishnani PS, Sullivan JA, Koeberl DD, Desai DM, Skinner MA, Rice 
HE, Clary BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, Box 3247, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. reddy005@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Because dietary modifications have prolonged the life 
expectancy of patients with glycogen storage disease type Ia (GSD Ia), the 
incidence of hepatocellular adenoma (HCA) to carcinoma (HCC) transformation is 
increasing. The objective of this retrospective study is to assess the safety 
and effectiveness of HCA resection in GSD Ia patients.
METHODS: Clinicopathologic, peri-operative, and long-term data were reviewed 
from patients who underwent HCA resection. Comparisons were made with Fisher's 
exact, Mann-Whitney U, and log-rank tests; survival was estimated with 
Kaplan-Meier analysis.
RESULTS: From 1998 to 2006, 38 patients underwent HCA resection. Seven (22%) had 
GSD Ia. Post-operative mortality occurred in one GSD Ia patient. GSD Ia patients 
had greater morbidity (86% vs. 20%) and shorter time to adenoma progression 
(median 23 months vs. not yet reached) after partial hepatectomy compared to the 
general population (p<0.05). Six GSD Ia patients had no evidence of HCC and 
recovered after resection without long-term morbidity. Three GSD Ia patients 
underwent liver transplantation 77, 32, and 23 months after adenoma resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite substantial morbidity, partial hepatectomy is feasible in 
GSD Ia patients and is an effective intermediate step in the prevention of HCC 
until definitive treatment with liver transplantation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2007.05.012
PMID: 17637480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2007 Jul;34(7):1079-84.

Oxaliplatin plus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (FOLFOX-4) as salvage chemotherapy in 
patients with pretreated colorectal cancer.

Shitara K(1), Munakata M, Muto O, Kasai M, Okada R, Mitobe S, Sakata Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Misawa City Hospital.

BACKGROUND: There are a few clinical trials of combination chemotherapy of 
oxaliplatin plus 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin (FOLFOX-4) in Japan, and its efficacy 
and safety have not been confirmed yet, especially clinical experience in 
patients with prior chemotherapy.
PURPOSE: To analyze the efficacy and safety of FOLFOX-4 in patients with 
colorectal cancer who received prior chemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty patients were treated with FOLFOX-4 beginning in 
April 2005. Three patients were entered into the safety study, and seventeen 
patients were treated on a reduced dose, because they had already received heavy 
doses of prior chemotherapy.
RESULTS: Number of prior chemotherapy was 1 regimen in 7 patients, more than two 
regimens in 13 patients. The median course of FOLFOX-4 was 10 (4-12), which gave 
an overall response rate of 20.0% and a median time to progression of 5.0 
months. The median survival time was 15.6 months from initiation of the 
FOLFOX-4, and 28.5 months from the first-line treatment. Grade 3/4 neutropenia 
was seen in 12 patients (60%), and neuropathy was observed in 11 patients (55%). 
No response was seen in irinotecan based regimens after FOLFOX-4.
CONCLUSION: FOLFOX-4 in patients with pretreated colorectal cancer was 
effective, and contributed to prolonged life with the TTP of 5 months. However, 
hematological toxicity was high despite the reduced dose. Further extension of 
prolonged life is anticipated by administering incorporating molecular targeting 
agents.

PMID: 17637544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2008;11(2):153-9. doi:
10.1038/sj.pcan.4500992.  Epub 2007 Jul 17.

Eliciting patient preferences for hormonal therapy options in the treatment of 
metastatic prostate cancer.

Lloyd A(1), Penson D, Dewilde S, Kleinman L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes Research, United BioSource Corporation, 20 
Bloomsbury Square, London, WC1A 2NS, UK. andrew.lloyd@unitedbiosource.com

Treatment choices for metastatic prostate cancer are complex and can involve men 
balancing survival versus quality of life. The present study aims to elicit 
patient preferences with respect to the attributes of treatments for metastatic 
prostate cancer through a discrete choice experiment (DCE) questionnaire. Men 
with recently diagnosed localized prostate cancer were asked to envisage that 
they had metastatic disease when completing a survey. As expected, men with 
prostate cancer placed considerable importance on gains in survival; however, 
avoiding side effects of treatment was also clearly important. Survival gains 
should be considered alongside side effects when discussing treatment options in 
metastatic disease.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.pcan.4500992
PMID: 17637761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Eur J Health Econ. 2007 Sep;8 Suppl 1:S1-2. doi: 10.1007/s10198-007-0066-1.

Economic evaluation for pharmaceuticals in Germany.

Jönsson B.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0066-1
PMID: 17638033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Med Health Care Philos. 2008 Jun;11(2):181-90. doi:
10.1007/s11019-007-9086-y.  Epub 2007 Jul 19.

The informed consent aftermath of the genetic revolution. An Italian example of 
implementation.

Artizzu F(1).

Author information:
(1)SHARDNA Life Sciences SpA, Edificio n. 3 - loc. Piscinamanna, Pula, CA, 
Italy. artizzu@shardna.it

A great part of human genetics research is carried out collecting data and 
building large databases of biological samples that are in a non-anonymous 
format. These constitute a valuable resource for future research. The 
construction of such databases and tissue banks facilitates important scientific 
progress. However, biobanks have been recognized as ethically problematic 
because they contain thousands of data that could expose individuals and 
populations to discrimination, stigmatization and psychological stress if 
misused. Informed consent is regarded as a cornerstone in the protection of 
personal autonomy in research involving human subjects. Yet in recent years this 
fundamental concept has been overwhelmed by the genomic revolution. From a 
general overview of international literature, it seems evident that informed 
consent issues have come into sharp focus, in particular in relation to the twin 
issues of time extension (blanket versus specific/repeated consent) and personal 
extension (group consent). After an introduction on obtaining informed consent 
in the context of genetic research, this paper addresses the apparent lack of a 
single, universal model of obtaining informed consent among populations involved 
in genetic research and it argues for the need to develop an ethical framework 
tailored to the specific features of each project. In order to support this 
theory of contextualizing, the case of a private biotechnology company, SharDNA 
is presented. The present paper explores the management of its biobank, 
developed from a genetic research project carried out on isolated populations 
living on the Italian island of Sardinia. In particular, the paper highlights 
how the company is tackling the problem of informed consent and other ethical 
requirements for genetic research, such as the respect of individual privacy, 
the population approach and the existing Italian legal regulatory framework.

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-007-9086-y
PMID: 17638119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Vasc Access. 2000 Jan-Mar;1(1):19-22. doi: 10.1177/112972980000100106.

Catheter rupture and distal embolisation: a rare complication of central venous 
ports.

Biffi R(1), Orsi F, Grasso F, De Braud F, Cenciarelli S, Andreoni B.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, European Institute of Oncology, Milano - Italy.

Central venous access devices placed through a percutaneous subclavian approach 
may be compressed by neighbouring bony structures, leading to biomaterial 
fatigue, catheter fracture at the compression site, and possible embolisation of 
distal fragment into the central veins. The aim of this paper is to review the 
experience of the authors, including more than 1300 subclavian port placements, 
carried out during a five-year period, discussing possible causes and 
therapeutic options of this rare complication. Nine patients out of 1320 (0.68%) 
experienced this complication during the five-year period of this study. Two 
patients only showed a retrospective radiologic evidence of the 'pinch-off sign' 
(e.g. initial compression of the catheter at the costo-clavicular junction). No 
patients had symptoms from the embolised catheter fragment; the most frequent 
symptom (8 out of 9 cases) was a painful swelling around the port area during 
infusion, related to the extravasation of medications or fluids into the 
subcutaneous tissue. The site of embolised segment varied from azygos vein to 
right pulmonary artery; however, these findings did not affect the outcome, and 
all the embolised fragments were successfully retrieved through a transfemoral 
approach using a radiologic interventional technique. No fatality occurred. The 
catheter fracture and embolisation of the distal fragment are a well-known 
complication of subclavian central venous long-term cannulation, whose estimated 
overall incidence is 0.5-1%. Diagnosis is usually based on the radiologic 
appearance of the catheter compression (so called 'pinch-off sign'), which is 
far from being constant; a clinical suspicion can derive from intermittent 
malfunction, which claims differential diagnosis with the pres-ence of a fibrin 
sleeve around the tip of the catheter. Once diagnosed, the treatment is always 
an interventional radiologic approach, which has a very high success rate. When 
it fails, the possibility to leave the fragment embolised in the central veins, 
heart or pulmonary arteries, should be considered, being the thoracotomy and 
open catheter retraction questionable, at present time, in patients who have no 
symptoms and limited life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/112972980000100106
PMID: 17638217


918. J Vasc Access. 2000 Jan-Mar;1(1):23-7. doi: 10.1177/112972980000100107.

Percutaneous intravascular retrieval of embolised fragments of long-term central 
venous catheters.

Pittiruti M(1), Cina A, Cotroneo A, Di Stasi C, Malerba M, Cina G.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery and Oncology, Catholic University, Rome - Italy.

Embolisation of a catheter fragment is a rare mechanical complication of 
long-term central venous access devices. From 1995 to 1999 we observed 10 cases: 
the cause of embolisation was the 'pinch-off syndrome' in half of the cases, and 
in 8 cases out of 10 the fragment had embolised in the pulmonary arterial 
vessels. Percutaneous transvenous retrieval was successful in all cases; it was 
performed mainly (8 cases out of ten) through the left transfemoral route, using 
a single-snare-loop device sometimes associated with a pig-tail catheter. We had 
no mortality and no major complications. On the basis of our experience, we 
believe that catheter embolisation of long-term central venous devices can be 
effectively prevented by adequate insertion technique, proper management of the 
device during its clinical use, and accurate removal technique. Nonetheless, 
should catheter em-bolisation occur, the patient should be referred to a Centre 
with adequate experience in the field of interventional radiological techniques. 
Should the radiological retrieval procedure fail, evidence from the literature 
suggests that leaving the fragment in embolisation site might be safer than open 
extraction by surgical thoracotomy, particularly in oncological patients with 
reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/112972980000100107
PMID: 17638218


919. J Vasc Access. 2001 Oct-Dec;2(4):168-74. doi: 10.1177/112972980100200407.

Non-tunneled central venous catheters in adult stem cell transplantation 
recipients: An effective option.

Cicconi S(1), Pittiruti M, Buononato M, Piccirillo N, Sorà F, Chiusolo P, 
Laurenti L, Leone G, Sica S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Istituto di Semeiotica Medica, Rome - Italy.

Stem cell transplantation (SCT) recipients require central venous catheter (CVC) 
insertion for the administration of chemotherapy, antibiotics and total 
parenteral nutrition. Traditionally, tunneled CVC have been considered as the 
golden standard although they require surgery for both insertion and removal. We 
prospectively evaluated the use of a non-tunneled CVC in 182 consecutive 
patients who had undergone allogenic or autologous SCT. The median duration of 
CVC was 4 weeks (range 1-24) with a significant difference between allogenic (8 
weeks, range 2-24) and autologous SCT (4 weeks, range 1-24) (p<0.0001). The life 
expectancy of the CVC was significantly influenced by spontaneous removal, which 
occurred in 26 patients (13.8%). There was a significant increase of this 
complication in allogenic SCT (p=0.039). The overall incidence of sepsis was 
24.5%, although catheter-related sepsis was microbiologically documented by 
positive culture of the tip only in 17 cases (9%). Non-tunneled CVC in adult SCT 
recipients allowed (a) bedside insertion and removal, (b) guidewire replacement 
for diagnostic or therapeutic purposes (dialysis or pheresis procedures) thus 
reducing the need for repeated venipunctures. (The Journal of Vascular Access 
2001; 2: 168-174).

DOI: 10.1177/112972980100200407
PMID: 17638282


920. Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2007 Sep;51(9):3273-81. doi:
10.1128/AAC.00513-07.  Epub 2007 Jul 16.

Intermittent preventive treatment in infants as a means of malaria control: a 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in northern Ghana.

Mockenhaupt FP(1), Reither K, Zanger P, Roepcke F, Danquah I, Saad E, Ziniel P, 
Dzisi SY, Frempong M, Agana-Nsiire P, Amoo-Sakyi F, Otchwemah R, Cramer JP, 
Anemana SD, Dietz E, Bienzle U.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine and International Health, Charité--University 
Medicine Berlin, Berlin, Germany. frank.mockenhaupt@charite.de

Erratum in
    Antimicrob Agents Chemother. 2012 Jan;56(1):600. Dosage error in article 
text.

Morbidity and mortality from malaria remain unacceptably high among young 
children in sub-Saharan Africa. Intermittent preventive treatment in infancy 
(IPTi) involves the administration of antimalarials alongside routine 
vaccinations and might be an option in malaria control. In an area of intense, 
perennial malaria transmission in northern Ghana, 1,200 children received IPTi 
with sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine or placebo at approximately 3, 9, and 15 months 
of age. Children were followed up until 24 months of age to assess morbidity and 
adverse events. During the intervention period (3 to 18 months of age), IPTi 
reduced the incidences of malaria and severe anemia by 22.5% (95% confidence 
interval, 12 to 32%) and 23.6% (95% confidence interval, 4 to 39%), 
respectively, and reduced hospitalizations and episodes of asymptomatic 
parasitemia by one-third. Protection was pronounced in the first year of life 
and not discernible in the second. The malaria-protective effect was largely 
confined to a period of 1 month after sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatments. 
Following the intervention, protection against asymptomatic parasitemia 
persisted. In contrast, a significant rebound of severe malaria, predominantly 
severe malarial anemia, occurred among children having received IPTi. Although 
the treatment was generally well tolerated, one case of moderately severe skin 
reaction followed sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine treatment. IPTi reduces malaria and 
anemia in infants in northern Ghana. Extension of IPTi into the second year of 
life by administering a dose at 15 months of age provided no substantial benefit 
beyond a 1-month prophylactic effect. Although this simple intervention offers 
one of the few available malaria-preventive measures for regions where malaria 
is endemic, the observed rebound of severe malaria advises caution and requires 
further investigation.

DOI: 10.1128/AAC.00513-07
