formation, as well as the possibility of using 16S rRNA mutated at position 791 
for the selection of second-site revertants in order to identify ligands that 
interact with G791 in protein synthesis.

PMID: 17978801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. AIDS Behav. 2009 Feb;13(1):10-22. doi: 10.1007/s10461-007-9318-4. Epub 2007
Nov  3.

Adherence to antiretroviral medication regimens: a test of a psychosocial model.

Diiorio C(1), McCarty F, Depadilla L, Resnicow K, Holstad MM, Yeager K, Sharma 
SM, Morisky DE, Lundberg B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Sciences and Health Education, Rollins School of 
Public Health, Emory University, 1518 Clifton Rd., Room: 560, Atlanta, GA, 
30322, USA. cdiiori@sph.emory.edu.

OBJECTIVE: The primary aim of this study was to test a psychosocial model of 
medication adherence among people taking antiretroviral medications. This model 
was based primarily on social cognitive theory and included personal 
(self-efficacy, outcome expectancy, stigma, depression, and spirituality), 
social (social support, difficult life circumstances), and provider (patient 
satisfaction and decision-making) variables.
DESIGN: The data for this analysis were obtained from the parent study, which 
was a randomized controlled trial (Get Busy Living) designed to evaluate an 
intervention to foster medication adherence. Factor analysis was used to develop 
the constructs for the model, and structural equation modeling was used to test 
the model. Only baseline data were used in this cross sectional analysis.
METHODS: Participants were recruited from a HIV/AIDS clinic in Atlanta, GA. 
Prior to group assignment, participants were asked to complete a questionnaire 
that included assessment of the study variables. Results A total of 236 
participants were included in the analysis. The mean age of the participants was 
41 years; the majority were male, and most were African-American. In the final 
model, self-efficacy and depression demonstrated direct associations with 
adherence; whereas stigma, patient satisfaction, and social support were 
indirectly related to adherence through their association with either 
self-efficacy or depression.
CONCLUSION: These findings provide evidence to reinforce the belief that 
medication-taking behaviors are affected by a complex set of interactions among 
psychosocial variables and provide direction for adherence interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-007-9318-4
PMCID: PMC3104939
PMID: 17978868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Popul Stud (Camb). 2007 Nov;61(3):315-26. doi: 10.1080/00324720701571632.

The choice among past trends as a basis for the prediction of future trends in 
old-age mortality.

Janssen F(1), Kunst A.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Centre, Faculty of Spatial Sciences, University of 
Groningen, PO Box 800, 9700 AV Groningen, the Netherlands. f.janssen@rug.nl

We explored the extent to which projections of future old-age mortality trends 
differ when different projection bases are used. For seven European countries, 
four alternative sets of annual rates of mortality change were estimated with 
age-period log-linear regression models, and subsequently applied to 
age-specific all-cause mortality rates (80+) in 1999 to predict mortality levels 
up to 2050. On average, up to 2050, e80 is predicted to increase further by 2.33 
years among men and 4.03 years among women. Choosing a historical period of 25 
instead of 50 years results in higher predicted gains in e80 for men but lower 
gains for women. Choosing non-smoking-related mortality instead of all-cause 
mortality leads to higher gains for women and mixed results for men. In all 
alternatives there is a strong divergence of predicted mortality levels between 
the countries. Future projections should be preceded by a thorough study of past 
trends and their determinants.

DOI: 10.1080/00324720701571632
PMID: 17979005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Curr Top Med Chem. 2007;7(17):1675-81. doi: 10.2174/156802607782340993.

Global life-long health benefits of repression of hypothalamic NPY system by 
central leptin gene therapy.

Kalra SP(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Florida McKnight Brain Institute, Department of Neuroscience, 
Gainesville, FL 32610-0244, USA. skalra@mbi.ufl.edu

A minute-to-minute crosstalk between the hypothalamic neuropeptide Y (NPY) 
network and the hormone leptin is essential for energy homeostasis. Leptin 
insufficiency i.e. lack of leptin restraint due to genetic and environmental 
factors on the hypothalamic NPY system confers obesity, a cluster of metabolic 
afflictions and shorter lifespan. A state-of-the-art gene transfer technology 
using recombinant adeno-associated viral vector to overcome hypothalamic leptin 
insufficiency was employed in rodent models of obesity, metabolic syndrome and 
shorter lifespan. Our findings show that life-long tonic repression of NPY 
system with a stable increase in leptin availability in the hypothalamus 
prevented the age-related and high fat-diet-induced obesity, hyperinsulinemia 
and diabetes and extended lifespan. Additional health benefits include increased 
energy expenditure and normalization of neuroendocrine control on reproduction, 
and promotion of brain and bone growth. We propose that central leptin gene 
therapy or novel long-acting leptin mimetics should be tested clinically to 
decelerate the worldwide epidemic of obesity, diabetes and shortened lifespan.

DOI: 10.2174/156802607782340993
PMID: 17979776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. BJU Int. 2007 Dec;100(6):1221-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07114.x.

Improving the prognosis of patients after radical cystectomy. Part I: the role 
of lymph node dissection.

Suttmann H(1), Kamradt J, Lehmann J, Stöckle M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Paediatric Urology, Saarland University Hospital, 
Homburg/Saar, Germany. henrik.suttmann@uniklinikum-saarland.de

The first two reviews are from the same unit in Germany and describe the 
well-known but still much discussed ways of improving the prognosis of patients 
undergoing cystectomy for bladder cancer. The authors review the roles of lymph 
node dissection and perioperative chemotherapy, and draw conclusions which will 
be of help for patients having this form of therapy. In a further review, 
authors from Egypt debate the requirement for a refluxing or non-refluxing 
uretero-ileal anastomosis in low-pressure reservoirs, drawing on their extensive 
experience in this field. The optimum treatment for patients with 
muscle-invasive bladder cancer remains a matter of intense debate; some authors 
still question the role of radical cystectomy (RC) per se, as it can be a 
potentially mutilating procedure with subsequent impairment in quality of life. 
However, the impairment has not been investigated using validated 
quality-of-life studies. By contrast, it is commonly accepted that no 
alternative treatment yields similar long-term survival data to RC. However, 
survival rates after RC are far from satisfying, particularly for patients with 
>/= pT3 and/or pN+ disease. Therefore, various strategies were introduced to 
improve survival in these patients, i.e. extension of lymph node dissection 
during radical surgery and perioperative chemotherapy. Both strategies are 
analysed and discussed in two mini-reviews, based on data from current 
publications and from theoretical considerations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07114.x
PMID: 17979920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. BJU Int. 2007 Dec;100(6):1254-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07130.x.

Clinicians are poor raters of life-expectancy before radical prostatectomy or 
definitive radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer.

Walz J(1), Gallina A, Perrotte P, Jeldres C, Trinh QD, Hutterer GC, Traumann M, 
Ramirez A, Shariat SF, McCormack M, Perreault JP, Bénard F, Valiquette L, Saad 
F, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To test the accuracy of predicting life-expectancy (LE) among 19 
raters, as the accurate prediction of LE in candidates for definitive therapy 
for localized prostate cancer is crucial, and little is known of the ability of 
clinicians to predict LE.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We randomly selected the case-vignettes of 50 patients 
treated with either radical prostatectomy (RP, 25) or external beam radiotherapy 
(EBRT, 25) for prostate cancer, and who either survived for > 10 years or died 
earlier with no evidence of disease relapse. The median age at treatment was 67 
years and the median Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) was 2. The raters 
consisted of urology staff (six), urology residents (10) and medical students 
(three). The case-vignettes included patient age, comorbidities and CCI score, 
and raters were asked to predict the survival at 10 years (yes vs no), assuming 
no disease relapse.
RESULTS: Of the 50 cases, 20 (40%) did not survive for > 10 years; clinicians 
estimated a mean (range) of 23 (10-35) deaths before 10 years. The mean (95% 
confidence interval) overall predictive accuracy (0.5 = chance, 1.0 = perfect 
prediction) of LE predictions was 0.68 (0.64-0.71). Individual accuracy ranged 
from 0.52 (staff) to 0.78 (staff). There were no important differences among the 
rater groups (residents 0.69 vs staff 0.67 vs medical students 0.67).
CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians are relatively poor at predicting LE; tools to predict 
LE might be able to improve clinicians' performance in this important part of 
decision-making about prostate cancer treatment. It remains to be determined 
whether this limitation exclusively applies to prostate cancer or also to other 
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07130.x
PMID: 17979925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Am J Transplant. 2008 Jan;8(1):58-68. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2007.02020.x.
 Epub 2007 Nov 2.

The overlapping risk profile between dialysis patients listed and not listed for 
renal transplantation.

Schold JD(1), Srinivas TR, Kayler LK, Meier-Kriesche HU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, and Department of Health Services Research, 
Management and Policy, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA. 
scholjd@medicine.ufl.edu

The survival advantage of kidney transplantation extends to many high-risk ESRD 
patients; however, numerous factors ultimately determine which patients are 
evaluated and listed for the procedure. Broad goals of patient evaluation 
comprise identifying patients who will benefit from transplantation and 
excluding patients who might be placed at risk. There is limited data detailing 
whether current access limitations and screening strategies have achieved the 
goal of listing the most appropriate patients. The study estimated the life 
expectancy of adult patients in the United States prior to transplantation with 
ESRD onset from 1995 to 2003. Factors associated with transplant listing were 
examined based on patient prognosis after ESRD. Approximately one-third of 
patients listed for transplantation within 1 year of ESRD had </=5-year life 
expectancy on dialysis. In contrast, one-third of patients not listed had 
>5-year life expectancy. The number of patients not listed with 'good' prognosis 
was significantly higher than those listed with 'poor' prognosis (134 382 vs. 16 
807, respectively). Age, race, gender, insurance coverage and body mass index 
(BMI) were associated with likelihood for listing with 'poor' prognosis and not 
listing with 'good' prognosis. Over the past decade, many ESRD patients viable 
for transplantation have not listed for transplantation while higher-risk 
patients have listed rapidly.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2007.02020.x
PMID: 17979999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Nov;46(5):864-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.07.028.

Transcervical carotid stenting with carotid artery flow reversal: 3-year 
follow-up of 103 stents.

Criado E(1), Fontcuberta J, Orgaz A, Flores A, Doblas M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-0329, USA. ecriado@umich.edu

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2008 Apr;47(4):897.

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluated the perioperative and 3-year follow-up results 
of 103 consecutive carotid artery stenting (CAS) procedures done with a 
transcervical approach using carotid flow reversal for cerebral protection that 
were performed over a 28-month period in 97 patients.
METHODS: The mean age of these patients was 72 years, and 82 (80%) were men. 
Mean preoperative internal carotid artery (ICA) peak systolic velocity was 314 
cm/s, 36% of treated hemispheres were symptomatic, and 42% of patients had 
neurologic symptoms for >6 months. Ten patients (10%) had contralateral ICA 
occlusion, six (6%) had recurrent carotid stenosis, and two (2%) had previous 
neck radiation. Local anesthesia was used in 72 (70%) cases and general in 31 
(30%). Predilatation was used in 34 cases (33%), and closed-cell self-expanding 
stents were deployed and postdilated in all cases.
RESULTS: Technical success was achieved in 100 cases (97%). No major strokes or 
deaths occurred. One ipsilateral transient ischemic attack (1%), one 
contralateral transient ischemic attack (1%), and two minor strokes (2%) 
occurred. There were two wound complications (2%) and one major arterial 
complication (1%). Mean operative time was 69 minutes, and mean carotid flow 
reversal time was 21 minutes. Three awake patients (4%) did not tolerate carotid 
flow reversal. Hypotension/bradycardia occurred in 24 cases (23%). No 
electrocardiographic myocardial infarctions were diagnosed. At 40 months of 
follow-up, the stent patency rate on an intention-to-treat basis was 95%, and 
the stroke-free survival was 91%.
CONCLUSIONS: Transcervical CAS with carotid flow reversal can be done with a 
high rate of technical success, a negligible rate of major adverse events, and 
an excellent 3-year stroke-free survival and stent patency rate. These results 
compare favorably with those of recently published prospective studies using 
distal filter protection during CAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.07.028
PMID: 17980271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Nov;46(5):876-882. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.06.045.

Long-term results of 442 consecutive, standardized carotid endarterectomy 
procedures in standard-risk and high-risk patients.

Flanigan DP(1), Flanigan ME, Dorne AL, Harward TR, Razavi MK, Ballard JL.

Author information:
(1)St. Joseph Hospital Vascular Institute, Orange, CA 92868, USA. knife@cox.net

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to determine the results of a 
specific technique in the performance of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) and to 
compare results using this technique between standard-risk and high-risk 
patients eligible for Stenting and Angioplasty with Protection in Patients at 
High Risk for Endarterectomy (SAPPHIRE) and between asymptomatic and symptomatic 
patients.
METHODS: A total of 391 patients underwent 442 consecutive CEA procedures under 
general anesthesia with the intent to shunt, patch, and perform intraoperative 
completion duplex ultrasound imaging. Indications included 272 asymptomatic 
patients (61.5%) with carotid stenoses > or =60% and 170 symptomatic patients 
(38.5%) with carotid stenosis > or =50%. Data were analyzed to determine the 
early (< or =30 days) and long-term morbidity and mortality overall in 
standard-risk and high-risk procedures and in asymptomatic and symptomatic 
patients. The primary end points were the occurrence of all strokes or death or 
myocardial infarction (MI) in the first 30 postoperative days (100% follow-up) 
and the occurrence by life-table analysis of ipsilateral stroke or death or MI 
(SDMI) out to 93 months (mean, 31.4 months).
RESULTS: A total of 441 (99.7%) procedures included shunting, 440 (99.5%) 
included patching, and 442 (100%) had completion duplex ultrasound imaging. Of 
these, 235 procedures were standard risk and 207 procedures were high risk. At 
the 30-day follow-up, there were two ipsilateral central neurologic deficits (1 
major stroke, 1 minor stroke), no death, and one MI (0.45% for all strokes or 
death; 0.68% for all strokes or death or MI). After 30 days of follow-up, an 
additional 16 strokes (9 ipsilateral, 7 contralateral), eight MIs, and 38 deaths 
had occurred. No statistically significant difference was found between 
standard-risk and high-risk groups or between asymptomatic and symptomatic 
groups for stroke, death, MI, stroke or death, or stroke or death or MI at 30 
days or during long-term follow-up at any interval up to 93 months.
CONCLUSION: CEA performed with intent to treat using general anesthesia, 
shunting, patching, and completion duplex scanning results in extremely low 
30-day and long-term morbidity and mortality in asymptomatic, symptomatic, 
standard-risk and high-risk patients. These results are substantially superior 
to those reported in carotid stenting trials for both carotid stenting and CEA 
and do not support the contention that there is a high-risk group for CEA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.06.045
PMID: 17980273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Nov;46(5):883-890. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.07.033.

Cost-effectiveness of conventional and endovascular repair of abdominal aortic 
aneurysms: results of a randomized trial.

Prinssen M(1), Buskens E, de Jong SE, Buth J, Mackaay AJ, van Sambeek MR, 
Blankensteijn JD; DREAM trial participants.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    J Vasc Surg. 2008 Feb;47(2):483. Sambeek, Marc R [corrected to van Sambeek, 
Marc R].

Comment in
    Perspect Vasc Surg Endovasc Ther. 2008 Dec;20(4):384-5.

BACKGROUND: Two randomized trials have shown similar mid-term outcomes for 
survival and quality of life after endovascular and conventional open repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). With reduced hospital and intensive care stay, 
endovascular repair has been hypothesized to be more efficient than open repair. 
The Dutch Randomized Endovascular Aneurysm Management (DREAM) trial was 
undertaken to assess the balance of costs and effects of endovascular vs open 
aneurysm repair.
METHODS: We conducted a multicenter, randomized trial comparing endovascular 
repair with open repair in 351 patients with an AAA and studied costs, 
cost-effectiveness, and clinical outcome 1 year after surgery. In addition to 
clinical outcome, costs and quality of life were recorded up to 1 year in 170 
patients in the endovascular repair group and in 170 in the open repair group. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were estimated for cost per life-year, 
event-free life-year, and quality adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Uncertainty 
regarding these outcomes was assessed using bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Patients in the endovascular repair group experienced 0.72 QALY vs 0.73 
in the open repair group (absolute difference, 0.01; 95% confidence interval 
[CI], -0.038 to 0.058). Endovascular repair was associated with additional euro 
4293 direct costs (euro 18,179 vs euro 13.886; 95% CI, euro 2,770 to euro 
5,830). Most of the bootstrap estimates indicated that endovascular repair 
resulted in slightly longer overall and event-free survival associated with 
respective incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of euro76,100 and euro 171,500 
per year gained. Open repair appeared the dominant strategy in costs per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Presently, routine use of endovascular repair in patients also 
eligible for open repair does not result in a QALY gain at 1 year 
postoperatively, provides only a marginal overall survival benefit, and is 
associated with a substantial, if not prohibitive, increase in costs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.07.033
PMID: 17980274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. J Vasc Surg. 2007 Nov;46(5):913-919. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.07.030.

Acute abdominal aortic dissection: insight from the International Registry of 
Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD).

Trimarchi S(1), Tsai T, Eagle KA, Isselbacher EM, Froehlich J, Cooper JV, 
Rampoldi V, Upchurch GR Jr; International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection 
(IRAD) investigators.

Author information:
(1)IRCCS Policlinico San Donato, Cardiovascular Center E. Malan, University of 
Milan, San Donato Milanese, Italy. satrimarchi@yahoo.it

BACKGROUND: Isolated acute dissection of the abdominal aorta is an unusual event 
that may present with several different clinical scenarios. Because its 
incidence is low, the natural history is unknown. We report data from the 
International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD), the largest group of 
patients treated for acute aortic dissections. The aim of this study was to 
identify clinical characteristics, therapeutic approaches, risk factors for 
mortality, in-hospital outcome, and long-term results of this cohort, thus 
clarifying its natural history.
METHODS: A comprehensive analysis of 290 clinical variables on 18 patients 
affected by isolated acute abdominal aortic dissection (IAAAD) was performed. 
Among 1417 patients enrolled in the IRAD from 1996 to 2003, 532 (37.5%) had an 
acute type B dissection, of which 18 (1.3%) had an IAAAD. Theor mean age was 
67.7 +/- 13.3 years, with a male predominance (n = 12, 67%). Aortic aneurysms 
pre-existed in 5 patients (28%). IAAAD was iatrogenic in 2 cases (11%).
RESULTS: Compared with patients with type B aortic dissections, abdominal pain, 
mesenteric ischemia or infarction, limb ischemia, and hypotension as initial 
clinical signs were significantly more frequent in patients with IAAAD, whereas 
chest pain was more typical in patients with type B dissections. No neurologic 
symptoms, such as ischemic spinal cord damage or ischemic peripheral neuropathy, 
occurred in the IAAAD cohort. The 18 IAAAD patients were medically, surgically, 
or percutaneously managed in 12 (66.6%), five (27.8%), and one (5.6%) cases, 
respectively. The overall in-hospital mortality rate was 5.6% (n = 1). The 
patient who died was medically managed. No deaths were reported among patients 
who underwent surgery or had an endovascular procedure, irrespective of their 
preoperative status. A mean follow-up of 5 years (range, 1 month to 9 years) was 
completed for 71% (12 of 17) of the patients. Four patients (33.3%) died during 
the 9-year follow-up period. Overall survival was 93.3% +/- 12.6% at 1 year and 
73.3% +/- 27.2% at 5 years. All patients who died during the follow-up period 
had in-hospital medical management (P = .04).
CONCLUSIONS: IAAAD is a condition that may present differently compared with 
classic type B aortic dissections. IAAAD patients treated with surgical or 
endovascular procedures had a lower unadjusted in-hospital and long-term 
mortality rate compared with medically managed patients. On the basis of the 
present natural history report, continued surveillance appears mandatory. To 
improve the life expectancy of patients with IAAAD, aggressive surgical or 
endovascular management seems justified.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2007.07.030
PMID: 17980278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Lancet. 2007 Nov 3;370(9598):1552-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61660-2.

Cost-effectiveness of drug-eluting stents in patients at high or low risk of 
major cardiac events in the Basel Stent KostenEffektivitäts Trial (BASKET): an 
18-month analysis.

Brunner-La Rocca HP(1), Kaiser C, Bernheim A, Zellweger MJ, Jeger R, Buser PT, 
Osswald S, Pfisterer M; BASKET Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Our aim was to determine whether drug-eluting stents are good value 
for money in long-term, everyday practice.
METHODS: We did an 18-month cost-effectiveness analysis of the Basel Stent 
KostenEffektivitäts Trial (BASKET), which randomised 826 patients 2:1 to 
drug-eluting stents (n=545) or to bare-metal stents (281). We used 
non-parametric bootstrap techniques to determine incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) of drug-eluting versus bare-metal stents, to compare low-risk (> 
or =3.0 mm stents in native vessels; n=558, 68%) and high-risk patients (<3.0 mm 
stents/bypass graft stenting; n=268, 32%), and to do sensitivity analyses by 
altering costs and event rates in the whole study sample and in predefined 
subgroups. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were assessed by EQ-5D 
questionnaire (available in 703/826 patients).
FINDINGS: Overall costs were higher for patients with drug-eluting stents than 
in those with bare-metal stents (11,808 euros [SD 400] per patient with 
drug-eluting stents and 10,450 euros [592] per patient with bare-metal stents, 
mean difference 1358 euros [717], p<0.0001), due to higher stent costs. We 
calculated an ICER of 64,732 euros to prevent one major adverse cardiac event, 
and of 40,467 euros per QALY gained. Stent costs, number of events, and QALYs 
affected ICERs most, but unrealistic alterations would have been required to 
achieve acceptable cost-effectiveness. In low-risk patients, the probability of 
drug-eluting stents achieving an arbitrary ICER of 10,000 euros or less to 
prevent one major adverse cardiac event was 0.016; by contrast, it was 0.874 in 
high-risk patients.
INTERPRETATION: If used in all patients, drug-eluting stents are not good value 
for money, even if prices were substantially reduced. Drug-eluting stents are 
cost effective in patients needing small vessel or bypass graft stenting, but 
not in those who require large native vessel stenting.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61660-2
PMID: 17980734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Alcohol. 2007 Nov;41(7):479-88. doi: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2007.08.004.

Alcohol consumption, cardiovascular health, and endothelial function markers.

Bau PF(1), Bau CH, Rosito GA, Manfroi WC, Fuchs FD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Health Sciences Centre, Universidade Federal 
de Santa Maria, Roraima Avenue 1000, Santa Maria, RS 97105-900, Brazil. 
paulobau@gmail.com

Cardiovascular diseases are among the worldwide leading causes of shorter life 
expectancy and loss of quality of life. Thus, any influence of diet or life 
habits on the cardiovascular system may have important implications for public 
health. Most world populations consume alcoholic beverages. Since alcohol may 
have both protective and harmful effects on cardiovascular health, the 
identification of biochemical mechanisms that could explain such paradoxical 
effects is warranted. The vascular endothelium is the target of important 
mediating pathways of differential ethanol concentrations, such as oxidative 
stress, lipoproteins, and insulin resistance. Alcohol-induced endothelial damage 
or protection may be related to the synthesis or action of several markers, such 
as nitric oxide, cortisol, endothelin-1, adhesion molecules, tumor necrosis 
factor alpha, interleukin-6, C-reactive protein, and haemostatic factors. The 
expression of these markers is consistent with the J-shaped curve between 
alcohol consumption and cardiovascular health. However, there is genetic and 
phenotypic heterogeneity in alcohol response, and despite the apparent 
beneficial biochemical effects of low doses of ethanol, there is not enough 
clinical and epidemiological evidence to allow the recommendation to consume 
alcoholic beverages for abstemious individuals. Considering the potential for 
addiction of alcoholic beverage consumption and other negative consequences of 
alcohol, it would be worthwhile to identify substances able to mimic the 
beneficial effects of low doses of ethanol without its adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.alcohol.2007.08.004
PMID: 17980786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Vaccine. 2007 Nov 28;25(49):8326-37. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.09.066.
Epub  2007 Oct 17.

Evaluation of the cost-effectiveness in the United States of a vaccine to 
prevent herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia in older adults.

Pellissier JM(1), Brisson M, Levin MJ.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, Blue Bell, PA, United States. 
james_pellissier@merck.com

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2008 Sep 26;26(41):5244; author reply 5245.

CONTEXT: A live-attenuated varicella-zoster virus vaccine, demonstrated to 
reduce the incidence of herpes zoster (HZ) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) and 
the morbidity associated with incident HZ and its sequelae, has recently been 
approved for use in the United States (U.S.).
OBJECTIVE: To examine the potential value of zoster vaccine for society and 
payers. DESIGN, SETTING AND POPULATION: An age-specific decision analytic model 
was designed to estimate the lifetime costs and outcomes associated with HZ, PHN 
and other HZ-related complications for vaccinated and non-vaccinated cohorts 
aged >or=60 years. Clinical trial data, published literature and other primary 
studies were used to inform the model. Robustness of results to key model 
parameters was explored through a series of one-way, multivariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Both societal and payer perspectives were 
considered.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained.
RESULTS: For a representative cohort of 1,000,000 U.S. vaccine recipients aged 
>or=60 years, use of the zoster vaccine was projected to eliminate 
75,548-88,928HZ cases and over 20,000 PHN cases. Over 300,000 outpatient visits, 
375,000 prescriptions, 9,700 ER visits and 10,000 hospitalizations were 
projected to be eliminated with the vaccine translating into savings of US$ 82 
million to US$ 103 million in healthcare costs associated with the diagnosis and 
treatment of HZ, PHN and other HZ-related complications. Cost-effectiveness 
ratios range from US$ 16,229 to US$ 27,609 per QALY gained, depending on the 
input data source and analytic perspective. Results were most sensitive to PHN 
costs, duration of vaccine efficacy, vaccine efficacy against PHN and HZ, QALY 
loss associated with pain states and complication costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The zoster vaccine at a price of US$ 150 is likely to be 
cost-effective for a cohort of immunocompetent U.S. vaccine recipients aged 
>or=60 years using commonly cited thresholds for judging cost-effectiveness. 
Conclusions are robust over plausible ranges of input parameter values and a 
broad range of scenarios and age cohorts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.09.066
PMID: 17980938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Maturitas. 2007 Dec 20;58(4):327-39. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2007.09.011.
Epub  2007 Nov 5.

Functional foods and physical activities in health promotion of aging people.

Ferrari CK(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdades Integradas de Bauru, R. Rodolfina Dias Domingues Quadra 11, Quinta 
Ranieri, 17056-100 Bauru, SP, Brazil. ferrariphd@yahoo.com.br

Foods contain many bioactive compounds that can improve humans' health, helping 
to decrease the risk of cataract, macular degeneration, cardiovascular and 
neurological diseases, osteoporosis, and cancer. Regular practice of exercise 
and physical activity could also help to drive away aging-associated diseases 
(obesity, osteoporosis, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, Alzheimer's disease, 
Parkinson's disease, dementia, and stroke). Exercise recommendations to promote 
both women's and men's health and disease conditions that hinder exercise 
practice are described. Health promotion practices should focus on both dietary 
intake of functional foods and regular practice of exercise within the framework 
of a healthy lifestyle.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2007.09.011
PMID: 17980978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Cell. 2007 Nov 2;131(3):429-32. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2007.10.019.

25 years of HIV/AIDS science: reaching the poor with research advances.

Fauci AS(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. afauci@niaid.nih.gov

Last year marked the 25th anniversary of the recognition of what we now call 
AIDS. The AIDS pandemic has claimed more than 25 million lives, the majority of 
them in the developing world, and has exacerbated poverty and slowed human 
development. Although much has been accomplished in HIV/AIDS research, much 
remains to be done, especially regarding delivery of HIV/AIDS therapies and care 
and prevention interventions to the poorest countries that need them most.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2007.10.019
PMID: 17981106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Curr Opin Biotechnol. 2007 Oct;18(5):454-9. doi:
10.1016/j.copbio.2007.09.008.  Epub 2007 Nov 5.

Development and therapeutic applications of advanced biomaterials.

Karp JM(1), Langer R.

Author information:
(1)Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, MA 02139, United States. jeffkarp@mit.edu

Millions of patients worldwide have benefited from technological innovation from 
biomaterials. Yet, while life expectancy continues to increase, organ failure 
and traumatic injury continue to fill hospitals and diminish the quality of 
life. Advances in understanding disease and tissue regeneration combined with 
increased accessibility of modern technology have created new opportunities for 
the use of biomaterials in unprecedented ways. Materials can now be rapidly 
created and selected to target specific cells, change shape in response to 
external stimulus, and instruct tissue regeneration. Here we describe a few of 
these technologies with emphasis on targeted drug delivery vehicles, 
high-throughput material synthesis, minimally invasive biodegradable 
shape-memory materials, and development of strategies to enhance tissue 
regeneration through delivery of instructive materials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.copbio.2007.09.008
PMID: 17981454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. J Bacteriol. 2008 Jan;190(2):546-54. doi: 10.1128/JB.00536-07. Epub 2007 Nov
2.

Regulation of Rot expression in Staphylococcus aureus.

Hsieh HY(1), Tseng CW, Stewart GC.

Author information:
(1)Bond Life Sciences Center 471E, 1201 Rollins Street, University of Missouri, 
Columbia, MO 65211-7310, USA.

Repressor of toxins (Rot) is known to be a global regulator of virulence gene 
expression in Staphylococcus aureus. The function of Rot, but not the 
transcription of rot, is regulated by the staphylococcal accessory gene 
regulator (Agr) quorum-sensing system. In addition, the alternative sigma factor 
(sigma(B)) has a repressive effect on rot expression during the postexponential 
phase of growth. The transcriptional profiles of Rot in sigma(B)-positive and 
sigma(B)-negative strains in the postexponential and stationary phases of growth 
were compared. An upregulation of rot expression was observed during the 
stationary phase of growth, and this upregulation occurred in a 
sigma(B)-dependent manner. The effects of other staphylococcal transcriptional 
factors were also investigated. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed 
that proteins present in staphylococcal lysates retarded the mobility of the rot 
promoter fragment and that the effect was reduced, but not eliminated, with 
lysates from strains lacking a functional SarS protein. A modest upregulation of 
rot expression was also observed in sarS-negative strains. Affinity purification 
of proteins binding to the rot promoter fragment, followed by N-terminal protein 
sequencing, identified the SarA and SarR proteins. Primer extension analysis of 
the rot promoter revealed a number of discreet products. However, these RNA 
species were not associated with identifiable promoter activity and likely 
represented RNA breakdown products. Loss of Rot function during the 
postexponential phase of growth likely involves degradation of the rot mRNA but 
not the inhibition of rot transcription.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00536-07
PMCID: PMC2223713
PMID: 17981965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. J Neural Transm Suppl. 2007;(72):207-15. doi: 10.1007/978-3-211-73574-9_27.

Enhanced apoptosis, oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction in 
lymphocytes as potential biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease.

Leuner K(1), Pantel J, Frey C, Schindowski K, Schulz K, Wegat T, Maurer K, 
Eckert A, Müller WE.

Author information:
(1)Zafes, Biocenter, Department of Pharmacology, University of Frankfurt, 
Frankfurt, Germany.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive neurodegenerative 
disease. Today, AD affects millions of people worldwide and the number of AD 
cases will increase with increased life expectancy. The AD brain is marked by 
severe neurodegeneration like the loss of synapses and neurons, atrophy and 
depletion of neurotransmitter systems in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. 
Recent findings suggest that these pathological changes are causally induced by 
mitochondrial dysfunction, increased oxidative stress and elevated apoptosis. 
Until now, AD cannot be diagnosed by a valid clinical method or a biomarker 
before the disease has progressed so far that dementia is present. Furthermore, 
no valid method is available to determine which patient with mild cognitive 
impairment (MCI) will progress to AD. Therefore, a correct diagnosis in the 
early stage of AD is not only of importance considering that early drug 
treatment is more effective but also that the psychological burden of the 
patients and relatives could be decreased. In this review, we discuss the 
potential role of elevated apoptosis, increased oxidative stress and 
mitochondrial dysfunction as biomarker for AD in a peripheral cell model, the 
lymphocytes.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-211-73574-9_27
PMID: 17982897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Am Surg. 2007 Oct;73(10):967-9. doi: 10.1177/000313480707301007.

Malignant phyllodes tumors: a review of 752 cases.

Grabowski J(1), Salzstein SL, Sadler GR, Blair SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of California, San Diego Medical Center, 
USA.

Malignant phyllodes tumor (MPT) is a rare breast malignancy. Because of the 
scarcity of the disease, there are no evidence-based treatment or follow-up 
guidelines established. This study evaluated the survival of MPT patients to 
create recommendations for management. We identified 752 cases of malignant 
phyllodes tumors in the California Cancer Registry from the years 1988 to 2003. 
Relative survival was determined using Berkson-Gage life table analysis which 
was then compared with the relative survival of nonphyllodes breast cancer 
patients. For MPT patients, the relative annual survival at 1 year was 94 per 
cent and at 10 years was 99.6 per cent. Thus, after 10 years, these patients are 
no more likely to die than the general population. At 10 years, the relative 
cumulative survival of the MPT patients was 87.4 per cent, whereas the 
nonphyllodes breast cancer patients had only a 57.2 per cent relative cumulative 
survival. MPT patients with localized disease had a higher 10-year relative 
cumulative survival than those with regional disease (90.9% vs. 61.5%, P < 
0.001). MPT has a good prognosis, particularly in patients with localized 
disease. After 10 years, MPT patients have no increased mortality relative to 
the general population. Clinicians should plan these patients' follow-up 
accordingly.

DOI: 10.1177/000313480707301007
PMID: 17983058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2007 Apr-Jun;111(2):391-5.

[Iatrogenic disease in elderly. Case report].

[Article in Romanian]

Artenie A(1), Ungureanu G.

Author information:
(1)Clinica a IV-a Medicină, Spitalul Clinic "Dr. C.I. Parhon" Iaşi.

Longer life expectancy and modern diagnostic and therapeutic advances favoured 
the ever more frequent development of ischaemic nephropathy (IN) characterized 
by the presence of atherosclerotic stenosis in both renal arteries (ARAS); 7% of 
patients older than 65 years with cardiovascular risk factors have ARAS but the 
prevalence grows to 20% in patients with coronary artery disease, to 42% in 
patients with aorto-iliac disease and to 67.5% in patients with peripheral 
artery atherosclerotic disease. Moreover the patient is later diagnosed with IN 
until de-hydratation or treatment with angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors 
or angiotensin-2-receptor inhibitors. This therapy may present a hazard for 
elderly patients with unsuspected atherosclerotic renovascular disease; the risk 
may grow if nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are associated. Long life 
expectancy, associated comorbidities, multi-medication and functional failures 
induce a high risk for iatrogenic disease in elderly.

PMID: 17983174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Med Clin (Barc). 2007 Oct 20;129(14):557; author reply 557-8. doi: 
10.1157/13111430.

[Human development index (HDI) as an indicator of the socioeconomic factors of 
health in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Moreno Millán E.

Comment on
    Med Clin (Barc). 2007 Mar 31;128(12):463-7.

DOI: 10.1157/13111430
PMID: 17983537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Therapie. 2007 Jul-Aug;62(4):327-35. doi: 10.2515/therapie:2007060. Epub
2007  Nov 6.

[Immunosuppressive drugs and highly active antiretroviral therapy: 
pharmacokinetic interactions].

[Article in French]

Moretto J(1), Bessard G, Stanke-Labesque F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie-Toxicologie, Laboratoire HP2, INSERM ERI017, 
Université de Médecine, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Grenoble, Grenoble, 
France.

The development of highly active antiretroviral therapy has greatly improved 
HIV-infected patient survival. However, the increased life expectancy associated 
with the management of opportunistic infections might favour the onset of severe 
organic failure that could require organ transplantation. The use of 
immunosuppressive drugs in association with antiretroviral therapy will generate 
pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic interactions. In this context, therapeutic 
drug monitoring is of great importance to improve therapeutic management of 
patients.

DOI: 10.2515/therapie:2007060
PMID: 17983558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Eur J Public Health. 2008 Jun;18(3):264-9. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm102. Epub
2007  Nov 5.

Length of life and the pensions of five million retired German men.

Shkolnikov VM(1), Scholz R, Jdanov DA, Stegmann M, von Gaudecker HM.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
shkolnikov@demogr.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: Socioeconomic differences in old-age mortality have not been studied 
in Germany. This study fills in the gap, evaluating mortality and life 
expectancy differentials among retired German men aged 65+ in 2003.
METHODS: Mortality rates are calculated from the administrative database on all 
public pensions and deaths of pensioners in 2003. Relative mortality rates and 
life expectancies are estimated for population subgroups according to the 
quintiles of lifetime earnings, type of medical insurance, broad occupational 
group, and residence in eastern or western Germany.
RESULTS: Among pension income quintiles, mortality varies by 60% and life 
expectancy at age 65 ranges from 14.9 to 18.5 years. Quintile-specific mortality 
and life-expectancy values are only slightly more favorable in western compared 
to eastern Germany. The mortality of manual workers is by 35% greater than that 
of salaried employees, while the mortality of those with mandatory public health 
insurance is 44% greater than the mortality of those with private or voluntary 
public health insurance. When all four characteristics are taken into account, 
relative mortality in the group with the highest mortality is three times higher 
than at the opposite end of the distribution, and corresponding life 
expectancies are 12.5 and 20 years. Half of all male deaths at ages 65+ are 
attributable to this variation. The mortality differentials remain significant 
at ages 80+.
CONCLUSIONS: Socioeconomic mortality differentials persist into old age. They 
are similar in both regions and their magnitude is much greater than the 
diminishing mortality gap between the two parts of the country.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm102
PMID: 17984129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Eur J Endocrinol. 2007 Nov;157(5):655-9. doi: 10.1530/EJE-07-0414.

Evaluation of insulin resistance in a cohort of HIV-infected youth.

Rosso R(1), Parodi A, d'Annunzio G, Ginocchio F, Nicolini L, Torrisi C, Sormani 
MP, Lorini R, Viscoli C, Vignolo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, San Martino Hospital, University of Genoa, 
Largo R. Benzi 10, 16132 Genoa, Italy. raffaella.rosso@unige.it

OBJECTIVE: Metabolic abnormalities, including impairment of glucose homeostasis, 
have been well characterized in HIV-infected patients. In contrast to adults, 
insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus appear to be relatively uncommon 
finding in youth.
DESIGN: We assessed insulin resistance, and associated risk factors, in a 
population of vertically HIV-infected children and young adults, when compared 
with a control population of healthy children.
METHODS: At the time of enrolment, weeks of pregnancy, birth weight, sex, age, 
weight, height, body mass index (BMI), pubertal stages, CDC classification, 
blood pressure, clinical lipodystrophy, hepatitis B or C co-infection, 
antiretroviral therapy, CD4 T lymphocyte counts, and HIV-RNA levels were 
recorded. Fasting plasma glucose and insulin levels and homeostatic model 
assessment-insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) were determined. These parameters were 
compared between HIV patients and healthy controls with multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: Fasting insulin levels (OR=1.21, P<0.001) and glycemia (OR=0.89, 
P<0.001) were significantly different between HIV-infected patients and 
controls. Antiretroviral therapy duration (r=0.281, P<0.05), triglyceride levels 
(r=0.286, P<0.05), age (r=0.299, P<0.05), and BMI SDS (r=0.485, P<0.001) were 
significant predictor variables of insulin resistance, expressed as HOMA-IR. 
Moreover, clinical lipodystrophy seems to be strongly correlated to glycemia 
(P<0.05), triglyceride levels (P<0.05), serum insulin levels (P<0.001), HOMA-IR 
(P<0.05), and also with therapy duration (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Both HIV infection and antiretroviral therapy demonstrate 
differential effects on glucose metabolism in HIV-infected children. Targeted 
prevention of insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus in HIV-infected children 
and young adults is needed in order to avoid the associated long-term 
complications that would otherwise occur, given the improvement in life 
expectancy of HIV-infected individuals.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-07-0414
PMID: 17984246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2007 Nov;64(11):1259-68. doi:
10.1001/archpsyc.64.11.1259.

Cost-benefit analysis of second-generation antipsychotics and placebo in a 
randomized trial of the treatment of psychosis and aggression in Alzheimer 
disease.

Rosenheck RA(1), Leslie DL, Sindelar JL, Miller EA, Tariot PN, Dagerman KS, 
Davis SM, Lebowitz BD, Rabins P, Hsiao JK, Lieberman JA, Schneider LS; Clinical 
Antipsychotic Trial of Intervention Effectiveness-Alzheimer's Disease (CATIE-AD) 
investigators.

Author information:
(1)Northeast Program Evaluation Center (182), VA Connecticut Health Care System, 
West Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA. robert.rosenheck@yale.edu

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2008 Mar-Apr;148(2):53.

CONTEXT: Second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) are prescribed for psychosis, 
aggression, and agitation in Alzheimer disease (AD).
OBJECTIVE: To conduct a cost-benefit analysis of SGAs and placebo (taken to 
represent a "watchful waiting" treatment strategy) for psychosis and aggression 
in outpatients with AD.
DESIGN: Randomized placebo-controlled trial of alternative SGA initiation 
strategies.
SETTING: Forty-two outpatient clinics.
PARTICIPANTS: Outpatients with AD and psychosis, aggression, or agitation (N = 
421). Intervention Participants were randomly assigned to treatment with 
olanzapine, quetiapine fumarate, risperidone, or placebo with the option of 
double-blind rerandomization to another antipsychotic or citalopram hydrobromide 
or open treatment over 9 months.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Monthly interviews documented health service use and 
costs. The economic perspective addressed total health care and medication 
costs. Costs of study drugs were estimated from wholesale prices with adjustment 
for discounts and rebates. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were assessed 
with the Health Utilities Index Mark 3 and were supplemented with measures of 
functioning, activities of daily living, and quality of life. Primary analyses 
were conducted using all available data. Secondary analyses excluded 
observations after the first medication change (ie, phase 1 only). Cost-benefit 
analysis was conducted using the net health benefits approach in a sensitivity 
analysis in which QALYs were valued at $50,000 per year and $100,000 per year.
RESULTS: Average total health costs, including medications, were significantly 
lower for placebo than for SGAs, by $50 to $100 per month. There were no 
differences between treatments in QALYs or other measures of function. Phase 
1-only analyses were broadly similar. Net-benefit analysis showed greater net 
health benefits for placebo as compared with other treatments, with 
probabilities ranging from 50% to 90%.
CONCLUSIONS: There were no differences in measures of effectiveness between 
initiation of active treatments or placebo (which represented watchful waiting) 
but the placebo group had significantly lower health care costs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00015548.

DOI: 10.1001/archpsyc.64.11.1259
PMID: 17984395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. CMAJ. 2007 Nov 6;177(10):1174. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.060674.

Differences in healthy life expectancy among men and women.

Baerlocher MO.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.060674
PMCID: PMC2043068
PMID: 17984467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Invest Radiol. 2007 Oct;42(10):715-25. doi: 10.1097/RLI.0b013e318074fd81.

Assessment of morphological MRI for pulmonary changes in cystic fibrosis (CF) 
patients: comparison to thin-section CT and chest x-ray.

Puderbach M(1), Eichinger M, Haeselbarth J, Ley S, Kopp-Schneider A, Tuengerthal 
S, Schmaehl A, Fink C, Plathow C, Wiebel M, Demirakca S, Müller FM, Kauczor HU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology (E010), DKFZ, Heidelberg, Germany. 
m.puderbach@dkfz.de

Comment in
    Expert Rev Respir Med. 2008 Apr;2(2):179-82.

OBJECTIVES: As pulmonary complications are life limiting in patients with cystic 
fibrosis (CF), repeated chest imaging [chest x-ray, computed tomography (CT)] is 
needed for follow up. With the continuously rising life expectancy of CF 
patients, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as a radiation-free imaging modality 
might become more and more attractive. The goal of this study was to 
prospectively assess the value of MRI for evaluation of morphologic pulmonary 
CF-changes in comparison to established imaging modalities.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Thirty-one CF patients (19 female, 12 male; mean age 16.7 
years) with stable lung disease were examined by MRI: HASTE, coronal/transversal 
(TR/TE/alpha/TA: infinite/28 ms/180 degrees /18 s), multi-detector computed 
tomography (MDCT) (30 patients): 120 kV, dose modulated mAs, and chest x-ray (21 
patients). Image evaluation: random order, 4 chest radiologists in consensus; 
chest x-ray: modified Chrispin-Norman score; CT and MRI: modified Helbich score. 
The maximal attainable score for chest x-ray was 34, for MRI and CT 25. Median 
scores, Pearson correlation coefficients, Bland-Altman plots, and concordance of 
MRI to CT on a lobar and segmental basis were calculated.
RESULTS: The median MRI and MDCT scores were 13 (min 3, max 20) respectively 
13.5 (min 0, max 20). The median chest x-ray score was 14 (min 5, max 32). 
Pearson correlation coefficients: MRI/CT = 0.80, P < 0.0001; MRI/chest x-ray = 
0.63, P < 0.0018; chest x-ray/CT = 0.75, P < 0.0001. The median lobe related 
concordance was 80% for bronchiectasis, 77% for mucus plugging, 93%, for 
sacculation/abscesses, and 100% for collapse/consolidation.
CONCLUSIONS: Morphologic MRI of the lung in CF patients demonstrates comparable 
results to MDCT and chest x-ray. Because radiation exposure is an issue in CF 
patients, MRI might have the ability to be used as an appropriate alternative 
method for pulmonary imaging.

