be treated only after the patient has given consent.

PMID: 18065918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. An Acad Bras Cienc. 2007 Dec;79(4):593-616. doi: 
10.1590/s0001-37652007000400004.

Chemical carcinogenesis.

Oliveira PA(1), Colaço A, Chaves R, Guedes-Pinto H, De-La-Cruz P LF, Lopes C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Sciences, CECAV, University of Trás-os-Montes and 
Alto Douro, Vila Real, Portugal. pamo@utad.pt

The use of chemical compounds benefits society in a number of ways. Pesticides, 
for instance, enable foodstuffs to be produced in sufficient quantities to 
satisfy the needs of millions of people, a condition that has led to an increase 
in levels of life expectancy. Yet, at times, these benefits are offset by 
certain disadvantages, notably the toxic side effects of the chemical compounds 
used. Exposure to these compounds can have varying effects, ranging from instant 
death to a gradual process of chemical carcinogenesis. There are three stages 
involved in chemical carcinogenesis. These are defined as initiation, promotion 
and progression. Each of these stages is characterised by morphological and 
biochemical modifications and result from genetic and/or epigenetic alterations. 
These genetic modifications include: mutations in genes that control cell 
proliferation, cell death and DNA repair--i.e. mutations in proto-oncogenes and 
tumour suppressing genes. The epigenetic factors, also considered as being 
non-genetic in character, can also contribute to carcinogenesis via epigenetic 
mechanisms which silence gene expression. The control of responses to 
carcinogenesis through the application of several chemical, biochemical and 
biological techniques facilitates the identification of those basic mechanisms 
involved in neoplasic development. Experimental assays with laboratory animals, 
epidemiological studies and quick tests enable the identification of 
carcinogenic compounds, the dissection of many aspects of carcinogenesis, and 
the establishment of effective strategies to prevent the cancer which results 
from exposure to chemicals.

DOI: 10.1590/s0001-37652007000400004
PMID: 18066431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Chemistry. 2008;14(2):432-42. doi: 10.1002/chem.200700993.

Glasses for seeing beyond visible.

Zhang X(1), Bureau B, Lucas P, Boussard-Pledel C, Lucas J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of glasses and Ceramics, UMR 6226 CNRS-University of Rennes, 35042 
Rennes, France.

Conventional glasses based on oxides have a transparency limited by phonon 
absorption in the near IR region and have a limited interest for analyzing 
information located far beyond the visible. The IR spectral domain is 
nevertheless of prime interest, since it covers fundamental wavelength ranges 
used for thermal imaging as well as molecular vibrational signatures. Besides 
spectacular advances in the field of IR detectors, the main significant 
progresses are related to the development of IR glass optics, such as lenses or 
IR optical fibres. The field of IR glasses is almost totally dominated by 
glasses formed from heavy atoms such as the chalcogens S, Se and Te. Their 
transparency extends up to 12, 16 and 28 microm for sulfide-, selenide- and the 
new generation of telluride-based glasses, respectively. They cover the 
atmospheric transparency domains, 3-5 and 8-13 microm, respectively, at which 
the IR radiation can propagate allowing thermal imaging and night-vision 
operations through thick layers of atmosphere. The development of new glass 
compositions will be discussed on the basis of structural consideration with the 
objective of moulding low-cost lenses for IR cameras used, for instance, in 
car-driving assistance. Additionally, multimode, single-index, optical fibres 
operating in the 3 to 12 microm window developed for in situ remote 
evanescent-wave IR spectroscopy will also be mentioned. The detection of 
molecular IR signatures is applied to environmental monitoring for investigating 
the pollution of underground water with toxic molecules. The extension of this 
technique to the investigation of biomolecules in three different studies 
devoted to liver tissues analysis, bio-film formation, and cell metabolism will 
also be discussed. Finally we will mention the developments in the field of 
single-mode fibres operating around 10 mum for the Darwin space mission, which 
is aiming at discovering, signs of biological life in telluric earth-like 
exoplanets throughout the universe.

DOI: 10.1002/chem.200700993
PMID: 18067106


750. J Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2007 Dec;21(6):793-9. doi: 
10.1053/j.jvca.2007.05.016. Epub 2007 Aug 3.

Influence of intraoperative conversion from off-pump to on-pump coronary artery 
bypass grafting on costs and quality of life: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Shiga T(1), Apfel CC, Wajima Z, Ohe Y.

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Anesthesiology, Toho University School of Medicine, 
Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan. qzx02115@nifty.com <qzx02115@nifty.com>

OBJECTIVE: Off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery has become a widely 
accepted alternative to standard coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery 
using cardiopulmonary bypass; however, the influence of intraoperative 
conversion from OPCAB to standard CABG on costs and quality of life is unclear. 
The objective of this study was to determine whether intraoperative conversion 
affects costs and quality of life.
DESIGN: A decision-analysis model and Monte Carlo simulation.
SETTING: The US healthcare system over a maximum 10-year lifetime horizon.
PARTICIPANTS: A hypothetical cohort of 60-year-old male patients undergoing 
elective OPCAB surgery or standard CABG surgery.
INTERVENTIONS: Each patient was entered into the decision tree with varying 
transition probabilities. Outcome measures included quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) and costs in US dollars.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: In base-case analysis, OPCAB surgery led to a 
discounted lifetime cost of $91,282 and 7.64 discounted QALYs, and standard CABG 
surgery led to $91,685 and 7.52 QALYs. Patients who required conversion from 
off-pump to on-pump surgery incurred a cost of $103,909 and gained 6.63 QALYs. 
OPCAB is dominant (less costly and more effective) if the conversion rate is 
below 8.5%, whereas costs increase exponentially if the probability of 
conversion exceeds 15%. Sixty-one percent of the Monte Carlo simulations favored 
cost-effectiveness of the OPCAB strategy.
CONCLUSION: In low-risk patients, OPCAB surgery, in comparison to standard CABG 
surgery, would increase QALYs by reducing complications related to 
cardiopulmonary bypass, but it would result in lifetime costs similar to those 
of standard CABG surgery. The benefit of OPCAB may be offset by the risk of 
intraoperative conversion.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jvca.2007.05.016
PMID: 18068054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Hum Evol. 2008 May;54(5):568-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2007.08.012. Epub
2007  Dec 18.

Life history costs and benefits of encephalization: a comparative test using 
data from long-term studies of primates in the wild.

Barrickman NL(1), Bastian ML, Isler K, van Schaik CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Anthropology and Anatomy, Duke University, Box 3170, 
Durham, NC 27710, USA. nancy.barrickman@duke.edu

The correlation between brain size and life history has been investigated in 
many previous studies, and several viable explanations have been proposed. 
However, the results of these studies are often at odds, causing uncertainties 
about whether these two character complexes underwent correlated evolution. 
These disparities could arise from the mixture of wild and captive values in the 
datasets, potentially obscuring real relationships, and from differences in the 
methods of controlling for phylogenetic non independence of species values. This 
paper seeks to resolve these difficulties by (1) proposing an overarching 
hypothesis that encompasses many of the previously proposed hypotheses, and (2) 
testing the predictions of this hypothesis using rigorously compiled data and 
utilizing multiple methods of analysis. We hypothesize that the adaptive benefit 
of increased encephalization is an increase in reproductive lifespan or 
efficiency, which must be sufficient to outweigh the costs due to growing and 
maturing the larger brain. These costs and benefits are directly reflected in 
the length of life history stages. We tested this hypothesis on a wide range of 
primate species. Our results demonstrate that encephalization is significantly 
correlated with prolongation of all stages of developmental life history except 
the lactational period, and is significantly correlated with an extension of the 
reproductive lifespan. These results support the contention that the link 
between brain size and life history is caused by a balance between the costs of 
growing a brain and the survival benefits the brain provides. Thus, our results 
suggest that the evolution of prolonged life history during human evolution is 
caused by increased encephalization.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhevol.2007.08.012
PMID: 18068214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Clin Neurophysiol. 2008 Feb;119(2):315-20. doi:
10.1016/j.clinph.2007.09.142.

Characterization of the 7-12 Hz EEG oscillations during immobile waking and REM 
sleep in behaving rats.

Marini G(1), Ceccarelli P, Mancia M.

Author information:
(1)Centro di ricerca sperimentale sul sonno Giuseppe Moruzzi, Istituto di 
Fisiologia Umana II, Università degli Studi, via Mangiagalli 32, 20133 Milano, 
Italy. gabriella.marini@unimi.it

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine whether the mu rhythm is also 
seen in the EEG of alert, undrugged and freely moving rats. The mu rhythm is a 
salient neocortical synchrony with dominant frequency in the 8-13 Hz band, 
initially recorded over the parietal and frontal areas of humans and 
subsequently investigated in monkeys and cats using the term sensorimotor 
rhythm. In the rat, these oscillations have been described only at single-unit 
level in the trigeminal system or in the cerebellar hemispheres.
METHODS: In order to identify this rhythm, according to the "functional 
topography" approach, we examined the shape, spectral content, spatial 
distribution in power spectra, and functional reactivity. Rats were implanted 
with multiple electrodes along the antero-posterior axes. Monopolar recordings 
and simultaneous continuous 24-h video were taken in natural dark-light cycles 
for 6 consecutive days. Brain mappings based on quantitative spectral analysis 
were made.
RESULTS: Spontaneous well-defined 7-12 Hz EEG oscillations were found during 
immobile wakefulness and REM sleep. Comparable features of these patterns 
indicated that they are largely analogous to the mu rhythm.
CONCLUSIONS: The conservation of mu rhythm in the EEG across mammalian species 
with different cortical extension suggests that it is functionally important.
SIGNIFICANCE: Given the great interest aroused by the properties of the mirror 
neurons, reflected by the mu rhythm, the detailed characterization of this 
rhythm in rats during natural life may prove useful in prospective evolutionary 
studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinph.2007.09.142
PMID: 18068429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2008 Jan-Feb;4(1):26-32. doi:
10.1016/j.soard.2007.09.009.  Epub 2007 Dec 19.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of laparoscopic gastric bypass, adjustable gastric 
banding, and nonoperative weight loss interventions.

Salem L(1), Devlin A, Sullivan SD, Flum DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, 
Washington 98195-6410, USA.

BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding (LAGB) and laparoscopic 
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB) are the two most commonly performed bariatric 
procedures. Although both procedures likely reduce healthcare expenditures 
related to the resolution of co-morbid conditions, they have different rates of 
perioperative risks and different rates of associated weight loss. We designed a 
model to evaluate the incremental cost-effectiveness of these procedures 
compared with nonoperative weight loss interventions and with each other.
METHODS: We used a deterministic, payer-perspective model comparing the lifetime 
expected costs and outcomes of LAGB, LRYGB, and nonoperative treatment. The 
major endpoints were survival, health-related quality of life, and weight loss. 
Life expectancy and lifetime medical costs were calculated across age, gender, 
and body mass index (BMI) strata using previously published data.
RESULTS: For both men and women, LRYGB and LAGB were cost-effective at 
<$25,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) even when evaluating the full range 
of baseline BMI and estimates of adverse outcomes, weight loss, and costs. For 
base-case scenarios in men (age 35 y, BMI 40 kg/m(2)), the incremental 
cost-effectiveness was $11,604/QALY for LAGB compared with $18,543/QALY for 
LRYGB. For base-case scenarios in women (age 35 y, BMI 40 kg/m(2)), the 
incremental cost-effectiveness was $8878/QALY for LAGB compared with 
$14,680/QALY for LRYGB.
CONCLUSION: The modeled cost-effectiveness analysis showed that both operative 
interventions for morbid obesity, LAGB and RYGB, were cost-effective at <$25,000 
and that LAGB was more cost-effective than RYGB for all base-case scenarios.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2007.09.009
PMCID: PMC2706260
PMID: 18069075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Int J Prosthodont. 2007 Nov-Dec;20(6):609-16.

A 4- to 6-year retrospective clinical study of cracked teeth restored with 
bonded indirect resin composite onlays.

Signore A(1), Benedicenti S, Covani U, Ravera G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biophysics, Medicine, and Dentistry, University of Genoa, 
Italy.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to retrospectively evaluate the clinical 
performance of bonded indirect resin composite onlays for the treatment of 
painful, cracked teeth over a 6-year period.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty-three posterior teeth diagnosed as having a crack 
were selected in the restorative department of the University of Genoa. 
Inclusion criteria were sensitivity to biting and cold and a clinically visible 
crack. Direct composite buildup after removal of the existing restoration was 
performed before definitive cavity preparation. All composite onlay restorations 
were cemented with an adhesive technique using a 3-step total etch system and a 
dual-cure composite cement. Patients were interviewed and clinically examined at 
1 week, 4 weeks, and every 6 months.
RESULTS: The effectiveness of bonded onlay restorations was evaluated for a mean 
observation time of 4.78 years. At 1 week, 38 (88.37%) restored teeth were free 
of pain, 3 (6.98%) still had sensitivity to cold, and 2 (4.65%) still had 
sensitivity to cold and chewing. At 4 weeks, 40 (93.02%) teeth were free of 
pain, 2 (4.65%) still had sensitivity to cold and chewing, and 1 (2.32%) needed 
endodontic treatment. Two other teeth (4.65%) also needed endodontic treatment, 
the first after 2 months and the second after 5 months. During the evaluation 
period, 3 restorations (6.98%) failed, and upon clinical examination, 40 
(93.02%) teeth were free of symptoms with a 6-year survival rate of 93.02% (life 
table analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: Bonded indirect resin composite onlays can be successful in 
treating painful, cracked teeth. From the findings of this study, it appears 
that cuspal protection should be incorporated into the design of coronal 
restorations.

PMID: 18069370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Int J Prosthodont. 2007 Nov-Dec;20(6):617-22.

Dental implants as strategic supplementary abutments for implant-tooth-supported 
telescopic crown-retained maxillary dentures: a retrospective follow-up study 
for up to 9 years.

Krennmair G(1), Krainhöfner M, Waldenberger O, Piehslinger E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, University of Vienna, Austria. krennmair@aon.at

PURPOSE: The aim of this retrospective study was to present the results of 
implants and natural teeth used as combined abutments to support maxillary 
telescopic prostheses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1997 and 2004, 22 patients with residual 
maxillary teeth underwent prosthodontic rehabilitation with supplementary 
implant placement of implant-tooth-supported telescopic prostheses. A total of 
60 supplementary implants (mean: 2.9 implants; SD: 1.6; range: 1 to 5 per 
patient) were placed in strategic position and connected with 48 natural 
abutment teeth (mean: 2.2 teeth; SD: 0.9; range: 1 to 4 per patient) using 
telescopic crowns. The follow-up registration included implant and natural tooth 
survival rates and peri-implant and periodontal parameters, along with 
prosthodontic maintenance. Natural tooth abutments were additionally followed to 
compare their periodontal parameters at baseline to the follow-up examination.
RESULTS: After a mean of 38 months (12 to 108 months) no implants or natural 
tooth abutments were lost (survival rate: 100%). There was no fracture, 
endodontic treatment, loss, or intrusion of natural teeth used for telescopic 
abutments. Implant abutments showed high stability and excellent periimplant 
soft tissue conditions. Natural tooth abutments used for double crowns also 
showed uneventful progress. A low rate of prosthodontic maintenance was seen, 
with implant screw abutment loosening as the most severe complication (3 of 60 
implants; 5%).
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of this retrospective clinical review, the following 
conclusions were drawn: (1) successful function over a prolonged period and a 
minor complication rate of implant-tooth-supported telescopic maxillary dentures 
may be anticipated, and (2) the great variety of treatment modalities offered by 
tooth-implant support for telescopic prostheses appears to be useful as a 
treatment option for the maxilla in elderly patients.

PMID: 18069371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2007 Jul;28(7):708-11.

[Evaluation on the indirect economic burden of stroke using combination of 
disability-adjusted life years and human capital method].

[Article in Chinese]

Long Y(1), Liu XD, Duan LP, Lu J, Yan YP, Zhang L, Hu JX, Huang JY, Xu DZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology , Fourth Military Medical University, Xi'an 
710032, China.

OBJECTIVE: Using the indirect economic burden of stroke in a rural population to 
develop rational allocation of future health resources, in Hanzhong area.
METHODS: Cluster sampling which involved 53 natural villages with a total number 
of 75,000 people selected from the 'stroke monitoring base' of rural population 
was adopted in this study in the Hanzhong area. All of the 164 stroke cases were 
studied through a self-designed questionnaire. In calculating 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), fixed value was used in accordance with 
the value of GBD. The disability assessment was simplified in DALYs calculation 
and modified Barthel's ADL was used in disability assessment of stroke patients. 
In indirect economic burden analysis, the human capital method combined with 
DALYs was adopted with the formula as: indirect economic burden = GNP per capita 
x DALYs x productivity weight.
RESULTS: The total DALYs were 598.88, with an average DALY of stroke as 3.65 per 
case. The total indirect economic burden of stroke patients in rural areas was 
1,993,977.8 RMB and the average of indirect economic burden of stroke was 
12,158.4 RMB per case with the largest seen in the 45-59 age group, accounted 
for 74.4%.
CONCLUSION: In our study, the use of method in combining the human capital with 
DALYs was the first time being adopted in calculation of the indirect economic 
burden of stroke in rural population in China. The burden seemed to be much 
lower than literature cited from other countries. It was reasonable to evaluate 
indirect economic burden of stroke using method in integrating DALYs with human 
capital, but it was difficult to calculate the DALYs.

PMID: 18069566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Br J Dermatol. 2008 Feb;158(2):351-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2007.08354.x.
 Epub 2007 Dec 6.

Assessment of health state utilities of controlled and uncontrolled psoriasis 
and atopic eczema: a population-based study.

Schmitt J(1), Meurer M, Klon M, Frick KD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technical 
University Dresden, Fetscherstr. 74, D-01307 Dresden, Germany. 
jochen.schmitt@uniklinikum-dresden.de

BACKGROUND: Health utilities are used to express relevant trade-offs for 
resource allocation. The absence of valid and generalizable utilities for atopic 
eczema (AE) and psoriasis limits the validity of previous cost-utility analyses.
OBJECTIVES: (i) To assess health utilities of standardized scenarios of 
controlled and uncontrolled AE and psoriasis in participants from the general 
population and in patients using the time trade-off (TTO) method; (ii) to test 
the association of the utilities obtained with demographic and patient 
characteristics; and (iii) to compare these utilities with other health economic 
outcomes [utilities assessed on visual analogue scale (VAS), willingness to pay 
(WTP)].
METHODS: A single-centre study conducted in 2006 at the Department of 
Dermatology, Dresden, Germany. Standardized interactive computer-assisted 
interviews in a random sample from the general population (n=139), and patients 
with AE (n=58) and psoriasis (n=62). Information on health states included 
characteristic clinical pictures and a short text explaining aetiology, signs, 
symptoms and quality of life impact.
RESULTS: In participants from the general population median utilities (TTO) of 
controlled and uncontrolled AE were 0.97 and 0.64, respectively. For psoriasis 
the corresponding utilities were 0.93 and 0.56. Utilities were independent of 
sex and socioeconomic position, and tended to be lower in patients with 
psoriasis. Correlations between TTO, VAS and WTP responses were weak.
CONCLUSIONS: To avoid uncontrolled psoriasis or eczema participants chose an 
approximately 40% shorter life expectancy. This indicates that severe chronic 
inflammatory skin diseases may be considered as severe as angina pectoris, 
chronic anxiety, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis or regional 
oesophageal cancer. The different economic outcomes assessed are not 
interchangeable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2007.08354.x
PMID: 18070214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Arch Intern Med. 2007 Dec 10;167(22):2528; author reply 2528. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.167.22.2528-a.

The effect of obesity on disability vs mortality in older american: the 
potential implication of testosterone.

Schulman C.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2007 Apr 23;167(8):774-80.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.167.22.2528-a
PMID: 18071181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):549-55. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.1022. Epub
2007  Dec 10.

Predictors of tamoxifen discontinuation among older women with estrogen 
receptor-positive breast cancer.

Owusu C(1), Buist DS, Field TS, Lash TL, Thwin SS, Geiger AM, Quinn VP, Frost F, 
Prout M, Yood MU, Wei F, Silliman RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Case Western Reserve University, University 
Hospitals Health System Ireland Cancer Center-BHC 5055, 11100 Euclid Ave, 
Cleveland, OH 44106-5055, USA. cynthia.owusu@case.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):523-6.

PURPOSE: Five years of adjuvant tamoxifen therapy for estrogen receptor (ER) 
-positive breast cancer is more effective than 2 years of use. However, 
information on tamoxifen discontinuation is scanty. We sought to identify 
predictors of tamoxifen discontinuation among older women with breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Within six health care delivery systems, we identified 
women >or= 65 years old diagnosed with stage I to IIB ER-positive or 
indeterminant breast cancer between 1990 and 1994 who had filled a prescription 
for adjuvant tamoxifen. We observed them for 5 years after initial tamoxifen 
prescription. We used automated pharmacy records to validate tamoxifen 
prescription information abstracted from medical records. The primary end point 
was tamoxifen discontinuation, operationalized as ever discontinuing tamoxifen 
during 5 years of follow-up. We used Cox proportional hazards to identify 
predictors of tamoxifen discontinuation.
RESULTS: Of 961 women who were prescribed tamoxifen, 49% discontinued tamoxifen 
before the completion of 5 years. Discontinuers were more likely to be aged 75 
to less than 80 years (v < 70 years; hazard ratio [HR] = 1.41; 95% CI, 1.06 to 
1.87), be aged >or= 80 years (HR = 2.02; 95% CI, 1.53 to 2.66), have an increase 
in Charlson Comorbidity Index at 3 years from diagnosis (HR = 1.52; 95% CI, 1.18 
to 1.95), have an increase in the number of cardiopulmonary comorbidities at 3 
years (HR = 1.75; 95% CI, 1.34 to 2.28), have indeterminant ER status (v 
ER-positive status; HR = 1.36; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.85), and have received 
breast-conserving surgery (BCS) without radiotherapy (v mastectomy; HR = 1.62; 
95% CI, 1.18 to 2.22).
CONCLUSION: Attention to nonadherence among older women at risk of 
discontinuation, particularly those receiving BCS without radiotherapy, might 
improve breast cancer outcomes for these women.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.1022
PMID: 18071188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Osteoporos Int. 2008 Jun;19(6):819-27. doi: 10.1007/s00198-007-0511-0.

The cost-effectiveness of the treatment of high risk women with osteoporosis, 
hypertension and hyperlipidaemia in Sweden.

Zethraeus N(1), Ström O, Borgström F, Kanis JA, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Stockholm School of Economics, P.O. Box 6501, 
S-113 83 Stockholm, Sweden. henz@hhs.se

This paper assessed the cost-effectiveness of the treatment of high risk women 
with osteoporosis, hypertension and hyperlipidaemia in Sweden, using one model 
and a societal perspective. Cost-effective scenarios were found in all these 
chronic disorders. These findings are of relevance for decisions on the 
efficient allocation of health care resources.
INTRODUCTION: There is a need to assess the cost-effectiveness (CE) of treatment 
of osteoporosis from a societal perspective and to relate this to the CE of 
interventions in other disease areas. This is of relevance for decisions on the 
efficient allocation of health care resources within and between disease areas. 
The purpose of the paper was to estimate the CE of the treatment and prevention 
of osteoporosis and to put that into the perspective of treating hypertension 
and hyperlipidaemia. The CE was assessed for different high risk female 
populations aged 50-80 years.
METHODS: The estimation of CE was based on a model populated with data for 
Sweden.
RESULTS: Compared to no intervention, a 5-year treatment of osteoporosis, 
hypertension, and hyperlipidaemia, is cost effective for most of the assessed 
high risk female populations. The cost per gained quality adjusted life year 
(QALY) for the treatment of a 70-year-old woman never exceeded SEK 330,000 (US$ 
44,000), which is generally judged as an acceptable cost for a gained QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrates that it is possible to produce reliable 
estimates of the CE of treatments in different disease areas within the context 
of a single model.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-007-0511-0
PMID: 18071650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. CNS Drugs. 2008;22(1):73-81. doi: 10.2165/00023210-200822010-00006.

National use of thrombolysis with alteplase for acute ischaemic stroke via 
telemedicine in Denmark: a model of budgetary impact and cost effectiveness.

Ehlers L(1), Müskens WM, Jensen LG, Kjølby M, Andersen G.

Author information:
(1)HTA Unit, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus, Denmark. lars.ehlers@stab.rm.dk

AIM: The purpose of this analysis was to assess the budgetary impact and cost 
effectiveness of the national use of thrombolysis with alteplase (recombinant 
tissue plasminogen activator; rt-PA) for acute ischaemic stroke via telemedicine 
in Denmark.
METHODS: Computations were based on a Danish health economic model of 
thrombolysis treatment of acute ischaemic stroke via telemedicine. Cost data for 
stroke units and satellite clinics were taken from the first practical 
experiences in Denmark with implementing thrombolysis via telemedical linkage to 
the Stroke Department at Aarhus University Hospital. Effectiveness data were 
taken from a published pooled analysis of results from randomized controlled 
trials of alteplase.
RESULTS: The calculations showed that the additional total costs to the 
hospitals of implementing thrombolysis with alteplase for acute ischaemic stroke 
via telemedicine were approximately $US3.0 (range 2.0-5.8) million per year in 
the case of five centres and five satellite clinics, or $US3.6 (range 2.4-7.0) 
million per year based on seven centres and seven satellite clinics. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated to be approximately 
$US50,000 when taking a short time perspective (1 year), but thrombolysis was 
dominant (both cheaper and more effective) after as little as 2 years and cost 
effectiveness improved over longer time scales.
CONCLUSION: The budgetary impact of using thrombolysis with alteplase for acute 
ischaemic stroke via telemedicine depends on the existing capacity and 
organizational conditions at the local hospitals. The health economic model 
computations suggest that the macroeconomic costs may balance with savings in 
care and rehabilitation after as little as 2 years, and that potentially large 
long-term savings are associated with thrombolysis with alteplase delivered by 
telemedicine, although the long-term calculations are uncertain.

DOI: 10.2165/00023210-200822010-00006
PMID: 18072816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Dec;10(4):648-50. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0634.

Can I have volunteers to die tomorrow?

Bains W.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0634
PMID: 18072883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Genet Med. 2007 Oct;9(10):695-704. doi: 10.1097/gim.0b013e318156dd07.

Pharmacogenomic testing to prevent aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss in cystic 
fibrosis patients: potential impact on clinical, patient, and economic outcomes.

Veenstra DL(1), Harris J, Gibson RL, Rosenfeld M, Burke W, Watts C.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Public Health Genetics, Department of Pharmacy, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. veenstra@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Aminoglycosides are commonly used in cystic fibrosis patients to 
treat Pseudomonas aeruginosa respiratory infections. Aminoglycoside-induced 
hearing loss may occur in 1%-15% of patients with cystic fibrosis, ranging from 
mild to severe. Recently, a genetic test to identify patients with a 
mitochondrial mutation (A1555G) that may predispose patients to this adverse 
event has become available. Although the A1555G variant is very rare, it seems 
to confer a high risk of severe hearing loss in patients exposed to 
aminoglycosides.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to evaluate the potential clinical, patient, and 
economic outcomes associated with the use of A1555G testing in a cystic fibrosis 
population, and explore data gaps and uncertainty in its clinical 
implementation.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to evaluate a hypothetical 
cohort of patients with cystic fibrosis from a societal perspective. Clinical 
and economic data were derived primarily from a critical literature review. The 
incidence of aminoglycoside-induced severe hearing loss, quality-adjusted 
life-years, and total health care costs were evaluated. Sensitivity analyses 
were conducted to evaluate uncertainty in our results.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, A1555G testing decreased the risk of severe 
aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss by 0.12% in the cystic fibrosis population. 
The discounted incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-years gained was 
$79,300, but varied widely from $33,000 to testing being dominated by the no 
testing strategy (higher costs and lower quality-adjusted life-years with 
testing) in sensitivity analyses. If avoidance of aminoglycosides in patients 
testing positive leads to an absolute increase in the lifetime risk of death 
from Pseudomonas infection of 0.8% or greater, A1555G testing would lead to a 
decrease in quality-adjusted life-years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our analysis suggest that there are significant data 
gaps and uncertainty in the outcomes with A1555G testing, but it is not likely 
cost-effective, and could lead to worse patient outcomes due to avoidance of 
first-line therapy in the >95% of patients who are false-positives. Additional 
research is needed before pharmacogenetic testing for the A1555G mitochondrial 
mutation can be recommended, even in a population with a high likelihood of 
exposure to aminoglycosides.

DOI: 10.1097/gim.0b013e318156dd07
PMID: 18073583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Br J Community Nurs. 2007 Oct;12(10):463-8. doi:
10.12968/bjcn.2007.12.10.27285.

Will health trainers reduce inequalities in health?

Netherwood M(1).

Author information:
(1)Thames Valley University, Slough. maggie.netherwood@tvu.ac.uk

The Health Trainer initiative was a public policy initiative designed to tackle 
health inequalities. Despite considerable improvements in the health of the 
population in the United Kingdom, there continues to be a gap between the rich 
and the poor in terms of deaths from cancer, stroke and coronary heart disease. 
There is a relationship between these health problems and lifestyle behaviours 
such as smoking, physical inactivity and poor diet. The Health Trainer 
initiative was created as part of the white paper Choosing Health. Following 
initial implementation across targeted Primary Care Trusts (The Spearhead 
Group), a rigorous evaluation of the initiative is taking place prior to a 
national roll out. This paper uses Whitehead's framework to examine the decision 
to implement health trainers as a stated aim of tackling health inequalities. 
The four purposes of health policy as identified by Whitehead (1995) and the 
categories of healthy living initiatives (Visram and Drinkwater 2005) are 
examined and applied to the health trainer initiative and its potential for 
reducing health inequality.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2007.12.10.27285
PMID: 18073647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Aging Ment Health. 2007 Nov;11(6):716-21. doi: 10.1080/13607860701366228.

A cognitive intervention to enhance institutionalized older adults' social 
support networks and decrease loneliness.

Winningham RG(1), Pike NL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Western Oregon University, Monmouth, Oregon 97361, 
USA. winninr@wou.edu

Nearly all older adults experience social losses, which can disrupt their social 
support networks and impair their quality of life. Events such as retirement, an 
inability to drive, death of a spouse and/or close life-long friends, or moving 
to an elder care facility may negatively affect the quality of older adults' 
social support networks. Low levels of perceived social support are associated 
with increased depression, impaired immune functioning and reduced life 
expectancy. Moreover, social interactions can be cognitively stimulating and may 
help older adults preserve their cognitive abilities. In the present study, 
institutionalized older adults were exposed to either a cognitive enhancement 
programme designed to enhance social networks or a control group. Measures of 
perceived social support and loneliness were administered before and after a 
3-month, group-based intervention. There was a significant interaction between 
group and time. Those who did not participate in the intervention experienced a 
decrease in perceived social support and an increase in perceived loneliness. 
Participants in the intervention group stayed the same on the above measures. 
Helping older adults increase or maintain the quality of their social networks 
may lead to enhanced cognitive functioning, decreased depression and improved 
quality of life. Recommendations to help assisted living facilities, nursing 
homes, retirement communities and senior centres develop social and cognitive 
interventions are provided.

DOI: 10.1080/13607860701366228
PMID: 18074259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Health Econ. 2008 Oct;17(10):1207-13. doi: 10.1002/hec.1320.

Incorporating feelings related to the uncertainty about future health in utility 
measurement.

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. afschin.gandjour@uk-koeln.de

The cost-effectiveness of health-care interventions is often evaluated using 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as a measure of outcome. QALYs are valid 
representations of welfare only under the questionable assumption of additive 
independence of utility of health states across time periods. Therefore, some 
alternatives to QALYs have been proposed, among them healthy-year equivalents 
(HYEs) (Med. Decis. Making 1989; 9(2):142-149) and a semi-separable utility 
function (SSUF) (J. Health Econ. 2005; 24(1):33-54). This paper shows that HYEs 
using a single probability-equivalent standard gamble (SG) question measure the 
same health construct as the SSUF, which uses a series of probability-equivalent 
SG questions. The underlying assumption is that final health states are 
independent of initial health states. In contrast to the SSUF, however, HYEs are 
not bound by this assumption and also avoid propagating bias in the measurement 
of SG utilities from one question to the next. This paper also shows that both 
approaches can incorporate feelings related to the uncertainty about future 
health and capture them by using certainty equivalent questions.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1320
PMID: 18074407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Health Econ. 2008 Jul;17(7):877-85. doi: 10.1002/hec.1315.

Can we fix it? Yes we can! But what? A new test of procedural invariance in 
TTO-measurement.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
arthur.attema@rivm.nl

The TTO-method is often used to value health states, but it is susceptible to 
several biases and methodological difficulties. One of these is a violation of 
procedural invariance, which means that the way a TTO-question is framed, i.e. 
either by fixing the period in imperfect health or that in perfect health, can 
have a substantial effect on the elicited value of a health state. There are 
four important sources of discrepancy of the two procedures: loss aversion, 
maximum endurable time, scale compatibility and discounting. In this article, we 
present the results of a new test of procedural invariance in which we avoided 
or corrected for two of these sources (discounting and maximum endurable time). 
Our results indicate that while correcting for discounting does diminish the 
difference between the two TTO-procedures, a large and significant violation of 
procedural invariance remains. Loss aversion is probably the main determinant of 
the remainder of this difference.

Copyright (c) 2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1315
PMID: 18074409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Aust Fam Physician. 2007 Dec;36(12):1002-4.

Environmental toxins and health--the health impact of pesticides.

Cohen M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, RMIT University, Victoria. marc.cohen@rmit.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Pesticides, including insecticides, herbicides and fungicides, are 
widely used in Australian agriculture. There is growing public concern about 
their impact on human health.
OBJECTIVE: This article reviews the available evidence about the potential 
chronic health effects of pesticides, particularly relating to children and 
breastfeeding women, and discusses the potential role of organic food in 
decreasing risk.
DISCUSSION: Exposure to pesticides can occur directly from occupational, 
agricultural and household use, and indirectly through the diet. Studies suggest 
that pesticides may be related to various diseases, including cancers, as well 
as having neurological, mental and reproductive effects. Children may be more 
susceptible to the effects of pesticides due to increased exposure via food and 
breast milk, underdeveloped detoxification pathways, and longer life expectancy 
in which to develop diseases with long latency periods. Some studies suggest 
that organic food consumption may lead to reduced pesticide exposure, however, 
there is a lack of direct evidence that organic food is a healthier option. 
Recommendations to minimise pesticide exposure include avoiding the use of 
pesticides at home or in the garden, limiting skin exposure to pesticides 
through the use of appropriate protective gear, and consuming organic food.

PMID: 18075622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2008 Mar;9(1):33-9. doi: 10.1007/s11154-007-9067-8.

Does acromegaly enhance mortality?

Ayuk J(1), Sheppard MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, University of 
Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK. j.ayuk@bham.ac.uk

The increased mortality associated with acromegaly was first demonstrated in 
early epidemiological studies. Since the seminal paper by Wright et al. in 1970, 
nearly 20 studies have analyzed mortality rates in over 5,000 patients with 
acromegaly. Overall standardized mortality rates are approximately two times 
higher than in the general population, relating to an average reduction in life 
expectancy of around 10 years. The excess deaths are due predominantly to 
cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and respiratory disease. Malignancy deaths have 
been high in some studies but not others; in the largest series looking at 
cancer mortality in acromegaly, overall cancer deaths were not increased, but 
colon cancer mortality was higher than expected. In 1993, Bates et al. first 
demonstrated that outcome was related to the latest measurable growth hormone 
(GH), and treatment to reduce GH levels led to improved outcomes. Other factors 
predicting poor outcome include the presence of hypertension and diabetes. On 
the basis of current evidence, a latest GH of less than 2-2.5 mug/L is a better 
predictor of good outcome than a normal insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), 
possibly due to discrepancy between GH and IGF-1 at low GH levels. There is some 
evidence to suggest a more stringent GH cut-off (less than 1 mug/L) may yield 
additional benefit but further studies are required to investigate any added 
risk of increased mortality from hypopituitarism. Radiotherapy has been linked 
specifically to cerebrovascular mortality and its use in patients with 
acromegaly must involve a careful risk-benefit analysis in each case.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-007-9067-8
PMID: 18075787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2007;7(6):441-8. doi:
10.2165/00129784-200707060-00007.

Estimating the cost effectiveness of ramipril used for specific clinical 
indications: comparing the outcomes in four clinical trials with a common 
economic model.

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Lowensteyn I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Epidemiology and Biostatistics, The McGill 
University Health Centre, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
steven.grover@mcgill.ca

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Economic analyses of drug therapies are highly 
dependent on the clinical indications for treatment. The cost effectiveness of 
ramipril has been evaluated in numerous studies, usually based on the results of 
one specific clinical trial. We estimated the cost effectiveness of this drug 
across a range of currently accepted therapeutic indications, using a single 
health economic model and adjusted for quality of life, to compare the different 
outcomes observed in four clinical trials.
METHODS: The cardiovascular life expectancy model, a validated Markov model, was 
calibrated to accurately forecast the results of four trials including AIRE, 
HOPE, Micro-HOPE, and REIN. We then extrapolated these results over the 
remaining life expectancy of the patients enrolled in each study and adjusted 
for the quality of life associated with the observed outcomes. The cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was then calculated from the perspective of 
the Canadian healthcare system incorporating the estimated direct healthcare 
costs associated with treatments and outcomes.
RESULTS: After discounting all costs and outcomes 3% annually, the benefits 
associated with ramipril ranged from 0.74 QALYs in the AIRE study to 1.22 QALYs 
in Micro-HOPE. Treatment was estimated to be cost-saving for some patient 
groups, such as those in REIN. The highest cost-effectiveness ratio was observed 
among individuals enrolled in HOPE ($Can20 000 per QALY in 2002).
CONCLUSION: Treatment with ramipril appears to be economically attractive across 
a wide range of patient groups, including those with increased coronary risk 
and/or diabetes mellitus (HOPE and Micro-HOPE), those with congestive heart 
failure (AIRE), and those with non-diabetic nephropathy (REIN).

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200707060-00007
PMID: 18076211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Sex Transm Infect. 2008 Apr;84(2):152-4. doi: 10.1136/sti.2007.028043. Epub
2007  Dec 12.

Health economic methodology illustrated with recent work on Chlamydia screening: 
the concept of extended dominance.

Postma MJ(1), de Vries R, Welte R, Edmunds WJ.

Author information:
(1)Groningen Research Institute of Pharmacy (GRIP), University of Groningen, 
Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV, Groningen, The Netherlands. m.j.postma@rug.nl

The health economic concepts of dominance were reviewed on the basis of two 
recently published cost-effectiveness analyses on screening for asymptomatic 
Chlamydia trachomatis, one in this journal. On the basis of dominance, some 
strategies may be deleted from the set options from which to choose. The two 
investigated studies were from the United Kingdom and The Netherlands. Both 
studies nicely illustrate situations of so-called extended dominance in 
practical decision making. Extended dominance is a theoretical topic in many 
health-economic text books but is only scarcely encountered in daily practice. 
Although the concept of extended dominance is theoretical in nature, a formal 
analysis and explanation may help show which options under consideration are not 
optimal from a strictly health-economic perspective; however, these options 
might still be attractive policy options for other reasons.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2007.028043
PMID: 18077610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2007;3(5):721-31.

A review of pioglitazone HCL and glimepiride in the treatment of type 2 
diabetes.

Dorkhan M(1), Frid A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Division of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Lund 
University, Malmö University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. mozhgan.dorkhan@med.lu.se

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a progressive disorder with a consistent and steady 
increase in glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) over time associated with enhanced 
risk of micro- and macrovascular complications and a substantial reduction in 
life expectancy. There are three major pathophysiologic abnormalities associated 
with T2D: impaired insulin secretion, excessive hepatic glucose output, and 
insulin resistance in skeletal muscle, liver, and adipose tissue. These defects 
have been treated in clinical praxis by use of oral insulin secretagogues 
(sulfonylureas/ glinides) or insulin, biguanides, and thiazolidinediones (TZDs) 
respectively. Pioglitazone HCL is an insulin sensitizer in the TZD family and 
glimepiride is an insulin secretagogue in the SU family. This article reviews 
mechanisms of action and clinical data behind the use of these two commonly used 
oral hypoglycemic agents with documented efficacy and good safety profile of 
once-daily administration, alone or in combination with insulin or metformin, in 
the management of T2D in terms of glycemic and non-glycemic effects, 
tolerability and side effects, and impact on vascular health.

PMCID: PMC2291316
PMID: 18078023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Feb;36(2):688-96. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkm1089. Epub
2007  Dec 13.

DNA polymerase kappa produces interrupted mutations and displays polar pausing 
within mononucleotide microsatellite sequences.

Hile SE(1), Eckert KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Gittlen Cancer Research Foundation, The Pennsylvania 
State University College of Medicine, 500 University Drive, Hershey, PA 17033, 
USA.

Microsatellites are ubiquitously present in eukaryotic genomes and are 
implicated as positive factors in evolution. At the nucleotide level, 
microsatellites undergo slippage events that alter allele length and base 
changes that interrupt the repetitive tract. We examined DNA polymerase errors 
within a [T](11) microsatellite using an in vitro assay that preferentially 
detects mutations other than unit changes. We observed that human DNA polymerase 
kappa (Pol kappa) inserts dGMP and dCMP within the [T](11) mononucleotide 
repeat, producing an interrupted 12-bp allele. Polymerase beta produced such 
interruptions at a lower frequency. These data demonstrate that DNA polymerases 
are capable of directly producing base interruptions within microsatellites. At 
the molecular level, expanded microsatellites have been implicated in DNA 
replication fork stalling. Using an in vitro primer extension assay, we observed 
sequence-specific synthesis termination by DNA polymerases within 
mononucleotides. Quantitatively, intense, polar pausing was observed for both 
pol kappa and polymerase alpha-primase within a [T](11) allele. A mechanism is 
proposed in which pausing results from DNA bending within the duplex stem of the 
nascent DNA. Our data support the concept of a microsatellite life-cycle, and 
are consistent with the models in which DNA sequence or secondary structures 
contributes to non-uniform rates of replication fork progression.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkm1089
PMCID: PMC2241860
PMID: 18079151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2008 Feb;104(2):446-50. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00951.2007. Epub 2007 Dec 13.

Long-term cardiovascular effects of neonatal dexamethasone treatment: 
hemodynamic follow-up by left ventricular pressure-volume loops in rats.

Bal MP(1), de Vries WB, van Oosterhout MF, Baan J, van der Wall EE, van Bel F, 
Steendijk P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden 
University, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Dexamethasone is clinically applied in preterm infants to treat or prevent 
chronic lung disease. However, concern has emerged about adverse side effects. 
The cardiovascular short-term side effects of neonatal dexamethasone treatment 
are well documented, but long-term consequences are unknown. Previous studies 
showed suppressed mitosis during dexamethasone treatment, leading to reduced 
ventricular weight, depressed systolic function, and compensatory dilatation in 
prepubertal rats. In addition, recent data indicated a reduced life expectancy. 
Therefore, we investigated the long-term effects of neonatal dexamethasone 
treatment on cardiovascular function. Neonatal rats were treated with 
dexamethasone or received saline. Cardiac function was determined in 8-, 50-, 
and 80-wk-old animals, representing young adult, middle-aged, and elderly 
stages. A pressure-conductance catheter was introduced into the left ventricle 
to measure pressure-volume loops. Subsequently, the hearts were collected for 
histological examination. Our results showed reduced ventricular and body 
weights in dexamethasone-treated rats at 8 and 80 wk, but not at 50 wk. Cardiac 
output and diastolic function were unchanged, but systolic function was 
depressed at 50 and 80 wk, evidenced by reduced ejection fractions and rightward 
shifts of the end-systolic pressure-volume relationships. We concluded that 
previously demonstrated early adverse effects of neonatal dexamethasone 
treatment are transient but that reduced ventricular weight and systolic 
dysfunction become manifest again in elderly rats. Presumably, cellular 
hypertrophy initially compensates for the dexamethasone treatment-induced lower 
number of cardiomyocytes, but this mechanism falls short at a later stage, 
leading to systolic dysfunction. If applicable to humans, cardiac screening of a 
relatively large patient group to enable secondary prevention may be indicated.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00951.2007
PMID: 18079273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

