
BACKGROUND: Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) causes significant morbidity and 
mortality in children under five years of age. A safe and effective vaccine is 
available but is not in general use in developing countries. This paper 
evaluates the cost-effectiveness of introducing Hib vaccine in Indonesia as an 
addition to the country's current DTP-Hepatitis B vaccination program.
METHODS: The economic analysis uses a societal perspective and is based on a 
1-year birth cohort of 4.234 million. The disease status of children with and 
without Hib vaccination is modeled for the year, and health consequences are 
modeled over the expected life of the child. One-way, two-way, probabilistic and 
worst-case sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate the robustness of the 
results.
RESULTS: Implementation of Hib vaccination in Indonesia would avert 
approximately 76,700 cases of invasive infection, more than 7,150 deaths and 
273,000 disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). Compared to no vaccine, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is US $67 per DALY averted based on 
UNICEF pricing, whereas the program would save US $3.7 million with GAVI 
pricing. The result is not sensitive to uncertainty in disease incidence, costs 
of treatment or the probability of developing immunity.
CONCLUSION: The model demonstrates significant cost-effectiveness of 
implementation of a Hib vaccination program for Indonesian society.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdm055
PMID: 17875589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Br J Radiol. 2007 Oct;80(958):807-15. doi: 10.1259/bjr/77948690. Epub 2007
Sep  17.

Dose and image quality optimization in neonatal radiography.

Dougeni ED(1), Delis HB, Karatza AA, Kalogeropoulou CP, Skiadopoulos SG, 
Mantagos SP, Panayiotakis GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Physics, School of Medicine, University of Patras, 265 
00 Patras, Greece.

In a special care baby unit, neonates, mainly premature, encounter serious to 
life-threatening diseases, the timely diagnosis and treatment of which may 
require a large number of radiographs. Increased neonatal radiosensitivity and 
longer life expectancy increase the risk of radiation-induced cancer, which 
emphasizes the importance of minimizing dose while maintaining clinically 
satisfactory image quality. An optimization study on radiation dose and image 
quality in neonatal radiography is presented. Neonates were categorized into 
four groups depending on birthweight. For a total of 378 chest and chest-abdomen 
radiographs, exposure parameters were recorded. Entrance surface dose (ESD) was 
estimated and dose-area product (DAP) was measured. Image quality evaluation was 
performed by two observers and was based on the visibility of certain anatomical 
features and catheters placed during treatment using a five-grade scale. ESD 
values increased with neonatal weight and demonstrated wide variation (16.4-76.9 
microGy, mean 38.2 microGy). A wide variation was also observed in DAP values 
(1.2-15.0 mGycm2, mean 7.2 mGycm2). Image quality evaluation revealed the 
feasibility of achieving a diagnostically satisfactory image (score >70%) using 
both low and high tube voltage techniques, with the latter resulting in reduced 
ESDs. The majority of estimated ESDs are in accordance with the reference level 
of 50 microGy recommended by the National Radiological Protection Board for 
neonatal radiography. The results suggest that the use of high tube voltage 
techniques could result in further reductions in neonatal dose, without image 
quality degradation, underlying the requirement for establishing standard 
examination protocols for neonatal radiography with respect to neonatal weight.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/77948690
PMID: 17875594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Ann Intern Med. 2007 Sep 18;147(6):417-22. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-147-6-200709180-00012.

Glycemic control and type 2 diabetes mellitus: the optimal hemoglobin A1c 
targets. A guidance statement from the American College of Physicians.

Qaseem A(1), Vijan S, Snow V, Cross JT, Weiss KB, Owens DK; Clinical Efficacy 
Assessment Subcommittee of the American College of Physicians.

Author information:
(1)American College of Physicians, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106, USA. 
aqaseem@acponline.org

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Apr 1;148(7):563-4; author reply 564-5.
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Apr 1;148(7):564; author reply 564-5.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2007 Sep 18;147(6):I52.

This guidance statement is derived from other organizations' guidelines and is 
based on an evaluation of the strengths and weaknesses of the available 
guidelines. We used the Appraisal of Guidelines, Research and Evaluation in 
Europe (AGREE) appraisal instrument to evaluate the guidelines from various 
organizations. On the basis of the review of the available guidelines, we 
recommend: STATEMENT 1: To prevent microvascular complications of diabetes, the 
goal for glycemic control should be as low as is feasible without undue risk for 
adverse events or an unacceptable burden on patients. Treatment goals should be 
based on a discussion of the benefits and harms of specific levels of glycemic 
control with the patient. A hemoglobin A1c level less than 7% based on 
individualized assessment is a reasonable goal for many but not all patients. 
STATEMENT 2: The goal for hemoglobin A1c level should be based on individualized 
assessment of risk for complications from diabetes, comorbidity, life 
expectancy, and patient preferences. STATEMENT 3: We recommend further research 
to assess the optimal level of glycemic control, particularly in the presence of 
comorbid conditions.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-147-6-200709180-00012
PMID: 17876024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Can J Cardiol. 2007 Sep;23(11):865-8. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70840-1.

Potent diuretic effects of prednisone in heart failure patients with refractory 
diuretic resistance.

Liu C(1), Liu G, Zhou C, Ji Z, Zhen Y, Liu K.

Author information:
(1)The First Hospital of Hebei Medical University, China.

BACKGROUND: Refractory congestive heart failure (CHF) with diuretic resistance 
is life-threatening and predicts a short life expectancy. Glucocorticoids have 
been proven to have potent diuretic effects in animal studies; however, their 
efficacy in CHF patients with diuretic resistance is not known.
METHODS: Thirteen CHF patients with significant volume overload and diuretic 
resistance who failed to respond to a conventional sequential nephron blockade 
therapeutic strategy; that is, the coadministration of a thiazide 
(hydrochlorothiazide) and spironolactone, in combination with loop diuretics, 
were studied. Prednisone (1 mg/kg daily) was then added to standard care, with 
other medications unchanged, to determine diuretic efficacy in these CHF 
patients. Variables included body weight, urine volume, serum electrolytes and 
renal function.
RESULTS: Adding prednisone resulted in striking diuresis with a mean (+/- SD) 
body weight reduction of 9.39+/-3.09 kg. Prednisone significantly decreased 
serum creatinine by 52.21+/-48.68 mumol/L and increased glomerular filtration 
rate by 33.63+/-15.87 mL/min/1.73 m(2) compared with baseline. All patients were 
discharged from hospital with improved clinical status and renal function, and 
11 patients remained alive in the long term. The main side effect of prednisone 
appeared to be hyperglycemia in diabetic patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated that prednisone can rapidly 
eliminate volume overload and improve clinical status and renal function in CHF 
patients with diuretic resistance. Further prospective randomized clinical 
studies are warranted to confirm its clinical efficacy.

HISTORIQUE : L’insuffisance cardiaque congestive (ICC) réfractaire accompagnée 
d’une résistance diurétique met en jeu le pronostic vital et est prédictive 
d’une courte espérance de vie. Dans les études sur des animaux, il est démontré 
que les glucocorticoïdes ont de puissants effets diurétiques. On ne connaît 
toutefois pas leur efficacité chez des patients atteints d’ICC accompagnée d’une 
résistance diurétique.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Treize patients atteints d’ICC réfractaire présentant une 
importante surcharge de volume et une résistance diurétique et qui n’avaient pas 
réagi à la stratégie thérapeutique classique de blocage des néphrons 
(c’est-à-dire la coadministration d’hydrochlorothiazide de thiazide) et de 
spironolactone en association avec des diurétiques en boucle. On a ensuite 
ajouté la prednisone (1 mg/kg tous les jours) aux soins classiques, sans 
modifier le reste de la médication, afin d’en déterminer l’efficacité diurétique 
chez les patients atteints d’ICC ayant une résistance diurétique réfractaire. 
Les variables incluaient le poids corporel, le volume urinaire, les électrolytes 
sériques et la fonction rénale.
RÉSULTATS : L’ajout de prednisone a entraîné une diurèse énergique associée à 
une réduction de poids moyenne (±ÉT) de 9,39±3,09 kg. La prednisone a suscité 
une réduction considérable de créatinine sérique de 52,21±48,68 μmol/L et une 
augmentation du taux de filtration glomérulaire de 33,63±15,87 mL/min/1.73 m2 
par rapport aux données de départ. L’état clinique et la fonction rénale de tous 
les patients s’étaient améliorés au moment du congé, et 11 patients ont survécu 
à long terme. L’hyperglycémie chez les patients diabétiques semblait être le 
principal effet secondaire de la prednisone.
CONCLUSIONS: La présente étude a révélé que la prednisone peut rapidement 
éliminer la surcharge de volume ainsi qu’améliorer l’état clinique et la 
fonction rénale des patients atteints d’ICC accompagnée d’une résistance 
diurétique réfractaire. Il faudrait mener d’autres études cliniques prospectives 
aléatoires pour en confirmer l’efficacité clinique dans une telle situation.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70840-1
PMCID: PMC2651362
PMID: 17876376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Rev Soc Bras Med Trop. 2007 Jul-Aug;40(4):443-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0037-86822007000400014.

[Triatoma tibiamaculata (Pinto, 1926): life table for nymphs, duration of adult 
forms and oviposition of females].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rodrigues VL(1), Ferraz Filho AN, da Rocha e Silva EO.

Author information:
(1)Superintendência de Controle de Endemias, Mogi Guaçu, SP. 
veracorrea@dglnet.com.br

Under laboratory conditions, the authors analyzed the survival rate of nymphs, 
the minimum and maximum duration of each stage, the length of life of the winged 
forms and oviposition of the females. Two groups of 100 eggs each were 
monitored. In batch A, the specimens were reared in a single glass receptacle. 
In batch B, the specimens were kept apart, one by one, and when they reached the 
winged stage, they formed twenty couples, which made it possible to watch over 
the oviposition of the females and the length of life of each specimen. The egg 
eclosion rate was 96%; the proportion still alive at the end of the nymph phase 
was 69.5% in batch A and 78.4% in batch B. The most frequent length of time 
observed between oviposition and eclosion of first-stage nymphs was 28 days. The 
nymph phase lasted four to eight months and the adult phase five months. The 
mean total oviposition in batch B was 181.6 eggs per female.

DOI: 10.1590/s0037-86822007000400014
PMID: 17876468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Braz J Med Biol Res. 2007 Sep;40(9):1159-62. doi: 
10.1590/s0100-879x2007000900001.

Examining life-course influences on chronic disease: the Ribeirão Preto and São 
Luís birth cohort studies (Brazil).

Batty GD(1).

Author information:
(1)MRC Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, 
UK. david-b@msoc.mrc.gla.ac.uk

More than any other low- and middle-income country, Brazil has the longest 
research tradition of establishing, maintaining and exploiting birth cohort 
studies. This research pedigree is highlighted in the present issue of the 
Brazilian Journal of Medical and Biological Research, which contains a series of 
twelve papers from the Ribeirão Preto and São Luis birth cohort studies from the 
Southeast and Northeast of Brazil, respectively. The topics covered in this raft 
of reports vary and include predictors of perinatal health and maternal risk 
factors, early life determinants of cardiovascular risk factors in childhood and 
adolescence, use of health services, and a description of dietary 
characteristics of young adults, amongst other topics. There is also a guide to 
the background, objectives, sampling and protocols employed across these 
studies, which, together with similar pieces published in past issues of the 
Brazilian Journal, serve as a very useful starting point, particularly for 
potential collaborators. In the fervent hope that further follow-up of these 
cohorts will take place--we provide our own justification for cohort maintenance 
and extension in this issue--future data collection could include: genetic 
material, atherosclerosis, ascertained, for instance, by intima-media thickness, 
and IQ testing in children--scores from which are emerging as potentially 
important predictors of adult health outcomes up to six decades later.

DOI: 10.1590/s0100-879x2007000900001
PMID: 17876483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Br J Surg. 2008 Feb;95(2):183-90. doi: 10.1002/bjs.5911.

Modelling the long-term cost-effectiveness of endovascular or open repair for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm.

Epstein DM(1), Sculpher MJ, Manca A, Michaels J, Thompson SG, Brown LC, Powell 
JT, Buxton MJ, Greenhalgh RM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. dme2@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Recent randomized trials have shown that endovascular abdominal 
aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR) has a 3 per cent aneurysm-related survival benefit 
in patients fit for open surgery, but it also has uncertain long-term outcomes 
and higher costs. This study assessed the cost-effectiveness of EVAR.
METHODS: A decision model was constructed to estimate the lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) with EVAR and open repair in men aged 74 
years. The model includes the risks of death from aneurysm, other cardiovascular 
and non-cardiovascular causes, secondary reinterventions and non-fatal 
cardiovascular events. Data were taken largely from the EVAR trial 1 and 
supplemented from other sources.
RESULTS: Under the base-case (primary) assumptions, EVAR cost 3800 pounds 
sterling (95 per cent confidence interval (c.i.) 2400 pounds sterling to 5200 
pounds sterling) more per patient than open repair but produced fewer lifetime 
QALYs (mean -0.020 (95 per cent c.i. -0.189 to 0.165)). These results were 
sensitive to alternative model assumptions.
CONCLUSION: EVAR is unlikely to be cost-effective on the basis of existing 
devices, costs and evidence, but there remains considerable uncertainty.

2007 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.5911
PMID: 17876749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Oct;61(10):1626-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01343.x.

Irbesartan treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension and renal 
disease: a UK health economics analysis.

Palmer AJ(1), Valentine WJ, Ray JA.

Author information:
(1)CORE - Center for Outcomes Research, A Unit of IMS Health, Allschwil, 
Switzerland.

The objective of the study was to determine the impact of irbesartan treatment 
on life expectancy (LE), costs and progression to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) 
in hypertensive type 2 diabetes patients. A peer-reviewed and published Markov 
model was used to simulate progression from microalbuminuria to overt 
nephropathy, doubling of serum creatinine, ESRD and all-cause mortality in 
hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes. Three treatment strategies were 
evaluated: (i) 'control' regimen of conventional antihypertensive therapy 
(excluding angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, angiotensin-2-receptor 
antagonists and dihydropyridine calcium-channel blockers), (ii) 'early 
irbesartan' 300 mg daily and (iii) 'late irbesartan' 300 mg daily (started when 
overt nephropathy developed). Transition probabilities determining nephropathy 
progression were taken from the Irbesartan in Reduction of Microalbuminuria-2 
study, Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial and other published sources. 
Outcomes were projected over 25 years. The mean +/- SD cumulative incidence of 
ESRD was reduced by 8.8% +/- 0.6 and 12.4% +/- 0.7 in patients treated with 
early irbesartan compared with late irbesartan and control respectively. Early 
irbesartan treatment improved undiscounted LE by 1.38 +/- 0.08 years 
(discounted: 0.81 +/- 0.04 years) compared with late irbesartan and 1.41 +/- 
0.08 years (discounted: 0.83 +/- 0.04 years) compared with control. Early 
irbesartan treatment was projected to save (mean +/- SD) pounds 2310 +/- 327 and 
pounds 3801 +/- 327 over patient lifetimes compared with late irbesartan and 
control respectively. Irbesartan treatment is predicted to improve survival and 
reduce costs in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria 
compared with 'control'. Early irbesartan treatment is more effective than late 
irbesartan. Irbesartan is a valuable treatment option in this patient group in a 
UK setting.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01343.x
PMID: 17877649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Am Nat. 2007 Sep;170(3):492-9. doi: 10.1086/520115. Epub 2007 Jul 20.

Genotype-by-genotype interactions modified by a third species in a plant-insect 
system.

Tétard-Jones C(1), Kertesz MA, Gallois P, Preziosi RF.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester 
M13 9PT, United Kingdom. catherine.tetard-jones@manchester.ac.uk

Community genetics examines how genotypic variation within a species influences 
the associated ecological community. The inclusion of additional environmental 
and genotypic factors is a natural extension of the current community genetics 
framework. However, the extent to which the presence of and genetic variation in 
associated species influences interspecific interactions (i.e., genotype x 
genotype x environment [G x G x E] interactions) has been largely ignored. We 
used a community genetics approach to study the interaction of barley and aphids 
in the absence and presence of rhizosphere bacteria. We designed a matrix of 
aphid genotype and barley genotype combinations and found a significant G x G x 
E interaction, indicating that the barley-aphid interaction is dependent on the 
genotypes of the interacting species as well as the biotic environment. We 
discuss the consequences of the strong G x G x E interaction found in our study 
in relation to its impact on the study of species interactions in a community 
context.

DOI: 10.1086/520115
PMID: 17879200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2007 Dec;13(12):1467-74. doi: 10.1002/ibd.20262.

Early bacterial dependent induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in 
epithelial cells upon transfer of CD45RB(high) CD4(+) T cells in a model for 
experimental colitis.

Dijkstra G(1), Yuvaraj S, Jiang HQ, Bun JC, Moshage H, Kushnir N, Peppelenbosch 
MP, Cebra JJ, Bos NA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Groningen, 
University Medical Center Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Both the role of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in the 
development of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) as well as the molecular details 
governing its mucosal induction remain unclear.
METHODS: In the present study we evaluated the role of the residing intestinal 
microflora in the induction of epithelial iNOS upon transfer of CD45RB(high) 
CD4(+) T cells to SCID mice. CB-17 SCID mice were reared with conventional flora 
(CNV) or germfree CB-17 SCID mice were monoassociated with Helicobacter 
muridarum, act A(-) mutant Listeria monocytogenes, segmented filamentous 
bacteria (SFB), or Ochrobactrum anthropi.
RESULTS: Within 2 weeks CNV SCID mice injected with CD45RB(high) CD4(+) T cells 
showed a focal, epithelial iNOS expression on the apical site of villi that 
preceded the infiltration of CD4(+) T cells and cytokine production followed by 
extension of this expression to the entire surface along the whole crypt axis as 
the colitis progressed. SCID mice monoassociated with H. muridarum developed a 
severe colitis and showed high epithelial iNOS expression. CNV-SCID mice without 
T cells and SCID mice monoassociated with SFB did not show any iNOS expression, 
whereas SCID mice monoassociated with act A(-) mutant L. monocytogenes and O. 
anthropi showed some scattered epithelial iNOS staining on the apical site of a 
few villi, but none of these mice developed colitis.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that the expression of epithelial iNOS 
is highly bacterium-specific and correlates with the severity of disease, 
suggesting an important role for this enzyme in the development of IBD.

DOI: 10.1002/ibd.20262
PMID: 17879278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Clin Infect Dis. 2007 Oct 15;45(8):1062-70. doi: 10.1086/521933. Epub 2007
Sep  4.

Potential risks and benefits of HIV treatment simplification: a simulation model 
of a proposed clinical trial.

Schackman BR(1), Scott CA, Sax PE, Losina E, Wilkin TJ, McKinnon JE, Swindells 
S, Weinstein MC, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY 
10021, USA. brs2006@med.cornell.edu

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2007 Oct 15;45(8):1071-3.

BACKGROUND: In recent studies, subjects who had achieved suppression of the 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) RNA level while receiving an initial 3-drug 
antiretroviral regimen successfully maintained suppression while receiving 
treatment with a "boosted" protease inhibitor (PI) alone. We projected the 
long-term outcomes of this treatment simplification strategy to inform the 
design of a proposed multicenter, randomized clinical trial.
METHODS: We used published studies to estimate the efficacy, adverse effects, 
and cost of a sequence of HIV drug regimens for the simplification strategy, 
compared with those outcomes for the current standard-of-care (SOC) strategy. 
Using a published simulation model of HIV disease, we projected life expectancy, 
discounted quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE), and discounted lifetime 
medical costs for each strategy.
RESULTS: Subjects who have not developed PI-resistant HIV infection at the time 
of failure of the simplification regimen have a greater life expectancy (27.9 
vs. 27.1 years) and QALE (14.9 vs. 14.7 years), compared with SOC subjects, 
because they receive an additional line of therapy without negative consequences 
for future treatment options. The QALE for the simplification strategy remains 
higher than that for the SOC, unless a large proportion of patients experiencing 
virologic failure while receiving the simplification regimen develop PI 
resistance. Depending on the probability of simplification regimen failure, the 
advantage is maintained even if HIV develops PI resistance in 42%-70% of 
subjects. Projected lifetime costs are $26,500-$72,400 per person lower for the 
simplification strategy than for the SOC strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: An HIV treatment simplification strategy involving use of a boosted 
PI alone may lead to longer survival overall at lower cost, compared with the 
SOC combination therapy, because the simplification strategy potentially adds an 
additional line of therapy. The risk of emergence of PI resistance during 
treatment with a simplified regimen is a critical determinant of the viability 
of this strategy.

DOI: 10.1086/521933
PMCID: PMC2365723
PMID: 17879926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Am J Med Genet A. 2007 Nov 1;143A(21):2502-11. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.31919.

Mortality in achondroplasia study: a 42-year follow-up.

Wynn J(1), King TM, Gambello MJ, Waller DK, Hecht JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Texas Health Science Center at 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA.

Achondroplasia (ACH) is the most common dwarfing condition having a prevalence 
of 1/25,000 live births. An increase in overall mortality, age specific 
mortality up to age 34 years and heart disease-related mortality was first 
reported in a 1987 study of a large population of ACH individuals. Since this 
study, concern about premature death, particularly in young adults, has 
persisted in the ACH population. The present study was undertaken to follow-up 
the patterns of mortality in a more contemporaneous ACH population. The vital 
status of 718 ACH individuals from the original study and 75 new ACH individuals 
was determined through the search of two computerized mortality database. The 
results showed that the overall mortality and age-specific mortality at all ages 
remained significantly increased. Rates of death were similar across all 42 
years of follow-up suggesting that higher death rates were still occurring in 
the contemporary ACH population. Accidental, neurological, and heart 
disease-related deaths were increased in adults. Heart disease-related 
mortality, between ages 25 and 35, was more than 10 times higher than the 
general population. Overall survival and the average life expectancy for this 
ACH population were decreased by 10 years. These results demonstrate that 
despite advances in the knowledge of the natural history of ACH and health care 
needs of this population, mortality remains significantly increased. The high 
rate of heart disease related deaths illustrates the need to identify risk 
factors in the ACH population and develop treatment interventions accordingly.

Copyright 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.31919
PMID: 17879967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Transfusion. 2007 Oct;47(10):1820-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2007.01398.x.

Clinical and economic burden of infused iron chelation therapy in the United 
States.

Payne KA(1), Desrosiers MP, Caro JJ, Baladi JF, Lordan N, Proskorovsky I, Ishak 
K, Rofail D.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute, 185 Dorval Avenue, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
kpayne@caroresearch.com

Comment in
    Transfusion. 2007 Oct;47(10):1751-2.

BACKGROUND: Patients requiring chronic blood transfusions are at risk for iron 
overload, which, if not treated by iron chelation therapy (ICT), can create 
serious organ damage and reduce life expectancy. Current ICT requires burdensome 
8- to 12-hour infusions five to seven times per week.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A naturalistic study of the burden of infused ICT was 
conducted in four US centers. Data from the initial and most recent years of ICT 
were collected from medical charts of consenting thalassemia (n = 40) and sickle 
cell disease (n = 9) patients. Quality of life (QoL), treatment satisfaction, 
and ICT-related resource utilization data were also collected from a patient 
interview.
RESULTS: Mean serum ferritin levels during the initial (2519 +/- 1382 ng/mL) and 
most recent (2741 +/- 2532 ng/mL) years remained unacceptably high and increased 
over time (306 +/- 2200 ng/mL; mean of 20+/- years of therapy). Within 30 days 
before interview, 55 percent of patients suffered at least one ICT-related 
adverse event; 76 percent missed at least one dose. QoL, measured by the SF-36, 
and treatment satisfaction appear compromised in this cohort. Although total 
annual costs of ICT were estimated at USD $30,000 to $35,000, drug accounted for 
only 50 to 60 percent of this amount.
CONCLUSIONS: Infused ICT may not provide adequate effectiveness in the real 
world. High ferritin levels seem to be associated with ICT noncompliance, likely 
in relation to the bothersome mode of administration and side effects. The total 
cost of ICT appears to well exceed that of drug alone.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2007.01398.x
PMID: 17880607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Bioinformatics. 2007 Nov 15;23(22):3080-7. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btm461.  Epub 2007 Sep 19.

A semantic web approach applied to integrative bioinformatics experimentation: a 
biological use case with genomics data.

Post LJ(1), Roos M, Marshall MS, van Driel R, Breit TM.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Bioinformatics Unit and Nuclear Organization Group, Swammerdam 
Institute for Life Sciences, University of Amsterdam, 1098 SM, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

MOTIVATION: The numerous public data resources make integrative bioinformatics 
experimentation increasingly important in life sciences research. However, it is 
severely hampered by the way the data and information are made available. The 
semantic web approach enhances data exchange and integration by providing 
standardized formats such as RDF, RDF Schema (RDFS) and OWL, to achieve a 
formalized computational environment. Our semantic web-enabled data integration 
(SWEDI) approach aims to formalize biological domains by capturing the knowledge 
in semantic models using ontologies as controlled vocabularies. The strategy is 
to build a collection of relatively small but specific knowledge and data 
models, which together form a 'personal semantic framework'. This can be linked 
to external large, general knowledge and data models. In this way, the involved 
scientists are familiar with the concepts and associated relationships in their 
models and can create semantic queries using their own terms. We studied the 
applicability of our SWEDI approach in the context of a biological use case by 
integrating genomics data sets for histone modification and transcription factor 
binding sites.
RESULTS: We constructed four OWL knowledge models, two RDFS data models, 
transformed and mapped relevant data to the data models, linked the data models 
to knowledge models using linkage statements, and ran semantic queries. Our 
biological use case demonstrates the relevance of these kinds of integrative 
bioinformatics experiments. Our findings show high startup costs for the SWEDI 
approach, but straightforward extension with similar data.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btm461
PMID: 17881406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. J Dairy Sci. 2007 Oct;90(10):4872-83. doi: 10.3168/jds.2007-0196.

Tracking spore-forming bacterial contaminants in fluid milk-processing systems.

Huck JR(1), Hammond BH, Murphy SC, Woodcock NH, Boor KJ.

Author information:
(1)Milk Quality Improvement Program, Department of Food Science, Cornell 
University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

The presence of psychrotolerant Bacillus species and related spore formers 
(e.g., Paenibacillus spp.) in milk has emerged as a key biological obstacle in 
extending the shelf life of high-temperature, short-time pasteurized fluid milk 
beyond 14 d. A recently developed rpoB DNA sequence-based subtyping method was 
applied to characterize spoilage bacteria present in raw milk supplies for 2 
processing plants, and to assess transmission of these organisms into 
pasteurized products. Thirty-nine raw milk samples and 11 pasteurized product 
samples were collected to represent the processing continuum from incoming truck 
loads of raw milk to packaged products. Milk samples were held at 6 degrees C 
for up to 16 d and plated for bacterial enumeration at various times throughout 
storage. Among the 88 bacterial isolates characterized, a total of 31 rpoB 
allelic types representing Bacillus and Paenibacillus spp. were identified, 
including 5 allelic types found in both raw milk and finished product samples. 
The presence of the same bacterial subtypes in raw and commercially pasteurized 
milk samples suggests that the raw milk supply represents an important source of 
these spoilage bacteria. Extension of the shelf life of high-temperature, 
short-time pasteurized fluid milk products will require elimination of these 
organisms from milk-processing systems.

DOI: 10.3168/jds.2007-0196
PMID: 17881711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Rinsho Byori. 2007 Aug;55(8):764-72.

[Trends of utilization of information technologies in clinical laboratory and 
pathology domain].

[Article in Japanese]

Tofukuji I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthcare Informatics, Faculty of Health and Welfare, Takasaki 
University of Health and Welfare, Takasaki.

The life expectancy of the Japanese population is one of longest in the world. 
Society is aging, with fewer children, increasing the total national medical 
payment in Japan. This situation has forced the Government to reduce the payment 
and to increase the efficiency of the medical system, so information 
technologies are expected to contribute to these policies. Electronic patient 
record systems (EPR) were expected to be used widely, but only 23% of clinical 
training hospitals have implemented them. This is mainly due to the lack of 
incentives and large costs to install EPR. Standardization is a good method to 
reduce system construction cost and increase its quality. New global IHE 
activities are expected to solve these problems with methodologies of workflow 
analyses, standard applications, tests and demonstrations. Laboratory 
information systems (LIS) have a long history and tradition of standard 
interfaces for connecting computers with analyzers. IHE activities for LIS are 
providing easy and secure connections with hospital information systems (HIS). 
Pathology departments also have their own information systems. IHE activities 
for pathology were launched in 2005, and we are now developing in collaboration 
with the international IHE pathology working group, HL7 SIG pathology and DICOM 
WG-26. Pathologists and technical experts in Japanese laboratories are 
encouraged to join IHE activities to ensure good results.

PMID: 17882799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Am J Rhinol. 2007 Jul-Aug;21(4):444-51. doi: 10.2500/ajr.2007.21.3009.

The cost-effectiveness of the management of acute sinusitis.

Anzai Y(1), Jarvik JG, Sullivan SD, Hollingworth W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Washington, Seattle 98195-7115, USA. 
anzai@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Sinusitis is a common medical disease with a tremendous economic 
impact on health care. Our objective was to determine the most cost-effective 
strategy for the management of acute sinusitis from the societal and payers' 
perspectives.
METHODS: A Markov disease simulation model was used for comparing four treatment 
strategies: (1) no antibiotic (Abx), (2) empiric Abx, (3) CT-based Abx, and (4) 
clinical guideline-based Abx.
RESULTS: Empiric Abx treatment was the most cost-effective from the societal 
perspective. Clinical guideline-based treatment was the most cost-effective 
strategy from the payers' perspective ($38,515/quality-adjusted life year). Cost 
and effectiveness of Abx, time lost from work, and prevalence of acute bacterial 
sinusitis are influential variables.
CONCLUSION: Empiric Abx treatment is a cost-effective strategy from the 
short-term societal perspective. However, Abx resistance will lead to increased 
costs and reduced efficacy of this strategy in the long-term. Clinical 
guidelines provide a low-cost method of targeting therapy.

DOI: 10.2500/ajr.2007.21.3009
PMID: 17882914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2007 Sep;4(3):158-63. doi: 10.1007/s11897-007-0035-0.

The use of positive inotropes in end-of-life heart failure care.

Nauman DJ(1), Hershberger RE.

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health and Science University, Division of Cardiology, 3181 SW Sam 
Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97239, USA. naumand@ohsu.edu

End-stage heart failure is associated with mortality equivalent to cancer, yet 
there is little information about palliative therapy for this disease. Chronic 
outpatient support with inotropes provides symptomatic relief and life extension 
for those select patients demonstrating dependence on positive inotropic 
therapy. The purpose of this review is to provide information about process and 
implementation of chronic outpatient support with inotropes in patients with 
end-stage heart failure.

DOI: 10.1007/s11897-007-0035-0
PMID: 17883992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2007 Oct;86(10):800-5. doi:
10.1097/PHM.0b013e318151fc74.

Effect of playing football (soccer) on balance, strength, and quality of life in 
unilateral below-knee amputees.

Yazicioglu K(1), Taskaynatan MA, Guzelkucuk U, Tugcu I.

Author information:
(1)From the Turkish Armed Forces Rehabilitation and Care Centre, Gulhane 
Military Medical Academy, Ankara, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of playing football (soccer) on balance, 
muscle strength, locomotor capabilities, and health-related quality of life in 
subjects with unilateral below-knee amputation.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional controlled study.
RESULTS: Difference in KAT dynamic balance scores obtained 3 days after was 
statistically significant in the study group (P < 0.05) but not in the control 
group (P > 0.05). Differences in static balance test scores was statistically 
significant between the groups (P < 0.05) in favor of the study group. In 
isokinetic evaluation, differences in flexion and extension peak torque measures 
of the lower extremities were not statistically significant between the groups 
(P > 0.05). Differences in Houghton and Berg balance scales were not found 
statistically significant between the groups (P > 0.05). Differences in 
Locomotor Capabilities Index and in the SF-36 in physical functioning, physical 
role, pain, and emotional role between the groups were statistically significant 
(P < 0.05) in favor of the study group.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that playing football may have positive effects on 
balance and health-related quality of life in unilateral below-knee amputees.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e318151fc74
PMID: 17885312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Cancer. 2007 Nov 1;110(9):1973-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23014.

Prostate-specific antigen velocity and the detection of gleason score 7 to 10 
prostate cancer.

Punglia RS(1), Cullen J, McLeod DG, Chen Y, D'Amico AV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. 
rpunglia@partners.org

BACKGROUND: An increasing prostate-specific antigen (PSA) velocity is associated 
with a shorter survival after local therapy for prostate cancer. In this study, 
the authors evaluated whether PSA velocity was associated with prostate cancer 
detection and grade at diagnosis after adjusting for established predictors.
METHODS: Between January 1989 and December 2003, 914 men who had PSA levels >/=4 
ng/mL were identified by using the Center for Prostate Disease Research (CPDR) 
multicenter national database, including 541 men who were diagnosed with 
prostate cancer. Multivariable logistic regression analyses were performed that 
included continuous variables (PSA velocity and level, number of prior negative 
biopsies, and age) along with categorical variables (ethnicity and family 
history) were used to identify the factors associated with prostate cancer 
detection and grade.
RESULTS: An increasing PSA velocity was associated with Gleason scores from 7 to 
10 versus Gleason scores form 2 to 6 or no cancer (adjusted odds ratio [OR], 
1.04 ng/mL per year; 95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.003-1.085 ng/mL per 
year; P = .035). This finding was not evident in patients who had prostate 
cancers with Gleason scores between 2 and 6 or for any prostate cancer. PSA 
level was associated with the detection of any prostate cancer (OR, 1.06 ng/mL; 
95% CI, 1.03-1.10 ng/mL; P = .004) and Gleason score </=6 prostate cancer (OR, 
1.06 ng/mL; 95% CI, 1.02-1.10 ng/mL; P = .0027); however, in the presence of PSA 
velocity, PSA no longer remained independently predictive for high-grade 
prostate cancer (OR, 1.01 ng/mL; 95% CI, 0.98-1.04 ng/mL; P = .45) after 
adjusting for established predictors.
CONCLUSIONS: PSA velocity enhanced the detection of high-grade cancer in men who 
had PSA levels >4 ng/mL. These findings, in conjunction with life expectancy, 
may be used when deciding which men should not be recommended for prostate 
biopsy despite a PSA level >4 ng/mL.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23014
PMID: 17886252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Sep;10(3):407-16. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0599.

Debate: the effects of life extension.

Stock G, Callahan D.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0599
PMID: 17886358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Psychol Rep. 2007 Jun;100(3 Pt 2):1273-80. doi: 10.2466/pr0.100.4.1273-1280.

Dimensionality of subscales for General Support, Informational Support, and 
Physical Support in the Bosch Support Measure for survivors of domestic abuse.

Bosch KR(1), Schumm WR.

Author information:
(1)Extension Specialist, Family Life Education, University of Nebraska, 4502 
Avenue I, Scottsbluff, NE 69361, USA. kbosch2@unl.edu

Items from the General Support, Informational Support, and Physical Support 
subscales of the Bosch Support Measure were developed and administered in a 
small survey of 56 formerly abused rural women in midwestern USA. Maximum 
likelihood factor analyses were performed on the total of 16 items. A 
five-factor solution appeared to produce the best results, but only three of the 
associated subscales yielded Cronbach alphas greater than .70. Limitations of 
the study are discussed along with implications for professionals working with 
abused rural women.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.100.4.1273-1280
PMID: 17886517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Chem Biodivers. 2007 Sep;4(9):1979-95. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.200790165.

Differences in substrate specificity of C(5)-substituted or C(5)-unsubstituted 
pyrimidine nucleotides by DNA polymerases from thermophilic bacteria, archaea, 
and phages.

Sawai H(1), Nagashima J, Kuwahara M, Kitagata R, Tamura T, Matsui I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Gunma University, 
Kiryu, Gunma 376-8515, Japan. sawai@chem.gunma-u.ac.jp

The pyrimidine bases of RNA are uracil (U) and cytosine (C), while thymine (T) 
and C are used for DNA. The C(5) position of C and U is unsubstituted, whereas 
the C(5) of T is substituted with a Me group. Miller et al. hypothesized that 
various C(5)-substituted uracil derivatives were formed during chemical 
evolution, and that C(5)-substituted U derivatives may have played important 
roles in the transition from an 'RNA world' to a 'DNA-RNA-protein world'. 
Hyperthermophilic bacteria and archaea are considered to be primitive organisms 
that are evolutionarily close to the universal ancestor of all life on earth. 
Thus, we examined the substrate specificity of several C(5)-substituted or 
C(5)-unsubstituted dUTP and dCTP analogs for several DNA polymerases from 
hyperthermophilic bacteria, hyperthermophilic archaea, and viruses during PCR or 
primer extension reaction. The substrate specificity of the C(5)-substituted or 
C(5)-unsubstituted pyrimidine nucleotides varied greatly depending on the type 
of DNA polymerase. The significance of this difference in substrate specificity 
in terms of the origin and evolution of the DNA replication system is discussed 
briefly.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200790165
PMID: 17886855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Biotechnol Prog. 2008 Jan-Feb;24(1):2-7. doi: 10.1021/bp070080b. Epub 2007
Sep  22.

Improving therapeutic properties of protein drugs through alteration of 
intracellular trafficking pathways.

Lao BJ(1), Kamei DT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, Los Angeles, 
California 90095, USA.

Although intracellular trafficking processes can play a central role in the 
physiological function of a protein, these same processes can also limit the 
benefit of the protein when it is taken out of its physiological context and 
used as a protein drug. Therefore, the properties of certain protein drugs may 
be improved by manipulating their trafficking pathways to suit their therapeutic 
function. A detailed consideration of the factors that govern how protein 
traffic is routed among different cellular destinations can be used to ascertain 
molecular design criteria for engineering a protein drug so as to alter its 
trafficking pathway in a beneficial manner. In this review, we summarize studies 
that have applied this approach to achieve the following three improvements in 
protein drug function: (1) half-life extension of the Fc fragment of IgG, (2) 
half-life extension of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor, and (3) increase 
in cellular association of transferrin.

DOI: 10.1021/bp070080b
PMID: 17887771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(10):807-16. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725100-00001.

Lessons from trial-based cost-effectiveness analyses of mental health 
interventions: why uncertainty about the outcome, estimate and willingness to 
pay matters.

Hoch JS(1), Dewa CS.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Inner City Health, The Keenan Research Centre in Li Ka 
Shing Knowledge Institute of St. Michaels Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

The principal aim of this article is to share lessons learned by the authors 
while conducting economic evaluations, using clinical trial data, of mental 
health interventions. These lessons are quite general and have clear relevance 
for pharmacoeconomic studies. In addition, we explore how net benefit regression 
can be used to enhance consideration of key issues when conducting an economic 
evaluation based on clinical trial data. The first study we discuss found that 
cost-effectiveness results varied markedly based on the choice of both the 
patient outcome and the willingness to pay for more of that outcome. The 
importance of willingness to pay was also highlighted in the results from the 
second study. Even with a set willingness-to-pay value, most of the time the 
probability that the new treatment was cost effective was not 100%. In the third 
study, the cost effectiveness of the new treatment varied by patient 
characteristics. These observations have important implications for 
pharmacoeconomic studies. Namely, analysts must carefully consider choice of 
patient outcome, willingness to pay, patient heterogeneity and the statistical 
uncertainty inherent in the data. Net benefit regression is a useful technique 
for exploring these crucial issues when undertaking an economic evaluation using 
patient-level data on both costs and effects.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725100-00001
PMID: 17887803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(10):817-28. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725100-00002.

Valuing children's health: a comparison of cost-utility analyses for adult and 
paediatric health interventions in the US.

Ladapo JA(1), Neumann PJ, Keren R, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School and Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

The objective of this review was to analyse the methods of paediatric and adult 
cost-utility analyses (CUAs) conducted in US populations, and to compare the 
cost-utility ratios of health interventions by classifying them by disease 
prevention stage, intervention category and primary disease type. A CUA database 
developed by the Tufts-New England Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA was used to 
compare the descriptive and methodological characteristics of paediatric and 
adult studies. The final dataset included 35 paediatric and 491 adult studies, 
which generated a total of 91 paediatric and 1498 adult cost-utility ratios. In 
paediatric studies, the most common intervention types were immunisations and 
pharmaceutical interventions, which each accounted for 17% of studies. 
Pharmaceutical interventions accounted for the plurality of adult studies (36%). 
In studies that used a single source of preferences to determine quality-of-life 
weights, preferences most frequently came from the author in paediatric studies 
(29%) and the patient in adult studies (14%). Almost all studies with available 
discount rate data used the same rate (most commonly 3%) for costs and benefits. 
Few studied used generic health-state classification instruments; preferences 
for health states were most often based on author and community preferences in 
paediatric studies, and author and patient preferences in adult studies. The 
overall median cost-utility ratio was $US7300/QALY (year 2002 values) in child 
studies and $US26,000/QALY in adult studies; child studies tended to have lower 
published cost-utility ratios than adult studies, even when categorised 
according to intervention or disease. In conclusion, CUAs of paediatric and 
adult health interventions vary across descriptive characteristics, but are 
largely similar methodologically. Further, cost-utility ratios for interventions 
evaluated in the literature tend to be lower for paediatric interventions than 
for adult ones. When allocating resources, policy makers who use economic 
analysis as a decision-making aid can take some comfort in the methodological 
similarities between paediatric and adult studies, but more work is required to 
standardise methods in both groups.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725100-00002
PMID: 17887804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(10):829-41. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725100-00003.

A comparison of the cost effectiveness of pharmacotherapy or surgery 
(laparoscopic fundoplication) in the treatment of GORD.

Bojke L(1), Hornby E, Sculpher M; REFLUX Trial Team.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. lg116@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) causes some of the most 
frequently seen symptoms in both primary and secondary care. An estimated 4-5 
patients (age range 18-60 years) per 10,000 (0.045% of the general population) 
are receiving maintenance proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) for oesophagitis and 
reflux. The treatment of reflux disease represents significant prescription drug 
costs to the UK NHS. An alternative to lifelong pharmacotherapy is surgical 
treatment of reflux using the laparoscopic fundoplication technique to effect a 
cure. A multicentre study (REFLUX trial) comparing laparoscopic fundoplication 
with medical management (PPIs) among patients with GORD is currently underway in 
the UK. This study includes data collection to contribute to a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To generate some preliminary estimates of the cost effectiveness of 
surgical and medical management of GORD to guide UK NHS decision making before 
the REFLUX trial reports.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed in Excel. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was employed to assess the uncertainty associated with the point 
estimates. Two strategies were compared: long-term medical management or 
immediate laparoscopic surgery for GORD. Health outcomes were expressed in terms 
of QALYs with a lifetime time horizon (30 years) for a patient aged 45 years at 
commencement of treatment. Costs (pound, 2004 values) of drugs and costs 
associated with surgery were obtained from five of the REFLUX study centres. 
Costs and outcomes were discounted by 3.5% per anum. Value of information 
analysis was used to quantify the cost of uncertainty associated with the 
decision about which therapy to adopt, indicating the maximum value of future 
research.
RESULTS: Treatment with laparoscopic fundoplication is the most costly strategy 
but is also associated with more QALYs. The incremental cost per additional QALY 
for surgery versus medical management was 180 pounds. However, the cost 
effectiveness of surgery was uncertain, and the probability that it is cost 
effective at the threshold of 30,000 pounds per QALY was 0.639. Value of 
information analysis suggests that further research in this area could be 
potentially worthwhile. Specifically, this research should focus on the 
health-related quality of life of patients on medical management or 
post-surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the model suggest that, on the basis of current 
evidence, laparoscopic fundoplication represents a cost effective means of 
treating GORD rather than lifelong medical management.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725100-00003
PMID: 17887805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(10):863-79. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725100-00005.

Cost effectiveness of pegaptanib for the treatment of age-related macular 
degeneration in the UK.
