whose goal is to develop sirtuin-activating molecules to treat disease.


359. BMC Genomics. 2007 Oct 3;8:353. doi: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-353.

Gene expression profiling of long-lived dwarf mice: longevity-associated genes 
and relationships with diet, gender and aging.

Swindell WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Michigan, 3118 BSRB, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA. wswindel@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Long-lived strains of dwarf mice carry mutations that suppress 
growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) signaling. The 
downstream effects of these endocrine abnormalities, however, are not well 
understood and it is unclear how these processes interact with aging mechanisms. 
This study presents a comparative analysis of microarray experiments that have 
measured hepatic gene expression levels in long-lived strains carrying one of 
four mutations (Prop1(df/df), Pit1(dw/dw), Ghrhr(lit/lit), GHR-KO) and describes 
how the effects of these mutations relate to one another at the transcriptional 
level. Points of overlap with the effects of calorie restriction (CR), CR 
mimetic compounds, low fat diets, gender dimorphism and aging were also 
examined.
RESULTS: All dwarf mutations had larger and more consistent effects on IGF-I 
expression than dietary treatments. In comparison to dwarf mutations, however, 
the transcriptional effects of CR (and some CR mimetics) overlapped more 
strongly with those of aging. Surprisingly, the Ghrhr(lit/lit) mutation had much 
larger effects on gene expression than the GHR-KO mutation, even though both 
mutations affect the same endocrine pathway. Several genes potentially regulated 
or co-regulated with the IGF-I transcript in liver tissue were identified, 
including a DNA repair gene (Snm1) that is upregulated in proportion to IGF-I 
inhibition. A total of 13 genes exhibiting parallel differential expression 
patterns among all four strains of long-lived dwarf mice were identified, in 
addition to 30 genes with matching differential expression patterns in multiple 
long-lived dwarf strains and under CR.
CONCLUSION: Comparative analysis of microarray datasets can identify patterns 
and consistencies not discernable from any one dataset individually. This study 
implements new analytical approaches to provide a detailed comparison among the 
effects of life-extending mutations, dietary treatments, gender and aging. This 
comparison provides insight into a broad range of issues relevant to the study 
of mammalian aging. In this context, 43 longevity-associated genes are 
identified and individual genes with the highest level of support among all 
microarray experiments are highlighted. These results provide promising targets 
for future experimental investigation as well as potential clues for 
understanding the functional basis of lifespan extension in mammalian systems.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-8-353
PMCID: PMC2094713
PMID: 17915019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Med Entomol. 2007 Sep;44(5):772-8. doi: 
10.1603/0022-2585(2007)44[772:tdoslb]2.0.co;2.

Temperature-dependent demography of Supella longipalpa (Blattodea: 
Blattellidae).

Tsai TJ(1), Chi H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Theoretical Ecology, Department of Entomology, National Chung 
Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, Republic of China.

The demography of the brownbanded cockroach, Supella longipalpa (F.) (Blattodea: 
Blattellidae), was studied based on the age-stage, two-sex life table at 25, 29, 
and 33 degrees C. Females incubated at the three temperatures produced 11.8, 
14.6, and 12.8 oothecae per female, respectively. The life expectancy for a 
newborn was 157.2, 207.7, and 147.9 d, respectively. The intrinsic rate of 
increase at these temperatures was 0.0161, 0.0306, and 0.0398 d(-1), 
respectively. The net reproductive rate was 35.3, 100.9, and 87.2 offspring, 
respectively. The mean generation time was 222.1, 151.1, and 112.5 d, 
respectively. In the absence of other limiting factors, our results indicate 
that populations of S. longipalpa would be expected to establish and increase if 
introduced into environments where temperature was within 25 and 33 degrees C.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-2585(2007)44[772:tdoslb]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17915507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Acta Myol. 2007 Jul;26(1):42-4.

Glycogen storage disease type II: clinical overview.

Di Rocco M(1), Buzzi D, Tarò M.

Author information:
(1)II Pediatrc Unit, Istituto Giannina Gaslini, Genova, Italy. 
majadirocco@ospedale-gaslini.ge.it

Glycogen storage disease type II has a broad continuous clinical spectrum in 
terms of onset, involvement of organs and life expectancy. Infantile onset is 
the most severe form, presenting with prominent cardiomyopathy, hypotonia, 
hepatomegaly and death before 12 months of life. Late onset form has onset at 
any age, lack of severe (or absence of) cardiac involvement, progressive 
skeletal muscle dysfunction and less dismal short-term prognosis. In addition to 
muscle and heart involvement, other tissues are affected liver, spleen, 
endothelium, lung, brain, anterior horns, peripheral nerves. In fact some 
patients with infantile form have hearing loss, abnormal brain myelination and 
central fever and some adult patients show aneurysms of brain arteries due to 
accumulation of glycogen in vessels. As for other treatable lysosomal diseases, 
the advent of enzyme replacement therapy will change the natural history of this 
disease and also will increase our knowledge concerning clinical heterogeneity.

PMCID: PMC2949314
PMID: 17915568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2007 Oct;3(5):755-67. doi: 
10.1517/17425255.3.5.755.

The role of oseltamivir in the treatment and prevention of influenza in 
children.

Whitley RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Department of Pediatrics, CHB 303, 1600 
Seventh Avenue South, Birmingham, AL 35294-0011, USA. rwhitley@peds.uab.edu

The burden of seasonal influenza in children is poorly recognized, in spite of 
the potential for severe and even life-threatening illness and common secondary 
complications. Children are a primary reservoir for the spread of influenza to 
both family members and the community, which imposes a sizeable social and 
economic strain. Although vaccination is the primary intervention against 
childhood influenza, the antiviral neuraminidase inhibitors, oseltamivir and 
zanamivir, provide treatment options. Oseltamivir is administered orally to 
children aged > 1 year and has been shown to cost-effectively reduce the 
influenza disease burden and duration of viral shedding. Additionally, 
oseltamivir postexposure prophylaxis provides protective efficacy for children 
and families. Oseltamivir has shown excellent tolerability and a low potential 
for viral resistance in pediatric studies. In the event of an influenza 
pandemic, oseltamivir is expected to be at the forefront of containment 
strategies. This article reviews the pharmacology, efficacy and tolerability of 
oseltamivir as treatment and prophylaxis in children.

DOI: 10.1517/17425255.3.5.755
PMID: 17916060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Cir Esp. 2007 Sep;82(3):177-9. doi: 10.1016/s0009-739x(07)71695-0.

[Giant hepatic echinococcus cyst with cysto-pleural fistula and pleural 
echinococcosis].

[Article in Spanish]

García Ruiz de Gordejuela A(1), Lladó L, Torras J, Ramos E, Rafecas A.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Cirugía Hepática, Servei de Cirurgia General i del Aparell 
Digestiu, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat 
(Barcelona), España.

Extrahepatic complications from hepatic cystic echinococcosis are rare and may 
be life threatening. Although the prevalence of echinococcosis in Spain had 
decreased, the number of cases of this disease and its severity has risen again 
due to immigration. We report the case of a patient with a giant hepatic 
echinococcus cyst diagnosed during investigation of an abdominal mass. The mass 
was associated with three other cysts: the first cyst was fistulized to the 
biliary tract, without clinical or laboratory alterations, the second cyst was 
fistulized to the right pleural cavity, leading to pleural echinococcosis and 
respiratory distress due to massive pleural effusion, and the third cyst was 
calcified. The challenge in this case layed in its diagnosis and treatment. The 
clinical presentation was unusual due to the extension of the disease, hampering 
complete cystic excision.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-739x(07)71695-0
PMID: 17916290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Health Promot Int. 2007 Dec;22(4):271-83. doi: 10.1093/heapro/dam027. Epub
2007  Oct 4.

Time to give nutrition interventions a higher profile: cost-effectiveness of 10 
nutrition interventions.

Dalziel K(1), Segal L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Division of Health Sciences, University of South Australia, 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. kim.dalziel@unisa.edu.au

The aim of this study was to evaluate the economic performance of 10 nutrition 
interventions. The interventions included Mediterranean Diet, Intensive 
Lifestyle Change (nutrition and physical activity) to Prevent Diabetes, Reduced 
Fat Diet for persons with IGT, Nutritional Counselling in GP (GP, general 
practice/primary care), Nurse Counselling in GP, Oxcheck Nurse Health Checks in 
GP, Gutbusters Workplace (for men), Talking Computer, Multi Media 2 fruit 5 veg 
Campaign and the FFFF (Fighting Fit, Fighting Fat) Media Campaign. Markov models 
were constructed in order to estimate economic performance expressed as cost per 
QALY (quality adjusted life year) gained. Data from original clinical trial 
reports were used to populate the models, supplemented by the wider literature 
where required. Performance of the Mediterranean Diet and Intensive Lifestyle 
Change to Prevent Diabetes interventions could be estimated with most certainty 
and both were highly cost-effective interventions, at AU $1020 (US $760, 410 
pounds) and AU $1880 (US $1410, 750 pounds) per QALY gained, respectively. The 
media campaign interventions appear highly cost-effective at AU $46 (US $34, 18 
pounds) for '2 fruit 5 veg' and AU $5600 (US $4200, 2200 pounds) per QALY gained 
for FFFF, but are associated with considerable uncertainty, and may be dominated 
under certain assumptions. Several interventions were cost-saving under 
plausible sets of assumptions, whereas a small number were potentially 
dominated. All interventions subject to economic evaluation appeared 
cost-effective relative to societal norms. Nutrition interventions can 
constitute a highly efficient component of a strategy to reduce the growing 
disease burden linked to over/poor nutrition. There is an urgent need for 
high-quality trial data from which economic performance of nutrition 
interventions can be modelled.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/dam027
PMID: 17916604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):e4. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.127217. Epub 2007 Oct 4.

Economic evaluation of ASCOT-BPLA: antihypertensive treatment with an 
amlodipine-based regimen is cost effective compared with an atenolol-based 
regimen.

Lindgren P(1), Buxton M, Kahan T, Poulter NR, Dahlöf B, Sever PS, Wedel H, 
Jönsson B; ASCOT trial investigators.

Author information:
(1)i3innovus, Vasagatan 38, 11120 Stockholm, Sweden; 
peter.lindgren@healtheconomics.se

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of an amlodipine-based strategy and 
an atenolol-based strategy in the treatment of hypertension in the UK and 
Sweden.
DESIGN: A prospective, randomised trial complemented with a Markov model to 
assess long-term costs and health effects.
SETTING: Primary care.
PATIENTS: Patients with moderate hypertension and three or more additional risk 
factors.
INTERVENTIONS: Amlodipine 5-10 mg with perindopril 4-8 mg added as needed or 
atenolol 50-100 mg with bendroflumethiazide 1.25-2.5 mg and potassium added as 
needed
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per cardiovascular event and procedure avoided, and 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
RESULTS: In the UK, the cost to avoid one cardiovascular event or procedure 
would be euro18 965, and the cost to gain one quality-adjusted life-year would 
be euro21 875. The corresponding figures for Sweden were euro13 210 and euro16 
856.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with the thresholds applied by NICE and in the Swedish 
National Board of Health and Welfare's Guidelines for Cardiac Care, an 
amlodipine-based regimen is cost effective for the treatment of hypertension 
compared with an atenolol-based regimen in the population studied.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.127217
PMID: 17916665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Immunol Res. 2007;38(1-3):6-41. doi: 10.1007/s12026-007-0001-7.

Acquired immunologic tolerance: with particular reference to transplantation.

Starzl TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Transplantation Institute, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC), 
7th Floor, South, 3459 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. 
mangantl@msx.upmc.edu

The first unequivocally successful bone marrow cell transplantation in humans 
was recorded in 1968 by the University of Minnesota team of Robert A. Good 
(Gatti et al. Lancet 2: 1366-1369, 1968). This achievement was a direct 
extension of mouse models of acquired immunologic tolerance that were 
established 15 years earlier. In contrast, organ (i.e. kidney) transplantation 
was accomplished precociously in humans (in 1959) before demonstrating its 
feasibility in any experimental model and in the absence of a defensible 
immunologic rationale. Due to the striking differences between the outcomes with 
the two kinds of procedure, the mechanisms of organ engraftment were long 
thought to differ from the leukocyte chimerism-associated ones of bone marrow 
transplantation. This and other concepts of alloengraftment and acquired 
tolerance have changed over time. Current concepts and their clinical 
implications can be understood and discussed best from the perspective provided 
by the life and times of Bob Good.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-007-0001-7
PMCID: PMC2800371
PMID: 17917005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Mol Neurobiol. 2007 Jun;35(3):217-23. doi: 10.1007/s12035-007-0027-9.

Exercise-induced neuroprotection in SMA model mice: a means for determining new 
therapeutic strategies.

Charbonnier F(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Neurobiologie des Réseaux Sensorimoteurs, UMR 7060 CNRS, 
Université Paris Descartes, Centre Universitaire des Saints-Pères, Paris, 
France. frederic.charbonnier@univ-paris5.fr

Due to the prevalence of neuromuscular disorders such as amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis and spinal muscular atrophy in modern societies, defining new and 
efficient strategies for the treatment of these two neurodegenerative diseases 
has become a vital and still unfulfilled urge. Several lines of experimental 
evidence have emphasized the benefits of regular exercise training in mouse 
models for these affections in terms of life span increase and improvement of 
both motor capacities and motoneuron survival. Identifying molecules that could 
mimic the neuroprotective effects of exercise represents a promising way to find 
novel therapies. Some of the effects of exercise are caused by the 
overproduction of circulating neurotrophic factors, such as IGF-I, whereas 
others may be due to modifications of the intrinsic properties of the 
motoneurons within the spinal cord. The causal relationship that links these 
potential effects of exercise training and the improvement of motor capacity and 
life span expectancy is consequently discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-007-0027-9
PMID: 17917110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2007;130:257-68.

Differences in public and private sector adoption of telemedicine: Indian case 
study for sectoral adoption.

Sood SP(1), Negash S, Mbarika VW, Kifle M, Prakash N.

Author information:
(1)C-DAC School of Advanced Computing, Quatre Bornes, Mauritius. sood@spsood.com

Telemedicine is the use of communication networks to exchange medical 
information for providing healthcare services and medical education from one 
site to another. The application of telemedicine is more promising in 
economically developing countries with agrarian societies. The American 
Telemedicine Association (ATA) identifies three healthcare services: clinical 
medical services, health and medical education, and consumer health information. 
However, it is not clear how these services can be adopted by different sectors: 
public and private. This paper looks at four Indian case studies, two each in 
public and private sectors to understand two research questions: Are there 
differences in telemedicine adoption between public and private hospitals. If 
there are differences: What are the differences in telemedicine adoption between 
public and private sectors? Authors have used the extant literature in 
telemedicine and healthcare to frame theoretical background, describe the 
research setting, present the case studies, and provide discussion and 
conclusions about their findings. Authors believe that as India continues to 
develop its telemedicine infrastructures, especially with continued government 
support through subsidies to private telemedicine initiatives, its upward trend 
in healthcare will continue. This is expected to put India on the path to 
increase its life expectancy rates, especially for it rural community which 
constitute over 70% of its populace.

PMID: 17917199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Rheumatol. 2007 Nov;34(11):2236-42. Epub 2007 Oct 1.

Estimating the burden of scleroderma disease in Spain.

Villaverde-Hueso A(1), Sánchez-Valle E, Alvarez E, Morant C, Carreira PE, 
Martín-Arribas MC, Gènova R, Ramírez-González A, de la Paz MP.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigacion de Enfermedades Raras, Instituto de Salud Carlos 
III, Sinesio Delgado 6-8, Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: Scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) is a rare disease that results in 
great suffering. We estimated the burden of disease posed by scleroderma and its 
relative importance in the health of the Spanish population.
METHODS: We estimated scleroderma-based burden of disease following procedures 
developed for the Global Burden of Disease study to ensure comparability.
RESULTS: Despite its low prevalence, scleroderma generated 1732 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALY) in Spain in 2001, comprising 562 (32%) 
years of life lost and 1170 (68%) years lived with disability. Most 
scleroderma-related DALY (73%) occurred in the population aged 15-54 years. 
Estimated DALY accounted for 0.59% of other musculoskeletal disorder-related 
DALY in the European A subregion (countries with low mortality rate in both 
adults and children in the World Health Organization classification), a 
significant value in the overall burden of disease.
CONCLUSION: The burden of scleroderma in Spain was high, with disability being 
the major contributing factor. Burden of disease is an important measure in rare 
diseases, and may be an important indicator to be considered as a health unit in 
developed countries.

PMID: 17918783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Emerg Med Australas. 2007 Oct;19(5):470-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-6723.2007.01012.x.

Emergency medicine in a developing country: experience from Kilimanjaro 
Christian Medical Centre, Tanzania, East Africa.

Cox M(1), Shao J.

Author information:
(1)St George Hospital, Kogarah, New South Wales, Australia. 
drmegancox@yahoo.com.au

Tanzania in East Africa has a population of over 36 million and is one of the 
poorest countries in the world. Life expectancy has declined and infant 
mortality rates are increasing. Four consultant specialist hospitals and 17 
regional hospitals service the mainland. Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre is 
a major specialist teaching hospital with 500 beds, serving the entire 
north-west of the country. There is a small 'casualty' ward with three cubicles 
and one resuscitation room. Malaria, HIV, respiratory infections and 
gastroenteritis are the chief causes of death in children. Changing lifestyle 
and Western influences have increased diabetes and vascular disease in adults, 
and large numbers of trauma deaths are increasingly encountered. Kilimanjaro 
Christian Medical Centre 'Casualty' admission data are presented, as well as an 
insight into the challenges of emergency medicine in this country.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-6723.2007.01012.x
PMID: 17919221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Oct 5;2:40. doi: 10.1186/1749-8090-2-40.

Effect of surgeon on transprosthetic gradients after aortic valve replacement 
with Freestyle stentless bioprosthesis and its consequences: a follow-up study 
in 587 patients.

Albert A(1), Florath I, Rosendahl U, Hassanein W, Hodenberg EV, Bauer S, Ennker 
I, Ennker J.

Author information:
(1)Department of cardiac surgery, Heart Institute Lahr/Baden, Hohbergweg 2, 
77933 Lahr/Germany. alexander.albert@heart-lahr.com

BACKGROUND: The implantation of stentless valves is technically demanding and 
the outcome may depend on the performance of surgeons. We studied systematically 
the role of surgeons and other possible determinants for mid-term survival, 
postoperative gradients and Quality of Life (QoL) after aortic valve replacement 
(AVR) with Freestyle stentless bioprostheses.
METHODS: Between 1996 and 2003, 587 patients (mean 75 years) underwent AVR with 
stentless Medtronic Freestyle(R) bioprostheses. Follow-up was 99% complete. 
Determinants of morbidity, mortality, survival time and QoL were evaluated by 
multiple, time-related, regression analysis. Risk models were built for all 
sections of the Nottingham Health Profile (NHP): energy, pain, emotional 
reaction, sleep, social isolation and physical mobility
RESULTS: Actuarial freedom from aortic valve re-operation, structural valve 
deterioration, non-structural valve dysfunction, prosthetic valve endocarditis 
and thromboembolic events at 6 years were 95.9 +/- 2.1%, 100%, 98.7 +/- 0.5%, 
97.0 +/- 1.5%, 79.6 +/- 4.3%, respectively. The actuarial freedom from bleeding 
events at 6 years was 93.1 +/- 1.9%. Estimated survival at 6 years was similar 
to the age-matched German population (61.4 +/- 3.8 %). Predictors of survival 
time were: diabetes mellitus, atrial fibrillation, peripheral vascular disease, 
renal dysfunction, female gender > 80 years and patients < 165 cm with BMI < 24. 
Predictive models showed characteristic profiles and good discriminative powers 
(c-indexes > 0.7) for each of the 6 QoL sections. Early transvalvular gradients 
were identified as independent risk factors for impaired physical mobility 
(c-index 0.77, p < 0.002). A saturated propensity score identified besides 
patient related factors (e.g. preoperative gradients, ejection fraction, 
haematological factors) indexed geometric orifice area, subcoronary implantation 
technique and individual surgeons as predictors of high gradients.
CONCLUSION: In addition to the valve size (in relation to body size), 
subcoronary technique (versus total root) and various patient-related factors 
the risk of elevated gradients after stentless valve implantation depends, 
considerably on the individual surgeon. Although there was no effect on survival 
time and most aspects of QoL, higher postoperative transvalvular gradients 
affect physical mobility after AVR.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-8090-2-40
PMCID: PMC2146998
PMID: 17919325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Clin Ther. 2007 Aug;29(8):1559-76. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.08.016.

Darunavir: a nonpeptidic antiretroviral protease inhibitor.

McCoy C(1).

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Department of Pharmacy Services, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. cmccoy@bidmc.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Protease inhibitors were a major therapeutic breakthrough in the 
mid-1990s for the treatment of HIV infection, which resulted in improved life 
expectancy for patients who had failed previous therapies. With time and 
evolution of the virus, however, there is a new population of patients with 
treatment-resistant disease and few treatment options. Darunavir is a synthetic 
nonpeptidic analogue of amprenavir with enhanced activity against resistant 
virus that became available in 2006.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this review was to describe the clinical 
pharmacology, pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties, and clinical 
efficacy of darunavir. Also discussed are the published clinical experience with 
darunavir, its adverse events, drug interactions, pharmacoeconomics, and dosing 
and administration.
METHODS: A MEDLINE and EMBASE search (English-language only) was performed from 
January 1996 through April 2007 using the key words darunavir and TMC114. 
Abstracts from relevant scientific meetings were searched for the years 2000 
through 2007. Additionally, the US Food and Drug Administration Web site was 
accessed to review the new drug application summary and data presented therein.
RESULTS: Darunavir was found to maintain antiretroviral activity against HIV 
with protease inhibitor mutations in 6 studies. Clinical efficacy and safety 
data are limited to 4 controlled and 2 uncontrolled trials. In 2 large Phase IIb 
clinical studies, viral suppression at 48 weeks to undetectable levels in 
heavily pretreated patients was achieved in 45% of patients compared with 10% of 
patients in the control group (P < 0.001). The addition of enfuvirtide enhanced 
this response rate to 58% compared with 11% of the patients who did not receive 
enfuvirtide (P < 0.001). Gastrointestinal symptoms, nausea, and headache were 
the most commonly reported events.
CONCLUSIONS: Darunavir has improved activity against resistant HIV isolates in 
patients with few treatment choices, particularly when enfuvirtide is added. The 
safety profile of darunavir is comparable to other protease inhibitors based on 
early data.

Copyright 2007 Excerpta Medica, Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.08.016
PMID: 17919539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Prev Med. 2008 Feb;46(2):133-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.07.030. Epub 2007
Aug  3.

Lifestyle and reduced mortality among active California Mormons, 1980-2004.

Enstrom JE(1), Breslow L.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, University 
of California, 650 Charles E. Young Drive South, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1772, 
USA. jenstrom@ucla.edu

OBJECTIVE: The objective is to measure the relationship of several healthy 
characteristics of the Mormon lifestyle to mortality.
METHOD: We examined 9815 religiously active California Mormon adults followed 
for mortality during 1980-2004 and 15,832 representative U.S. white adults 
enrolled in the 1987 National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) and followed for 
mortality during 1988-1997. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) and 95% 
confidence interval (CI) was calculated relative to U.S. whites defined to have 
a SMR of 1.00.
RESULTS: Active California Mormons practice a healthy lifestyle advocated by 
their religion, which emphasizes a strong family life, education and abstention 
from tobacco and alcohol. Unusually low SMRs occurred among married never 
smokers who attended church weekly and had at least 12 years of education. For 
those aged 25-99 years at entry, the SMR for all causes of death was 0.45 
(0.42-0.48) for males and 0.55 (0.51-0.59) for females. For those aged 25-64 
years at entry, the SMR for all causes of death was 0.36 (0.32-0.41) for males 
and 0.46 (0.40-0.53) for females. Life expectancy from age 25 was 84 years for 
males and 86 years for females. These SMRs were largely replicated among 
similarly defined persons of all religions within the NHIS cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Several healthy characteristics of the Mormon lifestyle are 
associated with substantially reduced death rates and increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.07.030
PMID: 17920112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Eur Urol. 2008 Jan;53(1):68-80. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.09.002. Epub 2007
Sep  19.

EAU guidelines on prostate cancer.

Heidenreich A(1), Aus G, Bolla M, Joniau S, Matveev VB, Schmid HP, Zattoni F; 
European Association of Urology.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Cologne, Cologne, Germany. 
axel.heidenreich@uk-koeln.de

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2008 Sep;54(3):693-5; author reply 695-7.

OBJECTIVES: To present a summary of the 2007 version of the European Association 
of Urology (EAU) guidelines on prostate cancer (PCa).
METHODS: A literature review of the new data emerging from 2004 to 2007 was 
performed by the working panel. The guidelines have been updated, and the level 
of evidence/grade of recommendation was added to the text based on a systematic 
review of the literature, which included a search of online databases and 
bibliographic reviews.
RESULTS: A full version is available at the EAU Office or at www.uroweb.org. 
Systemic prostate biopsy under ultrasound guidance is the preferred diagnostic 
method. Active treatment is mostly recommended for patients with localized 
disease and a long life expectancy, with radical prostatectomy being shown to be 
superior to watchful waiting in a prospective randomized trial. Nerve-sparing 
radical prostatectomy represents the approach of choice in organ-confined 
disease; neoadjuvant androgen deprivation demonstrates no improvement of outcome 
variables. Radiation therapy should be performed with at least 72 and 78 Gy in 
low-risk and intermediate- to high-risk PCa, respectively. Monotherapeutic 
androgen deprivation is the standard of care in metastatic PCa; intermittent 
androgen deprivation might be an alternative treatment option for selected 
patients. Follow-up is largely based on prostate-specific antigen and a 
disease-specific history with imaging only indicated when symptoms occur. 
Cytotoxic therapy with docetaxel has emerged as the reference treatment for 
metastatic hormone-refractory PCa.
CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge in the field of PCa is rapidly changing. These EAU 
guidelines on PCa summarize the most recent findings and put them into clinical 
practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.09.002
PMID: 17920184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Orv Hetil. 2007 Oct 14;148(41):1923-8. doi: 10.1556/OH.2007.28061.

[The role of continuous glucose monitoring in the therapy of diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Hungarian]

Bagosi Z(1), Oroszlán T, Bujtor Z, Gasztonyi B.

Author information:
(1)Zala Megyei Kórház Belgyógyászati Osztály Zalaegerszeg Zrínyi u. 1. 8900. 
bagzoll@freemail.hu

INTRODUCTION: Continuous glucose monitoring system is a wide spreading method in 
the control of the therapy of diabetes, nowadays recording the fluctuation of 
the glucose level between two measurements during the classical glucose 
measurements.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: 79 measurements of 53 diabetic patients were analysed. 
48/53 (90.5%) (30 women, 18 men, mean age: 26.3 +/- 16.8 years) were patients 
with type 1 diabetes, 5/53 (9.5%) (4 women, 1 man, mean age: 58.4 +/- 6.2 years) 
were patients with type 2 diabetes. After delineating the technical details of 
this technique, results of the measurements recorded in the authors' patients 
population are presented reviewing the advantages and disadvantages of the 
method. During the average measurements of 3-4 days MiniMed apparatus were used.
RESULTS: The method proved to be useful in detecting the down-phenomenon and the 
asymptomatic hypoglycemic events mainly, however, long hyperglycemic periods 
were seen several times. The method led to change of therapy in 64.5% of all 
measurements, but the authors present unsuccessful measurements due to the error 
of the sensor and cases when the results did not help the therapeutic decision.
CONCLUSIONS: Authors describe a wide range of indications of the usage of this 
method based on their own and other authors' experience presenting its 
applicability and limits. It is highlighted that the method is not effective in 
patients with type 2 diabetes. Presenting their results the authors emphasize 
that this method provides extra information compared to the classical 
measurements leading to a better glycemic control and life expectancy in type 1 
diabetes patients.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2007.28061
PMID: 17921119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008 Apr;67(4):547-54. doi: 10.1136/ard.2007.074773. Epub
2007  Oct 5.

Efficacy and safety of the selective co-stimulation modulator abatacept 
following 2 years of treatment in patients with rheumatoid arthritis and an 
inadequate response to anti-tumour necrosis factor therapy.

Genovese MC(1), Schiff M, Luggen M, Becker JC, Aranda R, Teng J, Li T, Schmidely 
N, Le Bars M, Dougados M.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University, Division of Immunology and Rheumatology, 1000 Welch Road 
#203, Palo Alto, CA 94304, USA. genovese@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of abatacept during 2 years of 
the ATTAIN (Abatacept Trial in Treatment of Anti-TNF INadequate responders) 
trial in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
METHODS: Patients completing the 6-month, double-blind period were eligible to 
enter the long-term extension; patients received abatacept approximately 10 
mg/kg, plus disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs. Safety and efficacy (American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria responses, DAS28 (C-reactive protein), 
HAQ-DI, SF-36, Medical Outcomes Study Sleep Problems Index, fatigue VAS) were 
assessed through 2 years.
RESULTS: 317 patients (218 from the abatacept and 99 from the placebo group) 
entered and 222 (70%) completed 18 months of long-term extension treatment. The 
incidence and type of adverse events were consistent between the double-blind 
and cumulative (double-blind plus long-term extension) periods. Rates of serious 
adverse events were 25.6 and 23.4 per 100 patient-years in the double-blind 
versus cumulative period. At 6 months and 2 years, using non-responder analyses, 
ACR responses in abatacept-treated patients were: ACR 20, 59.4% and 56.2%; ACR 
50, 23.5% and 33.2%; ACR 70, 11.5% and 16.1%; HAQ-DI responses were 54.4% and 
47.9%. At 6 months and 2 years, using post-hoc as-observed analyses, the 
percentage of patients (95% confidence interval) achieving DAS28 (C-reactive 
protein) low disease activity score (< or = 3.2) and DAS28 (C-reactive 
protein)-defined remission (< 2.6) increased from 18.3% (13.0, 23.5) to 32.0% 
(24.6, 39.4) and 11.1% (6.8, 15.3) to 20.3% (13.9, 26.6). Clinically meaningful 
improvements in SF-36, pain, fatigue and sleep problems were also maintained 
throughout the 2 years of abatacept treatment.
CONCLUSION: No unique safety observations were reported during open-label 
exposure. Improvements in the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, 
physical function and health-related quality of life observed after 6 months, 
were maintained throughout the 2 years in this population with 
difficult-to-treat disease.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00124982.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2007.074773
PMID: 17921185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Am J Clin Oncol. 2007 Oct;30(5):498-502. doi: 
10.1097/01.coc.0000264179.23080.bc.

A phase I dose escalation study of biweekly gemcitabine and carboplatin in 
completely resected stage IB-IIIA nonsmall cell lung cancer.

Tomizawa Y(1), Ishihara S, Iijima H, Imai H, Sato K, Yatomi M, Iwasaki Y, Yamada 
H, Kobayashi G, Ishida E, Inoue T, Aoki H, Watanabe S, Kawashima O, Mori M, 
Saito R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, National Nishigunma Hospital, Shibukawa, 
Gunma, Japan. ytomizawa@netnngh.hosp.go.jp

OBJECTIVE: We conducted a phase I dose escalation study to determine the maximum 
tolerated dose, recommended dose, and safety profile of a biweekly gemcitabine 
and carboplatin combination regimen in the treatment of patients with completely 
resected nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with completely resected pathologically 
documented stage IB, II, or IIIA NSCLC, performance status (ECOG) 0-1, with 
adequate bone marrow, renal, liver, and cardiac functions, were treated with 
gemcitabine and carboplatin. The starting dose was gemcitabine 800 mg/m2 on days 
1 and 15 and carboplatin area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) 4 
mg/mL/min on day 1. Gemcitabine was increased to 1000 mg/m2 (level 3). 
Carboplatin was increased to AUC 5 (level 2, 3). The regimen was performed every 
4 weeks. The dose-limiting toxicity of the regimen was assessed during the first 
chemotherapy cycle.
RESULTS: Nine patients were enrolled in this study. All patients were assessed 
for safety. Grade 3 leukopenia occurred in 1 patient (11%) and grade 3/4 
neutropenia occurred in 3 patients (33%). No other grade 3/4 toxicity was 
observed. No dose-limiting toxicity was experienced at dose levels 1, 2, and 3 
of this schedule.
CONCLUSION: Maximum tolerated dose was not reached in this study. Considering 
treatment continuation, the recommended dose for a phase II study is gemcitabine 
1000 mg/m2 on days 1 and 15 and carboplatin AUC 5 on day 1, every 4 weeks. 
Biweekly administration of gemcitabine and carboplatin is a feasible and 
well-tolerated regimen for the treatment of patients with completely resected 
NSCLC as adjuvant chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.coc.0000264179.23080.bc
PMID: 17921710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Orthop Nurs. 2007 Sep-Oct;26(5):281-6; quiz 287-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.NOR.0000295953.74258.7b.

Bone loss. An emerging problem following obesity surgery.

Berarducci A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida Colleges of Nursing and Medicine, Tampa, Florida, 
USA.

The incidence of obesity worldwide has increased markedly in the past 2 decades, 
with estimates of increases of 50% in the United States alone. Research 
indicates that weight loss produced by diet alone is not sustained and that 75% 
of dieters regain most of the weight lost within 1 year and 90% within 2 years. 
Morbid obesity is associated with comorbid conditions, including heart disease, 
hypertension, diabetes, mechanical arthropathy, sleep apnea, and numerous other 
serious disorders and a shortened life expectancy. Because of limited success 
with medical management, surgical treatment of morbid obesity has been used 
increasingly, especially with the development of laparoscopic procedures, 
including Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB). RYGB is associated with low surgical 
mortality, marked decreased food intake, and significant, sustained weight loss. 
However, in this emerging, unique population there is growing appreciation that 
these procedures may be associated with the development of bone loss and 
skeletal fragility because of altered nutrient metabolism. Despite the threat of 
skeletal fragility and fracture, there is limited data addressing the effects of 
bariatric surgery on bone metabolism and bone loss.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NOR.0000295953.74258.7b
PMID: 17921886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2007 Oct;4(10):561-9. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro0916.

Surgery Insight: optimizing open nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy techniques 
for improved outcomes.

Eastham JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 
10021, USA. easthamj@mskcc.org

Men with prostate cancer have a variety of treatment choices available, 
including expectant management with deferred treatment, brachytherapy, 
external-beam radiation therapy, or both of the latter options--with or without 
hormonal therapy, cryotherapy, and radical prostatectomy (RP). Physicians have 
long endeavored to guide patients through these choices on the basis of the 
health threat posed by the cancer, the potential effectiveness and complications 
associated with treatment, and the patient's life expectancy. As early detection 
programs now identify cancers much earlier in their natural history, individual 
patients have a longer life expectancy than in the past. The patient and 
physician must, therefore, weigh the potential benefit of the selected treatment 
with the risk of early or delayed complications that would detract from the 
patient's quality of life. Optimally, when a surgical approach is used to treat 
prostate cancer, the operation removes the cancer completely with negative 
surgical margins, avoids excessive blood loss or serious perioperative 
complications, and culminates in complete recovery of continence and potency. To 
achieve this, the surgeon must treat sufficient periprostatic tissue to achieve 
cure while preserving the cavernosal nerves required for erectile function and 
the neuromusculature required for normal urinary and bowel function. Evidence 
suggests that the small details of how a surgery is performed have a major 
impact on the outcome of RP. Here the role of surgical techniques in determining 
oncologic and quality of life outcomes after RP, focusing on open RP, are 
presented.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro0916
PMID: 17921971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Gastric Cancer. 2007;10(3):153-8. doi: 10.1007/s10120-007-0424-9. Epub 2007
Sep  26.

Conditional survival in gastric cancer: a SEER database analysis.

Wang SJ(1), Emery R, Fuller CD, Kim JS, Sittig DF, Thomas CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Medicine, MC KPV4, Oregon Health and Science 
University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Road, Portland, OR 97239-3098, USA.

BACKGROUND: Gastric cancer survival is typically reported in terms of survival 
from the time of diagnosis. Conditional survival is a more relevant measure of 
prognosis for patients who have already survived 1 or more years since 
diagnosis.
METHODS: Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER 17) 
database from the National Cancer Institute, we analyzed data from 20 018 
gastric cancer patients diagnosed between 1988 and 1998. Using the life-table 
method, we computed 5-year relative conditional survival, grouped by summary 
stage, age, sex, and ethnicity, for patients who had already survived up to 5 
years from diagnosis.
RESULTS: Relative conditional survival improves over time for all groups of 
gastric cancer patients who survive a period of time after diagnosis. The 
largest gains in conditional survival were seen in patients with advanced stage 
disease. In general, females showed better survival than males. When grouped by 
ethnicity, Asians continued to have improved survival compared to other ethnic 
categories, even at 5 years out from diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: For gastric cancer patients who survive a period of time after 
diagnosis, the largest increases in conditional survival are seen for patients 
with advanced stage disease and for those less than 65 years old. Conditional 
survival can provide more relevant prognostic information than survival from the 
time of diagnosis for gastric cancer patients who survive a period of time after 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10120-007-0424-9
PMID: 17922092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2008 Aug;128(8):787-93. doi:
10.1007/s00402-007-0464-y.  Epub 2007 Oct 9.

Prosthetic joint replacement for long bone metastases: analysis of 154 cases.

Camnasio F(1), Scotti C, Peretti GM, Fontana F, Fraschini G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, San Raffaele Scientific 
Institute, Via Olgettina 60, 20132 Milan, Italy. camnasio.francesco@hsr.it

INTRODUCTION: Metastatic bone disease is the most common cause of malignancies 
to the skeleton in adults. The treatment of bone metastases is frequently 
palliative aiming to achieve a satisfactory control of pain and to prevent or to 
treat pathological fractures. In selected cases the resection of a single bone 
metastasis may improve the survival of the patients. Our experience with bone 
metastases located in the appendicular skeleton, between 1992 and 2004, is 
retrospectively reviewed here.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We report a series of 154 patients (95 females and 59 
males) treated with prosthesis for metastatic bone disease. Lower limb 
localization was more frequent with 117 cases, while upper limb was affected in 
37 cases. Metastatic breast and renal carcinoma predominated and accounted for 
66% of the lesions. Indications to surgery were reported, oncologic outcome was 
evaluated and functional results were obtained by the Musculoskeletal Tumor 
Society scoring system.
RESULTS: Follow up ranged from 6 months to 12 years (median 26 months). One-year 
survival was 69.5%, 2-years survival was 44.8%, 5-years survival was 19.5%; and 
5 (3.2%) died in the early post surgical period. Functional results were good or 
higher in 73.8% of patients for the proximal femur, in 50% of patients for the 
knee and 30.6% of patients for the proximal humerus.
CONCLUSION: In this series, satisfactory results were achieved with few 
complications. We emphasized the importance of giving the patient a definitive 
treatment and preventing pathological fractures as they determine disability and 
a spreading of the tumor in the soft tissues, leading to an increased 
probability of local recurrence. Prosthetic replacement contributes to an 
improved quality of life and limb functionality and, in selected cases; this 
radical surgical approach is indicated as it may improve patient's life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-007-0464-y
PMID: 17922282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Hemodial Int. 2007 Oct;11(4):456-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1542-4758.2007.00217.x.

Aging veterans and the end-stage renal disease management dilemma in the 
millennium.

Vachharajani TJ(1), Atray NK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Nephrology, Overton Brooks Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center and Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, 
Shreveport, Louisiana, USA. tvachhar@wfubmc.edu

The population of aging veterans with complex multiple medical problems is 
increasing steadily in developed nations. The life expectancy in an aging 
population with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is often compared with terminal 
malignancy. Renal failure in elderly patients often generates a myriad of 
complicated issues and the nephrologists are faced with the dilemma of conveying 
the prognosis of renal failure in elderly patients and also explain the pros and 
cons of offering a renal replacement therapy. Our objectives were to assess the 
cumulative survival in veterans with ESRD over 70 years of age and to evaluate 
the factors considered for either not initiating or withdrawing from dialysis. 
All veterans above age 70 years, who were being evaluated for possible dialysis 
therapy over a 5-year period, were included in the study. The cumulative 
survival rates at 1 year, 3 years and 5 years were 60%, 37%, and 20%, 
respectively. Tunneled cuffed catheter was the dialysis access in a third of 
these patients on dialysis adding to the morbidity. Twenty-four patients 
considered either not initiating or withdrawing from dialysis therapy after 
consensus agreement from either the patient or the power of attorney. The 
decision to initiate dialysis therapy should be made considering the social, 
ethical, and associated comorbid conditions. A decision to not initiate or 
withdraw dialysis is possible in critically ill elderly patients and if taken 
judiciously can reduce physical and mental stress of both the patient and their 
family members.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1542-4758.2007.00217.x
PMID: 17922744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. BMC Public Health. 2007 Oct 8;7:283. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-283.

Using death certificate data to study place of death in 9 European countries: 
opportunities and weaknesses.

Cohen J(1), Bilsen J, Miccinesi G, Löfmark R, Addington-Hall J, Kaasa S, Norup 
M, van der Wal G, Deliens L.

Author information:
(1)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, 
Belgium. jcohen@vub.ac.be

BACKGROUND: Systematic and reliable epidemiological information at population 
level, preferably cross-national, is needed for an adequate planning of 
(end-of-life) health care policies, e.g. concerning place of death, but is 
currently lacking. This study illustrates opportunities and weaknesses of death 
certificate data to provide such information on place of death and associated 
factors in nine European countries (seven entire countries and five regions).
METHODS: We investigated the possibility and modality of all partners in this 
international comparative study (BE, DK, IT, NL, NO, SE, UK) to negotiate a 
dataset containing all deaths of one year with their national/regional 
administration of mortality statistics, and analysed the availability of 
information about place of death as well as a number of clinical, 
socio-demographic, residential and healthcare system factors.
RESULTS: All countries negotiated a dataset, but rules, procedures, and cost 
price to get the data varied strongly between countries. In total, about 1.1 
million deaths were included. For four of the nine countries not all desired 
categories for place of death were available. Most desired clinical and 
socio-demographic information was available, be it sometimes via linkages with 
other population databases. Healthcare system factors could be made available by 
linking existing healthcare statistics to the residence of the deceased.
CONCLUSION: Death certificate data provide information on place of death and on 
possibly associated factors and confounders in all studied countries. Hence, 
death certificate data provide a unique opportunity for cross-national studying 
and monitoring of place of death. However, modifications of certain aspects of 
death certificate registration and rules of data-protection are perhaps required 
to make international monitoring of place of death more feasible and accurate.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-7-283
PMCID: PMC2099436
PMID: 17922894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Clin Geriatr Med. 2007 Nov;23(4):889-903, viii. doi:
10.1016/j.cger.2007.06.006.

Aging liver and hepatitis.

Junaidi O(1), Di Bisceglie AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, 
3635 Vista Avenue, Saint Louis, MO 63110, USA. junaidio@slu.edu

Chronic liver disease and cirrhosis are the tenth leading causes of death in the 
United States and results in approximately 25,000 deaths annually. As life 
expectancy in developed countries has increased, so has the number of elderly 
patients who have liver disease. With an aging population and chronic liver 
disease becoming an increasingly significant cause of morbidity and mortality, 
the various causes for hepatitis will need to be evaluated and available 
treatments considered, even in elderly population. Common causes for hepatitis 
in elderly individuals include viral, autoimmune, and drug-induced hepatitis, 
but evidence for treatment of this population is limited. This article reviews 
the likely causes of hepatitis in elderly individuals and discusses evidence for 
treating this population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2007.06.006
PMID: 17923344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Clin Geriatr Med. 2007 Nov;23(4):905-21, viii. doi:
10.1016/j.cger.2007.06.010.

Alcoholic liver disease in the elderly.

Seitz HK(1), Stickel F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine & Center of Alcohol Research, Liver Disease and 
Nutrition, Salem Medical Center, University of Heidelberg, Zeppelinstrasse 
11-33, D - 69121 Heidelberg, Germany. helmut_karl.seitz@urz.uni-heidelberg.de

Although per capita alcohol consumption, and thus the prevalence of alcoholic 
liver disease, decreases generally with age in Europe and in the United States, 
recently an increase in alcohol consumption has been reported in individuals 
over 65 years. Reasons explaining this observation may include an increase in 
life expectancy or a loss of life partners and, thus, loneliness and depression. 
Although ethanol metabolism and ethanol distribution change with age, and an 
elderly person's liver is more susceptible to the toxic effect of ethanol, the 
spectrum of alcoholic liver diseases and their symptoms and signs is similar to 
that seen in patients of all ages. However, prognosis of alcoholic liver disease 
in the elderly is poor. In addition, chronic alcohol consumption may enhance 
