PMID: 17942854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Kidney Int. 2007 Nov;72(9):1045-7. doi: 10.1038/sj.ki.5002552.

Measuring the burden of illness for end-stage renal disease: some heavy lifting 
required.

de Lissovoy G(1).

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corp., Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA. 
greg.delissovoy@unitedbiosource.com

Comment on
    Kidney Int. 2007 Nov;72(9):1122-9.

Estimates for the burden of illness (BOI) attributable to end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) in Canada are presented in the article by Zelmer. This Commentary 
describes the methodology of BOI analysis, its role in formulating public 
policy, and the potential application to improving care for ESRD.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ki.5002552
PMID: 17943151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Radiologe. 2007 Dec;47(12):1109-16. doi: 10.1007/s00117-007-1571-z.

[Interventional oncology for lung tumors].

[Article in German]

Hoffmann RT(1), Jakobs TF, Muacevic A, Trumm C, Helmberger TK, Reiser MF.

Author information:
(1)Institut für klinische Radiologie, Klinikum Grosshadern der 
Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, Marchioninistrasse 15, 81377, München, 
Deutschland. ralf-thorsten.hoffmann@med.uni-muenchen.de

Lung tumors and pulmonary metastases together are the most common cause of 
cancer-related death in men and the second most frequent in women. Up to now, 
surgical resection has remained the gold standard in the treatment of pulmonary 
tumors, being the only treatment option that was potentially curative and 
offered the possibility of a significant increase in life expectancy after 
successful therapy. Over the past decade, percutaneous radiofrequency ablation 
(RFA) has gained worldwide acceptance in the treatment of primary and secondary 
tumors of the liver with curative intent, so that indications for RFA have been 
extended to embrace tumors in other organs, e.g. the lung. Since the first case 
results were described, the number of publications dealing with the treatment of 
lung tumors using thermal ablative therapies has increased significantly. The 
aims of the present article are to give a short overview of emerging therapies 
such as cyberknife surgery and also, especially, to describe the indications for 
and technique of RFA, to discuss the ideal method of follow-up, and to highlight 
possible complications of the therapy and the current results of RFA of primary 
and secondary lung tumors. In addition, the value of combining RFA with other 
therapy modes (especially chemotherapy and radiation therapy)is briefly treated.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-007-1571-z
PMID: 17943266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2008 Jan-Feb;31(1):23-35. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-007-9175-6. Epub 2007 Oct 18.

Long-term follow-up after endovascular treatment of acute aortic emergencies.

Pitton MB(1), Herber S, Schmiedt W, Neufang A, Dorweiler B, Düber C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University Hospital of 
Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University of Mainz, Langenbeckstrasse 1, 55131 Mainz, 
Germany. pitton@radiologie.klinik.uni-mainz.de

PURPOSE: To investigate the long-term outcome and efficacy of emergency 
treatment of acute aortic diseases with endovascular stent-grafts.
METHODS: From September 1995 to April 2007, 37 patients (21 men, 16 women; age 
53.9 +/- 19.2 years, range 18-85 years) with acute complications of diseases of 
the descending thoracic aorta were treated by endovascular stent-grafts: 
traumatic aortic ruptures (n = 9), aortobronchial fistulas due to penetrating 
ulcer or hematothorax (n = 6), acute type B dissections with aortic wall 
hematoma, penetration, or ischemia (n = 13), and symptomatic aneurysm of the 
thoracic aorta (n = 9) with pain, penetration, or rupture. Diagnosis was 
confirmed by contrast-enhanced CT. Multiplanar reformations were used for 
measurement of the landing zones of the stent-grafts. Stent-grafts were inserted 
via femoral or iliac cut-down. Two procedures required aortofemoral bypass 
grafting prior to stent-grafting due to extensive arteriosclerotic stenosis of 
the iliac arteries. In this case the bypass graft was used for introduction of 
the stent-graft.
RESULTS: A total of 46 stent-grafts were implanted: Vanguard/Stentor (n = 4), 
Talent (n = 31), and Valiant (n = 11). Stent-graft extension was necessary in 7 
cases. In 3 cases primary graft extension was done during the initial procedure 
(in 1 case due to distal migration of the graft during stent release, in 2 cases 
due to the total length of the aortic aneurysm). In 4 cases secondary graft 
extensions were performed--for new aortic ulcers at the proximal stent struts 
(after 5 days) and distal to the graft (after 8 months) and recurrent 
aortobronchial fistulas 5 months and 9 years after the initial 
procedure--resulting in a total of 41 endovascular procedures. The 30-day 
mortality rate was 8% (3 of 37) and the overall follow-up was 29.9 +/- 36.6 
months (range 0-139 months). All patients with traumatic ruptures demonstrated 
an immediate sealing of bleeding. Patients with aortobronchial fistulas also 
demonstrated a satisfactory follow-up despite the necessity for reintervention 
and graft extension in 3 of 6 cases (50%). Two patients with type B dissection 
died due to mesenteric ischemia despite sufficient mesenteric blood flow being 
restored (but too late). Two suffered from neurologic complications, 1 from 
paraplegia and 1 from cerebral ischemia (probably embolic), 1 from penetrating 
ulcer, and 1 from persistent ischemia of the kidney. Five of 9 (56%) patients 
with symptomatic thoracic aneurysm demonstrated endoleaks during follow-up and 
there was an increase in the aneurysm in 1.
CONCLUSION: Endovascular treatment is safe and effective for emergency treatment 
of life-threatening acute thoracic aortic syndromes. Results are encouraging, 
particularly for traumatic aortic ruptures. However, regular follow-up is 
mandatory, particularly in the other pathologies, to identify late complications 
of the stent-graft and to perform appropriate additional corrections as 
required.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-007-9175-6
PMID: 17943352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. MMW Fortschr Med. 2007 Sep 6;149(35-36):35-7.

[Oncological therapy in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Sandherr M(1).

Author information:
(1)Schwerpunktpraxis für Hämatologie und Onkologie mit Tagesklinik, Weilheim. 
Michael.Sandherr@lrz.tum.de

Advanced age alone should never be the reason for refusing elderly people an 
effective oncological therapy which could improve their quality of life and 
possibly also meaningfully extend their survival. However, age-related 
physiological organ changes and potential cognitive, emotional and social 
problems must be precisely analyzed before beginning a therapy. Only then can a 
decision be made for a specific tumour therapy or perhaps symptom management 
with supportive measures. Treatability is evaluated using test instruments that 
have been developed for geriatric assessment.

PMID: 17944282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2007 Oct;7(10):1331-4. doi: 
10.1586/14737140.7.10.1331.

Elderly lung cancer patients: what treatment strategies?

Gridelli C.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.7.10.1331
PMID: 17944557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2006;2006:4062-5. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2006.259495.

Modeling the healthcare assistance process for comorbidity patients compliant 
with prEN12967.

Román I(1), Millán AB, Roa LM, Madinabeitia G, Reina LJ, Aguayo M.

Author information:
(1)Telematic Eng. Group, Seville Univ.

The increment of life expectancy in our society, and the consequent population 
ageing, anticipate that the health sector must face the challenges associated 
with a growing population group of elderly patients with numerous disorders, 
generally chronic. In this work we introduce a framework to support the 
communication and information management tasks involved in a coordinated care of 
this kind of patients. This framework has been developed in the European 
context, it is compliant with CEN's prEN12967, and follows ITU-T's ODP 
methodology, that facilitates its integration in any system following this 
standard.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2006.259495
PMID: 17946219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2007 Dec;48(6):781-90.

Types of reconstructive surgery of the aortic valve.

Misfeld M(1), Bechtel M, Sievers HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac and Thoracic Vascular Surgery, University of Luebeck, 
Luebeck, Germany.

The aortic valve is part of the aortic root which is wedged between the heart 
and the ascending aorta, maintaining a directional flow throughout life-span. 
Beside different types of aortic valve replacements, reconstructive techniques 
are increasingly performed to restore normal aortic valve function. To apply 
these operations, understanding of normal and pathological valve anatomy and 
physiology is of basic importance. In addition, a widely accepted uniform aortic 
valve and root terminology is desirable for a proper scientific communication. 
Reconstructive techniques themselves can be divided into isolated reconstruction 
of aortic valve/root structures and the isolated replacement of one or more 
structures. Examples for the former ones are commissurotomy, cusps plication, 
decalcification or extension as well as plications of other aortic root 
structures (i.e. the intercusp triangles or the basal annulus). Examples for the 
latter ones are the remodeling and reimplantation techniques and their 
modifications. Replacement of the ascending aorta at the sinotubular level for 
the adjustment of the commissures to restore aortic root geometry also belongs 
to this group of techniques for aortic valve reconstruction. In this review 
article a systematic description of the current reconstructive techniques to 
restore adequate aortic valve function as well as clinical data are presented.

PMID: 17947937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Rev Neurol. 2007 Oct 16-31;45(8):460-7.

[Analysis of the cost-effectiveness of treatment for refractory partial 
epilepsy: a simulation model for pregabalin and levetiracetam].

[Article in Spanish]

Díaz S(1), Argumosa A, Horga de la Parte JF, Vera-Llonch M, Dukes E, 
Rejas-Gutiérrez J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Investigación de Resultados en Salud, Instituto Euroclin, 
Alcobendas, Madrid, Spain. sdiazcerezo@yahoo.es

AIM: To estimate the cost-effectiveness (C-E) of pregabalin (PGB) or 
levetiracetam (LEV) relative to standard therapy (ST) as add-on anti-epileptic 
therapy in patients with partial refractory epilepsy in Spain.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Using stochastic simulation techniques, we estimated the 
C-E of PGB (300 mg/day) and LEV (2,000 mg/day) in a hypothetical cohort of 1,000 
patients (vs ST). The model used data of efficacy and safety from two randomized 
controlled clinical trials. Direct medical costs (caused by handling of the 
disease and the adverse events were estimated using year-2007 prices. Model 
outcomes included number of additional seizure-free days (over one year), 
adverse events and quality adjusted life-years (QALYs). We calculated the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per additional seizure-free day and 
QALY gained.
RESULTS: Compared with ST, treatment with PGB yielded an estimated 43.3 +/- 4.8 
(mean +/- standard error) additional seizure-free days, and a gain of 0.04 +/- 
0.0006 QALYs over one year. Comparable results for LEV vs ST were 24.3 +/- 6.2 
and 0.025 +/- 0.007 QALYs, respectively. The annual total cost (in euros) per 
patient was 1,843 with PGB, 3,018 with LEV and 897 with ST. Mean ICER for PGB vs 
ST were 22 euros (95% CI = 19-27) per additional seizure-free day, and 23,881 
euros (95% CI = 19,206-30,247) per QALY gained; estimates for LEV were 95 euros 
(CI 95% = 60-177) and 95,904 euros (CI 95% = 57,137-203,169) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with partial refractory epilepsy, when compared with 
ST, PGB demonstrated better ICER per additional seizure-free day and QALY gained 
than LEV.

PMID: 17948211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Ther Umsch. 2007 Jul;64(7):395-8. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.64.7.395.

[Pelvic tumors in the eyes of urologists].

[Article in German]

Stübinger SH(1), van der Horst Ch, Braun PM.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Universitätsklinikum 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel. shstuebinger@uksh-kiel.de

Pelvic tumors originating from outside the urinary tract commonly invade the 
urogenital organs by direct extension mainly because of the close relationships 
between the pelvic organs. Benign tumors such as endometrial myoma, ovarian cyst 
and adenoma of the colon might lead to the development of urogenital symptoms. 
This is also the case with malignant tumors of the uterus, ovaries, cervix and 
colon where infiltration of the urogenital organs might be noted. The most 
commonly mentioned symptoms involve incontinence, infections, obstructive 
symptoms, and in terminal cases those of renal failure. These are the symptoms 
that lead to the diagnosis of the primary tumor. It has to be kept in mind that 
urogenital tumors with such symptoms have to be included in the differential 
diagnosis. The therapeutic measures are directed at first to relieve the 
symptoms before intending to deal with the causative source. An example is the 
development of hydronephrosis, where the initial measure has to be the immediate 
relief of the obstruction through draining of either the kidney or the urinary 
bladder. The possibility of eradicating the tumor is then to be discussed after 
relieving the obstruction.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.64.7.395
PMID: 17948757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. BJOG. 2007 Nov;114(11):1352-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2007.01525.x.

Uterine artery embolisation or hysterectomy for the treatment of symptomatic 
uterine fibroids: a cost-utility analysis of the HOPEFUL study.

Wu O(1), Briggs A, Dutton S, Hirst A, Maresh M, Nicholson A, McPherson K.

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Health Policy, Division of Community Based Sciences, 
University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK. o.wu@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the relative cost-effectiveness of uterine artery 
embolisation (UAE) and hysterectomy in women with symptomatic uterine fibroids 
from the perspective of the UK NHS.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis.
SETTING: Eighteen UK NHS hospital trusts. POPULATION OR SAMPLE Women who 
underwent UAE (n= 649; average follow up of 8.6 years) or hysterectomy (n= 459; 
average follow up of 4.6 years) for the treatments of symptomatic fibroids.
METHODS: A probabilistic decision model was carried out based on data from a 
large comparative cohort and the literature. The two interventions were 
evaluated over the time horizon from the initial procedure to menopause. 
Extensive sensitivity analysis was carried out to test model assumptions and 
parameter uncertainties.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs of procedures and complications and quality of life 
expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Overall, UAE was associated with lower mean cost (2536 pounds sterling 
versus 3282 pounds sterling) and a small reduction in quality of life (8.203 
versus 8.241 QALYs) when compared with hysterectomy. However, when the quality 
of life associated with the conservation of the uterus was incorporated in the 
model, UAE was shown to be the dominant strategy--lower costs and greater QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: UAE is a less expensive option to the health service compared with 
hysterectomy, even when the costs of repeat procedures and associated 
complications are factored in. The quality of life implications in the short 
term are also predicted to favour UAE; however, this advantage may be eroded 
over time as women undergo additional procedures to deal with recurrent 
fibroids. Given the hysterectomy is the current standard treatment for 
symptomatic fibroids, offering women UAE as an alternative treatment for 
fibroids is likely to be highly cost-effective for those women who prefer 
uterus-conserving treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2007.01525.x
PMID: 17949377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. J Theor Biol. 2007 Dec 21;249(4):691-705. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2007.08.005.
Epub  2007 Aug 19.

Modular decomposition of metabolic systems via null-space analysis.

Poolman MG(1), Sebu C, Pidcock MK, Fell DA.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Oxford Brookes University, Headington, Oxford OX3 
0BP, UK. mgpoolman@brookes.ac.uk

We describe a method by which the reactions in a metabolic system may be grouped 
hierarchically into sets of modules to form a metabolic reaction tree. In 
contrast to previous approaches, the method described here takes into account 
the fact that, in a viable network, reactions must be capable of sustaining a 
steady-state flux. In order to achieve this decomposition we introduce a new 
concept--the reaction correlation coefficient, phi, and show that this is a 
logical extension of the concept of enzyme (or reaction) subsets. In addition to 
their application to modular decomposition, reaction correlation coefficients 
have a number of other interesting properties, including a convenient means for 
identifying disconnected subnetworks in a system and potential applications to 
metabolic engineering. The method computes reaction correlation coefficients 
from an orthonormal basis of the null-space of the stoichiometry matrix. We show 
that reaction correlation coefficients are uniquely defined, even though the 
basis of the null-space is not. Once a complete set of reaction correlation 
coefficients is calculated, a metabolic reaction tree can be determined through 
the application of standard programming techniques. Computation of the reaction 
correlation coefficients, and the subsequent construction of the metabolic 
reaction tree is readily achievable for genome-scale models using a commodity 
desk-top PC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2007.08.005
PMID: 17949756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Eur J Radiol. 2008 Mar;65(3):359-64. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2007.09.021. Epub
2007  Oct 22.

The many faces of aortic dissections: Beware of unusual presentations.

Scaglione M(1), Salvolini L, Casciani E, Giovagnoni A, Mazzei MA, Volterrani L.

Author information:
(1)Emergency and Trauma CT Section, Department of Radiology, Cardarelli 
Hospital, Via G. Merliani 31, 80127 Napoli, Italy. mscaglione@tiscali.it

Aortic dissection is gaining recognition in Western societies, and it is being 
diagnosed with increasing frequency. New diagnostic imaging modalities, longer 
life expectancy, as well as the increase in the number patients suffering from 
hypertension have all contributed to the growing awareness of aortic dissection. 
Nevertheless, as many as 30% of patients ultimately diagnosed with acute 
dissection are first thought to be suffering from something else. The increased 
availability and use of multidetector computed tomography has led to the 
incidental discovery of aortic dissection in very different settings. This 
article focuses on unusual presentations of painless aortic dissection. It is 
important for radiologists to remember that aortic dissections may present in 
different ways, not only as an acute, critical fatality but also with subtle, 
unusual signs and symptoms, which apparently do not seem to be strictly related 
to aortic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2007.09.021
PMID: 17950552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2008 Feb;65(2):172-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2007.08.004. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

Mycosis fungoides.

Zinzani PL(1), Ferreri AJ, Cerroni L.

Author information:
(1)L. and A. Seragnoli Institute of Hematology and Oncology, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy. plzinzo@med.unibo.it

Mycosis fungoides (MF) constitutes the most frequent cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. 
Sezary syndrome is considered by some authors to be an erythrodermic leukemic 
variant of MF, but is classified separately in the new WHO-EORT classification 
of cutaneous lymphomas. MF usually occurs in old adults with a 2:1 male to 
female ratio. Its prognosis is variable and strongly conditioned by the extent 
and type of skin involvement and presence of extracutaneous disease. Patients 
with stage IA-disease have an excellent prognosis with an overall long-term life 
expectancy that is similar to an age-, sex-, and race-matched control 
population. Almost all patients with stage IA MF will die from causes other than 
MF, with a median survival >33 years. Only 9% of these patients will progress to 
more extended disease. Patients with stage IB or IIA have a median survival 
greater than 11 years. These patients with T2 disease have a likelihood of 
disease progression of 24% and nearly 20% die of MF. Subgroups with stage IB or 
IIA have similar prognosis. Patients with cutaneous tumors or generalized 
erythroderma have a median survival of 3 and 4.5 years, respectively. The 
majority of these patients will die of MF. Extracutaneous dissemination is 
observed in less than 10% of patients with patch or plaque disease and in 30-40% 
of patients with tumors or generalized erythrodermatous involvement. 
Extracutaneous involvement is directly correlated to the extent of cutaneous 
disease. The most commonly involved organs are lung, spleen, liver, and 
gastrointestinal tract. Patients with extracutaneous disease at presentation 
involving either lymph nodes or viscera have a median survival of <1.5 years. 
Patients with plaque-type or erythrodermic MF may develop cutaneous tumors with 
large cell histology, often expressing CD30, which share a common clonal origin 
as observed in their preexisting MF and are associated with a less favourable 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2007.08.004
PMID: 17950613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Med Hypotheses. 2008;70(3):501-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2007.05.053. Epub 2007
Oct  22.

The light of life: evidence that the sun modulates human lifespan.

Lowell WE(1), Davis GE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Research Group, Psybernetics Inc., Augusta, ME 04330, United States. 
WELowell@gmail.com

This paper describes the effects of radiation, probably ultraviolet radiation 
(UVR), on the human genome at peaks of solar cycles. This phenomenon was not 
previously reported because peak cycle lifespan had not been separated from 
non-peak lifespan. This paper reinforces the findings of others regarding the 
seasonality of various diseases and that there are factors occurring early in 
utero that increase susceptibility to diseases later in life. The authors use 
the vital statistics of 320,247 Maine citizens over a 29-year period to show 
that those born in 3-year peaks of 11-year solar cycles live an average of 1.5 
years (CL 1.3-1.7) less than those born in non-peak years. Males are more 
sensitive than females to this phenomenon, which is statistically demonstrable 
well into adult life, showing the effect of probable UVR on the early human 
embryo despite superimposed adult lifetime hazards. The authors also show that 
changes in seasonal light modulate lifespan differently in males and females and 
that genome and environment must be tightly interactive early after conception. 
Published literature supports the hypothesis that UVR suppresses the maternal 
immune system by producing cytokines in circulating lymphocytes that probably 
affect the fetal genome. The intermittent and incompletely predictable solar 
cycles periodically stress the genomes of all life producing genetic changes 
which may be harmful or adaptive. The evidence presented in this study indicates 
that solar cycles, particularly the most irradiant which have occurred over the 
past 65 years, are fundamental engines of evolution, even underlying natural 
selection, and we bear their marks even to the end of our lives. Future 
researchers must further define the pathogenesis of solar radiation on early 
embryonic development to possibly minimize a predisposition to diseases at their 
origin.
BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: This study explores the relationship of season of birth and 
human lifespan particularly in reference to the intensity of solar radiation 
that occurs in 11-year cycles.
METHODS: The birth years were obtained and lifespan calculated for 320,247 Maine 
citizens over a 29-year period. Those who were born at 3-year peaks of 11-year 
solar cycles were separated from those born in non-peak years. Using SAS 
statistical tools, a randomization technique was used to compare the lifespan 
between peak and non-peak years to eliminate selection bias, cohort effects, and 
confounding variables.
RESULTS: Those born in peaks of solar cycles lived an average of 1.5 years (CL 
1.3-1.7) less than those born in non-peak years. Males were more sensitive to 
this phenomenon than females. A similar analysis was performed for month of 
birth and the pattern of peak to non-peak lifespan difference was nearly 
identical to the pattern of seasonal variation in light.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifespan variation appears to be modulated by seasonal light 
confirming that genome and environment are closely linked very early after 
conception. Although the precise pathogenesis is still unknown, the phenomenon 
must involve radiant energy, probably ultraviolet light, possibly affecting the 
maternal immune system through the dermis. This study also supports the 
reliability theory of aging which suggests that events affecting the genome 
early after conception are important in the expression of adult diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2007.05.053
PMID: 17951015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Eukaryot Cell. 2007 Dec;6(12):2343-53. doi: 10.1128/EC.00211-07. Epub 2007
Oct  19.

Schizosaccharomyces pombe Sst4p, a conserved Vps27/Hrs homolog, functions 
downstream of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase Pik3p to mediate proper spore 
formation.

Onishi M(1), Iida M, Koga T, Yamada S, Hirata A, Iwaki T, Takegawa K, Fukui Y, 
Tachikawa H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Science, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.

Sporulation of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe is a developmental 
process that generates gametes and that includes the formation of spore envelope 
precursors called the forespore membranes. Assembly and development of forespore 
membranes require vesicular trafficking from other intracellular membrane 
compartments. We have shown that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PtdIns 3-kinase) 
is required for efficient and proper development of forespore membranes. The 
role of a FYVE domain protein, Sst4p, a homolog of Vps27p/Hrs, as a downstream 
factor for PtdIns 3-kinase in sporulation was investigated. sst4Delta asci 
formed spores with oval-shaped morphology and with reduced viability compared to 
that of the wild-type spores. The extension of forespore membranes was 
inefficient, and bubble-like structures emerged from the leading edges of the 
forespore membranes. Sst4p localization was examined using fluorescent protein 
fusions and was found to be adjacent to the forespore membranes during 
sporulation. The localization and function of Sst4p were dependent on its FYVE 
domain and on PtdIns 3-kinase. Sst4p colocalized and interacted with Hse1p, a 
homolog of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Hse1p and of mammalian STAM. Mutations in 
all three UIM domains of the Sst4p/Hse1p complex resulted in formation of spores 
with abnormal morphology. These results suggest that Sst4p is a downstream 
factor of PtdIns 3-kinase and functions in forespore membrane formation.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00211-07
PMCID: PMC2168254
PMID: 17951524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Int J Med Sci. 2007 Oct 4;4(4):232-6. doi: 10.7150/ijms.4.232.

Familial polycythemia caused by a novel mutation in the beta globin gene: 
essential role of P50 in evaluation of familial polycythemia.

Agarwal N(1), Mojica-Henshaw MP, Simmons ED, Hussey D, Ou CN, Prchal JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, 
USA.

Two polycythemic subjects from a family with multiple polycythemic subjects were 
evaluated. Estimation of oxygen affinity of Hb from venous blood gas parameters 
(P50) revealed low P50 suggesting a high affinity Hb variant. Further work up, 
which included beta globin gene sequencing, revealed a novel mutation changing a 
codon to the previously reported high affinity Hb - Hb Johnstown (beta 109 
Val->Leu). Polycythemic subjects with high affinity Hb variant are asymptomatic 
with normal life expectancy. Their differentiation from polycythemia vera (PV) 
is crucial to avoid therapy which is otherwise reserved for PV patients. We 
provide an electronic version (in Microsoft excel program) of a previously 
reported mathematical formula for rapid calculation of P50 from venous blood 
gases. Estimation of P50 is an essential initial step in the evaluation of a 
subject with personal and family history of polycythemia.

DOI: 10.7150/ijms.4.232
PMCID: PMC2016865
PMID: 17952198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Financial disclosure: 
Consultant: Josef T. Prchal for Astra Zeneca, Amgen; Honoraria: Josef T. Prchal 
for Astra Zeneca, Amgen. The authors declared that no other conflict of interest 
exists.


456. Cad Saude Publica. 2007 Nov;23(11):2643-52. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2007001100012.

[Mortality, years of life lost, and incidence of occupational accidents in the 
State of Bahia, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Santana VS(1), Araújo-Filho JB, Silva M, Albuquerque-Oliveira PR, Barbosa-Branco 
A, Nobre LC.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Saúde Coletiva, Universidade Federal da Bahia, Rua Augusto 
Vianna s/n, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil. vilma@ufba.br

This study of occupational accidents presents estimates for mortality, years of 
potential life lost, and cumulative incidence of severe cases (over 15 workdays 
lost) in Bahia State, Brazil, 2000. A correction factor was produced by 
comparing different data sources. Data were taken from compensation claims in 
the National Social Security Unified Benefits System (SUB), death certificates 
from the Ministry of Health Mortality Information System, and national census. 
Occupational accident-related mortality was estimated as 0.79 per 100,000 
workers using the Mortality Information System, but increased to 13.17 per 
100,000 using the SUB database. Assuming the latter result for the entire 
workforce produced a correction factor of 16.67 for the Mortality Information 
System database. Years of potential life lost were 23,249, and the cumulative 
incidence of severe occupational accidents was 2.3%. Occupational accidents are 
preventable, but still common in Brazil. Underreporting is widespread, and 
corrected statistics need to be published, thereby turning this neglected public 
health problem into a policy priority.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2007001100012
PMID: 17952257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Cad Saude Publica. 2007 Nov;23(11):2727-39. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2007001100020.

[Oral health in the Brazilian Family Health Program: a health care model 
evaluation].

[Article in Portuguese]

Souza TM(1), Roncalli AG.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Norte, 
Avenida das Alagoas 1689, Natal, Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil. 
tatyanaufrn@hotmail.com

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the addition of oral health teams to 
the Family Health Program in the State of Rio Grande do Norte, Brazil, by 
analyzing factors that can affect the process of changing oral health care 
models. The evaluation involved three dimensions: access, work organization, and 
planning strategies. 19 counties (municipalities) were randomly selected. The 
data collection instruments were: structured interviews with health managers and 
dentists, structured observation, and documental research. The study identified 
a lack of formal employment contracts for dentists, difficulty in referring 
patients for high-complexity procedures, and problems with the development of 
inter-sector activities, epidemiological diagnoses, and work evaluation. Most of 
the counties showed little or no improvement in oral health care. The counties 
that had improved their oral health care were the same ones with higher life 
expectancy, lower infant mortality rates, higher per capita income, and higher 
human development index (HDI). In conclusion, public policies that include 
aspects beyond the health sector are decisive for a real change in health care 
models.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2007001100020
PMID: 17952265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2007 Sep-Oct;53(5):456-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302007000500024.

[Heart rate and cardiovascular risk].

[Article in Portuguese]

César LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidade Clínica de Coronariopatia Crônica, Instituto do Coração, HC, FMUSP.

Heart rate (HR) is known to be one of the factors that in the animal world are 
related to mortality. When one multiplies resting HR by the average life time, 
for each animal species, the result is almost the same number, similar to a 
constant. Apparently, each class of living beings has its "maximal number of 
heart beats for a life". Herein considerations are made about the relationship 
between HR and survival in human beings. Some epidemiological studies are 
reviewed, especially those related to cardiovascular and coronary diseases 
correlated to deaths and discussions are directed towards the perspective of 
living longer by lowering the HR.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302007000500024
PMID: 17952357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Bull Soc Sci Med Grand Duche Luxemb. 2007;(1):17-37.

[Epidemiology of diabetes in the INTERREG III Province of Luxembourg, the Grand 
Duchy of Luxembourg, Lorraine].

[Article in French]

Böhme P(1), Chamagne L.

Author information:
(1)Service de Diabétologie - Nutrition, CHU Nancy, Hôpital Jeanne d'Arc - BP 
303, F - 54201 Toul. p.bohme@chu.nancy.fr

Incidence and prevalence of Type 2 Diabetes, together with its long term 
complications is explosively rising. The trans-border project "INTERREG III" 
tries to explore the epidemiology in the 3 concerned countries and to tie a 
network between the health providers. Estimation of prevalence is around 3% of 
the adult population but rising for example in the Grand Duchy by 4.5% per year, 
meaning the number of affected patients will double in 16 years, mainly due to 
the increase in obesity. Chronic renal insufficiency will rise and the number of 
patients will double in 8 years. Cardiovascular diseases and peripheral necrosis 
explain the high rate of hospitalisations and the loss of Life-expectancy that 
seems to be reduced by 5 to 10 years. A cost analysis in this article reveals 
the necessity of primary and secondary prevention programs of "diabesity" in 
this region, together with better multidisciplinary approaches of treatment and 
follow-up. This article emphasizes the need of a collaboration of all actors in 
the field, medical and para-medical.

PMID: 17953079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Sep 8;151(36):1973-4.

[Reforming the healthcare for older patients with co-morbidity].

[Article in Dutch]

Westendorp RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, afd. Ouderengeneeskunde, Postbus 9600, 
2300 RC Leiden. r.g.j.westendorp@lumc.nl

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Sep 8;151(36):1987-93.

On hospital admission, older people generally have various, interacting comorbid 
conditions and an increased risk of fatal or nearly fatal events. This complex 
presentation necessitates a patient-centred healthcare instead of the initiation 
of various non-integrated disease strategies along the lines ofthe traditional 
(sub-)specialties. An international comparison of life expectancy after age 65 
shows that the Netherlands is progressively lagging behind other European 
countries and countries elsewhere in the world. This observation indicates a 
necessity to reform the Dutch healthcare system to better meet the complex needs 
of older people.

PMID: 17953169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. MMW Fortschr Med. 2007 Apr 19;149(16):27-30.

[The diagnosis is cancer--and then depression?].

[Article in German]

Nothdurfter C(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie der LMU München. 
Caroline.Nothdurfter@med.uni-muenchen.de

Depressive disorders in patients with tumor disease are common. Owing to the 
possibility of symptom overlapping, the establishment of the diagnosis can prove 
difficult. The investigation of suicidality has a particular role to play, since 
the it may fluctuate greatly in this constellation of illnesses, and, overall, 
is very common. To date it is not clear whether psychological disorders are a 
risk factor for the development of malignant diseases. In principle, the 
spectrum of therapeutic options is virtually unlimited. However, possible 
contraindications associated with the underlying malignant disease must be 
carefully considered. All in all, establishment of the indication for 
psychopharmacological, psycho-/socio-therapeutic management should be liberal. 
In view of the reduced life expectancy of cancer victims, the highest priority 
must be given to improving the patient's quality of life.

PMID: 17953260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Chronic Dis Can. 2007;28(1-2):42-55.

Population health impact of cancer in Canada, 2001.

Boswell-Purdy J(1), Flanagan WM, Roberge H, Le Petit C, White KJ, Berthelot JM.

Author information:
(1)Policy Research Unit, Public Health Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.

Summary measures of population health that incorporate morbidity provide a new 
perspective for health policy and priority setting. Health-adjusted life years 
(HALYs) lost to a disease combine the impact of years of life lost to premature 
mortality and morbidity, measured as year-equivalents lost to reduced 
functioning. HALYs for 25 cancers were estimated from mortality and incidence in 
2001 in Canada; population-attributable fractions were estimated for major risk 
factors contributing to these cancers. Results from this analysis indicate that 
Canadians would lose an estimated 905,000 health-adjusted years of life to 
cancer for 2001, including 771,000 to premature mortality and 134,000 to 
morbidity from incident cases (years discounted at 3 percent). Most of the 
estimated premature mortality was due to lung cancer; morbidity was largely due 
to breast, prostate and colorectal cancers. An estimated one quarter of HALYs 
lost to cancer were attributable to smoking and almost one quarter were 
attributable to alcohol consumption, lack of fruit and vegetables, obesity and 
physical inactivity combined. These results are a significant advance in 
measuring the population health impact of cancer in Canada because they 
incorporate morbidity as well as mortality.

PMID: 17953797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Injury. 2008 Feb;39(2):244-8. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2007.07.009. Epub 2007
Oct  22.

Hip fractures in nonagenarians: perioperative mortality and survival.

van de Kerkhove MP(1), Antheunis PS, Luitse JS, Goslings JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, 
Meibergdreef 9, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The nonagenarian population is increasing yet there is little known about their 
survival and mortality rates following hip fractures. The aim was to review and 
evaluate all the nonagenarians who underwent surgery for intra- or extracapsular 
hip fracture at the Trauma Unit of the Department of Surgery at the Academic 
Medical Center (AMC) in Amsterdam in the past 20 years. In this retrospective 
study, 155 nonagenarians sustaining hip fractures between 1982 and 2001 were 
included and reviewed. In this population there were 128 women (83%) and 27 men 
(17%). Mortality in women was higher than in men. In men more intracapsular 
fractures (70%) were diagnosed compared to extracapsular fractures. The 
opposite, 38% intracapsular and 62% extracapsular fractures were found in women 
(p=0.002). A trend in higher perioperative mortality for extracapsular fractures 
and increasing ASA-classification was observed. Mean survival for the whole 
population, men and women was 756, 544 and 787 days, respectively. This study 
shows that ASA-II nonagenarians with hip fractures have comparable life 
expectancy compared to nonagenarians without a hip fracture. Shortening of 
hospital stay after hip fracture surgery reduces the costs and will benefit the 
patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2007.07.009
PMID: 17953970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Transplant Proc. 2007 Oct;39(8):2507-8. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.07.037.

Lifespan analysis of 212 transplanted kidney grafts: effects of use of humanized 
anti-IL-2R monoclonal antibody in graft survival at 1, 3, and 5 years for 108 
recipients.

Maciel RF(1).

Author information:
(1)Central de Transplantes do Agreste, Casa de Saude Santa Efigênia, Caruaru, 
Pernambuco, CEP 55014-250 Brazil. rfmaciel@uol.com.br

INTRODUCTION: The use of new drugs and new immunosuppressant schemes, as well as 
induction therapy with anti-IL-2R monoclonal antibody has significantly 
contributed to prolonged renal graft survival, especially in cadaveric grafts. 
However, what has led to this improvement has not been defined yet.
OBJECTIVE: Analyze the outcome of induction of humanized anti-IL-2R monoclonal 
antibodies on 1, 3 and 5 year survivals of 212 renal transplants from 1999 to 
2005.
METHOD: We analyzed the lifespan of grafts using Kaplan-Meier curves, using a 
significance level of alpha = 0,05 for 212 renal allografts.
RESULTS: The global result for 1, 3 and 5 year survival curves of patients who 
received the induction therapy was 88%, 86% and 86%, and for recipients who did 
not receive induction was 81%, 81% and 81%, respectively. Likewise, cadaveric 
donors who received induction displayed 88%, 88% and 88%, and those who did not 
receive it 62%, 62% and 62% (p = 0,0089).
CONCLUSION: Despite the time and the number of transplants using induction 
therapy being modest, at 1, 3 and 5 years there was an increased lifespan, 
especially for cadaveric grafts, among patients who received induction, with 
IL2Ra antibodies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.07.037
PMID: 17954159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Arch Facial Plast Surg. 2007 Nov-Dec;9(6):385-91. doi: 
10.1001/archfaci.9.6.qsp70001. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

Cleft deformities in Zimbabwe, Africa: socioeconomic factors, epidemiology, and 
surgical reconstruction.

Pham AM(1), Tollefson TT.

Author information:
(1)Cleft and Craniofacial Program, Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 
Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of California, 
Davis School of Medicine, 2521 Stockton Blvd, Sacramento, CA 95817, USA.

Comment in
    Arch Facial Plast Surg. 2007 Nov-Dec;9(6):382-3.

In the African country of Zimbabwe, a variety of socioeconomic factors have 
contributed to a lack of specialty care and resources for the indigent 
population. Although cleft lip and palate has a lower incidence in Africa (0.67 
per 1000 births) than in Latin America or Asia, access to reconstructive surgery 
is often difficult to obtain. A surgical team worked with Zimbabweans at the 
Harare Central Hospital, Harare, to perform cleft surgery for 39 patients. We 
review the epidemiology of cleft deformities in Africa, our experience with 39 
patients with cleft lip and palate, and the techniques used to address 2 
patients with midfacial clefts. To our knowledge, this retrospective case review 
and epidemiologic literature review is the first review of cleft care in 
Zimbabwe. Poverty in Zimbabwe, caused in part by the highest inflation rate in 
the world, has contributed to the emigration of a large number of specialists to 
other countries. In addition, the health care system is overwhelmed by a high 
prevalence rate of human immunodeficiency virus (25%), leading to a drastically 
reduced parental life expectancy (mean life expectancy, 36 years). Primary and 
secondary cleft lip and palate repairs were completed without complications. 
Children requiring care beyond the scope of this mission were referred to the 
Republic of South Africa. The cooperation among the Zimbabwean administration, 
physicians, and nurses was integral to the organization and successful execution 
of this reconstructive surgical mission. Ultimately, until the socioeconomic 
conditions improve in Zimbabwe, training and continuing education of local 
physicians are imperative to advance the care of children with cleft lip and 
palate.

DOI: 10.1001/archfaci.9.6.qsp70001
PMID: 17954508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. CMAJ. 2007 Oct 23;177(9):1033-8. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.061765.

Changes in survival among elderly patients initiating dialysis from 1990 to 
1999.

Jassal SV(1), Trpeski L, Zhu N, Fenton S, Hemmelgarn B.

Author information:
(1)University Health Network, Toronto, Ont. vanita.jassal@uhn.on.ca

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2007 Oct 23;177(9):1055-6.

BACKGROUND: Over the past decade, there has been a steep rise in the number of 
people with complex medical problems who require dialysis. We sought to 
determine the life expectancy of elderly patients after starting dialysis and to 
identify changes in survival rates over time.
METHODS: All patients aged 65 years or older who began dialysis in Canada 
between 1990 and 1999 were identified from the Canadian Organ Replacement 
Register. We used Cox proportional hazards models to examine the effect that the 
period during which dialysis was initiated (era 1, 1990-1994; era 2, 1995-1999) 
had on patient survival, after adjusting for diabetes, sex and comorbidity. 
Patients were followed from initiation of dialysis until death, transplantation, 
loss to follow-up or study end (Dec. 31, 2004).
RESULTS: A total of 14,512 patients aged 65 years or older started dialysis 
between 1990 and 1999. The proportion of these patients who were 75 years or 
older at the start of dialysis increased from 32.7% in era 1 (1990-1994) to 
40.0% in era 2 (1995-1999). Despite increased comorbidity over the 2 study 
periods, the unadjusted 1-, 3- and 5-year survival rates among patients aged 
65-74 years at dialysis initiation rose from 74.4%, 44.9% and 25.8% in era 1 to 
78.1%, 51.5% and 33.5% in era 2. The respective survival rates among those aged 
75 or more at dialysis initiation increased from 67.2%, 32.3% and 14.2% in era 1 
to 69.0%, 36.7% and 20.3% in era 2. This survival advantage persisted after 
adjustment for diabetes, sex and comorbidity in both age groups (65-74 years: 
hazard ratio [HR] 0.76, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.72- 0.81; 75 years or 
more: HR 0.86, 95% CI 0.80-0.92).
INTERPRETATION: Survival after dialysis initiation among elderly patients has 
improved from 1990 to 1999, despite an increasing burden of comorbidity. 
Physicians may find these data useful when discussing prognosis with elderly 
patients who are initiating dialysis.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.061765
PMCID: PMC2025619
PMID: 17954892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. CMAJ. 2007 Oct 23;177(9):1055-6. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.071247.

Mortality trends among Canadian patients receiving dialysis.

Foley RN(1).

Author information:
(1)Chronic Disease Research Group and the University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
Minn, USA. rfoley@cdrg.org

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2007 Oct 23;177(9):1033-8.
    CMAJ. 2007 Oct 23;177(9):1039-44.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.071247
PMCID: PMC2025611
PMID: 17954895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Clin Res Cardiol. 2008 Feb;97(2):89-97. doi: 10.1007/s00392-007-0586-9. Epub
 2007 Oct 25.

Cost-effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy in combination with an 
implantable cardioverter defibrillator (CRT-D) for the treatment of chronic 
heart failure from a German health care system perspective.

Aidelsburger P(1), Grabein K, Klauss V, Wasem J.

Author information:
(1)CAREM GmbH, Mühlweg 2 c, 82054, Sauerlach, Germany. p.aidelsburger@carem.de

AIM: The aim of the study was to assess the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy in combination with an Implantable 
Cardioverter Defibrillator (CRT-D) plus Optimal Pharmacological Therapy (OPT) 
compared to OPT alone in patients with chronic heart failure.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A decision analytic model was used to estimate the ICER 
from a German Health Care System perspective. Effectiveness data were used as 
reported in the COMPANION study. Direct medical costs were considered for 
inpatient and outpatient treatments. Resource utilization was valued by the 
prices charged in 2005. Costs and effects were discounted by a discount rate of 
3% per year. One-way and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed. The 
base-case analysis resulted in accumulated discounted QALYs of 0.958 for OPT, 
respectively 1.261 for CRT-D + OPT. Accumulated discounted costs were 4618 Euro 
for OPT, and 31 292 Euro for CRT-D + OPT, respectively, thus resulting in 
incremental costs per QALY gained of 88 143 Euro after two years. Considering a 
device longevity of seven years, this resulted in incremental costs per QALY of 
24 650 Euro.
CONCLUSION: CRT-D plus OPT may be a cost-effective alternative for the treatment 
of patients with CHF in NYHA functional class III and IV depending on device 
longevity.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-007-0586-9
PMID: 17955159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Chem Biodivers. 2007 Oct;4(10):2415-26. doi: 10.1002/cbdv.200790197.
