
Exploring the temporal consequences of chasing the elements in Rosen's 
relational diagrams.

Prideaux JA(1).

Author information:
(1)jprideaux@metabolismrepair.com

In the work 'Life Itself', Rosen showed that a formal mechanism cannot be 
'closed to efficient cause'. Additionally, he claimed that organisms are 'closed 
to efficient cause' and that, by logical extension, organisms cannot be 
mechanisms. This paper shows that it is possible for mechanisms to be 'nearly 
closed to efficient cause', with the requirement that some unentailed 
efficient-cause agents are placed inside the system. Populations of these 
'nearly closed to efficient cause' systems can be defined based on the ability 
to isolate each component in its own 'reaction chamber'. Diagrams from these 
populations are drawn from a couple of different perspectives, and comments are 
made on how these diagrams can be related to the more conventional language of 
chemistry.

DOI: 10.1002/cbdv.200790197
PMID: 17955467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Cancer. 2007 Dec 1;110(11):2511-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23058.

The value of medical interventions for lung cancer in the elderly: results from 
SEER-CMHSF.

Woodward RM(1), Brown ML, Stewart ST, Cronin KA, Cutler DM.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Interfaculty Program for Health Systems Improvement, Department of 
Economics, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02145, USA. 
rwoodwar@nber.org

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer is the leading source of cancer mortality and spending. 
However, the value of spending on the treatment of lung cancer has not been 
conclusively demonstrated. The authors evaluated the value of medical care 
between 1983 and 1997 for nonsmall cell lung cancer in the elderly US 
population.
METHODS: The authors used Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) 
data to calculate life expectancy after diagnosis over the period 1983 to 1997. 
Direct costs for nonsmall cell lung cancer detection and treatment were 
determined by using Part A and Part B reimbursements from the Continuous 
Medicare History Sample File (CMHSF) data. The CMHSF and SEER data were linked 
to calculate lifetime treatment costs over the time period of interest.
RESULTS: Life expectancy improved minimally, with an average increase of 
approximately 0.60 months. Total lifetime lung cancer spending rose by 
approximately $20,157 per patient in real, ie, adjusted for inflation, 2000 
dollars from the early 1980s to the mid-1990s, for a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$403,142 per life year (LY). The cost-effectiveness ratio was $143,614 for 
localized cancer, $145,861 for regional cancer, and $1,190,322 for metastatic 
cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness ratio for nonsmall cell lung cancer was 
higher than traditional thresholds used to define cost-effective care. The most 
favorable results were for persons diagnosed with early stage cancer. These 
results suggested caution when encouraging more intensive care for lung cancer 
patients without first considering the tradeoffs with the costs of this therapy 
and its potential effects on mortality and/or quality of life.

Copyright (c) 2007 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23058
PMID: 17955504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Can J Psychiatry. 2007 Aug;52(8):519-26. doi: 10.1177/070674370705200810.

Cost-effectiveness of memantine compared with standard care in 
moderate-to-severe Alzheimer disease in Canada.

Gagnon M(1), Rive B, Hux M, Guilhaume C.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario.

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing the addition of 
memantine to standard care (that is, without acetylcholinesterase inhibitors) 
with standard care alone in moderate-to-severe Alzheimer disease (AD) in Canada.
METHODS: A 2-year Markov model estimated clinical effects in terms of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and time in complete dependence as well as 
societal costs in four 6-month cycles. Health states were defined by AD severity 
assessed with the Mini-Mental State Examination (moderate = 10 to 19; severe < 
10), by level of dependence in activities of daily living, and by death. 
Transition probabilities were estimated by combining data of patients with 
moderate-to-severe AD from all relevant clinical trials. QALYs were estimated 
from a UK epidemiologic study. The initial distribution and use of medical and 
support services for each health state was obtained from the Canadian Study on 
Health and Aging with current estimates of frequency of use and unit prices 
applied.
RESULTS: Compared with standard care, the memantine strategy saved more than 1 
month of complete dependence and produced 0.03 additional QALYs, with no 
additional cost. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses give an 83.3% chance that 
memantine treatment is cost-neutral, an 89.5% chance of its being cost-effective 
if the decision maker is willing to pay $20 000 for a QALY, and a 96.2% chance 
with a willingness to pay $100 000 per QALY. Robustness of results was confirmed 
through 1-way and scenario-based sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our evaluation found that memantine monotherapy produced relevant 
health benefit, compared with standard care alone, with no additional costs. 
Results are consistent with other economic evaluations of memantine conducted in 
Europe and the United States.

DOI: 10.1177/070674370705200810
PMID: 17955915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Ann Bot. 2008 Jan;101(2):229-48. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcm237. Epub 2007 Oct 22.

Ethylene-promoted elongation: an adaptation to submergence stress.

Jackson MB(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol 
BS8 1UG, UK. Mike.Jackson@bristol.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: A sizeable minority of taxa is successful in areas prone to 
submergence. Many such plants elongate with increased vigour when underwater. 
This helps to restore contact with the aerial environment by shortening the 
duration of inundation. Poorly adapted species are usually incapable of this 
underwater escape.
SCOPE: Evidence implicating ethylene as the principal factor initiating fast 
underwater elongation by leaves or stems is evaluated comprehensively along with 
its interactions with other hormones and gases. These interactions make up a 
sequence of events that link the perception of submergence to a prompt 
acceleration of extension. The review encompasses whole plant physiology, cell 
biology and molecular genetics. It includes assessments of how submergence 
threatens plant life and of the extent to which the submergence escape 
demonstrably improves the likelihood of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Experimental testing over many years establishes ethylene-promoted 
underwater extension as one of the most convincing examples of hormone-mediated 
stress adaptation by plants. The research has utilized a wide range of species 
that includes numerous angiosperms, a fern and a liverwort. It has also 
benefited from detailed physiological and molecular studies of underwater 
elongation by rice (Oryza sativa) and the marsh dock (Rumex palustris). Despite 
complexities and interactions, the work reveals that the signal transduction 
pathway is initiated by the simple expediency of physical entrapment of ethylene 
within growing cells by a covering of water.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcm237
PMCID: PMC2711016
PMID: 17956854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Age Ageing. 2008 Jan;37(1):104-7. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afm130. Epub 2007 Oct
22.

Predictors of two-year mortality in nonagenarians with severe functional 
impairment at baseline: the NonaSantfeliu study.

Formiga F(1), Ferrer A, Duaso E, Pujol R.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Unit, Internal Medicine Service, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. fformiga@csub.scs.es

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afm130
PMID: 17956881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2007 Oct;37(10):763-74. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hym105. Epub
2007  Oct 22.

Decision analyses in consideration of treatment strategies for patients with 
biochemical failure after curative therapy on clinically localized prostate 
cancer in the prostate-specific antigen era.

Shimizu F(1), Igarashi A, Fukuda T, Kawachi Y, Minowada S, Ohashi Y, Fujime M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Juntendo University, 2-1-1Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-0033, Japan. fshimizu-jua@umin.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The introduction of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing has not 
only shortened the time required to make diagnosis but changed the treatment 
strategies of localized prostate cancer. We conducted the decision analysis on 
its treatment focusing on patients with biochemical failure.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to calculate life expectancy (LE) and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) stratified by age, comorbidity and tumor 
characteristics in patients with newly diagnosed prostate cancer or biochemical 
failure after curative therapy. For newly diagnosed patients, three treatment 
strategies were considered as primary managements: radial prostatectomy (RP), 
external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and watchful waiting (WW). Managements 
considered for biochemical failure were: after RP, salvage radiotherapy (SRT), 
salvage hormonal therapy (SHT) and WW; and after EBRT, SHT and WW. Transition 
probabilities in the Markov model were derived from published studies. Quality 
of life (QOL) data to estimate QALE score were derived from 323 patients with 
prostate cancer.
RESULTS: For patients with Gleason 2-6 cancer at diagnosis, WW yielded the 
greatest number of QALE. For patients with Gleason 7 cancer, it was 
controversial whether curative therapy was the preferred strategy. For patients 
with Gleason 8-10 cancer, curative therapy yielded the greatest number of QALE 
in younger patients without severe comorbidity. Patients' benefit from salvage 
therapy for biochemical failure after curative therapy depended on age, 
comorbidities, tumor characteristics and QOL effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the need for various treatment options, taking 
into consideration the patient's age, comorbidity and the QOL effect in the 
aging society.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hym105
PMID: 17956899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2007 Nov;46(11):1701-8. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kem245.

An economic evaluation of three physiotherapy treatments for non-specific neck 
disorders alongside a randomized trial.

Lewis M(1), James M, Stokes E, Hill J, Sim J, Hay E, Dziedzic K.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Musculoskeletal Research Centre, Primary Care Sciences, Keele 
University, Staffordshire ST5 5BG, UK. a.m.lewis@cphc.keele.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility analyses were conducted to 
compare advice and exercise plus manual therapy (MT) and advice and exercise 
plus pulsed shortwave diathermy (PSWD) with advice and exercise alone (A&E) in 
the treatment of non-specific neck disorders by experienced physiotherapists.
METHODS: Between July 2000 and June 2002, 350 participants with neck disorders 
from 15 physiotherapy departments were randomized to: A&E (n = 115); MT (n = 
114) and PSWD (n = 121). Outcome and resource-use data were collected using 
physiotherapist case report forms and participant self-complete questionnaires. 
Outcome measures were the Northwick Park Neck Pain Questionnaire (NPQ) and 
EuroQoL EQ-5D [used to derive quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY) utility scores]. 
Two economic viewpoints were considered (health care and societal). 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were used to assess the probabilities of 
the interventions being cost-effective at different willingness-to-pay threshold 
values.
RESULTS: Mean improvement in NPQ at 6 months was 11.5 in the A&E group, 10.2 in 
the MT group and 10.3 in the PSWD group; mean QALY scores were 0.362, 0.342 and 
0.360, respectively. Mean health care costs were pound sterling105, pound 
sterling119 and pound sterling123 in the A&E, MT and PSWD groups, respectively. 
Mean societal costs were pound sterling373, pound sterling303 and pound sterling 
338 in each group, respectively. Depending on the viewpoint and the outcome 
measure, A&E or MT were most likely to be the cost-effective interventions. PSWD 
was consistently the least cost-effective intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effective intervention is likely to be A&E or MT, 
depending on the economic perspective and preferred outcome, but not PSWD.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kem245
PMID: 17956916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2007 Oct;89(10):1299-302. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.89B10.18735.

Ten-year life expectancy after primary total hip replacement.

Ramiah RD(1), Ashmore AM, Whitley E, Bannister GC.

Author information:
(1)The Avon Orthopaedic Centre, Bristol, England.

We determined the ten-year life expectancy of 5831 patients who had undergone 
6653 elective primary total hip replacements at a regional orthopaedic centre 
between April 1993 and October 2004. Using hospital, general practitioner and 
the local health authority records, we recorded the dates of death for those who 
died following surgery. The mean age at operation was 67 years (13 to 96) with a 
male:female ratio of 2:3. Of 1154 patients with a ten-year follow-up 340 (29.5%) 
had died a mean of 5.6 years (0 to 10) after surgery. Using Kaplan-Meier curves, 
the ten-year survival was 89% in patients under 65 years at surgery, 75% in 
patients aged between 65 and 74 years, and 51% in patients over 75. The 
standardised mortality rates were considerably higher for patients under 45 
years, 20% higher for those between 45 and 64 years, and steadily reduced in 
patients aged 65 and over. The survival of cemented hip replacement derived from 
the Swedish Hip Arthroplasty Register Annual Report 2004 exceeds the life 
expectancy of patients over the age of 60 in our area, suggesting that cemented 
hip replacement is the procedure of choice in this population.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.89B10.18735
PMID: 17957067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Int J Public Health. 2007;52(3):129-30. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-7012-y.

Mental health in public health--the necessity of a life-span perspective.

Perrig-Chiello P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Bern, Institute of Psychology. 
pasqualina.perrigchiello@psy.unibe.ch

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-7012-y
PMID: 17958274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Int J Public Health. 2007;52(3):137-9. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-7024-7.

A need to rethink social psychiatry.

Rutz W(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit for Public Mental Health Akademiska sjukhuset, University Hospital, 
Uppsala Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Coburg, Germany. 
wolfgang.rutz@akademiska.se

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-7024-7
PMID: 17958278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Nurs Health Sci. 2007 Dec;9(4):290-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2018.2007.00363.x.

Tackling heart disease and poverty.

Lee G(1), Carrington M.

Author information:
(1)Preventative Cardiology, Baker Heart Research Institute, Melbourne, 
Australia. geraldine.lee@baker.edu.au

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death worldwide, with a projected 
increase in incidence in developed and developing countries. This paper will 
review the literature on the role of poverty and socioeconomic deprivation in 
cardiovascular disease and outline ways to tackle poverty. The literature 
acknowledges the individual risk factors for cardiovascular disease, but 
highlights the negative effects of neighborhood deprivation on the incidence of 
cardiovascular disease and its mortality rates. The studies show that equitable 
access to health care is not evident and those in less affluent neighborhoods 
have greater disease incidence and increased mortality and morbidity rates, 
particularly for angina, myocardial infarction, and heart failure. The approach 
to reducing disease rates needs to be conducted from an individual level to the 
societal level and needs to prevent and treat heart disease (particularly in 
deprived neighborhoods). Nurses and health professionals must drive health 
policy so that progress can be achieved in reducing the disease rates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2018.2007.00363.x
PMID: 17958679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Nurs Health Sci. 2007 Dec;9(4):295-303. doi:
10.1111/j.1442-2018.2007.00367.x.

Poverty and development: pulling forces and the challenges for nursing in 
Africa.

Klopper HC(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing Science, North-West University, Private Bag X 6001, 
Potchefstroom, 2520, South Africa. Hester.Klopper@nwu.ac.za

In September 2000 the United Nations Millennium Declaration was adopted and 
endorsed by 189 countries, translating into eight Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) to be reached by 2015. At the midpoint between the MDG adoption in 2000 
and the 2015 target date for achieving the goals, Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) is 
not on track to achieve their MDGs. Poverty and development are pulling forces 
and impact on the ability to achieve the MDGs in SSA, thus the main purpose of 
this article is to participate in the debate concerning the global theme of 
poverty and development and the challenges for the nursing profession. In this 
article the concepts of poverty and development are explored, and the existing 
trends with specific reference to SSA are investigated. An evaluation of the 
present status of SSA in reaching the MDG's is examined and the article 
concludes with a discussion of the challenges for nursing in Africa.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2018.2007.00367.x
PMID: 17958680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Oct 24;7:172. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-172.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of guidelines for antihypertensive care in Finland.

Booth N(1), Jula A, Aronen P, Kaila M, Klaukka T, Kukkonen-Harjula K, Reunanen 
A, Rissanen P, Sintonen H, Mäkelä M.

Author information:
(1)Tampere School of Public Health, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland. 
neill.booth@uta.fi

BACKGROUND: Hypertension is one of the major causes of disease burden affecting 
the Finnish population. Over the last decade, evidence-based care has emerged to 
complement other approaches to antihypertensive care, often without health 
economic assessment of its costs and effects. This study looks at the extent to 
which changes proposed by the 2002 Finnish evidence-based Current Care 
Guidelines concerning the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of hypertension 
(the ACCG scenario) can be considered cost-effective when compared to modelled 
prior clinical practice (the PCP scenario).
METHODS: A decision analytic model compares the ACCG and PCP scenarios using 
information synthesised from a set of national registers covering prescription 
drug reimbursements, morbidity, and mortality with data from two national 
surveys concerning health and functional capacity. Statistical methods are used 
to estimate model parameters from Finnish data. We model the potential impact of 
the different treatment strategies under the ACCG and PCP scenarios, such as 
lifestyle counselling and drug therapy, for subgroups stratified by age, gender, 
and blood pressure. The model provides estimates of the differences in major 
health-related outcomes in the form of life-years and costs as calculated from a 
'public health care system' perspective. Cost-effectiveness analysis results are 
presented for subgroups and for the target population as a whole.
RESULTS: The impact of the use of the ACCG scenario in subgroups (aged 40-80) 
without concomitant cardiovascular and related diseases is mainly positive. 
Generally, costs and life-years decrease in unison in the lowest blood pressure 
group, while in the highest blood pressure group costs and life-years increase 
together and in the other groups the ACCG scenario is less expensive and 
produces more life-years. When the costs and effects for subgroups are combined 
using standard decision analytic aggregation methods, the ACCG scenario is 
cost-saving and more effective.
CONCLUSION: The ACCG scenario is likely to reduce costs and increase life-years 
compared to the PCP scenario in many subgroups. If the estimated trade-offs 
between the subgroups in terms of outcomes and costs are acceptable to 
decision-makers, then widespread implementation of the ACCG scenario is expected 
to reduce overall costs and be accompanied by positive outcomes overall.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-172
PMCID: PMC2174470
PMID: 17958883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Oct 24;7:174. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-174.

The perception of healthcare quality of elderly in the city of Bari, South 
Italy.

Prato R(1), Martinelli D, Fusco A, Panebianco A, Lopalco PL, Germinario CA, 
Quarto M.

Author information:
(1)1Section of Hygiene Department of Scienze Mediche e del Lavoro, University of 
Foggia, Foggia, Italy. r.prato@unifg.it

BACKGROUND: In recent decades in Italy, as in all the industrialized nations, 
the proportion of elderly subjects in the total population is constantly on the 
increase. However the increased life expectancy is not always paralleled by a 
true improvement in the quality of life. In this context, it is essential to 
analyze elderly real health needs and the responses to these needs, especially 
in terms of healthcare, that the territorial services are perceived to offer.
METHODS: In the period from June to September 2006 we selected randomly one 
General Practitioner (GP) for each district of the Bari Municipal Area and, form 
each GP, we randomly chose 25 patients over 65 years old (YO). We conducted 
phone interviews using a standard data collection questionnaire and, for each of 
the recruited subjects, the GP filled a data collection sheet.
RESULTS: Although the mean age (73.6 years) of the population under study was 
quite high, the general state of health was judged good both by the G P- and by 
their elderly patients (>75%).Notably, the great majority of elderly patients 
considered the healthcare they receive to be satisfactory (>60%): in particular, 
the GP was the true point of reference for this slice of the population for 
strictly medical problems as well as for advice. On the contrary, the patients 
attributed little value to social services, which were poorly known and scarcely 
used (8.5%). Public hospital facilities played a central role in second level 
healthcare in more than 30% of cases; private facilities covered by public 
health insurance were also very important. As possible solutions to the problem 
of loneliness, 36.6% of the patients declared that they approved of nursing 
homes.
CONCLUSION: Decision makers need to create services supporting the key role 
played by General Practitioners, who are well aware that their assistance is not 
sufficient to satisfy the health needs of the elderly.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-174
PMCID: PMC2194769
PMID: 17958909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2007 Nov;232(10):1289-99. doi: 10.3181/0704-RM-93.

Effect of a high-intensity exercise training on the metabolism and function of 
macrophages and lymphocytes of walker 256 tumor bearing rats.

Bacurau AV(1), Belmonte MA, Navarro F, Moraes MR, Pontes FL Jr, Pesquero JL, 
Araújo RC, Bacurau RF.

Author information:
(1)School of Physcial Education and Sport, University of Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. 
reurybacurau@uol.com.br

Epidemiologic studies suggest that moderately intense training promotes 
augmented immune function, whereas strenuous exercise can cause 
immunosupression. Because the combat of cancer requires high immune function, 
high-intensity exercise could negatively affect the host organism; however, 
despite the epidemiologic data, there is a lack of experimental evidence to show 
that high-intensity training is harmful to the immune system. Therefore, we 
tested the influence of high-intensity treadmill training (10 weeks, 5 
days/week, 30 mins/day, 85% VO(2)max) on immune system function and tumor 
development in Walker 256 tumor-bearing Wistar rats. The metabolism of glucose 
and glutamine in lymphocytes and macrophages was assessed, in addition to some 
functional parameters such as hydrogen peroxide production, phagocytosis, and 
lymphocyte proliferative responses. The metabolism of Walker 256 cells was also 
investigated. Results demonstrated that high-intensity training increased the 
life span of tumor-bearing rats, promoted a reduction in tumor mass, and 
prevented indicators of cachexia. Several changes, such as a reduction in body 
weight and food intake and activation of glutamine metabolism in macrophages and 
lymphocytes induced by the presence of Walker 256 tumor, were prevented by high 
intensity training. The reduction in tumor growth was associated with an 
impairment of tumor cell glucose and glutamine metabolism. These data suggest 
that high-intensity exercise training may be a viable strategy against tumors.

DOI: 10.3181/0704-RM-93
PMID: 17959841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Diabetes Care. 2008 Feb;31(2):335-9. doi: 10.2337/dc07-0874. Epub 2007 Oct
24.

Resting heart rate in middle age and diabetes development in older age.

Carnethon MR(1), Yan L, Greenland P, Garside DB, Dyer AR, Metzger B, Daviglus 
ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA. carnethon@northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: Based on prior research showing inverse associations between heart 
rate and life expectancy, we tested the hypothesis that adults with higher 
resting heart rate in middle age were more likely to have diagnosed diabetes or 
to experience diabetes mortality in older age (>65 years).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Resting heart rate was measured at baseline 
(1967-1973) in the Chicago Heart Association Detection Project in Industry. We 
used Medicare billing records to identify diabetes-related hospital claims and 
non-hospital-based diabetes expenses from 1992 to 2002 in 14,992 participants 
aged 35-64 years who were free from diabetes at baseline. Diabetes-related 
mortality was determined from 1984 to 2002 using National Death Index codes 
250.XX (ICD-8 and -9) and E10-E14 (ICD-10).
RESULTS: After age 65, 1,877 participants had diabetes-related hospital claims 
and 410 participants had any mention of diabetes on their death certificate. The 
adjusted (demographic characteristics, cigarette smoking, and years of Medicare 
eligibility) odds of having a diabetes-related claim was approximately 10% 
higher (odds ratio [OR] 1.10 [95% CI 1.05-1.16]) per 12 bpm higher baseline 
heart rate. Following adjustment for BMI and postload glucose at baseline, the 
association attenuated to nonsignificance. Higher heart rate was associated with 
diabetes mortality in adults aged 35-49 years at baseline following adjustment 
for postload glucose and BMI (1.21 [1.03-1.41]).
CONCLUSIONS: Higher resting heart rate is associated with diabetes claims and 
mortality in older age and is only due in part to BMI and concurrently measured 
glucose.

DOI: 10.2337/dc07-0874
PMID: 17959868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Br J Radiol. 2007 Oct;80(958):e250-2. doi: 10.1259/bjr/56686654.

CT appearances of amyloid lymphadenopathy in a patient with non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma.

Turner CA(1), Tung K.

Author information:
(1)Radiology Department, Southampton General Hospital, Tremona Road, Southampton 
SO16 6YD, UK. mandy1@doctors.org.uk

Amyloidosis is a rare but recognized complication of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL). Most patients have evidence of irreversible systemic amyloid deposition 
associated with an extremely poor prognosis and, in the majority, a limited life 
expectancy. Lymphadenopathy secondary to amyloid infiltration is uncommon. We 
report an unusual case of massive amyloid lymphadenopathy related to underlying 
low-grade NHL, which has followed an indolent clinical course over the last 16 
years. Lymphadenopathy in this patient showed unique imaging appearances with 
many of the enlarged nodes showing areas of diffuse low density, presumably 
related to amyloid deposition. Although imaging findings in amyloidosis are 
often non-specific and diverse, these particular features have not to our 
knowledge been previously described. When these radiological findings are 
present in the appropriate clinical setting, we suggest that the possible 
diagnosis of amyloidosis should be considered.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/56686654
PMID: 17959917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Zhi Wu Sheng Li Yu Fen Zi Sheng Wu Xue Xue Bao. 2007 Oct;33(5):402-10.

The characteristics of expansins in wheat coleoptiles and their responses to 
water stress.

Gao Q(1), Guo QF, Xing SC, Zhao MR, Li F, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Biology, College of Life Sciences, Shandong 
Agricultural University, Tai'an 271018, China.

As the key regulators of cell wall extension during plant growth, expansins play 
an important role in regulating the development and response of plants to 
adverse environment. The characteristics of expansins in wheat coleoptiles and 
their responses to water stress were studied. Expansin proteins were extracted 
from wheat coleoptiles by the methods of Hepes or SDS. The activities of 
expansins were measured with an improved extensometer and the amount of 
expansins was measured by immunoblot analysis with the expansin antibody. The 
results showed that in coleoptiles, the extension of native cell walls depended 
on acidic pH, and the expansins were found to be located at cell walls by 
location analysis. Expansins from wheat coleoptiles could induce cell wall 
extension both of cucumber hypocotyls and coleoptiles, and vice versa, albeit 
with differences noted in extension activity. The changes in activity and 
abundance of expansins in wheat coleoptiles in response to water stress suggest 
that expansins may play a significant role in the tolerance of wheat plants to 
water stress.

PMID: 17960043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Dig Dis. 2007;25(4):296-8. doi: 10.1159/000106907.

Liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma beyond the Milan criteria: 
the controversies continue.

Lee HS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Liver Research Institute, Seoul National 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea. hsleemd@snu.ac.kr

Liver transplantation has now become a favored option for patients with 
early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) with or without impaired hepatic 
function as a complication of underlying cirrhosis. To overcome the persistent 
donor organ shortage, the use of adult-to-adult living donor liver 
transplantation (LDLT) has recently increased, especially in Asian countries. In 
the use of LDLT, several controversies remain including the safety of living 
donation and expanding the current Milan criteria. Most physicians agree that 
criteria for transplanting patients with HCC should be expanded beyond the Milan 
criteria because the Milan criteria miss a number of patients who may benefit 
from LDLT; however, the expanded criteria proposed were different (the size and 
number of HCCs and the biologic markers) from one center to the other. When we 
consider LDLT as a treatment option for patients with HCC, donor safety should 
be kept in mind first, and the wishes of both patient and donor should be 
weighed against the potential (if small) risk for the donor. In contrast to 
deceased donor liver transplantation, the benefit of LDLT is better appreciated 
in terms of gain in life expectancy than in terms of survival when the wishes of 
both patient and donor outweigh the donor risk. Further research on the 
predictors of benefit of LDLT to HCC patients other than the size and number of 
HCC such as molecular profiling of HCC are necessary to finally reach a 
consensus.

(c) 2007 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000106907
PMID: 17960062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(11):949-61. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725110-00005.

Strategies for the management of suspected heparin-induced thrombocytopenia: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Patrick AR(1), Winkelmayer WC, Avorn J, Fischer MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Brigham, 
Massachusetts 02120, USA. arpatrick@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a rare but serious 
complication of heparin therapy. The diagnosis of HIT is difficult because its 
signs are non-specific and the heparin-platelet factor 4 (PF4) antibody test 
used to confirm the diagnosis is imprecise. Drugs used to treat HIT are costly 
and may carry an increased risk of bleeding.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness, from a societal perspective, of 
four treatment approaches for patients with suspected HIT within a US critical 
care setting.
METHODS: A decision-tree was constructed for the management of a hypothetical 
cohort of critical care patients with possible evidence of HIT. The management 
strategies were: (i) no antibody testing, continue heparin (No Test and Wait); 
(ii) antibody testing, continue heparin while test results pending (Test and 
Wait); (iii) antibody testing and switch to a direct thrombin inhibitor (DTI) 
while test results pending (Test and Switch); and (iv) no antibody testing but 
switch to a DTI (No Test and Switch). We used argatroban as the DTI in our 
analysis. The outcomes were direct medical costs ($US; 2004 values), QALYs and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Assuming an HIT prevalence of 3%, relative to less costly strategies, 
ordering an antibody test and switching patients to argatroban if the result was 
positive (Test and Wait) had an ICER of $US163 396/QALY. Pre-emptive switching 
to argatroban without antibody testing (No Test and Switch) was the most 
effective strategy but had an ICER of >$US1 million/QALY relative to the Test 
and Switch option. These results were highly sensitive to HIT prevalence among 
patients presenting with thrombocytopenia. Assuming a willingness to pay of 
$US50 000 per QALY, the Test and Wait strategy became cost effective when the 
prior probability of HIT was 8%. At a prior probability of 12%, Test and Switch 
was cost effective, and at probabilities of HIT in the 60-75% range, No Test and 
Switch was cost effective. In two-way analysis, the probability of developing a 
thrombotic event was a key driver of treatment choice at specific HIT 
probabilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Testing for HIT in all typical critical care patients with 
thrombocytopenia is unlikely to represent a cost-effective management strategy. 
With increasing probability of HIT, strategies that include testing and a more 
rapid switch to a DTI appear more desirable. Accurate clinical judgment of the 
prior probability of HIT has a critical influence on the cost-effective 
management of HIT.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725110-00005
PMID: 17960953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Semin Hematol. 2007 Oct;44(4):227-33. doi:
10.1053/j.seminhematol.2007.08.010.

High-dose treatment with autologous stem cell transplantation in multiple 
myeloma: past, present, and future.

Björkstrand B(1), Gahrton G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Karolinska Institute at Karolinska University 
Hospital Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden. bo.bjorkstrand@ki.se

High-dose chemotherapy (HDT) with autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) 
has been used in the treatment of multiple myeloma since the early 1980s. Its 
present position as the backbone of first-line treatment in patients up to 60 to 
65 years of age is the result of several controlled randomized trials, where its 
superiority over standard chemotherapy has been demonstrated. However, the 
method is not considered to have curative potential, with the possible exception 
of a small proportion of about 5% to 10% of patients with very long-standing 
complete remissions (CRs) of more than 8 years. Over the years, there have been 
several attempts to improve the technique, where, for example, tandem 
transplants and post-transplant maintenance treatment have been successful, at 
least in certain subgroups of patients, while others, such as graft purging, 
have been of no value. Treatment results need further improvement, particularly 
in poor-prognosis disease--based on abnormal karyotype and high 
beta2-microglobulin--and the future will show if the introduction of novel drugs 
like bortezomib, thalidomide, and lenalidomide will lead to longer survival and 
prolongation of disease control in multiple myeloma.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminhematol.2007.08.010
PMID: 17961721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Eur J Radiol. 2008 Mar;65(3):389-94. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2007.09.024. Epub
2007  Oct 24.

Infections of the neck leading to descending necrotizing mediastinitis: Role of 
multi-detector row computed tomography.

Pinto A(1), Scaglione M, Scuderi MG, Tortora G, Daniele S, Romano L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Imaging, A. Cardarelli Hospital, 80131 Naples, 
Italy. antopin1968@libero.it

Descending necrotizing mediastinitis is an acute, polymicrobial infection of the 
mediastinum, originating from odontogenic, oropharyngeal and cervical 
infections. Anatomical continuity of the fascial spaces between the neck and the 
mediastinum leads to an occasional mediastinal extension of deep neck infection 
as a serious sequela. An understanding of the anatomy of the deep spaces of the 
neck and familiarity with the imaging findings in descending necrotizing 
mediastinitis may allow rapid diagnosis and treatment of this rare and 
life-threatening complication of deep neck space infection. In this article, we 
discuss the current role of radiology in diagnosing descending necrotizing 
mediastinitis, in determining the level of infection and the pathways of spread 
of infections from the neck to the mediastinum and in planning a successful 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2007.09.024
PMID: 17961947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. BMJ. 2007 Oct 27;335(7625):843. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39378.430856.DB.

Much still needs to be done in England to tackle health inequalities, health 
department admits.

Dobson R.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39378.430856.DB
PMCID: PMC2043431
PMID: 17962256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2007 Apr-Jun;9(2):205-14. doi: 
10.1590/s0124-00642007000200005.

[Heath and political regimes: presidential or parliamentary government for 
Colombia?].

[Article in Spanish]

Idrovo AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Chihuahua, Chihuahua, México. idrovoaj@yahoo.com.mx

OBJECTIVE: Changing the presidential regime for a parliamentarian one is 
currently be-ing discussed in Colombia. This preliminary study explores the 
potential effects on health of both presidential and parliamentary regimes by 
using world-wide data.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: An ecological study was undertaken using countries from 
which comparable information concerning life-expectancy at birth, political 
regime, economic development, inequality in income, social capital (as measured 
by general-ised trust or Corruption Perceptions Index), political rights, civil 
freedom and cultural diversity could be obtained. Life-expectancy at birth and 
macro-determinants were compared between both political regimes. The 
co-relationship between these macro-determinants was estimated and the 
relationship between political regimen and life-expectancy at birth was 
estimated using robust regression.
RESULTS: Crude analysis revealed that parliamentary countries have greater 
life-expectancy at birth than countries having a presidential regime. 
Significant co-relationships between all macro-determinants were observed. No 
differential effects were observed between both political regimes regarding 
life-expectancy at birth in multiple robust regressions.
DISCUSSION: There is no evidence that presidential or parliamentary regimes 
provide greater levels of health for the population. It is suggested that public 
health policies be focused on other macro-determinants having more known effects 
on health, such as income inequality.

DOI: 10.1590/s0124-00642007000200005
PMID: 17962839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Mol Diagn Ther. 2007;11(5):313-23. doi: 10.1007/BF03256252.

Modeling the impact of genetic screening technologies on healthcare: theoretical 
model for asthma in children.

Gutiérrez de Mesa E(1), Hidalgo I, Christidis P, Ciscar JC, Vegas E, Ibarreta D.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Prospective Technological Studies (Joint Research Centre - 
European Commission), Seville, Spain. Emma.GUTIERREZ-DE-MESA@ec.europa.eu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: This study focuses on the potential impact of genetic 
screening technologies on healthcare. Genetic screening for asthma in children 
was chosen as a case study to explore the cost effectiveness of applying early 
genetic screening to infants, and preventive treatment to the population at 
risk. Early intervention could prevent progression and facilitate clinical 
management of the disease. From the elite group of genetic markers that have 
been associated with asthma-related phenotypes, ADAM33 was the first published 
candidate gene detected by a positional cloning approach, marking the entry of 
asthma research into the genomic era. The model was, therefore, initially set 
for an ex ante analysis of the cost effectiveness of applying the preventive 
program to an infant population at risk, i.e. infants presenting wheezing 
episodes during the first year of life, and the ADAM33 ST+7 genetic marker, with 
the idea of expanding to further markers and their combinations lat a later 
date.
METHODS: In accordance with the US National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, 
four categories of asthma were considered. A Markov model was constructed, 
consisting of six mutually exclusive disease states (including healthy and dead 
states) with a simulation horizon of 100 years and a cycle length of 1 year. We 
define a scenario where early genetic screening was applied to infants 
presenting wheezing episodes during the first year of life and a preventive 
treatment to those children within this group who tested positive for selected 
ADAM33 polymorphism (ST+7). The cost-effectiveness analysis was performed from 
the third-party payer and patient perspective after year 6. We applied our model 
to a hypothetical cohort of 100 European infants.
RESULTS: The number of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained during the 6 
years was 1.483, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio per QALY gained 
was euro 10,100/QALY. A sensitivity analysis was carried out that varied the 
discount rate and cost of genetic testing, and considered two different 
transition matrices for the preventive program. Three main conclusions were 
drawn from the sensitivity analysis. Firstly, if the discount rate for both cost 
and health outcomes is increased by 2%, the cost effectiveness of the preventive 
program does not vary significantly. Discounting costs and benefits at 5%, the 
preventive program appears cost effective (euro 11,100/QALY). Secondly, if the 
cost of genetic testing is increased to euro 100, the cost effectiveness of the 
preventive program remains within the limits of cost effectiveness. Thirdly, the 
cost of genetic screening, together with transition probabilities between health 
states, will determine the cost effectiveness of applying a preventive program 
based on genetic information.
CONCLUSIONS: Preventive treatment based on an early genetic screening of those 
children who present wheezing episodes during the first year of life, with 
treatment applied to those who test positive for the asthma-associated genetic 
marker ADAM33 ST+7, is theoretically cost effective. The model is a valuable 
tool for the ex ante assessment of the cost effectiveness of preventive schemes 
based on genetic screening. The value of modeling prior to clinical trials lies 
in informing study design and setting priorities for future research.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256252
PMID: 17963419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Bacteriol. 2008 Jan;190(1):61-7. doi: 10.1128/JB.01316-07. Epub 2007 Oct
26.

A new TetR family transcriptional regulator required for morphogenesis in 
Streptomyces coelicolor.

Hillerich B(1), Westpheling J.

Author information:
(1)Genetics Department, University of Georgia, Life Sciences Building, Athens, 
GA 30602, USA.

Both morphogenesis and antibiotic production in the streptomycetes are initiated 
in response to starvation, and these events are coupled. We previously described 
a transposon-generated mutant in Streptomyces coelicolor, SE293, that resulted 
in a bld strain that overproduced the antibiotic actinorhodin. The SCO1135 open 
reading frame identified by the insertion encodes a member of the TetR family of 
transcriptional regulators. Here we show that a constructed deletion of the 
SCO1135 open reading frame resulted in the same morphological and antibiotic 
production phenotype as the insertion mutant. The constructed deletion also 
resulted in constitutive expression of SCO1135 transcript, as well as that of 
the gene cluster immediately adjacent to it, SCO1134-1132, which encodes a 
putative molybdopterin binding complex. A His6-tagged version of the SCO1135 
protein product was shown to bind the intergenic region between SCO1135 and 
SCO1134, which contains the apparent transcription start sites for each gene 
mapped by primer extension analysis. Increased expression of the SCO1134-1132 
transcript in the SCO1135 deletion mutant also resulted in increased expression 
of xanthine dehydrogenase activity, confirming the predictions about these open 
reading framed based on protein similarity. We have designated the SCO1134-1142 
gene cluster xdhABC and the regulator encoded by SCO1135 xdhR. We speculate that 
the inappropriate expression of xanthine dehydrogenase affects purine salvaging 
pathways at the onset of development, creating artificially high concentrations 
of both GTP and ppGpp and perturbing the pathways these molecules participate in 
for the initiation of morphogenesis and antibiotic production.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01316-07
PMCID: PMC2223726
PMID: 17965158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Acta Odontol Scand. 2007 Nov;65(6):335-40. doi: 10.1080/00016350701739519.

Number of teeth--a predictor of mortality in the elderly? A population study in 
three Nordic localities.

Osterberg T(1), Carlsson GE, Sundh V, Steen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, The Sahlgrenska Academy, Göteborg 
University, Göteborg, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: Although associations between number of teeth and mortality have been 
found in some studies, the results have not been conclusive. The aim of this 
study was to determine whether dental status at age 75 is an independent 
predictor of survival in three Nordic populations.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The baseline study was conducted as part of a comparative 
Nordic investigation of systematic samples of 75-year-old men and women born in 
the period 1914-16 (n=1004) and living independently in three Nordic localities: 
Glostrup in Denmark, Jyväskylä in Finland, and Göteborg in Sweden. Performed in 
1989-91, the study included a home interview, a health questionnaire, and a 
laboratory examination. For the present study, the mortality data of all 
participants up to age 82 were collected from official registers in 1999.
RESULTS: Lower mortality during 7 years was associated with higher number of 
remaining teeth at age 75. In Jyväskylä and Göteborg, but not in Glostrup, the 
association between number of teeth and mortality was statistically significant. 
For all three samples pooled and adjusted for sex and location, this association 
was significant (odds ratio 0.866; p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Number of teeth is a significant predictor of 7-year mortality in 
75-year-old women independently of a number of factors related to lifestyle, 
disease, and reduced functional capacity.

DOI: 10.1080/00016350701739519
PMID: 17965979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Psychiatr Prax. 2007 Nov;34(8):367-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-970906.

[Healthy lifestyles and help-seeking in males--no improvement in sight].

[Article in German]

Rutz W(1), Klotz T.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Public Mental Health, University Hospital, Uppsala, Fakultät für 
Soziale Arbeit und Gesundheit, Hochschule Coburg, Ulleråkersvägen 21, 756 43 
Uppsala, Sweden. wolfgang.rutz@akademiska.se

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-970906
PMID: 17966090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Water Environ Res. 2007 Oct;79(11):2343-51. doi: 10.2175/106143007x184195.

Phosphorus fate and transport in soil columns loaded intermittently with 
influent of high phosphorus concentrations.

Zhang TC(1), Dahab MF, Nunes GS, Hu C, Surampalli R.

Author information:
(1)Civil Engineering Department, University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Omaha, NE 
68182-0178, USA. tzhang1@unl.edu

In this study, several columns of different lengths were filled with composite 
soils sampled from the field at corresponding depths and then loaded 
intermittently with influent of a high phosphorus concentration to evaluate 
phosphorus fate and transport in soil. The results indicate that the height of 
the mass transfer zone, solvent pore velocity, and soil's life expectancy for 
phosphorus removal increased with depth, while the retained phosphorus per 
kilogram of soil and the linear adsorption equilibrium coefficient, R, decreased 
with depth. An equation was developed to link liquid-phase phosphorus with 
solvent traveling time and soil depth. The results of X-ray diffraction and 
washout tests indicate that calcium-phosphorus precipitation and/or crystal 
growth occurred in the columns. The new protocol is useful for evaluation of 
phosphorus fate and transport in other subsurface systems, because it allows 
flexible adjustments in hydraulic loadings, feed solution, and sampling schemes.

DOI: 10.2175/106143007x184195
PMID: 17966702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Conn Med. 2007 Oct;71(9):547-50.

Running out of gas and money.

Kerin R.

PMID: 17966724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2007 Jul-Aug;102(4):443-6.

[Resection--reconstruction in malignant tumors of the locomotory apparatus].

[Article in Romanian]

Orban H(1), Cîrstoiu C, Drăgusanu M, Cristescu V.

Author information:
(1)Clinica de Ortopedie şi Traumatologie, Spitalul Universitar de Urgentă Elias, 
Bucureşti 2 Clinica de Ortopedie si Traumatologie, Spitalul Universitar de 
Urgentg, Bucuresti.

The malignant bone and soft tissue tumors, represents, like any other type of 
cancer, a continuous challenge for surgeon, who is constrained to search and 
