same way a 'positioner' was used. This is described throughout the literature 
including 1950) or lingual orthodontic appliance systems increase the 
acceptability of orthodontic care for those who have concerns over the aesthetic 
appearance of appliances. The number of patients that are being seen is 
increasing and the proportion of child to adult is clearly changing. However, no 
matter what the mechanism of delivering the orthodontic force, the same 
biological principles apply as do the same risks. Periodontal issues in 
particular, due to the basic remodelling treatment of orthodontic, are of major 
concern in adult patients due to the increased susceptibility of the alveolar 
bone to pathological bone loss (it is also essential to identify the increased 
susceptibility due to ethnic variations). As a consequence the patient will 
require more explanation and a realistic description of the prognosis of the 
treatment.

PMID: 18030377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Int J Public Health. 2007;52(5):267-8. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-0223-4.

Men as a target group for disease prevention and health promotion.

Kolip P(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health and Nursing Research, University of Bremen, 
Germany. kolip@uni-bremen.de

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-0223-4
PMID: 18030940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Int J Public Health. 2007;52(4):199-201. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-0218-1.

The socio-cultural challenge in public health interventions: the case of 
tuberculosis in India.

Vissandjee B(1), Pai M.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
bilkis.vissandjee@umontreal.ca

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-0218-1
PMID: 18030951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. BioDrugs. 1999 Mar;11(3):155-63. doi: 10.2165/00063030-199911030-00002.

Appropriate use of interferon beta-1a in multiple sclerosis.

Jacobs L(1), Brownscheidle CM.

Author information:
(1)State University of New York at Buffalo, Department of Neurology, Buffalo 
General Hospital, Buffalo, New York 14203, USA. ner005@pol.bgh.edu

Multiple sclerosis (MS), a chronic inflammatory demyelinating disease of the 
central nervous system, is the most common crippling neurological disease of 
young adults in the US. The 2 basic clinical forms of the disease (relapsing and 
progressive), which can occur singly or in combination, encompass a wide range 
of clinical severities are usually established between 18 and 35 years of age 
and can persist an entire lifetime. Life expectancy of 20 years is 85% of 
normal. Historically, the standard proven and generally accepted clinical 
treatment of the disease has been corticotropin (ACTH) and methylprednisolone, 
which benefited clinical relapses but had no effect on clinical disability (the 
most important factor influencing the lives of individual MS patients) or other 
aspects of the chronic course of the disease. The most important new development 
in the treatment of MS has been the introduction of interferon beta into the 
clinic. Two forms of recombinant interferon beta have been approved by the FDA 
for use in relapsing MS: interferon beta-1b (IFN-beta-1b) and interferon beta-1a 
(IFN-beta-1a). The efficacy of IFN-beta-1b in the treatment of 
relapsing-remitting MS was established first but no effect on physical 
disability progression was discerned. In contrast, well designed trials of 
intramuscular IFN-beta-1a (Avonex((R))) 6.0 MIU (30micro) weekly and 
subcutaneous IFN-alpha-1a (Rebif((R))) 6 MIU (22microg) or 12 MIU (44microg) 3 
times weekly produced a significant delay in the time to sustained progression 
in physical disability, the first MS treatment to exert such a prophylactic 
effect. Additionally, IFN-beta-1a significantly reduced clinical relapses and 
acute and chronic brain lesions revealed by MRI examinations. It is currently 
believed that IFN-beta-1a treatment alters the fundamental course of relapsing 
MS. The mechanisms of the therapeutic benefit of recombinant interferon betas 
are incompletely understood but may include augmentation of suppressor T cell 
function, inhibition of interferon gamma actions, inhibition of T cell 
activation, or induction of interleukin-10 gene transcription.

DOI: 10.2165/00063030-199911030-00002
PMID: 18031126


640. Annu Rev Public Health. 2008;29:91-113. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.29.020907.090812.

Recent declines in chronic disability in the elderly U.S. population: risk 
factors and future dynamics.

Manton KG(1).

Author information:
(1)Arts and Sciences, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, USA. kgmanton@duke.edu

As U.S. life expectancy has increased, questions arise as to how the quality of 
health and functioning in the elderly population has changed. Data from the 
1982-2004 National Long-Term Care Survey (NLTCS) suggested that chronic 
disability prevalence above age 65 declined at an increasing rate with a 2.2% 
per annum rate of decline from 1999 to 2004 ( 71 ). Inflation-adjusted per 
capita Medicare expenditure rates in nondisabled persons also declined, 0.9% per 
annum from 1982 to 2004, which suggests that declines in disability were driven 
by improving health -- not by increases in per capita health expenditures. 
Declines in disability prevalence were found in other U.S. national health 
surveys. Analyses of U.S. Civil War veterans suggest recent disability declines 
were continuations of declines in both chronic disease and disability occurring 
over the past century due to improved nutrition, sanitation, and education. 
Concerns exist about whether disability declines will continue because of recent 
increases in obesity prevalence.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.29.020907.090812
PMID: 18031222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2007 Dec;9(4):186-96. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2007.00046.x.

The establishment of a protocol for the total rehabilitation of atrophic 
maxillae employing four zygomatic fixtures in an immediate loading system--a 
30-month clinical and radiographic follow-up.

Duarte LR(1), Filho HN, Francischone CE, Peredo LG, Br√•nemark PI.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Implantology Program, Federal University of Bahia, Salvador, 
Bahia, Brazil. luisrogerioduarte@mac.com

BACKGROUND: The existing approaches to the treatment of the atrophic maxilla are 
difficult and involve an element of risk.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to establish a new surgical/prosthetic 
protocol for the treatment of extremely atrophic maxillae using four zygomatic 
implants (ZIs) in an immediate loading system.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twelve patients were treated with the surgical placement 
of 48 ZIs, and the totally edentulous maxillae were rehabilitated with 
protocol-type maxillary prostheses rigidly fixed to the ZIs in an immediate 
loading system. Follow-up was conducted at 6 months and again at 30 months.
RESULTS: Of the 48 ZIs inserted, one implant failed to achieve osseointegration. 
The prosthetic components fitted well and no sinus pathology was detected in any 
of the patients.
CONCLUSION: The surgical/prosthetic protocol showed that it was possible to 
insert four ZIs in an immediate loading system and achieve stability for up to 
30 months.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2007.00046.x
PMID: 18031440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2008 Jan;56(1):145-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2007.01513.x.  Epub 2007 Nov 20.

Toward healthy aging: the preservation of health.

Barondess JA(1).

Author information:
(1)The New York Academy of Medicine, New York, New York 10029, USA. 
jbarondess@nyam.org

Chronic disease has emerged in recent decades as the major cluster of health 
concerns of the American population. Increasing evidence indicates that, in most 
instances, these diseases have been present for long periods of time before 
becoming clinically manifest. In some instances, it is clear that they may begin 
in childhood and reach clinical expression only decades later. Furthermore, 
relevant risk factors for a number of these diseases have been identified and 
the beneficial effects of risk reduction defined. These disease characteristics 
translate into lengthy opportunities to identify, mitigate, or prevent serious 
chronic disorders. A useful framework invokes the health quantum, the "dose" of 
good health with which the individual is born and that is subjected to erosive 
forces at each stage of life from conception to old age. A coherent orientation 
toward the preservation of health across the lifespan is proposed, involving 
coordinated efforts by the individual, the clinical and public health 
communities, and the policy enterprise.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2007.01513.x
PMID: 18031483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2008 Jan;56(1):76-83. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2007.01500.x.  Epub 2007 Nov 20.

Weight, mortality, years of healthy life, and active life expectancy in older 
adults.

Diehr P(1), O'Meara ES, Fitzpatrick A, Newman AB, Kuller L, Burke G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington 
98195, USA. pdiehr@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether weight categories predict subsequent mortality 
and morbidity in older adults.
DESIGN: Multistate life tables, using data from the Cardiovascular Health Study, 
a longitudinal population-based cohort of older adults.
SETTING: Data were provided by community-dwelling seniors in four U.S. counties: 
Forsyth County, North Carolina; Sacramento County, California; Washington 
County, Maryland; and Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.
PARTICIPANTS: Five thousand eight hundred eighty-eight adults aged 65 and older 
at baseline.
MEASUREMENTS: The age- and sex-specific probabilities of transition from one 
health state to another and from one weight category to another were estimated. 
From these probabilities, future life expectancy, years of healthy life, active 
life expectancy, and the number of years spent in each weight and health 
category after age 65 were estimated.
RESULTS: Women who are healthy and of normal weight at age 65 have a life 
expectancy of 22.1 years. Of that, they spend, on average, 9.6 years as 
overweight or obese and 5.3 years in fair or poor health. For both men and 
women, being underweight at age 65 was associated with worse outcomes than being 
normal weight, whereas being overweight or obese was rarely associated with 
worse outcomes than being normal weight and was sometimes associated with 
significantly better outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Similar to middle-aged populations, older adults are likely to be or 
to become overweight or obese, but higher weight is not associated with worse 
health in this age group. Thus, the number of older adults at a "healthy" weight 
may be much higher than currently believed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2007.01500.x
PMCID: PMC3865852
PMID: 18031486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Soc Work Health Care. 2007;46(1):1-19. doi: 10.1300/J010v46n02_01.

Transition from a pediatric HIV intramural clinical research program to 
adolescent and adult community-based care services:assessing transition 
readiness.

Wiener LS(1), Zobel M, Battles H, Ryder C.

Author information:
(1)HIV/AIDS Malignancy Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. wienerl@mail.nih.gov

As treatment options have improved, there has been a significant increase in the 
life expectancy of HIV-infected children and adolescents. For most adolescents, 
the time comes when it is appropriate to transition from pediatric care to an 
adult or community-based provider. In response to a program closure, a 
transition readiness scale was developed. A total of 39 caregivers of 
HIV-infected youth (ages 10-18) and 12 youth over the age of 18 years were 
interviewed at two time points. Barriers associated with transition were 
identified and addressed between visits. Transition readiness improved and state 
anxiety decreased significantly from the first time point to the last visit 
(approximately 7 months later). Not having a home social worker was the most 
reported concern/need identified. Barriers to transition and interventions 
utilized to assist with transitioning care are discussed.

DOI: 10.1300/J010v46n02_01
PMCID: PMC2366035
PMID: 18032153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2007;21(3):37-42.

Toward freedom from cancer pain in Japan.

Otsuka K(1), Yasuhara H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Showa University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan. kunimako618@hotmail.com

Life expectancy in Japan is highest in the world. Cancer is the leading cause of 
mortality in Japan, accounting for about 30 percent of all deaths. Many Japanese 
cancer patients experience severe pain although they and their families hope to 
be pain free at the end of their lives. Toward that end, the consumption of 
morphine in Japan has increased markedly since 1989. The amount of morphine 
hydrochloride and morphine sulfate consumed in 2001 was 6.1 times that used in 
Japan in 1989. However, the amount of morphine consumed in Japan is still less 
than in other developed nations, and was only one-sixth of the amount used in 
Australia in 2001. As a result, many Japanese cancer patients experience 
potentially manageable cancer pain, largely because the amount of the drug used 
by doctors is insufficient for pain control. An increasing number of Japanese 
doctors now understand that their patients' quality of life is most important in 
end-of-life care and how to use the three step analgesic ladder of the World 
Health Organization (WHO). However, other doctors do not understand these issues 
sufficiently causing some patients to die without good pain control. Both the 
general population and some medical professionals misunderstand and have 
prejudice against the use of morphine. Patients often do not participate in 
decision making about medical treatment because of remaining paternalism in the 
relationship between Japanese doctors and patients. Thus, cancer pain management 
in Japan is not as effective as it can be and not all Japanese cancer patients 
receive appropriate management for their cancer pain. To improve outcomes for 
Japanese patients, it is necessary for health professional and social work 
students and practicing professionals to receive contemporary education 
including an introduction to palliative care and ethics.

PMID: 18032354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Heart. 2008 Jun;94(6):717-23. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.127340. Epub 2007 Nov
21.

The cost-effectiveness of an early interventional strategy in non-ST-elevation 
acute coronary syndrome based on the RITA 3 trial.

Henriksson M(1), Epstein DM, Palmer SJ, Sculpher MJ, Clayton TC, Pocock SJ, 
Henderson RA, Buxton MJ, Fox KA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK. 
martin.henriksson@ihs.liu.se

BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that an early interventional strategy for patients 
with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome (NSTE-ACS) can improve health 
outcomes but also increase costs when compared with a conservative strategy.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of an 
early interventional strategy in different risk groups from a UK health-service 
perspective.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic model based on randomised clinical trial data.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs in UK Sterling at 2003/2004 prices and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) combined into an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
METHODS: Data from the third Randomised Intervention Trial of unstable Angina 
(RITA 3) was employed to estimate rates of cardiovascular death and myocardial 
infarction, costs and health-related quality of life. Cost-effectiveness was 
estimated over patients' lifetimes within the decision-analytic model.
RESULTS: The mean incremental cost per QALY gained for an early interventional 
strategy was approximately 55,000 pounds sterling, 22,000 pounds sterling and 
12,000 pounds sterling for patients at low, intermediate and high risk, 
respectively. The early interventional strategy is approximately 1%, 35% and 95% 
likely to be cost-effective for patients at low, intermediate and high risk, 
respectively, at a threshold of 20,000 pounds sterling per QALY. The 
cost-effectiveness of early intervention in low-risk patients is sensitive to 
assumptions about the duration of the treatment effect.
CONCLUSION: An early interventional strategy in patients presenting with 
NSTE-ACS is likely to be considered cost-effective for patients at high and 
intermediate risk, but this is less likely to be the case for patients at low 
risk.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.127340
PMID: 18032459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. N Engl J Med. 2007 Nov 22;357(21):2186-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe078179.

Lung transplantation in cystic fibrosis--primum non nocere?

Allen J, Visner G.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2007 Nov 22;357(21):2143-52.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe078179
PMID: 18032769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Indian J Med Res. 2007 Oct;126(4):300-8.

Tobacco use & social status in Kerala.

Thankappan KR(1), Thresia CU.

Author information:
(1)Achutha Menon Centre for Health Science Studies, Sree Chitra Tirunal 
Institute for Medical Sciences & Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, India. 
thank@sctimst.ac.in

Health indicators of Kerala State such as infant mortality rate (14/ 1000 live 
births) and life expectancy at birth (71 yr for men and 76 yr for women) are far 
ahead of the Indian averages (IMR 58, life expectancy men 62 and women 63) and 
closer to the developed countries. However, tobacco use prevalence is similar to 
the national average. Smoking is the commonest form of tobacco usage among men 
in the State whereas chewing tobacco is more common among women and children. 
Tobacco chewing among men is increasing in Kerala probably due to the smoking 
ban and industry strategy to focus on smokeless tobacco. Tobacco use is 
significantly more among the low socio-economic (SE) groups compared to the high 
SE group. Mortality and morbidity attributed to tobacco is higher among the 
poorest people in the State. Age adjusted cancer rate of oral cavity and lung 
cancer has been increasing in the State in recent years. Heart diseases among 
the young people are increasing in the State. Cancer and heart diseases are 
chronic illnesses which may pull the individual and the entire family below the 
poverty line. Tobacco control therefore should be a top priority not only as a 
health issue but as a poverty reduction issue. Poverty alleviation is one of the 
major goals of developing economies. No poverty alleviation programme can ignore 
the potential impoverishment associated with tobacco use. Kerala with a very 
strong decentralized government has a very good opportunity to address tobacco 
control as a priority at the grass root level and reduce the impoverishment due 
to tobacco use.

PMID: 18032805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Indian J Med Res. 2007 Oct;126(4):328-40.

Gender equity & human development.

Vepa SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Ford Foundation Chair for Women & Sustainable Food Security, M. S. 
Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai, India. svepa@mssrf.res.in

The welfare of both women and men constitutes the human welfare. At the turn of 
the century amidst the glory of unprecedented growth in national income, India 
is experiencing the spread of rural distress. It is mainly due to the collapse 
of agricultural economy. Structural adjustments and competition from large-scale 
enterprises result in loss of rural livelihoods. Poor delivery of public 
services and safety nets, deepen the distress. The adverse impact is more on 
women than on men. This review examines the adverse impact of the events in 
terms of endowments, livelihood opportunities and nutritional outcomes on women 
in detail with the help of chosen indicators at two time-periods roughly 
representing mid nineties and early 2000. The gender equality index computed and 
the major indicators of welfare show that the gender gap is increasing in many 
aspects. All the aspects of livelihoods, such as literacy, unemployment and 
wages now have larger gender gaps than before. Survival indicators such as 
juvenile sex ratio, infant mortality, child labour have deteriorated for women, 
compared to men, though there has been a narrowing of gender gaps in life 
expectancy and literacy. The overall gender gap has widened due to larger gaps 
in some indicators, which are not compensated by the smaller narrowing in other 
indicators both in the rural and urban context.

PMID: 18032808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. AIDS. 2007 Nov;21 Suppl 6(Suppl 6):S65-71. doi: 
10.1097/01.aids.0000299412.82893.62.

Estimating 'net' HIV-related mortality and the importance of background 
mortality rates.

Marston M(1), Todd J, Glynn JR, Nelson KE, Rangsin R, Lutalo T, Urassa M, Biraro 
S, Van der Paal L, Sonnenberg P, Zaba B.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
milly.marston@lshtm.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate mortality directly attributable to HIV in HIV-infected 
adults in low and middle income countries and discuss appropriate methodology.
DESIGN: : Illustrative analysis of pooled data from six studies across 
sub-Saharan Africa and Thailand with data on individuals with known dates of 
seroconversion to HIV.
METHODS: Five of the studies also had data from HIV-negative subjects and one 
had verbal autopsies. Data for HIV-negative cohorts were weighted by the initial 
age and sex distribution of the seroconverters. Using the survival of the 
HIV-negative group to represent the background mortality, net survival from HIV 
was calculated for the seroconverters using competing risk methods. Mortality 
from all causes and 'net' mortality were modelled using piecewise exponential 
regression. Alternative approaches are explored in the dataset without 
information on mortality of uninfected individuals.
RESULTS: The overall effect of the net mortality adjustment was to increase 
survivorship proportionately by 2 to 5% at 6 years post-infection. The increase 
ranged from 2% at ages 15-24 to 22% in those 55 and over. Mortality rate ratios 
between sites were similar to corresponding ratios for all-cause mortality.
CONCLUSION: Differences between HIV mortality in different populations and age 
groups are not explained by differences in background mortality, although this 
does appear to contribute to the excess at older ages. In the absence of data 
from uninfected individuals in the same population, model life tables can be 
used to calculate background rates.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000299412.82893.62
PMCID: PMC5786261
PMID: 18032941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None.


651. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2007 Sep;100(9):782-6.

[Dilated cardiomyopathy and syncope: management].

[Article in French]

Brembilla-Perrot B(1).

Author information:
(1)Service Cardiologie, CHU de Brabois, Vandoeuvre-l√®s-Nancy. 
b.brembilla-perrot@chu-nancy.fr

Syncope occurring in patients with primary dilated cardiac disease has several 
causes: ventricular tachycardia (VT), a major severe cause of this diagnosis, 
occurring however only in one third of cases. The other causes are 
supraventricular tachycardia, bradycardia and vagal hyperactivity. The 
management depends on the etiology of syncope in one hand and the severity of 
the cardiac disease and other comorbidities in the other hand. In 2007, a 
patient with life expectancy exceeding one year, without irreducible heart 
failure but with a known and stable altered left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF)<30%, will probably benefit of non-drug technology for the treatment of 
syncope (defibrillator with or without resynchronization), possibly in 
association with the treatment of another identified etiology, such as ablation 
or anti-arrhythmic treatment of a supraventricular tachycardia. In a patient 
with LVEF>30%, the electrophysiology exploration remains the most reliable 
recommended investigation for identifying the cause of syncope prior to discuss 
the implantation of a portable Holter device, indicated when the 
electrophysiology study is negative and syncope repeating.

PMID: 18033007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2007 Oct;163(10):930-5. doi:
10.1016/s0035-3787(07)92636-3.

[New approaches for the treatment of metabolic myopathies].

[Article in French]

Lafor√™t P(1), Nicolino M, Eymard B.

Author information:
(1)Centre de r√©f√©rence de pathologie neuromusculaire Paris-Est, Groupe 
Hospitalier Piti√©-Salp√™tri√®re, Paris. pascal.laforet@psl.aphp.fr

Metabolic myopathies are inborn errors of intermediate muscle metabolism, 
presenting either by exercise intolerance, or by progressive muscle weakness. 
Growing knowledge concerning the pathophysiology of these rare disorders, and 
the development of new technologies, opens new avenues for the treatment of this 
group of myopathies. Recent studies showed improvement in exercise capacity 
after regular aerobic exercise training in patients with McArdle's disease and 
mitochondrial myopathies. In late-onset Pompe disease enzyme replacement therapy 
trials with recombinant acid alpha-glucosidase (Myozyme) are currently in 
progress, the first trials conducted in childhood onset Pompe disease having 
previously shown a clear improvement in life expectancy and cardiac function. 
The demonstration that fibrates can induce correction of carnitine 
palmitoyl-transferase II deficiency in patients cells, lead to the development 
of an open-labelled therapeutic trial with bezafibrate in patients with CPTII 
deficiency, which is actually ongoing.

DOI: 10.1016/s0035-3787(07)92636-3
PMID: 18033029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Clin Ther. 2007 Sep;29(9):1850-61. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.09.008.

Ranibizumab for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration: a 
review.

Kourlas H(1), Abrams P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Arnold and Marie Schwartz College of 
Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Long Island University, Brooklyn, New York 11201, 
USA. Helen.Kourlas@liu.edu

BACKGROUND: Choroidal neovascular (wet) age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) 
is becoming more prevalent worldwide as life expectancy continues to increase. 
Ranibizumab for intravitreal injection is an inhibitor of human vascular 
endothelial growth factor A approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for 
the treatment of ARMD in June 2006. The actions of ranibizumab result in reduced 
cell proliferation, reduced formation of new blood vessels, and minimization of 
vascular leakage.
OBJECTIVE: This paper reviews the pharmacologic and pharmacokinetic properties, 
clinical efficacy, and safety profile of ranibizumab, and pharmacoeconomic 
considerations associated with its use.
METHODS: MEDLINE (1966-December 2006) and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts 
(1970-December 2007) were searched for original research studies (Phase I, II, 
III, and IIIb), abstracts, and review articles concerning ranibizumab. The 
search terms were choroidal neovascularization, macular degeneration, Lucentis, 
ranibizumab, retinal degeneration, and vascular endothelial growth factor. 
Preference was given to Phase IlfllI studies. Selected information from the 
manufacturer of ranibizumab was also included.
RESULTS: The efficacy of ranibizumab has been studied in 3 large clinical trials 
having the same primary efficacy end point, the proportion of patients losing 
<15 letters from baseline at 12 months (Early Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy 
Study chart). A multicenter, Phase III, randomized, double-blind, 
sham-controlled, 24-month clinical trial evaluated ranibizumab 0.3 and 0.5 mg in 
716 patients with minimally classic or occult choroidal neovascularization (CNV) 
associated with ARMD. The results for the primary efficacy end point were 94.5% 
and 94.6% in the ranibizumab 0.3- and 0.5-mg groups, respectively, compared with 
62.2% in the sham-injection group (P < 0.001, both ranibizumab groups vs sham 
injection); at 24 months, the corresponding proportions were 92.0%, 90.0%, and 
52.9% (P < 0.001, both ranibizumab groups vs sham injection). A 2-year, Phase 
I/II, single-masked (masked patient and visual acuity examiner, unmasked 
investigator), multicenter trial evaluated the tolerability and efficacy of the 
combination of ranibizumab 0.5 mg and verteporfin photodynamic therapy (PDT) 
compared with verteporfin PDT alone in 162 patients with predominantly classic 
CNV. For the primary efficacy end point, the results were 90.5% for ranibizumab 
+ PDT and 67.9% for PDT alone (P < 0.001). Receipt of ranibizumab + PDT was also 
associated with improved visual acuity, with 23.8% of patients gaining >15 
letters from baseline, compared with 5.4% of those who received PDT alone (P = 
0.003). Finally, an international Phase III, double-blind, active-controlled 
study compared ranibizumab 0.3 and 0.5 mg with verteporfin PDT in 423 patients 
with predominantly classic lesions associated with CNV secondary to ARMD. For 
the primary efficacy end point, the results were 35.7% for ranibizumab 0.3 mg, 
40.3% for ranibizumab 0.5 mg, and 5.6% for verteporfin PDT (P < 0.001). Serious 
adverse ocular events, which occurred in association with < 0.1% of intravitreal 
injections in these trials, included retinal detachment and endophthalmitis. 
Less serious adverse ocular reactions occurring in < 2% of patients included 
intraocular inflammation and increased intraocular pressure.
CONCLUSION: The findings of these 3 large clinical trials suggest that 
ranibizumab was effective and well tolerated in patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.09.008
PMID: 18035187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Clin Ther. 2007 Sep;29(9):2096-106; discussion 2094-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.09.001.

Cost-effectiveness of pegaptanib compared to photodynamic therapy with 
verteporfin and to standard care in the treatment of subfoveal wet age-related 
macular degeneration in Canada.

Earnshaw SR(1), Moride Y, Rochon S.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA.

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is characterized by loss of 
central vision and is the leading cause of blindness among persons over the age 
of 50 years in Canada. The wet form of AMD has 3 subtypes-occult, minimally 
classic, and predominantly classic. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) with verteporfin 
is indicated only for the category of predominantly classic wet AMD. Currently, 
there are no treatments available for the other AMD subtypes. Pegaptanib sodium 
was the first pharmacologic therapy approved in Canada for the treatment of 
subfoveal wet AMD regardless of subtype.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of 
pegaptanib versus PDT with verteporfin and versus standard care for the 
treatment of subfoveal wet AMD in patients aged 65 years in Canada.
METHODS: A Markov model based on visual acuity in the better-seeing eye was 
developed. Clinical efficacy was taken from the clinical trials. Costs of 
treatment, comorbidities (eg, depression, fractures, need for assisted living), 
vision rehabilitation, visual aids, and adverse events were considered. Costs, 
utilities, and mortality were estimated from data from the available published 
literature. Costs were reported in 2004 Canadian dollars, and costs and outcomes 
were discounted at 3% per annum. Lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and vision years gained (VYGs) were estimated. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed to determine model robustness.
RESULTS: Patients who received pegaptanib experienced more QALYs gained (4.17) 
and VYGs (3.83) compared with patients who received PDT (3.87 and 3.01, 
respectively) or standard care (3.96 and 3.26). Mean total costs per patient 
were greater in patients who received pegaptanib compared to those who received 
PDT or standard care ($20,016 vs $15,345 or $7669, respectively). The 
incremental cost per QALY in patients receiving pegaptanib compared to those 
receiving PDT was $49,052 and $59,039 for patients receiving pegaptanib versus 
standard care. The incremental cost per VYG was $20,401 and $21,559 with 
pegaptanib versus PDT and standard care, respectively. Sensitivity analyses 
found that the model was relatively robust to changes in various model 
parameters.
CONCLUSION: The results of this analysis suggest that in Canada, pegaptanib is a 
cost-effective treatment for subfoveal wet AMD in elderly patients, regardless 
of lesion subtype, compared to PDT with verteporfin and to standard care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.09.001
PMID: 18035208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Biochem Pharmacol. 2008 Feb 15;75(4):847-56. doi: 10.1016/j.bcp.2007.10.012.
 Epub 2007 Oct 22.

WRC-213, an l-methionine-conjugated mitoxantrone derivative, displays anticancer 
activity with reduced cardiotoxicity and drug resistance: identification of 
topoisomerase II inhibition and apoptotic machinery in prostate cancers.

Hsiao CJ(1), Li TK, Chan YL, Hsin LW, Liao CH, Lee CH, Lyu PC, Guh JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Institute of Bioinformatics and Structural 
Biology, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan.

Anthracyclines and anthracenediones are well-known cancer chemotherapeutic 
agents but their uses are limited with cardiotoxicity and drug resistance. 
Several l- and d-form amino acids were introduced into the anthraquinone 
skeleton and numerous derivatives were synthesized for the evaluation of 
anticancer activity. The screening tests showed that WRC-213, an l-methionine 
conjugation, was the most effective derivative to inhibit proliferative effect 
of human androgen-independent prostate cancer PC-3 cells (IC50=50 nM). In an 
extension evaluation, WRC-213 displayed a potent anti-proliferative activity in 
various cancer cell lines, including non-small cell lung cancer A549, 
androgen-independent prostate cancer DU145, colorectal cancer HT-29, breast 
cancer MCF-7 and hepatocellular carcinoma Hep3B and HepG2. It induced cell-cycle 
arrest at S and G2, but not mitotic phase, in PC-3 cells. The comet assay 
revealed that induction of DNA damage and inhibition of topoisomerase II were 
the primary insults. After the checkpoint arrest of the cell-cycle, WRC-213 
induced the mitochondria-mediated intrinsic apoptotic pathway, including Mcl-1 
cleavage, Bcl-2 down-regulation and activation of caspase-9/caspase-3 cascades. 
Survivin degradation and caspase-2 activation also contributed to 
WRC-213-induced apoptosis. Moreover, the assessment of cytotoxicity in H9c2 
cardiomyocytes and drug resistance in NCI/ADR-RES cells demonstrated that 
WRC-213 showed much lower cardiotoxicity and P-glycoprotein-related resistance 
than those of mitoxantrone, etoposide and doxorubicin. In conclusion, it is 
suggested that WRC-213 is a potential topoisomerase II inhibitor with reduced 
cardiotoxicity and drug resistance. It inhibits topoisomerase II activity and 
induces chromosomal DNA strand breaks, leading to S and G2 arrest of the 
cell-cycle and activation of mitochondria-mediated apoptotic pathways.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bcp.2007.10.012
PMID: 18035333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Biomed Khim. 2007 Jul-Aug;53(4):351-72.

[Free radical processes in aging, neurodegenerative diseases and other 
pathological states].

[Article in Russian]

Dubinina EE, Pustygina AV.

Literature data on the role of oxidative stress in the aging of an organism have 
been summarized. The connection of some parameters of free radical processes 
(intensity of generation of reactive oxygen species in mitochondria, oxidative 
modification to the mitochondrial DNA, the activity of desaturases participating 
in biosynthesis of polyunsaturated C20 and C22 fatty acids) with life expectancy 
has been demonstrated. Oxidative stress is one of pathogenetical events in many 
diseases, including various neurodegenerative disorders. The special attention 
is paid to oxidatively modified proteins as one of early and reliable indicators 
of tissue injury in freeradical pathology. Oxidative protein destruction plays 
an important role in etiology of such neurodegenerative diseases, as Alzheimer's 
and Parkinson's diseases. Oxidative stress and the aggregation of proteins 
connected with it are considered to be a pathogenetical part in the development 
of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Oxidatively modified proteins are 
also associated with the development of cataract. The increase of the oxidatized 
protein ratio with the age and in various pathologies is assessed as an early 
and specific parameter of oxidative stress.

PMID: 18035718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Liver Int. 2007 Dec;27(10):1402-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2007.01570.x.

The benign course of liver disease in adults with cystic fibrosis and the effect 
of ursodeoxycholic acid.

Desmond CP(1), Wilson J, Bailey M, Clark D, Roberts SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Vic., 
Australia. cpdesmond@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
has been increasing and the associated liver disease has emerged as a 
significant medical issue. Our aim was to describe the clinical features, course 
and effect of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) on liver disease in an adult CF 
population.
STUDY: From 1983 to 2005, 278 patients with CF were followed up at the Alfred 
Hospital, an adult tertiary referral centre. Twenty-seven patients (9.7%) 
satisfied the criteria for liver disease and their clinico-pathological features 
were assessed. The effect of UDCA on hepatobiliary symptoms and biochemical 
parameters was determined.
RESULTS: The mean age at liver disease diagnosis was 23 years (range 8-47 
years). Portal hypertension was present in 18 (67%) patients. During a median 
follow-up of 7 years (range 1.5-15), variceal haemorrhage occurred in two 
patients and ascites in three (one spontaneously). Nine (33%) patients died and 
five (19%) underwent lung transplantation. There was no encephalopathy, liver 
transplantation or liver-related deaths. UDCA was taken by 22 patients and was 
associated with a significant improvement in hepatobiliary symptoms [11/22 (50%) 
in the pre-UDCA period vs 1/22 (4%) in the post-UDCA period; P=0.0003] and a 
significant reduction in aspartate aminotransferase (P=0.005); alanine 
aminotransferase (P<0.001); gamma-glutamyltranspeptidase (P=0.021); and alkaline 
phosphatase (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Liver disease in adults with CF is commonly complicated by portal 
hypertension, but morbidity and mortality associated with this in our small 
patient population were low. UDCA is associated with improvement in 
hepatobiliary symptoms and liver function tests.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1478-3231.2007.01570.x
PMID: 18036103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Int J Clin Pract. 2008 Feb;62(2):287-99. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01646.x.  Epub 2007 Nov 23.

Secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease in type 2 diabetes and 
prediabetes: a cardiologist's perspective.

Cubbon R(1), Kahn M, Kearney MT.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Genetics, Health and Therapeutics, University of Leeds, 
Leeds, UK.

Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and prediabetes have a 
substantially greater risk of developing cardiovascular (CV) disease than the 
general population. This increased risk of CV disease is due to a complex 
cluster of risk factors including insulin resistance, hyperglycaemia, diabetic 
dyslipidaemia, hypertension and systemic inflammation. As a result of this 
cluster of risk factors, life expectancy is reduced by up to 10 years upon 
diagnosis of T2DM, principally because of fatal CV events. Patients with T2DM 
are not only more likely to sustain a CV event, but also have a higher risk of a 
fatal outcome from this event. Therefore, whilst primary prevention is critical 
in determining the prognosis of patients newly diagnosed with T2DM, many will go 
on to suffer CV events and represent a high-risk group requiring intensive 
secondary prevention techniques. Recent data demonstrate that contemporary 
prevention therapies do not afford equal benefits to T2DM sufferers after acute 
myocardial infarction compared with their non-diabetic counterparts. This 
finding highlights the need for more effective secondary preventative strategies 
to prevent recurrent CV events in patients with T2DM and prediabetes. The 
cardiologist's role in the multidisciplinary management of T2DM is to improve 
patient outcomes by optimising use of evidence-based strategies for the 
prevention of recurrent CV events.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01646.x
PMID: 18036163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Am J Cardiol. 2007 Dec 1;100(11):1630-4. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.06.067.
 Epub 2007 Oct 10.

Temporal trends of outcomes for nonagenarians undergoing coronary artery bypass 
grafting, 1993 to 1999.

Lichtman JH(1), Kapoor R, Wang Y, Radford MJ, Allen NB, Krumholz HM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Chronic Disease Epidemiology, Department of Epidemiology and 
Public Health, Yale University School of Medicine, and Center for Outcomes 
Research and Evaluation, Yale New Haven Hospital, Connecticut, USA. 
judith.lichtman@yale.edu

Temporal trends in length of stay, discharge disposition, and long-term 
mortality outcomes were examined in nonagenarians who underwent coronary artery 
bypass grafting (CABG) from 1993 to 1999. A total of 4,224 fee-for-service 
Medicare beneficiaries (2,068 women, 2,156 men) aged>or=90 years underwent CABG 
from 1993 to 1999. The number of procedures increased from 325 in 1993 to 883 in 
1999 among all fee-for-service Medicare patients aged>or=65 years. Approximately 
half of CABG procedures were performed on women each year. The mean length of 
stay decreased from 18.0+/-10.8 to 13.3+/-8.8 days from 1993 to 1999 but 
remained longer for women (p<0.001). A greater percentage of women than men were 
discharged to skilled nursing facilities. The overall crude mortality rates 
remained relatively stable at 13.5% at 30 days and 59.0% at 5 years. Men and 
women had comparable short-term mortality outcomes, but men had higher mortality 
rates for 2- to 5-year outcomes. In conclusion, the number of CABG procedures in 
nonagenarians is increasing, with a substantial portion attaining survivorship 
that is equivalent to projected life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2007.06.067
PMID: 18036360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Joint Bone Spine. 2007 Dec;74(6):540-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2007.09.003.
Epub  2007 Oct 15.

Long-term strategy in the management of postmenopausal osteoporosis.

Rizzoli R(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Bone Diseases, WHO Collaborating Center for Osteoporosis 
Prevention, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Geneva University 
Hospitals, 24 rue Micheli-du-Crest, CH - 1211 Geneva 14, Switzerland. 
rene.rizzoli@medecine.unige.ch

The lifetime fracture risk at 50 years of age is about 50% in women and 20% in 
men. Osteoporotic fractures are associated with severe morbidity, increased 
mortality, quality-of-life alterations, and high management costs, most notably 
in the oldest age groups. The steady increase in life expectancy is matched by a 
rise in the absolute fracture risk. Effective prevention is therefore crucial. 
The goal of prevention, which must be not only effective, but also safe, is to 
diminish the risk of vertebral, peripheral, and hip fractures. Several 
medications were effective in double-blind controlled trials in which the 
fracture incidence was the primary endpoint. Long-term data are available to 
confirm the good safety profile of these medications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2007.09.003
PMID: 18036862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Ann Thorac Surg. 2007 Dec;84(6):1810-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.07.030.

Long-term outcome of surgical treatment for non-small cell lung cancer with 
comorbid liver cirrhosis.

Iwata T(1), Inoue K, Nishiyama N, Nagano K, Izumi N, Mizuguchi S, Morita R, 
Tsukioka T, Suehiro S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic, Osaka City University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka, Japan. taiwata@med.osaka-cu.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Long-term outcome of surgery for non-small cell lung cancer with 
comorbid liver cirrhosis is not well known. We aimed to establish the factors 
influencing survival in such cases.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 33 patients who had undergone surgery for 
non-small cell lung cancer with comorbid liver cirrhosis. Clinical features, 
early outcome, survival time, and cause of death were investigated. Factors 
influencing survival were estimated by univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: There were 2 in-hospital deaths (6.5%). Five-year survival rate for 
lung cancer death (n = 9) was 59.7%, whereas for hepatic death (n = 6), it was 
62.9%. Factors influencing lung cancer death were nodal stage and limited 
resection (p < 0.05 for each). Factors influencing hepatic death were serum 
total bilirubin (p < 0.0001) and cholinesterase (p < 0.05), platelet count (p < 
0.05), and alpha-fetoprotein (p < 0.05). Lung disease factors such as local 
extensiveness of the tumor and pathologic stage, and surgical factors such as 
performance of mediastinal dissection and limited surgery, also influenced 
survival from hepatic death (p < 0.05 for each).
CONCLUSIONS: Although pulmonary resection invasiveness may have some impact on 
long-term liver function, the life expectancy of patients with cirrhosis does 
not seem to be severely affected by pulmonary resection itself. Curative surgery 
should be performed if possible, even in patients with cirrhosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.07.030
PMID: 18036890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Eur J Public Health. 2008 Apr;18(2):195-200. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm109.
Epub  2007 Nov 23.

Sensitivity analysis in summary measure of population health in France.

Lapostolle A(1), Lefranc A, Gremy I, Spira A.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U822/Service de Sant√© Publique, France. lapostol@vjf.inserm.fr

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to provide estimates of the French burden 
of disease, using the WHO Global Burden of Disease methodology and to perform 
sensitivity analysis on different set of mortality data.
METHODS: The burden of disease is measured by disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) that take into account both mortality and morbidity data. Results were 
obtained using French mortality data for the years 2000 and 2001 and morbidity 
data estimated by WHO for France. Sensitivity analyses were conducted using 
different mortality data sets and various life tables as mortality norms. 
Calculations were also performed with and without discounting and age-weighting.
RESULTS: In France, the annual burden of disease was about 12.4 million DALYs. 
Depending on the mortality data set and the choice of social values used for 
calculation, results could be quite different. The use of WHO estimates for 
mortality resulted in an underestimation of 2.6% of total DALYs with respect to 
French data. Changes of the mortality norm imply changes in the number of years 
of life lost (YLLs), whereas the use of discounting and age-weighting mainly 
modifies the ranking of diseases.
CONCLUSION: DALYs constitute a summary measure of population health, which is a 
powerful tool for the grading of health problems, allowing to compare fatal and 
non-fatal diseases. Nevertheless, the validity of results obtained depends 
primarily on the validity of the input data. Collecting morbidity data (mainly 
incidence) at the national level is hence an important step in order to assess 
more accurately the specific burden of diseases in France.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm109
PMID: 18037621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2007 Jan-Feb;1(1):25-32. doi: 10.1002/term.5.

Osteoinductive biomaterials--properties and relevance in bone repair.

Habibovic P(1), de Groot K.

Author information:
(1)University of Twente, Institute for Biomedical Technology, Department of 
Tissue Regeneration, Enschede, The Netherlands. p.habibovic@tnw.utwente.nl

The need for bone tissue regeneration is continuously expanding due to the 
improvement of life quality and the consequent increase in life expectancy. 
Although natural bone grafts have shown excellent clinical successes, their use 
is associated with some important drawbacks, limited availability being one of 
the most important. Cell- and growth-factor based tissue engineering provides a 
promising alternative to natural bone grafts; however, the performance of 
tissue-engineered constructs often depends on the used carrier. An important 
challenge in the field of bone regeneration is the development of synthetic bone 
graft substitutes that are "intelligent" in that they are able to instruct the 
in vivo environment to form bone. A group of potentially "intelligent" bone 
graft substitutes are osteoinductive biomaterials. In this paper, background on 
the phenomenon of osteoinduction and an overview of synthetic biomaterials with 
osteoinductive potential are given. Furthermore, we elaborate on physicochemical 
properties of biomaterials that are of influence on their osteoinductive 
potential. Finally, we discuss the relevance of osteoinductivity of biomaterials 
in the repair of clinically relevant bone defects.

2007 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/term.5
PMID: 18038389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Minn Med. 2007 Oct;90(10):4.

The new 80.

Meyer CR.

PMID: 18038734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Tumori. 2007 Sep-Oct;93(5):417-22. doi: 10.1177/030089160709300502.

Cancer chemotherapy near the end of life: the time has come to set guidelines 
for its appropriate use.

Martoni AA(1), Tanneberger S, Mutri V.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Bologna, Italy. 
martoni@aosp.bo.it

Comment in
    Tumori. 2008 Jul-Aug;94(4):621; author reply 621-2.
    Tumori. 2008 Jul-Aug;94(4):622-3.

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: This study retrospectively analyzes the use of chemotherapy 
in patients who died of advanced cancer either after having been in care at the 
Medical Oncology Unit (MOU) of the University Hospital of Bologna, Italy, or 
after having been assisted in their terminal disease phase by the Bologna 
Oncological Hospice at Home (OHH) of the Associazione Nazionale Tumori (ANT) 
Italia Foundation. In the latter group, the prescription and delivery of 
chemotherapy had been performed by doctors of medical oncology departments other 
than the MOU.
RESULTS: Between January 2003 and September 2005, 793 deaths of patients were 
recorded (MOU: 312; OHH: 481). At least one cycle of chemotherapy had been 
received by 445 patients (56.1%). The most common cancer types were lung cancer 
(26.7%), colorectal cancer (14.8%), and breast cancer (11.2%). At the time of 
the last chemotherapy (I-CT), the median age of the patients was 68 years 
(range, 22-98 years) and the median KPS was 70 (range, 40-100). The median 
interval between I-CT and death was 71 days (range, 1-1913 days). One hundred 
and one patients (22.7%) had received their I-CT in the last 30 days of their 
life, 86% of them having intermediately chemosensitive (71%) or chemoresistant 
(14%) tumors. The I-CT in the last month of life was first line in 56% of cases 
and consisted of costly new-generation drugs in 36.6% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests the urgent need to lay down guidelines for the 
