maknefpo@mt.net.mk

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) remains prevalent in dialysis patients and is an 
important cause of liver disease in this population. A number of risk factors 
have been identified for spreading the HCV infection among dialysis patients, 
including the number of blood transfusions, the duration of dialysis, the mode 
of dialysis, and the prevalence of HCV infection in the dialysis unit. 
Difficulties in formulating policies regarding HCV infection in dialysis units 
arise because of the high prevalence of HCV infection in dialysis patients, the 
limitations of current tests in identifying these patients, and the 
uncertainties regarding the modes of transmission within dialysis unit. Little 
is known concerning the natural history of HCV infection in patients undergoing 
dialysis. This is due in part to an unrecognized onset of infection, the slow 
progression of hepatitis C viral disease, and the fact that infected dialysis 
patients may not have the time to become clinically apparent because of the 
overall shortened life-expectancy. The clinical course of HCV infection in 
dialysis patients is generally asymptomatic, and the progression of the disease 
is apparently benign. The mortality rate of infected dialysis patients is higher 
than in non-infected subjects, and this is not only due to the liver disease 
itself but also to cardiovascular disorders. Interferon alpha (standard or 
pegylated) is the current treatment of HCV infection in dialysis patients, with 
careful patient selection together with a close follow-up of the main side 
effect. HCV infected dialysis patients who are candidates for renal 
transplantation have to be treated before transplantation, since HCV infection 
has a negative impact on graft and patient survival and interferon therapy 
remains contraindicated after transplantation because of the serious risk of 
graft rejection.

PMID: 17932471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Internist (Berl). 2007 Nov;48(11):1195-6, 1198-202, 1204-5. doi: 
10.1007/s00108-007-1946-2.

[Diagnostic and treatment goals in elderly patients].

[Article in German]

Leischker AH(1), Kolb GF.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik, Abteilung für Innere Medizin, Fachbereich Geriatrie, St. 
Bonifatius Hospital Lingen, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Medizinischen 
Hochschule Hannover, Wilhelmstr. 13, 49808, Lingen, Deutschland.

Improved quality of life and greater independence are becoming increasingly 
important as treatment goals in elderly patients, while merely extending life 
expectancy is only rarely the primary treatment goal. In elderly patients in 
particular, the patient's wishes are extremely important when deciding on the 
treatment goals. If patients are no longer able to express their wishes, the 
treating physician must establish what their presumed wishes are. Relatives and 
carers are particularly important in determining a patient's presumed wishes. A 
standardized geriatric assessment and interventions conducted on the basis of 
this assessment can give patients greater independence in everyday activities 
(e.g., walking, personal hygiene, eating) and can avoid them having to go into a 
nursing home or at least delay this move. In addition, the patient's prognosis 
is improved, which is manifested inter alia in a longer life-span. A basic 
geriatric assessment should therefore be conducted in all elderly patients. 
Standardized testing methods are used to examine the following areas: everyday 
activities, mobility/risk of falling, and cognition. Patients with the relevant 
risk combinations should also be screened for malnutrition. Comorbidities are a 
decisive factor influencing the prognosis in tumor patients. The comorbidities 
should be recorded using a structured method, e.g., the Charlson Comorbidity 
Index, and taken into account when deciding on treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-007-1946-2
PMID: 17932635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Urologe A. 2007 Nov;46(11):1485-99. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1572-6.

[Nuclear imaging of prostate cancer: current status].

[Article in German]

Reske SN(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Nuklearmedizin, Universitätsklinikum, Robert-Koch-Strasse 8, 
89081, Ulm, Germany. sven.reske@uniklinik-ulm.de

Prostate carcinoma is the most common life-threatening cancer affecting men in 
the western world. In Germany about 40,600 new cases have to be expected each 
year. The mortality is around 10%. The major goals of pretherapeutic imaging are 
to determine the local extent of prostate carcinoma in terms of intraprostate 
localisation, extracapsular extension (ECE), seminal vesicle invasion (SVI), 
tumour infiltration into neurovascular bundles, and if this has taken place, 
into surrounding tissues and organs in the small pelvis, detection of 
loco-regional metastases via the lymph nodes and of this so, of distant 
metastases. Exact pretherapeutic diagnosis and staging are essential, because 
the tumour treatment must be selected in strict dependence on clinical tumour 
stage and risk profile. Both anatomic and functional molecular imaging of 
prostate carcinoma have advanced significantly in recent years. When there are 
problems with diagnosis, e.g. when prostate punch biopsies are negative while 
the suspicion of prostate carcinoma persists, C-11/F-18 choline PET/CT and 
MRT/MRS may be helpful in localising the carcinoma, revealing how the carcinoma 
relates to the surrounding intra- and extraprostatic structures and organs, and 
making a targeted repeat biopsy possible. Lymphotropic contrast agents are 
highly promising for accurate nodal staging of prostate carcinoma, but are not 
yet available for routine clinical use; In these circumstances, the sensitivity 
of nodal staging with the widely available imaging modalities remains 
inadequate, and its specificity is also less than optimal. There has been 
particularly substantial progress in the localisation of local relapse, which 
can be imaged with contrast-enhanced C-11-choline PET/CT and MRT in most cases 
when PSA is >0.5-1 ng/ml. 18F-Fluoride PET/CT has proved accurate in the 
diagnosis of skeletal metastases from prostate carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1572-6
PMID: 17932641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Gene Expr. 2007;14(1):13-22. doi: 10.3727/000000007783991754.

Cloning, expression, and functional analysis of rat liver cytosolic inorganic 
pyrophosphatase gene and characterization of its functional promoter.

Panda H(1), Pandey RS, Debata PR, Supakar PC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Bhubaneswar, India.

Inorganic pyrophosphate (PPi) is formed in several metabolic processes and its 
hydrolysis by the ubiquitously expressed enzyme inorganic pyrophosphatase 
(iPPase) is essential for the reactions to proceed in the direction of 
biosynthesis. Recently, we have reported differential expression and activity of 
cytosolic iPPase in rat liver with aging. In this article we report the cloning 
of the coding region of rat liver cytosolic iPPase gene in a bacterial 
expression vector, its expression, purification, and functional analysis by 
in-gel enzyme assay. SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis of this expressed 
protein revealed that its molecular weight (MW) is approximately 33 kDa, while 
in-gel assay showed that it is functionally active just as the liver cytosolic 
iPPase. We have determined the genomic organization of this gene by genome blast 
approach. We have also cloned and characterized its proximal approximate 1 kb 
functional promoter (-1009 to +82) by transient transfection and luciferase 
assay of different 5'-deleted iPPase promoter-luciferase constructs and also 
established its transcription start site by primer extension analysis, along 
with protein-DNA interaction studies for a few putative transcription factor 
binding sites.

DOI: 10.3727/000000007783991754
PMCID: PMC6042020
PMID: 17933215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Ann Chir Plast Esthet. 2008 Jun;53(3):229-31. doi:
10.1016/j.anplas.2007.07.017.  Epub 2007 Oct 22.

[The golden age of seniors: for how long?].

[Article in French]

Lejour M.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anplas.2007.07.017
PMID: 17933450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Eur J Med Res. 2007 Oct 15;12(9):483-95.

Antiviral drugs in the treatment of AIDS: what is in the pipeline ?

Stellbrink HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Infektionsmedizinisches Centrum Hamburg ICH, Grindelallee 35, 20146 Hamburg, 
Germany. stellbrink@ich-hamburg.de

Drug development in the field of HIV treatment is rapid. New nucleoside 
analogues (NRTI), non-nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors 
(NNRTI), and protease inhibitors (PI) are currently being investigated in human 
trials. Furthermore, inhibitors of HIV attachment, fusion and integrase with 
novel modes of action are being developed, which offer new perspectives for the 
goal of a normalization of life-expectancy in HIV-infected individuals. The most 
advanced compounds likely to become licensed soon include the NNRTIs rilpivirine 
and etravirine, the integrase inhibitors raltegravir and elvitegravir, and 
maraviroc and vicriviroc, novel inhibitors of the CCR5 chemokine receptor, which 
functions as the major coreceptor for HIV-1.

PMID: 17933730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2007 Nov;61(11):990-6. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2006.052134.

Societal characteristics and health in the former communist countries of Central 
and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union: a multilevel analysis.

Bobak M(1), Murphy M, Rose R, Marmot M.

Author information:
(1)UCL International Insitute for Society and Health, University College London, 
1-19 Torrington Place, London WC1E 6BT, UK. m.bobak@ucl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether, in former communist countries that have 
undergone profound social and economic transformation, health status is 
associated with income inequality and other societal characteristics, and 
whether this represents something more than the association of health status 
with individual socioeconomic circumstances.
DESIGN: Multilevel analysis of cross-sectional data.
SETTING: 13 Countries from Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet 
Union.
PARTICIPANTS: Population samples aged 18+ years (a total of 15 331 respondents).
MEAN OUTCOME MEASURES: Poor self-rated health.
RESULTS: There were marked differences among participating countries in rates of 
poor health (a greater than twofold difference between the countries with the 
highest and lowest rates of poor health), gross domestic product per capita 
adjusted for purchasing power parity (a greater than threefold difference), the 
Gini coefficient of income inequality (twofold difference), corruption index 
(twofold difference) and homicide rates (20-fold difference). Ecologically, the 
age- and sex-standardised prevalence of poor self-rated health correlated 
strongly with life expectancy at age 15 (r = -0.73). In multilevel analyses, 
societal (country-level) measures of income inequality were not associated with 
poor health. Corruption and gross domestic product per capita were associated 
with poor health after controlling for individuals' socioeconomic circumstances 
(education, household income, marital status and ownership of household items); 
the odds ratios were 1.15 (95% confidence interval 1.03 to 1.29) per 1 unit (on 
a 10-point scale) increase in the corruption index and 0.79 (95% confidence 
interval 0.68 to 0.93) per $5000 increase in gross domestic product per capita. 
The effects of gross domestic product and corruption were virtually identical in 
people whose household income was below and above the median.
CONCLUSION: Societal measures of prosperity and corruption, but not income 
inequalities, were associated with health independently of individual-level 
socioeconomic characteristics. The finding that these effects were similar in 
persons with lower and higher income suggests that these factors do not operate 
exclusively through poverty.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2006.052134
PMCID: PMC2465607
PMID: 17933958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None


417. Ann Rheum Dis. 2007 Nov;66 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):iii35-9. doi: 
10.1136/ard.2007.078964.

Thoughts on health economics in rheumatoid arthritis.

Kobelt G(1).

Author information:
(1)Gisela.Kobelt@he-europe.com

In this manuscript we discuss the reasons why and how health economics is 
important, the type of economic studies that are relevant in healthcare to 
different stakeholders in general, and what analyses can and have been performed 
in the field of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We will thus specifically address 
costs and outcome measurements in RA, as well as the need for modelling in 
chronic progressive diseases.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2007.078964
PMCID: PMC2095296
PMID: 17934092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


418. Rev Lat Am Enfermagem. 2007 Sep-Oct;15 Spec No:768-73. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-11692007000700009.

Sociodemographic and clinical characteristics of a diabetic population at a 
primary level health care center.

Otero LM(1), Zanetti ML, Teixeira CR.

Author information:
(1)University of São Paulo at Ribeirão Preto, College of Nursing, WHO 
Collaborating Center for Nursing Research Development, Brazil.

This study aimed to analyze the social-demographic, clinical and life habits 
characteristics of a diabetic population being treated in the primary level of a 
healthcare center. A total of 52 diabetic patients, enrolled, in 2006, in a 
Research and Extension Center linked to a University in Sao Paulo, participated 
in the study. The data were collected through interviews, using appropriated 
forms, after the patients consent. The results showed other illness associated 
to diabetes and an unsatisfactory metabolic control. These data can support 
health professionals' actions in order to effectively prevent and manage 
diabetes in the basic health services. The conclusion, in face of the obtained 
results, is that there is the need to develop courses to the health 
professionals of education in diabetes, aiming to meet the complexity of the 
care and progression of the disease in this clientele.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-11692007000700009
PMID: 17934583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Internist (Berl). 2007 Nov;48(11):1206,1208-10. doi:
10.1007/s00108-007-1955-1.

[The older patient with malignant diseases].

[Article in German]

Buske C(1), Hiddemann W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik III, Klinikum der Universität München, Campus 
Grosshadern, Marchioninistrasse 15, 81377, München, Deutschland. 
Christian.Buske@med.uni-muenchen.de

Most malignancies show a steep increase of incidence with growing age. Because 
of this age specific incidence and the general aging of the population in 
western industrial countries the number of elderly cancer patients continuously 
and rapidly increases. Despite this development elderly cancer patients are 
currently underrepresented in clinical trials. This is caused in part by the 
lack of a common definition of the elderly patient and by the fact that a part 
of the elderly patients suffers from co-morbidities, not allowing a more dose 
intense treatment in these patients. It is one of the key current challenges to 
compensate this deficit and to develop therapeutic concepts specifically for the 
elderly patients, taking the individual somatic, but also social situation and 
finally the quality and perspective of life of the elderly patient into account.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-007-1955-1
PMID: 17934703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Internist (Berl). 2007 Nov;48(11):1190, 1192-4. doi:
10.1007/s00108-007-1945-3.

[The elderly patient--who is that?].

[Article in German]

Sieber CC(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Biomedizin des Alterns, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität 
Erlangen-Nürnberg und Klinikum Nürnberg, Prof.-Ernst-Nathan-Strasse 1, 90419, 
Nürnberg, Deutschland. sieber@klinikum-nuernberg.de

From a chronological viewpoint, medical treatment of the elderly (geriatrics) 
starts from the age of 65 years old. This definition per se is nowadays 
certainly not really an adequate definition of an elderly patient and the reason 
to be treated by a geriatrician. In addition to chronological age, other factors 
must be considered in order to define the elderly patient. Functional reserves 
decrease with age, which leads to increased vulnerability. Frailty as a term 
describes this situation and can be defined pathophysiologically by a mainly 
subclinical inflammatory state. Therefore, in 2007 the German Society of 
Geriatrics (DGG), the German Society of Gerontology and Geriatrics (DGGG), and 
the German Group of Geriatric Institutions (BAG) have jointly developed a 
definition of the geriatric patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-007-1945-3
PMID: 17934704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. J Sports Sci. 2008 Feb 1;26(3):287-93. doi: 10.1080/02640410701501705.

Contributions of upper limb rotations to racket velocity in table tennis 
backhands against topspin and backspin.

Iino Y(1), Mori T, Kojima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Meguro, Tokyo, Japan. iino@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to assess the contributions of racket arm joint 
rotations to the racket tip velocity at ball impact in table tennis topspin 
backhands against topspin and backspin using the method of Sprigings et al. 
(1994). Two cine cameras were used to determine three-dimensional motions of the 
racket arm and racket, and the contributions of the rotations for 11 male 
advanced table tennis players. The racket upward velocity at impact was 
significantly higher in the backhand against backspin than against topspin, 
while the forward velocity was not significantly different between the two types 
of backhands. The negative contribution of elbow extension to the upward 
velocity was significantly less against backspin than against topspin. The 
contribution of wrist dorsiflexion to the upward velocity was significantly 
greater against backspin than against topspin. The magnitudes of the angular 
velocities of elbow extension and wrist dorsiflexion at impact were both similar 
between the two types of backhands. Our results suggest that the differences in 
contributions of elbow extension and wrist dorsiflexion to the upward velocity 
were associated with the difference in upper limb configuration rather than in 
magnitudes of their angular velocities.

DOI: 10.1080/02640410701501705
PMID: 17934947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Int J Cancer. 2008 Jan 15;122(2):372-6. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23124.

Cost-effectiveness of primary cytology and HPV DNA cervical screening.

Bistoletti P(1), Sennfält K, Dillner J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Nacka Hospital, Nacka, Sweden.

Because cost-effectiveness of different cervical cytology screening strategies 
with and without human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing is unclear, we used a 
Markov model to estimate life expectancy and health care cost per woman during 
the remaining lifetime for 4 screening strategies: (i) cervical cytology 
screening at age 32, 35, 38, 41, 44, 47, 50, 55 and 60, (ii) same strategy with 
addition of testing for HPV DNA persistence at age 32, (iii) screening with 
combined cytology and testing for HPV DNA persistence at age 32, 41 and 50, iv) 
no screening. Input data were derived from population-based screening 
registries, health-service costs and from a population-based HPV screening 
trial. Impact of parameter uncertainty was addressed using probabilistic 
multivariate sensitivity analysis. Cytology screening between 32 and 60 years of 
age in 3-5 year intervals increased life expectancy and life-time costs were 
reduced from 533 to 248 US Dollars per woman compared to no screening. Addition 
of HPV DNA testing, at age 32 increased costs from 248 to 284 US Dollars without 
benefit on life expectancy. Screening with both cytology and HPV DNA testing, at 
ages 32, 41 and 50 reduced costs from 248 to 210 US Dollars with slightly 
increased life expectancy. In conclusion, population-based, organized cervical 
cytology screening between ages 32 to 60 is highly cost-efficient for cervical 
cancer prevention. If screening intervals are increased to at least 9 years, 
combined cytology and HPV DNA screening appeared to be still more effective and 
less costly.

Copyright 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23124
PMID: 17935124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Health Econ. 2008 Apr;17(4):487-501. doi: 10.1002/hec.1295.

Does age or life expectancy better predict health care expenditures?

Shang B(1), Goldman D.

Author information:
(1)RAND, Santa Monica, CA 90401, USA. baoping_shang@rand.org

It is an unresolved issue whether age or (expected) remaining life years better 
predicts health care expenditures. We first estimate a set of hazard models to 
predict life expectancy based on individual demographic characteristics and 
health conditions, and then use regression analyses to compare the predictive 
power of age and life expectancy in explaining health care expenditures. This 
paper differs from previous studies in that it uses predicted life expectancy to 
address the censoring of death; as a result, this paper goes beyond the large 
health care expenditures at the end of life and the results apply to both 
deceased and survivors. We find that age has little additional predictive power 
on health care expenditures after controlling for life expectancy, but the 
predictive power of life expectancy itself diminishes as health status measures 
are introduced into the model. These results are not of esoteric interest only 
for their statistical properties; we show that using life expectancy rather than 
age results in lower projections of future health care expenditures. This result 
suggests that increases in longevity might be less costly than models based on 
the current age profile of spending would predict.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1295
PMID: 17935199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Int J Adolesc Med Health. 2007 Jul-Sep;19(3):345-54. doi: 
10.1515/ijamh.2007.19.3.345.

Developmental and environmental factors supporting the health and well-being of 
Aboriginal adolescents.

Silburn SR(1), Blair E, Griffin JA, Zubrick SR, Lawrence DM, Mitrou FG, De Maio 
JA.

Author information:
(1)Telethon Institute for Child Health Research, Perth, Western Australia. 
S.Silburn@curtin.edu.au

Little progress has been made in the past 30 years in closing the gap between 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians in terms of their educational 
outcomes, rates of incarceration, risks for chronic illnesses and reduced 
life-expectancy. The Western Australian Aboriginal Child Health Survey is the 
first population based survey of its kind developed specifically to inform 
policy and planning to improve the developmental health of Aboriginal children 
and youth. A random representative sample of 5,289 Aboriginal children aged 0-17 
years, including 1,480 adolescents aged 12-17 years was surveyed through 
household based interviews with carers and adolescents, questionnaire data from 
schools and consensual record linkage to health service and education system 
data. The findings describe the prevalence and relative impact of developmental 
and environmental factors associated with the health and mental outcomes of 
Aboriginal adolescents. The major portion of the overall burden of disorder is 
now evident in the more urbanised living settings of Aboriginal families. Some 
health risk behaviours such as poor dietary intake, smoking, unprotected sex and 
insufficient physical exercise are more common in Aboriginal adolescents. 
However, others such as alcohol and marijuana use and suicidal behaviour occur 
at similar levels to those seen in non-Aboriginal youth.

DOI: 10.1515/ijamh.2007.19.3.345
PMID: 17937151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Care Manag J. 2007;8(3):127-40. doi: 10.1891/152109807781753736.

The changing needs of New York City's elderly.

New York City Department for the Aging.

DOI: 10.1891/152109807781753736
PMID: 17937211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. J Rheumatol. 2007 Nov;34(11):2193-200. Epub 2007 Oct 15.

Advantages and limitations of utility assessment methods in rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Beresniak A(1), Russell AS, Haraoui B, Bessette L, Bombardier C, Duru G.

Author information:
(1)LIRAES, University Paris-Descartes, Paris, France.

Utility assessment and cost-utility analyses such as costs/quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) are frequently presented to demonstrate the value of new 
treatment options in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). However, utility indicators 
require various methods that introduce significant methodological challenges, 
which directly influence the results and ensuing reimbursement decisions. Our 
objective was to review and discuss these challenges and the validity of 
frequently used utility assessment techniques in the context of RA. Coding the 
intensity of preferences or variations in patient satisfaction in order to 
assess utility implies extreme mathematical assumptions about a patient's 
rationality regarding his/her preferences towards different given health states. 
The construction and assumptions of commonly used "direct approaches" (standard 
gamble, time tradeoff, visual analog scale) and indirect approaches (EQ5D, HUI, 
SF6D) are presented. Other approaches such as transformation in utility of data 
from clinical (Health Assessment Questionnaire) or quality of life instruments 
("mapping technique") are analyzed as they appear to generate uncertainty and a 
wide variation in estimated utility values in the context of RA. Utility 
assessment and cost-utility analyses in RA, which form the basis of the QALY, 
are frequently published and often requested by health technology assessment 
agencies to assist -reimbursement decisions. However, when interpreting the 
results, the medical community must take into consideration the limitations and 
significant uncertainty of these approaches. In light of these findings, real 
cost-effectiveness analyses based on observed clinical outcomes appear to be 
more robust and reliable to assist decision-making, particularly in the context 
of RA.

PMID: 17937471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2007 Fall;23(4):464-72. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462307070559.

Economic evaluation of laparoscopic surgery for colorectal cancer.

de Verteuil RM(1), Hernández RA, Vale L; Aberdeen Health Technology Assessment 
Group.

Author information:
(1)University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, Aberdeen, AB25 2ZD, United Kingdom. 
r.deverteuil@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
laparoscopic surgery compared with open surgery for the treatment of colorectal 
cancer.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to model cost-effectiveness over 25 years. 
Data on the clinical effectiveness of laparoscopic and open surgery for 
colorectal cancer were obtained from a systematic review of the literature. Data 
on costs came from a systematic review of economic evaluations and from 
published sources. The outcomes of the model were presented as the incremental 
cost per life-year gained and using cost-effectiveness acceptability curves to 
illustrate the likelihood that a treatment was cost-effective at various 
threshold values for society's willingness to pay for an additional life-year.
RESULTS: Laparoscopic surgery was on average pounds 300 more costly and slightly 
less effective than open surgery and had a 30 percent chance of being 
cost-effective if society is willing to pay pounds 30,000 for a life-year. One 
interpretation of the available data suggests equal survival and disease-free 
survival. Making this assumption, laparoscopic surgery had a greater chance of 
being considered cost-effective. Presenting the results as incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) made no difference to the results, as utility 
data were poor. Evidence suggests short-term benefits after laparoscopic repair. 
This benefit would have to be at least 0.01 of a QALY for laparoscopic surgery 
to be considered cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic surgery is likely to be associated with short-term 
quality of life benefits, similar long-term outcomes, and an additional pounds 
300 per patient. A judgment is required as to whether the short-term benefits 
are worth this extra cost.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462307070559
PMID: 17937835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2007 Fall;23(4):473-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462307070560.

Economic evaluation of drug-eluting stents: a systematic literature review and 
model-based cost-utility analysis.

Kuukasjärvi P(1), Räsänen P, Malmivaara A, Aronen P, Sintonen H.

Author information:
(1)Finnish Office for Health Technology Assessment, Stakes, PO Box 220, 
FIn-00531, Helsinki, Finland. pekka.kuukasjarvi@stakes.fi

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to systematically review economic analyses 
comparing drug-eluting stents (DES) to bare metal stents (BMS) in patients who 
undergo percutaneous coronary intervention to form an overall view about 
cost-effectiveness of DES and to construct a simple decision analysis model to 
evaluate the cost-utility of DES.
METHODS: Electronic databases searched from January 2004 to January 2006 were 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews; DARE, HTA, EED (NHS CRD); MEDLINE(R) 
In-Process, Other Non-Indexed Citations, MEDLINE(R). References of the papers 
identified were checked. We included randomized controlled trials (RCT) or 
model-based cost-effectiveness analyses comparing DES to BMS in patients with 
coronary artery disease. The methodological quality of the papers was assessed 
by Drummond's criteria. Baseline characteristics and results of the studies were 
extracted and data synthesized descriptively. A decision tree model was 
constructed to evaluate the cost-utility of DES in comparison to BMS, where 
health-related quality of life was measured by the 15D.
RESULTS: We identified thirteen good-quality economic evaluations. In two of 
these based on RCTs, DES was found cost-effective. In six studies, it was 
concluded that DES might probably be a cost-effective strategy in some 
circumstances, but not as a single strategy, and four studies concluded that DES 
is not cost-effective. One study did not draw a clear conclusion. In our 
analysis, the overall incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was Euros 98,827 per 
quality-adjusted life-years gained. Avoiding one revascularization with DES 
would cost Euros 4,794, when revascularization with BMS costs Euros 3,260.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence is inconsistent of whether DES would be a 
cost-effective treatment compared with BMS in any healthcare system where 
evaluated. A marked restenosis risk reduction should be achieved before use of 
DES is justifiable at present prices. When considering adoption of a new health 
technology with a high incremental cost within a fixed budget, opportunity cost 
in terms of untreated patients should be seriously considered as a question of 
collective ethics.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462307070560
PMID: 17937836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Autophagy. 2008 Jan;4(1):79-81. doi: 10.4161/auto.5143. Epub 2007 Oct 9.

Autophagy-related genes from a tick, Haemaphysalis longicornis.

Umemiya R(1), Matsuo T, Hatta T, Sakakibara S, Boldbaatar D, Fujisaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Veterinary Science, The United Graduate School of 
Veterinary Sciences, Gifu University, Gifu, Japan.

Ticks are gorging-fasting organisms;(1) their life cycle is characterized by 
alternate off-host (starvation) and on-host (meal) conditions. Their generation 
time is estimated in several years and many ticks spend more than 95% of their 
life off the host. They seem to have a unique strategy to endure the off-host 
state for a long period. Thus, we focused on autophagy, which is induced by 
starvation and is essential for extension of the lifespan,(2-4) and hypothesized 
that ticks also have a system of autophagy to overcome the starved condition. 
Recently, we showed the existence of a homologue of an ATG gene, ATG12, and its 
expression pattern from nymphal to adult stages in a three-host tick, 
Haemaphysalis longicornis. The expression level of HlATG12 was downregulated at 
the beginning of feeding and was highest at 3 months after engorgement. In 
addition, the HlAtg12 protein was localized to the region around granule-like 
structures within midgut cells of unfed adults. These results indicate that 
HlATG12 functions during unfed stages. Here, a potential role of autophagy in 
unfed ticks is discussed with regard to reports in other animals, such as yeast, 
mammal, and fruit fly.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.5143
PMID: 17938584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Vet Intern Med. 2007 Sep-Oct;21(5):1027-33. doi: 
10.1892/0891-6640(2007)21[1027:snrapf]2.0.co;2.

Survival, neurologic response, and prognostic factors in dogs with pituitary 
masses treated with radiation therapy and untreated dogs.

Kent MS(1), Bommarito D, Feldman E, Theon AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical and Radiological Sciences, University of California, 
Davis, CA 95616, USA. mskent@ucdavis.edu

BACKGROUND: Pituitary masses in dogs are not uncommon tumors that can cause 
endocrine and neurologic signs and, if left untreated, can decrease life 
expectancy.
HYPOTHESIS: Dogs with pituitary masses that received radiation therapy (RT) have 
more favorable neurologic outcomes and longer survival times compared with 
untreated dogs.
ANIMALS: Nineteen dogs with a pituitary mass identified on CT or MR imaging were 
irradiated with 48 Gy given in 3 Gy daily-dose fractions. Twenty-seven untreated 
control dogs had pituitary masses.
METHODS: Medical records of dogs with pituitary masses were retrospectively 
reviewed for clinical signs, mass size, and outcome.
RESULTS: Median survival time was not reached in the treated group. Mean 
survival time in the treated group was 1,405 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 
1,053-1,757 days) with 1-, 2-, and 3-year estimated survival of 93, 87, and 55%, 
respectively. Median survival in the nonirradiated group was 359 days (95% CI, 
48-916 days), with a mean of 551 days (95% CI, 271-829 days). The 1-, 2-, and 
3-year estimated survival was 45, 32, and 25%, respectively. Dogs that received 
RT for their pituitary tumors had significantly longer survival times than 
untreated dogs (P = .0039). Treated dogs with smaller tumors (based on maximal 
pituitary-to-brain height ratio or area of tumor to area of brain) lived longer 
than those with larger tumors (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL IMPORTANCE: When compared with untreated dogs, RT 
increased survival and controlled neurologic signs in dogs with pituitary 
masses.

DOI: 10.1892/0891-6640(2007)21[1027:snrapf]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17939560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Nov;23(11):2775-84. doi: 10.1185/030079907x233223.

Economic evaluation comparing From Home To Operation same day admission and 
preoperative admission one day prior to the surgery process: a randomized, 
controlled trial of laparoscopic cholecystectomy.

Keränen J(1), Soini EJ, Ryynänen OP, Hietaniemi K, Keränen U.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Kuopio, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: A novel preoperative procedure From Home To Operation (FHTO) seeks to 
combat increasing operation and infection rates. This is the first prospective 
randomized controlled trial (RCT) comparing the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility of FHTO and conventional ward procedures for standardized 
Laparoscopic Cholecystectomy (LC).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: During 12/2004-7/2005, 47 patients with symptomatic 
gallstones were randomized to receive LC in the FHTO (28 patients) or in a 
conventional manner (19 patients) in a Finnish hospital setting. The 15D quality 
of life tool was administered at the baseline and 1 month after.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: A stochastic approach over a month interval for hospital 
costs, length of postoperative stay, infection rate and Quality-Adjusted Life 
Years (QALY) was employed.
RESULTS: Baseline group characteristics were similar. The mean health care costs 
with FHTO (1695 EUR) were significantly lower (p < 0.001) than in the 
conventional arm (2234 EUR). The number of patients discharged on the first 
postoperative day was 27 (96.4%) and 15 (78.9%) with two (7.1%) infections in 
the FHTO and four (21.1%) in the conventional arm. A difference in QALYs gained 
(0.0174; p = 0.030) favouring FHTO was observed. According to a 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curve, the probability of FHTO being 
cost-effective was 99%. The results were robust to probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: FHTO can introduce substantial cost savings and have a positive 
impact on both clinical measures and quality of life. Studies with larger 
numbers of patients are needed to assess whether conventional ward procedure can 
be a source of infections, which can be avoided with FHTO.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRY: ICJME-qualified registry of the Hospital District of 
Helsinki and Uusimaa (number 217849).

DOI: 10.1185/030079907x233223
PMID: 17939880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Arch Bronconeumol. 2007 Oct;43(10):557-61. doi:
10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60127-x.

[Pulmonary and nonpulmonary alterations in Duchenne muscular dystrophy].

[Article in Spanish]

Güell MR(1), Avendano M, Fraser J, Goldstein R.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Pneumologia, Hospital de la Santa Creu i de Sant Pau, 
Barcelona, España. mguellr@santpau.es

OBJECTIVE: To describe our experience in managing patients with Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We analyzed the following variables in a group of 27 
patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy: arterial blood gases, lung function 
before and after mechanical ventilation, oxygen saturation (measured by pulse 
oximetry), nocturnal PaCO2 (measured transcutaneously by capnography), heart 
function, and dysphagia.
RESULTS: The mean (SD) age was 26 (6) years and the mean age at which mechanical 
ventilation had initiated in the patients was 21 (5) years. Sixty-two percent 
had undergone tracheostomy and invasive mechanical ventilation. Arterial blood 
gas levels returned to normal once mechanical ventilation was administered and 
remained so for the entire treatment period (mean duration of follow-up, 56 [49] 
months). Thirteen patients had cardiac symptoms and they all presented abnormal 
electrocardiograms and echocardiograms indicating dilated cardiomyopathy, left 
ventricular dysfunction, and posterior hypokinesis. Only 9 patients were 
receiving enteral nutrition (7 through a gastrostomy tube and 2 through a 
nasogastric tube). The videofluoroscopic swallowing study confirmed that 
dysphagia was related to neuromuscular disease rather than the presence or not 
of a tracheostomy. Five patients (18%), 4 of whom were receiving invasive 
mechanical ventilation, died during the follow-up period. Three patients had 
serious heart disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Mechanical ventilation confers clinical benefits and prolongs life 
expectancy in patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Heart disease and 
feeding difficulties are determining factors in the prognosis of these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60127-x
PMID: 17939910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. JAMA. 2007 Oct 17;298(15):1794-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.298.15.1794.

Severe mental illness and risk of cardiovascular disease.

Newcomer JW(1), Hennekens CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, and the Center for Clinical Studies, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. newcomerj@wustl.edu

DOI: 10.1001/jama.298.15.1794
PMID: 17940236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Support Care Cancer. 2008 Jul;16(7):847-52. doi: 10.1007/s00520-007-0339-3.
Epub  2007 Oct 17.

Prophylactic anti-coagulation in cancer palliative care: a prospective 
randomised study.

Weber C(1), Merminod T, Herrmann FR, Zulian GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Service of Palliative Medicine 
Cesco, University Hospitals of Geneva, 11 chemin de la Savonnière, 1245, 
Collonge-Bellerive, Switzerland.

GOALS: The objective of this study was to determine utility of prophylactic 
anti-coagulation in cancer patients hospitalised for palliative care in a 
specialised centre.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Prospective 1:1 open randomised study was designed. 
Twenty patients aged 55 to 88 years with advanced cancer and an estimated life 
expectancy of less than 6 months were assigned to either receive treatment with 
2,850/3,800 U (<70/>70 kg) of daily subcutaneous nadroparin or no treatment. 
Suspicion of venous thrombo-embolism (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary 
embolism) was confirmed by echo-Doppler examination of the lower limbs and/or by 
spiral computed tomography scan of the lungs. Bleeding episodes were recorded. 
Platelet count was measured on days 7 and 14. Survival time from study entry was 
determined.
MAIN RESULTS: One venous thrombo-embolism and one major bleeding occurred in the 
group receiving nadroparin, whereas two minor bleedings occurred in the control 
group. At 3 months, nine of ten participants had died in the control group vs 
five of ten in the group receiving nadroparin (P = 0.141). Five participants 
could be discharged home (P = 0.141).
CONCLUSIONS: Decision to administer prophylactic nadroparin in hospitalised 
cancer patients under palliative care remains a challenge. Better mobility score 
at admission and the likelihood to be discharged home may be useful for 
practical purposes. The observation of a potential influence of prophylactic 
nadroparin on survival deserves further studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-007-0339-3
PMID: 17940809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Insur Med. 2007;39(2):78-88.

Mortality in co-morbidity (I)--Analysis of the results in the Multiple Medical 
impairment Study for impairments with elevated blood pressure as the second or 
co-morbid impairment.

Singer RB(1), Milano AF.

Author information:
(1)Milano Life Expectancy, Inc.

BACKGROUND: In life insurance medicine as in general medicine, it has long been 
recognized that chronic medical conditions often occur in persons, not as a 
single impairment or risk factor, but as multiple co-morbid conditions. 
Nevertheless, it was not until 1999 that the first intercompany Multiple Medical 
Impairment Study (MMIS) was completed by Harry A. Woodman, FSA. Prior 
intercompany mortality studies from 1903 to 1983 had been almost 100% devoted to 
single impairments excluding all comorbid impairments except minor ones with a 
mortality ratio (MR) of 125% or less. However, abundant co-morbid mortality data 
have been presented in other clinical and single company studies. Examples are 
in the studies on diabetes mellitus abstracted in the 1976 Medical Risks 
monograph and two more recent studies. In this article, we analyze overall 
mortality and mortality for most of the individual impairments with elevated 
blood pressure (EBP) as the co-morbid impairment, provided that exposures and 
deaths were sufficient in number to utilize.
METHODS: From the standardized results page for the impairments published in the 
MMIS, we have extracted 3 tables of aggregate mortality experience on groups 
with a single impairment, 2 impairments, and 3 impairments. Then we prepared a 
similar table from the substandard experience of the 1979 Blood Pressure Study. 
Weighted mean age was calculated, for all groups, and excess death rates (EDRs) 
in the group with EBP were adjusted to the mean age of the 2-impairment group. 
Next a subsidiary table was prepared of data from 57 impairments in Section III 
of the MMIS. The data included the name of the impairment, exposures, observed 
and expected deaths (d and d'), overall EDR as a multiple and as a single 
impairment, and as a co-morbid impairment with EBP as the second impairment. The 
age-adjusted EDR for EBP alone was added to the EDR as a single impairment, and 
the sum was compared with the co-morbid EDR for the impairment and EBP. The 57 
impairments were then divided into 3 groups (Tables 4-6), depending on whether 
the comorbid EDR exceeded the sum of the separate EDRs, was less than the sum, 
or approximately equal to the sum.
RESULTS: EDR rose with decennial age group in each of the 4 groups shown in 
Table 1. Mean annual EDR, all ages combined, increased from 2.6 per 1000 for a 
single impairment to 5.2 for 2 impairments to 9.2 for 3 impairments. In males in 
the 1979 Blood Pressure Study, the mean EDR, all rated policies combined, was 
5.0 per 1000, and the mean rate of increase per decennial age group was 2.77 per 
1000, aged 20-29 to 60-69. In 18 of 57 comparisons, the co-morbid EDR exceeded 
the sum of the separate EDRs by 1.0 or more; in 20 the 2 EDR values were 
approximately equal, within +/- 0.9; and in 19 the co-morbid EDR was less than 
the sum of the separate EDRs by 1.0 or more. In Table 4, we listed the 18 
impairments whose co-morbid EDR exceeded the sum of the separate EDRs, entering 
the overall co-morbid mortality data (combined impairment and EBP), and the 
comparison EDRs. The mean co-morbid EDR was 11.3 per 1000 per year, with a range 
from 6.8 to 17.7; the mean sum of EDRs was 8.3 per 1000 (range 5.6 to 12.5). The 
mean excess EDR was +2.8, with a range from +1.2 to +9.2. Results are shown in 
Tables 5 and 6 for the groups in which the co-morbid EDR was less than or 
approximately equal to the sum of the separate EDRs.
CONCLUSION: In 18 of 57 comparisons made in MMIS, there was a synergistic excess 
mortality when the co-morbid EDR (impairment with EBP as second impairment) was 
compared with the summated EDR of the impairment alone and the EDR for EBP 
alone. In the remaining 68% of the impairments, the co-morbid EDR was 
approximately equal to or less than the sum of the separate EDRs.

PMID: 17941332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. J Insur Med. 2007;39(2):98-106.

Secondary cancer rates following breast cancer diagnosis.

Wesley D(1).

Author information:
(1)Transamerica Reinsurance, 401 North Tryon Street, Suite 700, Charlotte, NC 
28202, USA. david.wesley.md@transamerica.com

Life table analysis and other mortality methods apply well to end points other 
than mortality. This paper demonstrates the application of mortality experience 
methodology to the recurrence of breast cancer and/or new primaries in women 
previously diagnosed with primary breast cancer. Specific recurrence rates are 
broken out by duration as well as attributes available at the time of primary 
breast cancer diagnosis: stage, histology, age band, and year of diagnosis. Use 
of attained age is demonstrated to control for the effect of aging over long 
durations. Breast cancer recurrence is shown to drop to a relatively low rate 
compared with the rate of new primary occurrence.

PMID: 17941334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Environ Health. 2007 Oct;70(3):32-6.

Climate change and disability-adjusted life years.

Zhang Y(1), Bi P, Hiller JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Univeristyof Adelaide, South Australia. 
ying.zhang@adelaide.edu.au

The authors conducted a systematic review of the studies of disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) lost because of climate change. The review considered both 
methodological issues and research results. It found that little is known about 
DALYs lost because of climate change, except for results based on limited 
information presented in the World Health Organization (WHO) 
global-burden-of-disease study in 2002. The measurement of DALYs attributable to 
climate change presents additional difficulties over measurement of DALYs 
attributable to other causes. Further studies linking DALYs and climate change 
should be conducted in various populations and in different ecological regions, 
including developing countries.

PMID: 17941401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Cir Esp. 2007 Oct;82(4):235-7. doi: 10.1016/s0009-739x(07)71713-x.

[Inversion of the sequence of surgery after neoadjuvant chemotherapy for 
synchronous liver metastases from colorectal cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Marín-Hargreaves G(1), Artigas V, González JA, Martínez C, Marcuello E, 
Trías-Folch M.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General y Digestiva, Hospital de la Santa Creu i de Sant 
Pau, Barcelona, España. gmarin@hsp.santpau.es

Comment in
    Cir Esp. 2008 Feb;83(2):101; author reply 101-2.

In some patients with colorectal cancer and synchronous liver metastases, 
chemotherapy and current combinations of chemotherapy allow the size of these 
metastases to be reduced so that they can be surgically resected. However, in 
many patients, the initial systematic treatment of the primary tumor is 
associated with growth of the metastases (which predict the patient's life 
expectancy). This metastatic growth contraindicates surgical treatment that 
might otherwise be curative. We report the case of a patient with advanced 
recto-colonic cancer, which responded well to chemotherapy given as neoadjuvant 
treatment prior to surgery, in which the hepatic metastases were resected before 
excision of the primary tumor.

DOI: 10.1016/s0009-739x(07)71713-x
PMID: 17942050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2007 Oct-Nov;41(5):397-401. doi: 
10.1177/1538574407303679.

Race independently impacts outcome of infrapopliteal bypass for symptomatic 
arterial insufficiency.

Rowe VL(1), Kumar SR, Glass H, Hood DB, Weaver FA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Vascular Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California 90033, USA. 
vrowe@surgery.usc.edu

The impact of racial background on the outcome of lower extremity 
revascularization is unknown because a majority of studies have a preponderance 
of white patients. The charts of patients between 1988 and 2004 requiring 
infrapopliteal lower extremity revascularization were reviewed. Life-table 
analyses, the Cox proportional hazards model, and log-rank test were used to 
calculate graft patency and limb salvage. Bypasses were performed on 236 limbs 
in 225 patients. Mean follow-up was 18 +/- 1.5 months. Twenty-eight (12%) 
bypasses were performed on whites, 43 (18%) on African Americans, 148 (63%) on 
Hispanics, and 17 (7.2%) on patients of other races. African American race 
negatively correlated with primary-assisted patency (hazard ratio 2.9, P = .03), 
secondary patency (hazard ratio 3.64, P = .02), and limb salvage (hazard ratio 
8, P = .006) compared with whites. African American race has a negative impact 
on the long-term outcome of infrapopliteal revascularization, regardless of 
disease stage or associated risk factors.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574407303679
