drug associated liver disease and may also act as a cofactor in other liver 
diseases, such as viral hepatitis and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2007.06.010
PMID: 17923345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Br J Cancer. 2007 Nov 5;97(9):1322-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604023. Epub 2007
Oct  9.

The value of including boys in an HPV vaccination programme: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis in a low-resource setting.

Kim JJ(1), Andres-Beck B, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Program in Health Decision Science, 718 Huntington Avenue, 2nd Floor, Boston, MA 
02115, USA. jkim@hsph.harvard.edu

We assessed the cost-effectiveness of including boys vs girls alone in a 
pre-adolescent vaccination programme against human papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 
and 18 in Brazil. Using demographic, epidemiological, and cancer data from 
Brazil, we developed a dynamic transmission model of HPV infection between males 
and females. Model-projected reductions in HPV incidence under different 
vaccination scenarios were applied to a stochastic model of cervical 
carcinogenesis to project lifetime costs and benefits. We assumed vaccination 
prevented HPV-16 and -18 infections in individuals not previously infected, and 
protection was lifelong. Coverage was varied from 0-90% in both genders, and 
cost per-vaccinated individual was varied from IUSD 25 to 400. At 90% coverage, 
vaccinating girls alone reduced cancer risk by 63%; including boys at this 
coverage level provided only 4% further cancer reduction. At a cost 
per-vaccinated individual of USD 50, vaccinating girls alone was <USD 200 per 
year of life saved (YLS), while including boys ranged from USD 810-18,650 per 
YLS depending on coverage. For all coverage levels, increasing coverage in girls 
was more effective and less costly than including boys in the vaccination 
programme. In a resource-constrained setting such as Brazil, our results support 
that the first priority in reducing cervical cancer mortality should be to 
vaccinate pre-adolescent girls.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604023
PMCID: PMC2360471
PMID: 17923869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Rev Saude Publica. 2007 Oct;41(5):749-56. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102007000500009.

[Prevalence of falls and associated factors in the elderly].

[Article in Portuguese]

Siqueira FV(1), Facchini LA, Piccini RX, Tomasi E, Thumé E, Silveira DS, Vieira 
V, Hallal PC.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-graduação em Epidemiologia, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, 
Pelotas, RS, Brasil. fcvsiqueira@uol.com.br

OBJECTIVE: Increased life expectancy and consequent growth of the elderly 
population has resulted in changes in the epidemiological morbidity and 
mortality profile. In the group of chronic degenerative diseases, falls are a 
prevailing among those preventable conditions. The objective of the study was to 
assess prevalence of falls in the elderly and to describe their associated 
factors.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study comprising 4,003 elderly subjects (aged 65 years 
or more) living in areas covered by primary health care in 41 municipalities 
with more than 100,000 inhabitants from seven Brazilian states. Wald test for 
heterogeneity and linear trend were used for the estimation of significance 
level. Adjusted analysis was conducted using Poisson regression and adjusted 
prevalence rates were estimated.
RESULTS: The prevalence of falls among the elderly was 34.8%, significantly 
higher in women (40.1%) than men. Among those who experienced falls, 12.1% had 
fractures as a consequence. The prevalence of falls was directly associated with 
older age, sedentary lifestyle, self-perception of poor health and more chronic 
drug use reported. The prevalence of falls was similar in the elderly attending 
different care services (basic health care units and Family Health Program).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of falls among elderly could be reduced through 
actions targeting their needs in health care units, especially regarding 
preventable associated factors.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102007000500009
PMID: 17923896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. New Dir Youth Dev. 2007 Fall;(115):75-84, 8-9. doi: 10.1002/yd.224.

Characteristics of sports-based youth development programs.

Perkins DF(1), Noam GG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural and Extension Education at the Pennsylvania State 
University, USA.

The term "sports-based youth development programs" is coined and defined in the 
context of the community youth development framework. Sports-based youth 
development programs are out-of-school-time programs that use a particular sport 
to facilitate learning and life skill development in youth. Community youth 
development programs use a community youth development approach to create 
opportunities for youth to connect to others, develop skills, and use those 
skills to contribute to their communities. This, in turn, increases their 
ability to succeed. The authors describe how sports-based youth development 
programs can be contexts that promote positive youth development. The features 
of positive developmental settings for youth from the work of the National 
Research Council and the Institute of Medicine, as well as the features 
identified by other researchers, are presented in the context of sports-based 
youth development programs. For example, a sports program that provides 
appropriate structure has delineated clear rules, expectations, and 
responsibilities for youth, parents, coaches, officials, and other organizers.

DOI: 10.1002/yd.224
PMID: 17924435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Death Stud. 2007 Nov;31(10):933-40. doi: 10.1080/07481180701603428.

Precocity predicts shorter life for major league baseball players: confirmation 
of McCann's precocity-longevity hypothesis.

Abel EL(1), Kruger ML.

Author information:
(1)Wayne State University, C.S. Mott Center for Human Growth and Development, 
275 East Hancock, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. eabel@wayne.edu

We tested McCann's precocity-longevity hypothesis, which proposes that early 
career achievement is related to premature death, for Major League baseball 
players (N = 3,760). Age at debut was the definition for precocity. We 
controlled for possible artifacts of life expectancy selection, the "healthy 
worker" effect, player position, and body-mass index. Statistically significant 
Pearson correlations occurred between precocity and longevity, and remained 
significant when adjusted for artifacts. In a hierarchical multiple regression, 
every year a baseball player debuted before the average age of 23.6 years was 
associated with life span being shortened by 0.24 years. The results support the 
hypothesis that earlier achievement is associated with earlier death.

DOI: 10.1080/07481180701603428
PMID: 17924518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Am Psychol. 2007 Oct;62(7):682-5; discussion 689-91. doi: 
10.1037/0003-066X.62.7.682.

Flawed foundations of associationism? Comments on Machado and Silva (2007).

Gallistel CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers Center for Cognitive Science, Rutgers-The State University of New 
Jersey, Piscataway, NJ 08854-8020, USA. galliste@ruccs.rutgers.edu

Comment on
    Am Psychol. 2007 Oct;62(7):671-81.

A. Machado and F. J. Silva have spotted an important conceptual problem in 
scalar expectancy theory's account of the 2-standard-interval time-left 
experiment. C. R. Gallistel and J. Gibbon (2000) were aware of it but did not 
discuss it for historical and sociological reasons, owned up to in this article. 
A problem of broader significance for psychology, cognitive science, 
neuroscience, and the philosophy of mind concerns the closely related concepts 
of a trial and of temporal pairing, which are foundational in associative 
theories of learning and memory. Association formation is assumed to depend on 
the temporal pairing of the to-be-associated events. In modeling it, theorists 
have assumed continuous time to be decomposable into trials. But life is not 
composed of trials, and attempts to specify the conditions under which two 
events may be regarded as temporally paired have never succeeded. Thus, 
associative theories of learning and memory are built on conceptual sand. 
Undeterred, neuroscientists have defined the neurobiology-of-memory problem as 
the problem of determining the cellular and molecular mechanism of association 
formation, and connectionist modelers have made it a cornerstone of their 
efforts. More conceptual analysis is indeed needed.

Copyright 2007 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/0003-066X.62.7.682
PMID: 17924751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Exp Psychol Anim Behav Process. 2007 Oct;33(4):484-96. doi: 
10.1037/0097-7403.33.4.484.

The role of drug expectancy in the control of human drug seeking.

Hogarth L(1), Dickinson A, Wright A, Kouvaraki M, Duka T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, England. lee.hogarth@nottingham.ac.uk

Human drug seeking may be goal directed in the sense that it is mediated by a 
mental representation of the drug or habitual in the sense that it is elicited 
by drug-paired cues directly. To test these 2 accounts, the authors assessed 
whether a drug-paired stimulus (S+) would transfer control to an independently 
trained drug-seeking response. Smokers were trained on an instrumental 
discrimination that established a tobacco S+ in Experiment 1 and a tobacco and a 
money S+ in Experiment 2 that elicited an expectancy of their respective 
outcomes. Participants then learned 2 new instrumental responses, 1 for each 
outcome, in the absence of these stimuli. Finally, in the transfer test, each S+ 
was found to augment performance of the new instrumental response that was 
trained with the same outcome. This outcome-specific transfer effect indicates 
that drug-paired stimuli controlled human drug seeking via a representation or 
expectation of the drug rather than through a direct stimulus-response 
association.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2007 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/0097-7403.33.4.484
PMID: 17924795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Evolution. 2007 Dec;61(12):2743-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00246.x.
Epub  2007 Oct 9.

Do we need an extended evolutionary synthesis?

Pigliucci M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology & Evolution, Stony Brook University, 650 Life Science 
Bldg., Stony Brook, New York 11794, USA.

The Modern Synthesis (MS) is the current paradigm in evolutionary biology. It 
was actually built by expanding on the conceptual foundations laid out by its 
predecessors, Darwinism and neo-Darwinism. For sometime now there has been talk 
of a new Extended Evolutionary Synthesis (EES), and this article begins to 
outline why we may need such an extension, and how it may come about. As 
philosopher Karl Popper has noticed, the current evolutionary theory is a theory 
of genes, and we still lack a theory of forms. The field began, in fact, as a 
theory of forms in Darwin's days, and the major goal that an EES will aim for is 
a unification of our theories of genes and of forms. This may be achieved 
through an organic grafting of novel concepts onto the foundational structure of 
the MS, particularly evolvability, phenotypic plasticity, epigenetic 
inheritance, complexity theory, and the theory of evolution in highly 
dimensional adaptive landscapes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00246.x
PMID: 17924956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Neuroepidemiology. 2007;29(1-2):59-65. doi: 10.1159/000109497. Epub 2007 Oct
8.

Lost life years attributable to stroke among patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation: a nationwide population-based follow-up study.

Frost L(1), Andersen LV, Johnsen SP, Mortensen LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Silkeborg Hospital and Clinical Institute, Aarhus 
University Hospital, Aarhus and Aalborg, Denmark. malfr@sc.aaa.dk

AIM: We assessed the number of lost life years attributable to stroke among 
patients with a hospital diagnosis of nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.
METHODS: We identified all patients, aged 40-89 years, with an incident hospital 
diagnosis of atrial fibrillation or flutter in the Danish National Registry of 
Patients from calendar year 1980 to 2002, and no previous or concomitant 
diagnosis of stroke or heart valve disease. All patients were followed in the 
Danish National Registry of Patients for occurrence of an incident diagnosis of 
stroke of any type (ischemic and/or hemorrhagic) and in the Danish Civil 
Registration System for emigration or change in vital status. We used 
multivariate Cox regression analysis with stroke as a time dependent covariate 
to estimate excess mortality associated with incident stroke. The baseline 
hazard function for mortality was computed and used for modeling lost life years 
by sex, age, and time to incident stroke after diagnosis of atrial fibrillation, 
adjusted for conditions of comorbidity and calendar year of diagnosis of atrial 
fibrillation.
RESULTS: The mean loss of life years attributable to incident stroke within 20 
years after a first diagnosis of atrial fibrillation was most frequently less 
than 5 years, but a mean of up to 10 years of lost life years was observed. The 
largest number of lost life years was observed in women, in younger patients, 
and in those who had a stroke early after the diagnosis of atrial fibrillation. 
The relative loss of life years was up to 90% of the estimated expected 
remaining lifetime without stroke within 20 years after the diagnosis of atrial 
fibrillation, and was highest in the elderly.
CONCLUSION: Stroke causes a substantial loss of life years in patients with 
atrial fibrillation.

(c) 2007 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000109497
PMID: 17925595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2007 Oct;132(42):2217-20. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-991633.

[Prevention, life expectancy and health expenditures: generation of a 
hypothesis, what Germany can learn from Japan].

[Article in German]

Böcking W(1), Lenz G, Trojanus D, Kirch W.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Klinische Pharmakologie, Medizinische Fakultät Carl-Gustav 
Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Deutschland. 
wolfgang.boecking@web.de

Germany is one of those OECD-countries with the highest per-capita-expenses in 
public healthcare, but is lagging behind in life-expectancy compared to other 
countries like Japan, where life expectancy is highest at comparatively low 
costs. This article investigates reasons for this discrepancy in costs and 
outcome, and tries to form a hypothesis how this gap could be narrowed. One key 
finding was that Japan's life expectancy had not always been higher, but 
increase continuously over the past 40 years. While reasons for this development 
are plenty-fold, one relevant factor could be the early introduction of the 
"Nutritional Guidelines for the Japanese People", with which the Japanese 
Government started to implement a dedicated prevention policy. The positive 
developments in Japan provide an indication of how this can be achieved in other 
countries as well and to increase life expectancy without significantly 
increasing expenses.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-991633
PMID: 17926250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2007 Jul-Aug;(4):7-12.

[The characteristics of the demographic processes in Astrakhan oblast].

[Article in Russian]

Shendo GL, Zhdanova IG, Riabikin VR, Iaroslavtsev AS.

In the Astrakhan oblast, the study of the demographic processes from 1986 to 
2005 was performed. The unfavorable demographic conditions was revealed which 
characterized by the decrease of numbers of children, the increase of the 
population of pensionable age, increase of mortality rate, formation of the 
negative natality rate and the decrease of the average life expectancy. The data 
analysis permits to forecast, in the case of unchangeable conditions, the 
decrease of total number of population in the nearest 10-15 years to come. The 
increase of the number of children and the increase of the retirees' share will 
augment the demographic burden on the able-bodied population. These 
circumstances will inevitably lead to the negative social economic and 
demographic consequences.

PMID: 17926448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2007 Oct;8(14):2247-65. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.8.14.2247.

Expert opinion on available options treating pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Naeije R(1), Huez S.

Author information:
(1)Erasme University Hospital, Department of Pathophysiology, Erasme Campus, CP 
604, 808, Lennik Road, B-1070 Brussels , Belgium. rnaeije@ulb.ac.be

Until in the early nineties, pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) was a 
uniformly fatal disease, with a median life expectancy of approximately 2.5 
years. Uncontrolled studies showed that a small proportion of patients responded 
to high-dose calcium channel blockers, retrospective studies supported the use 
of anticoagulant therapy and heart-lung or lung transplantation remained the 
only option. In 1996, a 3-month randomised, placebo-controlled trial showed that 
chronic intravenous epoprostenol (synthetic prostacyclin) improved functional 
state, exercise capacity, haemodynamics, and even survival in patients with 
idiopathic PAH. Similar benefits were subsequently reported and extended to all 
PAH categories, and confirmed with more stable prostacyclin analogues 
administered subcutaneously (treprostinil), by inhalation (iloprost), or even 
orally (beraprost). In the early 2000s, two randomised controlled trials showed 
efficacy of the oral intake of the dual endothelin A/B receptor antagonist 
bosentan. Two selective endothelin-A receptor antagonists, sitaxsentan and 
ambrisentan, are being developed. Finally, a randomised controlled trial has 
established the therapeutic efficacy of phosphodiesterase-5 inhibition with 
sildenafil, introducing a third signalling pathway to be targeted by the 
pharmacological treatment of PAH. Another phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor, 
tadalafil, is already being evaluated. While all these treatments have markedly 
improved the lives of PAH patients, they have not offered yet a cure of the 
disease. Multi-drug approaches are now under evaluation, with more ambitious 
therapeutic goals. Alternative approaches with stem cells, RhoA-Rho-kinase 
inhibitors, platelet derived growth factor inhibitors and vasoactive intestinal 
peptides are being considered.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.8.14.2247
PMID: 17927481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Oct;11(42):1-294. doi: 10.3310/hta11420.

Acceptability, benefit and costs of early screening for hearing disability: a 
study of potential screening tests and models.

Davis A(1), Smith P, Ferguson M, Stephens D, Gianopoulos I.

Author information:
(1)MRC Hearing and Communication Group, The University of Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To show that hearing loss has such a high prevalence in the older 
population to justify screening, if effective and acceptable methods are 
available; and that population take-up and benefit can make a measurable outcome 
difference in quality of life.
DESIGN: A population study of people aged 55-74 years was undertaken. A clinical 
effectiveness study of differently organised screening programmes was carried 
out using a controlled trial to identify those who might benefit from 
intervention (and the extent of the benefit). A retrospective case-control study 
examined the very long-term (more than 10 years) compliance of patients in using 
their hearing aids after early identification and determined the extent to which 
early-identified hearing-impaired people have better outcomes than equivalent 
people identified later. An examination of the costs and cost-effectiveness of 
different potential screening programmes was also undertaken.
SETTING: A population study was designed in the UK, with specific stages being 
conducted in more depth on a sample of people from Nottingham and Southampton. 
The clinical effectiveness study was conducted in general practices in 
Nottingham and Bath using a systematic or opportunistic screen. The 
retrospective case-control study compared a group of early-identified hearing 
aid users, with control matched for age, gender and occupation, in Cardiff, 
Glasgow and Manchester.
PARTICIPANTS: In Great Britain responses were obtained for 34,362 individuals 
from the postal questionnaire as part of a population study, 506 were 
interviewed, 351 were assessed for benefit from amplification and 87 were fitted 
with a hearing aid. The clinical effectiveness study received 1461 replies from 
the first-stage questionnaire screen, with 306 people assessed in the clinic, of 
whom 156 were fitted with hearing aids. The retrospective case-control study 
traced 116 previously fitted hearing aid users, who had been identified by a 
screen, and then conducted a case-control using 50 of these for whom complete 
data were available, matching with two control groups of 50 people.
INTERVENTIONS: The major prospective interventions were to introduce 
amplification through offering people, with minimal hearing impairment, hearing 
aid(s) in a rehabilitative setting. In the population study, aids were offered 
as a monaural in-the-ear (ITE) hearing aid and in the clinical effectiveness 
study people who met the criteria were randomised to be offered two different 
ITE hearing aids to be fitted bilaterally. The retrospective case-control study 
used unilateral and bilateral hearing aids.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prevalence of hearing problems and degree to which 
services meet need in 55-74-year age group. Public acceptability and individual 
benefits of hearing screening and intervention as a function of demographic and 
hearing domain-specific characteristics. Improvement in quality of life. 
Screening costs and cost-effectiveness as a function of proposed programmes.
RESULTS: It was found that 12% of people aged 55-74 years have a hearing problem 
that causes moderate or severe worry, annoyance or upset, 14% have a bilateral 
hearing impairment of at least 35 dB hearing level (HL) and only 3% currently 
receive intervention, through the use of hearing aids. Good amplification was 
shown to benefit about one in four of this 55-74-year-old population and the 
degree of hearing loss predicted benefit well. Overall, there was a strong 
correlation between benefit from amplification and from using hearing aids. 
Questionnaires and audiometric screens gave good screening operating 
characteristics. The systematic screening programme was more acceptable and gave 
a better response than the opportunistic. About 70% of those who were offered an 
aid accepted a bilateral fitting. This increased to 95% for those with > or =35 
dB HL (averaged over 0.5, 1, 2 and 4 kHz in the better ear). The retrospective 
case-control study showed that long-term hearing aid use was low, unless hearing 
impairment was quite high (e.g. >35 dB HL). Those identified early had greater 
benefit through additional years of use/better adaptation to use than those of 
the same age and hearing impairment who were fitted with hearing aids later. 
Different screening programmes were modelled. The 35 dB HL better ear average 
hearing impairment level was found to be a good, robust and justifiable target 
group for screening and here the most efficient and practicable method was to 
use two questions in primary care concerning hearing problems and a hearing 
screen using a pure tone at 3 kHz 35 dB HL. The average cost of the screening 
programme was 13 pounds per person screened or about 100 pounds if treatment 
costs were included. Making the conservative assumption that identification 
gives an extra 9 years using hearing aids, the costs of screening and 
intervention were in the range of 800-1000 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year 
when using the Health Utilities Index and about 2500 pounds using the Short Form 
6 Dimensions metric.
CONCLUSIONS: A simple systematic screen, using an audiometric screening 
instrument, has been shown to be acceptable to people in the age range 55-74 
years, is likely to provide substantial benefit and may be cost-effective to 
those in that target group. Hearing screening appears to meet the National 
Screening Committee's criteria in most respects, provided screening is targeted 
at those with at least 35 dB HL better ear average. Based on the research 
carried out here there is sufficient evidence to support a larger and more 
definitive study of hearing screening. Further research into who should be 
referred for and benefit from audiological assessment and provision of hearing 
aid in a primary care trust setting is needed as is investigation into screening 
devices and the various aspects of introducing such a programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11420
PMID: 17927921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Oct;11(41):iii-iv, ix-x, 1-190. doi: 
10.3310/hta11410.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening for open angle 
glaucoma: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Burr JM(1), Mowatt G, Hernández R, Siddiqui MA, Cook J, Lourenco T, Ramsay C, 
Vale L, Fraser C, Azuara-Blanco A, Deeks J, Cairns J, Wormald R, McPherson S, 
Rabindranath K, Grant A.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
University of Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether open angle glaucoma (OAG) screening meets the UK 
National Screening Committee criteria, to compare screening strategies with case 
finding, to estimate test parameters, to model estimates of cost and 
cost-effectiveness, and to identify areas for future research.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases were searched up to December 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: Screening strategies were developed by wide consultation. Markov 
submodels were developed to represent screening strategies. Parameter estimates 
were determined by systematic reviews of epidemiology, economic evaluations of 
screening, and effectiveness (test accuracy, screening and treatment). Tailored 
highly sensitive electronic searches were undertaken.
RESULTS: Most potential screening tests reviewed had an estimated specificity of 
85% or higher. No test was clearly most accurate, with only a few, heterogeneous 
studies for each test. No randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of screening were 
identified. Based on two treatment RCTs, early treatment reduces the risk of 
progression. Extrapolating from this, and assuming accelerated progression with 
advancing disease severity, without treatment the mean time to blindness in at 
least one eye was approximately 23 years, compared to 35 years with treatment. 
Prevalence would have to be about 3-4% in 40 year olds with a screening interval 
of 10 years to approach cost-effectiveness. It is predicted that screening might 
be cost-effective in a 50-year-old cohort at a prevalence of 4% with a 10-year 
screening interval. General population screening at any age, thus, appears not 
to be cost-effective. Selective screening of groups with higher prevalence 
(family history, black ethnicity) might be worthwhile, although this would only 
cover 6% of the population. Extension to include other at-risk cohorts (e.g. 
myopia and diabetes) would include 37% of the general population, but the 
prevalence is then too low for screening to be considered cost-effective. 
Screening using a test with initial automated classification followed by 
assessment by a specialised optometrist, for test positives, was more 
cost-effective than initial specialised optometric assessment. The 
cost-effectiveness of the screening programme was highly sensitive to the 
perspective on costs (NHS or societal). In the base-case model, the NHS costs of 
visual impairment were estimated as 669 pounds. If annual societal costs were 
8800 pounds, then screening might be considered cost-effective for a 40-year-old 
cohort with 1% OAG prevalence assuming a willingness to pay of 30,000 pounds per 
quality-adjusted life-year. Of lesser importance were changes to estimates of 
attendance for sight tests, incidence of OAG, rate of progression and utility 
values for each stage of OAG severity. Cost-effectiveness was not particularly 
sensitive to the accuracy of screening tests within the ranges observed. 
However, a highly specific test is required to reduce large numbers of 
false-positive referrals. The findings that population screening is unlikely to 
be cost-effective are based on an economic model whose parameter estimates have 
considerable uncertainty. In particular, if rate of progression and/or costs of 
visual impairment are higher than estimated then screening could be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: While population screening is not cost-effective, the targeted 
screening of high-risk groups may be. Procedures for identifying those at risk, 
for quality assuring the programme, as well as adequate service provision for 
those screened positive would all be needed. Glaucoma detection can be improved 
by increasing attendance for eye examination, and improving the performance of 
current testing by either refining practice or adding in a technology-based 
first assessment, the latter being the more cost-effective option. This has 
implications for any future organisational changes in community eye-care 
services. Further research should aim to develop and provide quality data to 
populate the economic model, by conducting a feasibility study of interventions 
to improve detection, by obtaining further data on costs of blindness, risk of 
progression and health outcomes, and by conducting an RCT of interventions to 
improve the uptake of glaucoma testing.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11410
PMID: 17927922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2007 Sep;5(8):753-60. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0075.

Interventional therapies for cancer pain management: important adjuvants to 
systemic analgesics.

Eidelman A(1), White T, Swarm RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pain Management, Department of Anesthesiology, Washington 
University School of Medicine, Campus Box 8054, 660 South Euclid Avenue, St. 
Louis, MO 63110, USA. anthony_eidelman@yahoo.com

Optimized use of systemic analgesics fails to adequately control pain in some 
patients with cancer. Commonly used analgesics, including opioids, nonopioids 
(acetaminophen and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs), and adjuvant 
analgesics (anticonvulsants and antidepressants), have limited analgesic 
efficacy, and their use is often associated with adverse effects. Without 
adequate pain control, patients with cancer not only experience the anguish of 
poorly controlled pain but also have greatly diminished quality of life and may 
even have reduced life expectancy. Interventional pain therapies are a diverse 
set of procedural techniques for controlling pain that may be useful when 
systemic analgesics fail to provide adequate control of cancer pain or when the 
adverse effects of systemic analgesics cannot be managed reasonably. Commonly 
used interventional therapies for cancer pain include neurolytic neural 
blockade, spinal administration of analgesics, and vertebroplasty. Compared with 
systemic analgesics, which generally have broad indications for control of pain, 
individual interventional therapies generally have specific, narrow indications. 
When appropriately selected and implemented, interventional pain therapies are 
important components of broad, multimodal cancer pain management that 
significantly increases the proportion of patients able to experience adequate 
pain control.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2007.0075
PMID: 17927931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. FASEB J. 2008 Mar;22(3):807-18. doi: 10.1096/fj.07-9261com. Epub 2007 Oct
10.

Evidence for lifespan extension and delayed age-related biomarkers in insulin 
receptor substrate 1 null mice.

Selman C(1), Lingard S, Choudhury AI, Batterham RL, Claret M, Clements M, 
Ramadani F, Okkenhaug K, Schuster E, Blanc E, Piper MD, Al-Qassab H, Speakman 
JR, Carmignac D, Robinson IC, Thornton JM, Gems D, Partridge L, Withers DJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Diabetes and Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Rayne 
Institute, University College London, University St., London, UK.

Recent evidence suggests that alterations in insulin/insulin-like growth factor 
1 (IGF1) signaling (IIS) can increase mammalian life span. For example, in 
several mouse mutants, impairment of the growth hormone (GH)/IGF1 axis increases 
life span and also insulin sensitivity. However, the intracellular signaling 
route to altered mammalian aging remains unclear. We therefore measured the life 
span of mice lacking either insulin receptor substrate (IRS) 1 or 2, the major 
intracellular effectors of the IIS receptors. Our provisional results indicate 
that female Irs1-/- mice are long-lived. Furthermore, they displayed resistance 
to a range of age-sensitive markers of aging including skin, bone, immune, and 
motor dysfunction. These improvements in health were seen despite mild, lifelong 
insulin resistance. Thus, enhanced insulin sensitivity is not a prerequisite for 
IIS mutant longevity. Irs1-/- female mice also displayed normal anterior 
pituitary function, distinguishing them from long-lived somatotrophic axis 
mutants. In contrast, Irs2-/- mice were short-lived, whereas Irs1+/- and Irs2+/- 
mice of both sexes showed normal life spans. Our results therefore suggest that 
IRS1 signaling is an evolutionarily conserved pathway regulating mammalian life 
span and may be a point of intervention for therapies with the potential to 
delay age-related processes.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.07-9261com
PMID: 17928362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Arch Mal Coeur Vaiss. 2007 Aug;100(8):660-3.

[Hypertension and acromegaly in the elderly: French Registry Data].

[Article in French]

Dupuy O(1), Petrossian T, Bordier L, Mayaudon H, Bauduceau B; Registre de 
L'Acromégalie.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie, HIA Bégin, Saint-Mandé.

Multi centre registries such as the French Acromegaly Registry created in 1999 
provide data on rare disorders that are otherwise difficult to obtain. This 
study focuses on the characteristics of high blood pressure in people aged of 
over 70 years old.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The data were obtained from the thirty centres where 
patients had been recorded on the Acromegaly Registry since 1999.
RESULTS: The Register listed a total of 644 patients with acromegaly at January 
1st 2005, of whom 68 (22 men and 46 women) were aged over 70 years old (10.6%). 
Their mean age was 76.8 +/- 5 years (range 70 - 95) and they had been presenting 
acromegaly for 11 +/- 6 years (compared to 7 years in those aged less than 70). 
Their BMI were 27.9 +/- 4 kg/m2 for men, 27.7 +/- 4 for women (respectively 28.4 
+/- 4.3 and 26.7 +/- 4.4 in those aged less than 70 years). Hypertension was 
particularly frequent in this population, reaching 80% vs. 27% under 70 years 
(p=0.0001). Prevalence was then higher than in general population (referring to 
FLAHS study). Mean blood pressure was 143 +/- 12 / 84 +/- 15 mmHg for men and 
141 +/- 17 / 79 +/- 9 for women. 46% of men and 30% of women treated or not, had 
blood pressure over 140 / 90 mmHg. Data showed 12% of arrhythmic cardiopathy, 8% 
of cardiac insufficiency, 12% of ischemic cardiopathy and 12% of patients 
suffering from arteritis or stroke. Although various therapeutic strategies had 
been applied for young and elderly patients, 51% in each group were in remission 
one year after inclusion.
DISCUSSION: More than 10% of patients are aged over 70 years in the French 
Acromegaly Registry and hypertension is very frequently observed in this 
population. The increasing life expectancy due to currently available treatments 
justifies a strict management of patients in order to reduce cardiovascular 
risks, which stay the main cause of morbidity and mortality.

PMID: 17928771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Alaska Med. 2007;49(2 Suppl):11-3.

The International Polar year 2007-2008; the Arctic human health legacy.

Parkinson AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Arctic Investigations Program, Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, 
Anchorage, Alaska 995098, USA. ajp1@cdc.gov

Life expectancy in Arctic populations has greatly improved over the last 50 
years. Much of this improvement can be attributed health research that has 
resulted in a reduction in morbidity and mortality from infectious diseases, 
such as tuberculosis, and the vaccine-preventable diseases of childhood. 
However, despite these improvements in health indicators of Arctic residents, 
life expectancy and infant mortality remain higher in indigenous Arctic 
residents in the US Arctic, northern Canada, and Greenland when compared to 
Arctic residents of Nordic countries. The International Polar Year (IPY) 
represents a unique opportunity to focus world attention on Arctic human health 
and to further stimulate Circumpolar cooperation on emerging Arctic human health 
concerns. The Arctic Human Health Initiative (AHHI) is an Arctic Council IPY 
initiative that aims to build and expand on existing Arctic Council and 
International Union for Circumpolar Health (IUCH) human health research 
activities. The human health legacy of the IPY will be increased visibility of 
the human health concerns of Arctic communities, revitalization of cooperative 
Arctic human health research focused on those concerns, the development of 
health policies based on research findings, and the subsequent implementation of 
appropriate interventions, prevention and control measures at the community 
level.

PMID: 17929599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Alaska Med. 2007;49(2 Suppl):32-4.

Physiological mechanisms of adaptation and disadaptation in the North.

Krivoschekov SG(1), Mozolevskaya NV.

Author information:
(1)State Research Institute of Physiology, SB RAMS, Russia. 
S.G.Krivoschekov@iph.ma.nsc.ru

Structural change of northern populations (in constitutions, psychotypes and 
adaptive types) results from natural selection of people most effectively 
adapted to the North and readapted ones, i.e. having good adaptive capacity for 
these specific conditions. Organisms of many immigrants in northern regions in 
several cases (restricted time for adaptive processes and lack of functional, 
constitutional or mental reserves) are not able to adapt and function in the 
condition of increased functional power inputs. The resulting stress is 
reflected in reduction of functional reserves and undermined working capacity at 
individual and organismic level and in life expectancy at the populational 
level. Despite the human progress in the creation of technical protection means 
against the adverse environmental factors, adaptation remains one of the most 
important components determining the health condition of a person in the North. 
This problem is quite complex and many-sided and it is characterized by lots of 
contradictory scientific facts. In this article two aspects of the problem are 
discussed: 1) Structural change in northern populations (constitutions, 
psychotypes and adaptive types) resulting from the natural selection of people 
most effectively adapted to the North and also readapted ones, i.e. having good 
adaptive capacity in these specific conditions; 2) For unadapted people, 
activity leads to the reduction in functional reserves and working capacity at 
individual and organismic level and in life expectancy at the populational 
level.

PMID: 17929605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Alaska Med. 2007;49(2 Suppl):269-72.

Demography of peoples of the Russian North in the beginning of XXI century.

Bogoyavlenskiy D(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Demography and Human Ecology, Institute of Economic Forecasting of 
the Russian Academy of Sciences, Russia.

Against the background of natural decline in population of all Russia, in 
particular, the Russians, the demographic situation of peoples of the North is 
at times considered as "moderately optimistic". In this case the growth of their 
number serves according to last population census, as a decisive factor. 
Contrary to the above, many researchers in different regions and among different 
peoples of the North speak about economic decline and growth of unemployment, an 
impoverishment of indigenous northerners, their high morbidity and death rate 
and estimate the demographic situation as "catastrophic". The criterion thus 
becomes the social crisis in northern settlements. Estimating the demographic 
situation it is necessary to lean on demographic criteria as such. But the 
dynamics of the number of the North's peoples, i.e. the sole result of the 
population census reflecting "well-being", is not such a pure demographic 
criterion. It was, as we have shown, investigating the data of four population 
censuses of the USSR (1959,1970,1979,1989), determined in many respects not 
only, and not at all so much by their demographic movement (i.e. birth rate and 
death rate), but rather by ethnic (assimilation) processes, and sometimes simply 
by discrepancies in the census work. While in 1959-89 peoples of the North used 
to be assimilated by other peoples, in 1989-2002 a reverse tendency became 
pronounced among some of these peoples. Over a quarter of an inter-census growth 
was due to ethnic assimilation among six peoples (the Khants, Mansis, Itelmens, 
Selkups, Kets and Saami). The comparison of inter-census living out among 
peoples of the North demonstrates that the death rate among them is considerably 
higher, than the very high death rate of the entire population of Russia. The 
actual demographic parameters provide evidence for obviously unfavorable 
tendencies. There was a sharp decrease in birth rate (the overall ratio has 
decreased from 30% during the 5-year period before the 1989 census up to 18% in 
1999-2002). Death rate has grown. Though the overall ratio is lower, than for 
the whole population of Russia, it is explained by the young age structure of 
peoples of the North (only 6 % are older than 60, and 18 %--are older than 45; 
in Russia--18% and 37% accordingly). The average life expectancy (a more 
adequate yardstick to measure mortality) among peoples of the North is more than 
10 years less than the average Russian one. It is less, than among other 
indigenous peoples of the North (in Scandinavia, Alaska, Canada and Greenland). 
The share of deaths due to external reasons (accidents, poisonings, suicides and 
homicides) is enormous; among peoples of the Tyumen North it makes 37% of all 
the deaths, and in Russia as a whole it is 14% (though the Russian figure itself 
is far too high by international standards). It is exactly the death rate that 
determines the nature of the demographic situation. No ultrahigh birth rate in 
the modern world can serve as an indicator of "well-being" (otherwise the 
demographically safe region would be Africa south of Sahara). Therefore, 
certainly we have to define the demographic condition of peoples of the North as 
a crisis. And further decrease in birth rate with such a high death rate can 
surely lead to their factual depopulation. Numerical smallness makes them most 
vulnerable in this respect, while in fact the prospect of vanishing worries much 
more numerous peoples just as well.

PMID: 17929647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2007 Dec;26(11-12):1509-20. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03548.x. Epub 2007 Oct 11.

Infliximab dose escalation vs. initiation of adalimumab for loss of response in 
Crohn's disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Kaplan GG(1), Hur C, Korzenik J, Sands BE.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Gastrointestinal Unit, Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Nov 15;28(10):1265-6; author reply 1266-7.

BACKGROUND: Crohn's disease patients who have lost response to 5 mg/kg of 
infliximab may regain response by increasing the dose of infliximab to 10 mg/kg. 
Alternatively, adalimumab can be used as a rescue therapy.
AIM: To determine whether dose escalation of infliximab was a cost-effective 
strategy compared with adalimumab initiation after loss of response to 5 mg/kg 
of infliximab.
METHODS: A decision-analysis model simulated two cohorts of Crohn's patients: 
(i) infliximab dose was escalated to 10 mg/kg and (ii) infliximab was 
discontinued and patients were started on adalimumab. The time horizon was 1 
year. One- and two-way sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The infliximab dose escalation strategy yielded more quality-adjusted 
life years (0.79) compared with the adalimumab strategy (0.76). The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $332,032/quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity 
analysis demonstrated that the model findings were robust. The most significant 
variables were the cost of infliximab and that of adalimumab, such that a 
reduction in the cost of infliximab by 1/3 resulted in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio below $80,000/quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: After a Crohn's patient has lost response to 5 mg/kg of infliximab, 
dose escalation will yield more quality-adjusted life-year compared with 
switching to adaliumamb; however, the cost was considerable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03548.x
PMID: 17931345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Sex Health. 2007 Sep;4(3):165-75. doi: 10.1071/sh07043.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of adding a human papillomavirus vaccine to the 
Australian National Cervical Cancer Screening Program.

Kulasingam S(1), Connelly L, Conway E, Hocking JS, Myers E, Regan DG, Roder D, 
Ross J, Wain G.

Author information:
(1)Duke University, Center for Clinical Health Policy Research, Durham, NC 
27710, USA. kulas002@mc.duke.edu

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of adding a human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccine to the Australian National Cervical Screening Program compared to 
screening alone was examined.
METHODS: A Markov model of the natural history of HPV infection that 
incorporates screening and vaccination was developed. A vaccine that prevents 
100% of HPV 16/18-associated disease, with a lifetime duration of efficacy and 
80% coverage offered through a school program to girls aged 12 years, in 
conjunction with current screening was compared with screening alone using cost 
(in Australian dollars) per life-year (LY) saved and quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) saved. Sensitivity analyses included determining the cost-effectiveness 
of offering a catch-up vaccination program to 14-26-year-olds and accounting for 
the benefits of herd immunity.
RESULTS: Vaccination with screening compared with screening alone was associated 
with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $51 103 per LY and $18 
735 per QALY, assuming a cost per vaccine dose of $115. Results were sensitive 
to assumptions about the duration of vaccine efficacy, including the need for a 
booster ($68 158 per LY and $24 988 per QALY) to produce lifetime immunity. 
Accounting for herd immunity resulted in a more attractive ICER ($36 343 per LY 
and $13 316 per QALY) for girls only. The cost per LY of vaccinating boys and 
girls was $92 052 and the cost per QALY was $33 644. The cost per LY of 
implementing a catch-up vaccination program ranged from $45 652 ($16 727 per 
QALY) for extending vaccination to 14-year-olds to $78 702 ($34 536 per QALY) 
for 26-year-olds.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that adding an HPV vaccine to Australia's 
current screening regimen is a potentially cost-effective way to reduce cervical 
cancer and the clinical interventions that are currently associated with its 
prevention via screening alone.

DOI: 10.1071/sh07043
PMID: 17931529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2007 Oct;8(8):511-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2007.02.002.
Epub  2007 Sep 17.

Variability in glycosylated hemoglobin values in diabetic patients living in 
long-term care facilities.

Meyers RM(1), Broton JC, Woo-Rippe KW, Lindquist SA, Cen YY.

Author information:
(1)Hennepin County Medical Center, Geriatric Medicine Division, Minneapolis, MN 
55415, USA. Roberta.Meyers@co.hennepin.mn.us

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to determine the prevalence of 
diabetes and mean A1C of patients in long-term care facilities (LTCFs); to 
determine differences in A1C values based on patient characteristics; and to 
examine the self-reported practices of providers regarding diabetes management 
goals.
DESIGN: Twelve-month retrospective review of patient charts; survey of 
physicians and nurse practitioners providing care to these patients.
SETTING: Nursing facility practice of an urban teaching hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants included 168 diabetic patients living in 20 nursing 
facilities and 18 physician and nurse practitioners in one practice providing 
care to these patients.
RESULTS: The prevalence of diabetes was 21.6% (168 of 778 patients). Mean A1C 
was 7.1% +/- 1.2%for 135 patients who had AIC values measured during the study 
interval. A1C varied by age, with patients younger than 65 having higher A1C 
values than patients older than 65. Higher A1C values were associated with 
insulin use, frequent glucose monitoring, and attending a diabetes clinic. 
Although a survey of providers identified modifying A1C target ranges for LTCF 
compared with ambulatory patients, they did not reach consensus on the actual 
target A1C. No association between provider perception of either patient health 
status or patient life expectancy and A1C values was found.
CONCLUSIONS: Relatively low A1C values were obtainable in LTCF patients without 
diabetes specialty clinic use. Providers identified modifying target A1C values 
for LTCF patients, but achieved relatively low A1C values and did not agree on a 
target A1C value for LTCF patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2007.02.002
PMID: 17931574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2008 Apr 1;70(5):1460-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.08.050. Epub 2007 Oct 10.

Pulmonary changes after radiotherapy for conservative treatment of breast 
cancer: a prospective study.

Krengli M(1), Sacco M, Loi G, Masini L, Ferrante D, Gambaro G, Ronco M, Magnani 
C, Carriero A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University of Piemonte Orientale, Novara, Italy. 
krengli@med.unipmn.it

PURPOSE: Radiotherapy (RT) after conservative surgery for breast cancer involves 
part of the pulmonary parenchyma with a potential detrimental effect of reducing 
the normal functional reserve. Such an effect deserves to be studied in depth, 
considering the given long life expectancy of these women. We prospectively 
analyzed high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) and pulmonary function tests 
(PFTs) with correlation with dosimetric data from RT.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Lung HRCT and PFTs were performed in 41 women who had 
undergone conservative surgery for breast cancer before and 3 and 9 months after 
postoperative RT. The PFTs included forced vital capacity, forced expiratory 
volume in 1 s, total lung capacity, maximal expiratory flow at 50% and 25% of 
vital capacity, and the diffusion capacity of carbon monoxide. HRCT was matched 
with the RT treatment plan images to analyze the dosimetric correlation.
RESULTS: At 3 months after RT, the lung alterations were classified at HRCT as 
follows: 46.3% were Grade 1, 24.4% Grade 2, and 7.3% Grade 3, and at 9 months, 
58.5% were Grade 1, 19.5% Grade 2, and 0% Grade 3. The PFTs showed a significant 
decrease at 3 months, with only partial recovery at 9 months. Chemotherapy, but 
not hormonal therapy, was associated with PFT changes. The grade of fibrosis 
increased with increasing lung volume treated to a dose > or = 25 Gy.
CONCLUSION: Lung changes, mainly related to damage to the alveolar-capillary 
barrier and smallest airway ramifications, were observed at 3 months, with only 
partial recovery at 9 months after RT. Minimizing the lung volume receiving > or 
= 25 Gy could reduce pulmonary toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.08.050
PMID: 17931797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Heart. 2008 May;94(5):633-6. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.125948. Epub 2007 Oct 11.

Life expectancy and death from cardiomyopathy amongst carriers of Duchenne and 
Becker muscular dystrophy in Scotland.

Holloway SM(1), Wilcox DE, Wilcox A, Dean JC, Berg JN, Goudie DR, Denvir MA, 
Porteous ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Western General Hospital, Crewe Road South, 
Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK. s.m.holloway@ed.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess life expectancy and cardiovascular mortality in carriers 
of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy.
DESIGN: Family pedigrees of individuals affected with these conditions, held by 
the four genetics centres in Scotland, were examined to identify a cohort of 
definite carriers. Electronic death registration data, held by the General 
Register Office for Scotland, were used to identify death certificates of 
carriers who had died, to obtain age at death and cause of death. Survival and 
mortality data were obtained for the general population for comparison.
PATIENTS: 397 definite carriers in 202 pedigrees were identified from which 94 
deaths were identified by record linkage to death certificates.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Observed numbers surviving to certain ages and numbers 
dying of cardiac causes were compared with expected numbers calculated from 
general population data.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between observed and expected 
numbers surviving to ages 40-90. The standardised mortality ratio for the 371 
carriers alive in 1974 was 0.53 (95% confidence interval 0.32 to 0.82).
CONCLUSIONS: Whereas female carriers may have clinical features of 
cardiomyopathy, this study does not suggest that this is associated with reduced 
life expectancy or increased risk of cardiac death. Routine cardiac surveillance 
of obligate carriers is therefore probably unnecessary.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.125948
PMID: 17932095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Prilozi. 2007 Jul;28(1):239-65.

Hepatitis C in dialysis patients.

Polenakovic M(1), Dzekova P, Sikole A.

Author information:
(1)Macedonian Academy of Sciences and Arts, Skopje, R. Macedonia. 
