complications: symptomatic graft reflux (22), scoliosis and thoracic asymmetry 
(12), colonic redundancy or cervical diverticulum (7), food impaction (6) and 
failure to thrive (5). Only one 38 year old patient does not have intestinal 
tract continuity nowadays. Thirty-one patients have a Karnofsky index > or = 
80-100%, being considered healthy and able to have a normal activity. Eighteen 
patients are included between 40-80%, being the most frequent limitation the 
need of medication to avoid reflux, backache and occasional episodes of food 
impact. Only 2 patients have Karnofsky index inferior to 40%. None of them are 
under 20%.
CONCLUSIONS: Esophagocoloplasty allows restoration of intestinal tract 
continuity in almost all cases and the mortality of this procedure has decreased 
over time. Even though some risks are still remarkable, it offers long-term good 
results with little repercussion on functional ability in adult age. Most of the 
patients consider themselves healthy and enjoy an acceptable quality of life.

PMID: 18018746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Clin Drug Investig. 2007;27(12):807-17. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200727120-00002.

Cost effectiveness of lopinavir/ritonavir tablets compared with atazanavir plus 
ritonavir in antiretroviral-experienced patients in the UK, France, Italy and 
Spain.

Simpson KN(1), Jones WJ, Rajagopalan R, Dietz B.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29425, USA. 
simpsonk@musc.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Selection of antiretroviral therapy (ART) for 
antiretroviral-experienced patients should involve balancing multiple factors, 
including clinical efficacy, adverse-event risk, resistance concerns, cost 
effectiveness and expected budget impact. The efficacy of a regimen and its 
durability, as demonstrated in controlled clinical trials, must be considered in 
the light of short- and long-term economic impacts on the healthcare system. 
These impacts may vary based on drug costs, costs of reported adverse effects, 
the regimen's likelihood of contributing to viral resistance to second-line 
therapies and the marginal cost differences between other healthcare resources 
used over a patient's lifetime. Risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) may be of 
concern in the selection of ART, because differences in CHD risk factors have 
been reported for different regimens, and heart disease is both a deadly and 
costly condition. This study set out to estimate the long-term combined effects 
of HIV disease and antiretroviral-related risk for CHD on quality-adjusted 
survival and healthcare costs for antiretroviral-experienced patients in the UK, 
Spain, Italy and France.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov model was updated with 2006 cost 
estimates for each of the four countries and supplemented with the Framingham 
CHD risk equation. In the model, the average patient was male, aged 37 years, 
with a baseline 10-year CHD risk of 4.6%. Patients started with either 
lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) or ritonavir-boosted atazanavir (ATV+RTV) as the 
protease inhibitor (PI). Clinical trial results, local drug costs and AIDS and 
CHD cost estimates were used to estimate the differences between these two 
therapies.
RESULTS: There was a significant advantage using LPV/r over ATV+RTV, which 
varied depending on the country's cost structure and assumptions related to drug 
efficacy. There was a comparative benefit for experienced patients in 
quality-adjusted life-months (QALM) of 4.6 (the net gain after subtracting 
quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs] lost owing to CHD risk). In addition, there 
were 5- and 10-year overall cost savings of between euro947 and euro6594 per 
patient after 5 years, and an impact ranging from a cost increase of euro308 
(for France) to a cost saving of euro7388 (for Spain) at year 10. The lifetime 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranged from dominant for Spain to euro11 
856/QALY for Italy.
CONCLUSION: LPV/r was a highly cost-effective regimen relative to ATV+RTV for 
the treatment of HIV for each of the four countries examined in this study. The 
effect of LPV/r on long-term CHD risk was minimal compared with the increased 
risk of AIDS/death projected for a less efficacious PI-based regimen. The cost 
of lipid-lowering drugs and treatment for CHD was insignificant compared with 
the overall cost savings from LPV/r therapy. The choice of regimen for 
antiretroviral-experienced patients should be based on a regimen's expected 
efficacy and durability for countries with similar cost structure to those 
examined here.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200727120-00002
PMID: 18020538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. BioDrugs. 1998 May;9(5):351-62. doi: 10.2165/00063030-199809050-00001.

Growth hormone deficiency in adults: the role of replacement therapy.

Meling TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Washington, DC, USA.

Although growth hormone has been in clinical use for almost 40 years to promote 
linear growth in children with growth hormone deficiency, replacement therapy in 
adults was previously not deemed clinically indicated. However, intensive 
research over the past decade has led to important advances in our medical 
knowledge and improvements in the care for patients with growth hormone 
deficiency. Well-controlled clinical trials have demonstrated beneficial effects 
of replacement therapy with recombinant human prion-free growth hormone (rhGH; 
somatropin). The most important restoration parameters include reduction of 
cardiovascular risk factors and improved lipid profile, normalised body 
composition, improved exercise capacity and bone mass, as well as enhanced 
psychological well-being. Some important issues regarding growth hormone 
deficiency and long term somatropin treatment are unresolved, such as diagnostic 
criteria and the potential for malignancy and impaired glucose tolerance. 
Furthermore, the effect on hard end-points such as life expectancy or vertebral 
fracture rate is unknown, but is expected to emerge from physician-managed, 
multinational databases. Consequently, at this point somatropin therapy should 
be given in conjunction with clinical trials.

DOI: 10.2165/00063030-199809050-00001
PMID: 18020570


619. BMC Geriatr. 2007 Nov 16;7:26. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-7-26.

Factors influencing elderly women's mammography screening decisions: 
implications for counseling.

Schonberg MA(1), McCarthy EP, York M, Davis RB, Marcantonio ER.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA. 
mschonbe@bidmc.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Although guidelines recommend that clinicians consider life 
expectancy before screening older women for breast cancer, many older women with 
limited life expectancies are screened. We aimed to identify factors important 
to mammography screening decisions among women aged 80 and older compared to 
women aged 65-79.
METHODS: Telephone surveys of 107 women aged 80+ and 93 women aged 65-79 
randomly selected from one academic primary care practice who were able to 
communicate in English (60% response rate). The survey addressed the following 
factors in regards to older women's mammography screening decisions: perceived 
importance of a history of breast disease, family history of breast cancer, 
doctor's recommendations, habit, reassurance, previous experience, mailed 
reminder cards, family/friend's recommendations or experience with breast 
cancer, age, health, and media. The survey also assessed older women's preferred 
role in decision making around mammography screening.
RESULTS: Of the 200 women, 65.5% were non-Hispanic white and 82.8% were in good 
to excellent health. Most (81.3%) had undergone mammography in the past 2 years. 
Regardless of age, older women ranked doctor's recommendations as the most 
important factor influencing their decision to get screened. Habit and 
reassurance were the next two highly ranked factors influencing older women to 
get screened. Among women who did not get screened, women aged 80 and older 
ranked age and doctor's counseling as the most influential factors and women 
aged 65-79 ranked a previous negative experience with mammography as the most 
important factor. There were no significant differences in preferred role in 
decision-making around mammography screening by age, however, most women in both 
age groups preferred to make the final decision on their own (46.6% of women 
aged 80+ and 50.5% of women aged 65-79).
CONCLUSION: While a doctor's recommendation is the most important factor 
influencing elderly women's mammography screening decisions, habit and 
reassurance also strongly influence decision-making. Interventions aimed at 
improving clinician counseling about mammography, which include discussions 
around habit and reassurance, may result in better decision-making.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-7-26
PMCID: PMC2216009
PMID: 18021402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Jan;24(1):63-74. doi: 10.1185/030079908x253591.

Economic evaluation of treatment with orlistat in Italian obese patients.

Iannazzo S(1), Zaniolo O, Pradelli L.

Author information:
(1)Sergio Iannazzo, MBA, Engineer, Advanced Research Srl, Turin, Italy. 
s.iannazzo@advancedresearch.it

The XENDOS study showed that behavioural and pharmacological therapy can 
decrease the risk of metabolic disorders in obese patients.
METHODS: A probabilistic Bayesian Markov model simulating the outcomes of 
orlistat treatment on the obese Italian population has been developed with the 
WinBUGS software. The model integrates an algorithm to estimate cardiovascular 
risk based on Framingham Heart Study equations. Analyses adopted the societal 
cost perspective, including direct medical costs borne by both the National 
Health Service and the patient, since orlistat is not included in the Italian 
reimbursement list.
RESULTS: The simulation on the Italian obese population estimated an average 
increase in quality-adjusted life expectancy, a reduction of cardiovascular 
events and new diabetes cases. The average incremental cost-utility ratio is 
euro75.3 (7.6-180.6) x 1000/QALY. The subgroup analysis showed that the benefits 
are relatively greater in older patients and in patients with impaired glucose 
tolerance (IGT). Two hypotheses have been explored to estimate the impact of a 
potential reimbursement decision by the Italian NHS: (1) orlistat is given to 
every obese patient; (2) orlistat is given only to obese IGT patients with a 
previous glucose tolerance general screening program to assess their 
eligibility. The cost utility of the strategies are euro42.3 (-22.16-108.7) and 
euro10.16 (-60.4-38.76) x 1000/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Orlistat shows a good pharmacoeconomic profile and, in particular, 
the strategy of a screening programme to identify and treat the IGT subgroup has 
a cost-utility value of about euro10000/QALY. This value is lower than that of 
several therapeutic strategies commonly accepted and reimbursed in developed 
countries.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x253591
PMID: 18021491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Dec;11(49):iii-iv, ix-115. doi:
10.3310/hta11490.

Cost-effectiveness of functional cardiac testing in the diagnosis and management 
of coronary artery disease: a randomised controlled trial. The CECaT trial.

Sharples L(1), Hughes V, Crean A, Dyer M, Buxton M, Goldsmith K, Stone D.

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the acceptability and feasibility of functional tests as a 
gateway to angiography for management of coronary artery disease (CAD), the 
ability of diagnostic strategies to identify patients who should undergo 
revascularisation, patient outcomes in each diagnostic strategy, and the most 
cost-effective diagnostic strategy for patients with suspected or known CAD.
DESIGN: A rapid systematic review of economic evaluations of alternative 
diagnostic strategies for CAD was carried out. A pragmatic and generalisable 
randomised controlled trial was undertaken to assess the use of the functional 
cardiac tests: angiography (controls); single photon emission computed 
tomography (SPECT); magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); stress echocardiography.
SETTING: The setting was Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, a tertiary 
cardiothoracic referral centre.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with suspected or known CAD and an exercise test result 
that required non-urgent angiography.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomised to one of the four initial diagnostic 
tests.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Eighteen months post-randomisation: exercise time 
(modified Bruce protocol); cost-effectiveness compared with angiography 
(diagnosis, treatment and follow-up costs). The aim was to demonstrate 
equivalence in exercise time between those randomised to functional tests and 
those randomised to angiography [defined as the confidence interval (CI) for 
mean difference from angiography within 1 minute].
RESULTS: The 898 patients were randomised to angiography (n = 222), SPECT (n = 
224), MRI (n = 226) or stress echo (n = 226). Initial diagnostic tests were 
completed successfully with unequivocal results for 98% of angiography, 94% of 
SPECT (p = 0.05), 78% of MRI (p < 0.001) and 90% of stress echocardiography 
patients (p < 0.001). Some 22% of SPECT patients, 20% of MRI patients and 25% of 
stress echo patients were not subsequently referred for an angiogram. Positive 
functional tests were confirmed by positive angiography in 83% of SPECT 
patients, 89% of MRI patients and 84% of stress echo patients. Negative 
functional tests were followed by positive angiograms in 31% of SPECT patients, 
52% of MRI patients and 48% of stress echo patients tested. The proportions that 
had coronary artery bypass graft surgery were 10% (angiography), 11% (MRI) and 
13% (SPECT and stress echo) and percutaneous coronary intervention 25% 
(angiography), 18% (SPECT) and 23% (MRI and stress echo). At 18 months, 
comparing SPECT and stress echo with angiography, a clinically significant 
difference in total exercise time can be ruled out. The MRI group had 
significantly shorter mean total exercise time of 35 seconds and the upper limit 
of the CI was 1.14 minutes less than in the angiography group, so a difference 
of at least 1 minute cannot be ruled out. At 6 months post-treatment, SPECT and 
angiography had equivalent mean exercise time. Compared with angiography, the 
MRI and stress echo groups had significantly shorter mean total exercise time of 
37 and 38 seconds, respectively, and the upper limit of both CIs was 1.16 
minutes, so a difference of at least 1 minute cannot be ruled out. The 
differences were mainly attributable to revascularised patients. There were 
significantly more non-fatal adverse events in the stress echo group, mostly 
admissions for chest pain, but no significant difference in the number of 
patients reporting events. Mean (95% CI) total additional costs over 18 months, 
compared with angiography, were 415 pounds (-310 pounds to 1084 pounds) for 
SPECT, 426 pounds (-247 pounds to 1088 pounds) for MRI and 821 pounds (10 pounds 
to 1715 pounds) for stress echocardiography, with very little difference in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) amongst the groups (less than 0.04 QALYs 
over 18 months). Cost-effectiveness was mainly influenced by test costs, 
clinicians' willingness to trust negative functional tests and by a small number 
of patients who had a particularly difficult clinical course.
CONCLUSIONS: Between 20 and 25% of patients can avoid invasive testing using 
functional testing as a gateway to angiography, without substantial effects on 
outcomes. The SPECT strategy was as useful as angiography in identifying 
patients who should undergo revascularisation and the additional cost was not 
significant, in fact it would be reduced further by restricting the rest test to 
patients who have a positive stress test. MRI had the largest number of test 
failures and, in this study, had the least practical use in screening patients 
with suspected CAD, although it had similar outcomes to stress echo and is still 
an evolving technology. Stress echo patients had a 10% test failure rate, 
significantly shorter total exercise time and time to angina at 6 months 
post-treatment, and a greater number of adverse events, leading to significantly 
higher costs. Given the level of skill required for stress echo, it may be best 
to reserve this test for those who have a contraindication to SPECT and are 
unable or unwilling to have MRI. Further research, using blinded reassessment of 
functional test results and angiograms, is required to formally assess 
diagnostic accuracy. Longer-term cost-effectiveness analysis, and further 
studies of MRI and new generation computed tomography are also required.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11490
PMID: 18021576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Dec;11(51):iii-iv, 1-164. doi: 10.3310/hta11510.

Systematic reviews of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
proton pump inhibitors in acute upper gastrointestinal bleeding.

Leontiadis GI(1), Sreedharan A, Dorward S, Barton P, Delaney B, Howden CW, 
Orhewere M, Gisbert J, Sharma VK, Rostom A, Moayyedi P, Forman D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Tyne and Wear, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) in the prevention and treatment of acute upper 
gastrointestinal (UGI) haemorrhage, as well as to compare this with H2-receptor 
antagonist (H2RA), Helicobacter pylori eradication (in infected patients) or no 
therapy, for the prevention of first and/or subsequent bleeds among patients who 
continue to use non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Also to evaluate 
the clinical effectiveness of PPI therapy, compared with other treatments, for 
the prevention of subsequent bleeds in patients who had previously experienced 
peptic ulcer (PU) bleeding.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases and major conference proceedings were 
searched up to February 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: Data were collected from the systematic reviews addressing each 
research objective. These were then entered into an economic model to compare 
the costs and quality-adjusted life-days of alternative management strategies 
over a 28-day period for patients who have had UGI bleeding. A Markov model with 
a Monte Carlo simulation used data from the systematic reviews to identify the 
most cost-effective treatment strategy for the prevention of UGI bleeding (first 
and subsequent) among NSAID users using an outcome of costs per quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) over a lifetime from age 50 years.
RESULTS: PPI treatment initiated after endoscopic diagnosis of PU bleeding 
significantly reduced re-bleeding and surgery compared with placebo or H2RA. 
Although there was no evidence of an overall effect of PPI treatment on 
all-cause mortality, PPIs significantly reduced mortality in subgroups when 
studies conducted in Asia were examined in isolation or when the analysis was 
confined to patients with high-risk endoscopic findings. PPI treatment initiated 
prior to endoscopy in UGI bleeding significantly reduced the proportion of 
patients with stigmata of recent haemorrhage (SRH) at index endoscopy compared 
with placebo or H2RA, but there was no evidence that PPI treatment affected 
clinically important outcomes. Giving oral PPI both before and after endoscopy, 
with endoscopic haemostatic therapy (EHT) for those with major SRH, is preferred 
to all others on cost-effectiveness grounds at any threshold over 25,000 pounds 
per QALY, even if only short-term effects are taken into account, and at any 
threshold over 200 pounds per life-year gained if long-term effects are 
included. The risk of NSAID-induced endoscopic gastric and duodenal ulcers was 
reduced by standard doses of PPI and misoprostol, and double doses of H2RAs. 
Standard doses of H2RAs reduced the risk of endoscopic duodenal ulcers. PPIs 
reduced NSAID-induced dyspepsia. PPIs were superior to misoprostol in preventing 
recurrence of NSAID-induced endoscopic duodenal ulcers, but PPIs were comparable 
to misoprostol in preventing the recurrence of NSAID-induced endoscopic gastric 
ulcers. Full-dose misoprostol reduced bleeding, perforation or gastric outlet 
obstruction due to NSAID-induced ulcers, but misoprostol was poorly tolerated 
and associated with frequent adverse effects. H. pylori eradication treatment 
was equally effective with PPI treatment for the primary or secondary prevention 
of endoscopic ulcers in NSAID users. H. pylori eradication treatment was more 
effective than placebo for the primary prevention of endoscopic PU and for the 
prevention of re-bleeding from PU in NSAID users. With regard to primary and 
secondary prevention of bleeding PU in NSAID users, the two most cost-effective 
strategies are H. pylori eradication alone, and H. pylori eradication followed 
by misoprostol (substituted by a PPI, if misoprostol is not tolerated) at an 
additional 4810 pounds per QALY. In patients who had previously experienced a 
bleed from a PU, re-bleeding was less frequent after H. pylori eradication 
therapy than after non-eradication antisecretory therapy, whether or not the 
latter was combined with long-term maintenance antisecretory therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: PPI treatment compared with placebo or H2RA reduces mortality 
following PU bleeding among patients with high-risk endoscopic findings, and 
reduces re-bleeding rates and surgical intervention. PPI treatment initiated 
prior to endoscopy in UGI bleeding significantly reduces the proportion of 
patients with SRH at index endoscopy but does not reduce mortality, re-bleeding 
or the need for surgery. The strategy of giving oral PPI before and after 
endoscopy, with EHT for those with major SRH, is likely to be the most 
cost-effective. Treatment of H. pylori infection was found to be more effective 
than antisecretory therapy in preventing recurrent bleeding from PU. H. pylori 
eradication alone or eradication followed by misoprostol (with switch to PPI, if 
misoprostol is not tolerated) are the two most cost-effective strategies for 
preventing bleeding ulcers among H. pylori-infected NSAID users, although the 
data cannot exclude PPIs also being cost-effective. Further large randomised 
controlled trials are needed to address areas such as PPI administration prior 
to endoscopic diagnosis, different doses and administration of PPIs, as well as 
the primary and secondary prevention of UGI bleeding.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11510
PMID: 18021578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Transplant Proc. 2007 Nov;39(9):2769-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.08.055.

Weight reduction in renal transplant recipients program: the first successes.

Jezior D(1), Krajewska M, Madziarska K, Regulska-Ilow B, Ilow R, Jańczak D, 
Patrzałek D, Klinger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Transplantation Medicine, Wroclaw Medical 
University, Wroclaw, Poland. dominikajulial@interia.pl

INTRODUCTION: Overweight and obesity in kidney graft recipients, both at 
transplantation and further on, are connected with the development of 
complications of metabolic syndrome. Hypertension, diabetes, and atherosclerosis 
are risk factors for chronic allograft nephropathy, shortened graft function, 
and lower recipient life expectancy. The aim of this study was to present the 
initial results from a weight reduction in renal transplant recipients program.
MATERIAL: Thirty-four overweight and obese kidney transplant recipients were 
enrolled in the study: 9 overweight (26%), 19 obese (55.8%), and 6 morbidly 
obese (17.6%). The control group encompassed 418 kidney transplant recipients, 
in whom fluctuations in body mass and body mass index (BMI) were monitored for 
56 months.
METHODS: During the first visit, we performed an account of dietary habits and 
anthropometric measurements. At the second visit following a 6-month interval, 
patients received dietary guidelines based on an analysis of diet 
questionnaires.
RESULTS: Six months after enrollment, despite not having received dietary 
guidelines during the first visit, only 27% of study subjects and 80% of 
controls experienced weight gain.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients enrolled in the first step of the weight reduction program 
had no weight nor BMI increase after 6 months. Recipients having experienced 
body mass increase constituted only 27% of the study group, whereas increase in 
body mass occurred in 80% of controls. Reducing body mass accretion in kidney 
transplant recipients should be the target of preventive measures and 
nonpharmacological therapeutic interventions conducted by qualified personnel. 
Greater interest by medical personnel in the issue of body mass increase in 
recipients may be a strong motivating factor for them to undertake weight loss 
measures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.08.055
PMID: 18021983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Transplant Proc. 2007 Nov;39(9):2850-2. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.08.077.

Use of sildenafil in heart transplant recipients with pulmonary hypertension may 
prevent right heart failure.

Maruszewski M(1), Zakliczyński M, Przybylski R, Kucewicz-Czech E, Zembala M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery and Transplantation, Silesian Center for Heart 
Disease, Zabrze, Poland. marucha@mp.pl

PURPOSE: We performed a short-term outcome analysis of orthotopic heart 
transplantation (OHT) in patients with pulmonary hypertension (PH) treated 
perioperatively with oral sildenafil.
METHODS: PH (pulmonary vascular resistance > 2.5 Wood units, and/or 
transpulmonary gradient > 12 mmHg) was diagnosed in 6 of 25 (group A) heart 
transplant recipients operated in 2006. This group of patients underwent a 
modified medication protocol including perioperative administration of oral 
sildenafil: 50 mg before followed by 50 or 25 mg TID after heart 
transplantation. Sildenafil treatment was discontinued 10 to 14 days post OHT, 
after stepwise dose reduction. During the ICU stay all patients underwent 
circulatory monitoring of pulmonary and systemic pressures and resistance as 
well as transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) evaluation.
RESULTS: Perioperative oral sildenafil administration in PH patients undergoing 
OHT was associated with good short-term outcomes in the majority of transplanted 
patients (4/6). Sildenafil treatment reduced pulmonary resistance and pressures 
with a low rate of hemodynamic instability among OHT patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacologic perioperative reduction of PH improves the short-term 
prognosis for successful OHT. One may speculate whether sildenafil treatment 
transplant recipients with PH would be associated with long-term improvement of 
pulmonary vascular status, therefore leading to extended life-expectancy and 
improved outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.08.077
PMID: 18021999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Surg Oncol. 2007 Dec;16 Suppl 1:S165-7. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2007.10.011.
Epub  2007 Nov 26.

Management of simultaneous abdominal aortic aneurysm and colorectal cancer: the 
rationale of mini-invasive approach.

Rivolta N(1), Piffaretti G, Tozzi M, Lomazzi C, Riva F, Alunno A, Boni L, 
Castelli P.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery-Department of Surgery, University of Insubria-Varese, 
Ospedale di Circolo, 21100 via Guicciardini 9, Varese, Italy.

The concomitant occurrence of abdominal aortic aneurysm and malignancy 
represents a therapeutic dilemma. Both lesions should be treated to achieve best 
life expectancy; the main controversy remains whether to treat them 
simultaneously or as staged procedures. Recently, endovascular repair has been 
suggested as a potential alternative to open standard intervention. We present a 
case of synchronous abdominal aortic aneurysm and colorectal cancer treated 
simultaneously by minimally invasive surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2007.10.011
PMID: 18023173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Fertil Steril. 2008 Jul;90(1):129-40. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2007.05.057.
 Epub 2007 Nov 26.

Androgen therapy for loss of desire in women: is the benefit worth the breast 
cancer risk?

Schover LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas 77230-1439, USA. lschover@mdanderson.org

Comment in
    Fertil Steril. 2008 Aug;90(2):468; author reply 468-9.

OBJECTIVE: To contrast the limited evidence that androgen therapy is an 
effective treatment for low sexual desire in women with the extensive literature 
suggesting that androgens promote breast cancer.
DESIGN: Evidence from population studies of women is reviewed on the association 
between endogenous androgen levels and sexual function or satisfaction. Recent 
randomized trials of testosterone therapy for low desire are critiqued in terms 
of methodology and generalizability. Research on endogenous testosterone levels 
and breast cancer risk in both premenopausal and postmenopausal women is 
summarized, as are recent studies of androgenic hormonal therapy and breast 
cancer risk.
SETTING: Literature review.
PATIENT(S): Not applicable.
INTERVENTION(S): Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Not applicable.
RESULT(S): Endogenous androgen levels are not correlated with sexual desire in 
population-based studies of aging women. Factors that are strongly associated 
with low desire include pain with sexual activity, emotional distress, life 
stress, and relationship conflict. The efficacy of testosterone therapy for 
women's desire problems is modest. Expectancy effects were not adequately 
controlled in randomized trials. Epidemiological findings agree that higher 
endogenous serum androgen levels confer increased breast cancer risk both before 
and after menopause. Androgenic hormonal replacement regimens also increase the 
risk of breast cancer.
CONCLUSION(S): Testosterone supplementation should not be prescribed to women 
with low sexual desire unless long-term studies can demonstrate its efficacy and 
safety. Treatments for low sexual desire in women should address its common 
correlates: relationship distress, emotional distress, and dyspareunia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2007.05.057
PMID: 18023435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. J Health Econ. 2007 Dec 1;26(6):1081-100. doi:
10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.09.003.  Epub 2007 Oct 10.

The lifetime costs and benefits of medical technology.

Cutler DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Department of Economics, 1875 Cambridge Street, 
Cambridge, MA 02138, USA. dcutler@harvard.edu

Measuring the lifetime costs and benefits of medical technologies is essential 
in evaluating technological change and determining the productivity of medical 
care. Using data on Medicare beneficiaries with a heart attack in the late 1980s 
and 17 years of follow up data, I evaluate the long-term costs and benefits of 
revascularization after a heart attack. I account for non-random selection into 
treatment with instrumental variables; following McClellan, McNeil, and 
Newhouse, the instrument is the differential distance to a hospital capable of 
providing revascularization. The results show that revascularization is 
associated with over 1 year of additional life expectancy, at a cost of about 
$40,000. Revascularization, or other treatments correlated with it, appears to 
be highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.09.003
PMID: 18023900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Curr Opin Pediatr. 2007 Dec;19(6):611-2. doi: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e3282f18a01.

Caring for adults with pediatric genetic diseases: a growing need.

Lose EJ, Robin NH.

DOI: 10.1097/MOP.0b013e3282f18a01
PMID: 18025925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Bull World Health Organ. 2007 Sep;85(9):681-7. doi: 10.2471/blt.06.037382.

Measuring health inequalities between genders and age groups with realization of 
potential life years (RePLY).

Tang KK(1), Petrie D, Rao DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland 4072, 
Australia. kk.tang@uq.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: We propose a new method to measure health inequalities caused by 
conditions amenable to policy intervention and use this to identify health 
differences between sexes and age groups.
METHODS: The lowest observed mortality rates are used as a proxy of unavoidable 
mortality risks to develop a new measure of health outcome - realization of 
potential life years (RePLY). The RePLY distribution is used to measure 
avoidable health inequalities between sex and age groups respectively.
FINDINGS: Using RePLY we find that even those countries with very high life 
expectancy at birth can have substantial health inequalities across different 
age groups. Also, gender inequality is more pronounced among those aged < 30. 
Among countries with a life expectancy < 60 years, there is a much larger 
prevalence of gender inequality against females; countries with life expectancy 
> 60 years have comparable numbers of cases of inequality among females and 
males. Finally, high avoidable health inequality is associated with low average 
income, high income inequality and high population fractionalization.
CONCLUSION: It is important to distinguish between unavoidable and avoidable 
mortality when measuring health outcomes and their distribution in society. The 
proposed new measure (RePLY) enables policy-makers to focus on age-sex groups 
with low realization of potential life years and thus high avoidable mortality 
risks.

OBJECTIF: Nous proposons une nouvelle méthode pour mesurer les inégalités en 
termes de santé pouvant être réduites par des interventions et nous l’utilisons 
pour identifier les différences en termes de santé entre les sexes et les 
tranches d’âges.
MÉTHODES: Les taux de mortalité les plus bas observés ont été utilisés comme 
approximation des risques mortels inévitables afin de mettre au point un nouveau 
paramètre de mesure des résultats dans le domaine sanitaire : les années de vie 
potentielles vécues (RePLY). La distribution des RePLY est utilisée pour mesurer 
les inégalités en matière de santé évitables entre les sexes et les classes 
d’âges.
RÉSULTATS: A l’aide de cette mesure, nous constatons que les pays bénéficiant 
d’une très longue espérance de vie à la naissance peuvent présenter des 
inégalités substantielles en matière de santé entre les classes d’âges. De même, 
les inégalités liées au sexe sont plus prononcées chez les moins de 30 ans. Dans 
les pays où l’espérance de vie est inférieure à 60 ans, on relève une prévalence 
bien plus marquée des inégalités liées au sexe en défaveur des femmes ; dans les 
pays où l’espérance de vie dépasse 60 ans, les nombres de cas d’inégalités entre 
hommes et femmes sont comparables. Enfin, d’importantes inégalités évitables en 
matière de santé sont associées à de faibles revenus moyens, à de fortes 
inégalités en matière de revenus et à un fort fractionnement de la population.
CONCLUSION: Il importe de faire la distinction entre mortalité évitable et 
inévitable lorsqu’on mesure des paramètres sanitaires et leur distribution dans 
la société. La nouvelle mesure proposée (RePLY) permet aux décideurs de cibler 
leur action sur les groupes, constitués en fonction de l’âge ou du sexe, qui ne 
réalisent qu’une faible partie de leur potentiel de vie et ainsi sur les risques 
mortels évitables.

OBJETIVO: Proponemos un nuevo método para medir las desigualdades sanitarias 
causadas por trastornos que puedan modificarse con intervenciones de políticas y 
lo hemos utilizado para identificar diferencias sanitarias entre los sexos y 
entre diferentes grupos de edad.
MÉTODOS: Utilizando las menores tasas de mortalidad observadas como indicador 
indirecto del riesgo de mortalidad inevitable, hemos creado una nueva medida de 
los resultados sanitarios, denominada realización de los años de vida 
potenciales (RAVP), cuya distribución utilizamos para medir las desigualdades 
sanitarias evitables entre los sexos y entre diferentes grupos de edad.
RESULTADOS: Utilizando la RAVP, verificamos que incluso los países con una 
esperanza de vida muy elevada al nacer pueden presentar desigualdades sanitarias 
considerables entre diferentes grupos de edad. Las desigualdades entre sexos son 
más marcadas entre los menores de 30 años. En los países con una esperanza de 
vida < 60 años hay una prevalencia mucho mayor de desigualdades entre sexos 
desfavorables a las mujeres; los países con esperanza de vida > 60 años tienen 
cifras similares de desigualdades desfavorables a los hombres y a las mujeres. 
Las grandes desigualdades sanitarias evitables se asociaron a bajos ingresos 
medios, grandes desigualdades de ingresos y gran fraccionamiento de la 
población.
CONCLUSIÓN: A la hora de medir los resultados sanitarios y su distribución en la 
sociedad es importante distinguir entre mortalidad evitable e inevitable. La 
nueva medida propuesta permite a los planificadores de políticas centrarse en 
los sexos y los grupos de edad con baja RAVP y, por consiguiente, alto riesgo de 
mortalidad evitable.

الغرض: نطرح في ەذە الورقة طريقة جديدة لقياس مظاەر الجور والتفاوت في المجال 
الصحي، الناجمة عن أوضاع يمكن التغلُّب عليەا من خلال السياسات، وكيفية الاستفادة 
من ەذە الطريقة في تحديد الفروق الصحية بين الجنسين وبين الفئات العمرية.
الطريقة: استُخدمت أدنى معدلات الوفيات الملاحظة، بوصفەا مؤشراً بديلاً لمخاطر 
الوفاة التي لا يمكن تجنبەا، لوضع مقياس جديد للحصيلة الصحية – وەو سنوات العمر 
الممكنة. واستُخدم توزُّع سنوات العمر الممكنة لقياس مظاەر الجور والتفاوت في 
المجال الصحي بين الجنسين وبين الفئات العمرية.
الموجودات: توصلنا من خلال تطبيق مقياس سنوات العمر الممكنة إلى أنە حتى البلدان 
التي تتمتَّع بمأمول حياة بالغ الارتفاع عند الولادة، قد تعاني من مظاەر واضحة 
للجور والتفاوت في مختلف الفئات العمرية. كما لوحظ أن مظاەر الجور والتفاوت أكثر 
وضوحاً بين من ەم أقل من عمر 30 عاماً. وفي البلدان التي يقل مأمول الحياة فيەا عن 
60 عاماً، تنتشر مظاەر الجور والتفاوت انتشارا عريضا ضد الإناث؛ أما في البلدان 
التي يزيد مأمول الحياة فيەا على 60 عاماً، فيُلاحظ تقارب عدد حالات الجور والتفاوت 
بين الإناث والذكور. ولوحظ كذلك أن مظاەر الجور والتفاوت، التي يمكن تجنُّبەا إلى 
حد بعيد، ترتبط بانخفاض مستوى الدخل وزيادة التفاوت في مستويات الدخل وشدَّة تفتُّت 
السكان.
الاستنتاج: من المەم التفريق بين الوفيات التي يمكن تجنبەا وبين تلك التي لا يمكن 
تجنُّبەا، وذلك عند قياس الحصائل الصحية وتوزُّعەا في المجتمع. ويتيح المقياس 
الجديد الـمُقتَـرَح (سنوات العمر الممكنة) لراسمي السياسات التـركيز على فئات 
العمر والجنس المنخفضة في مقياس سنوات العمر الممكنة، ومن ثم تكون أشد عرضة لمخاطر 
الوفاة التي يمكن تجنُّبەا.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.06.037382
PMCID: PMC2636396
PMID: 18026624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Bull World Health Organ. 2007 Sep;85(9):695-702. doi: 10.2471/blt.06.037184.

The high burden of injuries in South Africa.

Norman R(1), Matzopoulos R, Groenewald P, Bradshaw D.

Author information:
(1)Burden of Disease Research Unit, Medical Research Council, Tygerberg, South 
Africa. rosana.norman@mrc.ac.za

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the magnitude and characteristics of the injury burden in 
South Africa within a global context.
METHODS: The Actuarial Society of South Africa demographic and AIDS model (ASSA 
2002) - calibrated to survey, census and adjusted vital registration data - was 
used to calculate the total number of deaths in 2000. Causes of death were 
determined from the National Injury Mortality Surveillance System profile. 
Injury death rates and years of life lost (YLL) were estimated using the Global 
Burden of Disease methodology. National years lived with disability (YLDs) were 
calculated by applying a ratio between YLLs and YLDs found in a local injury 
data source, the Cape Metropole Study. Mortality and disability-adjusted life 
years' (DALYs) rates were compared with African and global estimates.
FINDINGS: Interpersonal violence dominated the South African injury profile with 
age-standardized mortality rates at seven times the global rate. Injuries were 
the second-leading cause of loss of healthy life, accounting for 14.3% of all 
DALYs in South Africa in 2000. Road traffic injuries (RTIs) are the leading 
cause of injury in most regions of the world but South Africa has exceedingly 
high numbers - double the global rate.
CONCLUSION: Injuries are an important public health issue in South Africa. 
Social and economic determinants of violence, many a legacy of apartheid 
policies, must be addressed to reduce inequalities in society and build 
community cohesion. Multisectoral interventions to reduce traffic injuries are 
also needed. We highlight this heavy burden to stress the need for effective 
prevention programmes.

OBJECTIF: Estimer l’ampleur et les caractéristiques de la charge de traumatismes 
en Afrique du Sud par rapport à la situation dans le monde.
MÉTHODES: Le Actuarial Society of South Africa demographic and AIDS model (ASSA 
2002, calibré à l’aide de données d’enquête et de recensement et de données 
d’état civil ajustées) a été utilisé pour calculer le nombre total de décès au 
cours de l’année 2000. Les causes de décès ont été déterminées à partir du 
National Injury Mortality Surveillance System profile. Les taux de décès par 
traumatisme et les années de vie en bonne santé perdues ont été estimés par la 
méthodologie élaborée pour l’Etude sur la charge mondiale de morbidité. Le 
nombre d’années de vie vécues avec une incapacité pour l’Afrique du Sud a été 
calculé en appliquant aux nombres d’années de vie perdues par décès prématuré 
des taux provenant d’une source de données locale sur les traumatismes, la Cape 
Metropole Study. Les taux de mortalité et de DALY (nombre d’années de vie 
corrigées de l’incapacité) ajustés pour l’âge obtenus pour l’Afrique du Sud ont 
été comparés aux estimations correspondantes pour le continent africain et pour 
le monde entier.
RÉSULTATS: Les violences interpersonnelles représentaient une composante 
dominante de la gamme de traumatismes relevée en Afrique du Sud, avec des taux 
de mortalité ajustés pour l’âge atteignant sept fois les taux mondiaux. Les 
traumatismes constituaient la seconde cause majeure de perte d’années de vie en 
bonne santé, avec 14,3% de l’ensemble des DALY pour l’Afrique du Sud en 2000. 
Les traumatismes dus aux accidents de la circulation sont la cause principale de 
traumatismes dans la plupart des régions du monde, mais en Afrique du Sud leur 
taux est le double du taux mondial.
CONCLUSION: Les traumatismes sont un problème de santé publique important en 
Afrique du Sud. Les déterminants socioéconomiques de la violence, dont un grand 
nombre sont un héritage des politiques d’apartheid, doivent être pris en compte 
pour réduire les inégalités au sein de la société et établir une cohésion 
communautaire. Des interventions multisectorielles pour faire baisser la 
fréquence des traumatismes dus au trafic routier s’imposent aussi. Nous attirons 
l’attention sur le poids des traumatismes pour souligner la nécessité de 
programmes de prévention efficaces.

OBJETIVO: Calcular la magnitud y las características de la carga de lesiones en 
Sudáfrica y compararlas con las estimaciones mundiales.
MÉTODOS: Para calcular el número total de muertes en el año 2000 se utilizó el 
modelo demográfico y de SIDA de la Sociedad Actuarial de Sudáfrica (ASSA 2002) 
–calibrado para datos de encuestas, censos y registros civiles–. Las causas de 
muerte se determinaron a partir del Sistema Nacional de Vigilancia de la 
Mortalidad por Lesiones. Las tasas de mortalidad y los años perdidos por muerte 
prematura (APP) debido a lesiones se calcularon con el método de la carga 
mundial de morbilidad. Los años perdidos por discapacidad (APD) en el país se 
calcularon aplicando una razón entre los APP y los APD registrados en una fuente 
local de datos sobre lesiones: el Cape Metropole Study. Las tasas de mortalidad 
y los años de vida ajustados en función de la discapacidad (AVAD) se compararon 
con las estimaciones mundiales y africanas.
RESULTADOS: En Sudáfrica, la causa predominante de lesiones fue la violencia 
interpersonal; las tasas de mortalidad por esta causa, normalizadas en función 
de la edad, fueron siete veces mayores que a nivel mundial. Las lesiones fueron 
la segunda causa de pérdida de años de vida sana, representando un 14,3% de la 
totalidad de los AVAD registrados en Sudáfrica en el año 2000. Los accidentes de 
tránsito son la principal causa de lesiones en la mayoría de las regiones del 
mundo, pero las cifras son mucho más elevadas en Sudáfrica (el doble de la tasa 
mundial).
CONCLUSIÓN: Las lesiones constituyen un importante problema de salud pública en 
Sudáfrica. Es necesario abordar los determinantes sociales y económicos de la 
violencia, en buena parte heredados de las políticas de apartheid, con el fin de 
reducir las desigualdades sociales y cohesionar la comunidad. Asimismo, son 
necesarias intervenciones multisectoriales para reducir las lesiones por 
accidentes de tránsito. La gran carga de lesiones registrada destaca la 
necesidad de disponer de programas de prevención eficaces.

الغرض: استەدفت ەذە الدراسة تقدير حجم عبء الإصابات وخصائصە في جنوب أفريقيا ضمن 
الإطار العالمي.
الطريقة: تم استخدام النموذج الديمغرافي الخاص بالإيدز للجمعية الإكتوارية لجنوب 
أفريقيا (ASSA 2002)، المتناسب مع بيانات المسح والتعداد وتسجيل الأحوال المدنية، 
بغرض حساب العدد الكلي للوفيات في عام 2000. وتم تحديد مسبـِّبات الوفاة من واقع 
بيانات النظام الوطني لتـرصُّد الوفيات الناجمة عن الإصابات. وتم تقدير كلٍّ من 
معدلات الوفاة الناجمة عن الإصابات وسنوات العمر المفقودة، باستخدام المنەجية 
العالمية لقياس عبء الأمراض. كما تم حساب سنوات العمر التي يعيشەا الشخص في عجز، 
وذلك بعمل نسبة بين سنوات العمر المفقودة وبين سنوات العمر في ظل العجز استناداً 
إلى مصدر محلي للبيانات المتعلقة بالإصابات ( دراسة كيب متروبول). وأُجريت مقارنة 
بين معدل الوفيات ومعدل سنوات العمر المصحَِّحة باحتساب مدد العجز، وبين التقديرات 
الأفريقية والعالمية.
الموجودات: يأتي العنف بين الأشخاص على رأس مرتسم الإصابات في جنوب أفريقيا، حيث 
تصل معدلات الوفيات بحسب العمر إلى سبعة أضعاف المعدل العالمي. وتأتي الإصابات في 
المرتبة الثانية ضمن المسبـِّبات الرئيسية لفقدان الحياة الصحية، إذْ تسبـبت في 
14.3% من جميع سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز في جنوب أفريقيا في عام 2000. 
ولوحظ أن إصابات حوادث المرور ەي المسبـِّب الرئيسي للإصابة في معظم أقاليم العالم، 
غير أن معدل الإصابات في جنوب أفريقيا يصل إلى ضعف المعدل العالمي.
الاستنتاج: تمثـِّل الإصابات قضية صحية عمومية ەامة في جنوب أفريقيا. ويتعيَّن 
التصدِّي للمحدِّدات الاجتماعية والاقتصادية للعنف، التي يُعزى العديد منەا إلى 
موروث سياسات الفصل العنصري، وذلك للحد من مظاەر عدم المساواة في المجتمع والعمل 
على تماسك المجتمع. كما يستلزم الأمر تدخلات للحد من إصابات المرور. والەدف من 
تـركيزنا على ەذا العبء الثقيل أن نؤكِّد على أەمية الحاجة إلى برامج فعَّالة 
للوقاية.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.06.037184
PMCID: PMC2636399
PMID: 18026626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Med Philos. 2007 Nov-Dec;32(6):619-33. doi: 10.1080/03605310701681005.

Disability, humanity, and personhood: a survey of moral concepts.

Ralston DC(1), Ho J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, Rice University, Houston, Texas 77005, USA. 
ralston@rice.edu

Comment on
    J Med Philos. 2007 Nov-Dec;32(6):541-61.
    J Med Philos. 2007 Nov-Dec;32(6):563-83.
    J Med Philos. 2007 Nov-Dec;32(6):585-618.

Three of the articles included in this issue of the Journal of Medicine and 
Philosophy - Ron Amundson and Shari Tresky's "On a Bioethical Challenge to 
Disability Rights"; Rachel Cooper's "Can It Be a Good Thing to Be Deaf?"; and 
Mark T. Brown's "The Potential of the Human Embryo" - interact (in various ways) 
with the concepts of disability, humanity, and personhood and their normative 
dimensions. As one peruses these articles, it becomes apparent that terms like 
"disability," "human being," and "person" carry with them great normative 
significance. There is, however, much disagreement concerning both the 
definition and the extension of such terms. This is significant because 
different terms and definitions are associated with different sets of normative 
requirements. In what follows we reconstruct the argument of each of the 
articles, and then offer some brief critical analysis intended to stimulate 
further thought about and discussion of the issues that each raises.

DOI: 10.1080/03605310701681005
PMID: 18027251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Ther Apher Dial. 2007 Dec;11(6):411-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1744-9987.2007.00523.x.

Overview of regular dialysis treatment in Japan (as of 31 December 2005).

Nakai S(1), Masakane I, Akiba T, Iseki K, Watanabe Y, Itami N, Kimata N, 
Shigematsu T, Shinoda T, Syoji T, Syoji T, Suzuki K, Tsuchida K, Nakamoto H, 
Hamano T, Marubayashi S, Morita O, Morozumi K, Yamagata K, Yamashita A, Wakai K, 
Wada A, Tsubakihara Y.

Author information:
(1)Patient Registration Committee, Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy, Tokyo, 
Japan.

A statistical survey conducted at the end of 2005 covered 3985 medical 
facilities across Japan, and 3940 facilities (98.87%) responded. The dialysis 
population in Japan at the end of 2005 was 257,765, which showed an increase of 
9599 patients (3.87%) from the end of the previous year. The number of patients 
per million was 2017.6. The crude death rate for one year (from the end of 2004 
to the end of 2005) was 9.5%. The mean age of the patients who began dialysis 
(in 2005) was 66.2 years, and the mean age of the entire dialysis population was 
63.9 years. The primary diseases of the patients who began dialysis were 
diabetic renal disease (42.0%) and chronic glomerulonephritis (27.3%). The mean 
(+/-SD) serum ferritin concentration of all the dialysis patients was 191 
(+/-329) ng/mL. The percentages of antihypertensive agents administered to the 
hemodialysis patients were as follows: calcium-channel blocker, 50.3%; 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, 11.5%; and angiotensin II-receptor 
blocker, 33.9%. Of the peritoneal dialysis patients, 33.4% used automated 
peritoneal dialysis devices. Moreover, 7.3% of the peritoneal dialysis patients 
received dialysis treatment only in the daytime, and 15% received the treatment 
only at night. Icodextrin solution was used by 37.2% of the peritoneal dialysis 
patients. The average amount of dialysis solution used by the peritoneal 
dialysis patients was 7.43 (+/-2.52) L/day and the average amount of removal 
fluid was 0.81 (+/-0.60) L/day. A peritoneal equilibration test was conducted on 
67% of the patients, and the mean dialysate to plasma creatinine ratio was 0.65 
(+/-0.13). The annual incidence of peritonitis in the peritoneal dialysis 
patients was 19.7%. Of the 126 040 patients who responded to the inquiry of the 
therapeutic situation of peritoneal dialysis, 676 (0.7%) had a history of 
encapsulated peritoneal sclerosis and 66 (0.1%) were treated for encapsulated 
peritoneal sclerosis. The mean life expectancy of the dialysis population in 
2003 was calculated according to sex and age. Results showed that the mean life 
expectancy of the dialysis population was approximately 40-60% of that of the 
general population of the same sex and age.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-9987.2007.00523.x
PMID: 18028170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Can Dent Assoc. 2007 Nov;73(9):821.

Survival and success of sandblasted, large-grit, acid-etched and titanium 
plasma-sprayed implants: a retrospective study.

Arlin ML(1).

Author information:
(1)murray.arlin@utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVES: The primary objective of this open, retrospective, nonrandomized 
study was to evaluate survival and success rates for sandblasted, large-grit, 
acid-etched (SLA) and titanium plasma-sprayed (TPS) implants placed by a single 
practitioner. The secondary objectives included evaluation of crestal bone loss 
and adverse events.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Implants were placed by a single practitioner between 
April 1994 and December 2005. All clinical data, including information about 
adverse events, were entered into an electronic database. Outcomes were 
evaluated with Kaplan-Meier survival and life table analyses.
RESULTS: Over the study period, 342 patients received a total of 836 implants, 
comprising 533 SLA and 303 TPS implants. Maximum and median follow-up times were 
7.2 and 0.8 years, respectively, for patients with SLA implants and 9.7 and 4.6 
years, respectively, for those with TPS implants. A greater proportion of SLA 
implants than TPS implants were placed in type IV bone. Overall, 807 (96.5%) of 
the implants met the survival criteria, and 795 (95.1%) were classified as 
successful. Failure rates were 2.6% (14/533) for SLA implants and 5.0% (15/303) 
for TPS implants. Early failure rates (less than 1 year after implantation) were 
2.1% (11/533) for SLA implants and 3.0% (9/303) for TPS implants. Kaplan-Meier 
survival and life table analyses showed similar cumulative survival rates for 
the 2 types of implants at up to 5 years. Crestal bone loss was more common with 
TPS implants than with SLA implants, affecting 27 (8.9%) of the TPS implants and 
14 (2.6%) of the SLA implants. Complication rates were 7.7% (41/533) for the SLA 
implants and 13.5% (41/303) for the TPS implants.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: SLA and TPS implants had similarly good clinical 
outcomes in this retrospective study, but the frequency of crestal bone loss was 
lower among the SLA implants. Continued observation of SLA implants is required 
to confirm these findings over the long term.

PMID: 18028757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Respir Med. 2008 Feb;102(2):219-31. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2007.09.008. Epub
2007  Oct 29.

Economic evaluation of FE(NO) measurement in diagnosis and 1-year management of 
asthma in Germany.

Berg J(1), Lindgren P.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Vasagatan 38, SE-111 20 Stockholm, Sweden. 
jenny.b@healtheconomics.se

OBJECTIVE: Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FE(NO)) is a marker for airway 
inflammation in asthma. The objective of this study was to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of FE(NO) measurement at a reimbursement price of euro34 
using NIOX MINO, a portable non-invasive FE(NO) monitor, in asthma diagnosis and 
management.
METHODS: Two decision trees were constructed to capture the different 
alternatives and consequences in asthma diagnosis and management, comparing 
FE(NO) measurement against standard diagnostics and treatment guidelines. The 
impact of asthma management with FE(NO) measurement on resource use and health 
outcomes was evaluated over a 1-year timeframe. A German payer perspective was 
chosen. Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life-years.
RESULTS: Asthma diagnosis based on FE(NO) measurement results in a cost of 
euro38 per patient compared with euro26 for standard diagnostics. In mild to 
severe patients, asthma management with FE(NO) measurement instead of standard 
guidelines results in cost-savings of euro30 per patient and year. In a more 
severe population, management with FE(NO) measurement would save costs of 
euro160 per patient.
CONCLUSION: Asthma diagnosis based on FE(NO) measurement alone (exemplified with 
NIOX MINO) costs euro12 more per patient than standard diagnostic methods, while 
offering improved accuracy. The use of FE(NO) measurement in treatment decisions 
is less costly than asthma management based on standard guidelines and provides 
similar health benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2007.09.008
PMID: 18029165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Nucleic Acids Symp Ser (Oxf). 2007;(51):269-70. doi: 10.1093/nass/nrm135.

Recognition of longer duplex DNA by cooperative strand invasion.

Sugiyama T(1), Imamura Y, Kurihara M, Kittaka A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. 
csugi@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Peptide nucleic acid is a synthetic DNA mimic in which the sugar-phosphate 
backbone has been replaced by a peptide backbone. A remarkable feature of PNA is 
its ability to recognize sequences within duplex DNA by strand invasion. We have 
previously demonstrated that a PNA targeting six bases within duplex DNA 
cooperatively binds to 12 base-pair site by strand invasion. We here report an 
successful extension of the target site size to 18 base pairs without the 
expense of specificity.

DOI: 10.1093/nass/nrm135
PMID: 18029690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Prog Orthod. 2007;8(2):308-13.

Adult orthodontics: perils and pitfalls.

McDonald F(1), Cobourne M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, Kings College London Dental Institute, London, 
England. mcdonald@kcl.ac.uk

Adult orthodontics is increasing in popularity as it is becoming more feasible 
to move and improve the alignment of a patient's teeth, irrespective of the 
technique. There is no doubt that the further development of tooth coloured 
appliances, invisible braces (Invisible braces are reflected by a plethora of 
appliance systems composed of a transparent vacuum formed material used in the 
