DOI: 10.1097/RLI.0b013e318074fd81
PMID: 17984769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Can J Cardiol. 2007 Nov;23(13):1037-42. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70870-x.

Cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in acute coronary syndromes in Canada: a 
long-term analysis based on the CURE trial.

Kolm P(1), Yuan Y, Veledar E, Mehta SR, O'Brien JA, Weintraub WS.

Author information:
(1)Christiana Care Health System, Newark, Delaware, USA. pkolm@christiancare.org

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases account for nearly 20% of all 
hospitalizations in Canada and consume 12% of the total cost of all illnesses. 
With increasing trends of cardiovascular disease and increasing costs of care, 
development of cost-effective strategies is vital. The Clopidogrel in Unstable 
angina to prevent Recurrent Events (CURE) trial demonstrated the effectiveness 
of clopidogrel plus acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) compared with ASA alone in 
reducing cardiovascular events in patients with acute coronary syndromes and, in 
addition, patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention in the 
Percutaneous Coronary Intervention in CURE (PCI-CURE) trial.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel in the Canadian 
health care system.
METHODS: Estimates of hospitalization costs were based on the 2003 cost 
schedules released by the Health Funding and Costing Branch of the Alberta 
Health and Wellness, as well as on the Case Mix Group classification system. 
Life expectancy beyond the trial was estimated from the Saskatchewan Health 
Database. Cost-effectiveness was expressed as the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio, and bootstrap methods were used to estimate the joint distribution of 
costs and effectiveness.
RESULTS: Clopidogrel was shown to be cost-effective, with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios less than $10,000 per event prevented and less than 
$4,000 per life-year gained. The probability of clopidogrel resulting in cost 
per life-year gained of less than $20,000 was 0.975 for CURE patients and 0.904 
for PCI-CURE patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The economic analysis demonstrated that clopidogrel combination 
therapy is not only cost-effective as antiplatelet therapy compared with ASA 
alone, but it is also cost-effective compared with other commonly used and 
openly reimbursed cardiovascular therapies in the Canadian health care system.

HISTORIQUE : Les maladies cardiovasculaires représentent près de 20 % de toutes 
les hospitalisations au Canada et grugent 12 % du coût total de toutes les 
maladies. Étant donné la tendance croissante à souffrir de maladies 
cardiovasculaires et les coûts croissants des soins, il est essentiel d’élaborer 
des stratégies rentables. L’essai CURE sur le clopidogrel en cas d’angine 
instable pour prévenir les événements récurrents a démontré l’efficacité du 
clopidogrel ajouté à l’acide acétylsalicylique (ASA) par rapport à l’ASA seul 
pour réduire les événements cardiovasculaires chez les patients atteints de 
syndromes coronariens aigus ainsi que chez ceux subissant une intervention 
coronaire percutanée dans l’essai CURE avec interventions coronaires percutanées 
(PCI-CURE).
OBJECTIF : Évaluer la rentabilité du clopidogrel au sein du système de santé 
canadien.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : L’évaluation des frais d’hospitalisation se fondait sur le barème 
des coûts de 2003 publié par la division du financement et des dépenses en santé 
du ministère de la Santé et du Mieuxêtre de l’Alberta, de même que sur le 
système de classification par groupes de maladies analogues. L’espérance de vie 
après l’essai était extrapolée de la base de données de santé de la 
Saskatchewan. La rentabilité était exprimée sous forme de rapport différentiel 
coût-efficacité, et les auteurs ont utilisé les méthodes d’autoamorçage pour 
évaluer la répartition conjointe des coûts et l’efficacité.
RÉSULTATS : Le clopidogrel était rentable, selon des rapports différentiels 
coût-efficacité inférieurs à 10 000 $ par événement prévenu et moins de 4 000 $ 
de vie-année gagnée. La probabilité que le clopidogrel assure un coût de 
vie-année inférieur à 20 000 $ était de 0,975 pour les patients de l’essai CURE 
et de 0,904 pour les patients de l’essai PCI-CURE.
CONCLUSIONS : L’analyse économique a démontré que la thérapie mixte de 
clopidogrel n’est pas seulement rentable à titre de thérapie antiplaquettaire 
par rapport à l’ASA utilisé seul, mais également par rapport à d’autres 
thérapies utilisées couramment et ouvertement remboursées au sein du système de 
santé canadien.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(07)70870-x
PMCID: PMC2651926
PMID: 17985004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. J Nutr Health Aging. 2007 Nov-Dec;11(6):508-14.

Healthy working life expectancies at age 50 in Europe: a new indicator.

Lievre A(1), Jusot F, Barnay T, Sermet C, Brouard N, Robine JM, Brieu MA, 
Forette F.

Author information:
(1)IRDES, Institut de Recherche et Documentation en Economie de la Santé,10, rue 
Vauvenargues,75010 Paris-FRANCE.

OBJECTIVES: The absence of disease or disability and active involvement in 
society are considered as essential dimensions of successful ageing. To assess 
these concepts, we propose a new indicator the Healthy Working Life Expectancy 
(HWLE) that associates health status and productive engagement, in order to 
compare various situations in Europe.
DESIGN: The study population is drawn from the European Community Household 
Panel (ECHP) which is the unique source of longitudinal data, providing 
comparable information between 1995 and 2001 on health and work statuses for a 
sample of some 60,000 household's representative of the population of: Austria, 
Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Greece, Italy, 
the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Based on the multi-state life table 
approach conventionally used for calculating healthy life expectancies, the HWLE 
corresponds to the number of years spent between the ages of 50 and 70 both in 
good health and at work.
RESULTS: In average, among the 20 years available between age 50 and age 70, the 
HWLE is 7.5 years for men and 4.8 years for women, ie, one half and one third 
respectively of the number of years spent in good health (14.1 and 13.5 years). 
The countries where the healthy working life expectancy of seniors is the 
highest are also the countries where the levels of employment of seniors are 
higher. Conversely, health status has only a weak influence on the HWLE 
indicator.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest the existence of a reservoir of healthy years 
which can be used to increase the length of the working life expectancy. They 
underline also the essential role that employment maintenance and retirement 
policies should have to increase the number of healthy years spent at work, and 
therefore guarantee a successful ageing for the seniors in Europe.

PMID: 17985068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. J Palliat Med. 2007 Oct;10(5):1083-92. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2006.0253.

Associations between caregiver-perceived delirium in patients with cancer and 
generalized anxiety in their caregivers.

Buss MK(1), Vanderwerker LC, Inouye SK, Zhang B, Block SD, Prigerson HG.

Author information:
(1)Center for Psycho-Oncology and Palliative Care Research, Division of 
Psychosocial Oncology and Palliative Care, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. 
mary_buss@dfci.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Delirium, a common complication of advanced cancer, may put 
caregivers at risk for poor mental health outcomes. We looked for a relationship 
between caregiver-perceived delirium in a patient with advanced cancer and rates 
of caregiver psychiatric disorders.
METHODS: Using cross-sectional data from 200 caregivers of patients with cancer 
with a life expectancy of less than 6 months, we determined the frequency of 
caregiver-perceived delirium, which was defined as caregivers who reported 
witnessing the patient "confused, delirious" on the Stressful Caregiving 
Response to Experiences of Dying (SCARED) weekly or more often. We tested for 
associations between caregiver-reported delirium and presence of caregiver 
mental disorders, using the Structured Clinical Interview for the DSM-IV to 
diagnose mental disorders and caregiver burden, as measured by the caregiver 
burden scale (CBS).
RESULTS: Of the 200 caregivers who completed the SCARED, 38 (19.0%) reported 
seeing the patient "confused, delirious" at least once per week in the month 
prior to study enrollment and 7 (3.5%) met criteria for generalized anxiety 
(GA). Caregivers of patients with caregiver-perceived delirium were 12 times 
more likely to have GA (odds ratio [OR] 12.12; p < 0.01). The relationship 
between caregiver-perceived delirium and caregiver GA persisted after adjusting 
for caregiver burden and exposure to other stressful patient experiences (OR = 
9.99; p = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first report of an association between 
caregiver-perceived delirium and a caregiver mental health outcome. Further 
studies, using improved measures of delirium, are needed.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2006.0253
PMID: 17985965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2007 Nov 6;2:44. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-2-44.

Myasthenia gravis.

Juel VC(1), Massey JM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Box 3403, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, 
North Carolina, 27710, USA. vern.juel@duke.edu

Myasthenia gravis (MG) is a rare, autoimmune neuromuscular junction disorder. 
Contemporary prevalence rates approach 1/5,000. MG presents with painless, 
fluctuating, fatigable weakness involving specific muscle groups. Ocular 
weakness with asymmetric ptosis and binocular diplopia is the most typical 
initial presentation, while early or isolated oropharyngeal or limb weakness is 
less common. The course is variable, and most patients with initial ocular 
weakness develop bulbar or limb weakness within three years of initial symptom 
onset. MG results from antibody-mediated, T cell-dependent immunologic attack on 
the endplate region of the postsynaptic membrane. In patients with fatigable 
muscle weakness, the diagnosis of MG is supported by: 1. pharmacologic testing 
with edrophonium chloride that elicits unequivocal improvement in strength; 2. 
electrophysiologic testing with repetitive nerve stimulation (RNS) studies 
and/or single-fiber electromyography (SFEMG) that demonstrates a primary 
postsynaptic neuromuscular junctional disorder; and 3. serologic demonstration 
of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) or muscle-specific tyrosine kinase (MuSK) 
antibodies. Differential diagnosis includes congenital myasthenic syndromes, 
Lambert Eaton syndrome, botulism, organophosphate intoxication, mitochondrial 
disorders involving progressive external ophthalmoplegia, acute inflammatory 
demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (AIDP), motor neuron disease, and brainstem 
ischemia. Treatment must be individualized, and may include symptomatic 
treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors and immune modulation with 
corticosteroids, azathioprine, cyclosporine, and mycophenolate mofetil. Rapid, 
temporary improvement may be achieved for myasthenic crises and exacerbations 
with plasma exchange (PEX) or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg). Owing to 
improved diagnostic testing, immunotherapy, and intensive care, the contemporary 
prognosis is favorable with less than five percent mortality and nearly normal 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-2-44
PMCID: PMC2211463
PMID: 17986328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Oct;1114:xi-xv. doi: 10.1196/annals.1396.051.

Preface. The international research centre for healthy aging and longevity and 
the international conferences on healthy aging and longevity.

Weller NJ, Weller JD, Weller CJ.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1396.051
PMID: 17986570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Oct;1114:288-99. doi: 10.1196/annals.1396.033.

Community attitudes to the regulation of life extension.

Underwood M(1), Bartlett H, Hall W.

Author information:
(1)Australasian Centre on Ageing, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 
4072, Australia.

Technologies purported to extend human life are already being marketed widely, 
and are being used by community members, despite a lack of evidence on their 
efficacy or safety: in fact, the use of some putative anti-aging technologies 
(e.g., human growth hormone) is illegal. Existing regulation is proving to be 
ineffective, especially in the face of Internet sales. Further advances in the 
field of life extension are a distinct possibility, exacerbating the need for a 
policy response. This paper presents the preliminary results of a study of 
community attitudes to life extension, with a focus on attitudes to the control 
and availability of strong life-extending technologies.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1396.033
PMID: 17986589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Oct;1114:300-9. doi: 10.1196/annals.1396.041.

The elderly in a period of transition: health, personality, and social aspects 
of adaptation.

Petrov IC(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical University, Sofia, Bulgaria. ignatpetrov@yahoo.com

The dramatic changes in overall mode of life experienced since 1989 by the 
people in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) provides a good opportunity to study 
the aging processes and the status of the elderly. In the 1980s, CEE countries 
were already at an advanced stage of demographic aging of their populations. The 
first years of the period of transition from totalitarianism to democracy and 
market economies were marked with an abrupt but varying degree of economic and 
social deterioration in CEE. This was followed by partial improvement. Earlier, 
in the late 1960s and 1970s, mortality rates had increased along with a 
stagnation and decrease of life expectancy in CEE. This contrasted with the 
steady improvement in the European Union (EU) during the 1970s and 1980s. By 
1989, there already was a striking gap in life expectancy between eastern and 
western Europe, revealing the existence of an East-West health divide. The most 
important health problems contributing to greater mortality in CEE proved to be 
cardiovascular and alcohol-related diseases as well as violence and injury. 
Suicide rates also were found higher among the (elderly) population in the 
countries of CEE and Russia compared with the West. The gap was most expressed 
among the men. The reasons for deterioration in health are complex. There is 
evidence that negative economic and social changes can lead to psychosocial 
stress and to unhealthy behaviors. The morale of the elderly people in 
transition was affected and many-sided. The Sofia study described here has 
revealed positive as well as negative personal attitudes toward the changes in 
life. Feelings of liberation, hope, and new perspectives were reported along 
with sentiments of disappointment, pessimism, and fear. In sum, transition 
processes have run unevenly in different countries and have had differing 
impacts on individuals. Nevertheless, general trends toward improving the 
economic, psychosocial, and health aspects of the elderly are recently 
prevailing.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1396.041
PMID: 17986590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Oct;1114:369-71. doi: 10.1196/annals.1396.048.

Nutritional interventions in aging and age-associated diseases.

Roth GS(1), Ingram DK, Joseph JA.

Author information:
(1)GeroScience, Inc. Pylesville, Maryland 21132, USA.

Dietary interventions have proven to be the most robust and consistent means of 
ameliorating the diseases and dysfunctions of aging. A large literature includes 
both quantitative (caloric restriction [CR]) and qualitative (micronutrients, 
antioxidants, etc.) alterations of nutrient and caloric intake and the resulting 
positive outcomes for age-related disease protection, maintenance of vitality, 
and quantitative and qualitative life-span extension. In recognition of the 
importance of this research area, two sessions concerning nutritional 
interventions in aging and age-associated diseases were organized for this 
symposium, one dealing with diet and the other with dietary supplements. This 
brief report covers both, providing selected examples of the most recent 
research into both these types of interventions and their mechanisms of action.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1396.048
PMID: 17986597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Oct;1114:434-55. doi: 10.1196/annals.1396.037.

Caloric restriction, the traditional Okinawan diet, and healthy aging: the diet 
of the world's longest-lived people and its potential impact on morbidity and 
life span.

Willcox BJ(1), Willcox DC, Todoriki H, Fujiyoshi A, Yano K, He Q, Curb JD, 
Suzuki M.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Health Research Institute, 846 South Hotel Street, Suite 301, 
Honolulu, HI 96813, USA. bjwillcox@phrihawaii.org

Long-term caloric restriction (CR) is a robust means of reducing age-related 
diseases and extending life span in multiple species, but the effects in humans 
are unknown. The low caloric intake, long life expectancy, and the high 
prevalence of centenarians in Okinawa have been used as an argument to support 
the CR hypothesis in humans. However, no long-term, epidemiologic analysis has 
been conducted on traditional dietary patterns, energy balance, and potential CR 
phenotypes for the specific cohort of Okinawans who are purported to have had a 
calorically restricted diet. Nor has this cohort's subsequent mortality 
experience been rigorously studied. Therefore, we investigated six decades of 
archived population data on the elderly cohort of Okinawans (aged 65-plus) for 
evidence of CR. Analyses included traditional diet composition, energy intake, 
energy expenditure, anthropometry, plasma DHEA, mortality from age-related 
diseases, and current survival patterns. Findings include low caloric intake and 
negative energy balance at younger ages, little weight gain with age, life-long 
low BMI, relatively high plasma DHEA levels at older ages, low risk for 
mortality from age-related diseases, and survival patterns consistent with 
extended mean and maximum life span. This study lends epidemiologic support for 
phenotypic benefits of CR in humans and is consistent with the well-known 
literature on animals with regard to CR phenotypes and healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1396.037
PMID: 17986602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Cell Cycle. 2007 Nov 15;6(22):2750-4. doi: 10.4161/cc.6.22.4922. Epub 2007
Aug  20.

Uncovering therapeutic targets for glioblastoma: a systems biology approach.

Huang PH(1), Cavenee WK, Furnari FB, White FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, USA.

Even though glioblastoma, WHO grade IV (GBM) is one of the most devastating 
adult cancers, current treatment regimens have not led to any improvements in 
patient life expectancy or quality of life. The constitutively active EGFRvIII 
receptor is one of the most commonly mutated proteins in GBM and has been linked 
to radiation and chemotherapeutic resistance. To define the mechanisms by which 
this protein alters cell physiology, we have recently performed a 
phosphoproteomic analysis of EGFRvIII signaling networks in GBM cells. The 
results of this study provided important insights into the biology of this 
mutated receptor, including oncogene dose effects and differential utilization 
of signaling pathways. Moreover, clustering of the phosphoproteomic data set 
revealed a previously undescribed crosstalk between EGFRvIII and the c-Met 
receptor. Treatment of the cells with a combination employing both EGFR and 
c-Met kinase inhibitors dramatically decreased cell viability in vitro. In this 
perspective, we highlight the use of systems biology as a tool to better 
understand the molecular basis of GBM tumor biology as well as to uncover 
non-intuitive candidates for therapeutic target validation.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.6.22.4922
PMID: 17986864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Cell Tissue Res. 2008 Feb;331(2):565-70. doi: 10.1007/s00441-007-0518-z.
Epub  2007 Nov 7.

Post-embryonic pericardial cells of Drosophila are required for overcoming toxic 
stress but not for cardiac function or adult development.

Das D(1), Aradhya R, Ashoka D, Inamdar M.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology and Genetics Unit, Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced 
Scientific Research, Jakkur P.O., Bangalore, 560064, India.

The Drosophila heart is composed of two cell types: cardioblasts (CB) and 
pericardial cells (PC). Whereas CBs act to maintain rhythmic contractions, the 
functions of accessory PCs are not clear. The close association between these 
two cell types has led to speculation of a cardio-regulatory role for PCs. 
However, we find that viability and cardiac function are normal in larvae 
following post-embryonic ablation of PCs by induced cell death. Removal of PCs 
during the larval instars or before metamorphosis results in viable and fertile 
adults. Interestingly, such animals have a reduced lifespan and increased 
sensitivity to toxic chemicals. Thus, although PCs may have an embryonic role in 
cardiogenesis, they do not appear to play a part later in cardiac function as 
suggested. However, the role of PCs in the uptake and sequestering of toxins, 
their sensitivity to toxic stress and the decreased lifespan of animals without 
PCs indicate the importance of PCs in organismal homeostasis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-007-0518-z
PMID: 17987318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Isr Med Assoc J. 2007 Oct;9(10):703-7.

Health behavior and religiosity among Israeli Jews.

Shmueli A(1), Tamir D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Hebrew University School of Public Health, 
Jerusalem, Israel. ashmueli@md2.huji.ac.il

Research findings have shown the protective effect of religiosity --among both 
Christians and Israeli Jews--in terms of morbidity and mortality. To explore the 
relationship between religiosity and health behavior as a possible explanation 
for these findings we conducted 3056 telephone interviews, representing the 
Israeli adult urban Jewish population. Health status, health behavior, frequency 
of medical checkups, and eating habits were measured. Logistic regressions were 
used to estimate the religiosity gradient on health behavior, controlling for 
other personal characteristics. We found a lower prevalence of stress and 
smoking among religious persons; we also found that religious women exercise 
less than secular women and that religious people--both men and women--are more 
obese than their secular counterparts. While no religiosity gradient was found 
with relation to the frequency of blood pressure, cholesterol and dental 
checkups, religious women are less likely to undergo breast examinations and 
mammography. Finally, religious people generally follow a healthier dietary 
regime, consuming less meat, dairy products and coffee, and much more fish. The 
lower smoking rates, lower levels of stress, and the healthier dietary regime 
are consistent with the previously shown longer life expectancy of religious 
people; however, obesity might become a risk factor in this community.

PMID: 17987756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Annu Rev Physiol. 2008;70:191-212. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.physiol.70.113006.100533.

Insulin-like signaling, nutrient homeostasis, and life span.

Taguchi A(1), White MF.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Division of Endocrinology, Children's 
Hospital Boston, Harvard Medical School, Karp Family Research Laboratories, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Insulin-like signaling is critical for nutrient homeostasis, growth and 
survival. However, work with lower metazoans-Caenorhabditis elegans and 
Drosophila-shows that reduced insulin-like signaling extends life span. In 
addition, reduced insulin signaling in higher animals-rodents and humans-causes 
glucose intolerance and hyperinsulinemia that progresses to diabetes and 
shortens the life span of affected individuals. Hyperinsulinemia usually 
develops to maintain glucose homeostasis and prevent the progression toward 
life-threatening type 2 diabetes; however, increased circulating insulin may 
have negative effects on the brain that promote age-related disease. We discuss 
the possibility that the brain is the site where reduced insulin-like signaling 
can consistently extend mammalian life span-just as reduced insulin-like 
signaling extends the life span of lower metazoans.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.physiol.70.113006.100533
PMID: 17988211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Clin Transplant. 2007 Nov-Dec;21(6):755-60. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-0012.2007.00734.x.

Renal transplantation outcomes: a comparative analysis between elderly and 
younger recipients.

Mendonça HM(1), Dos Reis MA, de Castro de Cintra Sesso R, Câmara NO, 
Pacheco-Silva A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.

Renal transplantation is presently the best treatment for end-stage renal 
disease, although considered contraindicated for elderly patients. However, more 
investigation is needed due to higher life expectancy rates of the general 
population and the increasing number of over 60-yr-old patients with chronic 
renal failure dependent upon dialysis. This study aims to determine graft and 
patient survival rates of renal transplant patients 60 yr and older compared to 
a younger group (50-59 yr old). Relevant pre- and post-transplant clinical data 
related to graft and patient survival in both groups were also investigated. 
Three-hundred and twenty consecutive renal transplant patients were enrolled in 
this study and grouped based on age at the time of the transplantation: 
one-hundred and ten patients at or over 60 yr old (elderly group) and 210 
patients ranging from 50 to 59 yr old (younger group). There were no statistical 
differences in either group regarding clinical characteristics and immunological 
risk factors. The incidence of acute rejection was higher in the younger group 
(37.6%) than in the elderly (22.7%) (p = 0.01). Censored to death graft 
survivals at five yr were respectively 86.7% for patients > or = 60 yr and 82.1% 
for patients 50-59 yr old (p = 0.49). Patient survival rates at five yr were 
respectively 76.2% for patients > or = 60 yr and 81.6% for patients 50-59 yr old 
(p = 0.33). Our data show that renal transplantation for elderly patients has 
similar results to those found in younger individuals, which does not make age, 
in and of itself, a contraindication for transplantation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0012.2007.00734.x
PMID: 17988270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Neuroscience. 2007 Nov 30;150(1):121-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.neuroscience.2007.06.062. Epub 2007 Aug 19.

The effect of age and gender on the volume and size distribution of neocortical 
neurons.

Stark AK(1), Toft MH, Pakkenberg H, Fabricius K, Eriksen N, Pelvig DP, Møller M, 
Pakkenberg B.

Author information:
(1)Research Laboratory for Stereology and Neuroscience, Bispebjerg University 
Hospital, 2400 Copenhagen NV, Denmark.

Since the turn of the last century, the average life expectancy has risen 
considerably. Lengthening of life span has little merit if the quality of life 
is not preserved and in the elderly the decline in memory and cognitive 
abilities is of great concern. We applied a stereological technique, the planar 
rotator method, in an optical vertical design to get an estimation of the 
three-dimensional volume of the neocortical nuclei and perikaryon volume in 
neurons from brain neocortex and the four cortical lobes in 39 normal human 
subjects ranging from 18 to 93 years old. Although there was a trend with p 
values of 0.07, the mean global neocortical perikaryon volume was not 
significantly larger in men compared with women and the mean neuronal nuclear 
volume was not significantly different in the two sexes. Nonetheless, we found 
gender differences in both frontal and temporal cortices in the perikaryon 
volume, but not in the nucleus volume. Earlier findings of a higher neocortical 
neuron number in men compared with women was repeated in this study and, not 
unexpectedly, the sum of all neuronal perikaryon volume in neocortex was 
significantly higher in men than women, primarily as a result of a higher 
neocortical neuron number.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroscience.2007.06.062
PMID: 17988801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Med Decis Making. 2007 Nov-Dec;27(6):772-88. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07306111.
Epub  2007 Nov 7.

The value of myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in the diagnosis and management 
of angina and myocardial infarction: a probabilistic economic analysis.

Hernández R(1), Vale L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, Scotland, 
UK. r.a.hernandez @abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND AIM: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the most common cause of 
death in the United Kingdom, accounting for more than 120,000 deaths in 2001, 
among the highest rates in the world. This study reports an economic evaluation 
of single photon emission computed tomography myocardial perfusion scintigraphy 
(SPECT) for the diagnosis and management of coronary artery disease (CAD).
METHODS: Strategies involving SPECT with and without stress electrocardiography 
(ECG) and coronary angiography (CA) were compared to diagnostic strategies not 
involving SPECT. The diagnosis decision was modeled with a decision tree model 
and long-term costs and consequences using a Markov model. Data to populate the 
models were obtained from a series of systematic reviews. Unlike earlier 
evaluations, a probabilistic analysis was included to assess the statistical 
imprecision of the results. The results are presented in terms of incremental 
cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: At prevalence levels of CAD of 10.5%, SPECT-based strategies are 
cost-effective; ECG-CA is highly unlikely to be optimal. At a ceiling ratio of 
Pound 20,000 per QALY, SPECT-CA has a 90% likelihood of being optimal. Beyond 
this threshold, this strategy becomes less likely to be cost-effective. At more 
than Pound 75,000 per QALY, coronary angiography is most likely to be optimal. 
For higher levels of prevalence (around 50%) and more than a Pound 10,000 per 
QALY threshold, coronary angiography is the optimal decision.
CONCLUSIONS: SPECT-based strategies are likely to be cost-effective when risk of 
CAD is modest (10.5%). Sensitivity analyses show these strategies dominated 
non-SPECT-based strategies for risk of CAD up to 4%. At higher levels of 
prevalence, invasive strategies may become worthwhile. Finally, sensitivity 
analyses show stress echocardiography as a potentially cost-effective option, 
and further research to assess the relative cost-effectiveness of 
echocardiography should also be performed.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07306111
PMID: 17989429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Exp Appl Acarol. 2007;43(3):213-26. doi: 10.1007/s10493-007-9118-6. Epub
2007  Nov 8.

Reproduction, longevity and life table parameters of Tyrophagus neiswanderi 
(Acari: Acaridae) at constant temperatures.

Sánchez-Ramos I(1), Alvarez-Alfageme F, Castañera P.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología de Plantas, CSIC, CIB, Ramiro de Maeztu 9, Madrid, 
Spain. ismael@inia.es

The astigmatid mite Tyrophagus neiswanderi Johnston and Bruce is mainly 
considered a pest of ornamental and horticultural crops. However, this mite has 
been found infesting Cabrales cheese in Spain, though its population density is 
low compared to Acarus farris, the prevalent species of astigmatid mite 
encountered in Cabrales cheese maturing caves. One of the factors that might be 
influencing this differential abundance is temperature. In the present study the 
effect of temperature on reproductive parameters and longevity of T. neiswanderi 
was examined at six constant temperatures, ranging from 10 to 31 degrees C, and 
a relative humidity of 90 +/- 5%. Preoviposition period, fecundity and daily 
fecundity were adversely affected by extreme temperatures while the oviposition 
period increased as temperature was reduced. Male and female longevity increased 
as temperature decreased, but males showed significantly greater longevity than 
females. Additionally, this difference was greater as temperature decreased. The 
effect of temperature on the intrinsic rate of natural increase of T. 
neiswanderi populations was described by the non-linear Lactin model. The 
optimum temperature for development was predicted at 26.6 degrees C. At this 
temperature, the population doubling time is 2.8 days. The lower and upper 
thresholds for T. neiswanderi populations were calculated at 7.4 and 31.7 
degrees C, respectively. According to these results, the influence of 
temperature on the low population density of this mite found in Cabrales 
maturing caves compared with A. farris is discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-007-9118-6
PMID: 17990066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Health Econ. 2008 Jun;17(6):709-20. doi: 10.1002/hec.1288.

Preferences for 'life-saving' programmes: small for all or gambling for the 
prize?

Gyrd-Hansen D(1), Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense C, 
Denmark. dgh@dsi.dk

Much of the literature on the value of life is based on the valuation of small 
reductions in mortality risk with many remaining life years if the fatal outcome 
is avoided. In contrast, this paper explores valuations of interventions which 
with varying probability levels offer smaller or moderate life year health 
gains. We interviewed 2900 respondents about hypothetical therapies that 
involved life year gains in the range of 1-180 months with a probability of 1 to 
1/180, presented both in individual and societal perspectives. The results of 
the study indicate that the value of the hypothetical treatments is not a simple 
function of probability and gain. Rather, respondents seem to adopt thresholds 
when they value treatment offers. This results in kinked utility functions where 
the expected individual utility is significantly decreased when the gain in life 
expectancy is 6 months or less, and markedly increased if the probability of 
gains exceeds 1/12. There were only small differences in valuations across the 
individual and societal perspectives, suggesting that preferences for dispersion 
of health gains are not only a reflection of equity considerations. If the 
results of this study reflect widespread preferences, the standard methods in 
cost-effectiveness/cost-utility analysis may misinform decision makers.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1288
PMID: 17990283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Health Econ. 2008 Apr;17(4):523-34. doi: 10.1002/hec.1309.

Longevity bias in cost-effectiveness analysis.

Liu L(1), Rettenmaier AJ, Saving TR.

Author information:
(1)Private Enterprise Research Center, Texas A&M University, College Station, TX 
77843-4231, USA. lliu@tamu.edu

We use a simple lifetime utility maximization model to study the problem of 
medical resource allocation. This model leads to a welfare specification with a 
QALY (quality-adjusted life-year) component that captures an individual's 
preferences over both life expectancy and health status. The goal of medical 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) is characterized as maximizing the QALY 
measure for a given total medical expenditure. We show that the CEA with such a 
goal has a longevity bias: the CEA-based division of a given total medical 
expenditure between extending life and improving health gives the former a 
larger share than is called for by welfare maximization.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1309
PMID: 17990284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Huan Jing Ke Xue. 2007 Sep;28(9):2148-52.

[Method of loss of life expectancy to quantitate and compare the health risk 
caused by carcinogen and non-carcinogen pollutants].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu HP(1), Zhang JY, Zhang ZJ, Zhu YM.

Author information:
(1)Environment & Ecology Research Centre of Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 
310029, China. xuhaiping@zju.edu.cn

Loss of life expectancy (LLE) was used to evaluate and quantitate the health 
risk caused by carcinogen and non-carcinogen pollutants, and was proposed as a 
new method to compare the environmental health risk of different pollutants. The 
environmental health risks exposed by 6 major environmental pollutants in China, 
i.e., arsenic, DDTs, BaP, lead, cadmium and mercury, were evaluated and compared 
by using LLE. The LLE caused by carcinogen pollutants such as arsenic, DDTs and 
BaP are 3.6 d, 2.2 d and 12.1 d respectively, while the corresponding values 
caused by non-carcinogen pollutants such as lead,mercury and cadmium are 1.1 d, 
1.7 d and 5.8 d respectively. Based on the studies published before, the rank of 
the health risk of the selected six environmental pollutants is BaP > cadmium > 
arsenic > DDTs > mercury > lead. The results reveal that the LLE can be utilized 
as a new index to evaluate and quantitate the health risk, and the environmental 
health risk caused by carcinogen and non-carcinogen pollutants can be compared 
within an unitive criterion by LLE.

PMID: 17990573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Urol Nurs. 2007 Oct;27(5):449-50, 459.

Alternative medicine utilization by African Americans and improving life 
expectancy: is there a correlation?

Moyad MA(1), Lusk W, Schwartz LR.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Medical Center, Department of Urology, Ann Arbor, MI, 
USA.

The life expectancy of African Americans and Caucasians has been increasing in 
the United States and in many other countries around the world since the late 
1800s. However, as long as statistics have been accrued on race and ethnicity, 
the life expectancy of African Americans and Blacks in general has been 
significantly lower than that of Caucasians. Basic public health and medical 
preventive education is needed because higher cardiovascular disease (CVD) rates 
is one of the primary reasons for the differences between life expectancy 
between African Americans and Caucasians. It is also of an apparent separate but 
perhaps related interest that several recent preliminary studies suggest that 
African Americans, more than any other race, may have some of the lowest uses of 
alternative medicine due to skepticism, as well as educational efforts and trust 
in their health care professional. Despite a common belief that African 
Americans harbor profound distrust of specific areas of the medical profession, 
it is of interest that this finding has not held validity in the area of 
alternative medicine. Therefore, since lifestyle changes are considered 
alternatives in most of these studies, this would suggest that a greater 
educational emphasis on behavioral modification could establish a foundation or 
a model of preventive medical education that can be utilized for underserved 
populations around the world.

PMID: 17990625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Dec;10(4):587-602. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0560.

Rhodiola: a promising anti-aging Chinese herb.

Jafari M(1), Felgner JS, Bussel II, Hutchili T, Khodayari B, Rose MR, Vince-Cruz 
C, Mueller LD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of California-Irvine, 
Irvine, CA 92697, USA. mjafari@uci.edu

Using the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, we investigated the effects of 
Rhodiola on life-span. Rhodiola is a plant root used in traditional Chinese 
medicine that may increase an organism's resistance to stress. It has been 
proposed that Rhodiola can extend longevity and improve health span by 
alleviating oxidative stress. Rhodiola supplied every other day at 30 mg/mL 
significantly increased the lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster. When comparing 
the distribution of deaths between Rhodiola-supplemented and control flies, 
Rhodiola-fed flies exhibited decelerated aging. Although the observed extension 
in lifespan was associated with statistically insignificant reductions in 
fecundity, correcting for a possible dietary restriction effect still did not 
eliminate the difference between supplemented and control flies, nor does the 
effect of Rhodiola depend on dietary manipulation, strongly suggesting that 
Rhodiola is not a mere dietary restriction mimetic. Although this study does not 
reveal the causal mechanism behind the effect of Rhodiola, it does suggest that 
the supplement is worthy of continued investigation, unlike the other Chinese 
herbals, Lu Duo Wei (LDW), Bu Zhong Yi Qi Tang (BZYQT), San Zhi Pian (SZP, Three 
Imperial Mushrooms), Hong Jing Tian (Rhodiola) that were evaluated in this 
study.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0560
PMID: 17990971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Australas Radiol. 2007 Dec;51 Suppl:B337-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1673.2007.01726.x.

Emergency embolization of multiple splenic artery pseudoaneurysms associated 
with portal hypertension complicating cystic fibrosis.

Geoghegan T(1), McAuley G, Snow A, Torreggiani WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tallaght Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common potentially lethal genetic disease in 
the white population. Improvements in life expectancy have led to an increasing 
recognition of hepatobiliary complications from CF. Splenic artery aneurysms are 
a rare complication of portal hypertension with a high mortality due to their 
significant potential for rupture, resulting in life-threatening i.p. 
haemorrhage. The optimum treatment of ruptured splenic artery aneurysms is 
controversial. This case describes the successful emergency embolization of 
multiple splenic artery pseudoaneurysms associated with portal hypertension 
complicating cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1673.2007.01726.x
PMID: 17991101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Int J Nurs Terminol Classif. 2007 Oct-Dec;18(4):131-41. doi: 
10.1111/j.1744-618X.2007.00068.x.

Nursing diagnoses in children with congenital heart disease: a survival 
analysis.

Martins da Silva V(1), Lopes MV, Leite de Araujo T.

Author information:
(1)Catholic Faculty Rainha do Sertão, Brazil.

PURPOSE: To analyze the relationship between nursing diagnoses and survival 
rates in children with congenital heart disease.
METHODS: A total of 270 observations were carried out in 45 children with 
congenital heart disease who were followed for 15 days.
FINDINGS: Differences in mean survival times were identified in children not 
more than 4 months of age with respect to the following diagnoses: impaired gas 
exchange, ineffective breathing pattern, activity intolerance, delayed growth 
and development, and decreased cardiac output.
CONCLUSIONS: The main diagnoses are identified early in the hospitalization 
period and are conditions resulting from hemodynamic alterations and prescribed 
medical treatment.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING PRACTICE: Congenital heart disease provokes serious 
hemodynamic alterations that generate human responses, which should be treated 
proactively.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-618X.2007.00068.x
PMID: 17991140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Urology. 2007 Oct;70(4):723-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2007.05.014.

Local control and long-term disease-free survival for stage D1 (T2-T4N1-N2M0) 
prostate cancer after radical prostatectomy in the PSA era.

Gjertson CK(1), Asher KP, Sclar JD, Goluboff ET, Olsson CA, Benson MC, McKiernan 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Columbia University Medical Center, Columbia 
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032, USA. 
cg3@iupui.edu

OBJECTIVES: With the advent of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening, the 
number of lymph node metastases found after radical prostatectomy (RP) has been 
decreasing. Although it has been shown in this population that immediate 
adjuvant androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) improves survival compared with 
initiating ADT at clinical recurrence, the effect of starting ADT at biochemical 
recurrence is unknown. We examined a series of patients with Stage D1 
(T2-T4N1-N2M0) prostate cancer discovered after RP, most of whom started ADT at 
biochemical recurrence.
METHODS: A total of 2121 patients underwent RP and bilateral pelvic lymph node 
dissection from January 1990 and December 2000. Of these men, 28 had lymph node 
metastases (1.3%), 24 of whom had adequate follow-up data for analysis.
RESULTS: No perioperative or long-term complications, such as pelvic recurrence, 
gross hematuria, urinary retention, or hydronephrosis, developed. With a median 
follow-up of 74 months, the estimated 5-year survival rate was 94%, similar to 
the average life expectancy of age-matched men in the United States. The 5-year 
biochemical disease-free survival rate was 15%. A total of 18 patients who did 
not start immediate ADT had an estimated 100% overall survival rate at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our study have shown that survival for patients with 
Stage D1 prostate cancer after RP is excellent and equivalent to that of 
age-matched controls. Long-term pelvic morbidity due to primary tumor 
progression was prevented by RP. By waiting until PSA failure to initiate ADT, 
we found that a small percentage of patients (15% at 5 years) were rendered 
disease free with surgery alone and could avoid the side effects of ADT, with 
excellent overall survival maintained for those starting ADT at biochemical 
progression.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2007.05.014
PMID: 17991544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Am J Clin Nutr. 2007 Nov;86(5):1560S-2S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/86.5.1560S.

Actuarially speaking: an overview of life expectancy. What can we anticipate?

Blacklow RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
robert_blacklow@hms.harvard.edu

A review of life expectancies of males in 1905, 1955, and 2005 reveals several 
striking findings. Life expectancies at birth have increased progressively 
during this 100-y period. For a man graduating in 1905, life expectancy at 
graduation was actually greater than that at birth. Blacks living into their 70s 
at that time subsequently had life expectancies that were actually greater than 
those of their white classmates. The present trend of progressively lengthening 
life span in all groups reflects the changing pattern of causes of death from 
formerly untreatable infectious diseases to chronic degenerative disorders. 
Predictions for the continuing lengthening of the life span of the class of 2005 
and succeeding classes may be jeopardized by the alarming increase in obesity, 
which worsens the incidence of cardiovascular disorders and cancer, the 2 
leading causes of death at this time, as well as of diabetes, musculoskeletal 
disorders, and other categories of disease.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/86.5.1560S
PMID: 17991675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Endocrinology. 2008 Feb;149(2):634-41. doi: 10.1210/en.2007-1089. Epub 2007
Nov  8.

Life-long caloric restriction reveals biphasic and dimorphic effects on bone 
metabolism in rodents.

Tatsumi S(1), Ito M, Asaba Y, Tsutsumi K, Ikeda K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bone and Joint Disease, Research Institute, National Center for 
Geriatrics and Gerontology (NCGG), Morioka, Obu, Aichi, Japan.

Caloric restriction (CR) extends the lifespan of various organisms and slows the 
onset of age-related disorders; however, little is known about the long-term 
effects of CR per se on bone. In the present study, we have examined the effects 
of life-long CR vs. ad libitum (AD) feeding, mainly on the trabecular bone of 
proximal tibiae in male C57BL/6 mice and F344 rats. Micro-computed tomography 
scanning of tibiae revealed that CR for 3-9 months caused a substantial decrease 
in three-dimensional bone volume with structural derangements. Bone 
histomorphometry revealed the reduced bone mass was due mainly to suppression of 
bone formation. In db/db mice with defective leptin receptor, CR was unable to 
decrease bone mass and suppress bone formation. The effect of CR on bone mass 
was inhibited by administration of a beta-adrenergic blocker, propranolol. Thus, 
CR may regulate bone formation through leptin signaling and elevated sympathetic 
nervous tone. Interestingly, the difference in bone volume between the CR and AD 
groups disappeared after 1 yr of age, and mice and rats on an additional 
extension of CR to natural death maintained higher bone mass than the AD groups, 
with reduced bone turnover, suggesting that CR slows skeletal aging by 
regulating the rate of bone turnover. This is the first report, to our 
knowledge, that has examined the effects of lifelong CR on bone metabolism and 
trabecular microstructure and documents its contrasting effects during 
maturation vs. the postmaturational, involutional period.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2007-1089
PMID: 17991723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Med Klin (Munich). 2007 Nov 15;102(11):904-12. doi:
10.1007/s00063-007-1111-7.

[Clinical Year in Review - advanced COPD].

[Article in German]

Köhler D(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Pneumologie I, Fachkrankenhaus Kloster Grafschaft, 
Schmallenberg-Grafschaft, Germany. d.koehler@fkkg.de

COPD is a frequent disease, affecting approximately one in four smokers. In 
older patients > 70 years of age, the proportion of individuals who never have 
smoked increases up to one in three individuals. Severe disease is present in 
10%, and the limitation of performance is usually caused by airway obstruction, 
in a smaller portion of patients by the loss of alveolar surface (emphysema). 
After medical treatment with antiobstructive and anti-inflammatory drugs, oxygen 
remains a major therapy option. With it, hypercapnic patients benefit most from 
long-term therapy. Patients with predominant emphysema benefit most from 
high-flow (6-8 l/min) oxygen therapy during exercise. Permanent yellow or 
greenish sputum decoloration is suggestive of chronic bacterial colonization. 
This group of patients may benefit from a permanent inhalative therapy with 
antibiotics (mainly aminoglycosides). There is growing evidence from current 
literature to support this concept. If dyspnea is severe, especially during mild 
exercise, a subset of patients might benefit from the use of long-acting 
morphium. Goal of this therapy is to downregulate breathing control. 
Predominantly "pink puffers" seem to respond. A dose of 10-20 mg will usually be 
sufficient. Life-threatening hypercapnia is usually not observed with this form 
of therapy. Noninvasive ventilation is an option for patients with severe 
hypercapnia. Thereby, ventilatory pressure or inspiratory volume should be 
selected to effectively unload the respiratory muscles. This will increase 
quality of life. Life span is likely to be prolonged, however, comparative data 
where patients were effectively ventilated (as seen on the reduction of 
hypercapnia) are missing. A multicenter trial addressing this topic is currently 
being conducted in Germany. Independent of the severity of COPD, patients in 
general benefit from physical training with alternation of endurance and 
interval training being most effective. This will decrease the number of 
hospital admissions and probably mortality as well. Lung volume reduction 
surgery virtually treats lung hyperinflation. Bullectomy is still considered 
effective for isolated bullous emphysema as well as lobectomy, if this portion 
of the lung is without function. Shaving procedures are still associated with 
high rates of complications and should only be performed in selected cases. 
Effectiveness of endoscopic lung volume reduction surgery by implantation of 
plugs or valves cannot be assessed yet. First data are rather disappointing. 
Ultimate alternative remains lung transplantation with life expectancy ranging 
between 5-6 years independent of age. Indeed, consequent application of 
previously described measures might preserve a stable state over many years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-007-1111-7
PMID: 17992482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Lancet. 2007 Nov 10;370(9599):1589. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61664-X.

Progress and inequity in Latin America.

[No authors listed]
