under normal or dysplastic epithelia of the same patient. The number of 
gamma2-positive cells also correlated with the histopathological pattern of 
invasion. Our results show that gamma2 may be a reliable prognostic tool for 
oral squamous cell carcinomas.

PMID: 17786338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Invest New Drugs. 2007 Dec;25(6):571-9. doi: 10.1007/s10637-007-9076-1. Epub
 2007 Sep 5.

Intravenous ATP infusions can be safely administered in the home setting: a 
study in pre-terminal cancer patients.

Beijer S(1), Gielisse EA, Hupperets PS, van den Borne BE, van den Beuken-van 
Everdingen M, Nijziel MR, van Henten AM, Dagnelie PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, NUTRIM, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 
MD, Maastricht, The Netherlands. sandra.beijer@epid.unimaas.nl

The aim of the study was to investigate the safety of adenosine 5'-triphosphate 
(ATP) administration at home in pre-terminal cancer patients. Included were 
patients with cancer for whom medical treatment options were restricted to 
supportive care, who had a life expectancy of less than 6 months, a World Health 
Organization performance status 1 or 2, and suffered from at least one of the 
following complaints: fatigue, anorexia or weight loss >5% over the previous 6 
months. Side effects were registered systematically on a standard form according 
to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity Criteria. Fifty-one 
patients received a total of 266 intravenous ATP infusions. Of these, 11 
infusions (4%) were given at the lowest dose of 20 microg kg(-1) min(-1), 85 
infusions (32%) at 25-40 microg kg(-1) min(-1), and 170 (64%) at the highest 
dose of 45-50 microg kg(-1) min(-1) ATP. The majority of ATP infusions (63%) 
were without side effects. Dyspnea was the most common side effect (14% of 
infusions), followed by chest discomfort (12%) and the urge to take a deep 
breath (11%). No symptoms of cardiac ischemia occurred in any of the infusions. 
All side effects were transient and resolved within minutes after lowering the 
ATP infusion rate. Side effects were most frequent in the presence of cardiac 
disorders. We conclude that ATP at a maximum dose of 50 microg kg(-1) min(-1) 
can be safely administered in the home setting in patients with pre-terminal 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10637-007-9076-1
PMCID: PMC2039853
PMID: 17786387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Scand J Public Health. 2007;35(4):365-72. doi: 10.1080/14034940701219642.

Preventive health screenings and health consultations in primary care increase 
life expectancy without increasing costs.

Rasmussen SR(1), Thomsen JL, Kilsmark J, Hvenegaard A, Engberg M, Lauritzen T, 
Søgaard J.

Author information:
(1)DSI Danish Institute for Health Services Research, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
srr@dsi.dk

AIMS: The intention was to investigate whether preventive health checks and 
health discussions are cost effective.
METHODS: In a randomized trial the authors compared two intervention groups (A 
and B) and one control group. In 1991 2,000 30- to 49-year-old persons were 
invited and those who accepted were randomized. Both intervention groups were 
offered a broad (multiphasic) screening including cardiovascular risk and a 
personal letter including screening results and advice on healthy living. 
Individuals in group A could contact their family physician for a normal 
consultation whereas group B were given fixed appointments for health 
consultations. The follow-up period was six years. Analysis was carried out on 
the "intention to treat" principle. Outcome parameters were life years gained, 
and direct and total health costs (including productivity costs), discounted by 
3% annually. Costs were based on register data. Univariate sensitivity analysis 
was carried out.
RESULTS: Both intervention groups have significantly better life expectancy than 
the control group (no intervention). Group B and (A) significantly gain 0.14 
(0.08) life years more than the control group. There were no differences in 
average direct (3,255 euro (3,703 euro) versus 4,186 euro) and total costs 
(10,409 euro (9,399 euro) versus 10,667 euro). The effect in group B is, 
however, better than in group A with no significant differences in costs. The 
results are insensitive to a range of assumptions regarding costs, effects, and 
discount rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Preventive health screening and consultation in primary care in 30- 
to 49-year-olds produce significantly better life expectancy without extra 
direct and total costs over a six-year follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940701219642
PMID: 17786799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Scand J Public Health. 2007;35(4):387-95. doi: 10.1080/14034940701219618.

Socioeconomic differences in suicide mortality by sex in Finland in 1971-2000: a 
register-based study of trends, levels, and life expectancy differences.

Mäki NE(1), Martikainen PT.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Department of Sociology, University of Helsinki, 
Finland. netta.maki@helsinki.fi

AIM: Suicide is a common cause of death in many Western countries and it has 
been predicted to become even more common worldwide. The authors analysed 
socioeconomic differences and trends in Finnish suicide mortality, and assessed 
the relevance to public health by calculating socioeconomic differences in years 
of life expectancy lost attributable to suicide.
DATA AND METHODS: Census records were used, linked with the death records of men 
and women aged 25 years and over in 1971-2000 in Finland.
RESULTS: Suicide among male and female manual workers was 2.3 and 1.3 times 
higher respectively than among upper non-manual workers. The differences were 
largest among those in their thirties. Because of the decline in suicide among 
upper non-manual workers and a slower decrease or even an increase among other 
socioeconomic groups, the relative mortality differences increased somewhat 
during 1970-90, then decreased in the 1990s but remained higher than in the 
1970s. In 1991-2000 the suicide-related life expectancy gap between the upper 
non-manual and manual male workers was 0.6 years, and this difference 
contributed 10% to the total difference in years of life expectancy lost between 
these socioeconomic groups.
CONCLUSION: Large and persistent socioeconomic differences were found in suicide 
mortality and suicide was an important component of the socioeconomic difference 
in total mortality. Reducing these differences could significantly improve 
equity in health and reduce the burden of excess mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940701219618
PMID: 17786802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Health Econ. 2008 May;17(5):579-91. doi: 10.1002/hec.1279.

On future non-medical costs in economic evaluations.

Liljas B(1), Karlsson GS, Stålhammar NO.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca, Mölndal, Sweden. bengt.liljas@astrazeneca.com

Economic evaluation in health care is still an evolving discipline. One of the 
current controversies in cost-effectiveness analysis regards the inclusion or 
exclusion of future non-medical costs (i.e. consumption net of production) due 
to increased survival. This paper examines the implications of a symmetry rule 
stating that there should be consistency between costs included in the numerator 
and utility aspects included in the denominator. While the observation that no 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) instruments explicitly include consumption and 
leisure seems to give support to the notion that future non-medical costs should 
be excluded when QALYs are used as the outcome measure, a better understanding 
of what respondents actually consider when reporting QALY weights is required. 
However, the more fundamental question is whether QALYs can be interpreted as 
utilities. Or more precisely, what are the assumptions needed for a general 
utility model also including consumption and leisure to be consistent with 
QALYs? Once those assumptions are identified, they need to be experimentally 
tested to see whether they are at least approximately valid. Until we have 
answers to these areas for future research, it seems premature to include future 
non-medical costs.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1279
PMID: 17787027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Science. 1976 Apr 9;192(4235):95-6. doi: 10.1126/science.192.4235.95.

Aleut life expectancy.

Howell N.

DOI: 10.1126/science.192.4235.95
PMID: 17792426


173. Science. 1975 Aug 15;189(4202):507-15. doi: 10.1126/science.189.4202.507.

Aleuts: Ecosystem, Holocene Historys, and Siberian Origin: Soviet and U.S. 
scientists join in a study of the origins of the first Americans.

Laughlin WS.

An original objective of these multidisciplinary studies was to determine the 
position of the Aleuts in the Aleutian ecosystem with time depth. This has been 
done in a variety of ways (7, 14, 20, 21). One of the most useful approaches is 
the construction of life expectancy tables. The greater longevity of Aleuts 
compared with Eskimos represents an effective biological and cultural human 
adaptation within this ecosystem. The Aleuts defined their ecosystem by 
expanding to the limits of the area they could effectively exploit with their 
complex technology, population structure, and population deployment system. 
Their intellectual achievements played a tangible role in their longevity in the 
pre-Russian period, and their sophisticated knowledge of human anatomy is both a 
causal and a consequential correlate of their longevity. From the Aleut point of 
view, the food resources were diverse, abundant, and accessible, and they also 
provided fabricational materials necessary for their complex material culture. 
The Aleuts successfully hunted the world's largest range of sea mammals, from 
the sea otter to the whales. At the same time, extensive use of invertebrates 
easily available on the ice-free strandflats enabled disadvantaged sectors of 
the population to make important contributions to their own food supply and thus 
improve life expectancy. The rich food and fabricational materials antedate the 
Holocene history of Nikolski Bay and the arrival of the ancestral Aleuts. The 
natural resources of this area are fundamentally related to the former 
peninsular extension of Beringia and the permanent upwelling system in Samalga 
Pass (22). Sea otters, seals, and sea lions were present when the first Aleuts 
came to the area. Nikolski Bay has been an ideal place to obtain samples 
representing the entire Holocene Epoch. The earliest Asiatic migrants came from 
Siberia and traversed the southern coastline of Beringia. They established a 
large and permanent village on the northern arm of Nikolski Bay and remained 
there while expanding to the far ends of the Aleutian domain in the sixth 
millennium of their residence. The record of cultural change spans a lithic 
revolution. It begins with a conservative unifacial core and blade industry that 
preserves several Asiatic traits but includes stone lamps, dishes, an image of 
the deity, and the use of red ochre. Between 7000 and 6000 years ago bifacially 
flaked and stemmed points appear, with some continuing elements of the old 
unifacial industry. This transition culture continues to about 4500 years ago, 
when the standard sequence seen in the old midden of Chaluka takes form. This 
culture continues, adding and subtracting various elements but always 
maintaining a distinctive configuration through time, to the present Aleuts, 
whose connection with the first Anangula settlement includes having remembered 
an older Aleut designation, "the place of the blades," and collecting eggs on 
its flanks. The dating of events inside Nikolski Bay and the identification of 
the Asiatic elements do throw light on human migration from Siberia into Alaska. 
The Aleuts and Eskimos may well have been a part of a single population system 
of Bering Sea Mongoloids who expanded along the Siberian coasts and across the 
southern Beringian coasts. The population that reached Nikolski Bay became 
Aleuts. Those closer to the old mouth of the Kuskokwim River and further north 
became Eskimos. The rise of sea level presented no problems to marine-adapted 
people. Instead it presented more opportunities in the form of more coastline to 
exploit. The ancestors of the American Indians migrated earlier through the 
interior of Beringia. The double-thumb hypothesis of Hrdlicka (23) is useful now 
for interpreting human migration into the New World. He suggested that if the 
Eskimos were physically related to the Indians as the thumb of one hand is to 
the fingers, then a second thumb is necessary to represent the Aleuts, who are 
also distinctive. The Bering Sea Mongoloids as a group (Aleuts, Eskimos, 
Chukchi, Koryaks, and probably Kamchadals) are distinguished from the Indians by 
both genetic traits such as the presence of blood group B, which is absent in 
the Indians, and morphological configurations such as the unusually broad, low 
ascending portions of the mandible. This magnitude of difference fits very well 
with a geographic difference in point of origin, separate route of entry into 
the New World across Beringia, and the maintenance of separation by many 
geographic, economic, and cultural barriers. Earlier investigators in the 
Aleutians compiled invaluable bodies of information. The Russian W. J. Jochelson 
worked in the Aleutians and the American A. Hrdlicka in Siberia. The problems 
common to both sides of the Bering Sea have now been studied by Soviet and 
American scholars at the same time, in the same place, and with the same 
specimens. It has been pleasant and informative to work directly with the 
Siberian authorities on Siberia in the Aleutians. In summary, I submit the 
following eight conclusions: 1) Increased longevity, rather than rapid 
population turnover, served as a major form of population adaptation and 
resource management among the Aleuts. Because people lived longer, genetic and 
cultural wastage was minimized. 2) Cranial vault change, from narrow to broad, 
has been the result of evolution within the population. 3) The Aleuts have 
continuously occupied Nikolski Bay, Umnak Island, for 8700 years. During this 
time sea level has risen and the coastline configuration has changed. 4) 
Siberian characteristics of the Anangula core and blade industry have been 
identified, and a transition culture, which links the earliest Anangula tool 
tradition with the later Aleut culture of Chaluka, has been discovered. 5) 
Organic remains of human occupation have been used to precisely date geological 
events of the Holocene Epoch for 8700 of its 10,000 years. Major volcanic 
eruptions occurred, at exponentially increasing intervals, 10,000, 9000, 7000 
and 3000 years ago. 6) The earliest Aleut culture has preserved its Asiatic 
template because of the coastal entry route from Siberia and subsequent 
isolation of the population. The abundant lithic remains indicate a complex and 
diverse material culture. 7) The known similarity of Aleuts to Asiatic 
populations plus our Holocene time scale suggest a slower rate of human 
evolution than was assumed when a later date of entry into the Aleutians was 
accepted. 8) In the broadest perspective, these findings are relevant to 
understanding the entry of man (Aleuts, Eskimos, and Indians) into the New World 
in that other migrant populations originating in Siberia may also have entered 
the New World with a sophisticated and complex culture.

DOI: 10.1126/science.189.4202.507
PMID: 17798291


174. Water Sci Technol. 2007;56(3):15-22. doi: 10.2166/wst.2007.497.

Life cycle assessment of wastewater treatment options for small and 
decentralized communities.

Machado AP(1), Urbano L, Brito AG, Janknecht P, Salas JJ, Nogueira R.

Author information:
(1)University of Minho, Institute of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Centre of 
Biological Engineering, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal.

Sustainability has strong implications on the practice of engineering. Life 
cycle assessment (LCA) is an appropriate methodology for assessing the 
sustainability of a wastewater treatment plant design. The present study used a 
LCA approach for comparing alternative wastewater treatment processes for small 
and decentralised rural communities. The assessment was focused on two 
energy-saving systems (constructed wetland and slow rate infiltration) and a 
conventional one (activated sludge process). The low environmental impact of the 
energy-saving wastewater treatment plants was demonstrated, the most relevant 
being the global warming indicator. Options for reduction of life cycle impacts 
were assessed including materials used in construction and operational lifetime 
of the systems. A 10% extension of operation lifetime of constructed wetland and 
slow rate infiltration systems led to a 1% decrease in CO2 emissions, in both 
systems. The decrease in the abiotic depletion was 5 and 7%, respectively. Also, 
replacing steel with HDPE in the activated sludge tank resulted in a 1% 
reduction in CO2 emission and 1% in the abiotic depletion indicator. In the case 
of the Imhoff tank a 1% reduction in CO2 emissions and 5% in the abiotic 
depletion indicator were observed when concrete was replaced by HDPE.

DOI: 10.2166/wst.2007.497
PMID: 17802833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Can J Neurol Sci. 2007 Aug;34(3):268-9. doi: 10.1017/s0317167100006673.

The CBANCH report--the burden of neurological diseases, disorders, and injuries 
in Canada.

Tator C, Bray G, Morin D.

DOI: 10.1017/s0317167100006673
PMID: 17803022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(9):713-26. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725090-00001.

Measuring health preferences for use in cost-utility and cost-benefit analyses 
of interventions in children: theoretical and methodological considerations.

Prosser LA(1), Hammitt JK, Keren R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Child Health Care Studies, Department of Ambulatory Care and 
Prevention, Harvard Medical School and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02215, USA. lprosser@hms.harvard.edu

Valuing the health of children for cost-utility or cost-benefit analysis poses a 
number of additional challenges when compared with valuing adult health. Some of 
these challenges relate to the inability of young children to value changes in 
health directly and the potential biases associated with using proxy 
respondents. Other challenges arise from children not being able to perform as 
independent economic actors, but dependent on others for care and decision 
making. In addition, illness in children may affect parent/caregiver quality of 
life, further complicating the measurement of value associated with a change in 
a child's health status. We review the most common approaches (QALYs and 
willingness-to-pay values) for valuing health in economic evaluations and 
consider the methodological and practical issues associated with measuring child 
health using each framework. Recommendations for advancing the field of valuing 
child health for economic evaluations will vary by age; a 'one size fits all' 
approach does not readily fit. Although limitations exist for all of the methods 
considered for valuing child health, the currently recommended approach for 
infants and preschoolers is direct valuation by a proxy respondent. For 
school-age children and adolescents, existing multi-attribute instruments can be 
applied in some situations but direct valuation may be required for others. 
Future research should focus on minimising bias from proxy respondents, 
consideration of a family- or household-based approach to valuing health 
effects, and development of generic instruments with domains that are 
appropriate to children and that vary with age.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725090-00001
PMID: 17803331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(9):769-82. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200725090-00005.

Long-term clopidogrel therapy in patients receiving percutaneous coronary 
intervention.

Heeg BM(1), Peters RJ, Botteman M, van Hout BA.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit International, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. bheeg@pharmerit.com

BACKGROUND: The PCI-CURE (Percutaneous Coronary Intervention-Clopidogrel in 
Unstable Angina to Prevent Recurrent Events) and CREDO (Clopidogrel for the 
Reduction of Events During Observation) studies have demonstrated that, in 
addition to aspirin, pre-treatment with clopidogrel followed by long-term (i.e. 
9-12 months) therapy significantly reduces the risk of atherothrombotic events 
in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
OBJECTIVE: To examine the economic implications, from the Dutch healthcare 
perspective, of the use of clopidogrel in patients undergoing PCI (elective 
procedures or in patients with acute coronary syndrome), comparing pre-treatment 
followed by long-term therapy with only 4 weeks of treatment.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov model was used to combine data from the PCI-CURE and 
CREDO trials with data from the literature concerning epidemiology, costs and 
quality of life. The model was run separately for each trial. Only direct 
healthcare costs (euro, year 2004 values) were considered. Costs and outcomes 
were discounted at 4% per anum. For each trial, the cost effectiveness is 
expressed as costs per life-year and QALY gained. Uncertainties are addressed by 
uni- and probabilistic multivariate sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: When starting with the data from the PCI-CURE trial, pre-treatment plus 
9-month clopidogrel therapy was predicted to save 1119 euros and gain 0.03 
life-years and 0.07 QALYs per patient compared with short-term treatment. When 
starting with the data from the CREDO trial, the combination of pre-treatment 
and prolonged clopidogrel therapy (1 year) was estimated to save 497 euros and 
gain 0.10 life-years and 0.14 QALYs per patient. Univariate and probabilistic 
multivariate sensitivity analyses suggested that the conclusions were generally 
robust, but that the expected gain in survival for the PCI-CURE population was 
very sensitive to the effects on mortality within the combined endpoint of 
myocardial infarction/stroke-free survival.
CONCLUSIONS: In The Netherlands, pre-treatment plus long-term (9-12 months) 
therapy with clopidogrel is estimated to save costs and increase 
(quality-adjusted) survival in the prevention of ischaemic events among patients 
undergoing elective PCI (CREDO) and in patients with acute coronary syndrome 
(PCI-CURE) compared with short-term treatment with clopidogrel without 
pre-treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725090-00005
PMID: 17803335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Parasitol Res. 2007 Nov;101(6):1663-70. doi: 10.1007/s00436-007-0710-9. Epub
 2007 Sep 6.

Effect of Echinostoma friedi (Trematoda: Echinostomatidae) experimental 
infection on longevity, growth and fecundity of juvenile Radix peregra 
(Gastropoda: Lymnaeidae) and Biomphalaria glabrata (Gastropoda: Planorbidae) 
snails.

Muñoz-Antoli C(1), Marín A, Toledo R, Esteban JG.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Parasitología, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad de Valencia, 
Av. Vicente Andrés Estellés s/n, 46100 Burjassot-Valencia, Spain. 
Carla.Munoz@uv.es

The effect of Echinostoma friedi experimental infection on longevity, growth and 
fecundity of two susceptible first intermediate host snails, Radix peregra and 
Biomphalaria glabrata, was studied to contrast the level of compatibility. 120 
R. peregra and 150 B. glabrata snails were used exposed to one, three or five 
miracidia and divided in three categories: INF (snails exposed and infected); 
ENI (exposed but not infected) and C (control or not miracidial-exposed snails). 
R. peregra INF snails' death process starts sooner, but in a prolonged 
extension, while B. glabrata INF snails have a much shorter life span. The 
infection and the miracidial exposure are able to reduce R. peregra normal 
development (stunting). B. glabrata INF snails' growth exceeds that of C snails 
(gigantism). E. friedi produces a total parasitic castration of R. peregra and 
B. glabrata INF snails. R. peregra would be considered as the required snail 
host, while B. glabrata only as an adequate snail host.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-007-0710-9
PMID: 17805574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Psychiatr Prax. 2007 Sep;34(6):292-301. doi: 10.1055/s-2006-940066.

[The burden of depressive disorders in Germany - results from the European Study 
of the Epidemiology of Mental Disorders (ESEMeD)].

[Article in German]

Günther OH(1), Friemel S, Bernert S, Matschinger H, Angermeyer MC, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Stiftungsprofessur für Gesundheitsökonomie, Universität Leipzig.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to estimate and compare the disease 
burden of depression in Germany using preference-based valuations of depressive 
health states.
METHODS: The data came from the European Study of the Epidemiology of Mental 
Disorders (ESEMeD) in which a representative sample of 3555 
non-institutionalised adults aged 18 years or older was interviewed in Germany. 
Computer assisted personal interviews included EQ-5D, SF-12, time trade-off 
(TTO) and contingent valuation (willingness-to-pay, WTP). Respondents in whom 
12-month prevalence for a depressive disorder according to DSM-IV was 
identified, were compared to respondents without depressive disorders 
(controls). Disease burden was measured in terms of loss of quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) and loss of monetary benefit due to depression per year. 
Valuations of health-related quality of life (HRQL) were derived from EQ-5D (EQ 
VAS and EQ-5D Index), SF-12 (SF-6D Index) and TTO. Disease burden was estimated 
by calculating the difference between individual valuation of HRQL/WTP for full 
health of cases and mean valuation/WTP of controls matched by age and gender. 
Results were extrapolated to the total population.
RESULTS: Depending on the valuation method, the loss of QALYs per year due to 
depression in Germany was 144,886 (TTO), 239,152 (EQ-5D Index VAS), 265,085 
(EQ-5D Index TTO), 307,139 (EQ VAS) and 403,373 (SF-6D Index). The additional 
WTP for full health amounted to 4.3 billion Euro.
CONCLUSIONS: Depressive disorders caused a substantial disease burden. Subjects 
affected by depression showed lower preference-based scores compared to subjects 
without depression. However, calculated QALY losses varied strongly by valuation 
method.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2006-940066
PMID: 17806016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2007 Jul;23(4):677-80.

[Improvement of the the thermostability of Penicillium expansum lipase by 
mutagenesis the random mutant ep8 at K55R].

[Article in Chinese]

Cai SL(1), Lin JH, Wang CM, Lin L.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou 350007, China.

In order to improve the thermostability of the Penicillium expansum Lipase 
(PEL), the lipase encoding genes was mutated by site-directed mutagenesis. A 
recombinant vector pAO815-ep8-K55R which contain double mutant genes was 
constructed by overlap extension PCR using the cDNA of a random-mutant lipase 
ep8 (a single site mutant) as the template and two special primers were used to 
generate another mutation site K55R. The recombinant vector was transformed into 
Pichia pastoris GS115 by electroporation and the recombinant mutant 
GS-pAO815-ep8- K55R can secret double-mutant lipase PEL-ep8-K55R-GS into the 
medium when it was induced by Methanol. The yield of the double-mutant lipase is 
508 u/mL, which is 81% that of the wild type lipase PEL-GS (627 u/mL) and 55% 
that of random-mutant PEL-ep8-GS (924 u/mL). The specific activity of 
double-mutant lipase is 2309.1 u/mg, which is similar to random-mutant lipase 
PEL-ep8-GS and the wild type lipase PEL-GS. The optimum temperature of the 
double-mutant lipase is same with the wild type lipase PEL-GS and random-mutant 
lipase PEL-ep8-GS. While the Tm of the double-mutant lipase is 41.0 degrees C, 
2.3 degrees C higher than the wild type lipase PEL-GS and 0.8% higher than the 
random-mutant lipase PEL-ep8-GS, indicating that the double-mutant lipase 
PEL-ep8-K55R-GS has higher thermostability.

PMID: 17822043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Aug 11;151(32):1795-9.

[Two patients with Eisenmenger syndrome treated with novel agents that target 
vasodilation of the pulmonary capillary bed].

[Article in Dutch]

Hamaker ME(1), Duffels MG, Reichert CL, Cornel JH, Mulder BJ, Umans VA.

Author information:
(1)Medisch Centrum Alkmaar, afd. Cardiologie, Alkmaar.

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Dec 22;151(51):2866; author reply 2866.

Two women with Eisenmenger syndrome, aged 63 and 45 years, presented with 
different symptoms: the first patient had peripheral oedema, proteinuria, 
progressive fatigue and cyanosis and the other had increasing dyspnoea and blue 
lips. The first patient was successfully treated with diuretics but experienced 
a collum fracture that occurred after hypovolemic collapse caused by diuretic 
use. She was given sildenafil and underwent hip surgery with spinal anaesthesia 
10 days later. In the following weeks, the patient was haemodynamically stable 
but then died suddenly; no autopsy was performed. The second patient was given 
oxygen therapy at home and bosentan. After 6 months the symptoms of dyspnoea 
resolved and her 6-minute walking distance increased from 453 to 512 m. The life 
expectancy of patients with congenital heart disorders such as Eisenmenger 
syndrome has improved dramatically, due in part to the efficacy of novel agents 
that inhibit endothelial-cell proliferation. With these advances, treatment of 
these patients is no longer restricted to tertiary-care centres. Therefore, 
community cardiologists, pulmonologists and internists should be aware of these 
congenital heart disorders and the available treatment options.

PMID: 17822253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Sep;10(3):257-9. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0547.

The case for prioritizing research on late-onset life-extension interventions in 
mammals.

de Grey AD.

Comment in
    Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Dec;10(4):647; author reply 647.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0547
PMID: 17822351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Epilepsia. 2008 Mar;49(3):431-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2007.01279.x. Epub
 2007 Sep 5.

Cost-effectiveness of add-on therapy with pregabalin in patients with refractory 
partial epilepsy.

Vera-Llonch M(1), Brandenburg NA, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc., Brookline, Massachusetts 02445, USA. veramo@pai2.com

PURPOSE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of pregabalin as add-on therapy in 
patients with refractory partial epilepsy.
METHODS: We developed a model to estimate clinical and economic outcomes over 1 
year in a hypothetical cohort of patients with refractory partial epilepsy 
assumed alternatively to receive add-on therapy with pregabalin (300 mg/day) or 
no add-on therapy. For each patient in the model, we estimated the occurrence of 
seizure and side effects, using techniques of stochastic simulation. We assigned 
health-state utilities to each day of follow-up based on whether or not seizure 
or side effects were predicted to occur. Patients could discontinue therapy due 
to lack of efficacy or side effects. Outcomes included expected numbers of days 
without seizure ("seizure-free [SF] days"), quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
and costs of therapy. Cost-effectiveness was assessed alternatively in terms of 
incremental cost per SF day gained and incremental cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Add-on therapy with pregabalin was estimated to result in an average 
gain of 23.8 SF days over one year; the estimated additional cost of therapy was 
$678. Incremental cost (mean, 95% CI) per SF day gained was $28.45 ($27.25, 
$29.44); corresponding estimates of incremental cost per QALY gained were 
$52,893 ($49,249, $56,983).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with refractory partial epilepsy, the 
cost-effectiveness of pregabalin 300 mg/day compares favorably with published 
estimates of cost-effectiveness for other add-on antiepileptic drugs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2007.01279.x
PMID: 17822431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Mech Ageing Dev. 2007 Oct;128(10):539-45. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2007.07.005.
Epub  2007 Aug 2.

Effect of long-term caloric restriction on oxygen consumption and body 
temperature in two different strains of mice.

Ferguson M(1), Sohal BH, Forster MJ, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Southern California, 1985 Zonal Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90033, United States.

The hypothesis, that a decrease in metabolic rate mediates the life span 
prolonging effect of caloric restriction (CR), was tested using two strains of 
mice, one of which, C57BL/6, exhibits life span extension as a result of CR, 
while the other, DBA/2, shows little or no effect. Comparisons of the rate of 
resting oxygen consumption and body temperature were made between the strains 
after they were fed ad libitum (AL) or maintained under 40% CR, from 4 to 16 
months of age. Ad libitum-fed mice of the two strains weighed the same when 
young and consumed similar amounts of food throughout the experiment; however, 
the C57BL/6 mice weighed 25% more than DBA/2 mice at 15 months of age. The rate 
of oxygen consumption was normalized as per gram body weight, lean body mass or 
organ weight as well as per animal. The body temperature and the rate of oxygen 
consumption, expressed according to all of the four criteria, were decreased in 
the DBA/2 mice following CR. The C57BL/6 mice also showed a CR-related decrease 
in body temperature and in the rate of oxygen consumption per animal and when 
normalized according to lean body mass or organ weight. The results of this 
study indicate that CR indeed lowers the rate of metabolism; however, this 
effect by CR does not necessarily entail the prolongation of the life span of 
mice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2007.07.005
PMCID: PMC2048713
PMID: 17822741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Prev Med. 2008 Feb;46(2):127-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.07.029. Epub 2007
Aug  3.

The costs, effects and cost-effectiveness of counteracting overweight on a 
population level. A scientific base for policy targets for the Dutch national 
plan for action.

Bemelmans W(1), van Baal P, Wendel-Vos W, Schuit J, Feskens E, Ament A, 
Hoogenveen R.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. Wanda.bemelmans@rivm.nl

OBJECTIVES: To gain insight in realistic policy targets for overweight at a 
population level and the accompanying costs. Therefore, the effect on overweight 
prevalence was estimated of large scale implementation of a community 
intervention (applied to 90% of general population) and an intensive lifestyle 
program (applied to 10% of overweight adults), and costs and cost-effectiveness 
were assessed.
METHODS: Costs and effects were based on two Dutch projects and verified by 
similar international projects. A markov-type simulation model estimated 
long-term health benefits, health care costs and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Combined implementation of the interventions--at the above mentioned 
scale--reduces prevalence rates of overweight by approximately 3 percentage 
points and of physical inactivity by 2 percentage points after 5 years, at a 
cost of 7 euros per adult capita per year. The cost-effectiveness ratio of 
combined implementation amounts to euro 6000 per life-year gained and euro 5700 
per QALY gained (including costs of unrelated diseases in life years gained). 
Sensitivity analyses showed that these ratios are quite robust.
CONCLUSIONS: A realistic policy target is a decrease in overweight prevalence of 
three percentage points, compared to a situation with no interventions. In 
reality, large scale implementation of the interventions may not counteract the 
expected upward trends in The Netherlands completely. Nonetheless, 
implementation of the interventions is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.07.029
PMID: 17822752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Int J Lab Hematol. 2007 Oct;29(5):321-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2257.2006.00856.x.

RBC alloimmunization in blood transfusion-dependent beta-thalassemia patients in 
southern Iran.

Karimi M(1), Nikrooz P, Kashef S, Jamalian N, Davatolhagh Z.

Author information:
(1)Thrombosis and Hemostasis Unit, Hematology Research Center, School of 
Medicine, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran. 
karimim@sums.ac.ir

beta-thalassemia is considered a severe, progressive anemia, which needs regular 
transfusions for life expectancy. One of the most important complications of 
regular blood transfusions may be alloimmunization, which increases the need for 
transfusion. This study was performed to investigate the production of red cell 
alloantibodies in beta-thalassemia patients in Shiraz, southern Iran. Blood 
sampling was performed among 711 beta-thalassemia patients in Dastgheib hospital 
in 2002-2004. Direct and indirect coombs tests were performed to check the auto 
and alloantibodies and a panel test was conducted to detect the type of 
alloantibodies. Auto and alloantibodies were observed among 1.7% and 5.3% of 
patients, respectively. The most common alloantibodies were Anti-kell (50%) > 
Anti-Rh (D) (15.8%) > Anti-Rh (E) (10.5%). All the patients who had developed 
alloantibody were in the age group of 6 years or more. So for decreasing the 
rate of alloantibody synthesis, we should crossmatched the packed cells for 
minor blood groups especially for kell and Rh(E) in addition to major blood 
groups from the start of transfusion.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2257.2006.00856.x
PMID: 17824911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007 Oct;23(10):2517-29. doi: 10.1185/030079907X226339.

Cost-effectiveness of bisphosphonate therapies for women with postmenopausal 
osteoporosis: implications of improved persistence with less frequently 
administered oral bisphosphonates.

Earnshaw SR(1), Graham CN, Ettinger B, Amonkar MM, Lynch NO, Middelhoven H.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, 3040 Cornwallis Road, P.O. Box 12194, Research Triangle 
Park, NC 27709, USA. searnshaw@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: Studies have shown that weekly bisphosphonate dosing results in 
improved persistence compared to daily dosing among patients with postmenopausal 
osteoporosis, yet more than 50% of patients discontinue therapy within a year. 
An oral, less frequent administration bisphosphonate provides an opportunity to 
improve persistence, a parameter not well modeled in previous cost-effectiveness 
analyses of osteoporosis therapies.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We developed a Markov model to estimate the effect 
of improved persistence on the cost-effectiveness of bisphosphonates among 
postmenopausal women with established osteoporosis (vertebral fracture and bone 
mineral density T-score <or= -2.5) and an average age of 78 years. Fracture 
risks, clinical efficacy, mortality, resource use, costs, and utilities were 
obtained from the published literature. Persistence rates were derived primarily 
from a published clinical trial. Approximately 50% greater persistence with a 
monthly versus a weekly therapy was assumed on the basis of the PERSIST study, a 
6-month, randomized, head-to-head prospective study that investigated treatment 
persistence in postmenopausal osteoporotic women on monthly versus weekly 
bisphosphonate therapy. Persistence was extrapolated to a maximum of 5 years. 
Following discontinuation, treatment benefit declined linearly and 
proportionally to the duration of active treatment.
RESULTS: Based on model estimates, more fractures were avoided (versus no 
treatment) with monthly bisphosphonate (58.1 per 1000 treated women) than with 
weekly bisphosphonates (33.8 per 1000 treated women), resulting in lower 
fracture care costs per woman ($7317 and $7548, respectively). The incremental 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained was lower with a monthly 
bisphosphonate ($13,749) than with weekly bisphosphonates ($16,657) when 
compared to no treatment. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year of 
a monthly bisphosphonate was $9476 when compared to a weekly bisphosphonate.
CONCLUSIONS: In postmenopausal women with established osteoporosis, improvement 
in persistence with a less frequently administered oral bisphosphonate therapy 
could augment the fracture benefit and thereby improve cost-effectiveness. 
Further studies are required to refine the estimates of cost-effectiveness in 
order to address limited availability of adherence and fracture risk data.

DOI: 10.1185/030079907X226339
PMID: 17825128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Clin Ther. 2007 Jul;29(7):1491-507. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.07.006.

Cost-effectiveness of a lidocaine 5% medicated plaster relative to gabapentin 
for postherpetic neuralgia in the United Kingdom.

Dakin H(1), Nuijten M, Liedgens H, Nautrup BP.

Author information:
(1)Abacus International, Bicester, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom. 
helen.dakin@abacusint.com

BACKGROUND: Approximately 50% of elderly patients develop postherpetic neuralgia 
(PHN) after herpes zoster infection (shingles). A lidocaine 5% medicated plaster 
marketed in the United Kingdom in January 2007 has been shown to be an effective 
topical treatment for PHN with minimal risk of systemic adverse effects.
OBJECTIVE: This paper assessed the cost-effectiveness of using a lidocaine 
plaster in place of gabapentin in English primary care practice to treat those 
PHN patients who had insufficient pain relief with standard analgesics and could 
not tolerate or had contraindications to tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs). The 
analysis took the perspective of the National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: The costs and benefits of gabapentin and the lidocaine plaster were 
calculated over a 6-month time horizon using a Markov model. The model structure 
allowed for differences in costs, utilities, and transition probabilities 
between the initial 30-day run-in period and maintenance therapy and also 
accounted for add-in medications and drugs received by patients who discontinued 
therapy. Most transition probabilities were based on non-head-to-head clinical 
trials identified through a systematic review. Data on resource utilization, 
discontinuation rates, and add-in or switch medications were obtained from a 
Delphi panel; cost data were from official price tariffs. Published utilities 
were adjusted for age and were supplemented and validated by the Delphi panel.
RESULTS: Six months of therapy with the lidocaine plaster cost pound 549 per 
patient, compared with pound 718 for gabapentin, and generated 0.05 more 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The lidocaine plaster therefore dominated 
gabapentin (95% CI, dominant- pound 2163/QALY gained). Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis showed that there was a 90.15% chance that the lidocaine plaster was 
both less costly and more effective than gabapentin and a 99.99% chance that it 
cost < pound 20,000/QALY relative to gabapentin. Extensive deterministic 
sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of the conclusions.
CONCLUSION: This study found that the lidocaine 5% medicated plaster was a 
cost-effective alternative to gabapentin for PHN patients who were intolerant to 
TCAs and in whom analgesics were ineffective, from the perspective of the NHS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2007.07.006
PMID: 17825701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Public Health. 2008 Mar;122(3):277-84. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.06.010. Epub
 2007 Sep 7.

Years of life lost due to premature death in Serbia (excluding Kosovo and 
Metohia).

Vlajinac H(1), Marinkovic J, Kocev N, Sipetic S, Bjegovic V, Jankovic S, 
Stanisavljevic D, Markovic-Denic L, Maksimovic J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Epidemiology, School of Medicine, Belgrade University, 
Visegradska 26, Belgrade, Serbia.

OBJECTIVE: To provide an assessment of the mortality burden in Serbia (excluding 
Kosovo and Metohia).
METHODS: The study was undertaken using data for Serbia, excluding Kosovo and 
Metohia, for the year 2000. Years of life lost (YLL), the mortality component of 
disability-adjusted life years, was determined from the average life expectancy 
at each age of death while discounting future years by 3% per annum. YLL was 
calculated using life expectancy at that age based on standard life tables, with 
life expectancy at birth fixed at 82.5 years for females and 80.0 years for 
males.
RESULTS: Premature mortality was responsible for 814,022 YLL, after discounting 
future years at 3% per annum and weighting for age. Males lost 462,050 years and 
females lost 351,972 years. Cardiovascular diseases and cancers dominated the 
burden of premature mortality. Ischaemic heart disease was the leading single 
cause of YLL for males, followed by stroke, lung cancer, inflammatory heart 
disease, self-inflicted injuries, road traffic accidents, colorectal and stomach 
cancers, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Each contributed over 10,000 
YLL. For females, cerebrovascular disease was the leading cause of YLL, followed 
by ischaemic heart disease, breast and lung cancer, and diabetes mellitus. YLL 
due to premature death gives greater weight to those conditions that affect 
younger people. Consequently, a ranking of diseases by YLL differs from a 
ranking based on unadjusted numbers of deaths. In comparison with data from the 
Global Burden of Disease study (2000) for the world population and the EURO-A 
region, the mortality burden in Serbia is closer to that in developed than 
developing countries. Standardization was performed using the direct method, 
with the world population used as the standard.
CONCLUSIONS: The national health priority areas, relevant to the mortality 
burden, should include cardiovascular diseases, cancers, diabetes mellitus, 
self-inflicted injuries and road traffic accidents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.06.010
PMID: 17825856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Health Policy. 2008 Feb;85(2):218-27. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.07.012.
Epub  2007 Sep 7.

Distribution matters: equity considerations among health planners in Tanzania.

Ottersen T(1), Mbilinyi D, Maestad O, Norheim OF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Health Care, University of Bergen, 
Bergen, Norway. trygve.ottersen@isf.uib.no

BACKGROUND: Maximising health as the guiding principle for resource allocation 
in health has been challenged by concerns about the distribution of health 
outcomes. There are few empirical studies that consider these potentially 
divergent objectives in settings of extreme resource scarcity. The aim of this 
study is to help fill this knowledge gap by exploring distributional preferences 
among health planners in Tanzania.
METHODS: A deliberative group method was employed. Participants were health 
planners at district and regional level, selected by strategic sampling. The 
health planners alternated between group discussion and individual tasks. 
Respondents ranked health programmes with different target groups, and selected 
and ranked the reasons they thought should be given most importance in priority 
setting.
RESULTS: A majority consistently assigned higher rankings to programmes where 
the initial life expectancy of the target group was lower. A high proportion of 
respondents considered "affect those with least life expectancy" to be the most 
important reason in priority setting.
CONCLUSIONS: Distribution of health outcomes, in terms of life-years, matters. 
Specifically, the lower the initial life expectancy of the target group, the 
more important the programme is considered. Such preferences are compatible, 
within the sphere of health, with what ethicists call "prioritarianism".

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.07.012
PMID: 17825939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Am J Med. 2007 Sep;120(9 Suppl 2):S3-11. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2007.07.002.

Optimizing cardiovascular outcomes in diabetes mellitus.

Sobel BE(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, University of Vermont, Colchester, Vermont 
05446, USA. burton.sobel@uvm.edu

This article presents a series of take-home statements, compiled by a 
multidisciplinary steering committee, concerning significant aspects of 
macrovascular disease in patients with diabetes mellitus, including the extent 
of risk, pathogenetic mechanisms, and optimal management for risk reduction. The 
discussion focuses in particular on the impact of diabetes medications beyond 
blood glucose control. In summary, these statements are as follows: (1) Patients 
with diabetes have an increased risk for cardiovascular disease that contributes 
to decreased life expectancy; (2) prognosis after a cardiovascular event is 
poorer in patients with diabetes; (3) pathogenetic mechanisms include insulin 
resistance, endothelial dysfunction, dyslipidemia, chronic inflammation, 
procoagulability, and impaired fibrinolysis; (4) management of established 
cardiovascular risk factors, for example with 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl 
coenzyme A reductase inhibitors (statins) and antihypertensive therapy, reduces 
cardiovascular event rates in diabetes; (5) correction of hyperglycemia can 
reduce macrovascular event rates, but the coupling to hyperglycemia is less 
tight for macrovascular events than it is for reduction of microvascular 
complications; (6) patients with diabetes should be screened for additional 
cardiovascular risk factors and appropriate interventions should be initiated; 
(7) results of observational and interventional studies have indicated that some 
insulin sensitizers appear to reduce the incidence of cardiovascular events and 
improve survival; (8) thiazolidinediones have beneficial effects on metabolism 
that may improve cardiovascular risk, and a randomized clinical trial in 
patients with advanced atherosclerosis indicates that addition of pioglitazone 
to therapy for hyperglycemia may reduce the incidence of cardiovascular events 
such as myocardial infarction and stroke.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2007.07.002
PMID: 17826044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Am J Otolaryngol. 2007 Sep-Oct;28(5):294-301. doi:
10.1016/j.amjoto.2006.09.007.

Cell carcinoma of the paranasal sinuses and skull base.

McKay SP(1), Shibuya TY, Armstrong WB, Wong HS, Panossian AM, Ager J, Mathog RH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology--Head and Neck Surgery, Wayne State University 
School of Medicine, Detroit, MI 48202, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the paranasal 
sinus and skull base for factors that might predict clinical outcome.
METHODS: A multi-institutional 13-year retrospective review of anterior skull 
base malignancies.
RESULTS: Of 73 patients with anterior skull base malignancies, squamous cell 
carcinoma was the most prevalent-30 patients or 41%. Twenty-three patients 
underwent craniofacial surgery with or without adjuvant chemotherapy. Seven 
patients, deemed unresectable or not willing to have surgery, were treated with 
standard radiation protocols often with chemotherapy. The 3- and 5-year survival 
rates after surgery were 32% and 16%, respectively, compared to a 28% survival 
rate at 3 and 5 years for the nonsurgical group. Most tumors were in advanced 
stages accounting for a relatively poor survival in both groups. A Cox 
regression analysis demonstrated that age (P = .0172) was an independent 
determinant of poor outcome. Although 3- and 5-year survival of tumors free of 
sphenoid sinus, dura, retromaxillary, and ptyerygoid space, and orbit treated 
with surgery showed no significant difference to those patients with 
involvement, their median time of survival was increased for all anatomical 
regions.
CONCLUSIONS: Squamous cell carcinoma of the sinus invading the skull base 
carries a very poor prognosis regardless of treatment modality. Surgery with 
adjunctive radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy offers a survival advantage over 
nonsurgical methods, but treatment should be individualized weighing prognostic 
factors, such as age, stage, and anatomical extension with morbidity of 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2006.09.007
PMID: 17826529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Mol Biotechnol. 2007 May;36(1):1-8. doi: 10.1007/s12033-007-0002-8.

Enhanced secretion of adhesive recognition sequence containing hirudin III 
mutein in E. coli.

Tan S(1), Wu W, Li X, Cui L, Li B, Ruan Q.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, China Pharmaceutical University, 
Nanjing, 210009, P.R. China. tohike@hotmail.com

It has been previously shown that Escherichia coli L-asparaginase II (L-ASP) 
signal peptide is capable of being utilized to direct extracellular secretion of 
hirudin III (HV3) in shake flask. In this study HV3 muteins R33G34D35(S36)-HV3 
were generated by introduction of adhesive recognition sequence RGD(S) into the 
non-functional region of HV3. The resultant recombinants were cultivated on 30 l 
bioreactor scale using L-ASP signal peptide expression system and the optimized 
fed-batch cultivation was well established. After cultivation for approximately 
11 h the secreted product accumulated up to approximately 1 g l(-1), which means 
17-fold increase in productivity compared to initial expression in shake flask. 
N-terminal analysis, pI measurement, and MALDI mass spectral analysis on mutein 
R33G34D35S36-HV3 confirmed the authenticity of the product. Compared to 
wild-type HV3 and R33G34D35HV3, the mutein R33G34D35S36-HV3 exhibits the 
improved pharmacological activity. Collectively, a novel secretion strategy 
using L-ASP signal peptide for the rapid, efficient and cost-effective 
production of HV3 mutein possessing improved pharmacological activity on 
bioreactor scale has been well established. Using this expression system 
downstream processing becomes very simple because secreted product is mature, 
soluble, active, and without N-terminal extension of Met, which is quite 
critical for most therapeutic protein to reduce the side effect in clinic use. 
Thus, it provides a promising alternative for extracellular production of other 
difficult-to-express protein for biopharmaceutical use.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-007-0002-8
PMID: 17827531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Science. 1984 Dec 14;226(4680):1330-2. doi: 10.1126/science.226.4680.1330.

Pollen feeding in an orb-weaving spider.

Smith RB, Mommsen TP.

Juvenile orb-weaving spiders appear in spring, when insect prey are scarce but 
