when aerial plankton, such as pollen and fungus spores, is abundant. Microscopic 
organic matter may be the main food of orb-weaving spiderlings, with insects 
providing only a dietary supplement. Pollen, which is caught on the sticky 
spirals of Araneus diadematus orb webs, doubles the life expectancy of 
spiderlings and alters their web-spinning behavior, so that they spin more 
frequently than do fasting controls. Fungus spores do not have the same 
nutritional value as pollen and may be deleterious to the spiderlings.

DOI: 10.1126/science.226.4680.1330
PMID: 17832631


195. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2007 Sep;33 Suppl 1:S58-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0756.2007.00615.x.

Indigenous women's health: an Australasian perspective.

Clark K(1).

Author information:
(1)Immediate Past President, The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of 
Obstetricians and Gynaecologists (New Zealand).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0756.2007.00615.x
PMID: 17845367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2007 Oct;22(10):1594-604. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2007.04863.x.

Feasibility and cost-effectiveness of using magnification chromoendoscopy and 
pepsinogen serum levels for the follow-up of patients with atrophic chronic 
gastritis and intestinal metaplasia.

Dinis-Ribeiro M(1), da Costa-Pereira A, Lopes C, Moreira-Dias L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Portuguese Oncology Institute, Porto, 
Portugal. mario@med.up.pt

BACKGROUND: The follow-up of patients with atrophic chronic gastritis or 
intestinal metaplasia may lead to early diagnosis of gastric cancer. However, 
to-date no cost-effective model has been proposed. Improved endoscopic 
examination using magnification chromoendoscopy together with non-invasive 
functional assessment with pepsinogen serum levels are accurate in the diagnosis 
of intestinal metaplasia (extension) and minute dysplastic lesions. The aim of 
this study was to assess the feasibility and cost-effectiveness of a follow-up 
model for patients with atrophic chronic gastritis and intestinal metaplasia 
based on gastric mucosal status using magnification chromoendoscopy and 
pepsinogen.
METHODS: A cohort of patients with lesions as severe as atrophic chronic 
gastritis were followed-up according to a standardized protocol using 
magnification chromoendoscopy with methylene blue and measurement of serum 
pepsinogen I and II levels. A single node decision tree and Markov chain 
modeling were used to define cost-effectiveness of this follow-up model versus 
its absence. Transition rates were considered time-independent and calculated 
using primary data following cohort data analysis. Costs, quality of life and 
survival were estimated based on published data and extensive sensitivity 
analysis was performed.
RESULTS: A total of 100 patients were successfully followed-up over 3 years. 
Seven cases of dysplasia were diagnosed during follow-up, all among patients 
with incomplete intestinal metaplasia at baseline, six of whom had extensive 
(pepsinogen I to II ratio <3) incomplete intestinal metaplasia. For those 
individuals with atrophic chronic gastritis or complete intestinal metaplasia, a 
yearly measurement of pepsinogen levels or an endoscopic examination on a 
3-yearly basis would cost 455 euros per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain. 
Endoscopic examination and pepsinogen serum level measurement on a yearly basis 
would cost 1868 euros per QALY for patients with extensive intestinal 
metaplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: The follow-up of patients with atrophic chronic gastritis or 
intestinal metaplasia is both feasible and cost-effective if improved accurate 
endoscopic examination of gastric mucosa together with non-invasive assessment 
of gastric mucosal status are used to identify individuals at high-risk for 
development of gastric cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2007.04863.x
PMID: 17845687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Palliat Med. 2007 Sep;21(6):507-17. doi: 10.1177/0269216307080823.

Truth-telling in discussing prognosis in advanced life-limiting illnesses: a 
systematic review.

Hancock K(1), Clayton JM, Parker SM, Wal der S, Butow PN, Carrick S, Currow D, 
Ghersi D, Glare P, Hagerty R, Tattersall MH.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Research Unit, University of Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

Many health professionals (HPs) express discomfort at having to broach the topic 
of prognosis, including limited life expectancy, and may withhold information or 
not disclose prognosis. A systematic review was conducted of 46 studies relating 
to truth-telling in discussing prognosis with patients with progressive, 
advanced life-limiting illnesses and their caregivers. Relevant studies meeting 
the inclusion criteria were identified by searching computerized databases 
(MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsychINFO and Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials) 
up to November 2004, with handsearching of studies, as well as inclusion of 
studies satisfying selection criteria reported in 2005 by the authors. The 
reference lists of identified studies were hand-searched for further relevant 
studies. Inclusion criteria were studies of any design evaluating communication 
of prognostic information that included adult patients with an advanced, 
life-limiting illness; their caregivers; and qualified HPs. Results showed that 
although the majority of HPs believed that patients and caregivers should be 
told the truth about the prognosis, in practice, many either avoid discussing 
the topic or withhold information. Reasons include perceived lack of training, 
stress, no time to attend to the patient's emotional needs, fear of a negative 
impact on the patient, uncertainty about prognostication, requests from family 
members to withhold information and a feeling of inadequacy or hopelessness 
regarding the unavailability of further curative treatment. Studies suggest that 
patients can discuss the topic without it having a negative impact on them. 
Differences and similarities in findings from different cultures are explored.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216307080823
PMID: 17846091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Biogerontology. 2007 Dec;8(6):653-61. doi: 10.1007/s10522-007-9107-5. Epub
2007  Sep 11.

Gender difference as regards myocardial protein oxidation in aged rats: male 
rats have increased oxidative protein damage.

Kayali R(1), Cakatay U, Uzun H, Genç H.

Author information:
(1)Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Department of Pediatrics, Laboratory of 
Biochemistry, Istanbul University, Istanbul 34303, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: The reasons for the difference in life expectancy between males and 
females are still unknown. Previous studies have provided compelling evidence 
for the presence of oxidized proteins, and lipids in advanced human 
atherosclerotic lesions. The gender factor responsible for such protein 
oxidation is unknown and controversial. Our aim was to reveal the difference 
between myocardial protein and lipid oxidation parameters of male and female 
aged rats.
METHODS: We investigated the relation between myocardial protein carbonyl (PCO) 
and other protein oxidation parameters such as advanced oxidation protein 
products (AOPP), nitrotyrosine (NT), protein hydroperoxide (P-OOH), and protein 
thiol (P-SH). Our study also covered other oxidative stress parameters, such as 
total thiol (T-SH), non-protein thiol (Np-SH), 4-hydroxyalkenal (4-HAE), 
malondialdehyde (MDA), reduced glutathione (GSH), and the glutathione disulfide 
(GSSG).
RESULTS: Among the studied parameters, myocardial PCO, AOPP, NT, Np-SH, GSH, 
Fe(2+) levels and the redox index (RI) of male rats were significantly higher 
than in the female group. On the other hand, P-OOH, P-SH, T-SH, 4-HAE, and MDA 
levels were all found to be not different.
CONCLUSIONS: These data support the hypothesis that elevated levels of PCO, 
AOPP, and NT contribute to the extent of protein, but not lipid, oxidation in 
aged male rats. We are of the conviction that the increased myocardial Np-SH, 
GSH and RI levels that we have determined in aged male rats may be a protective 
factor in propagation of protein oxidation. Our findings support our conviction 
that protein and lipid oxidation, in the myocardial tissue of aged rats, have a 
controlling role in differing regulating mechanisms through gender differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-007-9107-5
PMID: 17846913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2007 Sep;224(9):727-32. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-963470.

[Cost-utility analysis of ranibizumab (Lucentis) in neovascular macular 
degeneration].

[Article in German]

Neubauer AS(1), Holz FG, Schrader W, Back EI, Kühn T, Hirneiss C, Kampik A.

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, München. 
aljoscha.neubauer@med.uni-muenchen.de

PURPOSE: Ranibizumab (Lucentis) stabilizes or improves visual acuity in a high 
percentage of patients with age-related macular degeneration (AMD). As this 
therapy is associated with significant costs, the aim of this study was to 
provide a cost-utility analysis, which considers both costs and utility of a 
therapy with ranibizumab in an economic model.
METHODS: The incremental utility for the patient was modelled based on visual 
acuity data of the MARINA and ANCHOR study. The utility data used assume that 
the better seeing eye is affected. The study groups used for comparison 
consisted of patients who only received best supportive care, e. g., low-vision 
aids. The baseline scenario of the model assumes 6 treatments per year over a 2 
year time period - based on the assessment of an expert panel. Treatment costs 
were based on German pharmacy prices and recommendations for reimbursement of 
the intravitreal injections. In a univariate sensitivity analysis all important 
parameters were varied to assess the stability of the results.
RESULTS: The baseline scenario yields for predominantly classic lesions 16,882 
euro/QALY (quality adjusted life year), for minimally classic CNV 24,766 
euro/QALY and for occult CNV 26,170 euro/QALY. If a distribution of the CNV 
types with 18 - 25 - 57 % is assumed, the mean cost of therapy with ranibizumab 
amounts to 24,147 euro/QALY. Sensitivity analysis showed that all reasonable 
variations yielded results which are considered cost-effective (<or= 50.000 US 
$/QALY). This is especially true for high and low patient age, for groups with 
low (0.05 - 0.1) and high ( > 0.4) visual acuity, for a variation of costs per 
treatment of +/- 20 %, and a prolonged treatment duration of 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: In the investigated szenario a therapy of neovascular AMD with 
ranibizumab is cost-effective for all angiographic subtypes as well as in the 
sensitivity analysis.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-963470
PMID: 17846963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Stat Med. 2008 Apr 30;27(9):1371-86. doi: 10.1002/sim.3056.

Age-specific prevalence and years of healthy life in a system with three health 
states.

Diehr P(1), Yanez D, Derleth A, Newman AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Washington, Box 357232, Seattle, 
WA 98195, USA. pdiehr@u.washington.edu

Consider a 3-state system with one absorbing state, such as Healthy, Sick, and 
Dead. Over time, the prevalence of the Healthy state will approach an 
'equilibrium' value that is independent of the initial conditions. We derived 
this equilibrium prevalence (Prev:Equil) as a function of the local transition 
probabilities. We then used Prev:Equil to estimate the expected number of years 
spent in the healthy state over time. This estimate is similar to the one 
calculated by multi-state life table methods, and has the advantage of having an 
associated standard error. In longitudinal data for older adults, the standard 
error was accurate when a valid survival table was known from other sources, or 
when the available data set was sufficient to estimate survival accurately. 
Performance was better with fewer waves of data. If validated in other 
situations, these estimates of prevalence and years of healthy life (YHL) and 
their standard errors may be useful when the goal is to compare YHL for 
different populations.

2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3056
PMCID: PMC3865856
PMID: 17847058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Lancet Infect Dis. 2007 Sep;7(9):573. doi: 10.1016/s1473-3099(07)70196-2.

Treating HIV-infected infants early prolongs life.

Siva N.

DOI: 10.1016/s1473-3099(07)70196-2
PMID: 17847592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2007 Nov 15;26(10):1371-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03516.x. Epub 2007 Sep 10.

Erythromycin prior to endoscopy for acute upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Winstead NS(1), Wilcox CM.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University of Alabama-Birmingham, 
Birmingham, AL, USA. twinstead@uab.edu

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Jul;5(7):358-9.

BACKGROUND: Erythromycin is a potent stimulator of gastrointestinal motility. 
Recent studies have examined the use of intravenous erythromycin to clear the 
stomach of blood before oesophago-gastroduodenoscopy (EGD) for acute upper 
gastrointestinal haemorrhage (UGIH). These studies have shown clinical 
effectiveness.
AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this intervention.
METHODS: We sought to determine the cost-effectiveness of erythromycin before 
EGD from the payer's perspective. We found three relevant studies of 
erythromycin and used these data for the analysis. We obtained costs for 
intravenous erythromycin and charges for peptic ulcer hospitalization, EGD, 
surgery, and angiographic embolization. Complication rates were also 
incorporated from the literature. We implemented a model of health-related 
quality of life to measure the impact of the intervention. We created a 
decision-analysis tree and performed a probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: A strategy of erythromycin prior to EGD resulted in a cost-effective 
outcome in a majority of trials using willingness-to-pay figures of USD 0, USD 
50,000 and USD 100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
CONCLUSION: Because of the implications for cost saving and increase in QALY, we 
would recommend giving erythromycin prior to EGD for UGIH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03516.x
PMID: 17848180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. BMJ. 2007 Sep 29;335(7621):655. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39325.681806.AD. Epub 2007
Sep  11.

Preventive strategies for group B streptococcal and other bacterial infections 
in early infancy: cost effectiveness and value of information analyses.

Colbourn TE(1), Asseburg C, Bojke L, Philips Z, Welton NJ, Claxton K, Ades AE, 
Gilbert RE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Paediatric Epidemiology and Biostatistics, UCL Institute of Child 
Health, London WC1N 1EH.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2007 Sep 29;335(7621):622-3.
    J Fam Pract. 2008 Jan;57(1):11.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of strategies for preventing 
neonatal infection with group B streptococci and other bacteria in the UK and 
the value of further information from research.
DESIGN: Use of a decision model to compare the cost effectiveness of prenatal 
testing for group B streptococcal infection (by polymerase chain reaction or 
culture), prepartum antibiotic treatment (intravenous penicillin or oral 
erythromycin), and vaccination during pregnancy (not yet available) for serious 
bacterial infection in early infancy across 12 maternal risk groups. Model 
parameters were estimated using multi-parameter evidence synthesis to 
incorporate all relevant data inputs.
DATA SOURCES: 32 systematic reviews were conducted: 14 integrated results from 
published studies, 24 involved analyses of primary datasets, and five included 
expert opinion. Main outcomes measures Healthcare costs per quality adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Current best practice (to treat only high risk women without prior 
testing for infection) and universal testing by culture or polymerase chain 
reaction were not cost effective options. Immediate extension of current best 
practice to treat all women with preterm and high risk term deliveries without 
testing (11% treated) would result in substantial net benefits. Currently, 
addition of culture testing for low risk term women, while treating all preterm 
and high risk term women, would be the most cost effective option (21% treated). 
If available in the future, vaccination combined with treating all preterm and 
high risk term women and no testing for low risk women would probably be 
marginally more cost effective and would limit antibiotic exposure to 11% of 
women. The value of information is highest (67m pounds sterling) if vaccination 
is included as an option.
CONCLUSIONS: Extension of current best practice to treat all women with preterm 
and high risk term deliveries is readily achievable and would be beneficial. The 
choice between adding culture testing for low risk women or vaccination for all 
should be informed by further research. Trials to evaluate vaccine efficacy 
should be prioritised.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39325.681806.AD
PMCID: PMC1995477
PMID: 17848402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


204. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 Sep-Oct;26(5):1281-92. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.26.5.1281.

Improving population health and reducing health care disparities.

Keppel K(1), Bilheimer L, Gurley L.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health 
Statistics, Hyattsville, Maryland, USA. kgk1@cdc.gov

The first goal of Healthy People 2010, to increase quality and years of healthy 
life, does not necessarily coincide with the second goal, to eliminate 
disparities among population groups. Improvement in the health of the total 
population without any reduction in relative disparities among racial and ethnic 
groups was the most frequent outcome at mid-decade for population-based Healthy 
People objectives. Strategies to maximize improvement in overall population 
health may have little or no impact on relative disparities or, indeed, may 
cause them to increase. An independent commitment to eliminating disparities may 
be necessary.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.26.5.1281
PMID: 17848438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 Sep-Oct;26(5):1505; author reply 1506-7. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.26.5.1505.

CEA is not a price control.

Cohen J.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2007 May-Jun;26(3):696-703.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.26.5.1505
PMID: 17848464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Clin Trials. 2007;4(4):329-40. doi: 10.1177/1740774507081219.

Applying the law of iterated logarithm to control type I error in cumulative 
meta-analysis of binary outcomes.

Hu M(1), Cappelleri JC, Lan KK.

Author information:
(1)Millennium Pharmaceuticals, 35 Landsdowne Street, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. 
Mingxiu_Hu@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Cumulative meta-analysis typically involves performing an updated 
meta-analysis every time when new trials are added to a series of similar 
trials, which by definition involves multiple inspections. Neither the commonly 
used random effects model nor the conventional group sequential method can 
control the type I error for many practical situations. In our previous 
research, Lan et al. (Lan KKG, Hu M-X, Cappelleri JC. Applying the law of 
iterated logarithm to cumulative meta-analysis of a continuous endpoint. 
Statistica Sinica 2003; 13: 1135-45) proposed an approach based on the law of 
iterated logarithm (LIL) to this problem for the continuous case.
PURPOSE: The study is an extension and generalization of our previous research 
to binary outcomes. Although it is based on the same LIL principle, we found the 
discrete case much more complex and the results from the continuous case do not 
apply to the binary case. The simulation study presented here is also more 
extensive.
METHODS: The LIL based method ;penalizes' the Z-value of the test statistic to 
account for multiple tests and for the estimation of heterogeneity in treatment 
effects across studies. It involves an adjustment factor, which is directly 
related to the control of type I error and determined through extensive 
simulations under various conditions.
RESULTS: With an adjustment factor of 2, the LIL-based test statistics controls 
the overall type I error when odds ratio or relative risk is the parameter of 
interest. For risk difference, the adjustment factor can be reduced to 1.5. More 
inspections may require a larger adjustment factor, but the required adjustment 
factor stabilizes after 25 inspections.
LIMITATIONS: It will be ideal if the adjustment factor can be obtained 
theoretically through a statistical model. Unfortunately, real life data are too 
complex and we have to solve the problem through simulation. However, for large 
number of inspections, the adjustment factor will have a limited effect and the 
type I error is controlled mainly by the LIL.
CONCLUSIONS: The LIL method controls the overall type I error for a very broad 
range of practical situations with a binary outcome, and the LIL works properly 
in controlling the type I error rates as the number of inspections becomes 
large.

DOI: 10.1177/1740774507081219
PMID: 17848494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Med Oncol. 2007;24(2):155-61. doi: 10.1007/BF02698034.

Risk factors for central nervous system metastasis in patients with metastatic 
breast cancer.

Sezgin C(1), Gokmen E, Esassolak M, Ozdemir N, Goker E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Ege University School of Medicine, Bornova, 
Izmir, 35100, Turkey. canfeza.sezgin@ege.edu.tr

AIMS: Patients with metastatic breast cancer (MBC) and central nervous system 
(CNS) involvement have an impaired survival and quality of life. In this study, 
we investigated the risk factors for CNS metastasis among patients with MBC.
METHODS: The risk factors for development of CNS metastasis were analyzed in 154 
patients with MBC. Expression of c-erbB-2, Ki-67, p53, and hormone receptors was 
examined by immunohistochemistry (IHC) in breast cancer tissue samples from the 
154 patients. Kaplan-Meier and log-rank tests were used for the analysis of 
overall survival (OS). Chi-square test was used for univariate analysis.
RESULTS: Median OS was significantly poorer for patients with CNS metastasis as 
compared with patients with no CNS metastasis (OS, 23 mo vs 30 mo, 
respectively;p = 0.03). Ki-67 and p53 overexpressions by IHC, and lung 
metastasis as the first site of relapse, were associated with a higher risk of 
developing CNS metastasis in the univariate analysis (p <or= 0.05). The presence 
of lung metastasis (odds ratio [OR]= 2.82, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 
1.13-7.00,p = 0.02) and p53 overexpression (OR = 2.44, 95% CI: 0.99-6.00,p = 
0.05) were the two predictive factors associated with occurrence of CNS 
metastasis in the multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, the presences of lung metastasis as the first site 
of relapse and p53 overexpression were predictive for the occurrence of CNS 
metastasis in patients with MBC. Life expectancy of patients with CNS metastasis 
is significantly shorter than those without CNS metastasis. These results may 
have clinical significance in counseling MBC patients with regard to their 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02698034
PMID: 17848738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Onkologie. 2007 Sep;30(8-9):414-8. doi: 10.1159/000104491. Epub 2007 Sep 7.

Evaluation and modification of the Tomita score in 217 patients with vertebral 
metastases.

Ulmar B(1), Reichel H, Catalkaya S, Naumann U, Schmidt R, Gerstner S, Huch K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, University of Ulm, Germany. 
benjamin.ulmar@medizin.uni-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: The Tomita prognosis score consists of the following 3 parameters: 
growth behavior, evidence of visceral metastases, and/or evidence of bony 
metastases.
METHODS: 217 consecutive patients, surgically treated for vertebral metastases 
of different entities, were studied retrospectively. The score according to 
Tomita was determined.
RESULTS: In the study group, the Tomita score showed significant results for the 
estimation of life expectancy of the different prognostic groups (p < 0.0001), 
but the analysis showed a low reliability, i.e. correlation between predicted 
prognosis and real survival. A modified division of the patients based on the 
total sum of points allowed a significant separation (p < 0.0001) of patients 
into 2 prognostic groups with a real survival of more or less than 12 months.
CONCLUSION: In our study, the original Tomita score was not reliable to predict 
the life expectancy of cancer patients with spinal metastases. Our modification 
allows a significant differentiation of patients with spinal metastases with a 
prognosis of more or less than 12 months.

DOI: 10.1159/000104491
PMID: 17848812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Br J Cancer. 2007 Oct 8;97(7):868-76. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603960. Epub 2007
Sep  11.

Detection of distant metastases in patients with oesophageal or gastric cardia 
cancer: a diagnostic decision analysis.

van Vliet EP(1), Steyerberg EW, Eijkemans MJ, Kuipers EJ, Siersema PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC - University 
Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
e.p.m.vanvilet@erasmusmc.nl

Computed tomography (CT) is presently a standard procedure for the detection of 
distant metastases in patients with oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer. We 
aimed to determine the additional diagnostic value of alternative staging 
investigations. We included 569 oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer patients 
who had undergone CT neck/thorax/abdomen, ultrasound (US) abdomen, US neck, 
endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), and/or chest X-ray for staging. Sensitivity 
and specificity were first determined at an organ level (results of 
investigations, i.e., CT, US abdomen, US neck, EUS, and chest X-ray, per organ), 
and then at a patient level (results for combinations of investigations), 
considering that the detection of distant metastases is a contraindication to 
surgery. For this, we compared three strategies for each organ: CT alone, CT 
plus another investigation if CT was negative for metastases (one-positive 
scenario), and CT plus another investigation if CT was positive, but requiring 
that both were positive for a final positive result (two-positive scenario). In 
addition, costs, life expectancy and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
compared between different diagnostic strategies. CT showed sensitivities for 
detecting metastases in celiac lymph nodes, liver and lung of 69, 73, and 90%, 
respectively, which was higher than the sensitivities of US abdomen (44% for 
celiac lymph nodes and 65% for liver metastases), EUS (38% for celiac lymph 
nodes), and chest X-ray (68% for lung metastases). In contrast, US neck showed a 
higher sensitivity for the detection of malignant supraclavicular lymph nodes 
than CT (85 vs 28%). At a patient level, sensitivity for detecting distant 
metastases was 66% and specificity was 95% if only CT was performed. A higher 
sensitivity (86%) was achieved when US neck was added to CT (one-positive 
scenario), at the same specificity (95%). This strategy resulted in lower costs 
compared to CT only, at an almost similar (quality adjusted) life expectancy. 
Slightly higher specificities (97-99%) were achieved if liver and/or lung 
metastases found on CT, were confirmed by US abdomen or chest X-ray, 
respectively (two-positive scenario). These strategies had only slightly higher 
QALYs, but substantially higher costs. The combination of CT neck/thorax/abdomen 
and US neck was most cost-effective for the detection of metastases in patients 
with oesophageal or gastric cardia cancer, whereas the performance of CT only 
had a lower sensitivity for metastases detection and higher costs. The role of 
EUS seems limited, which may be due to the low number of M1b celiac lymph nodes 
detected in this series. It remains to be determined whether the application of 
positron emission tomography will further increase sensitivities and 
specificities of metastases detection without jeopardising costs and QALYs.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6603960
PMCID: PMC2360396
PMID: 17848957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Eur J Health Econ. 2008 Aug;9(3):285-92. doi: 10.1007/s10198-007-0076-z.
Epub  2007 Sep 12.

In pursuit of QALY weights for relatives: empirical estimates in relatives 
caring for older people.

Davidson T(1), Krevers B, Levin LA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment , Department of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Linköping University, 581 83, Linköping, Sweden. 
thomas.davidson@ihs.liu.se

This study estimates quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) weights for relatives 
caring for an older person. The data used are from the Swedish part of the 
EUROFAMCARE study. A new measure is introduced called the R-QALY weight, defined 
as the effect on a relative's QALY weight due to being a relative of a disabled 
or sick individual. R-QALY weights were created by comparing relatives' QALY 
weights with population-based QALY weights. They were also created by comparing 
with QALY weights reassessed for a hypothetical situation in which the older 
person needed no care. The results indicate that R-QALY weights are small when 
compared with population-based weights, but large when compared with QALY 
weights reassessed for the hypothetical situation. Moreover, R-QALY weights were 
affected by relatives' age, sex, and subjective perception of positive and 
negative aspects of the caregiving situation. These aspects should therefore be 
taken into account in health economics evaluations using a societal approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0076-z
PMID: 17849155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Econ Entomol. 2007 Aug;100(4):1027-32. doi: 
10.1603/0022-0493(2007)100[1027:iermop]2.0.co;2.

Incorporating ecologically relevant measures of pesticide effect for estimating 
the compatibility of pesticides and biocontrol agents.

Stark JD(1), Vargas R, Banks JE.

Author information:
(1)Ecotoxicology Program Washington State University Puyallup Research & 
Extension Center, Puyallup, WA 98371, USA. starkj@wsu.edu

The compatibility of biological control agents with pesticides is a central 
concern in integrated pest management programs. The most common assessments of 
compatibility consist of simple comparisons of acute toxicity among pest species 
and select biocontrol agents. A more sophisticated approach, developed by the 
International Organisation of Biological Control (IOBC), is based on a tiered 
hierarchy made up of threshold values for mortality and sublethal effects that 
is used to determine the compatibility of pesticides and biological control 
agents. However, this method is unable to capture longer term population 
dynamics, which is often critical to the success of biological control and pest 
suppression. In this article, we used the delay in population growth index, a 
measure of population recovery, to investigate the potential impacts that the 
threshold values for levels of lethal and sublethal effects developed by the 
IOBC had on three biocontrol agents: sevenspotted lady beetle, Coccinella 
septempunctata L.; the aphid parasitoid Diaeretiella rapae (M'Intosh), and 
Fopius arisanus (Sonan), a parasitoid of tephritid flies. Based on life 
histories of these economically important natural enemies, we established a 
delay of 1-generation time interval as sufficient to disrupt biological control 
success. We found that delays equivalent to 1-generation time interval were 
caused by mortality as low as 50% or reductions of offspring as low as 58%, both 
values in line with thresholds developed by the IOBC. However, combinations of 
mortality and reduction of offspring lower than these values (from 32 to 43% 
each) over a simulated 4-mo period caused significant population delays. 
Furthermore, the species used in these simulations reacted differently to the 
same levels of effect. The parasitoid D. rapae was the most susceptible species, 
followed by F. arisanus and C. septempunctata. Our results indicate that it is 
not possible to generalize about potential long-term impacts of pesticides on 
biocontrol agents because susceptibility is influenced by differences in life 
history variables. Additionally, populations of biocontrol agents may undergo 
significant damage when mortality approaches 50% or when there is mortality of 
-30% and a 30% reduction in offspring caused by a sublethal effect. Our results 
suggest that more ecologically relevant measures of effect such as delays in 
population growth may advance our knowledge of pesticide impacts on populations 
of beneficial species.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2007)100[1027:iermop]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17849847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Econ Entomol. 2007 Aug;100(4):1400-8. doi: 
10.1603/0022-0493(2007)100[1400:dofsti]2.0.co;2.

Distribution of Formosan subterranean termite (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae) in 
Mississippi.

Sun JZ(1), Lockwood ME, Etheridge JL, Carroll J, Hollomon CZ, Coker CE, Knight 
PR.

Author information:
(1)Coastal Research and Extension Center, Mississippi State University, 711 W. 
North Street, Poplarville, MS 39470, USA. js841@msstate.edu

An extensive monitoring and survey program in Mississippi was conducted from 
2000 to 2004 to investigate the distribution of the Formosan subterranean 
termite, Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae). Seventy-two 
towns from 22 counties in southern Mississippi were monitored with a total of 
3914 traps that catch alates during the swarming season. In addition, 259 
licensed pest management professionals in Mississippi were surveyed to determine 
the locations of termite infestations treated. The alates of C. formosanus were 
recovered in 12 counties with light traps, and termite infestations were 
documented in an additional 13 from data collected in the termite survey. 
Infestations of C. formosanus have been documented in urban, urban cluster, 
rural, and forested areas of Mississippi. However, the distribution in mean 
total capture of alates for 4 yr differed significantly among the four 
ecological areas with the highest percentage in forested areas (31%) and the 
lowest percentage in urban cluster areas (17%). Most of the infestations of C. 
formosanus were geographically distributed along the coastal areas of southern 
Mississippi from Gulfport to Pascagoula. The greatest total number of alates 
captured in light traps was documented in Pearl River County. Mass swarming of 
C. formosanus occurred primarily in May or June, depending on weather 
conditions. The number of documented counties with the evidence of large and 
widely dispersed swarms of C. formosanus in different ecological areas, and the 
increase in total annual alate captures from 2000 to 2003, suggest that this 
invasive termite species is now firmly established in Mississippi.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2007)100[1400:dofsti]2.0.co;2
PMID: 17849894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Clin Nurs. 2008 Feb;17(3):333-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2006.01919.x.
Epub  2007 Sep 11.

The Chinese Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory: the development of a short form.

Ip WY(1), Chung TK, Tang CS.

Author information:
(1)Nethersole School of Nursing, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, 
Hong Kong, China. ip2013@cuhk.edu.hk

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To examine the validity and reliability of the short form 
of the Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory in a clinical Chinese pregnant 
population.
BACKGROUND: Childbirth self-efficacy has become an important psychological 
construct for both childbirth educators and researchers because pregnant women's 
perception may influence the meaning and consequences of childbirth. Assessment 
done by the original Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory limits the scientific 
rigor for generating additional research into the construct, as its items were 
repetitive and its structure is lengthy.
METHODS: This prospective study investigated 293 Chinese pregnant women in their 
third trimester of pregnancy. The women completed the short form of the 
Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory, the Chinese Self-efficacy Scale and the 
socio-demographic questionnaire in an interview room of the study hospital. The 
re-testing of the scale on the participants was carried out two weeks later in 
the same clinic.
RESULTS: Factor analysis and item-subscale correlations supported the conceptual 
dimensions of the short form of the Chinese Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory. 
The Cronbach's alpha coefficients for both subscales were over 0.9. The 
convergent validity with the Chinese Self-Efficacy Scale was reflected by a 
moderate correlation for the two subscales. The efficacy expectancy subscale 
differentiated primigravid from multigravid women (t = 2.83, P < 0.01, CI = 
-2.33 to 2.34).
CONCLUSIONS: The reliability and validity information presented in this paper 
supports the use of the short form of the Childbirth Self-Efficacy Inventory as 
a research instrument in measuring the childbirth self-efficacy among the 
Chinese population. Further validation of the measure is warranted.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: The reliable short form of the Childbirth 
Self-Efficacy Inventory could be used in routine clinical practice in maternity 
care services to provide a point of reference for future research and 
development in both childbirth education and clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2006.01919.x
PMID: 17850293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Nov;61(11):1805-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01546..x. Epub 2007 Sep 10.

Cost-effectiveness of raising HDL cholesterol by adding prolonged-release 
nicotinic acid to statin therapy in the secondary prevention setting: a French 
perspective.

Roze S(1), Ferrières J, Bruckert E, Van Ganse E, Chapman MJ, Liens D, Renaudin 
C.

Author information:
(1)CORE Center for Outcomes Research, IMS Health, Allschwil, Switzerland.

AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of raising high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (HDL-C) with add-on nicotinic acid in statin-treated patients with 
coronary heart disease (CHD) and low HDL-C, from the French healthcare system 
perspective.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Computer simulation economic modelling incorporating two 
decision analytic submodels was used. The first submodel generated a cohort of 
2000 patients and simulated lipid changes using baseline characteristics and 
treatment effects from the ARterial Biology for the Investigation of the 
Treatment Effects of Reducing cholesterol (ARBITER 2) study. Prolonged-release 
(PR) nicotinic acid (1 g/day) was added in patients with HDL-C < 40 mg/dl (1.03 
mmol/l) on statin alone. The second submodel used standard Markov techniques to 
evaluate long-term clinical and economic outcomes based on Framingham risk 
estimates. Direct medical costs were accounted from a third party payer 
perspective [2004 Euros (euro)] and discounted by 3%. Addition of PR nicotinic 
acid to statin therapy resulted in substantial health gain and increased life 
expectancy, at a cost well within the threshold (< 50,000 euros per life year 
gained) considered good value for money in Western Europe.
CONCLUSIONS: Raising HDL-C by adding PR nicotinic acid to statin therapy in CHD 
patients was cost-effective in France at a level considered to represent good 
value for money by reimbursement authorities in Europe. This strategy was highly 
cost-effective in CHD patients with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01546..x
PMID: 17850322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Health Serv Res. 2007 Oct;42(5):1943-59. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2007.00701.x.

Cost-effectiveness of diabetes case management for low-income populations.

Gilmer TP(1), Roze S, Valentine WJ, Emy-Albrecht K, Ray JA, Cobden D, Nicklasson 
L, Philis-Tsimikas A, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0622, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Project Dulce, a culturally 
specific diabetes case management and self-management training program, in four 
cohorts defined by insurance status.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: Clinical and cost data on 3,893 persons with 
diabetes participating in Project Dulce were used as inputs into a diabetes 
simulation model.
STUDY DESIGN: The Center for Outcomes Research Diabetes Model, a published, 
peer-reviewed and validated simulation model of diabetes, was used to evaluate 
life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALY), cumulative incidence 
of complications and direct medical costs over patient lifetimes (40-year time 
horizon) from a third-party payer perspective. Cohort characteristics, treatment 
effects, and case management costs were derived using a difference in difference 
design comparing data from the Project Dulce program to a cohort of historical 
controls. Long-term costs were derived from published U.S. sources. Costs and 
clinical benefits were discounted at 3.0 percent per annum. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $10,141, $24,584, 
$44,941, and $69,587 per QALY gained were estimated for Project Dulce 
participants versus control in the uninsured, County Medical Services, Medi-Cal, 
and commercial insurance cohorts, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The Project Dulce diabetes case management program was associated 
with cost-effective improvements in quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
decreased incidence of diabetes-related complications over patient lifetimes. 
Diabetes case management may be particularly cost effective for low-income 
populations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2007.00701.x
PMCID: PMC2254564
PMID: 17850527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Disabil Rehabil. 2008;30(4):296-304. doi: 10.1080/09638280701265539.

A home-based rehabilitation program for the hemiplegic upper extremity by 
power-assisted functional electrical stimulation.

Hara Y(1), Ogawa S, Tsujiuchi K, Muraoka Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Nippon Medical School, Chiba Hokusoh 
Hospital, Inbagun, Japan. hara-y@nms.ac.jp

PURPOSE: To assess the effects of daily power-assisted functional electrical 
stimulation (FES) home program therapy in chronic stroke.
METHODS: A total of 20 consecutively enrolled stroke patients with spastic 
upper-extremity impairments > 1 year after stroke were recruited for this 
non-blinded randomized controlled trial. Subjects were assigned to control and 
FES groups and followed for 5 months. The FES group used a power-assisted FES 
device to induce greater muscle contraction by electrical stimulation in 
proportion to the integrated electromyography (EMG) signal picked up on surface 
electrodes. Target muscles were the extensor carpi radialis longus (ECRL) and 
extensor carpi radialis brevis (ECRB), extensor digitorum communis (EDC), 
extensor indicis proprius (EIP), and deltoid (Del). Patients underwent 30 
approximately 60 min FES sessions at home about 6 days/week. Root mean square 
(RMS) of ECRL, EDC and Del maximum voluntary EMGs, active range of motion (ROM) 
of wrist and finger extension and shoulder flexion, modified Ashworth scale 
(MAS), and clinical tests were investigated before and after FES training.
RESULTS: The FES group displayed significantly greater improvements in RMS, 
active ROM, MAS and functional hand tests, and was able to smoothly perform 
activities of daily life using the hemiplegic upper extremities.
CONCLUSIONS: Daily power-assisted FES home program therapy can effectively 
improve wrist and finger extension and shoulder flexion. Proprioceptional 
sensory feedback might play an important role in power-assisted FES therapy.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280701265539
PMID: 17852312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Hematology. 2007 Dec;12(6):527-31. doi: 10.1080/10245330701384161.

Multiple myeloma staging based on the combination of beta-2-microglobulin and 
albumin: the role of albumin in the model.

Mihou D(1), Katodritou E, Zervas K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology-Oncology, Theagenion Cancer Center, Thessaloniki, 
Greece. dmihou@mailbox.gr

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Since the prognostic significance of the combination 
of beta-2-microglobulin (beta(2)m) and albumin in multiple myeloma (MM) has been 
recognized, these two easily obtainable parameters were subsequently employed in 
the staging systems of Bataille et al. (BSS), the South West Oncology Group 
(SWOG SS) and most recently the International Myeloma Working Group (ISS). There 
is no consensus, however, regarding the cut off levels of beta(2)m and the 
stage, early or advanced, at which albumin should be added to the model. At the 
same time, Weber et al. demonstrated similar results using beta(2)m alone in 
identical cut-offs with ISS (WSS). The aim of the present study is to apply 
these four staging systems in 504 MM patients, in order to discern the role of 
albumin in MM staging and evaluate if, and at which stage, albumin should be 
added to the model.
METHODS: Median overall survival (OS) according to BSS, SWOG SS, ISS and WSS was 
estimated according to the Kaplan-Meier method. OS differences between the 
stages were assessed using the log-rank test. Patients with beta(2)m < 3.5 mg/l 
and albumin < 3.5 g/dl, who were classified in stage II according to ISS and in 
stage I according to WSS, were analyzed separately in order to detect in which 
prognostic group they practically belong.
RESULTS: BSS and SWOG SS failed to distinguish stage II from stage III patients 
and stage III from stage IV patients, respectively. ISS and WSS achieved clear 
stratification of the patients into three distinct prognostic subgroups, but WSS 
I patients had a lower life expectancy than ISS I patients. This difference was 
due to false inclusion of patients with beta(2)m < 3.5 mg/l and albumin < 3.5 
g/dl in stage I by WSS, while separate analysis of these patients proved that 
they belong, in fact, in stage II. In an attempt to improve its prognostic 
impact, WSS was then successfully modified by dividing WSS I patients in two 
substages, WSS IA: beta(2)m < 2.5 mg/l and WSS IB: 2.5 mg/l < or = beta(2)m < 
3.5 mg/l, thus designating a low-risk and a low-intermediate-risk subgroup, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Albumin appears to lose its prognostic value at high cut-off levels 
of beta(2)m, while it enhances the prognostic significance of beta(2)m at low 
cut-off levels of the latter. Albumin cannot be eliminated from the ISS, since 
it is absolutely necessary in order to identify true low-risk patients. The only 
possibility for albumin exclusion from the model, could be to decrease the 
beta(2)m low-risk cut-off from 3.5 to 2.5 mg/l.

DOI: 10.1080/10245330701384161
PMID: 17852450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Scand J Public Health. 2007;35(5):510-5. doi: 10.1080/14034940701271908.

Impact of selected risk factors on quality-adjusted life expectancy in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Juel K, Davidsen M, Sørensen J.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

AIMS: The construct quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) combines mortality and 
overall health status and can be used to quantify the impact of risk factors on 
population health. The purpose of the study was to estimate the impact of 
tobacco smoking, high alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, and overweight 
on QALYs.
METHODS: Life tables for each level of exposure to the risk factor were 
constructed mainly on the basis of the Danish National Cohort Study. QALYs were 
estimated for exposed and unexposed by Sullivan's method, by combining life 
tables, EQ-5D self-classified health status from the Danish Health Survey 2000, 
and Danish EQ-5D values.
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted life expectancy of 25-year-olds was 10-11 QALYs 
shorter for heavy smokers than for those who never smoke. The difference in life 
expectancy was 9-10 years. Men and women with high alcohol consumption could 
expect to lose about 5 and 3 QALYs, respectively. Sedentary persons could expect 
to have about 7 fewer QALYs than physically active persons. Obesity shortened 
QALYs by almost 3 for men and 6 for women.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking, high alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, and obesity 
strongly reduce life expectancy and health-related quality of life. These 
results could be used by health policy-makers to evaluate the potential gains in 
public health due to interventions against these risk factors, when the 
prevalence of exposure to the risk factor is available.

DOI: 10.1080/14034940701271908
PMID: 17852988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Cancer. 2007 Nov 1;110(9):2042-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23002.

Development of a model with which to predict the life expectancy of patients 
with spinal epidural metastasis.

Bartels RH(1), Feuth T, van der Maazen R, Verbeek AL, Kappelle AC, André 
Grotenhuis J, Leer JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. r.bartels@nch.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: The surgical treatment of spinal epidural metastasis is evolving. To 
be a surgical candidate, a patient should have a life expectancy of at least 3 
months. Estimation of survival by experienced specialists has proven to be 
unreliable.
METHODS: The Cox proportional hazards model was used to make a prediction model. 
To validate the model, Efron optimism correction by bootstrapping was performed. 
Retrospective data of patients treated for a spinal metastasis were used. 
Possible predictive factors were defined based on clinical experience and the 
literature. Statistical methods and clinical knowledge were also used to reveal 
an optimal set of predictors of survival. Data from patients treated at the 
Department of Radiation Oncology for spinal metastasis between 1998 and 2005 
were evaluated.
RESULTS: The case notes of 219 patients form the base of this study. In the 
final model, only 5 variables were required to predict the survival of a patient 
with spinal metastasis: sex, location of the primary lesion, intentional 
curative treatment of the primary tumor, cervical location of the spinal 
metastasis, and Karnofsky performance score. Examples with different predictors 
are given. The R(2) (N) index of Nagelkerke was 0.36 (95% confidence interval 
[95% CI], 0.28-0.48) and the c-index 0.72 (95% CI, 0.68-0.77).
CONCLUSIONS: A reliable and simple model with which to predict the survival of a 
patient with spinal epidural metastasis is presented. Without the need for 
extensive investigations, survival can be predicted and only 5 easily obtainable 
parameters are required.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23002
PMID: 17853394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Health Econ. 2007 Oct;16(10):981-92. doi: 10.1002/hec.1300.

Drug price reform in the UK: debunking the myths.

Thornton S(1).

Author information:
(1)SimeonThornton@yahoo.co.uk

The OFT report into the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS) called for 
reform of the scheme, replacing existing profit and price controls with a system 
of value-based pricing (VBP). The report argued that VBP would be much more 
effective than the current PPRS both at providing value for money for the NHS 
and giving pharmaceutical companies the right incentives to invest in drugs in 
the future. The report has sparked a widespread debate about drug pricing in the 
UK and has been controversial in some quarters. Some of the more negative 
responses are, however, based on fundamental misconceptions about the OFT 
recommendations. In particular, contrary to some claims, the recommended system 
would provide strong incentives for incremental innovation and the right balance 
of rewards for first in class and follow-on products. Nor, as is sometimes 
argued, would VBP have an adverse effect on investment in the UK.Certainly, real 
challenges lie ahead if VBP is to be implemented. These concern the definition 
of value, particularly where patient benefits differ significantly by subgroup 
or indication, and the level of resource required to implement VBP. The OFT 
report contains proposals for addressing each of these areas. Perhaps the most 
difficult challenge is the political one: securing acceptance for a reform 
package that would create winners and losers among pharmaceutical companies 
according to their success in producing valuable drugs. Ultimately, however, 
only a scheme that does precisely this can hope to meet the needs of patients, 
the NHS and innovative companies in the long run.

