PMID: 18056974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Nov;1119:289-95. doi: 10.1196/annals.1404.001.

Protein synthesis is a novel determinant of aging in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Syntichaki P(1), Troulinaki K, Tavernarakis N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology, Vassilika Vouton, Crete, Greece.

Protein synthesis is a tightly regulated cellular process that affects growth, 
reproduction, and survival in response to both intrinsic and extrinsic cues, 
such as nutrient availability and energy levels. A pronounced, age-related 
decline of the total protein synthesis rate has been observed in many organisms, 
including humans. The molecular mechanisms underlying this decline and their 
role in the aging process remain unclear. A series of recent studies in the 
nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, have revealed a novel link between protein 
synthesis and aging. Remarkably, these research findings, in their totality, 
converge to indicate that reduction of mRNA translation prolongs life in worms. 
Signal transduction cascades implicated in aging, such as the insulin/insulin 
growth factor-1 pathway, interface with mechanisms regulating protein synthesis 
via a battery of key mRNA translation factors. Are the effects of these pathways 
on aging mediated, in part, by alterations in protein synthesis? This is an 
intriguing possibility in light of the latest discoveries. Whether attenuation 
of protein synthesis promotes longevity across different phyla is an additional 
important matter. Here, we survey work associating protein synthesis with aging 
and discuss the basis of life-span extension under conditions that attenuate 
protein synthesis.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1404.001
PMID: 18056976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Nov;1119:306-9. doi: 10.1196/annals.1404.022.

Nonpathological senescence arises from unsuitable external influences.

Khalyavkin AV(1), Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemical Physics of RAS, 4 Kosygin St, Moscow 119334, Russia. 
ab3711@mail.sitek.net

One of the most exciting events in current biogerontology is the elucidation of 
environmental control over the rate of aging. Many observations suggest that 
appropriate external stimuli can ameliorate the state of various biological 
entities and even rejuvenate them. Recent findings support the possibility that 
nonpathological aging of cells may be caused solely by external signals and 
moreover that this aging might be reversible. We have extended this principle to 
the level of the whole organism. We have suggested that a range of natural 
environmental conditions exists that corresponds to adequate vital activity 
within which an organism can maintain optimal functioning, renew itself, and 
remain ageless. But the environmental mortality of such organisms in natural 
niches is rather high. To reduce this mortality, the organism requires a milder 
but less stimulating environment in the presence of which (below some threshold 
level), the organism's renewal process becomes incomplete and the organism 
starts to age. Nevertheless, an age-dependent increase in the mortality rate due 
to senescence can be compensated for by a significant initial reduction in 
mortality due to environmental causes. The moderate present-day increase of life 
expectancy is the result of just such an initial mortality reduction. Living in 
a safe environment along with simulation of natural external positive influences 
or adequate responses to negative influences can decelerate, stop, and even 
reverse aging as well as considerably extend mean and extreme life span.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1404.022
PMID: 18056977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Exp Bot. 2007;58(13):3623-30. doi: 10.1093/jxb/erm212.

Functional analysis of a RING domain ankyrin repeat protein that is highly 
expressed during flower senescence.

Xu X(1), Jiang CZ, Donnelly L, Reid MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Sciences, University of California Davis, One Shields 
Avenue, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

A gene encoding a RING zinc finger ankyrin repeat protein (MjXB3), a putative E3 
ubiquitin ligase, is highly expressed in petals of senescing four o'clock 
(Mirabilis jalapa) flowers, increasing >40,000-fold during the onset of visible 
senescence. The gene has homologues in many other species, and the Petunia 
homologue is strongly up-regulated in senescing Petunia corollas. Silencing the 
expression of this gene in Petunia, using virus-induced gene silencing, resulted 
in a 2 d extension in flower life. In Mirabilis, a 2 kb promoter region, 5' 
upstream of the MjXB3 gene, was isolated. The promoter sequence included 
putative binding sites for many DNA-binding proteins, including the bZIP, Myb, 
homeodomain-leucine zipper (HD-Zip), MADS-box, and WRKY transcription factors. 
The construct containing a 1 kb promoter region immediately upstream of the 
MjXB3 gene drove the strongest expression of the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) 
reporter gene in a transient expression assay. In Petunia, GUS expression under 
the control of this heterologous promoter fragment was specific to senescing 
flowers. The Mirabilis promoter GUS construct was tested in other flower 
species; while GUS activity in carnation petals was high during senescence, no 
expression was detected in three monocotyledonous flowers--daylily (Hemerocallis 
'Stella d'Oro'), daffodil (Narcissus pseudonarcissus 'King Alfred'), and orchid 
(Dendrobium 'Emma White').

DOI: 10.1093/jxb/erm212
PMID: 18057040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jan-Feb;28(1):102-12. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07309639.
Epub  2007 Dec 5.

Predicting utility ratings for joint health States from single health States in 
prostate cancer: empirical testing of 3 alternative theories.

Dale W(1), Basu A, Elstein A, Meltzer D.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Department of Medicine, Section of Geriatrics, 
Chicago, IL 60637, USA. wdale@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses measure quality of life by associating 
utilities with specific health states. Utilities are often defined by single 
health states, such as incontinence or impotence in the case of prostate cancer 
treatments. Health conditions often occur simultaneously, yielding joint health 
states (e.g., impotence with incontinence). Given the combinatorial mathematics 
involved, even a small number of conditions can result in large numbers of 
potential joint states, complicating utility elicitation for all relevant 
states. Analytic predictions for joint-state utilities have been based on 3 
theoretical models: 1) multiplicative, 2) additive, and 3) minimum models. These 
models' empirical accuracy for joint-state utility prediction has been minimally 
examined. The authors compared these 3 models for predicting joint-state 
utilities from single-state utilities in men at the time of prostate biopsies.
METHODS: Utilities were collected using time tradeoff in 2 university-based 
prostate biopsy clinics (N = 147). Single-state utilities were elicited for 
impotence, incontinence, watchful waiting, and post-prostatectomy. Joint-state 
utilities were elicited for states combining impotence with 1) incontinence, 2) 
postprostatectomy, or 3) watchful waiting. Testing 3 prediction models of 
joint-state utilities for bias and consistency, the predictions were compared 
against directly elicited joint-state utilities.
RESULTS: All 3 models are biased. The minimum model is preferred, being the 
least biased and most efficient.
CONCLUSIONS: No current model accurately predicts joint-state utility using the 
component single-state utilities. When possible, joint-state utilities should be 
elicited. If not possible, the minimum model is recommended. Research to 
identify better models is needed.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07309639
PMID: 18057188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jan-Feb;28(1):44-55. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07309644.
Epub  2007 Dec 5.

A second-order simulation model of the cost-effectiveness of managing dyspepsia 
in the United States.

Barton PM(1), Moayyedi P, Talley NJ, Vakil NB, Delaney BC.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Facility, University of Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: The "gold-standard'' evidence of effectiveness for a clinical 
practice guideline is the randomized controlled trial (RCT), although RCTs have 
a limited ability to explore potential management strategies for a chronic 
disease where these interact over time. Modeling can be used to fill this gap, 
and models have become increasingly complex, with both dynamic sampling and 
representation of second-order uncertainty to provide more precise estimates. 
However, both simulation modeling and probabilistic sensitivity analysis are 
rarely used together. The objective of this study was to explore uncertainty in 
controversial areas of the 2005 American Gastroenterology Association position 
statement on the management of dyspepsia.
METHODS: Individual sampling model, incorporating a second-order probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis.
POPULATION: US adult patients presenting in primary care with dyspepsia. 
Interventions compared: empirical acid suppression, test and treat for 
Helicobacter pylori, initial endoscopy, acid suppression then endoscopy, test 
and treat then proton pump inhibitor (PPI) then endoscopy.
OUTCOMES: Cost-effectiveness, quality-adjusted life years, and costs in US 
dollars from a societal perspective, measured over a 5-year period.
DATA SOURCES: mainly Cochrane meta-analyses.
RESULTS: Endoscopy was dominated at all ages by other strategies. PPI therapy 
was the most cost-effective strategy in 30-year-olds with a low prevalence of H. 
pylori. In 60-year-olds, H. pylori test and treat was the most cost-effective 
option.
CONCLUSIONS: Acid suppression alone was more cost-effective than either 
endoscopy or H. pylori test and treat in younger dyspepsia patients with a low 
prevalence of infection.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07309644
PMID: 18057189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Med Decis Making. 2007 Nov-Dec;27(6):789-821. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07306112.

A systematic review of cost-utility analyses in HIV/AIDS: implications for 
public policy.

Hornberger J(1), Holodniy M, Robertus K, Winnike M, Gibson E, Verhulst E.

Author information:
(1)The SPHERE Institute/Acumen, LLC, Burlingame, California, USA. 
jhornberger@cedarecon.com

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether gaps exist in published cost-utility analyses 
as measured by their coverage of topics addressed in current HIV guidelines from 
the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS).
DESIGN: A systematic review of US-based cost-effectiveness analyses of HIV/AIDS 
prevention and management strategies, based on original, published research.
METHODS: Predefined criteria were used to identify all analyses pertaining to 
prevention and management of HIV/AIDS; information was collected on type of 
strategy, patient demographics, study perspective, quality of the study, 
effectiveness measures, costs, and cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: One hundred and six studies were identified; 62 described strategies 
for averting new HIV infections, and 44 dealt with managing persons who are HIV 
positive. The quality of studies was generally high, but gaps were found in all 
studies. Especially common were omissions in reporting data abstraction 
methodology and discussions of direction and magnitude of potential biases. 
Among the 22 most highly rated papers (score of 90 or higher), only 1 was cited 
in the guidelines, and 3 papers reported on interventions that were superseded 
by newer approaches. Using a USD 100,000 threshold, the guidelines usually 
endorsed interventions found to be cost-effective. Exceptions included 
recommending postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) for populations in which PEP is 
unlikely to be cost-effective and not recommending primary resistance testing in 
treatment-naive persons, although the intervention was reported to have a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of less than USD 50,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an abundant literature on the cost-utility of 
HIV/AIDS-targeted strategies, guidelines cite relatively few of these papers, 
and gaps exist regarding assessments of some strategies and special populations.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07306112
PMID: 18057191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2007 Dec;89(12):1608-14. doi: 
10.1302/0301-620X.89B12.19363.

A randomised controlled trial of cemented versus cementless press-fit condylar 
total knee replacement: 15-year survival analysis.

Baker PN(1), Khaw FM, Kirk LM, Esler CN, Gregg PJ.

Author information:
(1)South Tees Hospitals NHS Trust, The James Cook University Hospital, Marton 
Road, Middlesbrough, Cleveland TS4 3BW, UK. drpnbaker@hotmail.com

We report the long-term survival of a prospective randomised consecutive series 
of 501 primary knee replacements using the press-fit condylar posterior cruciate 
ligament-retaining prosthesis. Patients received either cemented (219 patients, 
277 implants) or cementless (177 patients, 224 implants) fixation. Altogether, 
44 of 501 knees (8.8%) underwent revision surgery (24 cemented vs 20 
cementless). For cemented knees the 15-year survival rate was 80.7% (95% 
confidence interval (CI) 71.5 to 87.4) and for cementless knees it was 75.3% 
(95% CI 63.5 to 84.3). There was no significant difference between the two 
groups (cemented vs cementless; hazard ratio (HR) 0.83, 95% CI 0.45 to 1.52, p = 
0.55). When comparing the covariates there was no significant difference in the 
rates of survival between the side of operation (HR 0.58, p = 0.07), age (HR 
0.97, p = 0.10) and diagnosis (HR 1.25 p = 0.72). However, there was a 
significant gender difference, with males having a higher failure rate with 
cemented fixation (HR 2.48, p = 0.004). Females had a similar failure rate in 
both groups. This single-surgeon series, with no loss to follow-up, provides 
reliable data of the revision rates of one of the most commonly-used total knee 
replacements. The survival of the press-fit condylar total knee replacement 
remained good at 15 years, irrespective of the method of fixation.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.89B12.19363
PMID: 18057361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Neth J Med. 2007 Nov;65(10):372-80.

Liver transplantation: an update.

Verdonk RC(1), van den Berg AP, Slooff MJ, Porte RJ, Haagsma EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, University Medical Centre 
Groningen, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands. 
r.c.verdonk@int.umcg.nl

Liver transplantation has been an accepted treatment for end-stage liver disease 
since the 1980s. Currently it is a highly successful treatment for this 
indication. The aim of this review is to give a general update on recent 
developments in the field of liver transplantation. In the last decades 
considerable progress has been made in the care of liver transplant candidates 
and recipients. At present the one- and five-year patient survival rates are 
approximately 85 and 75%. The indications for liver transplantation are shifting 
and the number of absolute contraindications is decreasing. In the coming years, 
an increase in the number of transplant candidates can be expected. An important 
problem is the shortage of donor organs, for which many solutions are being 
explored. A recently introduced method for recipient selection is the MELD score 
using simple laboratory measurements. Perioperative care at the present time is 
characterised by a high degree of standardisation and rapidly declining blood 
loss during transplantation. Long-term care includes awareness and management of 
recurrent disease. Important causes of morbidity and mortality such as de novo 
malignancies and cardiovascular disease should be adequately screened for and 
managed. With the increasing success of liver transplantation, physicians should 
aim at reaching a normal life expectancy and quality of life for transplant 
recipients.

PMID: 18057459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2007 
Dec;50(12):1524-30. doi: 10.1007/s00103-007-0387-3.

[Hereditary movement disorders].

[Article in German]

Schulz JB(1); German Network of Hereditary Movement Disorders Ge Ne Move.

Author information:
(1)Abt. für Neurodegeneration und Neurorestaurationsforschung, Zentren für 
Molekularphysiologie des Gehirns (CMPB) und Neurologische Medizin, 
Universitätsmedizin Göttingen, Göttingen, BRD. jschulz4@gwdg.de

Hereditary movement disorders comprise a group of genetically defined diseases 
characterized by an impaired control of movements, ataxia and/or spasticity. 
Affected individuals are disabled, their quality of life significantly reduced 
and their life expectancy shortened. One or more genetic causes have been 
identified for many of these diseases, including Huntington's disease, Wilson's 
disease, spinocerebellar ataxias, recessive ataxias, hereditary spastic 
paraplegia and hereditary dystonias. Due to their characteristic molecular and 
biochemical pathogenesis, these rare diseases can often serve as models for more 
common disorders such as Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's disease. The primary 
tasks of the German Network of Hereditary Movement Disorders (GeNeMove), funded 
by the German Ministry for Education and Research (BMBF), are to co-ordinate 
basic scientific research and clinical research into rare hereditary movement 
disorders and to improve the cooperation between the German centers specializing 
in hereditary movement disorders. For each of the diseases in its scope, 
GeNeMove works at creating standardized documentation of symptoms and the 
disease's progressive course over time; developing rating scales for clinical 
examinations and guidelines for therapy; improving genetic testing; fostering 
genetic research; and collecting samples of DNA, tissue, CSF and blood from 
sufferers of the disease for biobanks.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-007-0387-3
PMID: 18058148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Cutan Ocul Toxicol. 2007;26(4):343-57. doi: 10.1080/15569520701622951.

Structural characteristics of the aging skin: a review.

Farage MA(1), Miller KW, Elsner P, Maibach HI.

Author information:
(1)The Procter & Gamble Company, Winton Hill Business Center, Cincinnati, Ohio 
45224, USA. farage.m@pg.com

As life expectancy in industrialized countries increases, appropriate care of 
elderly skin looms as a dermatologic priority. Skin aging is a complex, 
multifactorial process whose baseline rate is genetically determined but that 
may be accelerated by environmental, mechanical, or socioeconomic factors. The 
intrinsic structural changes that occur with the aging of the skin increase skin 
fragility, decrease the ability of the skin to heal, increase risk for 
toxicological injuries, promote the development of various cutaneous disorders, 
and produce aesthetically undesirable effects like wrinkling and uneven 
pigmentation. As aged patients represent a larger segment of the population, 
increased attention to the problems of the aged skin, both cosmetic and beyond, 
will be necessary and should build on currently successful interventions to 
improve their quality of life.

DOI: 10.1080/15569520701622951
PMID: 18058308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Int J Cancer. 2008 Apr 1;122(7):1657-64. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23268.

Growth retardation and destruction of experimental squamous cell carcinoma by 
interstitial radioactive wires releasing diffusing alpha-emitting atoms.

Cooks T(1), Arazi L, Schmidt M, Marshak G, Kelson I, Keisari Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Microbiology, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv 
University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

In the present study, we examined the antitumoral effects caused by the release 
of alpha emitting radioisotopes into solid squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) tumors. 
Using a novel method termed DART (Diffusing Alpha-emitters Radiation Therapy), 
we assessed the efficacy of short-lived daughters of (224)Ra releasing alpha 
particles, dispersing in the malignant tissue, to cause tumor growth retardation 
and destruction. It was carried out using specially designed wires loaded with 
(224)Ra activities in the range of 7-42 kBq in a set of experiments performed on 
BALB/c and nude mice bearing metastatic SCC tumors derived from either mouse SQ2 
or human CAL27 cell lines. The insertion of a DART wire to the center of 6-7 mm 
primary tumors, retarded tumor growth, reduced lung metastatic load, prolonged 
life expectancy and in some cases caused tumor eradication. These effects were 
enhanced either when treating smaller tumors or treating identical tumors with 2 
DART wires. Similar experiments on human-derived SCC tumors in nude mice were 
consistent with the outcomes of the murine model. Histological assessments 
revealed the tissue damage pattern, and indicated a role for the tumor 
vasculature in the dispersion of the atoms and the propagation of the damage. 
Our findings indicate that Diffusing Alpha-emitting Radiation Therapy is 
effective in a model system using SCC primary tumors. The in situ destruction of 
primary solid tumors by DART is evidently a necessary step toward curing cancer 
and might be augmented by chemotherapy and other modalities such as 
immunotherapy or antigrowth factors agents.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23268
PMID: 18059026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2007 Oct;32(5):954-66. doi: 10.1139/H07-085.

Molecular mechanisms of life- and health-span extension: role of calorie 
restriction and exercise intervention.

Carter CS(1), Hofer T, Seo AY, Leeuwenburgh C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging and Geriatric Research, Division of Biology of Aging, 
College of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. 
ccarter@aging.ufl.edu

The aging process results in a gradual and progressive structural deterioration 
of biomolecular and cellular compartments and is associated with many 
pathological conditions, including cardiovascular disease, stroke, Alzheimer's 
disease, osteoporosis, sarcopenia, and liver dysfunction. Concomitantly, each of 
these conditions is associated with progressive functional decline, loss of 
independence, and ultimately disability. Because disabled individuals require 
care in outpatient or home care settings, and in light of the social, emotional, 
and fiscal burden associated with caring for an ever-increasing elderly 
population, research in geriatric medicine has recently focused on the 
biological mechanisms that are involved in the progression towards functional 
decline and disability to better design treatment and intervention strategies. 
Although not completely understood, the mechanisms underlying the aging process 
may partly involve inflammatory processes, oxidative damage, mitochondrial 
dysfunction, and apoptotic tissue degeneration. These hypotheses are based on 
epidemiological evidence and data from animal models of aging, as well as 
interventional studies. Findings from these studies have identified possible 
strategies to decrease the incidence of age-related diseases and delay the aging 
process. For example, lifelong exercise is known to extend mean life-span, 
whereas calorie restriction (CR) increases both mean and maximum life-span in a 
variety of species. Optimal application of these intervention strategies in the 
elderly may positively affect health-related outcomes and possibly longevity. 
Therefore, the scope of this article is to (i) provide an interpretation of 
various theories of aging from a "health-span" perspective; (ii) describe 
interventional testing in animals (CR and exercise); and (iii) provide a 
translational interpretation of these data.

DOI: 10.1139/H07-085
PMID: 18059622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. PLoS One. 2007 Dec 5;2(12):e1260. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001260.

HIV-infected children living in Central Africa have low persistence of 
antibodies to vaccines used in the Expanded Program on Immunization.

Tejiokem MC(1), Gouandjika I, Béniguel L, Zanga MC, Tene G, Gody JC, Njamkepo E, 
Kfutwah A, Penda I, Bilong C, Rousset D, Pouillot R, Tangy F, Baril L.

Author information:
(1)Centre Pasteur du Cameroun, Laboratoire d'Epidémiologie et de Santé Publique, 
Yaoundé, Cameroun.

BACKGROUND: The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) is the most 
cost-effective measures to control vaccine-preventable diseases. Currently, the 
EPI schedule is similar for HIV-infected children; the introduction of 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) should considerably prolong their life expectancy.
METHODS AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To evaluate the persistence of antibodies to the 
EPI vaccines in HIV-infected and HIV-exposed uninfected children who previously 
received these vaccines in routine clinical practice, we conducted a 
cross-sectional study of children, aged 18 to 36 months, born to HIV-infected 
mothers and living in Central Africa. We tested blood samples for antibodies to 
the combined diphtheria, tetanus, and whole-cell pertussis (DTwP), the measles 
and the oral polio (OPV) vaccines. We enrolled 51 HIV-infected children of whom 
33 were receiving ART, and 78 HIV-uninfected children born to HIV-infected 
women. A lower proportion of HIV-infected children than uninfected children had 
antibodies to the tested antigens with the exception of the OPV types 1 and 2. 
This difference was substantial for the measles vaccine (20% of the HIV-infected 
children and 56% of the HIV-exposed uninfected children, p<0.0001). We observed 
a high risk of low antibody levels for all EPI vaccines, except OPV types 1 and 
2, in HIV-infected children with severe immunodeficiency (CD4(+) T cells <25%).
CONCLUSIONS AND SIGNIFICANCE: Children were examined at a time when their 
antibody concentrations to EPI vaccines would have still not undergone 
significant decay. However, we showed that the antibody concentrations were 
lowered in HIV-infected children. Moreover, antibody concentration after a 
single dose of the measles vaccine was substantially lower than expected, 
particularly low in HIV-infected children with low CD4(+) T cell counts. This 
study supports the need for a second dose of the measles vaccine and for a 
booster dose of the DTwP and OPV vaccines to maintain the antibody 
concentrations in HIV-infected and HIV-exposed uninfected children.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001260
PMCID: PMC2093997
PMID: 18060056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


732. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2007 Nov 7;1(2):e114. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000114.

Measuring the burden of neglected tropical diseases: the global burden of 
disease framework.

Mathers CD(1), Ezzati M, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Information, Evidence and Research Cluster, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland. mathersc@who.int

Comment in
    PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 1:e104.

Reliable, comparable information about the main causes of disease and injury in 
populations, and how these are changing, is a critical input for debates about 
priorities in the health sector. Traditional sources of information about the 
descriptive epidemiology of diseases, injuries, and risk factors are generally 
incomplete, fragmented, and of uncertain reliability and comparability. The 
Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study has provided a conceptual and 
methodological framework to quantify and compare the health of populations using 
a summary measure of both mortality and disability, the disability-adjusted life 
year (DALY).This paper describes key features of the Global Burden of Disease 
analytic approach, which provides a standardized measurement framework to permit 
comparisons across diseases and injuries, as well as risk factors, and a 
systematic approach to the evaluation of data. The paper describes the evolution 
of the GBD, starting from the first study for the year 1990, summarizes the 
methodological improvements incorporated into GBD revisions for the years 
2000-2004 carried out by the World Health Organization, and examines priorities 
and issues for the next major GBD study, funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates 
Foundation, and commencing in 2007.The paper presents an overview of summary 
results from the Global Burden of Disease study 2002, with a particular focus on 
the neglected tropical diseases, and also an overview of the comparative risk 
assessment for 26 global risk factors. Taken together, trypanosomiasis, Chagas 
disease, schistosomiasis, leishmaniasis, lymphatic filariasis, onchocerciasis, 
intestinal nematode infections, Japanese encephalitis, dengue, and leprosy 
accounted for an estimated 177,000 deaths worldwide in 2002, mostly in 
sub-Saharan Africa, and about 20 million DALYs, or 1.3% of the global burden of 
disease and injuries. Further research is currently underway to revise and 
update these estimates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000114
PMCID: PMC2100367
PMID: 18060077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


733. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2007 Nov 28;1(2):e118. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0000118.

Measuring neglect.

Hotez P.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000118
PMCID: PMC2100377
PMID: 18060078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PH is co-director of the Global Network for 
Neglected Tropical Disease Control.


734. ScientificWorldJournal. 2007 Nov 26;7:1875-83. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2007.304.

Reproductive health care for women with spina bifida.

Jackson AB(1), Mott PK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham School of Medicine, Birmingham, AL, USA. Jacksona@uab.edu

Women with spina bifida have unique health care concerns and as the life 
expectancy of this population increases, they are transitioning from adolescence 
to womanhood and entering their reproductive years with little information about 
what to expect. Likewise, their health care providers do not have the benefit of 
evidence-based research that comprehensively addresses the issues these women 
may face related to reproduction or aging. Few studies have focused on the 
effects that spina bifida may have on these women's reproductive systems, nor 
has attention been paid to the effects that possible reproductive endocrine 
changes may have on their disability. Needless to say, concerns about sexuality, 
sexual function, and pregnancy are just as important to these women as they are 
to their able-bodied counterparts.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2007.304
PMCID: PMC5900859
PMID: 18060325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Osteoporos Int. 2008 Mar;19(3):269-76. doi: 10.1007/s00198-007-0496-8. Epub
2007  Dec 5.

Direct costs of osteoporosis and hip fracture: an analysis for the Mexican 
healthcare system.

Clark P(1), Carlos F, Barrera C, Guzman J, Maetzel A, Lavielle P, Ramirez E, 
Robinson V, Rodriguez-Cabrera R, Tamayo J, Tugwell P.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, CMN Siglo XXI IMSS, Faculty of Medicine UNAM, 
Mexico City, Mexico. patriciaclark@prodigy.net.mx

This study reports the direct costs related to osteoporosis and hip fractures 
paid for governmental and private institutions in the Mexican health system and 
estimates the impact of these entities on Mexico. We conclude that the economic 
burden due to the direct costs of hip fracture justifies wide-scale prevention 
programs for osteoporosis (OP).
METHODS: To estimate the total direct costs of OP and hip fractures in the 
Mexican Health care system, a sample of governmental and private institutions 
were studied. Information was gathered through direct questionnaires in 275 OP 
patients and 218 hip fracture cases. Additionally, a chart review was conducted 
and experts' opinions obtained to get accurate protocol scenarios for diagnoses 
and treatment of OP with no fracture. Microcosting and activity-based costing 
techniques were used to yield unit costs.
RESULTS: The total direct costs for OP and hip fracture were estimated for 2006 
based on the projected annual incidence of hip fractures in Mexico. A total of 
22,233 hip fracture cases were estimated for 2006 with a total cost to the 
healthcare system of US$ 97,058,159 for the acute treatment alone ($4,365.50 per 
case). We found considerable differences in costs and the way the patients were 
treated across the different health sectors within the country.
CONCLUSION: Costs of the acute treatment of hip fractures in Mexico are high and 
are expected to increase with the predicted increment of life expectancy and the 
number of elderly in our population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-007-0496-8
PMID: 18060586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2008 May;1783(5):760-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bbamcr.2007.10.018.  Epub 2007 Nov 12.

Peroxisome proliferation in Hansenula polymorpha requires Dnm1p which mediates 
fission but not de novo formation.

Nagotu S(1), Saraya R, Otzen M, Veenhuis M, van der Klei IJ.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cell Biology, Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and Biotechnology 
Institute (GBB), University of Groningen, Haren, The Netherlands.

We show that the dynamin-like proteins Dnm1p and Vps1p are not required for 
re-introduction of peroxisomes in Hansenula polymorpha pex3 cells upon 
complementation with PEX3-GFP. Instead, Dnm1p, but not Vps1p, plays a crucial 
role in organelle proliferation via fission. In H. polymorpha DNM1 deletion 
cells (dnm1) a single peroxisome is present that forms long extensions, which 
protrude into developing buds and divide during cytokinesis. Budding pex11.dnm1 
double deletion cells lack these peroxisomal extensions, suggesting that the 
peroxisomal membrane protein Pex11p is required for their formation. Life cell 
imaging revealed that fluorescent Dnm1p-GFP spots fluctuate between peroxisomes 
and mitochondria. On the other hand Pex11p is present over the entire organelle 
surface, but concentrates during fission at the basis of the organelle extension 
in dnm1 cells. Our data indicate that peroxisome fission is the major pathway 
for peroxisome multiplication in H. polymorpha.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbamcr.2007.10.018
PMID: 18060881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2008 Jan;18(1):99-118; ix. doi: 
10.1016/j.giec.2007.09.009.

The natural history and complications of eosinophilic esophagitis.

Straumann A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Kantonsspital Olten, Roemerstrasse 7, 4600 
Olten, Switzerland. alex.straumann@hin.ch <alex.straumann@hin.ch>

Eosinophilic esophagitis is a chronic disease limited to the esophagus and has a 
persistent or spontaneously fluctuating course. So far it does not seem to limit 
life expectancy, but it often substantially impairs the quality of life. To 
date, there has been no association with malignant conditions, but there is 
concern that the chronic, uncontrolled inflammation will evoke irreversible 
structural alterations of the esophagus, leading to tissue fibrosis, stricture 
formation, and impaired function. This esophageal remodeling may result in 
several disease-inherent and procedure-related complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.giec.2007.09.009
PMID: 18061105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Lung Cancer. 2008 Jul;61(1):109-16. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2007.10.016. Epub
 2007 Dec 3.

Spontaneous osteoclastogenesis is a predictive factor for bone metastases from 
non-small cell lung cancer.

Roato I(1), Gorassini E, Buffoni L, Lyberis P, Ruffini E, Bonello L, Baldi I, 
Ciuffreda L, Mussa A, Ferracini R.

Author information:
(1)CeRMS (Center for Experimental Research and Medical Studies) University and 
A.S.O. San Giovanni Battista, Turin, Italy. roato78@libero.it

Lung cancer is a widespread disease and its incidence is growing. Since 
therapies have increased the life expectancy of lung cancer patients, the 
development of bone osteolytic metastases is becoming a common cause of 
morbidity. Osteolysis is caused by an increased osteoclast activity and may be 
reduced by inhibiting their formation and activity. We studied 60 male patients 
affected by NSCLC, divided in early and advanced stage disease. Patients' blood 
and urinary samples were collected at tumor diagnosis and at follow-up. PBMCs 
were cultured to investigate the spontaneous osteoclastogenesis. IL-7 was dosed 
in serum and its quantitative gene expression was evaluated on tumor and healthy 
tissues by RQ-PCR. Both at diagnosis and follow-up, osteolytic bone patients 
showed high spontaneous osteoclastogenesis level compared to non-bone metastatic 
and healthy controls. The presence of spontaneous osteoclastogenesis correlated 
with urinary crosslinks increase. Serum IL-7 levels were higher in bone 
metastatic patients than in patients without bone lesions and healthy controls. 
The serum IL-7 increase correlated with the osteoclastogenesis and, at least in 
part, depended on an increased IL-7 production by tumor cells. At follow-up, 
patients with increased osteoclastogenesis and serum IL-7 levels, were subjected 
to standard clinical analysis, which showed early secondary bone lesions. The in 
vitro assay for spontaneous osteoclastogenesis and serum IL-7 dosage could be 
useful for diagnostic purposes and it might be able to monitor cancer patients 
with a high risk to develop osteolytic metastases at follow-up, especially after 
a curative treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2007.10.016
PMID: 18061306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Vet Clin North Am Equine Pract. 2007 Dec;23(3):577-91, v-vi. doi: 
10.1016/j.cveq.2007.09.007.

Acute renal failure in horses.

Geor RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Middleburg Agricultural Research and Extension (MARE) Center, College of 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, Virginia Tech, 5527 Sullivans Mill Road, 
Middleburg, VA 20117, USA. rgeor@vt.edu

Acute renal failure (ARF) in horses is usually prerenal or renal in origin and 
is most often caused by hemodynamic or nephrotoxic insults. The clinical 
management of patients that have ARF is largely supportive, including correction 
of fluid deficits and electrolyte and acid-base disturbances and treatment and 
reversal of the underlying cause. Use of dopamine and mannitol to promote renal 
blood flow and urine output is no longer recommended.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cveq.2007.09.007
PMID: 18061851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Int J Behav Med. 2007;14(3):173-80. doi: 10.1007/BF03000189.

Subjective health and illness, coping and life satisfaction in an 80-year-old 
Swedish population-implications for mortality.

Stålbrand IS(1), Svensson T, Elmståhl S, Horstmann V, Hagberg B, Dehlin O, 
Samuelsson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and The Vardal Institute. 
Ingela.Steij_Stalbrand@psychology.lu.se

BACKGROUND: Multimorbidity and illness will become more common due to increased 
life expectancy.
PURPOSE: This study describes various combinations of diseases and symptoms and 
explores implications for mortality in a sample of 80-year-olds followed up to 
95 years of age. Furthermore, reported subjective health, coping, and life 
satisfaction is explored.
METHOD: 212 persons, born in 1908, were classified into four groups based on 
their number of diseases and reported symptoms according to a health examination 
at the age of 80. These groups were compared regarding standardized measurements 
of subjective health, depression, coping, life satisfaction, and mortality.
RESULTS: The mortality risks, the hazard ratios, were of the same magnitude, 
1.8-2.2, whether the persons experienced several symptoms, had several diseases, 
or a combination of several symptoms and several diseases when compared to the 
healthy group of respondents.
CONCLUSION: The experience of subjective signs of illness carries the same 
mortality risks as diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03000189
PMID: 18062060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Lin Chuang Er Bi Yan Hou Tou Jing Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2007 Sep;21(18):841-2.

[Application of pectoralis major flap to reconstruction of massive defects after 
head and neck tumor excision].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang Q(1), Dong P, Wang W, Wang G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Shanghai First Hospital, 
Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, 200080, China.

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the effectiveness and advantage of application of 
pectoralis major flap in the reconstruction of massive defects after head and 
neck tumor excision.
METHOD: Thirteen patients with head and neck carcinoma underwent tumor excision, 
and the massive defects were fixed by pectoralis major myocutaneous flap. Ten 
patients with recurrent laryngeal carcinoma and 2 with hypopharyngeal carcinoma 
and 1 with thyroid carcinoma were included.
RESULT: Eleven cases healed well, 1 case appearance fistula of parotid gland, 1 
case was lost to follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Pectoralis major myocutaneous flap with adequate vascularization, 
enough tissue and ideal healing ability cab be used to reconstruct massive 
defects. And so it can play an important role in providing a better life 
expectancy and can radically cure or relieve the complaint.

PMID: 18062288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Health Organ Manag. 2007;21(6):495-505. doi: 10.1108/14777260710834292.

Progress towards health reform in Tajikistan.

Mirzoev TN(1), Green AT, Newell JN.

Author information:
(1)University of Leeds, Leeds, UK. t.mirzoev@leeds.ac.uk

PURPOSE: The purpose of this paper is to provide an up-to-date overview of 
Tajikistan's health system, focusing on the main factors affecting health 
systems development. The wider contextual environment is to be explored, 
focusing on political, social and economic issues. Different elements of the 
health system including health policy, governance, service delivery, human 
resources and health financing are reviewed in the light of their development 
over the past decade.
DESIGN/METHODOLOGY/APPROACH: The paper shows that the Republic of Tajikistan is 
in transition. Formerly one of the most neglected republics within the USSR, the 
country became independent in 1990 and faced the civil conflict shortly 
thereafter. In the last few years there have been major public sector reforms 
with health reforms formally launched in the late 1990s. Little information 
about current Tajikistan is widely available.
FINDINGS: The paper finds that the progress of health reforms in Tajikistan has 
been relatively slow compared with neighbouring Kazakhstan and Kyrgyzstan. This 
is largely due to the effects of civil war in the mid-1990s and significant 
out-migration of qualified experts, but it can also be attributed to an 
inability of central government to adequately adapt to the requirements of 
transition.
ORIGINALITY/VALUE: The paper shows that many problems are still to be overcome 
by the health system, ranging from operational issues related to service 
delivery to strategic issues such as formulating an explicit privatisation 
policy, reducing fragmentation of, and aligning, external aid. However, some 
recent developments, such as adoption of a country health reform conception, a 
health financing strategy, and willingness of central government to improve 
coordination, suggest that improvements are possible.

DOI: 10.1108/14777260710834292
PMID: 18062603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2007 Dec;16(10):1402-11. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2007.0345.

HIV and menopause: a review.

Kojic EM(1), Wang CC, Cu-Uvin S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, The Miriam Hospital, 
Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island 02906, USA. ekojic@Lifespan.org

The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has resulted in dramatic 
reductions in morbidity and mortality of HIV infected individuals. With 
increasing life expectancy, a growing population of women will experience 
menopausal transitions while infected with HIV. Changes associated with 
menopause may affect HIV disease progression, and HIV-infected women may 
experience menopause in a different way from that of uninfected women. Age at 
natural menopause among non-HIV-infected white and Hispanic women is on the 
average 51 years, and that of African American women is 49 years. Several 
studies have shown that the mean age of menopause in HIV-infected women is 47-48 
years. This is likely due to factors other than HIV infection that predict early 
menopause, such as drug use, smoking, and low socioeconomic status. It may be 
difficult to separate out HIV symptoms from menopausal symptoms. The additive 
effects of menopause, HIV infection, and HAART on changes involving bone, lipid, 
and glucose metabolism need further investigation. Likewise, there is a need for 
a better understanding of the prevalence and manifestations of depression among 
these women.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2007.0345
PMID: 18062755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Lancet. 2007 Dec 8;370(9603):1929-38. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61696-1.

The burden and costs of chronic diseases in low-income and middle-income 
countries.

Abegunde DO(1), Mathers CD, Adam T, Ortegon M, Strong K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chronic Diseases and Health Promotion, World Health 
Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.

This paper estimates the disease burden and loss of economic output associated 
with chronic diseases-mainly cardiovascular diseases, cancer, chronic 
respiratory diseases, and diabetes-in 23 selected countries which account for 
around 80% of the total burden of chronic disease mortality in developing 
countries. In these 23 selected low-income and middle-income countries, chronic 
diseases were responsible for 50% of the total disease burden in 2005. For 15 of 
the selected countries where death registration data are available, the 
estimated age-standardised death rates for chronic diseases in 2005 were 54% 
higher for men and 86% higher for women than those for men and women in 
high-income countries. If nothing is done to reduce the risk of chronic 
diseases, an estimated US$84 billion of economic production will be lost from 
heart disease, stroke, and diabetes alone in these 23 countries between 2006 and 
2015. Achievement of a global goal for chronic disease prevention and control-an 
additional 2% yearly reduction in chronic disease death rates over the next 10 
years-would avert 24 million deaths in these countries, and would save an 
estimated $8 billion, which is almost 10% of the projected loss in national 
income over the next 10 years.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61696-1
PMID: 18063029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Anadolu Kardiyol Derg. 2007 Dec;7(4):423-6.

[Sexual activity and cardiovascular risk].

[Article in Turkish]

Boztosun B(1), Olcay A, Değertekin M.

Author information:
(1)Koşuyolu Kalp Eğitim ve Araştirma Hastanesi, Kardiyoloji Bölümü, Istanbul, 
Türkiye. bboztosun@hotmail.com

Assessment and treatment of sexual dysfunction gain more importance in countries 
like Turkey where cardiovascular events are frequently seen in young adults. The 
mortality of cardiovascular events is reduced by primary percutaneous coronary 
angioplasty (PTCA), use of new thrombolytics in acute myocardial infarction 
(MI), and new drugs used in the treatment of heart failure. Because of the 
longer life expectancy, assessment of sexual functions and rehabilitation are 
getting more important in these patients. Since phosphodiesterase type 5 
inhibitors (PDE 5) have been frequently utilized in the treatment of impotence, 
patients' and the doctors' attention have been directed towards cardiovascular 
risks of sexual activity. In recent years, this topic has become more important 
because several reports have stated the possible relationship between the use of 
PDE5 inhibitors and myocardial infarction. It is known, that in patients with 
cardiovascular diseases, sexual activity poses a low sudden death risk 
independent of PDE5 inhibitor use. In this review, the points that doctors 
should take into account while considering and treating the sexual dysfunction 
in patients with cardiovascular diseases are discussed.

PMID: 18065341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Ann Oncol. 2008 Mar;19(3):487-95. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdm488. Epub 2007 Dec
6.

Cost-effectiveness of HER2 testing and 1-year adjuvant trastuzumab therapy for 
early breast cancer.

Lidgren M(1), Jönsson B, Rehnberg C, Willking N, Bergh J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Management Centre, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
mathias.l@healtheconomics.se

BACKGROUND: Clinical studies have demonstrated statistically significant 
reduction of breast cancer relapse and improved overall survival by adding 
trastuzumab for 1 year after adjuvant chemotherapy in human epidermal growth 
factor receptor-2 protein (HER2)/neu-positive breast cancer. The aim of this 
study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of HER2/neu testing and the addition 
of 1-year adjuvant trastuzumab after adjuvant chemotherapy from a societal 
perspective in a Swedish setting.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We used a Markov state transition model to simulate 
HER2/neu testing and adjuvant trastuzumab treatment in a hypothetical cohort of 
early breast cancer patients.
RESULTS: The cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained for 
immunohistochemical (IHC) testing for all patients with FISH confirmation of IHC 
2+ and 3+ and 1-year adjuvant trastuzumab for FISH-positive patients was 
estimated to 36,000 euros. The strategy of FISH testing for all patients, with 
1-year adjuvant trastuzumab for FISH-positive patients was associated with the 
longest quality adjusted survival of all evaluated treatment strategies and the 
cost per QALY gained was estimated to 41,500 euros. The remaining testing and 
treatment strategies were dominated.
CONCLUSION: FISH testing for all patients with 1-year adjuvant trastuzumab for 
FISH+ patients is a cost-effective treatment option from a societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdm488
PMID: 18065409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. J Chir (Paris). 2007 Sep-Oct;144 Spec No 4:5S41-4.

[Should all asymptomatic inguinal hernias be surgically corrected?].

[Article in French]

Gainant A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Digestive, Endocrinienne et Générale, CHU Dupuytren - 
Limoges cedex. gainant@unilim.fr

Femoral hernias present a high risk of strangulation and should be treated with 
surgery as soon as the diagnosis is made. Inguinal hernias present a low risk of 
strangulation, an argument for surgery only in patients who do not have rapid 
access to a surgical center. In the other cases, delaying hernia treatment seems 
to have few advantages in that patients are operated in the end and that during 
the waiting period, their health is generally poorer than operated patients' 
health. Other than patients presenting serious co-morbidities or with a short 
life expectancy, asymptomatic inguinal hernias should be repaired in all 
patients who so desire. This decision is made in agreement with the patient 
after he or she has been clearly informed on the risks, the sequelae, and the 
results of surgery. With bilateral hernias, one of which is symptomatic, it 
seems preferable to treat both hernias in the same anesthetic time frame. In 
case of a hernia occurring simultaneously with another intervention, it should 
