
Wolowacz SE(1), Roskell N, Kelly S, Maciver FM, Brand CS.

Author information:
(1)RTI-Health Solutions, Manchester, UK. swolowacz@rti.org

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is the primary cause of 
vision loss in the elderly and results in significant economic and humanistic 
burden. The selective vascular endothelial growth factor inhibitor, pegaptanib 
(Macugen) is indicated for patients with neovascular AMD. Guidance is needed 
regarding the cost effectiveness of treatment, any variation between 
sub-populations of differing clinical characteristics and the optimum duration 
of treatment.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of pegaptanib versus best 
supportive care (BSC) for AMD from the perspective of the UK government, and to 
evaluate the impact of patient characteristics and differing treatment 
discontinuation scenarios.
METHODS: A cohort of 1000 patients aged >45 years with a best-corrected visual 
acuity (VA) in their better-seeing eye of < or =6/12 was modelled. Patients were 
either treated with pegaptanib (0.3mg every 6 weeks for a maximum of 2 years in 
their better-seeing eye only) or received BSC (no active treatment). Supportive 
services were provided for patients with a VA < or =6/60. A 10-year Markov model 
composed of 12 VA states (defined by individual Snellen lines) and a dead state 
was constructed. The model reported herein was used to support submissions to 
the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) and the 
Scottish Medicines Consortium (SMC). NICE guidance is expected to be available 
in October 2007 and the SMC advice was issued on 7 July 2006. SMC accepted 
pegaptanib for use in patients with visual acuity between 6/12 and 6/60 
(inclusive) and should be stopped if visual acuity falls below 6/60 during 
treatment or where severe visual loss is experienced. Time-dependent transition 
probabilities for the loss and gain of Snellen lines were derived from 
parametric survival curves fitted to patient-level data from the VISION trials. 
Survival curves were fitted with treatment and baseline Snellen scores as 
covariates; additional curves were fitted with the addition of age, gender, 
lesion type or lesion size as covariates. Mortality rates were adjusted for the 
age, gender and VA of the population. Cost effectiveness was expressed as the 
incremental cost (IC) per vision-year saved and IC/QALY. Uncertainty was 
explored by probabilistic and univariate sensitivity analysis. Costs (year 2005 
values) and outcomes were discounted at 3.5% per anum.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, treatment was targeted to patients with a VA 
of 6/12 to 6/95 and discontinued after 2 years, or earlier if VA fell below 6/95 
or by > or =6 lines. The IC/QALY was estimated as 8023 pounds(upper 95% CI 
20,641 pounds). Cost effectiveness varied by age (age <75 years = 2033 
pounds/QALY; age > or =75 years = 11,657 pounds/QALY) and by pre-treatment VA 
(6/12-6/95 = 8023 pounds/QALY; 6/12-6/60 = 6664 pounds/QALY; 6/12-6/24 = 1920 
pounds/QALY). Gender and lesion type or size had little effect. Cost 
effectiveness was not sensitive to precise rules for treatment discontinuation, 
but was maximised if treatment was discontinued in patients no longer likely to 
benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that pegaptanib treatment is likely to be cost 
effective across all groups studied, and marginally more cost effective in 
younger patients and those with better pre-treatment VA. Cost effectiveness 
appears to be optimised if treatment is discontinued after 1 year if individual 
patients' VA has dropped by > or =6 lines from pre-treatment levels, or at any 
time if it drops below 6/95. However, strict application of discontinuation 
rules does not appear to be necessary for pegaptanib to be cost effective. 
Clinical judgement and patient preference should be an important determinant in 
decisions about stopping treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725100-00005
PMID: 17887807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(10):881-97. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725100-00006.

Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion versus multiple daily injections of 
insulin: economic comparison in adult and adolescent type 1 diabetes mellitus in 
Australia.

Cohen N(1), Minshall ME, Sharon-Nash L, Zakrzewska K, Valentine WJ, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)International Diabetes Institute, Caulfield, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Recent meta-analyses in the published medical literature have found 
improved glycaemic control with continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) 
compared with multiple daily injections (MDI) of insulin for patients with 
diabetes mellitus. In Australia, CSII is predominantly used in type 1 diabetes 
mellitus (T1DM) patient populations. OBJECTIVE/INTERVENTION: To project 
long-term costs and outcomes of CSII (Novorapid or Humalog) compared with MDI 
(NPH insulin plus Novorapid or Humalog) in adult and adolescent T1DM patients in 
Australia.
METHODS: The study was a modelling analysis utilising a lifetime horizon in 
adult and adolescent specialty care T1DM patient populations from Australia. 
Published Australian diabetes complication costs (adjusted to Australian dollars 
[$A], year 2006 values), treatment costs and discount rates of 5.0% per annum 
were applied to costs and clinical outcomes. A lifetime horizon was taken, 
considering only direct medical costs and excluding indirect and non-medical 
costs. The validated CORE diabetes model employs standard Markov/Monte Carlo 
simulation techniques. It was used to simulate diabetes progression in 
Australian adult (mean age 43 years, duration of diabetes 17 years, mean 
glycosylated haemoglobin [HbA(1c)] 8.2%) and adolescent (mean age 17 years, 
duration of diabetes 6 years, mean HbA(1c) 8.9%) patients with baseline 
characteristics taken predominantly from Australian National Diabetes 
Information Audit and Benchmarking (ANDIAB) in Australia. The main outcome 
measures were incremental costs and effectiveness of CSII compared with MDI in 
Australian adult and adolescent patients with T1DM.
RESULTS: Mean direct lifetime costs were $A34,642 higher with CSII treatment 
than with MDI for adult patients and $A41,779 higher for adolescent patients. 
Treatment with CSII was associated with an improvement in life expectancy of 
0.393 years for adults compared with MDI and 0.537 years for adolescents. The 
corresponding gains in QALYs were 0.467 QALYs and 0.560 QALYs for adults and 
adolescents, respectively. This produced incremental cost effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) of $A88,220 and $A77,851 per life-year gained for CSII compared with MDI 
for adult and adolescent T1DM patients, respectively, in Australia. These data 
also produced corresponding ICERs of $A74,147 per QALY and $A74,661/QALY for 
adult and adolescent T1DM patients, respectively. Sensitivity analyses suggested 
that our base-case assumptions were mostly robust with improvements in ICERs for 
reduction in hypoglycaemic events with CSII treatment and worse ICERs for lower 
HbA(1c) changes associated with CSII treatment compared with MDI.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that CSII is associated with ICERs in the 
range of $A53,022-259,646 per QALY gained, with most ICERs representing good 
value for money in Australia under the majority of scenarios explored.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725100-00006
PMID: 17887808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Int J Clin Pract. 2007 Nov;61(11):1843-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01585.x.  Epub 2007 Sep 20.

Sildenafil citrate improves erectile function: a randomised double-blind trial 
with open-label extension.

McVary KT(1), Kaufman J, Young JM, Tseng LJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, 
Chicago, IL 60611-3008, USA. k-mcvary@northwestern.edu

AIMS: To evaluate once-daily 100-mg sildenafil for the treatment of erectile 
dysfunction (ED) in men with ED and lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) 
associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
METHODS: This was a 12-week, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled (DBPC) 
trial, with an 8-week open-label (OL) extension, in men > or = 45 years of age 
who scored < or = 25 on the erectile function (EF) domain of the International 
Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) and > or = 12 on the International Prostate 
Symptom Score.
RESULTS: At DBPC end of treatment (EOT), the sildenafil group (n = 189, vs. 
placebo, n = 180) had improved EF (IIEF), improved emotional well-being 
[Self-Esteem And Relationship questionnaire (SEAR)], and greater treatment 
satisfaction (Erectile Dysfunction Inventory of Treatment Satisfaction) (p < 
0.0001). At OL EOT, IIEF and SEAR scores improved slightly in the group 
previously randomised to sildenafil (n = 168), but much more in the group 
previously randomised to placebo (N = 155), such that total improvement over the 
20-week trial was comparable between the groups. Erections at baseline were hard 
enough for penetration on approximately half of occasions and lasted long enough 
for successful intercourse on less than one quarter of occasions, increasing at 
sildenafil DBPC and OL EOT to approximately 90% (penetration) and 80% 
(intercourse success) vs. 61% (penetration) and 39% (intercourse success) for 
DBPC placebo. At sildenafil DBPC and OL EOT, > or = 90% of men were taking 
sildenafil 100 mg. Sildenafil was generally well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: In this trial of men with ED and BPH-associated LUTS, sildenafil 
treatment for ED was efficacious, effective and generally well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2007.01585.x
PMID: 17887993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Value Health. 2008 May-Jun;11(3):354-64. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00250.x.  Epub 2007 Sep 21.

An Asian regional analysis of cost-effectiveness of early irbesartan treatment 
versus conventional antihypertensive, late amlodipine, and late irbesartan 
treatments in patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and nephropathy.

Annemans L(1), Demarteau N, Hu S, Lee TJ, Morad Z, Supaporn T, Yang WC, Palmer 
AJ.

Author information:
(1)Ghent University and IMS Health, Bruxelles, Belgium, and IMS Health, 
Bruxelles, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: The prevalence of type 2 diabetes, often leading to diabetic 
nephropathy, has increased globally, especially in Asia. Irbesartan treatment 
delays the progression of kidney disease at the early (microalbuminuria) and 
late (proteinuria) stages of nephropathy in hypertensive type 2 diabetics. This 
treatment has proven to be cost-effective in Western countries. This study 
assessed the cost-effectiveness of early irbesartan treatment in Asian settings.
METHODS: An existing lifetime model was reprogrammed in Microsoft Excel to 
compare irbesartan started at an early stage to irbesartan or amlodipine started 
at a late stage, and standard treatments from a health-care perspective in 
China, Malaysia, Thailand, South Korea, and Taiwan. The main effectiveness 
parameters were incidences of end-stage renal disease, time in dialysis, and 
life expectancy. All costs were converted to 2004 US$ using official purchasing 
power parity. Local data were obtained for costs, transplantation,dialysis, and 
mortality rates. Probabilities regarding disease progression after treatment 
with the investigated drugs were extracted from two published clinical trials. A 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Early use of irbesartan yielded the largest clinical and economic 
benefits reducing need for dialysis by 61% to 63% versus the standard treatment, 
total costs by 9% (Thailand) to 42% (Taiwan), and increasing life expectancy by 
0.31 to 0.48 years. Early irbesartan had a 66% (Thailand) to 95% (Taiwan) 
probability of being dominant over late irbesartan.
CONCLUSION: Although the absolute results varied in different settings, 
reflecting differences in epidemiology, management, and costs, early irbesartan 
treatment was a cost-effective alternative in the Asian settings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00250.x
PMID: 17888064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. J Sex Med. 2007 Nov;4(6):1626-34. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2007.00600.x.
Epub  2007 Sep 21.

Validation of the erection hardness score.

Mulhall JP(1), Goldstein I, Bushmakin AG, Cappelleri JC, Hvidsten K.

Author information:
(1)Weill Medical College of Cornell University and Memorial Sloan Kettering 
Cancer Center, New York, NY 10021, USA. jpm2005@med.cornell.edu

INTRODUCTION: Erection hardness is a fundamental component of erectile function, 
and is a very specific and easily monitored outcome. The Erection Hardness Score 
(EHS) is a single-item, patient-reported outcome (PRO) for scoring erection 
hardness.
AIMS: The aim of this article is to report the psychometric validation of the 
EHS.
METHODS: The dataset (N = 307) was from a multinational sildenafil trial 
(efficacy in the treatment of erectile dysfunction [ED]) with a 2-week screening 
phase, a 6-week double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment phase, and a 6-week 
open-label extension.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation 
coefficient), quality and distribution of responses, known-groups validity 
(ability to differentiate between ED severity groups defined by the 
International Index of Erectile Function [IIEF] questionnaire), convergent 
validity (Pearson correlation coefficients with domain scores of the IIEF and 
the Quality of Erection Questionnaire [QEQ]), treatment responsiveness, and 
clinically important difference.
RESULTS: The EHS demonstrated good test-retest reliability, acceptable quality 
and distribution of responses, known-groups validity against the IIEF (including 
clear differentiation between normal and impaired erectile function), 
moderate-to-strong convergent validity against the prespecified domains of the 
IIEF and QEQ, and high treatment responsiveness.
CONCLUSION: The EHS has desirable measurement properties, including being highly 
responsive to treatment. This one-item PRO is robust and easy to use for 
evaluating erection hardness. Psychometric analysis supports the use of the EHS 
as a simple, reliable, and valid tool for the assessment of erection hardness in 
clinical trials research.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2007.00600.x
PMID: 17888069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Value Health. 2007 Sep-Oct;10(5):348-57. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00188.x.

The cost-effectiveness of bisphosphonates in postmenopausal women based on 
individual long-term fracture risks.

van Staa TP(1), Kanis JA, Geusens P, Boonen A, Leufkens HG, Cooper C.

Author information:
(1)Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands. t.p.vanstaa@uu.nl

OBJECTIVES: Cost-effectiveness analyses are routinely based on data from group 
averages, restricting its generalizibility to those with below- or above-average 
risk. A pharmaco-economic model that used individualized risks for fractures was 
developed in order to take into account patient heterogeneity.
METHODS: Data were obtained from The Health Improvement Network research 
database of general practitioners, comprising a UK general population of women 
aged more than 50 years (N = 330,000). Mortality and hip, vertebral, and other 
osteoporotic fracture risks for each individual were estimated by age, body mass 
index (BMI), smoking, and other clinical risk factors. Estimates on costs, 
EuroQol (EQ-5D) utilities, and treatment efficacy were obtained from a UK 
national report (the National Institute for Clinical Excellence) and outcomes 
were simulated over a 10-year period.
RESULTS: It was found that the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained 
was lower in elderly women and in women with fracture history. There was a large 
variability in the cost-effectiveness with baseline fracture risk and with 
clinical risk factors. Patients with low BMI (<20) had considerable better 
cost-effectiveness than patients with high BMI (>or=26). Using a 
cost-acceptability ratio of 30k pounds per QALY gained, bisphosphonate treatment 
became cost-effective for patients with a 5-year risk of 9.3% (95% confidence 
interval [CI] 8.0-10.5%) for osteoporotic fractures and of 2.1% (95% CI 
1.5-2.7%) for hip fractures. Including bone mineral density in the risk 
assessment, the cost per QALY gained was 35k pounds in women at age 60 with a 
fracture history and a T-score of -2.5 (at age 80, this was 3k pounds).
CONCLUSION: A pharmacoeconomic model based on individual long-term risks of 
fracture improves the selection of postmenopausal women for cost-effective 
treatment with bisphosphonates.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00188.x
PMID: 17888099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Value Health. 2007 Sep-Oct;10(5):358-66. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00189.x.

Time from sexually transmitted infection acquisition to pelvic inflammatory 
disease development: influence on the cost-effectiveness of different screening 
intervals.

Smith KJ(1), Cook RL, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. 
smithkj2@upmc.edu

OBJECTIVES: To prevent pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), some experts recommend 
screening for sexually transmitted infection (STI) every 12 months, with more 
frequent screening suggested in higher-risk women. Nevertheless, the time from 
STI acquisition to PID development, possibly an important factor to consider in 
screening interval choice, is unknown and its influence on the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of screening is unclear.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we estimated PID cases averted and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness resulting from 6- or 12-month screening 
strategies for high-risk young women (6%/year infection risk, 2.8%/year PID risk 
with 12-month screening) while varying PID development time from 1 to 12 months 
after initial infection. Lower-risk women and alternative parameter values were 
examined in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Relative to 12-month screening, 6-month screening decreases PID cases 
from 6.0% (1 month development time)to 19.4% (12 months); the incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained compared with the other strategies 
varies from $16,600 (12 months development time) to $31,800 (1 month) for 
high-risk women. In lower-risk women, every 6-month screening is more 
economically unfavorable, with greater costs per QALY gained at shorter PID 
development time.
CONCLUSION: From a cost-effectiveness standpoint, uncertainty about PID 
development time is not a significant factor in choosing a screening interval in 
high-risk women, but could be important in lower-risk groups. Significant 
increases in PID cases averted occur with more frequent screening when PID 
development time is lengthened, which may allow estimation of this interval 
through the use of more sophisticated modeling techniques.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00189.x
PMID: 17888100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Value Health. 2007 Sep-Oct;10(5):367-76. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00190.x.

Cost-effectiveness of switching to exemestane after 2 to 3 years of therapy with 
tamoxifen in postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer.

Thompson D(1), Taylor DC, Montoya EL, Winer EP, Jones SE, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Medford, MA 02155, USA. david.thompson@i3innovus.com

OBJECTIVES: Data from the Intergroup Exemestane Study (IES) suggest that 
switching to the aromatase inhibitor, exemestane, after 2 to 3 years of 
tamoxifen therapy prolongs disease-free survival versus continuing on tamoxifen 
therapy. We sought to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of this management 
strategy.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to predict patients' transitions across 
various health states based on treatment strategy (continuing tamoxifen vs. 
switching to exemestane), breast cancer status (no recurrence, local or distant 
recurrence, contralateral breast cancer), and other related health events 
(osteoporosis, endometrial cancer, death). Rates of disease-related events 
(recurrence and contralateral breast cancer) were estimated using data from the 
IES. Survival and lifetime medical-care costs by type of disease-related event 
were estimated using SEER-Medicare data. The model was used to estimate direct 
costs (in 2004 US dollars), life expectancy, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Switching to exemestane versus continuing tamoxifen therapy was 
associated with increased disease-free survival (181 vs. 172 months), QALYs 
(12.21 vs. 11.89), and net discounted lifetime costs of cancer care ($12,124 vs. 
$7724 per patient). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of exemestane was 
$20,100 per QALY gained (95% confidence interval: $12,100, $59,000). Sensitivity 
analyses showed that results were robust to plausible variations in recurrence 
rates, costs, and utilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Switching postmenopausal early-stage breast cancer patients to 
exemestane after 2 to 3 years of tamoxifen appears to be a cost-effective 
treatment strategy versus completing a 5-year course of tamoxifen.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00190.x
PMID: 17888101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2008 Jan 1;92(1-3):291-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2007.07.016. Epub 2007 Sep 21.

Responsiveness of EQ-5D utility indices in alcohol-dependent patients.

Günther OH(1), Roick C, Angermeyer MC, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Leipzig, Johannisallee 20, 
04317 Leipzig, Germany. oliver.guenther@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

INTRODUCTION: The EQ-5D provides community-based preference weights (utilities) 
for calculating quality adjusted life years (QALYs) in cost-utility analysis. 
This study aimed to analyze the responsiveness of EQ-5D-based utilities in 
patients with alcohol dependence.
METHODS: In an observational longitudinal cohort study of alcohol-dependent 
patients (N=52), three different EQ-5D-based utilities (EQ-Index United Kingdom, 
United States, and Germany) were calculated and compared with the scores of the 
WHOQOL-BREF (mental domain), HoNOS (total score), and GAF at baseline and at 18 
months. Patients were categorized with more/same/less problems according to 
their self reported consumption of alcohol (patient-based anchor) and their 
problem status due to alcohol consumption using a question of the HoNOS scale 
(clinician-based anchor). Effect sizes (ES) were used to compare longitudinal 
changes in scores within each group; regression analysis was used to derive 
difference scores in health status associated with a shift from "same" to "less" 
problems according to the two anchors.
RESULTS: ES were rather trivial to medium for all EQ-5D indices (ranging from 
|0.10| to |0.59|) related to a shift from "same" to "less" problems in the two 
anchors. Differences in scores of the EQ-5D indices revealing a shift from 
"same" to "less" problems according to the two anchors were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that the EQ-5D indices are less responsive 
and require larger patient samples to detect meaningful clinical differences 
compared to the other used instruments. Additional research is needed to compare 
societal and clinical views on relevant change in health status in this patient 
group.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2007.07.016
PMID: 17888587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Transplant Proc. 2007 Sep;39(7):2271-3. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.06.015.

First-line treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma: resection or transplantation?

Bhoori S(1), Schiavo M, Russo A, Mazzaferro V.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology, Liver Surgery and Transplantation Unit, Istituto Nazionale 
Tumori, Foundation IRCCS, Milan, Italy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.06.015
PMID: 17889160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Endod. 2007 Oct;33(10):1217-21. doi: 10.1016/j.joen.2007.07.022. Epub 2007
Aug  23.

Does electropolishing improve the low-cycle fatigue behavior of a 
nickel-titanium rotary instrument in hypochlorite?

Cheung GS(1), Shen Y, Darvell BW.

Author information:
(1)Area of Endodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong SAR, China. spcheung@hkusua.hku.hk

The purpose of this study was to compare the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) behavior of 
electropolished and nonelectropolished nickel-titanium (NiTi) instruments of the 
same design in hypochlorite. Forty-five electropolished and 62 
nonelectropolished NiTi engine files were subjected to rotational bending at 
various curvatures in 1.2% hypochlorite solution. Number of revolutions to 
failure, crack-initiation sites, extent of slow crack extension into the 
fracture cross-section, and surface-strain amplitude were noted. A linear 
relationship was found between LCF life and surface-strain amplitude for both 
groups, with no discernible difference between the two (p > 0.05). No 
electropolished instrument showed more than one crack origin, significantly 
fewer than for the nonelectropolished instruments (p < 0.05). The square root of 
crack extension and strain amplitude were inversely related. Although surface 
smoothness is enhanced by electropolishing, this did not protect the instrument 
from LCF failure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joen.2007.07.022
PMID: 17889693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Ann Oncol. 2007 Sep;18 Suppl 8:viii26-35. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdm263.

Safety profiles of tamoxifen and the aromatase inhibitors in adjuvant therapy of 
hormone-responsive early breast cancer.

Perez EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, FL, USA. perez.edith@mayo.edu

Adjuvant endocrine therapy plays an important role in the management of 
hormone-receptor-positive early breast cancer, and has increased life expectancy 
for millions of women. Many patients receive adjuvant treatment for at least 5 
years following tumor resection, hence good long-term safety is important for 
endocrine agents to gain widespread acceptance. Tamoxifen has been used as 
adjuvant therapy for early breast cancer for many years, and safety data have 
been well documented, but a poor risk:benefit profile limits treatment duration 
to 5 years. Increased efficacy over tamoxifen and good tolerability have 
recently made the third-generation aromatase inhibitors (AIs) the first-choice 
agents for adjuvant endocrine therapy; however, it is currently not known 
whether AI therapy, like tamoxifen, will be limited to 5 years. Many side 
effects of endocrine therapy, such as hot flushes and mood disturbances, are 
related to estrogen deprivation and are common to tamoxifen and AIs, reflecting 
the mechanism of action of these drugs. In addition, tamoxifen has estrogenic 
effects that are beneficial in some tissues: tamoxifen lowers serum cholesterol 
levels and protects against bone loss and cardiovascular disease, but is also 
associated with potentially life-threatening side effects, such as endometrial 
cancer and thromboembolic disease. As AIs lack estrogenic activity, they are not 
associated with these serious adverse events. Clinical trials comparing AIs with 
tamoxifen in the adjuvant setting have shown that AIs are well tolerated and are 
associated with a lower incidence of gynecological symptoms and hot flushes than 
tamoxifen. However, AIs are associated with musculoskeletal side effects, such 
as arthralgia, myalgia and bone loss, but these events are preventable or 
manageable. The effects of AIs on lipid metabolism and the cardiovascular system 
are still debatable, but placebo-controlled trials provide no evidence to 
suggest that AIs adversely affect these systems. Furthermore, the AIs allow 
women to maintain a good quality of life, comparable with women receiving 
tamoxifen or placebo, and are a cost-effective therapeutic option. Ongoing 
trials will provide more information regarding the long-term effects of AI 
therapy and will provide comparative data on the efficacy and safety of the 
different AIs, thereby helping to determine the optimal treatment strategy for 
these highly effective and well-tolerated drugs.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdm263
PMID: 17890211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Cad Saude Publica. 2007 Oct;23(10):2479-89. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2007001000022.

[Anachronic health care models for the elderly: challenges for the private 
sector].

[Article in Portuguese]

Veras R(1), Parahyba MI.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Social, Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil.

Brazil's population is aging rapidly. The average life expectancy is increasing 
such that a large proportion of the current population will reach old age. 
However, the large Brazilian cities still lack the kind of health services 
infrastructure needed to meet the demands resulting from present demographic 
changes. This article examines access to and utilization of health care among 
the elderly, with particular emphasis on the private sector, drawing on data 
from the National Household Sample Survey (PNAD, 1998 and 2003). 
Socio-demographic variables included gender, age, region of residence, and 
family income. According to the PNAD data presented in the current study, from 
1998 to 2003, health conditions improved among Brazilians aged 60 years or 
older.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2007001000022
PMID: 17891307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Invest New Drugs. 2008 Feb;26(1):53-8. doi: 10.1007/s10637-007-9088-x. Epub
2007  Sep 22.

Prognostic factors among cancer patients with good performance status screened 
for phase I trials.

Penel N(1), Vanseymortier M, Bonneterre ME, Clisant S, Dansin E, Vendel Y, 
Beuscart R, Bonneterre J.

Author information:
(1)Département de Cancérologie Générale, Centre Oscar Lambret, Lille 3, rue F 
Combemale, 59020, Lille, France. n-penel@o-lambret.fr

BACKGROUND: Selecting patients for phase I trials in order to investigate 
cytotoxic agents is challenging, since there is no clear and reliable guidance 
to estimate life expectancy among these patients. We retrospectively assessed 
prognostic factors in cancer patients screened for Phase1 trials between October 
1997 and October 2002.
METHODS: 148 consecutive patients, screened for inclusion in phase I trials 
investigating cytotoxic agents, were included in the present study. 70 out of 
them actually received phase I trial regimens. Univariate and multivariate 
analysis were undertaken to determine the prognostic factors for overall 
survival (OS) from the date of screening.
RESULTS: The median OS of the 148 patients was 5.7 months. Ninety-two percent of 
them had PS<or=1. The Cox model identified serum albumin<38 g/l [HR 2.51 
(1.51-4.18), p=0.0001] and lymphocyte count<700/mm3 [HR 2.27 (1.13-4.62), 
p=0.024] as independent prognostic for overall survival. All patients presenting 
both prognostic factors died within 90 days.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose a simple model, easily obtained at the bedside, which 
can discriminate patients who are likely to be alive at 3 months and thus could 
be included in a phase 1 anti-cancer trial. This model now needs to be validated 
on an independent cohort.

DOI: 10.1007/s10637-007-9088-x
PMID: 17891337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. IUBMB Life. 2007 Oct;59(10):664-74. doi: 10.1080/15216540701589312.

Identification of six new box C/D snoRNA gene clusters from rice.

Li W(1), Jiang G, Zeng D, Jin Y.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Institute of Biochemistry and Cell 
Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of 
Sciences, Shanghai, China.

Here we have identified 18 different box C/D snoRNAs encoded in six new gene 
clusters by the screening of Oryza sativa (rice) genome sequences using a 
computer program that we have designed to search for non-canonical box C and D 
sequences. Among this snoRNA collection, five are homologues of snoRNAs 
previously reported in other plants. One snoRNA is implicated to guide 
methylation at a corresponding site also modified in yeast rRNA but not in any 
other plants species yet examined. The other 12 snoRNAs are implicated in 
guiding 12 completely novel rRNA 2'-O-ribose methylation sites. We have verified 
the methylation of these rRNA sites by dNTP-concentration dependent primer 
extension assay. The expression of all snoRNAs reported here was experimentally 
confirmed by primer extension assay. Polycistronic precursor transcripts from 
the gene clusters have been demonstrated by RT-PCR. Thus it is highly likely 
that each of the rice snoRNA gene clusters identified here is transcribed in a 
polycistronic way, regardless of whether or not they are encoded within introns. 
This indicates that the mode of polycistronic expression of snoRNA clusters is 
widespread in rice, as is the case in Arabidopsis thaliana.

DOI: 10.1080/15216540701589312
PMID: 17891605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Health Econ. 2008 Feb;17(2):293-7. doi: 10.1002/hec.1290.

On survival consumption costs: a reply to Nyman.

Lundin D(1), Ramsberg J.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Pharmaceutical Benefits Board, Solna, Sweden. 
douglaslundin@hotmail.com

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2004 May;13(5):417-27.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1290
PMID: 17891823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Soc Work. 2005 Oct;50(4):315-24. doi: 10.1093/sw/50.4.315.

Historical and contemporary issues in end-of-life decisions: implications for 
social work.

Mackelprang RW(1), Mackelprang RD.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, Eastern Washington University, Cheney, WA 99004, USA. 
rmackelprang@mail.ewu.edu

Comment in
    Soc Work. 2007 Apr;52(2):190-1.

End-of-life circumstances have changed dramatically in recent years. In the past 
century life expectancy has increased by 62 percent and people are living longer 
with chronic illness. This article discusses evolving health practices and 
polices in end-of-life decisions. Treatments to prolong life and provide 
comfort, and interventions that hasten death, are discussed. Recent assisted 
suicide and euthanasia laws are analyzed and compared. Implications for social 
work and social work practitioners are addressed.

DOI: 10.1093/sw/50.4.315
PMID: 17892241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Soc Work. 2005 Oct;50(4):345-54. doi: 10.1093/sw/50.4.345.

A critical analysis of the emerging crisis in long-term care for people with 
developmental disabilities.

Parish SL(1), Lutwick ZE.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina 27599-3550, USA. parish@email.unc.edu

There is an impending crisis in long-term care for people with developmental 
disabilities. The demand for care will likely outpace the supply for decades to 
come. Factors, such as limited existing long-term care resources, increased life 
expectancy for people with developmental disabilities, changing family 
demographics, legal actions, and competition for resources with the elderly 
population are driving the crisis. Virtually every domain of social work 
practice will face challenges in this area. This article argues for an immediate 
response from the social work community in several areas. The profession needs 
to provide social workers with expanded training in family-centered approaches 
to working with people with developmental disabilities, develop new 
interventions, create new organizational supports, and practice assertive 
advocacy.

DOI: 10.1093/sw/50.4.345
PMID: 17892244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Am Heart J. 2007 Oct;154(4):624-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.06.024.

Rationale and design of a randomized clinical trial of beta-blocker therapy 
(atenolol) versus angiotensin II receptor blocker therapy (losartan) in 
individuals with Marfan syndrome.

Lacro RV(1), Dietz HC, Wruck LM, Bradley TJ, Colan SD, Devereux RB, Klein GL, Li 
JS, Minich LL, Paridon SM, Pearson GD, Printz BF, Pyeritz RE, Radojewski E, 
Roman MJ, Saul JP, Stylianou MP, Mahony L; Pediatric Heart Network 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Boston and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
ron.lacro@cardio.chboston.org

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease, including aortic root dilation, dissection, 
and rupture, is the leading cause of mortality in patients with Marfan syndrome 
(MFS). The maximal aortic root diameter at the sinuses of Valsalva is considered 
the best predictor of adverse cardiovascular outcome. Although advances in 
therapy have improved life expectancy, affected individuals continue to suffer 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Recent studies in an FBN1-targeted mouse 
model of MFS with aortic disease similar to that seen in humans showed that 
treatment with losartan normalized aortic root growth and aortic wall 
architecture.
METHODS: The Pediatric Heart Network designed a randomized clinical trial to 
compare aortic root growth and other short-term cardiovascular outcomes in 
subjects with MFS receiving atenolol or losartan. Individuals 6 months to 25 
years of age with a body surface area-adjusted aortic root z score >3.0 will be 
eligible for inclusion. The primary aim is to compare the effect of atenolol 
therapy with that of losartan therapy on the rate of aortic root growth over 3 
years. Secondary end points include progression of aortic regurgitation; 
incidence of aortic dissection, aortic root surgery, and death; progression of 
mitral regurgitation; left ventricular size and function; echocardiographically 
derived measures of central aortic stiffness; skeletal and somatic growth; and 
incidence of adverse drug reactions.
CONCLUSION: This randomized trial should make a substantial contribution to the 
management of individuals with MFS and expand our understanding of the 
mechanisms responsible for the aortic manifestations of this disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.06.024
PMCID: PMC3042860
PMID: 17892982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Med Genet. 2008 Feb;45(2):93-9. doi: 10.1136/jmg.2007.053397. Epub 2007
Sep  24.

Clinical spectrum of immunodeficiency, centromeric instability and facial 
dysmorphism (ICF syndrome).

Hagleitner MM(1), Lankester A, Maraschio P, Hultén M, Fryns JP, Schuetz C, 
Gimelli G, Davies EG, Gennery A, Belohradsky BH, de Groot R, Gerritsen EJ, 
Mattina T, Howard PJ, Fasth A, Reisli I, Furthner D, Slatter MA, Cant AJ, 
Cazzola G, van Dijken PJ, van Deuren M, de Greef JC, van der Maarel SM, Weemaes 
CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Immunology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical 
Centre, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Immunodeficiency, centromeric instability and facial dysmorphism 
(ICF syndrome) is a rare autosomal recessive disease characterised by facial 
dysmorphism, immunoglobulin deficiency and branching of chromosomes 1, 9 and 16 
after PHA stimulation of lymphocytes. Hypomethylation of DNA of a small fraction 
of the genome is an unusual feature of ICF patients which is explained by 
mutations in the DNA methyltransferase gene DNMT3B in some, but not all, ICF 
patients.
OBJECTIVE: To obtain a comprehensive description of the clinical features of 
this syndrome as well as genotype-phenotype correlations in ICF patients.
METHODS: Data on ICF patients were obtained by literature search and additional 
information by means of questionnaires to corresponding authors.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: 45 patients all with proven centromeric instability 
were included in this study. Facial dysmorphism was found to be a common 
characteristic (n = 41/42), especially epicanthic folds, hypertelorism, flat 
nasal bridge and low set ears. Hypo- or agammaglobulinaemia was demonstrated in 
nearly all patients (n = 39/44). Opportunistic infections were seen in several 
patients, pointing to a T cell dysfunction. Haematological malignancy was 
documented in two patients. Life expectancy of ICF patients is poor, especially 
those with severe infections in infancy or chronic gastrointestinal problems and 
failure to thrive. Early diagnosis of ICF is important since early introduction 
of immunoglobulin supplementation can improve the course of the disease. 
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation should be considered as a therapeutic 
option in patients with severe infections or failure to thrive. Only 19 of 34 
patients showed mutations in DNMT3B, suggesting genetic heterogeneity. No 
genotype-phenotype correlation was found between patients with and without 
DNMT3B mutations.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2007.053397
PMID: 17893117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Cancer. 2007 Nov 15;110(10):2210-7. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23028.

Decision analysis using individual patient preferences to determine optimal 
treatment for localized prostate cancer.

Sommers BD(1), Beard CJ, D'Amico AV, Dahl D, Kaplan I, Richie JP, Zeckhauser RJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. bsommers@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Selecting treatment for clinically localized prostate cancer remains 
an ongoing challenge. Previous decision analyses focused on a hypothetical 
patient with average preferences, but preferences differ for clinically similar 
patients, implying that their optimal therapies may also differ.
METHODS: A decision model was constructed comparing 4 treatments for localized 
prostate cancer: 1) radical prostatectomy (RP); 2) external beam radiation (EB); 
3) brachytherapy (BT); and 4) watchful waiting (WW). Published data were used 
regarding treatment success, side effects, and noncancer survival, and 156 men 
with prostate cancer were surveyed to elicit preferences in quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs). The clinical scenarios were determined (age, tumor grade, 
and prostate-specific antigen [PSA]) for which variations in patient preferences 
led to different optimal treatments and those for which the optimal treatment 
was unaffected by preferences.
RESULTS: Patient preferences were critical in determining treatment for low-risk 
cancers (Gleason score <or=6, PSA <or=10 ng/mL) and for patients aged 75 years 
and older. In younger patients with more aggressive tumors, RP and EB were 
always superior to WW or BT, regardless of preferences (average gain in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy vs WW for a 60-year-old with a medium-risk 
tumor = +1.4 years for RP and +1.7 for EB; for a high-risk tumor = +2.1 years 
for RP and +2.4 for EB). BT was a reasonable option for low-risk tumors at any 
age. WW was only reasonable for patients aged 70 and older with low-risk tumors 
or those aged 80 years and older with medium-risk tumors. Selecting treatment 
based on average preferences leads to suboptimal choices for 30% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The optimal treatment for prostate cancer depends on both the 
clinical scenario (patient age and tumor aggressiveness) and the patient's 
preferences. Decision analyses taking individualized preferences into account 
may be a useful adjunct in clinical decision-making.

(c) 2007 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23028
PMID: 17893907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Jun;1108:76-82. doi: 10.1196/annals.1422.008.

Occurrence of malignancies in Hungarian patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus: results from a single center.

Tarr T(1), Gyorfy B, Szekanecz E, Bhattoa HP, Zeher M, Szegedi G, Kiss E.

Author information:
(1)Third Department of Medicine, Medical and Health Science Center, University 
of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.

As a result of increasing life expectancy of lupus patients, malignant disorders 
have become major determinants of morbidity and mortality. The objectives of 
this study were to analyze cancer-associated morbidity and mortality, the type 
of malignancies in Hungarian lupus patients, and to analyze association with 
immune-suppressive therapy, disease duration, and age of the patients. Data from 
860 systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients were retrospectively analyzed in 
a study period between 1970 and 2004. Results were compared to data from age- 
and sex-matched population obtained from the Health for All database, and also 
to literature data. A total of 37 patients presented with cancer, reflecting 
4.3% cancer-associated morbidity. Patients were 47 (20-73) years old at the 
onset of malignancy, which appeared 13 (1-45) years later than SLE. Cancer 
prevalence was the highest in the first 5-10 years of lupus. Breast cancer was 
the most common malignancy (n = 11) followed by gastrointestinal tumors (n = 9), 
cervix cancer and hematologic malignancies (n = 5 for both), bronchial cancer (n 
= 4), bladder, skin, and ovarian cancer (n = 1 for each). Standardized incidence 
ratio was the highest for non-Hodgkin lymphoma (standardized incidence ratio 
[SIR] 3.5, 95% CI 0.4-12.5) and cervix cancer (SIR 1.7, 95% CI 0.6-4.1). 
Although 76% of patients with cancer received immune-suppressive therapy besides 
corticosteroids, no direct correlation could be confirmed between therapy and 
malignancy. Out of the 164 patients that expired during the study period, 18 
were cancer-related. As such the cancer-associated mortality was 11% (18/164). 
This peaked during the last 4 years of the study period (8/24, 33%). Lupus 
patients are at high risk for particular types of malignant disorders, 
highlighting the importance of screening measures and focused patient 
examination.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1422.008
PMID: 17893972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Health Stat Q. 2007 Autumn;(35):28-36.

Review of methods for estimating life expectancy by social class using the ONS 
Longitudinal Study.

Johnson B(1), Blackwell L.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This article presents proposed changes in the methods used to estimate life 
expectancy by social class using the ONS Longitudinal Study (LS). The changes 
reviewed are: computational changes, including revised methods for age-specific 
mortality rates, more precise survival duration calculations and increased 
social class attribution through the inclusion of updated information -- 
extension of the criteria used to exclude LS members from the analysis, using 
information on presence at the 2001 Census -- the use of Health Authority 
deregistration data to approximate unrecorded emigration, together with 
information from the 2001 Census, to reduce a potential source of bias in 
mortality calculations. The impact on existing results is quantified and it is 
proposed that these methods are used in the updating of the published series.

PMID: 17894198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 1999 Jan-Feb;8(1):28-32. doi: 
10.1016/s1052-3057(99)80036-6.

Carotid endarterectomy in the elderly.

Dandapani BK(1), Shah S, Gebel JM Jr, Grove MK, Sesto ME, Parks P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Cleveland Clinic Florida, Ft Lauderdale, FL, USA; 
Department of General and Vascular Surgery, Cleveland Clinic Florida, Ft 
Lauderdale, FL, USA; Department of Neurology, University of Ciccinnati, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA; Northwestern University Medical School, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Increasing life expectancy has resulted in an increasing 
number of elderly. As the elderly population grows, the incidence of stroke will 
increase. Many such strokes result from carotid stenosis (CS). In view of the 
benefits of carotid endarterectomy (CEA) shown in recent clinical trials, it 
would seem prudent that surgery for CS be considered for prevention of stroke in 
this population. Traditionally, members of the geriatric population have often 
been viewed, perhaps arbitrarily, as inappropriate candidates for CEA because of 
perceived greater operative risks. The purpose of this study was to assess the 
safety of performing CEA in geriatric patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 175 patients who underwent CEA between January 
1994 and June 1996 were evaluated retrospectively. The patients were divided 
into the nongeriatric group (NGG <75 years of age) and the geriatric group (GG 
>75 years of age). There were 90 (51%) patients in the NGG and 85 (49%) in the 
GG. The two groups were compared for the following: rationale for surgery 
(symptomatic vs. asymptomatic), risk factor profile, preoperative imaging 
studies (noninvasive vs. invasive), and complications of surgery.
RESULTS: Both groups were generally comparable in terms of their risk factors, 
rationale for surgery, and preoperative cardiac risk. Noninvasive imaging alone 
was used in 56% of NGG and 60% of GG patients, whereas 44% of NGG and 40% of GG 
underwent invasive cerebral angiography in addition to other noninvasive 
studies. There were 4(4.4%) postoperative neurological complications, including 
two strokes and two transient ischemic attacks (TIAs), in the NGG and 1(1%) 
stroke in the GG. One patient died in the NGG from a stroke. Although one 
patient in the GG experienced a postoperative myocardial infarction, there was 
no mortality in this group.
CONCLUSION: CEA can be safely performed for both symptomatic and asymptomatic CS 
in appropriately selected patients irrespective of age.

DOI: 10.1016/s1052-3057(99)80036-6
PMID: 17895134301. Pancreas. 2007 Oct;35(3):243-8. doi: 10.1097/MPA.0b013e318068fc94.

Asymptomatic pancreatic cysts: a decision analysis approach to observation 
versus resection.

Liao T(1), Velanovich V.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, MI 48202, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Pancreatic cysts are being found with increasing frequency. Although 
symptomatic cysts should be resected, what to do about asymptomatic cysts is 
less clear. The purpose of this study was to determine threshold values to 
choose resection over observation for a patient with an asymptomatic pancreatic 
cyst.
METHODS: Decision analysis assesses the consequences of a decision based on 
occurrence probabilities. This decision analysis assessed 1 decision, to resect 
or observe a patient with an asymptomatic pancreatic cyst. The consequences for 
resection are operative mortality/no operative mortality, short-term morbidity 
of patients surviving the operation, benign/malignant cyst, and life expectancy 
after resection of malignant lesions. The probabilities are based on the extant 
literature. The age-specific life expectancy for benign cysts was considered the 
same as for the general age-specific population from the 2002 United States Life 
Table. Because the operative mortality, distribution of benign versus malignant 
cysts, and life expectancy after resection or observation for malignant cysts 
vary, sensitivity analysis was done to assess the threshold values of these 
factors when resection becomes favored over observation.
RESULTS: The baseline decision analysis is based on the following assumptions: 
30% of lesions are malignant, operative mortality rate is 3%, and the 5-year 
survival rate of resected malignant cysts is 50%. Varying on age, the risk of 
the cystic lesion being malignant to favor resection is greater than 11.6% to 
15.5%, the operative mortality rate has to be less than 7.4% to 13.8%, and the 
life expectancy gain by resecting, rather than observing a malignant lesion, has 
to be greater than 3.49 to 5.38 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The decision to resect must be based on the surgeon's operative 
mortality rate, the predicted operative mortality for the individual patient, 
the probability that the lesion is malignant, and the survival difference 
between resecting and observing malignant cystic lesions. Overall, for resection 
to be recommended, the physician must believe that the risk that the lesion is 
malignant is approximately 15% or greater, that the life expectancy gained from 
resection be approximately 5 years or greater, and that the surgeons' operative 
mortality rate be approximately 8% or less.

DOI: 10.1097/MPA.0b013e318068fc94
PMID: 17895845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2007 Jul-Aug;14(4):258-64. doi:
10.1080/01658100701473267.

Estimating quality-adjusted life year losses associated with visual field 
deficits using methodological approaches.

Rein DB(1), Wirth KE, Johnson CA, Lee PP.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Atlanta, Georgia 30341, USA. drein@rti.org

PURPOSE: To develop a function to describe quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
losses associated with visual field losses for use in cost-effectiveness models.
METHODS: We estimated the patient visual field defect in decibels (dBs) that 
corresponded to visual acuity values of 20/40, 20/70, 20/200 (US blindness), 
20/400 (WHO blindness), and 20/1,000 (extreme impairment) using two methods. The 
first method categorized visual field defects by applying the logic of the 
Snellen minimum angle of resolution (MAR) acuity scale to the ability to 
perceive luminance adjusting for the differences in the visual acuity and 
luminance scales (MAR-based). The second method categorized visual field defects 
based on assumptions. We then assigned each visual field category the same QALY 
value associated with the analogous visual acuity category. Finally, for each 
method, we calculated a function that described QALY losses as a function of the 
absolute value of patient mean deviation (MD) values measured in dBs.
RESULTS: The MAR-based method estimated that MDs of -16, -18, -23, -24, and -30 
or greater dBs corresponded to visual acuity values of 20/40, 20/70, 20/200, 
20/400, and 20/1,000, respectively. For the same visual acuity values, the 
assumption-based method resulted in MD estimates of -13, -17, -22, -24, and -30. 
Our MAR-based method yielded the function, QALYs = 0.98991 + 0.0022 . dBs 
-0.00080518 . dBs2, setting dBs equal to the absolute value of the mean 
deviation in the better-seeing eye. OUR ASSUMPTION-BASED METHOD YIELDED THE 
PIECE-WISE FUNCTION, QALYS = 1.0 - 0.0155 . DBS FOR DBS < 22, AND 1.815 -0.0525. 
DBS FOR DBS >OR= 22.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from two estimation methods suggest a convex and downward 
