John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1300
PMID: 17853505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Ulster Med J. 2007 Sep;76(3):122-3.

Pakistan, population programmes and progress.

Mahsud-Dornan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Maternal and Fetal Medicine, Royal Jubilee Maternity Hospital, 
Belfast Health and Social Care Trust, Grosvenor Road, Belfast BT12 6BA, United 
Kingdom. saminamahsud@googlemail.com

PMCID: PMC2075591
PMID: 17853634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Palliat Care. 2007 Summer;23(2):93-112.

A systematic review of prognostic tools for estimating survival time in 
palliative care.

Lau F(1), Cloutier-Fisher D, Kuziemsky C, Black F, Downing M, Borycki E, Ho F.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Information Science, University of Victoria, British 
Columbia, Canada.

PMID: 17853845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Value Health. 2008 Mar-Apr;11(2):191-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00240.x.  Epub 2007 Sep 13.

Cost-effectiveness of motivational interviewing for smoking cessation and 
relapse prevention among low-income pregnant women: a randomized controlled 
trial.

Ruger JP(1), Weinstein MC, Hammond SK, Kearney MH, Emmons KM.

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA. jennifer.ruger@yale.edu

OBJECTIVES: Low-income women have high rates of smoking during pregnancy, but 
little is known about the costs, benefits, and cost-effectiveness of 
motivational interviewing (MI), focused on the medical and psychosocial needs of 
this population, as an intervention for smoking cessation and relapse 
prevention.
METHODS: A sample of 302 low-income pregnant women was recruited from multiple 
obstetrical sites in the Boston metropolitan area into a randomized controlled 
trial of a motivational intervention for smoking cessation and relapse 
prevention versus usual care (UC). The findings of this clinical trial were used 
to estimate the costs, benefits, and cost-effectiveness of the intervention from 
a societal perspective, incorporating published quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) and life-year (LY) estimates. Outcomes included smoking cessation and 
relapse, maternal and infant outcomes, economic costs, LYs and QALYs saved, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of MI for relapse prevention compared to UC was 
estimated to be $851/LY saved and $628/QALY saved. Including savings in maternal 
medical costs in sensitivity analyses resulted in cost savings for MI for 
relapse prevention compared to UC. For smoking cessation, MI cost more but did 
not provide additional benefit compared to UC. In one-way sensitivity analyses, 
the incremental cost-effectiveness of MI versus UC would have been $117,100/LY 
saved and $86,300/QALY saved if 8% of smokers had quit. In two-way sensitivity 
analyses, MI was still relatively cost-effective for relapse prevention 
($17,300/QALY saved) even if it cost as much as $2000/participant and was less 
effective. For smoking cessation, however, a higher level of effectiveness 
(9/110) and higher cost ($400/participant) resulted in higher incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios ($112,000/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Among low-income pregnant women, MI helps prevent relapse at 
relatively low cost, and may be cost-saving when net medical cost savings are 
considered. For smoking cessation, MI cost more but provided no additional 
benefit compared to UC, but might offer benefits at costs comparable to other 
clinical preventive interventions if 8-10% of smokers are induced to quit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00240.x
PMCID: PMC2775431
PMID: 17854434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Value Health. 2008 Mar-Apr;11(2):180-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00239.x.  Epub 2007 Sep 13.

Economic evaluations of smoking cessation and relapse prevention programs for 
pregnant women: a systematic review.

Ruger JP(1), Emmons KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Smoking cessation and relapse prevention during and after pregnancy 
reduces the risk of adverse maternal and infant health outcomes, but the 
economic evaluations of such programs have not been systematically reviewed. 
This study aims to critically assess economic evaluations of smoking cessation 
and relapse prevention programs for pregnant women.
METHODS: All relevant English-language articles were identified using PubMed 
(January 1966-2003), the British National Health Service Economic Evaluation 
Database, and reference lists of key articles. Economic evaluations of smoking 
cessation and relapse prevention among pregnant women were reviewed. Fifty-one 
articles were retrieved, and eight articles were included and evaluated. A 
single reviewer extracted methodological details, study designs, and outcomes 
into summary tables. All studies were reviewed, and study quality was judged 
using the criteria recommended by the Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and 
Medicine and the British Medical Journal (BMJ) checklist for economic 
evaluations.
RESULTS: The search retrieved 51 studies. No incremental cost-effectiveness 
studies or cost-utility studies were found. A narrative synthesis was conducted 
on the eight studies thatmet the inclusion criteria. Roughly one-third employed 
cost-benefit analyses (CBA). Those conducting CBA have found favorable 
benefit-cost ratios of up to 3:1; for every dollar invested $3 are saved in 
downstream health-related costs.
CONCLUSIONS: CBA suggests favorable cost-benefit ratios for smoking cessation 
among pregnant women, although currently available economic evaluations of 
smoking cessation and relapse prevention programs for pregnant women provide 
limited evidence on cost-effectiveness to determine optimal resource allocation 
strategies. Although none of these studies had been performed in accordance with 
Panel recommendations or BMJ guidelines, they are, however, embryonic elements 
of a more systematic framework. Existing analyses suggest that the return on 
investment will far outweigh the costs for this critical population. There is 
significant potential to improve the quality of economic evaluations of such 
programs; therefore, additional analyses are needed. The article concludes with 
ideas on how to design and conduct an economic evaluation of such programs in 
accordance with accepted quality standards.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00239.x
PMCID: PMC2732023
PMID: 17854435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Control Release. 2007 Nov 6;123(2):116-22. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2007.07.014.  Epub 2007 Aug 8.

Prevention of tumor recurrence and distant metastasis formation in a breast 
cancer mouse model by biodegradable implant of 131I-norcholesterol.

Azab AK(1), Kleinstern J, Doviner V, Orkin B, Srebnik M, Nissan A, Rubinstein A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutics, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, School of 
Pharmacy, Jerusalem, Israel.

Brachytherapy has many potential roles in cancer therapy. However, major 
constraints are associated with placement and removal procedures of the 
brachytherapy machinery. An attractive approach would be the use of a 
biodegradable implant loaded with a radioisotope, thus enabling targeted 
radiotherapy, while reducing the need for surgical procedures for the removal of 
brachytherapy hardware. In this study, crosslinked chitosan (Ct) hydrogels were 
prepared and loaded with (131)I-norcholesterol ((131)I-NC). The radioactive 
hydrogels ((131)I-NC-Ct) were implanted adjacent to 4T1 cell-induced tumors in 
two different xenograft mice models either as primary therapy or surgical 
adjuvant therapy of breast cancer. Non-treated mice and mice implanted with 
naive (non-radioactive) hydrogels served as control groups. In the primary 
therapy model, the progression rate of the tumor was delayed by two weeks 
compared with the non-treated and the naive-implant control animals, resulting 
in a one-week extension in the survival of the treated animals. In the adjuvant 
therapy model, for the treatment of minimal residual disease, (131)I-NC-Ct 
implants were able to prevent 69% of tumor recurrence, and to prevent metastatic 
spread resulting in long-term survival, compared with 0% long-term survival of 
the non-treated and the naive control groups. Imaging of the hydrogel's in vivo 
elimination revealed a first order process with a half-life of 14 days. The 
degradation was caused by oxidation of the Ct as was assessed by in vitro H&E 
stain. Biodegradable radioactive implants are suggested as a novel platform for 
the delivery of brachytherapy. This radiotherapy regimen may prevent 
locoregional recurrence and metastatic spread after tumor resection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2007.07.014
PMID: 17854940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Environ Manage. 2008 Apr;87(2):305-16. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2006.10.026.
 Epub 2007 Sep 12.

Generating sustainable towns from Chinese villages: a system modeling approach.

Levine RS(1), Hughes MT, Ryan Mather C, Yanarella EJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Sustainable Cities, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 
40506-0041, USA. rlevine@uky.edu <rlevine@uky.edu>

The great majority of China's developing towns will be extensions of already 
existing villages. With the prospect of hundreds of millions of Chinese farmers 
projected to leave their villages to become industrial workers in new and 
expanded towns within the next few years, new challenges will be faced. As 
expansion and modernization progress, this development moves from the 
traditional village model that operates not far from resource sustainability to 
increasingly unsustainable patterns of commerce, urban development, and modern 
life. With such an unprecedented mass migration and transformation, how can 
Chinese culture survive? What is to become of the existing million plus 
agricultural villages? How can these massively unsustainable new industrial 
towns survive? In the European Commission sponsored research program SUCCESS, 
researchers worked from the scale of the Chinese village to find viable answers 
to these questions. To address these issues, the Center for Sustainable Cities, 
one of the SUCCESS teams, studied the metabolism of several small villages. In 
these studies, system dynamics models of a village's metabolism were created and 
then modified so that inherently unsustainable means were eliminated from the 
model (fossil fuels, harmful agricultural chemicals, etc.) and replaced by 
sustainability-oriented means. Small Chinese farming villages are unlikely to 
survive in anything like their present form or scale, not least because they are 
too small to provide the range of life opportunities to which the young 
generation of educated Chinese aspires. As a response to this realization as 
well as to the many other threats to the Chinese village and its rural way of 
life, it was proposed that one viable path into the future would be to enlarge 
the villages to become full service towns with sufficient diversity of 
opportunity to be able to attract and keep many of the best and brightest young 
people who are now migrating to the larger cities. Starting with the village in 
its sustainability-oriented model form, the village model would be enlarged both 
quantitatively and qualitatively through many trial iterations. A research 
program is described whereby an operational definition of the sustainable city 
is developed as a means of creating these enlarged models through citizen 
participation assisted by outside experts using software under development 
called the Sustainability Engine to guide the process and provide feedback as to 
the consequences of various proposals that are brought to the table. As this 
process is continued, the village would be incrementally enlarged and made more 
diverse and more complex through a variety of scenarios until it would emerge as 
a modern, sustainable town or city. In this way, through a participatory, 
balance-seeking civil society process involving villagers and scientists in what 
the Center for Sustainable Cities calls the Sustainable City Game, the villages 
can become the DNA for generating future sustainable Chinese towns and cities. 
As an extension of this discussion, a new urban model, the Sustainable 
City-as-a-Hill, is presented that responds to both the qualities of the 
traditional Chinese village as well as to the modern demands of industrial and 
post-industrial economies and, in particular, to the need for sustainable urban 
patterns. In addition a new concept, the Sustainable Area Budget (SAB) is 
introduced which definitively creates the boundary condition for both modeling 
the sustainable city and presenting the quest for the sustainable city-region as 
a coherent, scientific design process.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2006.10.026
PMID: 17854975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. BMJ. 2007 Sep 15;335(7619):527-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39325.446019.3A.

NICE behaviour: QALYs in the community.

Bamji AN.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2007 Aug 25;335(7616):358-9.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39325.446019.3A
PMCID: PMC1976499
PMID: 17855288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: ANB is a physician with an 
interest in offering effective and expensive treatments to patients, and current 
president of the British Society for Rheumatology.


228. Arch Dis Child. 2008 Jan;93(1):52-8. doi: 10.1136/adc.2007.117879. Epub 2007
Sep  12.

Rotavirus vaccination for Hong Kong children: an economic evaluation from the 
Hong Kong Government perspective.

Ho AM(1), Nelson EA, Walker DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, The Chinese University of Hong 
Kong, Hong Kong SAR, PRC. hoamh@yahoo.com

AIMS: To perform an economic analysis of government-funded universal rotavirus 
vaccination in Hong Kong from the government's perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model of costs and effects (disability averted) associated 
with universal vaccination was compared with no vaccination. In both strategies, 
newborns were studied until 5 years of age or until they died, using cost, 
probability and utility data from the literature. The potential cost savings and 
cost effectiveness of vaccination were calculated and their sensitivities to 
changes in vaccine and health care costs, presumed decline in vaccine efficacy 
over time, and the use of discounting and age weights were determined.
RESULTS: Depending on assumptions, the new rotavirus vaccines would be cost 
saving to the Hong Kong Government if they cost less than US$40-92 per course. 
Higher vaccine costs would quickly lead to an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio exceeding that of the gross national product per capita if the mortality 
rate of rotavirus gastroenteritis remained at zero.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on 2002 demographic, cost and morbidity data and reasonable 
uncertainty estimates of these variables, a universal rotavirus vaccination 
programme paid for by the Hong Kong Government is cost neutral at a per course 
vaccine cost of US$40-92. For a fixed vaccine cost, the potential savings and 
cost effectiveness of the vaccine increase with higher estimated health care 
costs and vice versa.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.2007.117879
PMID: 17855438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Arch Dis Child Fetal Neonatal Ed. 2008 Mar;93(2):F121-6. doi: 
10.1136/adc.2007.121129. Epub 2007 Sep 12.

Intrauterine growth and survival in cerebral palsy.

Hemming K(1), Hutton JL, Bonellie S, Kurinczuk JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Warwick, Warwick, UK. 
karla@stats.warwick.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Deviations in birth weight from an optimum, thought 
to be just above average for gestational age, are known to increase both the 
risk of developing cerebral palsy and the risk of developing cerebral palsy of a 
more severe form. Influences on survival of such deviations from average birth 
weight for gestational age are not known.
METHODS: Using a well-established, well-defined and large UK cohort of children 
and adults with cerebral palsy, followed from birth for nearly 25 years, we 
investigate the influence of deviations from average birth weight for 
gestational age, on survival duration, after allowing for severity of 
impairments.
RESULTS: A total of 3946 cases, born between 1980 and 1996 were included. For 
those born much lighter than average for gestational age, more than 30% (n = 
313) had a severe motor or cognitive impairment, rising to as much as 40% (n = 
239) for extremely low weights. For female infants, the proportions severely 
impaired increased to as much as 35% (n = 49) among those born much heavier than 
average; no such increase was observed for heavier than average male infants. 
For those with four severe impairments and a birth weight close to average for 
gestational age, around 60% (n = 140) survived to age 15 years, compared with 
less than 40% (n = 9) of those born much heavier than average for gestational 
age. A 2-year-old child with four severe impairments and born heavy for 
gestational age has a predicted median life expectancy of 79% (95% CI 70% to 
88%) of the average.
CONCLUSIONS: Infants with a birth weight lighter than average for gestational 
age have an increased likelihood of developing a more severe form of cerebral 
palsy. Surprisingly, among the infants who are very severely impaired, those 
born much lighter than average for gestational age have the longest life 
expectancy, and those born much heavier than average for gestational age have 
the shortest life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/adc.2007.121129
PMID: 17855446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Ann Surg. 1919 Nov;70(5):522-5. doi: 10.1097/00000658-191911000-00002.

LIFE EXPECTANCY OF PATIENTS FOLLOWING OPERATIONS FOR GASTRIC AND DUODENAL ULCER.

Balfour DC.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-191911000-00002
PMCID: PMC1410432
PMID: 17864186


231. Ann Surg. 1922 Jan;75(1):61-9.

LIFE EXPECTANCY FOLLOWING RADICAL AMPUTATION FOR CARCINOMA OF THE BREAST: A 
CLINICAL AND PATHOLOGIC STUDY OF 218 CASES.

Sistrunk WE, Maccarty WC.

PMCID: PMC1399849
PMID: 17864583


232. Ann Surg. 1922 Sep;76(3):405-8. doi: 10.1097/00000658-192209000-00014.

FACTORS INFLUENCING THE LIFE EXPECTANCY OF PATIENTS OPERATED ON FOR GASTRIC 
ULCER.

Balfour DC.

DOI: 10.1097/00000658-192209000-00014
PMCID: PMC1400065
PMID: 17864703


233. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2007 Aug 21;55(19):1-119.

Deaths: final data for 2004.

Miniño AM(1), Heron MP, Murphy SL, Kochanek KD; Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention National Center for Health Statistics National Vital Statistics 
System.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Center for Health 
Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Division of Vital 
Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2004 data on U.S. deaths; death rates; 
life expectancy; infant and maternal mortality; and trends by selected 
characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, marital status, 
educational attainment, injury at work, state of residence, and cause of death. 
Previous reports presented preliminary mortality data for 2004 and summarized 
key findings in the final data for 2004.
METHODS: This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on 
death certificates, which are completed by funeral directors, attending 
physicians, medical examiners, and coroners. The original records are filed in 
the state registration offices. Statistical information is compiled into a 
national database through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health 
Statistics (NCHS). Causes of death are processed in accordance with the 
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
RESULTS: In 2004, a total of 2,397,615 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 800.8 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, representing a decrease of 3.8 percent from the 2003 rate and a 
record low historical figure. Life expectancy at birth rose by 0.4 year to a 
record high of 77.8 years. Age-specific death rates decreased for all age 
groups. (The decrease for children aged 5-14 years was not statistically 
significant.) The 15 leading causes of death in 2004 remained the same as in 
2003. Heart disease and cancer continued to be the leading and second leading 
causes of death, together accounting for over one-half of all deaths. In 2004, 
Alzheimer's disease surpassed and swapped positions with Influenza, relative to 
their previous placements in 2003. The infant mortality rate in 2004 was 6.79 
per 1000 births.
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality patterns in 2004 were consistent with 
long-term trends. Life expectancy in 2004 increased again to a new record level. 
The age-adjusted death rate declined to a record low historical figure. Although 
not statistically significant, the decrease in the infant mortality rate is 
typical of recent trends; except for 2002, the infant mortality rate has either 
decreased or remained level each successive year from 1958 to 2004.

PMID: 17867520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Zoolog Sci. 2007 Apr;24(4):327-30. doi: 10.2108/zsj.24.327.

Population expansion of the poultry fluff louse, Goniocotes gallinae (De Geer, 
1778) (Ischnocera, Phthiraptera).

Saxena AK(1), Kumar S, Gupta N, Singh R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Government Raza Postgraduate College, Rampur, India. 
akscsir@rediffmail.com

A study was undertaken to determine the rate of population expansion of an 
ischnoceran Phthiraptera, Goniocotes gallinae (infesting the domestic fowl, 
Gallus gallus domesticus), on the basis of in vitro and in vivo studies. Data 
obtained from in vitro rearing were utilized to construct the life history of 
the louse. The values of the gross reproductive rate (12.49 female eggs/female), 
net reproductive rate (8.31 female eggs/female), mean length of generation 
(36.91 days), precise generation time (35.65 days), finite rate of increase 
(1.06 female/days), and intrinsic rate of natural increase (0.059) of G. 
gallinae were determined. However, doubling-time values recorded during in vivo 
studies (14 days) was comparatively higher than those during in vitro rearing 
(11.73 days).

DOI: 10.2108/zsj.24.327
PMID: 17867830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. J Crit Care. 2007 Sep;22(3):197-203. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrc.2006.11.005. Epub
2007  Feb 8.

The COASST study: cost-effectiveness of albumin in severe sepsis and septic 
shock.

Guidet B(1), Mosqueda GJ, Priol G, Aegerter P.

Author information:
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie-Paris 6, UMR S707, Paris, F-75012, France. 
bertrand.guidet@sat.aphp.fr

INTRODUCTION: The cost-effectiveness of albumin-based fluid support in patients 
with severe sepsis is not known.
METHODS: We compared standard medical practice and systematic albumin infusion. 
The study population consisted of patients with severe sepsis and/or septic 
shock admitted to one of the 35 intensive care units belonging to the Cub-Réa 
regional database between 1 January 1998 and 31 December 2002. Only stays longer 
than 24 hours and only patients with a minimum of circulatory, renal, or 
respiratory failure were considered. Cost estimates were based on French 
diagnosis-related groups and fixed daily prices. A 4.6% reduction in mortality 
was expected in the albumin arm, as observed in the Saline vs Albumin Fluid 
Evaluation (SAFE) Study. Life expectancy was estimated with the declining 
exponential approximation of life expectancy method, based on age, sex, 
Simplified Acute Physiology Score II, and McCabe score.
RESULTS: The number of lives saved among the 11137 patients was 513. The average 
life expectancy of the 5156 patients who left the hospital alive was estimated 
to be 9.78 years. The costs per life saved and per year life saved were 6037 
euro and 617 euro, respectively. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness 
of the results.
CONCLUSION: The application of the SAFE Study results to CUB-Réa data shows that 
albumin infusion is cost-effective in severe sepsis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrc.2006.11.005
PMID: 17869969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Summer;19(2):127-32. doi: 
10.1053/j.semtcvs.2007.05.002.

Future directions in degenerative mitral valve repair.

Alfieri O(1), De Bonis M, Maisano F, La Canna G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, San Raffaele University Hospital, Milan, 
Italy. ottavio.alfieri@hsr.it

Mitral valve repair is by far the most common operation for degenerative mitral 
regurgitation. If the procedure is performed before left ventricular dysfunction 
occurs and atrial fibrillation develops, the operative risk is very low and life 
expectancy is super imposable to that of the sex- and age-matched population. 
Despite these achievements, there are areas that could still be improved. 
Progress in treating degenerative mitral regurgitation is expected to move along 
several directions. More precise diagnostic methods will be developed to 
reliably quantify mitral regurgitation and identify early irreversible 
ventricular and atrial changes. The refinement of surgical techniques and search 
for new, innovative solutions should never be abandoned. Finally, transcatheter 
correction of mitral regurgitation represents a new, emerging field of 
cardiovascular medicine and is expected to have a significant impact on the 
surgical practice in the future.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semtcvs.2007.05.002
PMID: 17870007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Best Pract Res Clin Rheumatol. 2007 Oct;21(5):871-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.berh.2007.05.003.

Mortality in established rheumatoid arthritis.

Naz SM(1), Symmons DP.

Author information:
(1)Rotherham General Hospital, South Yorkshire, UK.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with reduced life expectancy. Whether 
the development of RA initiates this process of premature ageing or is part of 
it is not clear. The excess mortality is apparent within the first few years of 
disease and increases with RA disease duration. Most of the excess deaths are 
attributable to infection, cardiovascular disease (in particular coronary heart 
disease) and respiratory disease. Deaths due to lung cancer and non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma, but not other cancers, are also increased. There is some evidence that 
effective disease-modifying therapy can improve survival but, overall, survival 
in RA patients has not improved to the same degree as in the general population 
over recent decades.

DOI: 10.1016/j.berh.2007.05.003
PMID: 17870033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Maturitas. 2007 Oct 20;58(2):138-49. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2007.07.004.
Epub  2007 Sep 17.

Economic impact of Tibolone compared with Continuous-Combined Hormone 
Replacement Therapy in the management of climacteric symptoms in postmenopausal 
women.

Diaby V(1), Perreault S, Lachaine J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Montreal, Centre-ville, Montreal, QC H3C 
3J7, Canada. vakaramoko.diaby@umontreal.ca

BACKGROUND: Deciding whether to treat postmenopausal women suffering from 
climacteric symptoms with Continuous Combined Hormone Replacement Therapy 
(CCHRT) has become increasingly difficult after the release of the Women's 
Health Initiative results. As a result, development of alternatives to CCHRT is 
required. Tibolone, which is a synthetic steroid that has estrogenic, 
progestogenic and androgenic properties, is reported to be a promising 
alternative. It has been used in Europe, in the same indication as CCHRT, for 
approximately 20 years but is not yet available in Canada.
OBJECTIVE: We carried out a cost-utility analysis comparing a 3-year-treatment 
course with Tibolone 2.5mg and conjugated equine estrogens 
(CEE)/medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) (0.625 mg/2.5 mg) in the management of 
postmenopausal women with climacteric symptoms.
METHODS: A Markov model, considering persistence, vaginal bleeding and 
climacteric symptoms, was elaborated to compare the different options in terms 
of cost and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs), according to a public 
third-party payer perspective.
RESULTS: Compared with CEE/MPA, Tibolone led to an increase in cost (dollars 485 
for Tibolone versus dollars 232 for CEE/MPA) and a slight increase in QALYs 
(2.08 for Tibolone versus 2.05 for CEE/MPA). Consequently, the incremental cost 
per QALY gained ratio was dollars 9198.
CONCLUSION: According to the results, Tibolone seems to be a cost-effective 
alternative to CEE/MPA. However, those results should be interpreted with 
caution insofar as the difference in terms of QALY is clinically difficult to 
value and taking into account the limited data on Tibolone's long-term 
innocuity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2007.07.004
PMID: 17870259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Oct;43(15):2242-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.005. Epub
 2007 Sep 17.

Clinical epidemiology of breast cancer in the elderly.

Louwman WJ(1), Vulto JC, Verhoeven RH, Nieuwenhuijzen GA, Coebergh JW, Voogd AC.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Center South, Eindhoven Cancer Registry, P.O. Box 231, 
5600 AE Eindhoven, The Netherlands. research@ikz.nl <research@ikz.nl>

Breast cancer will increasingly become a disease affecting the lives of older 
women, especially in more developed countries, the prevalence rising up to 7% 
over age 70 in the near future. A review of the population-based literature and 
an analysis of the data of the Eindhoven Cancer Registry and European data 
regarding the diagnosis, treatment and prognosis showed that the proportion with 
unstaged and advanced disease (stages III and IV) is higher among elderly 
patients compared to younger ones and that their treatment is generally less 
aggressive, although the proportion receiving chemotherapy is increasing since 
the early 1990s. Disease specific (or relative) survival of elderly breast 
cancer patients is generally lower and the prevalence of serious (life 
expectancy affecting) co-morbidity is higher (>50% in patients over age 70). 
Because of large individual variations in physical and mental conditions, 
limited evidence from RCTs and personal preferences prevailing in the 
decision-making process, treatment of older breast cancer patients seems 
difficult to fit into guidelines. Therefore, alternative research strategies are 
needed to understand and improve the care for the elderly breast cancer 
population, such as descriptive (registry-based) studies and a qualitative, 
individual-based approach.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.005
PMID: 17870517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Oct;43(15):2170-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.004. Epub
2007  Sep 17.

Step by step development of clinical care pathways for older cancer patients: 
necessary or desirable?

de Vries M(1), van Weert JC, Jansen J, Lemmens VE, Maas HA.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Cancer Centre South, P.O. Box 231, 5600 AE Eindhoven, The 
Netherlands. m.de.vries@ikz.nl <m.de.vries@ikz.nl>

Medical and nursing staff in oncology for older cancer patients are confronted 
with a range of problems including co-morbidity, poly-pharmacy, cognitive 
impairments, emotional problems, functional limitations, sensory impairment and 
a lack of social support. Comprehensive geriatric assessment identifies many of 
the existing problems and can be used to estimate life expectancy and tolerance 
of treatment. However, health care providers have to interpret and apply the 
medical and nursing information and must deal with specific problems and care 
needs throughout the continuum of cancer care. Imperfect interdisciplinary 
communication, cooperation and patient-provider communication may further 
complicate the care actually delivered. A clinical care pathway aims to improve 
continuity, increase multidisciplinary tuning and deliver appropriate patient 
education, treatment and care for vulnerable older cancer patients. This paper 
gives an overview of common problems in older cancer patients and addresses 
communication barriers through the development of clinical care pathways in 
geriatric oncology.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.004
PMID: 17870519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Can Fam Physician. 2007 May;53(5):865-70, 864.

We don't live in igloos: Inuvik youth speak out.

Ip J(1).

Author information:
(1)ip_janet@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine what health problems concern youth in the Canadian North 
and what solutions these youths propose to address these problems by 
interviewing Inuvik youths, using their photographs to spark discussion.
DESIGN: Qualitative study and photo-novella technique.
SETTING: Inuvik, NWT, from July 1 to August 31, 2004.
PARTICIPANTS: Thirty-five youths from Inuvik between the ages of 10 and 22. Two 
boys and 2 girls between the ages of 17 and 22 from the Inuvialuit and Gwich'in 
cultures featured in an educational video developed from the study.
METHOD: Disposable cameras were distributed to 35 youths; interviews structured 
around the photographs were recorded with 14 youths. Thematic analysis of the 
interview transcripts was completed; the themes identified formed the basis of a 
19-minute video featuring 4 of these youths.
MAIN FINDINGS: Themes developed around mothers, culture, the land, and boredom. 
Specific health concerns identified were smoking, alcohol and drug abuse, and 
teen pregnancy. Solutions suggested included sources of recreation and 
distraction from substance abuse, such as a movie theatre, a shopping mall, and 
upgrades to the skatepark.
CONCLUSION: By having Inuvik youths share their stories and perspectives, health 
care providers can gain insight into the issues and concerns of youth in 
northern communities and expand their capacity to heal. Photo novella is a 
useful method for research in adolescent health.

OBJECTIF: Développer une vidéo éducationnelle pour les professionnels de la 
santé qui s’occupent des jeunes de communautés nordiques. Identifier des thèmes 
relatifs aux valeurs et problèmes de santé importants en interviewant des jeunes 
d’Inuvik et ense servant de leurs photos pour susciter la discussion.
TYPE D’ÉTUDE: Étude qualitative et technique du roman-photo.
CONTEXTE: Inuvik, T. N.-O., entre le premier juillet et le 31 août 2004.
PARTICIPANTS: Trente-cinq jeunes de 10 à 22 ans habitant Inuvik. Les personnages 
de la vidéo étaient 2 garçons et 2 filles de 17 à 22 ans appartenant aux 
cultures inuvialuit et gwich’in.
MÉTHODE: Des appareils-photos jetables ont été distribués à 35 jeunes; des 
interviews centrées sur les photographies ont été filmées avec 14 jeunes. Les 
transcriptions des interviews ont fait l’objet d’une analyse thématique; les 
thèmes identifiés ont servi de base à une vidéo de 19 minutes où figuraient 4 de 
ces jeunes.
PRINCIPALES OBSERVATIONS: Les thèmes identifiés étaient centrés sur les mères, 
la culture, le pays et l’ennui. Les préoccupations relatives à la santé 
portaient spécifiquement sur l’abus de tabac, d’alcool et de drogues et sur la 
grossesse chez les adolescentes.
CONCLUSION: En regardant une vidéo où des jeunes d’Inuvik partagent leurs 
histoires et perspectives, les professionnels de la santé comprendront mieux les 
problèmes et préoccupations des jeunes des communautés nordiques et seront plus 
en mesure de les soigner.

PMCID: PMC1949173
PMID: 17872749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2007 Oct;61(10):923-5. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2006.052639.

Determining the lifetime density function using a continuous approach.

Román R(1), Comas M, Hoffmeister L, Castells X.

Author information:
(1)Evaluation and Clinical Epidemiology Department, Institut Municipal 
d'Assistència Sanitària (IMAS), Passeig Marítim 25-29, 08003, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To apply a continuous hazard function approach to calculate the 
lifetime density function (LDF) at any age, and to compare the life expectancies 
derived from the LDF with those obtained with standard life table (SLT) methods.
METHODS: Age-specific mortality rates were modeled through a continuous hazard 
function. To construct the cumulative hazard function, appropriate integration 
limits were considered as continuous random variables. The LDF at any age was 
defined on the basis of the elemental relationships with the cumulative hazard 
function. Life expectancies were calculated for a particular set of mortality 
data using the SLT approach and the expectancy of the LDF defined. APPLICATIONS 
AND COMPARISONS: The proposed approach was applied using mortality data from the 
2001 census of Catalonia (Spain). A Gompertz function was used to model the 
observed age-specific mortality rates, which fitted the observed data closely. 
The LDF and the life expectancy, median and standard deviation of the LDF were 
derived using mathematical software. All differences, in percentages, between 
the life expectancies obtained from the two methods were 1.1% or less.
CONCLUSIONS: The LDF gives a wider interpretation of life duration, by extending 
a deterministic value like life expectancy to a fully informative measure like 
the LDF.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2006.052639
PMCID: PMC2652977
PMID: 17873232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


243. Braz J Infect Dis. 2007 Aug;11(4):426-9. doi:
10.1590/s1413-86702007000400012.

Osteoarticular complications related to HIV infection and highly active 
antiretroviral therapy.

Lima AL(1), Zumiotti AV, Camanho GL, Benegas E, dos Santos AL, D'Elia CO, 
Oliveira PR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Clinics Hospital, School of 
Medicine, University of São Paulo, Brazil. ccih.iot@hcnet.usp.br

With the significant increase in life expectancy for HIV-infected patients in 
the era of high potency antiretroviral therapy, major metabolic changes have 
been observed due to the prolonged period of the viral infection and the 
treatment itself. Osteoarticular changes resulting from these processes are 
mainly reported in long term HIV-infected patients receiving high potency 
antiretroviral therapy and include osteopenia/osteoporosis, osteonecrosis, 
carpal tunnel syndrome and adhesive capsulitis of the shoulder.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-86702007000400012
PMID: 17873999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Urologe A. 2007 Oct;46(10):1385-6, 1388. doi: 10.1007/s00120-007-1544-x.

[Is there an indication for adjuvant or neoadjuvant systemic therapy in prostate 
cancer?].

[Article in German]

Börgermann C(1), Miller K, vom Dorp F, Jäger T, Rübben H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Kinderurologie und Uroonkologie, 
Universitätsklinikum, 45122 Essen. christof.boergermann@uk-essen.de

In the meantime prostate cancer has become the most common malignancy in the 
male population. Due to the shift in age at the time of first diagnosis in 
favour of younger men with a high life expectancy and a maximum of physical and 
sexual activity it would be desirable to have neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy 
concepts at hand which lead to an improvement of therapeutic success. So far the 
results of studies for adjuvant and neoadjuvant hormonal ablation therapy 
concepts have not led to a clear therapeutic reference. Only before radiation 
therapy is neoadjuvant hormonal ablation a standard part of therapy at most 
centres. Existing data for chemotherapeutic concepts are limited to 
androgen-independent advanced prostate cancer. An international study using 
docetaxel as an adjuvant drug is currently being performed, but the results are 
not yet available.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-007-1544-x
PMID: 17874231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2007 Nov;389(5):1505-23. doi: 10.1007/s00216-007-1542-2.
Epub  2007 Sep 15.

A liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometric multi-mycotoxin method for the 
quantification of 87 analytes and its application to semi-quantitative screening 
of moldy food samples.

Sulyok M(1), Krska R, Schuhmacher R.

Author information:
(1)Christian Doppler Laboratory for Mycotoxin Research, Department IFA-Tulln, 
University of Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences, Vienna, Konrad 
Lorenzstr. 20, 3430 Tulln, Austria.

This paper describes the extension of a previously published method based on 
liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry 
(HPLC/ESI-MS/MS) from 39 to currently 87 analytes. Besides the mycotoxins for 
which regulated concentrations exist, the method now comprises not only almost 
all mycotoxins for which standards are commercially available, but also a number 
of other important metabolites produced by fungi involved in food spoilage. The 
method is based on a single extraction step using an acidified 
acetonitrile/water mixture followed by analysis of the diluted crude extract. 
Method performance characteristics were determined after spiking breadcrumbs as 
model matrix at multiple concentration levels. With very few exceptions, 
coefficients of variation of the whole procedure of <5% and repeatabilities at 
the highest spiking level of <7% were obtained. Limits of detection ranged 
between 0.02 and 225 microg kg(-1). The quantitative determination of 
ergopeptides was disturbed by epimerization due to the acidic conditions. From 
the remaining 77 analytes, the apparent recoveries of nine substances deviated 
significantly from the CEN target range of 70-110% due to incomplete extraction 
and/or matrix effects. In principle, the latter can be compensated for by the 
application of matrix-matched calibration. The developed method was applied to 
18 moldy samples (including bread, fruits, vegetables, jam, cheese, chestnuts 
and red wine) from private households. This study revealed the great value of 
the described method: 37 different fungal metabolites were identified at 
concentrations of up to 33 mg kg(-1), and some of these have never been reported 
before in the context of moldy food products.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-007-1542-2
PMID: 17874237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2007 Jun;22(132):532-5.

[Elderly ex-smokers and their health status].

[Article in Polish]

Suwała M(1), Drygas W, Gerstenkorn A.

Author information:
(1)Uniwersytet Medyczny w Łodzi, Katedra Medycyny Społecznej i Zapobiegawczej.

The risk of numerous diseases development as well as death due to cancer, 
coronary and pulmonary diseases, is higher among smokers than non-smokers. It is 
estimated that one in three smokers will die prematurely of complications caused 
by smoking tobacco. Quitting smoking, even by patients over 65 years old, 
diminishes the risk of death and chronic diseases considerably as well as 
increases life expectancy rate.
AIM OF THE STUDY: The research aim was to find out how smoking cessation 
influences subjective health status.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The research included a random trial of 828 people aged 65 
and over from urban population.
RESULTS: 87.4% of ex-tobacco smokers, who made up 10.7% of the group, quit 
smoking before turning 65. The average age of smoking cessation was 45.9+/-15.8 
years and the average smoking period was 26.9+/-15.0 years. The health 
evaluation with the use of visual analog scale (VAS) was better among smokers 
than ex-smokers (63.4 vs 57.7; p<0.04). Smoking women assessed their health 
status considerably better than ex-smoking women (66.1 vs 53.1; p<0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: The non-smoking period length did not influence the VAS health 
status assessment substantially. Only 1/3 of ex-smokers assessed their health 
status as rather poor or poor, despite the frequent presence of such risk 
factors as hypertension, type 2 diabetes, obesity and lipid disorder.

PMID: 17874623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. J Spinal Cord Med. 2007;30 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S48-54. doi: 
10.1080/10790268.2007.11753969.

Long-term survival after childhood spinal cord injury.

Shavelle RM(1), Devivo MJ, Paculdo DR, Vogel LC, Strauss DJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, California, USA. 
shavelle@LifeExpectancy.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether persons who incur a spinal cord injury as 
children are at increased risk of mortality compared with persons injured as 
adults given comparable current age, sex, and injury severity.
METHODS: A total of 25,340 persons admitted to the National Spinal Cord Injury 
Statistical Center database or the National Shriners Spinal Cord Injury database 
who were not ventilator dependent and who survived more than 2 years after 
injury were included in this study. These persons contributed 274,020 
person-years of data, with 3844 deaths, over the 1973-2004 study period. Data 
were analyzed using pooled repeated observations analysis of person-years. For 
each person-year the outcome variable was survival/mortality, and the 
explanatory variables included current age, sex, race, cause of injury, severity 
of injury, and age at injury (the focus of the current analysis).
RESULTS: Other factors being equal, persons who were less than 16 years of age 
at time of injury had a 31% (95% CI = 3%-65%) increase in the annual odds of 
dying compared with persons injured at older ages (P= 0.013). This increased 
risk did not vary significantly by current age, sex, race, injury severity, or 
era of injury (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy for persons injured as children appears to be 
slightly lower than that of otherwise comparably injured persons who suffered 
their injuries as adults. Nonetheless, persons who are injured young can enjoy 
relatively long life expectancies, ranging from approximately 83% of normal life 
expectancy for persons with minimal deficit incomplete injuries to approximately 
50% of normal in high-cervical-level injuries without ventilator dependence.

DOI: 10.1080/10790268.2007.11753969
PMCID: PMC2031987
PMID: 17874687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Viral Hepat. 2007 Oct;14(10):697-703. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2893.2007.00868.x.

The impact of hepatitis C virus infection on survival in dialysis patients: 
meta-analysis of observational studies.

Fabrizi F(1), Takkouche B, Lunghi G, Dixit V, Messa P, Martin P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Dialysis, Maggiore Hospital, IRCCS, Milano, Italy. 
fabrizi@policlinico.mi.it

The impact of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection on mortality of patients 
receiving regular dialysis remains unclear. The assessment of the natural 
history of HCV in dialysis population is difficult because of the low 
progression of HCV-related liver disease over time and the reduced life 
expectancy in patients with end-stage renal disease. The aim of the study was to 
conduct a systematic review of the published medical literature concerning the 
impact of HCV infection on the survival of patients undergoing maintenance 
dialysis. The relative risk of mortality was regarded as the most reliable 
outcome end-point. Study-specific relative risks were weighted by the inverse of 
their variance to obtain fixed- and random-effects pooled estimates for 
mortality with HCV across the published studies. We identified seven studies 
involving 11 589 unique patients on maintenance dialysis; two (29%) were 
case-control studies. Pooling of study results demonstrated that presence of 
anti-HCV antibody was an independent and significant risk factor for death in 
patients on maintenance dialysis. The summary estimate for adjusted relative 
risk (aRR) (all-cause mortality) was 1.34 with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 
1.13-1.59. Heterogeneity statistics, R(i) = 0.48 (P-value by Q-test = 0.13). In 
a sensitivity analysis including only (n = 5) cohort studies, the pooled aRR was 
1.38 (95% CI, 1.20-1.59); heterogeneity statistics R(i) = 0.46. As a cause of 
death, hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis were significantly more 
frequent among anti-HCV-positive than -negative dialysis patients. Our 
meta-analysis indicates that anti-HCV-positive patients on dialysis have an 
increased risk of mortality compared with HCV-negative patients. The excess risk 
of death in HCV-positive patients may be at least partially attributed to 
chronic liver disease with its attendant complications.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2893.2007.00868.x
PMID: 17875004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Med Sci (Paris). 2007 Aug-Sep;23(8-9):777-81. doi:
10.1051/medsci/20072389777.

[Ethics and biomedical research].

[Article in French]

Goussard C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherches Internationales Servier, 6, place des Pléïades, 92415, 
Courbevoie Cedex, France.

Ethics in biomedical research took off from the 1947 Nuremberg Code to its own 
right in the wake of the Declaration of Helsinki in 1964. Since then, 
(inter)national regulations and guidelines providing a framework for clinical 
studies and protection for study participants have been drafted and implemented, 
while ethics committees and drug evaluation agencies have sprung up throughout 
the world. These two developments were crucial in bringing about the protection 
of rights and safety of the participants and harmonization of the conduct of 
biomedical research. Ethics committees and drug evaluation agencies deliver 
ethical and scientific assessments on the quality and safety of the projects 
submitted to them and issue respectively approvals and authorizations to carry 
out clinical trials, while ensuring that they comply with regulatory 
requirements, ethical principles, and scientific guidelines. The advent of 
biomedical ethics, together with the responsible commitment of clinical 
investigators and of the pharmaceutical industry, has guaranteed respect for the 
patient, for whom and with whom research is conducted. Just as importantly, it 
has also ensured that patients reap the benefit of what is the primary objective 
of biomedical research: greater life expectancy, well-being, and quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/20072389777
PMID: 17875303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. J Public Health (Oxf). 2007 Dec;29(4):441-8. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdm055.
Epub  2007 Sep 17.

Economic evaluation of Haemophilus influenzae type B vaccination in Indonesia: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Broughton EI(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, Columbia 
University, 600 W 168th St., New York, NY 10032, USA. eib6@columbia.edu
