find new techniques, to improve not only the life expectancy, but the quality of 
the life too. This aim determined orthopedic surgeons to perform new operations, 
with a complex technique, like resection - reconstruction of the limb. In 
orthopedic clinic of Elias Hospital, we had 35 patients with malignant tumors of 
the limbs; we performed 14 resection--reconstructions, with or without 
preserving the joint mobility. In 3 cases, we used for reconstruction, modular 
endoprosthesis and we were able to preserve limb integrity and, also, the joint 
normal function. The good results we achieved until now represents a motivation 
for us to continue the battle against this terrible affection.

PMID: 17966943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2007 Nov 15;69(4):1209-17. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.04.048.

A population-based study of the fractionation of palliative radiotherapy for 
bone metastasis in Ontario.

Kong W(1), Zhang-Salomons J, Hanna TP, Mackillop WJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Care and Epidemiology, Queen's University Cancer Research 
Institute, Kingston, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: To describe the use of palliative radiotherapy (PRT) for bone 
metastases in Ontario between 1984 and 2001 and identify factors associated with 
the choice of fractionation.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Electronic RT records from the nine provincial RT centers 
in Ontario were linked to the Ontario Cancer Registry to identify all courses of 
PRT for bone metastases.
RESULTS: Between 1984 and 2001, 44,884 patients received 74,432 courses of PRT 
for bone metastases in Ontario. The mean number of courses per patient was 1.7, 
and 65% of patients received only a single course of PRT for bone metastasis. 
The mean number of fractions per course was 3.9. The proportion of patients 
treated with a single fraction increased from 27.2% in 1984-1986 to 40.3% in 
1987-1992 and decreased thereafter. Single fractions were used more frequently 
in patients with a shorter life expectancy, in older patients, and in patients 
who lived further from an RT center. Single fractions were used more frequently 
when the prevailing waiting time for RT was longer. There were wide variations 
in the use of single fractions among the different RT centers (intercenter 
range, 11.8-62.3%). Intercenter variations persisted throughout the study period 
and were not explained by differences in case mix.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite increasing evidence of the effectiveness of single-fraction 
PRT for bone metastases, most patients continued to receive fractionated PRT 
throughout the two decades of this study. Single fractions were used more 
frequently when waiting times were longer. There was persistent, unexplained 
variation in the fractionation of PRT among different centers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.04.048
PMID: 17967310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2008 Feb 1;70(2):469-76. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.08.054. Epub 2007 Oct 29.

Partial breast irradiation versus whole breast radiotherapy for early-stage 
breast cancer: a decision analysis.

Sher DJ(1), Wittenberg E, Taghian AG, Bellon JR, Punglia RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the quality-adjusted life expectancy between women treated 
with partial breast irradiation (PBI) vs. whole breast radiotherapy (WBRT) for 
estrogen receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We developed a Markov model to describe health states in 
the 15 years after radiotherapy for estrogen receptor-positive early-stage 
breast cancer. Breast cancer recurrences were separated into local recurrences 
and elsewhere failures. Ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence (IBTR) risk was 
extracted from the Oxford overview, and rates and utilities were adapted from 
the literature. We studied two cohorts of women (aged 40 and 55 years), both of 
whom received adjuvant tamoxifen.
RESULTS: Assuming a no evidence of disease (NED)-PBI utility of 0.93, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy after PBI (and WBRT) was 12.61 (12.57) and 
12.10 (12.06) years for 40-year-old and 55-year-old women, respectively. The 
NED-PBI utility thresholds for preferring PBI over WBRT were 0.923 and 0.921 for 
40-year-old and 55-year-old women, respectively, both slightly greater than the 
NED-WBRT utility. Outcomes were sensitive to the utility of NED-PBI, the PBI 
hazard ratio for local recurrence, the baseline IBTR risk, and the percentage of 
IBTRs that were local. Overall the degree of superiority of PBI over WBRT was 
greater for 55-year-old women than for 40-year-old women.
CONCLUSIONS: For most utility values of the NED-PBI health state, PBI was the 
preferred treatment modality. This result was highly sensitive to patient 
preferences and was also dependent on patient age, PBI efficacy, IBTR risk, and 
the fraction of IBTRs that were local.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2007.08.054
PMCID: PMC2268645
PMID: 17967514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Notification: None of the 
authors have any actual or potential conflicts of interest.


502. Am Heart J. 2007 Nov;154(5):899-907. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.06.026.

Life expectancy gains and cost-effectiveness of implantable 
cardioverter/defibrillators for the primary prevention of sudden cardiac death 
in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.

You JJ(1), Woo A, Ko DT, Cameron DA, Mihailovic A, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
john.you@ices.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Sudden cardiac death (SCD) is a devastating complication of 
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). The optimal strategy for the primary 
prevention of SCD in HCM remains controversial.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we compared the health benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of 3 strategies for the primary prevention of SCD: 
implantable cardioverter/defibrillator (ICD) insertion, amiodarone therapy, or 
no therapy. We modeled hypothetical cohorts of 45-year-old patients with HCM 
with no history of cardiac arrest but at significant risk of SCD (3%/y).
RESULTS: Over a lifetime, compared with no therapy, ICD therapy increased 
quality-adjusted survival by 4.7 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at an 
additional cost of $142,800 ($30,000 per QALY), whereas amiodarone increased 
quality-adjusted survival by 2.8 QALYs at an additional cost of $104,900 
($37,300 per QALY). Compared with no therapy, ICD therapy would cost < $50,000 
per QALY for patients (i) aged 25, with > or = 1 risk factors for SCD, and (ii) 
aged 45 or 65, with > or = 2 risk factors for SCD.
CONCLUSIONS: An ICD strategy is projected to yield the greatest increase in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of the 3 treatment strategies evaluated. 
Combined consideration of age and the number of risk factors for SCD may allow 
more precise tailoring of ICD therapy to its expected benefits.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.06.026
PMID: 17967596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Int J Obes (Lond). 2007 Nov;31 Suppl 2:S3-7; discussion S31-2. doi: 
10.1038/sj.ijo.0803729.

Obesity in women: a life cycle of medical risk.

Ryan D(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Centre, Louisiana State University, Baton 
Rouge, LA, USA. donna.ryan@pbrc.edu

Obesity can have an adverse impact on health at each stage of a woman's life 
cycle. In young women, obesity has an impact on psychosocial health and, as they 
grow older and become parents, on their reproductive health. Obesity also 
imposes a number of serious risks during pregnancy. In older women, obesity is 
associated with the emergence of a number of related chronic diseases, such as 
type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease, and increased risk for almost all 
types of cancer. Of concern in the elderly is the increasing evidence that 
obesity is an independent risk factor for dementia and Alzheimer's disease. 
Obesity also has a marked impact on life expectancy. The medical risks 
associated with obesity in women are also important for the woman's children and 
future generations. There is emerging evidence that nutrition during fetal and 
early life can influence risk for obesity and chronic diseases for both sexes.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803729
PMID: 17968435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Exp Appl Acarol. 2007;43(3):171-80. doi: 10.1007/s10493-007-9114-x. Epub
2007  Oct 30.

Effects of mating rates on oviposition, sex ratio and longevity in a predatory 
mite Neoseiulus cucumeris (Acari: Phytoseiidae).

Ji J(1), Zhang ZQ, Zhang Y, Chen X, Lin J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, Fujian Academy of Agriculture Sciences, 
Fuzhou, Fujian, China.

Two aspects of mating effects on the fecundity, sex ratio and longevity of 
Neoseiulus cucumeris (Acari: Phytoseiidae) were examined in laboratory 
experiments: (1) females mated by one, two or three different males (unmated and 
3 days old) at 5-day intervals, and (2) females mated by males with different 
age/mating status (number of females mated previously by the male). Females 
allowed to mate with a second or third male at 5-day intervals produced 39 eggs 
on average, but those mated with a single male produced 28 eggs on average. 
Matings with additional males 5 or 10 days after the first male increased the 
duration of the oviposition period of these females by 5-7 days and at the same 
time reduced the post-oviposition period by about 10 days. Overall, females with 
additional matings by one or two different males at 5-day intervals survived a 
few days shorter than females without additional males. Mating with a different 
female each day, a male of N. cucumeris could mate with 5-8 females, which 
produced a total of 85-116 eggs: females mated with a male during days 1 and 2 
in its adulthood and with a male of the last 2 days of life (days 7 and 8) 
produced about half as many eggs as females mated with a male during 3-6 days of 
its adulthood. Females mated with males that are too young or too old had a 
shorter oviposition period and a longer post-oviposition period and longevity 
than females mated with middle-aged males. In both experiments, rates of 
oviposition remained similar in females with high or low fecundity. This 
indicates that in both cases, the increased fecundity is due to the extension of 
the oviposition period through additional sperm supplied by the second male and 
or third male (in experiment 1) or more sperm by males not too young nor too old 
(experiment 2).

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-007-9114-x
PMID: 17968663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Liver Transpl. 2007 Nov;13(11 Suppl 2):S44-7. doi: 10.1002/lt.21330.

Results of liver transplantation: with or without Milan criteria?

Mazzaferro V(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Surgery and Liver Transplantation Unit, National Cancer 
Institute, Milan, Italy. mazzaferro@istitutotumori.mi.it

DOI: 10.1002/lt.21330
PMID: 17969068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2007 Feb;191(2):237-44; discussion 244.

[Quality of life in old age].

[Article in French]

Gonthier R(1).

Author information:
(1)Gérontologie clinique, Hôpital de la Charité, CHU 42055 Saint-Etienne. 
regis.gonthier@chu-st-etienne.fr

Quality of life is a concept describing the aptitude of an individual to 
function in a given environment and to draw satisfaction from it. It is 
associated with the notions of good health and well-being. Quality of life is 
first and foremost a subjective concept. When confronted with the problems of a 
chronic disease, the elderly subject him/herself must evaluate its repercussions 
and the effectiveness of medical interventions. Preventive measures and specific 
geriatric care have increased the longevity and quality of life of old people. 
It is important to stress that specific geriatric care does not weigh heavily on 
health-care expenditure and is profitable in the long term. However, this extra 
longevity is accompanied in a significant minority of people by multiple sensory 
and/or cognitive disabilities, loneliness and dependency, with a negative impact 
on people's view of this period of life.

PMID: 17969545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2007 Feb;191(2):245-56; discussion 256-8.

[Surgery for aortic valve stenosis after age 80 years].

[Article in French]

Logeais Y(1), Langanay T, Laurent M, Leguerrier A.

Author information:
(1)Centre Cardio-Pneumologique, Hôpital Pontchaillou, CHU 35033 Rennes cedex 9.

Population aging in industrialized countries and advances in surgical care are 
leading to an increased number of elderly patients referred for surgical 
management of aortic stenosis (AS). Our report is a retrospective review of 988 
consecutive patients aged 80 to 93 years (mean 82.4 +/- 2.3) who had aortic 
valve replacement (AVR) for AS. Surgical mortality was 9.4% (93 patients). Among 
895 operative survivors, follow-up rate has been 99.7%, total 4446 patient-years 
(mean 5 +/- 3 years, max 19 years). Actuarial survival including operative 
mortality was 82%, 59% and 23% at two, five and ten years respectively. 
Functionnal recovery was excellent (46 % NYHA I and 43% NYHA II). Long term 
survival paralleled that of age and sex matched control population. Age itself 
is no longer a contraindication to surgery and AVR is the procedure of choice 
for elderly patients with aortic stenosis. Percutaneous aortic valve 
implantation is feasible and requires evaluation. It might become an alternative 
for selected high-risk non surgical patients with AS.

PMID: 17969546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2007 Feb;191(2):287-99.

[Screening for occult malignancies (breast, colorectum, prostate) beyond the 
usual age limits].

[Article in French]

Rouësse J(1), Fourme E, Dehe S, Brain E.

Author information:
(1)Association pour le dépistage des cancers des Hauts de Seine (ADK 92), 10, 
rue des Carriers, 92000 Nanterre.

The utility of screening for occult malignancies in very elderly people is 
controversial. Indeed, the following factors must be taken into account: 
increasing life expectancy, better efficacy and tolerability of cancer 
therapies, the cost of screening, and medico-legal issues. The dilemma is 
between missing a curable cancer and over-diagnosing and over-treating a 
vulnerable patient. Proper patient information is clearly needed The informed 
patient's own preference is crucially important. This paper focuses on the most 
frequent malignancies that can be detected by screening, namely breast, 
colorectal and prostate cancer.

PMID: 17969549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Health Serv J. 2007 Sep 20;117(6074):21.

Data briefing. The NICE threshold.

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)King's Fund.

PMID: 17970386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Eur J Neurosci. 2007 Nov;26(9):2506-15. doi:
10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05886.x.  Epub 2007 Oct 23.

Structural and functional remodeling in the retina of a mouse with a 
photoreceptor synaptopathy: plasticity in the rod and degeneration in the cone 
system.

Specht D(1), Tom Dieck S, Ammermüller J, Regus-Leidig H, Gundelfinger ED, 
Brandstätter JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Animal Physiology, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, 
Staudtstrasse 5, 91058 Erlangen, Germany.

Knowledge about the plastic and regenerative capacity of the retina is of key 
importance for therapeutic approaches to restore vision in patients who suffer 
from degenerative retinal diseases. In the retinae of mice, mutant for the 
presynaptic scaffolding protein Bassoon, signal transfer at photoreceptor ribbon 
synapses is disturbed due to impaired ribbon attachment to the active zone. In a 
long-term study we observed, with light and electron microscopic 
immunocytochemistry and electroretinographic recordings, two overlapping events 
in the Bassoon mutant retina, i.e. loss of photoreceptor synapses in the outer 
plexiform layer, and structural remodeling and formation of ectopic 
photoreceptor synapses in the outer nuclear layer, a region usually devoid of 
synapses. Formation of ectopic synaptic sites starts around the time when 
photoreceptor synaptogenesis is completed in wild-type mice and progresses 
throughout life. The result is a dense plexus of ectopic photoreceptor synapses 
with significantly altered but considerable synaptic transmission. Ectopic 
synapse formation is led by the sprouting of horizontal cells followed by the 
extension of rod bipolar cell neurites that fasciculate with and grow along the 
horizontal cell processes. Although only the rod photoreceptors and their 
postsynaptic partners show structural and functional remodeling, our study 
demonstrates the potential of the retina for long-lasting plastic changes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1460-9568.2007.05886.x
PMID: 17970721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Evolution. 2007 Dec;61(12):2801-10. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00236.x.
Epub  2007 Oct 30.

The influence of maternal care in shaping human survival and fertility.

Pavard S(1), Koons DN, Heyer E.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of survival and longevity, Max Planck Institute for Demographic 
Research, 18057 Rostock, Germany. pavard@demogr.mpg.de

The influence of maternal care on child survival has evolved throughout human 
history due to variation in altriciality, allocare, and maternal behaviors. 
Here, we study the impact of these factors on the force of selection acting on 
age-specific survival and fertility (measured with elasticity analysis) in a 
model that incorporates the dependence of child survival on maternal survival. 
Results reveal life-history changes that cannot be elucidated when considering 
child's survival independent of maternal survival: decrease of late fertility 
and increase of late survival, and concomitant decrease of early and late 
fertility. We also show that an increase of child altriciality in early humans 
might explain the main human life-history traits: a high life expectancy and 
postreproductive life; a long juvenile period and a higher, and narrowed, 
fertility at the peak of the reproductive period.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2007.00236.x
PMID: 17971170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2007;24 Suppl 1:126-33. doi: 10.1159/000107388. Epub 2007
Nov  1.

Endarterectomy, best medical treatment or both for stroke prevention in patients 
with asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis.

Cardona P(1), Rubio F, Martinez-Yélamos S, Krupinski J.

Author information:
(1)Stroke Unit, Department of Neurology, Bellvitge University Hospital, IDIBELL, 
Barcelona, Spain. 34109pcp@comb.es

Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is currently frequently performed in subjects with 
asymptomatic carotid artery stenosis over 70%, as clinical trials like the 
Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study and Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery 
Trial demonstrated a significant benefit for stroke prevention. A low risk 
reduction in the long-term prevention of stroke or death and the required lower 
than 3% of surgical risk are associated with surgery. That means that an 
important number of patients needs to be operated to prevent 1 stroke over 5 
years (number needed to treat: 21) with an absolute risk reduction of 5.4%. It 
is reasonable to consider CEA for patients aged 40-75 years and with 
asymptomatic stenosis of 60-99%, for patients with a life expectancy of at least 
5 years, and in centres with a surgical morbidity-mortality of less than 3%. 
Therefore, it is of interest to identify high-risk patients with asymptomatic 
carotid stenosis who will more likely benefit from surgery. Techniques such as 
ultrasound or magnetic resonance imaging may identify plaque morphology or 
detect clinically asymptomatic embolization. CEA combined with the best medical 
treatment and good management of modifiable risk factors might be superior to 
medical management alone or surgery in preventing stroke. There is no level I 
evidence to support carotid artery stenting in asymptomatic carotid stenosis 
even in a subgroup of patients with a high surgical risk.

Copyright 2007 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000107388
PMID: 17971648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. PLoS One. 2007 Oct 31;2(10):e1095. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001095.

Significant and systematic expression differentiation in long-lived yeast 
strains.

Cheng C(1), Fabrizio P, Ge H, Wei M, Longo VD, Li LM.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Computational Biology Program, Department of Biological 
Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, United 
States of America.

BACKGROUND: Recent studies suggest that the regulation of longevity may be 
partially conserved in many eukaryotes ranging from yeast to mammals. The three 
yeast mutants sch9Delta, ras2Delta, tor1Delta show extended chronological life 
span up to three folds. Our aim is to dissect the mechanisms that lead to the 
yeast life span extension.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We obtain gene expression profiles of sch9Delta, 
ras2Delta, tor1Delta as well as that for a wild type at day 2.5 in SDC medium 
using Affymetrix Yeast2.0 arrays. To accurately estimate the expression 
differentiation between the wild type and the long-lived mutants, we use 
sub-array normalization followed by a variant of the median-polishing 
summarization. The results are validated by the probe sets of S. pombe on the 
same chips. To translate the differentiation into changes of biological 
activities, we make statistical inference by integrating the expression profiles 
with biological gene subsets defined by Gene Ontology, KEGG pathways, and 
cellular localization of proteins. Other than subset-versus-other comparisons, 
we also make local comparisons between two directly-related gene subsets such as 
cytosolic and mitochondrial ribosomes. Our consensus is obtained by 
cross-examination of these inferences. The significant and systematic 
differentiation in the three long-lived strains includes: lower transcriptional 
activities; down-regulation of TCA cycle and oxidative phosphorylation versus 
up-regulation of the KEGG pathway Glycolysis/Gluconeogenesis; the overall 
reduction of mitochondrial activities. We also report some different expression 
patterns such as reduction of the activities relating to mitosis in ras2Delta.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The modification of energy pathways and modification 
of compartment activities such as down-regulation of mitochondrial ribosome 
proteins versus up-regulation of cytosolic ribosome proteins are directly 
associated with the life span extension in yeast. The results provide a new and 
systematic S. cerevisiae version of the free radical theory from the perspective 
of functional genomics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001095
PMCID: PMC2039703
PMID: 17971858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


514. PLoS One. 2007 Oct 31;2(10):e1110. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001110.

The novel CXCL12gamma isoform encodes an unstructured cationic domain which 
regulates bioactivity and interaction with both glycosaminoglycans and CXCR4.

Laguri C(1), Sadir R, Rueda P, Baleux F, Gans P, Arenzana-Seisdedos F, 
Lortat-Jacob H.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Biologie Structurale, UMR 5075 CNRS CEA UJF, Grenoble, France.

BACKGROUND: CXCL12alpha, a chemokine that importantly promotes the oriented cell 
migration and tissue homing of many cell types, regulates key homeostatic 
functions and pathological processes through interactions with its cognate 
receptor (CXCR4) and heparan sulfate (HS). The alternative splicing of the 
cxcl12 gene generates a recently identified isoform, CXCL12gamma, which 
structure/function relationships remain unexplored. The high occurrence of basic 
residues that characterize this isoform suggests however that it could feature 
specific regulation by HS.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using surface plasmon resonance and NMR 
spectroscopy, as well as chemically and recombinantly produced chemokines, we 
show here that CXCL12gamma first 68 amino acids adopt a structure closely 
related to the well described alpha isoform, followed by an unfolded C-terminal 
extension of 30 amino acids. Remarkably, 60% of these residues are either lysine 
or arginine, and most of them are clustered in typical HS binding sites. This 
provides the chemokine with the highest affinity for HP ever observed (Kd = 0.9 
nM), and ensures a strong retention of the chemokine at the cell surface. This 
was due to the unique combination of two cooperative binding sites, one strictly 
required, found in the structured domain of the protein, the other one being the 
C-terminus which essentially functions by enhancing the half life of the 
complexes. Importantly, this peculiar C-terminus also regulates the balance 
between HS and CXCR4 binding, and consequently the biological activity of the 
chemokine.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Together these data describe an unusual binding 
process that gives rise to an unprecedented high affinity between a chemokine 
and HS. This shows that the gamma isoform of CXCL12, which features unique 
structural and functional properties, is optimized to ensure its strong 
retention at the cell surface. Thus, depending on the chemokine isoform to which 
it binds, HS could differentially orchestrate the CXCL12 mediated directional 
cell kinesis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001110
PMCID: PMC2040504
PMID: 17971873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


515. Biogerontology. 2008 Feb;9(1):57-66. doi: 10.1007/s10522-007-9115-5. Epub
2007  Oct 31.

The gene cluster hypothesis of aging and longevity.

Barja G(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiología Animal-II, Facultad de Ciencias Biológicas, 
Universidad Complutense, Madrid, Spain. gbarja@bio.ucm.es

Comment in
    Biogerontology. 2009 Feb;10(1):1-2.

The maximum longevity of different species can vary by 100-fold in mammals and 
by 1,000-fold or more from invertebrates to mammals. However, the life extension 
effect of single gene mutations or dietary restriction converges on a 
comparatively minute 1.3- to 1.6-fold difference with controls. It is proposed 
that this can be due to organization of genes affecting maximum life span in 
large clusters functionally linked by complex interactions analogously to 
homeotic genes during development. A relatively small number of master genes 
would control the activity of the structural target genes of the whole cluster, 
strongly facilitating changes in longevity during species evolution. 
Experimentally manipulating the expression of those master genes would have the 
potential to increase maximum longevity to a much higher extent than the options 
available nowadays. The present availability of the full genome sequence of 
various organisms including rats, mice and men can greatly help to discover such 
clustering and to identify those master genes. Fortunately for gerontology, the 
first highly reliable completed genomes were those of the laboratory rodents and 
humans, mammals with strongly different maximum longevities, 3-4 years and 122 
years, respectively. Comparing them focusing on longevity will help to discover 
the longevity gene cluster and many other relevant aspects concerning aging 
rate, and should be encouraged. The gene cluster hypothesis of aging can be 
tested at least: (a) using bioinformatics tools allowing to look for common 
sequences in known genes that, based on the evidence available, are expected to 
be part of the longevity gene cluster; (b) looking for spatial clustering of 
some of these genes in particular chromosome regions. The huge benefits that 
could be obtained discovering the longevity gene cluster will amply outweigh the 
comparatively small research effort involved.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-007-9115-5
PMID: 17972157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2007;75(2):147-52.

[The effects of pulmonary rehabilitation on the quality of life in patients with 
COPD].

[Article in Polish]

Drozdowski J(1), Bakuła S, Drozdowska A, Kedziora K, Porzezińska M, Słomiński 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Pneumonologii, Akademia Medyczna w Gdańsku.

Comment in
    Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2007;75(2):113-4.

INTRODUCTION: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of 
morbidity, hospitalization and disability among lung diseases. Its chronic, 
progressive nature and acute exacerbations influence the quality and expectancy 
of life of COPD patients. The pulmonary rehabilitation is a basic 
non-pharmacological intervention in COPD and its role is increasing in recent 
years. The goal of this work was to evaluate the impact on quality of life 
patients undergoing 3 weeks pulmonary rehabilitation program.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 132 patients with COPD were admitted to pulmonary 
rehabilitation program; 70 completed the 3 weeks long program. Pulmonary 
function tests, exercise endurance, quality of life (St. George's Respiratory 
Questionnaire) were measured at baseline, 3 weeks, and 3 months.
RESULTS: There was significant improvement in quality of life in St. George's 
Respiratory Questionnaire and exercise endurance (treadmill) measured at 3 weeks 
and at 3 months. Parameters of lung function tests did not improved after 
completion of rehabilitation.
CONCLUSIONS: 3 weeks pulmonary rehabilitation program of patients with COPD was 
effective in improving exercise endurance and the quality of life. The 
improvement was noted as well at 3 months post rehabilitation.

PMID: 17973221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Mov Disord. 2008 Jan;23(1):131-4. doi: 10.1002/mds.21783.

Pallidal deep brain stimulation improves quality of life in segmental and 
generalized dystonia: results from a prospective, randomized sham-controlled 
trial.

Mueller J, Skogseid IM, Benecke R, Kupsch A, Trottenberg T, Poewe W, Schneider 
GH, Eisner W, Wolters A, Müller JU, Deuschl G, Pinsker MO, Roeste GK, 
Vollmer-Haase J, Brentrup A, Krause M, Tronnier V, Schnitzler A, Voges J, 
Nikkhah G, Vesper J, Naumann M, Volkmann J; Deep-Brain Stimulation for Dystonia 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Gierl L, Bathia KP, Vitek JL, Mehdorn MH, Gruber D, Kivi A, Kühn 
AA, Kupsch A, Trottenberg T, Schneider GH, Schnitzler A, Sturm V, Timmermann L, 
Voges J, Wojtecki L, Nikkah G, Prokop T, Vesper J, Kloss M, Krause M, Tronnier 
V, Eisner W, Fiegele T, Müeller J, Poewe W, Deuschl G, Herzog J, Mehdorn MM, 
Pinsker MO, Pötter M, Steigerwald F, Volkmann J, Boothe HW, Brentrup A, 
Vollmer-Haase J, Roeste GK, Skogseid IM, Benecke R, Müller JU, Wittstock M, 
Wolters A, Naumann M, Schramm A.

As part of the first randomized, sham-stimulation controlled trial on deep brain 
stimulation (DBS) in primary segmental or generalized dystonia, health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) was assessed by SF-36. After the 3-month sham-controlled 
phase, significant HRQoL improvement occurred only in the active-stimulation 
group. The open-label extension phase resulted in a significant improvement in 
all SF-36 domains following 6 months of neurostimulation. These results 
demonstrate a favorable impact of DBS on HRQoL in primary dystonia.

2007 Movement Disorder Society

DOI: 10.1002/mds.21783
PMID: 17973330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Aust Health Rev. 2007 Nov;31(4):571-81. doi: 10.1071/ah070571.

Use of Western Australian linked hospital morbidity and mortality data to 
explore theories of compression, expansion and dynamic equilibrium.

Lynch C(1), Holman CD, Moorin RE.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Western Australia, Perth, WA, 
Australia.

Three hypotheses have been advanced to predict changes in population health in 
countries experiencing low birth and death rates, and increasing expectation of 
life. Determining which of these best accounts for changing patterns of illness 
and death is an important step in understanding both the public health and 
economic impacts of health interventions in an ageing population. The aim of 
this study was to use the WA Data Linkage System to evaluate the compression, 
expansion and dynamic equilibrium theories in Western Australia. Changes in life 
expectancy, average age at first-time hospitalisation and time spent in chronic 
disabling or activity limiting states were used to evaluate the competing 
hypotheses. Life expectancy increased by 4.0 and 2.6 years over the 24-year 
study period in males and females, respectively. However, average time spent 
with a diagnosed chronic disabling condition increased by 9.2 and 9.4 years in 
males and females, respectively. These results suggest that an increase in the 
"medicalisation of more serious morbidity" may be in operation in Australia.

DOI: 10.1071/ah070571
PMID: 17973616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Haemophilia. 2007 Nov;13(6):763-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2007.01530.x.

Management of an acute coronary syndrome in a patient with severe haemophilia A.

Ferrario C, Renders F, Cairoli A, Vuffray A, Spertini O, Angelillo-Scherrer A.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2007.01530.x
PMID: 17973854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Clin Transl Oncol. 2007 Oct;9(10):645-51. doi: 10.1007/s12094-007-0117-1.

Impact of erythropoietin treatment on the quality of life of oncologic patients.

Pelegrí A(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oncología. Hospital Universitari Sant Joan de Reus. Tarragona, 
Spain. apelegri@grupsagessa.com

Anaemia has a high incidence in cancer patients, especially when it is a 
consequence of myelosuppressive treatments. The incidence and prevalence of this 
condition is influenced by the type and extension of the tumour, type and 
intensity of the myelosuppressive treatment that patients receive, and previous 
surgery or intercurrent infections. Clinical manifestations of anaemia, 
overlapped by tumour symptomatology, depend on haemoglobin (Hb) levels; these 
manifestations cause impairment of the functional capacity, as well as a 
negative impact on the quality of life (QOL) of cancer patients as a 
consequence. Erythropoietin treatment for anaemia has been established as 
optimal for correcting Hb levels. Its impact on patients' QOL has been evaluated 
in numerous randomised prospective studies by the use of diverse types of 
erythropoietin and administration modes. The three types of erythropoietin, 
alpha, beta and darbepoetin alpha, have shown a clear efficacy in all 
haematological parameters. This positive effect is related with significant 
improvements in the QOL of patients, especially those patients undergoing 
myelosuppressive treatments, and with regard to specific scales of fatigue and 
anaemia.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-007-0117-1
PMID: 17974525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Microbiology (Reading). 2007 Nov;153(Pt 11):3667-3676. doi: 
10.1099/mic.0.2007/009340-0.

Chronological and replicative life-span extension in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by 
increased dosage of alcohol dehydrogenase 1.

Reverter-Branchat G(1), Cabiscol E(1), Tamarit J(1), Sorolla MA(1), Ángeles de 
la Torre M(1), Ros J(1).

Author information:
(1)Bioquímica de l'Estrès Oxidatiu, Departament de Ciències Mèdiques Bàsiques, 
IRBLleida, Universitat de Lleida, 25008 Lleida, Spain.

Alcohol dehydrogenase 1 (Adh1)p catalyses the conversion of acetaldehyde to 
ethanol, regenerating NAD+. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Adh1p is oxidatively 
modified during ageing and, consequently, its activity becomes reduced. To 
analyse whether maintaining this activity is advantageous for the cell, a yeast 
strain with an extra copy of the ADH1 gene (2xADH1) was constructed, and the 
effects on chronological and replicative ageing were analysed. The strain showed 
increased survival in stationary phase (chronological ageing) due to induction 
of antioxidant enzymes such as catalase and superoxide dismutases. In addition, 
2xADH1 cells displayed an increased activity of silent information regulator 2 
(Sir2)p, an NAD+-dependent histone deacetylase, due to a higher NAD+/NADH ratio. 
As a consequence, a 30% extension in replicative life span was observed. Taken 
together, these results suggest that the maintenance of enzymes that participate 
in NAD+/NADH balancing is important to chronological and replicative life-span 
parameters.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.2007/009340-0
PMID: 17975074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Nov;134(5):1112-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2007.06.007.

Radial artery graft function is not affected by age.

Onorati F(1), Pezzo F, Comi MC, Impiombato B, Esposito A, Polistina M, Renzulli 
A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Unit, Magna Graecia University of Catanzaro, Catanzaro, 
Italy. frankono@libero.it

OBJECTIVE: Extensive arterial grafting with the radial artery in elderly 
patients is still debated, because of the reduced life expectancy and the 
supposedly higher periprocedural morbidity caused by an accelerated 
atherosclerosis of arterial grafts in elderly patients, which might hamper 
functional results.
METHODS: We reviewed our experience with patients undergoing radial artery 
myocardial revascularization (coronary artery bypass grafting) between January 
2003 and December 2006, divided into 2 groups: elderly patients (> or =70 years, 
group A) and young patients (< or =60 years, group B). Hospital outcome and 
transit-time flowmetric maximum and mean flow, pulsatility index, and graft flow 
reserve were compared. Results were stratified by target vessel, surgical 
technique, and subgroups at risk.
RESULTS: Hospital outcome, troponin I levels, and echocardiographic segmental 
kinetics were comparable in the 2 groups. Stratifying patients for target 
vessels, no differences in radial artery transit-time flowmetric results were 
recorded between the 2 groups either on-pump or off-pump, as free grafts or Y 
grafts, or in diabetic patients and hypertensive patients. Although graft flow 
reserve was significantly improved in all patients (P < .05 in the young and 
elderly groups, regardless of the target vessel, the surgical technique, and the 
comorbidities), graft flow reserve of radial artery grafts was comparable 
between elderly and young patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Radial artery coronary artery bypass grafting showed similar 
transit-time flowmetric functional results in elderly and young patients, 
regardless of the target vessel, the use or avoidance of cardiopulmonary bypass, 
the construction of proximal anastomoses, and the presence of comorbidities. 
These data explain the reported better results of arterial revascularization in 
the elderly and suggest an increase in extensive radial artery grafting in the 
last decades of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2007.06.007
PMID: 17976437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Exp Hematol. 2007 Nov;35(11):1739-46. doi: 10.1016/j.exphem.2007.09.007.

Apoptosis and antiapoptotic mechanisms in the progression of myelodysplastic 
syndrome.

Kerbauy DB(1), Deeg HJ.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and the University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA.

Myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), previously known as preleukemia, comprises a 
spectrum of heterogeneous, clonal disorders of hematopoiesis. A patient's life 
expectancy can range from a few months to more than a decade. Recent studies 
provide some insight into the pathophysiology of MDS. One mechanism contributing 
to the constellation of hypercellular marrow and peripheral blood cytopenia is a 
significant increase in programmed cell death (apoptosis) in hematopoietic 
cells. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, Fas ligand, TNF-related 
apoptosis-inducing ligand, and other proapoptotic cytokines are upregulated in 
early-stage/low-risk MDS, and neutralization of these signals can improve 
hematopoiesis. TNF-related apoptosis inducing ligand induces apoptosis 
preferentially in clonal cells, which can contribute to containment of the 
clone. In a proportion of patients, MDS will eventually evolve to acute 
leukemia. This progression has been correlated with upregulation of nuclear 
factor kappaB; altered expression of adaptor molecules, such as Flice inhibitory 
protein; and enhanced activity of antiapoptotic members of the Bcl-2 and 
inhibitors of apoptosis protein families. Also, the ratio of TNF receptors 1 and 
2 changes in favor of receptor 2. The role of the microenvironment in the 
pathophysiology and progression of MDS has remained controversial, although 
there is evidence that stroma and matrix components, and their interactions with 
clonal cells, play an important role. Microarray gene-expression studies are 
consistent with dysregulation of apoptosis, but not all data are in agreement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exphem.2007.09.007
PMCID: PMC2131709
PMID: 17976524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Ophthalmology. 2008 Jun;115(6):1039-1045.e5. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.08.033.  Epub 2007 Nov 5.

A value-based medicine analysis of ranibizumab for the treatment of subfoveal 
neovascular macular degeneration.

Brown MM(1), Brown GC, Brown HC, Peet J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, Pennsylvania 19031, USA. 
valuebasedmedicine.com

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2008 Nov;115(11):2099; author reply 2100.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the conferred value and average cost-utility 
(cost-effectiveness) for intravitreal ranibizumab used to treat occult/minimally 
classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization associated with age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD).
DESIGN: Value-based medicine cost-utility analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: MARINA (Minimally Classic/Occult Trial of the Anti-Vascular 
Endothelial Growth Factor Antibody Ranibizumab in the Treatment of Neovascular 
AMD) Study patients utilizing published primary data.
METHODS: Reference case, third-party insurer perspective, cost-utility analysis 
using 2006 United States dollars.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Conferred value in the forms of (1) quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and (2) percent improvement in health-related quality of 
life. Cost-utility is expressed in terms of dollars expended per QALY gained. 
All outcomes are discounted at a 3% annual rate, as recommended by the Panel on 
Cost-effectiveness in Health and Medicine. Data are presented for the second-eye 
model, first-eye model, and combined model.
RESULTS: Twenty-two intravitreal injections of 0.5 mg of ranibizumab 
administered over a 2-year period confer 1.039 QALYs, or a 15.8% improvement in 
quality of life for the 12-year period of the second-eye model reference case of 
occult/minimally classic age-related subfoveal choroidal neovascularization. The 
reference case treatment cost is $52652, and the cost-utility for the second-eye 
model is $50691/QALY. The quality-of-life gain from the first-eye model is 6.4% 
and the cost-utility is $123887, whereas the most clinically simulating combined 
model yields a quality-of-life gain of 10.4% and cost-utility of $74169.
CONCLUSIONS: By conventional standards and the most commonly used second-eye and 
combined models, intravitreal ranibizumab administered for occult/minimally 
classic subfoveal choroidal neovascularization is a cost-effective therapy. 
Ranibizumab treatment confers considerably greater value than other neovascular 
macular degeneration pharmaceutical therapies that have been studied in 
randomized clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.08.033
PMID: 17976724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Hosp Health Netw. 2007 Oct;81(10):26.

Creating health. The history of health care enters a new era.

Solovy A(1).

Author information:
(1)asolovy@healthforum.com

PMID: 17977250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Hum Reprod. 2008 Jan;23(1):187-92. doi: 10.1093/humrep/dem352. Epub 2007 Oct
31.

Estimating the success of an in vitro fertilization programme using multiple 
imputation.

Soullier N(1), Bouyer J, Pouly JL, Guibert J, de La Rochebrochard E.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U822, 82 rue du Général Leclerc, F-94276 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre Cedex, 
France. soullier@vjf.inserm.fr

BACKGROUND: The outcome of in vitro fertilization (IVF) has been widely 
investigated over the last 30 years, but evaluation was mostly based on 
pregnancy rate per oocyte retrieval. Our objective was to estimate the 
cumulative live birth rate after four IVF aspirations, using multiple imputation 
that takes into account treatment interruptions.
METHODS: We analysed data from 3037 couples beginning IVF treatment between 1998 
and 2002 in two French IVF units. Multiple imputations were used at each 
aspiration to impute the IVF outcome (delivery or not) for couples who 
interrupted treatment. The global success rate after four aspirations was then 
computed.
RESULTS: At the first aspiration, 21% of couples obtained a live birth and 24% 
discontinued treatment. The multiple imputation method provided an estimated 
cumulative live birth rate at each aspiration as if no couple discontinued 
treatment: 35% at the second aspiration and 41% at the third. The cumulative 
success rate after four aspirations was estimated at 46% (95% CI: 44-48%).
CONCLUSIONS: Multiple imputation is a promising method for estimating the 
cumulative success rate of IVF. It could provide new insight on IVF evaluation 
and should be tested in further studies.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/dem352
PMID: 17977864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2007 Oct;77(4):660-6.

Life-table analysis of Anopheles arabiensis in western Kenya highlands: effects 
of land covers on larval and adult survivorship.

Afrane YA(1), Zhou G, Lawson BW, Githeko AK, Yan G.

Author information:
(1)Climate and Human Health Research Unit, Centre for Vector Biology and Control 
Research, Kenya Medical Research Institute, Kenya. yaw_afrane@yahoo.com

In high-elevation areas in western Kenya, the abundance of Anopheles arabiensis 
is either very low or absent. The western Kenya highlands (an area with an 
elevation > 1,500m above sea level) have also been experiencing extensive 
deforestation, and deforestation has been suggested as one of the important 
factors that facilitate malaria transmission in the highlands. This study 
investigated whether climate conditions in the western Kenya highlands 
(Kakamega, elevation 1,500 m above sea level) were permissive to the development 
and survival of An. arabiensis and whether deforestation promoted An. arabiensis 
survivorship of immature and adult stages, using life-table analysis. We found 
that in larval habitats located in forested areas, only 4-9% of first-instar 
larvae developed into adults and the development length exceeded 20 days. Mean 
water temperature of aquatic habitats in the deforested area was 4.8-6.1 degrees 
C higher than that in the forested area, larval-to-adult survivorship was 
increased to 65-82%, and larval-to-adult development time was shortened by 8-9 
days. The average indoor temperature in houses in the deforested area was 
1.7-1.8 degrees C higher than in the forested area, and the relative humidity 
was 22-25% lower. The median survival time of adult mosquitoes in the deforested 
area was 49-55% higher than those in the forested area. The net reproductive 
rate of female mosquitoes in the deforested area was 1.7- to 2.6-fold higher 
than that in the forested area. Compared with previously published data on An. 
gambiae, the net reproductive rate of An. arabiensis was only 0.8-1.3% of 
Anopheles gambiae in the forested area and 2.3-2.6% in the deforested area. 
Therefore, the current ambient climate condition is less permissive to An. 
arabiensis than to An. gambiae in western Kenya highlands. However, 
environmental changes such as deforestation and global warming may facilitate 
the establishment of An. arabiensis populations in the highlands.

PMID: 17978067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Holist Nurs Pract. 2007 Nov-Dec;21(6):324-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.HNP.0000298617.27008.be.

How does spirituality affect physical health? A conceptual review.

Dyer J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Psychiatry and Psychological Medicine, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. Jade.Dyer@med.monash.edu.au

Spirituality is thought to have a beneficial impact on physical health and 
mortality, yet experimental findings are mixed in their support of this 
assumption. This article examines the most persuasive experimental evidence that 
spiritual beliefs influence physical health and explores the mediating factors 
that may explain how this connection operates.

DOI: 10.1097/01.HNP.0000298617.27008.be
PMID: 17978636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Microbiol. 2007 Oct;45(5):418-21.

Functional analysis of the invariant residue G791 of Escherichia coli 16S rRNA.

Song WS(1), Kim HM, Kim JH, Sim SH, Ryou SM, Kim S, Cha CJ, Cunningham PR, Bae 
J, Lee K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Chung-Ang University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

The nucleotide at position 791(G791) of E. coli 16S rRNA was previously 
identified as an invariant residue for ribosomal function. In order to 
characterize the functional role of G791, base substitutions were introduced at 
this position, and mutant ribosomes were analyzed with regard to their protein 
synthesis ability, via the use of a specialized ribosome system. These ribosomal 
RNA mutations attenuated the ability of ribosomes to conduct protein synthesis 
by more than 65%. A transition mutation (G to A) exerted a moderate effect on 
ribosomal function, whereas a transversion mutation (G to C or U) resulted in a 
loss of protein synthesis ability of more than 90%. The sucrose gradient 
profiles of ribosomes and primer extension analysis showed that the loss of 
protein-synthesis ability of mutant ribosomes harboring a base substitution from 
G to U at position 791 stems partially from its inability to form 70S ribosomes. 
These findings show the involvement of the nucleotide at position 791 in the 
association of ribosomal subunits and protein synthesis steps after 70S 
