
775. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2008 Jan;65(2):312-23. doi: 10.1007/s00018-007-7491-2.

A molecular pin to study the dynamics of beta-barrel formation in pore-forming 
toxins on erythrocytes: a sliding model.

Viero G(1), Gropuzzo A, Joubert O, Keller D, Prévost G, Dalla Serra M.

Author information:
(1)FBK-CNR Institute of Biophysics, Unit at Trento, Via alla Cascata 56/C, 
38100, Povo (Trento), Italy. viero@fbk.eu

gamma-Hemolysins are pore-forming toxins which develop from water-soluble 
monomers by combining two different 'albeit homologous' proteins. They form 
oligomeric pores in both cell and model membranes by undergoing a still poorly 
understood conformational rearrangement in the stem region. The stem is formed 
by three beta-strands, folded onto the core of the soluble protein and 
completely extended in the pore. We propose a new model to explain such a 
process. Seven double-cysteine mutants were developed by inserting one cysteine 
on the stretch that links the beta-hairpin to the core of the protein and 
another on different positions along the beta-strands. The membrane bound 
protein was blocked in a non-lytic state by S-S bond formation. Six mutants were 
oxidized as inactive intermediates, but became active after adding DTT. These 
results demonstrate that the stem extension can be temporarily frozen and that 
the beta-barrel formation occurs by beta-strand concerted step-by-step sliding.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-007-7491-2
PMID: 18080087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Niger J Med. 2007 Oct-Dec;16(4):318-21. doi: 10.4314/njm.v16i4.37329.

Comparative analysis of urethral catheterization versus suprapubic cystostomy in 
management of neurogenic bladder in spinal injured patients.

Nwadiaro HC(1), Nnamonu MI, Ramyil VM, Igun GO.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic unit, Department of Surgery, Jos University Teaching Hospital, 
Jos, Plateau State, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was, to prospectively and retro 
respectively evaluate urethral catheterization (UC) versus supra-pubic 
cystostomy (SPC) in prevention of urinary tract infection (UTI) in patients with 
spinal cord injury lesion.
METHODS: A total of 125 patients with neurogenic bladder and a mean age of 30 
years had UC (n=80) and SPC (n=40) at the Jos University Teaching Hospital 
(JUTH) between January 1984 and June 2005.
RESULTS: Episodes of UTI were significantly more; UC 65% versus 14% forS PC (P< 
O 0 5). Urinary tract infection occurred relatively late in the course of 
admission, in patient who had SPC. Patients in SPC group were significantly 
satisfied with this management option; 57% versus 8% for UC. Similarly, 
mortality at 1 year post admission was significantly less; 9% versus 36% for UC 
and death due to UTI related septicaemia was 33% versus 18% respectively.
CONCLUSION: It was concluded that SPC was a better management option since it 
was associated with a low morbidity, better quality of life and a longer life 
expectancy than UC.

DOI: 10.4314/njm.v16i4.37329
PMID: 18080587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Niger J Med. 2007 Oct-Dec;16(4):344-7. doi: 10.4314/njm.v16i4.37335.

The trend of HIV infection in Kano, Nigeria--a seven-year study of adult 
attendees of Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital.

Nwokedi EE(1), Azeez-Akande O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Bayero University, Kano, Nigeria. drnworkedi@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is a huge concern with 
increasing epidemic proportions The consequences are devastating in developing 
countries particularly in large areas of southeast Asia and sub Saharan Africa 
including decrease in life-expectancy, huge loss of manpower and a heavy 
economic and social burden. Sub-Saharan Africa has been hit harder by HIV/AIDS 
pandemic than any other region of the world At the end of 2006, the Joint United 
Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS (UNAIDS) estimated that, globally 39.5 million 
people were living with HIV/AIDS, out of which 24.7 million were in sub-Saharan 
Africa. To determine the annual trend of HIV infection in Kano as well as the 
seroprevalence rates over the years.
METHOD: This retrospective study includes all adults that are 15years and above, 
who are also AKTH attendees and. patients referred from other hospitals in Kano, 
who, based on clinical suspicion, were sent to the serology laboratory of the 
hospital for HIV screening and confirmation between January, 1997 and December, 
2003. It however, excludes all pediatrics, antenatal care clinic attendees and 
all blood donors screened for HIV antibodies within the period. These have been 
collated under various risk groups elsewhere.
RESULTS: Of 9241 subjects tested, 3217 (34.8%) were confirmed seropositive for 
HIV antibodies consisting of 1908 (36.7%) and 1441 (35.7%) males and females 
respectively Analysis of results on yearly basis shows prevalence rates of 37.1% 
in 1997, 40% in 1998 and 47.9% in 1999. However, the HIV seroprevalence rates 
declined to 22.6% among these subjects in 2000 before rising to the peak (48.8%) 
in 2002 from 30% seroprevalence of the previous year, 2001. The prevalence rate 
for 2003 was 32.1%. effective control strategies aimed at curbing the spread of 
HIV infection.

DOI: 10.4314/njm.v16i4.37335
PMID: 18080593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Pneumonol Alergol Pol. 2007;75(4):383-8.

[Palliative care in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease].

[Article in Polish]

Modlińska A(1), Buss T, Lichodziejewska-Niemierko M.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Medycyny Paliatywnej Akademii Medycznej w Gdańsku, ul. Debinki 2, 
80-208 Gdańsk, Poland. aleksandra.modlinska@amg.gda.pl

Traditionally focusing on terminally ill cancer patients, palliative care 
services have recently attempted to involve patients with other chronic, life - 
threatening diseases, e.g. chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In this 
group of patients both quality of life and life expectancy is poor. 
Unfortunately, patients with COPD don't receive adequate special medical 
service, although this progressive disease causes almost as many deaths as lung 
cancer. The suffering of patients dying from COPD is not smaller than cancer 
patients. The major symptoms are usually dyspnoe, cough, fatigue, depression, 
emotional and psychosocial problems. In fact, their needs are really palliative, 
so we try to pay attention to the quality of life of people suffering from COPD. 
It is important to underline that medical palliation of these patients falls not 
only to the management of the main clinical symptoms, but also to adopt a 
holistic, multiprofessional approach and working with their families and 
caregivers.

PMID: 18080989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2007 Dec;26 Suppl 2:47-52. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03487.x.

Review article: The relevance of surveillance endoscopy in long-lasting 
inflammatory bowel disease.

Vleggaar FP(1), Lutgens MW, Claessen MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Medical Center Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. f.vleggaar@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: Development of colitis-associated colorectal cancer is an important 
clinical problem in patients with colonic inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 
British and American guidelines recommend to start surveillance after a disease 
duration of 8-10 or 15-20 years for patients with extensive or left-sided 
colitis, respectively.
AIM: To assess the evidence level of current surveillance strategies.
METHODS: A PubMed-based literature search using the search terms inflammatory 
bowel disease, ulcerative colitis, Crohn's disease, dysplasia, colorectal cancer 
and surveillance was performed.
RESULTS: Low-grade and high-grade dysplastic lesions progress to cancer in a 
high percentage of patients. Furthermore, concurrent cancer is found in 
approximately one-third of the patients with colonic dysplasia. Low-level 
evidence showing reduced colorectal cancer-related mortality in patients who 
were undergoing surveillance is available. Patients with concomitant primary 
sclerosing cholangitis form a subgroup of IBD patients with an even higher risk 
of colorectal neoplasia.
CONCLUSIONS: Colonic surveillance prolongs life expectancy of patients with 
long-lasting IBD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2007.03487.x
PMID: 18081648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Prev Chronic Dis. 2008 Jan;5(1):A06. Epub 2007 Dec 15.

Factors related to cardiovascular disease risk reduction in midlife and older 
women: a qualitative study.

Folta SC(1), Goldberg JP, Lichtenstein AH, Seguin R, Reed PN, Nelson ME.

Author information:
(1)John Hancock Center for Physical Activity and Nutrition, Friedman School of 
Nutrition Science and Policy, Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, USA. 
sara.folta@tufts.edu

INTRODUCTION: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death for 
women in the United States. A healthy diet and appropriate physical activity can 
help reduce the risk for CVD. However, many women do not follow recommendations 
for these behaviors. In this study, we used qualitative methods to better 
understand knowledge and awareness about CVD in women, perceived threat of CVD, 
barriers to heart-healthy eating and physical activity, and intervention 
strategies for behavior change.
METHODS: We conducted four focus groups with 38 white women aged 40 years or 
older in Kansas and Arkansas. We also interviewed 25 Cooperative State Research, 
Education, and Extension Service agents in those states. Environmental audits of 
grocery stores and the physical environment were done in three communities.
RESULTS: Most women were aware of the modifiable risk factors for CVD. Although 
they realized they were susceptible, they thought CVD was something they could 
overcome. Common barriers to achieving a heart-healthy diet included time and 
concern about wasting food. Most women had positive attitudes toward physical 
activity and reported exercising in the past, but found it difficult to resume 
when their routine was disrupted. The environmental audits suggested that there 
are opportunities to be physically active and that with the exception of fresh 
fish in Kansas, healthful foods are readily available in local food stores.
CONCLUSION: Interventions to change behavior should be hands-on, have a 
goal-setting component, and include opportunities for social interaction. It is 
especially important to offer interventions as awareness increases and women 
seek opportunities to build skills to change behavior.

PMCID: PMC2248795
PMID: 18081995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Prev Chronic Dis. 2008 Jan;5(1):A18. Epub 2007 Dec 15.

Translating a community-based motivational support program to increase physical 
activity among older adults with diabetes at community clinics: a pilot study of 
Physical Activity for a Lifetime of Success (PALS).

Batik O(1), Phelan EA, Walwick JA, Wang G, LoGerfo JP.

Author information:
(1)Puget Sound Neighborhood Health Centers, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Regular physical activity is an important goal for elders with 
chronic health conditions.
CONTEXT: This report describes Physical Activity for a Lifetime of Success 
(PALS), an attempt to translate a motivational support program for physical 
activity, Active Choices, for use by a group of diverse, low-income, 
community-dwelling elders with diabetes.
METHODS: PALS linked physical activity assessment and brief counseling by 
primary care providers with a structured referral to a community-based 
motivational telephone support program delivered by older adult volunteers. 
People with diabetes aged 65 years or older who were receiving care at two 
community clinics were randomized to receive either immediate or delayed 
intervention. The main intended outcome measure was physical activity level; the 
secondary outcome measure was mean hemoglobin A1c.
CONSEQUENCES: One-third of those offered referral to the PALS program in the 
clinic setting declined. Another 44% subsequently declined enrollment or were 
unreachable by the support center. Only 14 (21%) of those offered referral 
enrolled in the program. Among these 14, the percentage who were sufficiently 
active was higher at follow-up than at enrollment, though not significantly so. 
Using an intent-to-treat analysis, which included all randomized clinic 
patients, we found no significant change in mean hemoglobin A1c for the 
intervention group compared with controls.
INTERPRETATION: A community-based referral and support program to increase 
physical activity among elderly, ethnically diverse, low-income people with 
diabetes, many of whom are not English-speaking, may be thwarted by unforeseen 
barriers. Those who enroll and participate in the PALS program appear to 
increase their level of physical activity.

PMCID: PMC2248781
PMID: 18082007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2007 Dec;8(12):760-9.

[Cardiac resynchronization therapy and reduction of mortality in heart failure: 
a proven association].

[Article in Italian]

Mele D(1), Toselli T, Pratola C, Artale P, Ferrari R.

Author information:
(1)UO di Cardiologia, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria, Ferrara. 
donatomele@libero.it

Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is currently used for treatment of 
refractory heart failure and is effective in reducing symptoms and increasing 
quality of life and exercise tolerance. Data from the literature also show that 
CRT may prolong event-free survival and reduce heart failure mortality. This 
therapy is also highly cost-effective as compared to optimized medical 
treatment. The reduction of the risk of death occurs in both nonischemic and 
ischemic heart failure, although in this latter group CRT benefit seems to be 
less. It is still controversial whether a back-up defibrillator should be 
implanted to all patients undergoing CRT. Finally, left ventricular reverse 
remodeling occurring after 3 to 6 months of treatment predicts long-term benefit 
of CRT on mortality.

PMID: 18085101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Sex Med. 2008 Mar;5(3):726-34. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2007.00701.x. Epub
 2007 Dec 17.

Quality of erections in men treated with flexible-dose sildenafil for erectile 
dysfunction: multicenter trial with a double-blind, randomized, 
placebo-controlled phase and an open-label phase.

Kadioglu A(1), Grohmann W, Depko A, Levinson IP, Sun F, Collins S.

Author information:
(1)Section of Andrology, Department of Urology, University of Istanbul, 
Istanbul, Turkey. itfabd@istanbul.edu.tr

INTRODUCTION: Erectile dysfunction (ED) impacts erection hardness and 
compromises quality of life.
AIM: Assess erection hardness and its correlation with sexual function, 
emotional well-being, and satisfaction (erection quality, intercourse, sex life, 
sexual relationship, and treatment).
METHODS: Men with ED were randomized to double-blind, flexible-dose sildenafil 
(25, 50, or 100 mg) or placebo (6 weeks) with open-label extension (6 weeks).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Erection Hardness Score (EHS), Quality of Erection 
Questionnaire (QEQ), International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF), 
Self-Esteem And Relationship (SEAR) questionnaire, and Erectile Dysfunction 
Inventory of Treatment Satisfaction (EDITS).
RESULTS: A total of 307 men (mean [range] age, 45 [18-55] years) were randomized 
to sildenafil (N = 154) or placebo (N = 153). At the end of double-blind 
treatment, occasions with EHS 3 (hard enough for penetration but not completely 
hard) or 4 (completely hard) had increased by 40% +/- 3% for sildenafil vs. 11% 
+/- 3% for placebo (least squares mean +/- standard error; P < 0.0001); the 
estimated percentage of occasions with EHS 4 was 58% (95% CI, 52-65%) vs. 14% 
(95% CI, 10-19%) (odds ratio, 8.5; P < 0.0001). There was greater improvement in 
mean QEQ, IIEF, and SEAR scores (P < 0.0001), and more men were satisfied with 
sildenafil treatment (EDITS Index score >50: 90% vs. 49%). QEQ, IIEF, SEAR, and 
EDITS outcomes correlated positively with EHS 3 or 4, and with EHS 4 alone and 
were highest (no overlap of 95% CI vs. other EHS subgroups) in the subgroup with 
most frequent EHS of 4.
CONCLUSIONS: In the group of men with ED treated with sildenafil, it was 
estimated that completely hard erections were achieved on 58% (95% CI, 52-65%) 
of occasions. Improvement in function, emotional well-being, and satisfaction 
was greatest in men with completely hard erections and correlated positively 
with other measures of hardness.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2007.00701.x
PMID: 18086165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2007 Sep-Oct;135(9-10):513-5. doi: 10.2298/sarh0710513d.

[Immune recovery vitritis].

[Article in Serbian]

Dujić M, Jevtović D.

INTRODUCTION: Immune recovery vitritis (IRV) is symptomatic vitritis of > 1 + 
severity associated with inactive cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis. It is an 
opportunistic infection of the eye, in the patients who suffer from AIDS, and is 
treated with a highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). As a result of this 
therapy, there is an immune reconstitution in the body and inflammation of the 
vitreous body.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to show the incidence of IRV in patients 
treated with HAART.
METHOD: A retrospective study was conducted in patients who suffered from CMV 
retinitis. Twenty-one were treated with HAART and had the diagnosis of CMV 
retinitis, as well. All of them were examined by the same ophthalmologist who 
peformed slit lamp examination with mydriasis and indirect ophthalmoscopy.
RESULTS: Nine of 21 patients developed IRV as a complication of HAART, two had 
cystoid macular oedema (CMO).
CONCLUSION: CMV retinitis develops when the number of CD4+ T lymphocytes drops 
below 50/mm3. This results in necrotic retinitis which, if untreated, leads to 
complete loss of vision. With the introduction of HAART, we learned that the 
reconstitution of immune status was achieved as well as life expectancy, but 
there was a dramatic decline in the opportunistic infection, including CMV 
retinitis, as well. With the immune reconstitution, the inflammation develops in 
the eye, known as IRV. Sometimes, it is neccessary to treat this condition, but 
in the case of our patients, the inflammation was mild, and no treatment was 
neccessary.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh0710513d
PMID: 18088034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2008 Jul;23(7):670-6. doi: 10.1002/gps.1958.

Randomized double-blind placebo-controlled donepezil augmentation in 
antidepressant-treated elderly patients with depression and cognitive 
impairment: a pilot study.

Pelton GH(1), Harper OL, Tabert MH, Sackeim HA, Scarmeas N, Roose SP, Devanand 
DP.

Author information:
(1)Late Life Depression Clinic, The Memory Disorders Center, and The Division of 
Geriatric Psychiatry, New York State Psychiatric Institute, NY, USA. 
ghp4@columbia.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess combined antidepressant and cognitive enhancer treatment in 
elderly patients presenting with depression plus cognitive impairment.
METHODS: Twenty-three elderly (>50 years old) depressed, cognitively impaired 
(DEP-CI) patients participated in a pilot study. We evaluated whether, after 8 
weeks of open antidepressant treatment, donepezil HCl (Aricept) would afford 
added cognitive benefit compared to placebo in a randomized 12-week trial. A 
subsample continued in an 8-month extension phase of open treatment with 
donepezil. Neuropsychological testing (NPT) was performed and antidepressant 
response monitored at baseline and the 8, 20, and 52-week time points.
RESULTS: At 8-weeks, the antidepressant response rate was 61% (14/23). 
Improvement in SRT immediate recall (SRT-IR; e.g. episodic verbal memory) was 
observed in responders compared to non-responders. During the 12-week, 
placebo-controlled, donepezil add-on trial, patients on donepezil showed further 
improvement in SRT-IR versus patients on placebo. In the open extension phase, 
patients who continued open donepezil treatment (n = 6) maintained improvement 
in memory and tended to show an advantage over patients who never received 
donepezil and were evaluated at the 52-week time point (n = 6). There were no 
observed significant donepezil effects on non-memory cognitive domains.
CONCLUSION: These preliminary findings suggest that addition of a cholinesterase 
inhibitor (AChEI) following antidepressant medication treatment in elderly 
Dep-CI patients may improve cognition, and support the need for a confirmatory, 
larger randomized placebo-controlled trial.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.1958
PMCID: PMC3104294
PMID: 18088076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


786. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(1):1-4. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826010-00001.

The new myth: the social value of the QALY.

Brouwer W, van Exel J, Baker R, Donaldson C.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826010-00001
PMID: 18088154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(1):17-32. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826010-00003.

Cost-effectiveness analyses of hepatitis A vaccine: a systematic review to 
explore the effect of methodological quality on the economic attractiveness of 
vaccination strategies.

Anonychuk AM(1), Tricco AC, Bauch CT, Pham B, Gilca V, Duval B, John-Baptiste A, 
Woo G, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Hepatitis A vaccines have been available for more than a decade. Because the 
burden of hepatitis A virus has fallen in developed countries, the appropriate 
role of vaccination programmes, especially universal vaccination strategies, 
remains unclear. Cost-effectiveness analysis is a useful method of relating the 
costs of vaccination to its benefits, and may inform policy. This article 
systematically reviews the evidence on the cost effectiveness of hepatitis A 
vaccination in varying populations, and explores the effects of methodological 
quality and key modelling issues on the cost-effectiveness 
ratios.Cost-effectiveness/cost-utility studies of hepatitis A vaccine were 
identified via a series of literature searches (MEDLINE, EMBASE, HSTAR and 
SSCI). Citations and full-text articles were reviewed independently by two 
reviewers. Reference searching, author searches and expert consultation ensured 
literature saturation. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
abstracted for base-case analyses, converted to $US, year 2005 values, and 
categorised to reflect various levels of cost effectiveness. Quality of 
reporting, methodological issues and key modelling issues were assessed using 
frameworks published in the literature.Thirty-one cost-effectiveness studies 
(including 12 cost-utility analyses) were included from full-text article review 
(n = 58) and citation screening (n = 570). These studies evaluated universal 
mass vaccination (n = 14), targeted vaccination (n = 17) and vaccination of 
susceptibles (i.e. individuals initially screened for antibody and, if 
susceptible, vaccinated) [n = 13]. For universal vaccination, 50% of the ICERs 
were <$US20 000 per QALY or life-year gained. Analyses evaluating vaccination in 
children, particularly in high incidence areas, produced the most attractive 
ICERs. For targeted vaccination, cost effectiveness was highly dependent on the 
risk of infection.Incidence, vaccine cost and discount rate were the most 
influential parameters in sensitivity analyses. Overall, analyses that evaluated 
the combined hepatitis A/hepatitis B vaccine, adjusted incidence for 
under-reporting, included societal costs and that came from studies of higher 
methodological quality tended to have more attractive cost-effectiveness ratios. 
Methodological quality varied across studies. Major methodological flaws 
included inappropriate model type, comparator, incidence estimate and 
inclusion/exclusion of costs.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826010-00003
PMID: 18088156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Transplant Proc. 2007 Dec;39(10):3512-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.09.007.

Liver transplantation in the setting of extra-hepatic malignancy: two case 
reports.

Fayek S(1), Moore D, Bortecen KH, Yeh H, Markmann JF, Olthoff KM, Shaked A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Division of Transplantation, Hospital of 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA. 
sameh.fayek@uphs.upenn.edu

Candidates for liver transplantation (OLT) may be found to have an incidental 
extrahepatic tumor, which is amenable to resection, and may be associated with 
variable long-term survival. Issues to be considered include: (1) Whether it is 
possible to define a tumor stage and survival expectancy, which makes the 
patient an acceptable transplant candidate; (2) Whether cancer surgery should be 
preformed prior, during, or after OLT; (3) Whether the recipient be placed on 
immunosuppression that is tailored to address concern related to cancer 
recurrence. These issues are illustrated in the context of OLT and nephrectomy 
for renal cell carcinoma (RCC). Two patients underwent a simultaneous OLT and 
curative radical nephrectomy for stage 1 RCC that was incidentally discovered 
during OLT evaluation, one of whom received a simultaneous kidney transplant. At 
51 and 14 months postoperatively, the patients are alive and healthy, with no 
tumor recurrence. In selected extrahepatic malignancies, simultaneous curative 
resection and OLT may provide the optimal outcome. This is justifiable when 
curative cancer-related life expectancy exceeds OLT-expected graft and patient 
survival. Concomitant transplantation and cancer surgery provides an acceptable 
cancer-free survival, avoiding the high morbidity observed when cancer resection 
is done in the presence of decompensated liver disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2007.09.007
PMID: 18089424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2007 Nov;16(6):512-5. doi: 
10.1097/MNH.0b013e3282f08638.

The development of new allocation policy for deceased donor kidneys.

Shapiro ME(1).

Author information:
(1)Organ Transplantation, Hackensack University Medical Center, Surgery, New 
Jersey Medical School/UMDNJ, Hackensack, New Jersey, USA. mshapiro@humed.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The current system of kidney allocation in the United States 
has been undergoing review by the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network. 
The Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network kidney committee is nearing 
the release of a draft proposal for sweeping changes in kidney allocation. The 
involvement of the renal community is critical to the successful development and 
implementation of these new policies.
RECENT FINDINGS: This review describes ethical issues related to allocation of 
scarce resources such as kidneys, the current US kidney allocation system and 
problems associated with it, as well as the development of a new model for 
kidney allocation. The new paradigm involves the application of 'life years from 
transplant'--an approach that compares predicted survival of a recipient after 
transplant versus remaining on dialysis, adjusted for multiple factors such as 
cause of renal failure, age and co-morbid conditions. Alternate systems as well 
as criticism of the current proposals are presented.
SUMMARY: The use of life years from transplant would increase allocation of 
kidneys to patients more likely to benefit from transplantation, resulting in 
many thousands of additional life-years saved. Such a scheme would also tend to 
assign these kidneys to younger patients, which has generated controversy.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0b013e3282f08638
PMID: 18089963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2007 Nov-Dec;22(6):472-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.JCN.0000297378.98754.06.

Partner quality of life in the antiarrhythmics versus implantable defibrillators 
trial.

Jenkins LS(1), Powell JL, Schron EB, McBurnie MA, Bosworth-Farrell S, Moore R, 
Exner DV; AVID Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Educators in Nursing and Health Professions, University of 
Maryland School of Nursing, Baltimore, MD, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The quality of life (QOL) of patients with ventricular 
dysrhythmias is well studied, but less is known about the QOL of their partners. 
This study describes the QOL of partners of patients with serious ventricular 
dysrhythmias enrolled in the Antiarrhythmics Versus Implantable Defibrillators 
trial.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A convenience sample of 124 partners of patients 
randomized to antiarrhythmic drugs (n = 59) or an implantable cardioverter 
defibrillator (n = 65) in the Antiarrhythmics versus Implantable Defibrillators 
trial was obtained. The Short Form-36 and Quality of Life Index were assessed at 
baseline (postrandomization) and at 3-, 6-, and 12-month follow-up.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The mean age of the partners was 62 years. Most were 
white and female. Their mean Short Form-36 scores were comparable to a normative 
age group. Partner and participant mean Short Form-36 and Quality of Life Index 
scores correlated modestly (range 0.25-0.36). The physical summary scores of 
partners using the Short Form-36 declined over time, whereas their mental 
summary scores remained stable. Partner concerns related to death, dysrhythmia 
recurrence, and the impact of dysrhythmias on enjoyment of life lessened from 
baseline to 12 months. Concern about implantable cardioverter defibrillator 
function remained stable over time. Although the sample size of this study was 
relatively small and limited by missing data for some assessments, it is the 
largest prospective study of QOL in partners of patients with serious 
dysrhythmias. The results offer a foundation for future research of the partners 
of patients with serious dysrhythmias in terms of identifying their needs, 
offering support, and maximizing QOL.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JCN.0000297378.98754.06
PMID: 18090188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2007 Nov-Dec;22(6):480-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.JCN.0000297384.36873.52.

Drifting in a shrinking future: living with advanced heart failure.

Dougherty CM(1), Pyper GP, Au DH, Levy WC, Sullivan MD.

Author information:
(1)Biobehavioral Nursing and Health Systems, University of Washington School of 
Nursing, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. cindyd@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced heart failure (HF) have an uncertain 
prognosis and low rates of advance care planning and hospice use. The purpose of 
this study was to describe how patients view and plan for their future.
METHODS: Twenty-four (N = 24) patients took part in a semistructured interview 
in which they were asked to describe their experiences in living with heart 
disease and their understanding and planning for their future. Interviews were 
transcribed and analyzed using the constant comparative method to generate a 
grounded theory.
RESULTS: The core category, "Living with HF," encompassed the subcategories of 
"My Experience of HF," "Help with HF," and "My Future with HF." This article 
reports on "My Future with HF." Patients wanted to discuss how HF affected their 
future with their providers, but initiation of these discussions was difficult 
and the absence of discussion led to frustration. Patients did not find specific 
life expectancy estimates helpful in coping or planning their future care.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with advanced HF do not plan well for end-of-life care and 
tend to drift along while vaguely hoping for the best. End-of-life care in 
advanced HF should address difficulties in decision making and provider 
communication.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JCN.0000297384.36873.52
PMID: 18090189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2007 Nov-Dec;22(6):508-15. doi: 
10.1097/01.JCN.0000297388.21626.6c.

Factors associated with caregiver depressive symptoms, outcomes, and perceived 
physical health after coronary artery bypass surgery.

Halm MA(1), Bakas T.

Author information:
(1)United Hospital, St Paul, Minnesota 55102, USA. margo.a.halm@allina.com

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery bypass surgery patients often rely on spouses for 
assistance during recovery. Caregiving may be stressful, adversely affecting 
caregiver physical and emotional health and, therefore, ability to provide care.
OBJECTIVE AND METHODS: This cross-sectional correlational study investigated 
factors associated with caregiver depressive symptoms, outcomes, and perceived 
physical health. Using a model from existing theories, these dependent variables 
were considered "health-related quality of life" outcomes. A convenience sample 
of 166 coronary artery bypass spouse caregivers completed surveys on patient 
health status, caregiver personality and relationship factors, task difficulty, 
depressive symptoms, caregiver outcomes, and perceived physical health.
RESULTS: Using regression analysis, worse patient proxy health ratings and less 
personal mastery were associated with greater caregiver depressive symptoms. 
Being a female caregiver, worse patient proxy health ratings, lower mutuality, 
and more caregiver depressive symptoms were associated with negative caregiver 
outcomes. Younger spousal age and worse patient proxy health ratings were 
associated with worse caregiver perceived physical health.
CONCLUSION: Although further longitudinal investigations are recommended, 
findings suggest that helping coronary artery bypass spouse caregivers master 
their role, improve their relationship with the patient, and avoid or reduce 
depressive symptoms can improve caregiver outcomes and are therefore areas for 
possible intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JCN.0000297388.21626.6c
PMID: 18090193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Am J Clin Oncol. 2007 Dec;30(6):580-7. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3180653c0d.

Improved survival, quality of life, and quality-adjusted survival in breast 
cancer patients treated with efaproxiral (Efaproxyn) plus whole-brain radiation 
therapy for brain metastases.

Scott C(1), Suh J, Stea B, Nabid A, Hackman J.

Author information:
(1)CBS Squared, Inc., Fort Washington, Pennsylvania 19034, USA. 
cbssquared@comcast.net

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether efaproxiral, an allosteric modifier of 
hemoglobin, improves quality of life and quality of survival in patients with 
primary breast cancer and brain metastases when used as an adjunct to 
whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT).
METHODS: Patients with brain metastases from breast cancer were randomly 
assigned to receive WBRT and either efaproxiral or no efaproxiral. The primary 
endpoint for this analysis was quality of life and quality-adjusted survival. 
Quality of life was assessed prior to initiation of WBRT and periodically in 
follow-up using the Spitzer Quality of Life Index (SQLI).
RESULTS: A subgroup of 106 eligible breast cancer patients with baseline SQLI 
were randomized into this study and represent the target population discussed in 
this report. Treatment, age, and SQLI were significant predictors of survival. 
The addition of efaproxiral to WBRT reduced the death rate by 46% (P = 0.0086). 
Quality of life was improved in the WBRT + efaproxiral arm compared with the 
WBRT alone arm (P = 0.019). Quality-adjusted survival was statistically 
significantly improved by the addition of efaproxiral to WBRT (P = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Survival, quality of life, and quality-adjusted survival were all 
improved in breast cancer patients with brain metastases receiving efaproxiral 
and WBRT compared with those receiving WBRT alone.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3180653c0d
PMID: 18091051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. J Trauma. 2007 Dec;63(6 Suppl):S113-20; discussion S121. doi: 
10.1097/TA.0b013e31815acc8b.

Measuring the cost-effectiveness of technologic change in the treatment of 
pediatric traumatic brain injury.

Tilford JM(1), Aitken ME, Goodman AC, Adelson PD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Applied Research and Evaluation, Department of Pediatrics, College 
of Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences and Arkansas Children's 
Hospital, Little Rock, Arkansas, USA. tilfordmickj@uams.edu

Substantial variation exists with respect to the management of traumatic brain 
injuries (TBI) in children. Centers that practice aggressive treatment of TBI 
may improve survival, but it is not clear that the outcomes can be justified 
using cost-effectiveness criteria. This study illustrates the use of 
cost-effectiveness analysis to assess interventions for improving outcomes in 
children by assessing the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained from 
technological change in the treatment of TBI. Cost and survival data associated 
with technological change in the treatment of pediatric TBI was based on 
nationally representative hospital administrative data for all children <21 
years with a TBI who required endotracheal intubation or mechanical ventilation. 
With QALYs of pediatric TBI survivors based on life expectancies ranging between 
5 and 30 years and on an estimated preference score of approximately 0.5, the 
estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio ranges between $19,000 and 
$109,000 per QALY gained. Adding estimated rehabilitation costs increases the 
cost-effectiveness ratio to between $57,000 and $244,000 per QALY. Sensitivity 
analysis indicates that estimates of life years gained are critical to the 
estimated ratio. If TBI survivors live more than 5 years, then the estimated 
cost-effectiveness ratio seems favorable.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0b013e31815acc8b
PMID: 18091201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2007 Dec 15;32(26):E809-15. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31815cd422.

From chronic low back pain to disability, a multifactorial mediated pathway: the 
InCHIANTI study.

Di Iorio A(1), Abate M, Guralnik JM, Bandinelli S, Cecchi F, Cherubini A, 
Corsonello A, Foschini N, Guglielmi M, Lauretani F, Volpato S, Abate G, Ferrucci 
L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Sciences of Aging, Laboratory of Clinical 
Epidemiology, University G. D'Annunzio Chieti, Italy. a.diiorio@unich.it

STUDY DESIGN: Clinicoepidemiologic study in the Chianti area (Tuscany, Italy).
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether performance measures of lower extremity function 
confounds the association of low back pain (LBP) with self-report disability in 
specific basic and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: LBP is high prevalent in older population and has a 
negative impact on functional status. Studies on the pathway leading from LBP to 
disability are limited and often the role played by important confounders is not 
considered.
METHODS: A total of 956 InCHIANTI study participants aged 65 and older able to 
complete performance-based tests of lower extremity function were included in 
this analysis. LBP was defined as a self-report of back pain "quite often-almost 
every day" in the past 12 months. Lower extremity function was evaluated 
administering the Short Physical Performance Battery. In addition, participants 
were asked to walk on a 7-m course and collect an object from the ground. 
Depressive symptoms (CES-D score), trunk flexion-extension range of motion, and 
hip-knee-foot pain were also considered in the pathway from LBP to disability.
RESULTS: Compared with participants who did not report LBP, those with LBP were 
more likely to report difficulty in performing most activities of daily living. 
LBP was also associated with disability in the activities of bathing, doing the 
laundry, performing heavy household chores, cutting toenails, shopping, and 
carrying a shopping bag. The association between LBP and disability in selected 
ADLs and IADLs was no longer statistical significant, after adjustment for 
performance in lower extremity function, with exception of the activity of 
"carrying a shopping bag".
CONCLUSION: The cross-sectional association between LBP and self-reported 
disability, in specific tasks is modulated by performance measures. Specific 
performance-based tests that explore the functional consequences of LBP may help 
design specific interventions of disability prevention and treatment in patients 
with LBP.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31815cd422
PMCID: PMC2645698
PMID: 18091475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Minerva Cardioangiol. 2007 Dec;55(6):783-802.

A review of factors contributing to health related quality of life achieved with 
cardiac resynchronization therapy for heart failure.

Van Hemel NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Utrecht University, Heart Lung Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, NL. 
n.m.vanhemel@hetnet.nl

Electrical cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) with biventricular pacing 
improves the impaired left ventricular function in selected patients and reduces 
mortality, morbidity and the number of hospitalizations for heart failure. 
Reversed left ventricular remodelling following CRT has been documented by 
various imaging
METHODS: Application of CRT involves many factors as selection, implantation 
procedure, pacing site, programming of the atrioventricular and interventricular 
pacing intervals, optimal medical and anti-arrhythmic treatment and counselling 
of the patient with congestive heart failure (CHF). The contribution of various 
components of CRT to the hemodynamic response and to the left and right 
ventricular function has been extensively documented. Large prospective studies 
also demonstrated improvement of health related quality of life (QoL) compared 
to control patients. The cost-effectiveness of CRT and CRT/implantable 
cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) in terms of quality adjusted life year appears 
satisfying provided life expectancy of the recipient is enlarged. However, the 
follow up of most studies is rather short and QoL is always compared with the 
baseline condition. Furthermore, the clinical relevance of the reported 
numerical improvement of QoL and its persistence are fully unknown. The 
individual improvement of QoL of the CRT recipient cannot be predicted from 
clinical variables. Literature shows that the contribution of the various CRT 
factors to the hemodynamic response and to the left and right ventricular 
function and clinical benefit are extensively studied but not their contribution 
to health related QoL. For this purpose the contribution to QoL of all factors 
that are related to CRT response, was stepwise reviewed. Literature showed for 
several reasons no clear association with any individual CRT component and QoL. 
It can be concluded that prospective serial QoL studies of CRT patients in 
conjunction with studies of the cardiac function are requested to identify not 
only the contribution of CRT factors to QoL but also (sub)groups that benefit 
most. In these trials the methods and relevance of regular re-examination of the 
left ventricular function and of reprogramming of the device parameters to 
obtain a sustained positive CRT responsiveness, need to be established. Finally, 
because CRT has become a multidisciplinary therapy for chronic heart failure, 
the professional influence on QoL of the CRT recipient has to be studied.

PMID: 18091646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Nepal Med Coll J. 2007 Sep;9(3):154-6.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus and impaired fasting glucose in 
semi-urban population of Nepal.

Ono K(1), Limbu YR, Rai SK, Kurokawa M, Yanagida J, Rai G, Gurung N, Sharma M, 
Rai CK.

Author information:
(1)Kobe Tokiwa College, Kobe, Japan.

The increase in life expectancy in developing countries and as a result of 
increasing obesity and other life style changes, the global incidence of type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing. The purpose of this study was to 
investigate the prevalence of T2DM and impaired fasting glucose (IFG) in 
semi-urban population of Nepal and to compare the prevalence between men and 
women and among different age groups. A total 740 adults (286 men and 454 women) 
aged 21 to 94 years (men +/- SD; 45.6 +/- 15.6 years) were included. The 
prevalence of T2DM and IFG was 9.5% and 19.2% in the whole population. 
Prevalence of T2DM was higher in men (11.8%) then in women (7.9%), similarly IFG 
was noted higher in men (25%) then in women (15.4%0). The prevalence of T2DM and 
IFG was seen to be increased with age in the whole population. Among women, the 
prevalence of T2DM and IFG was 2.9% and 12.8% in 21 to 40 years age group, 9.7% 
and 13.8% in 41 to 60 years age group and 15.4% and 27.7% in > 60 years age 
group. Among men, it was 4.7% and 22.6% in 21 to 40 years age group, 13.3% and 
30.5% in 41 to 60 years age group and 23% and 17.3% in > 60 years age group. To 
conclude, the overall prevalence of T2DM and IFG increases with age. Prevalence 
of IFG is highest among middle age men where as the prevalence of T2DM is 
highest among older men.

PMID: 18092429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Health Stat Q. 2007 Winter;(36):73-83.

Life expectancy at birth and at age 65 65 by local areas in the United Kingdom 
2004-06.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18092543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007 Dec 19;7:206. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-206.

The Internet for weight control in an obese sample: results of a randomised 
controlled trial.

McConnon A(1), Kirk SF, Cockroft JE, Harvey EL, Greenwood DC, Thomas JD, Ransley 
JK, Bojke L.

Author information:
(1)Food, Consumer Behaviour and Health Research Centre, University of Surrey, 
Guildford, Surrey, UK. a.mcconnon@surrey.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Rising levels of obesity coupled with the limited success of 
currently available weight control methods highlight the need for investigation 
of novel approaches to obesity treatment. This study aims to determine the 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an Internet-based resource for obesity 
management.
METHODS: A randomised controlled trial conducted in a community setting, where 
obese volunteers (n = 221) were randomly assigned to Internet group (n = 111) or 
usual care group (n = 110). Objective measures of weight and height were 
obtained. Questionnaires were used to collect dietary, lifestyle, physical 
activity and quality of life data. Data were collected at baseline, six months 
and 12 months.
RESULTS: Data were collected on 54 (49%) participants in the Internet group and 
77 (70%) participants in the usual care group at 12 months. Based on analysis 
conducted on all available data, the Internet group lost 1.3 kg, compared with 
1.9 kg weight loss in the usual care group at 12 months, a non-significant 
difference (difference = 0.6 kg; 95% CI: -1.4 to 2.5, p = 0.56). No significant 
differences in change in secondary outcome measures between the two groups at 
six or 12 months were revealed. Total costs per person per year were higher in 
the Internet group than the usual care group ( pound992.40 compared to 
pound276.12), primarily due to the fixed costs associated with setting up the 
website, and QALYs were similar (0.78 and 0.77) for both groups.
CONCLUSION: This trial failed to show any additional benefit of this website in 
terms of weight loss or secondary outcome measures compared with usual care. 
High attrition and low compliance limits the results of this research. The 
results suggest that the Internet-based weight control resource was not a 
cost-effective tool for weight loss in the obese sample studied.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN 58621669.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-7-206
PMCID: PMC2228294
PMID: 18093289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Pain. 2008 Mar;135(1-2):175-86. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.2007.10.026. Epub 2008
Jan  8.

Patient training in cancer pain management using integrated print and video 
materials: a multisite randomized controlled trial.

Syrjala KL(1), Abrams JR, Polissar NL, Hansberry J, Robison J, DuPen S, Stillman 
M, Fredrickson M, Rivkin S, Feldman E, Gralow J, Rieke JW, Raish RJ, Lee DJ, 
Cleeland CS, DuPen A.

Author information:
(1)Biobehavioral Sciences, Clinical Research Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer 
Research Center, D5-220, 1100 Fairview Avenue N, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. 
ksyrjala@fhcrc.org

Comment in
    Pain. 2008 Mar;135(1-2):1-2.

Standard guidelines for cancer pain treatment routinely recommend training 
patients to reduce barriers to pain relief, use medications appropriately, and 
communicate their pain-related needs. Methods are needed to reduce professional 
time required while achieving sustained intervention effectiveness. In a 
multisite, randomized controlled trial, this study tested a pain training method 
versus a nutrition control. At six oncology clinics, physicians (N=22) and 
nurses (N=23) enrolled patients (N=93) who were over 18 years of age, with 
cancer diagnoses, pain, and a life expectancy of at least 6 months. Pain 
training and control interventions were matched for materials and method. 
Patients watched a video followed by about 20 min of manual-standardized 
training with an oncology nurse focused on reviewing the printed material and 
adapted to individual concerns of patients. A follow-up phone call after 72 h 
addressed individualized treatment content and pain communication. Assessments 
at baseline, one, three, and 6 months included barriers, the Brief Pain 
Inventory, opioid use, and physician and nurse ratings of their patients' pain. 
Trained versus control patients reported reduced barriers to pain relief 
(P<.001), lower usual pain (P=.03), and greater opioid use (P<.001). No pain 
training patients reported severe pain (>6 on a 0-10 scale) at 1-month outcomes 
(P=.03). Physician and nurse ratings were closer to patients' ratings of pain 
for trained versus nutrition groups (P=.04 and <.001, respectively). Training 
efficacy was not modified by patient characteristics. Using video and print 
materials, with brief individualized training, effectively improved pain 
management over time for cancer patients of varying diagnostic and demographic 
groups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pain.2007.10.026
PMCID: PMC2396560
PMID: 18093738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2008 Jan;190(1):136-44. doi: 10.2214/AJR.07.2646.

Small and diminutive polyps detected at screening CT colonography: a decision 
analysis for referral to colonoscopy.

Pickhardt PJ(1), Hassan C, Laghi A, Zullo A, Kim DH, Iafrate F, Morini S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Wisconsin Medical School, E3/311 
Clinical Science Center, 600 Highland Ave., Madison, WI 53792-3252, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to assess the clinical and economic 
impact of colonoscopic referral for small and diminutive polyps detected at CT 
colonography (CTC) screening.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision analysis model was constructed incorporating 
the expected polyp distribution, advanced adenoma prevalence, colorectal cancer 
(CRC) risk, CTC performance, and costs related to CRC screening and treatment. 
The model conservatively assumed that CRC risk was independent of advanced 
adenoma size. The number of diminutive (< or = 5 mm), small (6-9 mm), and large 
(> or = 10 mm) CTC-detected polyps needed to be removed to detect one advanced 
adenoma or prevent one CRC over a 10-year time horizon was calculated. The 
cost-effectiveness of polypectomy was also assessed.
RESULTS: The estimated 10-year CRC risk for unresected diminutive, small, and 
large polyps was 0.08%, 0.7%, and 15.7%, respectively. The number of diminutive, 
small, and large polyps needed to be removed to avoid leaving behind one 
advanced adenoma was 562, 71, and 2.5, respectively; similarly, 2,352, 297, and 
10.7 polypectomies would be needed, respectively, to prevent one CRC over 10 
years. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of removing all diminutive and 
small CTC-detected polyps was $464,407 and $59,015 per life-year gained, 
respectively. Polypectomy for large CTC-detected polyps yielded a cost-saving of 
$151 per person screened.
CONCLUSION: For diminutive polyps detected at CTC screening, the very low 
likelihood of advanced neoplasia and the high costs associated with polypectomy 
argue against colonoscopic referral, whereas removal of large CTC-detected 
polyps is highly effective. The yield of colonoscopic referral for small polyps 
is relatively low, suggesting that CTC surveillance may be a reasonable 
management option.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.07.2646
PMID: 18094303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. JNMA J Nepal Med Assoc. 2007 Apr-Jun;46(166):66-73.

Differentials of post-partum amenorrhea: a survival analysis.

Aryal TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Economic Research, Hitotsubashi University, Tokyo Japan. 
