
Cost of preventing variceal rebleeding with transjugular intrahepatic portal 
systemic shunt and distal splenorenal shunt.

Boyer TD(1), Henderson JM, Heerey AM, Arrigain S, Konig V, Connor J, Abu-Elmagd 
K, Galloway J, Rikkers LF, Jeffers L; DIVERT Study Group.

Collaborators: Henderson JM, Barnes DS, Geisinger M, Sands M, Curtas S, Boyer 
TD, Galloway JR, Martinez E, Cai Q, Martin LG, Halcomb J, Behan S, Whitcher A, 
Jeffers L, Molina EG, Regev A, Levi JU, Livingstone AS, Guerra J Jr, Raskin J, 
Reddy K, Schiff ER, Tzakis A, Yrizarry J, Russell E, Scagnelli T, Ness J, Arcila 
A, Siebert A, Abu-Elmagd K, Chopra KB, Zajko A, Fung JJ, Bond G, Thaete F, 
Bonham C, Vargas H, Morton D, Koritsky D, Chapman H, Blaha C, Rikkers LF, Block 
K, Lucey M, Kalayoglu M, Wojtowycz M, Sproat I, Chicks D, Cooney J, Kutner M, 
Connor J, Goormastic M, Arrigain S, Heerey A, Konig V, Bick D, Boyer TD, Heerey 
A, Labrecque D, Jensen D, Karrison T, LaBerge J, Jenkins R, Robuck P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Arizona, Liver Research Institute, 
Tucson, AZ 85724, USA. tboyer@deptofmed.arizona.edu

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2008 Mar;48(3):387-90.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: We examined the cost and cost effectiveness of distal 
splenorenal shunt (DSRS) and transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt 
(TIPS) in the prevention of variceal rebleeding.
METHODS: Patients participated in a randomized controlled trial comparing DSRS 
to TIPS. Quality of life (QOL) was measured using SF-36 preceding randomization 
and yearly thereafter. Cost utility analysis was performed using TreeAge DATA. 
Costs for both in- and out-patient events and interventions were obtained for 
each patient. Costs using coated stents were estimated using different rates of 
stenosis. Incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were determined at 1, 3 
and 5 years.
RESULTS: The average yearly costs of managing patients after TIPS and DSRS over 
5 years were similar, $16,363 and $13,492, respectively. Cost of TIPS for 
surviving patients exceeded the cost of DSRS at years 3 and 5 but not 
significantly. ICERs per life saved favored TIPS at year 5 ($61,000). If coated 
rather than bare stents were used the cost effectiveness of TIPS increased 
slightly.
CONCLUSIONS: TIPS is as effective as DSRS in preventing variceal rebleeding and 
may be more cost effective. TIPS, in all aspects, is equal to DSRS in the 
prevention of variceal rebleeding in patients who are medical failures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2007.08.014
PMCID: PMC2743029
PMID: 18045724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Otol Neurotol. 2008 Feb;29(2):221-4. doi: 10.1097/mao.0b013e31815c25a1.

The cost and analysis of nonuse of cochlear implants.

Raine CH(1), Summerfield Q, Strachan DR, Martin JM, Totten C.

Author information:
(1)Yorkshire Cochlear Implant Service, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Bradford, UK. 
CHRaine@aol.com

OBJECTIVE: Analysis of the cost implications and reasons for nonuse of cochlear 
implants in an established cochlear implant unit.
STUDY DESIGN: Clinical data were analyzed retrospectively to construct a table 
of cochlear implant use over time to identify nonuse and to suggest the reasons 
for this.
SETTING: Yorkshire Cochlear Implant Service is a tertiary referral center.
PATIENTS: Three hundred forty consecutively implanted patients from 1990 to 
2005.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life table analysis showed that most children used their 
implant (p = 0.7 during 11 yr). However, 11 of 155 children and 2 of 185 adults 
became nonusers during the period of study. The 11 children stopped because of 
age at implant, educational placement, and family support. Two adults stopped 
because of psychological issues and inability to adapt to the signal. Surgical 
and implant costs have initial impact, with subsequent years' costs reflecting 
programming issues and maintenance. When considering nonuse, there are 2 
effects: first, no more costs are incurred, and second, no more years of use are 
accumulated. Thus, nonuse reduces both costs and years. Costs of gaining a year 
of use as a function of time showed that there was little financial impact from 
the 11 children nonusers. As a ratio of "no nonuse" and observed "nonuse" in 
children, the ratio is 1.07 by 13 years of implantation (7%). The adult group 
was too few to analyze.
CONCLUSION: The nonuse added 7% to the average cost. Retrospective audit 
identifies that patient selection by a multidisciplinary team is crucial to 
reducing nonuse.

DOI: 10.1097/mao.0b013e31815c25a1
PMID: 18046260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. J Nephrol. 2007 Nov-Dec;20(6):696-702.

A Mediterranean age-comorbidity prognostic index for survival in dialysis 
populations.

Fernandez Lucas M(1), Teruel JL, Zamora J, Lopez Mateos M, Rivera M, Ortuno J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Ramon y Cajal Hospital, Madrid, Spain. 
mfernandez.hrc@salud.madrid.org

BACKGROUND: The most widely used prognostic indices for estimation of survival, 
including for dialysis patients, were described by Charlson, and an adaptation 
was proposed by Hemmelgarn for dialysis patients. We present the first 
age-comorbidity prognostic index (ACPI) designed in a Mediterranean incident 
dialysis population and examine its concordance with other prognostic indices.
METHODS: Incident dialysis patients were scored in relation to age and 11 
diseases. Cox regression analysis was performed to construct multiple regression 
models, and diseases with a hazard ratio (HR) higher than 1.2 were included in 
the index. The impact of age was assessed by including it in a separate 
multivariate model. Scores were categorized in 3 levels of risk: low (0-1 
points), medium (2-4 points) and high levels (5 or more points). The probability 
of survival of each group was calculated according to the Kaplan-Meier method, 
and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were plotted to examine the 
concordance with other prognostic indices.
RESULTS: A cohort of 304 patients on hemodialysis (80%) and peritoneal dialysis 
was analyzed. Global mortality rate was 31% (93/304). The mean score was 4.41 
+/- 2.84. Diseases that received the highest scores were ischemic heart disease 
(IHD) with chronic heart failure (CHF), and malignancies of less than 5 years of 
evolution. With regard to age, the maximum score was received by patients over 
60 years old. The probability of survival at 3 years was 89%, 77% and 54% for 
low-, medium- and high-risk groups, respectively (log-rank test, 19; p=0.0001). 
The ROC curves showed similar areas for our index (0.749), the Charlson index 
(0.758) and Hemmelgarn index (0.708), but our index scored higher than Charlson 
in older patients, IHD with CHF, CHF, peripheral vascular disease and systemic 
diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Although prospective external validation of this new index is 
required, this index adequately estimates the probability of survival at 3 
years. The prognostic power of ACPI is similar to that of the Charlson index; 
however, relevant differences were found, concerning the weight of factors age, 
cardiovascular diseases and myocardial dysfunction. In end-stage renal disease 
we recommend estimating survival by indices established in incident dialysis 
patients, due to the particular comorbid conditions of this population.

PMID: 18046672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Clin Interv Aging. 2006;1(3):213-20. doi: 10.2147/ciia.2006.1.3.213.

Anti-aging therapy through fitness enhancement.

Castillo-Garzón MJ(1), Ruiz JR, Ortega FB, Gutiérrez A.

Author information:
(1)EFFECTS-262 Department of Medical Physiology, School of Medicine, University 
of Granada, Sotogrande Health Experience, Spain. mcgarzon@ugr.es

Physical exercise is proposed as a highly effective means of treating and 
preventing the main causes of morbidity and mortality--most of which are 
associated with aging--in industrialized countries. Low physical fitness is an 
important risk factor for cardiovascular and all-causes morbidity and mortality; 
indeed, it is even a predictor of these problems. When properly measured, the 
assessment of physical fitness can be a highly valuable indicator of health and 
life expectancy and, therefore, should be performed routinely in the clinical 
setting. Individually adapted training programs could be prescribed based on 
fitness assessment results and an adequate knowledge of patient lifestyle and 
daily physical activity. Such training programs would allow people to develop 
their maximum physical potential, improve their physical and mental health, and 
attenuate the negative consequences of aging.

DOI: 10.2147/ciia.2006.1.3.213
PMCID: PMC2695180
PMID: 18046873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(12):997-1006. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200725120-00003.

NICE cost-effectiveness appraisal of cholinesterase inhibitors: was the right 
question posed? Were the best tools used?

Getsios D(1), Migliaccio-Walle K, Caro JJ.

Author information:
(1)Caro Research Institute (now UnitedBiosource Corporation), Halifax, Nova 
Scotia, Canada.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(12):995-6.

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) recently issued 
updated guidance on the use of cholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease. NICE initially recommended that cholinesterase inhibitors 
no longer be used, but final guidance restricted treatment to patients with 
disease of a moderately severe stage. This decision was based largely on results 
from a heavily criticised economic evaluation that used an adaptation of the 
Assessment of Health Economics in Alzheimer's Disease (AHEAD) model. As the 
developers of the AHEAD model, we examined the appropriateness of NICE's 
economic analyses and presentation of results. We attempted to replicate NICE's 
results by modifying the original AHEAD model. Sensitivity analyses were then 
run using the modified AHEAD model to evaluate the extent of uncertainty in 
predictions. The AHEAD(NICE) analyses resulted in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for galantamine of 82,000 pound per QALY gained (year 
2003 values) from the perspective of the UK NHS and Personal Social Services. 
This was later revised to 46,000 pound per QALY, compared with < 9000 pound per 
discounted QALY gained (year 2001 values) in the original AHEAD model. Using our 
modified AHEAD with effectiveness estimates matching those of AHEAD(NICE), we 
show that NICE's choice and presentation of sensitivity analyses obscured the 
instability of their estimates. In the final NICE evaluation, the recommendation 
to delay treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors until patients have moderately 
severe disease was based on critical assumptions in the economic analyses that 
had little evidence to support them. The case of NICE's guidance on 
cholinesterase inhibitors highlights the importance of transparent and valid 
economic evaluations and the dangers of using inappropriate modelling 
technologies, basing analyses on a limited subset of the available data, and 
insufficiently reflecting the uncertainty in estimates that are intended to 
inform decision makers.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200725120-00003
PMID: 18047386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Urol Oncol. 2007 Nov-Dec;25(6):510-4. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2007.05.025.

Low risk prostate cancer in men under age 65: the case for definitive treatment.

Jang TL(1), Yossepowitch O, Bianco FJ Jr, Scardino PT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY 10021, USA.

The management of low risk prostate cancer, defined as Gleason's sum <or=6, PSA 
<10 ng/ml, and clinical stage T1c to T2a, remains controversial. There is 
substantiating evidence to suggest that a subset of early stage, low risk 
cancers can cause significant patient morbidity and death in the long term. 
Studies have shown that the natural history of untreated prostate cancer is to 
progress, particularly after 15 years of followup. The majority of men seeking 
definitive surgical treatment in contemporary series fall within 55 to 65 years 
of age and are expected to enjoy an overall life expectancy ranging from about 
15 to 30 years, placing these men at long-term risk for disease progression and 
prostate cancer-specific death if managed expectantly. During the past 2 
decades, refinements in surgical technique and in the delivery of external beam 
radiation have resulted in excellent long-term cancer control and favorable 
quality of life outcomes following treatment. Active surveillance with selective 
delayed intervention assumes that an individual's cancer will not progress 
outside the window of curability during the surveillance period, that markers 
for disease progression are reliable, and that patients are compliant. Until we 
understand better the long-term natural history of untreated prostate cancer, 
have more reliable and accurate markers to detect disease progression with 
certainty, and can risk stratify more precisely the subgroup of men with low 
risk cancers who will eventually succumb to their disease, early definitive 
therapy seems prudent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2007.05.025
PMCID: PMC2748722
PMID: 18047962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2008 Feb;104(2):379-85. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.01009.2007. Epub 2007 Nov 29.

Heritability of lumbar flexibility and the role of disc degeneration and body 
weight.

Battié MC(1), Levalahti E, Videman T, Burton K, Kaprio J.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, 
Canada. mc.battie@ualberta.ca

Spinal range of motion is evaluated in assessing patients with back problems and 
monitoring outcomes, as well as in general fitness assessments. Yet, 
determinants of the substantial interindividual variation in spinal range of 
motion are not well understood. Substantial genetic effects on global measures 
of range of motion and hypermobility have been suggested from earlier studies, 
but genetic influences specifically on spinal range of motion have not been 
previously studied. The objectives of the present study were to investigate the 
relative role of genetic and environmental influences on lumbar range of motion 
in adult men and the pathways through which genes may influence range of motion. 
Thus we conducted a classic twin study of 300 monozygotic and dizygotic male 
twin pairs with consideration of covariates, using standard statistical methods. 
All subjects underwent a clinical examination, including general 
anthropometrics, lumbar range of motion, and lumbar MRI to assess disc 
degeneration, as well as an extensive interview on environmental and behavioral 
exposures and back pain history. We found the proportion of variance in lumbar 
range of motion attributable to genetic influences (heritability estimate) to be 
47%. The extent of lumbar range of motion in flexion was predominantly 
determined by genetic influences (64%), while extension was influenced to a 
somewhat greater degree by environmental and behavioral factors. Statistically 
significant age-adjusted genetic correlations were found between lumbar 
extension and disc degeneration variables (r(a) = -0.38 to -0.43) and between 
flexion and body weight (r(a) = -0.33), suggesting two pathways through which 
genes influence lumbar range of motion.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.01009.2007
PMID: 18048587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Tob Control. 2007 Dec;16(6):394-9. doi: 10.1136/tc.2006.018986.

Lifetime medical expenditure and life expectancy lost attributable to smoking 
through major smoking related diseases in Taiwan.

Chung CW(1), Wang JD, Yu CF, Yang MC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Risk Assessment and Policy, College of Public Health, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the lifetime financial burden on Taiwan's national health 
insurance (NHI) system, life expectancy and years of life expectancy lost (YLEL) 
attributable to smoking from major smoking related diseases.
METHODS: 10 major smoking related diseases (seven cancers, stroke, acute 
myocardial infarction and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) were selected 
for this study. A survival analysis was conducted on linked cohorts from the 
National Death Registry database and the National Cancer Registry (NCR) and 
patients at the National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH). Estimation of the 
smoking attributable fraction (SAF) for the study diseases was undertaken by 
combining the relative risks of smokers against non-smokers and the prevalence 
of smoking in Taiwan. The YLEL attributable to smoking was calculated for the 
study diseases by combining the survival analysis results, the SAF and the 
annual incidences of each disease. The lifetime medical expenditure for the 
study diseases was estimated by integrating the survival curve and the mean 
annual medical costs calculated from NHI reimbursement records.
RESULTS: There were 241 280 incidents of the 10 study diseases in 2001, of which 
about 53 648 cases (22.2%) were attributable to smoking, with a total YLEL of 
191 313 at an average of about 3.6 YLEL per case. For each case, the average 
survival time was about 10.2 years. Under two different annual discount rates, 
the total lifetime financial burden on the NHI was estimated at between $291 
million ( pound 147 million; euro 216 million) (3% discount) and $336 million 
(1% discount) for all diseases attributable to smoking in 2001, accounting for 
about 24.6% of the total estimated lifetime medical expenditure for all 
incidents of the 10 study diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking places tremendous financial and health burdens upon both 
society and individuals. A much more stringent tobacco control strategy is 
needed to curb the damage from smoking.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2006.018986
PMCID: PMC2807192
PMID: 18048616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Tob Control. 2007 Dec;16(6):400-4. doi: 10.1136/tc.2007.021626.

Assessing the impact of smoking cessation services on reducing health 
inequalities in England: observational study.

Bauld L(1), Judge K, Platt S.

Author information:
(1)Social and Policy Sciences, University of Bath, UK.

OBJECTIVE: NHS stop smoking services are expected to play a key part in 
achieving the infant mortality and life expectancy health inequality targets in 
England by reducing smoking prevalence in deprived areas. This paper assesses 
the extent to which services have made a contribution to reducing inequalities 
in smoking between 2003-4 and 2005-6.
METHODS: Synthetic estimates of baseline smoking prevalence data were compared 
with national monitoring data about the numbers of smokers in receipt of 
services and the proportion who self report quitting at four weeks. The social 
distribution of service recipients and quitters was compared with estimates of 
smoking prevalence to assess impact on inequalities. Comparisons were made 
between officially designated disadvantaged areas (the Spearhead Group) and 
others.
RESULTS: Short-term cessation rates were lower in disadvantaged areas (52.6%) 
than elsewhere (57.9%) (p<0.001), but the proportion of smokers being treated 
was higher (16.7% compared with 13.4%) (p<0.001). The net effect was that a 
higher proportion of smokers in the most disadvantaged areas reported success 
(8.8%) than in more advantaged areas (7.8%) (p<0.001). Using the evidence-based 
assumption that three-quarters of short-term quitters will relapse within one 
year, the absolute and relative rate gaps in smoking prevalence between 
Spearhead areas and others are estimated to fall by small but statistically 
significant amounts from 5.2 and 1.215 (CIs: 1.216 to 1.213) to 5.0 and 1.212 
(CIs: 1.213 to 1.210) between 2003-4 and 2005-6.
CONCLUSION: NHS stop smoking services have probably made a modest contribution 
to reducing inequalities in smoking prevalence. To achieve government targets, 
however, requires both the development of more innovative cessation 
interventions for the most addicted smokers and action to ensure that other 
aspects of tobacco control policy make a larger contribution to inequality 
goals.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2007.021626
PMCID: PMC2807194
PMID: 18048617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: none.


701. Epidemiology. 2007 Nov;18(6):785-8. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e3181570d88.

The brave new world of lives sacrificed and saved, deaths attributed and 
avoided.

Brunekreef B(1), Miller BG, Hurley JF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences and Julius Center for Health Sciences 
and Primary Care, Utrecht University, Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
b.brunekreef@iras.uu.nl

Attributable risks are routinely estimated in "risk-factor" epidemiology. Often, 
these risks are interpreted as the numbers of deaths caused by (or numbers of 
lives lost by) exposure to the factor of interest. It is then often surmised 
that removal of exposure will avoid deaths and save lives. This reasoning leads 
to confusion because of 2 underlying assumptions. One is that removal of the 
exposure will reduce permanently the annual number of deaths by the number 
attributed to the factor. In reality, deaths are merely postponed and lives are 
merely prolonged; estimating the effect of exposure on life expectancy is both 
more straightforward and of greater public health interest. The other misleading 
premise is that the deaths attributed to a certain risk factor can be 
identified. While such identification may be possible for certain immediate 
external causes of death (eg, accidents), it is not usually feasible for deaths 
attributed to factors that merely contribute to development of chronic disease 
and ultimately death. For such exposures, it is more reasonable to suggest that 
they contribute to death in all who are exposed - more so in some people than in 
others. Again, it is more appropriate to calculate the average loss of life 
expectancy associated with exposure from follow-up studies; the years of life 
lost by individuals who are exposed then varies around this average. The "real 
age" concept popularized in lifestyle Web sites and television programs may be 
more useful than calculations of the numbers of attributable deaths for 
communicating individual as well as public health risks associated with common 
environmental, occupational and lifestyle risk factors.

DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e3181570d88
PMID: 18049188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2007 Mar;17(3):520-3.

Physical properties of nisin-incorporated gelatin and corn zein films and 
antimicrobial activity against Listeria monocytogenes.

Ku K(1), Song KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science & Technology, Chungnam National University, 
Daejeon 305-764, Korea.

Edible films of gelatin and corn zein were prepared by incorporating nisin to 
the film-forming solutions. Corn zein film with nisin of 12,000 IU/ml had an 
increase of 11.6 MPa in tensile strength compared with the control, whereas 
gelatin film had a slight increase with the increase of nisin concentration 
added. Water vapor permeability for both corn zein and gelatin films decreased 
with the increase of nisin concentration, thus providing a better barrier 
against water. Antimicrobial activity against Listeria monocytogenes increased 
with the increase of nisin concentration, resulting in 1.4 log cycle reduction 
for corn zein film and 0.6 log cycle reduction for gelatin film at 12,000 IU/ml. 
These results suggest that incorporation of nisin into corn zein and gelatin 
films improve the physical properties of the films as well as antimicrobial 
activity against pathogenic bacteria during storage, resulting in extension of 
the shelf life of food products by providing with antimicrobial edible packaging 
films.

PMID: 18050958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2007 Jul;17(7):1090-7.

Cloning, purification, and characterization of a new DNA polymerase from a 
hyperthermophilic archaeon, Thermococcus sp. NA1.

Kim YJ(1), Lee HS, Bae SS, Jeon JH, Lim JK, Cho Y, Nam KH, Kang SG, Kim SJ, Kwon 
ST, Lee JH.

Author information:
(1)Korea Ocean Research and Development Institute, Ansan RPO. Box 29, Seoul 
425-600, Korea.

Genomic analysis of Thermococcus sp. NA revealed the presence of a 
3,927-base-pair (bp) family B-type DNA polymerase gene, TNA1_pol. TNA1_pol, 
without its intein, was overexpressed in Escherichia coli, purified using metal 
affinity chromatography, and characterized. TNA1_pol activity was optimal at pH 
7.5 and 75 degrees C. TNA1_pol was highly thermostable, with a half-life of 3.5 
h at 100 degrees C and 12.5 h at 95 degrees C. Polymerase chain reaction 
parameters of TNA1_pol such as error-rate, processivity, and extension rate were 
measured in comparison with rTaq, Pfu, and KOD DNA polymerases. TNA1_pol 
averaged one incorrect bp every 4.45 kilobases (kb), and had a processivity of 
150 nucleotides (nt) and an extension rate of 60 bases/s. Thus, TNA1_pol has a 
much faster elongation rate than Pfu DNA polymerase with 7-fold higher fidelity 
than that of rTaq.

PMID: 18051318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2007 Aug;17(8):1284-90.

Shelf-life extension of fresh-cut iceberg lettuce (Lactuca sativa L) by 
different antimicrobial films.

Kang SC(1), Kim MJ, Choi UK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Daegu University, Kyungsan 712-714, Korea.

This study was conducted to investigate the antibacterial activity and 
shelf-life extension effect of iceberg lettuce packed in BN/PE film. The BN/PE 
film has a strong microbial suppression effect on pathogenic bacteria such as 
Escherichia coli, Salmonella enteritidis, and S. typhimurium. The number of 
psychrophiles and mesophiles during 5 days of cold storage of fresh-cut iceberg 
lettuce at 10 degrees C packaged in BN/PE film was strictly suppressed in 
comparison with other tested films (OPP, PE, and PET film). When fresh processed 
iceberg lettuce was processed and stored under the current conditions, the 
shelf-life of the product was longer than 5 days in the BN/PE film package, 
whereas the shelf-life when using the other films tested, PE, OPP and PET, was 
no longer than 3-4 days. The decay rates of the iceberg lettuce packed in the 
BN/PE film was maintained at 29.8 +/- 2.1% on the 5th day of preservation. The 
samples packed in BN/PE film maintained an excellent visual quality during the 3 
days of storage without significant differences in comparison with the initial 
visual quality. No browning was observed in the samples packed in BN/PE film for 
up to 3 days. The texture of shredded iceberg lettuce packaged in BN/PE film 
remained unchanged up to 3 days, and then a moderate decrease in texture was 
observed after 4 days of storage. In addition, the overall acceptability of 
fresh-cut iceberg lettuce packaged in BN/PE film did not change for up to 3 
days, whereas the samples packaged in the other films were inedible by 3 days of 
storage. In conclusion, the shelf-life of fresh-cut iceberg lettuce packaged in 
the BN/PE film was extended to more than 5 days at 10 degres C, whereas that in 
the other films was 2 days at 10 degrees C. Therefore, the shelf-life extension 
effect of the fresh-cut iceberg lettuce in BN/PE film packaging was very 
effective compared with the other films tested.

PMID: 18051596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2007 Dec 1;231(11):1665-75. doi:
10.2460/javma.231.11.1665.

Determining the optimal age for gonadectomy of dogs and cats.

Kustritz MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, 
University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, MN 55108, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2008 Jan 15;232(2):194.
    J Am Vet Med Assoc. 2008 Feb 1;232(3):351, author reply 351.

Elective gonadectomy of dogs and cats is one of the most common veterinary 
procedures in the United States. Increasingly, dog owners and members of the 
veterinary profession throughout the world have questioned the optimal age for 
performance of these procedures and whether these procedure should even be 
performed as elective surgeries.

DOI: 10.2460/javma.231.11.1665
PMID: 18052800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Afr Health Sci. 2007 Sep;7(3):133-5. doi: 10.5555/afhs.2007.7.3.133.

Anti-retroviral therapy induced diabetes in a Nigerian.

Bakari AG(1), Sani-Bello F, Shehu MS, Mai A, Aliyu IS, Lawal II.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine, Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital, Zaria. 
abgirei@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Anti-retroviral therapy (ART) using Highly Active Anti-retroviral 
Therapy (HAART) has led to considerable reduction in morbidity and mortality 
associated with human Immune deficiency virus (HIV) infection. This has led to 
increased life expectancy in HIV infected individuals on one hand, and side 
effects of chronic administration of these drugs on the other. One of such 
untoward effects is the association of anti-retroviral drugs especially the 
protease inhibitors (PI's) with metabolic derangements such as dyslipidaemia, 
lipodystrophy, insulin resistance and rarely Diabetes mellitus. Although there 
is extensive literature on this dysmetabolic syndrome in the Western World; 
there is to our knowledge no previous report from Nigeria.
OBJECTIVE: to report a case of diabetes mellitus following the initiation of 
anti-retroviral therapy.
METHODS: a case report of diabetes mellitus induced by anti-retroviral therapy 
in a 48 year old Nigerian male.
CONCLUSION: Awareness and high index of suspicion is required to identify the 
metabolic complications of ART.

DOI: 10.5555/afhs.2007.7.3.133
PMCID: PMC2269721
PMID: 18052865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Dec;10(4):647; author reply 647. doi: 
10.1089/rej.2007.0635.

Comment on: The case for prioritizing research on late-onset life-extension 
interventions in mammals.

Spindler S.

Comment on
    Rejuvenation Res. 2007 Sep;10(3):257-9.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0635
PMID: 18052876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Arch Bronconeumol. 2007 Dec;43(12):680-91. doi:
10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60155-4.

[Prognostic factors in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Soler Cataluña JJ(1), Martínez García MA.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Neumología, Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital General de 
Requena, Requena, Valencia, Spain. jjsoler@telefonica.net

Efforts over the last few decades to extend the life expectancy of patients with 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) have faced difficulties, but our 
perception of the problems involved is now starting to change. Improvements in 
our understanding of the pathogenic and etiological mechanisms of the disease, 
analysis of the causes of death, and, in particular, identification of the 
relevant prognostic factors have resulted in firm advances that allow us to face 
the future with greater optimism. The aim of this review is to provide a 
detailed analysis of the chief prognostic factors described in the literature 
and to evaluate the therapeutic implications of these findings. The traditional 
view maintained that the accelerated decline in forced expiratory volume in 1 
second over time was one of the best predictors of mortality, and this belief 
has for decades determined the strategies used to treat COPD. However, we now 
know COPD to be a multidimensional disease and are aware that some of its other 
manifestations have important prognostic implications. Lung hyperinflation, 
exercise tolerance, exacerbations, comorbidity, and systemic manifestations-in 
particular those related to the cardiovascular system-have all been shown in 
recent years to be strong predictors of mortality. The inflammatory substrate, 
whether local or systemic, merits special consideration because it appears to be 
the cause of many of these manifestations. These newly identified prognostic 
factors are of great interest in that it may be possible to moderate their 
influence, a circumstance that highlights the need to change the traditional 
treatment approach and devise therapeutic interventions oriented towards 
reversing the effects of these factors.

DOI: 10.1016/s1579-2129(07)60155-4
PMID: 18053546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Cell Metab. 2007 Dec;6(6):427-9. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.11.008.

Mitochondria and aging: dilution is the solution.

Durieux J(1), Dillin A.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Cell Biology Laboratory, The Salk Institute for Biological 
Studies, 10010 North Torrey Pines Road, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Comment on
    PLoS Biol. 2007 Oct 2;5(10):e259.

Metabolic component depletion in model systems results in life-span extension, 
which has been difficult to reconcile with human metabolic pathologies. 
Recently, Rea et al. (2007) have shown that mitochondrial electron transport 
chain RNAi phenotypes in the worm C. elegans are dose dependent, providing an 
alternative view of mitochondrial function in longevity and metabolic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.11.008
PMID: 18054312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Atherosclerosis. 2008 May;198(1):77-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2007.10.012. Epub 2007 Dec 3.

Inhibition of intestinal absorption of cholesterol by ezetimibe or bile acids by 
SC-435 alters lipoprotein metabolism and extends the lifespan of SR-BI/apoE 
double knockout mice.

Braun A(1), Yesilaltay A, Acton S, Broschat KO, Krul ES, Napawan N, Stagliano N, 
Krieger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Building 
68-483, 77 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

SR-BI/apoE double knockout (dKO) mice exhibit many features of human coronary 
heart disease (CHD), including hypercholesterolemia, occlusive coronary 
atherosclerosis, cardiac hypertrophy, myocardial infarctions, cardiac 
dysfunction and premature death. Ezetimibe is a FDA-approved, intestinal 
cholesterol absorption inhibitor that lowers plasma LDL cholesterol in humans 
and animals and inhibits aortic root atherosclerosis in apoE KO mice, but has 
not been proven to reduce CHD. Three-week-ezetimibe treatment of dKO mice 
(0.005% (w/w) in standard chow administered from weaning) resulted in a 35% 
decrease in cholesterol in IDL/LDL-size lipoproteins, but not in VLDL- and 
HDL-size lipoproteins. Ezetimibe treatment significantly reduced aortic root 
(57%) and coronary arterial (68%) atherosclerosis, cardiomegaly (24%) and 
cardiac fibrosis (57%), and prolonged the lives of the mice (27%). This 
represents the first demonstration of beneficial effects of ezetimibe treatment 
on CHD. The dKO mice were similarly treated with SC-435 (0.01% (w/w)), an apical 
sodium codependent bile acid transporter (ASBT) inhibitor, that blocks 
intestinal absorption of bile acids, lowers plasma cholesterol in animals, and 
reduces aortic root atherosclerosis in apoE KO mice. The effects of SC-435 
treatment were similar to those of ezetimibe: 37% decrease in ILD/LDL-size 
lipoprotein cholesterol and 57% prolongation in median lifespan. Thus, 
inhibition of intestinal absorption of either cholesterol (ezetimibe) or bile 
acids (SC-435) significantly reduced plasma IDL/LDL-size lipoprotein cholesterol 
levels and improved survival of SR-BI/apoE dKO mice. The SR-BI/apoE dKO murine 
model of atherosclerotic occlusive, arterial CHD appears to provide a useful 
system to evaluate compounds that modulate cholesterol homeostasis and 
atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2007.10.012
PMCID: PMC2364648
PMID: 18054357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Vaccine. 2007 Dec 21;26(1):128-39. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.10.056. Epub
2007  Nov 20.

Cost-effectiveness of quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination in 
Mexico: a transmission dynamic model-based evaluation.

Insinga RP(1), Dasbach EJ, Elbasha EH, Puig A, Reynales-Shigematsu LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economic Statistics UG1C-60, Merck Research 
Laboratories, PO Box 1000, North Wales, PA 19454-1099, USA. 
ralph_insinga@merck.com

We examined the potential health outcomes and cost-effectiveness of quadrivalent 
human papillomavirus (HPV) 6/11/16/18 vaccination strategies in the Mexican 
population using a multi-HPV type dynamic transmission model. Assuming similar 
cervical screening practices, with or without vaccination, we examined the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of vaccination strategies for 12 year-old 
females, with or without male vaccination, and temporary age 12-24 catch-up 
vaccination for females or both sexes. The most effective strategy therein was 
vaccination of 12-year-olds, plus a temporary 12-24-year-old catch-up program 
covering both sexes; whereby HPV 6/11/16/18-related cervical cancer, high-grade 
cervical precancer, and genital wart incidence was reduced by 84-98% during year 
50 following vaccine introduction. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios in the 
primary analyses ranged from approximately 3000 dollars (U.S.) per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for female vaccination strategies to 
approximately 16000 dollars /QALY for adding male vaccination with catch-up.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.10.056
PMID: 18055075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Biomed Pharmacother. 2007 Dec;61(10):640-58. doi:
10.1016/j.biopha.2007.10.006.  Epub 2007 Nov 20.

Lifestyle-related factors and environmental agents causing cancer: an overview.

Irigaray P(1), Newby JA, Clapp R, Hardell L, Howard V, Montagnier L, Epstein S, 
Belpomme D.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Center, Association for Research and Treatments Against 
Cancer (ARTAC), 57-59 Rue de la Convention, 75015 Paris, France. 
philippei.artac@gmail.com

The increasing incidence of a variety of cancers after the Second World War 
confronts scientists with the question of their origin. In Western countries, 
expansion and ageing of the population as well as progress in cancer detection 
using new diagnostic and screening tests cannot fully account for the observed 
growing incidence of cancer. Our hypothesis is that environmental factors play a 
more important role in cancer genesis than it is usually agreed. (1) Over the 
last 2-3 decades, alcohol consumption and tobacco smoking in men have 
significantly decreased in Western Europe and North America. (2) Obesity is 
increasing in many countries, but the growing incidence of cancer also concerns 
cancers not related to obesity nor to other known lifestyle-related factors. (3) 
There is evidence that the environment has changed over the time period 
preceding the recent rise in cancer incidence, and that this change, still 
continuing, included the accumulation of many new carcinogenic factors in the 
environment. (4) Genetic susceptibility to cancer due to genetic polymorphism 
cannot have changed over one generation and actually favours the role of 
exogenous factors through gene-environment interactions. (5) Age is not the 
unique factor to be considered since the rising incidence of cancers is seen 
across all age categories, including children, and adolescents. (6) The fetus is 
specifically vulnerable to exogenous factors. A fetal exposure during a critical 
time window may explain why current epidemiological studies may still be 
negative in adults. We therefore propose that the involuntary exposure to many 
carcinogens in the environment, including microorganisms (viruses, bacteria and 
parasites), radiations (radioactivity, UV and pulsed electromagnetic fields) and 
many xenochemicals, may account for the recent growing incidence of cancer and 
therefore that the risk attributable to environmental carcinogen may be far 
higher than it is usually agreed. Of major concern are: outdoor air pollution by 
carbon particles associated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons; indoor air 
pollution by environmental tobacco smoke, formaldehyde and volatile organic 
compounds such as benzene and 1,3 butadiene, which may particularly affect 
children and food contamination by food additives and by carcinogenic 
contaminants such as nitrates, pesticides, dioxins and other organochlorines. In 
addition, carcinogenic metals and metalloids, pharmaceutical medicines and some 
ingredients and contaminants in cosmetics may be involved. Although the risk 
fraction attributable to environmental factors is still unknown, this long list 
of carcinogenic and especially mutagenic factors supports our working hypothesis 
according to which numerous cancers may in fact be caused by the recent 
modification of our environment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopha.2007.10.006
PMID: 18055160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Int J Hematol. 2007 Nov;86(4):315-24. doi: 10.1532/IJH97.07093.

Activation of FKHRL1 plays an important role in protecting erythroid cells from 
erythropoietin deprivation-induced apoptosis in a human erythropoietin-dependent 
leukemia cell line, UT-7/EPO.

Uchida M(1), Kirito K, Endo H, Ozawa K, Komatsu N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Jichi Medical University, 
Tochigi, Japan.

FKHRL1 is one of the human homologues of DAF-16, which is concerned with 
longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans. Previously, we demonstrated that FKHRL1 
functions downstream of Akt in erythropoietin (EPO) signaling and that it is 
directly phosphorylated by activated Akt. Because phosphorylated FKHRL1 loses 
its transcriptional activity and translocates into the cytoplasm, FKHRL1 appears 
to be nonfunctional in the presence of EPO. Conversely, EPO deprivation leads to 
FKHRL1 dephosphorylation and its translocation into the nucleus, suggesting that 
FKHRL1 becomes active as a transcription factor in the absence of EPO. On the 
basis of these findings, we hypothesized, by analogy with C elegans, that 
erythroid cells possess self-defense machinery against life-threatening 
surroundings. We prepared a dominant-negative mutant of FKHRL1 (FKHRL1-DN) 
lacking the transactivation domain and prepared FKHRL1 small interfering RNA 
(siRNA), and we used constructs to transfect a human EPO-dependent cell line, 
UT-7/EPO. In the parental cells, 24-hour EPO deprivation induced transient cell 
cycle arrest without apoptosis. On the other hand, stable transfectants 
expressing FKHRL1-DN or FKHRL1 siRNA underwent rapid apoptosis after EPO 
deprivation in the UT-7/EPO cells. In conclusion, FKHRL1 activation plays an 
important role in the extension of survival of erythroid cells after EPO 
deprivation. This phenomenon appears to correspond to dauer formation in C 
elegans. Thus, the mechanism of lifespan extension may be broadly conserved from 
C elegans to humans.

DOI: 10.1532/IJH97.07093
PMID: 18055337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Hormones (Athens). 2007 Oct-Dec;6(4):269-78. doi:
10.14310/horm.2002.1111023.

Thyroid cancer in childhood: management strategy, including dosimetry and 
long-term results.

Luster M(1), Lassmann M, Freudenberg LS, Reiners C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Würzburg, Germany. 
luster@nuklearmedizin.uni-wuerzburg.de

Thyroid cancer, although very rare in childhood, represents the most common 
pediatric endocrine neoplasia. The low incidence and the resulting limited 
availability of prospective, randomized trials lead to a lack of evidence- based 
recommendations for treatment strategies. Total thyroidectomy and 
lymphadenectomy, when indicated, followed by ablative radioiodine treatment, are 
considered the cornerstones of initial patient management which decrease the 
risk of relapse. On the other hand, less aggressive treatment modalities should 
also be aimed at due to the high life expectancy of this special patient group 
and the potential impairment of the quality of life. These considerations have 
led to individualized "tailored" therapeutic approaches based on prior risk 
stratification. This article mainly deals with novel nuclear medicine concepts 
for dosing regimens in radioiodine therapy.

DOI: 10.14310/horm.2002.1111023
PMID: 18055418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Tree Physiol. 2008 Feb;28(2):311-20. doi: 10.1093/treephys/28.2.311.

Climatic control of bud burst in young seedlings of nine provenances of Norway 
spruce.

Søgaard G(1), Johnsen O, Nilsen J, Junttila O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Natural Resource Management, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, P.O. Box 5003, NO-1432 As, Norway. gunnhild.sogaard@umb.no

Detailed knowledge of temperature effects on the timing of dormancy development 
and bud burst will help evaluate the impacts of climate change on forest trees. 
We tested the effects of temperature applied during short-day treatment, 
duration of short-day treatment, duration of chilling and light regime applied 
during forcing on the timing of bud burst in 1- and 2-year-old seedlings of nine 
provenances of Norway spruce (Picea abies (L.) Karst.). High temperature during 
dormancy induction, little or no chilling and low temperature during forcing all 
delayed dormancy release but did not prevent bud burst or growth onset provided 
the seedlings were forced under long-day conditions. Without chilling, bud burst 
occurred in about 20% of seedlings kept in short days at 12 degrees C, 
indicating that young Norway spruce seedlings do not exhibit true bud dormancy. 
Chilling hastened bud burst and removed the long photoperiod requirement, but 
the effect of high temperature applied during dormancy induction was observed 
even after prolonged chilling. Extension of the short-day treatment from 4 to 8 
or 12 weeks hastened bud burst. The effect of treatments applied during dormancy 
development was larger than that of provenance; in some cases no provenance 
effect was detected, but in 1-year-old seedlings, time to bud burst decreased 
linearly with increasing latitude of origin. Differences among provenances were 
complicated by different responses of some origins to light conditions under 
long-day forcing. In conclusion, timing of bud burst in Norway spruce seedlings 
is significantly affected by temperature during bud set, and these effects are 
modified by chilling and environmental conditions during forcing.

DOI: 10.1093/treephys/28.2.311
PMID: 18055441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Clin Med Res. 2007 Oct;5(3):184-92. doi: 10.3121/cmr.2007.738.

Celiac disease and autoimmune thyroid disease.

Ch'ng CL(1), Jones MK, Kingham JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Singleton Hospital, Swansea, United Kingdom.

Celiac disease (CD) or gluten sensitive enteropathy is relatively common in 
western populations with prevalence around 1%. With the recent availability of 
sensitive and specific serological testing, many patients who are either 
asymptomatic or have subtle symptoms can be shown to have CD. Patients with CD 
have modest increases in risks of malignancy and mortality compared to controls. 
The mortality among CD patients who comply poorly with a gluten-free diet is 
greater than in compliant patients. The pattern of presentation of CD has 
altered over the past three decades. Many cases are now detected in adulthood 
during investigation of problems as diverse as anemia, osteoporosis, autoimmune 
disorders, unexplained neurological syndromes, infertility and chronic 
hypertransaminasemia of uncertain cause. Among autoimmune disorders, increased 
prevalence of CD has been found in patients with autoimmune thyroid disease, 
type 1 diabetes mellitus, autoimmune liver diseases and inflammatory bowel 
disease. Prevalence of CD was noted to be 1% to 19% in patients with type 1 
diabetes mellitus, 2% to 5% in autoimmune thyroid disorders and 3% to 7% in 
primary biliary cirrhosis in prospective studies. Conversely, there is also an 
increased prevalence of immune based disorders among patients with CD. The 
pathogenesis of co-existent autoimmune thyroid disease and CD is not known, but 
these conditions share similar HLA haplotypes and are associated with the gene 
encoding cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen-4. Screening high risk 
patients for CD, such as those with autoimmune diseases, is a reasonable 
strategy given the increased prevalence. Treatment of CD with a gluten-free diet 
should reduce the recognized complications of this disease and provide benefits 
in both general health and perhaps life expectancy. It also improves glycemic 
control in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus and enhances the absorption of 
medications for associated hypothyroidism and osteoporosis. It probably does not 
change the natural history of associated autoimmune disorders.

DOI: 10.3121/cmr.2007.738
PMCID: PMC2111403
PMID: 18056028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Biostatistics. 2008 Apr;9(2):216-33. doi: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxm037. Epub
 2007 Dec 3.

Robust combination of multiple diagnostic tests for classifying censored event 
times.

Cai T(1), Cheng S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
tcai@hsph.harvard.edu

Recent advancement in technology promises to yield a multitude of tests for 
disease diagnosis and prognosis. When there are multiple sources of information 
available, it is often of interest to construct a composite score that can 
provide better classification accuracy than any individual measurement. In this 
paper, we consider robust procedures for optimally combining tests when test 
results are measured prior to disease onset and disease status evolves over 
time. To account for censoring of disease onset time, the most commonly used 
approach to combining tests to detect subsequent disease status is to fit a 
proportional hazards model (Cox, 1972) and use the estimated risk score. 
However, simulation studies suggested that such a risk score may have poor 
accuracy when the proportional hazards assumption fails. We propose the use of a 
nonparametric transformation model (Han, 1987) as a working model to derive an 
optimal composite score with theoretical justification. We demonstrate that the 
proposed score is the optimal score when the model holds and is optimal "on 
average" among linear scores even if the model fails. Time-dependent 
sensitivity, specificity, and receiver operating characteristic curve functions 
are used to quantify the accuracy of the resulting composite score. We provide 
consistent and asymptotically Gaussian estimators of these accuracy measures. A 
simple model-free resampling procedure is proposed to obtain all consistent 
variance estimators. We illustrate the new proposals with simulation studies and 
an analysis of a breast cancer gene expression data set.

DOI: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxm037
PMID: 18056687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2007 Nov;1119:260-73. doi: 10.1196/annals.1404.000.

Modulating longevity in Drosophila by over- and underexpression of 
glutamate-cysteine ligase.

Luchak JM(1), Prabhudesai L, Sohal RS, Radyuk SN, Orr WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Southern Methodist University, 6501 
Airline Dr., Dallas, TX 75275, USA.

A notable extension of life span (up to 50%) was achieved in Drosophila 
melanogaster when the catalytic subunit of glutamate-cysteine ligase (GCLc) was 
overexpressed in neuronal tissue, while a moderate increase (up to 24%) was 
observed when the modulatory subunit of GCL (GCLm) was overexpressed globally. 
We sought to identify specific tissue domains that are particularly sensitive to 
the beneficial effects of GCLc overexpression. Overexpression of GCLc using the 
mushroom body driver (OK107-GAL4) had a small but significant beneficial effect 
on longevity (approximately 12%) while overexpression in serotonergic 
(MZ360-GAL4) neurons or dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons (Ddc-GAL4) had 
small, nonsignificant effects on longevity. A significant beneficial effect 
(12-13%) was also observed using the C23-GAL4 transverse muscle driver. Finally, 
a low-level global driver (armadillo) was shown to increase life span 
significantly (15%). A series of mutant and knockdown studies were also carried 
out. Reduction of GCLm by > 95% had no discernable effect on longevity or 
resistance to oxidative stress. In contrast, knockdown of GCLc by 30-70% using 
an RNAi-hairpin strategy had a significant effect, resulting in greater 
sensitivity to H(2)O(2) and reduced survivorship under normal conditions varying 
from a 50% reduction in median life span to lethality. A GCLc null allele was 
identified and shown to be recessive lethal. Overall, this study demonstrates 
that the longevity effects of GCLc are dependent on dosage and that there are 
specific tissues (mushroom bodies, motor neurons, and transverse muscle cells) 
particularly sensitive to the benefits of GCLc overexpression.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1404.000
