
867. Crit Care Med. 2008 Feb;36(2):462-70. doi: 10.1097/01.CCM.0B013E3181611F968.

Influence of critical illness on physicians' prognoses for underlying disease: a 
randomized study using simulated cases.

Quartin AA(1), Calonge RO, Schein RM, Crandall LA.

Author information:
(1)Miami Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Miami, FL, USA. aquartin@med.miami.edu

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2008 Feb;36(2):633-4.

OBJECTIVE: During critical illness, physicians often provide estimates of the 
severity of underlying disease to aid patients and families when formulating 
care directives. We sought to determine whether factors such as the superimposed 
acute illness, the prognoses of other patients cared for by the same physician, 
or the phrasing of inquiry influence these assessments of underlying disease.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND SUBJECTS: Internal medicine attending and resident 
physicians participated in a computerized, Web-available survey that described 
two case vignettes, one with cardiomyopathy and the other with lung cancer as 
underlying diseases. Using random assignment, each respondent was presented one 
case as having septic shock, and the other as an uneventful clinic visit. 
Respondents were explicitly asked to ignore the context and to assess the 
severity of the underlying disease alone to predict survival time and quality of 
life. The order in which subjects encountered the cases and phrasing of the 
survival question also were varied through randomization.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mortality predictions for the cardiomyopathy case 
at 5 yrs were sensitive to both context (predicted survival, 39% +/- 23% when 
presented as septic vs. 52% +/- 24% when presented as a clinic patient; p < 
.001) and to whether a lung cancer case was presented before it (39% +/- 23% 
when presented after lung cancer vs. 52% +/- 24% when presented before; p < 
.001). These effects were independent and led to mean predicted 5-yr survival 
probabilities ranging from 31% to 59%. Predicted 1-yr survival from lung cancer 
was sensitive to phrasing (p < .05) but not to context. Quality of life 
predictions were also sensitive to context and case order.
CONCLUSIONS: Physician appraisal of underlying disease severity is potentially 
vulnerable to a number of biases that may be relevant in the critical care 
setting. These biases appear to vary with the nature of the underlying disease.

DOI: 10.1097/01.CCM.0B013E3181611F968
PMID: 18176316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. J Toxicol Environ Health B Crit Rev. 2008 Jan;11(1):16-31. doi: 
10.1080/10937400701600321.

Mode of action frameworks: a critical analysis.

Guyton KZ(1), Barone S Jr, Brown RC, Euling SY, Jinot J, Makris S.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Environmental Assessment, Office of Research and 
Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC, USA. 
guyton.kate@epa.gov

Comment in
    J Toxicol Environ Health B Crit Rev. 2008 Oct;11(8):681-3; author reply 
684-5.

Mode of action (MOA) information is increasingly being applied in human health 
risk assessment. The MOA can inform issues such as the relevance of observed 
effects in laboratory animals to humans, and the variability of response within 
the human population. Several collaborative groups have developed frameworks for 
analyzing and utilizing MOA information in human health risk assessment of 
environmental carcinogens and toxins, including the International Programme on 
Chemical Safety, International Life Sciences Institute, and U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency. With the goal of identifying gaps and opportunities for 
progress, we critically evaluate several of these MOA frameworks. Despite 
continued improvement in incorporating biological data in human health risk 
assessment, several notable challenges remain. These include articulation of the 
significant role of scientific judgment in establishing an MOA and its relevance 
to humans. In addition, binary (yes/no) decisions can inappropriately exclude 
consideration of data that may nonetheless be informative to the overall 
assessment of risk. Indeed, the frameworks lack a broad consideration of known 
causes of human disease and the potential for chemical effects to act additively 
with these as well as endogenous background processes. No integrated analysis of 
the impact of multiple MOAs over the same dose range, or of varying MOAs at 
different life stages, is included. Separate consideration of each MOA and 
outcome limits understanding of how multiple metabolites, modes, and toxicity 
pathways contribute to the toxicological profile of the chemical. An extension 
of the analyses across outcomes with common modes is also needed.

DOI: 10.1080/10937400701600321
PMID: 18176885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2008 Mar;19(3):259-64. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01466.x. Epub 2008 Jan 3.

Dental implants placed in previously failed sites: survival rate and factors 
affecting the outcome.

Machtei EE(1), Mahler D, Oettinger-Barak O, Zuabi O, Horwitz J.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Periodontology, Department of Oral and Dental Medicine, Rambam Health 
Care Campus, Haifa, Israel. machtei@rambam.health.gov.il

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the survival rate 
of dental implants in previously failed implant sites. In addition, factors that 
might affect the outcome of these redo procedures were also explored.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Patients that had failed dental implants, which were 
replaced with the same implant type at the same site, were included. Data on the 
failed implants were collected. The same parameters, along with the interval 
between retrieval and re-implantation, were collected for the second set of 
implants. Descriptive statistics were used to describe the patients and 
implants. Life table analysis of these implants was tabulated for both implant 
sets. The effect of systemic, environmental and local factors on the survival of 
the redo dental implants was evaluated.
RESULTS: Fifty-six patients with a total of 79 redo implants were included in 
this study. Implants were followed for 7-78 months (mean 29.9+/-2). Thirteen 
implants failed that resulted in an overall survival rate of 83.5%. Successful 
implants had greater diameter (4.05+/-0.52 mm) than failed implants (3.72+/-0.56 
mm); however, these differences were only marginal (P=0.06). Conversely, smoking 
habits, implants length and location, mode of placement and spontaneous exposure 
did not have a significant effect on the outcome of this procedure.
CONCLUSION: Redo of dental implants has a lesser survival rate compared with 
previous reports for implants in pristine sites. These results were not 
associated with most implant- and/or patient-related factors. Thus, a possible 
negative effect that is associated with the specific implant's site might 
account for this phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01466.x
PMID: 18177430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. J Clin Epidemiol. 2008 Feb;61(2):142-50. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2007.05.001.  Epub 2007 Sep 24.

A new Inequity-in-Health Index based on Millennium Development Goals: 
methodology and validation.

Eslava-Schmalbach J(1), Alfonso H, Oliveros H, Gaitán H, Agudelo C.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, National University of Colombia, Bogotá, Colombia. 
jheslavas@unal.edu.co

OBJECTIVES: Developing a new Inequity-in-Health Index (IHI) assuming inequity as 
"inequality of health outcomes," based on Millennium Development Goals (MDG).
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Ecological study. Countries from around the world were 
included from United Nations, the World Bank, and a nonprofit organization's 
databases. The reliability and validity of this bidimensional IHI was tested. 
Main factor analysis (promax rotation) and main component analysis were used.
RESULTS: Six variables were used for constructing the IHI was constructed with 
six variables: underweight children, child mortality, death from malaria in 
children aged 0-4, death from malaria at all ages, births attended by skilled 
health personnel, and immunization against measles. The IHI had high internal 
consistency (Cronbach's alpha=0.8504), was reliable (Spearman>0.9, P=0.0000), 
and had 0.3033pi around the world (range: 0pi-0.5984pi). IHI had high 
correlation with the human development and poverty indexes, health gap 
indicator, life expectancy at birth, probability of dying before 40 years of 
age, and Gini coefficients (Spearman>0.7, P=0.0000). IHI discriminated countries 
by income, region, indebtedness, and corruption level (Kruskal Wallis, P<0.01). 
IHI had sensitivity to change (P=0.0000).
CONCLUSION: IHI is a bidimensional, valid and reliable index to monitor MDG. A 
new reliable methodology for developing bidimensional indicators is shown, which 
could be used for constructing other ones with their corresponding scores and 
graphs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2007.05.001
PMID: 18177787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Theor Popul Biol. 2008 Mar;73(2):171-80. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2007.11.005.
Epub  2007 Nov 28.

Explaining the optimality of U-shaped age-specific mortality.

Chu CY(1), Chien HK, Lee RD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Economics, Academia Sinica 128 Academia Road Sec. 2, Nankang, 
Taipei, Taiwan. cyruschu@gate.sinica.edu.tw

Mortality is U-shaped with age for many species, declining from birth to sexual 
maturity, then rising in adulthood, sometimes with postreproductive survival. We 
show analytically why the optimal life history of a species with determinate 
growth is likely to have this shape. An organism allocates energy among somatic 
growth, fertility and maintenance/survival at each age. Adults may transfer 
energy to juveniles, who can then use more energy than they produce. Optimal 
juvenile mortality declines from birth to maturity, either to protect the 
increasingly valuable cumulative investments by adults in juveniles or to 
exploit the compounding effects of early investment in somatic growth, since 
early growth raises subsequent energy production, which in turn supports further 
growth. Optimal adult mortality rises after maturity as expected future 
reproduction declines as in Hamilton, but intergenerational transfers lead to 
postreproductive survival as in Lee. Here the Hamilton and transfer effects are 
divided by probabilities of survival in contrast to the fitness impact measures, 
which are relevant for mutation-selection balance. If energetic efficiency rises 
strongly with adult experience, then adult mortality could initially be flat or 
declining.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2007.11.005
PMCID: PMC2291574
PMID: 18178233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Health Econ. 2008 May;27(3):706-17. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.10.002.
Epub  2007 Nov 29.

Is risk attitude outcome specific within the health domain?

van der Pol M(1), Ruggeri M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, 
Polwarth Building, Aberdeen AB 25 2ZD, United Kingdom. m.vanderpol@abdn.ac.uk

The aim of this study is to examine whether individuals' risk attitude for life 
years differ from their risk attitude for quality of life. The study also 
investigates two different framing effects, an order and sequence effect, and 
the interaction between risk attitude and time preferences. The results showed 
that individuals tended to be risk averse with respect to the gamble involving 
risk of immediate death and risk seeking with respect to the other health 
gambles. Varying the order of the questions or the sequence of full health and 
ill-health did not seem to systematically bias the estimates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.10.002
PMID: 18178278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. J Med Genet. 2008 May;45(5):275-83. doi: 10.1136/jmg.2007.055277. Epub 2008
Jan  4.

Genome-wide linkage scan for maximum and length-dependent knee muscle strength 
in young men: significant evidence for linkage at chromosome 14q24.3.

De Mars G(1), Windelinckx A, Huygens W, Peeters MW, Beunen GP, Aerssens J, 
Vlietinck R, Thomis MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Kinesiology, Research Center for Exercise and 
Health, Faculty of Kinesiology and Rehabilitation Sciences, Katholieke 
Universiteit Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Maintenance of high muscular fitness is positively related to bone 
health, functionality in daily life and increasing insulin sensitivity, and 
negatively related to falls and fractures, morbidity and mortality. Heritability 
of muscle strength phenotypes ranges between 31% and 95%, but little is known 
about the identity of the genes underlying this complex trait. As a first 
attempt, this genome-wide linkage study aimed to identify chromosomal regions 
linked to muscle and bone cross-sectional area, isometric knee flexion and 
extension torque, and torque-length relationship for knee flexors and extensors.
METHODS: In total, 283 informative male siblings (17-36 years old), belonging to 
105 families, were used to conduct a genome-wide SNP-based multipoint linkage 
analysis.
RESULTS: The strongest evidence for linkage was found for the torque-length 
relationship of the knee flexors at 14q24.3 (LOD = 4.09; p<10(-5)). Suggestive 
evidence for linkage was found at 14q32.2 (LOD = 3.00; P = 0.005) for muscle and 
bone cross-sectional area, at 2p24.2 (LOD = 2.57; p = 0.01) for isometric knee 
torque at 30 degrees flexion, at 1q21.3, 2p23.3 and 18q11.2 (LOD = 2.33, 2.69 
and 2.21; p<10(-4) for all) for the torque-length relationship of the knee 
extensors and at 18p11.31 (LOD = 2.39; p = 0.0004) for muscle-mass adjusted 
isometric knee extension torque.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that many small contributing genes rather than a few 
important genes are involved in causing variation in different underlying 
phenotypes of muscle strength. Furthermore, some overlap in promising genomic 
regions were identified among different strength phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2007.055277
PMCID: PMC2564859
PMID: 18178634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


874. Value Health. 2008 May-Jun;11(3):389-99. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00281.x.  Epub 2007 Dec 18.

Cost-utility analysis of rimonabant in the treatment of obesity.

Hampp C(1), Hartzema AG, Kauf TL.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Health Care Administration, College of Pharmacy, University of 
Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610-0496, USA. champp@ufl.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) of rimonabant 
20 mg/day in the treatment of obesity from a third-party payer's perspective.
METHODS: Pooled data from three randomized clinical trials were used to develop 
a decision tree with five treatment alternatives: 1- and 2-year treatment with 
rimonabant, 2-year placebo, 1-year rimonabant followed by 1-year placebo, and no 
treatment. All alternatives, except no treatment, were accompanied by lifestyle 
interventions. Treatment benefits included gains in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) and reduced incidence of type-2 diabetes mellitus and coronary heart 
disease (CHD). Drug acquisition cost was based on the average wholesale price of 
a comparator drug minus 15%. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
conducted to assess the stability of the base-case results.
RESULTS: One-year rimonabant and 1-year rimonabant followed by placebo were 
extensively dominated. Rimonabant for 2 years showed an average weight reduction 
of 8.49 kg, a body mass index reduction of 2.98 kg/m(2) and reduced waist 
circumference by 8.24 cm (placebo: 3.55 kg, 1.22 kg/m(2), 4.18 cm). Two-year 
rimonabant was associated with a relative reduction in the 5-year incidence of 
CHD by 7.15% and of diabetes by 9.28%. Incremental benefits (costs) were 0.0984 
QALYs ($5209) compared to no treatment and 0.0581 QALYs ($4182) compared to 
placebo, producing ICURs of $52,936/QALY (95% confidence interval $39K-$69K) and 
$71,973/QALY ($51K-$98K), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Rimonabant combined with lifestyle interventions has the potential 
to decrease the rate of obesity-related comorbidities and improve health-related 
quality of life, albeit at considerable cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00281.x
PMID: 18179661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Value Health. 2008 Jul-Aug;11(4):549-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00280.x.  Epub 2007 Dec 18.

A randomized controlled trial of the cost-utility of second-generation 
antipsychotics in people with psychosis and eligible for clozapine.

Davies LM(1), Barnes TR, Jones PB, Lewis S, Gaughran F, Hayhurst K, Markwick A, 
Lloyd H; CUTLASS Team.

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester, Manchester, Greater Manchester, UK. 
Linda.davies@manchester.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether clozapine is likely to be more cost-effective than 
other second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs) in people with schizophrenia.
METHODS: An integrated clinical and economic multicenter, rater-blind, 
randomized controlled trial (RCT) compared clozapine to the class of other SGAs, 
using the perspectives of the National Health Service, social support services, 
and patients. The practice setting was secondary and primary care in the United 
Kingdom; patients were followed for 1 year. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs), net benefit statistics, and cost acceptability curves were 
estimated.
RESULTS: The ICER for clozapine was 33,240 pound per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) (range 23,000-70,000 pound for the sensitivity analyses). The proportion 
of simulations when clozapine was more cost-effective than other SGAs reached 
50% if decision-makers are prepared to pay 30,000 pound to 35,000 pound per 
QALY. This is at the top of the range of acceptable willingness-to-pay values 
per QALY implied by decisions taken by the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE).
CONCLUSIONS: This study adds to a limited body of evidence comparing clozapine 
to other SGAs and is the first economic and clinical RCT to compare clozapine to 
the class of other SGAs using the lower cost of generic clozapine and a 
pragmatic trial design. Policy decisions by the NICE suggest that additional 
reasons would be needed to accept clozapine as effective and efficient if it had 
a high probability of having ICERs more than 35,000 pound per QALY. The results 
and limitations of the analysis suggest that there is still a need for further 
economic evaluation of clozapine.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00280.x
PMID: 18179662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Mar;66(5):1118-30. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.10.020.
Epub  2008 Jan 7.

Ethnic differentials in parental health seeking for childhood illness in 
Vietnam.

Teerawichitchainan B(1), Phillips JF.

Author information:
(1)Population Council, Hanoi, Vietnam. pukpopcouncil@gmail.com

Vietnam's sustained investment in primary healthcare since the onset of 
socialism has lowered infant and childhood mortality rates and improved life 
expectancy, exceeding progress achieved in other poor countries with comparable 
levels of income per capita. The recent introduction of user fees for primary 
healthcare services has generated concern that economic policies may have 
adversely affected health-seeking behavior and health outcomes of the poor, 
particularly among impoverished families who are members of socially 
marginalized minority groups. This paper examines this debate by analyzing 
parental recall of illness and care-seeking for sick children under the age of 5 
years recorded by the 2001-2002 Vietnam National Health Survey. We estimate 
statistical models of the determinants of parental recall of incidence and 
response to illness among their children. Ethnic minority parents less 
frequently reported their children to have been sick than Kinh and Chinese 
parents. When they recognize an illness episode, minority parents are less 
likely to seek care -- whether professional consultation or self-prescribed care 
-- than non-minority parents. Ethnic differentials are evident in all geographic 
and income levels, although adverse effects of minority status are most 
pronounced among poor households in remote areas. Regression estimates of the 
effects of ethnicity and maternal education on health decisions are pronounced 
even when poverty effects are controlled, suggesting that social equity may have 
been under-emphasized in Vietnam's early health policy deliberations. Policies 
extending free healthcare to poor communes affect parental decisions to seek 
professional care or self-prescribed care among better-off parents without 
affecting parental decision making among the poor. Early health initiatives for 
the poor may therefore have failed to offset equity problems confronting 
impoverished ethnic minority families.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.10.020
PMID: 18179851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Health Aff (Millwood). 2008 Jan-Feb;27(1):256-68. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.27.1.256.

Using an economic model of diabetes to evaluate prevention and care strategies 
in Australia.

Colagiuri S(1), Walker AE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Obesity, Nutrition, and Exercise, University of Sydney, 
Australia.

The health benefits and costs of a national diabetes screening and prevention 
scenario are estimated among Australians ages 45-74. The Australian Diabetes 
Cost-Benefit Model is used to compare baseline and scenario outcomes from 2000 
to 2010. Those newly diagnosed in 2000 receive intensive care, resulting in 
lower complication rates. People "at high risk" of developing diabetes are 
offered lifestyle intervention, reducing the numbers developing diabetes. A 
total of 115,000 people became "newly diagnosed." Among those deemed at high 
risk, 53,000 avoided developing diabetes by 2010. Average yearly intervention 
and incremental treatment cost was AU$179 million, with a cost per 
disability-adjusted life-year of AU$50,000.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.27.1.256
PMID: 18180502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Acta Orthop Traumatol Turc. 2007 Aug-Oct;41(4):281-5.

[Total disc prosthesis for painful degenerative lumbar disc disease].

[Article in Turkish]

Karatoprak O(1), Aydoğan M, Oztürk C, Mirzanli C, Tezer M, Hamzaoğlu A.

Author information:
(1)Florence Nightingale Hospital, Istanbul Spine Center, Istanbul. 
karatoprako@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated clinical and radiographic results of patients treated 
by the ProDisc II total disc prosthesis (TDP) for painful degenerative lumbar 
disc disease.
METHODS: The study included 34 patients (25 females, 9 males; mean age 44 years; 
range 37 to 54 years) who underwent a total of 62 lumbar TDP procedures for 
degenerative lumbar disc disease. Lumbar disc replacement involved one level in 
12 cases, two levels in 17 cases, three levels in four cases, and four levels in 
one case. Clinical and radiographic assessments were made preoperatively and at 
3, 6, 12, and 24 months postoperatively. Clinical evaluations were made with a 
visual analog scale (VAS) and the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI). Radiographic 
parameters included lumbar lordotic angle, the height and flexion-extension 
range of the affected discs. The mean follow-up period was 29.3 months (range 24 
to 39 months).
RESULTS: Low back pain and lower extremity pain showed near-complete improvement 
up to the third postoperative month. At the end of the 24th month, preoperative 
ODI and VAS scores of 59.6 and 7.8 decreased to 19.8 and 1.0, respectively. 
Preoperative and postoperative lumbar lordotic angles were 52.6 degrees and 57.1 
degrees , respectively. The mean disc height of implanted discs increased from 
4.6 mm to 12.1 mm postoperatively. The mean flexion-extension angle increased 
from 2.8 degrees to 8.4 degrees at L5-S1, and from 2.6 degrees to 9.8 degrees at 
L4-5. The overall improvement in the mean flexion-extension angle was 7.2 
degrees .
CONCLUSION: Lumbar disc prosthesis offers significant advantages in terms of 
functional improvement and increased quality of life in the surgical treatment 
of degenerative disc disease.

PMID: 18180557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Acta Orthop Traumatol Turc. 2007;41 Suppl 2:153-9.

[The future of treatment for chondral and osteochondral lesions].

[Article in Turkish]

Cirpar M(1), Korkusuz F.

Author information:
(1)Kirikkale Universitesi Tip Fakültesi Ortopedi ve Travmatoloji Anabilim Dali, 
Kirikkale, Turkey. drmeric@yahoo.com

The population of patients with symptomatic focal or generalized cartilage 
lesions is growing due to prolongation of life expectancy and to increasing 
frequency of sports injuries. Cartilage tissue lesions which were defined as 
untreatable in the past have now become treatable thanks to advances in basic 
scientific research. With the development of technologies regarding biomaterial, 
cell and local regulators, and with the introduction of new surgical techniques, 
it is estimated that, in the near future, clinical applications of cartilage 
tissue engineering will also receive particular attention in our country. 
Currently, all alternatives used in the treatment of cartilage lesions have 
merits and demerits, including arthroscopic debridement and lavage, mesenchymal 
stem cell stimulation, osteochondral replacement techniques, and autologous 
chondrocyte transplantation. Preliminary results of experimental cartilage 
tissue engineering are encouraging for the replacement of disrupted tissue with 
that having mechanical properties of hyaline cartilage. Clinical applications of 
cartilage tissue engineering include bioabsorbable scaffolds as extracellular 
collagen, hyaluronic acid matrices, and genetically engineered bioactive 
materials.

PMID: 18180597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Med Assoc Thai. 2007 Nov;90(11):2524-8.

Invasive fungal rhinosinusitis in Maharaj Nakorn Chiang Mai Hospital.

Roongrotwattanasiri K(1), Fooanant S, Naksane L.

Author information:
(1)Otolaryngology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, Chiang 
Mai, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Invasive fungal rhinosinusitis, a rare infection, is a life 
threatening disease. Delay in diagnosis may consequently lead to high morbidity 
and mortality.
OBJECTIVE: Encourage early detection and proper management of invasive fungal 
rhinosinusitis.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Medical records, radiological, and pathological reports of 
five patients who were diagnosed as invasive fungal rhinosinusitis were reviewed 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: Four in five cases of invasive fungal rhinosinusitis, confirmed by 
pathological study, had successful treatment. One patient had intracerebral 
hemorrhage that may be associated with the disease spreading. Disease extension 
was evaluated by CT paranasal sinus in all cases, but it usually did not have 
classic bony erosion.
CONCLUSION: Curing infection, correcting underlying conditions, and working up 
fungal infection should be carried out as early as possible, because morbidity 
and mortality depend on disease extension and host status.

PMID: 18181345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. J Child Neurol. 2008 May;23(5):531-5. doi: 10.1177/0883073807309782. Epub
2008  Jan 8.

New incidence, prevalence, and survival of Aicardi syndrome from 408 cases.

Kroner BL(1), Preiss LR, Ardini MA, Gaillard WD.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Rockville, MD 20852, USA. byk@rti.org

We sought to determine the incidence, prevalence, and life expectancy of Aicardi 
syndrome from 408 cases compiled from multiple international sources. Last known 
age ranged from less than 1 month to 42 years. The incidence rates per live 
births for the United States and The Netherlands were 1 per 105 000 and 1 per 93 
000, respectively. The prevalence in the United States is greater than 853 
cases, and the worldwide estimate is several thousand. Forty-five cases were 
deceased (age range, 1 month to 33 years), and the risk of death peaked at age 
16. The probability of survival at 27 years of age was 0.62 (95% CI, 0.47-0.77). 
The risk of death by age follows other congenital neurological disorders with a 
wide range in severity of functional disability. The longer life expectancy 
found in our study hints at a higher functioning capacity in Aicardi syndrome 
and may inform counseling to families.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073807309782
PMID: 18182643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Blood Purif. 2008;26(1):36-40. doi: 10.1159/000110561. Epub 2008 Jan 10.

How to manage elderly patients with chronic renal failure: conservative 
management versus dialysis.

Brunori G(1), Viola BF, Maiorca P, Cancarini G.

Author information:
(1)Institute and Department of Nephrology, University and Spedali Civili of 
Brescia, Brescia, Italy. gcbrunori@hotmail.com

Over the past decade the number of elderly patients reaching end-stage renal 
disease has more than doubled. A fundamental medical decision that nephrologists 
commonly have to make is when to start dialytic treatment in elderly patients. 
Evidence is needed to inform about decision-making for or against dialysis, in 
particular in those patients frequently affected by multiple comorbidities for 
which dialysis may not increase survival. In fact, this decision affects quality 
of life, incurs significant financial costs, and finally mandates use of 
precious dialysis resources. The negative consequence of initiating dialysis in 
this group of patients can be deleterious as elderly people are sensitive to 
lifestyle changes. Furthermore, among dialysis patients, the elderly suffer the 
highest overall hospitalization and complication rates and most truncated life 
expectancy on dialysis of any age group. Studies of the factors that affect 
outcomes in elderly patients on dialysis, or the possibility in postponing in a 
safe way the start of a dialytic treatment, were lacking until recent years. 
Recently in the literature, papers have been published that address these 
questions: the effects of dialysis on morbidity and mortality in elderly 
patients and the use of a supplemented very low protein diet (sVLPD) in 
postponing the start of dialysis in elderly. The first study demonstrated that, 
although dialysis is generally associated with longer survival in patients aged 
>75 years, those with multiple comorbidities, ischemic heart disease in 
particular, do not survive longer than those treated conservatively. The second 
one is a randomized controlled study that compared a sVLPD with dialysis in 112 
non-diabetic patients aged >70 years. Survival was not different between the two 
groups and the number of hospitalizations and days spent in hospital were 
significantly lower in those on a sVLPD. These studies add to the limited 
evidence that is currently available to inform elderly patients, their carers 
and their physicians about the risk and the benefit of dialysis.

(c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000110561
PMID: 18182793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Rev Med Suisse. 2007 Dec 5;3(136):2788-90, 2792.

[Indications and methods of invasive minimal urinary derivations in oncology].

[Article in French]

Praz V(1), Chollet Y, Jichlinski P.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, CHUV, 1011 Lausanne. valentin.praz@chuv.ch

To choose the best attitude in front of the obstruction of the higher urinary 
tract secondary at a pelvic or retroperitoneal tumor is delicate and very often 
requires a multidisciplinary approach. The mains indications on the invasive 
minimal urinary derivations are the prolongation of life expectancy by the 
safeguarding of the renal function and the improvement of the quality of life 
during the presence of pains. The opinion of the patient is central to make 
decision. The two techniques of drainage which are the ureteral stent and the 
percutaneous nephrostomy have proved their efficiency.

PMID: 18183814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Drugs Aging. 2008;25(1):9-18. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200825010-00002.

Hepatitis C virus infection in the elderly: epidemiology, natural history and 
management.

Cainelli F(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, A. Pugliese Hospital, Catanzaro, Italy. 
francescacainelli@yahoo.it

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection frequently occurs in elderly individuals, with 
a prevalence in individuals aged >60 years of up to approximately 40%. Although 
progression to cirrhosis is accelerated and occurs more frequently in patients 
who acquire the infection in old age, this outcome is often not seen because 
most elderly infected patients acquired HCV when they were young. Data on 
progression of HCV infection to cirrhosis and eventually to hepatocellular 
carcinoma are often derived from studies of HCV-infected individuals who present 
or are referred to hospitals, and which are therefore likely to overestimate the 
seriousness of the disease; indeed, population-based studies indicate that in 
many elderly individuals the disease is asymptomatic and runs a fairly benign 
course. Treatment is based on use of pegylated interferon-alpha and ribavirin, 
and is overall less effective and more toxic in the elderly. Therefore, 
treatment should be carefully considered on an individual basis and proposed 
only in patients up to the age of 75 years with a significant risk of 
progression of liver disease, no serious co-morbidities and good life 
expectancy. All treated patients should be followed long term in order to assess 
the influence of therapy on the evolution of liver disease (decompensated 
cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma) and survival. It is hoped that liver 
biopsy, which is still required in order to assess prognosis appropriately, will 
be replaced in the future by less invasive methods based on combinations of 
biochemical markers of fibrosis and/or transient elastography, and that newer 
and less toxic orally administered drugs for HCV infection will become 
available.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200825010-00002
PMID: 18184025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Drugs Aging. 2008;25(1):35-45. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200825010-00004.

Early breast cancer in the elderly: assessment and management considerations.

Albrand G(1), Terret C.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Geriatrique Antoine Charial, Hospices Civils de Lyon, Programme 
Lyonnais d'Onco-gériatrie (PROLOG), Francheville, France. 
gilles.albrand@chu-lyon.fr

Comment in
    Drugs Aging. 2008;25(1):47-8.

Breast cancer is a common tumour in the elderly and management of early disease 
in particular is a major challenge for oncologists and geriatricians alike. The 
process should begin with the Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA), which 
should be undertaken before any decisions about treatment are made. The 
important role of co-morbidities and their effect on life expectancy also need 
to be taken into account when making treatment decisions. The primary treatments 
for early breast cancer are surgery, adjuvant radiotherapy and adjuvant systemic 
therapy. Unfortunately, lack of a specific literature relating to early breast 
cancer in the elderly means formulating an evidence-based approach to treatment 
in this context is difficult. We have developed a new approach based on the CGA 
and comprehensive oncological assessment. This approach facilitates the 
development of an individualized oncogeriatric care plan and follow-up based on 
several considerations: the average patient's life expectancy at a given age; 
the patient's co-morbidities, level of dependence, and the impact of these 
considerations on diagnostic and therapeutic options as well as life expectancy; 
and the potential benefit-risk balance of treatment. In the elderly patient with 
breast cancer, the standard primary therapy is surgical resection (mastectomy or 
breast-conserving therapy). While node dissection is a major component of 
staging and local control of breast cancer, no data are available to guide 
decision-making in women aged >70 years. Primary endocrine therapy (tamoxifen) 
should be offered to elderly women with estrogen receptor (ER)-positive breast 
cancer only if they are unfit for or refuse surgery. Trials are needed to 
evaluate the clinical effectiveness of aromatase inhibitors as primary therapy 
for infirm older patients with ER-positive tumours. Breast irradiation should be 
recommended to older women with a life expectancy >5 years, particularly those 
with large tumours, positive lymph nodes or negative hormone receptors. Adjuvant 
hormone therapy remains a reasonable therapeutic option in elderly women with 
positive hormone receptor tumours. Aromatase inhibitors have demonstrated a 
better toxicity profile and effectiveness as adjuvant therapy than tamoxifen in 
young postmenopausal women but have not been specifically studied in the elderly 
population. The efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy for breast cancer has been 
established by meta-analysis and numerous randomized trials but, again, women 
aged > or = 70 years have rarely been included in such trials. At present, it is 
difficult to provide a validated recommendation for use of adjuvant chemotherapy 
in elderly patients with breast cancer. There are no follow-up recommendations 
specifically for elderly patients after treatment of early breast cancer. 
However, American Society of Clinical Oncology breast cancer surveillance 
guidelines suggest physician office visits every 3-6 months for 3 years, 
followed by visits every 6-12 months for 2 years, then annually. Women taking 
aromatase inhibitors should also undergo bone mineral density measurement every 
2 years. The new approach to assessment and management of early breast cancer in 
the elderly outlined in this article should be considered an intermediate step 
because additional evidence to support clinical practice is still needed. 
Bearing this in mind, physicians should encourage enrollment of elderly breast 
cancer patients in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200825010-00004
PMID: 18184027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Drugs Aging. 2008;25(1):47-8. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200825010-00005.

Why do we believe that breast cancer in the elderly is the same as breast cancer 
in young women?

Hughes KS(1).

Author information:
(1)Avon Comprehensive Breast Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. kshughes@partners.org

Comment on
    Drugs Aging. 2008;25(1):35-45.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200825010-00005
PMID: 18184028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. PLoS Med. 2008 Jan 8;5(1):e12. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050012.

Combined impact of health behaviours and mortality in men and women: the 
EPIC-Norfolk prospective population study.

Khaw KT(1), Wareham N, Bingham S, Welch A, Luben R, Day N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge, United Kingdom. 
kk101@medschl.cam.ac.uk

Erratum in
    PLoS Med. 2008 Mar 18;5(3):e70.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2008 Jan 8;5(1):e15.

BACKGROUND: There is overwhelming evidence that behavioural factors influence 
health, but their combined impact on the general population is less well 
documented. We aimed to quantify the potential combined impact of four health 
behaviours on mortality in men and women living in the general community.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We examined the prospective relationship between lifestyle 
and mortality in a prospective population study of 20,244 men and women aged 
45-79 y with no known cardiovascular disease or cancer at baseline survey in 
1993-1997, living in the general community in the United Kingdom, and followed 
up to 2006. Participants scored one point for each health behaviour: current 
non-smoking, not physically inactive, moderate alcohol intake (1-14 units a 
week) and plasma vitamin C >50 mmol/l indicating fruit and vegetable intake of 
at least five servings a day, for a total score ranging from zero to four. After 
an average 11 y follow-up, the age-, sex-, body mass-, and social class-adjusted 
relative risks (95% confidence intervals) for all-cause mortality(1,987 deaths) 
for men and women who had three, two, one, and zero compared to four health 
behaviours were respectively, 1.39 (1.21-1.60), 1.95 (1.70--2.25), 2.52 
(2.13-3.00), and 4.04 (2.95-5.54) p < 0.001 trend. The relationships were 
consistent in subgroups stratified by sex, age, body mass index, and social 
class, and after excluding deaths within 2 y. The trends were strongest for 
cardiovascular causes. The mortality risk for those with four compared to zero 
health behaviours was equivalent to being 14 y younger in chronological age.
CONCLUSIONS: Four health behaviours combined predict a 4-fold difference in 
total mortality in men and women, with an estimated impact equivalent to 14 y in 
chronological age.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050012
PMCID: PMC2174962
PMID: 18184033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


888. PLoS Med. 2008 Jan 8;5(1):e15. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050015.

From theory to practice: translating research into health outcomes.

Barbour V, Chinnock P, Peiperl L, Veitch E, Yamey G.

Comment on
    PLoS Med. 2007 Oct;4(10):1589-97; discussion 1598.
    PLoS Med. 2007 Oct;4(10):1599-606; discussion 1607.
    PLoS Med. 2008 Jan 8;5(1):e12.

Commenting on recent research articles which look at the potential health 
benefits of behaviour change, the PLoS Medicine Editors say that publication of 
the findings of such research is only one part of the behaviour-change process.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050015
PMCID: PMC2174961
PMID: 18184034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Cancer. 2008 Mar 1;112(5):1058-65. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23276.

Cost-effectiveness of prostate cancer chemoprevention: a quality of life-years 
analysis.

Svatek RS(1), Lee JJ, Roehrborn CG, Lippman SM, Lotan Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, 
Dallas, TX 75390-9110, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial (PCPT) demonstrated that 
finasteride reduces the prevalence of prostate cancer by 24.8% (risk reduction) 
but questions remain regarding the cost-effectiveness of widespread utilization. 
The purpose of the current analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
chemoprevention utilizing a quality-of-life adjustment.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model with probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was designed to determine the lifetime prostate health-related costs, 
beginning at age 50 years, for men treated with finasteride compared with 
placebo. Model assumptions were based on data from the PCPT; Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End-Results program; literature review of costs, utilities, 
and transition rates among various prostate cancer health states; and local 
institutional cost data.
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted cost-effectiveness ratio for finasteride compared 
with men not receiving chemoprevention was $122,747 (in U.S.$) per 
quality-adjusted life-years saved (QALYs). If finasteride is assumed to not 
increase the incidence of high-grade tumors, the quality-adjusted 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $112,062 per QALYs. Sensitivity analysis found that 
chemoprevention of prostate cancer with an agent that has no effect on the 
prevalence of benign prostatic hyperplasia can render a cost-effectiveness ratio 
of <$50,000 per QALYs saved when applied to a high-risk population associated 
with a 25% risk reduction, and a cost of $30 per month.
CONCLUSIONS: Finasteride is unlikely to be cost-effective when considering the 
impact on survival differences among treated versus untreated groups. However, 
chemoprevention may be cost-effective in high-risk populations when taking into 
consideration adjustments for the impact on quality of life.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23276
PMID: 18186497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Health Econ. 2008 Nov;17(11):1237-59. doi: 10.1002/hec.1318.

Testing for an economic gradient in health status using subjective data.

Lokshin M(1), Ravallion M.

Author information:
(1)Development Research Group, World Bank, Washington, DC 20433, USA.

Can self-assessments of health reveal the true health differentials between 
'rich' and 'poor'? The potential sources of bias include psychological 
adaptation to ill-health, socioeconomic covariates of health reporting errors 
and income measurement errors. We propose an estimation method to reduce the 
bias by isolating the component of self-assessed health that is explicable in 
terms of objective health indicators and allowing for broader dimensions of 
economic welfare than captured by current incomes. On applying our method to 
survey data for Russia we find a pronounced (nonlinear) economic gradient in 
health status that is not evident in the raw data. This is largely attributable 
to the health effects of age, education and location.

Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1318
PMID: 18186548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. J Physiol Sci. 2008 Feb;58(1):7-14. doi: 10.2170/physiolsci.RP003107. Epub
2008  Jan 12.

Hormone and recovery responses to resistance exercise with slow movement.

Goto K(1), Takahashi K, Yamamoto M, Takamatsu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University 
of Tokyo, Komaba, Tokyo, Japan. kagotoh@mac.com

This study examined acute hormone and recovery responses to resistance exercise 
with slow movements. Six men performed three types of exercise regimens (five 
sets of knee extension exercise): (1) high-intensity resistance exercise with 
normal movement (HN; 1 s for lifting action, 1 s for lowering action), (2) 
low-intensity resistance exercise with slow movement (LS; 3 s for lifting 
action, 3 s for lowering action), and (3) low-intensity resistance exercise with 
normal movement (LN; 1 s for lifting action, 1 s for lowering action). The 
intensity in the first set was set at approximately 80% of 1RM for HN and 40% of 
1RM for LS and LN. In the HN and LS, the subjects performed each exercise set 
until exhaustion. In the LN, both intensity and number of repetitions were 
matched with those for LS. The total work volume in the HN showed approximately 
double the value of LS and LN (P < 0.05). Electromyography (EMG) data indicated 
that LS showed sustained EMG signals throughout the exercise. During the 
exercise, the HN and LS showed lower muscle oxygenation levels. After the 
exercise, LS caused significantly greater norepinephrine and free testosterone 
responses (delta value) than in the HN and LN (P < 0.05). However, no 
significant difference was observed in the recovery of maximal isometric 
strength, isokinetic strength, and jump performance between the HN and LS. These 
results indicate that slow movements during the resistance exercise are 
important for the enhancement of hormonal responses, especially catecholamine 
and free testosterone, but they do not affect muscle strength recovery.

DOI: 10.2170/physiolsci.RP003107
PMID: 18186955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. J Health Econ. 2008 May;27(3):564-84. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.09.008.
Epub  2007 Nov 29.

Health status and health dynamics in an empirical model of expected longevity.

Benítez-Silva H(1), Ni H.

Author information:
(1)Economics Department, SUNY-Stony Brook, Stony Brook, NY 11794-4384, United 
States. hugo.benitez-silva@sunysb.edu

Expected longevity is an important factor influencing older individuals' 
decisions such as consumption, savings, purchase of life insurance and 
annuities, claiming of Social Security benefits, and labor supply. It has also 
been shown to be a good predictor of actual longevity, which in turn is highly 
correlated with health status. A relatively new literature on health investments 
under uncertainty, which builds upon the seminal work by Grossman [Grossman, M., 
1972. On the concept of health capital and demand for health. Journal of 
Political Economy 80, 223-255] has directly linked longevity with 
characteristics, behaviors, and decisions by utility maximizing agents. Our 
empirical model can be understood within that theoretical framework as 
estimating a production function of longevity. Using longitudinal data from the 
Health and Retirement Study, we directly incorporate health dynamics in 
explaining the variation in expected longevities, and compare two alternative 
measures of health dynamics: the self-reported health change, and the computed 
health change based on self-reports of health status. In 38% of the reports in 
our sample, computed health changes are inconsistent with the direct report on 
health changes over time. And another 15% of the sample can suffer from 
information losses if computed changes are used to assess changes in actual 
health. These potentially serious problems raise doubts regarding the use and 
interpretation of the computed health changes and even the lagged measures of 
self-reported health as controls for health dynamics in a variety of empirical 
settings. Our empirical results, controlling for both subjective and objective 
measures of health status and unobserved heterogeneity in reporting, suggest 
that self-reported health changes are a preferred measure of health dynamics.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.09.008
PMCID: PMC2862058
PMID: 18187217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Chest. 2008 Jan;133(1):183-9. doi: 10.1378/chest.07-0592.

Sildenafil improves health-related quality of life in patients with pulmonary 
arterial hypertension.

Pepke-Zaba J(1), Gilbert C, Collings L, Brown MC.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Vascular Diseases Unit, Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
Papworth Everard, Cambridge, CB3 8RE, UK. Joanna.PepkeZaba@papworth.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Sildenafil inhibits phosphodiesterase-5, enhancing cyclic guanosine 
monophosphate- mediated relaxation of pulmonary vasculature and is effective in 
treating patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH).
METHODS: Patients with PAH (n = 278) received oral sildenafil (20, 40, or 80 mg 
three times daily) in a 12-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study and an 
open-label extension. Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was recorded by 
patients using the Medical Outcomes Study 36-item short form (SF-36) and EuroQol 
5D (EQ-5D) questionnaires at baseline and after 12 and 24 weeks of therapy. Data 
are presented for patients who received sildenafil for up to 24 weeks.
RESULTS: Sildenafil-treated patients, compared with placebo-treated patients, 
exhibited significant improvement in exercise capacity at week 12 (p < 0.001). 
Increases from baseline to week 12 were observed in all SF-36 domains for 
sildenafil-treated patients, with statistically significant improvements, 
compared with placebo-treated control subjects, in physical functioning (p < 
0.001), general health (p < 0.001), and vitality (p < 0.05). Statistically 
significant improvements were also observed for the EQ-5D current health status 
(p < 0.01) and utility index (p < 0.01). These benefits were maintained for 24 
weeks. Treatment groups were pooled for analyses as the results for the 6-min 
walk distance, SF-36, and EQ-5D were not dose dependent.
CONCLUSIONS: Sildenafil improves HRQoL of PAH patients. These improvements 
appear to be maintained for at least 24 weeks. The effects are strongest in 
domains addressing the physical impact of health on daily activities and 
patients' overall perception of health.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.07-0592
PMID: 18187744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Comp Neurol. 2008 Mar 20;507(3):1336-50. doi: 10.1002/cne.21626.

Retinal cone topography of artiodactyl mammals: influence of body height and 
habitat.

Schiviz AN(1), Ruf T, Kuebber-Heiss A, Schubert C, Ahnelt PK.
