traryal@gmail.com

Post-partum amenorrhea is an important event for females' reproductive life and 
their health. It is the time period between the end of pregnancy and the 
resumption of menstruation after delivery, and it is considered to be the 
temporary infecundable period of women's reproductive life-span. The main aim of 
this article is to examine the differentials of post-partum amenorrhea by using 
current status reporting data according to the characteristics of the mother and 
her child. The data are utilized from a sample survey of Palpa and Rupandehi 
districts of western rural Nepal. A life-table based technique of survival 
analysis has been used. Important summary measures have been computed in order 
to see the differentials of duration of post-partum amenorrhea. The study 
revealed that parity of mothers, age of mothers, breast-feeding practices and 
survival status of the child were found to be the main differentials of the 
duration of post-partum amenorrhea. Amenorrhea period was found shorter for 
lower parity and younger mothers. Amenorrheic period was found to be increased 
with increased birth-interval and duration of breast-feeding practices. A strong 
positive association was found between the duration of post-partum amenorrhea 
and breast-feeding. The study also revealed that an inverse association was 
found between the duration of post-partum amenorrhea and socio-economic status 
of mothers. The survival status of the child showed a strong effect for the 
timing of amenorrhea. This study investigated the important differentials of 
amenorrhea by using current status reporting data according to the 
characteristics of mother and her child. The estimated values of mean, median 
and trimean duration of amenorrhea were compared. For instance, trimean of 
amenorrheic period was found to be 9.6 months while median was 8.4 months and 
mean was 10.4 months. This finding indicates that the trimean provided the most 
consistent and best estimates of the duration of amenorrhea than other averages. 
The trimean is the best measure if the data contain censored and open-ended 
class interval. Parity, age of mothers, survival status of child, breast-feeding 
practices and socio-economic status of mothers were found to be the main 
influencing factors for the timing of amenorrhea among rural Nepalese mothers. 
Although the coverage of the present study is limited to small areas as well as 
to a small sample size, it is expected that the findings may help in designing 
appropriate policies and programs for improving mothers' and children's health 
as well as for reducing the existing fertility level of a country.

PMID: 18094740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. J Bone Miner Metab. 2008;26(1):34-41. doi: 10.1007/s00774-007-0794-4. Epub
2008  Jan 10.

The cost-effectiveness of risedronate treatment in Japanese women with 
osteoporosis.

Ding H(1), Koinuma N, Stevenson M, Ito M, Monma Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Administration and Policy, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tohoku University, 2-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8575, Japan. 
dinghansheng@mail.tains.tohoku.ac.jp

We constructed a mathematical model for assessing the cost-effectiveness of 
providing BMD (bone mineral density) scans to Japanese women aged 55 years and 
over and treating, with risedronate, those that are shown to be osteoporotic. 
Fracture rates, cost data, utility values, and the increased risks of fractures 
associated with T-score and vertebral fracture history were taken from published 
literature. We estimated the cost of fractures avoided due to risedronate 
treatment, allowing the net changes in cost, incorporating both intervention and 
fracture costs to be calculated. The QALYs (quality adjusted life years) gained 
through treatment were calculated enabling cost per QALY ratios to be presented. 
Further analyses were undertaken assuming treatment was reserved for older women 
and/or those who had sustained a vertebral fracture in the previous 2 years. 
Cost per QALY values were inversely related to absolute risk of fracture. 
Assuming a cost per QALY value threshold of US dollars 100,000, we concluded 
that providing BMD scans to women aged 70 years and over who had sustained a 
vertebral fracture in the previous 2 years and treating those that were 
osteoporotic was cost-effective. However, providing BMD scans for women without 
a vertebral fracture in the previous 2 years was not cost-effective, even in 
women aged 85 years and older.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-007-0794-4
PMID: 18095061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Am J Manag Care. 2007 Dec;13 Suppl 9:S252-5.

The future of outcomes measurement in rheumatology.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, UCLA School of Public Health, PO Box 951772, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1772, USA. rmkaplan@ucla.edu

Quality-of-life (QOL) measurement has a rich history in rheumatology, and 
although the study of health measurements has expanded remarkably in recent 
years, there are a number of methodological issues that need attention. This 
article focuses on utility-based measures that are most relevant to public 
policy and some major issues that remain unresolved. The duration of a health 
condition, for example, is a central component of health outcome. However, the 
majority of measures currently used in rheumatology do not consider the duration 
of condition or the long-term consequences of disease or treatment. Similarly, 
there are many levels at which preference is expressed in the healthcare 
decision process, and despite a wealth of literature on QOL measurement, we 
still have much more to learn about how to present information to patients and 
how to use preference data that patients provide. Improvements in the utility 
assessment method are urgently needed as well, as different utility-based 
measures such as standard gamble, time trade-off, and rating scales are not 
comparable. This lack of comparability has important implications when 
estimating quality-adjusted life-years in cost-utility studies. Another key 
unresolved issue is whether the Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short Form and 
the Health Assessment Questionnaire offer appropriate data for cost-utility 
studies. The current estimation of clinical benefit is also controversial, as 
competing measurement tools offer different estimates of wellness at baseline. 
However, the different approaches yield surprisingly similar estimates of 
change. Clearly, this observation deserves further study and replication in 
future studies.

PMID: 18095788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Palliat Med. 2007 Dec;10(6):1402-3. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2007.9841.

Prognostication in patients receiving dialysis #191.

Hudson M(1), Weisbord S, Arnold RM.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Center, Medical College of Wisconsin, USA.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2007.9841
PMID: 18095819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Palliat Med. 2007 Dec;10(6):1410-9. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2007.9838.

Would you refer this patient to hospice? An evaluation of tools for determining 
life expectancy in end-stage dementia.

Doberman DJ(1), Yasar S, Durso SC.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Medicine Program, Greater Baltimore Medical Center, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21204-5805, USA. ddoberman@gbmc.org

Comment in
    J Palliat Med. 2008 Jun;11(5):673.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2007.9838
PMID: 18095824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2007 Dec 20;7:9. doi: 10.1186/1472-698X-7-9.

Indigenous well-being in four countries: an application of the UNDP'S human 
development index to indigenous peoples in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and 
the United States.

Cooke M(1), Mitrou F, Lawrence D, Guimond E, Beavon D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Waterloo, 200 University Drive W, 
Waterloo, Ontario, Canada. cooke@uwaterloo.ca

BACKGROUND: Canada, the United States, Australia, and New Zealand consistently 
place near the top of the United Nations Development Programme's Human 
Development Index (HDI) rankings, yet all have minority Indigenous populations 
with much poorer health and social conditions than non-Indigenous peoples. It is 
unclear just how the socioeconomic and health status of Indigenous peoples in 
these countries has changed in recent decades, and it remains generally unknown 
whether the overall conditions of Indigenous peoples are improving and whether 
the gaps between Indigenous peoples and other citizens have indeed narrowed. 
There is unsettling evidence that they may not have. It was the purpose of this 
study to determine how these gaps have narrowed or widened during the decade 
1990 to 2000.
METHODS: Census data and life expectancy estimates from government sources were 
used to adapt the Human Development Index (HDI) to examine how the broad social, 
economic, and health status of Indigenous populations in these countries have 
changed since 1990. Three indices - life expectancy, educational attainment, and 
income - were combined into a single HDI measure.
RESULTS: Between 1990 and 2000, the HDI scores of Indigenous peoples in North 
America and New Zealand improved at a faster rate than the general populations, 
closing the gap in human development. In Australia, the HDI scores of Indigenous 
peoples decreased while the general populations improved, widening the gap in 
human development. While these countries are considered to have high human 
development according to the UNDP, the Indigenous populations that reside within 
them have only medium levels of human development.
CONCLUSION: The inconsistent progress in the health and well-being of Indigenous 
populations over time, and relative to non-Indigenous populations, points to the 
need for further efforts to improve the social, economic, and physical health of 
Indigenous peoples.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-698X-7-9
PMCID: PMC2238768
PMID: 18096029


808. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2007 Dec 20;8:126. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-8-126.

INvestigational Vertebroplasty Efficacy and Safety Trial (INVEST): a randomized 
controlled trial of percutaneous vertebroplasty.

Gray LA(1), Jarvik JG, Heagerty PJ, Hollingworth W, Stout L, Comstock BA, Turner 
JA, Kallmes DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA. 
gray.leigh@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND: The treatment of painful osteoporotic vertebral compression 
fractures has historically been limited to several weeks of bed rest, 
anti-inflammatory and analgesic medications, calcitonin injections, or external 
bracing. Percutaneous vertebroplasty (the injection of bone cement into the 
fractured vertebral body) is a relatively new procedure used to treat these 
fractures. There is increasing interest to examine the efficacy and safety of 
percutaneous vertebroplasty and to study the possibility of a placebo effect or 
whether the pain relief is from local anesthetics placed directly on the bone 
during the vertebroplasty procedure.
METHODS/DESIGNS: Our goal is to test the hypothesis that patients with painful 
osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures who undergo vertebroplasty have 
less disability and pain at 1 month than patients who undergo a control 
intervention. The control intervention is placement of local anesthesia near the 
fracture, without placement of cement. One hundred sixty-six patients with 
painful osteoporotic vertebral compression fractures will be recruited over 5 
years from US and foreign sites performing the vertebroplasty procedure. We will 
exclude patients with malignant tumor deposit (multiple myeloma), tumor mass or 
tumor extension into the epidural space at the level of the fracture. We will 
randomly assign participants to receive either vertebroplasty or the control 
intervention. Subjects will complete a battery of validated, standardized 
measures of pain, functional disability, and health related quality of life at 
baseline and at post-randomization time points (days 1, 2, 3, and 14, and months 
1, 3, 6, and 12). Both subjects and research interviewers performing the 
follow-up assessments will be blinded to the randomization assignment. Subjects 
will have a clinic visit at months 1 and 12. Spine X-rays will be obtained at 
the end of the study (month 12) to determine subsequent fracture rates. Our 
co-primary outcomes are the modified Roland score and pain numerical rating 
scale at 1 month.
DISCUSSION: Although extensively utilized throughout North America for 
palliation of pain, vertebroplasty still has not undergone rigorous study. The 
study outlined above represents the first randomized, controlled study that can 
account for a placebo effect in the setting of vertebroplasty.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN81871888.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-8-126
PMCID: PMC2257946
PMID: 18096050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Patient Educ Couns. 2008 Mar;70(3):426-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2007.10.018.
Epub  2007 Dec 21.

Adapting to major chronic illness: a proposal for a comprehensive task-model 
approach.

Samson A(1), Siam H.

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa, Faculty of Education, 145 Jean-Jacques Lussier, Ottawa, 
ON K1N 6N5, Canada. asamson@uottawa.ca

OBJECTIVE: To develop a comprehensive task-based model that describes the 
psychosocial adaptation process to major chronic illness.
METHOD: In order to achieve this objective, we reviewed the four task-based 
models: those of Moos and Tsu [Moos RH, Tsu DV. Coping with physical illness. 
New York: Plenum Medical Company; 1977], Cohen and Lazarus [Cohen F, Lazarus RS. 
Coping with the stress of illness. In: Stone CG, Cohen F, Adler NE, editors. 
Health psychology: a handbook. San Francisco, CA: Jossey-Bass; 1979. p. 217-54], 
Corr [Corr C. A task-based approach to coping with dying. Omega 1992;24:81-94] 
and Samson [Samson A. L'apport de la carrière au modèle théorique des tâches 
d'adaptation à la maladie chronique: une application au cas des personnes qui 
vivent avec le VIH. Can J Couns 2006;40:4-16].
RESULTS: We propose a comprehensive task-based model that gives a comprehensive 
description of the process of psychosocial adaptation to chronic illness.
CONCLUSION: With the gradual rise in life expectancy and quality of living for 
individuals diagnosed with major chronic illnesses, it is becoming increasingly 
relevant to understand how these individuals adapt to their conditions over the 
long term. The comprehensive model allows medical professionals to look at the 
challenges of this process from both objective and subjective points of view.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: To enhance current practice by helping professionals to 
conceptualize their patients' process of adaptation to chronic illness in a 
holistic manner.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2007.10.018
PMID: 18096353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2008;25(2):148-56. doi: 10.1159/000112729. Epub
2007  Dec 20.

Asthma, eczema, rhinitis and the risk for dementia.

Eriksson UK(1), Gatz M, Dickman PW, Fratiglioni L, Pedersen NL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden. ulrika.eriksson@ki.se

BACKGROUND: Inflammation is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 
dementia. In light of the chronic inflammatory properties of the atopic 
disorders asthma, eczema and rhinitis, we hypothesized an association with 
dementia.
METHODS: Self-reported asthma, eczema or rhinitis was assessed (prior to 
dementia follow-up) through questionnaires in the 1960s or 1970s in twins from 
the population-based Swedish Twin Registry. Dementia was assessed both 
longitudinally (n = 22,188), through linkages to two population-based registers, 
and cross-sectionally (n = 7,800), through telephone cognitive screening 
followed by a clinical evaluation of suspects of dementia. Risk ratios were 
estimated with Cox and logistic regression models controlling for vascular 
disease and genetic confounding.
RESULTS: In the longitudinal study, a history of atopy was positively associated 
with dementia (HR = 1.16; 1.01-1.33). In the cross-sectional study we found 
overall lower risks, none of which was statistically significant. Asthma was 
associated with a shorter survival time following AD onset.
CONCLUSIONS: Atopy is associated with a modestly increased risk of AD and 
dementia that is not mediated by vascular disease or due to genetic confounding. 
A history of asthma is associated with shorter life expectancy after AD 
diagnosis.

Copyright (c) 2007 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000112729
PMID: 18097143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Asian J Androl. 2008 Mar;10(2):325-31. doi:
10.1111/j.1745-7262.2008.00345.x.  Epub 2007 Dec 20.

Individualized prostate biopsy strategy for Chinese patients with different 
prostate-specific antigen levels.

Dai B(1), Ye DW, Kong YY, Shen YJ, Wang BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Cancer Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

AIM: To evaluate the best individualized prostate biopsy strategies for Chinese 
patients with suspected prostate cancer.
METHODS: The present study included 221 Chinese patients who underwent 
transrectal ultrasound guided prostate biopsies for the first time. All patients 
underwent the same 10-core biopsy protocol. In addition to the Hodge sextant 
technique, four more biopsies were obtained from the base and middle regions of 
bilateral peripheral zones. The differences between 10-core and sextant 
strategies in cancer detection among patients with different prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) levels were evaluated. The relationship between PSA level, number 
of positive biopsy cores and organ-confined cancer rate in prostate cancer 
patients was also analyzed.
RESULTS: The overall prostate cancer detection rate was 40.7% in the 221 
patients. The 10-core strategy increased cancer detection by 6.67% (6/90) in our 
patients (P < 0.05). The increased cancer detection rates decreased 
significantly when the patient PSA level increased from 0-20 ng/mL to 20.1-50 
ng/mL and > 50 ng/mL (P < 0.01). The number of positive biopsy cores in prostate 
cancer patients increased significantly with increasing patient PSA level (P < 
0.01). The rate of organ-confined prostate cancer decreased significantly with 
increasing patient PSA level (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The extended 10-core strategy is recommended for Chinese patients 
with PSA = or < 20 ng/mL and the sextant strategy is recommended for those with 
PSA > 50 ng/mL. For patients with PSA ranging from 20.1 ng/mL to 50 ng/mL, the 
10-core strategy should be applied in patients with life expectancy = or > 10 
years and the sextant strategy should be applied in those with life expectancy < 
10 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1745-7262.2008.00345.x
PMID: 18097514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cancer. 2008 Feb 1;112(3):481-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23213.

Elderly breast cancer patients treated by conservative surgery alone plus 
adjuvant tamoxifen: fifteen-year results of a prospective study.

Martelli G(1), Miceli R, Costa A, Coradini D, Zurrida S, Piromalli D, Vetrella 
G, Greco M.

Author information:
(1)Breast Unit, National Cancer Institute, Milan, Italy. 
gabriele.martelli@istitutotumori.mi.it

BACKGROUND: In elderly patients with early breast cancer and a clinically clear 
axilla, axillary surgery, sentinel lymph node biopsy, and postoperative 
radiotherapy to the residual breast may not be necessary because of reduced life 
expectancy, effectiveness of hormone therapy in achieving long-term disease 
control, and generally favorable biologic behavior of breast cancer in elderly 
patients.
METHODS: The authors followed 354 prospectively recruited women aged > or =70 
years who had primary, operable breast cancer and no palpable axillary lymph 
nodes. All 354 women were treated with conservative surgery and adjuvant 
tamoxifen and without axillary dissection or postoperative radiotherapy. Women 
who had resection margins in tumor tissue were excluded. Endpoints were 
cumulative incidence of axillary disease, cumulative incidence of ipsilateral 
breast tumor recurrence (IBTR), and breast cancer mortality.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 15 years (interquartile range, 14-17 
years), the crude cumulative incidence was 4.2% (4% in pathologic T1 [pT1] 
tumors) for axillary disease, 8.3% (7.3% in pT1 tumors) for IBTR, and 17% for 
breast cancer mortality. Of the 268 patients who died during follow-up, 222 
patients (83%) died from causes unrelated to breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients with early breast cancer and no palpable axillary 
lymph nodes may be safely treated safety by conservative surgery without 
axillary dissection and without postoperative radiotherapy, provided that 
surgical margins are in tumor-free tissue and that hormone therapy is 
administered. Sentinel lymph node biopsy is also unnecessary because of the low 
cumulative incidence of axillary disease, and axillary surgery can be reserved 
for the small proportion of patients who later develop overt axillary disease.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23213
PMID: 18098268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Perm Found Med Bull. 1948 Oct;6(4):177-86.

Life expectancy of physicians and what to do about it.

LEWIS L.

PMID: 18106585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Urol Cutaneous Rev. 1949 Apr;53(4):211-5.

Cancer of the prostate gland; further observations on life expectancy.

BEATTY RP, WRIGHT AE Jr.

PMID: 18115832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Med Klin. 1949 Feb 18;44(7):203-6.

[About the Life expectancy of those paralyzed after spinal cord injury].

[Article in German]

PARTSCH F, WAGNER L.

PMID: 18120157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Rev Inst Salubr Enferm Trop. 1949 Mar;10(1):29-45.

[Comparative study of the life expectancy of 1930 and that of 1940 in the states 
of the Mexican Republic, north Pacific zone].

[Article in Spanish]

GONZALEZ RIVERA M, ALMARAZ UGALDE A.

PMID: 18120552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1949 Aug;10(1):1-10.

Studies of survival of unicellular species; variations in life expectancy of a 
paramecium under laboratory conditions.

SPENCER RR, MELROY MB.

PMID: 18143245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Calif Med. 1949 Jul;71(1):31.

The changing outlook in coronary disease.

LANGLEY RW.

The statistical prognosis for patients who survive a first attack of coronary 
thrombosis, as regards both life expectancy and ability to return to normal 
activity, has been greatly improved in recent years. In the light of advances in 
understanding of the physiology of the heart and improvements in therapeutic 
methods, physicians must reevaluate ideas of what a patient should be permitted 
to do after recovery from an initial attack. Often a return to normal pursuits 
may be better for the patient than drastic restriction of activity, particularly 
because of the psychological and emotional effects of invalidism. In deciding 
what advice to give on this score, the physician should consider in each case 
not only the actual amount of coronary circulation but such factors as the 
patient's temperament, type of occupation and economic status. The goal should 
be to guide each patient back to usefulness within the limits of his cardiac 
reserve.

PMCID: PMC1520257
PMID: 18153467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. J Neurosurg. 2007 Dec;107(6 Suppl):474-8. doi: 10.3171/PED-07/12/474.

Monte Carlo simulation of cerebrospinal fluid shunt failure and definition of 
instability among shunt-treated patients with hydrocephalus.

Piatt JH Jr(1), Cosgriff M.

Author information:
(1)Section of Neurosurgery, St. Christopher's Hospital for Children, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19134-1095, USA. jhp23@drexel.edu

OBJECT: The authors undertook the present study to estimate the number of 
operations that patients with hydrocephalus will require within 10 years of 
diagnosis based on published survival data for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunts.
METHODS: Survival data for CSF shunts from several previously published sources 
were formatted as life tables spanning a 10-year period in monthly intervals. 
The monthly sequence of fractions of shunts failing was taken as the basis for a 
Monte Carlo simulation. Month by month for each virtual patient the computer 
simulation called up a random number between 0 and 1. If the random number was 
greater than the fraction of shunts failing in that monthly interval, the shunt 
survived. If the random number was less than or equal to the fraction of shunts 
failing in that interval, the shunt failed. When a virtual patient's shunt 
failed, that patient was returned to the first interval in the life table and 
began again. For every virtual patient this process continued for 120 months, 
and the number of shunt operations during the 10-year epoch was counted. 
Probability distributions were estimated for numbers of shunt operations. 
Expected numbers of shunt operations were calculated, as were the 95th and 99th 
percentiles.
RESULTS: Four sources of CSF shunt survival data were used. Expected numbers of 
shunt operations ranged between 2.43 and 3.93 over 10 years. Estimated 95th 
percentiles ranged between five and 11, and estimated 99th percentiles ranged 
between eight and 15.
CONCLUSIONS: New patients with hydrocephalus can expect to undergo between two 
and four operations for insertion or revision of CSF shunts in the first 10 
years after diagnosis. Patients who undergo more than 15 shunt operations in 10 
years are statistical outliers. A focused study of such patients may yield 
useful suggestions for complication avoidance and improvement in the quality of 
life of children with hydrocephalus.

DOI: 10.3171/PED-07/12/474
PMID: 18154016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Pharmacogenomics. 2008 Jan;9(1):1-4. doi: 10.2217/14622416.9.1.1.

Towards an economic evidence base for pharmacogenetics: consideration of 
outcomes is key.

Payne K.

DOI: 10.2217/14622416.9.1.1
PMID: 18154442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Obes Rev. 2008 Jan;9(1):87. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2007.00398.x.

Aulus Cornelius Celsus and his pre-modern patho-physiologic notions on 
obesity-associated morbidity and mortality.

Kefalas N, Boriani F, Bellezza E, Bruschi S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2007.00398.x
PMID: 18154606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Am J Surg. 2008 Feb;195(2):221-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2007.02.026.

Factors influencing survival after bypass procedures in patients with advanced 
pancreatic adenocarcinomas.

Müller MW(1), Friess H, Köninger J, Martin D, Wente MN, Hinz U, Ceyhan GO, Blaha 
P, Kleeff J, Büchler MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University of Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 
110, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Patients with occult metastasis or locally nonresectable pancreatic 
cancer found during surgical exploration have a limited life expectancy. We 
sought to define markers in these patients that could predict survival and thus 
aid decision making for selection of the most appropriate therapeutic palliative 
option.
METHODS: In a prospective 4-year single-center study, 136 consecutive patients 
with obstructive pancreatic cancer and intraoperative diagnosis of nonresectable 
or disseminated pancreatic cancer underwent a palliative surgical bypass 
procedure. Potential factors predicting survival were evaluated.
RESULTS: Ninety-eight patients had metastatic disease and 38 locally advanced 
disease. Surgical morbidity rate was 16 %, re-operation rate 1%, and overall 
in-hospital mortality 4%. Univariate analysis showed American Society of 
Anesthesiologists (ASA) score, pain, operation time, presence of metastasis, and 
levels of leukocytes, albumin, C-reactive protein (CRP), carcinoembryonic 
antigen (CEA), and carbohydrate antigen (CA) 19-9 were associated significantly 
with survival. The multivariate analysis identified ASA score, presence of liver 
metastasis, pain, CA 19-9, and CEA levels as independent indicators for poor 
survival. Patients with none or 1 of these risk factors had a median survival of 
13.5 months, whereas patients with 4 or 5 risk factors had a median survival of 
3.5 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical markers identified predict poor outcome for patients 
with palliative bypass surgery and therefore aid the appropriate selection of 
either surgical bypass or endoscopic stenting in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2007.02.026
PMID: 18154768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Pediatr. 2008 Jan;152(1):15-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2007.09.045. Epub 2007
Nov  19.

Prevalence, neonatal characteristics, and first-year mortality of Down syndrome: 
a national study.

Weijerman ME(1), van Furth AM, Vonk Noordegraaf A, van Wouwe JP, Broers CJ, 
Gemke RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Infectious Diseases, VU University Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. weijerman@vumc.nl

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2008 Jan;152(1):3-4.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the prevalence, neonatal characteristics, and first-year 
mortality in Down syndrome (DS) among children in The Netherlands.
STUDY DESIGN: The number of DS births registered by the Dutch Paediatric 
Surveillance Unit (DPSU) in 2003 was compared with total live births (reference 
population) and perinatal registrations.
RESULTS: The prevalence of DS was 16 per 10,000 live births. Compared with the 
reference population, the 182 children with trisomy 21 had a gestational age of 
38 weeks versus 39.1 weeks (P < .001), a birth weight of 3119 g versus 3525 g in 
males (P < .001) and 2901 g versus 3389 g in females (P < .001), and mothers 
with a parity of > or = 4.17% versus 5% (P < .001) and a mean age of 33.6 years 
versus 31 years (P < .001) and 33% (n = 54) > or = 36 years). The mean age of DS 
diagnosis was 10.2 days in nonhospital deliveries and 1.8 days in hospital 
deliveries (P < .001). Children with DS were less often breast-fed (P < .05), 
and 86% (n = 156) were hospitalized after birth. Neonatal and infant mortality 
were higher in DS, 1.65% versus 0.36% (P < .02) and 4% versus 0.48% (P < 0.001), 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of DS in The Netherlands exceeds previously reported 
levels and is influenced by the mother's age. Neonatal and infant DS mortality 
have declined, but still exceed those in the reference population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2007.09.045
PMID: 18154890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Pediatr. 2008 Jan;152(1):20-4, 24.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2007.07.045.
Epub  2007 Oct 22.

Is Down syndrome a disappearing birth defect?

Collins VR(1), Muggli EE, Riley M, Palma S, Halliday JL.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Genetics, Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Royal 
Children's Hospital, Victoria, Australia. veronica.collins@mcri.edu.au

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2008 Jan;152(1):3-4.
    J Pediatr. 2008 Nov;153(5):728; author reply 728-9.

OBJECTIVE: To assess trends in the prevalence of Down syndrome (DS) from 1986 to 
2004 in Victoria, Australia (population approximately 5 million).
STUDY DESIGN: The Victorian Birth Defects Register and the Prenatal Diagnosis 
Database were linked to ascertain all cases of DS. Total and birth prevalence 
estimates were calculated per year and presented as 3-year moving averages.
RESULTS: The total number of cases of DS increased from 113 in 1986 to 188 in 
2004. The number of births declined over the first decade of the study, 
particularly in younger women, but total numbers have fluctuated between 45 and 
60 births since 1996. In women under age 35 years, total prevalence was 
10/10,000 until 1997 and then increased to 12.5/10,000. In older women, total 
prevalence increased from 70/10,000 to 90/10,000 in this time frame. Birth 
prevalence declined at first but remained relatively stable in the later years 
of the study. The proportion of cases diagnosed prenatally increased from 3% to 
60% in younger women.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrate the continuing need to devote resources to 
support individuals with DS and their families.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2007.07.045
PMID: 18154892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. J Emerg Med. 2008 Oct;35(3):277-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2007.07.019.
Epub  2007 Dec 26.

Subdural empyema complicating sinusitis.

Waseem M(1), Khan S, Bomann S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center, 
Bronx, New York 10451, USA.

Acute sinusitis is a common childhood illness most often involving the ethmoid 
and maxillary sinuses. Diagnosis is usually based on a history of an upper 
respiratory tract infection lasting longer than 7 days with a prominent nasal 
component. Treatment involves 10-14 days of antibiotics. Intracranial 
complications of pediatric sinusitis are rare, but potentially life-threatening. 
These include cavernous sinus thrombosis, orbital and intracranial extension, 
and meningitis. Children with these complications may experience significant 
morbidity from their infection. In such cases, delay in diagnosis and treatment 
may lead to irreparable brain damage or death. We report a case of sinusitis 
causing a subdural empyema in an otherwise healthy immunocompetent adolescent 
boy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2007.07.019
PMID: 18155385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Brain Behav Immun. 2008 Jul;22(5):727-35. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2007.10.014.
Epub  2007 Dec 21.

Female temperament, tumor development and life span: relation to glucocorticoid 
and tumor necrosis factor alpha levels in rats.

Cavigelli SA(1), Bennett JM, Michael KC, Klein LC.

Author information:
(1)Biobehavioral Health Department, 315 Health & Human Development-East, 
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 16802, USA. sac34@psu.edu

Behavioral characteristics closely associated with specific physiological 
profiles present an important area of research in understanding health 
disparities. In particular, glucocorticoid overproduction may be an important 
factor moderating disease progression; natural variance in production of this 
steroid has been proposed as one mechanism underlying individual differences in 
health and disease. In the current paper, we examined immune parameters in 
female rats of two different behavioral types previously shown to have 
differential glucocorticoid production and life spans. We categorized young 
female rats according to their behavioral response to novelty (high- or 
low-locomotion), and compared their glucocorticoid production, adrenal size, 
thymus size, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) production, tumor 
development and life span. As expected, high-locomotion females produced more 
glucocorticoids and had larger adrenal glands during young adulthood than did 
low-locomotion females. High-locomotion females had significantly smaller 
thymuses and reduced TNF-alpha levels compared to low-locomotion, suggesting 
altered immune function in young adulthood. Finally, high-locomotion females had 
shorter life spans than did low-locomotion females, and this was particularly 
true in females that developed pituitary tumors, but not in those that developed 
mammary tumors. These results, along with other published findings, suggest that 
high-locomotion rodent females experience life-long elevations in glucocorticoid 
responses to novelty, and that these elevated levels may be comparable to 
chronic stress. This naturally occurring endocrine profile may influence immune 
responses which in turn could affect disease susceptibility. Variance in immune 
function across personality types may be partially moderated by natural variance 
in glucocorticoid production.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2007.10.014
PMCID: PMC2505339
PMID: 18155400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Gend Med. 2007;4 Suppl B:S147-61. doi: 10.1016/s1550-8579(07)80055-6.

Integrating a gender dimension into osteoporosis and fracture risk research.

Geusens P(1), Dinant G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine/Rheumatology, University Hospital, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. piet.geusens@scarlet.be

BACKGROUND: Sex (referring to the strict biological sense) and gender (referring 
to the sociocultural dimension) are major determinants of health and disease.
OBJECTIVE: This review examines similarities and differences between the sexes 
in the prevalence of osteoporosis and fractures, bone- and fall-related risk 
factors for incident fractures, and the possibilities of fracture prevention, as 
well as gender differences in the perception of osteoporosis.
METHODS: We reviewed recent English-language publications on sex and gender 
differences in the context of osteoporosis and fracture risk. We refer to 
several reviews that provide extensive reference lists on the topics discussed.
RESULTS: The incidence of fractures is higher in boys than in girls. The burden 
of fractures in adults increases with age, and it starts earlier and is higher 
in adult women than in adult men. With life expectancy increasing, the annual 
number of fractures is likely to increase substantially. Fractures in adults 
contribute to increased mortality (more in men than in women), increased 
morbidity (equal in men and women), and high costs (greater for women than for 
men). Adult men experience fewer fractures than women do. Men build larger bones 
with better microarchitecture while they are growing and thereafter have less 
increase in bone remodeling. Furthermore, they develop bone loss at a later age. 
Compared with their female counterparts, fewer older men are hypogonadic, and 
life expectancy is shorter for men than for women. There are multiple reasons 
for the differences in the incidences of fractures between men and women, 
related to the many factors associated with both bone and falls that influence 
fracture risk from the molecular and cellular level to the organ level. Sex 
hormones play a central and essential role in the physiology of bone by direct 
and indirect mechanisms (eg, by interfering with the growth hormone and 
insulin-like growth factor-1 axis). Case-finding strategies to identify patients 
at highest risk for fractures, including bone densitometry and clinical risk 
factors, are much better documented at the population level in women than in 
men. Drug therapies that reduce the risk of a broad spectrum of fractures, even 
in the short term, are more clearly demonstrated in randomized controlled 
studies in women than in men. Drug therapy is more widely available for women 
with osteoporosis,but it is rarely given to men with osteoporosis. Differences 
in the perception of osteoporosis between men and women are even less well 
documented.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, osteoporosis is underdiagnosed and undertreated in 
women but even more so in men, and is related to limits in the patient's and the 
physician's awareness at all clinical stages, from case finding to compliance 
with and persistence of therapy. Furthermore, the lay perception of a healthy 
lifestyle, the level of social isolation, networking within the health care 
system, and opportunities for screening appear to contribute to gender 
differences in participating in osteoporosis prevention and therapy. These 
aspects of health care deserve further attention and research.

DOI: 10.1016/s1550-8579(07)80055-6
PMID: 18156100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Bacteriol. 2008 Mar;190(5):1561-7. doi: 10.1128/JB.01497-07. Epub 2007 Dec
21.

Genetic evidence for the actin homolog gene mreBH and the bacitracin resistance 
gene bcrC as targets of the alternative sigma factor SigI of Bacillus subtilis.

Tseng CL(1), Shaw GC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Life Science, 
National Yang-Ming University, Taipei 112, Taiwan.

The Bacillus subtilis sigI gene, which is a member of the class VI heat shock 
genes of the B. subtilis heat shock stimulon, encodes an alternative sigma 
factor whose regulon is poorly defined. In this study, by using a binary vector 
system, we showed that B. subtilis SigI could drive expression of a 
transcriptional fusion between the sigI regulatory region from Bacillus 
licheniformis, Bacillus sp. strain NRRL B-14911, B. subtilis, or Bacillus 
thuringiensis and the xylE reporter gene in B. subtilis. The transcriptional 
initiation sites of these fusions in B. subtilis were mapped by primer extension 
analyses. A putative consensus promoter sequence probably recognized by the B. 
subtilis SigI was thus deduced. Using a consensus sequence-based search 
procedure, we found putative sigmaI promoters preceding the actin homolog gene 
mreBH and the bacitracin resistance gene bcrC of B. subtilis. Overexpression of 
the B. subtilis sigI gene could specifically stimulate expression of both an 
mreBH promoter region-bgaB fusion and a bcrC promoter region-bgaB fusion. 
Expression of these two fusions at the amyE locus of the B. subtilis chromosome 
was heat inducible and SigI dependent as revealed by sigI gene disruption 
experiments. Primer extension analysis showed that the identified mreBH and bcrC 
transcriptional start sites were at appropriate distances from their sigmaI 
promoter elements. This further supports the notion that SigI can directly 
regulate mreBH and bcrC expression. Taken together, these results strongly 
suggest that mreBH and bcrC are new members of the SigI regulon.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01497-07
PMCID: PMC2258693
PMID: 18156261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Schizophr Bull. 2008 Nov;34(6):1024-32. doi: 10.1093/schbul/sbm140. Epub
2007  Dec 21.

Is schizophrenia a syndrome of accelerated aging?

Kirkpatrick B(1), Messias E, Harvey PD, Fernandez-Egea E, Bowie CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Health Behavior, Medical College of Georgia, 
Augusta, GA, USA. bkirkpatrick2@aol.com

Schizophrenia is associated with a number of anatomical and physiological 
abnormalities outside of the brain, as well as with a decrease in average life 
span estimated at 20% in the United States. Some studies suggest that this 
increased mortality is not entirely due to associated causes such as suicide and 
the use of psychotropic medications. In this article, in order to focus greater 
attention on the increased mortality associated with schizophrenia, we present a 
special case of the hypothesis that physiological abnormalities associated with 
schizophrenia make a contribution to the increased mortality of schizophrenia: 
specifically, the hypothesis that schizophrenia is a syndrome of accelerated 
aging. Evidence consistent with this hypothesis comes from several areas. The 
biological plausibility of the hypothesis is supported by the existence of 
established syndromes of accelerated aging and by the sharing of risk factors 
between schizophrenia and other age-related conditions. We propose methods for 
testing the hypothesis.

DOI: 10.1093/schbul/sbm140
PMCID: PMC2632500
PMID: 18156637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2007 Oct;17(10):1708-11.

Heterogeneous rRNA molecules encoded by Streptomyces coelicolor M145 genome are 
all expressed and assembled into ribosomes.

Kim HL(1), Shin E, Kim HM, Go H, Roh J, Bae J, Lee K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Pochon CHA University, 
Seongnam, Korea.

The Streptomyces coelicolor M145 genome harbors six copies of divergent rRNA 
operons that differ at ~0.2% and ~0.6% of the nucleotide positions in small 
subunit (SSU) and large subunit (LSU) rRNA genes, respectively. When these rRNA 
genes are expressed, a single cell may harbor three different kinds of SSU rRNA 
and five kinds of LSU rRNA. Primer extension analyses revealed that all of the 
heterogeneous rRNA molecules are expressed and assembled into ribosomes. This 
finding and the maintenance of the intragenomic variability of rRNA operons 
imply the existence of functional divergence of rRNA species in this 
developmentally complex microorganism.

PMID: 18156790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Cell Cycle. 2007 Dec 15;6(24):2997-3003. doi: 10.4161/cc.6.24.5124. Epub
2007  Oct 4.

Paradoxes of aging.

Blagosklonny MV(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Center, Ordway Research Institute, 150 New Scotland Ave., Albany, New 
York 12208, USA. blagosklonny@oncotarget

Insightful articles by Kirkwood and other outstanding scientists reveal 
paradoxes of aging. The source of paradoxes is an assumption that aging is 
caused by random, cumulative molecular damage. Here I demonstrate that a concept 
of TOR-driven program-like aging almost automatically resolves eleven paradoxes 
of aging. This article discusses why the accumulation of molecular damage does 
not limit life span, why calorie restriction and inhibition of protein synthesis 
extend life span, why the non-existing 'program' for aging is nevertheless 
robust, why a key gene for aging cannot be found by knocking it out, why low 
insulin is associated with good health but low insulin response with bad health, 
why aging is not a disease but can be treated as a disease, why 'healthy' aging 
is slow aging, and how we know that calorie restriction actually slows aging in 
humans.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.6.24.5124
PMID: 18156807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Eur J Health Econ. 2008 Jan;8 Suppl 2:S49-60. doi:
10.1007/s10198-007-0088-8.

The burden of rheumatoid arthritis and access to treatment: health burden and 
costs.

Lundkvist J(1), Kastäng F, Kobelt G.

Author information:
(1)i3innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. jonas.lundqvist@i3innovus.com

As part of the study "The burden of rheumatoid arthritis and patient access to 
treatment", this paper reviews evidence on the health burden of rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) in terms of morbidity (DALYs), mortality (% of deaths 
attributable to RA) and quality of life (utility and loss of QALYs), as well as 
the economic impact on society. Based on available literature on the prevalence 
and the cost of RA, combined with economic indicators, the annual cost per 
patient as well as the total national cost is estimated for Europe and North 
America (Canada and the United States), as well as Australia, Turkey, the 
Russian Federation and South Africa. Total costs to society were estimated at 
<euro>45.3 billion in Europe and at <euro>41.6 billion in the United States. 
Utility scores were found to be amongst the lowest compared to other diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-007-0088-8
PMID: 18157732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Feb;24(2):385-99. doi: 10.1185/030079908x253852.

Cost effectiveness of duloxetine in the treatment of diabetic peripheral 
neuropathic pain in the UK.

Beard SM(1), McCrink L, Le TK, Garcia-Cebrian A, Monz B, Malik RA.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Manchester, UK. sbeard@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of duloxetine when considered as an additional treatment option for UK-based 
patients suffering from diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A decision-analytic model was used to represent the 
sequential management of patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain. The 
standard UK treatment strategy was defined as first-line tricyclic 
antidepressants (amitriptyline), second-line anticonvulsants (gabapentin) and 
lastly an opioid-related treatment. The cost-effectiveness of duloxetine was 
evaluated as an additional first, second, third or fourth-line therapy over a 
6-month treatment period for a cohort of 1000 patients. Treatment response was 
modelled based on changes from baseline pain severity using a standard 11-point 
pain scale (0-10); full response (>or= 50% change), partial response (30-49%) 
and no response (< 30%). The model was populated with efficacy and 
discontinuation data using indirect comparisons of treatment efficacy based on 
relative effects to a common placebo comparator.
RESULTS: The second-line use of duloxetine resulted in cost savings of pound 
77,071 for every 1000 treated patients, with an additional 29 patients achieving 
a full pain response when compared to standard UK treatment. Additional 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were achieved at 1.88 QALYs per 1000 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This UK-based economic model suggests that second-line use of 
duloxetine is a beneficial and cost-effective treatment strategy for diabetic 
peripheral neuropathic pain.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x253852
PMID: 18157921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Epilepsy Behav. 2008 May;12(4):557-71. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2007.11.013.
Epub  2007 Dec 26.

Quality-of-life trajectories in epilepsy: a review of the literature.

Jacoby A(1), Baker GA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health, University of Liverpool, UK. ajacoby@liv.ac.uk

The potential psychosocial sequelae of epilepsy are well-documented, but it 
cannot be assumed that trajectories for quality of life (QOL) of people with 
epilepsy will inevitably follow its clinical course. In this article, we draw on 
available literature to suggest likely QOL trajectories associated with epilepsy 
and the broad range of disease-, patient-, and other-focused factors that appear 
important in determining them. We conclude that both the likely shape and time 
frame for QOL trajectories associated with particular clinical scenarios can be 
delineated, but that their shape can be altered by a much wider range of factors 
than those represented as epilepsy disease progression. We identify contributory 
factors currently relatively unexplored and highlight implications for treatment 
and areas for future research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2007.11.013
PMID: 18158270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Med Teach. 2007 Nov;29(9):882-6. doi: 10.1080/01421590701821695.

Challenges and issues in health professions education in Africa.

Burdick W(1).
