sloping relationship between dBs of visual field loss and QALY decrements. QALY 
losses accumulate slowly at first and then increase at an accelerating rate 
following an MD of approximately -10 dBs. This relationship is consistent with 
recent empirical findings reporting minimal QALY losses associated with small 
visual field defects.

DOI: 10.1080/01658100701473267
PMID: 17896306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Neurosci Res. 2008 Feb 15;86(3):544-52. doi: 10.1002/jnr.21510.

Increased expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and anomalous neurites in 
catecholaminergic neurons of ATF-2 null mice.

Kojima M(1), Suzuki T, Maekawa T, Ishii S, Sumi-Ichinose C, Nomura T, Ichinose 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Graduate School of Bioscience and Biotechnology, 
Tokyo Institute of Technology, Yokohama, Japan.

ATF-2/CRE-BP1 was originally identified as a cAMP-responsive element (CRE) 
binding protein abundant in the brain. We previously reported that 
phosphorylation of ATF-2 increased the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), 
which is the rate-limiting enzyme for catecholamine biosynthesis, directly 
acting on the CRE in the promoter region of the TH gene in PC12D cells (Suzuki 
et al. [2002] J. Biol. Chem. 277:40768-40774). To examine the role of ATF-2 on 
transcriptional control of the TH gene in the brain, we investigated the TH 
expression in ATF-2-/- mice. We found that TH expression was greatly increased 
in medulla oblongata and locus ceruleus of the ATF-2-deficient embryos. Ectopic 
expression of TH was observed in the raphe magnus nucleus, where serotonergic 
neural cell bodies are located. Interestingly, A10 dorsal neurons were lost in 
the embryos of ATF-2-/- mice. There was no difference in the TH immunoreactivity 
in the olfactory bulb. The data showed that alteration in TH expression by 
absence of ATF-2 gradually declined from caudal to rostral part of the brain. We 
also found anomalous neurite extension in catecholaminergic neurons of ATF-2 
null mice, i.e., increased dendritic arborization and shortened axons. These 
data suggest that ATF-2 plays critical roles for proper expression of the TH 
gene and for neurite extension of catecholaminergic neurons, possibly through a 
repressor-like action.

(c) 2007 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jnr.21510
PMID: 17896792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Drugs Aging. 2007;24(10):829-50. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200724100-00004.

Treatment strategies in elderly patients with multiple myeloma: current status.

Quach H(1), Prince HM, Mileshkin L.

Author information:
(1)Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre and University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.

Multiple myeloma (MM), a plasma cell malignancy, is a disorder of the elderly 
with an increasing prevalence as the average life expectancy increases. Survival 
remains unacceptably low in elderly patients with MM, in whom the gold standard 
of treatment has been, until recently, oral melphalan and prednisolone, which 
induces a response rate of approximately 50% and overall survival of <3 years. 
In the last 15 years, traditional treatment paradigms for elderly patients with 
MM have been challenged not only as a result of the change in what we define as 
'elderly' but also as a result of the reduced morbidity and treatment-related 
mortality associated with high-dose chemoradiotherapy (HDT) and autologous stem 
cell transplantation (ASCT), and the emergence of novel therapies including 
thalidomide, its immunomodulator drug derivative lenalidomide and the 
first-in-class proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib. In this review, we examine 
currently available data regarding the treatment of MM in the elderly 
population. Recent years have seen a paradigm shift in the standard of care of 
elderly patients with MM from oral melphalan and prednisolone to approaches 
including HDT with ASCT using intermediate-dose melphalan in selected elderly 
patients, and the evaluation of and incorporation of drugs such as thalidomide, 
bortezomib and lenalidomide. Importantly, we now have been able to change the 
traditional goal of palliation in the elderly group of patients to a more 
ambitious objective of achieving a complete response or a near complete 
response, in the hope that this will translate into improved progression-free 
survival, overall survival and quality of life.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200724100-00004
PMID: 17896832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Drugs Aging. 2007;24(10):851-63. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200724100-00005.

Individualising therapy for older adults with diabetes mellitus.

Cayea D(1), Boyd C, Durso SC.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21224, USA.

The goal when treating patients with diabetes mellitus is to achieve the maximum 
longevity consistent with an optimal quality of life. To achieve this goal, 
treatment is typically focused on management of hyperglycaemic symptoms and 
prevention of microvascular and macrovascular complications. While appropriate 
for most individuals, including many older adults with robust health, this focus 
is often too limited for older adults facing diminished life expectancy and 
co-existing medical illness, frailty and disability. Creating a treatment plan 
that optimises health and function, and reduces the risk for morbidity and 
mortality, requires individualised therapy that judiciously manages symptoms and 
multiple competing health risks while remaining consistent with the patient's or 
his/her caregiver's healthcare preferences. Physicians caring for older adults 
with diabetes must be adept at recognising conditions commonly associated with 
diabetes, including the interplay with co-morbid illness, and be able to assess 
the patient's health status and use this information to recommend a treatment 
plan that is consistent with the patient's personal goals for care. The majority 
of older adults with diabetes will benefit from management of cardiovascular 
risk, including intensive management of hypertension, lipids, use of aspirin 
(acetylsalicylic acid) and smoking cessation, and screening for common geriatric 
syndromes. For a significant minority of older adults with life expectancy of 
>or=10 years, it is reasonable to consider intensive management of 
hyperglycaemia (glycosylated haemoglobin [HbA1c] target<or=7%). For frail older 
adults with life expectancy of <or=5 years, strategies for reducing medical 
burden, improving function and moderate glucose control (HbA1c approximately 8%) 
is reasonable and sufficient to control hyperglycaemic symptoms.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200724100-00005
PMID: 17896833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. PLoS Med. 2007 Sep;4(9):e284. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0040284.

Optimal management of high-risk T1G3 bladder cancer: a decision analysis.

Kulkarni GS(1), Finelli A, Fleshner NE, Jewett MA, Lopushinsky SR, Alibhai SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgical Oncology, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2008 Aug;5(8):414-5.

BACKGROUND: Controversy exists about the most appropriate treatment for 
high-risk superficial (stage T1; grade G3) bladder cancer. Immediate cystectomy 
offers the best chance for survival but may be associated with an impaired 
quality of life compared with conservative therapy. We estimated life expectancy 
(LE) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) for both of these treatments 
for men and women of different ages and comorbidity levels.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We evaluated two treatment strategies for high-risk, T1G3 
bladder cancer using a decision-analytic Markov model: (1) Immediate cystectomy 
with neobladder creation versus (2) conservative management with intravesical 
bacillus Calmette-GuÃ©rin (BCG) and delayed cystectomy in individuals with 
resistant or progressive disease. Probabilities and utilities were derived from 
published literature where available, and otherwise from expert opinion. 
Extensive sensitivity analyses were conducted to identify variables most likely 
to influence the decision. Structural sensitivity analyses modifying the base 
case definition and the triggers for cystectomy in the conservative therapy arm 
were also explored. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to assess the 
joint uncertainty of all variables simultaneously and the uncertainty in the 
base case results. External validation of model outputs was performed by 
comparing model-predicted survival rates with independent published literature. 
The mean LE of a 60-y-old male was 14.3 y for immediate cystectomy and 13.6 y 
with conservative management. With the addition of utilities, the immediate 
cystectomy strategy yielded a mean QALE of 12.32 y and remained preferred over 
conservative therapy by 0.35 y. Worsening patient comorbidity diminished the 
benefit of early cystectomy but altered the LE-based preferred treatment only 
for patients over age 70 y and the QALE-based preferred treatment for patients 
over age 65 y. Sensitivity analyses revealed that patients over the age of 70 y 
or those strongly averse to loss of sexual function, gastrointestinal 
dysfunction, or life without a bladder have a higher QALE with conservative 
therapy. The results of structural or probabilistic sensitivity analyses did not 
change the preferred treatment option. Model-predicted overall and 
disease-specific survival rates were similar to those reported in published 
studies, suggesting external validity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model is, to our knowledge, the first of its kind in bladder 
cancer, and demonstrated that younger patients with high-risk T1G3 bladder had a 
higher LE and QALE with immediate cystectomy. The decision to pursue immediate 
cystectomy versus conservative therapy should be based on discussions that 
consider patient age, comorbid status, and an individual's preference for 
particular postcystectomy health states. Patients over the age of 70 y or those 
who place high value on sexual function, gastrointestinal function, or bladder 
preservation may benefit from a more conservative initial therapeutic approach.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0040284
PMCID: PMC1989749
PMID: 17896857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: MASJ is a consultant to and 
investigator with Viventia Biotech Inc, Bioniche Inc.


307. J Appl Microbiol. 2007 Oct;103(4):1170-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03337.x.

Whey-cheese production using freeze-dried kefir culture as a starter.

Dimitrellou D(1), Kourkoutas Y, Banat IM, Marchant R, Koutinas AA.

Author information:
(1)Food Biotechnology Group, Section of Analytical Environmental and Applied 
Chemistry, Department of Chemistry, University of Patras, Patras, Greece.

AIMS: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the use of a freeze-dried 
kefir culture in the production of a novel type of whey-cheese similar to 
traditional Greek Myzithra-cheese, to achieve improvement of the quality 
characteristics of the final product and the extension of shelf-life.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The use of kefir culture as a starter led to increased 
lactic acid concentrations and decreased pH values in the final product compared 
with whey-cheese without starter culture. The effect of the starter culture on 
production of aroma-related compounds responsible for cheese flavour was also 
studied using the solid phase microextraction gas chromatography/mass 
spectrometry technique. Spoilage in unsalted kefir-whey-cheese was observed on 
the thirteenth and the twentieth day of preservation at 10 and 5 degrees C, 
respectively, while the corresponding times for unsalted whey-cheese 
preservation were 11 and 14 days.
CONCLUSIONS: The cheeses produced were characterized as high-quality products 
during the preliminary sensory evaluation. An indication of increased 
preservation time was attributed to the freeze-dried kefir culture, which also 
seemed to suppress growth of pathogens.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The results suggested the use of kefir 
culture as a means to extend the shelf-life of dairy products with reduced or no 
salt content.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2007.03337.x
PMID: 17897222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Oct 2;104(40):15589-90. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0707463104. Epub 2007 Sep 26.

Sizing up life and death.

Niklas KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA. 
kjn2@cornell.edu

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Oct 2;104(40):15777-80.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0707463104
PMCID: PMC2000428
PMID: 17898167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author declares no conflict of interest.


309. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2007 Oct 2;104(40):15799-804. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0705908104. Epub 2007 Sep 26.

Trait changes in a harvested population are driven by a dynamic tug-of-war 
between natural and harvest selection.

Edeline E(1), Carlson SM, Stige LC, Winfield IJ, Fletcher JM, James JB, Haugen 
TO, VÃ¸llestad LA, Stenseth NC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Ecological and Evolutionary Synthesis, Department of Biology, 
University of Oslo, P.O. Box 1066 Blindern, 0316 Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    Trends Ecol Evol. 2008 Mar;23(3):117-8.

Selective harvest of large individuals should alter natural adaptive landscapes 
and drive evolution toward reduced somatic growth and increased reproductive 
investment. However, few studies have simultaneously considered the relative 
importance of artificial and natural selection in driving trait changes in wild 
populations. Using 50 years of individual-based data on Windermere pike (Esox 
lucius), we show that trait changes tracked the adaptive peak, which moved in 
the direction imposed by the dominating selective force. Individual lifetime 
somatic growth decreased at the start of the time series because harvest 
selection was strong and natural selection was too weak to override the strength 
of harvest selection. However, natural selection favoring fast somatic growth 
strengthened across the time series in parallel with the increase in pike 
abundance and, presumably, cannibalism. Harvest selection was overridden by 
natural selection when the fishing effort dwindled, triggering a rapid increase 
in pike somatic growth. The two selective forces appear to have acted in concert 
during only one short period of prey collapse that favored slow-growing pike. 
Moreover, increased somatic growth occurred concurrently with a reduction in 
reproductive investment in young and small female pike, indicating a tradeoff 
between growth and reproduction. The age-specific amplitude of this change 
paralleled the age-specific strength of harvest pressure, suggesting that 
reduced investment was also a response to increased life expectancy. This is the 
first study to demonstrate that a consideration of both natural selection and 
artificial selection is needed to fully explain time-varying trait dynamics in 
harvested populations.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0705908104
PMCID: PMC2000386
PMID: 17898170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


310. Ther Drug Monit. 2007 Oct;29(5):612-8. doi: 10.1097/FTD.0b013e31811f3af6.

Monitoring gene therapy by external imaging of mRNA: pilot study on murine 
erythropoietin.

Segura J(1), Fillat C, Andreu D, Llop J, Millan O, de la Torre BG, Nikolovski Z, 
Gomez V, Andreu N, Pinyot A, Castelo R, Gispert JD, Pascual JA.

Author information:
(1)Institut Municipal d'InvestigaciÃ³ MÃ¨dica IMIM-Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, 
Spain. jsegura@imim.es

Gene therapy is anticipated as being an important medical development. Essential 
to its effectiveness is the appropriate activity (protein expression) in the 
expected target cells. A noninvasive diagnostic procedure of successful gene 
expression will be of paramount importance to validate its use or its misuse 
(eg, sports gene doping). Externally detectable labeled oligonucleotide 
hybridizing with the messenger RNA generated by the transferred gene has been 
proposed as a possibility to monitor successful gene therapy. The authors 
selected the erythropoietin gene (Epo) for a pilot study on erythropoietin 
protein expression in mouse muscle. Oligonucleotides of peptide nucleic acid 
(PNA) type capable of antisense binding to unique murine Epo-mRNA sequences were 
synthesized by solid phase methods, and elongated at the N-terminus with the HIV 
Tat (48-60) cell penetrating peptide. They were labeled with fluorescence and 
radioactive tags to verify penetration and longer half-life properties in Epo 
gene transfected C2C12 mouse muscle cells as compared with corresponding 
wild-type cells. Downregulation of newly expressed erythropoietin protein in 
such cells additionally confirmed the penetration and hybridizing properties of 
the selected labeled oligonucleotide. I-labeled Tat-PNAs were intravenously 
injected into mice that had previously received the Epo gene into the right 
tibialis muscle by DNA electrotransfer. Preferential accumulation of 
radioactivity in the transferred limb as compared with the contralateral limb 
was ascertained, especially for I-Tat-CTA CGT AGA CCA CT (labeled Tat-PNA 1). 
This study provides experimental data to support the potential use of external 
noninvasive image detection to monitor gene therapy. The extension of the 
approach to more sensitive methods for whole-body external detection such as 
positron emission tomography appears feasible.

DOI: 10.1097/FTD.0b013e31811f3af6
PMID: 17898652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2007 Sep 28;56(38):993-6.

State-specific prevalence of cigarette smoking among adults and quitting among 
persons aged 18-35 years--United States, 2006.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Each year, cigarette smoking in the United States causes approximately 438,000 
deaths and results in an estimated $167 billion in health-care costs plus lost 
productivity attributed to premature deaths. Although smoking cessation has 
major and immediate health benefits for persons of all ages, the benefit is 
greater the earlier in life a person quits. Persons who quit before the age of 
35 years have a life expectancy similar to that of those who never smoked. To 
assess the prevalence of current smoking among all adults and among those aged 
18-35 years, and to assess the proportion of smokers aged 18-35 years who have 
quit or attempted to quit, CDC analyzed state and area data from the 2006 
Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) survey. This report 
summarizes the results of that analysis, which indicated substantial variation 
in current cigarette smoking prevalence among the 50 states, the District of 
Columbia (DC), Puerto Rico (PR), and the U.S. Virgin Islands (USVI) (range: 
9.1%-28.6%). The majority of current smokers aged 18-35 years reported that they 
had attempted to quit smoking during the past year (median: 58.6%; range: 48.0% 
[Nevada] to 69.2% [New Mexico]), and the median proportion of ever smokers aged 
18-35 years who had quit smoking was 34.0% (range: 27.0% [Louisiana] to 47.9% 
[Utah]). Effective, comprehensive tobacco-use prevention and control programs 
should be continued and expanded to further reduce smoking initiation by young 
persons and to encourage cessation as early in life as possible.

PMID: 17898692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Dis Colon Rectum. 2007 Nov;50(11):1811-24. doi: 10.1007/s10350-007-9047-9.
Epub  2007 Sep 27.

Use of colonic stents in emergent malignant left colonic obstruction: a Markov 
chain Monte Carlo decision analysis.

Govindarajan A(1), Naimark D, Coburn NG, Smith AJ, Law CH.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE: This decision analysis examines the cost-effectiveness of colonic 
stenting as a bridge to surgery vs. surgery alone in the management of emergent, 
malignant left colonic obstruction.
METHODS: We used a Markov chain Monte Carlo decision analysis model to determine 
the effect on health-related quality of life of two strategies: emergency 
surgery vs. emergency colonic stenting as a bridge to definitive surgery. All 
relevant health states were modeled during a patient's expected lifespan. 
Outcome measures were mortality, the proportion of patients requiring a 
colostomy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and costs. Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In our model, colonic stenting was more effective (9.2 quality-adjusted 
life months benefit) and less costly (CAD dollars 3,763; US dollars 3,135) than 
emergency surgery. Its benefits were secondary to reductions in acute mortality 
and in the likelihood of requiring a permanent colostomy. The results were only 
dependent on the rate of stenting complications (perforation, technical 
placement failure, and migration) and the patient's risk of surgical mortality, 
with the benefits being greatest among patients at high risk of operative 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Colonic stenting as a bridge to surgery is more effective and less 
costly than surgery in the treatment of emergent, malignant left colonic 
obstruction. The benefits are most pronounced in high-risk patients and are 
diminished by increases in stent placement failure rates and perforation rates. 
In low-risk patients, the benefits are more modest and may not outweigh the 
risks.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-007-9047-9
PMID: 17899279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Rev Prat. 2007 May 31;57(10):1095.

[The outcome, in adulthood, of children treated for cancer].

[Article in French]

Oberlin O(1).

Author information:
(1)Departement de pediatrie, institut Gustav-Roussy, 94805 Villejuif Cedex. 
oberlin@igr.fr

PMID: 17899680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2007 Dec;32(6):926-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2007.08.024. Epub 2007 Sep 27.

Heart-lung and lung transplantation in grown-up congenital heart disease: 
long-term single centre experience.

Goerler H(1), Simon A, Gohrbandt B, Hagl C, Oppelt P, Weidemann J, Haverich A, 
Strueber M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Hannover Medical School, 
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625 Hannover, Germany. goerler.adelheid@mh-hannover.de

OBJECTIVE: Because of considerable progress in paediatric cardiac surgery life 
expectancy of patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) has improved 
significantly over the years. There are a growing number of adults with CHD 
presenting with progressive decline of cardiopulmonary function and 
Eisenmenger's syndrome. We analysed our experience with heart-lung and lung 
transplantation in this patient group.
METHODS: Since 1988, a total of 46 heart-lung transplantations and 5 double lung 
transplantations have been performed in adults with CHD at our institution. 
Underlying diagnoses were: ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect, 
persistent ductus arteriosus and others. Pulmonary hypertension was present in 
all patients. Twelve patients had undergone previous cardiac procedures. All 
patients were included in this retrospective analysis. Mean follow up was 
5.1+/-4.7 years. Patient survival was estimated with the Kaplan-Meier method and 
analysed using the log-rank test.
RESULTS: Thirty-day mortality was 11.8% (n=6). Survival was 80% at 1 year, 69% 
at 5 years and 53% at 10 years. Major causes of death were infection and sepsis, 
chronic rejection, initial graft failure and acute rejection. Compared to the 
overall mortality after lung and heart-lung transplantation for other 
indications at our institution there was no significant difference (1 year, 5 
years, 10 years: 76%; 60%; 45%), but a tendency towards a better long-time 
survival of the CHD patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Lung and heart-lung transplantation can be performed with an 
acceptable risk and a favourable long-term outcome in patients with grown-up 
CHD. Careful patient selection and planning of the surgical strategy is 
essential in this high-risk patient population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2007.08.024
PMID: 17900918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Am J Public Health. 2007 Nov;97(11):2020-7. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.105478.
Epub  2007 Sep 27.

Health and economic benefits of reducing the number of students per classroom in 
US primary schools.

Muennig P(1), Woolf SH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. pm124@columbia.edu

OBJECTIVES: We estimated the costs associated with reducing class sizes in 
kindergarten through grade 3 as well as the effects of small class sizes on 
selected outcomes such as quality-adjusted life-years and future earnings.
METHODS: We used multiple data sets to predict changes in the outcomes assessed 
according to level of educational attainment. We then used a Markov model to 
estimate future costs and benefits incurred and quality-adjusted life-years 
gained per additional high school graduate produced over time.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective (incorporating earnings and health 
outcomes), class-size reductions would generate a net cost savings of 
approximately $168,000 and a net gain of 1.7 quality-adjusted life-years for 
each high school graduate produced by small classes. When targeted to low-income 
students, the estimated savings would increase to $196,000 per additional 
graduate. From a governmental perspective (incorporating public expenditures and 
revenues), the results of reducing class sizes ranged from savings in costs to 
an additional cost of $15000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing class sizes may be more cost-effective than most public 
health and medical interventions.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.105478
PMCID: PMC2040354
PMID: 17901430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Am J Public Health. 2008 Apr;98(4):636-43. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.099598.
Epub  2007 Sep 27.

Costa Rica: achievements of a heterodox health policy.

Unger JP(1), De Paepe P, BuitrÃ³n R, Soors W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Nationalestraat 
155, B-2000 Antwerp, Belgium. jpunger@itg.be

Costa Rica is a middle-income country with a strong governmental emphasis on 
human development. For more than half a century, its health policies have 
applied the principles of equity and solidarity to strengthen access to care 
through public services and universal social health insurance. Costa Rica's 
population measures of health service coverage, health service use, and health 
status are excellent, and in the Americas, life expectancy in Costa Rica is 
second only to that in Canada. Many of these outcomes can be linked to the 
performance of the public health care system. However, the current emphasis of 
international aid organizations on privatization of health services threatens 
the accomplishments and universality of the Costa Rican health care system.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.099598
PMCID: PMC2376989
PMID: 17901439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2007 Nov;13(6):529-36. doi:
10.1097/MCP.0b013e3282f10a16.

Liver disease in cystic fibrosis.

Colombo C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, CF Center, Fondazione IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore 
Policlinico, Mangiagalli e Regina Elena, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. 
carla.colombo@unimi.it

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review highlights recent developments in liver disease 
associated with cystic fibrosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: The broad spectrum of hepatobiliary problems in cystic fibrosis 
includes specific alterations ascribable to the underlying defect as well as 
lesions of iatrogenic origin or that reflect the effects of a disease process 
occurring outside the liver. Focal biliary cirrhosis, resulting from biliary 
obstruction and progressive periportal fibrosis, is the most clinically relevant 
problem, because extension of the initially focal fibrogenic process may lead to 
multilobular biliary cirrhosis, portal hypertension and eventually liver 
failure. Cystic fibrosis associated liver disease is presently classified among 
genetic cholangiopathies and results from lack or dysfunction of the cystic 
fibrosis transmembrane regulator at the apical membrane of bile duct cells. 
Major advances have been achieved regarding characterization of natural history, 
risk factors, diagnostic modalities and treatment options.
SUMMARY: Liver disease is a relatively frequent and early complication of cystic 
fibrosis. The pathogenesis is apparently multifactorial, with contributions from 
environmental and genetic determinants. Its impact on quality of life and 
survival will increase in future years, and its early detection and treatment 
will become increasingly important issues. Ursodeoxycholic acid is the only 
treatment currently available, but novel therapeutic options are being 
evaluated.

DOI: 10.1097/MCP.0b013e3282f10a16
PMID: 17901760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. BMC Med Genet. 2007 Sep 19;8 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S13. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2350-8-S1-S13.

Genetic correlates of longevity and selected age-related phenotypes: a 
genome-wide association study in the Framingham Study.

Lunetta KL(1), D'Agostino RB Sr, Karasik D, Benjamin EJ, Guo CY, Govindaraju R, 
Kiel DP, Kelly-Hayes M, Massaro JM, Pencina MJ, Seshadri S, Murabito JM.

Author information:
(1)The National Heart Lung and Blood Institute's Framingham Heart Study, 
Framingham, MA, USA. klunetta@bu.edu

BACKGROUND: Family studies and heritability estimates provide evidence for a 
genetic contribution to variation in the human life span.
METHODS: We conducted a genome wide association study (Affymetrix 100K SNP 
GeneChip) for longevity-related traits in a community-based sample. We report on 
5 longevity and aging traits in up to 1345 Framingham Study participants from 
330 families. Multivariable-adjusted residuals were computed using appropriate 
models (Cox proportional hazards, logistic, or linear regression) and the 
residuals from these models were used to test for association with qualifying 
SNPs (70, 987 autosomal SNPs with genotypic call rate > or =80%, minor allele 
frequency > or =10%, Hardy-Weinberg test p > or = 0.001).
RESULTS: In family-based association test (FBAT) models, 8 SNPs in two regions 
approximately 500 kb apart on chromosome 1 (physical positions 73,091,610 and 
73, 527,652) were associated with age at death (p-value < 10(-5)). The two sets 
of SNPs were in high linkage disequilibrium (minimum r2 = 0.58). The top 30 SNPs 
for generalized estimating equation (GEE) tests of association with age at death 
included rs10507486 (p = 0.0001) and rs4943794 (p = 0.0002), SNPs intronic to 
FOXO1A, a gene implicated in lifespan extension in animal models. FBAT models 
identified 7 SNPs and GEE models identified 9 SNPs associated with both age at 
death and morbidity-free survival at age 65 including rs2374983 near PON1. In 
the analysis of selected candidate genes, SNP associations (FBAT or GEE p-value 
< 0.01) were identified for age at death in or near the following genes: FOXO1A, 
GAPDH, KL, LEPR, PON1, PSEN1, SOD2, and WRN. Top ranked SNP associations in the 
GEE model for age at natural menopause included rs6910534 (p = 0.00003) near 
FOXO3a and rs3751591 (p = 0.00006) in CYP19A1. Results of all longevity 
phenotype-genotype associations for all autosomal SNPs are web posted at 
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/projects/gap/cgi-bin/study.cgi?id=phs000007 webcite.
CONCLUSION: Longevity and aging traits are associated with SNPs on the 
Affymetrix 100K GeneChip. None of the associations achieved genome-wide 
significance. These data generate hypotheses and serve as a resource for 
replication as more genes and biologic pathways are proposed as contributing to 
longevity and healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2350-8-S1-S13
PMCID: PMC1995604
PMID: 17903295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Health Technol Assess. 2007 Oct;11(38):iii-iv, ix-66. doi: 10.3310/hta11380.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of different models of managing 
long-term oral anticoagulation therapy: a systematic review and economic 
modelling.

Connock M(1), Stevens C, Fry-Smith A, Jowett S, Fitzmaurice D, Moore D, Song F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

Comment in
    ACP J Club. 2008 Mar-Apr;148(2):47.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
self-testing and self-management of oral anticoagulation treatment compared with 
clinic-based monitoring.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases were searched up to September 2005.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review was undertaken of relevant data from 
selected studies. Results about complication events and deaths were pooled in 
meta-analyses using risk difference (RD) as the outcome statistic. Heterogeneity 
across trials and possible publication bias were statistically measured. 
Subgroup analyses (post hoc) were conducted to compare results of self-testing 
versus self-management, low versus high trial quality, trials conducted in the 
UK versus trials in other countries and industry versus other sponsors. A 
Markov-type, state-transition model was developed. Stochastic simulations using 
the model were conducted to investigate uncertainty in estimated model 
parameters.
RESULTS: In the 16 randomised and eight non-randomised trials selected, patient 
self-monitoring of oral anticoagulation therapy was found to be more effective 
than poor-quality usual care provided by family doctors and as effective as 
good-quality specialised anticoagulation clinics in maintaining the quality of 
anticoagulation therapy. There was no significant RD of major bleeding events 
between patient self-monitoring and usual care controls and pooled analyses 
found that compared with primary care or anticoagulation control (AC) clinics, 
self-monitoring was statistically significantly associated with fewer 
thromboembolic events. However, the reduction in complication events and deaths 
was not consistently associated with the improvement of AC; in some trials this 
may be due to alternative explanations, including patient education and patient 
empowerment. Also, the improved AC and the reduction of major complications and 
deaths by patient self-monitoring were mainly observed in trials conducted 
outside the UK. According to UK-specific data, for every 100 eligible patients, 
24% would agree to conduct self-monitoring, 17 of the 24 patients (70%) could be 
successfully trained and able to carry out self-monitoring and only 14 of these 
(80%) would conduct long-term self-monitoring. Seven cost-effectiveness studies 
were identified and the study that provided the most relevant UK data found that 
patient self-management was more expensive than current routine care (417 pounds 
versus 122 pounds per patient-year) and concluded that using a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of 30,000 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained, patient self-management does not appear to be cost-effective. De 
novo modelling for this report found that the incremental cost per QALY gained 
by patient self-monitoring is 122,365 pounds over 5 years and 63,655 pounds over 
10 years. The estimated probability that patient self-monitoring is 
cost-effective (up to 30,000 pounds/QALY) is 44% over a 10-year period. Wide 
adoption of patient self-monitoring of anticoagulation therapy would cost the 
NHS an estimated additional 8-14 million pounds per year.
CONCLUSIONS: For selected and successfully trained patients, self-monitoring is 
effective and safe for long-term oral anticoagulation therapy. In general, 
patient self-management (PSM) is unlikely to be more cost-effective than the 
current specialised anticoagulation clinics in the UK; self-monitoring may 
enhance the quality of life for some patients who are frequently away from home, 
who are in employment or education, or those who find it difficult to travel to 
clinics. Further research is needed into alternative dosing regimes, the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of patient education and training 
in long-term oral anticoagulation therapy, UK-relevant cost-effectiveness, the 
effectiveness of PSM in children, and the potential future developments of 
near-patient testing devices.

DOI: 10.3310/hta11380
PMID: 17903392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2007 Oct;134(4):902-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2007.05.056. Epub 2007 Aug 27.

Analysis of 92 mitral pulmonary autograft replacement (Ross II) operations.

Kabbani S(1), Jamil H, Nabhani F, Hamoud A, Katan K, Sabbagh N, Koudsi A, 
Kabbani L, Hamed G.

Author information:
(1)Damascus University Cardiovascular Surgical Center, Mezza, Damascus, Syria. 
dam-uncv@net.sy

OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to find a mitral valve substitute that does 
not require lifelong anticoagulation and is not affected by tissue degeneration 
in the long term.
METHODS: Between July 14, 1997, and August 8, 2004, a total of 92 patients with 
irreparable mitral valve disease underwent mitral valve replacement with the 
pulmonary autograft encased within a Dacron tubing for support. In 4 patients, 
the autograft had to be sacrificed at the initial operation. Of the remaining 88 
patients, 62 were female, and the age ranged from 4 to 64 years (mean 39 years). 
Eighty-six patients had rheumatic mitral disease, and 2 patients had congenital 
mitral disease.
RESULTS: Operative transesophageal echocardiography initially showed adequate 
valve characteristics (mean valve area 2.8 cm2, mean gradient 3.9 mm Hg, no 
significant regurgitation) in all 88 patients. Operative mortality was 4.6%, and 
late mortality definitely related to the operation was 7.9%. Four patients were 
lost to follow-up; the mean follow-up was 60 months. Progressive regurgitation 
and stenosis developed in 9 patients over 2 to 5 years, 4 of whom had their 
grafts explanted. The autograft was explanted in 1 patient because of 
endocarditis. Mild pulmonic stenosis developed in 3 patients, and critical 
pulmonic stenosis developed in 1 patient. At 5 years follow-up, freedom from 
degeneration was 93.4%, freedom from reoperation was 94.2%, and freedom from all 
death was 86.0%.
CONCLUSION: Although the Ross II operation is difficult and harbors significant 
risk, it remains an option for patients with irreparable mitral disease who have 
a long life expectancy and who cannot be placed on lifelong anticoagulation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2007.05.056
PMID: 17903504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Oct;43(15):2231-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.013. Epub
2007  Sep 27.

Anaesthesia and the preparation and management of elderly patients undergoing 
surgery.

Severn A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia, Royal Lancaster Infirmary, Lancaster LA1 4RP, UK. 
andrew.severn@mbht.nhs.uk <andrew.severn@mbht.nhs.uk>

With increasing life expectancy, the number of very elderly patients requiring 
surgery and anaesthesia is increasing. Age, co-morbidity and altered 
pharmacokinetics clearly need to be considered in assessment of surgical risk 
but even in the apparently well older person there is a loss of physiological 
reserve that may be overlooked on cursory examination. Cognitive impairment 
after surgery may seriously hinder older people. This paper looks at these 
factors in detail and provides some remedies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.08.013
PMID: 17904356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Eur J Cancer. 2007 Oct;43(15):2253-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.07.035. Epub
 2007 Sep 29.

The role of surgery in the management of older women with breast cancer.

Wyld L(1), Reed M.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Surgical Oncology, University of Sheffield, School of 
Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Beech Hill Road, Sheffield S10 2RX, United 
Kingdom.

Standard treatment for early breast cancer usually involves multi-modality 
treatment with a combination of surgery and one or more adjuvant therapies. 
These may include chemotherapy, radiotherapy, endocrine therapy and Trastuzumab. 
The treatment schedule for an individual patient may be complex, prolonged and 
associated with significant morbidity. The benefits of such regimens are clear 
to see in the improving mortality statistics for this breast cancer. However, 
such protocols may not appropriate for all women. Older women (over 70 years) 
have increasing rates of co-morbidities, reduced life expectancy and generally 
have more favourable breast cancer disease biology. Competing causes of death 
mean that they are less likely to die of their breast cancer, stage for stage, 
than a younger woman. In addition, their tolerance to some of the therapies is 
reduced which increases treatment related morbidity and reduces the risk to 
benefit ratio. It may therefore be appropriate to modify treatment protocols in 
selected older women. This should be done in consultation with the 
multi-disciplinary team with input from specialists in Medicine for the Elderly. 
The views and wishes of the patient should be respected during these 
discussions. This article reviews these issues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2007.07.035
PMID: 17904836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Lancet. 2007 Sep 29;370(9593):1153-63. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61385-3.

Achieving health equity: from root causes to fair outcomes.

Marmot M; Commission on Social Determinants of Health.

Health is a universal human aspiration and a basic human need. The development 
of society, rich or poor, can be judged by the quality of its population's 
health, how fairly health is distributed across the social spectrum, and the 
degree of protection provided from disadvantage due to ill-health. Health equity 
is central to this premise and to the work of the Commission on Social 
Determinants of Health. Strengthening health equity--globally and within 
countries--means going beyond contemporary concentration on the immediate causes 
of disease. More than any other global health endeavour, the Commission focuses 
on the "causes of the causes"--the fundamental structures of social hierarchy 
and the socially determined conditions these create in which people grow, live, 
work, and age. The time for action is now, not just because better health makes 
economic sense, but because it is right and just. The outcry against inequity 
has been intensifying for many years from country to country around the world. 
These cries are forming a global movement. The Commission on Social Determinants 
of Health places action to ensure fair health at the head and the heart of that 
movement.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61385-3
PMID: 17905168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Heart Fail Clin. 2007 Oct;3(4):xi-xii. doi: 10.1016/j.hfc.2007.08.001.

Never too late to drink from the fountain of youth.

Baliga RR, Young JB.

Comment on
    Heart Fail Clin. 2007 Oct;3(4):423-36.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hfc.2007.08.001
PMID: 17905373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Heart Fail Clin. 2007 Oct;3(4):501-9. doi: 10.1016/j.hfc.2007.07.013.

Surgical treatment of heart failure in the elderly.

Malekan R(1), Lansman SL.

Author information:
(1)New York Medical College, Westchester Medical Center, Valhalla, NY 10595, 
USA.

Republished from
    Clin Geriatr Med. 2007 Feb;23(1):179-92.

Heart failure (HF) in elderly patients who may benefit from surgical therapy is 
usually secondary to ischemic or valvular heart disease. When referring such 
patients for surgery, life expectancy, along with the expectations of the 
patient and family with regard to the surgical treatment, must be considered. 
The goals of cardiac surgery in this patient population are to maintain or 
improve cardiac function, decrease HF episodes, reduce hospital admissions, and 
improve functional class. Safer surgical techniques developed during the last 
two decades have allowed high-risk patients well into their 80s to undergo 
complex cardiac operations with decreasing morbidity and mortality. Successful 
surgical intervention often leads to a more productive and independent life for 
elderly patients who have HF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hfc.2007.07.013
PMID: 17905384


326. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2008 Jan;34(1):42-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2007.08.007. Epub
 2007 Oct 1.

Patients' preferences for low rectal cancer surgery.

Bossema E(1), Stiggelbout A, Baas-Thijssen M, van de Velde C, Marijnen C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands.

AIM: To elicit surgery preferences of patients who have experience with either 
low anterior resection (LAR) or abdominoperineal resection (APR) and its 
outcomes, to support decision-making in future patients with resectable rectal 
cancer.
METHODS: One hundred and twenty-two patients were interviewed. Surgery 
preference was assessed in two ways. In the treatment trade-off method, the 
certainty of a stoma was hypothetically weighed against the risk of 
incontinence. In the time trade-off method, remaining life expectancy was traded 
off to avoid a permanent stoma or faecal incontinence.
RESULTS: To avoid APR, LAR patients accepted a much higher risk of incontinence 
than APR patients. In fact, 71% of the LAR patients chose LAR if they would 
certainly suffer monthly incontinence, and still 32% if they would certainly 
suffer daily incontinence. Nevertheless, APR patients would give up less 
remaining life years to be without a permanent stoma than LAR patients to be 
without monthly incontinence.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients preferred LAR above APR, even if LAR involved a risk 
of faecal incontinence. This seems to justify that LAR, if surgically possible, 
is performed in the first instance. However, since APR patients could live well 
with a permanent stoma, we recommend clearly informing patients before surgery 
about the surgical options and their potential outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2007.08.007
PMID: 17905562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. J Med Ethics. 2007 Oct;33(10):585-7. doi: 10.1136/jme.2006.017822.

Who wants to live forever? Three arguments against extending the human lifespan.

Pijnenburg MA(1), Leget C.

Author information:
(1)Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Department of Ethics, Philosophy 
and History of Medicine, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
m.pijnenburg@efg.umcn.nl

The wish to extend the human lifespan has a long tradition in many cultures. 
Optimistic views of the possibility of achieving this goal through the latest 
developments in medicine feature increasingly in serious scientific and 
philosophical discussion. The authors of this paper argue that research with the 
explicit aim of extending the human lifespan is both undesirable and morally 
unacceptable. They present three serious objections, relating to justice, the 
community and the meaning of life.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2006.017822
PMCID: PMC2652797
PMID: 17906056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


328. J Clin Oncol. 2007 Oct 1;25(28):4506-7; author reply 4508. doi: 
10.1200/JCO.2007.13.0401.

Does a statistically significant survival benefit of erlotinib plus gemcitabine 
for advanced pancreatic cancer translate into clinical significance and value?

Miksad RA, Schnipper L, Goldstein M.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 May 20;25(15):1960-6.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2007.13.0401
PMID: 17906218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2007 Nov;23(6):667-72. doi: 
10.1097/MOG.0b013e3282eeb43b.

Hygiene, microbial diversity and immune regulation.

Guarner F(1).

Author information:
(1)Digestive System Research Unit, Ciberehd, University Hospital Vall d'Hebron, 
Barcelona, Spain. fguarner@vhebron.net

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Sanitation, antibiotics and vaccines have done more to extend 
life expectancy than any other medical innovation. Concern exists, however, 
about the link between hygiene and increased incidence of immune-mediated 
disorders.
RECENT FINDINGS: Studies confirm higher prevalence of asthma and allergic 
diseases in urban areas and developed countries rather than rural areas and 
developing countries. There is an inverse association between family size and 
disease. The debate over whether infection precipitates or prevents immune 
dysregulation remains a contentious one. Our knowledge about the microbial 
composition of the intestinal ecosystem is expanding rapidly with the 
introduction of molecular techniques. Differences in gut bacteria between health 
and atopy or inflammatory bowel disease are repeatedly reported. Recent data in 
inflammatory bowel disease suggest reduced species diversity and temporal 
instability of the gut microecosystem. The gut is a major site for induction of 
regulatory T cells, which secrete immunosuppressive cytokines. Not only 
infections, but also some commensals induce regulatory pathways, which seem to 
be functionally deficient in multiple sclerosis, allergies and inflammatory 
bowel disease.
SUMMARY: Changes in lifestyle leading to decreased exposure to certain 
nonpathogenic species that are important for the development of immunoregulatory 
mechanisms are probably associated with increased incidence of some 
immune-mediated diseases, such as allergies and inflammatory bowel disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e3282eeb43b
PMID: 17906445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. EMBO Rep. 2007 Oct;8(10):888-91. doi: 10.1038/sj.embor.7401069.

The search for Methuselah. Should we endeavour to increase the maximum human 
lifespan?

Partridge B(1), Hall W.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. 
b.partridge@uq.edu.au

DOI: 10.1038/sj.embor.7401069
PMCID: PMC2002558
PMID: 17906666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Arthritis Rheum. 2007 Oct 15;57(7):1220-9. doi: 10.1002/art.23011.

Economic evaluation of a rehabilitation program integrating exercise, 
self-management, and active coping strategies for chronic knee pain.

Hurley MV(1), Walsh NE, Mitchell HL, Pimm TJ, Williamson E, Jones RH, Reeves BC, 
Dieppe PA, Patel A.

Author information:
(1)King's College London, London, UK. mike.hurley@kcl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To conduct an economic evaluation of the Enabling Self-Management and 
Coping with Arthritic Knee Pain through Exercise (ESCAPE-knee pain) program.
METHODS: Alongside a clinical trial, we estimated the costs of usual primary 
care and participation in ESCAPE-knee pain delivered to individuals 
(Indiv-rehab) or groups of 8 participants (Grp-rehab). Information on resource 
use and informal care received was collected during face-to-face interviews. 
Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility were assessed from between-group differences 
in costs, function (primary clinical outcome), and quality-adjusted life years 
