
DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(07)61664-X
PMID: 17993342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. JOP. 2007 Nov 9;8(6):806-7.

Familial pancreatic cancer: what's new.

Pezzilli R.

PMID: 17993735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Ann Biomed Eng. 2008 Jan;36(1):141-52. doi: 10.1007/s10439-007-9402-y. Epub
2007  Nov 10.

Regional analysis of spontaneous MEG rhythms in patients with Alzheimer's 
disease using spectral entropies.

Poza J(1), Hornero R, Escudero J, Fernández A, Sánchez CI.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Group, Department T.S.C.I.T., E.T.S. Ingenieros de 
Telecomunicación, University of Valladolid, Camino del Cementerio s/n, 47011, 
Valladolid, Spain. jespoz@tel.uva.es

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. Ageing is the 
greatest known risk factor for this disorder. Therefore, the prevalence of AD is 
expected to increase in western countries due to the rise in life expectancy. 
Nowadays, a low diagnosis accuracy is reached, but an early and accurate 
identification of AD should be attempted. In this sense, only a few studies have 
focused on the magnetoencephalographic (MEG) AD patterns. This work represents a 
new effort to explore the ability of three entropies from information theory to 
discriminate between spontaneous MEG rhythms from 20 AD patients and 21 
controls. The Shannon (SSE), Tsallis (TSE), and Rényi (RSE) spectral entropies 
were calculated from the time-frequency distribution of the power spectral 
density (PSD). The entropies provided statistically significant lower values for 
AD patients than for controls in all brain regions (p < 0.0005). This fact 
suggests a significant loss of irregularity in AD patients' MEG activity. 
Maximal accuracy of 87.8% was achieved by both the TSE and RSE (90.0%, 
sensitivity; 85.7%, specificity). The statistically significant results obtained 
by both the extensive (SSE and RSE) and non-extensive (TSE) spectral entropies 
suggest that AD could disturb long and short-range interactions causing an 
abnormal brain function.

DOI: 10.1007/s10439-007-9402-y
PMID: 17994279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2007 Sep-Oct;14(5):320-6. doi:
10.1080/09286580701316116.

Age-specific changes in the prevalence of best-corrected visual impairment in an 
italian population.

Cedrone C(1), Ricci F, Nucci C, Cesareo M, Macrì G, Culasso F.

Author information:
(1)Physiopathological Optics, Department of Biopathology and Diagnostic Imaging, 
University of Rome Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. cedrone@uniroma2.it

PURPOSE: To investigate changes in the prevalence of visual impairment in an 
Italian population from 1988 to 2000.
METHODS: Standardized ophthalmologic examinations were administered to citizens 
of Ponza, Italy aged 40-87 years in 1988 and 2000. Visual Acuity (VA) was 
measured using a standard logarithmic chart. Visual fields (VF) were tested in 
all subjects with diagnosed or suspected glaucoma or hereditary degenerative 
retinopathy. Visual impairment was classified as blindness (VA > 1.3 LogMAR or 
VF < 10 degrees around central fixation) or low vision (VA > 0.5 to 1.3 LogMAR 
or VF < 20 degrees to 10 degrees) according to WHO criteria.
RESULTS: The prevalence of binocular total visual impairments decreased 
significantly among 64-75 year-olds (from 6.7% to 2.6%, p = 0.045), and almost 
significantly among 40-51 year-olds (from 2.4%, 95% CI 1.1-5.3, to 0.0%, 95% CI 
0.0-1.3). By 2000, visual impairment was no longer significantly associated with 
female gender, and age 64-75 years; the mean age of subjects with 
vision-impairing cataract, diabetic retinopathy, or age-related macular 
degeneration had risen significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: A decline in the prevalence of visual impairment, particularly in 
cataract-associated visual impairment was found in the middle-aged groups. The 
progression of age-related eye diseases seems to have slowed in this population 
possibly due to improvements in the life expectancy and socio-economic 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580701316116
PMID: 17994442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Depress Anxiety. 2008;25(7):E26-33. doi: 10.1002/da.20409.

Negative appraisals and cognitive avoidance of intrusive memories in depression: 
a replication and extension.

Williams AD(1), Moulds ML.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, The University of New South Wales, New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

Recent research has demonstrated that intrusive negative autobiographical 
memories represent a shared phenomenological feature of posttraumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD) and depression. A preliminary investigation (Starr and Moulds, 
2006) successfully applied a cognitive appraisal model of PTSD to the 
maintenance of intrusive memories in depression. The current investigation 
sought to replicate and extend these findings. Two hundred and fifty first-year 
undergraduate students were interviewed to assess for the presence of a negative 
autobiographical memory that had spontaneously intruded in the past week. 
Participants completed self-report inventories assessing trait and situational 
employment of cognitive avoidance mechanisms in response to these memories. 
Consistent with Starr and Moulds, intrusion-related distress correlated with 
dysphoria, irrespective of intrusion frequency. Assigning negative appraisals to 
one's intrusive memory and attempts to control the memory were positively 
associated with intrusion-related distress, level of depression, and cognitive 
avoidance mechanisms. Additionally, negative appraisals and control influenced 
the employment rumination as an avoidant response to a greater degree than the 
corresponding trait tendency. Finally, negative appraisals and the use of 
cognitive mechanisms were predictive of depression concurrently. The results 
support the validity of borrowing from PTSD models to elucidate the cognitive 
mechanisms that maintain intrusive memories in depressed samples.

DOI: 10.1002/da.20409
PMID: 17994585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Technol Cancer Res Treat. 2007 Dec;6(6):611-20. doi:
10.1177/153303460700600604.

Robotic radiosurgery vs. brachytherapy as a boost to intensity modulated 
radiotherapy for tonsillar fossa and soft palate tumors: the clinical and 
economic impact of an emerging technology.

Nijdam W(1), Levendag P, Fuller D, Schulz R, Prevost JB, Noever I, Uyl-de Groot 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation-Oncology, Erasmus Medical Center - Daniel den Hoed 
Cancer Center, Groene Hilledijk 301, 3075 EA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
w.nijdam@erasmusmc.nl.

As a basis for making decisions regarding optimal treatment for patients with 
tonsillar fossa and soft palate tumors, we conducted a preliminary investigation 
of costs and quality of life (QoL) for two modalities [brachytherapy (BT) and 
robotic radiosurgery] used to boost radiation to the primary tumors following 
external beam radiotherapy. BT was well established in our center; a boost by 
robotic radiosurgery was begun more recently in patients for whom BT was not 
technically feasible. Robotic radiosurgery boost treatment has the advantage of 
being non-invasive and is able to reach tumors in cases where there is deep 
parapharyngeal tumor extension. A neck dissection was performed for patients 
with nodal-positive disease. Quality of life (pain and difficulty swallowing) 
was established in long-term follow-up for patients undergoing BT and over a 
one-year follow-up in robotic radiosurgery patients. Total hospital costs for 
both groups were computed. Our results show that efficacy and quality of life at 
one year are comparable for BT and robotic radiosurgery. Total cost for robotic 
radiosurgery was found to be less than BT primarily due to the elimination of 
hospital admission and operating room expenses. Confirmation of robotic 
radiosurgery treatment efficacy and reduced morbidity in the long term requires 
further study. Quality of life and cost analyses are critical to Health 
Technology Assessments (HTA). The present study shows how a preliminary HTA of a 
new medical technology such as robotic radiosurgery with its typical 
hypofractionation characteristics might be based on short-term clinical outcomes 
and assumptions of equivalence.

DOI: 10.1177/153303460700600604
PMID: 17994791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Health Serv Res. 2007 Dec;42(6 Pt 1):2174-93; discussion 2294-323. doi: 
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2007.00734.x.

The cost-effectiveness of improving diabetes care in U.S. federally qualified 
community health centers.

Huang ES(1), Zhang Q, Brown SE, Drum ML, Meltzer DO, Chin MH.

Author information:
(1)The University of Chicago, 5841 S, Maryland Avenue, MC 2007, Chicago, IL 
60637, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of improving diabetes 
care with the Health Disparities Collaborative (HDC), a national collaborative 
quality improvement (QI) program conducted in community health centers (HCs).
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: Data regarding the impact of the Diabetes HDC 
program came from a serial cross-sectional follow-up study (1998, 2000, 2002) of 
the program in 17 Midwestern HCs. Data inputs for the simulation model of 
diabetes came from the latest clinical trials and epidemiological studies.
STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a societal cost-effectiveness analysis, incorporating 
data from QI program evaluation into a Monte Carlo simulation model of diabetes.
DATA COLLECTION/EXTRACTION METHODS: Data on diabetes care processes and risk 
factor levels were extracted from medical charts of randomly selected patients.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: From 1998 to 2002, multiple processes of care (e.g., 
glycosylated hemoglobin testing [HbA1C] [71-->92 percent] and ACE inhibitor 
prescribing [33-->55 percent]) and risk factor levels (e.g., 1998 mean HbA1C 
8.53 percent, mean difference 0.45 percent [95 percent confidence intervals 
-0.72, -0.17]) improved significantly. With these improvements, the HDC was 
estimated to reduce the lifetime incidence of blindness (17-->15 percent), 
end-stage renal disease (18-->15 percent), and coronary artery disease (28-->24 
percent). The average improvement in quality-adjusted life year (QALY) was 0.35 
and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $33,386/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: During the first 4 years of the HDC, multiple improvements in 
diabetes care were observed. If these improvements are maintained or enhanced 
over the lifetime of patients, the HDC program will be cost-effective for 
society based on traditionally accepted thresholds.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2007.00734.x
PMCID: PMC2151395
PMID: 17995559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Dent Mater. 2008 Jun;24(6):753-9. doi: 10.1016/j.dental.2007.09.004. Epub
2007  Nov 8.

Low-cycle fatigue of rotary NiTi endodontic instruments in hypochlorite 
solution.

Cheung GS(1), Darvell BW.

Author information:
(1)Endodontics, Faculty of Dentistry, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 
SAR, China. spcheung@hku.hk

OBJECTIVE: To examine the low-cycle fatigue (LCF) behaviour of NiTi rotary 
endodontic instruments in aqueous sodium hypochlorite solution.
METHODS: Four brands of NiTi rotary instrument (n=179) were subjected to a 
rotational-bending fatigue test at a rate of 250rpm until fracture, the 
instrument being immersed in 1.2% sodium hypochlorite solution. The surface 
strain amplitude, calculated from the curvature (from a pre-test photograph) and 
diameter of the fracture cross-section (from SEM photomicrograph) was plotted 
against the total number of revolutions to failure. An apparent 
fatigue-ductility exponent was determined from a regression line fitted to the 
LCF lives for each brand of instrument. All detached fragments were examined 
fractographically for crack initiation and the extent of crack extension into 
the cross-section. The values were compared using one-way analysis of variance 
(ANOVA) or chi2, where appropriate, at alpha=0.05.
RESULTS: A linear strain-life relationship was obtained for all groups; the 
apparent fatigue-ductility exponent was similar between various brands (ANOVA, 
P>0.05), but not for the number of crack origins (chi2, P<0.05). There was an 
inverse, linear relationship between the square root of the extension of the 
fatigue-crack and the strain amplitude.
SIGNIFICANCE: NiTi rotary instruments fatigued in hypochlorite shows a 
strain-life relationship with low-cycle and high-cycle fatigue regions. The LCF 
behaviour is not affected by the cross-sectional shape of the instrument. There 
appears to be a critical extent of crack propagation for various surface strain 
amplitudes leading to final, catastrophic fracture of the instrument.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2007.09.004
PMID: 17996288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Vaccine. 2007 Dec 12;25(51):8536-48. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.10.001.
Epub  2007 Oct 23.

Cost-utility of universal hepatitis A vaccination in Canada.

Bauch CT(1), Anonychuk AM, Pham BZ, Gilca V, Duval B, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)University of Guelph, Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada. cbauch@uoguelph.ca

Hepatitis A (HA) vaccination in Canada is currently targeted toward high-risk 
groups. The cost-effectiveness and expected health outcomes of universal 
vaccination relative to targeted vaccination in low-incidence countries such as 
Canada are currently unknown. Here, we conducted a cost-utility analysis for 
this situation, with Canada as the study population. We included vaccine costs, 
time costs, infection costs, and public health costs. We assessed a range of 
possible universal vaccination strategies over an 80-year time horizon using 
multiple cost perspectives. A dynamic model was used to account for herd 
immunity. Aggregate health gains from switching to universal vaccination are 
modest (10-30 QALYs per year). However, a "9+9" strategy that replaces two doses 
of monovalent hepatitis B (HB) vaccine at 9/10 years (universally administered 
in most provinces) with two doses of bivalent HA/HB vaccine is cost-saving from 
the societal perspective. At a willingness to pay threshold of $50,000/QALY, 
mean net benefit is +49.4 QALYs (S.D. 12.6) from the societal perspective and 
+3.8 QALYS (S.D. 3.0) from the payer perspective for the "9+9" strategy. Net 
benefit from the payer perspective is sensitive to the marginal cost of HA/HB 
vaccine relative to HB vaccine. Similar conclusions may apply in other countries 
with low incidence and a targeted vaccination policy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2007.10.001
PMID: 17996339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Eur Urol. 2008 Jul;54(1):107-16. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.10.038. Epub
2007  Oct 30.

Poor overall survival in septa- and octogenarian patients after radical 
prostatectomy and radiotherapy for prostate cancer: a population-based study of 
6183 men.

Jeldres C(1), Suardi N, Walz J, Saad F, Hutterer GC, Bhojani N, Shariat SF, 
Perrotte P, Graefen M, Montorsi F, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, QC, Canada.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2008 Jul;54(1):116-7.

OBJECTIVES: The life expectancy of candidates for attempted curative therapy of 
prostate cancer should not be inferior to 10 yr. We examined the rate of 10-yr 
survival in septa- and octogenarians treated for prostate cancer with either 
attempted curative external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) or radical prostatectomy 
(RP).
METHODS: Within a population-based cohort of 17,570 EBRT or RP patients, 6183 
men aged 70 yr or older were treated with either RP (n=1591) or EBRT (n=4592) 
and represented the focus of crude survival analyses. Age and Charlson 
Comorbidity Index represented covariates. To control for prostate 
cancer-specific mortality, we repeated the analyses in a subset of 2704 men (RP, 
n=881; EBRT, n=1823) who had no clinical evidence of disease relapse of prostate 
cancer.
RESULTS: Overall actuarial 10-yr survival was 38.5% (RP 59.3% vs. EBRT 30.3%, 
p<0.001) versus 36.5% in those without clinical evidence of disease relapse (RP 
63.8% vs. EBRT 22.6%, p<0.001). In multivariate Cox regression models, EBRT was 
associated with a 2.1-fold (p<0.001) and 2.9-fold (p<0.001) higher risk of 
mortality relative to RP in all men and in men without clinical evidence of 
disease relapse, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Forty percent of septa- and octogenarian men who are selected for 
RP do not have adequate life expectancy to warrant attempted curative therapy. 
Even more strikingly, 70% of men who receive EBRT die before reaching the 10-yr 
mark. These findings may indicate the need for more stringent EBRT and RP 
selection criteria, if the goal is to minimise overtreatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2007.10.038
PMID: 17996358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2008 Feb;102(2):105-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.trstmh.2007.09.013. Epub 2007 Nov 9.

Polymorphisms of cpb multicopy genes in the Leishmania (Leishmania) donovani 
complex.

Hide M(1), Bañuls AL.

Author information:
(1)Génétique et Evolution des Maladies Infectieuses, IRD/CNRS (UMR 2724), 
F-34394, France. mallorie.hide@ird.fr <mallorie.hide@ird.fr>

In leishmaniasis, cysteine protease b (cpb) multicopy genes have been 
extensively studied because of their implication in host-parasite interactions. 
In the Leishmania donovani complex, responsible for visceral leishmaniasis, a 
set of interesting polymorphisms has been revealed, such as copy sequence or 
expression according to the parasite's life stage. The single nucleotide 
polymorphisms observed among these copies could be related to clinical 
characteristics such as dermotropic versus viscerotropic status. CPB 
COOH-terminal extension (CTE) is mainly responsible for genetic variability 
among the copies and appears highly immunogenic. These results suggest that 
further study of the role of CPBs, especially CTE in clinical outcome, is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trstmh.2007.09.013
PMID: 17996911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Health Policy. 2008 Apr;86(1):85-96. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.10.002.
Epub  2007 Nov 9.

An estimate of lifelong costs and QALYs in renal replacement therapy based on 
patients' life expectancy.

Kontodimopoulos N(1), Niakas D.

Author information:
(1)Hellenic Open University, Faculty of Social Sciences, Riga Fereou 169 & 
Tsamadou, Patras 26222, Greece. nkontodi@otenet.gr

Comment in
    Health Policy. 2008 Dec;88(2-3):392-6.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate lifelong costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) 
of hemodialysis (HD), peritoneal dialysis (PD) and renal transplantation (Tx) in 
Greece, based on individual patient life expectancy.
METHODS: A nationally representative patient sample on each modality, HD: N=642, 
PD: N=65 and Tx: N=167, was self-administered the SF-36 Health Survey, from 
which the preference-based SF-6D utility index was derived. Lifelong QALYs were 
estimated from literature-based expected remaining life years according to age, 
gender and modality. Cost analyses were performed from the perspective of the 
health system. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 5% and sensitivity analyses 
were performed.
RESULTS: Estimated lifelong QALYs were 4.37 (HD), 3.94 (PD) and 16.11 (Tx) 
(P<0.001). Annual HD and PD costs per patient were estimated at euro36,247 and 
euro30,719 respectively. For Tx, average 1st year, 3-year and lifelong 
(undiscounted) costs were euro31,714, euro43,275 and euro151,274 respectively. 
Cost per QALY was higher in HD (euro60,353) compared to PD (euro54,504) and 1st 
year Tx (euro45,523).
CONCLUSIONS: HD is used by 75% of the Greek ESRD patients, hence cost-saving 
efforts must be intensified. Reconsidering supply and reimbursement policies for 
dialyzers and drugs, establishing satellite dialysis units and adopting 
telemedicine in remote areas could be explored. Wider use of PD is also in the 
direction of increasing cost-effectiveness. Finally, efforts are required for 
disseminating the idea of organ donation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2007.10.002
PMID: 17996975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Bull Entomol Res. 2007 Dec;97(6):627-35. doi: 10.1017/S0007485307005366.

Temperature-related fitness costs of resistance to spinosad in the diamondback 
moth, Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: Plutelidae).

Li ZM(1), Liu SS, Liu YQ, Ye GY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Insect Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.

Fitness costs associated with resistance genes expressed in the absence of 
insecticides affect the evolution of insecticide resistance and the outcome of 
resistance management programmes. However, measurements of fitness costs may not 
be straightforward as they vary with environmental conditions. The diamondback 
moth, Plutella xylostella L. (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae), has developed 
resistance to spinosad, the first insecticide of the Naturalyte class, after 
only a few years of field application of this product. In this study, we 
compared the performance of two homogenous strains of P. xylostella, one 
susceptible (SS) and the other resistant (RR) to spinosad at an unfavourable, 
low natural temperature regime, a favourable median-fluctuating temperature 
regime and an unfavourable high-fluctuating temperature regime. The RR strain 
showed only marginal fitness cost at the median temperature regime. At the low 
temperature regime, the RR strain failed to produce any viable offspring, while 
the SS strain achieved positive population growth. At the high temperature 
regime, the RR strain showed a 33% decrease in intrinsic rate of increase 
compared to the SS strain. The results demonstrate that fitness costs of 
resistance to spinosad are temperature-dependent, increasing in scale at 
unfavourably low and high temperatures; costs were particularly high at low 
temperatures. Suggestions for designing effective management programmes are made 
to delay or avoid development of resistance to spinosad by P. xylostella under 
different temperature conditions.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485307005366
PMID: 17997877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Clin Epidemiol. 2007 Dec;60(12):1288-97. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2007.03.004.  Epub 2007 Jul 25.

The health-related quality-of-life impact of chronic conditions varied with age 
in general population.

Saarni SI(1), Suvisaari J, Sintonen H, Koskinen S, Härkänen T, Lönnqvist J.

Author information:
(1)National Public Health Institute, Department of Mental Health and Alcohol 
Research, Mannerheimintie 166, 00300 Helsinki, Finland. 
samuli.saarni@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the individual- and population-level impact of major 
chronic conditions on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) at different ages, 
to test whether the HRQoL impact of conditions varies with age, and to predict 
future changes of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost due to morbidity.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: HRQoL was measured using two preference-based 
instruments, the 15D and the EQ-5D, in a representative sample of 8,028 Finns. 
Information on chronic somatic conditions was obtained by interviews. 
Psychiatric disorders were diagnosed using a structured interview (Munich 
version of the Composite International Diagnostic Interview).
RESULTS: The impact of chronic conditions on HRQoL increased fourfold when 
comparing people aged 30-44 years to people over 75 years. This was mostly due 
to increase in prevalence, but the severity of some conditions also varied with 
age. Musculoskeletal disorders had the largest and rather stable impact across 
ages on the population level. Psychiatric disorders placed the largest burden on 
HRQoL at 30-44 years, but their impact declined after 55 years. The aging of the 
Finnish population was predicted to increase annual QALYs lost due to morbidity 
by one quarter by year 2040.
CONCLUSION: The impact of conditions on HRQoL varied with age for each 
condition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2007.03.004
PMID: 17998084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Cancer Res Ther. 2007 Apr-Jun;3(2):124-6. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.34695.

Conventional and fluorescence in situ hybridization analysis of three-way 
complex BCR-ABL rearrangement in a chronic myeloid leukemia patient.

Ganguly BB(1), Kadam NN, Agarwal MB.

Author information:
(1)MGM Center for Genetic Research and Diagnosis, MGM's New Bombay Hospital, 
Navi Mumbai, India. mgmgeneticlab@yahoo.com

Chromosomal analysis was carried out in bone marrow sample of an 11-year-old 
girl suspected of myeloproliferative disorder. Conventional G-banding study 
detected a complex three-way translocation involving 7, 9 and 22, which has 
resulted in the formation of a variant Philadelphia chromosome causing 
rearrangement of abl and bcr genes in 87% cells. Fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) confirmed the fusion of bcr-abl oncogene. Thus the bone 
marrow karyotype was observed as 46,XX (13%)/46,XX,t(7;9;22)(q11;q34;q11) (87%). 
Hyperdiploidy was present in two cells. In this study, both conventional 
cytogenetic and FISH diagnosis proved to be significant to identify the variant 
nature of the Philadelphia chromosome and hyperdiploid condition for 
introduction of a suitable treatment regimen and estimation of life expectancy 
of the young girl.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.34695
PMID: 17998739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Nat Clin Pract Nephrol. 2008 Feb;4(2):70-1. doi: 10.1038/ncpneph0676. Epub
2007  Nov 13.

Comparing the cost-effectiveness of various approaches to the management of 
suspected renal artery stenosis.

Krumme B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine at the University of Freiburg, and a 
Consultant in Nephrology at the Deutsche Klinik für Diagnostik, Wiesbaden, 
Germany. krumme@nephrologie-wiesbaden.de

DOI: 10.1038/ncpneph0676
PMID: 17998927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2007 Nov;62(11):1252-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/62.11.1252.

Age-related differences in the force generation capabilities and tendon 
extensibilities of knee extensors and plantar flexors in men.

Kubo K(1), Ishida Y, Komuro T, Tsunoda N, Kanehisa H, Fukunaga T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science (Sports Sciences), University of Tokyo, Tokyo 
153-8902, Japan. kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Recently, the number of elderly individuals who participate in 
sports has increased, thus injuries from overuse are now becoming recognized in 
the elderly population. Therefore, it is important to determine which muscle 
groups and tendons are most affected with aging to plan appropriate exercise 
interventions for elderly individuals. In particular, muscles and tendons in 
knee extensors and plantar flexors play an important role during locomotion. The 
purpose of this study was to compare the knee extensor and plantar flexor 
muscles and tendons.
METHODS: Young (n = 19) and elderly (n = 17) men performed isometric voluntary 
knee extension and plantar flexion contractions. Muscle thickness and elongation 
of tendon structures in knee extensors and plantar flexors were measured by 
ultrasonography.
RESULTS: Relative muscle thickness (to limb length) in the elderly group was 
significantly lower than that in the young group in knee extensors (p <.001), 
although no significant difference was found between the two groups in plantar 
flexors (p =.063). Relative muscle strength (to body mass) in the elderly group 
was significantly lower than that in the young group in both sites (all p 
<.001). Ratio of muscle strength to muscle thickness in the elderly group was 
significantly lower than that in the young group in plantar flexors, but not in 
knee extensors. The elderly group had significantly lower maximal elongation and 
strain of tendon structures in both sites than the young group had.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the age-related weakness in knee 
extensors may be attributed to muscle atrophy, whereas that in plantar flexors 
is not, and that elderly persons have less extensible tendon structures in both 
sites.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/62.11.1252
PMID: 18000145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Can Fam Physician. 2007 Nov;53(11):1971-3.

Tariro: finding hope in Zimbabwe.

Buchman S.

PMCID: PMC2231501
PMID: 18000277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2007;2007:1766-9. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2007.4352653.

Cost-return prediction in morbidly obese employees following weight loss 
interventions: a study framework.

Windyga P(1), Kim K, White V, Leon M, Bag A, Chen W.

Author information:
(1)School of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Central 
Florida, Orlando, FL, USA. pwindyga@cs.ucf.edu

Obesity and its many complications potentially can collapse most medical plans, 
unless attempts at prevention and therapy become more effective and widespread. 
An important incentive for providing effective treatment is proper 
reimbursement. We present here an evaluation of the feasibility, constrains and 
requirements for comparative cost-effectiveness evaluation of weight loss 
intervention from the payer's and employer's points of view, and propose a 
general framework for this type of studies toward decision making.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2007.4352653
PMID: 18002319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2007;2007:2311-4. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2007.4352788.

A fast algorithm to track changes of direction of a person using magnetometers.

Fleury A(1), Noury N, Vuillerme N.

Author information:
(1)Student Member, IEEE, Laboratoire, TIMC-IMAG, UMR CNRS/UJF 5525, équipe 
AFIRM. Faculté de Médecine de Grenoble, bâtiment Jean Roget, 38706 La Tronche, 
France. Anthony.Fleury@imag.fr

Technological advances in signal processing and in circuits integration offer 
numerous perspectives in telemedicine and telemonitoring. Considering the 
increase of life expectancy, accurate and reliable assessement of modification 
and/or deterioration in the health status of a person is needed. One possible 
indicator is the "activity index" of a person. To compute such an index, 
previous studies have used accelerometers. Although these sensors are 
appropriate for the detection of postural transitions (e.g. Sit To Stand and 
Stand To Sit), they do not allow to detect changes of direction of a walking 
individual insofar as such activity occurs in a constant gravitation field. 
Within this context, the purpose of the present work is to investigate whether 
magnetometers can be used to monitor the changes of direction of a person.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2007.4352788
PMID: 18002454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Compr Ther. 2007 Fall;33(3):113. doi: 10.1007/s12019-007-0015-z.

Editorial ... explosive expansion of preventive medicine.

Szanto MJ.

Comment on
    Compr Ther. 2007 Fall;33(3):114-9.

DOI: 10.1007/s12019-007-0015-z
PMID: 18004025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Eur Radiol. 2007 Dec;17(12):3255-7. doi: 10.1007/s00330-007-0611-4. Epub
2007  Nov 15.

Lacrimal gland and perioptic nerve lesions due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis 
(2007: 9b).

Herman M(1), Demaerel P, Wilms G, Van Gool S, Casteels I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University Hospitals Leuven, Herestraat 49, 3000, 
Leuven, Belgium.

We report a patient presenting with bilateral lacrimal gland involvement and 
perioptic nerve sheath lesions due to Langerhans cell histiocytosis (LCH) 
invasion. LCH is a rare multisystemic disease characterized by a clonal 
proliferation of Langerhans cells. All organs may be involved with a clinical 
spectrum ranging from a solitary bone lesion to a severe life-threatening 
multisystem disease. Osteolytic orbital bone lesions with extension into the 
adjacent orbital soft tissues have been described. To our knowledge, lacrimal 
gland involvement has probably been described only once before. Perioptic nerve 
lesions are also very rare, having been described only three times before.

DOI: 10.1007/s00330-007-0611-4
PMID: 18004608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Pneumologie. 2008 Jan;62(1):11-6. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-980129. Epub 2007 Nov
15.

[Influence of nocturnal oxygen therapy on quality of life in patients with COPD 
and isolated sleep-related hypoxemia: a prospective, placebo-controlled 
cross-over trial].

[Article in German]

Orth M(1), Walther JW, Yalzin S, Bauer TT, de Zeeuw J, Kotterba S, Baberg HT, 
Schultze-Werninghaus G, Rasche K, Duchna HW.

Author information:
(1)Berufsgenossenschaftliches Universitätsklinikum Bergmannsheil GmbH, 
Medizinische Klinik III, Pneumologie, Allergologie, Schlaf- und 
Beatmungsmedizin, Bochum. maritta.orth@rub.de

BACKGROUND: In patients with COPD and isolated night time hypoxemia, oxygen 
administration has not shown any effects on life expectancy and the development 
of pulmonal arterial hypertension. The aim of the present pilot study was to 
investigate the influence of nocturnal oxygen therapy on the quality of life in 
daytime normoxemic COPD patients with nocturnal oxygen desaturations.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 19 patients with COPD, in a stable phase of the disease 
without need for oxygen supplementation under rest (PaO2 62.7 +/- 4.9 mmHg) and 
nocturnal hypoxemia (t90 = 55.5 +/- 33.4 % of registration time, mean SaO2 89.8 
+/- 1.9 %, minimal SaO2 81.1 +/- 4.8 %) were randomly assigned to either oxygen 
or placebo treatment, both generated by identical concentrator devices. Each 
treatment period lasted 6 weeks, after six weeks a cross-over was performed by a 
technician. Quality of life was assessed before and at the end of each treatment 
period by the SF-36, Nottingham Health Profile and Saint George's Respiratory 
Questionnaire.
RESULTS: Significant differences for the comparison of placebo and verum were 
only seen for the dimension sleep (NHP), all other dimensions showed no 
differences between placebo and oxygen. However, both placebo and oxygen 
improved the majority of the quality of life items significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: The prescription of supplemental oxygen in COPD patients with 
isolated nocturnal hypoxemia in the present pilot study is not able to improve 
the quality of life within 6 weeks after initiation of therapy. It cannot, 
therefore, be generally recommended, but may be indicated in patients with a 
documented improvement of sleep quality.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-980129
PMID: 18004709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2008 Feb;52(2):195-201. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-6576.2007.01533.x. Epub 2007 Nov 13.

Quality of life 2-7 years after major trauma.

Ulvik A(1), Kvåle R, Wentzel-Larsen T, Flaatten H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care, Haukeland University Hospital, 
Bergen, Norway. atle.ulvik@helse-bergen.no

Comment in
    Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2017 Apr;61(4):362-364.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the present study was to assess potential long-term 
reduction in health-related quality of life (HRQOL) in adult trauma patients 2-7 
years after discharge from an intensive care unit (ICU), and to study possible 
determinants of the HRQOL reduction.
METHODS: Follow-up study of a cohort of 341 trauma patients admitted to the ICU 
of a university hospital during 1998-2003. Of the 228 eligible patients, 210 
(92%) completed the study. A telephone interview using the EuroQol 5-D (EQ-5D) 
was conducted. Patients reported their HRQOL both at present and before trauma.
RESULTS: Before trauma 88% reported in retrospect no problem in any EQ-5D 
dimension, compared with 20% at follow-up. After trauma (median 4.0 years) 58% 
suffered pain/discomfort, 44% reported alterations in usual activities, 40% 
reduced mobility, 35% anxiety/depression, and 15% limited autonomy. A total of 
74% experienced reduction in HRQOL. Severe problems were reported by 16%. Women 
experienced more anxiety/depression than men. Simplified Acute Physiology Score 
(SAPS) II and Injury Severity Score (ISS) were significantly associated with 
impaired HRQOL, while age was not. Patients with severe head injury reported 
better HRQOL than those without severe head injury.
CONCLUSION: More than 2 years post-injury, 74% reported impaired HRQOL but only 
16% had severe problems. The majority still suffered pain/discomfort, indicating 
that pain management is a key factor in improving long-term outcome after severe 
trauma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-6576.2007.01533.x
PMID: 18005377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Explore (NY). 2007 Nov-Dec;3(6):561-72. doi: 10.1016/j.explore.2007.08.001.

Rationale and methods for a trial assessing placebo, echinacea, and 
doctor-patient interaction in the common cold.

Barrett B(1), Rakel D, Chewning B, Marchand L, Rabago D, Brown R, Scheder J, 
Schmidt R, Gern JE, Bone K, Thomas G, Barlow S, Bobula J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, School of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA. bruce.barrett@fammed.wisc.edu

BACKGROUND: Clinical medicine and healthcare policy are increasingly guided by 
randomized controlled trials, which in turn are dependent on the validity of 
placebo control. It is important to understand the effects of placebo control on 
outcome measurement, especially for assessment of symptoms and functional 
impairments where subjectivity, expectancy, and motivation may significantly 
impact outcome evaluation. This paper describes the rationale and methodology of 
a trial designed to evaluate placebo effects related to taking pills and to 
compare these with effects attributable to standard or enhanced 
(patient-oriented) doctor-patient interaction.
DESIGN: This trial uses two-way factorial allocation to randomize people with 
new onset common cold in two directions: pill related and doctor related. In one 
direction, participants are randomized to (1) no pills, (2) blinded placebo, (3) 
blinded echinacea, or (4) unblinded open-label echinacea. In the other 
direction, participants are randomized to: (1) no doctor-patient interaction, 
(2) standard doctor-patient interaction, and (3) enhanced doctor-patient 
interaction. Enhanced interaction includes education, empathy, empowerment, 
positive prognosis, and connectedness. Area under the time severity curve is the 
primary outcome, with the Wisconsin Upper Respiratory Symptom Survey (WURSS-21) 
the measure of severity. A priori power studies called for a sample size of N = 
720 trial finishers to detect 15% to 20% between-group differences in this 
outcome. Secondary outcomes include general health-related quality of life, 
perceived stress, interpersonal support, optimism, patient satisfaction, and 
positive and negative affectivity. Two biomarkers are also assessed: 
interleukin-8 (inflammatory cytokine) and neutrophil count from nasal wash.
IMPORTANCE: This paper describes the rationale and methodology of a trial 
assessing placebo effects related to pills and to doctor-patient interaction. 
This is one of very few similar studies and is the first in the common cold. 
Data collected will also provide an excellent opportunity to investigate 
relationships among demographic (age, sex, education, income) and psychosocial 
(perceived stress, interpersonal support, optimism, affectivity) indicators in 
relation to common cold outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.explore.2007.08.001
PMID: 18005908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Genes Dev. 2007 Nov 15;21(22):2976-94. doi: 10.1101/gad.1588907.

Gene activities that mediate increased life span of C. elegans insulin-like 
signaling mutants.

Samuelson AV(1), Carr CE, Ruvkun G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

Genetic and RNA interference (RNAi) screens for life span regulatory genes have 
revealed that the daf-2 insulin-like signaling pathway plays a major role in 
Caenorhabditis elegans longevity. This pathway converges on the DAF-16 
transcription factor and may regulate life span by controlling the expression of 
a large number of genes, including free-radical detoxifying genes, stress 
resistance genes, and pathogen resistance genes. We conducted a genome-wide RNAi 
screen to identify genes necessary for the extended life span of daf-2 mutants 
and identified approximately 200 gene inactivations that shorten daf-2 life 
span. Some of these gene inactivations dramatically shorten daf-2 mutant life 
span but less dramatically shorten daf-2; daf-16 mutant or wild-type life span. 
Molecular and behavioral markers for normal aging and for extended life span in 
low insulin/IGF1 (insulin-like growth factor 1) signaling were assayed to 
distinguish accelerated aging from general sickness and to examine age-related 
phenotypes. Detailed demographic analysis, molecular markers of aging, and 
insulin signaling mutant test strains were used to filter progeric gene 
inactivations for specific acceleration of aging. Highly represented in the 
genes that mediate life span extension in the daf-2 mutant are components of 
endocytotic trafficking of membrane proteins to lysosomes. These gene 
inactivations disrupt the increased expression of the DAF-16 downstream gene 
superoxide dismutase sod-3 in a daf-2 mutant, suggesting trafficking between the 
insulin-like receptor and DAF-16. The activities of these genes may normally 
decline during aging.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.1588907
PMCID: PMC2049198
PMID: 18006689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Environ Health Perspect. 2007 Nov;115(11):A536-7. doi:
10.1289/ehp.115-a536b.

The sound behind heart effects.

Mead MN.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.115-a536b
PMCID: PMC2072857
PMID: 18007971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Pediatr Nephrol. 2008 Jun;23(6):863-78. doi: 10.1007/s00467-007-0650-8.

Nephropathic cystinosis: late complications of a multisystemic disease.

Nesterova G(1), Gahl W.

Author information:
(1)Section on Human Biochemical Genetics, Human Genetics Branch, National Human 
Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 
20892-1851, USA.

Cystinosis is a rare autosomal recessive disorder due to impaired transport of 
cystine out of cellular lysosomes. Its estimated incidence is 1 in 100,000 live 
births. End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is the most prominent feature of 
cystinosis and, along with dehydration and electrolyte imbalance due to renal 
tubular Fanconi syndrome, has accounted for the bulk of deaths from this 
disorder. Prior to renal transplantation and cystine-depleting therapy with 
cysteamine for children with nephropathic cystinosis, their lifespan was 
approximately 10 years. Now, cystinotic patients have survived through their 
fifth decade, but the unremitting accumulation of cystine has created 
significant non-renal morbidity and mortality. In this article we review the 
classic presentation of nephropathic cystinosis and the natural history, 
diagnosis, and treatment of the disorder's systemic involvement. We also 
emphasize the role of oral cysteamine therapy in preventing the late 
complications of cystinosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-007-0650-8
PMID: 18008091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Osteoporos Int. 2008 May;19(5):687-97. doi: 10.1007/s00198-007-0504-z. Epub
2007  Nov 16.

Greater first year effectiveness drives favorable cost-effectiveness of brand 
risedronate versus generic or brand alendronate: modeled Canadian analysis.

Grima DT(1), Papaioannou A, Thompson MF, Pasquale MK, Adachi JD.

Author information:
(1)Cornerstone Research Group Inc., Burlington, ON, L7L 5Y6, Canada. 
dgrima@cornerstone-research.com

The RisedronatE and ALendronate (REAL) study provided a unique opportunity to 
conduct cost-effectiveness analyses based on effectiveness data from real-world 
clinical practice. Using a published osteoporosis model, the researchers found 
risedronate to be cost-effective compared to generic or brand alendronate for 
the treatment of Canadian postmenopausal osteoporosis in patients aged 65 years 
or older.
INTRODUCTION: The REAL study provides robust data on the real-world performance 
of risedronate and alendronate. The study used these data to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of brand risedronate versus generic or brand alendronate for 
treatment of Canadian postmenopausal osteoporosis patients aged 65 years or 
older.
METHODS: A previously published osteoporosis model was populated with Canadian 
cost and epidemiological data, and the estimated fracture risk was validated. 
Effectiveness data were derived from REAL and utility data from published 
sources. The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained was 
estimated from a Canadian public payer perspective, and comprehensive 
sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The base case analysis found fewer fractures and more QALYs in the 
risedronate cohort, providing an incremental cost per QALY gained of $3,877 for 
risedronate compared to generic alendronate. The results were most sensitive to 
treatment duration and effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: The REAL study provided a unique opportunity to conduct 
cost-effectiveness analyses based on effectiveness data taken from real-world 
clinical practice. The analysis supports the cost-effectiveness of risedronate 
compared to generic or brand alendronate and the use of risedronate for the 
treatment of osteoporotic Canadian women aged 65 years or older with a BMD 
T-score < or =-2.5.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-007-0504-z
PMCID: PMC5104544
PMID: 18008100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: of interest Daniel Grima is a paid employee of 
and shareholder in Cornerstone Research Group, Inc. Cornerstone received funding 
to conduct the cost-effectiveness analysis and develop the manuscript. 
Cornerstone conducts other consulting activities for the Alliance for Better 
Bone Health and other pharmaceutical companies that market osteoporosis 
therapies. Alexandra Papaioannou is or has been a consultant to the following 
companies: Amgen, Eli Lilly, Merck Frosst, Procter & Gamble, Sanofi-Aventis. Dr 
Papaioannou has conducted clinical trials for: Eli Lilly, Merck Frosst, Procter 
& Gamble, and Sanofi-Aventis. Melissa Thompson is a paid employee of Cornerstone 
Research Group, Inc. Cornerstone received funding to conduct the 
cost-effectiveness analysis and develop the manuscript. Cornerstone conducts 
other consulting activities for the Alliance for Better Bone Health and other 
pharmaceutical companies that market osteoporosis therapies. Margaret Pasquale 
is a paid employee of P&G Pharmaceuticals Inc., which is a member of the 
Alliance for Better Bone Health. Jonathan D. Adachi is/has been a 
consultant/speaker for Amgen, Astra Zeneca, Eli Lilly, GSK, Merck, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, and Servier. He has 
participated in clinical trials for Amgen, Eli Lilly, GSK, Merck, Novartis, 
Pfizer, Procter & Gamble, and Roche.


614. Am J Public Health (N Y). 1915 Dec;5(12):1214-23. doi:
10.2105/ajph.5.12.1214.

THE PREVENTION AND ARREST OF DISEASES OF THE CARDIO-RENAL-VASCULAR SYSTEM.

Fisk EL(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Extension Institute, Inc., New York, N. Y.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.5.12.1214
PMCID: PMC1286765
PMID: 18009366


615. Am J Public Health (N Y). 1927 Jun;17(6):549-57. doi:
10.2105/ajph.17.6.549-a.

THE MONEY VALUE OF LIFE AND LIFE EXTENSION.

Dublin LI(1), Lotka AJ.

Author information:
(1)Statistical Bureau, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York City.

DOI: 10.2105/ajph.17.6.549-a
PMCID: PMC1321729
PMID: 18012177


616. Cir Pediatr. 2007 Jul;20(3):169-74.

[Pediatric patient in adult age. Long-terms results of esophageal replacement].

[Article in Spanish]

Burgos L(1), Martínez L, Suárez O, Andrés AM, Luis AL, Encinas JL, Hernández F, 
Murcia J, Olivares P, Queizán A, Lassaletta L, Tovar JA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirugía Pediátrica, Hospital Infantil La Paz, Madrid. 
lauraburgos33@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Esophagocoloplasty is one of the most used procedures for esophageal 
replacement in children. Considering high life expectancy in these patients, 
long-term results must be considered when evaluating this technique. The aim of 
our study is to evaluate quality of life of adult patients who underwent surgery 
at pediatric age.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We report a retrospective study of 99 patients who 
underwent esophageal replacement in our institution between 1966 and 2006. Eight 
of them have died and 63 out of the remaining 91 are over 18 years now and 
represent our study serie. Long-term results and actual situation of those 
patients, considering psychological, physic and social aspects, were evaluated 
through clinical review and telephonic interview. Karnofsky index was applied to 
mesure functional ability from 0-100% (bad, medium, good-excellent) according to 
the answers the patients gave to our questions. We also recorded their health 
personal experience and subjective evaluation of their quality of life.
RESULTS: Sixty-three patients were reviewed (43 males and 20 females) with a 
mean age of 4.3 +/- 3.4 D.S. Mean follow-up time was 29.6 +/-7.7 years. 
Indications for esophageal replacement were as follows: caustication (n = 32), 
type III esophageal atresia (n = 15), type I AE (n = 13) and others (n = 3). In 
48 patients the graft was placed in retroestenal position and in 15 cases 
retromediastic location was used. Postoperative period was uneventful in 44% of 
the patients, being the most frequent early complications in the remaining, 
cervical leakage and stenosis. Long-term, 56,8% did not have any sequelae, 28.5% 
required further surgery and the remaining 43.13% presented the following 
