DOI: 10.1007/s00442-008-1022-1
PMID: 18368425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. AORN J. 2008 Mar;87(3):557-70; quiz 571-4. doi: 10.1016/j.aorn.2008.02.006.

Special needs of older adults undergoing surgery.

Clayton JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Gwinnett Health System, Lawrenceville, GA, USA.

During the past century, life expectancy in the United States has increased as a 
result of improved sanitation, development of vaccines and treatments for 
childhood diseases, and vast improvements in health care and disease prevention. 
Older adults are at higher risk than younger individuals for complications 
during and after surgery. Carefully planned, effective nursing care during the 
perioperative period will help reduce surgical morbidity in older adults. 
Age-specific nursing care techniques that are provided during the preoperative, 
intraoperative, and postoperative phases of a surgical experience are discussed 
in this article, with a particular focus on how to manage pain and prevent 
infection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aorn.2008.02.006
PMID: 18368743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Int J Public Health. 2007;52(6):337-8. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-0232-3.

Evaluation of prevention: a challenge for economists.

Wasem J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany. juergen.wasem@uni-essen.de

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-0232-3
PMID: 18368995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Int J Public Health. 2007;52(6):383-92. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-7010-0.

Alcohol consumption and alcohol-attributable burden of disease in Switzerland, 
2002.

Rehm J(1), Taylor B, Roerecke M, Patra J.

Author information:
(1)ISGF/Research Institute for Public Health and Addiction, Zurich. 
juergen.rehm@isgf.unizh.ch

OBJECTIVES: This analysis estimated alcohol-attributable burden of disease for 
Switzerland.
METHODS: Exposure distributions were taken from the 2002 Swiss Health Survey and 
adjusted for per capita consumption. Risk relations were taken from 
meta-analyses. Mortality and burden of disease data were taken from the World 
Health Organization.
RESULTS: Overall consumption and alcohol-attributable mortality and burden of 
disease in Switzerland were high compared to European and global averages, 
especially among women. Overall in Switzerland in 2002, 2016 deaths (5.2% of all 
deaths in men, 1.4% in women), 28,939 years of life lost (men: 10.5%, women: 
4.9%) and 70,256 disability adjusted life years (men: 12.9%, women: 4.2%) were 
attributable to alcohol. These numbers are net numbers already incorporating the 
cardioprotective and other beneficial effects of alcohol.
CONCLUSIONS: Limitations of the approach used are discussed. In addition, 
questions of causality and confounding are addressed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-7010-0
PMID: 18369001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Ir Med J. 2008 Jan;101(1):5-6.

Men's health.

Lynch L.

PMID: 18369013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. PLoS Genet. 2008 Mar 14;4(3):e1000014. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000014.

Role of duplicate genes in robustness against deleterious human mutations.

Hsiao TL(1), Vitkup D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Columbia University, New 
York, New York, United States of America.

It is now widely recognized that robustness is an inherent property of 
biological systems [1],[2],[3]. The contribution of close sequence homologs to 
genetic robustness against null mutations has been previously demonstrated in 
simple organisms [4],[5]. In this paper we investigate in detail the 
contribution of gene duplicates to back-up against deleterious human mutations. 
Our analysis demonstrates that the functional compensation by close homologs may 
play an important role in human genetic disease. Genes with a 90% sequence 
identity homolog are about 3 times less likely to harbor known disease mutations 
compared to genes with remote homologs. Moreover, close duplicates affect the 
phenotypic consequences of deleterious mutations by making a decrease in life 
expectancy significantly less likely. We also demonstrate that similarity of 
expression profiles across tissues significantly increases the likelihood of 
functional compensation by homologs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000014
PMCID: PMC2265532
PMID: 18369440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


344. Eur J Epidemiol. 2008;23(5):335-40. doi: 10.1007/s10654-008-9237-3.

Mortality of top athletes, actors and clergy in Poland: 1924-2000 follow-up 
study of the long term effect of physical activity.

Gajewski AK(1), Poznańska A.

Author information:
(1)Jozef Piłsudski University of Physical Education, Warsaw, Poland.

Although a regular moderate physical activity is commonly accepted as an 
important heath promoting factor, the role of professional sport training is 
still under debate. The presented mortality analysis, concerning the period of 
1946-2000, was performed for three groups of people completely healthy in youth, 
but exhibiting different physical activity level in those days: all Polish 
athletes who participated in the Olympic Games (1689 males, 424 females), drama 
actors/actresses (2406/1938), and monks/ nuns (796/323). In all studied cohorts 
mortality was lower than that of gender adjusted, Polish urban population. The 
SMR values equaled 0.50 for male athletes, 0.78 for actors, 0.64 for monks, and 
respectively 0.73, 0.84, and 0.77 for corresponding female cohorts. Moreover, 
the direct comparison indicated that the mortality of male athletes was 
significantly lower than that of actors and monks: the age-standardized rate 
ratio of death were equal: 0.64 and 0.81 respectively. The sportsmen also 
exhibited the longest mean survival. The similar, but not statistically 
significant trends were observed for female cohorts. All the obtained results 
proved that high level physical activity in youth positively influenced men's 
mortality, what was observed for the former athletes even after 40 years since 
the end of their professional carrier.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-008-9237-3
PMID: 18369530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(4):297-310. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200826040-00003.

The use of QALY weights for QALY calculations: a review of industry submissions 
requesting listing on the Australian Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme 2002-4.

Scuffham PA(1), Whitty JA, Mitchell A, Viney R.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Griffith University, Meadowbrook, Queensland, Australia. 
p.scuffham@griffith.edu.au

BACKGROUND: QALYs combine survival and health-related quality of life (QOL) into 
a single index, enabling judgements about the relative value for money of 
healthcare interventions.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the methods used for estimating QALY weights included 
in submissions by industry for listing of their products on the Australian 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective descriptive review of submissions considered by the 
Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee (PBAC) 2002-4.
DATA SOURCES: The database of submissions considered at PBAC meetings was 
obtained from the Pharmaceutical Evaluation Section of the Australian Government 
Department of Health and Ageing. Further information on each included submission 
was obtained in the form of the Pharmaceutical Evaluation Section commentary 
(expert report) on the submission.
METHODS: Submissions to the PBAC over 2002-4 presenting QALYs as an outcome 
measure were reviewed to identify the methods used to obtain preference-based 
QALY weights. Information was analyzed according to the approach taken to obtain 
QALY weights (multi-attribute utility instrument [MAUI], health state valuation 
[HSV] experiment for scaling the health states, or non-preference-based 
approach); the population from whom the QALY weights were obtained; the 
appropriateness of the population for the instrument; the recommendation made by 
the PBAC; and the main indicated category for use of the pharmaceutical. The 
approach and the population were classified as 'more appropriate' and 'less 
appropriate'. The 'more appropriate' approaches were where a MAUI was 
administered to patients who were currently experiencing the health states being 
valued, or when an HSV experiment was undertaken in either the general 
population to value a health state derived from clinical and QOL studies or a 
population of patients to value their own health state. All other approaches 
were considered 'less appropriate'.
RESULTS: MAUIs were used in 39% of approaches reporting QALYs; the most 
frequently used MAUI was the EQ-5D. HSV experiments were used in 36% of the 
approaches and generally drawn from the published literature. 
Non-preference-based approaches (24%) included rating scales, mapping 
transformations and consensus opinions. Responses from patients were used in 58% 
of the approaches, followed by healthcare professionals and investigators (24% 
and 9%, respectively). Healthcare professionals and investigators' responses 
were frequently used in non-preference-based approaches. Submissions for nervous 
system, infectious disease and neoplasms disease areas were less likely to have 
presented QALY weights derived from a 'more appropriate' approach. Of the 
approaches using 'more appropriate' populations and techniques, 56% were 
rejected by the PBAC compared with 66% of those using 'less appropriate' 
approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: The variability in the quality of QALY weights is troubling. The 
PBAC guidelines that applied over the period studied neither encouraged nor 
discouraged cost-utility analyses and provided only brief guidance on how QALY 
studies should be conducted. A consistent approach to the application of 
standard methods should be used when the QALY is used to inform decisions on 
resource allocation. The new PBAC guidelines released in 2006 provide more 
extensive guidance on derivation of QALY estimates and are more encouraging of 
the presentation of cost-utility analysis. MAUIs offer a straightforward 
approach to obtaining QALY weights, and ideally should be used routinely in 
relevant comparative randomized trials to assess patients' health states.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00003
PMID: 18370565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(4):311-28. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00004.

Cost effectiveness of ibandronate for the prevention of fractures in 
inflammatory bowel disease-related osteoporosis: cost-utility analysis using a 
Markov model.

Kreck S(1), Klaus J, Leidl R, von Tirpitz C, Konnopka A, Matschinger H, König 
HH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is a frequent complication in patients with 
inflammatory bowel disease. Recent studies have shown bisphosphonates to 
considerably reduce fracture risk in patients with osteoporosis, and preventing 
fractures with bisphosphonates has been reported to be cost effective in older 
populations. However, no studies of the cost effectiveness of these agents in 
preventing fractures in patients with inflammatory bowel disease are available.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the cost effectiveness of the bisphosphonate 
ibandronate combined with calcium/colecalciferol ('ibandronate') in patients 
with osteopenia or osteoporosis due to inflammatory bowel disease in Germany. 
Treatment strategies used for comparison were sodium fluoride combined with 
calcium/colecalciferol ('fluoride') and calcium/colecalciferol ('calcium') 
alone.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted using data from 
a randomized controlled trial (RCT). Changes in bone mineral density (BMD) were 
adjusted and predicted for a standardized population receiving each respective 
treatment. A Markov model was developed, with probabilities of transition to 
fracture states consisting of BMD-dependent and -independent components. The 
BMD-dependent component was assessed using predicted change in BMD from the RCT. 
The independent component captured differences in bone quality and 
micro-architecture resulting from prevalent fractures or treatment with 
anti-resorptive drugs. The analysis was conducted for a population with a mean 
age of the RCT patients (women aged 36 years, men aged 38 years) with osteopenia 
(T-score about -2.0 at baseline), a population of the same age with osteoporosis 
(T-score of -3.0 at baseline) and for an older population (both sexes aged 65 
years) with osteoporosis (T-score of -3.0). Outcomes were measured as costs per 
QALY gained from a societal perspective. The treatment duration in the RCT was 
42 months. A 5-year period was assumed to follow, during which the treatment 
effects linearly declined to 0. The simulation time was 10 years. Prices for 
medication and treatment were presented as year 2004 values; costs and effects 
were discounted at 5%. To test the robustness of the results, univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses (Monte Carlo simulation) were conducted.
RESULTS: The calcium strategy dominated the fluoride strategy. When the 
ibandronate strategy was compared with the calcium strategy, the base-case 
cost-effectiveness ratios (costs per QALY gained) were between euro 407 375 for 
an older female population with osteoporosis and euro 6 516 345 for a younger 
female population with osteopenia. Univariate sensitivity analyses resulted in 
variations between 4% of base-case results and dominance of calcium. In Monte 
Carlo simulations, conducted for the various populations, the probability of an 
ICER of ibandronate below euro 50 000 per QALY was never greater than 20.2%.
CONCLUSION: The ibandronate strategy is unlikely to be considered cost effective 
by decision makers in men or women with characteristics of those in the target 
population of the RCT, or in older populations with osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00004
PMID: 18370566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(4):329-39. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00005.

An economic evaluation of atorvastatin for primary prevention of cardiovascular 
events in type 2 diabetes.

Ramsey SD(1), Clarke LD, Roberts CS, Sullivan SD, Johnson SJ, Liu LZ.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington, USAUniversity of Washington, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. 
sramsey@fhcrc.org

OBJECTIVE: The CARDS trial, a multicentre, randomized, controlled trial, found 
that atorvastatin 10 mg/day for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus and 
normal low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol significantly reduced 
cardiovascular (CV) events, including stroke. We estimated the cost 
effectiveness of atorvastatin as primary prevention against CV disease from the 
short-term and lifetime US payer perspectives.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We constructed a decision analytic (Markov) model 
to evaluate long-term costs and outcomes for atorvastatin 10 mg/day versus no 
HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (statin) therapy for patients with type 2 diabetes 
and no history of a CV event. CV event rates and survival were based on risk 
equations calibrated to CARDS and applied to a US type 2 diabetes population; 
the atorvastatin effect on CV events was based on hazard ratios from CARDS; 
direct medical care costs were based on US treatment patterns and published 
costs analyses of patients with diabetes. Costs were valued in $US, year 2005 
values; costs and benefits were discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: Within the time horizon of the trial (5 years), the cost effectiveness 
of atorvastatin was $US137 276 per QALY. At 10 years, the incremental cost per 
QALY improved to $US3640 per QALY. At 25 years, overall costs were lower and 
QALYs higher in the atorvastatin arm. Costs of managing CV events were lower 
after 5 years for patients treated with atorvastatin.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with type 2 diabetes and one additional risk factor 
for CV disease, normal LDL-cholesterol and no history of a CV event, primary 
prevention with atorvastatin appears to be cost saving and improve outcomes over 
25 years, although it is costly from a short-term US payer perspective. From 
both a medical and an economic viewpoint, primary prevention is desirable in 
this patient population.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00005
PMID: 18370567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(4):341-58. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00006.

Cost-utility analysis of treatment with olanzapine compared with other 
antipsychotic treatments in patients with schizophrenia in the pan-European SOHO 
study.

Knapp M(1), Windmeijer F, Brown J, Kontodimas S, Tzivelekis S, Haro JM, 
Ratcliffe M, Hong J, Novick D; SOHO Study Group.

Collaborators: Novick D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Economics of Mental Health, Institute of Psychiatry, London, 
UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost utility of treating schizophrenic patients with 
olanzapine compared with other antipsychotics in a naturalistic outpatient 
setting.
METHODS: The pan-European SOHO study is a 3-year, prospective, outpatient, 
observational study of outcomes associated with antipsychotic treatment, 
focusing on olanzapine, in ten European countries. For the cost-utility 
analysis, healthcare resource use (inpatient care, day care, outpatient 
psychiatric consultations and antipsychotic and concomitant medication use) and 
EQ-5D data were collected at baseline and at 3, 6 and 12 months. The perspective 
was that of the health service payer. UK healthcare unit costs (year 2004 
values) were applied to the resource use data for the ten countries. UK 
population tariffs were applied to the EQ-5D data to determine utility values.An 
Epoch analysis was used to analyze the longitudinal data. Multivariate 
regression analyses that adjusted for baseline covariates were used to estimate 
the incremental cost and utility gains for patients treated with olanzapine 
compared with each of the other antipsychotics (risperidone, quetiapine, 
amisulpride, clozapine and oral or depot typical antipsychotics).
RESULTS: A total of 10 972 patients were enrolled at baseline, of which 9107 
completed the 12-month study period. Treatment with olanzapine was more 
effective in terms of QALYs gained than all of the other antipsychotic 
treatments. Treatment with olanzapine dominated quetiapine and amisulpride. The 
incremental cost for olanzapine compared with risperidone was pound sterling 226 
per patient over 12 months and the incremental cost per QALY gained was pound 
5156, with bootstrap analyses showing 100% of the replications falling below a 
pound sterling 30 000 per QALY gained threshold. Compared with treatment with 
clozapine, olanzapine was found to be marginally more effective, at an 
additional cost of pound sterling 13 per patient over 12 months and to have an 
incremental cost per QALY gained of pound sterling 775. Bootstrap analyses 
showed that 81% of replications fell below a pound sterling 30 000 per QALY 
gained threshold. Comparing olanzapine with oral and depot typical 
antipsychotics, the incremental cost was pound sterling 849 and pound sterling 
1106 per patient over 12 months and the incremental cost per QALY gained was 
pound sterling 15 696 and pound sterling 23 331, respectively. Bootstrap 
analyses showed that 98% of the replications fell below a pound sterling 30 000 
per QALY gained threshold for the comparison with oral typical antipsychotics, 
and 79% of replications for the comparison with depot preparations.
CONCLUSIONS: Among SOHO patients, if a funding threshold of pound sterling 30 
000 per QALY gained is assumed, this analysis suggests that olanzapine has a 
high probability of being the most cost-effective treatment compared with other 
antipsychotic treatments. However, comparison of olanzapine with clozapine and 
typical depot antipsychotics should be viewed with caution because clozapine is 
a second-line treatment and depot treatment is used for patients who do not 
adhere to their oral medication.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826040-00006
PMID: 18370568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Clin Psychiatry. 2008 Apr;69(4):514-9. doi: 10.4088/jcp.v69n0401.

Comorbid somatic illnesses in patients with severe mental disorders: clinical, 
policy, and research challenges.

Fleischhacker WW(1), Cetkovich-Bakmas M, De Hert M, Hennekens CH, Lambert M, 
Leucht S, Maj M, McIntyre RS, Naber D, Newcomer JW, Olfson M, Osby U, Sartorius 
N, Lieberman JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Psychiatry, Medical University Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria. wolfgang.fleischhacker@i-med.ac.at

Comment in
    J Clin Psychiatry. 2009 Aug;70(8):1191-2; author reply 1192.
    J Clin Psychiatry. 2011 Aug;72(8):1156-7, author reply 1157.

BACKGROUND: An increasing body of evidence suggests that, in comparison to the 
general population, patients with severe mental illnesses such as schizophrenia 
or bipolar disorder have worse physical health and a far shorter life expectancy 
in developed countries, due primarily to premature cardiovascular disease.
PARTICIPANTS: This article is based on presentations and discussion on somatic 
comorbidity in psychiatric illnesses by a group of 37 international experts 
during 2 meetings held in 2006.
CONSENSUS PROCESS: At the preparatory meeting in Paris, France, the group 
determined key topics for presentations and group discussions. During the 
meeting in Vienna, Austria, on day 1, each set of presentations was followed by 
discussions in small groups with the meeting participants. On day 2, conclusions 
reached by each discussion group were presented and used as a platform for a 
consensus view adopted by the meeting participants. The presentations and 
discussions were collated into a draft that was revised and approved by each of 
the bylined authors.
EVIDENCE: General health care needs are commonly neglected in patients with 
severe mental illness, with suboptimal integration of general somatic and 
psychiatric care services, current lack of consensus as to which health care 
professionals should be responsible for the prevention and management of 
comorbid somatic illnesses in patients with severe mental disorders, and, at 
least in some countries, a paucity of funding for general somatic care for 
patients with severe mental disorders, especially those in long-term psychiatric 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The somatic health of patients with severe medical illnesses is too 
often neglected, thus contributing to an egregious health disparity. The 
reintegration of psychiatry and medicine, with an ultimate goal of providing 
optimal services to this vulnerable patient population, represents the most 
important challenge for psychiatry today, requiring urgent and comprehensive 
action from the profession toward achieving an optimal solution.

DOI: 10.4088/jcp.v69n0401
PMID: 18370570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. J Clin Psychiatry. 2008 Apr;69(4):578-83. doi: 10.4088/jcp.v69n0409.

Identification of high-risk coronary heart disease patients receiving atypical 
antipsychotics: single low-density lipoprotein cholesterol threshold or complex 
national standard?

Correll CU(1), Kane JM, Manu P.

Author information:
(1)Zucker Hillside Hospital, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, Glen 
Oaks, NY 11004, USA. ccorrell@lij.edu

OBJECTIVE: Although psychiatric patients have a shortened life expectancy due to 
increased coronary heart disease (CHD), early identification of high-risk 
patients and targeted prevention for reduction of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) 
cholesterol are suboptimal in clinical care. We aimed to compare the accuracy of 
a single LDL-cholesterol intervention threshold of > 130 mg/dL (recently 
proposed for psychiatric patients) with that of the more complex LDL-cholesterol 
targets defined by the National Cholesterol Education Panel (NCEP). The study 
was performed in patients receiving second-generation antipsychotics (SGAs), a 
medication class associated with CHD risk.
METHOD: Three hundred fifty-six psychiatric patients receiving SGAs underwent 
standard LDL-cholesterol target assessments upon admission to the hospital 
between August 1, 2004, and March 1, 2005. The expert consensus-recommended > 
130-mg/dL LDL-cholesterol threshold was used to determine false-negative results 
among patients with above-target NCEP-defined LDL cholesterol and false-positive 
results in the group with below-target NCEP-defined LDL cholesterol.
RESULTS: The > 130-mg/dL threshold misclassified 15 (14.9%) of 101 high-risk 
patients and 31 (12.2%) of 255 low-risk patients (mean +/- SD 10-year CHD risk: 
23.1% +/- 12.2% and 2.1% +/- 2.2%, respectively). Results were similar in the 
171 schizophrenia patients. Misclassified patients with above-target LDL 
cholesterol were more likely than correctly identified patients to have diabetes 
(p = .0002), greater 10-year CHD risk (p = .0006), higher age (p = .0008), 
metabolic syndrome (p = .0018), and past CHD events (p = .0025). No 
distinguishing factors for false-positive cases could be identified.
CONCLUSIONS: The > 130-mg/dL LDL-cholesterol intervention threshold operated 
poorly in our psychiatric population. To avoid substandard care, NCEP-defined 
LDL-cholesterol targets should be used for the routine detection of psychiatric 
patients treated with antipsychotics who require interventions to decrease CHD 
risk.

DOI: 10.4088/jcp.v69n0409
PMID: 18370572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. J Palliat Med. 2008 Jan-Feb;11(1):84-103. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2008.9992.

Palliative medicine review: prognostication.

Glare PA(1), Sinclair CT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Care, Sydney Cancer Centre, Royal Prince Alfred 
Hospital, Camperdown, New South Wales, Australia.

Prognostication, along with diagnosis and treatment, is a traditional core 
clinical skill of the physician. Many patients and families receiving palliative 
care want information about life expectancy to help plan realistically for their 
futures. Although underappreciated, prognosis is, or at least should be, part of 
every clinical decision. Despite this crucial role, expertise in the art and 
science of prognostication diminished during the twentieth century, due largely 
to the ascendancy of accurate diagnostic tests and effective therapies. 
Consequently, "Doctor, how long do I have?" is a question most physicians find 
unprepared to answer effectively. As we focus on palliative care in the 
twenty-first century, prognostication will need to be restored as a core 
clinical proficiency. The discipline of palliative medicine can provide 
leadership in this direction. This paper begins by discussing a framework for 
understanding prognosis and how its different domains might be applied to all 
patients with life limiting illness, although the main focus of the paper is 
predicting survival in patients with cancer. Examples of prognostic tools are 
provided, although the subjective assessment of prognosis remains important in 
the terminally ill. Other issues addressed include: the importance of 
prognostication in terms of clinical decision-making, discharge planning, and 
care planning; the impact of prognosis on hospice referrals and patient/family 
satisfaction; and physicians' willingness to prognosticate.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2008.9992
PMID: 18370898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2008 May;19(5):433-41. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01510.x. Epub 2008 Mar 26.

Five-year results from a randomized, controlled trial on early and delayed 
loading of implants supporting full-arch prosthesis in the edentulous maxilla.

Fischer K(1), Stenberg T, Hedin M, Sennerby L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomaterials, Institute for Clinical Sciences, Sahlgrenska 
Academy, Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden. kerstin.fischer@swipnet.se

OBJECTIVES: The overall aim was to compare the clinical outcomes of early and 
delayed implant loading in the totally edentulous maxilla during 5 years of 
function.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-four patients with edentulous maxillae were 
randomized in two groups and subjected to early (test, n=16) or delayed 
(control, n=8) loading. A total of 142 implants were placed and 139 implants 
(Straumann AG) were loaded with full-arch bridges and followed for 5 years.
RESULTS: All patients received and maintained a fixed bridge throughout the 
study period. Five (5.3%) test implants in three patients and two (4.3%) control 
implants in two patients were lost during the 5 years (NS). There were no 
differences in implant stability as measured with resonance frequency analysis 
at 5 years. More bone loss occurred at test than at control implants, -0.8 mm 
(SD 1.2) vs. -0.3 mm (SD 1.1), respectively. However, test implants showed a 
more coronal marginal bone level than control implants after 5 years, 2.9 mm (SD 
1.1) vs. 3.7 mm (SD 1.2) from the implant shoulder, respectively. No control 
implants and four (4.4%) test implants in three (18.8%) patients showed >3 mm 
bone loss after 5 years. Two of the latter implants in one patient also showed 
increased probing depths, bleeding at probing and plaque accumulation. Tooth 
fracture was the most common prosthetic complication. The use of lingual gold 
onlay effectively reduced the number of resin-related complications as opposed 
to a resilient mouth guard.
CONCLUSIONS: The present randomized controlled trial showed no important 
differences between early and delayed loading of implants in the edentulous 
maxilla after 5 years of function. A favourable long-term marginal bone response 
to the sandblasted large-grit acid-etched (SLA) surface was observed. Technical 
complications were mainly resin-related which could be avoided by the use of a 
lingual gold onlay. It is concluded that early loading of SLA-surface implants 
for support of full-arch bridges represents a viable therapy for the totally 
edentulous maxilla.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01510.x
PMID: 18371094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Am Heart J. 2008 Apr;155(4):680-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.11.007. Epub 2008
Feb  21.

Drug-eluting stents in octogenarians: early and intermediate outcome.

Vlaar PJ(1), Lennon RJ, Rihal CS, Singh M, Ting HH, Bresnahan JF, Holmes DR Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

BACKGROUND: Large randomized controlled trials have demonstrated that 
percutaneous coronary intervention with the routine use of drug-eluting stents 
is safe and effective. However, octogenarians are usually excluded from these 
trials.
METHODS: We analyzed 2453 consecutive patients who underwent DES implantation at 
the Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN). The patients were classified in 2 age groups: 
patients > or = 80 years of age < or = 79 years of age.
RESULTS: Patients > or = 80 years old had significantly more adverse baseline 
characteristics including more comorbid conditions and more severe extensive 
coronary artery disease. Procedural success was high irrespective of the age 
group--97% in patients > or = 80 years of age versus 98% in the younger 
patients. Multivariate analysis demonstrated that age of > or = 80 years was 
significantly associated with inhospital major adverse cardiac events (MACEs) (P 
= .004). In addition, among inhospital survivors, octogenarians also had higher 
follow-up MACE rates (P < .001). At 12 months of follow-up, patients > or = 80 
years of age had a mortality of 8.9% versus 3.0% for the younger patients (P < 
.001). The older patients also had more recurrent myocardial infarction (5.2% vs 
2.6%, P = .019). However, there was no significant difference in 12-month target 
lesion revascularization (4.5% vs 4.9% [> or = 80 years of age vs < or = 79 
years of age]) or coronary artery bypass grafting (1.8% vs 1.3% [> or = 80 years 
of age vs < or = 79 years of age]). After age-sex adjustment, life expectancy of 
octogenarians was similar to that of the general population (P = .78).
CONCLUSION: This study showed that drug-eluting stent implantation in 
octogenarians has high initial procedural success rates compared with the 
younger patients despite having more severe baseline risk characteristics. 
During follow-up, death and overall MACE rates remain higher in octogenarians 
but target lesion revascularization rates are similar.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.11.007
PMID: 18371476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Atherosclerosis. 2008 Jun;198(2):247-55. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2008.02.009. Epub 2008 Feb 19.

Recommendations for the use of LDL apheresis.

Thompson GR(1); HEART-UK LDL Apheresis Working Group.

Collaborators: Barbir M, Davies D, Dobral P, Gesinde M, Livingston M, Mandry P, 
Matthews S, Neuwirth C, Pottle A, le Roux C, Scullard D, Stokes G, Tyler C, 
Watkins S.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, Hammersmith Hospital, London. g.thompson@imperial.ac.uk

Plasma exchange has been shown to increase life-expectancy in homozygous 
familial hypercholesterolaemia (FH) but increasingly is being replaced by LDL 
apheresis. Several methods are now available for undertaking this procedure, 
which lowers LDL cholesterol and Lp(a) efficiently and safely when performed 
weekly or bi-weekly and causes only slight decreases in HDL cholesterol. 
Hitherto the main clinical indication has been homozygous FH, including children 
and pregnant women, but there are limited data showing that LDL apheresis has 
effects on the progression of cardiovascular disease in FH heterozygotes which 
are similar to those of maximal lipid-lowering drug therapy. Hence it has the 
potential to be beneficial in hypercholesterolaemic patients with overt coronary 
disease who are refractory to or intolerant of drugs. It is therefore 
recommended that LDL apheresis should be the treatment of choice for: (1) all FH 
homozygotes from the age of seven onwards unless their serum cholesterol can be 
reduced by >50% and/or decreased to <or=9mmol/l by drug therapy; (2) individual 
patients with either heterozygous FH or a bad family history of premature 
cardiac death whose coronary disease progresses and where LDL cholesterol 
remains >5.0mmol/l or is decreased by <40% with maximal drug therapy. Apheresis 
may also occasionally be indicated on a case-by-case basis for patients with 
lower levels of LDL. (3) LDL apheresis should also be considered for patients 
with aggressive progressing coronary disease and Lp(a)>60mg/l whose LDL 
cholesterol remains >3.2mmol/l despite maximal drug therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2008.02.009
PMID: 18371971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Eur J Cancer. 2008 May;44(7):972-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.041. Epub
2008  Mar 26.

The challenge of conducting pharmacoeconomic evaluations in oncology using 
crossover trials: the example of sunitinib for gastrointestinal stromal tumour.

Chabot I(1), LeLorier J, Blackstein ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Outcomes Research, Medical Division, Pfizer Canada Inc., 17300 
Trans-Canada Highway, Kirkland, QC, Canada H9J 2M5. isabelle.chabot@pfizer.com

This paper examines the challenge of conducting economic evaluations to support 
patient access to cancer therapies when the cost-effectiveness estimation is 
hampered by crossover trial design. To demonstrate these limitations, we present 
the submission to the Canadian Drug Review (CDR) of a cost-effectiveness 
evaluation of sunitinib versus best supportive care (BSC) for the treatment of 
gastrointestinal stromal tumour in patients intolerant or resistant to imatinib. 
The economic model generated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
sunitinib versus BSC of dollars 79,884/quality-adjusted life-year gained. Eight 
months after initial submission, CDR granted a final recommendation to fund 
sunitinib following the manufacturer's appeal against their first 
recommendation. Although cost-effectiveness is an important consideration in 
reimbursement decisions, there is a need for improved decision-making processes 
for cancer drugs, as well as a better understanding of the limitations of 
clinical trial design.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.041
PMID: 18372169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Servir. 2007 Jul-Oct;55(4-5):125-39.

[Aging and use of time].

[Article in Portuguese]

Cabrita MJ.

Time is a social constiruction that permits to coordinate, articulate and rhythm 
the various social activities. The need of occupation establishes one of the 
fundamental needs of old people. This occupation means a way of feeling useful 
to themselves or to others, as well as their fulfillment as human beings. The 
following study about the time occupation of old people is descriptive, 
exploratory, throughout it we pretend to know how the elderly users of Centro de 
Saúde da Lapa (health Centre of Lapa) manage daily their time, and how this 
management influences their wellbeing.

PMID: 18372534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Nutr Health Aging. 2008 Apr;12(4):233-7. doi: 10.1007/BF02982627.

Weight gain in overweight and obese community dwelling old-old.

Callen BL(1), Pemberton G.

Author information:
(1)University of Tennessee, College of Nursing, 1200 Volunteer Blvd, Knoxville, 
Tennessee 37996-4180, USA. bcallen@utk.edu

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to 1) investigate lifetime weight 
changes in community dwelling old-old, those age 80 or older; 2) explore reasons 
for weight changes from their personal perspective and 3) examine ways the 
old-old feel they can successfully lose weight. A cross sectional design was 
used for this qualitative study.
SETTING: One county of a southeastern U.S. state.
PARTICIPANTS: Nine community dwelling old-old.
MEASUREMENT: Content analysis of transcripts was used to examine the interviews.
RESULTS: All of the old-old interviewed had reached their maximum weight after 
the age of 65. Average lifetime weight gain was 73 pounds. All wanted to lose 
weight and found ways to incorporate small changes in their everyday lives.
CONCLUSION: With increasing life expectancy among older adults, health promotion 
targeting weight control needs to include the old-old.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02982627
PMID: 18373031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Internist (Berl). 2008 May;49(5):581-92. doi: 10.1007/s00108-008-2096-x.

[Molecular tumour therapy: antibodies and small molecules].

[Article in German]

Wilhelm C(1), Neubauer A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin SP Hämatologie, Onkologie, Immunologie, 
Universitätsklinikum Giessen und Marburg, Standort Marburg, Baldingerstrasse 1, 
35033, Marburg, Deutschland. cwilhelm@mailer.uni-marburg.de

Molecular tumor therapy based on understanding the principles of malignant 
transformation has resulted in a dramatic progress in cancer therapy. Targeted 
therapies attack the malignant cells and, more specifically, the deregulated 
intracellular signal transduction. Therefore a high efficacy with lower side 
effects then classical chemotherapy is expected. There are two different drug 
classes available: monoclonal antibodies targeting surface molecules, as well as 
intracellular acting small molecules, especially tyrosine kinase inhibitors. 
Both modalities have specific advances but also limitations, and have resulted 
in greater life expectancy in certain solid and hematopoietic tumors such as 
certain leukemias, lymphoma, breast and lung cancers. The limiting factors are 
i) the drug can only be applied when the targeted protein is expressed; ii) the 
high cost associated with these therapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-008-2096-x
PMID: 18373074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Annu Rev Biochem. 2008;77:727-54. doi:
10.1146/annurev.biochem.77.061206.171059.

Aging and survival: the genetics of life span extension by dietary restriction.

Mair W(1), Dillin A.

Author information:
(1)The Salk Institute for Biological Studies, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. 
mair@salk.edu

Reducing food intake to induce undernutrition but not malnutrition extends the 
life spans of multiple species, ranging from single-celled organisms to mammals. 
This increase in longevity by dietary restriction (DR) is coupled to profound 
beneficial effects on age-related pathology. Historically, much of the work on 
DR has been undertaken using rodent models, and 70 years of research has 
revealed much about the physiological changes DR induces. However, little is 
known about the genetic pathways that regulate the DR response and whether or 
not they are conserved between species. Elucidating these pathways may 
facilitate the design of targeted pharmaceutical treatments for a range of 
age-related pathologies. Here, we discuss how recent work in nonmammalian model 
organisms has revealed new insight into the genetics of DR and how the discovery 
of DR-specific transcription factors will advance our understanding of this 
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.biochem.77.061206.171059
PMID: 18373439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Apr;12(8):iii-iv, ix-x, 1-193. doi: 
10.3310/hta12080.

Stapled haemorrhoidectomy (haemorrhoidopexy) for the treatment of haemorrhoids: 
a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Burch J(1), Epstein D, Baba-Akbari A, Weatherly H, Fox D, Golder S, Jayne D, 
Drummond M, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the safety, clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of circular stapled haemorrhoidopexy (SH) for the treatment 
of haemorrhoids.
DATA SOURCES: Main electronic databases were searched up to July 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with 20 or more participants 
that compared SH with any conventional haemorrhoidectomy (CH) technique in 
people of any age with prolapsing haemorrhoids for whom surgery is considered a 
relevant option, were used to evaluate clinical effectiveness. An economic model 
of the surgical treatment of haemorrhoids was developed.
RESULTS: The clinical effectiveness review included 27 RCTs (n = 2279; 1137 SH; 
1142 CH). All had some methodological flaws; only two reported recruiting 
patients with second, third and fourth degree haemorrhoids, and 37% reported 
using an appropriate method of randomisation and/or allocation concealment. In 
the early postoperative period 95% of trials reported less pain following SH; by 
day 21 the pain reported following SH and CH was minimal, with little difference 
between the two techniques. Significantly fewer patients had unhealed wounds at 
6 weeks following SH [odds ratio (OR) 0.08, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.03 to 
0.19, p < 0.001]. Residual prolapse was more common after SH (OR 3.38, 95% CI 
1.00 to 11.47, p = 0.05, nine RCTs, results of a sensitivity analysis). There 
was no difference between SH and CH in the incidence of bleeding or 
postoperative complications. SH resulted in shorter operating times, hospital 
stay, time to first bowel movement and return to normal activity. In the short 
term (between 6 weeks and a year) prolapse was more common after SH (OR 4.68, 
95% CI 1.11 to 19.71, p = 0.04, six RCTs). There was no difference in the number 
of patients complaining of pain between SH and CH. In the long term (1 year and 
over), there was a significantly higher rate of prolapse after SH (OR 4.34, 95% 
CI 1.67 to 11.28, p = 0.003, 12 RCTs). There was no difference in the number of 
patients experiencing pain, or the incidence of bleeding, between SH and CH. 
There was no difference in the total number of reinterventions, or 
reinterventions for pain, bleeding or complications, between SH and CH. 
Significantly more reinterventions were undertaken after SH for prolapse at 12 
months or longer (OR 6.78, 95% CI 2.00 to 23.00, p = 0.002, six RCTs). Overall, 
there was no statistically significant difference in the rate of complications 
between SH and CH. In the economic assessment it was found that, on average, CH 
dominated SH. However, CH and SH had very similar costs and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). On average, the difference in costs between the procedures 
was 19 pounds and the difference in QALY was -0.001, favouring CH, over 3 years. 
In terms of QALYs, the superior quality of life due to lower pain levels in the 
early postoperative period with SH was offset by the higher rate of symptoms 
over the follow-up period, compared with CH. The results are very sensitive to 
modelling assumptions, particularly the valuation of utility in the early 
postoperative period. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that, at a 
threshold incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 20,000-30,000 pounds per QALY, 
SH had a 45% probability of being cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: SH was associated with less pain in the immediate postoperative 
period, but a higher rate of residual prolapse, prolapse in the longer term and 
reintervention for prolapse. There was no clear difference in the rate or type 
of complications associated with the two techniques and the absolute and 
relative rates of recurrence and reintervention for both are still uncertain. CH 
and SH had very similar costs and QALYs, the cost of the staple gun being offset 
by savings in hospital stay. Should the price of the gun change, the conclusions 
of the economic analysis may also change. Some training may be required in the 
use of the staple gun; this is not expected to have major resource implications. 
Given the currently available clinical evidence and the results of the economic 
analysis, the decision as to whether SH or CH is conducted could primarily be 
based on the priorities and preferences of the patient and surgeon. An 
adequately powered, good-quality RCT is required, comparing SH with CH, 
recruiting patients with second, third and fourth degree haemorrhoids, and 
having a minimum follow-up period of 5 years to ensure an adequate evaluation of 
the reintervention rate. Other areas for research are the effectiveness of SH in 
patients with fourth degree haemorrhoids and patients with co-morbid conditions, 
the reintervention rates for all treatments for haemorrhoids, utilities of 
patients up to 6 months postoperatively, the trade-offs of patients for 
short-term pain versus long-term outcomes, and the ability of SH to reduce 
hospital stays in a real practice setting.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12080
PMID: 18373905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Apr;12(7):iii, ix-x, 1-175. doi:
10.3310/hta12070.

The use of economic evaluations in NHS decision-making: a review and empirical 
investigation.

Williams I(1), McIver S, Moore D, Bryan S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Facility, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the extent to which health economic information is used 
in health policy decision-making in the UK, and to consider factors associated 
with the utilisation of such research findings.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases were searched up to 2004.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of existing reviews on the use of economic 
evaluations in policy decision-making, of health and non-health literature on 
the use of economic analyses in policy making and of studies identifying actual 
or perceived barriers to the use of economic evaluations was undertaken. Five UK 
case studies of committees from four local and one national organisation [the 
Technology Appraisal Committee of the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE)] were conducted. Local case studies were augmented by 
documentary analysis of new technology request forms and by workshop discussions 
with members of local decision-making committees.
RESULTS: The systematic review demonstrated few previous systematic reviews of 
evidence in the area. At the local level in the NHS, it was an exception for 
economic evaluation to inform technology coverage decisions. Local 
decision-making focused primarily on evidence of clinical benefit and cost 
implications. And whilst information on implementation was frequently requested, 
cost-effectiveness information was rarely accessed. A number of features of the 
decision-making environment appeared to militate against emphasis on 
cost-effectiveness analysis. Constraints on the capacity to generate, access and 
interpret information, led to a minor role for cost-effectiveness analysis in 
the local decision-making process. At the national policy level in the UK, 
economic analysis was found to be highly integrated into NICE's technology 
appraisal programme. Attitudes to economic evaluation varied between committee 
members with some significant disagreement and extraneous factors diluted the 
health economics analysis available to the committee. There was strong evidence 
of an ordinal approach to consideration of clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness information. Some interviewees considered the key role of a 
cost-effectiveness analysis to be the provision of a framework for 
decision-making. Interviewees indicated that NICE makes use of some form of 
cost-effectiveness threshold but expressed concern about its basis and its use 
in decision-making. Frustrations with the appraisal process were expressed in 
terms of the scope of the policy question being addressed. Committee members 
raised concerns about lack of understanding of the economic analysis but felt 
that a single measure of benefit, e.g. the quality-adjusted life-year, was 
useful in allowing comparison of disparate health interventions and in providing 
a benchmark for later decisions. The importance of ensuring that committee 
members understood the limitations of the analysis was highlighted for 
model-based analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that research is needed into structures, 
processes and mechanisms by which technology coverage decisions can and should 
be made in healthcare. Further development of 'resource centres' may be useful 
to provide independent published analyses in order to support local 
decision-makers. Improved methods of economic analyses and of their 
presentation, which take account of the concerns of their users, are needed. 
Finally, the findings point to the need for further assessment of the 
feasibility and value of a formal process of clarification of the objectives 
that we seek from investments in healthcare.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12070
PMID: 18373906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Microbiology (Reading). 2008 Apr;154(Pt 4):1047-1058. doi: 
10.1099/mic.0.2007/013227-0.

Formation of an inverted repeat junction in the transposition of insertion 
sequence ISLC3 isolated from Lactobacillus casei.

Lo TC(1), Chen HW(1), Tsai YK(1), Kuo YC(1), Lin CF(1), Kuo SY(1), Lin TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine and Department of Life Science, National 
Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, ROC.

An insertion sequence, ISLC3, of 1351 bp has been isolated from Lactobacillus 
casei. Formation of IS circles containing a 3 bp spacer (complete junction) or 
deletion of 25 bp at the left inverted repeat (IRL) between the abutted IS ends 
of the ISLC3 junction region (deleted junction) was also discovered in the 
lactobacilli and Escherichia coli system studied. We found that the promoter 
formed by the complete junction P(jun) was more active than that formed by the 
25 bp deleted junction P(djun) or the indigenous promoter P(IRL). The 
corresponding transcription start sites for both promoter P(jun) and P(IRL) as 
well as P(djun) were subsequently determined using a primer extension assay. The 
activity of transposase OrfAB of ISLC3 was also assayed using an in vitro 
system. It was found that this transposase preferred to cleave a single DNA 
strand at the IRR over the IRL end in the transposition process, suggesting that 
attack of one end by the other was oriented from IRR to IRL.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.2007/013227-0
PMID: 18375798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Nat Methods. 2008 Apr;5(4):355-60. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.f.209.

A sensitive direct human telomerase activity assay.

Cohen SB(1), Reddel RR.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Unit, Children's Medical Research Institute, 214 Hawkesbury 
Road, Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia.

Expression of telomerase, the specialized reverse transcriptase that adds 
5'-TTAGGG-3' repeats to the ends of human chromosomes, is upregulated in > or 
=85% of human cancers and tumor cell lines. We describe a direct 
primer-extension activity assay for human telomerase that displays sensitivity 
to approximately 10(6) telomerase-positive cells, making the method suitable for 
use with standard cell culture-based research (Fig. 1). Telomerase is first 
immunoaffinity purified from cell lysate using an antibody to telomerase and 
captured using protein G-agarose beads (Steps 14-17). Then telomerase is 
dissociated from the beads using excess peptide antigen (Step 19). A second 
affinity purification exploits the stable binding interaction between human 
telomerase and the telomeric DNA substrate 5'-(TTAGGG)3-3' (dissociation 
half-life > or = 10 h at 23 degrees C). Modifying neutravidin beads with 
5'-biotin-CTAGACCTGTCATCA(TTAGGG)3-3' (Step 5) generates an affinity reagent 
that captures >90% of immunopurified telomerase (Step 22), providing highly 
enriched telomerase bound to its DNA substrate in a volume of 20 mul of beads. 
Addition of assay buffer results in extension of the bead-immobilized DNA 
substrate (Step 24). Telomerase extension products are released by heating in 
denaturing formamide buffer to disrupt the avidin-biotin interaction, and then 
separated and visualized by standard techniques.

DOI: 10.1038/nmeth.f.209
PMID: 18376394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Health Psychol. 2008 Mar;27(2):230-8. doi: 10.1037/0278-6133.27.2.230.

Relationships among depressive symptoms, benefit-finding, optimism, and positive 
affect in multiple sclerosis patients after psychotherapy for depression.

Hart SL(1), Vella L, Mohr DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
stacey.hart@psych.ryerson.ca

OBJECTIVE: While many patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) experience 
psychological problems, such as depression, benefit-finding is commonly 
reported. Using the Broaden-and-Build Model of positive emotions (Fredrickson, 
2001) and the Expectancy-Value Model of optimism (Carver & Scheier, 1998) as two 
related, yet, distinct conceptual frameworks, this study examined positive 
