DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2007.116012
PMCID: PMC2376982
PMID: 18309129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. BMJ. 2008 Mar 22;336(7645):651-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39479.640486.AE. Epub
2008  Feb 29.

Helicobacter pylori test and treat versus proton pump inhibitor in initial 
management of dyspepsia in primary care: multicentre randomised controlled trial 
(MRC-CUBE trial).

Delaney BC(1), Qume M, Moayyedi P, Logan RF, Ford AC, Elliott C, McNulty C, 
Wilson S, Hobbs FD.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT. 
b.c.delaney@bham.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008 Mar 22;336(7645):623-4.
    BMJ. 2008 Apr 5;336(7647):735-6.
    J Fam Pract. 2008 Jun;57(6):365.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of Helicobacter pylori "test and 
treat" compared with empirical acid suppression in the initial management of 
patients with dyspepsia in primary care.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: 80 general practices in the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 699 patients aged 18-65 who presented to their general 
practitioner with epigastric pain, heartburn, or both without "alarm symptoms" 
for malignancy.
INTERVENTION: H pylori 13C urea breath test plus one week of eradication 
treatment if positive or proton pump inhibitor alone; subsequent management at 
general practitioner's discretion.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost effectiveness in cost per quality adjusted life year 
(QALY) (EQ-5D) and effect on dyspeptic symptoms at one year measured with short 
form Leeds dyspepsia questionnaire.
RESULTS: 343 patients were randomised to testing for H pylori, and 100 were 
positive. The successful eradication rate was 78%. 356 patients received proton 
pump inhibitor for 28 days. At 12 months no significant differences existed 
between the two groups in QALYs, costs, or dyspeptic symptoms. Minor reductions 
in costly resource use over the year in the test and treat group "paid back" the 
initial cost of the intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Test and treat and acid suppression are equally cost effective in 
the initial management of dyspepsia. Empirical acid suppression is an 
appropriate initial strategy. As costs are similar overall, general 
practitioners should discuss with patients at which point to consider H pylori 
testing.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN87644265.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39479.640486.AE
PMCID: PMC2270968
PMID: 18310262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: BCD, RFAL and PM have 
received speakers’ fees from companies that market proton pump inhibitors.


202. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2008 Mar;15(1):37-49. doi: 10.1677/ERC-07-0229.

Bone metastases from differentiated thyroid carcinoma.

Muresan MM(1), Olivier P, Leclère J, Sirveaux F, Brunaud L, Klein M, Zarnegar R, 
Weryha G.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Department and Nuclear Medicine Department, Hôpital Brabois 
Adultes, CHU Nancy, Vandoeuvre, France. m.muresan@chr-metz-thionville.fr

The presence of distant metastases from differentiated thyroid carcinoma 
decreases the 10-year survival of patients by 50%. Bone metastases represent a 
frequent complication especially of follicular thyroid cancer and severely 
reduce the quality of life causing pain, fractures, and spinal cord compression. 
Diagnosis is established by correlating clinical suspicion with imaging. Imaging 
is essential to detect, localize, and assess the extension of the lesions and 
should be used in conjunction with clinical evidence. Bone metastases are 
typically associated with elevated markers of bone turnover, but these markers 
have not been evaluated in differentiated thyroid cancer. Skeletal and 
whole-body magnetic resonance imaging and fusion 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-glucose 
whole-body positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) are the 
best anatomic and functional imaging techniques available in specialized 
centers. For well-differentiated lesions, iodine-PET scan combined (124)I-PET/CT 
is the newest imaging development and (131)I is the first line of treatment. 
Bisphosphonates reduce the complications rate and pain, alone or in combination 
with radioiodine, radionuclides, or external beam radiotherapy and should be 
employed. Surgery and novel minimally invasive consolidation techniques demand 
an appropriate patient selection for best results on a multimodal approach. 
Basic research on interactions between tumor cells and bone microenvironment are 
identifying potential novel targets for future more effective therapeutic 
interventions for less differentiated tumors.

DOI: 10.1677/ERC-07-0229
PMID: 18310274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. J Trop Pediatr. 2008 Aug;54(4):265-8. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fmn011. Epub 2008
Feb  29.

Declining trends of infant, child and under-five mortality in Nepal.

Thapa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Saving Newborn Lives Program, Save the Children/US, Washington DC 20036, USA. 
SThapa@savechildren.org

Demographic and Health Surveys conducted quinquennially in 1996, 2001 and 2006 
show that infant, child and under-five mortality in Nepal have declined steadily 
at least over the past 25 years. Estimates based on exponential-decline 
regression curves fitted to the 15-year data immediately preceding each survey, 
aggregated by 5-year period, show the infant, child and under-five mortality 
rates for the period 1986-1990 to be 106, 58 and 158 per 1000 live births and 
52, 17 and 67 per 1000 live births for 2001-2005, respectively. The projected 
rates, assuming that the policy and program efforts are sustained, for the 
period 2011-2015 are 32, 7 and 38 per 1000 live births. Nepal is most likely to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) target of a two-thirds reduction 
in child mortality by 2015, the end of the MDG countdown.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fmn011
PMID: 18310665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Am Dent Assoc. 2008 Mar;139(3):305-15; quiz 305-15. doi: 
10.14219/jada.archive.2008.0160.

Direct pulp capping with mineral trioxide aggregate: an observational study.

Bogen G(1), Kim JS, Bakland LK.

Author information:
(1)rohbogen@sbcglobal.net

Erratum in
    J Am Dent Assoc. 2008 May;139(5):541.

BACKGROUND: Pulp capping in carious teeth has been considered unpredictable and 
therefore contraindicated. A recently developed material, mineral trioxide 
aggregate (MTA), resists bacterial leakage and may provide protection for the 
pulp, allowing repair and continued pulp vitality in teeth when used in 
combination with a sealed restoration.
METHODS: Forty patients aged 7 to 45 years accepted pulp-capping treatment when 
they received a diagnosis no more severe than reversible pulpitis after 
undergoing cold testing and radiographic examination. The primary author removed 
caries using a caries detector dye and sodium hypochlorite solution for 
hemostasis and placed MTA over the exposures and all surrounding dentin. The 
operator then restored the teeth provisionally with unbonded Clearfil Photocore 
(Kuraray Medical, Okayama, Japan). During a second visit, the operator restored 
the teeth with bonded composite after sensibility testing and confirmed MTA 
curing. At recall appointments, patients were evaluated for reparative dentin 
formation, pulpal calcification, continued normal root development and evidence 
of pathosis.
RESULTS: Over an observation period of nine years, the authors followed 49 of 53 
teeth and found that 97.96 percent had favorable outcomes on the basis of 
radiographic appearance, subjective symptoms and cold testing. All teeth in 
younger patients (15/15) that initially had open apexes showed completed root 
formation (apexogenesis).
CONCLUSIONS: MTA can be a reliable pulp-capping material on direct carious 
exposures in permanent teeth when a two-visit treatment protocol is observed.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Vital pulp therapy using MTA is a treatment option for 
teeth diagnosed with a condition no more severe than reversible pulpitis.

DOI: 10.14219/jada.archive.2008.0160
PMID: 18310735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Lifetime Data Anal. 2008 Sep;14(3):286-315. doi: 10.1007/s10985-008-9084-2.
Epub  2008 Mar 3.

Mortality, longevity and experiments with the Lee-Carter model.

Haberman S(1), Renshaw A.

Author information:
(1)Cass Business School, City University, 106 Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8TZ, UK. 
S.Haberman@city.ac.uk

The paper reviews the Lee-Carter modelling framework, illustrated with an 
application, and then extends the framework through the development of a wider 
class of generalised, parametric, non-linear models. The choice of error 
distribution is also generalised. These extensions permit the modelling and 
extrapolation of age-specific cohort effects as well as the more familiar 
age-specific period effects: the age-period-cohort version of the model is 
discussed with a worked example. The paper also provides a comparative study of 
simulation strategies for assessing risk in mortality rate predictions and the 
associated forecast estimates of life expectancy and annuity values in both 
period and cohort perspectives.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-008-9084-2
PMID: 18311585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. J Neurosurg. 2008 Mar;108(3):437-42. doi: 10.3171/JNS/2008/108/3/0437.

Could late rebleeding overturn the superiority of cranial aneurysm coil 
embolization over clip ligation seen in the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm 
Trial?

Mitchell P(1), Kerr R, Mendelow AD, Molyneux A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Newcastle General Hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK. patrick.mitchell@ncl.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2008 Mar;108(3):433-5.
    J Neurosurg. 2008 Mar;108(3):436.
    Surg Neurol. 2008 Jul;70(1):104-7.
    J Neurosurg. 2009 Jan;110(1):190-1; author reply 191-2.

OBJECT: The present purpose is to define the sensitivity of the superiority of 
coil embolization observed in the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial 
(ISAT) according to the rate of late rebleeding over a reasonable range, and to 
find the range of rebleeding rates for which it may be overturned. In the ISAT, 
coil embolization appears to be safer than clip ligation at 1 year, and clip 
occlusion has better long-term efficacy at preventing rebleeding. This leaves 
open the question of which is better in the longer term.
METHODS: The authors calculate the life expectancy of patients following a 
subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and compare the life expectancy of those who 
underwent coil embolization with those who underwent clip ligation in the ISAT 
cohort.
RESULTS: The 1-year poor outcome rate following treatment climbs rapidly with 
advancing age. A consequence is that the absolute difference between the poor 
outcome rates after coil embolization and clip occlusion is lower in those < 50 
years of age (3.3%) than it is for those > 50 years of age (10.1%). This 
difference may be enough to give clip application the advantage in the < 
40-year-old group despite the small size of the difference in 1-year rebleeding 
rates thus far observed (0.152%).
CONCLUSIONS: When treating ruptured cerebral aneurysms, the advantage of coil 
embolization over clip ligation cannot be assumed for patients < 40 years old. 
In this age range the difference in the safety of the 2 procedures is small, and 
the better long-term protection from SAH afforded by clip placement may give 
this treatment an advantage in life expectancy for patients < 40 years of age.

DOI: 10.3171/JNS/2008/108/3/0437
PMID: 18312088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Breast J. 2008 Mar-Apr;14(2):158-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2007.00547.x.
Epub  2008 Feb 25.

Time trends in the outcome of elderly patients with breast cancer.

Hughes S(1), Barbachano Y, Ashley S, Yap YS, Popat S, Allen M, Della-Rovere UQ, 
Johnston S, Smith I, O'Brien M.

Author information:
(1)The Royal Marsden Hospital, Surrey, United Kingdom.

Mortality rates for breast cancer are improving in most countries. Life 
expectancy is also improving, and as age is the major risk factor for the 
development of breast cancer, we sought to determine whether survival of elderly 
women with breast cancer has improved over the past 20 years in our institution. 
In a retrospective study using a prospectively maintained database, we 
identified 950 women aged > or =70 years diagnosed with breast cancer between 
1980 and 2000. Overall survival of patients was compared between two different 
time cohorts--those diagnosed from 1980 to 1990 and from 1991 to 2000--and 
between three age cohorts, 70-74, 75-79, and 80+ years. In all age groups, 
advanced stage, the need for mastectomy, and having chemotherapy were associated 
with a worse outcome on univariate analysis. Endocrine therapy (tamoxifen) was 
given to 60-70% of all age groups. After adjustment for clinical stage, we found 
no significant improvement in survival between the two time cohorts in any age 
groups. Compared with an age-matched group in the general population, these 
elderly breast cancer patients have a 62% increased risk of death. The results 
are likely to reflect lack of data to promote treatment guidelines. More 
clinical trials for older women are needed, if the benefits of recent advances 
in the management of this disease are to be extended to the over 70s. These data 
should, however, act as a benchmark for future audits.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4741.2007.00547.x
PMID: 18312470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. BMC Med Imaging. 2008 Feb 29;8:5. doi: 10.1186/1471-2342-8-5.

Abdominal ultrasonography in HIV/AIDS patients in southwestern Nigeria.

Obajimi MO(1), Atalabi MO, Ogbole GI, Adeniji-Sofoluwe AT, Agunloye AM, Adekanmi 
AJ, Osuagwu YU, Olarinoye SA, Olusola-Bello MA, Ogunseyinde AO, Aken'Ova YA, 
Adewole IF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University College Hospital, Ibadan, Nigeria. 
millieobaj@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Though the major target of the HIV-virus is the immune system, the 
frequency of abdominal disorders in HIV/AIDS patients has been reported to be 
second only to pulmonary disease. These abdominal manifestations may be on the 
increase as the use of antiretroviral therapy has increased life expectancy and 
improved quality of life. Ultrasonography is an easy to perform, non invasive, 
inexpensive and safe imaging technique that is invaluable in Africa where AIDS 
is most prevalent and where sophisticated diagnostic tools are not readily 
available.
PURPOSE: To describe the findings and evaluate the clinical utility of abdominal 
ultrasonography in HIV/AIDS patients in Ibadan, Nigeria
METHODS: A Prospective evaluation of the abdominal ultrasonography of 391 
HIV-positive patients as well as 391 age and sex-matched HIV-negative patients 
were carried out at the University College Hospital, Ibadan.
RESULTS: Of the 391 cases studied, 260 (66.5%) were females; the mean age was 
38.02 years, (range 15-66 years). The disease was most prevalent in the 4th 
decade with an incidence of 40.4%. Compared with the HIV-negative individuals, 
the HIV+ group of patients had a significantly higher proportion of splenomegaly 
(13.5% vs. 7.7%; p < 0.01), lymphadenopathy (2.0% vs. 1.3%; p < 0.70), and renal 
abnormalities (8.4% vs. 3.8%; p < 0.02). There were no differences in hepatic 
and pancreatic abnormalities between the HIV+ and HIV- groups. There were 
significantly fewer gallstones in the HIV+ group (1.4% vs. 5.1%; p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: AIDS is a multi-systemic disease and its demographic and clinical 
pattern remains the same globally. Ultrasonography is optimally suited for its 
clinical management especially in Africa. Its accuracy and sensitivity may be 
much improved with clinico-pathologic correlation which may not be readily 
available in developing countries; further studies may provide this much needed 
diagnostic algorithms.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2342-8-5
PMCID: PMC2275264
PMID: 18312644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Cardiothorac Surg. 2008 Mar 1;3:11. doi: 10.1186/1749-8090-3-11.

Cardiac surgery in patients with previous pneumonectomy.

Ghotkar SV(1), Aerra V, Mediratta N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cariothoracic Surgery, Cardiothoracic Centre, Thomas Drive, 
Liverpool, UK. sanjay.ghotkar@ctc.nhs.uk

Severe pulmonary dysfunction is a commonly occurring postoperative complication 
following cardiac surgery. Resection of a lung causes major anatomical and 
physiological changes. Shift of the mediastinum and reduction in respiratory 
function following pneumonectomy makes cardiac surgery challenging not only for 
the surgeon but also for the anaesthetist. With improvement in life expectancy 
and better results following cardiac and pulmonary operations increasing number 
of patients are likely to be subjected to both of these operations during their 
lifetime. There is paucity of data in the literature on the subject of cardiac 
surgery subsequent to previous pneumonectomy. We report our experience on 
performing cardiac surgery following pneumonectomy to highlight certain 
important features that we think are important while managing these patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-8090-3-11
PMCID: PMC2270840
PMID: 18312686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Am J Hum Genet. 2008 Apr;82(4):809-21. doi: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2008.01.010. Epub
 2008 Feb 28.

Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy type 5 is a fully penetrant, 
lethal arrhythmic disorder caused by a missense mutation in the TMEM43 gene.

Merner ND(1), Hodgkinson KA, Haywood AF, Connors S, French VM, Drenckhahn JD, 
Kupprion C, Ramadanova K, Thierfelder L, McKenna W, Gallagher B, Morris-Larkin 
L, Bassett AS, Parfrey PS, Young TL.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University, St. John's, Newfoundland and 
Labrador A1B 3V6, Canada.

Autosomal-dominant arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia 
(ARVC/D) causes sudden cardiac death and is characterized by clinical and 
genetic heterogeneity. Fifteen unrelated ARVC families with a disease-associated 
haplotype on chromosome 3p (ARVD5) were ascertained from a genetically isolated 
population. Identification of key recombination events reduced the disease 
region to a 2.36 Mb interval containing 20 annotated genes. Bidirectional 
resequencing showed one rare variant in transmembrane protein 43 (TMEM43 
1073C-->T, S358L), was carried on all recombinant ARVD5 ancestral haplotypes 
from affected subjects and not found in population controls. The mutation occurs 
in a highly conserved transmembrane domain of TMEM43 and is predicted to be 
deleterious. Clinical outcomes in 257 affected and 151 unaffected subjects were 
compared, and penetrance was determined. We concluded that ARVC at locus ARVD5 
is a lethal, fully penetrant, sex-influenced morbid disorder. Median life 
expectancy was 41 years in affected males compared to 71 years in affected 
females (relative risk 6.8, 95% CI 1.3-10.9). Heart failure was a late 
manifestation in survivors. Although little is known about the function of the 
TMEM43 gene, it contains a response element for PPAR gamma (an adipogenic 
transcription factor), which may explain the fibrofatty replacement of the 
myocardium, a characteristic pathological finding in ARVC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajhg.2008.01.010
PMCID: PMC2427209
PMID: 18313022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Apr;66(8):1750-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.01.031.
Epub  2008 Mar 3.

Healthy and happy in Europe? On the association between happiness and life 
expectancy over time.

Bjørnskov C(1).

Author information:
(1)Aarhus School of Business, University of Aarhus, Department of Economics, 
Prismet, Silkeborgvej 2, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. ChBj@asb.dk

This paper revisits the standard finding in individual-level studies that 
happiness leads to longevity. It does so in a cross-country time-series analysis 
in which the use of a random effects estimator controls for most relevant 
time-invariant factors. The findings suggest that happiness is negatively 
associated with longevity at the national level, and suggests a potential 
indirect transmission channel, as national happiness is negatively associated 
with public health expenditures. The paper concludes by discussing the 
implications of the results for public policy and future research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.01.031
PMID: 18313190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2008 Feb;63(2):113-21. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/63.2.113.

A method for high-throughput quantitative analysis of yeast chronological life 
span.

Murakami CJ(1), Burtner CR, Kennedy BK, Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Box 357470, Seattle, WA 
98195-7470, USA.

Chronological aging in yeast has been studied by maintaining cells in a 
quiescent-like stationary phase culture and monitoring cell survival over time. 
The composition of the growth medium can have a profound influence on 
chronological aging. For example, dietary restriction accomplished by lowering 
the glucose concentration of the medium significantly increases life span. Here 
we report a novel high-throughput method for measuring yeast chronological life 
span by monitoring outgrowth of aging cells using a Bioscreen C MBR machine. We 
show that this method provides survival data comparable to traditional methods, 
but with decreased variability. In addition to reducing the glucose 
concentration, we find that elevated amino acid levels or increased osmolarity 
of the growth medium is sufficient to increase chronological life span. We also 
report that life-span extension from dietary restriction does not require any of 
the five yeast sirtuins (Sir2, Hst1, Hst2, Hst3, or Hst4) either alone or in 
combination.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/63.2.113
PMID: 18314444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2008 Feb;63(2):196-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/63.2.196.

Aging and inflammation in two epidemiological worlds.

Gurven M(1), Kaplan H, Winking J, Finch C, Crimmins EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California-Santa Barbara, USA.

Humans evolved in a world with high levels of infection resulting in high 
mortality across the life span and few survivors to advanced ages. Under such 
conditions, a strong acute-phase inflammatory response was required for 
survival; however, inflammatory responses can also promote chronic diseases of 
aging. We hypothesize that global historical increases in life span at older 
ages are partly explained by reduced lifetime exposure to infection and 
subsequent inflammation. To begin a test of this hypothesis, we compare 
C-reactive protein (CRP); levels in two populations with different 
epidemiological environments: the Tsimane of Bolivia and persons in the United 
States. High CRP is significantly more prevalent among the Tsimane up through 
middle age; by age 35, the Tsimane have spent more years with high CRP than have 
Americans at age 55. Further testing of the links among infection, inflammation, 
and chronic diseases of aging among the Tsimane requires collection of 
age-specific indicators of atherosclerosis and cardiac function.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/63.2.196
PMCID: PMC2952348
PMID: 18314457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2008 Mar 5;100(5):308-20. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djn019. Epub
 2008 Feb 26.

Cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening with human papillomavirus DNA 
testing and HPV-16,18 vaccination.

Goldhaber-Fiebert JD(1), Stout NK, Salomon JA, Kuntz KM, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Doctoral Program in Health Policy, Decision Science Concentration, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2008 Mar 5;100(5):290-1.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2008 Nov 19;100(22):1654; author reply 1654-5.

BACKGROUND: The availability of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing and 
vaccination against HPV types 16 and 18 (HPV-16,18) motivates questions about 
the cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer prevention in the United States for 
unvaccinated older women and for girls eligible for vaccination.
METHODS: An empirically calibrated model was used to assess the quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), lifetime costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(2004 US dollars per QALY) of screening, vaccination of preadolescent girls, and 
vaccination combined with screening. Screening varied by initiation age (18, 21, 
or 25 years), interval (every 1, 2, 3, or 5 years), and test (HPV DNA testing of 
cervical specimens or cytologic evaluation of cervical cells with a Pap test). 
Testing strategies included: 1) cytology followed by HPV DNA testing for 
equivocal cytologic results (cytology with HPV test triage); 2) HPV DNA testing 
followed by cytology for positive HPV DNA results (HPV test with cytology 
triage); and 3) combined HPV DNA testing and cytology. Strategies were permitted 
to switch once at age 25, 30, or 35 years.
RESULTS: For unvaccinated women, triennial cytology with HPV test triage, 
beginning by age 21 years and switching to HPV testing with cytology triage at 
age 30 years, cost $78,000 per QALY compared with the next best strategy. For 
girls vaccinated before age 12 years, this same strategy, beginning at age 25 
years and switching at age 35 years, cost $41,000 per QALY with screening every 
5 years and $188,000 per QALY screening triennially, each compared with the next 
best strategy. These strategies were more effective and cost-effective than 
screening women of all ages with cytology alone or cytology with HPV triage 
annually or biennially.
CONCLUSIONS: For both vaccinated and unvaccinated women, age-based screening by 
use of HPV DNA testing as a triage test for equivocal results in younger women 
and as a primary screening test in older women is expected to be more 
cost-effective than current screening recommendations.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djn019
PMCID: PMC3099548
PMID: 18314477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


215. Harv Bus Rev. 2008 Feb;86(2):82-90, 137.

The existential necessity of midlife change.

Strenger C(1), Ruttenberg A.

Author information:
(1)Tel Aviv University, Israel. strenger@freud.tau.ac.il

As life expectancy in the West increases and companies can no longer promise 
lifelong security, many businesspeople will need to make major changes during 
middle age, embarking on a second life and a second career. They must start by 
getting beyond two pervasive and opposing myths. The first is that midlife marks 
the onset of decline. Problems do arise during middle age--concerns about health 
and finances, for instance--but one's life force does not expire at 65, nor do 
possibilities vanish. In fact, by middle age, most executives have gained a 
freedom that only self-knowledge can impart, and they relish unprecedented 
opportunities for personal growth. Midlife transitions, however, must be rooted 
in realism, not driven by the second myth, which paints middle age as a time of 
magical transformation. Contrary to what self-help books and inspirational 
speakers proclaim, such transformations do not happen. A 50-year-old with little 
musical training, for instance, will not suddenly become a concert pianist. 
People who buy into this myth find that their inevitable disappointment can be 
debilitating. Paradoxically, the doctrine that aims to encourage change actually 
stifles it. To make successful transitions, executives must stay open to the 
possibilities their experience qualifies them for but remain realistic about 
what they can achieve. For companies, employees' midlife transitions represent 
both a challenge (senior managers seemingly on track to become CEO may instead 
leave) and an opportunity (other midlife executives, with different perspectives 
and experiences, may knock on the door). Organizations must help middle-aged 
executives through this difficult period, not just by offering a workshop or two 
but by providing ongoing coaching and opportunities for personal and 
professional development.

PMID: 18314636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Br J Radiol. 2008 Jun;81(966):444-9. doi: 10.1259/bjr/32785946. Epub 2008
Mar 3.

Response assessment in solid tumours: a comparison of WHO, SWOG and RECIST 
guidelines.

Julka PK(1), Doval DC, Gupta S, Rath GK.

Author information:
(1)All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.

The primary objective of this study was to evaluate the applicability of World 
Health Organization (WHO), Southwest Oncology Group (SWOG) and Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) guidelines when evaluating the 
response of cytotoxic agents in solid tumours. Patients with a solid tumour who 
were planned for standard chemotherapy, were aged more than 18 years and had an 
anticipated life expectancy of at least 12 weeks were included in the study. 
Patients received chemotherapy using standard protocols and were required to 
have a pre-treatment evaluation of tumour burden on CT. Subsequent response 
assessment was performed every two cycles. Each patient was evaluated by all 
three criteria (WHO, SWOG and RECIST) to check the applicability of a specific 
criterion during routine clinical practice. In total, 80 patients were included 
in the study. Out of these, the response criteria displayed discordance in 17 
(21%) patients. Of these 17 patients, RECIST criteria were not applicable for 6 
patients owing to the small lesion size. The present study shows that a 
particular guideline may be useful in establishing uniformity of evaluation in a 
desired study population but may not be the best for that population during 
routine clinical practice. It also indicates that each of the guidelines has its 
own applicability and that no guideline can outweigh the other during routine 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/32785946
PMID: 18316345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Mar 4;105(9):3438-42. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0705467105. Epub 2008 Mar 3.

Functionally significant insulin-like growth factor I receptor mutations in 
centenarians.

Suh Y(1), Atzmon G, Cho MO, Hwang D, Liu B, Leahy DJ, Barzilai N, Cohen P.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Molecular Genetics, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.

Rather than being a passive, haphazard process of wear and tear, lifespan can be 
modulated actively by components of the insulin/insulin-like growth factor I 
(IGFI) pathway in laboratory animals. Complete or partial loss-of-function 
mutations in genes encoding components of the insulin/IGFI pathway result in 
extension of life span in yeasts, worms, flies, and mice. This remarkable 
conservation throughout evolution suggests that altered signaling in this 
pathway may also influence human lifespan. On the other hand, evolutionary 
tradeoffs predict that the laboratory findings may not be relevant to human 
populations, because of the high fitness cost during early life. Here, we 
studied the biochemical, phenotypic, and genetic variations in a cohort of 
Ashkenazi Jewish centenarians, their offspring, and offspring-matched controls 
and demonstrated a gender-specific increase in serum IGFI associated with a 
smaller stature in female offspring of centenarians. Sequence analysis of the 
IGF1 and IGF1 receptor (IGF1R) genes of female centenarians showed 
overrepresentation of heterozygous mutations in the IGF1R gene among 
centenarians relative to controls that are associated with high serum IGFI 
levels and reduced activity of the IGFIR as measured in transformed lymphocytes. 
Thus, genetic alterations in the human IGF1R that result in altered IGF 
signaling pathway confer an increase in susceptibility to human longevity, 
suggesting a role of this pathway in modulation of human lifespan.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0705467105
PMCID: PMC2265137
PMID: 18316725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


218. CBE Life Sci Educ. 2008 Spring;7(1):132-45. doi: 10.1187/cbe.07-05-0029.

Experimenting with spirituality: analyzing The God Gene in a nonmajors 
laboratory course.

Silveira LA(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Redlands, Redlands, CA 92373-0999, USA. 
linda_silveira@redlands.edu

References linking genes to complex human traits, such as personality type or 
disease susceptibility, abound in the news media and popular culture. In his 
book The God Gene: How Faith is Hardwired into Our Genes, Dean Hamer argues that 
a variation in the VMAT2 gene plays a role in one's openness to spiritual 
experiences. In a nonmajors class, we read and discussed The God Gene and 
conducted on a small scale an extension of the study it describes. Students used 
polymerase chain reaction to replicate a portion of their VMAT2 genes, and they 
analyzed three polymorphic sites in the sequence of these products. Associations 
between particular VMAT2 alleles and scores on a personality test were assessed 
by t test. The course, of which this project was a major part, stimulated 
student learning; scores on a test covering basic genetic concepts, 
causation/correlation, and laboratory methodology improved after completion of 
the course. In a survey, students reported the laboratory project aided their 
learning, especially in the areas of statistics and the linking of genes to 
behaviors. They reported high levels of engagement with the project, citing in 
particular its personal nature as motivating their interest.

DOI: 10.1187/cbe.07-05-0029
PMCID: PMC2262126
PMID: 18316816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Crit Care Nurs Q. 2008 Jan-Mar;31(1):79-82. doi: 
10.1097/01.CNQ.0000306401.17401.e5.

Continuous process improvement and the elderly critical care patient.

Sarsfield E(1).

Author information:
(1)Adult Critical Care Units, Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 
Hershey, PA 17033, USA. esarsfield@hmc.psu.edu

The demographics of our country are changing. With increased life expectancy 
comes more elderly critical care patients whom may have never sought medical 
care until a critical event has occurred. Approximately 40% of intensive care 
unit patients are elderly. We must pay close attention to this group of patients 
and continually strive to give them the best care possible. By utilizing 
continuous process improvement strategies, which are similar in many ways to the 
nursing process, we can best meet their needs.

DOI: 10.1097/01.CNQ.0000306401.17401.e5
PMID: 18316941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Mod Rheumatol. 2008;18(2):165-9. doi: 10.1007/s10165-008-0031-6. Epub 2008
Mar  4.

Life expectancies of Japanese patients with rheumatoid arthritis: a review of 
deaths over a 20-year period.

Shinomiya F(1), Mima N, Nanba K, Tani K, Nakano S, Egawa H, Sakai T, Miyoshi H, 
Hamada D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Rheumatic Disease, Mima Hospital in Yoshinogawa City, Yoshinogawa, 
Japan. ayutarou@mima-gr.jp

We investigated trends in life expectancy in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, 
reviewing records for 286 patients (204 female, 82 male) who had died over the 
past 20 years. The average age at death was 68.8 years before 1990, increasing 
to 72.1 years after 2001. Trends in disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs) saw gold preparations (45.2%) predominate before 1990, sulphydryl donor 
agents (53.6%) from 1991 to 2000, then methotrexate (43.0%) after 2001. The most 
common causes of death were infectious diseases up to 1995, rheumatic disease 
1996-2000, and cardiovascular events and malignancies after 2001. Major advances 
in surgical interventions, such as joint replacement surgery, occurred after 
1990. Surgical intervention followed by a period of rehabilitation maintained a 
favourable level of activities of daily living (ADLs), The requirements for 
favourable life expectancy are control of RA inflammation and maintenance of a 
favourable level of ADLs. Although recently developed DMARDs and biological 
agents show promise, caution is required to avoid serious adverse reactions. 
Optimum care of patients with RA will require preventive measures and early 
intervention for infections and rheumatic diseases, as well as for lifestyle 
diseases, osteoporosis and malignancies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10165-008-0031-6
PMID: 18317879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Mol Divers. 2008 Feb;12(1):25-40. doi: 10.1007/s11030-008-9071-2. Epub 2008
Mar  4.

Exploring structure-selectivity relationships of biogenic amine GPCR antagonists 
using similarity searching and dynamic compound mapping.

Vogt I(1), Ahmed HE, Auer J, Bajorath J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science Informatics, B-IT, LIMES Institute, Rheinische 
Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn, Dahlmannstr. 2, 53113, Bonn, Germany.

We design and analyze compound selectivity sets of antagonists with differential 
selectivity against seven biogenic amine G-protein coupled receptors. The 
selectivity sets consist of a total of 267 antagonists and contain a spectrum of 
in part closely related molecular scaffolds. Each set represents a different 
selectivity profile. Using these com- pound sets, a systematic computational 
analysis of structure-selectivity relationships is carried out with different 2D 
similarity methods including fingerprints, recursive partitioning, clustering, 
and dynamic compound mapping. Screening calculations are performed in a 
background database containing nearly four million molecules. Fingerprint 
searching and compound mapping are found to enrich target-selective antagonists 
over family-selective ones. Dynamic compound mapping effectively discriminates 
database compounds from GPCR antagonists and consistently retains 
target-selective antagonists during the final dimension extension levels. 
Furthermore, the widely used MACCS key fingerprint displays a strong tendency to 
distinguish between target- and family-selective GPCR antagonists. Taken 
together, the results indicate that different types of 2D similarity methods are 
capable of distinguishing closely related molecules having different 
selectivity. The reported compound benchmark system is made freely available in 
order to enable selectivity-oriented analyses using other computational 
approaches.

DOI: 10.1007/s11030-008-9071-2
PMID: 18317941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Br J Haematol. 2008 May;141(3):298-308. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07017.x.  Epub 2008 Mar 3.

Recessive congenital methaemoglobinaemia: cytochrome b(5) reductase deficiency.

Percy MJ(1), Lappin TR.

Author information:
(1)Haematology, Belfast City Hospital, Belfast, UK. 
melanie.percy@belfasttrust.hscni.net

Some 60 years ago, Quentin Gibson reported the first hereditary disorder 
involving an enzyme when he deduced that familial methaemoglobinaemia was caused 
by an enzymatic lesion associated with the glycolysis pathway in red blood 
cells. This disorder, now known as recessive congenital methaemoglobinaemia 
(RCM), is caused by NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase (cb(5)r) deficiency. Two 
distinct clinical forms, types I and II, have been recognized, both 
characterized by cyanosis from birth. In type II, the cyanosis is accompanied by 
neurological impairment and reduced life expectancy. Cytochrome b(5) reductase 
is composed of one FAD and one NADH binding domain linked by a hinge region. It 
is encoded by the CYB5R3 (previously known as DIA1) gene and more than 40 
mutations have been described, some of which are common to both types of RCM. 
Mutations associated with type II tend to cause incorrect splicing, disruption 
of the active site or truncation of the protein. At present the description of 
the sequence variants of cb(5)r in the literature is confusing, due to the use 
of two conventions which differ by one codon position. Herein we propose a new 
system for nomenclature of cb(5)r based on recommendations of the Human Genome 
Variation Society. The development of a heterologous expression system has 
allowed the impact of naturally occurring variants of cb(5)r to be assessed and 
has provided insight into the function of cb(5)r.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07017.x
PMID: 18318771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Aust J Rural Health. 2008 Apr;16(2):56-66. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1584.2008.00953.x.

Addressing the health disadvantage of rural populations: how does 
epidemiological evidence inform rural health policies and research?

Smith KB(1), Humphreys JS, Wilson MG.

Author information:
(1)School of Rural Health, Monash University, Bendigo, Victoria, Australia.

We reviewed evidence of any apparently significant 'rural-urban' health status 
differentials in developed countries, to determine whether such differentials 
are generic or nation-specific, and to explore the nature and policy 
implications of determinants underpinning rural-urban health variations. A 
comprehensive literature review of rural-urban health status differentials 
within Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the USA, the UK, and a variety of other 
western European nations was undertaken to understand the differences in life 
expectancy and cause-specific morbidity and mortality. While rural location 
plays a major role in determining the nature and level of access to and 
provision of health services, it does not always translate into health 
disadvantage. When controlling for major risk determinants, rurality per se does 
not necessarily lead to rural-urban disparities, but may exacerbate the effects 
of socio-economic disadvantage, ethnicity, poorer service availability, higher 
levels of personal risk and more hazardous environmental, occupational and 
transportation conditions. Programs to improve rural health will be most 
effective when based on policies which target all risk determinants collectively 
contributing to poor rural health outcomes. Focusing solely on 'area-based' 
explanations and responses to rural health problems may divert attention from 
more fundamental social and structural processes operating in the broader 
context to the detriment of rural health policy formulation and remedial effort.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1584.2008.00953.x
PMID: 18318846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2008 Mar 5;2(3):e203. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000203.

Schistosomiasis Japonica: The DALYs Recaptured.

King CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health and Diseases, Case Western Reserve University School 
of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. chk@cwru.edu

Comment on
    PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2008;2(3):e158.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000203
PMCID: PMC2254200
PMID: 18320017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has declared that no competing 
interests exist.


225. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2008 Mar 5;2(3):e158. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000158.

Decision-model estimation of the age-specific disability weight for 
schistosomiasis japonica: a systematic review of the literature.

Finkelstein JL(1), Schleinitz MD, Carabin H, McGarvey ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. jfinkels@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2008;2(3):e203.

Schistosomiasis is among the most prevalent parasitic infections worldwide. 
However, current Global Burden of Disease (GBD) disability-adjusted life year 
estimates indicate that its population-level impact is negligible. Recent 
studies suggest that GBD methodologies may significantly underestimate the 
burden of parasitic diseases, including schistosomiasis. Furthermore, 
strain-specific disability weights have not been established for 
schistosomiasis, and the magnitude of human disease burden due to Schistosoma 
japonicum remains controversial. We used a decision model to quantify an 
alternative disability weight estimate of the burden of human disease due to S. 
japonicum. We reviewed S. japonicum morbidity data, and constructed decision 
trees for all infected persons and two age-specific strata, <15 years (y) and > 
or =15 y. We conducted stochastic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses for 
each model. Infection with S. japonicum was associated with an average 
disability weight of 0.132, with age-specific disability weights of 0.098 (<15 
y) and 0.186 (> or =15 y). Re-estimated disability weights were seven to 46 
times greater than current GBD measures; no simulations produced disability 
weight estimates lower than 0.009. Nutritional morbidities had the greatest 
contribution to the S. japonicum disability weight in the <15 y model, whereas 
major organ pathologies were the most critical variables in the older age group. 
GBD disability weights for schistosomiasis urgently need to be revised, and 
species-specific disability weights should be established. Even a marginal 
increase in current estimates would result in a substantial rise in the 
estimated global burden of schistosomiasis, and have considerable implications 
for public health prioritization and resource allocation for schistosomiasis 
research, monitoring, and control.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000158
PMCID: PMC2254314
PMID: 18320018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


226. PLoS One. 2008 Mar 5;3(3):e1711. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001711.

When did HIV incidence peak in Harare, Zimbabwe? Back-calculation from mortality 
statistics.

Lopman B(1), Gregson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London, 
London, United Kingdom. Ben.Lopman@hpa.org.uk

HIV prevalence has recently begun to decline in Zimbabwe, a result of both high 
levels of AIDS mortality and a reduction in incident infections. An important 
component in understanding the dynamics in HIV prevalence is knowledge of past 
trends in incidence, such as when incidence peaked and at what level. However, 
empirical measurements of incidence over an extended time period are not 
available from Zimbabwe or elsewhere in sub-Saharan Africa. Using mortality 
data, we use a back-calculation technique to reconstruct historic trends in 
incidence. From AIDS mortality data, extracted from death registration in 
Harare, together with an estimate of survival post-infection, HIV incidence 
trends were reconstructed that would give rise to the observed patterns of AIDS 
mortality. Models were fitted assuming three parametric forms of the incidence 
curve and under nine different assumptions regarding combinations of trends in 
non-AIDS mortality and patterns of survival post-infection with HIV. HIV 
prevalence was forward-projected from the fitted incidence and mortality curves. 
Models that constrained the incidence pattern to a cubic spline function were 
flexible and produced well-fitting, realistic patterns of incidence. In models 
assuming constant levels of non-AIDS mortality, annual incidence peaked between 
4 and 5% between 1988 and 1990. Under other assumptions the peak level ranged 
from 3 to 8% per annum. However, scenarios assuming increasing levels of 
non-AIDS mortality resulted in implausibly low estimates of peak prevalence 
(11%), whereas models with decreasing underlying crude mortality could be 
consistent with the prevalence and mortality data. HIV incidence is most likely 
to have peaked in Harare between 1988 and 1990, which may have preceded the peak 
elsewhere in Zimbabwe. This finding, considered alongside the timing and 
location of HIV prevention activities, will give insight into the decline of HIV 
prevalence in Zimbabwe.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001711
PMCID: PMC2248619
PMID: 18320032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


227. Biomedica. 2007 Sep;27(3):333-44.

[A global view of population health in Colombia: role of social 
macro-determinants].

[Article in Spanish]

Idrovo AJ(1), Ruiz-Rodríguez M.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Sistemas de Salud, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México. ajidrovo@correo.insp.mx

INTRODUCTION: The social environment is an important determinant of population 
and individual health. However, its impact is often not considered in national 
health policies and generally its attributes are considered as constants. For 
this reason, contemporary health policies place greater emphasis on individual 
risk factors.
OBJECTIVE: Colombias position in the world ranking is described with respect to 
several social macro-determinants of health, previously characterized as 
components of class/welfare regime model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The exploratory study included all countries with 
comparable data including the following: (1) economic development [gross 
domestic product per capita adjusted for purchasing power parity], (2) income 
inequality [Gini coefficient], (3) social capital corruption perceptions index 
and generalized trust, and (4) political regime index of freedom. First, 
correlations between these macro-determinants were estimated, and second, the 
relationship between them and life expectancy at birth was explored. Finally, 
the position of Colombia in global context was determined.
RESULTS: Important correlations occurred among the macro-determinants. Colombia 
tended to have intermediate to low positions in the global context in all 
macro-determinants, with the exception of gross domestic product per capita 
adjusted for purchasing power parity.
CONCLUSION: The macro-determinant of population health with the highest 
potential of effecting improvement in health conditions is to modify income 
inequality.

PMID: 18320099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Biomedica. 2007 Sep;27(3):352-63.

[Trends in adult mortality in the city of Medellín, Colombia, 1994-2003].

[Article in Spanish]

Cardona D(1), Agudelo HB.

Author information:
(1)Grupo de Investigación Demografía y Salud, Universidad de Antioquia, 
Medellín, Colombia. doriscar@guajiros.udea.edu.co
