Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Penn State College of Medicine, MCH078, 500 
University Drive, Hershey, PA 17033, USA. mcplanas@psu.edu

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer prevention trials have shown that the antiestrogen 
tamoxifen inhibits development of estrogen receptor (ER)-positive tumors. In 
Sprague-Dawley rats, removal of ovarian function in young animals can reduce the 
incidence of spontaneous age-dependent mammary tumors. However, it is not known 
whether removal of ovaries late in life, before middle age onset, can still 
prevent mammary tumor development.
METHODS: In this study we used Hsd:Sprague-Dawley SD (Hsd) rats to determine the 
effect of late ovariectomy on mammary tumor development. Intact, 
sham-ovariectomized and ovariectomized rats were followed until 110 weeks of 
age, or over their life span. In some experiments, palpable tumors were 
surgically removed upon presentation.
RESULTS: Removal of ovaries before middle age onset ( approximately 5-7 months) 
inhibited development of spontaneous mammary tumors by 95%. Only one mammary 
tumor was observed in 19 late ovariectomized animals while 47 total tumors 
developed in 42 non-ovariectomized animals. Tumor incidence was reduced from 
73.8 to 5.3% (relative risk=0.05, 95% CI=0.0072-0.354). The frequency of mammary 
carcinomas in non-ovariectomized virgin female rats was one in eight rats. 
Spontaneous rat carcinomas expressed ER and other biomarkers, such as cyclin D1. 
When palpable tumors were removed by surgical excision, tumor multiplicity 
increased from 0.76 to 1.61 tumors per rat. Surprisingly, ovariectomy increased 
the 110-week survival rate and maximum life span of Hsd rats.
CONCLUSION: Late ovariectomy prevents spontaneous mammary tumor development in 
Hsd rats. This animal model may be useful for evaluating novel interventions in 
breast cancer prevention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cdp.2008.01.004
PMID: 18407436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2008 Jun;33(6):1096-104. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.03.004. Epub 2008 Apr 14.

Outcome after esophagectomy for cancer of the esophagus and GEJ in patients aged 
over 75 years.

Internullo E(1), Moons J, Nafteux P, Coosemans W, Decker G, De Leyn P, Van 
Raemdonck D, Lerut T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, University Hospitals Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: Though the surgical treatment of esophageal cancer is increasingly 
accepted for elderly people defined as aged over 70 years, less is reported 
about the results in patients over 75. This study is a single institution 
retrospective analysis of outcome after esophagectomy for cancer of the 
esophagus and GEJ in patients aged over 75 years.
METHODS: All consecutive patients 76 years old and over undergoing curative 
esophagectomy for cancer in the period 1991-2006 were analyzed as to 
comorbidities, outcome and long-term survival. All the data had been 
prospectively collected in a database. Postoperative mortality risk was assessed 
by P-POSSUM and O-POSSUM score for in-hospital mortality and by the recently 
published Steyerberg's score system [Steyerberg EW, Neville BA, Koppert LB, 
Lemmens VEPP, Tilanus HW, Coebergh JWW, Weeks JC, Earle CC. Surgical mortality 
in patients with esophageal cancer: development and validation of a simple risk 
score. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:4277-84.] for 30-day mortality. Five-year survival 
was compared to the standardized survival in the general population.
RESULTS: One hundred and eight patients fulfilling the abovementioned criteria 
were found (76 males and 32 females, mean age 79.5 years, mean standardized 
life-expectancy: 7.36 years). Among them, 69% had esophageal tumors and 31% GEJ 
tumors. The predominant histology was adenocarcinoma (74%). Eighty-six (79.6%) 
presented with one or more major comorbidities or a history of previous major 
upper-GI surgery, potentially affecting the surgical outcome. All underwent 
resection with curative intent (R(0) 83.3%, R(1) 12%, R(2) 4.6%). The overall 
postoperative morbidity rate was 51.9%, pulmonary complications (37%) being the 
most frequent. Postoperative mortality, mainly due to cardiopulmonary 
complications, was 7.4%, which was consistent with that predicted by P-POSSUM 
score (7.2%) and lower than that predicted by O-POSSUM score (15.1%). Thirty-day 
mortality was 5.5%, being consistent with that predicted by the Steyerberg's 
score (6.8%). Overall 5-year survival was 35.7%, while R(0) overall survival 42% 
and cancer specific R(0) survival 51.7%.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients 76 years old and over with esophageal or GEJ cancer should 
not be denied surgery solely on the basis of age. Outcome and long-term results 
in the selected elderly are not differing from those reported for younger 
patients. However, despite thorough preoperative assessment being applied in the 
selection of the candidates for surgery, a practical and reliable individual 
risk-analysis stratification is still lacking.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.03.004
PMID: 18407509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Clin Drug Investig. 2008;28(5):291-303. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200828050-00003.

A markov model of the cost effectiveness of olanzapine treatment for agitation 
and psychosis in Alzheimer's disease.

Kirbach S(1), Simpson K, Nietert PJ, Mintzer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Bioinformatics and Epidemiology, Medical 
University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA. kirbach@musc.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Antipsychotics have long been used to treat agitation 
and psychosis related to Alzheimer's disease, but in a limited fashion because 
of troubling adverse effects. The new atypical antipsychotics are thought to be 
at least as effective as first-generation drugs and to cause fewer adverse 
effects. These drugs, however, are currently not US FDA-approved for use among 
elderly demented subjects due to a slight increase in the risk of death and 
serious cardiovascular events within this population. However, their favourable 
adverse effect profile has led many physicians to prescribe these drugs as 
first-line therapy for behaviourally disturbed patients with Alzheimer's 
disease. Clinical trials to evaluate the use of atypical antipsychotics have 
produced varying results, and clarity has not yet been achieved. Thus, a 
quantitative summary of the risks and benefits may help inform complex decisions 
that must be made in this area. In this study we set out to compare the expected 
costs and outcomes for a community-dwelling cohort of patients with Alzheimer's 
disease with agitation and/or psychosis who are (a) untreated, or (b) treated 
with olanzapine.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov state-transition model using the best published 
data from several sources for Alzheimer's disease patient progression and 
treatment. This model allowed us to compare the expected costs and outcomes 
associated with olanzapine treatment compared with no treatment for a synthetic 
cohort of US adults aged > or =65 years. The model cycles every 6 months and 
continues until all patients die from Alzheimer's disease progression or from 
co-morbid conditions. Outcome estimates included the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. The robustness of the estimates was examined by sensitivity analyses of 
key parameters, including cost of care, olanzapine effectiveness and Alzheimer's 
disease progression rates.
RESULTS: Results indicated that olanzapine was a cost-effective treatment for 
agitation and psychosis related to Alzheimer's disease when compared with no 
treatment (ICER <$US50,000). In addition, sensitivity analyses demonstrated that 
olanzapine remained cost effective despite multiple variations of several 
parameters, both alone and concurrently.
CONCLUSION: Olanzapine treatment for agitation and psychosis related to 
Alzheimer's disease is cost effective when compared with no treatment. Further 
analysis should be performed as atypical antipsychotics become generic, as more 
information on health utilities in the Alzheimer's disease population becomes 
available, and to compare atypical antipsychotics with first-generation 
antipsychotics.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200828050-00003
PMID: 18407715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Bacteriol. 2008 Jun;190(12):4210-7. doi: 10.1128/JB.00061-08. Epub 2008
Apr  11.

Transcriptional regulation of the nitrile hydratase gene cluster in Pseudomonas 
chlororaphis B23.

Sakashita T(1), Hashimoto Y, Oinuma K, Kobayashi M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Biochemistry, and Graduate School of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, The University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 Tennodai, Tsukuba, 
Ibaraki 305-8572, Japan.

An enormous amount of nitrile hydratase (NHase) is inducibly produced by 
Pseudomonas chlororaphis B23 after addition of methacrylamide as the sole 
nitrogen source to a medium. The expression pattern of the P. chlororaphis B23 
NHase gene cluster in response to addition of methacrylamide to the medium was 
investigated. Recently, we reported that the NHase gene cluster comprises seven 
genes (oxdA, amiA, nhpA, nhpB, nhpC, nhpS, and acsA). Sequence analysis of the 
1.5-kb region upstream of the oxdA gene revealed the presence of a 936-bp open 
reading frame (designated nhpR), which should encode a protein with a molecular 
mass of 35,098. The deduced amino acid sequence of the nhpR product showed 
similarity to the sequences of transcriptional regulators belonging to the 
XylS/AraC family. Although the transcription of the eight genes (nhpR, oxdA, 
amiA, nhpABC, nhpS, and acsA) in the NHase gene cluster was induced 
significantly in the P. chlororaphis B23 wild-type strain after addition of 
methacrylamide to the medium, transcription of these genes in the nhpR 
disruptant was not induced, demonstrating that nhpR codes for a positive 
transcriptional regulator in the NHase gene cluster. A reverse transcription-PCR 
experiment revealed that five genes (oxdA, amiA, nhpA, nhpB, and nhpC) are 
cotranscribed, as are two other genes (nhpS and acsA). The transcription start 
sites for nhpR, oxdA, nhpA, and nhpS were mapped by primer extension analysis, 
and putative -12 and -24 sigma(54)-type promoter binding sites were identified. 
NhpR was found to be the first transcriptional regulator of NHase belonging to 
the XylS/AraC family.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00061-08
PMCID: PMC2446774
PMID: 18408036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Thorax. 2008 Oct;63(10):860-5. doi: 10.1136/thx.2007.086454. Epub 2008 Apr
11.

Cost-effectiveness of using continuous positive airway pressure in the treatment 
of severe obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome in the UK.

Guest JF(1), Helter MT, Morga A, Stradling JR.

Author information:
(1)Catalyst Health Economics Consultants, 34b High Street, Northwood, Middlesex 
HA6 1BN, UK. julian.guest@catalyst-health.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: A study was undertaken to estimate the cost-effectiveness of using 
continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) in the management of patients with 
severe obstructive sleep apnoea/hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS) compared with no 
treatment from the perspective of the UK's National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness of CPAP 
compared with no treatment. The model depicted the management of a 55-year-old 
patient with severe OSAHS as defined by an apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI) >30 and 
daytime sleepiness (Epworth Sleepiness Scale score >or=12). The model spans a 
period of 14 years.
RESULTS: According to the model, 57% of untreated patients are expected to be 
alive at the end of 14 years compared with 72% of patients treated with CPAP. 
Untreated patients are expected to cost the NHS pound10 645 (95% CI pound7988 to 
pound14,098) per patient over 14 years compared with pound9672 (95% CI pound8057 
to pound12,860) per CPAP-treated patient. Treatment with CPAP for a period of 1 
year was found not to be a cost-effective option since the cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained is expected to be > pound20,000, but 
after 2 years of treatment the cost per QALY gained is expected to be 
pound10,000 or less and, after 13 years of treatment, CPAP becomes a dominant 
treatment (ie, more effective than no treatment for less cost).
CONCLUSION: Within the limitations of the model, CPAP was found to be clinically 
more effective than no treatment and, from the perspective of the UK's NHS, a 
cost-effective strategy after a minimum of 2 years of treatment.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.2007.086454
PMID: 18408048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Int Arch Occup Environ Health. 2009 Jan;82(2):199-207. doi: 
10.1007/s00420-008-0322-4. Epub 2008 Apr 12.

Lung function predicts survival in a cohort of asbestos cement workers.

Moshammer H(1), Neuberger M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Health, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.

PURPOSE: To study the predictive power of respiratory screening examinations a 
cohort of asbestos workers was followed from active work in an asbestos cement 
plant until death.
METHODS: From a cohort with data on individual exposure since first employment 
309 workers who had a preventive medical examination in 1989/1990 were observed 
until death or the end of 2006. The impact of asbestos exposure (fibre years) 
and of smoking history on lung function was examined by linear regression, on 
specific causes of death and total mortality by Cox regression. The prognostic 
value of lung function, chest X-ray, and various clinical findings regarding 
total mortality was also examined by Cox regression.
RESULTS: Lung function proved to be the best predictor of survival apart from 
current smoking. Depending on the lung function variable an impairment by the 
interquartile range resulted in a hazard ratio of 1.5-1.6 while for current 
smokers it was 2.3. An increase of 70 fibre years (interquartile range) led to a 
hazard ratio of only 1.1. Lung function was influenced by asbestos exposure, 
current (but not former) smoking, and by pathological X-ray findings. The risk 
for pleural mesothelioma was dominated by time since first exposure to 
crocydolite in the pipe factory while the risk for bronchial cancer increased 
with smoking and total fibre years. An unexpected finding was an increase of 
gastric cancer in asbestos cement workers.
CONCLUSION: Lung function decrease predicts risk of premature death better than 
exposure history and regular spirometry should therefore be offered as primary 
screening to all former asbestos workers. In workers with a history of high 
cumulative exposure or rapid lung function decrease or radiological signs 
(diffuse pleural thickening or small irregular opacities) more sensitive 
techniques (high resolution computer tomography) need to be applied. All smokers 
with a history of asbestos exposure should be given free smoking cessation 
therapy to prevent premature death and lung cancer in particular.

DOI: 10.1007/s00420-008-0322-4
PMID: 18408949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Biogerontology. 2008 Oct;9(5):309-16. doi: 10.1007/s10522-008-9139-5. Epub
2008  Apr 14.

Reserpine can confer stress tolerance and lifespan extension in the nematode C. 
elegans.

Srivastava D(1), Arya U, SoundaraRajan T, Dwivedi H, Kumar S, Subramaniam JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology, Kanpur 208016, India.

Though the lifespan extension mechanism is partly understood from C. elegans to 
mice, a viable pharmacological intervention is not yet feasible. Here, we report 
that reserpine largely known as an antipsychotic-antihypertensive drug, can 
extend C. elegans lifespan. Chronic reserpine treatment from embryo stage or 
young adults extends the C. elegans lifespan robustly at 25 degrees C. Most 
importantly, the reserpine treated long lived worms are active (locomotion and 
pharyngeal pumping) for a long time thereby conferring high quality throughout 
life. Reserpine mediated lifespan extension is independent of the daf-16 pathway 
and partly requires serotonin. Reserpine treatment makes the worms highly 
thermotolerant. Thus, in addition to its known function, reserpine is able to 
provide stress tolerance and lifespan extension in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-008-9139-5
PMID: 18409080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Przegl Lek. 2007;64(10):660-3.

[Influence of tobacco smoking on physical efficiency of young men (part II)].

[Article in Polish]

Milnerowicz H(1), Sliwińska-Mossoń M.

Author information:
(1)Zaktad Biomedycznych Analiz Srodowiskowych, Akademii Medycznej we Wrocławiu.

Cigarette smoking by the young is becoming an ever more serious problem. It has 
been found that starting smoking at a younger age entails higher risks than when 
doing so at an older age. The life expectancy of people who take up this 
addiction before the age of 15 was demonstrated to be 8 years shorter. Research 
indicates that smoking considerably reduces physical fitness of young people. 
Therefore, the objective of this work was to assess the influence of smoking on 
the physical fitness of secondary school graduates passing their entrance 
examination to the University of Physical Education on the basis of surveys 
administered to them. The results were subject to statistical analysis. One 
identified a considerable influence of the number of cigarettes smoked per day 
and smoked on the examination day on the score earned during fitness tests 
(p<0.0003; p<0.005). It was also demonstrated that smoking youth devoted less 
time to the weekly physical workout than non-smoking--which also had its adverse 
impact on the test results. Non-smoking men did their workout 7.3+/-2.5 hours 
per day on average, while smoking men--4.6+/-3.2 hours (p<0.0001). These data 
confirm the fact that along with an increase in the number of cigarettes smoked 
and the addiction duration, the physical fitness of smokers goes down.

PMID: 18409280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. G Ital Med Lav Ergon. 2007 Jul-Sep;29(3 Suppl):615-6.

[Chronic-degenerative diseases in health care activities: data from health 
surveillance of Federico II University General Hospital in Naples].

[Article in Italian]

Farina A(1), Cavaliere L, Boggia B, Esposito A, Ferrucci R, Romano L, Barletta 
R, Carbone U.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Mediche Preventive, Università degli Studi Federico 
II di Napoli. alessfarina@virgilio.it

Recent average life increase, as well as new habits and lifestyles assumption, 
has determined a change in population health profiles, as a result of 
progressive increase in chronic-degenerative diseases prevalence. Among these 
latter; musculoskeletal and cardiovascular diseases are the most frequent ones. 
Health care workers also suffered from this change in health profiles. This 
study, performed thanks to the extension of Health Surveillance to all health 
care workers, aimed at evaluating chronic-degenerative diseases risk among three 
main welfare activities (medical, nursing and auxiliary). In conclusion, data 
showed that nurses, mainly the shift workers, are exposed to a higher risk of 
chronic-degenerative diseases. All other health care workers have not 
significant work risk factors, because of a greater burden of aging and 
lifestyles effects.

PMID: 18409865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Parassitologia. 2007 Sep;49(3):193-9.

Parasitic diseases of cultured marine finfishes and their surveillance in China.

Yang TB(1), Chen AP, Chen W, Li AX, Yan YY.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Parasitic Organisms, School of Life Sciences, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, 510275, China. lssytb@mail.sysu.edu.cn

More than 40 species of marine fishes are cultured in China and a wide variety 
of parasites are reported as lethal pathogens of these fishes in culture 
conditions. In the case of net cages, the culture facilities provides a good 
substrate for monogenean eggs to become entangled and the intensive aggregation 
of fishes facilitates the transmission of parasites between hosts. Relatively 
thorough studies on parasitic pathogens of marine fishes in China predominately 
concern the ciliate Cryptocaryon irritans and capsalid monogeneans (mainly 
Benedenia sp. and Neobenedenia sp.). Although nearly all such reports are 
related to treatment procedures, no single method has proved to be adequate for 
the effective control of these parasitic pathogens in marine cultured fishes. 
The National Fisheries Technology Extension Center (NFTEC) has established 
surveillance systems to monitor the diseases of aquaculture, including the 
parasitic diseases of maricultured fishes. The national monitoring stations for 
diseases of cultured marine fishes are distributed in the coastal counties or 
cities and provide remote in situ diagnoses of diseased fishes. International 
cooperation and effort are required for the control of parasitic diseases of 
marine finfish because of both the increasing international trade of eggs (seed) 
and larvae and commercial products in terms of live marine finfishes, which can 
readily result in the transmission of pathogens.

PMID: 18410079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. BJU Int. 2008 Sep;102(6):680-3. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.07658.x. Epub
2008  Apr 10.

Renal tumour surgery in elderly patients.

Roos FC(1), Pahernik S, Melchior SW, Thüroff JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Johannes Gutenberg-University, Medical School, Mainz, 
Germany. frederik.roos@gmx.de

OBJECTIVE: To analyse morbidity, renal function and oncological outcome in 
patients aged >or=80 years who had surgery for renal tumours, as in the elderly 
such surgery is controversial in relation to life-expectancy and other causes of 
death.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1990 and 2006, in our institution 1625 patients 
had surgery to treat solid renal tumours suspected to be renal cell carcinoma 
(RCC); 62 (4%) were aged >or=80 years (mean 82.5), and 73% of these elderly 
patients had radical nephrectomy (RN) and 27% nephron-sparing surgery (NSS).
RESULTS: The median (range) follow-up was 3.1 (0.2-14.1) years (89% of the 
patients). There was no perioperative mortality. There were only minor 
complications in 47% of patients, most (34%) being temporary increases in serum 
creatinine level. Histopathologically, 10% of the 62 patients had benign lesions 
and 90% had RCC. Of the 56 patients with RCC, the stage was pT1a in 34%, pT1b in 
25%, pT2 in 5% and pT3 in 36%. For those treated with RN the median (range) 
serum creatinine level before and after RN was 1.0 (0.7-1.8) and 1.4 (1.0-2.8) 
mg/dL (P < 0.05), and for those treated with NSS were 1.1 (0.7-4.4) and 1.2 
(0.7-4.8) mg/dL (not significant), respectively. The 5-year overall survival was 
68% and the cancer-specific survival was 85%.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery for renal tumours is safe in elderly patients, with a low 
perioperative morbidity and a good overall survival rate. Patients should be 
selected carefully according to comorbidities, biological age and social 
support.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.07658.x
PMID: 18410435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Br J Haematol. 2008 Jun;142(2):149-65. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07124.x.  Epub 2008 Apr 10.

Advances in the understanding of mantle cell lymphoma.

Jares P(1), Campo E.

Author information:
(1)Haematopathology Section, Laboratory of Pathology, and Genomics Unit, 
Hospital Clinic, Institut de Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. pjares@clinic.ub.es

Mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) is a well-defined lymphoid neoplasm characterized by 
a proliferation of mature B lymphocytes expressing CD5 that may show a spectrum 
of morphological and phenotypic features broader than initially described. 
Although some patients may follow an indolent clinical evolution, in most of 
them the tumour has an aggressive behaviour with poor response to conventional 
chemotherapy. The genetic hallmark is the t(11;14)(q13;q32) translocation 
leading to the overexpression of cyclin D1, which is considered the initial 
oncogenic event. In addition to this translocation, MCL may carry a high number 
of secondary chromosomal and molecular alterations that target regulatory 
elements of the cell cycle machinery and senescence (BMI1/INK4/ARF/CDK4/RB1), 
DNA damage response pathways (ATM/CHK2/p53), and cell survival signals. The 
knowledge of these mechanisms and their influence on the behaviour of the tumour 
are facilitating the development of prognostic models with a more precise 
prediction of the clinical evolution of the patients. This information coupled 
with the availability of a new generation of innovative drugs targeting basic 
molecular process of the tumour cells, should facilitate the design of new 
therapeutic protocols able to overcome the resistance of this aggressive 
lymphoma to conventional treatments and improve the life expectancy of the 
patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07124.x
PMID: 18410453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Bioethics. 2009 Jun;23(5):311-20. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2008.00652.x.
Epub  2008 Apr 11.

Administrative gatekeeping - a third way between unrestricted patient advocacy 
and bedside rationing.

Lauridsen S(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Copenhagen, Unit of Medical Philosophy and Clinical Theory, 
Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Panum Institute, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. S.lauridsen@pubhealth.ku.dk

The inevitable need for rationing of healthcare has apparently presented the 
medical profession with the dilemma of choosing the lesser of two evils. 
Physicians appear to be obliged to adopt either an implausible version of 
traditional professional ethics or an equally problematic ethics of bedside 
rationing. The former requires unrestricted advocacy of patients but prompts 
distrust, moral hazard and unfairness. The latter commits physicians to 
rationing at the bedside; but it is bound to introduce unfair inequalities among 
patients and lack of political accountability towards citizens. In this paper I 
shall argue that this dilemma is false, since a third intermediate alternative 
exists. This alternative, which I term 'administrative gatekeeping', makes it 
possible for physicians to be involved in rationing while at the same time being 
genuine advocates of their patients. According to this ideal, physicians are 
required to follow fair rules of rationing adopted at higher organizational 
levels within healthcare systems. At the same time, however, they are prohibited 
from including considerations of cost in their clinical decisions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2008.00652.x
PMID: 18410460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Jul;28(1):76-87. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2008.03709.x. Epub 2008 Apr 11.

Health-economic analysis: cost-effectiveness of scheduled maintenance treatment 
with infliximab for Crohn's disease--modelling outcomes in active luminal and 
fistulizing disease in adults.

Lindsay J(1), Punekar YS, Morris J, Chung-Faye G.

Author information:
(1)Barts and the London NHS Trust, The Royal London Hospital, Whitechapel, 
London, UK. james.lindsay@bartsandthelondon.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Infliximab has been shown to be efficacious in moderate-to-severe 
Crohn's disease (CD).
AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of scheduled maintenance treatment with 
infliximab in luminal and fistulizing CD patients.
METHODS: Markov models were constructed to simulate the progression of adult CD 
patients with and without fistulae during treatment with infliximab (5 mg/kg). 
Transitions were estimated from published clinical trials of infliximab. 
Standard care, comprising immunomodulators and/or corticosteroids was used as a 
comparator. An average weight of 60 kg was used to estimate the dose of 
infliximab. The costs and outcomes were discounted at 3.5% over 5 years. The 
primary effectiveness measurement was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
estimated using EQ-5D. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed by varying the infliximab efficacy estimates, costs and utilities.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per QALY gained was pound 26,128 in luminal CD and 
pound 29,752 in fistulizing CD at 5 years. Results were robust and remained in 
the range of pound 23,752- pound 38,848 for luminal CD and pound 27,047- pound 
44,206 for fistulizing CD. Patient body weight was the most important factor 
affecting cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Eight-week scheduled maintenance treatment with infliximab is a 
cost-effective treatment for adult patients suffering from active luminal or 
fistulizing CD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2008.03709.x
PMID: 18410558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2008 Sep;36(3):247-58. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2007.10.012. Epub 2008 Apr 14.

The role of psychological and behavioral variables in quality of life and the 
experience of bodily pain among persons living with HIV.

Kowal J(1), Overduin LY, Balfour L, Tasca GA, Corace K, Cameron DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Ottawa Hospital Rehabilitation Centre, Ottawa, 
Canada. jkowal@ottawahospital.on.ca

With increased life expectancy of individuals living with HIV, quality of life 
(QOL) has become a focus of treatment. More research is needed to address 
pain-related QOL and modifiable variables, such as health behaviors, depressive 
symptoms, and coping styles, which could be included in treatment protocols to 
improve QOL among individuals with HIV. Objectives of this study were to (1) 
examine relationships among health behaviors, psychological variables, and QOL, 
particularly pain-specific QOL, (2) examine the relationships among coping, 
depressive symptoms, and QOL, and (3) compare QOL scores of individuals with HIV 
and population-based normative data. HIV positive men and women not currently on 
highly active antiretroviral therapy were recruited during regular visits to an 
HIV outpatient clinic. They completed the Medical Outcome Study Health Survey 
SF-36 scale, which includes a physical components scale, a mental components 
scale, and a bodily pain subscale. They also completed questionnaires assessing 
health behaviors, depressive symptoms, and coping styles. Participants (n=97) 
scored significantly lower on most aspects of QOL than age-matched Canadian and 
U.S. norms. Hierarchical multiple regressions revealed that physical activity 
and CD4 cell count were independently related to lower physical components scale 
scores; smoking and depressive symptoms were independently associated with lower 
mental components scale scores; and education, physical activity, and depressive 
symptoms were independently associated with lower pain-related QOL. Depressive 
symptoms mediated the relationship between coping styles and the mental 
components scale and pain-related QOL. Results suggest that targeting depressive 
symptoms, physical activity, and coping strategies as part of comprehensive 
treatment protocols could help improve pain-specific QOL and overall QOL among 
individuals with HIV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2007.10.012
PMID: 18411016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 1991 Mar-Apr;2(2):59-62. doi: 
10.1016/1043-2760(91)90041-k.

Osteoporosis Current practice and future perspectives.

Wasnich RD(1), Ross PD, Davis JW.

Author information:
(1)University of Hawaii School of Medicine and the Hawaii Osteoporosis Center, 
USA.

Initiation of estrogens or other drugs as preventive measures for osteoporosis 
should be based upon objective estimates of actual, future fracture risk. Bone 
mass measurements, when considered in the context of age, life expectancy, 
expected bone loss, and other risk factors, enable improved patient risk 
stratification, and more rational treatment choices.

DOI: 10.1016/1043-2760(91)90041-k
PMID: 18411166


487. Int J Cancer. 2008 Jul 1;123(1):232-5. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23497.

Determinants of overall quality of life in preterminal cancer patients.

Beijer S(1), Kempen GI, Pijls-Johannesma MC, de Graeff A, Dagnelie PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, NUTRIM, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. sandra.beijer@epid.unimaas.nl

Recently, a few studies reported that fatigue was a predominant contributor to 
patient-perceived overall QoL in patients with different types of cancer in a 
relatively early stage of disease. In the present study, we aimed to investigate 
whether fatigue is also a major contributor to overall QoL in preterminal cancer 
patients. Ninety-eight preterminal cancer patients, mainly lung (44%) and 
gastrointestinal cancer (25%), with an estimated life expectancy of 1-6 months 
were included. QoL domains as well as overall QoL were measured using the EORTC 
QLQ-C30 questionnaire. Data were analysed by Pearson's correlations and 
multivariate modelling. Fatigue showed the strongest correlation with overall 
QoL (r = -0.63, p < 0.001), followed in decreasing order by role functioning (r 
= 0.53), physical functioning (r = 0.47), social functioning (r = 0.44), nausea 
(r = -0.37), cognitive functioning (r = 0.33), appetite loss (r = -0.31), 
dyspnea (r = -0.26) and emotional functioning (r = 0.24). Multivariate analysis 
confirmed that the fatigue scale paid by far the highest individual contribution 
to overall QoL (standardized regression coefficient (SRC): -0.41, p = 0.002), 
followed by social functioning (SRC: 0.18, p = 0.05). None of the other domains 
or symptom scales contributed independently to overall QoL. Our results clearly 
demonstrate that, in preterminal cancer patients, fatigue is a major contributor 
of overall QoL, corroborating reports in cancer patients in earlier disease 
stages.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23497
PMID: 18412247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Br J Surg. 2008 Jun;95(6):714-20. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6157.

Cost-effectiveness of endarterectomy in patients with asymptomatic carotid 
artery stenosis.

Henriksson M(1), Lundgren F, Carlsson P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Medical Technology Assessment, Linköping University, Linköping, 
Sweden. martin.henriksson@ihs.liu.se

BACKGROUND: Long-term health outcomes and costs are important when deciding 
whether a strategy of carotid endarterectomy in addition to best medical 
management should be recommended for patients with asymptomatic carotid artery 
stenosis. This study investigated the cost-effectiveness of such a strategy 
compared with a strategy of best medical management alone.
METHODS: Based on data from the randomized Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery Trial 
(ACST), a national vascular database and other published sources, expected costs 
and health outcomes in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of both 
treatment strategies were estimated using decision-analytical modelling. 
Cost-effectiveness was established for a Swedish setting from a societal 
perspective.
RESULTS: Base-case analysis showed that the incremental cost per QALY of a 
strategy with carotid endarterectomy for 65- and 75-year-old men (women) was 
34,557 euros (311,133 euros) and 58,930 euros (779,776 euros) respectively. 
Sensitivity analyses indicated that the duration of the treatment effect after 5 
years of follow-up in the ACST was important for the cost-effectiveness results.
CONCLUSION: Carotid endarterectomy in addition to best medical management can be 
considered cost-effective in men aged 73 years or less but is less likely to be 
cost-effective in older men or in women.

2008 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6157
PMID: 18412295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Apr 15;8:84. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-84.

The effects of involving a nurse practitioner in primary care for adult patients 
with urinary incontinence: the PromoCon study (Promoting Continence).

Albers-Heitner P(1), Berghmans B, Joore M, Lagro-Janssen T, Severens J, Nieman 
F, Winkens R.

Author information:
(1)Integrated Care Unit, University Hospital Maastricht, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. c.albers@caphri.unimaas.nl

BACKGROUND: Urinary incontinence affects approximately 5% (800.000) of the Dutch 
population. Guidelines recommend pelvic floor muscle/bladder training for most 
patients. Unfortunately, general practitioners use this training only 
incidentally, but prescribe incontinence pads. Over 50% of patients get such 
pads, costing 160 million euros each year. Due to ageing of the population a 
further increase of expenses is expected. Several national reports recommend to 
involve nurse specialists to support general practitioners and improve patient 
care. The main objective of our study is to investigate the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of involving nurse specialists in primary care for urinary 
incontinence. This paper describes the study protocol.
METHODS/DESIGN: In a pragmatic prospective multi centre two-armed randomized 
controlled trial in the Netherlands the availability and involvement for the 
general practitioners of a nurse specialist will be compared with usual care. 
All consecutive patients consulting their general practitioner within 1 year for 
urinary incontinence and patients already diagnosed with urinary incontinence 
are eligible. Included patients will be followed for 12 months. Primary outcome 
is severity of urinary incontinence (measured with the International 
Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire Short Form (ICIQ-UI SF)). Based on 
ICIQ-UI SF outcome data the number of patients needed to include is 350. For the 
economic evaluation quality of life and costs will be measured alongside the 
clinical trial. For the longer term extrapolation of the economic evaluation a 
Markov modelling approach will be used.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: This is, to our knowledge, the first trial on care for 
patients with urinary incontinence in primary care that includes a full economic 
evaluation and cost-effectiveness modelling exercise from the societal 
perspective. If this intervention proves to be effective and cost-effective, 
implementation of this intervention is considered and anticipated.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN62722772.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-84
PMCID: PMC2386786
PMID: 18412964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Proc Nutr Soc. 2008 May;67(2):196-205. doi: 10.1017/S0029665108007039.

Altered bone metabolism in inflammatory disease: role for nutrition.

Cashman KD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Nutritional Sciences and Department of Medicine, 
University College, Cork, Republic of Ireland. k.cashman@ucc.ie

Osteoporosis is a major public health problem, and as life expectancy and the 
world's population continue to increase will become even more important. Thus, 
there is an urgent need to develop and implement nutritional approaches and 
policies for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Patients with some 
chronic inflammatory diseases appear to be more likely to develop osteopenia, 
and in some cases earlier in life, which is of particular concern as the 
incidence of inflammatory diseases in the Western world is increasing. While the 
cause of bone loss in patients with inflammatory disease is multifactorial, 
nutrition may have a role. Many of these patients may have one or more 
nutritional deficiencies, which can lead to altered rates of bone metabolism. On 
the other hand, some nutritional factors may attenuate the inflammatory process 
itself, and thus may indirectly benefit bone metabolism and bone health in 
patients with inflammatory disease. The present review will consider these 
issues, particularly in the context of inflammatory bowel disease, coeliac 
disease and atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665108007039
PMID: 18412993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 May;24(5):1473-83. doi: 10.1185/030079908x297826.
Epub  2008 Apr 14.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of adding a quadrivalent HPV vaccine to the cervical 
cancer screening programme in Switzerland.

Szucs TD(1), Largeron N, Dedes KJ, Rafia R, Bénard S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: Based on positive safety and efficacy data, a quadrivalent Human 
PapillomaVirus (HPV) vaccine has been approved in Switzerland to prevent HPV 
types 6, 11, 16 and 18 infections. The objective of this study was to explore 
the cost-effectiveness of an HPV vaccination in Switzerland.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov model of the natural history of HPV infection was 
adapted to the Swiss context and followed a hypothetical cohort of 41,200 girls 
aged 11 years over their lifetime. Main epidemiological and economic parameters 
were extracted from the literature. Two strategies were compared: conventional 
cytological screening only and HPV vaccination followed by conventional 
cytological screening. A coverage rate of 80% was used and the vaccine was 
assumed to provide a lifelong protection. Analyses were performed from the 
direct health care cost perspective including only direct medical costs.
RESULTS: Compared to screening only, adding a quadrivalent HPV vaccine could 
prevent over lifetime 62% of cervical cancers and related deaths, 19% of 
Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN 1), 43% of CIN 2, 45% of CIN 3 and 66% 
of genital warts per cohort. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were 
estimated to be CHF 45,008 per Life Year Gained (LYG) and CHF 26,005 per Quality 
Adjusted Life Year (QALY) gained. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the 
ICER was robust to all parameters, but was most sensitive to the need for a 
booster and discount rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to commonly accepted standard thresholds in Europe and 
other vaccination strategies implemented in Switzerland, adding a quadrivalent 
HPV vaccine alongside the current cervical cancer screening programme is likely 
to be cost-effective in Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x297826
PMID: 18413014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Arch Ophthalmol. 2008 Apr;126(4):493-9. doi: 10.1001/archopht.126.4.493.

Cost-utility analysis of telemedicine and ophthalmoscopy for retinopathy of 
prematurity management.

Jackson KM(1), Scott KE, Graff Zivin J, Bateman DA, Flynn JT, Keenan JD, Chiang 
MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York 
10032, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of telemedicine and standard 
ophthalmoscopy for retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) management.
METHODS: Models were developed to represent ROP examination and treatment using 
telemedicine and standard ophthalmoscopy. Cost-utility analysis was performed 
using decision analysis, evidence-based outcome data from published literature, 
and present value modeling. Visual outcome data were converted to patient 
preference-based time trade-off utility values based on published literature. 
Costs of disease management were determined based on 2006 Medicare 
reimbursements. Costs per quality-adjusted life year gained by telemedicine and 
ophthalmoscopy for ROP management were compared. One-way sensitivity analysis 
was performed on the following variables: discount rate (0%-7%), incidence of 
treatment-requiring ROP (1%-20%), sensitivity and specificity of ophthalmoscopic 
diagnosis (75%-100%), percentage of readable telemedicine images (75%-100%), and 
sensitivity and specificity of telemedicine diagnosis (75%-100%).
RESULTS: For infants with birth weight less than 1500 g using a 3% discount rate 
for costs and outcomes, the costs per quality-adjusted life year gained were 
$3193 with telemedicine and $5617 with standard ophthalmoscopy. Sensitivity 
analysis resulted in ranges of costs per quality-adjusted life year from $1235 
to $18,898 for telemedicine and from $2171 to $27,215 for ophthalmoscopy.
CONCLUSIONS: Telemedicine is more cost-effective than standard ophthalmoscopy 
for ROP management. Both strategies are highly cost-effective compared with 
other health care interventions.

DOI: 10.1001/archopht.126.4.493
PMID: 18413518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Br J Community Nurs. 2008 Feb;13(2):58-67. doi:
10.12968/bjcn.2008.13.2.28157.

An overview of the role of diet during the ageing process.

Denny A(1).

Author information:
(1)British Nutrition Foundation, London. a.denny@nutrition.org.uk

The UK is experiencing an ageing population but this is not matched by a similar 
increase in healthy life expectancy. Some of the major biological life changes 
associated with ageing result from the accumulation of lifelong molecular damage 
to cells, but many health problems are attributable to lifestyle and 
environmental factors. Diet is one factor believed to play a key role in the 
prevention and treatment of chronic diseases associated with ageing. Diets that 
are high in total fat, saturated fat and salt, and low in fibre, fruits and 
vegetables, are central to the development of CVD, type 2 diabetes and cognitive 
decline among elderly people. In contrast, under nutrition is also a major 
problem in this age group, with many elderly people having low intakes of 
essential vitamins and minerals. Good nutrition is essential for healthy ageing 
and a multi-disciplinary, life-course, approach to ageing is vital in minimising 
its implications for quality of life and public health.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2008.13.2.28157
PMID: 18414240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Adv Ther. 2008 Apr;25(4):285-99. doi: 10.1007/s12325-008-0043-9.

Is the use of insulin analogues cost-effective?

Leichter S(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Diabetes and Metabolism, Columbus Research Foundation, 2425 
Brookstone Centre Parkway, Columbus, GA 31904, USA. sugardoc6@aol.com

Many patients with diabetes fail to achieve their glycaemic targets despite 
clear evidence that glycaemic control can prevent or delay the development of 
costly complications in diabetes. This article describes how insulin analogues 
(insulins lispro, aspart, glulisine, glargine and detemir) may have a role to 
play in overcoming barriers to insulin acceptance and improving adherence with 
therapy, and examines their cost-effectiveness as determined in published 
studies. Cost-effectiveness studies attempt to assess all the costs and all the 
benefits of a particular therapy. Pharmacoeconomic models, which calculate the 
long-term effect of interventions, show that over periods such as 10 or 35 years 
the higher prescription costs of analogues are offset by a lower incidence of 
acute hypoglycaemic events and costly, chronic complications such as 
nephropathy. This results in costs per 'quality-adjusted life year' that fall 
well within accepted limits for good value for money. Retrospective analyses of 
managed care databases show that higher prescription costs for analogues are 
offset by lower hypoglycaemia-related costs and/or inpatient claims. Relative to 
human insulins, analogues provide a better balance between glycaemic control and 
tolerability. Patients' fear of hypoglycaemia is allayed; the pen devices used 
with analogues facilitate insulin injection; and the pharmacokinetic 
characteristics lead to increased flexibility and convenience. All these factors 
can help increase adherence with therapy, which may in itself be cost-saving. 
Taken overall, these results indicate that insulin analogues are a 
cost-effective therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-008-0043-9
PMID: 18414816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Schmerz. 1991 Mar;5(1):28-36. doi: 10.1007/BF02529662.

[Continuous administration of opiates with implantable drug delivery systems in 
patients with intractable non-malignant pain.].

[Article in German]

Winkelmüller M(1), Winkelmüller W.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Gemeinschaftspraxis für Neurochirurgie, Paracelsus-Klinik, Am 
Natruper Holz 69, W-4500, Osnabrück, BRD.

The use of implantable systems for intrathecal administration of opioids in 
chronic pain of non-malignant origin is a controversial subject. Opioid therapy 
is reserved mainly for pain patients with malignant disease and reduced 
life-expectancy. The main reasons for this restricted range of indications of 
chronic subarachnoid administration of opioids are fear of addiction and the 
build-up of tolerance. During July 1988 and April 1990 we treated 60 patients 
suffering from pain of non-malignant origin with continuous opioid infusion by 
implanted pumps. Wishing to find whether opiates can relieve deafferentation 
pain, we subdivided the different pain syndromes into three groups according to 
their pathophysiology: nociceptive, neurogenic/neuropathic, and deafferentation 
pain. After a follow-up period of 11.5+/-7.1 months 47 patients were evaluated. 
Pain intensity according to the visual analogue scale was reduced in a mean of 
79.4% of the patients. Activity level and mood scores as pain-associated 
parameters were both significantly increased after therapy. Analysis of the 
McGill Pain Questionnaire reveals that the improved quality of life is 
attributable to a reduction of affective pain perception more than to sensory 
discrimination. The best results in terms of pain reduction (82.5%) were 
obtained in the group of patients with deafferentation pain. This is in contrast 
to reports in the literature. It seems that neuropathic and deafferentation pain 
syndroms are susceptible to intrathecal opioids. The initial daily average dose 
of morphine was 2.6 mg/day, increasing to 6.1 mg/day after 25 months without the 
development of major tachyphylaxis. the administration of intrathecal opioids by 
means of implantable systems is justified in carefully selected patients with 
chronic non-malignant pain. This method should be applied in preference to 
destructive neurosurgical treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02529662
PMID: 18415154


496. Vopr Onkol. 2008;54(1):70-7.

[Effect of light regimens and melatonin on homeostasis, life span and 
spontaneous tumorigenesis in male rats].

[Article in Russian]

Vinogradova IA, Bukalev AV, Zabezhinskiĭ MA, Semenchenko AV, Anisimov VN.

The effect of various light regimens--standard, 12 hrs light:12 hrs darkness, 
natural lighting in the North-West of Russia and constant illumination--on 
homeostasis, life span and spontaneous tumorigenesis has been studied in male 
rats. It was shown that constant exposure or natural lighting involved 
accelerated aging as evaluated by coefficient of homeostatic stability and 
survival curves shifting to the left. Constant illumination was followed by a 
significantly faster spontaneous tumorigenesis as compared with standard 
lighting. Nocturnal administration of melatonin with drinking water (10 mg/l) 
prevented the adverse effects of constant and natural lighting on homeostasis 
and inhibited spontaneous tumorigenesis, particularly, that in the hemopoietic 
system.

PMID: 18416062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Clin Nutr. 2008 Jun;27(3):416-23. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2008.02.004. Epub 2008
Apr  16.

A cost-utility analysis in patients receiving enteral tube feeding at home and 
in nursing homes.

Elia M(1), Stratton RJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Nutrition, University of Southampton, Southampton General 
Hospital, Mailpoint 113, Tremona Road, Southampton SO16 6YD, UK. 
elia@soton.ac.uk

A cost-utility analysis was undertaken of enteral tube feeding (ETF) in patients 
with cerebrovascular accident (CVA). Mortality during ETF was established in 
nursing homes (n7007) or at home (n2888). Quality of life was measured (EuroQol) 
on a sub-sample (n25). Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) over 3 years and the 
cost/QALY were calculated. The cost/QALY (1 pound=1.482 euros; 30/06/05) for 
patients receiving ETF at home was 12,817 pounds (10,351 pounds-16,826 pounds 
using 95% CI for quality of life) and insensitive to the frequency of home 
visits (50-150% of the average frequency; 11,851 pounds-13,782 pounds), outcome 
of patients reverting to full oral feeding (0-100% survival; 11,023 
pounds-14,440 pounds), and computed outcome of a 'control' group not given ETF 
(0.125-0.25 year survival; 12,991 pound-14,006 pounds). The cost/QALY in nursing 
homes (10,304 pounds-68,064 pounds) varied depending on the state contribution 
to non-medical costs and is above and below the threshold (30,000 pounds/QALY). 
The data suggest the cost-effectiveness of ETF in patients with CVA receiving 
ETF at home or in nursing homes, where the non-medical costs are paid privately, 
compares favourably with other interventions. The cost-effectiveness of ETF in 
nursing homes when the state pays all non-medical costs compares unfavourably 
with other treatments, raising economic, clinical, and ethical concerns.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2008.02.004
PMID: 18417257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Waste Manag. 2009 Jan;29(1):168-73. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2008.02.014. Epub
2008  Apr 15.

Pilot project of biogas production from pig manure and urine mixture at ambient 
temperature in Ventanilla (Lima, Peru).

Ferrer I(1), Gamiz M, Almeida M, Ruiz A.
