DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00216.x
PMID: 18237362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Value Health. 2008 Jan-Feb;11(1):88-96. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00217.x.

The impact of medical technology on health: a longitudinal analysis of ischemic 
heart disease.

López-Valcárcel BG(1), Pinilla J.

Author information:
(1)University of Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain. 
bvalcarcel@dmc.ulpgc.es

OBJECTIVES: This article estimates the costs and benefits of changes in ischemic 
heart disease (IHD) care in Spain from 1980 to 2003.
METHODS: We use joinpoint regression to identify trends in the standardized 
rates of mortality and hospitalization for IHD in general and acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI) in particular. We estimate also logistic regression models for 
the probability of in-hospital death of patients admitted for AMI. To measure 
costs and benefits between 1980 and 2003 we use the microdata from Spanish 
Hospital Morbidity Survey, and the reports of the Cardiac Catheterization and 
Coronary Intervention Registry of the Spanish Society of Cardiology.
RESULTS: Mortality from IHD in Spain has been substantially reduced in the past 
25 years. Medical advances have saved lives of many patients admitted to 
hospitals. If the patients with AMI admitted in 2003 had been treated with 1980 
procedures the rate of hospital mortality for AMI would have doubled. The 
estimated benefits in 2003 are the lives of the 5326 patients saved. The unit 
real costs have increased from euro2143 to euro4550 per AMI admission. If this 
cost increase is applied to the 57,842 Spanish AMI inpatients admitted in 2003, 
one could say that advances in medical technology from 1980 to 2003 carry a cost 
of euro26,140 per life saved.
CONCLUSIONS: In Spain advances in hospital technology for the treatment of IHD 
since 1980 are well worth the cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00217.x
PMID: 18237363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Value Health. 2008 Jan-Feb;11(1):97-109. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00218.x.

Are N-of-1 trials an economically viable option to improve access to selected 
high cost medications? The Australian experience.

Scuffham PA(1), Yelland MJ, Nikles J, Pietrzak E, Wilkinson D.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Griffith University, Meadowbrook, Qld, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the economic viability of N-of-1 trials for improving 
access to selected high cost medications in Australia.
METHODS: Cost and effectiveness estimates were derived from two N-of-1 trials 
conducted by The University of Queensland from 2003 to 2005-celecoxib versus 
sustained-release paracetamol for osteoarthritis in a general practice setting 
and gabapentin versus placebo for chronic neuropathic pain in a hospital 
setting. Effectiveness was determined by the proportion of responders to each 
medication. The costs of trials were offset against the savings generated by 
subsequent changes in prescribing. Decision analysis models with semi-Markov 
processes were used to compare different scenarios of N-of-1 trials versus usual 
care.
RESULTS: The fixed cost of performing N-of-1 trials was approximately AUS$23,000 
for each trial and the variable cost was approximately AUS$1300 per participant. 
Clinical outcomes favored celecoxib over paracetamol in 17% of participants and 
gabapentin over placebo in 24% of participants. Modeling these results showed 
that the cost-offsets from efficient use of medications were less than the cost 
of running a trial; however, the incremental costs per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained were AUS$6,896 and AUS$29,550 for the gabapentin/placebo and 
celecoxib/paracetamol trials, respectively, over a 5-year horizon. Key factors 
affecting the viability were the time horizon modeled, the variable cost per 
participant, the probability of response to the intervention medication, and 
rates of use in nonresponders and the usual care alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: The N-of-1 strategy offers a realistic and viable option for 
increasing access to selected high cost medications where the medications are 
used for the symptomatic treatment of chronic disease, have rapid onset of 
action, and clinical response is unpredictable without a trial.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00218.x
PMID: 18237364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Ann Oncol. 2008 Mar;19(3):409-10. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdn004. Epub 2008 Jan
30.

Measuring the cost of chemotherapy is important, but it is not enough.

Marino P.

Comment on
    Ann Oncol. 2008 Mar;19(3):461-4.
    Ann Oncol. 2008 Mar;19(3):454-60.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdn004
PMID: 18238780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Eur J Public Health. 2008 Jun;18(3):270-4. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm129. Epub
2008  Jan 31.

Economic evaluation of folic acid food fortification in The Netherlands.

Jentink J(1), van de Vrie-Hoekstra NW, de Jong-van den Berg LT, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Schools SHARE & GUIDE, Department of Social Pharmacy & 
Pharmacoepidemiology, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Folic acid intake before and during pregnancy reduces neural tube 
defects (NTD). Therefore, several countries have enriched bulk food with folic 
acid resulting in a 26-48% decrease in the prevalence of NTDs. In 2000, the 
Dutch Health Council advised against folic acid enrichment based on literature 
research; yet formal cost-effectiveness information was absent. We designed our 
study to estimate cost-effectiveness of folic acid food fortification in the 
Netherlands.
METHOD: Prevalence of NTD at birth, life-time costs of care, and folic acid 
fortification costs were estimated using Dutch registrations, Dutch guidelines 
for costing, (inter)national literature and expert opinions. Both net cost per 
discounted life year gained and net cost per discounted quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained were estimated for the base case and sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case and most sensitivity analyses, folic acid enrichment 
was estimated to be cost-saving. Bulk food fortification with folic acid remains 
cost-effective as long as enrichment costs do not exceed euro5.5 million 
(threshold at euro20 000 per QALY).
CONCLUSION: Our model suggests that folic acid fortification of bulk food to 
prevent cases of NTD in newborns might be a cost-saving intervention in the 
Netherlands. Additionally, besides the evidence that folic acid reduces the 
number of NTDs, there are indications that folic acid is associated with the 
prevention of other birth defects, cardiovascular diseases and cancer. Our model 
did not yet include these possibly beneficial effects.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckm129
PMID: 18238826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2008 Mar;16(3):509-14. doi: 10.1038/oby.2007.100.
Epub  2008 Jan 31.

Are non-prescription medications needed for weight control?

Bray GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center of Louisiana State University, Baton 
Rouge, LA, USA. brayga@pbrc.edu

Erratum in
    Obesity (Silver Spring). 2008 Jul;16(7):1723.

At any one time large numbers of people are attempting to control their weight. 
Women are the principal consumers of weight-control programs. Their options, 
outside the prescription drug market and surgical treatment, include diets and 
diet books, exercise alone or with supervision in exercise facilities, dietary 
supplements, group programs, doctors, dietitians, psychologists, and other 
health-care professionals. Non-prescription products available to help people 
control their weight cover a wide range, including herbal dietary supplements, 
diet drinks and portion-controlled foods, meal replacements, and 
low-carbohydrate diets and foods. The introduction of orlistat as an 
over-the-counter (OTC) product will provide the only Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA)-approved product for weight loss currently in that category 
since phenylpropanolamine (PPA) was withdrawn by the FDA. The FDA approval 
process is considerably more expensive than allowing untested herbal supplements 
to be marketed without testing, but the added safety evaluation by the FDA will 
reduce the risk of disastrous outcomes that have plagued many approaches to 
weight control. Support for a place for orlistat as an OTC product includes the 
inadequacy of current programs, empowerment of the public, lower cost, and 
bringing pharmacists into weight-control programs. The downside includes 
improper use of OTC orlistat that may not result in achieving individual 
expectations.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2007.100
PMID: 18239604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2008 Feb;16(2):435-41. doi: 10.1038/oby.2007.62.

Age-variability in body shape associated with excess weight: the UK National 
Sizing Survey.

Wells JC(1), Cole TJ, Treleaven P.

Author information:
(1)Childhood Nutrition Research Centre, UCL Institute of Child Health, London, 
UK. J.Wells@ich.ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The health risks of obesity are disproportionately due to central 
abdominal adiposity; however, the extent to which age is associated with the 
body shape of obese adults is not known.
OBJECTIVE: Three-dimensional (3D) data on body shape from the UK National Sizing 
Survey were analyzed to investigate age-associated changes in body shape within 
the BMI bands <20, 20-24.99, 25-29.99 and > or =30 kg/m(2).
METHODS: Measurements of anthropometry (weight and height) and a 3D body scan 
were obtained in 4,344 men and 5,266 women recruited from eight British cities.
RESULTS: The body shape of men showed high consistency within BMI bands between 
early adulthood and old age. In contrast, the body shape of women altered within 
each BMI band with increasing age. In obese, overweight, and normal weight 
women, age was associated with decreased thigh girth, increased waist, and bust 
girth. Whereas young obese women maintained an hourglass shape, in old age the 
body shape of obese women converged on that of obese men.
DISCUSSION: The association of age with body shape is markedly different between 
the sexes, with the impact of obesity on shape strongly age-dependent in women 
but not in men. The age delay in the association between obesity and high waist 
girth in women may contribute to the sex-difference in life expectancy. The 
relationship between body shape change and cardiovascular risk merits 
longitudinal investigation within individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2007.62
PMID: 18239656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Aust Fam Physician. 2008 Jan-Feb;37(1-2):5.

Improving the health of Australians.

Harper T.

By international standards, Australians enjoy good health. Life expectancy in 
Australia is among the highest in the world, and has increased significantly 
over the past 20 years. Between 1983 and 2003, the health of Australian males 
had increased by 6 years, to 78 years, and the life expectancy of Australian 
females had increased by 4 years, to 83 years.

PMID: 18239743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2008 Feb;20(1):15-24. doi: 10.1080/09540260701862037.

The Neuropathology of HIV/AIDS.

Anthony IC(1), Bell JE.

Author information:
(1)Neuropathology Unit, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh.

The introduction of Highly Active Anti-retroviral Therapy (HAART) has resulted 
in significant decreases in morbidity and mortality for subjects infected with 
HIV. The brain is a major target organ for HIV resulting in significant 
neuropathological changes in most HIV infected subjects and a wide range of 
clinical neurological symptoms including HIV associated dementia. In the 
pre-HAART era HIV associated dementia was a common complication of AIDS. 
However, since the introduction of HAART the incidence of HIV associated 
dementia has fallen, but the prevelance has actually risen due to the increasing 
number of infected subjects and increased life expectancy. HIV associated 
dementia correlates most closely with neuroinflammation rather than directly 
with viral load or HIV encephalitis. HIV related clinical and neuropathological 
disorders are more prevalent in drug abusers than in other risk groups. This 
review focuses on the shifting pathology observed in HIV infected subjects since 
the introduction of HAART, discussing the clinical manifestations of these and 
the influence of confounding factors such as drug abuse and Hepatitis C 
co-infection.

DOI: 10.1080/09540260701862037
PMID: 18240059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Prenat Diagn. 2008 Mar;28(3):197-202. doi: 10.1002/pd.1910.

Prenatal diagnosis of cystic fibrosis: the 18-year experience of Brittany 
(western France).

Scotet V(1), Duguépéroux I, Audrézet MP, Blayau M, Boisseau P, Journel H, Parent 
P, Férec C.

Author information:
(1)Inserm, U613, Brest, F-29200, France. virginie.scotet@univ-brest.fr

OBJECTIVE: This study reports 18 years of experience in prenatal diagnosis (PD) 
of cystic fibrosis (CF) in a region where CF is frequent and the uptake of PD is 
common (Brittany, western France).
METHOD: All PDs made over the period 1989-2006 in women living in Brittany were 
collected.
RESULTS: We recorded 268 PDs made in 1 in 4 risk couples, plus 22 PDs directly 
made following the sonographic finding of echogenic bowel. Most of the 268 PDs 
were done in couples already having CF child(ren) (n = 195, 72.8%). Close to 
one-fifth followed cascade screening (n = 49, 18.3%), which identified 26 new 1 
in 4 risk couples among the relatives of CF patients or of carriers identified 
through newborn screening (NBS). The remaining PDs were mainly made in couples 
whose 1 in 4 risk was evidenced following the diagnosis of echogenic bowel in a 
previous pregnancy (n = 22, 8.2%). Although patients' life expectancy has 
considerably improved, in our population the great majority of couples chose 
pregnancy termination when PD indicated that the foetus had CF (95.9%).
CONCLUSION: This study describes the distribution of PDs according to the 
context in which the 1 in 4 risk was discovered and highlights the real 
decisions of couples as regards pregnancy termination after a positive PD.

Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.1910
PMID: 18240337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Nutr Rev. 2007 Dec;65(12 Pt 2):S239-43. doi:
10.1111/j.1753-4887.2007.tb00370.x.

Developing preventive therapies for chronic diseases: lessons learned from 
Alzheimer's disease.

Selkoe DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Center for Neurologic Diseases, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. dselkoe@rics.bwh.harvard.edu

A remarkable rise in life expectancy during the past century has made 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) the most common form of progressive intellectual 
failure in humans. Patients with AD lose their most human qualities-reasoning, 
abstraction, language, and memory. The brain plaques that Alois Alzheimer first 
described 100 years ago have inspired the search for genetic alterations that 
underlie AD. Four genes have been unequivocally implicated to date in inherited 
forms of AD, where mutations or natural variations in these genes cause 
excessive accumulation of the amyloid beta-protein, the building block of 
amyloid plaques. This aggregation leads to subsequent neuronal degeneration in 
brain regions important for memory and cognition. The discovery of the genes 
involved in the mechanisms of amyloid beta-protein build-up in AD, coupled with 
cell culture and animal models of their involved pathways, has led to the 
development of specific pharmacological strategies to lower amyloid beta-protein 
levels as a way of treating or preventing all forms of the disease. While hard 
work lies ahead, the movement from basic research to the clinic in AD represents 
a triumph of reductionist biology applied to the most complex of all biological 
systems, the human cerebral cortex.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.2007.tb00370.x
PMID: 18240556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Popul Trends. 2007 Winter;(130):9-21.

The changing demographic picture of the UK: national statistician's annual 
article on the population.

Dunnell K.

The population of the UK is currently growing at its fastest rate since the 
1960s, increasing by two and a half per cent between mid-2001 and mid-2006. 
While life expectancy continues to increase, fertility rates have also been 
increasing in the last five years and are currently at their highest level since 
1980. In addition, international migration has led to the UK population growing 
by an average of 500 people per day over the last five years. The population is 
also becoming increasingly diverse and mobile, and these factors make it 
increasingly challenging to measure population change accurately. This is the 
first of a series of annual reports on the population of the UK; these reports 
will provide an overview of the latest statistics on the population and will 
also focus on one specific topic - for this report the topic is fertility and, 
in particular, the impact of migration on fertility, but different topics will 
be covered in future years. The reports will also highlight the key strands of 
work being taken forward within the National Statistics Centre for Demography in 
order to improve UK population statistics. More detailed information on the 
populations of Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland are available in the annual 
demographic reports produced by the respective devolved administrations.'

PMID: 18240843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Manag Care Pharm. 2008 Jan-Feb;14(1):21-33. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2008.14.1.21.

Evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of entecavir versus lamivudine in hepatitis 
BeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B patients.

Yuan Y(1), Iloeje UH, Hay J, Saab S.

Author information:
(1)Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, NJ 08543-4000, USA. 
yong.yuan@bms.com

Comment in
    J Manag Care Pharm. 2008 Jan-Feb;14(1):61-4.
    J Manag Care Pharm. 2008 Jan-Feb;14(1):65-9.

BACKGROUND: As new treatment options for chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) become 
available, evaluations of cost-effectiveness become important. Entecavir is a 
deoxyguanine nucleoside analogue approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration in March 2005 for HBV infection in adults with evidence of active 
viral replication and either evidence of persistent elevations in serum 
aminotransferases (alanine aminotransferase or aspartate aminotransferase) or 
histologically active disease. Entecavir has demonstrated greater suppression of 
viral replication compared with lamivudine, but also has a relatively higher 
drug acquisition cost in the United States.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the long-term health and economic impact of treating HBV 
with entecavir versus lamivudine in patients who are positive for hepatitis B e 
antigen (HBeAg) based on the efficacy and safety results of the Phase 3, 
double-blind, randomized controlled trial, Benefits of Entecavir for Hepatitis B 
Liver Disease (BEHoLD).
METHODS: A decision tree model was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of entecavir compared with lamuvidine in suppressing HBV DNA to an undetectable 
level. Risks for compensated cirrhosis (CC), decompensated cirrhosis (DC), and 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) were derived from the published Risk Evaluation 
of Viral Load Elevation and Associated Liver Disease/Cancer-Hepatitis B Virus 
(REVEAL-HBV, 2006) study, a longitudinal (mean follow-up: 11.4 years) cohort 
study of community residents who were seropositive for the hepatitis B surface 
antigen; 85% of REVEAL-HBV participants were HBeAg-negative. To estimate future 
risks of CC, DC, and HCC, the REVEAL-HBV study's multivariate-adjusted relative 
risks of CC, DC, and HCC for 5 HBV DNA (viral load level) categories were 
applied to posttreatment HBV DNA levels obtained from the BEHoLD trial of 709 
HBeAg-positive HBV patients treated with entecavir (n = 354) or lamivudine (n = 
355). Entecavir and lamivudine were assigned annual costs of $7,365 and $2,604, 
respectively, based on the wholesale acquisition cost. Life expectancy for DC 
and HCC was estimated by the declining exponential approximation of life 
expectancy method. Other model parameter values, such as utilities and event 
medical costs, were derived from published sources. The joint uncertainty of 
projected event time distribution and treatment failure rates beyond the trial 
period were considered using probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA) with 1,000 
replicates. The analytic perspective was that of a U.S. third-party payer 
responsible for all direct health care expenditures.
RESULTS: In the BEHoLD clinical trial (AI463022), subjects were predominantly 
male (75%), Asian (57%), or white (40%) with a mean age of 35 years. Entecavir 
was superior to lamivudine in the proportion of subjects who achieved 
undetectable HBV DNA (< 300 copies per mL) by polymerase- chain reaction assay 
at week 48 (69.1% vs. 39.8%, respectively) (P < 0.001). In the REVEAL-HBV study 
after statistical adjustment for age, gender, cigarette smoking, and alcohol 
consumption, rates of CC, DC, and HCC were associated with higher HBV DNA levels 
(e.g., compared with the reference category [< 300 copies per mL], adjusted 
hazard ratios for HCC were 1.2, 2.9, 9.5, and 15.2 for serum HBV DNA levels of 
300-9,999, 10,000-99,999, 100,000-999,999, and e > or = 1 million copies per mL, 
respectively). In the reference case, for a hypothetical cohort of 1,000 HBV 
patients aged 35 years, 52 weeks of entecavir treatment compared with lamivudine 
treatment avoided 71 cases of CC, 8 DC cases, and 42 HCC cases within 10 years, 
resulting in a 0.728 quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain at an incremental 
cost of $2,350, with a 3% annual discount. The incremental cost of using 
entecavir was $3,230 per QALY gained (95% confidence interval [CI], 
$2,312-$4,528), with 99.3% of PSA-derived estimates below $5,000 per QALY. 
Results were robust and most sensitive to efficacy, drug cost, and treatment 
duration.
CONCLUSIONS: Assuming that (1) the efficacy of entecavir after 1 year is 
sustainable and (2) liver disease risk levels from the REVEAL-HBV study 
population (a primarily HBeAg-negative group) adequately represent risk for a 
treated HBeAg-positive patient group, entecavir given for up to 10 years would 
be highly cost-effective in HBeAg-positive patients.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2008.14.1.21
PMCID: PMC10438363
PMID: 18240879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Am J Health Behav. 2008 Sep-Oct;32(5):508-16. doi:
10.5555/ajhb.2008.32.5.508.

Do obese persons comprehend their personal health risks?

Finkelstein EA(1), Brown DS, Evans WD.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Economics Program, RTI International, Research Triangle Park, 
NC 27709-2194, USA. finkelse@rti.org

OBJECTIVES: To test whether overweight and obese individuals believe they are at 
greater risk of obesity-related diseases and premature mortality.
METHODS: Telephone survey of 1139 US adults analyzed using linear and ordered 
logistic regressions.
RESULTS: Obese (overweight) adults forecast life expectancies 3.9 (2.4) years 
shorter than those of normal weight adults. Excess weight was associated with 
greater self-perceived risk of developing diabetes, cancer, heart disease, and 
stroke. All results were statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Overweight and obese adults recognize several personal health risks 
associated with obesity. Interventions focusing only on health risks of obesity 
may provide minimal new information and induce little new weight loss.

DOI: 10.5555/ajhb.2008.32.5.508
PMID: 18241135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Aust Health Rev. 2008 Feb;32(1):56-65. doi: 10.1071/ah080056.

Supporting cancer control for Indigenous Australians: initiatives and challenges 
for cancer councils.

Shahid S(1), Beckmann KR, Thompson SC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for International Health, Curtin University of Technology, GPO Box 
U1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia. tumpa90@yahoo.com

As in other developed countries, the Australian population is ageing, and cancer 
rates increase with age. Despite their substantially lower life expectancy, 
Indigenous Australians are also experiencing concerning cancer statistics, 
characterised by increasing rates, later diagnosis, higher mortality, and lower 
participation in screening than the non-Indigenous population. Eighteen months 
after the first national Indigenous Cancer Control Forum, this environmental 
scan within the state-based Cancer Councils was undertaken to map activities in 
service provision in Indigenous cancer control with a view to sharing the 
lessons learned. The findings show that although most of the organisations had 
tried to work with Indigenous communities on cancer issues, there have been 
difficulties in building and sustaining relationships with Indigenous 
organisations. Lack of having Indigenous staff internally, few 
Indigenous-specific resources, and few planned, long-term commitments were some 
of the major impediments. Some of these limitations can easily be overcome by 
building and improving regional or local partnerships, providing cultural 
awareness training to internal staff, and by building the capacity of Indigenous 
organisations. Health promotion projects of the Cancer Councils directed at 
Indigenous people could be more effectively implemented with such 
considerations.

DOI: 10.1071/ah080056
PMID: 18241149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2008 Jun;198(6):646.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2007.11.050.  Epub 2008 Feb 1.

Pregnancies in glycogen storage disease type Ia.

Martens DH(1), Rake JP, Schwarz M, Ullrich K, Weinstein DA, Merkel M, Sauer PJ, 
Smit GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Beatrix Children's Hospital, University Medical 
Center Groningen, the Netherlands. d.h.j.martensj@bkk.umcg.nl

OBJECTIVE: Reports on pregnancies in women with glycogen storage disease type Ia 
(GSD-Ia) are scarce. Because of improved life expectancy, pregnancy is becoming 
an important issue. We describe 15 pregnancies by focusing on dietary treatment, 
biochemical parameters, and GSD-Ia complications.
STUDY DESIGN: Carbohydrate requirements (milligrams per kilogram per minute), 
triglyceride and uric acid levels, liver ultrasonography, and creatinine 
clearance were investigated before, during, and after pregnancy. Data from the 
newborn infants were obtained from the records.
RESULTS: In the first trimester, a significant increase in carbohydrate 
requirements was observed (P = .007). Most patients had acceptable triglyceride 
and uric acid levels during pregnancy. No increase in size or number of adenomas 
was seen. In 3 of 4 patients, a decrease in glomerular filtration rate was 
observed after pregnancy. In 3 pregnancies, lactic acidosis developed during 
delivery with severe multiorgan failure in 1. All but 1 of the children are 
healthy and show good psychomotor development.
CONCLUSION: Successful pregnancies are possible in patients with GSD-Ia, 
although specific GSD-Ia-related risks are present.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2007.11.050
PMCID: PMC3812528
PMID: 18241814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. J Neuroradiol. 2008 May;35(2):99-103. doi: 10.1016/j.neurad.2007.11.004. Epub
 2008 Feb 1.

Natural history, epidemiology and screening of unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms.

Rinkel GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Centre Utrecht, Department of Neurology, room G03.228, PO 
Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. g.j.e.rinkel@umucutrecht.nl

The prevalence of intracranial aneurysms is 2.3% (95% CI, 1.7-3.1%); most of 
these aneurysms are small and located in the anterior circulation. Risk factors 
are age, female gender, smoking, hypertension, excessive use of alcohol, having 
one or more affected relatives with SAH and autosomal dominant polycystic kidney 
disease. Most studies on risk of rupture have methodological weaknesses; an 
important flaw is that observed risks are recalculated to yearly risks of 
rupture, assuming a constant risk of growth and rupture of aneurysms. In 
reality, it is much more likely that aneurysms have long periods of low risk and 
short periods of high risk of growth and rupture. The overall risk of rupture 
found in follow-up studies is around 1% per year. Size is the most important 
risk factor for rupture, with smaller risks for smaller aneurysms. Other risk 
factors are the site of the aneurysm (higher risk for posterior circulation 
aneurysms), age, female gender, population (higher risks in Finland and Japan) 
and, probably also, smoking. There are no good comparisons between clipping and 
coiling of unruptured aneurysms. Both treatment modalities have a risk of around 
6% of complications leading to death or dependence of help for activities of 
daily living for aneurysms smaller than 10mm. These risks increase with larger 
size of aneurysms. For clipping, the risk seems to increase with age, for 
coiling this is less apparent. The efficacy of coiling on the long term is 
unsettled. In deciding whether or not to treat an aneurysm, life expectancy is a 
pivotal factor; other important factors are the size and the site of the 
aneurysm. If the aneurysm is left untreated, follow-up imaging may be considered 
to detect growth of aneurysms, but the frequency and effectiveness of repeated 
imaging are unknown.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurad.2007.11.004
PMID: 18242707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Soc Sci Med. 2008 May;66(9):1871-81. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.12.034.
Epub  2008 Feb 20.

Neo-materialist theory and the temporal relationship between income inequality 
and longevity change.

Clarkwest A(1).

Author information:
(1)Mathematica Policy Research, 600 Maryland Ave., SW, Suite 550, Washington, DC 
20024, United States. aclarkwest@mathematica-mpr.com

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2008 May;66(9):1895-902; discussion 1903-8.
    Soc Sci Med. 2008 May;66(9):1882-94; discussion 1903-8.

This study uses a neo-materialist perspective to develop theoretical predictions 
regarding temporal ties between income inequality and change in population 
health. The argument focuses on the relationship between income inequality and 
adoption of longevity-enhancing innovations. It asserts that longevity change 
should be influenced by preexisting levels of income inequality and that, 
consequently, income inequality can cause differential longevity improvement 
across jurisdictions even if inequality levels remain unchanged. State-level 
U.S. data from 1970 to 2000 are used to jointly model the effects of initial 
levels and change in income inequality on 10-year life expectancy change. 
Results confirm that states with higher levels of inequality experienced less 
subsequent improvement in life expectancy. Contrary to findings from prior 
research, analyses also reveal a strong negative association between change in 
inequality and change in longevity once initial levels of inequality and other 
state characteristics are controlled. Finally, direct tests of the relationship 
between income inequality and the adoption of innovations in quality of medical 
care indicate that the two are highly related and that differences in the 
average quality of care can account for the negative cross-sectional association 
between income inequality and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.12.034
PMID: 18243455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2008 Apr;35(4):420-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2007.05.011. Epub 2008 Feb 4.

Tetrodotoxin for moderate to severe cancer pain: a randomized, double blind, 
parallel design multicenter study.

Hagen NA(1), du Souich P, Lapointe B, Ong-Lam M, Dubuc B, Walde D, Love R, Ngoc 
AH; Canadian Tetrodotoxin Study Group.

Collaborators: Ngoc AH, Cano P, Chan A, Clein LJ, Daenick P, Dickson GB, Fox S, 
Fyles G, Gagnon B, Girard G, Goel R, Hawley P, Intrater HM, Kooy J, Moulin D, 
Stakiw K, Watanabe S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Palliative Medicine, Department of Oncology, University of 
Calgary and Alberta Cancer Board, Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
neilha@cancerboard.ab.ca <neilha@cancerboard.ab.ca>

Cancer pain is a serious public health issue and more effective treatments are 
needed. This study evaluates the analgesic activity of tetrodotoxin, a highly 
selective sodium channel blocker. This randomized, placebo-controlled, parallel 
design study of subcutaneous tetrodotoxin, in patients with moderate or severe 
unrelieved cancer pain persisting despite best available treatment, involved 22 
centers across Canada. The design called for tetrodotoxin administered 
subcutaneously over Days 1-4 with a period of observation to Day 15 or longer. 
All patients could enroll into an open-label extension efficacy and safety 
trial. The primary endpoint was the proportion of analgesic responders in each 
treatment arm. Eighty-two patients were randomized, and results on 77 were 
available for analysis. There was a nonstatistically significant trend toward 
more responders in the active treatment arm based on the primary endpoint (pain 
intensity difference). However, analysis of secondary endpoints, and an 
exploratory post hoc analysis, suggested there may be a robust analgesic effect 
if a composite endpoint is used, including either fall in pain level, or fall in 
opioid dose, plus improvement in quality of life. Most patients described 
transient perioral tingling or other mild sensory phenomena within about an hour 
of each treatment. Nausea and other toxicities were generally mild, but one 
patient experienced a serious, adverse event, truncal and gait ataxia. This 
trial suggests tetrodotoxin may potentially relieve moderate to severe, 
treatment-resistant cancer pain in a large proportion of patients, and often for 
prolonged periods following treatment, but further study is warranted using a 
composite primary endpoint.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2007.05.011
PMID: 18243639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Ophthalmology. 2008 Feb;115(2 Suppl):S35-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.10.015.

Preventing herpes zoster through vaccination.

Gelb LD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Washington University School of Medicine, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Barnes-Jewish Medical Center, St. Louis, 
Missouri 63110, USA. ldgelb@swbell.net

TOPIC: The role of the zoster vaccine in the prevention of herpes zoster and its 
sequelae, including postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) and herpes zoster ophthalmicus.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Wide administration of the herpes zoster vaccine in 
accordance with the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) will lead to a 
decline in the incidence and morbidity of herpes zoster and its complications, 
including PHN.
METHODS: The key study leading to the approval of the zoster vaccine for use, 
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ACIP's recommendations for 
appropriate use of the zoster vaccine, and predictions regarding the cost 
efficacy of a zoster vaccination program are reviewed.
RESULTS: The Shingles Prevention Study established that the zoster vaccine was 
safe, well tolerated, and effective in reducing the burden of illness due to 
herpes zoster and the incidence of PHN. The ACIP recommended that the zoster 
vaccine be given to adults 60 and older for the prevention of herpes zoster. 
Cost-efficacy analyses suggest that the greatest gain in quality-adjusted 
life-years can be gained by vaccinating individuals at the younger end of the 
ACIP-recommended age range.
CONCLUSION: The zoster vaccine promises to reduce the morbidity and mortality of 
herpes zoster. Administering the vaccine at the younger end of the age range may 
offer a greater cost benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2007.10.015
PMID: 18243932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. BMJ. 2008 Feb 2;336(7638):244. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39458.480764.AD.

Is the obesity epidemic exaggerated? Yes.

Basham P(1), Luik J.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University, 1717 Massachusetts Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20036, 
USA. patrickbasham@gmail.com

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008 Feb 2;336(7638):245.

The UK health secretary declared last week that we are in the grip of an obesity 
epidemic. Patrick Basham and John Luik believe that the problem is less clear 
cut, but R W Jeffery and N E Sherwood say that obesity is a growing global 
problem

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39458.480764.AD
PMCID: PMC2223029
PMID: 18244992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


33. Inj Prev. 2008 Feb;14(1):5-10. doi: 10.1136/ip.2007.017178.

Novel empirical disability weights to assess the burden of non-fatal injury.

Haagsma JA(1), van Beeck EF, Polinder S, Hoeymans N, Mulder S, Bonsel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Academic Medical Center, University of 
Amsterdam, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. juanita.haagsma@rivm.nl

Comment in
    Inj Prev. 2008 Feb;14(1):3-4.

BACKGROUND: Disability weights are necessary to estimate the disability 
component (years lived with disability, YLDs) of disability-adjusted life years. 
The original global burden of disease approach to deriving disability weights 
ignores temporary consequences of injury.
OBJECTIVES: To develop and apply novel empirical disability weights to improve 
estimates of the non-fatal burden of injury.
METHODS: A set of 45 disability weights was derived for both permanent and 
temporary consequences of injury, using the annual profile approach. A 
population panel (n = 143) provided the values. The novel set of disability 
weights was then linked to epidemiological surveillance data on the incidence of 
injury in The Netherlands to calculate YLD resulting from permanent and 
temporary consequences of injury.
RESULTS: The empirical disability weights for injury consequences varied from 
minor (corneal abrasion, 0.004) to very severe (quadriplegia, 0.719) health 
loss. Increasing disability weights by level of severity were found, as 
illustrated by concussion (0.02), versus moderate brain injury (0.193), versus 
severe brain injury (0.540). Application of these new disability weights showed 
a 36% increase in YLD as the result of unintentional injury.
CONCLUSIONS: YLD calculations based on global burden of disease disability 
weights underestimate the size of the injury problem by ignoring temporary 
health consequences. Application of novel empirical disability weights, derived 
using the annual profile approach, may improve calculations on the burden of 
non-fatal injury.

DOI: 10.1136/ip.2007.017178
PMID: 18245308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Clin Cancer Res. 2008 Feb 1;14(3):804-10. doi: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-1786.

A phase 1 pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic study of the histone deacetylase 
inhibitor belinostat in patients with advanced solid tumors.

Steele NL(1), Plumb JA, Vidal L, Tjørnelund J, Knoblauch P, Rasmussen A, Ooi CE, 
Buhl-Jensen P, Brown R, Evans TR, DeBono JS.

Author information:
(1)The Beatson West of Scotland Cancer Centre, Glasgow, UK. 
nicola.steele@northglasgow.scot.nhs.uk

PURPOSE: To determine the safety, dose-limiting toxicity, maximum tolerated 
dose, and pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles of the novel hydroxamate 
histone deacetylase inhibitor belinostat (previously named PXD101) in patients 
with advanced refractory solid tumors.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Sequential dose-escalating cohorts of three to six patients 
received belinostat administered as a 30-min i.v. infusion on days 1 to 5 of a 
21-day cycle. Pharmacokinetic variables were evaluated at all dose levels. 
Pharmacodynamic measurements included acetylation of histones extracted from 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells, caspase-dependent cleavage of 
cytokeratin-18, and interleukin-6 levels.
RESULTS: Forty-six patients received belinostat at one of six dose levels 
(150-1,200 mg/m(2)/d). Dose-limiting toxicities were grade 3 fatigue (one 
patient at 600 mg/m(2); one patient at 1,200 mg/m(2)), grade 3 diarrhea combined 
with fatigue (one patient at 1,200 mg/m(2)), grade 3 atrial fibrillation (one 
patient at 1,200 mg/m(2); one patient at 1,000 mg/m(2)), and grade 2 
nausea/vomiting leading to inability to complete a full 5-day cycle (two 
patients at 1,000 mg/m(2)). The maximum tolerated dose was 1,000 mg/m(2)/d. I.v. 
belinostat displayed linear pharmacokinetics with respect to C(max) and AUC. The 
intermediate elimination half-life was 0.3 to 1.3 h and was independent of dose. 
Histone H4 hyperacetylation was observed after each infusion and was sustained 
for 4 to 24 h in a dose-dependent manner. Increases in interleukin-6 levels were 
detected following belinostat treatment. Stable disease was observed in a total 
of 18 (39%) patients, including 15 treated for > or =4 cycles, and this was 
associated with caspase-dependent cleavage of cytokeratin-18. Of the 24 patients 
treated at the maximum tolerated dose (1,000 mg/m(2)/d), 50% achieved stable 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: I.v. belinostat is well tolerated, exhibits dose-dependent 
pharmacodynamic effects, and has promising antitumor activity.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-07-1786
PMID: 18245542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Blood. 2008 Apr 15;111(8):3968-77. doi: 10.1182/blood-2007-10-117457. Epub
2008  Feb 1.

Thalidomide for treatment of multiple myeloma: 10 years later.

Palumbo A(1), Facon T, Sonneveld P, Bladè J, Offidani M, Gay F, Moreau P, Waage 
A, Spencer A, Ludwig H, Boccadoro M, Harousseau JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, University of Torino, Azienda Ospedaliera S Giovanni 
Battista, Torino, Italy. appalumbo@yahoo.com

Thalidomide, bortezomib, and lenalidomide have recently changed the treatment 
paradigm of myeloma. In young, newly diagnosed patients, the combination of 
thalidomide and dexamethasone has been widely used as induction treatment before 
autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT). In 2 randomized studies, 
consolidation or maintenance with low-dose thalidomide has extended both 
progression-free and overall survival in patients who underwent ASCT at 
diagnosis. In elderly, newly diagnosed patients, 3 independent randomized 
studies have reported that the oral combination of melphalan and prednisone plus 
thalidomide (MPT) is better than the standard melphalan and prednisone (MP). 
These studies have shown better progression-free survival, and 2 have shown 
improved overall survival for patients assigned to MPT. In refractory-relapsed 
disease, combinations including thalidomide with dexamethasone, melphalan, 
doxorubicin, or cyclophosphamide have been extensively investigated. The risks 
of side effects are greater when thalidomide is used in combination with other 
drugs. Thromboembolism and peripheral neuropathy are the major concern. The 
introduction of anticoagulant prophylaxis has reduced the rate of 
thromboembolism to less than 10%. Immediate thalidomide dose reduction or 
discontinuation when paresthesia is complicated by pain or motor deficit has 
decreased the severity of neuropathy. Future studies will define the most 
effective or the best sequence of combinations which could improve life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2007-10-117457
PMID: 18245666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Genetics. 2008 Mar;178(3):1457-71. doi: 10.1534/genetics.107.078394. Epub
2008  Feb 3.

Identification of novel genes that modify phenotypes induced by Alzheimer's 
beta-amyloid overexpression in Drosophila.

Cao W(1), Song HJ, Gangi T, Kelkar A, Antani I, Garza D, Konsolaki M.

Author information:
(1)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, 
USA.

Sustained increases in life expectancy have underscored the importance of 
managing diseases with a high incidence in late life, such as various 
neurodegenerative conditions. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common among 
these, and consequently significant research effort is spent on studying it. 
Although a lot is known about the pathology of AD and the role of beta-amyloid 
(Abeta) peptides, the complete network of interactions regulating Abeta 
metabolism and toxicity still eludes us. To address this, we have conducted 
genetic interaction screens using transgenic Drosophila expressing Abeta and we 
have identified mutations that affect Abeta metabolism and toxicity. These 
analyses highlight the involvement of various biochemical processes such as 
secretion, cholesterol homeostasis, and regulation of chromatin structure and 
function, among others, in mediating toxic Abeta effects. Several of the 
mutations that we identified have not been linked to Abeta toxicity before and 
thus constitute novel potential targets for AD intervention. We additionally 
tested these mutations for interactions with tau and expanded-polyglutamine 
overexpression and found a few candidate mutations that may mediate common 
mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Our data offer insight into the toxicity of 
Abeta and open new areas for further study into AD pathogenesis.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.107.078394
PMCID: PMC2278065
PMID: 18245849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2007 Dec 1;32(25):2891-7. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31815b75e2.

ISSLS prize winner: cost-effectiveness of two forms of circumferential lumbar 
fusion: a prospective randomized controlled trial.

Freeman BJ(1), Steele NA, Sach TH, Hegarty J, Soegaard R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Spinal Studies and Surgery, Nottingham University Hospitals NHS, 
Trust, Queen's Medical Centre Campus, Nottingham, UK. brian.freeman@nuh.nhs.uk

STUDY DESIGN: Economic evaluation alongside a prospective, randomized controlled 
trial from a secondary care National Health Service (NHS) perspective.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of titanium cages (TC) compared 
with femoral ring allografts (FRA) in circumferential lumbar spinal fusion.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: A randomized controlled trial has shown the use of 
TC to be clinically inferior to the established practice of using FRA in 
circumferential lumbar fusion. Health economic evaluation is urgently needed to 
justify the continued use of TC, given that this treatment is less effective 
and, all things being equal, is assumed more costly than FRA.
METHODS: Eighty-three patients were randomly allocated to receive either the TC 
or FRA as part of a circumferential lumbar fusion between 1998 and 2002. NHS 
costs related to the surgery and revision surgery needed during the trial period 
were monitored and adjusted to the base year (2005-2006 Pounds Sterling). The 
Short Form-6D (SF-6D) was administered before surgery and at 6, 12 and 24 months 
in order to elicit patient utility and subsequently Quality-Adjusted Life Years 
(QALYs) for the trial period. Return to paid employment was also monitored. 
Bootstrapped mean differences in discounted costs and benefits were generated in 
order to explore cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: A significant cost difference of pound 1950 (95% CI, pound 849 to pound 
3145) in favor of FRA was found. Mean QALYs per patient over the 24-month trial 
period were 0.0522 (SD, 0.0326) in the TC group and 0.1914 (SD, 0.0398) in the 
FRA group, producing a significant difference of -0.1392 (95% CI, -0.2349 to 
-0.0436). With regard to employment, incremental productivity costs were 
estimated at pound 185,171 in favor of FRA.
CONCLUSION: From an NHS perspective, the trial data show that TC is not 
cost-effective in circumferential lumbar fusion. The use of FRA was both cheaper 
and generated greater QALY gains. In addition, FRA patients reported a greater 
return to work rate.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31815b75e2
PMID: 18246014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Gac Med Mex. 2007 Sep-Oct;143(5):365-9.

[Prevalence of osteoporosis and osteopenia among women over fifty years of age, 
from the city of Durango, Mexico, diagnosed by forearm-DEXA].

[Article in Spanish]

González-Arellano JA(1), Milla-Villeda RH, Hernández-Vera GE, Cisneros-Pérez V, 
Lazalde B, Reyes MR.

Author information:
(1)División de Estudios de Posgrado e Investigación, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Juárez, Durango, Dgo., México. sescol@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of osteopenia and osteporosis using distal 
forearm dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry among a random sample of women of 50 
years or older living in the city of Durango, Mexico.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 258 women participated in a cross-sectional study fielded 
at the Osteoporosis Clinic of Durango. Bone mineral density was determined by 
dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. Scanning was performed on the distal third of 
the dominant forearm. Diagnosis of osteopenia and osteoporosis was based on the 
WHO criteria.
RESULTS: Osteoporosis was diagnosed in 13.65% (95%CI: 9.6-18.5) and osteopenia 
in 30.12% (95% CI: 24.5-36.2) of participants. Mean age, weight, height and body 
mass index were 65 years, 60.5 kg, 147.8 cm and 28.3 kg/m2 respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Osteoporosis and osteopenia were a common diagnosis given the mean 
age of our sample. These results can be extrapolated to the general population 
thereby suggesting the need for preventive measures to decrease disease 
prevalence, especially considering the increase in life expectancy.

PMID: 18246929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Biochem J. 2008 May 1;411(3):495-506. doi: 10.1042/BJ20071597.

Specific transmembrane segments are selectively delayed at the ER translocon 
during opsin biogenesis.

Ismail N(1), Crawshaw SG, Cross BC, Haagsma AC, High S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building, 
Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

A site-specific cross-linking approach was used to study the integration of TM 
(transmembrane) segments 4-7 of the polytopic membrane protein, opsin, at the ER 
(endoplasmic reticulum). We found that although TM4 exits the ER translocon 
rapidly, TM segments 5, 6 and 7 are all retained at the translocon until opsin 
biosynthesis is terminated. Furthermore, although artificial extension of the 
nascent chain is not sufficient to release the C-terminal region of opsin from 
the translocon, substitution of the native TM segment 7 with a more hydrophobic 
TM segment results in its rapid lateral exit into the lipid bilayer. We conclude 
that the intrinsic properties of a TM segment determine the timing of its 
membrane integration rather than its relative location within the polypeptide 
chain. A pronounced and prolonged association of opsin TM5 with the 
translocon-associated component PAT-10 was also observed, suggesting that PAT-10 
may facilitate the assembly of distinct opsin subdomains during membrane 
integration. The results of the present study strongly support a model in which 
the ER translocon co-ordinates the integration of selected TM segments in 
response to the specific requirements of the precursor being synthesized.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20071597
PMID: 18248332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2008 Dec;18(6):773-82. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0838.2007.00732.x. Epub 2008 Jan 30.

Explosive heavy-resistance training in old and very old adults: changes in rapid 
muscle force, strength and power.

Caserotti P(1), Aagaard P, Larsen JB, Puggaard L.

Author information:
