
[Prognostic factors in community acquired pneumonia. Prospective multicenter 
study in internal medical departments].

[Article in Spanish]

Apolinario Hidalgo R(1), Suárez Cabrera M, Geijo Martínez MP, Bernabéu-Wittel M, 
Falguera Sacrest M, Limiñana Cañal JM; Grupo de Trabajo de Enfermedades 
Infecciosas de la Sociedad Española de Medicina Interna.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital Universitario Insular de Gran Canaria. 
rapohid@gobiernodecanarias.org

AIMS: the aims of the present study were to evaluate the clinical and 
microbiological characteristics of patients suffering from community-acquired 
pneumonia attended in the Internal Medical Departments of several Spanish 
institutions and to analyze those prognostic factors predicting thirty-day 
mortality in such patients.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Past medical history, symptoms and signs, radiological 
pattern and blood parameters including albumin and C Reactive Protein, were 
recorded for each patient. Time from admission to starting antibiotics (in 
hours) and follow-up (in days) were also recorded. Patients were stratified by 
the Pneumonia Severity Index in five risk classes.
RESULTS: 389 patients were included in the study, most of them in Fine 
categories III to V. Mortality rate for all patients was 12.1% (48 patients), 
increasing up to 40% in Fine Class V. Neither age, sex nor time from admission 
to the start of antibiotic treatment predicted survival rates. Plasmatic levels 
of PCR or microbiologic diagnosis were not related to clinical outcome. In the 
Cox regression analysis, oriented patients (OR 0.138, IC95% 0.055-0.324), and 
those with normal albuminemia (OR 0.207, IC95% 0.103-0.417) showed better 
survival rates. On the contrary, those with active carcinoma (OR 3.2, IC95% 
1.181-8.947) significantly showed a reduced life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Besides the fully accepted Fine scale criteria, albumin measurements 
should be included in routine evaluation in order to improve patient s 
prognostic classification.

DOI: 10.4321/s0212-71992007001000002
PMID: 18271649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Physiol Res. 2008;57 Suppl 1:S1-S15. doi: 10.33549/physiolres.931485. Epub
2008  Feb 13.

Role of hereditary factors in weight loss and its maintenance.

Hainer V(1), Zamrazilová H, Spálová J, Hainerová I, Kunešová M, Aldhoon B, 
Bendlová B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Prague, Czech Republic. vhainer@endo.cz

The prevalence of obesity is increasing worldwide at an alarming rate in both 
developed and developing countries. Obesity is a chronic complex disease of 
multifactorial origin resulting from a long-term positive energy balance, in 
which both genetic and environmental factors are involved. Genetically prone 
individuals are the first to accumulate fat in the present obesogenic 
environment. Obesity increases the risks of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, 
cardiovascular disease, dyslipidemia, arthritis, and several cancers and reduces 
the average life expectancy. Implementation of effective strategies in 
prevention and management of obesity should become an important target in health 
care systems. Weight changes throughout life depend on the interaction of 
behavioral, genetic and environmental factors. Weight loss in response to weight 
management shows a wide range of interindividual variation which is largely 
influenced by genetic determinants. The strong control of weight loss by 
genotype was confirmed by twin and family studies. Recently, special attention 
has been paid to nutritional, hormonal, psychobehavioral and genetic factors 
which can predict the response to weight reduction programme. In this article 
currently available data on the role of obesity candidate gene polymorphisms in 
weight loss and maintenance are reviewed. It is believed that an elucidation of 
the genetic component in the prognosis of weight management could assist in the 
development of more effective and individually tailored therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.33549/physiolres.931485
PMID: 18271696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2008 Feb 13;3:3. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-3.

Multiple osteochondromas.

Bovée JV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. j.v.m.g.bovee@lumc.nl

Multiple osteochondromas (MO) is characterised by development of two or more 
cartilage capped bony outgrowths (osteochondromas) of the long bones. The 
prevalence is estimated at 1:50,000, and it seems to be higher in males 
(male-to-female ratio 1.5:1). Osteochondromas develop and increase in size in 
the first decade of life, ceasing to grow when the growth plates close at 
puberty. They are pedunculated or sessile (broad base) and can vary widely in 
size. The number of osteochondromas may vary significantly within and between 
families, the mean number of locations is 15-18. The majority are asymptomatic 
and located in bones that develop from cartilage, especially the long bones of 
the extremities, predominantly around the knee. The facial bones are not 
affected. Osteochondromas may cause pain, functional problems and deformities, 
especially of the forearm, that may be reason for surgical removal. The most 
important complication is malignant transformation of osteochondroma towards 
secondary peripheral chondrosarcoma, which is estimated to occur in 0.5-5%. MO 
is an autosomal dominant disorder and is genetically heterogeneous. In almost 
90% of MO patients germline mutations in the tumour suppressor genes EXT1 or 
EXT2 are found. The EXT genes encode glycosyltransferases, catalyzing heparan 
sulphate polymerization. The diagnosis is based on radiological and clinical 
documentation, supplemented with, if available, histological evaluation of 
osteochondromas. If the exact mutation is known antenatal diagnosis is 
technically possible. MO should be distinguished from metachondromatosis, 
dysplasia epiphysealis hemimelica and Ollier disease. Osteochondromas are benign 
lesions and do not affect life expectancy. Management includes removal of 
osteochondromas when they give complaints. Removed osteochondromas should be 
examined for malignant transformation towards secondary peripheral 
chondrosarcoma. Patients should be well instructed and regular follow-up for 
early detection of malignancy seems justified. For secondary peripheral 
chondrosarcoma, en-bloc resection of the lesion and its pseudocapsule with 
tumour-free margins, preferably in a bone tumour referral centre, should be 
performed.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-3
PMCID: PMC2276198
PMID: 18271966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Rev Med Interne. 2008 Aug;29(8):642-51. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.11.010.
Epub  2008 Feb 12.

[Cholangiocarcinoma: epidemiology and global management].

[Article in French]

Dreyer C(1), Le Tourneau C, Faivre S, Qian Z, Degos F, Vuillerme MP, Paradis V, 
Hammel P, Ruszniewski P, Cortes A, Farges O, Belghiti J, Valla D, Raymond E.

Author information:
(1)Service interhospitalier de cancérologie Bichat-Beaujon, hôpital Beaujon, 
100, boulevard du Général-Leclerc, 92118 Clichy cedex, France.

SCOPE: Cholangiocarcinoma, or biliary tract tumors, are rare tumors for which 
survival is short, as diagnosis is often made at an advanced stage. Indeed, 
diagnosis remains difficult, since symptoms are often unspecific and appear at 
latest stages. This article presents an update of recent data and therapeutic 
options.
CURRENT SITUATION AND SALIENT POINTS: Several etiologic factors have been 
identified, but for most patients, none of these factors can be found. Prognosis 
is often poor, and remains difficult to establish because of the lack of 
sufficient large-scale studies looking at the impact on preexisting tumor 
characteristics on overall survival. Surgery remains when possible the gold 
standard. When tumor removal is impossible, due to a local extension, the 
appropriate care of patients remains to be defined. Chemotherapy has been 
proposed with evidence of objective response but limited data on its ability to 
prolong overall survival and to enhance quality of life. Active chemotherapies 
appear to be made from combination of an antimetabolite, such as 5-fluorouracile 
or gemcitabine, and a platinum drug.
PERSPECTIVES: In the near future, indications of chemotherapy could be enlarged 
and targeted therapy might also be used, since several molecules have been 
tested in preclinical studies, and be offered to patients in clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.11.010
PMID: 18272258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Ann Pharmacother. 2008 Mar;42(3):368-74. doi: 10.1345/aph.1K352. Epub 2008
Feb  13.

Pharmaceutical expenditures as a correlate of population health in 
industrialized nations.

Liu L(1), Cline RR, Schondelmeyer SW, Schommer JC.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: In recent years, healthcare spending has outpaced economic growth in 
developed countries, with pharmaceutical expenditures being a key driver of this 
trend. While a significant number of studies investigating the effect of 
healthcare resource productivity on health status have been done, only a few 
have disaggregated pharmaceutical expenditures from total healthcare 
expenditures.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the independent association between pharmaceutical 
expenditures and health outcomes in 14 industrialized countries.
METHODS: We used data from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development to construct a panel data set covering the years from 1985 to 2001. 
These data contain information on pharmaceutical expenditures, other healthcare 
expenditures, environmental health determinants, lifestyle health determinants, 
potential years of life lost, and life expectancy at ages 65 and 80 years across 
14 industrialized nations. We estimated the relationship between pharmaceutical 
expenditures and potential years of life lost and life expectancy at ages 65 and 
80 years for both males and females, using nonlinear fixed-effects regression 
models that corrected for serial correlation. All explanatory variables were 
lagged by 5 years to account for their cumulative effect on population health 
outcomes.
RESULTS: Pharmaceutical expenditures proved to be a robust correlate of health 
outcomes from 1985 to 2001 in this sample of nations, when controlling for the 
effects of other variables likely to impact population health outcomes. Our 
estimates imply that a 10% increase in pharmaceutical expenditures during these 
years was associated with a 0.3% (95% CI 0.1% to 0.5%; approximately 21 days) 
increase in female life expectancy at age 65 years (p < 0.05), while a similar 
increase was associated with a 0.4% (95% CI 0.1 to 0.7; approximately 24 days) 
increase in male life expectancy at age 65 years (p < 0.05) and a 0.5% increase 
(95% CI 0.03 to 1.0; approximately 14 days) at age 80 years (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that significant, but small, marginal gains in 
population health outcomes were associated with increased pharmaceutical 
expenditures in developed nations during the period studied.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1K352
PMID: 18272699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2008 Mar;3(2):594-600. doi: 10.2215/CJN.03420807.
Epub  2008 Feb 13.

Chronic kidney disease in Latin America: time to improve screening and 
detection.

Cusumano AM(1), González Bedat MC.

Author information:
(1)Latin American Dialysis and Kidney Transplant Registry, Latin American 
Society of Nephrology and Arterial Hypertension, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
amcusumano@datamarkets.com.ar

Latin America is a conglomerate of adjacent countries that share a Latin 
extraction and language (Spanish or Portuguese) and exhibit extreme variations 
in socioeconomic status. End-stage renal disease prevalence and incidence rates 
have been growing steadily, probably as a result of the increase in life 
expectancy, aging of the population, a growing epidemic of type 2 diabetes, and 
a fast epidemiologic transition across the region. Chronic noncommunicable 
diseases impose an enormous cost, barely supported at present and unlikely 
afforded by Latin America in the future. National health surveys in Chile, 
Mexico, and Argentina showed a high prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors. A 
total of 21% of the Chilean population had a creatinine clearance <80 ml/min. 
Among the surveyed people, 8.6% of Argentines, 14.2% of Chileans, and 9.2% of 
Mexicans had proteinuria. There are ongoing national chronic kidney disease 
detection programs in Brazil, Cuba, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela; Argentina, 
Colombia, Bolivia, Dominican Republic, Guatemala, and Paraguay are still 
developing them. The prevalence of cardiovascular and renal risk factors is high 
in Latin America. Data about chronic kidney disease are scarce, but public 
health awareness is high, evidenced by ongoing or developing chronic kidney 
disease detection programs. High-risk patients (e.g., those with hypertension or 
diabetes, elderly) must be studied, using simple determinations such as 
creatinine and proteinuria. For these programs to succeed, lifestyle changes 
must be encouraged, and public awareness must be increased through teaching and 
media-oriented activities.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.03420807
PMCID: PMC6631092
PMID: 18272831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. World Health Popul. 2007;9(3):36-47. doi: 10.12927/whp.2007.19229.

Households' perceptions and prioritization of tropical endemic diseases in 
Nigeria: implications for priority setting for resource allocation.

Uzochukwu BS(1), Onwujekwe OE, Nwobi EA, Ndu AC, Onoka C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Nigeria, 
Enugu, Nigeria. bscuzochukwu@yahoo.com

This study was undertaken to explore how rural households perceive and 
prioritize tropical endemic diseases in different Local Government Areas (LGAs) 
of Southeast Nigeria. Marked differences in perception and prioritization of 
endemic diseases exist across the LGAs. Malaria is ranked highest as the most 
serious disease, followed by typhoid fever and HIV/AIDS. In addition, malaria 
and other endemic diseases are wrongly perceived as not being serious in some 
population groups.

DOI: 10.12927/whp.2007.19229
PMID: 18272941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Vertex. 2007 Nov-Dec;18(76):473-8.

[Development of a sensitive neuropsychological battery to foretell the 
performance in elder's car driving].

[Article in Spanish]

Grillo R(1), Mangone CA.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Asistencia, Investigación, Tratamiento y Prevención de las 
Enfermedades de la Memoria - CAITPEM - Hospital Santojanni - Pilar 950 - 
(C1408INH) Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina. roxanagrillo@yahoo.com.ar

INTRODUCTION: The increase in life expectancy move older people to continue 
driving.
OBJECTIVE: Development of sensitive neuropsychological battery to evaluate 
driving routines.
METHODS: 78 men were received at the Santojanni Hospital, derived by the General 
Direction of Road Education and licenses of Buenos Aires city (DGEVL) when 
people were transacting their driving license renovation. Age 64.2 (DS14,0) 
years and education 7.9 (DS4,5) years. They were evaluated with MMSE, Cognitive 
Reaction test (TRC); Procedural memory test (TMP); Continuous Performance test 
(TPC); Trail Making Test (TMT); Stroop (ST); WAIS III Subtests: Digit-Symbol 
(DS), Search of Symbols (BS); Digits and Construction with cubes (CC); Rey 
visual Complex Figure (FC); Benton Visual Discrimination test (TB) and Test of 
transit Signals (DST). Statistical package SPSS 12.0 was used to obtain, 
descriptive, frequencies and correlations statistics.
RESULTS: The most sensitive tests were: FC; TMT; ST; TPC; DS; TRC; TMP 
signifying impairment in: perceptual organization; visuospatial skills; 
information processing speed; reaction capacity before decision making; 
maintained, selective and executive attention and procedural memory, all of them 
of critical importance in driving and its control in the transit. Alarming 
ignorance of transit signals was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Of 78 subjects, 23.1% renewed their registry; 33,3% renewed but 
with lower category and sooner next control; 38,5% were not renewed; 3,8% did 
not return to DGEVL; 1,3% we do not know data.

PMID: 18273438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Urologe A. 2008 Mar;47(3):261-9. doi: 10.1007/s00120-008-1638-0.

[Active surveillance for prostate cancer].

[Article in German]

Graefen M(1), Ahyai S, Heuer R, Salomon G, Schlomm T, Isbarn H, Budäus L, 
Heinzer H, Huland H.

Author information:
(1)Martini-Klinik, Prostatazentrum an der Universitätsklinik Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany. graefen@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Active surveillance is a valuable treatment option in patients with newly 
diagnosed low-risk prostate cancer. Studies considering a watchful waiting 
approach showed favourable cancer-specific survival rates in such patients and 
it is assumed that patients benefit from a definitive therapy if life expectancy 
exceeds 10-15 years. Therefore active surveillance is especially valuable in 
older men and in patients with an elevated comorbidity profile. Precise 
identification of histologically and clinically insignificant prostate cancers 
is still not possible today. Active surveillance includes regular PSA 
measurements combined with follow-up biopsies; however, no standardized protocol 
exists so far. Histological progression in the follow-up biopsy and PSA 
elevation are the most important criteria for initiating definitive therapy. 
Today only a minority of low-risk patients join an active surveillance protocol 
and a substantial proportion of these men leave such a protocol early without 
evidence of progression. The psychological burden of living with an untreated 
cancer seems to be responsible for this. Active surveillance has the potential 
to lead to undertreatment as there is some evidence that prolonged treatment 
delay might adversely affect outcome of definitive therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-008-1638-0
PMID: 18273597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Epidemiol Prev. 2007 Sep-Oct;31(5):290-4.

[Nutrition, adiposity and health].

[Article in Italian]

Fontana L(1).

Author information:
(1)Reparto di alimentazione, nutrizione e salute, Istituto superiore di sanità, 
Roma. fontana@iss.it

Calorie intake is an important determinant of health. Excessive energy intake is 
associated with abdominal obesity, type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, 
cancer, and premature mortality. Calorie restriction (CR) without malnutrition 
increases maximal lifespan by preventing many age-associated chronic diseases 
and by preserving function at more youthful-like states in rodents. In 
overweight and obese humans CR improves metabolic health and reduced mortality 
for type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and cancer. In middle-aged healthy 
lean individuals CR causes many of the same cardiometabolic adaptations that 
occur in long-lived CR rodents, including decreased metabolic, inflammatory, and 
hormonal risk factors for diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease and 
cancer Protein and polyphenols intake, and physical activity may have additional 
beneficial effects in preventing diseases and promoting health. Additional 
studies are needed to identify the precise calorie, protein and polyphenols 
intake and amount of exercise needed for optimal health in each individual, 
depending on his/her age, sex and genetic background.

PMID: 18274233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2007 Dec 28;56(9):1-39.

United States life tables, 2004.

Arias E(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health Statistics, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

This report presents period life tables for the United States based on 
age-specific death rates in 2004. Data used to prepare these life tables are 
2004 final mortality statistics; July 1, 2004, population estimates based on the 
2000 decennial census and data from the Medicare program. Presented are complete 
life tables by age, race, and sex. In 2004, the overall expectation of life at 
birth was 77.8 years, representing an increase of 0.4 year from life expectancy 
in 2003. Between 2003 and 2004, life expectancy increased for males and females, 
and for both the white and black populations. Life expectancy increased by 0.5 
years (from 72.6 to 73.1) for the black population and by 0.4 year (from 77.9 to 
78.3) for the white population. Both males and females in each race group 
experienced increases in life expectancy between 2003 and 2004. The greatest 
increase was experienced by black males with an increase of 0.6 year (from 68.9 
to 69.5). Life expectancy increased by 0.4 year for black females (from 75.9 to 
76.3), for white females (from 80.4 to 80.8), and for white males (from 75.3 to 
75.7).

PMID: 18274319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Hemoglobin. 2008;32(1-2):63-73. doi: 10.1080/03630260701680839.

Congestive heart failure and treatment in thalassemia major.

Aessopos A(1), Kati M, Tsironi M.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Internal Medicine, University of Athens, Medical School, 
Laiko Hospital, Athens, Greece.

The homozygous beta-thalassemias are a group of genetically inherited hemoglobin 
(Hb) disorders characterized by dyserythropoietic anemia. According to the 
degree of anemia, two main forms, sharing a common basic molecular mechanism, 
are distinguished: thalassemia major (TM) and thalassemia intermedia (TI). The 
severity of the clinical phenotype differentiates the two forms. Thalassemia 
major usually presents as a severe anemia requiring life-long transfusion 
therapy for survival. The dramatic improvement in life expectancy of 
beta-thalassemia (thal) patients achieved during the past few decades by virtue 
of therapeutic advances, has motivated investigators' interest in a better 
understanding of the clinical consequences of this genetic defect. Heart 
complications still represent the leading cause of mortality from the disease. 
The mechanisms of cardiac injury along with its treatment and prevention have 
attracted the main research efforts in this field. In this review, we present 
existing knowledge and our personal experience of 30 years of follow-up of over 
1,000 thalassemic patients, regarding the basis of the cardiac injury, the 
clinical findings and the global strategy of the therapeutic intervention in TM 
patients who develop congestive heart failure (CHF).

DOI: 10.1080/03630260701680839
PMID: 18274984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Physiol Plant. 2008 Mar;132(3):370-83. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-3054.2007.01017.x.

Two tomato alpha-expansins show distinct spatial and temporal expression 
patterns during development of nematode-induced syncytia.

Fudali S(1), Janakowski S, Sobczak M, Griesser M, Grundler FM, Golinowski W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, Warsaw University of Life Sciences (SGGW), 
Nowoursynowska 159, Building 37, 02-776 Warsaw, Poland.

Cyst nematodes induce specific syncytial feeding structures within the root 
which develop from an initial cell by successive incorporation of neighbouring 
cells through local cell wall dissolutions followed by hypertrophy of included 
cells. Expansins are known to induce cell wall relaxation and extension in 
acidic pH, and they are involved in many processes requiring wall modification 
from cell expansion to cell wall disassembly. We studied the expression pattern 
of tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum L., cv. Money Maker) expansins during 
development of syncytia induced by the potato cyst nematode (Globodera 
rostochiensis Woll.). Based on semi-quantitative reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction, two expansin genes, LeEXPA4 and 
LeEXPA5, were selected for detailed examinations because their expression was 
either elevated in infected roots (LeEXPA4) or specifically induced in the root 
upon nematode infection (LeEXPA5). Both genes have distinct spatial and temporal 
expression patterns that may reflect their different roles in syncytium 
development. LeEXPA4 transcripts were localized predominantly in parenchymatous 
vascular cylinder cells surrounding syncytia. This finding suggests that LeEXPA4 
might be involved in cell wall disassembly or relaxation, mediating syncytium 
expansion and/or development of conductive tissues. By contrast, LeEXPA5 
transcripts were localized in enlarging syncytial elements. Similarly, in 
immunogold localization experiments, polyclonal antibodies localized the LeEXPA5 
protein in cell walls of syncytial elements. This expression pattern suggests 
that LeEXPA5 gene is specifically involved in enlargement of cells incorporated 
into syncytium.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-3054.2007.01017.x
PMID: 18275468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Immunol Rev. 2008 Feb;221:200-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2008.00581.x.

Real-time imaging of the pancreas during development of diabetes.

Martinic MM(1), von Herrath MG.

Author information:
(1)Immune Regulation Laboratory DI-3, La Jolla Institute for Allergy and 
Immunology, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is the most common autoimmune disease affecting almost 20 
million people worldwide. T1D is thought to be caused by autoaggressive T cells 
infiltrating pancreatic islets and destroying insulin-producing beta cells. 
Because insulin therapy, the current treatment for T1D, does not protect against 
all late complications and because life expectancy is affected, researchers are 
searching for preventive or curative approaches that block or prevent 
immune-mediated islet destruction. However, the precise in vivo events that take 
place in islets during T1D development remain unknown. During the past decade, 
2-photon microscopy (2PM) has emerged as a new technique to assess cell-cell 
interactions in real-time and at high resolution in vivo. This technique has 
been demonstrated recently to be a promising tool to study the progressive 
development of T1D pathogenesis at the cellular level. In this review, we 
propose a new surgical and immunological approach so that 2PM can be utilized to 
monitor the duration that effector cells reside within an islet, determine the 
number of effector cells needed for elimination of beta cells, and follow the 
fate of beta cells when regulatory cells are present. Understanding the cellular 
dynamics during T1D development is critical for the rational design of 
immunotherapies.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-065X.2008.00581.x
PMID: 18275484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2008 Mar;14(3):316-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2007.12.493.

Lifetime probabilities of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in the U.S.

Nietfeld JJ(1), Pasquini MC, Logan BR, Verter F, Horowitz MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University Medical Center Utrecht (UMCU), Utrecht, 
The Netherlands.

Healthcare policies regarding hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) 
must address the need for the procedure as well as the availability of stem cell 
sources: bone marrow, peripheral blood, or umbilical cord blood (UCB). However, 
data with respect to the lifetime probability of undergoing HSCT are lacking. 
This study was undertaken to estimate the latter probability in the United 
States (U.S.), depending on age, sex, and race. We used data from the Center for 
International Blood and Marrow Transplant Research, the U.S. Surveillance, 
Epidemiology and End Results Program, and the U.S. Census Bureau and calculated 
probabilities as cumulative incidences. Several scenarios were considered: 
assuming current indications for autologous and allogeneic HSCT, assuming 
universal donor availability, and assuming broadening of HSCT use in hematologic 
malignancies. Incidences of diseases treated with HSCT and of HSCTs performed 
increase with age, rising strongly after age 40. Among individuals older than 
40, incidences are higher for men than for women. The lifetime probabilities of 
undergoing HSCT range from 0.23% to 0.98% under the various scenarios. We 
conclude that, given current indications, the lifetime probability of undergoing 
autologous or allogeneic HSCT is much higher than previously reported by others 
and could rise even higher with increases in donor availability and HSCT 
applicability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2007.12.493
PMCID: PMC2531159
PMID: 18275898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Int J Epidemiol. 2008 Jun;37(3):654-67. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyn017. Epub 2008
Feb  14.

Estimating the global disease burden due to ultraviolet radiation exposure.

Lucas RM(1), McMichael AJ, Armstrong BK, Smith WT.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, The Australian 
National University, Australia. robyn.lucas@anu.edu.au

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2008 Jun;37(3):667-8.

BACKGROUND: WHO's global burden of disease studies, undertaken since 1996, 
apportion the total global disease burden, measured in disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs), to specific diseases and injuries. Recent assessments of the 
relative burden due to specific environmental risk factors, plus an 
understanding of the nature of the risk factor, may guide resource allocation in 
risk factor management. We report here the global disease burden due to 
ultraviolet radiation (UVR) exposure.
METHODS: A systematic literature review identified nine diseases with sufficient 
evidence of a causal relationship with UVR exposure and for which the population 
attributable fraction (PAF) for UVR could be estimated. For cutaneous malignant 
melanoma and cataract, the PAF was directly applied to disease burdens already 
calculated by WHO. For seven other diseases, we developed population-level 
exposure-disease relationships and used these to calculate disease incidence and 
mortality, and thence disease burden. We also estimated the disease burden from 
rickets, osteomalacia and osteoporosis that might result if global UVR exposure 
was reduced to very low levels.
RESULTS: UVR exposure is a minor contributor to the world's disease burden, 
causing an estimated annual loss of 1.6 million DALYs; i.e. 0.1% of the total 
global disease burden. A markedly larger annual disease burden, 3.3 billion 
DALYs, might result from reduction in global UVR exposure to very low levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Sun protection messages are important to prevent diseases of UVR 
exposure. However, without high dietary (or supplemental) intake of vitamin D, 
some sun exposure is essential to avoid diseases of vitamin D insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyn017
PMID: 18276627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Endocr J. 2008 May;55(2):365-72. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.k07e-058. Epub 2008
Feb  15.

Multiple primary tumors in differentiated thyroid carcinoma and relationship to 
thyroid cancer outcome.

Omür O(1), Ozcan Z, Yazici B, Akgün A, Oral A, Ozkiliç H.

Author information:
(1)Ege University, Medical Faculty, Department of Nuclear Medicine, Izmir, 
Turkey.

AIM: Patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) have long-life 
expectancy and are at risk for developing a second primary cancer. Aim of this 
study was to assess the occurrence of DTC in conjunction with other primary 
neoplasms. It was also aimed to explore the possibility of synchronous or 
metachronous other malignancies having an impact on clinical course of thyroid 
carcinoma.
MATERIAL & METHODS: Clinical records of 1680 DTC patients treated and followed 
in our institution over last twenty years were reviewed. Forty-five second 
primary tumors were found in 42 patients. These patients were classified into 3 
groups as antecedent (group I), synchronous (group II) or subsequent (group III) 
according to the timing of occurrence of non-thyroidal malignancy. The initial 
characteristics of thyroid neoplasm were compared between patients with DTC plus 
another tumor and DTC only. Kaplan-Meier Survival Analysis was used to estimate 
the survival probability for patients with DTC alone and DTC plus another 
primary tumor.
RESULTS: There were 15 synchronous and 30 metachronous tumors in 42 patients. 
Three of them had triple tumors. The most common second primary was 
lympho-haematological and upper aero digestive system tumors in group I and II 
respectively, whereas a variety of tumors were noted in group III. Despite the 
more common occurrence of unfavourable prognostic factors in patients with 
multiple cancers than thyroid cancer alone, complete response to radioiodine 
therapy and recurrence free survival rate was similar in both groups (p>0.05).
CONCLUSION: The results of the current series imply that the occurrence of 
multiple primary tumors is not uncommon in patients with DTC. Close medical 
surveillance and the use of advanced screening modalities might lead to the 
detection of second primary tumors in DTC. However, the presence of second 
primary seems not to affect the clinical course of DTC.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.k07e-058
PMID: 18277003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Rev Med Suisse. 2007 Dec 19;3(138):2875-6.

[Is orthopedic surgery a luxury?].

[Article in French]

Hoffmeyer P, Leyvraz PF.

PMID: 18277761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2008 Feb 15;33(4):E109-15. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318163f9ab.

Surgical results in hidden lumbar spinal stenosis detected by axial loaded 
computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging: an outcome study.

Willén J(1), Wessberg PJ, Danielsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Sahlgren University Hospital, Göteborg, Sweden. 
jan.willen@vgregion.se

STUDY DESIGN: An outcome study of patients with neurogenic claudication and/or 
sciatica with hidden stenosis, detected only by axial loading of the lumbar 
spine (ACE) but not at the traditional unloaded examination (psoas relaxed 
position) during computed tomography (CT) myelography or magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI), followed up after surgery.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the clinical effect of decompression with or without 
fusion in patients with hidden stenosis in the lumbar spine.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: A number of patients with neurogenic claudicatio 
with or without sciatica do not have corresponding imaging abnormalities. Axial 
loaded CT and MRI have disclosed hidden stenosis in certain cases. The surgical 
effect in patients with hidden stenosis has never been described.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Axial loading of the lumbar spine during CT and MRI was 
performed in 250 patients with neurogenic claudication and sciatica. All 
fulfilled the inclusion criteria for ACE, i.e., suspected but not verified 
spinal stenosis in 1 to 3 levels. In 125 patients (50%), a significant narrowing 
of the spinal canal occurred. Out of these 125 patients, 101 had a clear 
stenosis besides the stenosis only detected at ACE. In 24 patients, a hidden 
stenosis was detected in 1 to 3 levels only at the ACE. These patients were 
observed for 1 to 6 years after decompression with or without fusion regarding 
subjective improvement of leg and back pains, walking capacity, satisfaction, 
and health related quality of life.
RESULTS: At follow-up, 76% of the patients had leg pain less than 25/100 on a 
VAS scale and 62% had back pain less than 25/100. Ninety-six percent were 
improved or much improved regarding leg and back pains The ability to walk 
increased significantly after surgery. Walking capacity to more than 500 m 
increased from 4% to 87%. Twenty-two patients were subjectively satisfied with 
the surgical results. The ODI score, the SF-36 and the EQ-5D score corresponded 
well to the above mentioned improvements at follow-up.
CONCLUSION: According to this study, the results of surgery in hidden lumbar 
stenosis only detected by axial compression in extension during CT or MRI, are 
convincing and comparable with the results of surgical treatment for stenoses 
diagnosed by unloaded examinations.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318163f9ab
PMID: 18277859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Hamostaseologie. 2008 Feb;28(1-2):9-12, 14-15.

[Physical activity in the prevention of cardiovascular diseases. Epidemiology 
and mechanisms].

[Article in German]

Hilberg T(1).

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Sportmedizin, Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena, 
Wöllnitzerstr. 42, 07749 Jena. thomas.hilberg@uni-jena.de

Life expectancy can be increased by life style changes such as improvement of 
nutrition habits and by physical activities. The relevance of physical activity 
for the prevention of cardiovascular diseases, especially coronary artery 
disease, is supported by several epidemiological studies. These data show a 
clear reduction by 35% in total as well as in cardiovascular-related mortality 
risk, due to primary prevention by physical activity. Within the secondary 
prevention, additional physical exercise leads to a marked decrease by 27% in 
the total, and by 31% in the cardiovascular-related mortality. This is due to 
improvement of the cardiovascular risk profile, including arterial blood 
pressure, lipid profile, type 2 diabetes, obesity as secondary effects. However, 
of particular importance are primary effects, such as restoration of the 
endothelial function, decrease of platelets reactivity, regression or a reduced 
progression of coronary sclerosis, and possible collateral formation as well as 
improvement of vascular repair by circulated endothelial progenitor cells. These 
beneficial effects can all be induced by the therapy called "physical activity 
or endurance sports". Provided this "medicament" is used correctly and 
individually adapted, it will be a low cost therapy and nearly without any 
adverse side effects for everyone. In order to maximise the outcome of 
individual health programs, an individually adjusted dosage of the type, 
intensity, duration, and frequency of physical activity is required.

PMID: 18278156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Popul Stud (Camb). 2008 Mar;62(1):39-53. doi: 10.1080/00324720701804249.

The mortality impact of the August 2003 heat wave in France: investigating the 
'harvesting' effect and other long-term consequences.

Toulemon L(1), Barbieri M.

Author information:
(1)Institut national d'études démographiques, 75980 Paris cedex, France. 
toulemon@ined.fr

In August 2003, Western Europe experienced a deadly heat wave. It is estimated 
that 15,000 people died in France from its direct effects. Applying an indirect 
estimation technique to the monthly number of deaths by sex, age, and place of 
residence for the period 1996-2003, we estimate the number of years that would 
have remained to those who died from the heat wave had they been spared. The 
paper also evaluates the role of the 'harvesting' effect of the 2003 heat wave 
in explaining the deficit of deaths recorded in 2004--estimated at 23,000 out of 
an expected total of 535,000 deaths. The harvesting effect was modest and 
accounted for fewer than 5,000 of the 'missing' deaths in 2004. The mortality 
decline in 2004 is thus due mainly to other factors. One hypothesis is that 
special efforts have been directed towards isolated older people as a 
consequence of the heat wave.

DOI: 10.1080/00324720701804249
PMID: 18278672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Rheumatol. 2008 Apr;35(4):662-7. Epub 2008 Feb 15.

Rapid and sustained improvement in health-related quality of life and utility 
for 72 weeks in patients with ankylosing spondylitis receiving etanercept.

Boonen A(1), Patel V, Traina S, Chiou CF, Maetzel A, Tsuji W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Rheumatology, University 
Hospital Maastricht, Maastricht, The Netherlands. aboo@sint.azm.nl

OBJECTIVE: To examine the longterm effect of etanercept (ETN) therapy on 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) and utility in patients with ankylosing 
spondylitis.
METHODS: Patients completing a 24-week placebo-controlled trial were continued 
on ETN in a 72-week open-label extension study. Short Form-36 (SF-36), 
EuroQOL-5D (EQ-5D), and EuroQOL visual analog scale (EQ-VAS) scores were 
collected at open-label baseline and every 12 weeks thereafter. Mental and 
physical component scores (MCS and PCS) of the SF-36, EQ-5D and SF-6D utility 
scores, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) were calculated.
RESULTS: 257 patients [129 previous placebo (PLA) and 128 ETN recipients] 
enrolled in this open-label extension study, and 85% completed the 72-week 
followup. PCS, EQ-5D and SF-6D utilities, and EQ-VAS were significantly lower at 
open-label baseline in the previous PLA group (PLA/ETN group) than in the 
previous ETN group (ETN/ETN group; all p < 0.001). At week 12, PCS and MCS, 
EQ-5D and SF-6D utility scores, and EQ-VAS were similar in the PLA/ETN and 
ETN/ETN groups. As expected, mean change in EQ-5D in the PLA/ETN group was 
significantly greater than that for SF-6D (0.18 vs 0.06; p < 0.0001). HRQOL and 
utility improvements were maintained in both groups for up to 72 weeks. The 
average 72-week QALY gain per person in the PLA/ETN group was 0.24 and 0.10 for 
EQ-5D and SF-6D, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Patients continuing ETN therapy sustained HRQOL and utility 
improvements attained during the original PLA-controlled trial. Patients 
previously taking PLA showed rapid and sustained improvements in HRQOL and 
utility and substantial QALY gain with ETN therapy.

PMID: 18278836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. J Rheumatol. 2008 Apr;35(4):592-602. Epub 2008 Feb 15.

The validity and responsiveness of generic utility measures in rheumatoid 
arthritis: a review.

Harrison MJ(1), Davies LM, Bansback NJ, Ingram M, Anis AH, Symmons DP.

Author information:
(1)Arthritis Research Campaign Epidemiology Unit, and Health Economics Research 
at Manchester, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Cost-utility analysis is increasingly important as healthcare 
providers aim to invest scarce resources in interventions offering the greatest 
health benefit. The ability to attach utility values to health states is 
essential, and is increasingly performed using generic scales. However, the 
evidence regarding the validity of generic utility scales in rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA) is unclear. We summarize and review evidence on the validity and 
comparative performance of generic utility scales in RA.
METHODS: We searched the English-language medical literature for studies using 
utilities in RA between 1980 and mid-2006. Reports describing primary evidence 
of the validity or performance of a generic utility scale in RA were selected, 
summarized, and reviewed using the OMERACT filter.
RESULTS: In total 923 articles were identified, of which 228 reported the use of 
utility scales in RA; 26 studies related to the validation or evidence of 
generic utility scales in RA, the EQ-5D, Health Utility Index-2 (HUI2) and HUI3, 
SF-6D, and Quality of Well-Being Scale. The EQ-5D, HUI2 and HUI3, and SF-6D all 
have consistent evidence of construct validity and responsiveness in RA, but 
each has limitations.
CONCLUSION: The EQ-5D and HUI3 have been the most extensively studied 
instruments and show validity and responsiveness for use in RA, but both 
instruments have limitations. The SF-6D is relatively new and appears to have 
potential for use in milder RA, but needs further evaluation. More longitudinal 
head-to-head evaluation of measures is needed across the spectrum of RA disease 
severity to further investigate their comparative properties, and to seek 
consensus on the best utility measure for use in economic evaluation.

PMID: 18278841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Expert Rev Mol Med. 2008 Feb 18;10:e6. doi: 10.1017/S1462399408000604.

BRAF kinase in melanoma development and progression.

DeLuca AM(1), Srinivas A, Alani RM.

Author information:
(1)The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Department of 
Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21231-1000, 
USA.

Cutaneous melanoma is increasing in incidence at one of the highest rates for 
any form of cancer in the USA, with a current lifetime incidence of 1 in 68. 
Although early-stage disease is often curable, the survival rate for advanced 
disease is low, with an average life expectancy of 6-10 months. Knowledge of the 
molecular alterations associated with melanoma development and progression is 
expected to lead to improved therapies and outcomes. Major progress in defining 
the molecular alterations associated with the evolution of melanoma came in 
2002, through a systematic genome-wide assessment of cancer-associated pathways. 
Large-scale sequencing of growth-associated genes in a variety of cancers 
identified a high frequency (>60%) of activating mutations of the BRAF kinase 
gene in human melanomas. This discovery has prompted a large number of studies 
evaluating the biological significance of BRAF kinase mutations in the 
initiation and progression of melanoma, and their importance for the development 
of novel melanoma therapies. Here we review the most recent studies of BRAF 
kinase in the pathogenesis of melanoma and their implications for defining BRAF 
kinase as a therapeutic point of interest in melanoma.

DOI: 10.1017/S1462399408000604
PMID: 18279546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Apr;24(4):951-66. doi: 10.1185/030079908x280428.
Epub  2008 Feb 14.

Has NICE got it right? An international perspective considering the case of 
Technology Appraisal No. 98 by the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE).

Schlander M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Innovation & Valuation in Health Care, Eschborn, Germany. 
michael.schlander@innoval-hc.com

BACKGROUND: The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) has 
been widely recognised as setting an international standard for high-quality 
health technology assessments (HTAs) including economic evaluation.
SCOPE: A previous critical analysis of NICE Technology Appraisal No. 98 (TA98), 
evaluating methylphenidate, dexamphetamine and atomoxetine for the treatment of 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children, revealed a number 
of issues, which must cast doubt on the robustness of the NICE approach when 
addressing a complex clinical decision problem. The exploration of potential 
underlying problems will be followed by a discussion of lessons for 
international healthcare policy-makers, and is intended to be an invitation to 
further debate and inquiry, not a presentation of definitive conclusions.
SYMPTOMS: Pertaining to the technology assessment report, potential problems 
were identified relating to an unnecessarily narrow scope, data search and 
selection strategy, the distinction between efficacy and effectiveness, data 
synthesis across studies and clinical effect measures, and limitations of the 
economic model. The appraisal process moderated the asserted 'clear conclusions' 
of the assessment but could not compensate for some of its gaps.
CONCLUSIONS: It is suggested that key issues contributing to these problems may 
have included a separation of clinical and economic perspectives, a highly 
standardised reference case analysis that was followed schematically, the 
absence of an effective system for quality assurance of technology assessments, 
and transparency deficits of the economic evaluation. Further considerations for 
international policy-makers looking at NICE as a potential role model for HTAs 
are discussed, such as institutional context, the objectives of collectively 
financed healthcare and related value judgments, the reliance on QALYs as a 
universal and comprehensive measure of health benefits, the appropriate 
perspective for analysis, and process-related implications.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x280428
PMID: 18279581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Mar;24(3):907-18. doi: 10.1185/030079908X260970.
Epub  2008 Feb 14.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of sacral neuromodulation (SNM) with Interstim for 
fecal incontinence patients in Spain.

Brosa M(1), Muñoz-Duyos A, Navarro-Luna A, Rodriguez JM, Serrano D, Gisbert R, 
Dziekan K, Segú JL.

Author information:
(1)Oblikue Consulting, SL, Barcelona, Spain. max.brosa@oblikue.com

INTRODUCTION: Fecal incontinence (FI) is a condition with a high impact on the 
psychological and social life of healthy people. Interstim, the sacral 
neuromodulation (SNM) therapy, has shown higher effectiveness and safety rates 
than surgical procedures like dynamic graciloplasty or artificial anal sphincter 
in patients with intact anal sphincter (IAS) and after sphincteroplasty in 
patients with structurally deficient anal sphincter (SDAS).
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of FI management in two scenarios - 
with and without SNM - and to estimate the potential budget impact of its 
progressive introduction in the Spanish setting.
METHODS: Two decision analytical models were developed (IAS and SDAS patients) 
representing the possible clinical paths for each of the scenarios (with and 
without SNM), as well as its clinical and economic consequences in the mid-to 
long term with a Markov model. Clinical and resource use data were retrieved 
from the literature and validated by a clinician expert panel. Effectiveness was 
measured with both QALYs and symptom-free years (SFY). A 3% discount rate was 
used for future costs and benefits (time horizon = 5 years). Prevalence figures 
were combined with Interstim sales forecasts to estimate the total number of 
patients to receive therapy over the next 5 years and the associated budget 
impact.
RESULTS: The introduction of Interstim in the therapeutic management of FI has 
an associated cost-effectiveness of euro16 181 (IAS patients) and euro22 195 
(SDAS patients) per QALY gained. The progressive introduction of Interstim in 75 
to 100 patients/year will have an estimated budget impact of 0.1% of incremental 
costs in patients with FI.
CONCLUSIONS: Introducing Interstim in the management of FI in IAS and SDAS 
patients in the Spanish setting has shown to be an efficient measure with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio below the accepted Spanish threshold 
(around euro35 000/QALY), and with a relatively low additional cost for the 
Spanish NHS.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908X260970
PMID: 18279582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2008 May 2;369(2):369-75. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.027. Epub 2008 Feb 13.

Human ABC transporter isoform B6 (ABCB6) localizes primarily in the Golgi 
apparatus.

Tsuchida M(1), Emi Y, Kida Y, Sakaguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science, University of Hyogo, Harima Science Park 
City, Hyogo 678-1297, Japan.

Human ATP-binding cassette transporter isoform B6 (ABCB6) has been proposed to 
be situated in both the inner and outer membranes of mitochondria. These 
inconsistent observations of submitochondrial localization have led to 
conflicting interpretation in view of directions of transport facilitated by 
ABCB6. We show here that ABCB6 has an N-terminal hydrophobic region of 220 
residues that functions as a primary determinant of co-translational targeting 
to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), but it does not have any known features of a 
mitochondrial targeting sequence. We defined the potential role of this 
hydrophobic extension of ABCB6 by glycosylation site mapping experiments, and 
demonstrated that the first hydrophobic segment acts as a type I signal-anchor 
sequence, which mediates N-terminal translocation through the ER membrane. Laser 
scanning microscopic observation revealed that ABCB6 did not co-localize with 
mitochondrial staining. Rather, it localized in the ER-derived and brefeldin 
A-sensitive perinuclear compartments, mainly in the Golgi apparatus.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.027
PMID: 18279659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Apr;66(8):1719-32. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.12.030.
Epub  2008 Feb 14.

Is inequality at the heart of it? Cross-country associations of income 
inequality with cardiovascular diseases and risk factors.

Kim D(1), Kawachi I, Hoorn SV, Ezzati M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Society, Human Development, and Health, Harvard School of 
Public Health, Boston, USA. dkim@hsph.harvard.edu
