PMID: 18356179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Apr 1;105(13):5242-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0801197105. Epub 2008 Mar 20.

Oncogene cooperation in tumor maintenance and tumor recurrence in mouse mammary 
tumors induced by Myc and mutant Kras.

Podsypanina K(1), Politi K, Beverly LJ, Varmus HE.

Author information:
(1)Program in Cancer Biology and Genetics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY 10021, USA. podsypak@mskcc.org

Most, if not all, cancers are composed of cells in which more than one gene has 
a cancer-promoting mutation. Although recent evidence has shown the benefits of 
therapies targeting a single mutant protein, little attention has been given to 
situations in which experimental tumors are induced by multiple cooperating 
oncogenes. Using combinations of doxycycline-inducible and constitutive Myc and 
mutant Kras transgenes expressed in mouse mammary glands, we show that tumors 
induced by the cooperative actions of two oncogenes remain dependent on the 
activity of a single oncogene. Deinduction of either oncogene individually, or 
both oncogenes simultaneously, led to partial or complete tumor regression. 
Prolonged remission followed deinduction of Kras(G12D) in the context of 
continued Myc expression, deinduction of a MYC transgene with continued 
expression of mutant Kras produced modest effects on life extension, whereas 
simultaneous deinduction of both MYC and Kras(G12D) transgenes further improved 
survival. Disease relapse after deinduction of both oncogenes was associated 
with reactivation of both oncogenic transgenes in all recurrent tumors, often in 
conjunction with secondary somatic mutations in the tetracycline transactivator 
transgene, MMTV-rtTA, rendering gene expression doxycycline-independent. These 
results demonstrate that tumor viability is maintained by each gene in a 
combination of oncogenes and that targeted approaches will also benefit from 
combination therapies.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0801197105
PMCID: PMC2278195
PMID: 18356293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


314. Med Decis Making. 2008 May-Jun;28(3):443-52. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07312473.
Epub  2008 Mar 20.

Incorporation of process preferences within the QALY framework: a study of 
alternative methods.

McNamee P(1), Seymour J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
Polwarth Building, Foresterhill AB25 2ZD, Scotland, UK. p.mcnamee@abdn.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: This article explores the implications of incorporating process 
preferences using time tradeoff and standard gamble methods to assess the 
benefits of health care.
METHODS: Data were derived from 2 sources: a randomized controlled trial of 
alternative palliative care treatments (plastic stents, thermal ablation, or 
brachytherapy) for esophageal cancer, and a valuation survey conducted among 
individuals who had previously undergone curative treatment for such cancer. 
Costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) associated with different 
palliative treatments in terms of health outcome values were compared to costs 
and QALYs based on process values derived from 3 different treatment allocation 
methods: 1) receipt of most preferred treatment; 2) receipt of least preferred 
treatment; and 3) mean process values.
RESULTS: Process values produced a different number of QALYs and QALY gains 
compared to those derived from health outcome values. However, treatment 
recommendations based on process values corresponded with those based on health 
outcome values: brachytherapy was identified as the more cost-effective 
treatment in terms of the incremental cost-per-QALY ratio by both the standard 
health outcome values approach and methods based on process values. These 
findings were supported by probabilistic analysis using the net monetary benefit 
framework.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimation of process preferences provides additional information 
to policy makers in judgments over the cost-effectiveness of health care 
programs. These methods offer a promising alternative to standard cost-per-QALY 
estimation using health outcomes. However, further research examining the role 
of process preferences in decision making in other clinical applications appears 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07312473
PMID: 18356313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. AIDS. 2008 Mar 30;22(6):749-57. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3282f43519.

The cost-effectiveness of cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in HIV-infected children in 
Zambia.

Ryan M(1), Griffin S, Chitah B, Walker AS, Mulenga V, Kalolo D, Hawkins N, Merry 
C, Barry MG, Chintu C, Sculpher MJ, Gibb DM.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, Department of Pharmacology and 
Therapeutics, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. mairin.ryan@ireland.com

Comment in
    AIDS. 2008 Mar 30;22(6):781-3.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in 
HIV-infected children in Zambia, as implementation at the local health centre 
level has yet to be undertaken in many resource-limited countries despite 
recommendations in recent updated World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines.
DESIGN: A probabilistic decision analytical model of HIV/AIDS progression in 
children based on the CD4 cell percentage (CD4%) was populated with data from 
the placebo-controlled Children with HIV Antibiotic Prophylaxis trial that had 
reported a 43% reduction in mortality with cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in 
HIV-infected children aged 1-14 years.
METHODS: Unit costs (US$ in 2006) were measured at University Teaching Hospital, 
Lusaka. Cost-effectiveness expressed as cost per life-year saved, cost per 
quality adjusted life-year (QALY) saved, cost per disability adjusted life-year 
(DALY) averted was calculated across a number of different scenarios at tertiary 
and primary healthcare centres.
RESULTS: : Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis was associated with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of US$72 per life-year saved, US$94 per QALY 
saved and US$53 per DALY averted, i.e. substantially less than a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of US$1019 per outcome (gross domestic product per 
capita, Zambia 2006). ICERs of US$5 or less per outcome demonstrate that 
cotrimoxazole prophylaxis is even more cost-effective at the local healthcare 
level. The intervention remained cost-effective in all sensitivity analyses 
including routine haematological and CD4% monitoring, varying starting age, AIDS 
status, cotrimoxazole formulation, efficacy duration and discount rates.
CONCLUSION: Cotrimoxazole prophylaxis in HIV-infected children is an inexpensive 
low technology intervention that is highly cost-effective in Zambia, strongly 
supporting the adoption of WHO guidelines into essential healthcare packages in 
low-income countries.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3282f43519
PMID: 18356605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Harefuah. 2008 Feb;147(2):103-6, 184.

[Stents in dialysis vascular access--do they promise improved high quality 
prolonged access use].

[Article in Hebrew]

Klein O(1), Plotkin E, Gritun I, Verner M, Lehmann JM, Rathaus M, Bernheim J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Meir Hospital, Sapir Medical 
Center, Kefar Saaba. Klein.osnat@clalit.org.il

The life expectancy of dialysis patients depends, to a large extent, on blood 
access which provides uninterrupted and efficient treatment. Dialysis access 
created by a direct anastomosis between artery and vein usually allows normal 
dialysis for many years. Blood access by a bridge graft between artery and vein 
functions for a much shorter time and occludes chiefly because of endothelial 
hyperplasia at the graft vein anastomosis. This type of fistula is created when 
the veins of the patient are small. During the last few years the dialysis 
population is increasingly composed of adult and elderly patients suffering from 
diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemias and atheromatous vascular disease 
so that a relatively large proportion of dialysis accesses are created using a 
bridge graft. Since we currently do not have the knowledge of how to arrest or 
delay the processes which lead to access occlusion, attempts are made to 
implement prophylactic strategies, find stenoses and dilate them before the 
access fails. Up to date, controlled trials have not succeeded in proving that 
this method prolongs access use. These trials did not describe the use of stents 
following dilatation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between July 2002 and May 2005, 238 angiographies were 
performed on blood accesses including 179 angioplasties of stenoses. In sixteen 
patients a stent was deployed during the angioplasty.
RESULTS: In ten patients dialysis was performed using the same access up to the 
end of the study period, an average of 43 months from the creation of the 
access. Three patients died with a functioning access and in three the access 
occluded during the period of followup.
DISCUSSION: This study shows that the use of stents following angioplasty of 
dialysis access stenoses can improve the duration of use of accesses created 
through grafts.

PMID: 18357663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Infect. 2008 Jul;57(1):16-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jinf.2008.02.006. Epub 2008
Mar  21.

Risk of premature atherosclerosis and ischemic heart disease associated with HIV 
infection and antiretroviral therapy.

Calza L(1), Manfredi R, Pocaterra D, Chiodo F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Section of Infectious 
Diseases, Alma Mater Studiorum University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi 
Hospital, Bologna, Italy. leonardo.calza@unibo.it

Comment in
    J Infect. 2010 Dec;61(6):499-501.

The use of new potent protease inhibitor-based antiretroviral therapies in 
patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection has been increasingly 
associated with cardiovascular risk factors, including hyperlipidaemia, fat 
redistribution syndrome, insulin resistance, and diabetes mellitus. The 
introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in clinical 
practice has remarkably changed the natural history of HIV disease, leading to a 
notable extension of life expectancy, and prolonged lipid and glucose metabolism 
abnormalities are expected to lead to significant effects on the long-term 
prognosis and outcome of HIV-infected patients. Prediction modeling, surrogate 
markers and hard cardiovascular endpoints suggest an increased incidence of 
cardiovascular diseases in HIV-infected subjects receiving HAART, even though 
the absolute risk of cardiovascular complications remains still low, and must be 
balanced against the evident virological, immunological, and clinical benefits 
descending from combination antiretroviral therapy. Nevertheless, the assessment 
of cardiovascular risk should be performed on regular basis in HIV-positive 
individuals, especially after initiation or change of antiretroviral treatment. 
Appropriate lifestyle measures (including smoking cessation, dietary changes, 
and aerobic physical activity) are critical points, and switching HAART may be 
considered, although maintaining viremic control should be the main goal of 
therapy. Pharmacological treatment of dyslipidaemia (usually with statins and 
fibrates), and hyperglycaemia (with insulin-sensitizing agents and 
thiazolidinediones), becomes suitable when lifestyle modifications and switching 
therapy are ineffective or not applicable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinf.2008.02.006
PMID: 18358535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Eur J Cancer. 2008 Jul;44(10):1425-37. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.014. Epub
 2008 Mar 20.

Closing the gap: cancer in Central and Eastern Europe (CEE).

Zatoński W(1), Didkowska J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Cancer Prevention Centre, Marie Sklodowska-Curie 
Memorial Cancer Centre, 5, Roentgen Str., 02-781 Warsaw, Poland. 
canepid@coi.waw.pl

The health transformation that took place after the Second World War in Europe 
was significantly delayed in the Central and Eastern European (CEE) countries 
compared to countries of Northern Europe and Great Britain. However, as death 
rates from cardiovascular disease have begun to fall, cancer has emerged, since 
the 1990s, as the most common cause of death among young and middle-aged adult 
women (20-64 years old) in these countries. In the coming decade it seems likely 
to be the leading cause of death among young and middle-aged adult men.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Data on deaths (1959-2002) in each country have been 
extracted from the World Health Organisation database. Population data are from 
the Population Division of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the 
United Nations. Direct standardisation has been undertaken using the World 
Standard Population.
RESULTS: The difference in life expectancy attributable to cancer for the 20-64 
years of age group is 0.68 of a year (16% of the total gap) among men and 0.35 
of a year (24% of the total) among women. Trends in cancer over time differ 
significantly by gender, age group and time period in Eastern and Western 
Europe. The predicted mortality rate in CEE in 2015 equates to 201/100,000 (95% 
CI 199-204) for men and 106/100,000 (95% CI 104-107) for women.
CONCLUSIONS: In CEE countries, deficiency of primary prevention is a main reason 
of poor health consciousness (consequences of smoking, fatty diet, low physical 
activity) and late introduction of secondary prevention responses results in 
worse survival of the cancer patient; however, tertiary prevention is 
implemented in a similar way as in western Europe. Our analysis indicates that 
the greatest possibilities, but also the greatest unmet needs, lie in primary 
and secondary prevention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.014
PMID: 18358713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Man Ther. 2009 Apr;14(2):173-9. doi: 10.1016/j.math.2008.01.009. Epub 2008
Mar  20.

A neuropathic pain component is common in acute whiplash and associated with a 
more complex clinical presentation.

Sterling M(1), Pedler A.

Author information:
(1)Centre of National Research on Disability and Rehabilitation Medicine, The 
University of Queensland, Mayne Medical School, Herston, QLD, Australia. 
m.sterling@uq.edu.au

Whiplash is a heterogeneous condition with some individuals showing features 
suggestive of neuropathic pain. This study investigated the presence of a 
neuropathic pain component in acute whiplash using the Self-reported Leeds 
Assessment of Neuropathic Signs and Symptoms' scale (S-LANSS) and evaluated 
relationships among S-LANSS responses, pain/disability, sensory characteristics 
(mechanical, thermal pain thresholds, and Brachial plexus provocation test 
(BPPT) responses) and psychological distress (General Health Questionnaire-28 
(GHQ-28)). Participants were 85 people with acute whiplash (<4 weeks) (54 
females, age 36.27+/-12.69 years). Thirty-four percent demonstrated a 
predominantly neuropathic pain component (S-LANSS>or=12). This group showed 
higher pain/disability, cold hyperalgesia, cervical mechanical hyperalgesia, and 
less elbow extension with the BPPT (p<0.03) when compared to the group with 
non-neuropathic pain (S-LANSS<or=12). Pressure pain thresholds (PPTs) at distant 
sites and psychological distress (GHQ-28) were not different between the groups 
(p>0.09). None of the S-LANSS items could discriminate those with cold 
hyperalgesia (p=0.06). A predominantly neuropathic pain component is related to 
a complex presentation of higher pain/disability and sensory hypersensitivity. 
The S-LANSS may be a useful tool and the BPPT a useful clinical test in the 
early assessment of whiplash.

DOI: 10.1016/j.math.2008.01.009
PMID: 18358761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Eur J Cancer. 2008 Apr;44(6):858-65. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.026. Epub
2008  Mar 21.

Evaluation of service mammography screening impact in Italy. The contribution of 
hazard analysis.

Paci E(1), Coviello E, Miccinesi G, Puliti D, Cortesi L, De Lisi V, Ferretti S, 
Mangone L, Perlangeli V, Ponti A, Ravaioli A, de' Bianchi PS, Segnan N, Stracci 
F, Tumino R, Zarcone M, Zorzi M, Zappa M; IMPACT Working Group.

Collaborators: Paci E, Falini P, Puliti D, Esposito I, Zappa M, Crocetti E, 
Naldoni C, Finarelli AC, de' Bianchi PS, Ferretti S, Baraldi GP, Federico M, 
Cirilli C, Negri R, De Lisi V, Sgargi P, Traina A, Zarcone M, Cattani A, 
Borciani N, Mangone L, Falcini F, Ravaioli A, Vattiato R, Colamartini A, 
Serafini M, Vitali B, Bravetti P, Desiderio F, Canuti D, Fabbri C, Imolesi C, 
Palazzi M, Bertozzi, Collina N, Baldazzi P, Manfredi M, Perlangeli V, Petrucci 
C, Saguatti G, Segnan N, Ponti A, Del Mastro G, Senore C, Frigerio A, Pitarella 
S, Patriarca S, Zanetti R, Vettorazzi M, Zorzi M, Molino A, Mercanti A, Mariotto 
R, Tumino R, Sigona A, La Perna G, Iacono C, Stracci F, Petrella M, Moffa IF.

Author information:
(1)Clinical and Descriptive Epidemiology Unit, CSPO, Research Institute of the 
Tuscany Region, Firenze, Italy. e.paci@cspo.it

12,987 invasive breast cancer cases were diagnosed in women aged 50-69 upto the 
year 2001 in nine Italian areas where a screening programme was active. Cases 
were followed up in 2005 for a total of 1921 breast cancer failures. The 10-year 
survival rates were 85.3% for the invited group against 75.6% for the 
non-invited. A time dependent analysis was performed using 5-year intervals. 
Crude hazard ratios for the invited group in comparison to the not invited group 
were 0.52 and 0.64 respectively in the (0-5) year and [5-10] year time windows. 
Hazard ratio adjusted for tumour characteristics was 0.96 in the [5-10] year 
time window, suggesting minimal or any length bias. Consistent with the results 
of randomised trials, these analyses of service screening data document a 
mortality reduction of 36% at 5-10 years after diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.026
PMID: 18359222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2008 Apr;23(4):1216-23. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfn082.

A health economic analysis of screening and optimal treatment of nephropathy in 
patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension in the USA.

Palmer AJ(1), Valentine WJ, Chen R, Mehin N, Gabriel S, Bregman B, Rodby RA.

Author information:
(1)CORE-Center for Outcomes Research, a unit of IMS Health, Gewerbestrasse 25, 
4123 Allschwil, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2008 Apr;23(4):1103-6.

BACKGROUND: Nephropathy is an indicator of end-organ damage and is a strong 
predictor of an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and death in patients 
with diabetes. Screening can lead to early identification and treatment, both of 
which incur costs. However, identification and treatment may slow or prevent 
progression to a more expensive stage of the disease and thus may save money. We 
assessed the health economic impact of screening for nephropathy 
(microalbuminuria and overt nephropathy) followed by optimal 
renoprotective-based antihypertensive therapy in a US setting.
METHODS: A Markov model simulated the lifetime impact of screening with 
semi-quantitative urine dipsticks in a primary care setting of hypertensive 
patients with type 2 diabetes and subsequent treatment with irbesartan 300 mg in 
patients identified as having nephropathy. Progression from no nephropathy to 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) was simulated. Probabilities, utilities, 
medication and ESRD treatment costs came from published sources. Clinical 
outcomes and direct medical costs were projected. Second order Monte Carlo 
simulation was used to account for uncertainty in multiple parameters. Annual 
discount rates of 3% were used where appropriate.
RESULTS: Screening, followed by optimized treatment, led to a 44% reduction in 
the cumulative incidence of ESRD and improvements in non-discounted life 
expectancy of 0.25 +/- 0.22 years/patient (mean +/- SD). Quality-adjusted life 
expectancy was improved by 0.18 +/- 0.15 quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs)/patient and direct costs increased by $244 +/- 3499/patient. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $20 011 per QALY gained for screening 
and optimized treatment versus no screening. There was a 77% probability that 
screening and optimized therapy would be considered cost effective with a 
willingness to pay a threshold of $50 000.
CONCLUSION: In patients with type 2 diabetes and hypertension, screening for 
nephropathy and treatment with a renoprotective-based antihypertensive agent was 
projected to improve patient outcomes and represent excellent value in a US 
setting.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfn082
PMID: 18359872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. J Surg Oncol. 2008 Apr 1;97(5):377-82. doi: 10.1002/jso.20967.

Sequential treatment for recurrent localized prostate cancer.

Van Der Poel HG(1), Moonen L, Horenblas S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Netherlands Cancer Institute, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. h.vd.poel@nki.nl

Comment in
    J Surg Oncol. 2008 Apr 1;97(5):376.

To compare toxicity and efficacy of both salvage prostatectomy and salvage 
radiotherapy for prostate cancer a retrospective analysis was conducted. 
Thirty-two and 41 patients were treated with external beam radiotherapy or 
prostatectomy for cT1c-T2 prostate cancer later requiring salvage surgery or 
radiotherapy. Salvage surgery was performed when a local recurrence was biopsy 
confirmed and life-expectancy was more than 10 years. Salvage external beam 
radiotherapy was performed when PSA rose over 0.1 ng/ml in the absence of 
systemic disease. Ten-year PSA-recurrence free survival after primary treatment 
in the salvage surgery group and salvage radiotherapy groups was 55% and 44% (P 
> 0.05) respectively whereas prostate cancer specific survival was 93% and 89%, 
respectively (P > 0.05). Both, biopsy Gleason score prior to primary treatment 
and PSADT prior to salvage treatment were predictive of PSA-recurrence free 
survival. Patients after salvage radiotherapy (13%) were less likely to wear 
pads for urinary incontinence compared to patients after salvage surgery (56%). 
Erectile dysfunction was more frequent after salvage surgery (81%) compared to 
salvage radiotherapy (61%). Salvage surgery and salvage prostatectomy after 
primary cT1-2 prostate cancer provide comparable PSA-recurrence free survival 
after primary treatment. Genitourinary functions were better preserved in the 
salvage radiotherapy group compared to the salvage prostatectomy group.

(Copyright) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.20967
PMID: 18360820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Pediatr Blood Cancer. 2008 May;50(5 Suppl):1112-5. doi: 10.1002/pbc.21456.

Economic evaluation and health-related quality of life.

Calaminus G(1), Barr R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology-Oncology, University of Muenster, 
Muenster, Germany. gabriele.calaminus@ukmuenster.de

Health-related quality of life (HRQL) is concerned with the opportunities that a 
person's health status affords, the constraints that it places upon the person 
and the value that a person places on his or her health status. The rationale 
for measuring HRQL falls into three categories: discrimination, evaluation, and 
prediction. Measures have to meet generally accepted psychometric criteria such 
as acceptability, reliability/reproducibility, responsiveness, validity, 
interpretability, and usefulness. HRQL instruments have been designed for 
self-administration or administration by interviews and some have been adapted 
to multiple cultural/linguistic needs. For adolescents and young adults with 
cancer several instruments are available. Overall HRQL is compromised, to 
varying degrees, in such survivors by comparison with peers in the general 
population; and the burden of morbidity is greatest after brain and bone tumors. 
As there is a burden of treatment-related morbidity and as the number of 
survivors within the health care system is growing, the economic dimension of 
care and cure has to be taken into consideration. Economic evaluation affords a 
comparison of the costs and consequences (effects) of relevant therapeutic 
alternatives. The future research activities with respect to HRQL have to 
consider these new dimensions of care.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/pbc.21456
PMID: 18360834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Radiother Oncol. 2008 Aug;88(2):196-201. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2008.03.001.
Epub  2008 Mar 24.

Improvement in dose homogeneity with electronic tissue compensation over IMRT 
and conventional RT in whole brain radiotherapy.

Goyal S(1), Yue NJ, Millevoi R, Kagan E, Haffty B, Narra V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The Cancer Institute of New Jersey, 
UMDNJ/Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New Brunswick, NJ 08903, USA. 
goyalsh@umdnj.edu

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To perform a dosimetric analysis of whole brain 
radiotherapy using electronic tissue compensation (ECOMP) with dynamic multileaf 
collimation (dMLC) and its comparisons with inverse-planned intensity modulated 
radiation therapy (IMRT) with optimization constraints and conventional whole 
brain radiotherapy (WBRT).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten patients (6 adult, 4 pediatric) who were treated at 
our institution were selected for this study. WBRT fields were defined using 
opposed lateral fields directed at the intracranial contents and MLC leaves were 
used to block the critical normal structures. A two-field inverse-planned IMRT 
plan was then developed using sliding window technique and two optimization 
constraints. Finally, a dMLC plan with electronic tissue compensation (ECOMP) 
was developed using identical beam and collimator angles and blocking strategy; 
the fluence map was generated based on tissue compensation and no additional 
constraints were given for optimization purposes. This tissue compensation based 
fluence map was applied to deliver a homogenous dose to the intracranial 
contents. Radiation dose was identically prescribed to the isocenter (30.0 Gy in 
10 fractions) for all the cases. A dosimetric comparison was then performed for 
each method in our patient population.
RESULTS: ECOMP significantly reduced the mean maximum dose (D(max)) to the 
intracranial contents as compared to both WBRT (103.9% vs. 112.4%, p<0.0001) and 
IMRT (106.1%, p=0.02). ECOMP also reduced the intracranial volume receiving 
greater than 103% of the prescribed dose (2.6% vs. 54.9%, p<0.0001) and the 
intracranial volume receiving greater than 105% of the prescribed dose (0% vs. 
26%, p<0.0001) as compared to WBRT; there was no statistical difference in these 
two parameters between ECOMP and IMRT. The mean number of monitor units was 
increased, however, using both ECOMP and IMRT as compared to WBRT (870 and 860 
vs. 318, p<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Dynamic multileaf collimation with electronic tissue compensation 
(ECOMP) leads to improved dose homogeneity with less 'hot spots' as compared to 
conventional and inverse-planned intensity modulated whole brain radiotherapy. 
At our institution, ECOMP is being used in all pediatric patients or select 
adult patients with a long life expectancy requiring cranial radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2008.03.001
PMID: 18362037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Jan-Feb;44(1-2):83-92. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.02.002.
Epub  2008 Feb 13.

Should we be concerned over increasing body height and weight?

Samaras TT(1).

Author information:
(1)Reventropy Associates, 11487 Madera Rosa Way, San Diego, CA 92124, USA. 
SamarasTT@aol.com

Based on 36 years of research, this paper explores the impact of human height on 
chronic disease, life expectancy, and longevity. The findings presented 
challenge the common belief that promoting rapid growth and maximum height 
attainment is a desirable goal. Also presented, are the biological mechanisms 
related to height and longevity. This paper concludes with a review of paradoxes 
that face the traditional belief that taller is healthier.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.02.002
PMID: 18362057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Neurology. 2008 Mar 25;70(13):1017-22. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000306632.43729.24.

Dementia and survival in Parkinson disease: a 12-year population study.

Buter TC(1), van den Hout A, Matthews FE, Larsen JP, Brayne C, Aarsland D.

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatric Psychiatry, Stavanger University Hospital, Arm Hansen v 
20, N-4095 Stavanger, Norway.

BACKGROUND: The risk for dementia in Parkinson disease (PD) is high, with 
important clinical consequences for patients with PD. However, the absolute risk 
of dementia and how it affects survival in PD are not known. Such questions are 
important for patients, their families, and service providers but require 
long-term studies.
METHODS: This study is a prospective longitudinal cohort study with patients 
from a prevalence study of PD in Norway. Patients were reassessed 4, 8, 9, 10, 
11, and 12 years after prevalence day. A dementia diagnosis according to 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition, Revised, 
criteria was based on a semistructured caregiver interview, cognitive rating 
scales, and neuropsychological tests. Progression from PD to PD with dementia 
and death was modeled using a continuous-time three-state irreversible Markov 
model.
RESULTS: A total of 233 PD patients were included, and 140 patients (60%, 95% CI 
54% to 66%) had developed dementia by the end of the study period. The 
cumulative incidence of dementia steadily increases with age and duration of PD 
and, conditional on survival, increases to 80% to 90% by age 90 years. Women 
live with PD longer than men and spend more years with dementia. At age 70 
years, a man with PD but no dementia has a life expectancy of 8 years, of which 
5 years would be expected to be dementia free and 3 years would be expected to 
be with dementia.
CONCLUSION: Dementia is a key part of survival in Parkinson disease and must be 
planned for in services for this condition.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000306632.43729.24
PMID: 18362281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Med Care. 2008 Apr;46(4):343-5. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31816a7144.

How much are Americans willing to pay for a quality-adjusted life year?

Weinstein MC.

Comment on
    Med Care. 2008 Apr;46(4):349-56.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31816a7144
PMID: 18362811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Med Care. 2008 Apr;46(4):349-56. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31815c31a7.

What does the value of modern medicine say about the $50,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year decision rule?

Braithwaite RS(1), Meltzer DO, King JT Jr, Leslie D, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of General Internal Medicine, Yale University 
School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. Ronald.braithwaite@va.gov

Comment in
    Med Care. 2008 Apr;46(4):343-5.

BACKGROUND: In the United States, $50,000 per Quality-Adjusted Life-Year (QALY) 
is a decision rule that is often used to guide interpretation of 
cost-effectiveness analyses. However, many investigators have questioned the 
scientific basis of this rule, and it has not been updated.
METHODS: We used 2 separate approaches to investigate whether the $50,000 per 
QALY rule is consistent with current resource allocation decisions. To infer a 
lower bound for the decision rule, we estimated the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of recent (2003) versus pre-"modern era" (1950) medical care 
in the United States. To infer an upper bound for the decision rule, we 
estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of unsubsidized health insurance 
versus self-pay for nonelderly adults (ages 21-64) without health insurance. We 
discounted both costs and benefits, following recommendations of the Panel on 
Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine.
RESULTS: Our base case analyses suggest that plausible lower and upper bounds 
for a cost-effectiveness decision rule are $183,000 per life-year and $264,000 
per life-year, respectively. Our sensitivity analyses widen the plausible range 
(between $95,000 per life-year saved and $264,000 per life-year saved when we 
considered only health care's impact on quantity of life, and between $109,000 
per QALY saved and $297,000 per QALY saved when we considered health care's 
impact on quality as well as quantity of life) but it remained substantially 
higher than $50,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: It is very unlikely that $50,000 per QALY is consistent with 
societal preferences in the United States.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31815c31a7
PMID: 18362813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Aging Cell. 2008 Jun;7(3):438-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00391.x.
Epub  2008 Mar 18.

Visceral adipose tissue modulates mammalian longevity.

Muzumdar R(1), Allison DB, Huffman DM, Ma X, Atzmon G, Einstein FH, Fishman S, 
Poduval AD, McVei T, Keith SW, Barzilai N.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Aging Research, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, New 
York, NY 10461, USA.

Caloric restriction (CR) can delay many age-related diseases and extend 
lifespan, while an increase in adiposity is associated with enhanced disease 
risk and accelerated aging. Among the various fat depots, the accrual of 
visceral fat (VF) is a common feature of aging, and has been shown to be the 
most detrimental on metabolic syndrome of aging in humans. We have previously 
demonstrated that surgical removal of VF in rats improves insulin action; thus, 
we set out to determine if VF removal affects longevity. We prospectively 
studied lifespan in three groups of rats: ad libitum-fed (AL-fed), CR (Fed 60% 
of AL) and a group of AL-fed rats with selective removal of VF at 5 months of 
age (VF-removed rats). We demonstrate that compared to AL-fed rats, VF-removed 
rats had a significant increase in mean (p < 0.001) and maximum lifespan (p < 
0.04) and significant reduction in the incidence of severe renal disease (p < 
0.01). CR rats demonstrated the greatest mean and maximum lifespan (p < 0.001) 
and the lowest rate of death as compared to AL-fed rats (0.13). Taken together, 
these observations provide the most direct evidence to date that a reduction in 
fat mass, specifically VF, may be one of the possible underlying mechanisms of 
the anti-aging effect of CR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00391.x
PMCID: PMC2504027
PMID: 18363902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Aging Cell. 2008 Jun;7(3):426-37. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00390.x.
Epub  2008 Mar 18.

Age structure changes and extraordinary lifespan in wild medfly populations.

Carey JR(1), Papadopoulos NT, Müller HG, Katsoyannos BI, Kouloussis NA, Wang JL, 
Wachter K, Yu W, Liedo P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA. jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

The main purpose of this study was to test the hypotheses that major changes in 
age structure occur in wild populations of the Mediterranean fruit fly (medfly) 
and that a substantial fraction of individuals survive to middle age and beyond 
(> 3-4 weeks). We thus brought reference life tables and deconvolution models to 
bear on medfly mortality data gathered from a 3-year study of field-captured 
individuals that were monitored in the laboratory. The average time-to-death of 
captured females differed between sampling dates by 23.9, 22.7, and 37.0 days in 
the 2003, 2004, and 2005 field seasons, respectively. These shifts in average 
times-to-death provided evidence of changes in population age structure. 
Estimates indicated that middle-aged medflies (> 30 days) were common in the 
population. A surprise in the study was the extraordinary longevity observed in 
field-captured medflies. For example, 19 captured females but no reference 
females survived in the laboratory for 140 days or more, and 6 captured but no 
reference males survived in the laboratory for 170 days or more. This paper 
advances the study of aging in the wild by introducing a new method for 
estimating age structure in insect populations, demonstrating that major changes 
in age structure occur in field populations of insects, showing that middle-aged 
individuals are common in the wild, and revealing the extraordinary lifespans of 
wild-caught individuals due to their early life experience in the field.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00390.x
PMCID: PMC2398686
PMID: 18363903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2008 Apr;22(4):437-41. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2007.02458.x.

Lichen planus patients and stressful events.

Manolache L(1), Seceleanu-Petrescu D, Benea V.

Author information:
(1)Cetatea Histria Polyclinic, Bucharest, Romania. manoliana@b.astral.ro

PURPOSE: To evaluate the possible role of stress before the onset/extension of 
lichen planus.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Forty-six outpatients with lichen planus were enrolled. The 
design was a case-control study (controls had skin diseases with low 
psychosomatic component). Stressful situations were evaluated using Holmes and 
Rahe's social readjustment rating scale.
RESULTS: Lichen planus had an incidence of 0.36% among dermatological 
conditions. In the lichen planus group, there was a female predominance (76%) 
and a median age around 50 years. More than 67% of cases experienced at least 
one stressful event, compared with 21% of controls (chi(2) = 17.58, P < 0.001). 
The odds ratio was 7.44. There was a borderline significant difference in the 
mean number of stressful events between lichen planus patients and controls (P = 
0.06). We divided the situations described by Holmes and Rahe into three 
categories: family, personal, and job or financial problems. The presence of 
major life events was significant different in patients and controls (P = 
0.005). Family matters were described by 43.6% of lichen planus patients, 
statistically significant compared with controls (P = 0.002). In almost 25% of 
cases of lichen planus, 'the stressful event' was represented by the illness or 
death of someone dear. 'Personal problems' seemed to be important compared with 
controls (P = 0.04), exams representing 25% of these matters. There was no 
difference between the patients and controls regarding the importance of job or 
financial changes.
CONCLUSION: Stressful situations, especially related to family, may have a role 
in the onset and extension of lichen planus lesions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2007.02458.x
PMID: 18363912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Mar 3;170(10):821-5.

[Quality of life concept].

[Article in Danish]

Zachariae B(1), Bech P.

Author information:
(1)Arhus Universitetshospital, Arhus. bzach@as.aaa.dk

Although WHO defined health as a "state of complete physical, mental and social 
well-being'' in 1948, it is only in recent years that health-related 
"quality-of-life'' (HRQOL) has gained acceptance in medicine. Changes in 
clinical outcome measures do not necessarily correspond to the increased 
benefits in HRQOL perceived by patients, and their HRQOL-related preferences may 
differ from those of health professionals. HRQOL measures can guide treatment 
decisions and increase the possibility of involving patients in decisions 
concerning treatment, care and rehabilitation.

PMID: 18364164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Thorax. 2008 Apr;63(4):377-83. doi: 10.1136/thx.2007.079673.

A critical appraisal of overdiagnosis: estimates of its magnitude and 
implications for lung cancer screening.

Reich JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Oncology Program, Earl A Chiles Research Institute, Portland 
Providence Medical Center, 7400 SW Barnes Rd, A622, Portland, OR 97225, USA. 
Reichje@dnamail.com

Comment in
    Thorax. 2008 Apr;63(4):298-300.

BACKGROUND: The magnitude of overdiagnosis is a critical and unresolved issue in 
lung cancer (LC) screening:(1) its contribution to the increase in survival 
constitutes specious evidence of benefit;(2) overdiagnosed individuals who 
undergo resection will experience a reduction in life expectancy, partially or 
completely offsetting the benefit received by others in whom earlier 
intervention proves curative.
METHOD: Critical analysis of studies in opposition and support of the view that 
LC screening imposes a substantial burden of overdiagnosis.
RESULTS: Approximately 25%, possibly more, of radiographically (chest x ray) 
diagnosed LC appears to be overdiagnosed. Based on the observed tumour volume 
doubling time of low dose CT identified small malignant pulmonary nodules, CT 
will markedly augment lead time, increasing exposure to competing lethal 
morbidities, thereby increasing overdiagnosis.
CONCLUSION: To reduce all-cause mortality, CT screening will need to reduce LC 
mortality by an amount that exceeds the increase in mortality attributable to 
surgery and loss of pulmonary reserve in persons who are overdiagnosed or 
pathologically understaged (ie, with occult micrometastases). Presently, there 
is no evidence that CT screening will achieve any reduction in LC mortality.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.2007.079673
PMID: 18364449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2008 Mar 26;2(3):e209. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0000209.

Asymmetries of poverty: why global burden of disease valuations underestimate 
the burden of neglected tropical diseases.

King CH(1), Bertino AM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health and Diseases, Case Western Reserve University School 
of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio, USA. chk@cwru.edu

Comment in
    PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 1(2):e114.
    PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 1(3):e161.

The disability-adjusted life year (DALY) initially appeared attractive as a 
health metric in the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) program, as it purports to 
be a comprehensive health assessment that encompassed premature mortality, 
morbidity, impairment, and disability. It was originally thought that the DALY 
would be useful in policy settings, reflecting normative valuations as a 
standardized unit of ill health. However, the design of the DALY and its use in 
policy estimates contain inherent flaws that result in systematic undervaluation 
of the importance of chronic diseases, such as many of the neglected tropical 
diseases (NTDs), in world health. The conceptual design of the DALY comes out of 
a perspective largely focused on the individual risk rather than the ecology of 
disease, thus failing to acknowledge the implications of context on the burden 
of disease for the poor. It is nonrepresentative of the impact of poverty on 
disability, which results in the significant underestimation of disability 
weights for chronic diseases such as the NTDs. Finally, the application of the 
DALY in policy estimates does not account for the nonlinear effects of poverty 
in the cost-utility analysis of disease control, effectively discounting the 
utility of comprehensively treating NTDs. The present DALY framework needs to be 
substantially revised if the GBD is to become a valid and useful system for 
determining health priorities.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000209
PMCID: PMC2267491
PMID: 18365036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. King is a Deputy Editor of PLoS Neglected 
Tropical Diseases.


335. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2008 Mar;8(3):371-3. doi:
10.1586/14737140.8.3.371.

Treatment outcomes for patients with synovial sarcoma of the head and neck.

Lee N(1), Shin E.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Department of Radiation Oncology, NY, 
USA. leen2@mskcc.org

Evaluation of: Harb WJ, Luna MA, Patel SR, Ballo MT, Roberts DB, Sturgis EM. 
Survival in patients with synovial sarcoma of the head and neck: association 
with tumor location, size, and extension. Head Neck 29, 731-740 (2007). Synovial 
sarcoma of the head and neck occurs most commonly in males in their third decade 
of life. Synovial sarcoma of the head is rare, accounting for less than 10% of 
all head and neck sarcomas. Due to its rarity, there are very few publications 
on the treatment approach for these tumors. However, it is uniformly accepted 
that all head and neck synovial sarcomas should undergo complete surgical 
resection followed by postoperative radiation therapy in those at high risk for 
locoregional recurrence. In terms of chemotherapy, there are also emerging data 
on its effectiveness in the treatment of synovial sarcoma of the head and neck. 
The paper under evaluation reports a single institution's 36-year experience on 
the treatment of synovial sarcoma of the head and neck. This paper highlights 
the importance of a multidisciplinary approach in the treatment of this disease.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.8.3.371
PMID: 18366285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. BMC Public Health. 2008 Mar 26;8:96. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-96.

Estimating the burden of rhodesiense sleeping sickness during an outbreak in 
Serere, eastern Uganda.

Fèvre EM(1), Odiit M, Coleman PG, Woolhouse ME, Welburn SC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Infectious Diseases, University of Edinburgh, Ashworth 
Laboratories, West Mains Road, Edinburgh, EH9 3JT, UK. Eric.Fevre@ed.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Zoonotic sleeping sickness, or HAT (Human African Trypanosomiasis), 
caused by infection with Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense, is an under-reported 
and neglected tropical disease. Previous assessments of the disease burden 
expressed as Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) for this infection have not 
distinguished T.b. rhodesiense from infection with the related, but clinically 
distinct Trypanosoma brucei gambiense form. T.b. rhodesiense occurs focally, and 
it is important to assess the burden at the scale at which resource-allocation 
decisions are made.
METHODS: The burden of T.b. rhodesiense was estimated during an outbreak of HAT 
in Serere, Uganda. We identified the unique characteristics affecting the burden 
of rhodesiense HAT such as age, severity, level of under-reporting and duration 
of hospitalisation, and use field data and empirical estimates of these to model 
the burden imposed by this and other important diseases in this study 
population. While we modelled DALYs using standard methods, we also modelled 
uncertainty of our parameter estimates through a simulation approach. We 
distinguish between early and late stage HAT morbidity, and used disability 
weightings appropriate for the T.b. rhodesiense form of HAT. We also use a model 
of under-reporting of HAT to estimate the contribution of un-reported mortality 
to the overall disease burden in this community, and estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of hospital-based HAT control.
RESULTS: Under-reporting accounts for 93% of the DALY estimate of rhodesiense 
HAT. The ratio of reported malaria cases to reported HAT cases in the same 
health unit was 133:1, however, the ratio of DALYs was 3:1. The age productive 
function curve had a close correspondence with the HAT case distribution, and 
HAT cases occupied more patient admission time in Serere during 1999 than all 
other infectious diseases other than malaria. The DALY estimate for HAT in 
Serere shows that the burden is much greater than might be expected from its 
relative incidence. Hospital based control in this setting appears to be highly 
cost-effective, highlighting the value of increasing coverage of therapy and 
reducing under-reporting.
CONCLUSION: We show the utility of calculating DALYs for neglected diseases at 
the local decision making level, and emphasise the importance of improved 
reporting systems for acquiring a better understanding of the burden of 
neglected zoonotic diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-96
PMCID: PMC2322978
PMID: 18366755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 May;36(8):2739-55. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn030. Epub
2008  Mar 26.

Structure of the DNA-binding domain of NgTRF1 reveals unique features of plant 
telomere-binding proteins.

Ko S(1), Jun SH, Bae H, Byun JS, Han W, Park H, Yang SW, Park SY, Jeon YH, 
Cheong C, Kim WT, Lee W, Cho HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Department of Biology, Protein Network Research 
Center, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Yonsei University, Seoul 
120-749, Korea.

Telomeres are protein-DNA elements that are located at the ends of linear 
eukaryotic chromosomes. In concert with various telomere-binding proteins, they 
play an essential role in genome stability. We determined the structure of the 
DNA-binding domain of NgTRF1, a double-stranded telomere-binding protein of 
tobacco, using multidimensional NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography. The 
DNA-binding domain of NgTRF1 contained the Myb-like domain and C-terminal 
Myb-extension that is characteristic of plant double-stranded telomere-binding 
proteins. It encompassed amino acids 561-681 (NgTRF1(561-681)), and was composed 
of 4 alpha-helices. We also determined the structure of NgTRF1(561-681) bound to 
plant telomeric DNA. We identified several amino acid residues that interacted 
directly with DNA, and confirmed their role in the binding of NgTRF1 to telomere 
using site-directed mutagenesis. Based on a structural comparison of the 
DNA-binding domains of NgTRF1 and human TRF1 (hTRF1), NgTRF1 has both common and 
unique DNA-binding properties. Interaction of Myb-like domain with telomeric 
sequences is almost identical in NgTRF1(561-681) with the DNA-binding domain of 
hTRF1. The interaction of Arg-638 with the telomeric DNA, which is unique in 
NgTRF1(561-681), may provide the structural explanation for the specificity of 
NgTRF1 to the plant telomere sequences, (TTTAGGG)(n).

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn030
PMCID: PMC2377444
PMID: 18367475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Oecologia. 2008 Jun;156(3):545-57. doi: 10.1007/s00442-008-1022-1. Epub 2008
Mar  27.

Demographic responses of Pinguicula ionantha to prescribed fire: a 
regression-design LTRE approach.

Kesler HC(1), Trusty JL, Hermann SM, Guyer C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Auburn University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA. 
tug@foliusconsulting.com

This study describes the use of periodic matrix analysis and regression-design 
life table response experiments (LTRE) to investigate the effects of prescribed 
fire on demographic responses of Pinguicula ionantha, a federally listed plant 
endemic to the herb bog/savanna community in north Florida. Multi-state 
mark-recapture models with dead recoveries were used to estimate survival and 
transition probabilities for over 2,300 individuals in 12 populations of P. 
ionantha. These estimates were applied to parameterize matrix models used in 
further analyses. P. ionantha demographics were found to be strongly dependent 
on prescribed fire events. Periodic matrix models were used to evaluate season 
of burn (either growing or dormant season) for fire return intervals ranging 
from 1 to 20 years. Annual growing and biannual dormant season fires maximized 
population growth rates for this species. A regression design LTRE was used to 
evaluate the effect of number of days since last fire on population growth. 
Maximum population growth rates calculated using standard asymptotic analysis 
were realized shortly following a burn event (<2 years), and a regression design 
LTRE showed that short-term fire-mediated changes in vital rates translated into 
observed increases in population growth. The LTRE identified fecundity and 
individual growth as contributing most to increases in post-fire population 
growth. Our analyses found that the current four-year prescribed fire return 
intervals used at the study sites can be significantly shortened to increase the 
population growth rates of this rare species. Understanding the role of fire 
frequency and season in creating and maintaining appropriate habitat for this 
species may aid in the conservation of this and other rare herb bog/savanna 
inhabitants.

