
INTRODUCTION: The death of an adult affects the family as well as the adults 
role in its labor and social environment. In developing countries, the load of 
diseases and associated trauma continues to increase and place increasing 
demands for the intervention by public health authorities.
OBJECTIVE: Trends of mortality were determined for adults of 20 to 64 years in 
Medellín, Colombia, between 1994 and 2003 according to sex.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective, longitudinal study was undertaken that 
analyzed trends in mortality rates. A secondary data source consisted of death 
certificates recorded at the Departamento Administrativo Nacional de 
Estadísticas (National Department of Statistics) during the decade 1994-2003.
RESULTS: The rate average of mortality for the decade was 497 deaths per 1000 
habitants. Men displayed a risk of dying of 3.5 (95%CI: 2.0-6.0) times that of 
women. Approximately 59% of the deaths had external causes (i.e., not related to 
illness or old age). Twenty-nine percent of the female deaths were due to 
tumors; this trend was positive throughout the decade. The 5 most important 
causes of mortality were as follows: aggressive behaviors, heart disease, 
traffic accidents, malignant tumors and pulmonary disease. The trend in deaths 
due to by external causes was negative, but positive for the deaths due to acute 
myocardial infarctions (mainly in the 45 to 64 year population) and HIV in young 
adults. An increasing trend in malignant breast cancer was observed in young 
adult women, but remained constant in the 45 to 64 year-old female population.
CONCLUSION: Mortality in the adult population differs by sex and age. The 
younger male population is more at risk than women as a consequence of 
environmental factors in early life. In later life, women are more strongly 
affected by increasing incidence of cardiovascular disease and malignant tumors. 
The increased levels of mortality at all age levels represent a problem that 
generates a high human and economic cost.

PMID: 18320101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Rinsho Byori. 2008 Jan;56(1):57-61.

[Clinical problems and prospects in laboratory chemical analysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawamura T(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Nursing, Miyagi University, Kurokawa-gun, Miyagi.

The first subject of clinical problems is about uncertainty in measurement, but 
is now going be clarified by the standardization of reference measurement 
procedure and reference material. On the other hand, physiological uncertainty 
in samples is unable to be solved. So the establishment of evidence based 
diagnostic values is important in company with reference value, especially in 
the field of health examination. The life expectancy of the Japanese population 
is one of longest in the world. So the preventive medicine of lifestyle-related 
disease is important to perform an extensive research like as disease preventive 
biomarkers. Furthermore, we expect the progression of examinations in the 
pathophysiological diagnosis. I present the paper of development for the 
diagnostic method of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase-deficient as an example.

PMID: 18320662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Dan Med Bull. 2008 Feb;55(1):47-68.

Sun exposure behaviour among subgroups of the Danish population. Based on 
personal electronic UVR dosimetry and corresponding exposure diaries.

Thieden E(1).

Author information:
(1)The Skin Clinic, Bispebjerg Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
et01@bbh.regionh.dk

Solar ultraviolet radiation (UVR) is known to be the most important etiological 
factor in skin cancer development. The main objective of this thesis was to 
achieve an objective, basic knowledge of the individual UVR exposure dose 
pattern and to reveal the factors and with which power they influence on the UVR 
dose among the Danes. Eight open prospective, observational studies and one 
study analyzing the compliance and reliability of data were performed in healthy 
Danish volunteers with an age range of 4-68 years. The subjects were chosen to 
cover an age span group of children, adolescents, and indoor workers and in 
addition, groups with expected high UVR exposure, sun worshippers, golfers, and 
gardeners. We developed a personal, electronic UVR dosimeter in a wristwatch 
(SunSaver). The subjects wore the UVR dosimeter that measured time-stamped UVR 
doses in standard erythema doses (SED) and completed diaries with data on their 
sun exposure behaviour. This resulted in corresponding UVR dosimeter and diary 
data from 346 sun-years where one sun-year is one person participating in one 
summer half-year (median 119 days). The annual UVR doses were calculated based 
on the personal and ambient measured UVR doses. We found a huge variation in 
annual UVR exposure dose within the total population sample, median 173 SED 
(range, 17-980 SED). The inter-group variation in annual UVR dose was from 
median 132 SED among indoor workers to median 224 SED among gardeners. No 
significant correlation was found between annual UVR dose and age either within 
the total population or among the adults. But the subjects below 20 years of age 
had an increase in annual UVR dose of 5 SED per year. Young people before the 
age of 20 years did not get a higher proportion of the lifetime UVR dose than 
expected (25%) when assuming a life expectancy of 80 years. There was no 
significant difference in annual UVR dose between males and females in the total 
population sample. But, among children, girls received a significantly higher 
UVR dose than boys due to more days with risk behaviour (sunbathing or exposing 
shoulders outdoors). This exposure pattern, with females having more risk 
behaviour than males, was also found among adolescents and adults. Sunbathing or 
exposing shoulders (risk behaviour) outside the beach resulted in a median of 
2.5 SED per day in northern Europe and 3.2 SED per day in southern Europe, while 
the corresponding values were 4.6 SED and 6.9 SED per day at the beach. UVR 
doses above 10 SED per day were connected with risk behaviour. The subjects had 
a median of 13 days with risk behaviour (range, 0-93 days). The subjects used 
sunscreen on a median of five days (range, 0-130 days), but have a median of 
seven days with risk behaviour without sunscreen applied (range, 0-47 days). 
They had a median of one sunburn per sun-year (range 0-10). Fifty percent of the 
UVR dose was received between 12.00 and 15.00. Only the gardeners received the 
main part of their UVR dose on workdays. Conclusions : - High UVR doses are 
connected with risk behaviour. Reduction of cumulative lifetime UVR dose could 
be obtained by minimizing risk behaviour. - Sunburns were highly correlated to 
risk behaviour. - Use of sunscreen correlated with days "sunbathing with the 
intention to tan", indicating that sunscreens were used to avoid sunburn during 
risk behaviour. - Scheduling lunch breaks and other breaks indoors at noon, 
where ambient UVR peaks, could reduce the occupational UVR exposure 
significantly. - In the winter-half-year in Denmark. the UVR dose received from 
solar exposure is negligible and no UVR precautions are needed. This study 
documented that high subject compliance rate and data reliability could be 
obtained in long-time UVR dosimeter study as ours by being service minded but 
persistent, offering dosimeter maintenance service within 24 hours and 
scrutinizing data for errors and mistakes just after data collection.

PMID: 18321444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2008 Apr;12(2):142-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2007.12.001.
Epub  2008 Mar 5.

Cancer information needs of people with intellectual disability: a review of the 
literature.

O'Regan P(1), Drummond E.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Brookfield Health Sciences Complex, 
University College Cork, Cork, Ireland. p.oregan@ucc.ie

The lifespan of people with an intellectual disability has increased 
significantly in recent years; however, this has resulted in a rising incidence 
of age-related illnesses including cancer. The World Health Organisation has 
expressed concern as evidence suggests prevalence rates for cancer are 
increasing for this group. The needs of people with a cancer diagnosis and an 
intellectual disability are beginning to be highlighted; however, there appears 
to be a substantial dearth of services including appropriate cancer information. 
This presents alarming obstacles and barriers to high-quality cancer care 
impacting on treatment, management and overall survival rates for this client 
group. Furthermore, a number of policy and research reports directed at the 
health needs of people with an intellectual disability have continually 
highlighted the need for accessible information and effective communication. 
Having access to cancer information should be considered a crucial part of 
providing optimum holistic care for this client group. Cancer professionals 
should assess the unique information needs of people with an intellectual 
disability as mainstream information does not meet their requirements. 
Furthermore, health professionals working in intellectual disability settings 
must also address their knowledge and information deficits in this regard. This 
paper presents a review of the literature with a specific focus on the cancer 
information needs of people with an intellectual disability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2007.12.001
PMID: 18321781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Neurodegener Dis. 2008;5(3-4):232-6. doi: 10.1159/000113711. Epub 2008 Mar
6.

Human recombinant butyrylcholinesterase purified from the milk of transgenic 
goats interacts with beta-amyloid fibrils and suppresses their formation in 
vitro.

Podoly E(1), Bruck T, Diamant S, Melamed-Book N, Weiss A, Huang Y, Livnah O, 
Langermann S, Wilgus H, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Alexander Silberman Life Sciences Institute, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 
Givat Ram, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: In Alzheimer's disease (AD), brain butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) 
co-localizes with beta-amyloid (Abeta) fibrils.
AIMS: In vitro testing of the significance of this phenomenon to AD progress.
METHODS: A thioflavine T (ThT) fluorogenic assay, photo-induced cross-linking 
and quantifiable electron microscopy served to compare the effect on Abeta 
fibril formation induced by highly purified recombinant human BChE (rBChE) 
produced in the milk of transgenic goats with that of serum-derived human BChE.
RESULTS: Both proteins at 1:50 and 1:25 ratios to Abeta dose-dependently 
prolonged the ThT lag time and reduced the apparent rate of Abeta fibril 
formation compared to Abeta alone. Photo-induced cross-linking tests showed that 
rBChE prolonged the persistence of amyloid dimers, trimers and tetramers in 
solution, whereas Abeta alone facilitated precipitation of such multimers from 
solution. Transmission electron microscopy showed that rBChE at 1:100 to Abeta 
prevented the formation of larger, over 150-nm-long, Abeta fibrils and reduced 
fibril branching compared to Abeta alone as quantified by macro programming of 
Image Pro Plus software.
CONCLUSION: Our findings demonstrate that rBChE interacts with Abeta fibrils and 
can attenuate their formation, extension and branching, suggesting further tests 
of rBChE, with unlimited supply and no associated health risks, as a therapeutic 
agent for delaying the formation of amyloid toxic oligomers in AD patients.

2008 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000113711
PMID: 18322399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Pathologe. 2008 May;29(3):221-6, 228-30. doi: 10.1007/s00292-008-1000-8.
Epub  2008 Mar 7.

[Solitary bone cysts of the pelvis. A frequently misinterpreted entity].

[Article in German]

Delling G(1), Sopta J.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie Berliner Allee, Hannover. delling@osteopathologie.de

Solitary bone cyst of the pelvis is a rare lesion. The diagnosis is relatively 
simple providing sufficient material is accumulated during biopsy or surgery. 
Calcifying forms often cause difficulties in terms of differential diagnosis. 
Radiographic imaging can be complex when examining large lesions of the pelvis. 
Biopsy is the method of choice for definitive diagnosis, which should be 
verified against material gathered surgically or during curettage. Bone tumors 
of the pelvis have to be considered in the differential diagnosis of the lesion. 
Large cystic lesions of the pelvis in particular are to be reviewed 
pathohistologically to avoid false diagnosis. The consequences for the patient 
in terms of quality of life and life expectancy can be serious. The need for 
interdisciplinary cooperation is greater than ever to ensure correct diagnosis 
and therapy of bone lesions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00292-008-1000-8
PMID: 18322687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2008 Jun;136(2):223-9. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.20798.

Grandmothers' longevity negatively affects daughters' fertility.

Madrigal L(1), Meléndez-Obando M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL 33617, 
USA. madrigal@cas.usf.edu

The evolution of postmenopausal longevity in human females has been the subject 
of debate. Specifically, there is disagreement about whether the evolution of 
the trait should be understood as an adaptive or a neutral process, and if the 
former, what the selective mechanism is. There are two main adaptive proposals 
to explain the evolution of postreproductive longevity: the grandmother and the 
mother hypotheses. The grandmother hypothesis proposes that postreproductive 
longevity evolved because it is selectively advantageous for females to stop 
reproducing and to help raise their grandchildren. The mother hypothesis states 
that postmenopausal longevity evolved because it is advantageous for women to 
cease reproduction and concentrate their resources and energy in raising the 
children already produced. In this article, we test the mother and the 
grandmother hypotheses with a historical data set from which we bootstrapped 
random samples of women from different families who lived from the 1500s to the 
1900s in the central valley of Costa Rica. We also compute the heritability of 
longevity, which allows us to determine if genes involved in longevity are 
nearly fixed in this population. Here we show that although longevity positively 
affects a woman's fertility, it negatively affects her daughter's fertility; for 
this reason, the heritability of longevity is unexpectedly high. Our data 
provide strong grounds for questioning the universality of the grandmother 
hypothesis and for supporting the mother hypothesis as a likely explanation for 
the evolution of human postreproductive longevity.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.20798
PMID: 18322917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. J Rheumatol. 2008 Mar;35(3):369-71.

Methotrexate therapy for psoriatic arthritis: reappraisal of an old remedy.

Saketkoo LA, Cuchacovich R, Espinoza LR.

Comment on
    J Rheumatol. 2008 Mar;35(3):469-71.

PMID: 18322970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2007 Dec;54(12):867-70.

[Basis of clinical economics (6)].

[Article in Japanese]

Okubo I.

PMID: 18323012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Zhong Yao Cai. 2007 Nov;30(11):1414-7.

[Erythrocyte immunologic function effects of Patrinia scabra extracts by 
macroporous adsorptive resins on mice burdened transplanted tumor].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang XX(1), Zhao JX, Cheng WD, Chen R, Bai DC.

Author information:
(1)Lanzhou University, Institute of Integrated Traditional Chinese and Western 
Medicine, Lanzhou 730000, China.

OBJECTIVE: To research the erythrocyte immunoregulation effects of Patrinia 
scabra extracts by macroporous adsorptive resins on mice burdened transplanted 
tumor.
METHODS: Extracts of Patrinia scabra Bunge were separated by macroporous 
adsorptive resins, ingredients were analysised. Mice burdened transplanted tumor 
were given extracted drugs. Life prolongation rate was observed, erythrocyte 
immunologic function and the CD35, CD44s contents of red blood cell were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: Polysaccharide and saponin accounted for 8.4% and 48.4%. Extracts could 
porolong life expectancy of mice, improve erythrocyte immunolgic function and 
increase the CD35 and CD44s contents of red blood cell.
CONCLUSION: Extracts of Patrinia scabra Bunge by macroporous adsorptive resins 
have erythrocyte immunoregulation effects on mice burdened transplanted tumor.

PMID: 18323212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Alaska Med. 2007 Apr-Jun;49(2):43-5.

The international polar year 2007-2008; the Arctic human health legacy.

Parkinson AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Arctic Investigations Program, Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, USA.

Life expectancy in Arctic populations has greatly improved over the last 50 
years. Much of this improvement can be attributed to health research that has 
resulted in a reduction in morbidity and mortality from infectious diseases, 
such as tuberculosis, and the vaccine-preventable diseases of childhood. 
However, despite these improvements in health indicators of Arctic residents, 
life expectancy and infant mortality remain higher in indigenous Arctic 
residents in the US Arctic, northern Canada, and Greenland when compared to 
Arctic residents of Nordic countries. The International Polar Year (IPY) 
represents a unique opportunity to focus world attention on Arctic human health 
and to further stimulate Circumpolar cooperation on emerging Arctic human health 
concerns. The Arctic Human Health Initiative (AHHI) is an Arctic Council IPY 
initiative that aims to build and expand on existing Arctic Council and 
International Union for Circumpolar Health (IUCH) human health research 
activities. The human health legacy of the IPY will be increased visibility of 
the human health concerns of Arctic communities, revitalization of cooperative 
Arctic human health research focused on those concerns, the development of 
health policies based on research findings, and the subsequent implementation of 
appropriate interventions, prevention and control measures at the community 
level.

PMID: 18323371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. BMC Bioinformatics. 2008 Mar 6;9:142. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-9-142.

Ranking analysis of F-statistics for microarray data.

Tan YD(1), Fornage M, Xu H.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Hunan Normal University, Changsha, 410081, China. 
tanyuande@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Microarray technology provides an efficient means for globally 
exploring physiological processes governed by the coordinated expression of 
multiple genes. However, identification of genes differentially expressed in 
microarray experiments is challenging because of their potentially high type I 
error rate. Methods for large-scale statistical analyses have been developed but 
most of them are applicable to two-sample or two-condition data.
RESULTS: We developed a large-scale multiple-group F-test based method, named 
ranking analysis of F-statistics (RAF), which is an extension of ranking 
analysis of microarray data (RAM) for two-sample t-test. In this method, we 
proposed a novel random splitting approach to generate the null distribution 
instead of using permutation, which may not be appropriate for microarray data. 
We also implemented a two-simulation strategy to estimate the false discovery 
rate. Simulation results suggested that it has higher efficiency in finding 
differentially expressed genes among multiple classes at a lower false discovery 
rate than some commonly used methods. By applying our method to the experimental 
data, we found 107 genes having significantly differential expressions among 4 
treatments at <0.7% FDR, of which 31 belong to the expressed sequence tags 
(ESTs), 76 are unique genes who have known functions in the brain or central 
nervous system and belong to six major functional groups.
CONCLUSION: Our method is suitable to identify differentially expressed genes 
among multiple groups, in particular, when sample size is small.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-9-142
PMCID: PMC2323973
PMID: 18325100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2008 May 1;95(1-2):107-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2007.12.017. Epub 2008 Mar 6.

Transitions to regular smoking and to nicotine dependence in women using 
cannabis.

Agrawal A(1), Madden PA, Bucholz KK, Heath AC, Lynskey MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, MO 63110, USA. arpana@wustl.edu

BACKGROUND: While there is substantial support in the literature for an 
increased prevalence of cannabis use in cigarette smokers, emerging studies 
allude to the possibility that cannabis users may, in turn, be at significantly 
elevated risk for rapid transitions in their cigarette smoking trajectories. If 
there is evidence in its favor, the increased rates of cigarette smoking in 
cannabis users may prove to be the most significant public health problem 
associated with cannabis use.
METHODS: In a sample of 3787 female twins (age range 18-29 years), we examined, 
using discrete-time survival analyses, whether women who reported cannabis use 
were at increased risk for regular cigarette smoking and progression to nicotine 
dependence.
RESULTS: After controlling for a large number of potential covariates, we found 
that women who used cannabis were at 4.4 and 2.8 increased hazards for 
transitioning from initiation to regular smoking and from regular smoking to 
nicotine dependence, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Cannabis use is associated with transitions to more involved stages 
of cigarette smoking in women. This is a source of public health concern, first 
due to the high mortality associated with cigarette smoking and second, due to 
the high prevalence of cannabis use in the general population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2007.12.017
PMCID: PMC2336108
PMID: 18325694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Europace. 2008 Apr;10(4):391-4. doi: 10.1093/europace/eun014. Epub 2008 Mar
8.

Mortality in patients with atrial fibrillation has significantly decreased 
during the last three decades: 35 years of follow-up in 1627 pacemaker patients.

Asbach S(1), Olschewski M, Faber TS, Zehender M, Bode C, Brunner M.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik III, Kardiologie und Angiologie, Universitätsklinik 
Freiburg, Hugstetter Str. 55, 79106 Freiburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Europace. 2008 Apr;10(4):389-90.

AIM: The impact of atrial fibrillation (AF) on mortality is not fully 
understood. We therefore sought to investigate long-term effects of AF on 
mortality in patients with the need for pacemaker (PM) therapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A total of 1627 PM recipients with AF at implantation were 
followed in a single-centre, longitudinal study for up to 35 years. Baseline 
factors affecting survival and long-term follow-up were analysed. A total of 
7362 patient-years of follow-up (PM implanted between 1971 and 2000, followed 
until 31 December 31 2005) were analysed. Female PM recipients lived 
significantly longer than male (P = 0.025; mean survival 91.9 vs. 72.1 months) 
despite older age at time of inclusion. Mean survival times almost doubled for 
patients implanted in the last decade, with 139.8 months in the nineties vs. 
66.8 months in the seventies and 75.7 months in the eighties (P < 0.001). Male 
gender, age at implantation, non-syncopal bradycardia, and decade of 
implantation influenced survival.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy in AF patients after PM implantation has doubled 
within the last three decades, with a mean survival in the overall population of 
7.6 years for women and 6.0 years for men. Survival is influenced by several 
simple baseline characteristics, which may help to identify patients with very 
long survival times.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eun014
PMID: 18326852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Mol Biotechnol. 2008 Sep;40(1):27-37. doi: 10.1007/s12033-008-9056-5. Epub
2008  Mar 8.

Plasma antioxidants and human aging: a study on healthy elderly Tunisian 
population.

Chehab O(1), Ouertani M, Souiden Y, Chaieb K, Mahdouani K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy of Monastir, Unit of Research URSAM 03/UR/07-01, 5000, 
Monastir, Tunisia. chehab_olfa@yahoo.fr

The aging has been described by several theories. It was proposed that free 
radicals are the major factor involved in this process. This gave birth to the 
free radical theory of aging. This current theory provides the most popular 
explanation for how aging occurs at the biochemical/molecular level. Ever since 
1956, this theory has received widespread attention and a large body of evidence 
has been accumulated in support of its hypotheses which were subsequently 
refined. The free radical theory of aging postulates that age-associated 
reductions in physiological functions are caused by an irreversible accumulation 
of oxidative alterations to macromolecules. This accumulation increases with age 
and is associated with the life expectancy of organisms. Moreover, this theory 
suggests the existence of an imbalance between reactive oxygen species 
(ROS)-producing pathways and (ROS)-scavenging pathways, which is responsible for 
the generation of oxidative stress syndrome. In this article, we evaluate the 
antioxidant status in a population of healthy elderly Tunisians in comparison 
with a group of healthy young Tunisian subjects. This study sets out to 
investigate the age-related changes in glutathione peroxidase (GPx), superoxide 
dismutase (SOD) activities, and in total antioxidant status (TAS) of human 
plasma. We have concluded that healthy aging is accompanied with a disturbed 
antioxidant status.

DOI: 10.1007/s12033-008-9056-5
PMID: 18327548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Eur J Health Econ. 2009 Feb;10(1):15-23. doi: 10.1007/s10198-008-0097-2.
Epub  2008 Mar 9.

SF-6D versus EQ-5D: reasons for differences in utility scores and impact on 
reported cost-utility.

Grieve R(1), Grishchenko M, Cairns J.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, WC1E 7HT, UK. 
richard.grieve@lshtm.ac.uk

The choice of instrument (e.g. EQ-5D vs. SF-6D) can lead to different 
health-related utility scores, but it is unclear why these differences arise and 
whether they change cost utility analysis (CUA) results. This paper addresses 
these issues using a case study where using SF-6D rather EQ-5D led to greater 
utility gain and a lower cost per QALY for treatment. The paper examines reasons 
for this difference. This paper finds that an important factor was the inclusion 
in the SF-6D descriptive system of separate items for "vitality" and "social 
functioning", not explicitly included in EQ-5D. Further studies are required 
that examine the impact of the choice of instrument on cost-utility.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-008-0097-2
PMID: 18327677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Int J Androl. 2009 Feb;32(1):11-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.2008.00879.x.
Epub  2008 Mar 5.

The European Male Ageing Study (EMAS): design, methods and recruitment.

Lee DM(1), O'Neill TW, Pye SR, Silman AJ, Finn JD, Pendleton N, Tajar A, Bartfai 
G, Casanueva F, Forti G, Giwercman A, Huhtaniemi IT, Kula K, Punab M, Boonen S, 
Vanderschueren D, Wu FC; EMAS study group.

Collaborators: Forti G, Petrone L, Cilotti A, Vanderschueren D, Boonen S, Borghs 
H, Kula K, Slowikowska-Hilczer J, Walczak-Jedrzejowska R, Huhtaniemi I, 
Giwercman A, Wu F, Silman A, O'Neill T, Finn J, Steer P, Tajar A, Lee D, Pye S, 
Casanueva F, Ocampo M, Lage M, Bartfai G, Földesi I, Fejes I, Punab M, Korrovitz 
P, Jiang M.

Author information:
(1)ARC Epidemiology Unit, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.

Life expectancy is increasing in most developed countries, in part due to 
improved socioeconomic conditions and in part to advances in healthcare. It is 
widely acknowledged that the promotion of healthy ageing by delaying, minimizing 
or preventing disabilities or diseases is one of the most important public 
health objectives in this century. In contrast to the menopausal transition in 
females, we know relatively little about the contribution of androgens and 
anabolic hormones to the quality of ageing in men. The European Male Ageing 
Study (EMAS) is a multicentre prospective cohort designed to examine the 
prevalence, incidence and geographical distribution of gender-specific and 
general symptoms of ageing in men, including their endocrine, genetic and 
psychosocial predictors. Men aged 40-79 years were recruited from eight European 
centres: Florence (Italy), Leuven (Belgium), Lodz (Poland), Malmö (Sweden), 
Manchester (UK), Santiago de Compostela (Spain), Szeged (Hungary) and Tartu 
(Estonia). Subjects were recruited from population registers and those who 
agreed to take part completed a detailed questionnaire including aspects of 
personal and medical history, lifestyle factors and sexual function. Objective 
measures of body size, cognition, vision, skeletal health and neuromuscular 
function were obtained. Blood and DNA specimens were collected for a range of 
biochemical and genetic analyses. After an average of 4 years, it is planned to 
resurvey the participants with similar assessments. A total of 3369 men with a 
mean age of 60 +/- 11 years were recruited. The mean centre response rate was 
43%, and highest in those aged 50-59 years. Those who participated were 
marginally younger than those who were invited but declined to participate (60.0 
vs. 61.1 years). Participants left education slightly later than a sample of 
non-participants, though there were no consistent differences in levels of 
general health, physical activity, or smoking. EMAS will provide new 
population-based data concerning the main features that characterize ageing in 
men and its critical determinants, particularly with reference to age-related 
changes in hormone levels. Such information is an important prerequisite to 
develop effective strategies to reduce age-related disabilities and optimise 
health and well-being into old-age.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.2008.00879.x
PMID: 18328041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2008 May 9;369(3):807-11. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.119. Epub 2008 Mar 5.

Telomerase-mediated life-span extension of human primary fibroblasts by human 
artificial chromosome (HAC) vector.

Shitara S(1), Kakeda M, Nagata K, Hiratsuka M, Sano A, Osawa K, Okazaki A, Katoh 
M, Kazuki Y, Oshimura M, Tomizuka K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Science, Institute of Regenerative Medicine and 
Biofunction, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Tottori University, 86 
Nishimachi, Yonago, Tottori 683-8503, Japan.

Telomerase-mediated life-span extension enables the expansion of normal cells 
without malignant transformation, and thus has been thought to be useful in cell 
therapies. Currently, integrating vectors including the retrovirus are used for 
human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT)-mediated expansion of normal 
cells; however, the use of these vectors potentially causes unexpected 
insertional mutagenesis and/or activation of oncogenes. Here, we established 
normal human fibroblast (hPF) clones retaining non-integrating human artificial 
chromosome (HAC) vectors harboring the hTERT expression cassette. In 
hTERT-HAC/hPF clones, we observed the telomerase activity and the suppression of 
senescent-associated SA-beta-galactosidase activity. Furthermore, the 
hTERT-HAC/hPF clones continued growing beyond 120days after cloning, whereas the 
hPF clones retaining the silent hTERT-HAC senesced within 70days. Thus, 
hTERT-HAC-mediated episomal expression of hTERT allows the extension of the 
life-span of human primary cells, implying that gene delivery by non-integrating 
HAC vectors can be used to control cellular proliferative capacity of primary 
cultured cells.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.119
PMID: 18328257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Lancet. 2008 Mar 8;371(9615):838-51. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60383-9.

Liver cirrhosis.

Schuppan D(1), Afdhal NH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
dschuppa@bidmc.harvard.edu

Cirrhosis is defined as the histological development of regenerative nodules 
surrounded by fibrous bands in response to chronic liver injury, which leads to 
portal hypertension and end-stage liver disease. Recent advances in the 
understanding of the natural history and pathophysiology of cirrhosis, and in 
treatment of its complications, have resulted in improved management, quality of 
life, and life expectancy of patients. Liver transplantation remains the only 
curative option for a selected group of patients, but pharmacological treatments 
that can halt progression to decompensated cirrhosis or even reverse cirrhosis 
are currently being developed. This Seminar focuses on the diagnosis, 
complications, and management of cirrhosis, and new clinical and scientific 
developments.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60383-9
PMCID: PMC2271178
PMID: 18328931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Am J Ophthalmol. 2008 May;145(5):923-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.12.037. Epub
 2008 Mar 10.

A value-based medicine cost-utility analysis of idiopathic epiretinal membrane 
surgery.

Gupta OP(1), Brown GC, Brown MM.

Author information:
(1)Retina Service, Wills Eye Institute, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19107, USA. 
ogupta1@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: To perform a reference case, cost-utility analysis of epiretinal 
membrane (ERM) surgery using current literature on outcomes and complications.
DESIGN: Computer-based, value-based medicine analysis.
METHODS: Decision analyses were performed under two scenarios: ERM surgery in 
better-seeing eye and ERM surgery in worse-seeing eye. The models applied 
long-term published data primarily from the Blue Mountains Eye Study and the 
Beaver Dam Eye Study. Visual acuity and major complications were derived from 
25-gauge pars plana vitrectomy studies. Patient-based, time trade-off utility 
values, Markov modeling, sensitivity analysis, and net present value adjustments 
were used in the design and calculation of results. Main outcome measures 
included the number of discounted quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) gained and 
dollars spent per QALY gained.
RESULTS: ERM surgery in the better-seeing eye compared with observation resulted 
in a mean gain of 0.755 discounted QALYs (3% annual rate) per patient treated. 
This model resulted in $4,680 per QALY for this procedure. When sensitivity 
analysis was performed, utility values varied from $6,245 to $3,746/QALY gained, 
medical costs varied from $3,510 to $5,850/QALY gained, and ERM recurrence rate 
increased to $5,524/QALY. ERM surgery in the worse-seeing eye compared with 
observation resulted in a mean gain of 0.27 discounted QALYs per patient 
treated. The $/QALY was $16,146 with a range of $20,183 to $12,110 based on 
sensitivity analyses. Utility values ranged from $21,520 to $12,916/QALY and ERM 
recurrence rate increased to $16,846/QALY based on sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: ERM surgery is a very cost-effective procedure when compared with 
other interventions across medical subspecialties.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2007.12.037
PMID: 18329000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Accid Anal Prev. 2008 Mar;40(2):511-7. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2007.08.005. Epub
2007  Sep 4.

Initial age of unlicensed motorcycling experience for a cohort of high school 
students.

Yeh TH(1), Chang HL, Chang HW.

Author information:
(1)Researcher of Institute of Transportation, Ministry of Transportation and 
Communications, 7F, 240 Tunhwa North Road, Taipei 105, Taiwan. 
barryyeh7@hotmail.com

The aim of this study is to use retrospective data to examine the initial age of 
unlicensed motorcycling experience for a cohort of senior high school students 
in Taiwan. The life-table method was applied to estimate the probability of 
unlicensed motorcycling at different age intervals below the minimum licensing 
age. The results indicated that an increase in the prevalence of unlicensed 
teenage motorcycling began at 10 years of age and peaked in the ages between 16 
and 17 years. Only 38% of students had no motorcycle riding experience when they 
reached the minimum licensing age of 18 years. Gender and parental attitude were 
the factors that had a significant influence on the initial motorcycling age. In 
addition, we observed a significant difference between licensed and unlicensed 
students in the following areas: parental attitude, proportion of students using 
borrowed motorcycles, and riding and accident frequency. The results reveal a 
number of important implications, such as the promotion of alternative modes of 
transport, increased parental monitoring, and penalty enhancement, that may help 
to suppress the tendency of teenagers' unlicensed motorcycling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2007.08.005
PMID: 18329401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2008 Jun;23(6):559-68. doi: 10.1007/s00384-008-0456-6.
 Epub 2008 Mar 11.

Survival and symptomatic benefit from palliative primary tumor resection in 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer: a review.

Eisenberger A(1), Whelan RL, Neugut AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY 10032, USA.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer have a limited 
life expectancy and are at risk for life-threatening tumor-related obstruction, 
perforation, and hemorrhage. Though surgical resection is performed frequently 
in this setting, its true benefit is not well-established.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed the medical literature from 1996-2006 using 
the search terms metastatic colorectal cancer and primary resection to find 
studies that evaluated the management of primary tumors in metastatic colorectal 
cancer. All search results were included in our analysis and were assessed on 
the basis of methodologic quality.
RESULTS/FINDINGS: Twelve relevant studies were identified; ten were 
single-institution retrospective reviews and two were population-based studies 
using National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End-Results 
database. No prospective or randomized studies were identified. Approximately 
70% of patients diagnosed with metastatic colorectal cancer in the USA undergo 
primary tumor resection; only a minority have this done for tumor-related 
symptoms or as part of potentially curative resection. The postoperative 
mortality ranged from 9.0-11.2% in large cancer registries but was often lower 
in major cancer centers. Resection of asymptomatic primary tumors was frequently 
associated with prolonged survival but was not found to reduce significantly the 
incidence of life-threatening tumor-related complications.
INTERPRETATION/CONCLUSION: Retrospective data suggest that non-curative 
resection of asymptomatic colorectal primary tumors may prolong survival; 
however, selection bias and unaccounted clinical factors may explain this 
observation. Prospective, randomized surgical trials are needed to test the role 
of primary tumor resection in this setting, especially because of its current 
widespread use, and its associated cost, morbidity, and high postoperative 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00384-008-0456-6
PMID: 18330581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Artif Life. 2008 Spring;14(2):203-22. doi: 10.1162/artl.2008.14.2.203.

Towards unconventional computing through simulated evolution: control of 
nonlinear media by a learning classifier system.

Bull L(1), Budd A, Stone C, Uroukov I, de Lacy Costello B, Adamatzky A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Computing, Engineering & Mathematics, University of the West of 
England, Coldharbour Lane, Frenchay, Bristol BS16 1QY, UK. larry.bull@uwe.ac.uk

We propose that the behavior of nonlinear media can be controlled automatically 
through evolutionary learning. By extension, forms of unconventional computing 
(viz., massively parallel nonlinear computers) can be realized by such an 
approach. In this initial study a light-sensitive subexcitable 
Belousov-Zhabotinsky reaction in which a checkerboard image, composed of cells 
of varying light intensity projected onto the surface of a thin silica gel 
impregnated with a catalyst and indicator, is controlled using a learning 
classifier system. Pulses of wave fragments are injected into the checkerboard 
grid, resulting in rich spatiotemporal behavior, and a learning classifier 
system is shown to be able to direct the fragments to an arbitrary position 
through dynamic control of the light intensity within each cell in both 
simulated and real chemical systems. Similarly, a learning classifier system is 
shown to be able to control the electrical stimulation of cultured neuronal 
networks so that they display elementary learning. Results indicate that the 
learned stimulation protocols identify seemingly fundamental properties of in 
vitro neuronal networks. Use of another learning scheme presented in the 
literature confirms that such fundamental behavioral characteristics of a given 
network must be considered in training experiments.

DOI: 10.1162/artl.2008.14.2.203
PMID: 18331191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Popul Health Metr. 2008 Mar 10;6:1. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-6-1.

The burden of disease profile of residents of Nairobi's slums: results from a 
demographic surveillance system.

Kyobutungi C(1), Ziraba AK, Ezeh A, Yé Y.

Author information:
(1)African Population & Health Research Center, P,O Box 10787, GPO 00100, 
Nairobi, Kenya. ckyobutungi@aphrc.org.

BACKGROUND: With increasing urbanization in sub-Saharan Africa and poor economic 
performance, the growth of slums is unavoidable. About 71% of urban residents in 
Kenya live in slums. Slums are characteristically unplanned, underserved by 
social services, and their residents are largely underemployed and poor. Recent 
research shows that the urban poor fare worse than their rural counterparts on 
most health indicators, yet much about the health of the urban poor remains 
unknown. This study aims to quantify the burden of mortality of the residents in 
two Nairobi slums, using a Burden of Disease approach and data generated from a 
Demographic Surveillance System.
METHODS: Data from the Nairobi Urban Health and Demographic Surveillance System 
(NUHDSS) collected between January 2003 and December 2005 were analysed. Core 
demographic events in the NUHDSS including deaths are updated three times a 
year; cause of death is ascertained by verbal autopsy and cause of death is 
assigned according to the ICD 10 classification. Years of Life Lost due to 
premature mortality (YLL) were calculated by multiplying deaths in each 
subcategory of sex, age group and cause of death, by the Global Burden of 
Disease standard life expectancy at that age.
RESULTS: The overall mortality burden per capita was 205 YLL/1,000 person years. 
Children under the age of five years had more than four times the mortality 
burden of the rest of the population, mostly due to pneumonia and diarrhoeal 
diseases. Among the population aged five years and above, HIV/AIDS and 
tuberculosis accounted for about 50% of the mortality burden.
CONCLUSION: Slum residents in Nairobi have a high mortality burden from 
preventable and treatable conditions. It is necessary to focus on these 
vulnerable populations since their health outcomes are comparable to or even 
worse than the health outcomes of rural dwellers who are often the focus of most 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-6-1
PMCID: PMC2292687
PMID: 18331630


252. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Apr;24(4):1115-21. doi: 10.1185/030079908x273309.
Epub  2008 Mar 7.

A Markov cost-utility analysis of escitalopram and duloxetine for the treatment 
of major depressive disorder.

Armstrong EP(1), Malone DC, Erder MH.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA. 
armstrong@pharmacy.arizona.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the costs and quality-adjusted life weeks of duloxetine 
and escitalopram.
RESEARCH DESIGN: A probabilistic Markov cost-utility analysis with a time 
horizon of 1 year using data from placebo controlled randomized clinical trials 
for both products.
METHODS: Efficacy was defined as remission of depressive symptoms and converted 
to utilities. Side effects were incorporated using rates from clinical trials 
and converted to utilities to define treatment effectiveness. The effectiveness 
outcome was quality adjusted life weeks (QALWs). Estimates of effectiveness 
(efficacy and side effects) used beta distributions and costs used gamma 
distributions. Using a managed care perspective, medication costs and physician 
office visits were included in the model, along with costs associated with 
treatment failure. Antidepressant costs were obtained using average wholesale 
price minus 20%. Physician visit costs were obtained from the 2006 US Medicare 
fee schedule for physician services. A Monte Carlo simulation was conducted 
using 1000 trials with both first- and second-order sampling.
RESULTS: Over 1 year, the estimated mean quality-adjusted life weeks was 41.0 
(95% confidence interval [CI]: 40.7-41.3) for escitalopram and 38.2 (95% CI: 
37.9-38.4) for duloxetine. The mean annual total medical cost for escitalopram 
was $907 (95% CI: $894-$919) and $1633 (95% CI: $1614-$1654) for duloxetine. 
Limitations to this analysis include using separate studies examining the 
efficacy and adverse events of either escitalopram or duloxetine, assuming the 
switch, augmentation, and titration rates for duloxetine to be similar to 
escitalopram, and using utility estimates from published literature for the 
antidepressant adverse events.
CONCLUSION: This analysis suggests that escitalopram was more effective in terms 
of QALWs and less costly than duloxetine for treatment of depression.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x273309
PMID: 18331669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Mar 10;168(5):451-7. doi: 10.1001/archinte.168.5.451.

Development and validation of an all-cause mortality risk score in type 2 
diabetes.

Hong Kong Diabetes Registry(1); Yang X, So WY, Tong PC, Ma RC, Kong AP, Lam CW, 
Ho CS, Cockram CS, Ko GT, Chow CC, Wong VC, Chan JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong SAR, China.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes reduces life expectancy by 10 to 12 years, but whether 
death can be predicted in type 2 diabetes mellitus remains uncertain.
METHODS: A prospective cohort of 7583 type 2 diabetic patients enrolled since 
1995 were censored on July 30, 2005, or after 6 years of follow-up, whichever 
came first. A restricted cubic spline model was used to check data linearity and 
to develop linear-transforming formulas. Data were randomly assigned to a 
training data set and to a test data set. A Cox model was used to develop risk 
scores in the test data set. Calibration and discrimination were assessed in the 
test data set.
RESULTS: A total of 619 patients died during a median follow-up period of 5.51 
years, resulting in a mortality rate of 18.69 per 1000 person-years. Age, sex, 
peripheral arterial disease, cancer history, insulin use, blood hemoglobin 
levels, linear-transformed body mass index, random spot urinary 
albumin-creatinine ratio, and estimated glomerular filtration rate at enrollment 
were predictors of all-cause death. A risk score for all-cause mortality was 
developed using these predictors. The predicted and observed death rates in the 
test data set were similar (P > .70). The area under the receiver operating 
characteristic curve was 0.85 for 5 years of follow-up. Using the risk score in 
ranking cause-specific deaths, the area under the receiver operating 
characteristic curve was 0.95 for genitourinary death, 0.85 for circulatory 
death, 0.85 for respiratory death, and 0.71 for neoplasm death.
CONCLUSIONS: Death in type 2 diabetes mellitus can be predicted using a risk 
score consisting of commonly measured clinical and biochemical variables. 
Further validation is needed before clinical use.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.5.451
PMID: 18332288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Mar 10;168(5):514-20. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2007.103.

Screening mammography in older women. Effect of wealth and prognosis.

Williams BA(1), Lindquist K, Sudore RL, Covinsky KE, Walter LC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco, CA , USA . 
brie.williams@ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: Wealthy women have higher rates of screening mammography than poor 
women do. Screening mammography is beneficial for women with substantial life 
expectancies, but women with limited life expectancies are unlikely to benefit. 
It is unknown whether higher screening rates in wealthy women are due to 
increased screening in women with substantial life expectancies, limited life 
expectancies, or both. This study examines the relationship between wealth and 
screening mammography use in older women according to life expectancy.
METHODS: A cohort study was performed of 4222 women 65 years or older with 
Medicare participating in the 2002 and 2004 Health and Retirement Survey. Women 
were categorized according to wealth and life expectancy (based on 5-year 
prognosis from a validated prognostic index). The outcome was self-reported 
receipt of screening mammography within 2 years.
RESULTS: Overall, within 2 years, 68% of women (2871 of 4222) received a 
screening mammogram. Screening was associated with wealth (net worth, > $100 
000) and good prognosis (< or = 10% probability of dying in 5 years). Screening 
mammography was more common among wealthy women than among poor women (net 
worth, < $10 000) both for women with good prognosis (82% vs 68%; P < .001) and 
for women with limited prognoses (> or = 50% probability of dying in 5 years) 
(48% vs 32%; P = .02). These associations remained after multivariate analysis 
accounting for age, race, education, proxy report, and rural residence.
CONCLUSIONS: Poorer older women with favorable prognoses are at risk of not 
receiving screening mammography when they are likely to benefit. Wealthier older 
women with limited prognoses are often screened when they are unlikely to 
benefit.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2007.103
PMID: 18332298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Health Aff (Millwood). 2008 Mar-Apr;27(2):350-60. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.27.2.350.

The gap gets bigger: changes in mortality and life expectancy, by education, 
1981-2000.

Meara ER(1), Richards S, Cutler DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School, in Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. meara@hcp.med.harvard.edu

In this paper we examine educational disparities in mortality and life 
expectancy among non-Hispanic blacks and whites in the 1980s and 1990s. Despite 
increased attention and substantial dollars directed to groups with low 
socioeconomic status, within race and gender groups, the educational gap in life 
expectancy is rising, mainly because of rising differentials among the elderly. 
With the exception of black males, all recent gains in life expectancy at age 
twenty-five have occurred among better-educated groups, raising educational 
differentials in life expectancy by 30 percent. Differential trends in 
smoking-related diseases explain at least 20 percent of this trend.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.27.2.350
PMCID: PMC2366041
PMID: 18332489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. HPB (Oxford). 2007;9(1):16-25. doi: 10.1080/13651820600839555.

Adenoviral p53 gene transfer and gemcitabine in three patients with liver 
metastases due to advanced pancreatic carcinoma.

Wolkersdörfer GW(1), Thiede C, Fischer R, Ehninger G, Haag C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Faculty of Medicine Carl Gustav Carus, 
