

446. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2008 Spring;24(2):184-92. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462308080264.

Cost-effectiveness of primarily human papillomavirus-based cervical cancer 
screening in settings with currently established Pap screening: a systematic 
review commissioned by the German Federal Ministry of Health.

Mühlberger N(1), Sroczynski G, Esteban E, Mittendorf T, Miksad RA, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, Austria. 
nikolai.muehlberger@umit.at

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to summarize the current evidence for the 
cost-effectiveness of primarily human papillomavirus (HPV) -based cervical 
cancer screening in settings with already established Papanicolaou test (Pap) 
programs. Emphasis was placed on the German situation with annual Pap screening.
METHODS: Medical, economic, and health technology assessment (HTA) databases 
were systematically searched for cost-effectiveness studies comparing HPV to Pap 
screening. Study data were extracted, standardized, and summarized in 
cost-effectiveness plots contrasting HPV strategies to Pap screening with 1-, 
2-, 3-, and 5-years interval. For each Pap setting, the likelihood of 
cost-effective HPV screening was assessed depending on willingness-to-pay.
RESULTS: We reviewed twelve decision-analytic cost-effectiveness models. Study 
results showed wide variation due to methodical heterogeneity. Data synthesis 
revealed that the cost-effectiveness of HPV screening depends on the interval of 
the established Pap screening strategy. In comparison with Pap screening every 2 
years, only 25 percent of the HPV-based screening strategies were 
cost-effective. However, in comparison with Pap screening every 1, 3, or 5 
years, 83 percent, 55 percent, and 92 percent of HPV screening strategies were 
cost-effective, respectively. Results for settings with annual Pap screening are 
based on models assuming 100 percent screening coverage.
CONCLUSIONS: The introduction of HPV-based screening programs is cost-effective 
if the screening interval of the established Pap program exceeds 2 years. In 
settings with biennial Pap screening, introduction of HPV-based screening is 
unlikely to be cost-effective. Results also suggest cost-effectiveness of 
HPV-based screening in settings with annual Pap screening; however, this finding 
should be confirmed under realistic screening adherence assumptions.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462308080264
PMID: 18400122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 May;24(5):1417-28. doi: 10.1185/030079908x297295.
Epub  2008 Apr 8.

Cost-effectiveness of insulin aspart versus human soluble insulin in type 2 
diabetes in four European countries: subgroup analyses from the PREDICTIVE 
study.

Palmer JL(1), Goodall G, Nielsen S, Kotchie RW, Valentine WJ, Palmer AJ, Roze S.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term health economic outcomes associated with 
insulin aspart (IAsp) compared to human soluble insulin (HI) in type 2 diabetes 
patients on basal-bolus therapy in Sweden, Spain, Italy and Poland.
METHODS: A published computer simulation model of diabetes was used to predict 
life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy and incidence of 
diabetes-related complications. Baseline cohort characteristics (age 61.6 years, 
duration of diabetes 13.2 years, 45.1% male, HbA(1c) 8.2%, BMI 29.8 kg/m(2)) and 
treatment effects were derived from the PREDICTIVE observational study. 
Country-specific complication costs were derived from published sources. The 
analyses were run over 35-year time horizons from third-party payer perspectives 
in Spain, Italy and Poland and from a societal perspective in Sweden. Future 
costs and clinical benefits were discounted at country-specific discount rates. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: IAsp was associated with improvements in discounted life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and a reduced incidence of most 
diabetes-related complications versus HI in all four settings. IAsp was 
associated with societal cost-savings in Sweden (SEK 2470), direct medical 
cost-savings in Sweden and Spain (SEK 8248 and euro 1382, respectively), but 
increased direct costs in Italy (euro 2235) and Poland (euro 743). IAsp was 
associated with improved quality-adjusted life expectancy in Sweden (0.077 
QALYs), Spain (0.080 QALYs), Italy (0.120 QALYs) and Poland (0.003 QALYs).
CONCLUSIONS: IAsp was dominant versus HI in both Sweden and Spain, would be 
considered cost-effective in Italy with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of euro 18,597 per QALY gained, but would not be considered cost-effective in 
Poland.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x297295
PMID: 18400145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Structure. 2008 Apr;16(4):631-42. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2008.01.013.

Infinite kinetic stability against dissociation of supramolecular protein 
complexes through donor strand complementation.

Puorger C(1), Eidam O, Capitani G, Erilov D, Grütter MG, Glockshuber R.

Author information:
(1)ETH Zürich, Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, CH-8093 Zurich, 
Switzerland.

Adhesive type 1 pili from uropathogenic Escherichia coli strains are heat and 
denaturant resistant, filamentous protein complexes. Individual pilus subunits 
associate through "donor strand complementation," whereby the incomplete 
immunoglobulin-like fold of each subunit is completed by the N-terminal 
extension of a neighboring subunit. We show that antiparallel donor strand 
insertion generally causes nonequilibrium behavior in protein folding and 
extreme activation energy barriers for dissociation of subunit-subunit 
complexes. We identify the most kinetically stable, noncovalent protein complex 
known to date. The complex between the pilus subunit FimG and the donor strand 
peptide of the subunit FimF shows an extrapolated dissociation half-life of 3 x 
10(9) years. The 15 residue peptide forms ideal intermolecular beta sheet 
H-bonds with FimG over 10 residues, and its hydrophobic side chains strongly 
interact with the hydrophobic core of FimG. The results show that kinetic 
stability and nonequilibrium behavior in protein folding confers infinite 
stability against dissociation in extracellular protein complexes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2008.01.013
PMID: 18400183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2008 Sep;36(3):217-27. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2007.10.010. Epub 2008 Apr 8.

Characteristics and quality of life of patients who choose home care at the end 
of life.

Ahlner-Elmqvist M(1), Jordhøy MS, Bjordal K, Jannert M, Kaasa S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
Marianne.Ahlner-Elmqvist@med.lu.se

Cancer patients with advanced disease and short-survival expectancy were given 
hospital-based advanced home care (AHC) or conventional care (CC), according to 
their preference. The two groups were compared at baseline to investigate 
whether there were differences between the AHC and the CC patients that may help 
explain their choice of care. The patients were consecutively recruited over 
2(1/2) years. Sociodemographic and medical data, and the health-related quality 
of life (HRQL) of the two groups were compared. HRQL was assessed using a 
self-reporting questionnaire, including the European Organization for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer Core Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30), the 
Impact of Event Scale (IES), five questions about social support, and two items 
concerning general well-being. The AHC group showed significantly poorer 
functioning on all the EORTC QLQ-C30 scales and an overall higher symptom burden 
than the CC patients. Fewer of the AHC patients were receiving cancer treatment. 
The AHC patients had lived longer with their cancer diagnosis, had a 
significantly shorter survival after study enrollment, and a significantly 
poorer performance status. The major differences between the two groups seemed 
to be related to being at different stages in their disease. The results 
indicate that patients are reluctant to accept home care until absolutely 
necessary due to severity of functioning impairments and symptom burden. These 
findings should be taken into consideration in planning palliative care 
services.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2007.10.010
PMID: 18400462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. J Public Health (Oxf). 2008 Sep;30(3):313-21. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdn015.
Epub  2008 Apr 8.

Measuring burden of disease in two inner London boroughs using Disability 
Adjusted Life Years.

Dodhia H(1), Phillips K.

Author information:
(1)King's College London, University of London, UK. 
hiten.dodhia@lambethpct.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: This paper uses the Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) to estimate 
disease burden at a local level and relates this to programme budget (PB) data.
METHODS: We estimated DALY using the global burden of disease (GBD) template. 
For years of life lost, local mortality data were used and for years of life 
with disability, the GBD estimates from World Health Organization EURO A region 
(including the UK) were used. We used PB data to analyse how healthcare 
expenditure matched disease burden.
RESULTS: In 2005 the burden of disease in Lambeth was estimated at 36,368 DALYs 
(13,515 DALYs lost per 100,000) and in Southwark was 34,196 DALYs (13,244 DALYs 
lost per 100,000). There were gender and area differences. The ranking is 
different when mortality and morbidity are combined compared with mortality 
alone. We estimated that the average spend per DALY lost in 2005 was 11,066 
pounds in Lambeth and 9390 pounds in Southwark.
CONCLUSIONS: We used a pragmatic approach to estimate overall disease burden 
providing a local, more comprehensive picture with important differences in 
spend by disease and health authority area. However, a more detailed approach to 
support decisions about prioritization based on modelling interventions that 
impact on avoidable burden of disease is recommended.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdn015
PMID: 18400697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2008 Feb;31(2):192-9. doi: 10.1016/s0181-5512(08)70356-5.

[Which epiretinal membranes should be operated?].

[Article in French]

Berrod JP(1), Poirson A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie A, Hôpital Central, Nancy.

Epimacular membrane (ERM) formation is an age-dependent more or less 
vision-threatening finding. Increased life expectancy and patient demand for 
better vision have led to increasing numbers of patients seeking therapy, making 
selection for surgery mandatory. The impressive improvements in macular hole 
surgery have influenced the epiretinal membrane and have renewed its therapeutic 
approach. Disturbing metamorphopsia, visual deterioration under 5/10, especially 
near-vision alteration and binocular disturbance, are major symptoms to motivate 
surgery. As epiretinal membrane removal can be considered a relatively safe and 
effective procedure today, with ILM peeling and simultaneous cataract surgery, 
visual acuity alone is no longer the single criterion. The patient's demands 
regarding vision in daily life should be taken into account. Patients with 
moderate visual loss, recent onset of symptoms, or progression are the best 
candidates for ERM surgery. Functional outcome in patients with poor initial 
visual acuity or long-standing disease is unsatisfactory. The OCT macular 
profile helps detect the best candidates with thickening between 300 and 450 
microns. The presence of a pseudo hole, traction, or an intraretinal cyst does 
not impair functional results. Complete traction relief during pucker surgery is 
believed to be a precondition for good functional results. Intended ILM peeling 
is a tool to achieve this goal.

DOI: 10.1016/s0181-5512(08)70356-5
PMID: 18401322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Int J Impot Res. 2008 Jul-Aug;20(4):358-65. doi: 10.1038/ijir.2008.9. Epub
2008  Apr 10.

Obesity and sexual dysfunction, male and female.

Esposito K(1), Giugliano F, Ciotola M, De Sio M, D'Armiento M, Giugliano D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Metabolic Diseases, Department of Geriatrics and Metabolic 
Diseases, University of Naples SUN, Naples, Italy. katherine.esposito@unina2.it

Obesity has become a worldwide public health problem of epidemic proportions, as 
it may decrease life expectancy by 7 years at the age of 40 years: excess 
bodyweight is now the sixth most important risk factor contributing to the 
overall burden of disease worldwide. Overweight and obesity may increase the 
risk of erectile dysfunction (ED) by 30-90% as compared with normal weight 
subjects. On the other hand, subjects with ED tend to be heavier and with a 
greater waist than subjects without ED, and also are more likely to be 
hypertensive and hypercholesterolemic. The metabolic syndrome, characterized by 
a clustering of risk factors associated with insulin resistance and abdominal 
obesity, associates with ED. Moreover, women with the metabolic syndrome have an 
increased prevalence of sexual dysfunctions as compared with matched control 
women. Lifestyle changes aimed at reducing body weight and increasing physical 
activity induce amelioration of both erectile and endothelial functions in obese 
men. Moreover, preliminary evidence suggests that a Mediterranean-style diet 
might be effective in ameliorating sexual function in women with the metabolic 
syndrome. Lifestyle changes, mainly focussing on regular physical activity and a 
healthy diet, are effective and safe ways to reduce cardiovascular diseases and 
premature mortality in all population groups; they may also prevent and treat 
sexual dysfunctions in both sexes.

DOI: 10.1038/ijir.2008.9
PMID: 18401349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Can J Cardiol. 2008 Apr;24(4):261-6. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(08)70174-0.

Determining the cost-effectiveness of preventing cardiovascular disease: are 
estimates calculated over the duration of a clinical trial adequate?

Grover SA(1), Coupal L, Lowensteyn I.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care, Montreal General Hospital, 
Montreal, Quebec. steven.grover@mcgill.ca

BACKGROUND: Economic analyses of randomized clinical trials often focus only on 
the results that are observed during the study. However, for many preventive 
interventions, associated costs and benefits will accrue over a patient's 
remaining lifetime. To determine the importance of the chosen time horizon, the 
cost-effectiveness (C/E) of ramipril therapy was calculated and compared in the 
Heart Outcomes Prevention Evaluation (HOPE), the Microalbuminuria, 
Cardiovascular, and Renal Outcomes in HOPE (MICRO-HOPE) and the Acute Infarction 
Ramipril Efficacy (AIRE) study versus the entire life expectancy (L/E) of 
potential patients.
METHODS: The Cardiovascular Disease Life Expectancy model, a validated Markov 
model, was calibrated to accurately forecast the results of each trial. These 
results were then extrapolated over the remaining L/E of hypothetical patients 
55 to 75 years of age. The predicted change in L/E and associated direct health 
care costs for Canadians were calculated and discounted 3% annually.
RESULTS: In HOPE, the forecasted increased L/E averaged 0.06 years during the 
five-year study versus 1.3 years over the remaining years of L/E. The associated 
C/E of ramipril was $15,000 per year of life saved (YOLS) over the study 
duration and $8,500/YOLS over the remaining lifetime. For hypothetical patients, 
the C/E of ramipril over 4.5 years ranged from $6,700/YOLS to more than 
$58,300/YOLS and was lowest among elderly men. When the remaining L/E was 
considered, the C/E of ramipril was similar for men and women of all ages, 
ranging from $8,100/YOLS to $10,200/YOLS. The analyses of MICRO-HOPE and AIRE 
provided similar results.
CONCLUSION: The estimated efficacy and associated C/E of ramipril in HOPE, 
MICRO-HOPE and the AIRE study is extremely sensitive to the selected time 
horizon. Economic analyses beyond the duration of randomized clinical trials are 
required to fully evaluate the potential costs and benefits of long-term 
preventive therapies.

HISTORIQUE : Souvent, les analyses économiques des essais cliniques aléatoires 
portent seulement sur les résultats observés pendant l’étude. Pourtant, dans 
bien des interventions préventives, les coûts et les bienfaits connexes 
augmentent pendant tout le reste de la vie du patient. Pour déterminer 
l’importance de l’horizon prévisionnel choisi, les auteurs ont calculé le 
rapport coût-efficacité (RC-E) d’un traitement au ramipril et l’ont comparé à 
l’étude HOPE sur l’évaluation de la prévention des issues cardiaques, à l’étude 
MICRO-HOPE sur les issues microalbuminuriques, cardiovasculaires et rénales dans 
HOPE et à l’étude AIRE sur l’efficacité du ramipril en cas d’infarctus aigu par 
rapport à toute l’espérance de vie (EV) des patients potentiels.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Les auteurs ont calibré un modèle d’espérance de vie avec une 
maladie cardiovasculaire, un modèle Markov validé, afin de prévoir avec 
précision les résultats de chaque étude. Ils ont ensuite extrapolé ces résultats 
pendant le reste de l’EV de patients hypothétiques de 55 à 75 ans. Ils ont 
calculé le changement prévu d’EV et de coûts directs connexes de santé pour les 
Canadiens et intégré une actualisation annuelle de 3 %.
RÉSULTATS : Dans l’étude HOPE, l’accroissement prévu de l’EV atteignait une 
moyenne de 0,06 an pendant l’étude de cinq ans, par rapport à 1,3 pendant le 
reste de l’EV. Le RC-E connexe du ramipril s’élevait à 15 000 $ par année de vie 
gagnée (AVG) pendant la durée de l’étude et à 8 500 $ par AVG pendant le reste 
de la vie. Chez les patients hypothétiques, le RC-E du ramipril sur 4,5 ans 
oscillait entre 6 700 $ par AVG et plus de 58 300 $ par AVG et était le plus 
faible chez les hommes âgés. Lorsqu’on tenait compte du reste de l’EV, le RC-E 
du ramipril était similaire pour les hommes et les femmes de tout âge, variant 
entre 8 100 $ par AVG et 10 200 $ par AVG. Les analyses des études MICRO-HOPE et 
AIRE ont donné des résultats similaires.
CONCLUSION : L’efficacité estimative et le RC-E connexe du ramipril dans les 
études HOPE, MICRO-HOPE et AIRE sont extrêmement sensibles à l’horizon 
prévisionnel sélectionné. Les auteurs ont conclu qu’il faut procéder à des 
analyses économiques qui dépassent la durée des essais cliniques aléatoires pour 
évaluer pleinement les coûts et bienfaits potentiels de thérapies préventives à 
long terme.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(08)70174-0
PMCID: PMC2644029
PMID: 18401465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2009 Jan;279(1):79-81. doi: 10.1007/s00404-008-0642-3.
Epub  2008 Apr 10.

Gas gangrene of the breast: management of a potential life-threatening 
infection.

Delotte J(1), Karimdjee BS, Cua E, Pop D, Bernard JL, Bongain A, Benchimol D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Archet 2, University Hospital, 151 route Saint 
Antoine de Ginestiere, BP 3079, 06202, NICE Cedex 3, France. 
jdelotte@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Gas gangrene of the breast is a rare infection and potentially 
mortal.
CASE REPORT: We report a case of a fast extension of a painful right breast 
erythema whose starting point was a right parasternal cutaneous abscess. A 
diagnosis of gas gangrene of the right breast was made. A right mammectomy was 
carried out in Emergency and an antibiotherapy adapted to the germs was given.
CONCLUSION: Mixed anaerobic and aerobic florae are often responsible for the 
infection. Its medico-surgical management is an emergency.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-008-0642-3
PMID: 18401589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Am Diet Assoc. 2008 Mar;108(3):553-61. doi: 10.1016/j.jada.2008.01.030.

Position of the American Dietetic Association: nutrition and lifestyle for a 
healthy pregnancy outcome.

Kaiser L(1), Allen LH; American Dietetic Association.

Collaborators: Denny S, Hager MH, Myers E, Nutrition Education for the Public 
dietetics practice group, Procter S, Public Health Community Nutrition dietetics 
practice group, Murphy LT, Risica PM, Tansman L, Weber JA, Women's Health and 
Reproductive Nutrition dietetics practice group, Paris E, Holt K, Polly D, Stang 
J.

Author information:
(1)Cooperative Extension, University of California, Davis, USA.

Erratum in
    J Am Diet Assoc. 2009 Jul;109(7):1296.
    J Am Diet Assoc. 2010 Jan;110(1):141.

It is the position of the American Dietetic Association that women of 
child-bearing ages should maintain good nutritional status through a lifestyle 
that optimizes maternal health and reduces the risk of birth defects, suboptimal 
fetal growth and development, and chronic health problems in their children. The 
key components of a health-promoting lifestyle during pregnancy include 
appropriate weight gain; appropriate physical activity; consumption of a variety 
of foods in accordance with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans 2005; 
appropriate and timely vitamin and mineral supplementation; avoidance of 
alcohol, tobacco, and other harmful substances; and safe food handling. Pregnant 
women with inappropriate weight gain, hyperemesis, poor dietary patterns, 
phenylketonuria, certain chronic health problems, or a history of substance 
abuse should be referred to a registered dietitian for medical nutrition 
therapy. Prenatal weight gain within the Institute of Medicine recommended 
ranges has been associated with better pregnancy outcomes. Most pregnant women 
need 2,200 to 2,900 kcal a day, but prepregnancy body mass index, rate of weight 
gain, maternal age, and appetite must be considered when tailoring this 
recommendation to the individual. The consumption of more food to meet energy 
needs, and the increased absorption and efficiency of nutrient utilization that 
occurs in pregnancy, are generally adequate to meet the needs for most 
nutrients. However, vitamin and mineral supplementation is appropriate for some 
nutrients and situations. This position paper also includes recommendations 
pertaining to use of alcohol, tobacco, caffeine, and illicit drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jada.2008.01.030
PMID: 18401922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Thorac Surg Clin. 2008 Feb;18(1):107-12. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2007.10.005.

The use of scoring systems in selecting patients for lung resection: work-up 
bias comes full-circle.

Utley M(1), Treasure T.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Operational Research Unit, University College London, Gower Street, 
London WCIE 6BT, UK.

The construction of statistical models of perioperative risk and long-term 
postoperative survival is a useful activity. It facilitates fair, assessment of 
surgical outcomes and provides insight into the association between certain 
clinical features and outcome. It provides quantitative estimates of risk or 
long-term survival. There are, however, a number of limitations to the use of 
such models in informing decisions concerning the selection of patients for lung 
resection. In essence, the limitations described in this article are those of 
work-up bias come full circle. Concerning the use of scoring systems in 
selecting patients for resection, one should remember the advice of the wise 
Gene Blackstone: caveat emptor. The findings of model-building exercises, if 
based on surgical databases, can only augment, and not replace, clinical 
judgment. When models suggest that certain patient groups do well, the prior 
selection of these patients should be borne in mind. When models of 
perioperative risk or long-term survival suggest that certain patient groups, 
despite being carefully selected by clinical teams, do badly, this information 
should be heeded. That said, moves to deny informed patients lung resection on 
the basis of estimates of risk or "poor" survival should be considered 
carefully. For example the British Thoracic Society Guidelines on Surgery for 
lung cancer state that mortality following resection should not be in excess of 
4% for lobectomy. It is not exactly clear what is intended by publishing that 
statement. It represents some form of audit standard but clearly fails if one 
thinks in terms of the individual patient. A patient who has a curable cancer 
and who faces a life expectancy likely to be under 2 years without surgery might 
well accept a greater than 1 in 25 chance of perioperative death. If 25 patients 
in a room were facing that prospect, all 25 might reasonably hope to be among 
the 24 expected survivors and opt for surgery.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2007.10.005
PMID: 18402206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Mar 8;152(10):538-40.

[The value of follow-up in surgical oncology].

[Article in Dutch]

van Hillegersberg R(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, afd. Heelkunde, G04.228, Heidelberglaan 
100, 3584 CX Utrecht. r.vanhillegersberg@umcutrecht.nl

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Mar 8;152(10):557-62.

Follow-up after surgical interventions for cancer is essential for the early 
detection of recurrent (2nd) primary and metastatic disease; patient coaching, 
including psychosocial coaching; and treatment quality control. As the incidence 
of cancer increases, cost-benefit analyses become increasingly important. The 
most effective period of follow-up is 5 years. An intensive follow-up schedule 
has been shown to increase life expectancy in colorectal cancer patients through 
early detection and timely intervention for recurrent disease. In melanoma 
patients, self-detection plays an important role. Nurse practitioners are 
increasingly involved in follow-up to reduce costs and specialist time. A 
differential follow-up schedule that takes into account the initial tumour stage 
can further enhance the cost-benefit ratio of follow-up.

PMID: 18402316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Am J Manag Care. 2008 Mar;14(2 Suppl):S40-8.

Parkinson's disease--Part 1: Pathophysiology, symptoms, burden, diagnosis, and 
assessment.

Weintraub D(1), Comella CL, Horn S.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease associated with 
substantial morbidity, increased mortality, and high economic burden. Of 
importance to managed care is that the number of cases of PD are on the rise, 
paralleling the advancing age of the population, and misdiagnosis is common. 
Effective management of PD can minimize disability and potentially improve 
long-term outcomes, which would minimize long-term healthcare costs and medical 
resource utilization. This article provides a brief review of the epidemiology, 
pathophysiology, clinical course, and burden of PD.

PMID: 18402507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2008 Apr;6(4):491-501. doi: 
10.1586/14779072.6.4.491.

Optimum management of elderly patients with calcified aortic stenosis.

Kappetein AP(1), van Geldorp M, Takkenberg JJ, Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center, Room Bd 569, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.kappetein@erasmusmc.nl

Increased life-expectancy has led to a growing elderly population frequently 
presenting with aortic stenosis. This review focuses on the pathogenesis of 
calcific aortic stenosis, diagnosis and possible ways to halt the progression to 
severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, methods of assessing symptoms and severity, 
and modalities and timing of aortic valve replacement. At present the treatment 
of aortic stenosis for the majority of patients is surgical, and any patient 
with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis should be considered for aortic valve 
replacement. This article also discusses the role of emerging techniques of 
closed heart valve implantation either transfemoral or transapical, and which 
patients might be candidates for these new approaches to the treatment of aortic 
stenosis in the elderly population.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.6.4.491
PMID: 18402539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. BMC Public Health. 2008 Apr 10;8:116. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-116.

Calculating expected years of life lost for assessing local ethnic disparities 
in causes of premature death.

Aragón TJ(1), Lichtensztajn DY, Katcher BS, Reiter R, Katz MH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of California, 
Berkeley, California, USA. aragon@berkeley.edu

BACKGROUND: A core function of local health departments is to conduct health 
assessments. The analysis of death certificates provides information on 
diseases, conditions, and injuries that are likely to cause death - an important 
outcome indicator of population health. The expected years of life lost (YLL) 
measure is a valid, stand-alone measure for identifying and ranking the 
underlying causes of premature death. The purpose of this study was to rank the 
leading causes of premature death among San Francisco residents, and to share 
detailed methods so that these analyses can be used in other local health 
jurisdictions.
METHODS: Using death registry data and population estimates for San Francisco 
deaths in 2003-2004, we calculated the number of deaths, YLL, and 
age-standardized YLL rates (ASYRs). The results were stratified by sex, 
ethnicity, and underlying cause of death. The YLL values were used to rank the 
leading causes of premature death for men and women, and by ethnicity.
RESULTS: In the years 2003-2004, 6312 men died (73,627 years of life lost), and 
5726 women died (51,194 years of life lost). The ASYR for men was 65% higher 
compared to the ASYR for women (8971.1 vs. 5438.6 per 100,000 persons per year). 
The leading causes of premature deaths are those with the largest average YLLs 
and are largely preventable. Among men, these were HIV/AIDS, suicide, drug 
overdose, homicide, and alcohol use disorder; and among women, these were lung 
cancer, breast cancer, hypertensive heart disease, colon cancer, and diabetes 
mellitus. A large health disparity exists between African Americans and other 
ethnic groups: African American age-adjusted overall and cause-specific YLL 
rates were higher, especially for homicide among men. Except for homicide among 
Latino men, Latinos and Asians have comparable or lower YLL rates among the 
leading causes of death compared to whites.
CONCLUSION: Local death registry data can be used to measure, rank, and monitor 
the leading causes of premature death, and to measure and monitor ethnic health 
disparities.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-116
PMCID: PMC2386472
PMID: 18402698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. BMC Palliat Care. 2008 Apr 10;7:3. doi: 10.1186/1472-684X-7-3.

Use of a Cybex NORM dynamometer to assess muscle function in patients with 
thoracic cancer.

Wilcock A(1), Maddocks M, Lewis M, Howard P, Frisby J, Bell S, El Khoury B, 
Manderson C, Evans H, Mockett S.

Author information:
(1)Hayward House Macmillan Specialist Palliative Cancer Care Unit, Nottingham 
University Hospitals NHS Trust, Nottingham, UK. andrew.wilcock@nottingham.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The cachexia-anorexia syndrome impacts on patients' physical 
independence and quality of life. New treatments are required and need to be 
evaluated using acceptable and reliable outcome measures, e.g. the assessment of 
muscle function. The aims of this study were to: (i) examine the acceptability 
and reliability of the Cybex NORM dynamometer to assess muscle function in 
people with non-small cell lung cancer or mesothelioma; (ii) compare muscle 
function in this group with healthy volunteers and; (iii) explore changes in 
muscle function over one month.
METHODS: The test consisted of 25 repetitions of isokinetic knee flexion and 
extension at maximal effort while seated on a Cybex NORM dynamometer. Strength 
and endurance for the quadriceps and hamstrings were assessed as peak torque and 
total work and an endurance ratio respectively. Thirteen patients and 26 
volunteers completed the test on three separate visits. Acceptability was 
assessed by questionnaire, reliability by intraclass correlation coefficients 
(ICC) and tests of difference compared outcomes between and within groups.
RESULTS: All subjects found the test acceptable. Peak torque and work done were 
reliable measures (ICC >0.80), but the endurance ratio was not. Muscle function 
did not differ significantly between the patient and a matched volunteer group 
or in either group when repeated after one month.
CONCLUSION: For patients with non-small cell lung cancer or mesothelioma, the 
Cybex NORM dynamometer provides an acceptable and reliable method of assessing 
muscle strength and work done. Muscle function appears to be relatively well 
preserved in this group and it appears feasible to explore interventions which 
aim to maintain or even improve this.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-684X-7-3
PMCID: PMC2324074
PMID: 18402699


462. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2008 May;9(5):515-25. doi: 
10.2459/JCM.0b013e3282f20847.

Guideline recommendations for heart complications in thalassemia major.

Cogliandro T(1), Derchi G, Mancuso L, Mayer MC, Pannone B, Pepe A, Pili M, Bina 
P, Cianciulli P, De Sanctis V, Maggio A; Society for the Study of Thalassemia 
and Hemoglobinopathies (SoSTE).

Author information:
(1)UOSC Cardiologia, UOS, Centro della Cardiopatia nelle Talassemie, Osp. S. 
Eugenio, Roma, Italy.

Thalassemia major is an inherited hemoglobin disorder resulting in a chronic 
hemolytic anemia. Transfusion therapy together with elevated gastrointestinal 
absorption of iron determines iron overload, which causes most of the mortality 
and morbidity associated with the disease. Heart complications represent the 
leading cause of mortality in this disease, although, because of an improvement 
in chelation treatment, an important and progressive increase of life expectancy 
mainly as a result of a reduction in mortality due to cardiac dysfunction has 
been demonstrated in recent years. Clinical pictures of heart damage range from 
the involvement of the ventricles to pulmonary hypertension or symptomatic 
ventricular or supra-ventricular arrhythmias. For this reason, the possibility 
of having specific recommendations is noteworthy. These recommendations outline 
the definition, the follow-up and the treatment of the main heart complications 
in this group of patients. The identification of topics and the nomination of 
the committee were made on behalf of the Society for the Study of Thalassemia 
and Hemoglobinopathies (SoSTE). The document obtained the auspices of ANMCO, 
SIC, SIRM and the Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance Working Groups of the ANMCO, 
SIC and SIRM. All recommendations provided in this document have been performed 
according to the American Cardiology College (ACC) and American Heart 
Association (AHA) guidelines. Moreover, the recommendations were reviewed by two 
external referees before the definitive approval.

DOI: 10.2459/JCM.0b013e3282f20847
PMID: 18404006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Calcif Tissue Int. 2008 Apr;82(4):288-92. doi: 10.1007/s00223-008-9117-6.
Epub  2008 Apr 11.

Utility values associated with osteoporotic fracture: a systematic review of the 
literature.

Hiligsmann M(1), Ethgen O, Richy F, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Public Health, and Health Economics, University 
of Liège, Avenue de l'hopital, Bat B23, 4000 Liege, Belgium. 
m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

Erratum in
    Calcif Tissue Int. 2008 Jun;82(6):498.

We reviewed studies that have estimated the impact of osteoporotic fracture on 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and to determine reference values for 
countries that would like to carry out cost-utility analyses but that do not 
have their own values. The computerized medical literature databases Medline and 
EMBASE were searched from January 1990 to December 2006. The search was carried 
out in two steps. The first step was to identify studies that related to quality 
of life in osteoporosis. As part of the second step, only the studies that 
translated quality of life into a utility value (one single value for health 
status ranging 0-1) and calculated a utility loss over a period of at least 1 
year were selected. From the 152 studies identified in the first analysis, only 
16 were retained after the second step. Ten studies investigated utility values 
for hip fractures, 11 for vertebral fractures, five for distal forearm 
fractures, and four for other osteoporotic fractures and fracture interactions. 
Utility values differed substantially between studies, partly due to the 
valuation technique used, the severity of fractures, and the sample size. This 
review suggests that there is no meaningful average value across different 
studies, different samples, different countries, or different instruments. 
Although we tried to determine the best available values, these values do not 
preclude the need for country-specific studies. Finally, we also make 
recommendations regarding the design and methodology for such studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00223-008-9117-6
PMID: 18404243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Cancer. 2008 May 15;112(10):2181-7. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23420.

Treatment options for muscle-invasive urothelial cancer for patients who were 
not eligible for cystectomy or neoadjuvant chemotherapy with methotrexate, 
vinblastine, doxorubicin, and cisplatin: report of Southwest Oncology Group 
Trial 8733.

Higano CS(1), Tangen CM, Sakr WA, Faulkner J, Rivkin SE, Meyers FJ, Hussain M, 
Baker LH, Russell KJ, Crawford ED; Southwest Oncology Group Trial 8733.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: Many patients with invasive urothelial cell cancer are poor 
candidates for cisplatin-based chemotherapy, and many are high risk for 
cystectomy. Southwest Oncology Group Trial 8733 was designed to address 
treatment for such patients.
METHODS: Eligible patients had primary or recurrent muscle-invasive disease with 
transitional cell or squamous cell histology, a performance status from 0 to 2, 
no extrapelvic disease, a life expectancy >3 months, and adequate hematologic 
function. The treating clinician assigned patients to operable or inoperable 
groups. All patients received 2 cycles of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) at a dose of 
1000 mg/m(2) per day x 4 starting concurrently with radiation at a dose of 200 
centigrays per day x 10 each cycle. After 2 cycles, operable patients with 
positive biopsies underwent cystectomy, and patients with negative biopsies 
received a third cycle of chemoradiotherapy. Patients in the inoperable group 
received 3 cycles without interim biopsy.
RESULTS: Eighteen of 24 eligible patients in the operable group were evaluable 
for response. Five patients had a complete response (CR), 9 patients had stable 
disease, 1 patient had progressive disease, and 3 patients were not assessable. 
The median progression-free survival was 10 months (95% confidence interval [95% 
CI], 4-14 months), and the median overall survival was 18 months (95% CI, 7-28 
months). In the inoperable group, 35 of 37 eligible patients were evaluable for 
response with 17 CRs (49%; 95% CI, 31%-66%). The median progression-free 
survival was 13 months (95% CI, 10-17 months), and the median overall survival 
was 20 months (95% CI, 11-53 months). There were no episodes of grade 4 
toxicity.
CONCLUSIONS: In the current study, the combination of 5-FU and radiation was 
found to be tolerated well by patients with numerous comorbidities who could not 
tolerate cisplatin-based therapy or cystectomy.

(c) 2008 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23420
PMCID: PMC8211356
PMID: 18404692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Versicherungsmedizin. 2008 Mar 1;60(1):32-3.

[Does the obesity "epidemic" stop the life expectancy trend?].

[Article in German]

Regenauer A(1).

Author information:
(1)Kompetenzzentrum Medical Risks Research & Underwritting, Müchener 
Ruchversicherungs-Gesellschaft, Müchen.

PMID: 18405233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Apr;12(11):1-278, iii. doi: 10.3310/hta12110.

Cyclooxygenase-2 selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (etodolac, 
meloxicam, celecoxib, rofecoxib, etoricoxib, valdecoxib and lumiracoxib) for 
osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis: a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Chen YF(1), Jobanputra P, Barton P, Bryan S, Fry-Smith A, Harris G, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To review the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs) (etodolac, meloxicam, celecoxib, rofecoxib, etoricoxib, valdecoxib and 
lumiracoxib) for osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched up to November 2003. Industry 
submissions to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
in 2003 were also reviewed.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic reviews of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and a 
model-based economic evaluation were undertaken. Meta-analyses were undertaken 
for each COX-2 selective NSAID compared with placebo and non-selective NSAIDs. 
The model was designed to run in two forms: the 'full Assessment Group Model 
(AGM)', which includes an initial drug switching cycle, and the 'simpler AGM', 
where there is no initial cycle and no opportunity for the patient to switch 
NSAID.
RESULTS: Compared with non-selective NSAIDs, the COX-2 selective NSAIDs were 
found to be equally as efficacious as the non-selective NSAIDs (although 
meloxicam was found to be of inferior or equivalent efficacy) and also to be 
associated with significantly fewer clinical upper gastrointestinal (UGI) events 
(although relatively small numbers of clinical gastrointestinal (GI) and 
myocardial infarction (MI) events were reported across trials). Subgroup 
analyses of clinical and complicated UGI events and MI events in relation to 
aspirin use, steroid use, prior GI history and Helicobacter pylori status were 
based on relatively small numbers and were inconclusive. In the RCTs that 
included direct COX-2 comparisons, the drugs were equally tolerated and of equal 
efficacy. Trials were of insufficient size and duration to allow comparison of 
risk of clinical UGI events, complicated UGI events and MIs. One RCT compared 
COX-2 (celecoxib) with a non-selective NSAID combined with a gastroprotective 
agent (diclofenac combined with omeprazole); this included arthritis patients 
who had recently suffered a GI haemorrhage. Although no significant difference 
in clinical GI events was reported, the number of events was small and more such 
studies, where patients genuinely need NSAIDs, are required to confirm these 
data. A second trial showed that rofecoxib was associated with fewer diarrhoea 
events than a combination of diclofenac and misoprostol (Arthrotec). Previously 
published cost-effectiveness analyses indicated a wide of range of possible 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained estimates. Using 
the simpler AGM, with ibuprofen or diclofenac alone as the comparator, all of 
the COX-2 products are associated with higher costs (i.e. positive incremental 
costs) and small increases in effectiveness (i.e. positive incremental 
effectiveness), measured in terms of QALYs. The magnitude of the incremental 
costs and the incremental effects, and therefore the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios, vary considerably across all COX-2 selective NSAIDs. 
The base-case incremental cost per QALY results for COX-2 selective NSAIDs 
compared with diclofenac for the simpler model are: celecoxib (low dose) 68,400 
pounds; celecoxib (high dose) 151,000 pounds; etodolac (branded) 42,400 pounds; 
etodolac (generic) 17,700 pounds; etoricoxib 31,300 pounds; lumiracoxib 70,400 
pounds; meloxicam (low dose) 10,300 pounds; meloxicam (high dose) 17,800 pounds; 
rofecoxib 97,400 pounds; and valdecoxib 35,500 pounds. When the simpler AGM was 
run using ibuprofen or diclofenac combined with proton pump inhibitor (PPI) as 
the comparator, the results change substantially, with the COX-2 selective 
NSAIDs looking generally unattractive from a cost-effectiveness point of view 
(COX-2 selective NSAIDs were dominated by ibuprofen or diclofenac combined with 
PPI in most cases). This applies both to 'standard' and 'high-risk' arthritis 
patients defined in terms of previous GI ulcers. The full AGM produced results 
broadly in line with the simpler model.
CONCLUSIONS: The COX-2 selective NSAIDs examined were found to be similar to 
non-selective NSAIDs for the symptomatic relief of RA and OA and to provide 
superior GI tolerability (the majority of evidence is in patients with OA). 
Although COX-2 selective NSAIDs offer protection against serious GI events, the 
amount of evidence for this protective effect varied considerably across 
individual drugs. The volume of trial evidence with regard to cardiovascular 
safety also varied substantially between COX-2 selective NSAIDs. Increased risk 
of MI compared to non-selective NSAIDs was observed among those drugs with 
greater volume of evidence in terms of exposure in patient-years. Economic 
modelling shows a wide range of possible costs per QALY gained in patients with 
OA and RA. Costs per QALY also varied if individual drugs were used in 
'standard' or 'high'-risk patients, the choice of non-selective NSAID comparator 
and whether that NSAID was combined with a PPI. With reduced costs of PPIs, 
future primary research needs to compare the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of COX-2 selective NSAIDs relative to non-selective NSAIDs 
with a PPI. Direct comparisons of different COX-2 selective NSAIDs, using 
equivalent doses, that compare GI and MI risk are needed. Pragmatic studies that 
include a wider range of people, including the older age groups with a greater 
burden of arthritis, are also necessary to inform clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12110
PMID: 18405470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2008 Apr;61(4):382-93.

[Cost-effectiveness of managing familial hypercholesterolemia using 
atorvastatin-based preventive therapy].

[Article in Spanish]

Alonso R(1), Fernández de Bobadilla J, Méndez I, Lázaro P, Mata N, Mata P.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Lípidos, Fundación Jiménez Díaz, Madrid, España.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: A cost-effectiveness model was developed to 
evaluate the efficiency of different preventive strategies in familial 
hypercholesterolemia (FH) in comparison with routine clinical practice (CP): 
atorvastatin monotherapy, 40 mg (A40) or 80 mg (A80, and atorvastatin combined 
with ezetimibe, 10 mg (A40+E10 or A80+E10).
METHODS: A longitudinal population model with a time horizon for life-expectancy 
was developed within the context of the Spanish public healthcare system. Life 
tables for the Spanish population (2002) were modified using the standardized 
mortality rate for individuals with FH. Effectiveness was expressed in 
life-years gained (LYG), after taking into account reductions for risk (ie, 
Framingham risk score) and cardiovascular mortality. The costs (in 2005 terms) 
of the intervention (CI) and care (CC) were discounted at 6%, while effects were 
discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: Routine CP, based on the Spanish FH registry: 1.97 LYG per patient vs. 
no treatment; CI euro5321, CC euro23,389. A40: 2.59 LYG; reduction in CC 
compared with CP 4.5%; total costs (TC) euro30 569. A80: 2.75 LYG; reduction in 
CC 6.4%; TC euro30 133. A40+E10: 3.38 LYG; reduction in CC 14.3%; TC euro36 104. 
A80+E10: 3.62 LYG; reduction in CC 17.6%; TC euro35 317. From most to least 
efficient strategy, the incremental cost-effectiveness per LYG compared with CP 
was: a) A80: euro1821; b) A40: euro3012; c) A80+E10: euro4021, and d) A40+E10: 
euro5250.
CONCLUSIONS: Preventive treatment of FH with atorvastatin was cost-effective. 
The greatest cost-effectiveness was obtained with atorvastatin monotherapy, 80 
mg. The addition of ezetimibe could produce further benefits at an acceptable 
incremental cost.

PMID: 18405519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Med Sci (Paris). 2008 Apr;24(4):415-7. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2008244415.

[Social inequalities in disability-free life expectancy in France].

[Article in French]

Gilgenkrantz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Médecine/Sciences, 9, rue Basse, 54330 Clérey-sur-Brénon, France. 
simone.gilgenkrantz@club-internet.fr

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2008244415
PMID: 18405641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Immunobiology. 2008;213(3-4):183-91. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2007.11.010. Epub
2008  Feb 8.

Neutrophil granulocytes as host cells and transport vehicles for intracellular 
pathogens: apoptosis as infection-promoting factor.

Laskay T(1), van Zandbergen G, Solbach W.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hygiene, University of Lübeck, 
Ratzeburger Allee 160, D-23538 Lübeck, Germany. Tamas.Laskay@uk-sh.de

Polymorphonuclear neutrophil granulocytes (PMN) are primary antimicrobial 
effector cells of the innate immune system and serve to destroy invading 
pathogens. Although most ingested microorganisms are killed readily inside PMN, 
several obligate or facultative intracellular pathogens survive even in this 
hostile environment. Extension of the life span of neutrophils is a general 
escape mechanism of pathogens residing in PMN. However, after 2-4 days, even 
infected neutrophils become apoptotic and are phagocytosed by macrophages. Since 
microbes entering macrophages via the uptake of infected apoptotic PMN may 
survive and multiply in macrophages, apoptotic neutrophils can serve as "Trojan 
horses" for certain pathogens. Interfering with activating signaling pathways 
appears to be another potent mechanism by which intracellular microorganisms 
suppress cellular activation in neutrophils. In addition to provide a short 
overview of the topic, the present review aims to summarize our own findings 
regarding the interaction between human neutrophils and intracellular pathogens 
as well as regarding the disease promoting role of apoptotic cells after 
infection with Leishmania major.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2007.11.010
PMID: 18406366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Gastrointest Endosc. 2008 Nov;68(5):920-36. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2008.01.035.
Epub  2008 Apr 14.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of management strategies for obscure GI bleeding.

Gerson L(1), Kamal A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, California 94305-5202, USA.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2008 Nov;68(5):937-9.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Of patients who are seen with GI hemorrhage, approximately 
5% will have a small-bowel source. Management of these patients entails 
considerable expense. We performed a decision analysis to explore the optimal 
management strategy for obscure GI hemorrhage.
METHODS: We used a cost-effectiveness analysis to compare no therapy (reference 
arm) to 5 competing modalities for a 50-year-old patient with obscure overt 
bleeding: (1) push enteroscopy, (2) intraoperative enteroscopy, (3) angiography, 
(4) initial anterograde double-balloon enteroscopy (DBE) followed by retrograde 
DBE if the patient had ongoing bleeding, and (5) small-bowel capsule endoscopy 
(CE) followed by DBE guided by the CE findings. The model included prevalence 
rates for small-bowel lesions, sensitivity for each intervention, and the 
probability of spontaneous bleeding cessation. We examined total costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) over a 1-year time period.
RESULTS: An initial DBE was the most cost-effective approach. The no-therapy arm 
cost $532 and was associated with 0.870 QALYs compared with $2407 and 0.956 
QALYs for the DBE approach, which resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of $20,833 per QALY gained. Compared to the DBE approach, an initial CE 
was more costly and less effective. The initial DBE arm resulted in an 86% 
bleeding cessation rate compared to 76% for the CE arm and 59% for the 
no-therapy arm. The model results were robust to a wide range of sensitivity 
analyses.
LIMITATIONS: The short time horizon of the model, because of the lack of 
long-term data about the natural history of rebleeding from small-intestinal 
lesions.
CONCLUSIONS: An initial DBE is a cost-effective approach for patients with 
obscure bleeding. However, capsule-directed DBE may be associated with better 
long-term outcomes because of the potential for fewer complications and 
decreased utilization of endoscopic resources.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2008.01.035
PMID: 18407270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Cancer Detect Prev. 2008;32(1):65-71. doi: 10.1016/j.cdp.2008.01.004. Epub
2008  Apr 14.

Prevention of age-related spontaneous mammary tumors in outbred rats by late 
ovariectomy.

Planas-Silva MD(1), Rutherford TM, Stone MC.

