Phosphatidylserine (PS) is a quantitatively minor, but physiologically 
important, phospholipid in mammalian cells. PS is synthesized by two distinct 
base-exchange enzymes, PS synthase-1 (PSS1) and PS synthase-2 (PSS2), that are 
encoded by different genes. PSS1 exchanges serine for choline of 
phosphatidylcholine, whereas PSS2 exchanges ethanolamine of 
phosphatidylethanolamine for serine. We previously generated mice lacking PSS2 
(Bergo, M. O., Gavino, B. J., Steenbergen, R., Sturbois, B., Parlow, A. F., 
Sanan, D. A., Skarnes, W. C., Vance, J. E., and Young, S. G. (2002) J. Biol. 
Chem. 277, 47701-47708) and found that PSS2 is not required for mouse viability. 
We have now generated PSS1-deficient mice. In light of the markedly impaired 
survival of Chinese hamster ovary cells lacking PSS1 we were surprised that 
PSS1-deficient mice were viable, fertile, and had a normal life span. Total 
serine-exchange activity (contributed by PSS1 and PSS2) in tissues of Pss1(-/-) 
mice was reduced by up to 85%, but except in liver, the PS content was 
unaltered. Despite the presumed importance of PS in the nervous system, the rate 
of axonal extension of PSS1-deficient neurons was normal. Intercrosses of 
Pss1(-/-) mice and Pss2(-/-) mice yielded mice with three disrupted Pss alleles 
but no double knockout mice. In Pss1(-/-)/Pss2(-/-) and Pss1(-/-)/Pss2(-/-) 
mice, serine-exchange activity was reduced by 65-91%, and the tissue content of 
PS and phosphatidylethanolamine was also decreased. We conclude that (i) 
elimination of either PSS1 or PSS2, but not both, is compatible with mouse 
viability, (ii) mice can tolerate as little as 10% of normal total 
serine-exchange activity, and (iii) mice survive with significantly reduced PS 
and phosphatidylethanolamine content.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M800714200
PMID: 18343815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2008 Mar;15(1):19-24. doi: 
10.1080/17457300701847648.

Productivity losses from road traffic deaths in Turkey.

Naci H(1), Baker TD.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. hnaci@jhsph.edu

The importance of road traffic injuries in Turkey is not generally appreciated, 
in part due to lack of knowledge of its economic burden and in part due to major 
underestimation in official statistics. The total years of potential life lost 
and potentially productive years of life lost from mortality were calculated in 
order to estimate the cost of productivity losses from road traffic deaths in 
Turkey. More years of potentially productive life are lost due to road traffic 
deaths than to respiratory tract illnesses or diabetes mellitus, two other 
serious health problems in Turkey. Road traffic deaths cost Turkey an estimated 
USD 2.6 billion every year in productivity losses alone, more than the World 
Bank estimate of the indirect costs from the 1999 Marmara earthquake (USD 1.2-2 
billion), Turkey's worst earthquake since 1939 (World Bank Turkey Country 
Office, 1999). This study highlights the importance of accurate information in 
ameliorating the burden of road traffic safety in Turkey. Turkey has great 
opportunities to implement cost-effective interventions to reduce the economic 
burden of fatal and non-fatal road traffic injuries.

DOI: 10.1080/17457300701847648
PMID: 18344092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Ann Transplant. 2008;13(1):5-14.

Renal transplantation practice in Iran and the Middle East: report from Iran and 
a review of the literature.

Einollahi B(1), Taheri S.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology & Urology Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran. behzad.einollahi@gmail.com

Transplantation is the best treatment of end-stage renal disease (ESRD. Life 
expectancy, the quality of life and reduced medical expenses are greater with 
kidney transplantation than with maintenance dialysis. However, organ shortage 
remains the central problem in kidney transplantation. To tackle this problem, 
we, in Iran, have initiated a living unrelated donor (LURD) program using 
emotionally related persons, friends and well-motivated volunteers as organ 
donors, which resulted in eliminating the waiting list. The Iranian transplant 
program is the most active in the Middle East region in providing equitable, 
quick, and intermediary-free access to affordable kidney transplantation for 
everyone regardless of gender and economic circumstances. The results of 
transplants from living unrelated donors have been very encouraging. This 
article deals with the kidney transplantation practice in Iran and other Middle 
Eastern countries, and describes Iran's kidney transplantation experience with 
cadaveric, living related and living unrelated donors. In conclusion, kidney 
transplantation experience in the Middle East region is an active practice. Most 
countries have uplifting trends and effective programs are establishing inside 
countries. However, the practice should be further promoted and organized 
towards allograft procurement from deceased donors and in this way passing and 
enacting proper legislations must be more seriously taken into consideration.

PMID: 18344938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Eye (Lond). 2009 Feb;23(2):279-83. doi: 10.1038/sj.eye.6703087. Epub 2008
Mar  14.

Compensatory head posture and neck problems: is there an association? A cohort 
study of nystagmus patients.

Morris B(1), Smith V, Elphick J, Laws DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Singleton Hospital, Swansea NHS Trust, Wales, 
UK. bridcmorris@yahoo.com

PURPOSE: The aims of this study were twofold: to investigate if a compensatory 
head posture due to nystagmus causes long-term neck problems or adversely 
effects quality of life and to survey ophthalmologists on their opinions and 
management of these patients.
METHODS: A case-controlled study was carried out to assess the range of neck 
movements in patients with compensatory head posture due to congenital 
nystagmus. Exclusion criteria included known neck problems, vertebrobasilar 
insufficiency, and age less than 16 years. Neck movements were assessed using an 
inclinometer. Quality of life and disability was assessed using the American 
Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons' Cervical Spine Questionnaire. One hundred and 
fifty consultant ophthalmologists throughout the United Kingdom were surveyed 
via a postal questionnaire.
RESULTS: The range of motion in these patients (n=20) was limited when compared 
to matched controls especially for lateral flexion (P=0.001) and extension 
(P=0.003). However, despite limited movement, patients did not perceive a 
disability and there was no adverse effect on quality of life. In all 55% of 
ophthalmologists believed compensatory head posture due to nystagmus leads to 
long-term neck problems. About 46% had personal experience of patients with 
long-term neck problems due to nystagmus. Eighty-four per cent were influenced 
in their decision to operate by the presence of a head posture.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant restriction in neck movements exists in nystagmus 
patients with compensatory head posture, although this does not appear to 
adversely affect quality of life.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.eye.6703087
PMID: 18344967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Nat Cell Biol. 2008 Apr;10(4):468-75. doi: 10.1038/ncb1710. Epub 2008 Mar
16.

Drosophila short neuropeptide F signalling regulates growth by ERK-mediated 
insulin signalling.

Lee KS(1), Kwon OY, Lee JH, Kwon K, Min KJ, Jung SA, Kim AK, You KH, Tatar M, Yu 
K.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Regenerative Medicine, Korea Research Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology (KRIBB), Daejeon 305-333, Korea.

Insulin and insulin growth factor have central roles in growth, metabolism and 
ageing of animals, including Drosophila melanogaster. In Drosophila, 
insulin-like peptides (Dilps) are produced by specialized neurons in the brain. 
Here we show that Drosophila short neuropeptide F (sNPF), an orthologue of 
mammalian neuropeptide Y (NPY), and sNPF receptor sNPFR1 regulate expression of 
Dilps. Body size was increased by overexpression of sNPF or sNPFR1. The fat body 
of sNPF mutant Drosophila had downregulated Akt, nuclear localized FOXO, 
upregulated translational inhibitor 4E-BP and reduced cell size. Circulating 
levels of glucose were elevated and lifespan was also extended in sNPF mutants. 
We show that these effects are mediated through activation of extracellular 
signal-related kinases (ERK) in insulin-producing cells of larvae and adults. 
Insulin expression was also increased in an ERK-dependent manner in cultured 
Drosophila central nervous system (CNS) cells and in rat pancreatic cells 
treated with sNPF or NPY peptide, respectively. Drosophila sNPF and the 
evolutionarily conserved mammalian NPY seem to regulate ERK-mediated insulin 
expression and thus to systemically modulate growth, metabolism and lifespan.

DOI: 10.1038/ncb1710
PMID: 18344986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2007 Dec;151(2):219-24.
 doi: 10.5507/bp.2007.037.

Intra-arterial chemotherapy and its significance in the treatment of 
oropharyngeal carcinoma.

Simek J(1), Ehrmann J, Pazdera J.

Author information:
(1)Oral, Maxillary and Facial Surgery Clinic, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry 
and Teaching Hospital, Palacky University, Olomouc, Czech Republic. 
jiri.simek@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: In complex therapeutic algorithms for cancer, regional 
intra-arterial chemotherapy is usually used as an adjuvant and placed in the 
beginning of treatment. Clinical experience however shows that the achieved 
remission of malignant tumour illness after non-adjuvant chemotherapy is only 
temporary and short-lived. The illness progresses relatively quickly if the 
patient receives no further treatment and most clinical studies have not found 
any significant increase in life expectancy in oncological patients treated with 
this method. The question remains to what extent the poor results are due to the 
treatment method and its position in the therapeutic algorithm, and to what 
extent they are due to imperfect knowledge of molecular tumour genetics or 
inappropriate choice of the neoadjuvant intra-arterial chemotherapy
METHODS: We compared preliminary results of immunohistochemical examinations 
(detection and analysis of expression of proteins Ku 70, STAT 1,3,5 which take 
part in the regulation of cell cycle apoptosis and repair of damaged DNA, 
carried out before and after chemotherapy, suggest that depending on the effects 
of neoadjuvant intra-arterial chemotherapy and patient's survivance.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: An overview of intra-arterial neoadjuvant chemotherapy 
of head and neck is presented. Knowledge of cell cycle processes, especially 
apoptosis and repair of damaged DNA, could significantly influence the choice of 
the therapeutic algorithm and therapeutical effect.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2007.037
PMID: 18345254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Clin Drug Investig. 2008;28(4):211-20. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200828040-00002.

Economic benefits of treating high-risk hypertension with angiotensin II 
receptor antagonists (blockers).

Coca A(1).

Author information:
(1)Hypertension Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Institute of Medicine and 
Dermatology, Hospital Clínico, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. 
acoca@clinic.ub.es

Hypertension is one of the leading risk factors for cardiovascular disease and 
represents a major health and economic burden. Most patients with high- or very 
high-risk hypertension have multiple cardiovascular risk factors with or without 
accompanying subclinical organ damage or established cardiovascular or renal 
disease. Patients with severe hypertension or with moderate hypertension and one 
to two additional risk factors have absolute 10-year risks of cardiovascular 
disease of 21-30% and 15-20%, respectively. Current European treatment 
guidelines recommend that antihypertensive therapy be initiated rapidly and 
aggressively in patients with high-risk hypertension. Most patients require two 
or more antihypertensive agents to achieve the strict blood pressure target of 
<130/80 mmHg. This article reviews the existing cost-effectiveness data on the 
use of angiotensin II receptor antagonists (blockers) [ARBs] in patients with 
high-risk hypertension. Aggressive ARB treatment of patients in the early 
(microalbuminuric) stages of diabetic nephropathy has a significant 
renoprotective effect, delaying the onset of overt (proteinuric) nephropathy. By 
slowing the progression of these patients to end-stage renal disease, 
substantial cost savings can be made. There is a paucity of cost-effectiveness 
data regarding the use of fixed-dose ARB plus thiazide diuretic combination 
therapies. Longitudinal cost-benefit studies of this attractive and efficacious 
first-line treatment option are needed.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200828040-00002
PMID: 18345711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Aging Cell. 2008 Aug;7(4):470-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00389.x. Epub
 2008 Mar 11.

Longevity-fertility trade-offs in the tephritid fruit fly, Anastrepha ludens, 
across dietary-restriction gradients.

Carey JR(1), Harshman LG, Liedo P, Müller HG, Wang JL, Zhang Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA. jrcarey@ucdavis.edu

Although it is widely known that dietary restriction (DR) not only extends the 
longevity of a wide range of species but also reduces their reproductive output, 
the interrelationship of DR, longevity extension and reproduction is not well 
understood in any organism. Here we address the question: 'Under what 
nutritional conditions do the longevity-enhancing effects resulting from food 
restriction either counteract, complement or reinforce the mortality costs of 
reproduction? To answer this question we designed a fine-grained DR study 
involving 4800 individuals of the tephritid fruit fly, Anastrepha ludens, in 
which we measured sex-specific survival and daily reproduction in females in 
each of 20 different treatments (sugar : yeast ratios) plus 4 starvation 
controls. The database generated from this 3-year study consisted of 
approximately 100 000 life-days for each sex and 750 000 eggs distributed over 
the reproductive lives of 2400 females. The fertility and longevity-extending 
responses were used to create contour maps (X-Y grid) that show the demographic 
responses (Z-axis) across dietary gradients that range from complete starvation 
to both ad libitum sugar-only and ad libitum standard diet (3 : 1 sugar : 
yeast). The topographic perspectives reveal demographic equivalencies along 
nutritional gradients, differences in the graded responses of males and females, 
egg production costs that are sensitive to the interaction of food amounts and 
constituents, and orthogonal contours (equivalencies in longevity or 
reproduction) representing demographic thresholds related to both caloric 
content and sugar : yeast ratios. In general, the finding that lifespan and 
reproductive maxima occur at much different nutritional coordinates poses a 
major challenge for the use of food restriction (or a mimetic) in humans to 
improve health and extend longevity in humans.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00389.x
PMCID: PMC2574784
PMID: 18346215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Ann Vasc Surg. 2008 Mar;22(2):210-4. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2007.12.005.

Hemodialysis-related steal syndrome: predictive factors and response to 
treatment with the distal revascularization-interval ligation procedure.

Yu SH(1), Cook PR, Canty TG, McGinn RF, Taft PM, Hye RJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Southern California Permanente Medical Group and 
Kaiser Foundation Hospital, San Diego, CA 92120, USA.

Hand ischemia due to steal causes major disability in affected members of the 
hemodialysis population. Between February 2000 and March 2007, 24 patients aged 
37-77 years were identified who developed hand ischemia distal to a hemodialysis 
access and required a distal revascularization-interval ligation (DRIL) 
procedure. Of the 24 patients, 22 (92%) were diabetic, 14 (58%) were women, 7 
(29%) had prosthetic grafts, and 17 (71%) had fistulas, all originating from the 
brachial artery. Duration between the initial dialysis access and the DRIL 
procedures ranged 12 hours to 10 months. Conduits used were saphenous vein in 13 
(54%) cases, cephalic vein in 3 (12%) cases, basilic vein in 5 (21%) cases, and 
prosthetic grafts in 3 (12%) cases. There were no operative deaths. Improved 
blood flow and relief of symptoms were observed in 23 (96%) patients. The 
procedure failed early in one patient who had thrombosis of a prosthetic graft. 
Two patients required digital amputations. At a median follow-up of 50 months, 
14 (58%) patients died using the access requiring the DRIL, 2 (8%) did not 
require dialysis, 3 (12%) were using a new access, and 5 (21%) were still using 
the access that had required the DRIL. In late follow-up, only one DRIL bypass 
required revision and the remainder were patent. One patient developed an 
ischemic hand 5 years after his DRIL procedure despite a patent bypass. The 
development of ischemic steal requiring performance of a DRIL procedure is most 
likely to occur in diabetic patients with dialysis access originating from the 
brachial artery. The procedure is effective in ameliorating symptoms while 
preserving the vascular access. The high long-term mortality rate observed in 
this series underscores the fact that patients requiring a DRIL procedure 
represent a subset of dialysis patients with advanced diabetic vascular disease 
and a limited life expectancy. Despite the effectiveness of the DRIL procedure, 
efforts should be concentrated on prevention of ischemic steal in order to 
lessen the morbidity and expense of this condition in the dialysis population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2007.12.005
PMID: 18346574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc. 2008 Mar-Apr;98(2):153-5.

Charcot's arthropathy in a patient with HIV-associated neuropathy.

Rogers LC(1), Bevilacqua NJ, Dellacorte MP, Francis K, Armstrong DG.

Author information:
(1)Amputation Prevention Center at Broadlawns Medical Center, Des Moines, IA 
50314, USA. Lee.C.Rogers@gmail.com

Charcot's arthropathy is a destructive arthritis that can occur in patients with 
peripheral neuropathies of various etiologies. This report describes a rare case 
of Charcot's arthropathy attributable to the distal sensory polyneuropathy 
associated with HIV infection. As treatments for HIV/AIDS advance and life 
expectancy increases, cases of end-organ sequelae, such as Charcot foot, may 
become more common.

PMID: 18347127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Can J Ophthalmol. 2008 Apr;43(2):213-7. doi: 10.3129/i08-002.

Cost-effectiveness of reducing wait times for cataract surgery in Ontario.

Hopkins RB(1), Tarride JE, Bowen J, Blackhouse G, O'Reilly D, Campbell K, Lim M, 
Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
and the Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health Research Institute, St 
Joseph's Hospital, Hamilton, ON, Canada. hopkinr@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Reducing wait times for cataract surgery is a priority in Ontario. 
However, no previous analysis has determined whether the extra treatment volumes 
required to reduce wait times are of good monetary value when compared with 
allocating those same financial resources to new programs, drugs, or 
technologies. The objective of the study was to use queuing models to determine 
the cost-effectiveness of reducing, to target levels, wait times for cataract 
surgery at the provincial level within 1 to 10 years by increasing treatment 
volumes.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed by estimating the extra 
treatment volume required to reduce wait times using queuing model methodology. 
The cost of these extra treatments was obtained from Ontario provincial data. 
The incremental benefits of surgery are improvements in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), and these values were obtained from the clinical literature. 
Incremental costs were compared with incremental benefits to determine an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: To reach the publicly stated target wait times, annual treatment 
volumes must increase by 4%. An extra increase in treatment volumes of 25,660 
must also be provided for the transition period from the current wait time. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is $17,829 per QALY if the target wait time 
is achieved in 5 years, and this ratio is less than the common threshold for 
approval of new interventions, of $50,000 per QALY.
INTERPRETATION: Increasing treatment volumes is a cost-effective way of reducing 
wait times.

DOI: 10.3129/i08-002
PMID: 18347625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2008 Mar 18;3:7. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-7.

Hereditary sensory neuropathy type I.

Auer-Grumbach M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Graz, Austria. 
Michaela.Auer-Grumbach@klinikum-graz.at

Hereditary sensory neuropathy type I (HSN I) is a slowly progressive 
neurological disorder characterised by prominent predominantly distal sensory 
loss, autonomic disturbances, autosomal dominant inheritance, and juvenile or 
adulthood disease onset. The exact prevalence is unknown, but is estimated as 
very low. Disease onset varies between the 2nd and 5th decade of life. The main 
clinical feature of HSN I is the reduction of sensation sense mainly distributed 
to the distal parts of the upper and lower limbs. Variable distal muscle 
weakness and wasting, and chronic skin ulcers are characteristic. Autonomic 
features (usually sweating disturbances) are invariably observed. Serious and 
common complications are spontaneous fractures, osteomyelitis and necrosis, as 
well as neuropathic arthropathy which may even necessitate amputations. Some 
patients suffer from severe pain attacks. Hypacusis or deafness, or cough and 
gastrooesophageal reflux have been observed in rare cases. HSN I is a 
genetically heterogenous condition with three loci and mutations in two genes 
(SPTLC1 and RAB7) identified so far. Diagnosis is based on the clinical 
observation and is supported by a family history. Nerve conduction studies 
confirm a sensory and motor neuropathy predominantly affecting the lower limbs. 
Radiological studies, including magnetic resonance imaging, are useful when bone 
infections or necrosis are suspected. Definitive diagnosis is based on the 
detection of mutations by direct sequencing of the SPTLC1 and RAB7 genes. 
Correct clinical assessment and genetic confirmation of the diagnosis are 
important for appropriate genetic counselling and prognosis. Differential 
diagnosis includes the other hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathies 
(HSAN), especially HSAN II, as well as diabetic foot syndrome, alcoholic 
neuropathy, neuropathies caused by other neurotoxins/drugs, immune mediated 
neuropathy, amyloidosis, spinal cord diseases, tabes dorsalis, lepra neuropathy, 
or decaying skin tumours like amelanotic melanoma. Management of HSN I follows 
the guidelines given for diabetic foot care (removal of pressure to the ulcer 
and eradication of infection, followed by the use of specific protective 
footwear) and starts with early and accurate counselling of patients about risk 
factors for developing foot ulcerations. The disorder is slowly progressive and 
does not influence life expectancy but is often severely disabling after a long 
duration of the disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-7
PMCID: PMC2311280
PMID: 18348718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Environ Entomol. 2008 Feb;37(1):38-44. doi: 
10.1603/0046-225x(2008)37[38:ltatdo]2.0.co;2.

Life table and temperature-dependent development of Diadegma anurum 
(Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) on its host Plutella xylostella (Lepidoptera: 
Plutellidae).

Golizadeh A(1), Kamali K, Fathipour Y, Abbasipour H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Faculty of Agriculture, Tarbiat Modares University, 
PO Box 14115-336, Tehran, Iran.

Life table and temperature-dependent development of Diadegma anurum (Thomson) 
(Hymenoptera: Ichneumonidae) was studied on diamondback moth, Plutella 
xylostella L. (Lepidoptera: Plutellidae) reared on cabbage, Brassica oleracea L. 
variety capitata, and cauliflower, Brassica oleracea L. variety botrytis. The 
developmental periods of immature stages were recorded at five constant 
temperatures (15, 20, 25, 30, and 35 degrees C). The population of D. anurum and 
its host failed to survive at 35 degrees C. Mean total development time of D. 
anurum was not significantly different on two host plants except at 25 degrees 
C. The developmental zero (low temperature threshold) was estimated to be 7.0 
and 6.9 degrees C, and the thermal constant was 282.3 and 277.7 DD on cabbage 
and cauliflower, respectively, using the linear model. Data were fitted to four 
nonlinear temperature-dependent models. Evaluation of the models was carried out 
based on the following criteria: fit to data, number and biological values of 
the fitted coefficients, and accuracy on the estimation of the thresholds. 
Consequently, the Briere-1 model was accepted and recommended for the 
description of temperature-dependent development of D. anurum. The life table 
parameters of D. anurum were also studied at 25 degrees C constant temperature. 
Its intrinsic rate of increase (rm) and mean generation time (T) were estimated 
to be 0.169 and 16.083 d on cabbage, respectively. The life table parameters of 
D. anurum can be used to develop the models of population dynamics and 
prediction.

DOI: 10.1603/0046-225x(2008)37[38:ltatdo]2.0.co;2
PMID: 18348794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Med Decis Making. 2008 Mar-Apr;28(2):254-61. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07311756.
Epub  2008 Mar 18.

Resident physicians' life expectancy estimates and colon cancer screening 
recommendations in elderly patients.

Lewis CL(1), Moore CG, Golin CE, Griffith J, Tytell-Brenner A, Pignone MP.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, University of North 
Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. lewiscl@med.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Colon cancer screening recommendations for patients aged 75 years 
and older should account for variation in older adults' health states, life 
expectancies, and potential to benefit from screening.
PURPOSE: To assess if resident physicians incorporate health state and life 
expectancy information when making recommendations about colon cancer screening 
for adults aged 75 years and older.
METHODS: Resident physicians at a university internal medicine program completed 
a survey in which they made life expectancy estimates and screening 
recommendations for hypothetical 75- and 85-year-old women patients with good, 
fair, or poor health states. Outcomes of interest included accuracy of 
residents' life expectancy estimates (compared with life table data), effect of 
health state and life expectancy on screening recommendations, and whether 
providing life table information affected the initial screening recommendation 
for the 85-year-old hypothetical patients.
RESULTS: Residents' life expectancy estimates demonstrated moderate agreement 
with life table estimates. Their recommendations for colon cancer screening for 
the 75-year-old patient vignettes varied appropriately by health state and by 
their estimates of life expectancy. Receiving information about life expectancy 
from life tables affected residents' recommendations for one of the three 
85-year-old hypothetical patients, the woman in good health. Many resident 
physicians reported uncertainty about the potential to benefit from screening 
for each patient scenario.
CONCLUSIONS: Resident physicians appropriately used life expectancy and health 
state to make colon cancer screening recommendations for older adults. Residents 
reported substantial uncertainty with regard to the potential benefit of 
screening.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07311756
PMCID: PMC3192535
PMID: 18349429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Med Decis Making. 2008 May-Jun;28(3):359-76. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07312714.
Epub  2008 Mar 18.

The cost-effectiveness of counseling strategies to improve adherence to highly 
active antiretroviral therapy among men who have sex with men.

Zaric GS(1), Bayoumi AM, Brandeau ML, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Ivey School of Business, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada. gzaric@ivey.uwo.ca

OBJECTIVE: Inadequate adherence to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) 
may lead to poor health outcomes and the development of HIV strains that are 
resistant to HAART. The authors developed a model to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of counseling interventions to improve adherence to HAART 
among men who have sex with men (MSM).
METHODS: The authors developed a dynamic compartmental model that incorporates 
HIV treatment, adherence to treatment, and infection transmission and 
progression. All data estimates were obtained from secondary sources. The 
authors evaluated a counseling intervention given prior to initiation of HAART 
and before all changes in drug regimens, combined with phone-in support while on 
HAART. They considered a moderate-prevalence and a high-prevalence population of 
MSM.
RESULTS: If the impact of HIV transmission is ignored, the counseling 
intervention has a cost-effectiveness ratio of $25,500 per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained. When HIV transmission is included, the cost-effectiveness 
ratio is much lower: $7400 and $8700 per QALY gained in the moderate- and 
high-prevalence populations, respectively. When the intervention is twice as 
costly per counseling session and half as effective as estimated in the base 
case (in terms of the number of individuals who become highly adherent, and who 
remain highly adherent), then the intervention costs $17,100 and $19,600 per 
QALY gained in the 2 populations, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Counseling to improve adherence to HAART increased length of life, 
modestly reduced HIV transmission, and cost substantially less than $50,000 per 
QALY gained over a wide range of assumptions but did not reduce the proportion 
of drug-resistant strains. Such counseling provides only modest benefit as a 
tool for HIV prevention but can provide significant benefit for individual 
patients at an affordable cost.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07312714
PMCID: PMC3243050
PMID: 18349433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jul-Aug;28(4):481-90. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07312720.
Epub  2008 Mar 18.

Calculation of prevalence with Markov models: budget impact analysis of 
thrombolysis for stroke.

Mar J(1), Sainz-Ezkerra M, Miranda-Serrano E.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Gestión Clínica, Hospital Alto Deba, Mondragón, Spain. 
jmar@hmon.osakidetza.net

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2008 Jul-Aug;28(4):460-1.

OBJECTIVES: The objective is to develop a method for calculating the prevalence 
of stroke based on Markov models and to apply it to the assessment of the budget 
impact analysis of thrombolytic treatment.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to reproduce the natural history of stroke. The 
first step was to run the model to build the sojourn matrix from the initial 
population vector. The second step was to ascertain the number of individuals in 
the origin of each annual cohort. Finally, prevalence figures were obtained, 
validated, and used to calculate the impact of treatment with thrombolysis in 
10% of patients with stroke in the Basque Country as if thrombolysis had begun 
in 2000 and would continue to 2015.
RESULTS: Stroke prevalence rates per 100,000 for the entire population are 898 
for men and 686 for women, with a combined rate of 774 for men and women. Rates 
for stroke-related disability are 358 per 100,000 for men, 275 for women, and 
309 for men and women combined. If 10% of the stroke patients would have 
received thrombolytic treatment from 2000 to 2015, the number of disabled in 
2015 would be reduced by 328, and the net savings for the Basque society 
(2,100,000 inhabitants) would be 1.7 million euro.
CONCLUSIONS: The budget impact analysis of thrombolysis for stroke starting in 
2000 shows a positive impact on the health budget because it saves costs after 
2006 and produces a net benefit in health from the beginning of treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07312720
PMID: 18349439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Korean J Gastroenterol. 2008 Feb;51(2):89-100.

[Surgical management of pancreatic cancer].

[Article in Korean]

Kim SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Ulsan University College of Medicine & Asan Medical 
Center, Seoul, Korea. drksc@amc.seoul.kr

Pancreatic cancer is a major problematic concern among all forms of 
gastrointestinal malignancies because of its poor prognosis. Although 
significant progress has been made in the surgical treatment in terms of 
increased resection rate and decreased treatment-related morbidity and 
mortality, the true survival rate still remains below 5% today. Surgical options 
for pancreatic cancer are based on the its unique anatomy and physiology, 
catastrophic tumor biology, experience of surgeon, and status of patients. Four 
main options exist for the surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer. These 
include standard "Whipple" pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD), pylorus preserving PD 
(PPPD), distal pancreatectomy (left-side pancreatectomy), and total 
pancreatectomy according to the location of tumor. Portal vein involvement by 
tumor is regarded as an anatomical extension of disease, and en bloc resection 
of portal vein with tumor is recommended if technically feasible, which is 
stated in 2002 AJCC tumor staging for pancreatic cancer. In comparison of the 
survival rates between standard and extended resection of pancreatic head 
cancer, no significant survival benefit was demonstrated from the prospective 
reports. PPPD may be superior to standard PD in respect to nutrition and quality 
of life without any deleterious effect upon long term survival or tumor 
recurrence. New surgical treatment modalities including modified extended 
pancreatectomy, neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and radical antegrade modular distal 
pancreatectomy have been tried to improve the patients' survival. However, early 
diagnosis and treatment remain as key factors for the cure of pancreatic cancer 
irrespective of various surgical trials.

PMID: 18349571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2008 May;5(5):232-3. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro1079. Epub 2008
Mar  18.

Should men over the age of 65 years receive PSA screening? Argument against.

Albertsen PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, CT 
06030, USA. albertsen@nso.uchc.edu

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro1079
PMID: 18349860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2008 May;5(5):230-1. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro1078. Epub 2008
Mar  18.

Should men over the age of 65 years receive PSA screening? Argument in favor.

Whitson JM(1), Konety BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 
CA 94143, USA. jwhitson@urology.ucsf.edu

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro1078
PMID: 18349861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Psychol Health Med. 2008 Mar;13(2):146-61. doi: 10.1080/13548500701352008.

Longitudinal associations among quality of life and its predictors in patients 
treated for prostate cancer: the moderating role of age.

Diefenbach M(1), Mohamed NE, Horwitz E, Pollack A.

Author information:
(1)Urology & Oncological Sciences, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, 
NY10029-6574, USA. michael.diefenbach@mountsinai.org

This study examined moderating effects of age on longitudinal associations among 
quality of life (QOL) and its demographic (e.g., age), clinical [e.g., 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level], and affective and cognitive predictors 
(i.e., distress, worries about recurrence, decisional regret, subjective life 
expectancy) in prostate cancer patients treated with external beam radiation (N 
= 391). Demographic and clinical characteristics were assessed at diagnosis, 
affective and cognitive variables at 6 months after diagnosis, and QOL at 12 
months after diagnosis. Multiple-group analyses showed that among younger 
patients (< or =68 years old, n = 199), lower levels of decisional regret were 
associated with better functional QOL, and lower Gleason scores and PSA levels 
were associated with lower levels of distress and longer expected survival time, 
respectively. Being employed was related to higher levels of functional QOL and 
frequent worries about recurrence. Among older patients (>68 years old, n = 
192), lower levels of distress were associated with higher levels of functional 
QOL, and longer expected survival time was associated with better functional and 
physical QOL.

DOI: 10.1080/13548500701352008
PMID: 18350459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Proteins. 2008 Sep;72(4):1222-32. doi: 10.1002/prot.22013.

Crystal structure of native O-acetyl-serine sulfhydrylase from Entamoeba 
histolytica and its complex with cysteine: structural evidence for cysteine 
binding and lack of interactions with serine acetyl transferase.

Chinthalapudi K(1), Kumar M, Kumar S, Jain S, Alam N, Gourinath S.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 110067, 
India.

Cysteine plays a major role in the antioxidative defense mechanisms of the human 
parasite Entameoba histolytica. The major route of cysteine biosynthesis in this 
parasite is the condensation of O-acetylserine with sulfide by the de novo 
cysteine biosynthetic pathway involving two key enzymes O-acetyl-L-serine 
sulfhydrylase (OASS) and serine acetyl transferase (SAT). The crystal structure 
of native OASS from Entameoba histolytica (EhOASS) has been determined at 1.86 A 
resolution and in complex with its product cysteine at 2.4 A resolution. In 
comparison with other known OASS structures, insertion in the N-terminal region 
and C-terminal helix reveal critical differences, which may influence the 
protein-protein interactions. In spite of lacking chloride binding site at the 
dimeric interface, the N-terminal extension compared with other known cysteine 
synthases, participates in dimeric interactions in an interesting domain 
swapping manner, enabling it to form a stronger dimer. Sulfate is bound in the 
active site of the native structure, which is replaced by cysteine in the 
cysteine bound form causing reorientation of the small N-terminal domain and 
thus closure of the active site. Ligand binding constants of OAS, Cys, and Met 
with EhOASS are comparable with other known OASS indicating similar active site 
arrangement and dynamics. The cysteine complexed structure represents the 
snapshot of the enzyme just before releasing the final product with a closed 
active site. The C-terminal helix positioning in the EhOASS may effect its 
interactions with EhSAT and thus influencing the formation of the cysteine 
synthase complex in this organism.

2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/prot.22013
PMID: 18350570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. World J Gastroenterol. 2008 Mar 28;14(12):1812-22. doi: 10.3748/wjg.14.1812.

Role of chemotherapy and novel biological agents in the treatment of elderly 
patients with colorectal cancer.

Rosati G(1), Bilancia D.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Unit, S. Carlo Hospital, Via P. Petrone 1, Potenza 85100, 
Italy. rosatiger@yahoo.com

Patients older than 65 years are the fastest growing segment of the cancer 
population. It is estimated that within 20 years over 75% of cases and 85% of 
deaths from colorectal cancer (CRC) will be in this setting. Concerns about 
cancer treatment in the elderly relate to comorbidities, which increase 
proportionally with age, physiological changes associated with aging which may 
influence drug metabolism and toxicity, and diminishing life expectancy, which 
particularly impacts decisions surrounding the benefits of adjuvant therapies. 
Over the last 10 years, significant improvements in the treatment of advanced 
CRC with combination therapy have been made. The randomized trials which have 
defined these improvements did not exclude elderly patients. However, the median 
age of patients in these trials has generally been approximately 60 years. Thus, 
it appears that some degree of selection is involved with younger and presumably 
fitter patients being the subjects in most of the pivotal trials. The 
availability of new molecularly targeted agents and newly improved existing 
agents has expanded the range of treatment options available. This variety gives 
greater flexibility in dealing with different subsets of patients, such as the 
elderly. However, some fit elderly patients seem to tolerate combination therapy 
reasonably well, while studies on unfit elderly subjects are needed.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.14.1812
PMCID: PMC2699600
PMID: 18350617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Health Stat Q. 2008 Spring;(37):48-51.

Health expectancies in the U.K., 2004.

Office for National Statistics.

PMID: 18351025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Health Econ. 2009 Feb;18(2):217-25. doi: 10.1002/hec.1356.

The duration effect: a link between TTO and VAS values.

Craig BM(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Behavior Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL 
33612-9416, USA. Benjamin.Craig@moffitt.org

The value of a health state may depend on how long an individual has had to 
endure the health state (i.e. hedonic load). In this paper, we test the constant 
proportionality (CP) assumption and determine the sign of relationship between 
duration and health state value for 42 health states using the nationally 
representative data from the United Kingdom Measurement and Valuation of Health 
study. The results reject the CP assumption and suggest that the relationship is 
negative for optimal health (i.e. fair innings argument) and that the 
relationship is positive for poorer health states (i.e. adaptation). We find no 
evidence of the maximum endurable time hypothesis using these data. This 
evidence on the duration effect has important implications for outcomes research 
and the economic evaluation of interventions.

Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1356
PMCID: PMC2760230
PMID: 18351621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. CA Cancer J Clin. 2008 Jul-Aug;58(4):245-59. doi: 10.3322/CA.2007.0016. Epub
 2008 Mar 19.

Spinal extradural metastasis: review of current treatment options.

Bartels RH(1), van der Linden YM, van der Graaf WT.

Author information:
(1)Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Department of Neurosurgery, 
Canisius Wilhelmina Hospital, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Bone metastases, especially to the spine, are frequently encountered during the 
course of a malignancy. Due to a worldwide increase of cancer incidence and to a 
longer life expectancy of patients with cancer, a rise in incidence of bone 
metastases is observed. A brief historical overview is the base of a review of 
current treatment options. Despite new developments in the surgical and 
radiotherapeutic fields, as well as in medical oncology, external beam 
radiotherapy is the cornerstone of the treatment of spinal metastases. In 
selected cases, surgical treatment is a proven option. Vertebroplasty or 
kyphoplasty can also be considered. Supportive medical care does not differ from 
that given for symptomatic lesions to the skeletal system elsewhere in the body. 
After discussing the treatment options, an algorithm is given.

DOI: 10.3322/CA.2007.0016
PMID: 18354080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Health Serv Res. 2008 Aug;43(4):1204-22. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2008.00834.x.  Epub 2008 Mar 17.

Evaluating health care programs by combining cost with quality of life measures: 
a case study comparing capitation and fee for service.

Grieve R(1), Sekhon JS, Hu TW, Bloom JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, Keppel St., London WC1E7HT, UK. Richard.Grieve@lshtm.ac.ok

OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) for evaluating 
different reimbursement models.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: The CEA used an observational study comparing fee 
for service (FFS) versus capitation for Medicaid cases with severe mental 
illness (n=522). Under capitation, services were provided either directly 
(direct capitation [DC]) by not-for-profit community mental health centers 
(CMHC), or in a joint venture between CMHCs and a for-profit managed behavioral 
health organization (MBHO).
STUDY DESIGN: A nonparametric matching method (genetic matching) was used to 
identify those cases that minimized baseline differences across the groups. 
Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were reported for each group. Incremental 
QALYs were valued at different thresholds for a QALY gained, and combined with 
cost estimates to plot cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: QALYs were similar across reimbursement models. Compared 
with FFS, the MBHO model had incremental costs of -$1,991 and the probability 
that this model was cost-effective exceeded 0.90. The DC model had incremental 
costs of $4,694; the probability that this model was cost-effective compared 
with FFS was <0.10.
CONCLUSIONS: A capitation model with a for-profit element was more 
cost-effective for Medicaid patients with severe mental illness than 
not-for-profit capitation or FFS models.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2008.00834.x
PMCID: PMC2517267
PMID: 18355261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Colorectal Dis. 2008 Sep;10(7):653-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1463-1318.2008.01507.x.  Epub 2008 Mar 15.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of delayed sphincteroplasty for anal sphincter 
injury.

Tan EK(1), Jacovides M, Khullar V, Teoh TG, Fernando RJ, Tekkis PP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosurgery and Surgical Technology, St Mary's Hospital, 
Imperial College, London, UK.

Comment in
    Colorectal Dis. 2009 Jul;11(6):656-7.

OBJECTIVE: Anal-sphincter injury may result in faecal incontinence. 
Sphincteroplasty is usually performed as a primary (immediate) procedure. 
Delayed sphincteroplasty (DS) can be performed if there is significant trauma or 
soiling, if the primary procedure has failed, and if the injury was not 
recognized initially. This study aimed to determine the cost to patient and 
health service in the event a DS is performed.
METHOD: Patients with anal-sphincter-injury who underwent primary 
sphincteroplasty (PS)/DS were identified from the published literature (primary, 
n = 103; delayed, n = 777) using Medline, Embase, Ovid and Cochrane databases 
for studies published between 1976 and 2006. Studies included described at least 
one of the measured outcomes--probability of functional success/failure and 
quality of life (QOL). An economic model was constructed and decision analysis 
performed using a decision tree based on a Markov process. Main outcomes were 
quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) gained from each strategy, costs incurred 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) over a 10- and 15-year time 
horizon.
RESULTS: Over 10 years, primary sphincteroplasty (PS) produced a gain of 5.72 
QALYs for an estimated 2750 pounds, giving an ICER of 487 pounds per QALY. DS 
produced a gain of 3.73 QALYs for a cost of 2667 pounds, giving an ICER of 719 
pounds per QALY. Both procedures fell below the 10,000 pounds per QALY 
willingness-to-pay threshold, but PS produced the highest QALYs. Both procedures 
performed poorly beyond the 10-year mark.
CONCLUSION: If DS has to be performed, the resultant cost is greater with 
concurrently lower QALYs gained. Successful PS substantially improves QOL and 
reduces overall cost-of-treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2008.01507.x
PMID: 18355373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Br J Haematol. 2008 Jun;141(6):882-90. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07122.x.  Epub 2008 Mar 18.

Influence of iron chelators on myocardial iron and cardiac function in 
transfusion-dependent thalassaemia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Mamtani M(1), Kulkarni H.

Author information:
(1)Lata Medical Research Foundation, Nagpur, India.

Iron chelators have dramatically prolonged the life expectancy of patients with 
transfusion-dependent thalassaemia, but their precise clinical benefit in 
reducing the myocardial iron burden and improving cardiac function is unknown. 
This systematic review and meta-analysis included published clinical trials that 
assessed the efficacy of iron chelators in regularly transfused patients of 
thalassaemia major for two commonly reported outcomes - myocardial iron content 
and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). The meta-analysis of 392 patients 
for myocardial iron content and 291 patients for LVEF showed that (i) iron 
chelators reduced cardiac iron content by 23.9% (95% confidence interval 
17.3-29.8%); (ii) there was no significant difference between the amount of iron 
reduced by deferoxamine and deferiprone (P = 0.9504); and (iii) LVEF was not 
significantly influenced by iron chelators - summary Hedge's g 0.13 (95% 
confidence interval -0.10-0.36). A significant publication bias existed for LVEF 
(Egger's P = 0.049) but not for myocardial iron (Egger's P = 0.871). Our results 
indicate that iron chelators significantly reduce myocardial iron content. 
Further, the choice of deferoxamine versus deferiprone may rest on factors other 
than their efficacy to reduce cardiac iron load.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2008.07122.x
PMID: 18355381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2008 Apr;47(4):535-41. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/ken007.

Cost-effectiveness of abatacept in patients with moderately to severely active 
rheumatoid arthritis and inadequate response to methotrexate.

Vera-Llonch M(1), Massarotti E, Wolfe F, Shadick N, Westhovens R, Sofrygin O, 
Maclean R, Yuan Y, Oster G.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc., Brookline, MA 02445, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess cost-effectiveness of abatacept in patients with moderately 
to severely active RA and inadequate response to MTX.
METHODS: We developed a simulation model to depict progression of disability [in 
terms of the HAQ Disability Index (HAQ-DI)] in women aged 55-64 yrs with 
moderately to severely active RA and inadequate response to MTX. At model entry, 
patients were assumed to receive either only MTX or MTX plus abatacept. Patients 
were then tracked from model entry until death. Future health-state utilities 
and medical-care costs (except study therapy) were estimated based on predicted 
values of the HAQ-DI. The model was estimated using data from a Phase III 
clinical trial of abatacept plus various secondary sources. Cost-effectiveness 
was expressed in terms of incremental cost (2006 US$) per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained over alternatively 10 yrs and a lifetime. Costs and 
health effects were both discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: Over 10 yrs, abatacept would yield 1.2 additional QALYs (undiscounted) 
per patient (4.6 vs 3.4 for MTX) at an incremental (discounted) cost of $51,426 
($103,601 vs $52,175, respectively); over a lifetime, corresponding figures were 
2.0 QALYS (6.8 vs 4.8) and $67,757 ($147,853 vs $80,096). Cost-effectiveness was 
[mean (95% CI)] $47,910 ($44,641, $52,136) per QALY gained over 10 yrs and 
$43,041 ($39,070, $46,725) per QALY gained over a lifetime. Findings were robust 
in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Abatacept is cost-effective by current standards of medical practice 
in patients with moderately to severely active RA and inadequate response to 
MTX.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ken007
