

983. Public Health. 2008 May;122(5):487-96. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.09.006. Epub
 2008 Jan 28.

Ecological analysis of the health effects of income inequality in Argentina.

De Maio FG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Simon Fraser University, 8888 
University Drive, Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. fdemaio@sfu.ca

OBJECTIVES: Despite a large body of empirical literature, a consensus has not 
been reached concerning the health effects of income inequality. This study 
contributes to ongoing debates by examining the robustness of the income 
inequality-population health relationship in Argentina, using five different 
income inequality indexes (each sensitive to inequalities in differing parts of 
the income spectrum) and five measures of population health.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional, ecological study.
METHODS: Income and self-reported morbidity data from Argentina's 2001 Encuesta 
de Condiciones de Vida (Survey of living conditions) were analysed at the 
provincial level. Provincial rates of male/female life expectancy and infant 
mortality were drawn from the Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Censos 
database.
RESULTS: Life expectancy was correlated in the expected direction with 
provincial-level income inequality (operationalized as the Gini coefficient) for 
both males (r=-0.55, P<0.01) and females (r=-0.61, P<0.01), but this association 
was not robust for all five income inequality indexes. In contrast, infant 
mortality, self-reported poor health and self-reported activity limitation were 
not correlated with any of the income inequality indexes.
CONCLUSIONS: This study adds further complexity to the literature on the health 
effects of income inequality by highlighting the important effects of 
operational definitions. Mortality and morbidity data cannot be used as 
reasonably interchangeable variables (a common practice in this literature), and 
the choice of income inequality indicator may influence the results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.09.006
PMID: 18222508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Apr;66(7):1614-26. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.12.012.
Epub  2008 Jan 28.

Income inequality and population health: correlation and causality.

Babones SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA.

A large literature now exists on the cross-national correlation between income 
inequality and population health, but existing studies suffer from sparse data, 
poor operationalization of income inequality, and the use of low-power 
statistical models. This paper sets out to estimate the ecological correlation 
between income inequality and indicators of population health in a very broad 
panel of countries, to demonstrate that this relationship is largely 
non-artifactual, and to test whether this relationship might be causal. Gini 
coefficients of national income inequality in 1970 and 1995 are correlated with 
life expectancy, infant mortality rates, and murder rates, controlling for 
national income per capita. In cross-sectional analyses, inequality is 
significantly correlated with life expectancy, infant mortality, and 
(inconsistently) the murder rate. The health correlations are shown to be not 
primarily due to the "convexity effect" of the non-linear relationship between 
individual income and individual health, which seems to account for no more than 
one-third of the relationship between inequality and health, and likely much 
less. Change in inequality 1970-1995 is significantly related to change in life 
expectancy and infant mortality, suggesting a causal relationship, but these 
correlations are not robust with respect to sample or controls. It can be 
concluded that there is a strong, consistent, statistically significant, 
non-artifactual correlation between national income inequality and population 
health, but though there is some evidence that this relationship is causal, the 
relative stability of income inequality over time in most countries makes 
causality difficult to test.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.12.012
PMID: 18222588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2008 Feb 1;47(2):221-5. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e31815d2f59.

Risk of hepatitis-related mortality increased among hepatitis C 
virus/HIV-coinfected drug users compared with drug users infected only with 
hepatitis C virus: a 20-year prospective study.

Smit C(1), van den Berg C, Geskus R, Berkhout B, Coutinho R, Prins M.

Author information:
(1)Cluster Infectious Diseases, Health Service of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, AZ, The 
Netherlands. Colette.smit@amc.uva.nl

BACKGROUND: Progression of liver-related disease is accelerated in individuals 
coinfected with HIV and hepatitis C virus (HCV). Because the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected drug users (DUs) improved after the widespread use of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), HCV-related death is likely to become more 
important. To disentangle the effects of HCV and HIV, we compared the overall 
and cause-specific mortality between HCV/HIV-infected DUs and HCV-infected DUs 
and DUs without HCV or HIV, followed up between 1985 and 2006.
METHODS: A total of 1295 participants in the Amsterdam Cohort Study were 
included. Cause-specific hazard ratios (CHRs) were estimated for the eras before 
(<1997) and since HAART (> or =1997) within and among serologic groups.
RESULTS: The risk of dying decreased for most causes of death > or =1997; this 
decrease was not the same for the different serologic groups. Among 
HCV/HIV-coinfected DUs, the risk of hepatitis/liver-related death did not 
substantially change over time (CHR = 0.87, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.21 
to 3.58), whereas the risk of AIDS-related mortality decreased. Compared with 
DUs solely infected with HCV, HCV/HIV-coinfected DUs were at increased risk of 
dying from hepatitis/liver-related disease (CHR = 7.15, 95% CI: 1.98 to 25.8), 
other natural causes (CHR = 3.09, 95% CI: 1.41 to 6.79), and nonnatural causes 
(CHR = 2.30, 95% CI: 1.07 to 4.95) in the HAART era.
CONCLUSIONS: HCV/HIV-coinfected DUs remain at increased risk of dying from 
hepatitis/liver-related death in the HAART era compared with HCV-monoinfected 
DUs. This risk did not change in HCV/HIV-coinfected DUs after HAART was 
introduced, suggesting that in the HAART era, HIV continues to accelerate HCV 
disease progression. Efforts should be made to establish effective treatment for 
HCV infection in HCV/HIV-coinfected individuals.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e31815d2f59
PMID: 18223361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Qual Life Res. 2008 Mar;17(2):333-45. doi: 10.1007/s11136-007-9305-2. Epub
2008  Jan 26.

The feasibility and responsiveness of the health utilities index in patients 
with early-stage breast cancer: a prospective longitudinal study.

Lovrics PJ(1), Cornacchi SD, Barnabi F, Whelan T, Goldsmith CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Hamilton Health Sciences and St. Joseph's Healthcare, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8N 4A6. lovricsp@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: The health utilities index (HUI3) is a health measurement instrument 
based on individuals' preferences for different health states. Breast cancer 
(BC) is common, with a high proportion of long-term survivors, making evaluation 
of treatment effects important. Feasibility and responsiveness of HUI3 was 
compared to the short-form 36 (SF-36) in patients with BC.
METHODS: HUI3 and SF-36 were administered eight times: at initial surgical 
consultation, 1 week before surgery; 1 week, 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24 months after 
surgery. Effect size, analysis of variance, and Pearson product moment 
correlations were calculated. BC data were compared to normative values.
RESULTS: Eighty-five patients were enrolled. Ninety-one percent of planned 
assessments were completed. HUI3 showed significant responsiveness (P < 0.01) 
after surgery and during recovery. HUI3 scores correlated with SF-36 scores. 
Comparison to normative data demonstrated the significant detrimental effect of 
BC diagnosis. Results showed long-term effects of treatment on physical health 
and positive effects on mental/emotional health in BC survivors.
CONCLUSION(S): HUI3 was found to be feasible and responsive in our cohort of BC 
patients. Changes in HUI3 values over time, and compared to normative data, 
paralleled SF-36 scores. HUI3 is a valuable tool in health-related quality of 
life and cost-utility studies in patients with BC.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-007-9305-2
PMID: 18224459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Gynecol Endocrinol. 2008 Jan;24(1):1-3. doi: 10.1080/09513590701718364.

An Aging World--demographics and challenges.

Lunenfeld B.

The world has seen enormous changes over the past century, including 
historically unprecedented declines in mortality rates and increases in 
population, followed by equally unprecedented declines in fertility rates. This 
century will see a new set of demographic challenges, including a mix of falling 
fertility rates alongside persisting worldwide population growth, and the 
subsequent aging of populations in both developing and developed countries. The 
20th century was the century of population growth; the 21st century will go into 
the history books as the century of aging. A holistic approach to this new 
challenge of the 21st century will necessitate a quantum leap in 
multidisciplinary and internationally coordinated research efforts, supported by 
a new partnership between industry and governments, philanthropic and 
international organizations. This collaboration we hope will enrich us with a 
better understanding of healthy aging, permit us to help to improve quality of 
life, prevent the preventable, and postpone and decrease the pain and suffering 
of the inevitable.

DOI: 10.1080/09513590701718364
PMID: 18224537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Clin Interv Aging. 2007;2(4):537-43. doi: 10.2147/cia.s866.

Lifestyle and nutrition, caloric restriction, mitochondrial health and hormones: 
scientific interventions for anti-aging.

Vitetta L(1), Anton B.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Health Integration, School of Medicine, University of Queensland, 
Australia. l.vitetta@uq.edu.au

Aging is a universal process to all life forms. The most current and widely 
accepted definition for aging in humans is that there is a progressive loss of 
function and energy production that is accompanied by decreasing fertility and 
increasing mortality with advancing age. The most obvious and commonly 
recognised consequence of aging and energy decline is a decrease in skeletal 
muscle function which affects every aspect of human life from the ability to 
play games, walk and run to chew, swallow and digest food. There is hence a 
recognised overall decline of an individuals' fitness for the environment that 
they occupy. In Westenised countries this decline is gradual and the signs 
become mostly noticeable after the 5th decade of life and henceforth, where the 
individual slowly progresses to death over the next three to four decades. Given 
that the aging process is slow and gradual, it presents with opportunities and 
options that may ameliorate and improve the overall functional capacity of the 
organism. Small changes in function may be more amenable and likely to further 
slow down and possibly reverse some of the deleterious effects of aging, rather, 
than when the incremental changes are large. This overall effect may then 
translate into a significant compression of the deleterious aspects of human 
aging with a resultant increase in human life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2147/cia.s866
PMCID: PMC2686342
PMID: 18225453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. PLoS Genet. 2008 Jan;4(1):e13. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.0040013. Epub 2007
Dec  13.

Life span extension by calorie restriction depends on Rim15 and transcription 
factors downstream of Ras/PKA, Tor, and Sch9.

Wei M(1), Fabrizio P, Hu J, Ge H, Cheng C, Li L, Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
California, United States of America.

Calorie restriction (CR), the only non-genetic intervention known to slow aging 
and extend life span in organisms ranging from yeast to mice, has been linked to 
the down-regulation of Tor, Akt, and Ras signaling. In this study, we 
demonstrate that the serine/threonine kinase Rim15 is required for yeast 
chronological life span extension caused by deficiencies in Ras2, Tor1, and 
Sch9, and by calorie restriction. Deletion of stress resistance transcription 
factors Gis1 and Msn2/4, which are positively regulated by Rim15, also caused a 
major although not complete reversion of the effect of calorie restriction on 
life span. The deletion of both RAS2 and the Akt and S6 kinase homolog SCH9 in 
combination with calorie restriction caused a remarkable 10-fold life span 
extension, which, surprisingly, was only partially reversed by the lack of 
Rim15. These results indicate that the Ras/cAMP/PKA/Rim15/Msn2/4 and the 
Tor/Sch9/Rim15/Gis1 pathways are major mediators of the calorie 
restriction-dependent stress resistance and life span extension, although 
additional mediators are involved. Notably, the anti-aging effect caused by the 
inactivation of both pathways is much more potent than that caused by CR.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.0040013
PMCID: PMC2213705
PMID: 18225956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests. The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


990. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2008 Feb;198(2):166.e1-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2007.07.041.

Acupuncture in patients with dysmenorrhea: a randomized study on clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in usual care.

Witt CM(1), Reinhold T, Brinkhaus B, Roll S, Jena S, Willich SN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Medicine, Epidemiology, and Health Economics, Charité 
University Medical Center, Berlin, Germany. claudia.witt@charite.de

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
acupuncture in patients with dysmenorrhea.
STUDY DESIGN: In a randomized controlled trial plus non-randomized cohort, 
patients with dysmenorrhea were randomized to acupuncture (15 sessions over 
three months) or to a control group (no acupuncture). Patients who declined 
randomization received acupuncture treatment. All subjects were allowed to 
receive usual medical care.
RESULTS: Of 649 women (mean age 36.1 +/- 7.1 years), 201 were randomized. After 
three months, the average pain intensity (NRS 0-10) was lower in the acupuncture 
compared to the control group: 3.1 (95% CI 2.7; 3.6) vs. 5.4 (4.9; 5.9), 
difference -2.3 (-2.9; -1.6); P<.001. The acupuncture group had better quality 
of life and higher costs. (overall ICER 3,011 euros per QALY).
CONCLUSION: Additional acupuncture in patients with dysmenorrhea was associated 
with improvements in pain and quality of life as compared to treatment with 
usual care alone and was cost-effective within usual thresholds.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2007.07.041
PMID: 18226614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Diabetes Care. 2008 Feb;31 Suppl 2:S269-77. doi: 10.2337/dc08-s265.

Treatment modalities of obesity: what fits whom?

Hainer V(1), Toplak H, Mitrakou A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Narodni 8, 116 94 Prague 1, Czech Republic. 
vhainer@endo.cz

The prevalence of obesity is increasing in both developed and developing 
countries, with rates reaching approximately 10-35% among adults in the 
Euro-American region. Obesity is associated with increased risks of 
cardiovascular diseases, type 2 diabetes, arthritis, and some type of cancers. 
Obesity significantly affects the quality of life and reduces the average life 
expectancy. The effective treatment of obesity should address both the medical 
and the social burden of this disease. Obesity needs to be treated within the 
health care system as any other complex disease, with empathy and without 
prejudice. Both health care providers and patients should know that the obesity 
treatment is a lifelong task. They should also set realistic goals before 
starting the treatment, whereas keeping in mind that even a modest weight loss 
of 5-15% significantly reduces obesity-related health risks. Essential treatment 
of obesity includes low-calorie low-fat diets, increased physical activity, and 
strategies contributing to the modification of lifestyle. Anti-obesity drugs 
facilitate weight loss and contribute to further amelioration of obesity-related 
health risks. A short-term weight loss, up to 6 months, is usually achieved 
easily. However, the long-term weight management is often associated with a lack 
of compliance, failures, and a high dropout rate. Regular physical activity, 
cognitive behavioral modification of lifestyle, and administration of 
anti-obesity drugs improve weight loss maintenance. Bariatric surgery is an 
effective strategy to treat severely obese patients. Bariatric surgery leads to 
a substantial improvement of comorbidities as well as to a reduction in overall 
mortality by 25-50% during the long-term follow-up. Obesity treatment should be 
individually tailored and the following factors should be taken into account: 
sex, the degree of obesity, individual health risks, psychobehavioral and 
metabolic characteristics, and the outcome of previous weight loss attempts. In 
the future, an evaluation of hormonal and genetic determinants of weight loss 
could also contribute to a better choice of individual therapy for a particular 
obese patient. A multilevel obesity management network of mutually collaborating 
facilities should be established to provide individually tailored treatment. 
Centers of excellence in obesity management represented by multidisciplinary 
teams should provide comprehensive programs for the treatment of obesity derived 
from evidence-based medicine.

DOI: 10.2337/dc08-s265
PMID: 18227496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Nat Clin Pract Urol. 2008 Mar;5(3):138-9. doi: 10.1038/ncpuro1037. Epub 2008
Jan  29.

A nomogram for predicting 10-year life expectancy in men with prostate cancer 
after definitive therapy.

Kattan MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH 
44195, USA. kattanm@ccf.org

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3576-81.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpuro1037
PMID: 18227833


993. J Gen Intern Med. 2008 May;23(5):509-16. doi: 10.1007/s11606-008-0515-2.
Epub  2008 Jan 29.

Cost-effectiveness of chlorthalidone, amlodipine, and lisinopril as first-step 
treatment for patients with hypertension: an analysis of the Antihypertensive 
and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart Attack Trial (ALLHAT).

Heidenreich PA(1), Davis BR, Cutler JA, Furberg CD, Lairson DR, Shlipak MG, 
Pressel SL, Nwachuku C, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of first-line treatments for 
hypertension.
BACKGROUND: The Antihypertensive and Lipid-Lowering Treatment to Prevent Heart 
Attack Trial (ALLHAT) found that first-line treatment with lisinopril or 
amlodipine was not significantly superior to chlorthalidone in terms of the 
primary endpoint, so differences in costs may be critical for optimizing 
decision-making.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using bootstrap resampling to 
evaluate uncertainty.
RESULTS: Over a patient's lifetime, chlorthalidone was always least expensive 
(mean $4,802 less than amlodipine, $3,700 less than lisinopril). Amlodipine 
provided more life-years (LYs) than chlorthalidone in 84% of bootstrap samples 
(mean 37 days) at an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $48,400 per LY 
gained. Lisinopril provided fewer LYs than chlorthalidone in 55% of bootstrap 
samples (mean 7-day loss) despite a higher cost. At a threshold of $50,000 per 
LY gained, amlodipine was preferred in 50%, chlorthalidone in 40%, and 
lisinopril in 10% of bootstrap samples, but these findings were highly sensitive 
to the cost of amlodipine and the cost-effectiveness threshold chosen. 
Incorporating quality of life did not appreciably alter the results. Overall, no 
reasonable combination of assumptions led to 1 treatment being preferred in over 
90% of bootstrap samples.
CONCLUSIONS: Initial treatment with chlorthalidone is less expensive than 
lisinopril or amlodipine, but amlodipine provided a nonsignificantly greater 
survival benefit and may be a cost-effective alternative. A randomized trial 
with power to exclude "clinically important" differences in survival will often 
have inadequate power to determine the most cost-effective treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-008-0515-2
PMCID: PMC2324142
PMID: 18228109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2007;2(3):335-45.

Bacterial lysate in the prevention of acute exacerbation of COPD and in 
respiratory recurrent infections.

Braido F(1), Tarantini F, Ghiglione V, Melioli G, Canonica GW.

Author information:
(1)Allergy and Respiratory Diseases, DIMI, University of Genova, Italy. 
fulvio.braido@unige.it

Respiratory tract infections (RTIs) represent a serious problem because they are 
one of the most common cause of human death by infection. The search for the 
treatment of those diseases has therefore a great importance. In this study we 
provide an overview of the currently available treatments for RTIs with 
particular attention to chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases exacerbations and 
recurrent respiratory infections therapy and a description of bacterial lysate 
action, in particular making reference to the medical literature dealing with 
its clinical efficacy. Those studies are based on a very large number of 
clinical trials aimed to evaluate the effects of this drug in maintaining the 
immune system in a state of alert, and in increasing the defences against 
microbial infections. From this analysis it comes out that bacterial lysates 
have a protective effect, which induce a significant reduction of the symptoms 
related to respiratory infections. Those results could be very interesting also 
from an economic point of view, because they envisage a reduction in the number 
of acute exacerbations and a shorter duration of hospitalization. The use of 
bacterial lysate could therefore represent an important means to achieve an 
extension of life duration in patients affected by respiratory diseases.

PMCID: PMC2695191
PMID: 18229572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Harv Health Lett. 2007 Nov;33(1):6.

Great expectations.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18232113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Demography. 2007 Nov;44(4):807-20. doi: 10.1353/dem.2007.0044.

Family transitions in young adulthood.

Schoen R(1), Landale NS, Daniels K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA 
16802, USA. schoen@pop.psu.edu

Using the first (1995) and third (2001-2002) waves of the Add Health survey, we 
examine women 's family transitions up to age 24. Only a third of all women 
marry, and a fifth of those marriages dissolve before age 24. Three out of eight 
women have afirst birth, with a substantial majority of those births outside of 
marriage: 66% for whites, 96% for blacks, and 72% for Mexican Americans. 
Cohabitation is the predominant union form; 59% of women cohabit at least once 
by age 24. Most cohabitations are short lived, with approximately one in five 
resulting in a marriage. We summarize the family and relationship experience of 
women up to age 24 in terms offour categories, each accounting for roughly a 
quarter of all women. Category 1 has the women who remain single nonparents. 
Category 2 has the early marriers, women whose marriage is not preceded by a 
first birth. Category 3 has those who become single parents. Category 4 has the 
women who cohabit at least once, but who do not marry or have a birth by age 24. 
The strictly ordered transitions of the 1950s are long gone and have been 
replaced by a variety of paths to adulthood.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2007.0044
PMID: 18232212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Med Arh. 2007;61(3):172-4.

[Healthcare usage by elderly people].

[Article in Bosnian]

Dzubur A(1), Brkljacić M, Kevrić E.

Author information:
(1)Institut za socijalnu medicinu, Medicinski fakultet u Sarajevu, BiH. 
abdz@hotmail.com

The newest demographic changes in the world and in our country show slow 
population increase and accelerated growth of elderly population. Apart from 
this growth of elderly population today we are experiencing increase in life 
expectancy. Our goal is to present socioeconomic status, usage of health 
services and patients satisfaction with those services. Our research includes 
120 persons older than 65 years living in rural areas of Vares municipality. The 
data was collected in the period of 01/04/2007 to 01/05/2007. Municipality 
register provided us with data for elderly population using random sampling 
method. Examination was carried out using questionnaire papers especially 
formulated for our research. Statistical analysis includes elements of 
descriptive statistics X2 and the test of correlation; results with p<05 will be 
used in our research. Research variables are: sex, age, education level, salary, 
profession before retirement, number of visits to MD as well to a specialist, 
days spent in hospital and overall satisfaction with health care services.

PMID: 18232283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. J Econ Entomol. 2007 Dec;100(6):1797-807. doi: 
10.1603/0022-0493(2007)100[1797:moecbw]2.0.co;2.

Monitoring of European corn borer with pheromone-baited traps: review of 
trapping system basics and remaining problems.

Laurent P(1), Frérot B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Applied Entomology, Graduate School of Agricultural and Life 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan. 
lpelozuelo@yahoo.fr

Since the identification of female European corn borer, Ostrinia nubilalis 
(Hübner) pheromone, pheromone-baited traps have been regarded as a promising 
tool to monitor populations of this pest. This article reviews the literature 
produced on this topic since the 1970s. Its aim is to provide extension 
entomologists and other researchers with all the necessary information to 
establish an efficient trapping procedure for this moth. The different pheromone 
races of the European corn borer are described, and research results relating to 
the optimization of pheromone blend, pheromone bait, trap design, and trap 
placement are summarized followed by a state-of-the-art summary of data 
comparing blacklight trap and pheromone-baited trap techniques to monitor 
European corn borer flight. Finally, we identify the information required to 
definitively validate/invalidate the pheromone-baited traps as an efficient 
decision support tool in European corn borer control.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2007)100[1797:moecbw]2.0.co;2
PMID: 18232396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Am Coll Dent. 2007 Summer;74(2):34-41.

Motivation.

Chambers DW.

Motivation is short-term focused energy. The oldest theories of motivation 
explain motivated activity as effort to overcome primary deficiencies, such as 
hunger or boredom. Such theories are difficult to apply because individuals 
learn idiosyncratic secondary motives as alternative ways of responding to these 
needs. Three prominent needs theories are discussed: Herzberg's theory of 
hygiene and motivational factors; McClelland's needs for achievement, power, and 
affiliation; and Maslow's hierarchy and theory of self-actualization. A second 
approach to motivation holds that individuals may be thought of as engaging in 
rational processes to maximize their self-interests. The presented examples of 
this approach include Vroom's expectancy theory, Adam's theory of inequality, 
and the Porter-Lawler model that addresses the question of whether satisfaction 
leads to high performance or vice versa. Finally, several theories of motivation 
as life orientation are developed.

PMID: 18232579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2007 Dec;76(6 Pt 1):061913. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.76.061913. Epub 2007 Dec 20.

Elasticity of two-dimensional filaments with constant spontaneous curvature.

Zhou Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics and Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, Tamkang 
University, 151 Ying-chuan, Tamsui 25137, Taiwan, Republic of China. 
zzhou@mail.tku.edu.tw

We study the mechanical property of a two-dimensional filament with constant 
spontaneous curvature and under uniaxial applied force. We derive the equation 
that governs the stable shape of the filament and obtain analytical solutions 
for the equation. We find that for a long filament with positive initial azimuth 
angle (the azimuth angle is the angle between x axis and the tangent of the 
filament) and under large stretching force, the azimuth angle is a two-valued 
function of the arclength, decreases first, and then increases with increasing 
arclength. Otherwise, the azimuth angle is a monotonic function of arclength. At 
finite temperature, we derive the differential equation that governs the 
partition function and find exact solution of the partition function for a 
filament free of force. We obtain closed-form expressions on the force-extension 
relation for a filament under low force and for a long filament under strong 
stretching force. Our results show that for a biopolymer with moderate length 
and not too small spontaneous curvature, the effect of the spontaneous curvature 
cannot be replaced by a simple renormalization of the persistence length in the 
wormlike chain model.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.76.061913
PMID: 18233875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Mar;24(3):753-68. doi: 10.1185/030079908X273048. Epub 
2008 Jan 29.

Economic evaluation of major knee surgery with recombinant activated factor VII 
in hemophilia patients with high titer inhibitors and advanced knee arthropathy: 
exploratory results via literature-based modeling.

Ballal RD(1), Botteman MF, Foley I, Stephens JM, Wilke CT, Joshi AV.

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA.

OBJECTIVES: People with severe hemophilia suffer from frequent intra-articular 
hemorrhages, leading to pain, swelling, reduced flexion, and arthropathy. 
Elective orthopedic surgery using factor VIII (FVIII) replacement to prevent 
uncontrolled bleeding has been endorsed as an effective treatment option for 
patients with severe or advanced hemophilic arthropathy. These surgeries reduce 
pain, restore mobility and function, and reduce the frequency of recurrent joint 
bleeds. Unfortunately, some patients with hemophilia develop inhibitors to 
FVIII, which neutralize FVIII activity and render the use of even massive 
amounts of FVIII replacement ineffective and surgery very risky. For this 
reason, elective surgical procedures in high-titer inhibitor patients had 
largely been abandoned until the introduction of new agents, such as recombinant 
activated factor VII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven, Novo Nordisk A/S, Denmark). rFVIIa has 
been shown effective for prophylaxis during elective surgery and has therefore 
improved the feasibility of orthopedic surgery in hemophilia patients with 
high-titer inhibitors. The present research explored, from a modified US payer 
perspective, the direct economic and quality of life benefits of four different 
elective knee surgeries (total knee replacement [TKR], knee arthrodesis [KA], 
proximal tibial osteotomy, and distal femoral osteotomy) with rFVIIa coverage in 
hemophilia patients with high-titer inhibitors.
METHODS: An exploratory literature-based life-table model was developed to 
compare the direct medical costs and quality of life of two hypothetical cohorts 
of high-titer inhibitor patients with frequent bleeding episodes: one undergoing 
and the other not undergoing elective knee surgery. Knee surgery costs included 
perioperative rFVIIa costs, inpatient and rehabilitation care, and repeat 
procedures due to surgery failure, prosthesis loosening or deep infection. Based 
on efficacy studies, knee surgery was assumed to reduce mean annual bleeding 
episodes at the affected joint from 9.13 to 1.64. The cost of managing each 
bleeding episode was estimated at $15 298. Thus, by reducing bleeding episodes, 
surgery was expected to result in related cost offsets. All costs were expressed 
in 2006 US dollars. Surgery was also assumed to result in gains in quality of 
life by reducing pain and reducing bleeding episodes. The impact of pain 
reduction on quality of life and utility was estimated by simulating EQ-5D 
scores for a typical patient with and without knee surgery.
RESULTS: Based on the model, average knee surgery costs are predicted to range 
from a low of $694 000 (for KA) to a high of $855 000 (for TKR). However, knee 
surgery is also expected to reduce the subsequent number of bleeding episodes 
and resultant costs, leading to long-term costs savings. Due to improvement in 
pain levels, surgical patients are expected to experience improvements in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Thus, surgery appears to be the preferred 
strategy (i.e., saves costs and increases QALYs). Based on the assumptions used 
in the model, the initial cost of knee surgery was offset during the 8th and 
10th years for KA and TKR, respectively, with intermediate break-even time for 
the other surgeries. As expected, cost savings and gains in QALYs increased over 
time, as well as the cost effective ness of knee surgery. Specifically, the cost 
per QALY with KA and TKR fell under $50 000/QALY during the 6th and 8th years, 
respectively, with intermediate time for the other surgeries.
CONCLUSIONS: The present exploratory analysis is based on the long-term 
extrapolation of data from a small number of patients without inhibitors and 
short-term studies. It suggests that major knee surgery utilizing rFVIIa in 
hemophilia patients with inhibitors may be cost-effective on average, with 
expected cost savings apparent within a decade of knee surgery. The present 
exploratory results should be validated with real-world, longitudinal patient 
data.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908X273048
PMID: 18234151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Med Ethics. 2008 Feb;34(2):109-15. doi: 10.1136/jme.2006.018291.

Balancing urgency, age and quality of life in organ allocation decisions--what 
would you do? A survey.

Stahl JE(1), Tramontano AC, Swan JS, Cohen BJ.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Institute for Technology Assessment, 101 
Mermac St, 10th floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. James@mgh-ita.org

PURPOSE: Explore public attitudes towards the trade-offs between justice and 
medical outcome inherent in organ allocation decisions.
BACKGROUND: The US Task Force on Organ Transplantation recommended that 
considerations of justice, autonomy and medical outcome be part of all organ 
allocation decisions. Justice in this context may be modeled as a function of 
three types of need, related to age, clinical urgency, and quality of life.
METHODS: A web-based survey was conducted in which respondents were asked to 
choose between two hypothetical patients who differed in clinical urgency (time 
to death <1 year), age, pretransplant and post-transplant quality of life, and 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: A pool of 1600 people were notified via email about the survey; 623 
(39%) responded. Respondents preferred giving organs to younger people up to an 
age difference of <15.4 years (SD 18) and more clinically urgent people up to a 
difference in urgency of <2.54 months (SD 3). Priority varied with the quality 
of life of the worst-off patient and the relative status of the patients. If 
both had worse than average quality of life, respondents preferred the 
better-off patient. When both had better than average quality of life, they 
preferred the worse-off patient. In analysis according to age versus clinical 
urgency, the older the patient, the more urgency needed to receive priority. In 
quality of life versus clinical urgency, the better the control's quality of 
life, the more urgency the competing patient required. The worse the patient's 
post-transplant outcome, the more urgency needed to receive priority.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears that clinical urgency is only one of many factors 
influencing attitudes about allocation decisions and that respondents may invoke 
different principles of fairness depending the relative clinical status of 
patients.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2006.018291
PMID: 18234950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Am J Public Health. 2008 Dec;98(12):2251-7. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.107912.
Epub  2008 Jan 30.

Gender differences in the association between morbidity and mortality among 
middle-aged men and women.

Singh-Manoux A(1), Guéguen A, Ferrie J, Shipley M, Martikainen P, Bonenfant S, 
Goldberg M, Marmot M.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U687, Villejuif Cedex, France. 
archana.singh-manoux@st-maurice.inserm.fr

OBJECTIVES: We examined gender differences in mortality, morbidity, and the 
association between the 2.
METHODS: We used health data from 2 studies of middle-aged men and women: the 
British Whitehall II cohort of employees from 20 civil service departments in 
London and the 1989 French GAZEL (this acronym refers to the French gas and 
electric companies) of employees of France's national gas and electricity 
company. Participants were aged 35 to 55 years when assessed for morbidity and 
followed up for mortality over 17 years.
RESULTS: Male mortality was higher than female mortality in Whitehall II (hazard 
ratio [HR] = 1.56; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.28, 1.91) and the GAZEL 
cohort (HR = 1.99; CI = 1.66, 2.40). Female excess morbidity was observed for 
some measures in the Whitehall II data and for 1 measure in the GAZEL data. Only 
self-reported sickness absence in the Whitehall II data was more strongly 
associated with mortality among men (P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality was lower among women than among men, but morbidity was 
not consistently higher. The lack of gender differences in the association 
between morbidity and mortality suggests that this is not a likely explanation 
for the gender paradox, which refers to higher morbidity but lower mortality 
among women than among men.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2006.107912
PMCID: PMC2636514
PMID: 18235071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):690-1; author reply 691-3. doi: 
10.1200/JCO.2007.14.7108.

Family physicians could help in predicting life expectancy without prostate 
cancer.

Mohan R.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3563-4.
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3576-81.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2007.14.7108
PMID: 18235137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 1;26(4):690; author reply 691-3. doi: 
10.1200/JCO.2007.14.5490.

Life expectancy estimation by nomogram.

Froehner M.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Aug 20;25(24):3576-81.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2007.14.5490
PMID: 18235138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2008 Feb;133(6):256-60. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1017507.

[Social disparities in morbidity and mortality: what are the causes?].

[Article in German]

Schneider S(1).

Author information:
(1)Mannheimer Institut für Public Health, Sozial- und Präventivmedizin, 
Medizinische Fakultät Mannheim der Universität Heidelberg, Ludolf-Krehl-Strasse 
7 - 11, 68167 Mannheim. sven.schneider@medma.uni-heidelberg.de

In Germany, as in many other western industrialized nations, a paradoxical trend 
can be observed: On the one hand, life expectancy continues to rise and both 
prevalence and incidence rates decrease for many groups of diagnoses. On the 
other hand, social disparities in morbidity and mortality are becoming more 
pronounced. This review's aim is to introduce a teaching framework concerning 
initial conditions and related factors of this "social gradient" on the basis of 
a critical synopsis of the current state of the relevant research and 
discussions, taking into account aspects of material inequality as well as 
social differences in the distribution of working and living conditions. In 
addition, the role of cultural capital and the relationship between social 
background and lifestyle will be described in detail. Finally, psychosocial and 
biological determining factors as well as potential selective processes are also 
considered in our model. The growing gap of social inequalities in health and 
life expectancy is a potential source of social conflicts. The "teaching 
framework model of the social gradient of morbidity and mortality" that is 
presented in this article helps to minimize explanatory deficits and will 
present clinicians with new ideas about the multifactorial origin of global and 
specific morbidity as well as important new perspectives for future preventative 
policies.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1017507
PMID: 18236353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Health Hum Serv Adm. 2008 Spring;30(4):420-40.

Weight counseling for elderly patients in primary care: how often and how much 
time.

Tai-Seale T(1), Tai-Seale M, Zhang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Behavioral Health, Texas A&M, School of Rural Public 
Health, USA.

Some 20 million Americans over the age of 60 will soon be obese. As a result, 
they will likely suffer lower life-expectancy, higher disability, and higher 
health care costs. How much time do physicians spend with elders, especially 
obese elders, in helping them plan weight loss? This study, which analyzed 352 
videotaped visits with elderly patients and their provider, has found that only 
a third of the visibly obese patients were counseled, and that the average time 
spent discussing the subject--if discussed--was 103 seconds. This is probably 
less than a fifth of the time needed to adequately counsel patients about weight 
loss. In addition, the study has found that both provider and patient 
characteristics determine if and how long discussion lasts.

PMID: 18236698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Cleve Clin J Med. 2008 Jan;75(1):70-8. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.75.1.70.

Managing diabetes in the elderly: go easy, individualize.

Hornick T(1), Aron DC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, Case Western Reserve 
University School of Medicine, OH, USA.

The care of elderly patients with diabetes should be individualized, taking into 
account the patient's comorbidities, other medications, cognitive abilities, 
home care situation, and life expectancy. Especially in frail, elderly patients, 
there should be less emphasis on strict glycemic control than on avoiding 
malnutrition and hypoglycemia and achieving the best quality of life possible.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.75.1.70
PMID: 18236732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2007 Dec 22;151(51):2852-6.

[Improvement of public health in London in the nineteenth century and the 
probably limited role of the new sewage system].

[Article in Dutch]

van Gelder MM(1), Roeleveld N.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, afd. Epidemiologie en Biostatistiek, 
Nijmegen. m.vangelder@epib.umcn.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Apr 5;152(14):846; author reply 846.

--London was one of the most rapidly expanding cities in the world in the 
nineteenth century, but the water supply and sanitary conditions were extremely 
poor. --In the nineteenth century, there were many theories regarding the causes 
and spread of epidemic diseases. The miasma theory, which postulated that 
disease was the result of bad air and odours, was the most popular. --In 1858, 
as a result of the foul smells from the Thames, the decision was made to improve 
the sewage system. The new system was first used in 1865, but its actual effect 
on public health is not clear. --The life expectancy of Londoners did not change 
in the period 1826-1871, but increased substantially thereafter. In view of this 
time window, this may have been a result of improvements in the sewage system. 
--However, it is likely that several other factors, such as improvements in the 
food and water supply, vaccination programmes, and natural circumstances, were 
responsible for a large part of this increase.

PMID: 18237056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. J Rural Health. 2007 Fall;23 Suppl:68-72. doi:
10.1111/j.1748-0361.2007.00126.x.

Illicit drug use and the social context of HIV/AIDS in Alabama's Black Belt.

Lichtenstein B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Criminal Justice, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa 35487-0320, 
USA. blichten@bama.ua.edu

CONTEXT: The rural Black Belt of Alabama is among the poorest areas of the 
nation. Poverty, lack of health infrastructure, and health disparities involving 
HIV/AIDS and other diseases reflect the lower life expectancy of people in the 
region. The Black Belt region has the highest HIV rates in rural America.
PURPOSE: Using Alabama as a case example, the paper describes the role of 
illicit drug use in pathways to HIV transmission in the Black Belt and examines 
the relationship between drug use and social context with respect to HIV/AIDS 
disparities in the region.
METHODS: Published research and national and state data were triangulated for 
information on interactions between illicit drug use, social context, and 
HIV/AIDS.
FINDINGS: Illicit drug use is implicated in HIV risk in Alabama's Black Belt, 
but less so than in other parts of the nation. Published research suggests that 
the impetus for drug use involves status seeking in the context of heterosexual 
contact and economic disparities. HIV transmission in Alabama's Black Belt 
speaks to the tyranny of small places; that is, the risk of HIV/AIDS occurs in 
geographically bounded areas with a history of racial homogeneity, historically 
high rates of sexually transmitted infections, and clustered sexual networks in 
this isolated region.
CONCLUSIONS: Social context is an important correlate of HIV risk in the Black 
Belt. The role of drug use in HIV risk is secondary to social-contextual factors 
involving rural isolation, racial homogeneity, and the racial disparities of the 
region.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-0361.2007.00126.x
PMID: 18237327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Value Health. 2008 Jan-Feb;11(1):22-33. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00211.x.

Estimating the long-term cost-effectiveness of exenatide in the United States: 
an adjunctive treatment for type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Minshall ME(1), Oglesby AK, Wintle ME, Valentine WJ, Roze S, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS-Health-Noblesville, IN, USA. mminshall@us.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVES: This analysis provides an early estimate of the cost-effectiveness 
of adjunctive exenatide in treating type 2 diabetes mellitus in the United 
States. Data from pivotal phase III 30-week clinical trials and 52 weeks of 
their subsequent open-label extension studies (i.e., 82 weeks total) were used 
to project the effects of 30 years of adjunctive exenatide treatment.
METHODS: This analysis utilized a published and validated Markov model 
incorporating Monte Carlo simulation with tracker variables to estimate the 
clinical and cost outcomes of adding exenatide to a background of metformin 
and/or sulfonylurea treatment, with the effects of 30 years of adjunctive 
exenatide treatment (projected from data from 82 weeks of exenatide treatment) 
compared with no additional treatment beyond metformin and/or a sulfonylurea. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed on key clinical assumptions, discount rates, 
and shorter time horizons.
RESULTS: The base-case scenario (30 years of exenatide) yielded an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $35,571. We found that shortening the time 
horizons and removing the lipid effects of exenatide had the greatest negative 
impact on ICERs when performing sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis demonstrated that exenatide used for 20 or 30 years 
compared with no additional treatment beyond metformin and/or a sulfonylurea is 
cost-effective in the adjunctive treatment of type 2 diabetes with an ICER less 
than $50,000 per life-year gained. Sensitivity analyses suggest that, in 
addition to sustained reduction in HbA(1c), the added clinical effects of 
improved lipid values, systolic blood pressure, and reduced body mass index all 
positively contributed to the cost-effectiveness of exenatide.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00211.x
PMID: 18237357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Value Health. 2008 Jan-Feb;11(1):76-87. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00216.x.

Health state utilities: a framework for studying the gap between the imagined 
and the real.

Stiggelbout AM(1), de Vogel-Voogt E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. a.m.stiggelbout@lumc.nl

OBJECTIVES: Health state utilities play an important role in decision analysis 
and cost-utility analysis. The question whose utilities to use at various levels 
of health-care decision-making has been subject of considerable debate. The 
observation that patients often value their own health, but also other health 
states, higher than members of the general public raises the question what 
underlies such differences? Is it an artifact of the valuation methods? Is it 
adaptation versus poor anticipated adaptation? This article describes a 
framework for the understanding and study of potential mechanisms that play a 
role in health state valuation. It aims at connecting research from within 
different fields so that cross-fertilization of ideas may occur.
METHODS: The framework is based on stimulus response models from social judgment 
theory. For each phase, from stimulus, through information interpretation and 
integration, to judgment, and, finally, to response, we provide evidence of 
factors and processes that may lead to different utilities in patients and 
healthy subjects.
RESULTS: Examples of factors and processes described are the lack of scope of 
scenarios in the stimulus phase, and appraisal processes and framing effects in 
the information interpretation phase. Factors that play a role in the judgment 
phase are, for example, heuristics and biases, adaptation, and comparison 
processes. Some mechanisms related to the response phase are end aversion bias, 
probability distortion, and noncompensatory decision-making.
CONCLUSIONS: The framework serves to explain many of the differences in 
valuations between respondent groups. We discuss some of the findings as they 
relate to the field of response shift research. We propose issues for discussion 
in the field, and suggestions for improvement of the process of utility 
assessment.

