
Despite a number of cross-national studies that have examined the associations 
between income inequality and broad health outcomes such as life expectancy and 
all-cause mortality, investigations of the cross-country relations between 
income inequality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity, mortality, and 
risk factors are sparse. We analyzed the cross-national relations between income 
inequality and age-standardized mean body mass index (BMI), serum total 
cholesterol, systolic blood pressure (SBP), obesity prevalence, smoking impact 
ratio (SIR), and age-standardized and age-specific disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) and mortality rates from coronary heart disease (CHD) and 
stroke, controlling for multiple country-level factors and specifying 5- to 
10-year lag periods. In multivariable analyses primarily limited to 
industrialized countries, countries in the middle and highest (vs. lowest) 
tertiles of income inequality had higher absolute age-standardized obesity 
prevalences in both sexes. Higher income inequality was also related to higher 
mean SBP in both sexes, and higher SIR in women. In analyses of larger sets of 
countries with available data, positive associations were observed between 
higher income inequality and mean BMI, obesity prevalence, and CHD DALYs and 
mortality rates. Associations with stroke outcomes were inverse, yet became 
positive with the inclusion of eastern bloc and other countries in recent 
economic/political transition. China was also identified to be an influential 
data point, with the positive associations with stroke mortality rates becoming 
attenuated with its inclusion. Overall, our findings are compatible with harmful 
effects of income inequality at the national scale on CVD morbidity, mortality, 
and selected risk factors, particularly BMI/obesity. Future studies should 
consider income inequality as an independent contributor to variations in CVD 
burden globally.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.12.030
PMID: 18280021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Eur Urol. 2009 Jul;56(1):142-8. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2008.01.088. Epub 2008
Feb  8.

Prostate growth and prevalence of prostate diseases in early onset spinal cord 
injuries.

Bartoletti R(1), Gavazzi A, Cai T, Mondaini N, Morelli A, Del Popolo G, Geppetti 
P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Florence, Florence, Italy. 
riccardo.bartoletti@asf.toscana.it

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2009 Jul;56(1):149-50.
    Eur Urol. 2009 Jul;56(1):148.

BACKGROUND: Controversial data on modifications of prostate size, function and 
disease of spinal cord injury (SCI) patients has been previously reported.
OBJECTIVE: An analytical observational cohort study on male SCI patients was 
planned in order to evaluate prostate gland growth, including benign prostatic 
hyperplasia in relation to the age of the patient at SCI onset. Additional 
evaluations considered hormonal and biochemical parameters and prostate cancer.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: 113 SCI patients (mean age 61.3) and 109 
age-matched able bodied subjects (mean age 65.4) were enrolled and stratified 
according to the patient age at SCI onset (< or = 30, 31-49, and > or = 50 
years).
INTERVENTION: A complete medical history was then collected from all SCI 
patients and able bodied subjects.
MEASUREMENTS: Total prostate antigen (PSA) and testosterone (T) serum levels and 
urine culture were collected. Digital rectal examination and transrectal 
ultrasonography were performed.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Patients with SCI showed PSA value and prostate size 
significantly lower than those observed in able bodied subjects, and an inverse 
relationship was observed in SCI patients between these two parameters and 
patient age at the time of lesion onset. T serum levels were lower in SCI 
patients when compared to able bodied subjects. No SCI patient presented 
prostate cancer, while 9.7% of control subjects were affected by prostate 
cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostate volume and PSA levels are lower in SCI patients and are 
inversely related to the patient age at lesion onset. Whether this effect is 
mediated directly or indirectly by a impaired nerve supply to the prostate 
remains to be determined. Despite the present observation of reduced prostate 
disease, as during the last twenty years life expectancy in SCI patients has 
improved significantly, the need to screen these patients for the occurrence of 
prostate disease should not be disregarded.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2008.01.088
PMID: 18280636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. J Bacteriol. 2008 Apr;190(8):3063-75. doi: 10.1128/JB.01910-07. Epub 2008
Feb  15.

The iron-responsive Fur regulon in Yersinia pestis.

Gao H(1), Zhou D, Li Y, Guo Z, Han Y, Song Y, Zhai J, Du Z, Wang X, Lu J, Yang 
R.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Northeast Normal University, Changchun 130024, 
People's Republic of China.

The ferric uptake regulator (Fur) is a predominant bacterial regulator 
controlling the iron assimilation functions in response to iron availability. 
Our previous microarray analysis on Yersinia pestis defined the iron-Fur 
modulon. In the present work, we reannotated the iron assimilation genes in Y. 
pestis, and the resulting genes in complementation with those disclosed by 
microarray constituted a total of 34 genome loci (putative operons) that 
represent the potential iron-responsive targets of Fur. The subsequent real-time 
reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) in conjunction with the primer extension 
analysis showed that 32 of them were regulated by Fur in response to iron 
starvation. A previously predicted Fur box sequence was then used to search 
against the promoter regions of the 34 operons; the homologue of the above box 
could be predicted in each promoter tested. The subsequent electrophoretic 
mobility shift assay (EMSA) demonstrated that a purified His(6) tag-fused Fur 
protein was able to bind in vitro to each of these promoter regions. Therefore, 
Fur is a global regulator, both an activator and a repressor, and directly 
controls not only almost all of the iron assimilation functions but also a 
variety of genes involved in various non-iron functions for governing a complex 
regulatory cascade in Y. pestis. In addition, real-time RT-PCR, primer 
extension, EMSA, and DNase I footprinting assay were used to elucidate the Fur 
regulation of the ybt locus encoding a virulence-required iron uptake system. By 
combining the published data on the YbtA regulation of ybt, we constructed a 
concise Fur/YbtA regulatory network with a map of the Fur-promoter DNA 
interactions within the ybt locus. The data presented here give us an overview 
of the iron-responsive Fur regulon in Y. pestis.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01910-07
PMCID: PMC2293247
PMID: 18281395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 20;26(6):925-33. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.4190.

Docetaxel in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide as adjuvant 
treatment for early node-positive breast cancer: a cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility analysis.

Wolowacz SE(1), Cameron DA, Tate HC, Bagust A.

Author information:
(1)RTI-Health Solutions, Williams House, University of Manchester Science Park, 
Manchester M15 6SE, United Kingdom. swolowacz@rti.org

PURPOSE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of TAC (docetaxel, doxorubicin, and 
cyclophosphamide) compared with FAC (fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and 
cyclophosphamide) when administered as adjuvant therapy to women with 
node-positive early breast cancer in the United Kingdom (UK), both with and 
without primary prophylaxis with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF).
METHODS: A standard health economic Markov model estimated the cost and outcome 
for node-positive early breast cancer patients, from initiation of adjuvant 
chemotherapy to death. Patient-level data were used from the Breast Cancer 
International Research Group (BCIRG) 001 trial for estimates of the effect of 
chemotherapy on toxicity and outcome, and an observational data set collected 
from a UK university hospital provided estimates of resource use and outcome for 
patients with relapsed disease.
RESULTS: Over a 10-year analysis timeframe, the incremental cost per life-year 
saved associated with the use of TAC rather than FAC was estimated as pound 
15,418 (95% CI, pound 13,734 to pound 17,997) and the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained (IC/QALY) was pound 18,188 (95% CI, pound 
14,161 to pound 32,422). The addition of primary G-CSF (lenograstim or 
filgrastim) to the TAC regimen resulted in an IC/QALY of pound 20,432. The 
results were most sensitive to the quality-of-life (QOL) score for patients in 
remission postchemotherapy. However, even if QOL was assumed to be as poor as 
for patients with metastatic disease, the IC/QALY estimate rose only to pound 
32,430.
CONCLUSION: The use of adjuvant TAC rather than FAC for node-positive early 
breast cancer patients is cost effective, despite the increased drug and 
toxicity treatment costs, and when primary G-CSF prophylaxis is given to all 
patients.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2006.10.4190
PMID: 18281666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Feb 20;26(6):1014-5; author reply 1015-6. doi: 
10.1200/JCO.2007.15.1860.

Patients with breast cancer are unlikely to benefit from prophylactic 
irradiation of the contralateral breast.

Ponzone R, Sismondi P.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2007 Nov 1;25(31):4868-72.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2007.15.1860
PMID: 18281679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(3):217-34. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826030-00005.

Preferences of patients with diabetes mellitus for inhaled versus injectable 
insulin regimens.

Chancellor J(1), Aball√©a S, Lawrence A, Sheldon R, Cure S, Plun-Favreau J, 
Marchant N.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK. jeremy.chancellor@i3innovus.com

BACKGROUND: In clinical trials, patients have expressed greater satisfaction 
with inhaled human insulin (EXUBERA, Pfizer) than with injectable insulin. No 
studies to date have attempted to quantify the strength of preferences for these 
alternative routes of administration.
OBJECTIVE: To elicit health state preference values from people with diabetes 
mellitus for treatment with inhaled human insulin compared with injectable 
insulin.
STUDY DESIGN: A patient preference study.
METHODS: Written descriptions were developed for five clinical scenarios: two 
for type 1 diabetes and three for type 2 diabetes. Each scenario required 
adjustment or initiation of insulin treatment because of poor glycaemic control. 
Two alternative insulin regimens were described for each scenario: 
injectable-only or inhaled human insulin to replace or reduce the number of 
daily injections. Equal efficacy was assumed within each of these scenario 
pairs.A total of 344 UK adults (66% male), 132 (mean age 49 years) with type 1 
diabetes and 212 (mean age 63 years) with type 2 diabetes, rated scenario pairs 
corresponding to their own type of diabetes and rated their own health by time 
trade-off (TTO), by correspondence with EQ-5D health descriptions and on the 
EQ-5D visual analogue scale. Respondents stated their preference for, or 
indifference between, the injection-only or inhalation variant comprising each 
scenario pair. TTO utilities and EQ-5D utilities by UK community tariff were 
compared within each scenario pair, for the total sample rating, each scenario 
pair, and by subgroups of stated preference for each variant.
RESULTS: A majority, ranging from 63% to 81% across the scenarios, preferred 
inhalation. Mean differences in TTO scores were 0.074, 0.076, 0.088, 0.053 and 
0.043 for the five scenarios, respectively (p < 0.005 for all). Mean EQ-5D 
differences were 0.043, 0.029, 0.037, 0.020 and 0.021 for the five scenarios, 
respectively (p < 0.05 for scenarios 1 and 3), driven mainly by differences on 
the pain/discomfort dimension of the EQ-5D. Differences in favour of inhalation 
among those preferring inhalation, were greater than differences in favour of 
injections among those preferring injections. Mean self-rated health was similar 
between respondents with type 1 and type 2 diabetes, at 0.83 (TTO) and 0.75 
(EQ-5D). The TTO was more sensitive than EQ-5D. Self-rated health by EQ-5D 
compared closely with reported values from the UK Prospective Diabetes Study 
(UKPDS).
CONCLUSIONS: This study highlights the utility differences that people with 
diabetes perceive between the prospect of inhaled and injected routes of insulin 
administration, even under the assumption of no difference in efficacy. These 
differences are magnified when the comparison in utility scores is between the 
majority who prefer the inhaled route and the minority who prefer the injectable 
route.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826030-00005
PMID: 18282016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(3):235-49. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826030-00006.

Community and patient values for preventing herpes zoster.

Lieu TA(1), Ortega-Sanchez I, Ray GT, Rusinak D, Yih WK, Choo PW, Shui I, 
Kleinman K, Harpaz R, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ambulatory Care and Prevention, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA. tracey.lieu@harvardpilgrim.org

OBJECTIVES: The US Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices has recently 
recommended a new vaccine against herpes zoster (shingles) for routine use in 
adults aged > or =60 years. However, estimates of the cost effectiveness of this 
vaccine vary widely, in part because of gaps in the data on the value of 
preventing herpes zoster. Our aims were to (i) generate comprehensive 
information on the value of preventing a range of outcomes of herpes zoster; 
(ii) compare these values among community members and patients with shingles and 
post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN); and (iii) identify clinical and demographic 
characteristics that explain the variation in these values.
METHODS: Community members drawn from a nationally representative survey 
research panel (n = 527) completed an Internet-based survey using time trade-off 
and willingness-to-pay questions to value a series of scenarios that described 
cases of herpes zoster with varying pain intensities (on a scale of 0 to 10, 
where 0 represents no pain and 10 represents the worst imaginable pain) and 
duration (30 days to 1 year). Patients with shingles (n = 382) or PHN (n = 137) 
[defined as having symptoms for > or =90 days] from two large healthcare systems 
completed telephone interviews with similar questions to the Internet-based 
survey and also answered questions about their current experience with herpes 
zoster. We constructed generalized linear mixed models to evaluate the 
associations between demographic and clinical characteristics, the length and 
intensity of the health states and time trade-off and willingness-to-pay values.
RESULTS: In time trade-off questions, community members offered a mean of 89 
(95% CI 24, 182) discounted days to avoid the least severe scenario (pain level 
of 3 for 1 month) and a mean of 162 (95% CI 88, 259) discounted days to avoid 
the most severe scenario (pain level of 8 for 12 months). Compared with patients 
with shingles, community members traded more days to avoid low-severity 
scenarios but similar numbers of days to avoid high-severity scenarios. Compared 
with patients with PHN, community members traded fewer days to avoid 
high-severity scenarios. In multivariate analyses, older age was the only 
characteristic significantly associated with higher time trade-off values. In 
willingness-to-pay questions, community members offered a mean of $US450 (95% CI 
203, 893) to avoid pain of level 3 for 1 month and a mean of $US1384 (95% CI 
873, 2050) [year 2005 values] to avoid pain of level 8 for 12 months. Community 
members traded less money than patients with either shingles or PHN to avoid 
both low- and high-severity scenarios (p-values <0.05 to <0.001). In 
multivariate models, male gender, higher income and having experienced shingles 
or PHN were associated with higher willingness to pay to avoid herpes zoster. 
When patients were asked to assign a value to avoiding their own case of herpes 
zoster, those with shingles assigned a mean of 67 days or $US2319, while those 
with PHN assigned a mean of 206 days or $US18 184. Both the time and monetary 
value traded were associated with the maximum intensity of the pain the 
individual had experienced, but neither was associated with the duration of the 
pain.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe that this study provides the most comprehensive 
information to date on the value individuals place on preventing herpes zoster, 
and it includes the only such valuation from nationally representative community 
members as well as patients with herpes zoster. Community members would trade 
substantial amounts of time or money to avoid herpes zoster, even in the least 
severe scenarios. The time trade-off results in this study may differ from those 
in other studies because of important differences in methods of assessing health 
utilities. Consideration of both community and patient perspectives is crucial 
to help decision makers fully determine the implications of their policies now 
that a vaccine against herpes zoster is available.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826030-00006
PMID: 18282017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(3):251-68. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826030-00007.

Zoledronic acid: a pharmacoeconomic review of its use in the management of bone 
metastases.

McKeage K(1), Plosker GL.

Author information:
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health | Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Zoledronic acid (Zometa is a third-generation nitrogen-containing parenteral 
bisphosphonate indicated for the treatment of bone metastases due to solid 
tumours or multiple myeloma and for hypercalcaemia of malignancy (HCM). In 
patients with advanced breast or prostate cancer, zoledronic acid 4 mg every 3-4 
weeks for up to 15 months significantly reduced the proportion of patients with 
> or =1 skeletal-related event (SRE), excluding HCM, compared with placebo. In 
patients with advanced breast cancer or multiple myeloma, the incidence of SREs 
was similar in patients treated with zoledronic acid 4 mg or pamidronic acid 90 
mg every 3-4 weeks for up to 25 months but, in breast cancer patients, 
zoledronic acid reduced the risk of SREs, including HCM, by an additional 20% 
compared with pamidronic acid. In modelled cost-utility studies comparing direct 
costs based on efficacy and resource-use data from these and/or other trials, 
results have varied. In the most recent study performed from the perspective of 
the UK NHS and modelled over a 10-year treatment period in women with advanced 
breast cancer, intravenous zoledronic acid and oral ibandronic acid were 
dominant over no treatment. Intravenous zoledronic acid was the most cost 
effective, in terms of incremental costs per QALY gained, followed by oral 
ibandronic acid, intravenous pamidronic acid and intravenous ibandronic acid. 
Two other modelled analyses in patients with advanced breast cancer, also 
conducted from the perspective of the NHS, evaluated the cost utility of three 
bisphosphonate therapies in patients receiving hormonal therapy or intravenous 
chemotherapy. Analyses were modelled over 14.3 months (i.e. expected survival) 
and assumptions varied markedly from results in clinical breast cancer trials. 
Also, efficacy assumptions for zoledronic acid were not based on clinical trials 
with the drug. The results of these analyses suggest that oral ibandronic acid 
is more cost effective than intravenous zoledronic acid and intravenous 
pamidronic acid in terms of incremental cost per QALY gained. In a global, 
15-month modelled cost-effectiveness analysis of patients with advanced prostate 
cancer, conducted from a third-party perspective, the incremental cost per QALY 
gained for zoledronic acid versus no treatment was $US159 200 (year 2000 value), 
which is about 3-fold greater than commonly accepted thresholds for cost 
effectiveness. In conclusion, a recent modelled economic analysis suggests that 
intravenous zoledronic acid 4 mg is dominant relative to no treatment in the 
management of bone metastases in patients with advanced breast cancer. In 
contrast, in patients with advanced prostate cancer, the incremental cost per 
QALY gained for zoledronic acid 4 mg versus no treatment was predicted to be 
higher than commonly accepted thresholds. Compared with other bisphosphonates in 
the setting of advanced breast cancer, intravenous zoledronic acid was more cost 
effective than oral or intravenous ibandronic acid and intravenous pamidronic 
acid in one study, but less cost effective than oral ibandronic acid in another. 
Further efficacy and economic data comparing intravenous zoledronic acid with 
oral ibandronic acid are needed. Meanwhile, zoledronic acid appears to be the 
most cost effective intravenous bisphosphonate for the management of bone 
metastases in patients with advanced breast cancer and possibly in patients with 
different types of advanced solid tumours.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826030-00007
PMID: 18282018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Gerodontology. 2008 Jun;25(2):113-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2007.00209.x.
Epub  2008 Feb 18.

A study of the prosthodontic and oral health needs of an ageing psychiatric 
population.

Bhansali S(1), Tripathi A, Tiwari SC, Singh SV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics & Dental Material Sciences, Faculty of Dental 
Sciences, U.P. King George's University of Dental Sciences, Lucknow, U.P., 
India. bhansalisumit@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy has increased worldwide, with India (having 8% who 
are senior citizens), falling into the "Greying Country" category. This ageing 
population constitutes a high-risk oral health group, vis-√†-vis impaired manual 
dexterity, cognitive deterioration and unmet treatment needs, which could be 
compounded by psychiatric morbidity.
OBJECTIVE: To assess oral health status and prosthodontic need of ageing 
psychiatric patients.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: One hundred and twenty-five patients, aged 50 years or 
above, admitted to the Department of Geriatric Mental Health, King George's 
Medical University, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India, were examined for 
prosthodontic, oral health status and need, the study population being divided 
into groups on the basis of Bristol Activities Scale of Daily Living.
RESULTS: Depressive symptoms (which increased with age) and psychiatric 
morbidity were found to be more in females. About 98% of the population showed 
probing depths of more than 3 mm, with mean number of decayed/missing teeth and 
inability to maintain oral/denture hygiene (p < 0.001) increasing in higher 
disability levels. While 91.3% of the population wearing a prosthesis required 
new dentures, 33.3% of the study population had unfulfilled partial denture need 
and 28.4% had unfulfilled upper/lower complete denture need.
CONCLUSION: Ageing psychiatric subjects require dental education and treatment 
to meet their needs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2007.00209.x
PMID: 18282147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Haemophilia. 2008 May;14(3):466-75. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01654.x.
Epub  2008 Feb 12.

Secondary prophylaxis with recombinant activated factor VII improves 
health-related quality of life of haemophilia patients with inhibitors.

Hoots WK(1), Ebbesen LS, Konkle BA, Auerswald GK, Roberts HR, Weatherall J, 
Ferran JM, Ljung RC; Novoseven (F7HAEM-1505) Investigators.

Collaborators: Bianco RP, Ozelo MC, de Oliveira MH, Lissitchkov T, Chua MN, 
Matysiak MJ, Windyga J, Serban MA, Arion CV, Colita DN, Rusen L, Vdovin V, 
Mahlangu J, Perez R, Serdano C, Kavakli K, Arkin S, Brown D, Di Paola J, Lewis 
B, Konkle BA, Leissinger C, Lusher J, Neufeld E, Shafer F, Shapiro A, Valentino 
L, Young G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Internal Medicine, University of Texas Medical 
School, Houston, TX 77030, USA. keith.hoots@uth.tmc.edu

Erratum in
    Haemophilia. 2008 May;14(3):670.

Haemophilia patients with inhibitors characteristically have impaired joint 
function and reduced health-related quality of life (HRQoL). This analysis 
examined whether secondary prophylaxis with recombinant activated factor VII 
(rFVIIa) improves HRQoL vs. conventional on-demand therapy in patients with 
haemophilia with inhibitors and frequent bleeds. After a 3-month preprophylaxis 
period, 22 patients received daily rFVIIa prophylaxis (90 or 270 microg kg(-1)) 
for 3 months, followed by 3 months' postprophylaxis. Days of hospitalization, 
absence from school/work and mobility aids requirements were recorded. HRQoL was 
assessed by EuroQoL (EQ-5D) questionnaire, visual analogue scale (VAS), derived 
Time to Trade-Off (TTO) scores and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). rFVIIa 
prophylaxis significantly (P < 0.0001) reduced bleeding frequency vs. prior 
on-demand therapy. Hospitalization (5.9% vs. 13.5%; P = 0.0026) and absenteeism 
from school/work (16.7% vs. 38.7%; P = 0.0127) decreased during prophylaxis; 
these effects tended to be maintained during postprophylaxis. HRQoL (evaluated 
by EQ-5D) tended to improve during and after rFVIIa prophylaxis. Notably, pain 
decreased and mobility increased in 40.9% and 27.3% of patients, respectively, 
at the end of the postprophylaxis period vs. preprophylaxis. Median VAS score 
increased from 66 to 73 (P = 0.048), and TTO scores suggested better HRQoL (0.62 
vs. 0.76; P = 0.054) during postprophylaxis than preprophylaxis. Small to 
moderate changes in effect sizes were reported for VAS and TTO scores. Median 
QALYs were 0.68 (VAS) and 0.73 (TTO). Reductions in bleeding frequency with 
secondary rFVIIa prophylaxis were associated with improved HRQoL vs. on-demand 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01654.x
PMID: 18282155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Health Policy. 2008 Aug;87(2):223-34. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2008.01.001.
Epub  2008 Feb 20.

A preliminary study into the economic burden of cerebral palsy in China.

Wang B(1), Chen Y, Zhang J, Li J, Guo Y, Hailey D.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China. wangbin20081234@yahoo.com.cn

OBJECTIVES: To measure the economic burden of cerebral palsy (CP) in China is to 
provide information on CP's societal impacts to policy-makers.
METHODS: The economic burden of CP includes direct healthcare costs, direct 
non-healthcare costs, developmental costs and indirect costs such as 
productivity loss. The incidence approach is employed to estimate the lifetime 
economic burden of a new CP birth and that of all new cases in China in 2003. 
Caregivers of 319 CP patients were interviewed in specialty hospitals in five 
cities in 2004. Average expenditure and utilization rates for different services 
by age groups from this sample were obtained to estimate the economic burden of 
CP. Chinese CP patients' life expectancy and survival rate were simulated with 
reference to Australian data with Human Development Index adjustment.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective, the average lifetime economic burden of 
a new CP case in China was US$ 67,044 in 2003, and the life-span total economic 
loss due to all new CP cases in 2003 amounted to US$ 2-4 billion. Indirect 
(productivity) costs are responsible for 93% of total economic loss, and direct 
healthcare and developmental costs make up 3% each. There are several factors 
which contribute to the extraordinarily high economic burden of CP, including 
productivity loss, reduced life expectancy, dependency, progressive 
deterioration of motor physical function, and recurrent use of rehabilitation 
services.
CONCLUSION: The economic burden of CP in China is substantial for the family of 
a CP patient, as well as to society. Public provision and financing of necessary 
preventive and rehabilitative services is urgently needed to mitigate this heavy 
burden for patients and their families.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2008.01.001
PMID: 18282633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):258-67. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-148-4-200802190-00004.

A 10-year experience with universal health insurance in Taiwan: measuring 
changes in health and health disparity.

Wen CP(1), Tsai SP, Chung WS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy Research and Development, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan, Taiwan. cwengood@nhri.org.tw

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):313-4.

BACKGROUND: Universal national health insurance, financed jointly by payroll 
taxes, subsidies, and individual premiums, commenced in Taiwan in 1995. Coverage 
expanded from 57% of the population (before the introduction of national health 
insurance) to 98%.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the role of national health insurance in improving life 
expectancy and reducing health disparities in Taiwan.
DESIGN: A before-and-after comparison of the decade before the introduction of 
national health insurance (1982-1984 to 1992-1994) with the decade after 
(1992-1994 to 2002-2004).
SETTING: Taiwan.
PATIENTS: All townships (n = 358) in Taiwan were ranked according to overall 
mortality rates before the introduction of national health insurance and then 
ranked into 10 health class groups in descending order of health (groups 1 
[healthiest] to 10 [least healthy]).
MEASUREMENTS: Health improvement (change in life expectancy after the 
introduction of national health insurance) and health disparity (reduction in 
the difference in life expectancy between the highest- and lowest-ranked health 
class groups).
RESULTS: After the introduction of national health insurance, life expectancy 
increased more in health class groups that had higher mortality rates before the 
introduction of national health insurance and health disparity narrowed, 
reversing an earlier trend toward widening disparity. The major contributors to 
the reduction in disparity were relatively larger reductions in death from 
cardiovascular diseases, ill-defined conditions, infectious diseases, and 
accidents in the lower-ranked health class groups. However, death from cancer 
increased more in the lower-ranked health class groups. Utilization of medical 
services increased, whereas cost remained at 5% to 6% of the gross domestic 
product. The per capita average annual number of visits to the physician's 
office was 14.
LIMITATION: The interpretation of comparisons before and after the introduction 
of national health insurance assumes that the changes were entirely due to the 
effect of national health insurance rather than secular trends.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy after the introduction of national health insurance 
improved more for lower-ranked health classes, resulting in narrowed health 
disparity. The magnitude of the reduced disparity was small compared with the 
size of the remaining gaps. Relying on universal insurance alone to eliminate 
health disparity does not seem realistic. To further reduce health disparity, 
universal insurance programs should incorporate primary prevention, focusing on 
lifestyle risk reductions.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-148-4-200802190-00004
PMID: 18283203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):313-4. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-148-4-200802190-00011.

Learning from Taiwan: experience with universal health insurance.

Davis K, Huang AT.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 19;148(4):258-67.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-148-4-200802190-00011
PMID: 18283208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Acta Orthop. 2008 Feb;79(1):1-11. doi: 10.1080/17453670710014680.

Money matters: what to look for in an economic analysis.

Dijksman LM(1), Poolman RW, Bhandari M, Goeree R, Tarride JE; International 
Evidence-Based Orthopaedic Surgery Working Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1080/17453670710014680
PMID: 18283565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Br J Dermatol. 2008 May;158(5):1055-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2133.2008.08461.x.  Epub 2008 Feb 16.

Beneficial effect of resin salve in treatment of severe pressure ulcers: a 
prospective, randomized and controlled multicentre trial.

Sipponen A(1), Jokinen JJ, Sipponen P, Papp A, Sarna S, Lohi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Rheumatism Foundation Hospital, 18120 Heinola, 
Finland. arno.sipponen@repolar.com

BACKGROUND: Resin salve of the Norway spruce (Picea abies) has been used in folk 
medicine to heal wounds and infections.
OBJECTIVES: To study its clinical effectiveness in the treatment of pressure 
ulcers of the skin.
METHODS: A prospective, randomized, controlled multicentre trial involving 37 
patients with grade II-IV pressure ulcers in 11 primary care hospitals was 
carried out between 2005 and 2007. The ulcers were randomly allocated to receive 
either resin salve or sodium carboxymethylcellulose hydrocolloid polymer 
treatment. The inclusion criterion was grade II-IV pressure ulcer. Exclusion 
criteria were a life expectancy of less than 6 months or a malignant disease. 
The primary outcome measure was complete healing of the ulcer within 6 months. 
Secondary outcome measures were partial healing of the ulcer, and successful 
eradication of bacterial strains cultured from the ulcers at study entry.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients of the resin group and nine patients of the control 
group completed the 6-month trial. All ulcers healed in 12 of the 13 patients 
(92%) in the resin group and in four of the nine patients (44%) in the control 
group (P=0.003; power 73%). Complete healing of the ulcers over time was 
significantly more common in the resin group than in the control group 
(P=0.013). Bacterial cultures from the ulcer area more often became negative 
within 1 month in the resin group.
CONCLUSIONS: Traditional resin salve is significantly more effective in the 
treatment of infected and noninfected severe pressure ulcers than cellulose 
polymer gauzes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2008.08461.x
PMID: 18284391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Int J Clin Pract. 2008 Apr;62(4):623-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01711.x.  Epub 2008 Feb 15.

The cost-utility of maintenance treatment with venlafaxine in patients with 
recurrent major depressive disorder.

Sobocki P(1), Ekman M, Ovanfors A, Khandker R, J√∂nsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Medical 
Management Centre, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

AIMS: The Prevention of Recurrent Episodes of Depression with venlafaxine XR for 
Two Years trial has reported advantages with maintenance treatment for patients 
with recurrent depressive disorder. The aim of this study was to assess the 
cost-utility of maintenance treatment with venlafaxine in patients with 
recurrent major depressive disorder, based on a recent clinical trial.
METHODS: A Markov simulation model was constructed to assess the cost-utility of 
maintenance treatment for 2 years in recurrently depressed patients in Sweden. 
Risk of relapse and recurrence was based on a recent randomised clinical trial 
assessing the efficacy and tolerability of maintenance treatment with 
venlafaxine over 2 years. Costs and quality of life estimations were retrieved 
from a naturalistic longitudinal observational study conducted in Sweden. Health 
effects were quantified as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Sensitivity 
analyses were conducted on key parameters employed in the model.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the cost per QALY gained of venlafaxine 
compared with no treatment was estimated at $18,500 over 2 years. In a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, we found that maintenance treatment with 
venlafaxine is cost-effective with 90% probability at a willingness to pay per 
QALY of $67,000 or less. Our long-term analyses also indicate that even under 
conservative assumptions about future risks of recurrences, maintenance 
treatment is cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: The present study indicates that maintenance treatment for 2 years 
with venlafaxine is cost-effective in patients with recurrent major depressive 
disorder.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01711.x
PMCID: PMC2327222
PMID: 18284439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2008 Feb 19;3:4. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-4.

Monosomy 18p.

Turleau C(1).

Author information:
(1)Cytog√©n√©tique AP-HP et Inserm U781, Universit√© Paris Descartes, H√¥pital 
Necker-Enfants Malades, 75015 Paris, France. turleau@necker.fr

Monosomy 18p refers to a chromosomal disorder resulting from the deletion of all 
or part of the short arm of chromosome 18. The incidence is estimated to be 
about 1:50,000 live-born infants. In the commonest form of the disorder, the 
dysmorphic syndrome is very moderate and non-specific. The main clinical 
features are short stature, round face with short philtrum, palpebral ptosis and 
large ears with detached pinnae. Intellectual deficiency is mild to moderate. A 
small subset of patients, about 10-15 percent of cases, present with severe 
brain/facial malformations evocative of holoprosencephaly spectrum disorders. In 
two-thirds of the cases, the 18p- syndrome is due to a mere terminal deletion 
occurring de novo, in one-third the following are possible: a de novo 
translocation with loss of 18p, malsegregation of a parental translocation or 
inversion, or a ring chr18. Parental transmission of the 18p- syndrome has been 
reported. Cytogenetic analysis is necessary to make a definite diagnosis. 
Recurrence risk for siblings is low in de novo deletions and translocations, but 
is significant if a parental rearrangement is present. Deletion 18p can be 
detected prenatally by amniocentesis or chorionic villus sampling and 
cytogenetic testing. Differential diagnosis may include a wide number of 
syndromes with short stature and mild intellectual deficiency. In young 
children, deletion 18p syndrome may be vaguely evocative of either Turner 
syndrome or trisomy 21. No specific treatment exists but speech therapy and 
early educational programs may help to improve the performances of the children. 
Except for the patients with severe brain malformations, the life expectancy 
does not seem significantly reduced.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-4
PMCID: PMC2265258
PMID: 18284672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Environ Entomol. 2007 Oct;36(5):989-97. doi: 
10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[989:dtaltf]2.0.co;2.

Developmental times and life tables for shore flies, Scatella tenuicosta 
(Diptera: Ephydridae), at three temperatures.

Ugine TA(1), Sanderson JP, Wraight SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA.

Development times and survivorship of immature shore flies and longevity and 
reproduction of adult shore flies, Scatella tenuicosta Collin, reared on 
algae-infested filter paper, were studied at three temperatures (constant 20, 
26, and 28.5 degrees C) through life table analysis. The development time for 
each individual life stage and the total time from egg to adult decreased with 
increasing temperature. Duration of the third (ultimate) larval instar ranged 
from 3.3 +/- 0.09 d at 20 degrees C to 1.4 +/- 0.04 d at 28.5 degrees C and was 
1.7-1.9 times longer than the approximately equal first and second instars. 
Development of male and female shore flies from egg to adult needed an average 
of 14.5 +/- 0.13, 8.2 +/- 0.05, and 7.0 +/- 0.04 d at 20, 26, and 28.5 degrees 
C, respectively, and needed an estimated 154.4 +/- 1.2 thermal units (degree 
days). At these respective temperatures, adult females lived 21.8 +/- 2.2, 19.9 
+/- 2.4, and 15.0 +/- 1.4 d and produced 379 +/- 62, 710 +/- 119, and 477 +/- 83 
eggs during oviposition periods of 14.3 +/- 2.1, 15.0 +/- 2.2, and 10.8 +/- 1.4 
d; daily lifetime egg production averaged 16.3 +/- 2.3, 33.5 +/- 3.8, and 29.7 
+/- 3.5. Developmental stage-specific mortality was relatively low for all life 
stages at all temperatures, with maximum percent mortalities of 5.7% occurring 
in both the egg stage and in the third instar. The highest net reproductive rate 
(R(o)) was obtained for insects reared at 26 degrees C and was 329.6. The 
intrinsic rate of natural increase (r(m)) was highest at 28.5 degrees C and was 
0.430. Generation time and doubling time of the population were shortest at 28.5 
degrees C and were 12.4 and 1.6 d, respectively. Results suggested that 26 
degrees C was near optimum for reproduction.

DOI: 10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[989:dtaltf]2.0.co;2
PMID: 18284719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Environ Entomol. 2007 Oct;36(5):1296-301. doi: 
10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[1296:rfonil]2.0.co;2.

Relative fitness of near isogenic lines for melanic and typical forms of the 
oriental armyworm, Mythimna separata (Walker).

Jiang XF(1), Luo LZ, Zhang L.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, 
Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 
100094, China. xfjiang@ippcaas.cn

Melanism in the oriental armyworm Mythimna separata (Walker) is characterized by 
a black color in adults instead of the normal body color of off-white. Because 
inheritance of melanism in this moth follows Mendel's law, with the melanic 
allele (t) recessive to the normal allele (T) at a single autosomal locus, a 
backcrossing procedure was used to develop near isogenic lines (NILs) for 
melanic (NILs-tt) and typical forms (NILs-TT) of this moth. Melanic males (tt) 
and typical females (TT) were crossed in the laboratory, their progeny (F(1)) 
were interbred, and F(2) melanic males were backcrossed to typical female 
offspring of the parallel line. This cycle was repeated five times to create 
NILs for melanic and typical forms of this moth. The effects of the melanic 
allele on relative fitness were evaluated in terms of developmental and 
reproductive characteristics. Life tables of the NILs were constructed to 
determine net reproductive rate (R(0)). Results indicated that NILs-tt possessed 
apparent developmental and reproductive advantages, including shorter immature 
development time, higher larval and pupal survival, a shorter adult 
preoviposition period, and more eggs laid per female compared with the NILs-TT.

DOI: 10.1603/0046-225x(2007)36[1296:rfonil]2.0.co;2
PMID: 18284756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Tob Control. 2008 Jun;17(3):177-82. doi: 10.1136/tc.2007.022368. Epub 2008
Feb  19.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of a community pharmacist-based smoking cessation 
programme in Thailand.

Thavorn K(1), Chaiyakunapruk N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok 65000, 
Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a structured 
community pharmacist-based smoking cessation programme compared with usual care.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness study using a healthcare system perspective 
Population: Two simulated cohorts of smokers: male and female aged 40, 50 and 60 
years who regularly smoke 10-20 cigarettes per day. Intervention and comparator: 
A structured community pharmacist-based smoking cessation (CPSC) programme 
compared to usual care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Cost per life year gained (LYG) attributable to the 
smoking cessation programme.
RESULTS: The CPSC programme results in cost savings of 17,503.53 baht ( 
pound250; euro325; $500) to the health system and life year gains of 0.18 years 
for men and; costs savings of 21,499.75 baht ( pound307; euro399; $614) and life 
year gains of 0.24 years for women. A series of sensitivity analyses demonstrate 
that both cost savings and life year gains are sensitive to variations in the 
discount rate and the long-term smoking quit rate associated with the 
intervention.
CONCLUSION: From the perspective of the health system, the CPSC programme yields 
cost savings and life year gains. This finding provides important information 
for health policy decision-makers when determining the magnitude of resources to 
be allocated to smoking cessation service in community pharmacy.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2007.022368
PMID: 18285385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Circulation. 2008 Mar 11;117(10):1261-8. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107.735605.  Epub 2008 Feb 19.

Cost-effectiveness of providing full drug coverage to increase medication 
adherence in post-myocardial infarction Medicare beneficiaries.

Choudhry NK(1), Patrick AR, Antman EM, Avorn J, Shrank WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Department of 
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02120, USA. nchoudhry@partners.org

Comment in
    Circulation. 2008 Mar 11;117(10):1252-4.

BACKGROUND: Effective therapies for the secondary prevention of coronary heart 
disease-related events are significantly underused, and attempts to improve 
adherence have often yielded disappointing results. Elimination of patient 
out-of-pocket costs may be an effective strategy to enhance medication use. We 
sought to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of providing full coverage 
for aspirin, beta-blockers, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors or 
angiotensin receptor blockers, and statins (combination pharmacotherapy) to 
individuals enrolled in the Medicare drug benefit program after acute myocardial 
infarction.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We created a Markov cost-effectiveness model to estimate 
the incremental cost-effectiveness of providing Medicare beneficiaries with full 
coverage for combination pharmacotherapy compared with current coverage under 
the Medicare Part D program. Our analysis was conducted from the societal 
perspective and considered a lifetime time horizon. In a sensitivity analysis, 
we repeated our analysis from the perspective of Medicare. In the model, 
post-myocardial infarction Medicare beneficiaries who received usual 
prescription drug coverage under the Part D program lived an average of 8.21 
quality-adjusted life-years after their initial event, incurring coronary heart 
disease-related medical costs of $114,000. Those who received prescription drug 
coverage without deductibles or copayments lived an average of 8.56 
quality-adjusted life-years and incurred $111,600 in coronary heart 
disease-related costs. Compared with current prescription drug coverage, full 
coverage for post-myocardial infarction secondary prevention therapies would 
result in greater functional life expectancy (0.35 quality-adjusted life-year) 
and less resource use ($2500). From the perspective of Medicare, full drug 
coverage was highly cost-effective ($7182/quality-adjusted life-year) but not 
cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that providing full coverage for combination 
therapy to post-myocardial infarction Medicare beneficiaries would save both 
lives and money from the societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107.735605
PMCID: PMC2722033
PMID: 18285564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Neuromolecular Med. 2008;10(2):108-17. doi: 10.1007/s12017-008-8030-5. Epub
2008  Feb 20.

Physical activity and neuroprotection in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

McCrate ME(1), Kaspar BK.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43205, USA.

Physical exercise exerts a wide range of benefits on an organism's overall 
health and well-being. Exercise contributes positively toward an individual's 
healthy weight, muscle strength, immune system, and cardiovascular health. 
Indeed, exercise has been demonstrated to reduce life-threatening conditions 
such as high blood pressure, heart disease, obesity, and diabetes. Of particular 
interest to this review, exercise has also been shown to be neuroprotective in 
both the central and peripheral nervous systems. Naturally, such findings apply 
broadly to the study of neurodegenerative disease with numerous reports 
demonstrating that exercise has beneficial effects on disease progression. One 
of the most devastating neurodegenerative diseases is amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS), commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease in the United States, or 
motor neuron disease in the United Kingdom, resulting from the progressive loss 
of brain and spinal cord motor neurons. Several human studies show that moderate 
exercise regimens improve ALS patients' scoring on functionality tests and 
ameliorate disease symptoms. Other promising recent works using transgenic mouse 
models of familial ALS have shown markedly slowed disease progression, improved 
function, and extension of survival in moderately exercised animals. Possible 
explanations for these findings include the exercise-induced changes in motor 
neuron morphology, muscle-nerve interaction, glial activation, and altering 
levels of gene expression of anti-apoptotic proteins and neurotrophic factors in 
the active tissue. Here we review the current literature on exercise and motor 
neuron disease, focusing on rodent and human studies to define the proper type, 
intensity, and duration of exercise necessary to enhance neuron survival as well 
discuss current mechanistic studies to further define the exercise-mediated 
pathways of neuroprotection.

DOI: 10.1007/s12017-008-8030-5
PMID: 18286388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Hosp Health Netw. 2008 Jan;82(1):60.

Data page: Health care proves costly for Medicare beneficiaries.

Weinstock M.

PMID: 18286899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2008;129(1-3):59-62. doi: 10.1093/rpd/ncn040. Epub
2008  Feb 20.

Quantification of risk-benefit in interventional radiology.

O'Brien B(1), van der Putten W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Physics, National University of Ireland, Galway.

The increased use of interventional radiological procedures brings with it an 
increased risk of cancer induction due to the possible high radiation levels 
used. This risk must be balanced against any viable alternatives and should take 
into account the individual risks and benefits. The purpose of this study is to 
quantify this risk benefit in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of a 
procedure and its alternatives, including the risk due to the radiation. Uterine 
fibroid embolisation was chosen as a model study with data collected both on the 
outcomes of procedures in terms of complications and quality of life in the 
long-term and on radiation dose delivered to the patient. Dosimetry data were 
obtained from University Hospital Galway. The risk was then calculated using the 
BEIR VII model of dose-response for low linear energy transfer (LET) radiation. 
In this case, it was found that the radiological technique has distinct 
advantages over hysterectomy and myomectomy in terms of QALYs. The increased 
risk due to radiation from the procedure is small when compared with the overall 
benefit to the patient. Probability of stochastic effects based on the average 
dose per procedure carries an attributable risk (fatal and non-fatal cancer and 
hereditary effects) of 0.4% or a relative risk of 1.09%. The method described 
here can readily be adapted to other interventional procedures.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/ncn040
PMID: 18287187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Clin J Pain. 2008 Mar-Apr;24(3):244-52. doi: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e318160216a.

Rechargeable spinal cord stimulation versus non-rechargeable system for patients 
with failed back surgery syndrome: a cost-consequences analysis.

Hornberger J(1), Kumar K, Verhulst E, Clark MA, Hernandez J.

Author information:
(1)Cedar Associates LLC, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA. jhornberger@cedarecon.com

OBJECTIVES: Spinal cord stimulation (SCS) has been used for almost 40 years to 
treat refractory neuropathic pain after failed back surgery. Fully implantable 
non-rechargeable pulse generators have a battery life of between 2 and 5 years. 
A new SCS system with a rechargeable power source may last 10 to 25 years, or 
longer. The potential economic implications of longer battery life with a new 
SCS system has yet to be assessed. The study objective is to estimate the 
average difference in lifetime costs between rechargeable and non-rechargeable 
pulse generators used in treatment with SCS for failed back surgery syndrome.
METHODS: A generalized state-transition probability framework was used to model 
costs. Input parameters for the base case analysis were obtained from several 
data sources including published literature, Medicare fee schedules, Medicare 
claims data, and expert opinion.
RESULTS: A rechargeable SCS system is projected to require from 2.6 to 4.2 fewer 
battery generator replacements for battery depletion than a non-rechargeable SCS 
system. The total lifetime savings of a rechargeable system range from $104,000 
to $168,833. In all of the one-way sensitivity analyses conducted, a 
rechargeable system saves money. Among all of the assumptions underlying the 
analysis, the annual cost after device removal contributes the most uncertainty.
CONCLUSIONS: A rechargeable SCS system is projected to save up to $100,000 over 
a patient's lifetime. Fewer pulse generator replacements will also decrease 
patient discomfort and morbidity from procedural complications.

DOI: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e318160216a
PMID: 18287831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Sarcoma. 2007;2007:90169. doi: 10.1155/2007/90169.

Hepatic angiosarcoma presenting as an acute intraabdominal hemorrhage treated 
with transarterial chemoembolization.

Stambo GW(1), Guiney MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Interventional Radiology, Department of Radiology, 
St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, Tampa, FL 33607, USA.

Primary malignant neoplasms of the liver are some of the most uncommon 
malignancies in many parts of the world. They include hepatocellular carcinoma 
and stromal tumors such as hepatic angiosarcoma. It is a lethal tumor with life 
