417. Internist (Berl). 2008 May;49(5):570, 572-6, 578-9. doi: 
10.1007/s00108-008-2110-3.

[Hormone therapy and anti-aging: is there an indication?].

[Article in German]

Heutling D(1), Lehnert H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Nephrologie und Hochdruckkrankheiten, 
Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Deutschland.

The desire for a long life is deeply embedded in nearly all men. Fortunately 
life expectancy has remarkably increased over the past decades, on the other 
hand advancing age is frequently associated with a rise in morbidity. Above 
simply prolonging life there is a need to search for strategies to improve the 
quality of life in the elderly. Different substances to prevent premature aging, 
cancer and degenerative disorders appear to be promising candidates. Since it 
has been suggested that the decline of different hormones over the lifespan is 
closely related to the aging process replacement of these hormones may be a 
strategy against aging. Especially hormones like growth hormone, DHEA, 
testosterone and melatonin were considered as anti-aging agents. This review is 
focusing on the theoretical background and the previously known effects of 
different hormones to slow aging processes. Despite some promising results in a 
variety of studies conducted over the past years presently available data do not 
justify the broad use of hormones for anti-aging purposes. However, although no 
single hormone can be recognized as a 'rejuvenating' and life extending agent, 
some of their actions may be beneficial for the aging process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-008-2110-3
PMID: 18389196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Newsweek. 2008 Mar 31;151(13):16.

The working-class smoker.

Adler J.

PMID: 18389579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Chir Ital. 2008 Jan-Feb;60(1):23-31.

[Endovascular treatment (EVAR) in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysms and 
synchronous neoplasms].

[Article in Italian]

Veraldi GF(1), Minicozzi A, Genco B, Tasselli S, Pacca R, Segattini C.

Author information:
(1)Universita degli Studi di Verona, II Scuola di Specializzazione in Chirurgia 
Generale, I Divisione Clinicizzata di Chirurgia Generale, Struttura Semplice 
Organizzativa di Chirurgia Vascolare, Ospedale Civile Maggiore, Verona.

The association between abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) and cancer is becoming 
more and more frequent, giving rise to several questions regarding the 
therapeutic and surgical management strategies for both diseases. Endovascular 
aneurysm repair (EVAR) is the treatment of choice for complex and high-risk 
patients. In this study we reviewed our experience with patients concomitantly 
affected by any type of cancer and AAA treated by EVAR at our institution over 
the last six years. From April 2001 to July 2007, 497 AAA patients underwent 
open or endografting repair in the 1st Division of General Surgery--Service of 
Vascular Surgery of the University of Verona. In 53 cases (10.6%) an association 
with a solid neoplasm was found and 27 of these patients (50.9%) were treated by 
EVAR. Twenty patients underwent a two-stage approach, with EVAR performed first, 
while in 5 cases a one-stage approach was preferred on the basis of the general 
condition of the patients, the site of the tumour to be resected, the logistic 
possibilities and increased experience of the operators with EVAR. Two patients 
received chemotherapy after EVAR. There was no in-hospital mortality and four 
perioperative complications (14.8%) were registered. During a mean follow-up of 
25.7 months (range: 2-64 months) 5 deaths occurred, 2 in the short term and 3 in 
the long term, none of which were related to AAA treatment. Three type-2 
endoleaks occurred that sealed spontaneously and 62.9% of the treated aneurysms 
had a mean 20% decrease in diameter while the others presented no variations. In 
our experience, EVAR was a safe and effective treatment of AAA patients with 
concomitant malignancies with a relatively low procedure-related morbidity and 
no mortality. A simultaneous surgical approach can be achieved safely, 
performing EVAR as the first step without significant risks. Simultaneous 
treatment has the advantage of avoiding a second major procedure and eliminates 
the risk of aortic aneurysm rupture in the postoperative period or during 
chemotherapy in patients who are usually in poor general condition. Care must be 
taken with regard to the choice of the device to be used and the possible 
vascular complications of the visceral circulation. In our opinion, EVAR should 
be considered the treatment of choice in these patients, taking into account, 
however, that this treatment is not always feasible in all cases and that in 
patients with a normal life-expectancy (tumour-cured) it may not always be the 
right choice. Thus, a multidisciplinary approach is necessary in the individual 
evaluation of these challenging patients in order to make the right decisions.

PMID: 18389744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Wound Care. 2008 Feb;17(2):71-8. doi: 10.12968/jowc.2008.17.2.28181.

An economic evaluation of VAC therapy compared with wound dressings in the 
treatment of diabetic foot ulcers.

Flack S(1), Apelqvist J, Keith M, Trueman P, Williams D.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness ofVacuum Assisted Closure (VAC) 
therapy (KCI Medical), based on a comparison with both traditional and advanced 
wound dressings, for the treatment of diabetic foot ulcers in the US.
METHOD: A Markov model was designed to estimate the cost per amputation avoided 
and the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of VAC therapy, compared with 
both traditional and advanced dressings. Over a one-year period the Markov model 
simulated 1000 patients using transition probabilities obtained from the 
literature. The health states used in the model were: uninfected ulcer; infected 
ulcer; infected ulcer post-amputation; healed; healed post-amputation; 
amputation; and death. Patients initially treated with VAC switched to the 
advanced dressing after three months of treatment if their wound remained 
unhealed. Patients treated with traditional or advanced dressings were assumed 
to continue with their treatment for the full 12 months if they remained 
unhealed.
RESULTS: The model results demonstrate improved healing rates (61% versus 59%), 
more QALYs (0.54 versus 0.53) and an overall lower cost of care ($52,830 versus 
$61,757 per person) for patients treated with VAC therapy compared with advanced 
dressings. Vacuum Assisted Closure was also shown to be a dominant intervention 
when compared with traditional dressings.
CONCLUSION: The model results indicate thatVAC therapy is less costly and more 
effective than both traditional and advanced dressings. The results are robust 
to changes in key parameters, including the transition probabilities, the cost 
ofVAC therapy and the utility weights applied to health states.

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2008.17.2.28181
PMID: 18389832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Vnitr Lek. 2008 Jan;54(1):5-6.

[Medicine in the year 2008: is there light visible at the end of the tunnel!].

[Article in Czech]

Ceska R.

PMID: 18390107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Demography. 2008 Feb;45(1):95-113. doi: 10.1353/dem.2008.0010.

Using subjective expectations to forecast longevity: do survey respondents know 
something we don't know?

Perozek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Federal Reserve Board of Governors, Mail Stop 97, 20th and C Streets, NW, 
Washington, DC 20551, USA. mperozek@frb.gov

Old-age mortality is notoriously difficult to predict because it requires not 
only an understanding of the process of senescence-which is influenced by 
genetic, environmental, and behavioral factors-but also a prediction of how 
these factors will evolve. In this paper I argue that individuals are uniquely 
qualified to predict their own mortality based on their own genetic background, 
as well as environmental and behavioral risk factors that are often known only 
to the individual. Given this private information, individuals form expectations 
about survival probabilities that may provide additional information to 
demographers and policymakers in their challenge to predict mortality. From 
expectations data from the 1992 Health and Retirement Study (HRS), I construct 
subjective, cohort life tables that are shown to predict the unusual direction 
of revisions to U.S. life expectancy by gender between 1992 and 2004: that is, 
for these cohorts, the Social Security Actuary (SSA) raised male life expectancy 
in 2004 and at the same lowered female life expectancy, narrowing the gender gap 
in longevity by 25% over this period. Further, although the subjective life 
expectancies for men appear to be roughly in line with the 2004 life tables, the 
subjective expectations of women suggest that female life expectancies estimated 
by the SSA might still be on the high side.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2008.0010
PMCID: PMC2831383
PMID: 18390293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Demography. 2008 Feb;45(1):115-28. doi: 10.1353/dem.2008.0008.

Retrospective information on health status and its application for population 
health measures.

Molla MT(1), Lubitz J.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Health Statistics, 3311 Toledo Road, Hyattsville, MD 
20782, USA. mmolla@cdc.gov

Erratum in
    Demography. 2008 Aug;45(3):preceding 489.

Healthy life expectancies are almost always calculated by using health data from 
cross-sectional surveys. This type of calculation is done partly because data 
from longitudinal surveys are not always available, and when they are available, 
they are collected at intervals that are longer than one year. In such cases, 
collecting health information retrospectively for the years skipped by the 
survey is useful. The main purpose of this paper is to show how retrospective 
health information can be used to estimate life expectancies in different health 
states. Healthy life expectancies are estimated with and without using data on 
retrospective health information, and the corresponding estimates are compared. 
The two sets of estimates are similar. We conclude that retrospectively assessed 
health information based on a one-year recall period can be used to estimate 
years of life in various health states and that estimates based on such 
information will closely approximate estimates based on concurrent health 
information.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2008.0008
PMCID: PMC2831376
PMID: 18390294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Demography. 2008 Feb;45(1):157-71. doi: 10.1353/dem.2008.0013.

The multistate life table method: an application to contraceptive switching 
behavior.

Kuo TM(1), Suchindran CM, Koo HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
USA. mkuo@rti.org

In many demographic behaviors (e.g., those relating to marriage, contraception, 
migration, and health), people change among multiple statuses through time, 
sometimes leaving and then returning to the same status. Data on such behaviors 
are often collected in surveys as censored event histories. The multistate life 
table (MSLT) can be used to properly describe, in a single analysis, these 
complex transitions among multiple states measured in such data, but MSLT is 
rarely applied in the demographic literature because practical guidance is 
lacking on how to compute MSLTs with such data. We provide methods for computing 
MSLT quantities using censored event-history data: namely, transition 
intensities and probabilities, "state occupancy" probabilities and standard 
errors, average time spent in specified states, and average number of visits to 
specified states. Applying these methods to contraceptive use, we find high 
levels of switching back and forth, particularly between barrier methods and 
non-use, resulting in high rates of unintended pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2008.0013
PMCID: PMC2831374
PMID: 18390297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Demography. 2008 Feb;45(1):193-207. doi: 10.1353/dem.2008.0001.

Cohort estimates of nonmarital fertility for U.S. women.

Wu LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, New York University, Puck Building, 295 Lafayette 
Street, 4th floor, New York, NY 10012-9605, USA. lawrence.wu@nyu.edu

Historical trends in U.S. nonmarital fertility have been compiled almost 
exclusively from vital statistics on births. This paper complements this 
historical record by providing cohort estimates of nonmarital fertility for 
cohorts of U.S. women spanning approximately 50 years of cohort experience. Life 
table estimates using retrospective marital and fertility histories in the June 
1980, 1985, 1990, and 1995 Current Population Surveys reveal nonnegligible 
levels of nonmarital fertility historically. For women born between 1925 and 
1929, nearly 1 in 10 had at least one nonmarital birth by age 30. For women born 
between 1965 and 1969, more than 1 of 4 had one or more nonmarital births by age 
30, with roughly 1 of5 white, 3 of 5 black, and 1 in 3 Hispanic women having at 
least one nonmarital birth by age 30. Life table estimates reveal a twofold 
increase between ages 20 and 30 in the percentage of women with at least one 
child outside of formal marriage for all cohorts of white and Hispanic women, 
and an increase of roughly two-thirds for all cohorts of black women. I also 
document qualitative differences in nonmarital fertility by race/ethnicity, with 
the percentage of nonmarital births following a divorce or marital separation 
for white women approximately twice that for black or Hispanic women. Finally, I 
introduce a new measure, the cohort nonmarital fertility ratio (CNMFR), which 
provides a cohort complement to the standard period nonmarital fertility ratio. 
Conservative estimates reveal a roughly threefold increase in the CNMFR for 
women born from 1925-1929 to 1950-1954 for both whites and blacks, despite 
substantially higher levels of nonmarital fertility among black women. Overall, 
these findings reveal surprisingly high levels of nonmarital fertility for women 
born since the 1920s and confirm that nonmarital fertility has become an 
increasingly substantial component of overall U.S. fertility.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.2008.0001
PMCID: PMC2831382
PMID: 18390299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Am J Clin Oncol. 2008 Apr;31(2):117-24. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3181573e83.

High-dose chemotherapy for patients with high-risk breast cancer: a clinical and 
economic assessment using a quality-adjusted survival analysis.

Marino P(1), Roché H, Moatti JP; PEGASE Group.

Collaborators: Pouillard P, Biron P, Spielmann M, Janvier M, Spaeth D, Fabbro M, 
Linassier C, Delozier T, Curé H, Mauriac L, Bonneterre J, Delva R, Ferrero JM, 
Trillet-Lenoir V, Batista G, Viens P, Eymard JC, Welter S, Rumilly F, Mousseau 
M, Orfeuvre H, Feuillade F, Tubiana-Matthieu M, Dreyfus B, Audhuy B, Pierpoint 
B, Misset JL, Leduc B.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, Unit Research 379, Marseilles, France. marino@marseille.inserm.fr

OBJECTIVE: The benefit of high-dose chemotherapy (HDC) has not been clearly 
demonstrated. It may offer disease-free survival improvement at the expense of 
major toxicity and increasing cost. We evaluated the trade-offs between 
toxicity, relapse, and costs using a quality-adjusted time without symptoms or 
toxicity (Q-TWiST) analysis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The analysis was conducted in the context of a randomized 
trial (PEGASE 01) evaluating the benefit of HDC for 314 patients with high-risk 
breast cancer. A Q-TWiST analysis was first performed to compare HDC with 
standard chemotherapy. We then used the results of this Q-TWiST analysis to 
inform a cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) comparison between 
treatments.
RESULTS: Q-TWiST durations were in favor of HDC, whatever the weighting 
coefficients used for the analysis. This benefit was significant when the 
weighting coefficient related to the time spent after relapse was low (<0.38). 
For quite high values of this coefficient (>0.78), HDC offered no benefit. For 
intermediate values, the results depended on the weighting coefficient 
attributed to the toxicity period. The incremental cost per QALY ranged from 
12,691euro/QALY to 26,439euro/QALY, according to the coefficients used to weight 
toxicity and relapse.
CONCLUSION: The benefits of HDC outweigh the burdens of treatment for a wide 
range of utility coefficients. Economic impact is not a barrier to HDC diffusion 
in this situation. Nevertheless, no significant benefit was demonstrated for a 
certain range of utility values.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3181573e83
PMID: 18391594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. J Spinal Disord Tech. 2008 Apr;21(2):101-5. doi:
10.1097/BSD.0b013e31805fea01.

Minimally invasive transpedicular vertebrectomy for metastatic disease to the 
thoracic spine.

Deutsch H(1), Boco T, Lobel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL 
60612, USA.

STUDY DESIGN AND OBJECTIVE: We present a series of 8 patients with thoracic 
metastatic disease causing acute neurologic decline. We present minimally 
invasive posterolateral vertebrectomy and decompression as an effective approach 
in patients with significant comorbidities and as palliative care.
BACKGROUND: Metastatic disease to the spine is common and frequently occurs in 
the thoracic vertebrae. Posterior laminectomy alone has generally been found to 
be ineffective in the management of spinal metastatic disease with neurologic 
compromise as most compression occurs ventrally. Patients with significant 
comorbidities are often unable to tolerate extensive surgery involving a 
thoracotomy. Limited life expectancy and quality of life issues also often argue 
against extensive surgery.
METHODS: Eight patients (mean age 74 y) with thoracic metastatic disease and 
acute neurologic compromise underwent a minimally invasive posterolateral 
vertebrectomy and partial tumor resection. Patients were considered unsuitable 
for an open anterior approach owing to age, comorbidities, and limited life 
expectancies. In the operating room, patients were positioned prone. A 
paramedian incision measuring 3 cm allowed the introduction of sequential 
dilators and the placement of a 22-mm diameter tubular retractor. Dorsal 
decompression was accomplished and partial vertebrectomy was performed for 
ventral decompression. Radiation was used postoperatively in all patients.
RESULTS: There were no complications due to the procedure. Improvement of at 
least 1 grade on the Nurick scale was noted in 5 of 8 (62.5%) patients. Two 
patients were able to ambulate independently immediately after surgery despite 
having significant paraparesis preoperatively. Pain improved in 5 of 8 (62.5%) 
patients postoperatively according to the numerical pain score. Average 
inpatient length of stay was 4 days after the procedure. Mean blood loss was 227 
mL and mean length of the procedure was 2.2 hours.
CONCLUSIONS: Minimally invasive transpedicular vertebrectomy is an effective 
palliative treatment option for thoracic metastatic disease in patients not 
eligible for more extensive anterior transthoracic surgery and stabilization.

DOI: 10.1097/BSD.0b013e31805fea01
PMID: 18391713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2008 Jan;101(1):55-60. doi:
10.1016/s1875-2136(08)70256-0.

Cardiac resynchronization therapy: which device to implant?

Leclercq C(1), Mabo C, Daubert JC.

Author information:
(1)Département de cardiologie et maladies vasculaires, Centre 
cardio-pneumologique, CHU Rennes, France. christophe.leclercq@chu-rennes.fr

Cardiac resynchronization therapy is now a validated treatment for patients with 
moderate to severe heart failure despite optimal drug treatment with left 
ventricular systolic dysfunction and cardiac dyssynchrony defined by wide QRS 
greater than 120 ms. Once an indication for cardiac resynchronization therapy 
has been confirmed the choice of the most appropriate device (pacemaker or 
intracardiac cardioverter defibrillator (ICD)) needs to be made. In heart 
failure patients the risk of sudden death, mainly but not always related to 
arrhythmic cause is high. Previous studies of primary prevention of sudden 
cardiac death in patients with a poor left ventricular function have shown that 
ICD therapy significantly reduces overall mortality and arrhythmic mortality. 
However patients candidates to cardiac resynchronization therapy are different 
from those included in the ICDs trials because they are older and have more 
comorbidities. The choice of the devices has to consider the potential benefit 
of the therapy, the comorbidities, the life expectancy but also the 
cost-effectiveness and the potential complications related to the device. Now, 
new devices provide information about the hemodynamic status of this heart 
failure population and thus provide an early detection of heart failure 
decompensation. The development of home monitoring should alert very early the 
physicians of the occurrence of a heart failure decompensation and thus to avoid 
recurrent hospitalisations for heart failure decompensation.

DOI: 10.1016/s1875-2136(08)70256-0
PMID: 18391874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Cad Saude Publica. 2008 Apr;24(4):845-52. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2008000400015.

Life expectancy among elderly Brazilians in 2003 according to different levels 
of functional disability.

Camargos MC(1), Machado CJ, Rodrigues RN.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Desenvolvimento e Planejamento Regional, Universidade Federal de 
Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, Brazil.

The aim of the present study was to estimate disability-free life expectancy for 
the Brazilian elderly in 2003, by gender and age, based on different concepts of 
functional disability. The Sullivan method is used to combine the period life 
tables from the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE, 2003) and 
the prevalence of functional disability according to the 2003 National Sample 
Household Survey (PNAD 2003). The main results of the study indicate that at age 
60, Brazilian men can expect to live 19 years, 39% with mild, 21% with moderate, 
and 14% with severe functional disability, respectively. At the same age, 
Brazilian women can expect to live 22 years: 56% with mild, 32% with moderate, 
and 18% with severe functional disability.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2008000400015
PMID: 18392362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Cad Saude Publica. 2008 Apr;24(4):879-86. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2008000400019.

Functional performance of the elderly in instrumental activities of daily 
living: an analysis in the municipality of São Paulo, Brazil.

Santos JL(1), Lebrão ML, Duarte YA, Lima FD.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Social, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, 
Universidade de São Paulo, Ribeirão Preto, Brazil. jalifesa@usp.br

The changes that occur during aging are accompanied by limitations in functional 
performance that impair elderly people's social participation and consequently 
harm their quality of life. In the SABE Study (São Paulo, Brazil), the results 
indicated relationships between life expectancy without disabilities and 
demographic and social variables. This article sought to evaluate these and 
other variables together as explanatory factors for the presence or absence of 
difficulties in instrumental activities of daily living (IADL), directly related 
to the possibility of more efficient community participation. Five of the eight 
questions relating to IADL that were applied to the sample of 2,143 elderly 
individuals in the municipality of São Paulo in 2000 were considered. Odds 
ratios were calculated using logistic regression. All the socio-demographic 
variables analyzed (age, income, ethnicity, schooling, and gender) were 
significant, with the exception of "sufficient money". All the variables in the 
"health" group (one or two or more diseases reported, and depression) were also 
significant. The two other variables that entered the model were physical 
activity and alcohol consumption.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2008000400019
PMID: 18392366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2008 Feb;90(2):91-8. doi: 10.1590/s0066-782x2008000200005.

Cost-effectiveness of prehospital versus inhospital thrombolysis in acute 
myocardial infarction.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Araújo DV(1), Tura BR, Brasileiro AL, Luz Neto H, Pavão AL, Teich V.

Author information:
(1)Universidade do Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil. 
denizar@cardiol.br

BACKGROUND: There is evidence that prehospital thrombolysis improves the outcome 
in ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed at comparing the cost-effectiveness of prehospital 
compared to inhospital thrombolysis for STEMI from the National Health System 
perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was used to compare these two strategies. The 
study endpoint was life-years gained. Resource use and costs were estimated from 
the National Health System perspective. The Decision tree and Markov Model were 
constructed using the results of published clinical trials. Costs were expressed 
in Reais (R$), for the year 2005.
RESULTS: For a time horizon of 20 years, prehospital thrombolysis had an average 
life expectancy of 11.48 years and inhospital thrombolysis had an average life 
expectancy of 11.32 years. Costs were R$ 5,640 for prehospital thrombolysis and 
R$ 5,816 for inhospital thrombolysis. Inhospital thrombolysis led to an 
additional cost of R$ 176 per patient. Pre-hospital thrombolysis led to 
additional 0.15 years of life-expectancy gain compared with inhospital 
thrombolysis.
CONCLUSION: This model suggests that, from the National Health System 
perspective, implementing prehospital thrombolysis for ST-elevation myocardial 
infarction (STEMI) may lead to extra survival and fewer costs when compared to 
inhospital thrombolysis.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2008000200005
PMID: 18392380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Immigr Minor Health. 2010 Feb;12(1):93-9. doi: 10.1007/s10903-008-9133-7.
Epub  2008 Apr 8.

Experiential health from an ageing and migration perspective: the case of older 
Finland-Swedes.

Kulla G(1), Ekman SL, Sarvimäki A.

Author information:
(1)Age Institute, Kalevankatu 12 A, 00100 Helsinki, Finland. 
gunilla.kulla@pp.inet.fi

Research has shown that immigrants and minority groups tend to have a lower 
health status compared to the majority population. The Finnish immigrants in 
Sweden are no exception. The Finland-Swedes, i.e., persons living in Finland who 
have Swedish as their mother language, seem to be an exception, however. They 
have been found to have better health and longer life expectancy compared to the 
Finnish majority. Research on health among migrated Finland-Swedes is scarce. 
The aim of this study was to describe and deepen the understanding of how older 
Finland-Swedes living as immigrants in Sweden, as well as re-migrants in 
Finland, experienced their health. Data was collected through 39 qualitative 
interviews with 29 older Finland-Swedes aged 65 or more. Data was analysed 
through qualitative thematic content analysis. The analysis resulted in five 
themes: Ageing means becoming frail and closer to death; Despite frailty and old 
age it is possible to feel well and experience peace; Being grateful for health 
as a source of life; Health comes from inner strength and external sources; 
Migration meant a mental and physical burden to health. Overall, both ageing and 
migration were experienced as jeopardising health.

DOI: 10.1007/s10903-008-9133-7
PMID: 18392936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;55(2):81-5.

[Developments and trends in traditional medicine and complementary and 
alternative medicine].

[Article in Chinese]

Huang YC(1), Lin IH, Yeh ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, 
R.O.C.

With the rapid development of society, medical science and technology, although 
quality of life is enhanced and life expectancy is prolonged, aging, 
environmental changes and health problems are unavoidable. More and more people, 
therefore, are concerned about their health and place high demands on medical 
care. As modern medicine cannot meet all such demands, other medical care 
systems emerge. Trends in the seeking of medical care show that people are 
inclined towards natural approaches, so attention is being paid once again to 
traditional medicine, as well as complementary and alternative medicine. Under 
the patient-oriented concept, medical personnel have to recognize means of 
health care while thinking of the individualized and socioeconomic impacts. The 
purpose of this paper therefore is to provide medical personnel with information 
on the developments and trends in, knowledge and research with regard to 
traditional medicine as well as complementary and alternative medicine.

PMID: 18393213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Cancer. 2008 May 15;112(10):2289-300. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23425.

Improved survival time: what can survival cure models tell us about 
population-based survival improvements in late-stage colorectal, ovarian, and 
testicular cancer?

Huang L(1), Cronin KA, Johnson KA, Mariotto AB, Feuer EJ.

Author information:
(1)Statistical Research and Applications Branch, Surveillance Research Program, 
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, USA. huangla@mail.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: The objective of the current study was to investigate the long-term 
impact of treatment advances on the survival of patients with late-stage 
ovarian, colorectal (American Joint Committee on Cancer stage III, men), and 
testicular cancers by estimating the increase in the percentage cured from their 
disease and the change in survival time of uncured patients.
METHODS: Cause-specific survival data from 1973 to 2000 were obtained from the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program. Survival cure models were 
fit and were used to estimate the gain in life expectancy (GLE) attributed to an 
increase in the fraction of cured patients and to prolonged survival among 
noncured patients.
RESULTS: Treatment improvement for ovarian cancer resulted in a total GLE of 2 
years, and 80% of that GLE was because of an extension of survival time in 
uncured patients (from 0.9 years to 2.1 years) rather than an increased cure 
fraction (from 12% to 14%). In contrast, the cure rate rose from 29% to 47% for 
colorectal cancer, representing 82% of a 2.8-year GLE, and from 23% to 81% for 
testicular cancer, representing 100% of a 24-year GLE.
CONCLUSIONS: The current results suggested that treatment benefits for 
testicular and colorectal cancer in men with late-stage disease primarily are 
the result of increases in cure fraction, whereas survival gains for ovarian 
cancer occur despite persisting disease. Cure models, in combination with 
population-level data, provide insight into how treatment advances are changing 
survival and ultimately impacting mortality. Survival patterns reflect the 
underlying biology of response to cancer treatment and suggest promising 
directions for future research.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23425
PMID: 18393325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Rejuvenation Res. 2008 Apr;11(2):527-34. doi: 10.1089/rej.2008.0688.

Making SENSE: strategies for engineering negligible senescence evolutionarily.

Rose MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, 
Irvine, California 92697-2525, USA. mrrose@uci.edu

Thirty years ago, in 1977, few biologists thought that it would be possible to 
increase the maximum life span characteristic of each species over the variety 
of environmental conditions in which they live, whether in nature or in the 
laboratory. But the evolutionary theory of aging suggested otherwise. 
Accordingly, experiments were performed with fruit flies, Drosophila 
melanogaster, which showed that manipulation of the forces of natural selection 
over a number of generations could substantially slow the rate of aging, both 
demographically and physiologically. After this first transgression of the 
supposedly absolute limits to life extension, it was suggested that mammals too 
could be experimentally evolved to have greater life spans and slower aging. And 
further, it was argued that such postponed-aging mammals could be used to 
reverse-engineer a slowing of human aging. The subsequent discovery and 
theoretical explanation of mortality-rate plateaus revealed that aging was not 
due to the progressive physiological accumulation of damage. Instead, aging is 
now understood by evolutionary biologists to arise from a transient fall in 
age-specific adaptation, a fall that does not necessarily proceed toward 
ineluctable death. This implies that SENS must be based on re-tuning adaptation, 
not repairing damage. As evolutionary manipulation of model organisms shows us 
how adaptation can be focused on engineering negligible senescence, there are 
thus both scientific and practical reasons for making SENS evolutionary; that is 
making SENSE.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2008.0688
PMID: 18393654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2008 Apr;6(2):93-107. doi: 10.2174/157016108783955374.

Atherogenesis in renal patients: a model of vascular disease?

Efstratiadis G(1), Tziomalos K, Mikhailidis DP, Athyros VG, Hatzitolios A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Hippokration 
Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. efstrati@med.auth.gr

Chronic kidney disease (CKD), and particularly kidney failure, is associated 
with accelerated atherosclerosis and approximately a 20-fold increased risk of 
cardiovascular death. The majority of these patients die from complications 
directly attributed to atherosclerosis and their life expectancy is decreased. 
Established risk factors are involved in the pathogenesis of this phenomenon. 
Age, gender, smoking, hypertension, dyslipidaemia and diabetes mellitus are 
among the established risk factors. Inflammation, qualitative lipid disorders 
(e.g. small dense low density lipoprotein), vascular calcification and oxidative 
stress represent emerging risk factors. The precise mechanism of atherosclerosis 
in patients with kidney failure is not yet known. CKD might represent a clinical 
model of atherogenesis. Thus, the evidence obtained from investigating "renal" 
atherogenesis could be of interest in improving our understanding of this 
disease process in the non-renal population. We review the relationship between 
"renal" and non-renal atherosclerosis focusing on pathogenesis, risk factors and 
clinical events and how they interact with treatment options. Overall, the 
"later" stages of CKD may eventually be considered as a coronary heart disease 
equivalent condition.

DOI: 10.2174/157016108783955374
PMID: 18393910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. World J Surg Oncol. 2008 Apr 7;6:38. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-6-38.

Radical hysterectomy in the elderly.

Mousavi A(1), Karimi Zarchi M, Gilani MM, Behtash N, Ghaemmaghami F, Shams M, 
Irvanipoor M.

Author information:
(1)Gynecologic Oncology Department, Vali-e-Asr Hospital, Imam Khomeini Hospital 
Complex, Keshavarz Blvd,, Tehran 14914, Iran. azamsadat_mousavi@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The considerable increase in life expectancy on one hand and an 
increase in cervical cancer among Iranian patients on the other, brings out the 
importance of investigating whether radical surgery can be performed safely and 
effectively on patients above 60 years of age.
METHODS: In a study of historical cohort, all 22 patients 60 years and above who 
have undergone a Wertheim radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer from 1999 to 
2005 were compared with 128 matched cases under 60 years of age who had 
undergone a Wertheim hysterectomy during the same calendar year. All patients 
were analyzed for preexisting medical comorbidities, length of postoperative 
stay, morbidity, and postoperative mortality.
RESULTS: There was no operative mortality in either group, morbidity (minor, p = 
0.91; major, p = 0.89) were statistically not different in the two groups 
despite the patient's above 60 years having significantly higher comorbidity 
prior to surgery than the younger cohort (minor, P < 0.05; major, P < 0.05). The 
mean postoperative hospital stay was significantly longer in the older patients 
(5 days vs. 3 days, P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Wertheim Radical hysterectomy is a safe surgical procedure in the 
selected population of patients 60 years and over. No differences in operative 
mortality or morbidity were found when compared to a cohort of patient's aged 60 
years or younger.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-6-38
PMCID: PMC2373299
PMID: 18394193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2008 Apr;22(2):355-63, viii. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2008.01.006.

Cancer survivorship: advocacy organizations and support systems.

Leigh S(1).

Author information:
(1)5050 East Golder Ranch Road, Tucson, AZ 85739, USA. sleigh@mindspring.com

When oncology evolved into a specialized field of medicine more than four 
decades ago, the primary goals of most cancer treatment included the extension 
of patients' life expectancies and the occasional hope for cure. Physicians were 
seen as the principal and solitary advocate for patients, and information 
regarding cancer diagnosis, treatment, and side effects was delivered or 
screened by a doctor. Patient education materials were scarce, formalized 
support systems were nonexistent, and the future was often difficult to define. 
Patient advocacy has since expanded to models of self, organizational, and 
public policy advocacy. This article provides examples of advocacy organizations 
and support systems that offer guidance to providers and patients throughout the 
continuum of cancer care and into longer-term survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2008.01.006
PMID: 18395155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Eur J Intern Med. 2008 May;19(3):155-64. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2007.09.002.
Epub  2007 Nov 5.

Prognostication--the lost skill of medicine.

Kellett J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Nenagh Hospital, Nenagh, County Tipperary, Ireland. 
jgkellett@eircom.net

Making a prognosis is one of the primary functions of the medical profession. At 
the end of the nineteenth century prognostication took up approximately ten 
percent of medical textbooks, by 1970 this had fallen to nearly zero. Given 
medical technology's awesome ability to prolong the process and suffering of 
dying today's patients need to know their prognosis in order to make choices 
about their treatment options. Whilst precise predictions of the future are 
obviously not possible, relatively simple mathematical modelling techniques can 
make reasonable estimates of likely outcomes for individual patients. The life 
expectancy of a patient of any age with any illness can be estimated provided 
the disease-specific mortality of the illness is known. Decision analysis or 
logistic regression models can then be used to determine the risks and benefits 
of various treatment options. A patient's prognosis does not just depend on 
their age and primary diagnosis, but also on the severity of their illness, 
their functional capacity both prior to and during the illness and the number of 
co-morbidities also suffered from. Several predictive instruments have been 
developed to help simplify the prediction of the outcome of individual patients. 
There are conflicting reports on how these models compare with doctors' 
intuition--whatever their strengths and weaknesses it is unlikely that they 
worsen clinical judgement. Therefore, all doctors should become familiar with 
them and use them appropriately.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2007.09.002
PMID: 18395158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Eur J Cancer. 2008 Jun;44(9):1259-68. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.050. Epub
2008  Apr 18.

Mortality among Thorotrast-exposed patients and an unexposed comparison group in 
the German Thorotrast study.

Becker N(1), Liebermann D, Wesch H, Van Kaick G.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, Abteilung. Klin. Epidemiologie, Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 280, Heidelberg, Germany. n.becker@dkfz.de

Thorotrast was the brand name of a stabilised colloidal solution of thorium 
dioxide which was used preferentially as an X-ray contrast medium for 
arteriography between 1930 and 1950. The administration of the medium led to 
lifelong chronic alpha-particle irradiation by thorium decay products, mainly in 
the organs of deposition. Several epidemiological follow-up studies were set up 
after recognition of these side-effects among which the German study was the 
largest. After an extended follow-up, by 2004 only nine out of 2326 originally 
exposed subjects were still alive (while 151 of the comparison group, which 
originally numbered 1890 subjects, survived) and partially more than 70 years 
observation and chronic exposure time could be studied allowing for further 
observations to be made about long-term mortality effects of Thorotrast 
exposure. Median life-expectancy was shortened by 14 years and mortality 
increased, affecting total mortality SMR=287 for males, SMR=387 for females) as 
well as cause-specific, especially liver cancer (SMR=16,695 and SMR=12,680, 
respectively), and the haematopoietic system (SMR=556 and SMR=504, 
respectively), but not lung cancer. Mortality (total and selected 
cause-specific) increased with cumulative time since first exposure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.02.050
PMID: 18395438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Mar 17;170(12):1011.

[Weight loss prolongs life. Danish Association for the Study of Obesity].

[Article in Danish]

Toubro S(1); Dansk Selskab for Adipositas Forskning.

Author information:
(1)Reduce aps-Klinik for Ernaeringsforskning, Afdeling 026, Hvidovre Hospital, 
DK-2650 Hvidovre. st@reduce.dk

PMID: 18397629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. J Cell Mol Med. 2008 Aug;12(4):1194-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1582-4934.2008.00329.x.  Epub 2008 Apr 8.

Could glucose be a proaging factor?

Kassi E(1), Papavassiliou AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Medical School, University of Athens, 
Athens, Greece.

There is an ever-increasing scientific interest for the interplay between cell's 
environment and the aging process. Although it is known that calorie restriction 
affects longevity, the exact molecular mechanisms through which nutrients 
influence various cell signalling/modulators of lifespan remain a largely 
unresolved issue. Among nutrients, glucose constitutes an evolutionarily stable, 
precious metabolic fuel, which is catabolized through glycolytic pathway 
providing energy in the form of ATP and consuming NAD. Accumulating evidence 
shows that among the important regulators of aging process are autophagy, 
sirtuin activity and oxidative stress. In light of recent work indicating that 
glucose availability decreases lifespan whilst impaired glucose metabolism 
extends life expectancy, the present article deals with the potential role of 
glucose in the aging process by regulating--directly through its metabolism or 
indirectly through insulin secretion--autophagy, sirtuins as well as other 
modulators of aging like oxidative stress and advanced glycation end-products 
(AGEs).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1582-4934.2008.00329.x
PMCID: PMC3865662
PMID: 18400054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. BMC Genet. 2008 Apr 9;9:28. doi: 10.1186/1471-2156-9-28.

Very mild disease phenotype of congenic CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu cystic fibrosis mice.

Tóth B(1), Wilke M, Stanke F, Dorsch M, Jansen S, Wedekind D, Charizopoulou N, 
Bot A, Burmester M, Leonhard-Marek S, de Jonge HR, Hedrich HJ, Breves G, Tümmler 
B.

Author information:
(1)Klinische Forschergruppe, OE 6710, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, 
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, D-30625 Hannover, Germany. balazs_toth@lycos.com

BACKGROUND: A major boost to cystic fibrosis disease research was given by the 
generation of various mouse models using gene targeting in embryonal stem cells. 
Moreover, the introduction of the same mutation on different inbred strains 
generating congenic strains facilitated the search for modifier genes. From the 
original CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu mouse model with a divergent genetic background 
(129/Sv, C57BL/6, HsdOla:MF1) two inbred mutant mouse strains 
CF/1-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu and CF/3-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu had been generated using 
strict brother x sister mating. CF/1-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu and 
CF/3-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu mice were fertile and showed normal growth and lifespan. 
In this work the CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu insertional mutation was backcrossed from 
CF/3-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu onto the inbred backgrounds C57BL/6J and DBA/2J 
generating congenic animals in order to clarify the differential impact of the 
Cftr mutation and the genetic background on the disease phenotype of the cystic 
fibrosis mutant mice. Clinical and electrophysiological features of the two 
congenic strains were compared with those of CF/1-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu and 
CF/3-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu and wild type controls.
RESULTS: Under the standardized housing conditions of the animal facility, the 
four mouse strains CF/1-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu, CF/3-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu, 
D2.129P2(CF/3)-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu and B6.129P2(CF/3)-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu exhibited 
normal life expectancy. Growth of congenic cystic fibrosis mice was comparable 
with that of wild type controls. All mice but D2.129P2(CF/3)-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu 
females were fertile. Short circuit current measurements revealed characteristic 
response profiles of the HsdOla:MF1, DBA/2J and C57BL/6J backgrounds in nose, 
ileum and colon. All cystic fibrosis mouse lines showed the disease-typical 
hyperresponsiveness to amiloride in the respiratory epithelium. The mean 
chloride secretory responses to carbachol or forskolin were 15-100% of those of 
the cognate wild type control animals.
CONCLUSION: The amelioration of the clinical features and of the basic defect 
that had emerged during the generation of CF/3-CftrTgH(neoim)Hgu mice was 
retained in the congenic mice indicating that the Cftr linkage group or other 
loci shared between the inbred strains contain(s) the major modifier(s) of 
attenuation of cystic fibrosis symptoms.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2156-9-28
PMCID: PMC2323021
PMID: 18400105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2008 Spring;24(2):146-50. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462308080203.

Systematic reviews and economic evaluations conducted for the National Institute 
for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom: a game of two halves?

Drummond MF(1), Iglesias CP, Cooper NJ.

Author information:
(1)University of York, York, UK. md18@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Decision analytic models, as used in economic evaluations, require 
data on several clinical parameters. The gold standard approach is to conduct a 
systematic review of the relevant clinical literature, although reviews of 
economic evaluations indicate that this is rarely done. Technology appraisals 
for the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE), which are 
fully funded, represent the best case scenario for the close integration of 
economic evaluations and systematic reviews. The objective of this study was to 
assess the extent to which the systematic review of the clinical literature 
informs the economic evaluation in NICE technology appraisals.
METHODS: All NICE technology assessment reports (TARs) published between January 
2003 and July 2006 were considered. Data were abstracted on the TAR topics, the 
primary measure of clinical effectiveness, the approach to pooling in the 
clinical review, the measure of economic benefit and the use, or non-use, of the 
systematic review in the economic evaluation.
RESULTS: Forty-one TARs were published in the period studied, all of which 
contained a systematic review. Most of the economic evaluations (85 percent) 
were cost-utility analyses, reflecting NICE's guidelines for economic 
evaluation. In seventeen cases, the clinical data were not pooled in the review, 
owing to heterogeneity in the clinical data or the limited number of studies. In 
these cases, the economists used alternative approaches for estimating the key 
effectiveness parameter in the model. The results of the review (when pooled) 
were always used when the primary clinical effectiveness measure corresponded 
with the measure of economic benefit (e.g., survival). However, because 
preference-based quality of life measures are rarely included in clinical 
trials, the results of the systematic review were never directly used in the 
cost-utility analyses. Nevertheless, the outputs of the systematic review were 
used when the data were useful in estimating components of the quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) (e.g., the life-years gained, or the frequencies of health 
states to which QALYs could be assigned). Problems occurred mainly when the 
clinical data were not pooled, or when the measure of clinical benefit could not 
be converted into health states to which QALYs could be assigned.
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations can benefit from systematic reviews of the 
clinical literature. However, such reviews are not a panacea for conducting a 
good economic evaluation. Much of the relevant data for estimating QALYs are not 
contained in such reviews and the chosen method for summarizing the clinical 
data may inhibit the assessment of economic benefit. Problems would be reduced 
if those undertaking the technology assessments discussed the data requirements 
for the economic model at an early stage.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462308080203
PMID: 18400116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2008 Spring;24(2):178-83. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462308080252.

Cost-effectiveness and budget impact of adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen therapy for 
diabetic foot ulcers.

Chuck AW(1), Hailey D, Jacobs P, Perry DC.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Alberta, Canada. achuck@ihe.ca

BACKGROUND: Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT) has been proposed as an adjunct to 
standard methods of care for diabetic foot ulcers (DFU). Its use may decrease 
the risk of infection and lower extremity amputations (LEAs). As part of a 
Canadian assessment, we estimated the cost-effectiveness and budget impact of 
HBOT in this application.
METHODS: We developed a decision model comparing adjunctive HBOT with standard 
care alone. The population was a 65-year-old cohort with DFU. The time horizon 
was 12 years taken from a Ministry of Health perspective. The health states were 
a healed wound with or without a minor LEA, an unhealed wound with no related 
surgery, and a major LEA. Efficacy data were based on outcomes reported in 
studies included in a literature review. Cost and capacity needs for treating 
DFU patients in Canada were estimated using prevalence data from the literature, 
and cost and utilization data from government records.
RESULTS: The 12-year cost for patients receiving HBOT was CND$40,695 compared 
with CND$49,786 for standard care alone. Outcomes were 3.64 quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) for those receiving HBOT and 3.01 QALYs for controls. 
Estimated cost to treat all prevalent DFU cases in Canada was CND$14.4-19.7 
million/year over 4 years. If seven-person HBOT chambers were used, a further 
nineteen to thirty-five machines would be required nationally.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjunctive HBOT for DFU is cost-effective compared with standard 
care. Additional HBOT capacity would be needed if it were to be adopted as the 
standard of care throughout Canada.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462308080252
PMID: 18400121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
