perspective, this may not be as desirable. Parent demand for antibiotics may be 
rational when driven by the value of parent time. Other approaches that have the 
potential to reduce antibiotic use, such as wider use of influenza vaccine and 
improved rapid viral diagnostic techniques, might be more successful.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2007-1914
PMID: 18381529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2008 Jun;93(6):2243-8. doi: 10.1210/jc.2007-2199.
Epub  2008 Apr 1.

No greater incidence or worsening of cardiac valve regurgitation with 
somatostatin analog treatment of acromegaly.

Colao A(1), Marek J, Goth MI, Caron P, Kuhn JM, Minuto FM, Weissman NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Federico II 
University of Naples, via S. Pansini 5, Naples, Italy. colao@unina.it

CONTEXT: Excess GH and IGF-I in acromegaly are associated with reduced life 
expectancy due to cardiovascular complications.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to investigate the prevalence, 
incidence, and severity of cardiac valve regurgitation before and after 
somatostatin-analog treatment in acromegaly.
DESIGN: This was a prospective, observer-blinded, multicenter, 12-month study.
SETTING: The study was conducted at 33 specialist centers.
PATIENTS: The study population consisted of 225 adult patients with acromegaly 
without significant cardiac valve abnormalities or prior valve-replacement 
surgery, matched for age, sex, and center/country/study.
INTERVENTIONS: Interventions included initiation/continuation of lanreotide (n = 
107) or octreotide treatment (n = 118), tailored for optimal disease control.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Relative risk of new/worsening regurgitation in any valve 
at 12 months compared with baseline, was measured.
RESULTS: At baseline, almost 80% of patients had some degree of cardiac valve 
regurgitation, although none was severe. The risk of developing new/worsening 
regurgitation in any valve at 12 months was nonsignificant and similar for the 
cohorts [adjusted odds ratio 0.86; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.41-1.82; P = 
0.694; relative risk 1.04; 95% CI 0.67-1.60; risk difference 0.01; 95% CI -0.13 
to 0.16]. For 54% of patients, the severity of regurgitation stayed the same 
during the study. At baseline, significant valve regurgitation occurred in 18% 
of patients (lanreotide cohort) and 13% (octreotide cohort) and at 12 months in 
18% of each cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of valve regurgitation did not change over 12 months 
of treatment with somatostatin analogs, and most cases were physiologic or mild 
in severity. There was no significant difference between somatostatin analogs in 
the risk of developing new/worsening valve regurgitation or significant 
regurgitation after 1 yr.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2007-2199
PMID: 18381583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Genes Dev. 2008 Apr 1;22(7):931-44. doi: 10.1101/gad.1648308.

The malate-aspartate NADH shuttle components are novel metabolic longevity 
regulators required for calorie restriction-mediated life span extension in 
yeast.

Easlon E(1), Tsang F, Skinner C, Wang C, Lin SJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Microbiology, College of Biological Sciences, University of 
California at Davis, Davis, California 95616, USA.

Recent studies suggest that increased mitochondrial metabolism and the 
concomitant decrease in NADH levels mediate calorie restriction (CR)-induced 
life span extension. The mitochondrial inner membrane is impermeable to NAD 
(nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide, oxidized form) and NADH, and it is unclear 
how CR relays increased mitochondrial metabolism to multiple cellular pathways 
that reside in spatially distinct compartments. Here we show that the 
mitochondrial components of the malate-aspartate NADH shuttle (Mdh1 [malate 
dehydrogenase] and Aat1 [aspartate amino transferase]) and the 
glycerol-3-phosphate shuttle (Gut2, glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase) are 
novel longevity factors in the CR pathway in yeast. Overexpressing Mdh1, Aat1, 
and Gut2 extend life span and do not synergize with CR. Mdh1 and Aat1 
overexpressions require both respiration and the Sir2 family to extend life 
span. The mdh1Deltaaat1Delta double mutation blocks CR-mediated life span 
extension and also prevents the characteristic decrease in the NADH levels in 
the cytosolic/nuclear pool, suggesting that the malate-aspartate shuttle plays a 
major role in the activation of the downstream targets of CR such as Sir2. 
Overexpression of the NADH shuttles may also extend life span by increasing the 
metabolic fitness of the cells. Together, these data suggest that CR may extend 
life span and ameliorate age-associated metabolic diseases by activating 
components of the NADH shuttles.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.1648308
PMCID: PMC2279204
PMID: 18381895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Hum Vaccin. 2008 May-Jun;4(3):238-45. doi: 10.4161/hv.4.3.5686. Epub 2010
May  25.

The potential cost-effectiveness of vaccination against herpes zoster and 
post-herpetic neuralgia.

Brisson M(1), Pellissier JM, Camden S, Quach C, De Wals P.

Author information:
(1)Département de médecine sociale et préventive, Université Laval, Québec, 
Canada. marc.brisson@uresp.ulaval.ca

A clinical trial has shown that a live-attenuated varicella-zoster virus vaccine 
is effective against herpes zoster (HZ) and post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN). The 
aim of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of vaccination against 
HZ and PHN in Canada. A cohort model was developed to estimate the burden of HZ 
and the cost-effectiveness of HZ vaccination, using Canadian population-based 
data. Different ages at vaccination were examined and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was performed. The economic evaluation was conducted from the ministry 
of health perspective and 5% discounting was used for costs and benefits. In 
Canada (population = 30 million), we estimate that each year there are 130,000 
new cases of HZ, 17,000 cases of PHN and 20 deaths. Most of the pain and 
suffering is borne by adults over the age of 60 years and is due to PHN. 
Vaccinating 65-year-olds (HZ efficacy = 63%, PHN efficacy = 67%, no waning, 
cost/course = $150) is estimated to cost $33,000 per QALY-gained (90% CrI: 
19,000-63,000). Assuming the cost per course of HZ vaccination is $150, 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggest that vaccinating between 65 and 75 
years of age will likely yield cost-effectiveness ratios below $40,000 per 
Quality-Adjusted Life-Year (QALY) gained, while vaccinating adults older than 75 
years will yield ratios less than $70,000 per QALY-gained. These results are 
most sensitive to the duration of vaccine protection and the cost of 
vaccination. In conclusion, results suggest that vaccinating adults between the 
ages of 65 and 75 years is likely to be cost-effective and thus to be a 
judicious use of scarce health care resources.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.4.3.5686
PMID: 18382137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Crit Care Med. 2008 Apr;36(4 Suppl):S193-7. doi:
10.1097/CCM.0b013e318168cae2.

Long-term outcomes after acute kidney injury.

Morgera S(1), Schneider M, Neumayer HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, University Hospital Charité, Campus Mitte, Berlin, 
Germany. Stanislao.morgera@charite.de

Acute kidney dysfunction is a common problem in intensive care units. It is not 
only associated with increased morbidity and mortality but also with increased 
healthcare costs. Limited healthcare budgets have now raised the issue of how 
much therapy should be dedicated to these critically ill patients. A 
precondition for any further discussion on this topic is the question on the 
long-term outcome and quality of life of these patients. However, only limited 
data are available in this field. In this review, we will focus on the existing 
literature, considering not only acute renal failure patients requiring renal 
replacement therapy but also those patients with mild or moderate impaired renal 
function. The intention of this review is to show that acute kidney injury is an 
important but often underestimated disease and a disease that deserves major 
attention because it is associated with impaired short- and long-term outcome. 
We will demonstrate that acute kidney injury patients requiring dialysis have a 
reasonable long-term survival rate and good quality of life. There is no doubt 
that aggressive intensive care unit treatment is justified in these patients, 
irrespective of the health costs.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e318168cae2
PMID: 18382193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Curr Opin Urol. 2008 May;18(3):279-96. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e3282f9b3e5.

Inventory of prostate cancer predictive tools.

Shariat SF(1), Karakiewicz PI, Margulis V, Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Centre, 
Dallas, Texas 75390-9110, USA. shahrokh.shariat@utsouthwestern.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: We created an inventory of current predictive tools available 
for prostate cancer. This review may serve as an initial step toward a 
comprehensive reference guide for physicians to locate published nomograms that 
apply to the clinical decision in question. Using MEDLINE a literature search 
was performed on prostate cancer predictive tools from January 1966 to November 
2007. We describe the patient populations to which they apply and the outcomes 
predicted, and record their individual characteristics.
RECENT FINDINGS: The literature search generated 111 published prediction tools 
that may be applied to patients in various clinical stages of disease. Of the 
111 prediction tools, only 69 had undergone validation. We present an inventory 
of models with input variables, prediction form, number of patients used to 
develop the prediction tools, the outcome being predicted, prediction 
tool-specific features, predictive accuracy, and whether validation was 
performed.
SUMMARY: Decision rules, such as nomograms, provide evidence-based and at the 
same time individualized predictions of the outcome of interest. Such 
predictions have been repeatedly shown to be more accurate than those of 
clinicians, regardless of their level of expertise. Accurate risk estimates are 
also required for clinical trial design, to ensure homogeneous high-risk patient 
groups for whom new cancer therapeutics will be investigated.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e3282f9b3e5
PMID: 18382238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Nat Clin Pract Rheumatol. 2008 May;4(5):238-9. doi: 10.1038/ncprheum0790.
Epub  2008 Apr 1.

Is sitaxsentan a good therapeutic option for pulmonary arterial hypertension 
associated with connective tissue disease?

Allanore Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de Rhumatologie A, Université Paris Descartes, Hôpital Cochin, 27 rue 
du Faubourg St Jacques, 75014 Paris, France. yannick.allanore@cch.aphp.fr

Comment on
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2007 Nov;66(11):1467-72.

Agents that indiscriminately block endothelin receptors have been shown to cause 
moderate improvements in the outcomes of patients who have pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) as a complication of connective tissue disease (CTD). Girgis 
et al. investigated the effects of sitaxsentan, a selective endothelin receptor 
type A antagonist, in patients with CTD and comcomitant PAH. After 12 weeks of 
treatment, patients who received sitaxsentan showed more improvement from 
baseline compared with those receiving placebo in terms of exercise capacity, 
hemodynamics and physical-health-related quality of life. At the end of the 
extension study (median total follow-up 26 weeks), 16 of the 41 patients with 
CTD had an improvement of at least one New York Heart Association functional 
class compared with at the start of sitaxsentan therapy. The effects of 
sitaxsentan observed in the CTD group were comparable to those seen in the 
idiopathic PAH group. The authors concluded that treatment with sitaxsentan 
might be beneficial in patients with PAH associated with CTD.

DOI: 10.1038/ncprheum0790
PMID: 18382424


398. J Clin Invest. 2008 Apr;118(4):1242-3. doi: 10.1172/JCI35396.

Global health inequity: scientific challenges remain but can be solved.

Dahl CA(1), Yamada T.

Author information:
(1)Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, Washington 98102, USA. 
carol.dahl@gatesfoundation.org

Advances in science and technology have transformed the health of the 
populations of the developed world, with substantial increases in life 
expectancy and reductions in morbidity. These advances have not, however, 
touched the lives of the poorest people of the world--the billions living in 
developing countries. This Review Series on global health highlights the key 
factors contributing to inequity in health across the globe and the scientific 
questions that remain unanswered but are critical to creating effective and 
appropriate health solutions. The gaps in knowledge identified in this series 
point the way for scientists to contribute to a changed world.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI35396
PMCID: PMC2276789
PMID: 18382736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Arthritis Rheum. 2008 Apr;58(4):939-46. doi: 10.1002/art.23374.

Biologic drugs for rheumatoid arthritis in the Medicare program: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Wailoo AJ(1), Bansback N, Brennan A, Michaud K, Nixon RM, Wolfe F.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK. a.j.wailoo@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Since the introduction of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement 
and Modernization Act and its associated demonstration project, coverage of 
selected biologic drugs has been expanded for Medicare beneficiaries. For 
rheumatoid arthritis, coverage was extended to etanercept, adalimumab, and 
anakinra in addition to the previously covered infliximab. We undertook to 
develop a model to compare the costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
generated by each of the 4 biologic agents.
METHODS: Data were drawn from meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials and 
from a large longitudinal outcomes databank. Uncertainty was addressed using 
probabilistic and one-way sensitivity analyses. A lifetime horizon and Medicare 
viewpoint were adopted.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, anakinra was the least effective and least 
costly strategy. Etanercept, adalimumab, and infliximab were similar in terms of 
effectiveness, but infliximab was more costly. If decision makers are willing to 
pay a maximum of $50,000/QALY, the probability that infliximab is cost-effective 
is <1%. Findings were robust to a range of sensitivity analyses. Only if the 
dose of infliximab remains constant over time is this likely to be a 
cost-effective strategy.
CONCLUSION: Infliximab is unlikely to be cost-effective in the Medicare 
population compared with either etanercept or adalimumab. Anakinra is 
substantially less costly but is also less effective than the 3 tumor necrosis 
factor alpha inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1002/art.23374
PMID: 18383356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Arthritis Rheum. 2008 Apr;58(4):953-63. doi: 10.1002/art.23397.

Results of a two-year followup study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis who 
received a combination of abatacept and methotrexate.

Kremer JM(1), Genant HK, Moreland LW, Russell AS, Emery P, Abud-Mendoza C, 
Szechiński J, Li T, Teng J, Becker JC, Westhovens R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Rheumatology, Albany Medical College, Albany, New York 12206, USA. 
jkremer@joint-docs.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficacy, radiographic changes, and safety of 
abatacept and methotrexate therapy through 2 years in a long-term extension of a 
previously published 1-year study.
METHODS: Patients who received placebo during year 1 were switched to abatacept. 
Patients taking abatacept continued to take it. Efficacy and safety were 
assessed through 2 years.
RESULTS: Of 539 patients enrolled in the initial 1-year study, 488 completed 1 
year of the long-term extension (2% discontinued for lack of efficacy). At 2 
years, patients taking abatacept had maintained their responses on the American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR) improvement criteria and the Disease Activity 
Score in 28 joints (DAS28; using the C-reactive protein [CRP] level), as well as 
their physical function (according to the Health Assessment Questionnaire [HAQ] 
disability index [DI]) and health-related quality of life (HRQOL; assessed with 
the Short Form 36 [SF-36] health survey), that were observed at the end of the 
double-blind period (year 1 versus year 2 values were 81.9% versus 80.3% for ACR 
20% improvement, 25.4% versus 30.9% for a DAS28 [CRP] of <2.6, 71.8% versus 
66.8% for the HAQ DI, and 9.7 versus 10.6 and 7.3 versus 7.2, respectively, for 
the mean change in the physical and mental components summary scores of the 
SF-36). In the abatacept group, post hoc analysis demonstrated further 
inhibition of radiographic progression during year 2 (57% reduction in mean 
change of total score in year 2 versus year 1; P<0.0001), and minimal 
radiographic progression was observed (mean change in total score from baseline 
was 1.1 and 1.6 at year 1 and 2, respectively). Rates of adverse events (AEs) 
and severe AEs were consistent throughout the cumulative period.
CONCLUSION: The improvements in signs and symptoms, physical function, and HRQOL 
observed after 1 year of abatacept treatment were maintained through 2 years of 
treatment. This durability was accompanied by a safety profile consistent with 
that in the double-blind portion of the study. Radiographic progression was 
further inhibited in year 2 compared with year 1, suggesting an increasing 
effect of abatacept on the inhibition of structural damage in year 2.

DOI: 10.1002/art.23397
PMID: 18383390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Anticancer Res. 2008 Jan-Feb;28(1B):539-41.

Low-dose capecitabine in breast cancer patients with symptomatic bone marrow 
infiltration: a case study.

Ardavanis A(1), Kountourakis P, Orphanos G, Rigatos G.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Medical Oncology, Aghios Savvas Anticancer Hospital, 
Athens, Greece. ardavanis@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The prognosis of patients with metastatic breast cancer and 
symptomatic bone marrow involvement is poor. The aim of treatment to these 
patients is palliation. In this study, we sought to determine the efficacy of 
therapy with low doses of capecitabine in this subgroup of patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Five consecutive breast cancer patients with overt bone 
marrow involvement were treated by low doses of capecitabine in our department. 
Four out of five patients also received bisphosphonates to palliate skeletal 
symptoms. The influence of this therapeutic regimen on tumor response, blood 
count normalization and overall survival was analysed.
RESULTS: All patients except one responded in terms of their haematological 
profile within two months of the initiation of treatment. Duration of 
haematological response was 8+ months for all patients. In two of them, tumor 
response in other sites was evaluated as stable disease, in one as partial 
remission and in one as progressive disease. Two patients survived more than 22 
months without bone marrow failure.
CONCLUSION: These initial results are very encouraging for this subset of 
patients with poor prognosis and limited life expectancy. The administration of 
capecitabine might be an efficient alternative treatment option. Our results 
merit further investigation.

PMID: 18383899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2008 May-Jun;24 Suppl 1:S34-9. doi:
10.1002/dmrr.829.

Open bypass and endoluminal therapy: complementary techniques for 
revascularization in diabetic patients with critical limb ischaemia.

Mills JL Sr(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona Health Sciences Center, Tucson, Arizona, USA. 
jmills@email.arizona.edu

The use of endovascular therapy (EVT) for lower extremity atherosclerosis is 
markedly increasing while open surgical bypass is in decline. The results of EVT 
for critical limb ischaemia (CLI) are difficult to evaluate, especially for 
patients with diabetes. To date, only one randomized, prospective trial has been 
published comparing EVT with open bypass for CLI. Although early costs and 
outcomes were equivalent or superior for EVT, after 2 years, surgery was 
associated with a significantly reduced risk of future amputation and 
death.Approximately, 40-50% of diabetic patients with CLI can be initially 
treated with EVT. Patients with Trans-Atlantic Inter-Society Consensus (TASC) A 
and B lesions should be treated endoluminally. EVT should be used with caution 
in patients with TASC C and D lesions; however, in selected patients, 
particularly if vein conduit is lacking and life expectancy is short, EVT is not 
unreasonable. For low-to-moderate risk patients with TASC C or D lesions, 
extensive tibial disease, and suitable vein conduit, surgical bypass remains the 
best limb preservation option. The primary therapeutic goals are relief of rest 
pain, healing of ischaemic lesions, and maintenance of functional status. 
Haemodynamic assessment is critical following both open and EVT for CLI and aids 
in determining the need for further revascularization; additional interventions 
are required in 20-30% of CLI patients depending on the degree of ischaemia, 
anatomical disease extent, and mode of initial therapy. At the University of 
Arizona, we currently recommend that TASC A and B CLI patients undergo EVT 
first. TASC C and D patients should undergo bypass unless available conduit is 
poor, surgical risk is prohibitive, or life expectancy is limited. CLI is a 
serious end-of-life condition given the sobering realization that only 50-55% of 
CLI patients are alive with an intact limb 5 years after initial presentation.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.829
PMID: 18384110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Health Soc Care Community. 2008 Dec;16(6):573-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2524.2008.00780.x. Epub 2008 Apr 1.

Costs and health outcomes of intermediate care: results from five UK case study 
sites.

Kaambwa B(1), Bryan S, Barton P, Parker H, Martin G, Hewitt G, Parker S, Wilson 
A.

Author information:
(1)Formerly Health Economics Facility, Health Services Management Centre, 
University of Birmingham, Park House, 40 Edgbaston Park Road, Birmingham, B15 
2RT, UK.

The objectives of this study were to explore the costs and outcomes associated 
with different types of intermediate care (IC) services, and also to examine the 
characteristics of patients receiving such services. Five UK case studies of 
'whole systems' of IC were used, with data collected on a sample of consecutive 
IC episodes between January 2003 and January 2004. Statistical differences in 
costs and outcomes associated with different IC services and patient groups were 
explored. Factors associated with variation in IC episode outcomes (EuroQol 
EQ-5D and Barthel Index) were explored using an econometric framework. Data were 
available for 2253 episodes of IC. In terms of Department of Health criteria, a 
large proportion of patients (up to 47% of those for whom data were available) 
in this study were inappropriately admitted to IC services. As regards service 
function, compared to supported discharge, admission avoidance services were 
associated with both lower costs and greater health and functional gains. These 
gains appear to be driven, in part, by illness severity (more dependent patients 
tended to gain most benefit). In addition, these gains appear to be larger where 
the admission was appropriate. Our work suggests a need for the development and 
application of robust and reliable clinical criteria for admission to IC, and 
close co-operation between hospital and community service providers over 
selection of patients and targeting of IC and acute care services to meet 
defined clinical need.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2524.2008.00780.x
PMID: 18384358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2008 Dec;10(4):255-63. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2008.00090.x. Epub 2008 Apr 1.

Immediate rehabilitation of the mandible with fixed full prosthesis supported by 
axial and tilted implants: interim results of a single cohort prospective study.

Francetti L(1), Agliardi E, Testori T, Romeo D, Taschieri S, Del Fabbro M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Technologies, Centre for Research in Oral Implantology, 
Istituto Ortopedico Galeazzi IRCCS, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. 
luca.francetti@unimi.it

PURPOSE: The aims of this prospective study were to assess the treatment outcome 
of immediately loaded full-arch fixed bridges anchored to both tilted and 
axially placed implants for the rehabilitation of the mandible and to compare 
the outcome of axial versus tilted implants.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Sixty-two patients (34 women and 28 men) were included in 
the study. Each patient received a full-arch fixed bridge supported by two axial 
implants and two distal tilted implants (All-on-Four, Nobel Biocare AB, 
Göteborg, Sweden). Loading was applied within 48 hours of surgery. Patients were 
scheduled for follow-up at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months, and annually up to 5 years. 
At each follow-up, plaque level and bleeding scores were assessed; moreover, 
patient's satisfaction for aesthetics and function was evaluated by a 
questionnaire. Radiographic evaluation of marginal bone level change was 
performed at 1 year.
RESULTS: The overall follow-up range was 6 to 43 months (mean 22.4 months). 
Forty-four patients were followed for a minimum of 1 year. No implant failures 
were recorded to date, leading to a cumulative implant survival and prosthesis 
success rate of 100%. Plaque level and bleeding scores showed progressive 
decrease over time, parallel to increase of satisfaction for both aesthetics and 
function. No significant difference in marginal bone loss was found between 
tilted and axial implants at 1-year evaluation.
CONCLUSION: The present preliminary data suggest that immediate loading 
associated with tilted implants could be considered a viable treatment modality 
for the mandible.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2008.00090.x
PMID: 18384405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. BJU Int. 2008 Jul;102(1):33-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.07614.x. Epub
2008  Apr 2.

Accuracy of life tables in predicting overall survival in patients after radical 
prostatectomy.

Walz J(1), Suardi N, Shariat SF, Jeldres C, Perrotte P, Graefen M, Widmer H, 
Arjane P, Valiquette L, Hutterer G, Saad F, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To test the accuracy of life tables (LT), the standard tool for 
predicting life-expectancy (LE), but the accuracy of which is unknown in 
patients with prostate cancer, where the 10-year LE is a widely accepted 
threshold for the delivery of definitive therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We tested the accuracy of predictions of LE from LT in 
9678 men treated with radical prostatectomy (RP) for prostate cancer. The 
predictions of LE from LT at 10 years after RP were compared to Kaplan 
Meier-derived 10-year survival values. Moreover, the accuracy of LT predictions 
was quantified in a Cox-regression using Harrell's concordance index. To control 
for the effect of prostate cancer mortality, analyses were repeated in a subset 
of 5955 patients with no evidence of disease recurrence. Additional 
stratification schemes were applied to control for age and comorbidity.
RESULTS: At RP, the median age was 64 years, the median Charlson Comorbidity 
Index (CCI) was 1 and the median LT-derived LE was 16 years. The median 
actuarial survival was not reached (mean 12.4 years). In the whole group the 
LT-predicted 10-year survival was 96.8%, vs an observed of 75.3%. In men with no 
disease recurrence the LT-predicted survival was 97.3%, vs 81.1% observed. After 
age and CCI stratification, LT overestimated the 10-year survival the most in 
those aged 65-69 years and in patients with CCI scores of >2.
CONCLUSION: The overestimation of LE can lead to overtreatment of prostate 
cancer, especially in those men who die early from other causes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.07614.x
PMID: 18384631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Appl Ergon. 2008 Jul;39(4):495-9. doi: 10.1016/j.apergo.2008.02.014. Epub
2008  Apr 1.

Global inequality, and the challenge for ergonomics to take a more dynamic role 
to redress the situation.

Scott PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Kinetics and Ergonomics, Rhodes University, PO Box 94, 
Grahamstown, 6140, South Africa. p.a.scott@ru.ac.za

This paper argues that ergonomics is more sorely needed, easier to implement, 
and potentially far more effective in industrially developing countries (IDCs) 
than where its efforts are presently most concentrated in the less populated, 
more affluent, technologically advanced world. The reasoning is a simple 
extension of the principle of diminishing returns in which the further from 
optimal a situation is, the greater the beneficial effect of any implemented 
improvement. The paper draws attention to the gap between 'have' and 'have not' 
cultures, plus the necessity for, and relative ease with which a sustainable 
ergonomics ethos can be engendered in IDCs. This requires a need to consider 
network causality, investigating both micro-problems (basic interaction between 
task and worker) and macro-conditions of the overall scenario (including 
managerial organisation, planning and responsibility). The two-pronged symbiosis 
of micro- and macro-ergonomics intervention has the potential to achieve both 
effective and sustainable development within small, medium and large 
enterprises.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apergo.2008.02.014
PMID: 18384753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Leukemia. 2008 May;22(5):905-14. doi: 10.1038/leu.2008.72. Epub 2008 Apr 3.

Life expectancy and prognostic factors in the classic BCR/ABL-negative 
myeloproliferative disorders.

Cervantes F(1), Passamonti F, Barosi G.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Department, Hospital Clínic, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain. fcervan@clinic.ub.es

Among the 'classic' BCR/ABL-negative chronic myeloproliferative disorders, 
primary myelofibrosis (PMF) is associated with a substantial life-expectancy 
reduction. In this disease, initial haemoglobin level is the most important 
prognostic factor, whereas age, constitutional symptoms, low or high leukocyte 
counts, blood blast cells and cytogenetic abnormalities are also of value. 
Several prognostic systems have been proposed to identify subgroups of patients 
with a different risk, which is especially important in younger individuals, who 
may benefit from therapies with curative potential. Essential thrombocythaemia 
(ET) affects the patients' quality of life more than the survival, due to the 
high occurrence of thrombosis, whereas polycythaemia vera (PV) has a substantial 
morbidity derived from thrombosis but also a certain reduction in life 
expectancy. Therefore, in the latter disorders, prognostic studies have focused 
primarily on prediction of the thrombosis, with age and a previous history of 
thrombosis being the main prognostic factors of such complication. The 
importance of higher leukocyte counts in thrombosis development has been 
recently pointed out in ET and PV, where a role for mutated JAK2 allele burden 
has also been noted. With regard to PMF, the possible association of the 
mutation with shorter survival and higher acute transformation rate is currently 
being evaluated.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2008.72
PMID: 18385755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. AIDS Rev. 2008 Jan-Mar;10(1):25-35.

Multicentric Castleman's disease in HIV infection: a systematic review of the 
literature.

Mylona EE(1), Baraboutis IG, Lekakis LJ, Georgiou O, Papastamopoulos V, 
Skoutelis A.

Author information:
(1)Fifth Department of Internal Medicine, Evangelismos Hospital, Athens, Greece. 
emylon@med.uoa.gr

The objective of this study is to systematically review the epidemiology and the 
clinical and virologic aspects of multicentric Castleman's disease in 
HIV-positive patients and to evaluate treatment strategies and outcome, 
especially in relation to HAART administration. The authors have conducted a 
systematic review of the English literature for all cases of newly diagnosed 
multicentric Castleman's disease in HIV-positive patients. The 25 studies which 
met the selection criteria included 84 HIV-positive patients with multicentric 
Castleman's disease (20 pre-HAART and 64 post-HAART era). Of them, the majority 
(90%) were men with 33 months median time from detection of HIV-positivity to 
multicentric Castleman's disease diagnosis in the HAART era. Fever and 
lymphadenopathy were the most common presenting symptoms and cytopenias, 
hypoalbuminemia, polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and raised C-reactive protein 
the most frequently revealed laboratory findings. Kaposi's sarcoma was present 
in 72% of the patients and respiratory system involvement in 34%. Although the 
majority of cases reported were positive for human herpesvirus-8, none of the 
reviewed patients was found to suffer from polyneuropathy, organomegaly, 
endocrinopathy, monoclonal gammopathy, and skin changes (POEMS) syndrome. Of the 
48 patients on HAART, 64% were already on HAART at multicentric Castleman's 
disease diagnosis, having a better immunologic profile and a lower incidence of 
Kaposi's sarcoma than the 35% of patients who initiated HAART after multicentric 
Castleman's disease diagnosis. Nevertheless, the two groups did not have 
significantly different mortality rates (30 vs. 38%). At multicentric 
Castleman's disease diagnosis, a wide range of CD4 counts was recorded, 
suggesting that disease presentation could occur at any CD4 count. With regard 
to treatment, the study confirmed the high rates of response with rituximab 
(anti-CD20 monoclonal). Monochemotherapy seems to give short-lived responses, 
which require maintenance to be sustained. Polychemotherapy with CHOP has given 
long-term remission in a subset of patients. Other regimens used in the 
treatment of HIV-related multicentric Castleman's disease were antiviral agents, 
immunomodulatory agents, and thalidomide. The fatality rate among HIV-related 
multicentric Castleman's disease cases reviewed was 44%, significantly lower 
than that of HIV-negative individuals (65%), while median survival of the latter 
was 29 months longer than that of HIV-infected individuals. The fatality rate 
among pre-HAART patients was 75 vs. 29% among HAART patients. Infection, 
multiorgan failure, Kaposi's sarcoma, non-Hodgkin lymphoma and progressive 
multicentric Castleman's disease were the most often reported causes of death. 
In conclusion, multicentric Castleman's disease is a lymphoproliferative 
disorder with an increasing prevalence in HIV-infected individuals. Even though 
life expectancy in multicentric Castleman's disease seems to have significantly 
improved in the HAART era, it remains a disease with a poor prognosis and an 
increased incidence of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the HIV-context.

PMID: 18385778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Int Orthop. 2009 Jun;33(3):707-12. doi: 10.1007/s00264-008-0540-0. Epub 2008
Apr  3.

Minimally invasive treatment of pathological fractures of the humeral shaft.

Ofluoglu O(1), Erol B, Ozgen Z, Yildiz M.

Author information:
(1)Lutfi Kirdar Research Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey. oofluoglu@gmail.com

Most patients with pathological fractures due to cancer metastasis have a 
limited life expectancy. Orthopaedic procedures, therefore, should be minimally 
invasive in order to avoid additional surgical morbidity. The purpose of this 
study was to analyse the results of minimally invasive approaches, including 
locked intramedullary nailing, followed by early postoperative radiation for 
pathological humeral shaft fractures. Twenty-four pathological fractures of the 
humerus diaphysis in 23 patients were treated with the prospective protocol, 
including antegrade unreamed intramedullary nailing and postoperative 
radiotherapy (20 Gy and five fractions). The patients and results of the surgery 
were evaluated by the Musculoskeletal Tumor Society upper extremity scoring 
system. All patients had a stable extremity, and the average function of 20 
patients was 64% of the normal upper extremity function. Only one patient 
required revision surgery. The minimally invasive treatment of patients with 
pathological fractures of the humeral shaft with closed unreamed intramedullary 
nailing combined with adjuvant radiotherapy is an effective and safe procedure, 
even in seriously ill patients.

Un grand nombre de patients avec des fractures pathologiques secondaires à des 
métastases ont une espérance de vie diminuée. Les traitements orthopédiques avec 
technique mini-invasive permettent de diminuer la morbidité chirurgicale. Le 
propos de cette étude est d’analyser les résultats d’une technique avec voie 
d’abord mini-invasive pour enclouage centro-médullaire verouillé suivi d’une 
irradiation post-opératoire pour des tumeurs de la diaphyse humérale. 24 
fractures pathologiques de la diaphyse humérale sur 23 patients ont été traitées 
de façon prospective, le protocole incluant un clou centro-médullaire mis sans 
alésage par voie antérograde et une radiothérapie de 20 Gy en 5 séances. Les 
patients et les résultats de la chirurgie ont été évalués grâce au score de la 
Société des tumeurs musculo squelettiques. Tous les patients sont parfaitement 
stables avec une amélioration globale fonctionnelle chez 20% des patients, une 
fonction de l’extrémité supérieure normale dans 64%. Un seul patient a nécessité 
une reprise chirurgicale. La voie d’abord mini-invasive chez ces patients 
présentant des fractures pathologiques de la diaphyse humérale traités par 
enclouage centro-médullaire sans alésage combiné à une radiothérapie adjuvante 
est un traitement qui permet d’avoir des résultats certains avec une bonne 
sécurité même chez des patients gravement atteints.

DOI: 10.1007/s00264-008-0540-0
PMCID: PMC2903124
PMID: 18386002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Value Health. 2008 Mar;11 Suppl 1:S11-22. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00362.x.

Economic implications of entecavir treatment in suppressing viral replication in 
chronic hepatitis B (CHB) patients in China from a perspective of the Chinese 
Social Security program.

Yuan Y(1), Iloeje U, Li H, Hay J, Yao GB.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Research Institute, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Princeton, 
NJ 08543-4000, USA. yong.yuan@bms.com

OBJECTIVES: Of estimated 112 million persons infected with chronic hepatitis B 
(CHB) in China, 15% to 40% will eventually develop liver complications. Most 
patients do not actively seek antiviral agents for treatment due in part to lack 
of good understanding of the disease. Entecavir is a new therapeutic option for 
CHB patients and the purpose of this study was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of entecavir treatment in China, based on projected clinical 
benefits from its superior viral suppression efficacy.
METHODS: The analysis was based on the perspective of the Chinese Social 
Security program. Adjusted relative risks on the association between viral load 
(VL) and clinical end points (liver cirrhosis/hepatocellular carcinoma) were 
derived from a publication of a Taiwan CHB prospective cohort with 42,115 
person-years of follow-up, and applied to patients enrolled in a randomized 
phase III trial in China. In this trial, hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA (by 
polymerase chain reaction assay) was the key efficacy end point after 48 weeks 
of treatment with either entecavir or lamivudine monotherapy. Entecavir and 
lamivudine daily prices were assumed to be Renminbi Yuan (RMB) 40 and 16.71, 
respectively. Life expectancy tables were based on China vital statistics. 
Direct medical cost and utility scores for different phases of CHB were 
estimated from published China specific data, and costs were adjusted to 2006 
values using the Chinese Consumer Price Index. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to evaluate parameter uncertainty on event distribution 
and treatment failure rates beyond the trial period.
RESULTS: A total of 519 subjects were enrolled in the study, comprising of 82% 
males, 87% HBeAg+, and a mean age of 30 years. Based on the efficacy measurement 
of the percentage of patients achieving HBV DNA <300 copies/ml at week 48, 
entecavir was superior to lamivudine (78.7% vs. 46.7%, respectively [P < 0.05]). 
In the base case, compared with lamivudine, 1 year of entecavir therapy gained 
0.305 quality-adjusted life year (QALY) at an incremental cost of 5368 RMB, with 
a 3% annual discount. Compared with lamivudine, using entecavir cost an 
incremental 17,590 RMB per QALY gained (95% CI 6333-56,407).
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this study, entecavir is likely to be 
cost-effective in treating hepatitis B patients in China based on the World 
Health Organization's recommended maximum willingness to pay threshold.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00362.x
PMID: 18387054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Value Health. 2008 Mar;11 Suppl 1:S23-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00363.x.

Cost-utility analysis of intensive blood glucose control with metformin versus 
usual care in overweight type 2 diabetes mellitus patients in Beijing, P.R. 
China.

Xie X(1), Vondeling H.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Educational Programme, Health Sciences Faculty, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: The UKPDS 34 and 51 showed that intensive blood glucose control with 
metformin is cost-saving and increases life expectancy in overweight type 2 
diabetic patients in the United Kingdom. Diabetes is becoming an important 
health problem in urban China. This study addresses the effects and costs of 
intensive blood glucose control in this setting, aimed at supporting 
decision-making on the allocation of scarce resources.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed to estimate the costs and 
effectiveness of intensive blood glucose control in overweight type 2 diabetes 
patients in Beijing, compared with usual care in accordance with clinical 
practice. The analysis was carried out from a health-care perspective.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis (3% discount rate) shows that the average 
incremental costs of 11 years of intensive treatment with metformin are 126.6 K 
RMB (16.4 K US$) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is sensitive to the costs of medication 
alternatives for metformin in the intensive treatment group and to the discount 
rate used (0%: 105.6 K RMB (13.7 K US$) per QALY gained; 5%: 171.0 K RMB (22.2 K 
US$) per QALY gained). After 20 and 30 years (lifetime) follow-up, the ICERs 
become increasingly favorable, 90.1 K RMB (11.7 K US$) and 74.3 K RMB (9.6 K 
US$), respectively. The ICER is most sensitive to the costs of medication 
alternatives for metformin in the intensive treatment group, and to the discount 
rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Interpretation of the findings depends on the maximum willingness 
to pay for a QALY in China, which has not officially been defined. If this would 
be three times the gross domestic product per capita, a value that has been 
suggested in the literature, lifetime intensive blood glucose control is likely 
to be cost-effective. Our findings differ from the UKPDS studies and emphasize 
that generalizing the results of studies across countries requires considerable 
adaptation to the local context.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00363.x
PMID: 18387063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Value Health. 2008 Mar;11 Suppl 1:S61-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00368.x.

Applying the Expectancy-Value Model to understand health values.

Zhang XH(1), Xie F, Wee HL, Thumboo J, Li SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

OBJECTIVES: Expectancy-Value Model (EVM) is the most structured model in 
psychology to predict attitudes by measuring attitudinal attributes (AAs) and 
relevant external variables. Because health value could be categorized as 
attitude, we aimed to apply EVM to explore its usefulness in explaining 
variances in health values and investigate underlying factors.
METHODS: Focus group discussion was carried out to identify the most common and 
significant AAs toward 5 different health states (coded as 11111, 11121, 21221, 
32323, and 33333 in EuroQol Five-Dimension (EQ-5D) descriptive system). AAs were 
measured in a sum of multiplications of subjective probability (expectancy) and 
perceived value of attributes with 7-point Likert scales. Health values were 
measured using visual analog scales (VAS, range 0-1). External variables (age, 
sex, ethnicity, education, housing, marital status, and concurrent chronic 
diseases) were also incorporated into survey questionnaire distributed by 
convenience sampling among eligible respondents. Univariate analyses were used 
to identify external variables causing significant differences in VAS. Multiple 
linear regression model (MLR) and hierarchical regression model were used to 
investigate the explanatory power of AAs and possible significant external 
variable(s) separately or in combination, for each individual health state and a 
mixed scenario of five states, respectively.
RESULTS: Four AAs were identified, namely, "worsening your quality of life in 
terms of health" (WQoL), "adding a burden to your family" (BTF), "making you 
less independent" (MLI) and "unable to work or study" (UWS). Data were analyzed 
based on 232 respondents (mean [SD] age: 27.7 [15.07] years, 49.1% female). 
Health values varied significantly across 5 health states, ranging from 0.12 
(33333) to 0.97 (11111). With no significant external variables identified, EVM 
explained up to 62% of the variances in health values across 5 health states. 
The explanatory power of 4 AAs were found to be between 13% and 28% in separate 
MLR models (P < 0.05). When data were analyzed for each health state, variances 
in health values became small and explanatory power of EVM was reduced to a 
range between 8% and 23%.
CONCLUSION: EVM was useful in explaining variances of health values and 
predicting important factors. Its power to explain small variances might be 
restricted due to limitations of 7-point Likert scale to measure AAs accurately. 
With further improvement and validation of a compatible continuous scale for 
more accurate measurement, EVM is expected to explain health values to a larger 
extent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00368.x
PMID: 18387069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Public Health. 2008 May;122(5):478-86. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.08.017. Epub
 2008 Apr 2.

Changing pattern of premature mortality burden over 6 years of rapid growth of 
the economy in suburban south-west China: 1998-2003.

Cai L(1), Chongsuvivatwong V, Geater A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Information and Economics, Faculty of Public Health, 
Kunming Medical College, Kunming, China. caile002@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: This study was conducted in Kunming, the capital of Yunnan, a poor 
province in south-west China experiencing rapid economic growth. The study 
examined the short-term trend in premature mortality burden from common causes 
of death in a suburban region between 1998 and 2003.
METHODS: Years of life lost (YLL) per 1000 population and mortality rate per 
100,000 population were calculated from medical death certificates, and broken 
down by cause of death, sex and year without age weighting but with a 
discounting rate of 3%.
RESULTS: Non-communicable diseases contributed over 80% of all causes of YLL, 
with a slightly increasing trend. The combined rate for communicable, maternal, 
prenatal and nutritional deficiencies declined from 4.7 to 2.4 per 1000 
population. Remarkably, declining trends in YLL were also seen for chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, drug use and road traffic accidents, whereas 
increasing trends were seen for ischaemic heart disease (IHD) and liver cancer 
(males). The YLL rate for stroke, self-inflicted injuries, lung cancer and 
stomach cancer fluctuated over time.
CONCLUSIONS: The region should focus on further control of IHD and liver cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2007.08.017
PMCID: PMC7111663
PMID: 18387641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Mar;18(3):568-72.

Antimicrobial (BN/PE) film combined with modified atmosphere packaging extends 
the shelf life of minimally processed fresh-cut iceberg lettuce.

Kang SC(1), Kim MJ, Park IS, Choi UK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Daegu University, Kyungsan 712-714, Korea.

This study was conducted to investigate the effect of modified atmosphere 
packaging (MAP) in combination with BN/PE film on the shelf life and quality of 
fresh-cut iceberg lettuce during cold storage. The total mesophilic population 
in the sample packed in BN/PE film under MAP conditions was dramatically reduced 
in comparison with that of PE film, PE film under MAP conditions, and BN/PE 
film. The O2 concentration in the BN/PE film under MAP conditions decreased 
slightly as the storage period progressed. The coloration of the iceberg lettuce 
progressed the slowest when it was packaged in BN/PE film under MAP conditions, 
followed by BN/PE film, PE film, and PE film under MAP conditions. The shelf 
life of fresh-cut iceberg lettuce packaged in the BN/PE film under MAP 
conditions was extended by more than 2 days at 10 degrees as compared with that 
of the BN/PE film in which the extension effect was more than 2 days longer than 
that of PE, PET, and OPP films.

PMID: 18388478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Pediatr Orthop. 2008 Mar;28(2):163-8. doi: 10.1097/BPO.0b013e3181649e25.

Mobility in Hurler syndrome.

Taylor C(1), Brady P, O'Meara A, Moore D, Dowling F, Fogarty E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Our Lady's Hospital for Sick Children, 
Crumlin, Dublin 12, Ireland.

Hurler syndrome is an autosomal recessive metabolic storage disease. 
Hematopoietic stem cell transplant increases life expectancy, but the effects on 
associated musculoskeletal abnormalities remains unclear, and long-term data are 
limited. We detail the follow-up of 23 patients at a mean of 8.5 years after 
successful hematopoietic stem cell transplant. All patients underwent clinical 
examination at an annual multidisciplinary clinic. Serial radiological studies 
were reviewed to assess development and management of hip dysplasia and genu 
valgum. All patients demonstrated characteristic acetabular dysplasia and 
failure of ossification of the superolateral femoral head. Eight patients 
underwent bilateral pelvic and femoral derotation (mean age at surgery, 4.4 
years); 4 patients had pelvic osteotomy only. Mean preoperative acetabular angle 
was 34 degrees. Genu valgum of variable severity due to failure of ossification 
of the lateral aspect of the proximal tibial metaphysis was observed early, and 
6 patients underwent medial epiphyseal stapling, decreasing tibiofemoral angle 
by a mean of 8 degrees. Clinically, all patients were independently mobile, with 
restriction of internal hip rotation being the most significant clinical 
finding. Valgus knees and pronated feet were a typical finding. This cohort 
represents one of the largest available for study, and ongoing review will 
clarify the progression of musculoskeletal problems and determine the 
effectiveness of orthopaedic intervention.

DOI: 10.1097/BPO.0b013e3181649e25
PMID: 18388709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Med Care. 2008 Mar;46(3):275-86. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318158af40.

Variation in treatment preferences and care goals among older patients with 
diabetes and their physicians.

Chin MH(1), Drum ML, Jin L, Shook ME, Huang ES, Meltzer DO.

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, The University 
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. mchin@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: Older persons with diabetes are heterogeneous with respect to life 
expectancy and frailty, and new guidelines recommend individualizing care.
OBJECTIVES: (1) To describe variation in the preferences of older patients with 
diabetes regarding aggressiveness of glycemic control and avoiding diabetic 
complications. (2) To determine correlates of patient preferences and physician 
treatment goals. (3) To assess whether physicians' goals were consistent with 
their patients' preferences.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Cross-sectional surveys and chart reviews in urban academic 
clinics.
SUBJECTS: : Four hundred seventy-three patients with diabetes age 65 or older 
and 64 physicians.
MEASURES: Patient preferences (utilities on a scale from 0 to 1, 0 = death, 1 = 
perfect health) for diabetic complications and intensity of treatment, and 
physician target treatment goals and ratings of aggressiveness of approach.
RESULTS: Eighty percent of the patients were African American, 63% were women, 
average age was 73.7 +/- 5.9 years and 26% expected to live 5 years or less. 
Patient preferences/utilities showed significant variation: blindness 0.39 (SD, 
0.32), lower leg amputation 0.45 (0.34), conventional treatment 0.76 (0.27), and 
intensive insulin treatment 0.64 (0.32). Physicians' hemoglobin A1c goal was < 
or =7% in 69% of patients. Greater estimated patient life expectancy was 
consistently associated with higher patient utilities and was associated with 
physicians' willingness to use aggressive treatments. Physicians' treatment 
goals and approaches were associated with patients' utilities for treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Older patients vary greatly in their preferences regarding diabetic 
complications and treatments. Acknowledging patient preferences, along with life 
goals and prognostic data, may improve quality of treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318158af40
PMCID: PMC2659644
PMID: 18388842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


