(1)Centre of Applied and Clinical Exercise Sciences (ACES), University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. pcaserotti@health.sdu.dk

Age-related decline in muscle power predicts falls, motor impairments and 
disability. Recent guidelines suggested that training programs should be 
tailored to maximize muscle power. This study investigated the effects of 12 
weeks of explosive-type heavy-resistance training (75-80% of 1 repetition 
maximum) in old (60-65 years, TG60) and very old (80-89 years, TG80) 
community-dwelling women. Training was performed with maximal intentional 
acceleration of the training load during the concentric movement phase. Maximal 
isometric voluntary muscle strength (MVC), rapid force capacity, assessed as 
rate of force development (RFD), and impulse, maximal muscle power during a 
countermovement jump (CMJ) and during unilateral leg extension task (LEP) were 
evaluated. RFD, impulse and MVC increased by 51%, 42% and 28% in TG80, and by 
21%, 18% and 18% in TG60, respectively. CMJ jump height increased by 18% and 10% 
in TG80 and TG60, respectively, while jump peak power increased in TG60 (5%). 
Finally, LEP increased 28% in TG80 and 12% in TG60. These findings demonstrate 
that explosive-type heavy-resistance training seems to be safe and well 
tolerated in healthy women even in the eighth decade of life and elicits 
adaptive neuromuscular changes in selected physiological variables that are 
commonly associated with the risk of falls and disability in aged individuals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0838.2007.00732.x
PMID: 18248533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Apr;27(8):697-712. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2008.03632.x. Epub 2008 Jan 29.

As tests evolve and costs of cancer care rise: reappraising stool-based 
screening for colorectal neoplasia.

Parekh M(1), Fendrick AM, Ladabaum U.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 
94143-0538, USA.

BACKGROUND: Colorectal cancer screening and treatment are rapidly evolving. Aims 
To reappraise stool-based colorectal cancer screening in light of changing test 
performance characteristics, lower test cost and increasing colorectal cancer 
care costs.
METHODS: Using a Markov model, we compared faecal DNA testing every 3 years, 
annual faecal occult blood testing or immunochemical testing, and colonoscopy 
every 10 years.
RESULTS: In the base case, faecal occult blood testing and faecal immunochemical 
testing gained life-years/person and cost less than no screening. Faecal DNA 
testing version 1.1 at $300 (the current PreGen Plus test) gained 5323 
life-years/100 000 persons at $16 900/life-year gained and faecal DNA testing 
version 2 (enhanced test) gained 5795 life-years/100 000 persons at $15 
700/life-year gained vs. no screening. In the base case and most sensitivity 
analyses, faecal occult blood testing and faecal immunochemical testing were 
preferred to faecal DNA testing. Faecal DNA testing version 2 cost $100 
000/life-year gained vs. faecal immunochemical testing when per-cycle adherence 
with faecal immunochemical testing was 22%. Faecal immunochemical testing with 
excellent adherence was superior to colonoscopy every 10 years.
CONCLUSIONS: As novel biological therapies increase colorectal cancer treatment 
costs, faecal occult blood testing and faecal immunochemical testing could 
become cost-saving. The cost-effectiveness of faecal DNA testing compared with 
no screening has improved, but faecal occult blood testing and faecal 
immunochemical testing are preferred to faecal DNA testing when patient 
adherence is high. Faecal immunochemical testing may be comparable to 
colonoscopy every 10 years in persons adhering to yearly testing.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2008.03632.x
PMCID: PMC3170173
PMID: 18248653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest: Dr. Fendrick 
serves on the Scientific Advisory Board of Exact Sciences Corporation and Dr. 
Ladabaum serves as consultant for GeneNews and Epigenomics.


42. Can J Surg. 2008 Feb;51(1):23-34.

Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysms in men: a Canadian perspective using 
Monte Carlo-based estimates.

Montreuil B(1), Brophy J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maisonneauve-Rosemont Hospital, University of 
Montréal, Canada. bernard.montreuil@umontreal.ca

OBJECTIVE: Recently generated randomized screening trial data have provided good 
evidence in favour of routine screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) to 
reduce AAA-related deaths in men aged 65 years and older. We developed an 
economic model that assessed the incremental cost-utility of AAA screening to 
help decision makers judge the relevance of a national screening program in 
Canada.
METHODS: We constructed a 14 health state Markov model comparing 2 cohorts of 
65-year-old men, where the first cohort was invited to attend screening for AAA 
using ultrasonography (US) and the second cohort followed the current practice 
of opportunistic detection. Lifetime outcomes included the life-years gained, 
AAA rupture avoided, AAA-related mortality, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
and costs. Transition probabilities were derived from a systematic review of the 
literature, and a probabilistic sensitivity analysis was carried out to examine 
the effect of joint uncertainty in the variables of our analysis. The 
perspective adopted was that of the health care provider.
RESULTS: Invitations to attend screening produced an undiscounted gain in life 
expectancy of 0.049 years and a gain in discounted QALY of 0.019 for an 
estimated incremental lifetime cost of CAN$118. The estimated incremental 
cost-utility ratio was CAN$6194 per QALY gained (95% confidence interval [CI] 
1892-10 837). The numbers needed to invite to attend screening, and the numbers 
needed to screen to prevent 1 AAA-related death were 187 (95% CI 130-292) and 
137 (95% CI 85-213), respectively. The acceptability curve showed a greater than 
95% probability of the program's being cost-effective, and the model was robust 
to changes in the values of key parameters within plausible ranges.
CONCLUSION: Our results support the economic viability of a national screening 
program for men reaching 65 years of age in Canada. More clinical studies are 
needed to define the role of screening in subgroups at high risk, especially in 
the female population.

OBJECTIF: Une étude de dépistage randomisée a produit de bonnes données 
probantes en faveur du dépistage de routine de l'anévrisme de l'aorte abdominale 
(AAA) afin de réduire les décès reliés à l'AAA chez les hommes de 65 ans et 
plus. Nous avons mis au point un modèle économique pour évaluer l'augmentation 
du facteur coût–utilité du dépistage de l'AAA afin d'aider les décideurs à juger 
de la pertinence d'un programme national de dépistage au Canada.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons construit un modèle de Markov à 14 états de santé pour 
comparer deux cohortes d'hommes de 65 ans : le premier groupe a été invité à se 
soumettre à un dépistage de l'AAA par échographie (EG) et le deuxième groupe a 
suivi la pratique courante de détection opportuniste. Les résultats sur toute la 
vie ont inclus le nombre d'années de vie gagnées, la rupture évitée de l'AAA, la 
mortalité reliée à l'AAA, les années de vie pondérées par la qualité (QALY) et 
les coûts. Les probabilités de transition ont été dérivées d'une recension 
systématique des publications et on a effectué une analyse de sensibilité 
probabiliste pour déterminer l'effet de l'incertitude conjointe des variables de 
notre analyse. On a adopté le point de vue du fournisseur de soins de santé.
RÉSULTATS: Les invitations au dépistage ont produit un gain non actualisé 
d'espérance de vie de 0,049 an et un gain de QALY actualisé de 0,019, pour une 
augmentation estimative du coût pour toute la vie de 118 $CAD. L'augmentation 
estimative du ratio coût–utilité s'est établie à 6194 $CAD par QALY gagnée 
(intervalle de confiance [IC] à 95 %, 1892–10 837). Le nombre de sujets qu'il a 
fallu inviter à se soumettre au dépistage et le nombre de sujets à soumettre à 
un dépistage pour éviter un décès relié à l'AAA se sont établis à 187 (IC à 95 
%, 130–292) et 137 (IC à 95 %, 85–213), respectivement. La courbe 
d'acceptabilité a montré qu'il y avait plus de 95 % de chances que le programme 
soit rentable, et le modèle a résisté à la modification des valeurs des 
paramètres clés à l'intérieur des plages plausibles.
CONCLUSION: Nos résultats appuient la viabilité économique d'un programme 
national de dépistage chez les hommes qui atteignent 65 ans au Canada. D'autres 
études cliniques s'imposent pour définir le rôle du dépistage dans des 
sous-groupes à risque élevé, en particulier dans la population féminine.

PMCID: PMC2386296
PMID: 18248702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Semin Perinatol. 2008 Feb;32(1):35-41. doi: 10.1053/j.semperi.2007.12.008.

Cerebral palsy.

O'Shea M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. moshea@wfubmc.edu

Extreme prematurity confers about a 100-fold increase in the risk of cerebral 
palsy (CP), relative to birth at term gestation. Although CP is primarily a 
disorder of movement, many children with this disorder have other impairments 
which may affect their quality of life and life expectancy. Epidemiologic and 
clinical studies of cerebral palsy have benefited from recent efforts to develop 
greater uniformity of definition and classification. Particularly noteworthy is 
the development of the Gross Motor Function Classification System, which is a 
reliable and valid measure used with increasing frequency in observational and 
experimental studies. Also of great importance are efforts to quantify reliably 
the quality of life for children with cerebral palsy, thereby providing a target 
for medical and community interventions that aim to increase participation and 
well-being among affected children. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, the 
rate of CP actually rose, presumably as a result of increased survival of 
especially vulnerable infants who otherwise would have died. In developed 
countries over the past two decades (late 1980s to present), CP rates have been 
either stable or decreasing. Although considerable effort is being directed at 
prevention, the only perinatal interventions for which there is strong evidence 
of a beneficial effect on both mortality and the risk of CP is antenatal 
treatment of the mother with glucocorticoid.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semperi.2007.12.008
PMID: 18249238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Health Econ. 2008 May;27(3):544-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.09.006.
Epub  2007 Nov 29.

The reversal of the relation between economic growth and health progress: Sweden 
in the 19th and 20th centuries.

Tapia Granados JA(1), Ionides EL.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Labor and Industrial Relations and School of Social Work, 
University of Michigan, 1111 East Catherine Street, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2054, 
United States. jatapia@umich.edu

Health progress, as measured by the decline in mortality rates and the increase 
in life expectancy, is usually conceived as related to economic growth, 
especially in the long run. In this investigation it is shown that economic 
growth is positively associated with health progress in Sweden throughout the 
19th century. However, the relation becomes weaker as time passes and is 
completely reversed in the second half of the 20th century, when economic growth 
negatively affects health progress. The effect of the economy on health occurs 
mostly at lag 0 in the 19th century and is lagged up to 2 years in the 20th 
century. No evidence is found for economic effects on mortality at greater lags. 
These findings are shown to be robustly consistent across a variety of 
statistical procedures, including linear regression, spectral analysis, 
cross-correlation, and lag regression models. Models using inflation and 
unemployment as economic indicators reveal similar results. Evidence for reverse 
effects of health progress on economic growth is weak, and unobservable in the 
second half of the 20th century.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.09.006
PMID: 18249452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2008 May;90(2):137-47. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2007.12.004. Epub 2008 Feb 4.

Evaluation of spectral ratio measures from spontaneous MEG recordings in 
patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Poza J(1), Hornero R, Abásolo D, Fernández A, Mayo A.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Engineering Group, E.T.S. Ingenieros de Telecomunicación, 
University of Valladolid, Campus Miguel Delibes, Camino del Cementerio s/n, 
47011 Valladolid, Spain. jespoz@tel.uva.es

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent form of dementia in western 
countries. The rise in life expectancy will likely increase its prevalence, 
since ageing is the greatest known risk factor. Although an early and accurate 
identification is critical, low diagnostic accuracy is currently reached. Hence, 
the aim of the present study was to analyse the spontaneous 
magnetoencephalographic (MEG) activity from 148 channels in 20 AD patients and 
21 healthy controls to extract discriminating spectral features. Relative power 
(RP) was calculated in conventional frequency bands and several ratios were 
defined to emphasise the differences in its distribution. Both RP values and 
spectral ratios were transformed with a principal component analysis to 
summarise information with minimal loss of variability. AD patients showed a 
significant increase of RP(delta) and RP(theta), along with a decrease of 
RP(beta) and RP(gamma). The most significant differences were reached by 
spectral ratios using the beta band. Specifically, we obtained 75.0% 
sensitivity, 90.5% specificity and 82.9% accuracy (linear discriminant analysis 
with a leave-one-out cross-validation procedure), together with a p-value lower 
than 0.001 (one-way analysis of variance with age as a covariate) using the 
[RP(alpha)+RP(beta(1))+RP(beta(2))+RP(gamma)]/[RP(delta)+RP(theta)] ratio. The 
spectral ratios also showed a higher correlation with the severity of dementia 
than individual relative power measures. Our results suggest that the spectral 
ratios could be useful descriptors to help in the AD diagnosis, since they 
effectively summarise the slowing of the AD patients' MEG rhythms in individual 
indexes and correlate significantly with the severity of dementia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2007.12.004
PMID: 18249462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nat Clin Pract Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Mar;5(3):142-52. doi: 
10.1038/ncpgasthep1053. Epub 2008 Feb 5.

Treatment options for esophageal strictures.

Siersema PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, 3584 CX Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
p.d.siersema@umcutrecht.nl

Esophageal strictures are a problem commonly encountered in gastroenterological 
practice and can be caused by malignant or benign lesions. Dysphagia is the 
symptom experienced by all patients, regardless of whether their strictures are 
caused by malignant or benign lesions. The methods most frequently used for 
palliation of malignant esophageal strictures are stent placement (particularly 
in patients with an expected survival of 3 months or less) and brachytherapy (in 
patients with a life expectancy of more than 3 months). Brachytherapy has been 
shown to be beneficial in patients with an expected survival of longer than 3 
months with regard to (prolonged) dysphagia improvement, complications and 
quality of life. The mainstay of benign esophageal stricture treatment is 
dilation. Although dilation usually results in symptomatic relief, recurrent 
strictures do occur. In order to predict which types of strictures are most 
likely to recur, it is important to differentiate between esophageal strictures 
that are simple (i.e. focal, straight strictures with a diameter that allows 
endoscope passage) and those that are more complex (i.e. long (>2 cm), tortuous 
strictures with a narrow diameter). These complex strictures are considered 
refractory when they cannot be dilated to an adequate diameter. Novel treatment 
modalities for refractory strictures include temporary stent placement and 
incisional therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpgasthep1053
PMID: 18250638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Rev Med Suisse. 2008 Jan 9;4(139):61-6.

[Pediatrics].

[Article in French]

Fanconi S(1), Reinberg O, Gapany C, Meyrat BJ, Frey P, Vaudaux B, Di Bernardo S, 
Boulos T, Sekarski N, Spehrs-Ciaffi V, Jeannet PY.

Author information:
(1)Départment médico-chirurgical de pédiatrie, Service de pédiatrie, CHUV, 1011 
Lausanne. sergio.fanconi@chuv.ch

Comment in
    Rev Med Suisse. 2008 Apr 2;4(151):870.

This article summarizes the medical progress achieved in 2 frequent and 2 rare 
pathologies: 1. Cryptorchidism should be operated around 12 months of age and 
hormonal treatment abandoned in order to maintain fertility and avoid 
development of testicular tumors. 2. For the treatment of streptococcal 
pharyngitis oral cephalosporins for 4 to 5 days are equivalent to a Penicillin 
treatment of 10 days. 3. Thanks to carvedilol (a beta-blocker agent), 
levosimendan (a calcium sensibiliser) and nesiritide (an analog to the 
natriuretic peptide) a new hormonal approach to cardiac failure is possible. 4. 
Corticosteroids allow to improve quality of live and life expectancy in Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy, provided treatment starts early and a multidisciplinary 
approach is assured.

PMID: 18251218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. J Insur Med. 2007;39(3):160-6.

Mortality in co-morbidity (II)--excess death rates derived from a follow-up 
study on 10,025 subjects divided into 4 groups with or without depression and 
diabetes mellitus.

Milano AF(1), Singer RB.

Author information:
(1)Milano Life Expectancy, Inc.

BACKGROUND: Most mortality follow-up (FU) studies focus on excess mortality in a 
single risk factor or impairment. However, many persons in the general 
population with 1 important medical risk factor are likely to have co-morbidity 
in the form of other risk factors, some minor, but others that may be of major 
significance. Logically, with 2 major significant risk factors present, the 
combined excess mortality may be smaller or greater than the sum of the 
individual mortality rates, or may be nearly the same as the sum. When 2 major 
co-morbid risk factors are present, it is important to know which of these 3 
possibilities is present. In the first article of this series, we analyzed the 
results of 57 individual impairments in the Multiple Medical Impairment Study2 
(MMIS). We found that, when elevated blood pressure (EBP) was the comorbid 
impairment, the excess mortality outcomes were divided almost equally among 
these 3 possibilities. ARTICLE BY EGEDE ET AL: This informative 2005 article has 
utilized data from an 11-year FU of subjects in the 1971-1975 National Health 
and Nutrition Examination Survey, from which mean annual mortality rates per 
1000 have been presented in 4 groups of subjects: Group 1 with no depression (D) 
or diabetes mellitus (DM), Group 2 with D only, Group 3 with DM only and Group 4 
with both D and DM present. Total subjects numbered 10,025, of whom 70.2% were 
in Group 1, 22.7% in Group 2, 4.5% in Group 3, and only 2.6% in Group 4. In 
addition to mean age, proportions were given in each group for sex and race, 3 
additional demographic and 8 additional medical risk factors. Two different 
models were used to calculate hazard ratios, by the Cox proportional hazards 
method, for total mortality rates and rate for death rates due to coronary heart 
disease (CHD). The unadjusted mortality rates (q) were given for each group as 
the ratio of deaths (d) to 1000 person-years of exposure (E). In obtaining 
hazard ratios the authors used the mortality rate of Group 1 as the reference or 
expected rate (q') for adjusting the rates in the other groups to derive the 
hazard ratios in the 2 adjustment models employed. METHODOLOGY OF CURRENT 
ARTICLE: For Groups 2-4, with 1 or both of the impairments present, we have 
estimated an adjusted mortality rate, q(a), by multiplying the reference q' 
(19.1 per 1000 per year) by the appropriate decimal hazard ratio given in Table 
2 of the article. For each of the impaired groups, 2-4, the corresponding 
adjusted EDR has been derived as EDR = q(a) - q' = q(a) - 19.1. We use EDR 
values as a difference between mortality rates instead of a ratio of rates 
because EDR values when age/sex/race-adjusted are directly additive and do not 
require weighting.
RESULTS: In Model 1, with adjustment for age, sex, race and 4 other demographic 
factors, annual EDR values were 6.5, 16.8 and 48.5 per 1000, respectively, in 
Groups 2, 3 and 4. In Model 2, with all factors in Model 1 and additional 
medical risk factors, such as heart disease, hypertension and cancer, EDRs were 
reduced to 3.8, 16.8 and 28.6, respectively in the D, DM and D+DM groups.
CONCLUSION: When group mortality differences were adjusted (for other 
demographic and medical factors as well the basic factors of age, sex and race), 
EDR in Group 4 subjects, with both D and DM present exceeded the sum of EDRs in 
Group 2 (D alone) and Group 3 (DM alone) by 83% in Model 1 and by 39% in Model 
2. We conclude that the authors of this study have provided convincing evidence 
that excess mortality measured as EDR is greater in subjects with both 
depression and diabetes mellitus present than the sum of the EDRs in the groups 
when each impairment is present alone. This particular combination of 
impairments has a strong synergistic effect on excess mortality.

PMID: 18251374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Insur Med. 2007;39(3):167-73.

Pivot tables for mortality analysis, or who needs life tables anyway?

Wesley D(1), Cox HF.

Author information:
(1)Transamerica Reinsurance, 401 North Tryon Street, Suite 700, Charlotte, NC 
28202, USA. david.wesley.md@transamerica.com

Actuarial life-table analysis has long been used by life insurance medical 
directors for mortality abstraction from clinical studies. Ironically, today's 
life actuary instead uses pivot tables to analyze mortality. Pivot tables (a 
feature/function in MS Excel) collapse various dimensions of data that were 
previously arranged in an "experience study" format. Summary statistics such as 
actual deaths, actual and expected mortality (usually measured in dollars), and 
calculated results such as actual to expected ratios, are then displayed in a 
2-dimensional grid. The same analytic process, excluding the dollar focus, can 
be used for clinical mortality studies. For raw survival data, especially large 
datasets, this combination of experience study data and pivot tables has clear 
advantages over life-table analysis in both accuracy and flexibility. Using the 
SEER breast cancer data, we compare the results of life-table analysis and 
pivot-table analysis.

PMID: 18251375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Br J Clin Pharmacol. 2008 Feb;65(2):224-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2125.2007.02996.x.

The impact of prognosis without treatment on doctors' and patients' resource 
allocation decisions and its relevance to new drug recommendation processes.

Camidge DR(1), Oliver JJ, Skinner C, Attwood B, Nussey F, Jodrell D, Webb DJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh Cancer Centre, Western General Hospital, 
Crewe Road, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, UK. drcamidge@talk21.com

WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ABOUT THIS SUBJECT: The dominant health economic units 
upon which new treatment funding decisions are made are the incremental cost per 
life year gained (LYG) or the cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. 
Neither of these units modifies the amount of health gained, by the amount of 
health patients would have had if they had not been given the treatment under 
consideration, which may unfairly undervalue the treatments for poor prognosis 
conditions. How certain patients make decisions about their own treatment has 
previously been explored, but not how they, or doctors, would allocate 
hypothetical resource within a healthcare system given information on 
disease-treatment scenarios' prognoses with and without treatment.
WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: Information on prognosis without treatment is used within 
the resource allocation strategies of many doctors and most patients. 
Individuals use this information in a variety of different ways and a single 
dominant strategy for quantitative modification of health units is not apparent. 
Information on prognosis without treatment, or prognosis with standard 
treatment, is available from the control arm of randomized controlled clinical 
trials and should be used qualitatively to facilitate decision-making around the 
second inflexion point on cost per QALY/LYG acceptability curves.
AIMS: Health economic assessments increasingly contribute to funding decisions 
on new treatments. Treatments for many poor prognosis conditions perform badly 
in such assessments because of high costs and modest effects on survival. We 
aimed to determine whether underlying shortness of prognosis should also be 
considered as a modifier in such assessments.
METHODS: Two hundred and eighty-three doctors and 201 oncology patients were 
asked to allocate treatment resource between hypothetical patients with 
unspecified life-shortening diseases. The prognoses with and without treatment 
were varied such that consistent use of one of four potential allocation 
strategies could be deduced: life years gained (LYGs) - which did not 
incorporate prognosis without treatment information; percentage increase in life 
years (PILY); life expectancy with treatment (LEWT) or immediate risk of death 
(IRD).
RESULTS: Random choices were rare; 47% and 64% of doctors and patients, 
respectively, used prognosis without treatment in their strategies; while 50% 
and 32%, respectively, used pure LYG-based strategies. Ranking orders were LYG > 
PILY > IRD > LEWT (doctors) and LEWT > LYG > IRD > PILY (patients). When LYG 
information alone could not be used, 76% of doctors prioritized shorter 
prognoses, compared with 45% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Information on prognosis without treatment is used within the 
resource allocation strategies of many doctors and most patients, and should be 
considered as a qualitative modifier during the health economic assessments of 
new treatments for life-shortening diseases. A single dominant strategy 
incorporating this information for any quantitative modification of health units 
is not apparent.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2125.2007.02996.x
PMCID: PMC2291216
PMID: 18251760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Anal Biochem. 2008 Apr 1;375(1):46-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2007.12.037. Epub
2008  Jan 9.

A real-time PCR method for the quantitative analysis of RNA editing at specific 
sites.

Chen YC(1), Kao SC, Chou HC, Lin WH, Wong FH, Chow WY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, National Yang-Ming University, Shih-Pai, Taipei 
112, Taiwan.

In this study, a quantitative PCR (qPCR) method was developed to determine the 
A-to-I RNA editing frequencies at specific sites. The A-to-I RNA editing of 
nuclear transcripts exerts profound effects on the biological activities of gene 
products. RNA editing of nuclear gene transcripts have been shown to be 
developmentally regulated and tissue specific, and alternations of RNA editing 
activities have been observed under pathological conditions. Two sites of 
ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits, the Q/R site of zebrafish gria2alpha and 
the Y/C site of grik2alpha, were chosen in this study to demonstrate the 
applicability of the SYBR Green detection-based real-time PCR method to measure 
RNA editing activities during zebrafish development. The results obtained by 
qPCR were consistent with those obtained by the limited primer extension. 
However, the qPCR method has the advantages of easy handling and low cost.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2007.12.037
PMID: 18252192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. IEEE Trans Neural Netw. 1999;10(4):779-89. doi: 10.1109/72.774220.

Discrete-time backpropagation for training synaptic delay-based artificial 
neural networks.

Duro RJ(1), Reyes JS.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Ingeniería Industrial, Universidade da Coruña, Escuela 
Politécnica Superior, Mendizábal s/n, 15403 Ferrol (La Coruña), Spain.

The aim of this paper is to endow a well-known structure for processing 
time-dependent information, synaptic delay-based ANN's, with a reliable and easy 
to implement algorithm suitable for training temporal decision processes. In 
fact, we extend the backpropagation algorithm to discrete-time feedforward 
networks that include adaptable internal time delays in the synapses. The 
structure of the network is similar to the one presented by [1], that is, in 
addition to the weights modeling the transmission capabilities of the synaptic 
connections, we model their length by means of a parameter that indicates the 
delay a discrete-event suffers when going from Zthe origin neuron to the target 
neuron through a synaptic connection. Like the weights, these delays are also 
trainable, and a training algorithm can be derived that is almost as simple as 
the backpropagation algorithm, and which is really an extension of it. We 
present examples of the application of these networks and algorithm to the 
prediction of time series and to the recognition of patterns in 
electrocardiographic signals. In the first case, we employ the temporal 
reasoning characteristics of these networks for the prediction of future values 
in a benchmark example of a time series: the one governed by the Mackey-Glass 
chaotic equation. In the second case, we provide a real life example. The 
problem consists in identifying different types of beats through two levels of 
temporal processing, one relating the morphological features which make up the 
beat in time and another one that relates the positions of beats in time, that 
is, considers rhythm characteristics of the ECG signal. In order to do this, the 
network receives the signal sequentially, no windowing, segmentation, or 
thresholding are applied.

DOI: 10.1109/72.774220
PMID: 18252577


53. Ann Intern Med. 2008 Feb 5;148(3):178-85. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-148-3-200802050-00004.

Influence of alternative thresholds for initiating HIV treatment on 
quality-adjusted life expectancy: a decision model.

Braithwaite RS(1), Roberts MS, Chang CC, Goetz MB, Gibert CL, Rodriguez-Barradas 
MC, Shechter S, Schaefer A, Nucifora K, Koppenhaver R, Justice AC.

Author information:
(1)Yale University and Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System, West 
Haven, Connecticut 06516, USA. Ronald.Braithwaite@va.gov

BACKGROUND: The optimal threshold for initiating HIV treatment is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To compare different thresholds for initiating HIV treatment.
DESIGN: A validated computer simulation was used to weigh important harms from 
earlier initiation of antiretroviral therapy (toxicity, side effects, and 
resistance accumulation) against important benefits (decreased HIV-related 
mortality).
DATA SOURCES: Veterans Aging Cohort Study (5742 HIV-infected patients and 11 484 
matched uninfected controls) and published reports.
TARGET POPULATION: Individuals with newly diagnosed chronic HIV infection and 
varying viral loads (10,000, 30,000, 100,000, and 300,000 copies/mL) and ages 
(30, 40, and 50 years).
TIME HORIZON: Unlimited.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Alternative thresholds for initiating antiretroviral therapy (CD4 
counts of 200, 350, and 500 cells/mm3).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life-years and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Although the simulation was biased against 
earlier treatment initiation because it used an upper-bound assumption for 
therapy-related toxicity, earlier treatment increased life expectancy and QALYs 
at age 30 years regardless of viral load (life expectancies with CD4 initiation 
thresholds of 500, 350, and 200 cells/mm3 were 18.2 years, 17.6 years, and 17.2 
years, respectively, for a viral load of 10,000 copies/mL and 17.3 years, 15.9 
years, and 14.5 years, respectively, for a viral load of 300,000 copies/mL), and 
increased life expectancies at age 40 years if viral loads were greater than 30 
000 copies/mL (life expectancies were 12.5 years, 12.0 years, and 11.4 years, 
respectively, for a viral load of 300,000 copies/mL).
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Findings favoring early treatment were 
generally robust.
LIMITATIONS: Results favoring later treatment may not be valid. The findings may 
not be generalizable to women.
CONCLUSION: This simulation suggests that earlier initiation of combination 
antiretroviral therapy is often favored compared with current recommendations.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-148-3-200802050-00004
PMCID: PMC3124094
PMID: 18252681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Financial Conflicts of 
Interest:Consultancies: M.S. Roberts (Archimedes). Grants received: M.S. Roberts 
(National Institutes of Health).


54. Eur J Epidemiol. 2008;23(4):243-9. doi: 10.1007/s10654-008-9227-5. Epub 2008
Feb  6.

Variance estimation methods for health expectancy by relative socio-economic 
status.

Abatih E(1), Van Oyen H, Bossuyt N, Bruckers L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Statistics, University of Hasselt, Universitaire Campus Building 
D, Diepenbeek, Belgium. ena@life.ku.dk

In many studies, health expectancies (HE) by relative socio-economic status have 
been calculated but the estimation of confidence intervals and the performance 
of tests of significance for differences in HE between sub-populations have been 
impeded by lack of variance estimation methods. Also in most scenarios, the 
sampling designs of the surveys from which prevalence of ill-health conditions 
are obtained have been ignored. This paper aims at presenting variance 
estimation techniques such as the bootstrap and the delta method taking account 
of the survey design. The study suggests that using the raw survey data and the 
Delta method while accounting for the survey design, gives better estimates for 
the variance compared to the bootstrap method and therefore is a highly 
recommended method for variance estimation of HE by relative socio-economic 
status.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-008-9227-5
PMID: 18253845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Clin Exp Pharmacol Physiol. 2004 Dec;31 Suppl 2:S5-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1681.2004.04119.x.

Impact of diet on the cardiovascular risk profile of Japanese immigrants living 
in Brazil: contributions of World Health Organization CARDIAC and MONALISA 
studies.

Moriguchi EH(1), Moriguchi Y, Yamori Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Geriatrics and Gerontology, Pontifical Catholic University of 
Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Brazil. emoriguchi@pucrs.br

1. Japanese immigrants from Okinawa living in Brazil have a higher mortality 
from cardiovascular diseases and have their mean life expectancy shortened 
compared with their counterparts living in Japan. 2. A cross-sectional study 
comparing Okinawans living in Okinawa (OO) and Okinawan immigrants living in 
Brazil (OB) was designed to characterize the dietary factors that could 
interfere with the profile of cardiovascular risk factors and with this 
reduction on the life expectancy when Okinawans emigrate to Brazil. 3. In total, 
234 OO and 160 OB (aged 45-59 years) were recruited to the present study to 
undergo medical and dietary history, blood pressure measurement, 
electrocardiograph (ECG), blood tests and 24 h food/urine collection. 4. In the 
present study, OO subjects presented with 37% less obesity and 50% less systemic 
hypertension than OB. The OB subjects used threefold more antihypertensive 
medication than OO. Meat intake was 34% higher in OB than OO, whereas fish 
intake was sevenfold higher in OO than OB. Serum potassium levels were 10% 
higher in OO than OB. Urinary taurine (an index of seafood intake) was 43% 
higher in OO than OB. Urinary isoflavones (an index of the intake of soy 
products) were significantly lower in OB than in OO. Of acid (20:5) and 
docosahexaenoic acid (22:6) were two- and threefold higher in OO than OB, 
respectively. 5. The rate of ischaemic ECG changes in OO subjects was only 50% 
of that of OB subjects. 6. There were no differences in the smoking rate between 
OO and OB subjects. 7. The results of the present study suggest that coronary 
risk factors and cardiovascular health are not only regulated by genetic 
factors, but that the impact of lifestyle (mainly diet) can be large enough to 
modulate the expression of genes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1681.2004.04119.x
PMID: 18254187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. PLoS Med. 2008 Feb;5(2):e29. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050029.

Lifetime medical costs of obesity: prevention no cure for increasing health 
expenditure.

van Baal PH(1), Polder JJ, de Wit GA, Hoogenveen RT, Feenstra TL, Boshuizen HC, 
Engelfriet PM, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Centre for 
Prevention and Health Services Research, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
pieter.van.baal@rivm.nl

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2008 Feb;5(2):e37.

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a major cause of morbidity and mortality and is 
associated with high medical expenditures. It has been suggested that obesity 
prevention could result in cost savings. The objective of this study was to 
estimate the annual and lifetime medical costs attributable to obesity, to 
compare those to similar costs attributable to smoking, and to discuss the 
implications for prevention.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: With a simulation model, lifetime health-care costs were 
estimated for a cohort of obese people aged 20 y at baseline. To assess the 
impact of obesity, comparisons were made with similar cohorts of smokers and 
"healthy-living" persons (defined as nonsmokers with a body mass index between 
18.5 and 25). Except for relative risk values, all input parameters of the 
simulation model were based on data from The Netherlands. In sensitivity 
analyses the effects of epidemiologic parameters and cost definitions were 
assessed. Until age 56 y, annual health expenditure was highest for obese 
people. At older ages, smokers incurred higher costs. Because of differences in 
life expectancy, however, lifetime health expenditure was highest among 
healthy-living people and lowest for smokers. Obese individuals held an 
intermediate position. Alternative values of epidemiologic parameters and cost 
definitions did not alter these conclusions.
CONCLUSIONS: Although effective obesity prevention leads to a decrease in costs 
of obesity-related diseases, this decrease is offset by cost increases due to 
diseases unrelated to obesity in life-years gained. Obesity prevention may be an 
important and cost-effective way of improving public health, but it is not a 
cure for increasing health expenditures.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050029
PMCID: PMC2225430
PMID: 18254654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exist.


57. Virus Res. 2008 Jun;134(1-2):4-18. doi: 10.1016/j.virusres.2007.12.009. Epub 
2008 Feb 6.

HIV-1 reverse transcription initiation: a potential target for novel antivirals?

Abbink TE(1), Berkhout B.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Virology, Department of Medical Microbiology, 
Centre for Infection and Immunity Amsterdam (CINIMA), Academic Medical Centre of 
the University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 15, 1105 AZ, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Reverse transcription is an essential step in the retroviral life cycle, as it 
converts the genomic RNA into DNA. In this review, we describe recent 
developments concerning the initiation step of this complex, multi-step 
reaction. During initiation of reverse transcription, a cellular tRNA primer is 
placed onto a complementary sequence in the viral genome, called the primer 
binding site or PBS. The viral enzyme reverse transcriptase (RT) recognizes this 
RNA-RNA complex, and catalyzes the extension of the 3' end of the tRNA primer, 
with the viral RNA (vRNA) acting as template. The initiation step is highly 
specific and most retroviruses are restricted to the use of the cognate, 
self-tRNA primer. Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) uses the cellular 
tRNA(Lys,3) molecule as primer for reverse transcription. No spontaneous 
switches in tRNA usage by HIV-1 or other retroviruses have been described and 
attempts to change the identity of the tRNA primer were unsuccessful in the 
past. These observations indicate that the virus strongly prefers the 
self-primer, suggesting that a very specific mechanism for primer selection must 
exist. Indeed, tRNA primers are selectively packaged into virus particles, are 
specifically recognized by RT and are placed onto the viral RNA genome via base 
pairing to the PBS and other sequence motifs, thus rendering a specific 
initiation complex. Analysis of this critical step in the viral life cycle may 
result in the discovery of novel antiviral drugs in the battle against HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virusres.2007.12.009
PMID: 18255184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. IEEE Trans Image Process. 2001;10(10):1541-51. doi: 10.1109/83.951539.

Three-dimensional modeling from two-dimensional video.

Aguiar PQ(1), Moura JF.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Electr. and Comput. Eng., Carnegie Mellon Univ., Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890, USA. aguiar@ece.cmu.edu

This paper presents the surface-based factorization method to recover 
three-dimensional (3-D) structure, i.e., the 3-D shape and 3-D motion, of a 
rigid object from a two-dimensional (2-D) video sequence. The main ingredients 
of our approach are as follows: 1) we describe the unknown shape of the 3-D 
rigid object by polynomial patches; 2) projections of these patches in the image 
plane move according to parametric 2-D motion models; 3) we recover the 
parameters describing the 3-D shape and 3-D motion from the 2-D motion 
parameters by factorizing a matrix that is rank 1 in a noiseless situation. Our 
method is simultaneously an extension and a simplification of the original 
factorization method of Tomasi and Kanade (1992). We track regions where the 2-D 
motion in the image plane is described by a single set of parameters, avoiding 
the need to track a large number of pointwise features, in general, a difficult 
task. Then our method estimates the parameters describing the 3-D structure by 
factoring a rank 1 matrix, not rank 3 as in Tomasi and Kanade. This allows the 
use of fast iterative algorithms to compute the 3-D structure that best fits the 
data. Experimental results with real-life video sequences illustrate the good 
performance of our approach.

DOI: 10.1109/83.951539
PMID: 18255497


59. J Virol. 2008 Apr;82(8):3894-902. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01818-07. Epub 2008 Feb 6.

The E6 oncoproteins from human betapapillomaviruses differentially activate 
telomerase through an E6AP-dependent mechanism and prolong the lifespan of 
primary keratinocytes.

Bedard KM(1), Underbrink MP, Howie HL, Galloway DA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Biology, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 1100 
Fairview Avenue North, C1-015, Box 19024, Seattle, WA 98109-1024, USA.

Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) belonging to the Betapapillomavirus genus have 
recently been implicated in squamous cell carcinomas of the skin, though the 
mechanisms by which they initiate carcinogenesis are unclear. We show that human 
foreskin keratinocytes (HFKs) expressing several betapapillomavirus E6 (beta-E6) 
proteins display life span extension, but not to the extent seen in HFKs 
expressing HPV type 16 E6 (16E6). Additionally, we demonstrate that beta-E6 
proteins can differentially activate telomerase. HFKs expressing 38E6 exhibit 
significant telomerase activity but to a lesser degree than that observed with 
16E6; however, other beta-E6 proteins, including 5E6, 8E6, 20E6, and 22E6, 
exhibit low or background levels of telomerase activity. Utilizing glutathione 
S-transferase pull-down and coimmunoprecipitation experiments, the beta-E6 
proteins were shown to interact with the cellular proteins E6-associated protein 
(E6AP) and NFX1-91, two proteins known to be important for telomerase activation 
by 16E6. Interestingly, the relative strength of the interaction between E6 and 
E6AP or NFX1-91 was proportionate to the activation of telomerase by each 
beta-E6 protein. To address the requirement for E6AP in telomerase activation by 
beta-E6 proteins, we utilized a shRNA to knock down endogenous levels of E6AP. 
Lysates with decreased levels of E6AP showed a reduced ability to activate 
telomerase, suggesting that E6AP is a necessary component. These data suggest 
that complex formation between E6, E6AP, and NFX1-91 is a critical step in 
mediating telomerase activation, which may be one contributing factor to 
cellular life span extension during human betapapillomavirus infection.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01818-07
PMCID: PMC2292992
PMID: 18256157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):644-7. doi: 10.1038/451644a.

A systematic look at an old problem.

Kirkwood TB(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Integrated Systems Biology of Ageing and Nutrition, Institute for 
Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK. 
tom.kirkwood@ncl.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1038/451644a
PMID: 18256658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Rejuvenation Res. 2008 Feb;11(1):83-96. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0586.

Lifelong alpha-tocopherol supplementation increases the median life span of 
C57BL/6 mice in the cold but has only minor effects on oxidative damage.

Selman C(1), McLaren JS, Mayer C, Duncan JS, Collins AR, Duthie GG, Redman P, 
Speakman JR.

Author information:
(1)Integrative Physiology, School of Biological Sciences, University of 
Aberdeen, Aberdeen, United Kingdom. c.selman@abdn.ac.uk

The effects of dietary antioxidant supplementation on oxidative stress and life 
span are confused. We maintained C57BL/6 mice at 7 +/- 2 degrees C and 
supplemented their diet with alpha-tocopherol from 4 months of age. 
Supplementation significantly increased (p = 0.042) median life span by 15% (785 
days, n = 44) relative to unsupplemented controls (682 days, n = 43) and also 
increased maximum life span (oldest 10%, p = 0.028). No sex or sex by treatment 
interaction effects were observed on life span, with treatment having no effect 
on resting or daily metabolic rate. Lymphocyte and hepatocyte oxidative DNA 
damage and hepatic lipid peroxidation were unaffected by supplementation, but 
hepatic oxidative DNA damage increased with age. Using a cDNA macroarray, genes 
associated with xenobiotic metabolism were significantly upregulated in the 
livers of female mice at 6 months of age (2 months supplementation). At 22 
months of age (18 months supplementation) this response had largely abated, but 
various genes linked to the p21 signaling pathway were upregulated at this time. 
We suggest that alpha-tocopherol may initially be metabolized as a xenobiotic, 
potentially explaining why previous studies observe a life span extension 
generally when lifelong supplementation is initiated early in life. The absence 
of any significant effect on oxidative damage suggests that the life span 
extension observed was not mediated via any antioxidant properties of 
alpha-tocopherol. We propose that the life span extension observed following 
alpha-tocopherol supplementation may be mediated via upregulation of cytochrome 
p450 genes after 2 months of supplementation and/or upregulation of p21 
signaling genes after 18 months of supplementation. However, these signaling 
pathways now require further investigation to establish their exact role in life 
span extension following alpha-tocopherol supplementation.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0586
PMID: 18257658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Child Care Health Dev. 2008 Mar;34(2):185-93. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2214.2007.00782.x.

An exploratory study of parents' approaches to health promotion in families of 
adolescents with physical disabilities.

Antle BJ(1), Mills W, Steele C, Kalnins I, Rossen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Work, The Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of children with physical disabilities now 
extends into adulthood and has been accompanied by the transfer of 
rehabilitation services from institutions to the home. Thus, families must 
increasingly partner with health service providers to promote their child's 
health and prevent the development of secondary conditions that may contribute 
to heart disease, stroke, respiratory diseases, low endurance and emotional 
difficulties.
AIM: To investigate within a family context the health promotion efforts of 
parents on behalf of a child with a physical disability.
METHOD: The Long Interview Method was used to interview 15 families (11 
two-parent and 4 single-parent) having a child 11-16 years of age with a 
physical disability including cerebral palsy (7), spina bifida (3), muscular 
dystrophy (3) and other conditions (2).
RESULTS: Parents' health promotion efforts were characterized by three main 
themes. First, parents emphasized traditional lifestyle health behaviours 
including nutrition, physical activity, tobacco, alcohol and drug use, and 
personal hygiene. Second, parents tried to foster their adolescent's social life 
and friendships. They expressed particular concern about how, and if, their 
child would develop a sense of purpose and have a productive future. Third, 
parents invested a great deal of effort into observing daily routines, making 
arrangements for their child's social inclusion and supporting their child in a 
way that balanced independence with safety and energy conservation.
CONCLUSIONS: Parents recognize that their child with a physical disability faces 
greater obstacles, and work hard at health promotion. Healthcare workers need to 
work with parents to: (1) provide information about specific lifestyle health 
behaviours including nutrition, physical activity and sexuality; (2) advocate 
for resources to foster social inclusion; and (3) discuss family strategies that 
balance parental involvement with their child's need for independence and energy 
conservation for daily activities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2214.2007.00782.x
PMID: 18257791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Emerg Infect Dis. 2008 Feb;14(2):244-51. doi: 10.3201/eid1402.070499.

Cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination in the United States.

Chesson HW(1), Ekwueme DU, Saraiya M, Markowitz LE.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
hbc7@cdc.gov

We describe a simplified model, based on the current economic and health effects 
of human papillomavirus (HPV), to estimate the cost-effectiveness of HPV 
vaccination of 12-year-old girls in the United States. Under base-case parameter 
values, the estimated cost per quality-adjusted life year gained by vaccination 
in the context of current cervical cancer screening practices in the United 
States ranged from $3,906 to $14,723 (2005 US dollars), depending on factors 
such as whether herd immunity effects were assumed; the types of HPV targeted by 
the vaccine; and whether the benefits of preventing anal, vaginal, vulvar, and 
oropharyngeal cancers were included. The results of our simplified model were 
consistent with published studies based on more complex models when key 
assumptions were similar. This consistency is reassuring because models of 
varying complexity will be essential tools for policy makers in the development 
of optimal HPV vaccination strategies.

DOI: 10.3201/eid1402.070499
PMCID: PMC2600200
PMID: 18258117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Emerg Infect Dis. 2008 Feb;14(2):267-74. doi: 10.3201/eid1402.070478.

Cost-effectiveness of antiviral stockpiling and near-patient testing for 
potential influenza pandemic.

Siddiqui MR(1), Edmunds WJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Protection Agency, London, UK. ruby.siddiqui@hpa.org.uk

A decision analytical model was developed to investigate the cost-effectiveness 
of stockpiling antiviral (AV) drugs for a potential influenza pandemic in the 
United Kingdom and the possible role of near-patient testing in conserving AV 
drug stocks. Under base-case assumptions (including a fixed stockpile that was 
smaller than the clinical attack rate), the treat-only option (treating all 
symptomatic patients with AV drugs) would be considered cost-effective ( 
pound1,900- pound13,700 per quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained, depending 
on the fatality scenario), compared with no intervention (nonintervention but 
management of cases as they arise). The test-treat option (testing all 
symptomatic patients but treating those with positive tests results only) would 
result in moderate gains in QALYs over the treat-only option but at relatively 
large additional costs. Stockpiling sufficient AV drugs (but not near-patient 
tests) to treat all patients with clinical cases would be cost-effective, 
provided AV drugs are effective at preventing deaths from pandemic influenza.

DOI: 10.3201/eid1402.070478
PMCID: PMC2600182
PMID: 18258120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Mol Biol. 2008 Mar 21;377(2):501-11. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2008.01.029. Epub
2008  Jan 16.

Structure of the extracellular glutathione S-transferase OvGST1 from the human 
pathogenic parasite Onchocerca volvulus.

Perbandt M(1), Höppner J, Burmeister C, Lüersen K, Betzel C, Liebau E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Center for Structural and Cell Biology, University 
