PMID: 18213951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Masui. 2008 Jan;57(1):39-50.

[A mechanism based understanding of cancer pain and development of novel 
strategies of cancer pain treatment].

[Article in Japanese]

Kawamata T(1), Namiki A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Sapporo Medical University School of Medicine, 
Sapporo.

As advances in cancer detection and treatment have increased the life expectancy 
of cancer patients, more attention to improving patient quality of life is 
needed. The World Health Organization (WHO) has proposed a structured approach 
to drug selection for cancer pain, known as the "WHO analgesic ladder". This 
approach is capable of providing adequate relief to 70-90% of patients. However, 
the remaining 10-30% of patients are difficult to treat. The development of 
optimal analgesics for cancer pain has been hampered by the lack of 
understanding of basic mechanisms that contribute to cancer pain, which is due 
in part to the lack of appropriate animal models. Recently, preclinical models 
of bone cancer pain have been developed. These models have begun to provide 
insight into the mechanisms by which tumors cause pain and how cancer 
pain-related sensory information is processed. Once the mechanism by which 
cancer induces pain is elucidated, this would lead to the identification of 
molecular targets and the development of mechanism based therapies, which 
improve the quality of life of all those who suffer from cancer pain.

PMID: 18214004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Pflege. 2007 Oct;20(5):268-77. doi: 10.1024/1012-5302.20.5.268.

[Interventions to enhance adherence of patients with HIV on ART: a literature 
review].

[Article in German]

Bigler S(1), Nicca D, Spirig R.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Klinische Pflegewissenschaft, Universit√§tsspital Basel, Schweiz. 
Sabine.Bigler@stud.unibas.ch

The introduction of potent antiretroviral therapy led to a reduction of 
mortality and morbidity associated with HIV in industrial countries. HIV 
infection has changed from a lethal disease to a chronic illness that can be 
treated effectively. It can be assumed, that people who receive correct 
treatment now have a normal life expectancy. However, one of the most crucial 
predictors to ensure the effectiveness of ART is a nearly perfect adherence to 
the medication regime. This literature review summarizes the evidence resulting 
from randomised controlled trials which were conducted to enhance medication 
adherence to antiretroviral therapy. It shows that effective programs need to 
combine several methods. Generalized short-term interventions are easier to be 
tested by randomized controlled trials. However, for nursing guidelines we 
suggest long-term programs which are tailored to the patient's needs.

DOI: 10.1024/1012-5302.20.5.268
PMID: 18214218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Eur Spine J. 2008 Apr;17(4):600-9. doi: 10.1007/s00586-008-0599-8. Epub 2008
Jan  24.

En bloc spondylectomy in malignant tumors of the spine.

Liljenqvist U(1), Lerner T, Halm H, Buerger H, Gosheger G, Winkelmann W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Spine Surgery, St. Franziskus Hospital Muenster, 
Hohenzollernring 72, 48145, Muenster, Germany. ulf.liljenqvist@sfh-muenster.de

En bloc spondylectomy is a technique that enables wide or marginal resection of 
malignant lesions of the spine. Both all posterior techniques as well as 
combined approaches are reported. Aim of the present study was to analyse the 
results of 21 patients with malignant lesions of the spine, all treated with en 
bloc excision in a combined posteroanterior (n = 19) or all posterior approach 
(n = 2). Twenty-one consecutive patients, operated between 1997 and 2005, were 
included into this retrospective study. Thirteen patients had primary malignant 
lesions, eight patients had solitary metastases, all located in the 
thoracolumbar spine. There were 16 single level, three two-level, one 
three-level and one four-level spondylectomy. The patients were followed 
clinically and radiographically (including CT studies) with an average follow-up 
of 4 years. Out of 11 patients with primary Ewing or osteosarcoma seven patients 
are alive without any evidence of disease. One patient died after 5 years from 
other causes and three are alive with evidence of disease. Latter had either a 
poor histologic response to the preoperative chemotherapy (n = 2) or an 
intralesional resection (n = 1). All three patients with solitary spinal 
metastases of Ewing or osteosarcoma died of the disease. Five patients with 
solitary metastases of mainly hypernephroma are alive. In total, six resections 
were intralesional, mainly due to large intraspinal tumor masses, with two 
patients having had previous surgery. In the remaining cases, wide (n = 10) or 
marginal (n = 5) resection was accomplished. There were one pseudarthrosis 
requiring extension of the fusion and two cases with local recurrences and 
repeated excisional surgery. At follow-up CT studies, all cages were fused. 
Health related quality of life analysis (SF-36) revealed only slightly decreased 
physical component and normal mental component scores compared to normals in 
those patients with no evidence of disease. En bloc spondylectomy enables wide 
or marginal resection of malignant lesions of the spine in most cases with 
acceptable morbidity. Intralesional resection, poor histologic response, and 
solitary spinal metastases of Ewing and osteosarcoma are associated with a poor 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-008-0599-8
PMCID: PMC2295282
PMID: 18214553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Gen Intern Med. 2008 May;23(5):672-7. doi: 10.1007/s11606-008-0509-0. Epub
 2008 Jan 24.

Reducing disparities downstream: prospects and challenges.

Franks P(1), Fiscella K.

Author information:
(1)Center for Healthcare Policy and Research, Department of Family and Community 
Medicine, University of California at Davis, Sacramento, CA, USA. 
pfranks@ucdavis.edu

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2008 May;23(5):706-8.

Addressing upstream or fundamental causes (such as poverty, limited education, 
and compromised healthcare access) is essential to reduce healthcare 
disparities. But such approaches are not sufficient, and downstream 
interventions, addressing the consequences of those fundamental causes within 
the context of any existing health system, are also necessary. We present a 
definition of healthcare disparities and two key principles (that healthcare is 
a social good and disparities in outcomes are a quality problem) that together 
provide a framework for addressing disparities downstream. Adapting the chronic 
care model, we examine a hierarchy of three domains for interventions (health 
system, provider-patient interactions, and clinical decision making) to reduce 
disparities downstream and discuss challenges to implementing the necessary 
changes.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-008-0509-0
PMCID: PMC2324139
PMID: 18214626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Am Heart J. 2008 Feb;155(2):324-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.08.036.

Life expectancy after an index hospitalization for patients with heart failure: 
a population-based study.

Ko DT(1), Alter DA, Austin PC, You JJ, Lee DS, Qiu F, Stukel TA, Tu JV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Schulich Heart Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. dennis.ko@ices.on.ca

Comment in
    Am Heart J. 2008 Feb;155(2):195-6.

BACKGROUND: An understanding of the life expectancy of patients with heart 
failure (HF) may assist in difficult treatment decisions such as placement of an 
implantable cardioverter-defibrillator or initiation of end-of-life care. 
However, previous studies have focused on predicting shorter-term mortality and 
limited data currently exist to predict expected survival among hospitalized 
patients with HF.
METHODS: We studied 9943 patients who were newly hospitalized with HF between 
1999 and 2001 in Ontario, Canada. Median survival was calculated using survival 
analysis and stratified by baseline characteristics and the EFFECT HF risk 
score. These analyses were repeated for the 1467 patients who had left 
ventricular ejection fraction of < or = 30%.
RESULTS: The average age of our HF cohort was 75.8 years and 50.4% of the 
patients were female. After a median follow-up of 6 years, hospitalized patients 
with HF had a 5-year mortality rate of 68.7% and a median survival of 2.4 years. 
Mortality varied substantially across risk groups such that median survival was 
only 8 months for patients in the high-risk group and only 3 months in the very 
high risk group. Similarly, among patients with depressed left ventricular 
ejection fraction, median survival was only 6 and 3 months in the high- and very 
high risk groups, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Prognostic estimations using median survival may improve the 
ability of physicians to identify subgroups of patients with HF who have limited 
life expectancy. This information may assist in communicating prognostic 
information and guiding difficult treatment decisions among hospitalized 
patients with HF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.08.036
PMID: 18215604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am Heart J. 2008 Feb;155(2):332-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.10.001. Epub 2007
Nov  19.

Heart failure disease management programs: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Chan DC(1), Heidenreich PA, Weinstein MC, Fonarow GC.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. dcchan@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) disease management programs have shown impressive 
reductions in hospitalizations and mortality, but in studies limited to short 
time frames and high-risk patient populations. Current guidelines thus only 
recommend disease management targeted to high-risk patients with HF.
METHODS: This study applied a new technique to infer the degree to which 
clinical trials have targeted patients by risk based on observed rates of 
hospitalization and death. A Markov model was used to assess the incremental 
life expectancy and cost of providing disease management for high-risk to 
low-risk patients. Sensitivity analyses of various long-term scenarios and of 
reduced effectiveness in low-risk patients were also considered.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of extending coverage to all 
patients was $9700 per life-year gained in the base case. In aggregate, 
universal coverage almost quadrupled life-years saved as compared to coverage of 
only the highest quintile of risk. A worst case analysis with simultaneous 
conservative assumptions yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$110,000 per life-year gained. In a probabilistic sensitivity analysis, 99.74% 
of possible incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were <$50,000 per life-year 
gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart failure disease management programs are likely cost-effective 
in the long-term along the whole spectrum of patient risk. Health gains could be 
extended by enrolling a broader group of patients with HF in disease management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2007.10.001
PMID: 18215605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Adv Med Sci. 2007;52:232-9.

Counteraction against obesity--is it possible?

Jarosz M(1), Rychlik E, Respondek W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dietetics and Nutrition in Hospitals with Clinic of Metabolic 
Diseases and Gastroenterology, National Food and Nutrition Institute, Warsaw, 
Poland. jarosz@izz.waw.pl

The obesity epidemic is one of the most serious public health problems across 
many countries. In Poland more than half of the adult population has excessive 
body weight, while approx. 20% are obese. 15-20% of children and adolescents 
suffer from excessive body weight, while 4% of them are obese. Moreover, the 
number of overweight or obese children is growing alarmingly. Obesity can lead 
to many serious health consequences. Though the most serious disorders are 
cardiovascular diseases, diabetes type 2 and some cancers. In the nearest future 
diseases related to obesity will probably become the main cause of death in many 
countries. This may lead to shorter average life expectancy. The treatment costs 
of obesity and related diseases are constantly increasing. The most important 
preventive measure aiming at curbing the effects of obesity involves lifestyle 
change, including a change in diet and physical activity. The best results 
should be obtained by multifaceted programmes, which cover activities aiming at 
the improvement of both diet and physical activity. Due to the spread of the 
obesity epidemic, the countries of WHO European Region signed the European 
Charter on Counteracting Obesity, in which they declared their commitment to 
combat obesity. Activities aiming at combating obesity in Poland should be 
closely connected with the implementation of the National Programme for the 
Prevention of Overweight, Obesity and NonCommunicable Diseases through Diet and 
Improved Physical Activity, which will be implemented in 2007-2016.

PMID: 18217424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Eur J Neurol. 2008 Feb;15(2):123-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2007.02019.x.

Mortality in multiple sclerosis: a review.

Ragonese P(1), Aridon P, Salemi G, D'Amelio M, Savettieri G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento Universitario di Neuroscienze Cliniche, Universit√† di Palermo, 
Palermo, Italy.

This work was undertaken to evaluate studies on mortality caused by multiple 
sclerosis (MS), to evaluate if useful inferences can be drawn from survival 
studies that can be applied to clinical practice. A literature search was 
carried out to find epidemiological studies on MS prognosis, survival, mortality 
and causes of death relevant to our aim. The World Health Organization (WHO) 
reports on worldwide cause-specific mortality were also considered. Studies were 
evaluated according to the duration of the follow-up study, the year of 
publication and the methodology used. We evaluated MS survival from a 
methodological point of view and considered if time trends could be drawn from 
study results. We conclude that mortality is only slightly higher in MS patients 
when compared with that in the general population. Mortality is higher 
particularly for older patients and those with longer disease duration.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2007.02019.x
PMID: 18217882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2008 Apr;6(4):273-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1610-0387.2008.06493.x. Epub 2008 Jan 21.

The aging male--diagnosis and therapy of late-onset hypogonadism.

[Article in English, German]

Schreiber G(1), Ziemer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, University Clinic of Jena, 
Friedrich Schiller University, Jena, Germany. 
gerhard.schreiber@derma.uni-jena.de

Managing the clinical features of hormone insufficiency in aging men is an 
important field of activity for dermatologists and in particular for 
dermatologists specialized in andrology. Potential consequences of 
age-associated decrease in plasma testosterone levels include long-term changes 
in diverse organ systems including changes of bone architecture, body 
composition, muscular strength, cognitive functions, and mood as well as 
negative effects on skin and hair. Indications and contraindications for a 
hormone replacement therapy as well as therapy monitoring are well-defined. 
Replacement of testosterone in the case of late-onset hypogonadism is not a 
standardized therapy. Previous studies suggest that testosterone replacement 
therapy has positive clinical effects. Dermatologic effects of testosterone 
replacement therapy have not yet been investigated. Further research is required 
to identify potential benefits and risks of hormone replacement therapy in aging 
men.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1610-0387.2008.06493.x
PMID: 18218041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2008 Sep;10(3):128-39. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2007.00073.x. Epub 2008 Jan 24.

Laser-welded titanium frameworks supported by implants in the partially 
edentulous mandible: a 10-year comparative follow-up study.

Ortorp A(1), Jemt T.

Author information:
(1)The Br√•nemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service, G√∂teborg, Sweden. 
anders.ortorp@vgregion.se

BACKGROUND: Comparative long-term knowledge of different framework materials in 
the partially edentulous implant patient is not available.
PURPOSE: To report and compare 10-year data on free-standing implant-supported 
partial prostheses with laser-welded titanium (test) and conventional gold alloy 
(control) frameworks.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Altogether, 52 partially edentulous patients were 
consecutively provided with laser-welded prostheses (n = 60) in the partially 
edentulous lower jaw (test group). A control group of 52 randomly selected 
patients with gold alloy castings (n = 60) was used for comparison. Clinical and 
radiographic 10-year data were retrospectively collected and evaluated for both 
groups.
RESULTS: The overall 10-year implant cumulative survival rate (CSR) was 93.0% 
(loaded implants, 96.4%), with a 10-year implant CSR of 91.5 and 94.7% for test 
and control implants, respectively (p > .05). Out of a total of 22 lost 
implants, 17 implants (77.3%) were shorter than 10 mm. The overall 10-year 
prosthesis CSR was 93.7%, with a corresponding 10-year CSR of 88.4 and 100% for 
test and control groups, respectively (p < .05). Average 10-year bone loss was 
0.46 mm (SD 0.47) and 0.69 mm (SD 0.53) for the test and control groups (p < 
.001), respectively. Only 1% of the implants had >3 mm accumulated bone loss 
after 10 years. Altogether, 10 of the prostheses in both groups had implant 
component mechanical problems (8.3%). None of the frameworks or implants 
fractured, but more fractures of porcelain veneers were observed in the test 
group (p < .05).
CONCLUSION: The protocol of implant treatment in the partially edentulous jaw 
functioned well during 10 years, although prosthodontic maintenance was 
required. However, laser-welded titanium frameworks presented more problems as 
compared with gold alloy frameworks. More loaded implants were lost (p < .05), 
and higher incidence of porcelain chipping was noted in the test group (p < 
.05). However, bone loss was on an average lower for the test group during the 
10 years of follow-up (p < .001).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2007.00073.x
PMID: 18218053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2008 Winter;24(1):10-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462307080026.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the introduction of a quadrivalent human 
papillomavirus vaccine in France.

Bergeron C(1), Largeron N, McAllister R, Mathevet P, Remy V.

Author information:
(1)Director, Pathology and Cytology, Laboratoire Pasteur Cerba, 95066 Cergy 
Pontoise, France. Bergeron@pasteur-cerba.com

OBJECTIVES: A vaccine to prevent diseases due to human papillomavirus (HPV) 
types 6, 11, 16, and 18 is now available in France. The objective of this study 
was to assess the health and economic impact in France of implementing a 
quadrivalent HPV vaccine alongside existing screening practices versus screening 
alone.
METHODS: A Markov model of the natural history of HPV infection incorporating 
screening and vaccination, was adapted to the French context. A vaccine that 
would prevent 100 percent of HPV 6, 11, 16, and 18-associated diseases, with 
lifetime duration and 80 percent coverage, given to girls at age 14 in 
conjunction with current screening was compared with screening alone. Results 
were analyzed from both a direct healthcare cost perspective (DCP) and a 
third-party payer perspective (TPP). Indirect costs such as productivity loss 
were not taken into account in this analysis.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per life-year gained from vaccination was 
euro12,429 (TPP) and euro20,455 (DCP). The incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) for the introduction of HPV vaccination alongside the French 
cervical cancer screening program was euro8,408 (TPP) and euro13,809 (DCP). 
Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that cost-effectiveness was stable, but was 
most sensitive to the discount rate used for costs and benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the commonly accepted threshold of euro50,000 per QALY, 
these analyses support the fact that adding a quadrivalent HPV vaccine to the 
current screening program in France is a cost-effective strategy for reducing 
the burden of cervical cancer, precancerous lesions, and genital warts caused by 
HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462307080026
PMID: 18218164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2008 Winter;24(1):87-95. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462307080117.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of Helicobacter pylori screening in prevention of 
gastric cancer in Chinese.

Xie F(1), Luo N, Blackhouse G, Goeree R, Lee HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. fengxie@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the costs and effectiveness 
associated with no screening, Helicobacter pylori serology screening, and the 
13C-urea breath test (UBT) for gastric cancer in the Chinese population.
METHODS: A Markov model simulation was carried out in Singaporean Chinese at 40 
years of age (n = 478,500) from the perspective of public healthcare providers. 
The main outcome measures were costs, number of gastric cancer cases prevented, 
life-years saved, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained from the screening 
age to death, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), which were 
compared among the three strategies. The uncertainty surrounding ICERs was 
addressed by scenario analyses and probabilistic sensitivity analysis using 
Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: The ICER of serology screening versus no screening was $25,881 per QALY 
gained (95 percent confidence interval (95 percent CI), $5,700 to $120,000). The 
ICER of UBT versus no screening was $53,602 per QALY gained (95 percent CI, 
$16,000 to $230,000). ICER of UBT versus serology screening was $470,000 per 
QALY gained, for which almost all random samples of the ICERs distributed above 
$50,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: It cannot be confidently concluded that either H pylori screening 
was a cost-effective strategy compared with no screening in all Chinese at the 
age of 40 years. Nevertheless, serology screening has demonstrated much more 
potential to be a cost-effective strategy, especially in the population with 
higher gastric cancer prevalence.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462307080117
PMID: 18218173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. J Formos Med Assoc. 2008 Jan;107(1):54-63. doi:
10.1016/S0929-6646(08)60008-X.

Estimation of the financial burden to the National Health Insurance for patients 
with major cancers in Taiwan.

Chu PC(1), Hwang JS, Wang JD, Chang YY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Almost all countries that have national health insurance 
schemes face financial challenges. A better understanding of the financial 
burden that cancer places on Taiwan's National Health Insurance (NHI) is 
important for helping policy makers to plan under scarce healthcare resources. 
This study attempts to estimate lifetime health expenditure for patients with 17 
types of major cancers.
METHODS: A total of 425,294 patients, each of whom was registered in Taiwan 
during 1990 to 2001 as having one of 17 major types of cancers, were included. 
All of them were followed until the end of 2004. Monte Carlo simulation was used 
to extrapolate survival for up to 600 months to derive the life expectancy or 
lifetime survival function after diagnosis for different cancers. The average 
annual health expenditure per case for each cancer type was calculated by using 
data from the NHI's reimbursement database. The lifetime health expenditure per 
case was estimated by multiplying the monthly survival probability by the 
average monthly health expenditure, adjusting for the annual discount rate and 
the medical care inflation rate. By incorporating the number of annual incidence 
cases, the total lifetime health expenditure can also be estimated.
RESULTS: Of the 17 cancers studied, it was found that leukemia had the highest 
average annual health expenditure per case (207,000 TWD) as well as the highest 
lifetime health expenditure per case (2,404,000 TWD, without discounting 
adjustment). Breast cancer had the highest total lifetime health expenditure 
(5046 million TWD) because of the longer life expectancy and chronic morbidity. 
Furthermore, colorectal cancer had the second highest total lifetime health 
expenditure (4995 million TWD) due to its high incidence.
CONCLUSION: The proposed method is a feasible way of estimating lifetime health 
expenditure for cancer patients even under high censoring rates. This would be 
helpful for cost-effectiveness assessment of cancer prevention programs and for 
policy planning.

DOI: 10.1016/S0929-6646(08)60008-X
PMID: 18218578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. BMJ. 2008 Jan 26;336(7637):174. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39465.477373.3A.

The treatment paradox: Pills in the sky.

Lewis LS.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39465.477373.3A
PMCID: PMC2213838
PMID: 18219012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Cost versus benefit.


969. BMJ. 2008 Jan 26;336(7637):174. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39465.479988.3A.

The treatment paradox: Not treating, delaying.

Kendrick M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39465.479988.3A
PMCID: PMC2213837
PMID: 18219013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MK wrote the book The Great 
Cholesterol Con.


970. Autophagy. 2008 Apr;4(3):330-8. doi: 10.4161/auto.5618. Epub 2008 Jan 21.

Longevity pathways converge on autophagy genes to regulate life span in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

T√≥th ML(1), Sigmond T, Borsos E, Barna J, Erd√©lyi P, Tak√°cs-Vellai K, Orosz L, 
Kov√°cs AL, Csik√≥s G, Sass M, Vellai T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, E√∂tv√∂s Lor√°nd University, Budapest, Hungary.

Comment in
    Autophagy. 2008 Apr;4(3):265-7.

Aging is a multifactorial process with many mechanisms contributing to the 
decline. Mutations decreasing insulin/IGF-1 (insulin-like growth factor-1) or 
TOR (target of rapamycin) kinase-mediated signaling, mitochondrial activity and 
food intake each extend life span in divergent animal phyla. Understanding how 
these genetically distinct mechanisms interact to control longevity is a 
fundamental and fascinating problem in biology. Here we show that mutational 
inactivation of autophagy genes, which are involved in the degradation of 
aberrant, damaged cytoplasmic constituents accumulating in all aging cells, 
accelerates the rate at which the tissues age in the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans. According to our results Drosophila flies deficient in autophagy are 
also short-lived. We further demonstrate that reduced activity of autophagy 
genes suppresses life span extension in mutant nematodes with inherent dietary 
restriction, aberrant insulin/IGF-1 or TOR signaling, and lowered mitochondrial 
respiration. These findings suggest that the autophagy gene cascade functions 
downstream of and is inhibited by different longevity pathways in C. elegans, 
therefore, their effects converge on autophagy genes to slow down aging and 
lengthen life span. Thus, autophagy may act as a central regulatory mechanism of 
animal aging.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.5618
PMID: 18219227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Cancer. 2008 Mar 15;112(6):1380-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23291.

Health-related quality of life in cancer survivors between ages 20 and 64 years: 
population-based estimates from the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System.

Richardson LC(1), Wingo PA, Zack MM, Zahran HS, King JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30341, USA. lfr@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: The authors examined the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of 
cancer survivors between ages 20 and 64 years by using a population-based survey 
of individuals who had activity limitations caused by cancer.
METHODS: A population-based, cross-sectional study was conducted using the 2000 
to 2002 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System (BRFSS) to examine HRQOL among respondents who reported 
activity limitations because of cancer. HRQOL was measured by using the CDC's 
Healthy Days Measures, including self-rated health status, numbers of unhealthy 
physical and mental health days, and activity limitation. HRQOL was compared 
among the following groups: those who reported no activity limitations and those 
who were limited primarily by cardiovascular conditions, emotional problems, and 
cancer. Taylor-series linearization methods were used to calculate 
population-based estimates in this complex sample survey.
RESULTS: Individuals between ages 20 and 64 years who were limited by cancer 
reported poorer HRQOL measured as higher prevalence of poor or fair 
self-reported health, more physically unhealthy days, more painful days, and 
more inadequate sleep days. Compared with the group that had no activity 
limitations, the individuals who had limitations were more likely to be women 
and to have annual household incomes<$25,000. They were more likely to be unable 
to work and to have health insurance. In addition, they were more likely to be 
former smokers and to be overweight, but they were less likely to participate in 
leisure-time physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, respondents between ages 20 and 64 years who reported 
being limited primarily by cancer reported lower HRQOL. They also reported 
unhealthy behaviors that were detrimental to improved HRQOL. The HRQOL and 
lifestyle modification needs of this population need to be examined 
prospectively to help decrease their burden of suffering.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23291
PMID: 18219664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2007 Nov;34(12):2007-9.

[The palliative role of percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy with jejunal 
extension (PEG-J) in an advanced pancreatic cancer patient with duodenal 
stenosis--a case report].

[Article in Japanese]

Nakahira S(1), Sugimoto K, Okamura S, Miki H, Nakata K, Suzuki R, Okada K, 
Miyake T, Yoshimura M, Tamura S.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Digestive Surgery, Kansai Rosai Hospital.

Although a 64-year-old man with pancreatic cancer was referred to our hospital 
due to difficulty in the bile drainage, he was initially planned to have an 
operation at another hospital after relief of obstructive jaundice. Laboratory 
tests on admission revealed obstructive jaundice, pancreatitis and malnutrition 
(T-Bil 12.1 mg/dL, AMY 1170 IU/L, Alb 2.0 g/dL). Abdominal computed tomography 
(CT) detected a pancreas tumor and multiple liver metastases. Then, we 
determined to carry out palliative therapy. Percutaneous transhepatic 
cholangiography (PTC) showed a common bile duct obstruction, and a biliary 
metallic stent was placed. Endoscopic examination revealed a tumorous duodenal 
stenosis. We performed percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy with jejunal 
extension (PEG-J), which was used for both transintestinal nutrition and 
decompression gastrostomy. After these therapies, the patient's condition 
improved better in 2 weeks as such that he could have stayed away from our 
hospital for several days. PEG-J was useful to improve a quality of life in 
pancreatic cancer patient with duodenal stenosis.

PMID: 18219881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Time. 2007 Dec 17;170(25):70.

A good night's sleep. The amount of rest you get could determine not just how 
well you live but also how long.

Park A.

PMID: 18220112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2006 Nov;2(4):397-407. doi: 10.2174/1573399810602040397.

The role of adipocytokines and neurohormonal dysregulation in metabolic 
syndrome.

Kong AP(1), Chan NN, Chan JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Prince of Wales Hospital, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong. alicekong@cuhk.edu.hk

Metabolic syndrome, also known as the insulin resistance syndrome (IRS), 
dysmetabolic syndrome or syndrome X, is a burgeoning global epidemic. This 
constellation of risk factors, namely glucose intolerance, hypertension, 
dyslipidemia (high triglyceride and low HDL cholesterol), central obesity, 
pro-inflammatory and prothrombotic state, culminating to the development of 
premature cardiovascular and renal disease, has significant impact on life 
expectancy, societal productivity and quality of life. The underlying mechanism 
of this complex syndrome remains to be elucidated. In recent years, light has 
been shed on the roles of neuroendocrine system and adipocytokines on the 
pathogenesis of IRS. In this review, we summarize the possible links between 
insulin and various hormones (growth hormones (GH), catecholamines, 
glucocorticoids and sex hormones), partly mediated through visceral adiposity 
and adipocytokines (notably adiponectin, leptin, resistin, visfatin, tumor 
necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6)) in the pathogenesis of 
this syndrome.

DOI: 10.2174/1573399810602040397
PMID: 18220644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2007 Nov;3(4):260-3. doi: 10.2174/1573399810703040260.

Appropriate application of evidence to the care of elderly patients with 
diabetes.

Huang ES(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of General Internal Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of 
Chicago, 5831 S. Maryland Avenue, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
ehuang@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Modern diabetes care may benefit a significant proportion of adults living with 
diabetes; however, these benefits may not be consistently realized among the 
heterogeneous subpopulation of elderly patients over 65 years of age. There are 
three clinical constraints that have been proposed as important considerations 
for individualizing diabetes care among elderly patients. Life expectancy should 
be an important determinant of the intensity of glucose control because 
intensive control has been found to prevent complications only after extended 
periods of treatment. Therefore, patients with limited life expectancy may not 
benefit from intensive glucose control. The time and attention of health care 
providers should also be considered a constrained resource that can be optimally 
allocated to care for elderly diabetes patients. In the face of multiple chronic 
conditions and symptomatic complaints, patients and their providers should 
prioritize diabetes care within the context of a patient's overall health care 
plan. The complexity of chronic medications or polypharmacy is the final 
clinical constraint. Polypharmacy may increase the probability of adverse drug 
events and represent a significant burden on quality of life. More direct 
clinical investigation of elderly diabetes patients will be needed if we are to 
truly improve the quality of life of this growing subpopulation.

DOI: 10.2174/1573399810703040260
PMCID: PMC2365499
PMID: 18220684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Curr Stem Cell Res Ther. 2006 Sep;1(3):345-64. doi:
10.2174/157488806778226803.

Adult stem cells in bone and cartilage tissue engineering.

Salgado AJ(1), Oliveira JT, Pedro AJ, Reis RL.

Author information:
(1)3B's Research Group-Biomaterials, Biodegradables and Biomimetics, University 
of Minho, Campus de Gualtar, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal. 
asalgado@ecsaude.uminho.pt

The progressive increase in life expectancy within the last century has led to 
the appearance of novel health related problems, some of those within the 
musculoskeletal field. Among the latter, one can find diseases such as 
osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis and bone cancer, just to mention some of the 
most relevant. Other related problems are those that arise from serious 
injuries, often leading to non-recoverable critical size defects. The therapies 
currently used to treat this type of diseases/injuries are based on the use of 
pharmaceutical agents, auto/allotransplant and synthetic materials. However, 
such solutions present a number of inconveniences and therefore, there is a 
constant search for novel therapeutic solutions. The appearance of a novel field 
of science called Tissue engineering brought some hope for the solution of the 
above mentioned problems. In this field, it is believed that by combining a 3D 
porous template--scaffold--with an adequate cell population, with osteo or 
chondrogenic potential, it will be possible to develop bone and cartilage tissue 
equivalents that when implanted in vivo, could lead to the total regeneration of 
the affected area. This ideal cell population should have a series of 
properties, namely a high osteo and chondrogenic potential and at the same time, 
should be easily expandable and maintained in cultures for long periods of time. 
Due to its natural and intrinsic properties, stem cells are one of the best 
available cell types. However, after this sentence, the readers may ask, "Which 
Stem Cells?". During the last 10/15 years, the scientific community witnessed 
and reported the appearance of several sources of stem cells with both osteo and 
chondrogenic potential. Therefore, the present review intends to make an 
overview of data reported on different sources of adult stem cells (bone marrow, 
periosteum, adipose tissue, skeletal muscle and umbilical cord) for bone and 
cartilage regenerative medicine, namely those focusing on the differentiation 
potential of the latter as well as in vivo proof of concept of their 
applicability. Simultaneously novel aspects of adult stem cells biotechnology 
such as their immunogenic characteristics and cell expansion methodologies will 
also be put forward. The present review also points out on issues such as the 
bone and cartilage regenerative market, and gives a brief description on bone 
and cartilage bone biology, so the readers can have a true idea of the current 
state of the art, and how adult stem cells can be an added value to this field.

DOI: 10.2174/157488806778226803
PMID: 18220879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Harm Reduct J. 2008 Jan 25;5:4. doi: 10.1186/1477-7517-5-4.

Years of life lost to prison: racial and gender gradients in the United States 
of America.

Hogg RS(1), Druyts EF, Burris S, Drucker E, Strathdee SA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, British 
Columbia, Canada. rhogg@sfu.ca

BACKGROUND: The United States has the highest rate of imprisonment of any 
country in the world. African Americans and Hispanics comprise a 
disproportionately large share of the prison population. We applied a "prison 
life expectancy" to specify differences in exposure to imprisonment by gender 
and race at the population level.
METHODS: The impact of imprisonment on life expectancy in the United States was 
measured for each year from 2000 to 2004, and then averaged. Using the Sullivan 
method, prison and prison-free life expectancies were estimated by dividing the 
years lived in each age range of the life table into these two states using 
prevalence of imprisonment by gender and race.
RESULTS: African American males can expect to spend on average 3.09 years in 
prison or jail over their lifetime and Hispanic and Caucasian males can spend on 
average 1.06 and 0.50 years, respectively. African American females, on the 
other hand, can expect to spend on average 0.23 years in these institutions and 
Hispanic and Caucasian females can expect to spend on average 0.09 and 0.05 
years, respectively. Overall, African American males, the highest risk group, 
can expect to spend on average 61.80 times longer in prison or jail as compared 
to Caucasian women, the lowest risk group.
CONCLUSION: There are clear gender and racial gradients in life expectancy spent 
in prison in the United States. Future research needs to examine how current 
imprisonment practice in the United States may influence population health and 
health disparities.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7517-5-4
PMCID: PMC2265700
PMID: 18221538


978. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Mar;24(3):671-84. doi: 10.1185/030079908X260998.
Epub  2008 Jan 24.

Cost-effectiveness of a fixed dose combination of alendronate and 
cholecalciferol in the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis in the United 
Kingdom and The Netherlands.

Jansen JP(1), Gaugris S, Bergman G, Sen SS.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, Houten, The Netherlands. jeroen.jansen@mapivalues.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a fixed dose combination of 
alendronate 70 mg and cholecalciferol 2800 IU (alendronate/vitamin D3; 
Fosavance) versus no treatment, alendronate with dietary vitamin D supplements 
and ibandronate in the treatment of osteoporosis in the UK and Netherlands.
METHODS: A patient simulation model was developed. One-year cycles included 
health states related to hip, vertebral, wrist and proximal humerus fractures, 
as well as death due to hip fractures and other causes. Effect of treatment was 
extracted from alendronate and ibandronate clinical trials. Direct costs and 
utilities were derived from other literature. Analyses were performed for women 
with a history of vertebral fractures and osteoporosis aged 50, 60, 70 and 80 
years. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were undertaken to estimate the 
uncertainty of outcomes.
RESULTS: In the UK, alendronate/vitamin D3 was cost-effective compared to no 
treatment in women 70 years and older with osteoporosis ( pound17 439 per 
quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained) and women 60 years and older with a 
history of vertebral fractures ( pound29 283 per QALY gained). For women 80 
years of age alendronate/vitamin D3 was cost-saving combined with QALY gains. 
Alendronate/vitamin D3 was cost-saving relative to alendronate with dietary 
supplements. Relative to ibandronate, alendronate/vitamin D3 was cost-effective 
in women 50 years ( pound19 095 per QALY gained) and economically dominant in 
women 60 years or older. Comparable results were observed for the Netherlands.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the underlying assumptions and data used, this economic 
modelling study showed that alendronate/vitamin D3 is cost-effective in women 70 
years or older with osteoporosis and in women 60 years or older with a history 
of vertebral fractures in the UK and Netherlands. Alendronate/vitamin D3 is 
economically dominant over ibandronate in women with a history of vertebral 
fractures aged 60 and over and cost-saving relative to alendronate with dietary 
supplements.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908X260998
PMID: 18221588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Pharmacol Res. 2008 Jan;57(1):67-72. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2007.12.001. Epub
2007  Dec 23.

Extension of life span and improvement of vitality of Drosophila melanogaster by 
long-term supplementation with different molecular weight polysaccharides from 
Porphyra haitanensis.

Zhao T(1), Zhang Q, Qi H, Liu X, Li Z.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Oceanology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Qingdao 266071, China.

Polysaccharides isolated from Porphyra (porphyran) have been known to have 
diverse biological activities, including immunomodulatory and antioxidant 
activities. The molecular weight-antiaging activity relationship of degraded 
porphyrans was examined in this study. Natural porphyran was extracted from P. 
haitanensis, and then was degraded into different molecular weight fractions, P1 
molecular weight 49 kDa, P2 molecular weight 30 kDa, P3 molecular weight 8.2 
kDa, by free radical. The influence on life span and vitality of porphyrans were 
carried out on Drosophila melanogaster. We found that all the degraded 
porphyrans and natural porphyran (P), added daily to the diet, can significantly 
increase the life span of D. melanogaster, except for P3. Among them, P1 
exhibited the most prolonging life span activity. Furthermore, vitality of 
middle-aged flies (assessed by measuring their mating capacity) receiving 
porphyrans was increased considerably in comparison with the controls. Finally, 
in the heat-stress test, we observed a remarkable increase in survival time, 
especially in P3-diet groups. These results suggest that porphyrans may be 
effective in reducing the rate of the aging process and molecular weight has 
important influence on the effects. It seems that P1 and P2, possessed higher 
molecular weight, may be more useful in normal metabolic condition and P3, 
possessed the lowest molecular weight, may be more beneficial for D. 
melanogaster in stress condition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2007.12.001
PMID: 18221885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Feb;85(2):424-9. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.10.007.

Outcomes after transhiatal and transthoracic esophagectomy for cancer.

Chang AC(1), Ji H, Birkmeyer NJ, Orringer MB, Birkmeyer JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA. andrwchg@umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Although single-center series evaluating esophagectomy for cancer 
have demonstrated that this operation can be performed safely and with excellent 
outcomes, controversy remains regarding the comparable oncologic efficacy of the 
transhiatal and transthoracic approaches. This study was performed to determine 
outcomes after transhiatal and transthoracic esophagectomy for patients 
undergoing resection nationwide.
METHODS: Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare linked 
database (1992 to 2002), we identified registered patients undergoing 
esophagectomy for esophageal cancer. We evaluated operative mortality, late 
survival, and length of stay while adjusting for patient characteristics, tumor 
grade, and stage. As a surrogate for postoperative quality of life, we also 
assessed subsequent need for anastomotic dilation.
RESULTS: Of 868 patients undergoing either approach, for whom distinct Current 
Procedural Technology codes could be identified, 225 underwent transhiatal and 
643 received transthoracic esophagectomy. Lower operative mortality rate was 
observed after a transhiatal than transthoracic approach (6.7% versus 13.1%, p = 
0.009). Observed 5-year survival was higher for patients undergoing transhiatal 
rather than transthoracic esophagectomy (30.5% versus 22.7%, p = 0.02). After 
adjusting for differences in tumor stage, patient, and provider factors, this 
survival advantage was no longer statistically significant (adjusted hazard 
ratio for mortality, 0.95, 95% confidence interval: 0.75 to 1.20). Patients 
undergoing transhiatal esophagectomy were more likely to require endoscopic 
dilatation within 6 months of surgery (43.1% versus 34.5% for transthoracic 
operations, p = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS: In the largest population-based study to date assessing long-term 
outcome after esophagectomy for esophageal cancer, transhiatal esophagectomy 
confers an early survival advantage, but long-term survival does not appear to 
differ according to surgical approach.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.10.007
PMID: 18222237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Feb;85(2):501-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.09.036.

Does previous percutaneous coronary stenting compromise the long-term efficacy 
of subsequent coronary artery bypass surgery? A microsimulation study.

Rao C(1), Stanbridge Rde L, Chikwe J, Pepper J, Skapinakis P, Aziz O, Darzi A, 
Athanasiou T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosurgery and Surgical Technology, Imperial College London, 
United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Sep;86(3):1052; author reply 1052-3.

BACKGROUND: This study aims to compare long-term survival and health-related 
quality of life in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery with and 
without previous coronary stenting.
METHODS: Markov microsimulation was used to model long-term survival and quality 
of life after surgical revascularization using data from referenced sources. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was used to investigate the effect of 
uncertainty associated with the model parameters on the microsimulation results.
RESULTS: Percutaneous coronary stenting was found to significantly decrease the 
effectiveness of coronary surgery. The model suggests that after a single 
stenting procedure ten-year survival was reduced by 3.3% (SD 0.7%), from 79.9% 
(SD 1.3%) to 76.6% (SD 1.4%). Similarly, after multiple stenting procedures 
ten-year survival was reduced by 3.5% (SD 0.7%) to 76.4% (SD 1.4%). Over a 
ten-year period a single stenting procedure reduced the quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) payoff by 0.25 QALY (SD 0.11 QALY) and multiple stenting procedures 
reduced the QALY payoff by 0.27 QALY (SD 0.08 QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that patients who undergo surgical bypass after 
stenting have worse long-term outcomes than patients who undergo surgical 
revascularization without previous percutaneous intervention. The 
pathophysiological mechanisms for this are not fully understood and must be 
further investigated. The findings of this study suggest that the timing of 
surgical bypass in relation to percutaneous intervention is important. This may 
have significant implications for clinical practice, suggesting that greater 
emphasis should be placed on selecting the optimum initial revascularization 
strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.09.036
PMID: 18222252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Feb;85(2):681-9. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.07.066.

Diabetic retinopathy and coronary artery disease from the cardiac surgeon's 
perspective.

Ohno T(1), Takamoto S, Motomura N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. 
takohno-tky@umin.net

Coronary artery disease is the leading cause of death in diabetics; therefore, 
the main purpose of managing coronary artery disease in diabetics should be to 
lengthen life expectancy. Recent evidence demonstrates that the severity of 
diabetic retinopathy is associated with a graded, increased risk of death from 
coronary artery disease and myocardial infarction. Recently, we found that the 
survival benefit of coronary artery bypass grafting over percutaneous coronary 
intervention is more apparent in patients with diabetic retinopathy than in 
diabetic patients without it. In this article, we review published studies 
evaluating the association between diabetic retinopathy and coronary artery 
disease, and we propose that coronary artery bypass surgery should be the first 
choice for revascularization of patients with diabetic retinopathy, especially 
in its early stage. Furthermore, coronary artery disease complicating diabetic 
retinopathy is often underdiagnosed, and all diabetic retinopathy patients 
should undergo screening for coronary artery disease followed by coronary artery 
bypass grafting. Future studies will probably comprise carefully performed 
cost-effective analyses of treatment effectiveness and prospective randomized 
studies comparing survival after coronary artery bypass grafting with that of 
survival after percutaneous coronary intervention, stratified by the stage of 
retinopathy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2007.07.066
PMID: 18222304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
