Lepore V(1), Cecchetto G, Di Giulio P, Saiani L, Samarelli V, Saugo M, Romero M, 
Scurti V, Tognoni G, Valerio M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Epidemiologia della Cittadinanza, Consorzio M. Negri Sud S. 
Maria Imbaro, Chieti.

PMID: 18297988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Drugs R D. 2008;9(2):125-30. doi: 10.2165/00126839-200809020-00006.

Mepolizumab: 240563, anti-IL-5 monoclonal antibody - GlaxoSmithKline, 
anti-interleukin-5 monoclonal antibody - GlaxoSmithKline, SB 240563.

[No authors listed]

Mepolizumab is an anti-interleukin-5 monoclonal antibody that is in clinical 
trials with GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) for the treatment of severe asthma, nasal 
polyposis and hypereosinophilic syndrome and eosinophilic oesophagitis (the 
latter two indications are classed as eosinophilia in the phase table). 
Interleukin-5 stimulates the production, activation and maturation of 
eosinophils. Since mepolizumab inhibits interleukin-5 and has a long terminal 
half-life, treatment with mepolizumab causes a sustained reduction in the 
numbers of circulating eosinophils. Thus, mepolizumab may be a useful 
therapeutic agent for the treatment of conditions characterized by increased 
levels of eosinophils. Hypereosinophilic syndrome is a rare idiopathic disease 
with broad clinical signs and symptoms that is diagnosed based on a persistent 
blood eosinophil count of >1500 cells, various end-organ damages (including 
skin, heart, lung, nervous system and digestive system), and with exclusion of 
known secondary causes of hypereosinophilia. Mepolizumab is in clinical trials 
for the treatment of hypereosinophilic syndrome, eosinophilc oesophagitis, 
severe asthma (in patients with airway eosinophilia) and nasal polyposis. 
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) has completed enrolment in a phase II study of mepolizumab 
in 20 patients with symptomatic eosinophilic bronchitis with or without asthma 
in Canada. The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study is evaluating 
the effects of intravenous mepolizumab on asthma control, airway eosinophilia 
and the degree to which concomitant corticosteroid treatment can be reduced 
(NCT00292877). In previous clinical studies, including trials in the EU and US, 
mepolizumab has shown a lack of effect on allergen-induced airway responses and 
inflammation despite a significant reduction in blood and sputum eosinophil 
levels.A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, phase III 
study of mepolizumab over 9 months in 85 patients with hypereosinophilic 
syndrome was completed in 2006. All patients have been offered, and continued 
in, a phase III, open-label, long-term extension study of mepolizumab. Enrolment 
in this study was completed in September 2006.A phase III, compassionate use 
trial of mepalizumab (NCT00244686) in patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome 
was ongoing in October 2007 in the US. Patients who have significant clinical 
disease but are unresponsive to traditional treatment and those who have 
demonstrated clinical benefit from previous anti-IL-5 treatment are eligible to 
take part in the trial. Mepolizumab received orphan drug status for first-line 
treatment in patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome in the US and the EU in 
2004. Mepolizumab is also in phase I/II clinical development for the treatment 
of eosinophilic oesophagitis. A phase I/II trial (NCT00358449) began in August 
2006 in the US, Australia, the UK and Canada, and will enrol approximately 72 
paediatric patients with eosinophilic oesophagitis. The randomized, 
parallel-group clinical trial will evaluate the safety, tolerability, 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of intravenous mepolizumab for 12 weeks. 
In September 2006, GSK completed enrolment in a phase I/II study of mepolizumab 
for the treatment of eosinophilic oesophagitis in ten adult patients in 
Switzerland (NCT00274703). The randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 
study will evaluate the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, safety and 
tolerability of IV mepolizumab.A phase I/II trial of mepolizumab in four 
patients with eosinophilic oesophagitis conducted by Cincinnati Children's 
hospital found the monoclonal antibody was safe and effective. Brigham and 
Women's Hospital in association with GSK is conducting a phase I/II trial of 
mepolizumab in patients with Churg-Strauss Syndrome (CSS) in the US. The trial, 
which started in September 2007, will evaluate the potential of mepolizumab to 
reduce the need for corticosteroid therapy in patients with CSS (NCT00527566). 
CSS, otherwise known as allergic granulomatosis, is defined by patients with 
asthma, eosinophilia and vasculitis.

DOI: 10.2165/00126839-200809020-00006
PMID: 18298130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Gastrointest Surg. 2008 Jun;12(6):1127-32. doi: 10.1007/s11605-008-0472-4.
 Epub 2008 Feb 26.

Duodenum-preserving subtotal and total pancreatic head resections for 
inflammatory and cystic neoplastic lesions of the pancreas.

Beger HG(1), Rau BM, Gansauge F, Poch B.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Visceral Surgery, University of Ulm (-9/2001), Ulm, 
Germany. hans.beger@uniklinik-ulm.de

INTRODUCTION: For treatment of inflammatory and benign neoplastic lesions of the 
pancreatic head, a subtotal or total pancreatic head resection is a limited 
surgical procedure with the impact of replacing the application of a Whipple 
procedure. The objective of this work is to describe the technical modifications 
of subtotal and total pancreatic head resection for inflammatory and neoplastic 
lesions of the pancreas. The advantages of this limited surgical procedure are 
the preservation of the stomach, the duodenum and the extrahepatic biliary ducts 
for treatment of benign lesions of the pancreatic head, papilla, and 
intrapancreatic segment of the common bile duct. For chronic pancreatitis with 
an inflammatory mass complicated by compression of the common bile duct or 
causing multiple pancreatic main duct stenoses and dilatations, a subtotal 
pancreatic head resection results in a long-lasting pain control. Performing, in 
addition, a biliary anastomosis or a Partington Rochelle type of pancreatic main 
duct drainage, respectively, is a logic and simple extension of the procedure. 
The rationale for the application of duodenum-preserving total pancreatic head 
resection for cystic neoplastic lesions are complete exstirpation of the tumor 
and, as a consequence, interruption of carcinogenesis of the neoplasia 
preventing development of pancreatic cancer. Duodenum-preserving total head 
resection necessitates additional biliary and duodenal anastomoses. For 
mono-centric IPMN, MCN, and SCA tumors, located in the pancreatic head, total 
duodenum-preserving pancreatic head resection can be performed without hospital 
mortality and resurgery for recurrency. Based on controlled clinical trials, 
duodenum-preserving pancreatic head resection is superior to the Whipple-type 
resection with regard to lower postoperative morbidity, almost no delay of 
gastric emptying, preservation of the endocrine function, lower frequency of 
rehospitalization, early professional rehabilitation, and establishment of a 
predisease level of quality of life.
CONCLUSION: The limited surgical procedures of subtotal or total pancreatic head 
resection are simple, safe, ensures free tumour margins and replace in the 
authors institution the application of a Whipple-type head resection.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-008-0472-4
PMID: 18299945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Immunol Invest. 2008;37(2):171-82. doi: 10.1080/08820130801897675.

The effects of age and gender on gingival tissue and peripheral blood 
T-lymphocyte subsets: a study in mice.

Demir T(1), Canakci V, Erdem F, Atasever M, Kara C, Canakci CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Faculty of Dentistry, Atat√ºrk University, 
Erzurum, Turkey. turgdemir@hotmail.com

Erratum in
    Immunol Invest. 2009;38(2):193.

The aim of this study is to investigate the effects of age and gender on 
relative number of CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocyte and CD4+/CD8+ ratios in gingival 
tissue and peripheral blood of periodontally healthy BALB/c mice with flow 
cytometric analysis. The study was carried out on periodontally healthy 60 
BALB/c mice. They were separated into five groups according to the life 
expectancy: Group I (newborn, 1-10 days old), Group II (age at weaning, 21-28 
days old), Group III (age of sexual maturity, puberty, 7-8 weeks old), Group IV 
(adult, 8 months old), and Group V (the aged, 14 and over). Males and females 
were equally represented in each group. CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes and 
CD4+/CD8+ ratio values in gingival tissue and peripheral blood were determined 
using flow cytometry in the biopsy samples. The relative number of CD8+ T 
lymphocyte in gingival tissue was higher in puberty (p < 0.05) and the aged (p < 
0.05), with more significantly difference in males (p < 0.05). The CD4+/CD8+ 
ratios in gingival tissue were lower in puberty group and the-aged groups 
compared to the other groups (p < 0.05). The peripheral blood CD4+/CD8+ ratio 
increased in puberty and the aged groups. These differences were more 
significant in females than in males (p < 0.05). There were considerable 
negative correlations between CD4+/CD8+ T lymphocyte ratio in gingival tissue 
and CD4+/CD8+ T lymphocyte ratio in peripheral blood in puberty (r = 0.647, p < 
0.01) and the aged ( r = 0.599, p < 0.05). In conclusion, our data suggest that 
CD4+/CD8+ T lymphocyte ratios in peripheral blood increase periodontally healthy 
mice in puberty and the old groups, while CD4+/CD8+ T lymphocyte ratios in 
gingival tissue decrease in the same groups. The relative number of CD8+ T 
lymphocytes increases in gingival tissue in puberty and the old groups when it 
decreases in peripheral blood. Results from this study indicated that 
periodontally healthy BALB/c mice may represent important information to 
determine the character of an immune response in the course of a lifetime.

DOI: 10.1080/08820130801897675
PMID: 18300042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Med Trop (Mars). 2007 Dec;67(6):545-51.

[From epidemiological transition to health transition].

[Article in French]

Mesl√© F(1), Vallin J.

Author information:
(1)L'UR Mortalit√©, sant√©, √©pid√©miologie, INED, Paris, France. mesle@ined.fr

The "Epidemiological Transition" concept proposed by Abdel Omran in 1971 was the 
first theory attempting to explain the extraordinary progess that industrialized 
countries have achieved in health since the 18th century. Within the broader 
framework of the demographic transition, an important implication of this 
concept was that life expectancy in modern societies would converge toward 
limits determined by the new epidemiological conditions. In the ensuing decades, 
however the convergence process appears to have stopped as a result of a number 
of setbacks including the health crisis in Eastern Europe and AIDS in Africa. 
These setbacks do not fundamentally contradict the theory. A much greater 
contradiction was the unexpected dramatic decrease in cardiovascular disease 
that began as early as the 70s and had a major positive impact on life 
expectancy. Based on the concept of "Health Transition" described by Julio Frenk 
et al., we propose a complete revision of the health implications of the 
demographic transition based the idea of successive cycles of 
divergences/convergences induced by the appearance and generalization of major 
breakthroughs in health technologies and strategies. Three such cycles can be 
clearly identified on an international level corresponding to control of 
infectious then cardiovascular diseases, and perhaps most recently to the 
initial successes achieved in the field of ageing.

PMID: 18300514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Med Trop (Mars). 2007 Dec;67(6):612-6.

[Is therapeutic progress in the management of sickle cell disease applicable in 
sub-Saharan Africa?].

[Article in French]

De Montalembert M(1), Tshilolo L.

Author information:
(1)Service de p√©diatrie g√©ndrale, H√¥pital Necker-Enfants Malades, Paris, France. 
mariane.demontal@nck.aphp.fr

The life expectancy of patients with sickle cell disease has improved in the 
United States and Europe thanks to the use of penicillin prophylaxis, 
appropriate immunizations, neonatal screening, implementation of a quality 
transfusional policy, hydroxyurea therapy, detection and treatment of cerebral 
vasculopathy, recognition of situations that can benefit from allogenic marrow 
transplantation, and improvements in bone marrow transplantation techniques. The 
cost of almost all these techniques is far beyond the means of health care 
systems in Africa where they cannot be used. However at least three, i.e., 
penicillin, vaccines, and hydroxyurea, could be easily accessible in the 
framework of defined therapeutic strategies. If daily penicillin and 
pneumococcal vaccine Pneumo 23 are required, it would likely be necessary to 
select a conjugated vaccine other than Prevenar that does not provide protection 
against all strains present in Africa. Neonatal screening is still a rare 
procedure in sub-Saharan countries. Periodic transfusion is steadily improving 
but exchange transfusion programs aimed in particular at preventing neurological 
complications are still unfeasible. Indications for hydroxyurea therapy in 
Africa are more common due to the lack of access to chronic transfusion and must 
be based on consensus decision. Use of bone marrow transplantation, i.e., the 
only currently available curative treatment, is still possible only in northern 
hemisphere countries where it is still restricted to children with severe forms 
and an HLA-compatible family donor.

PMID: 18300525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Harefuah. 2008 Jan;147(1):38-42, 94.

[Infertility treatment in HIV serodiscordant couples].

[Article in Hebrew]

Feinstein S(1), Seidman DS.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit, Division of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sheba Medical Center, 
Tel Hashomer, Israel.

The altered epidemiology and life expectancy of HIV patients has resulted in an 
increasing number of couples, in which one member is HIV positive, who desire 
children. The only completely safe options available to these couples, to 
fulfill their desire for offspring, are adoption or, in the case of HIV positive 
males, sperm donation. Nevertheless, many couples desire genetically related 
offspring. When the female partner is HIV positive, intrauterine insemination 
(IUI) will suffice in order to prevent horizontal infection. However, when the 
male partner is HIV positive, a technique developed in Milan over a decade ago, 
involving sperm washing, is used in order to minimize infection of the healthy 
partner. Thus far, there have been approximately 3000 cycles, and 497 
pregnancies with over 300 deliveries and not one infection of either the female 
partner, or the infant. In Israel, the Rambam Medical Center recently published 
an article in "Harefuah" stating that they had offered this treatment to 
serodiscordant couples. Some couples need further treatment, due to inherent 
infertility, with advanced reproductive technology (ART) procedures, such as IVF 
or ICSI. Numerous ART centers worldwide treat these couples. Most centers are 
equipped with separate laboratory space for collecting specimens from infected 
patients and provide separate storage tanks for freezing infected gametes and 
embryos in order to protect other patients using the facility. In Israel, a 
country in which fertility treatment is widely available and easily accessible 
to all, not even a single center provides HIV serodiscordant couples with 
advanced fertility treatment.

PMID: 18300622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. PLoS One. 2008 Feb 27;3(2):e1696. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001696.

Relation between the global burden of disease and randomized clinical trials 
conducted in Latin America published in the five leading medical journals.

Perel P(1), Miranda JJ, Ortiz Z, Casas JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Since 1990 non communicable diseases and injuries account for the 
majority of death and disability-adjusted life years in Latin America. We 
analyzed the relationship between the global burden of disease and Randomized 
Clinical Trials (RCTs) conducted in Latin America that were published in the 
five leading medical journals.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We included all RCTS in humans, exclusively 
conducted in Latin American countries, and published in any of the following 
journals: Annals of Internal Medicine, British Medical Journal, Journal of the 
American Medical Association, Lancet, and New England Journal of Medicine. We 
described the trials and reported the number of RCTs according to the main 
categories of the global burden of disease. Sixty-six RCTs were identified. 
Communicable diseases accounted for 38 (57%) reports. Maternal, perinatal, and 
nutritional conditions accounted for 19 (29%) trials. Non-communicable diseases 
represent 48% of the global burden of disease but only 14% of reported trials. 
No trial addressed injuries despite its 18% contribution to the burden of 
disease in 2000.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: A poor correlation between the burden of disease and 
RCTs publications was found. Non communicable diseases and injuries account for 
up to two thirds of the burden of disease in Latin America but these topics are 
seldom addressed in published RCTs in the selected sample of journals. Funding 
bodies of health research and editors should be aware of the increasing burden 
of non communicable diseases and injuries occurring in Latin America to ensure 
that this growing epidemic is not neglected in the research agenda and not 
affected by publication bias.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001696
PMCID: PMC2246037
PMID: 18301772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


182. Endoscopy. 2008 May;40(5):414-21. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-995565. Epub 2008 Feb
27.

Cost-effectiveness of capsule endoscopy in screening for colorectal cancer.

Hassan C(1), Zullo A, Winn S, Morini S.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy Unit, Nuovo Regina Margherita 
Hospital, Rome, Italy. cesareh@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Capsule endoscopy (Pillcam Colon) has recently shown 
acceptable accuracy in detecting colonic lesions when compared with colonoscopy. 
The aim of this analysis is to provide a model to assess the cost and 
effectiveness of population-based screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) using 
capsule endoscopy and to compare the cost-effectiveness with that of a 
colonoscopy screening program.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of two screening strategies using colonoscopy or 
capsule endoscopy were compared by a computer model based on a Markov process. 
In this model, a hypothetical population of 100,000 individuals aged 50 years 
and over, undergoes a 10 yearly screening procedure. Different thresholds for 
postcapsule polypectomy referral were simulated.
RESULTS: At baseline, the incremental cost-effectiveness (compared with no 
screening) of colonoscopy and capsule endoscopy was $ 16,165 and $ 29,244 per 
life-year saved, respectively. When equal compliance was simulated, the 
colonoscopy program was more effective and less costly than a strategy based on 
capsule endoscopy. When simulating an initial compliance to capsule endoscopy 
30% better than colonoscopy, capsule endoscopy became the more effective and 
more cost-effective option. A 20% better compliance was sufficient when a higher 
accuracy of capsule endoscopy for polyps was assumed. A 6 mm threshold for 
polypectomy referral was associated with a substantial cost reduction in the 
capsule endoscopy program with only a small loss of efficacy.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of capsule endoscopy depends mainly on its 
ability to improve compliance to CRC screening.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-995565
PMID: 18302080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Int J Cancer. 2008 Jun 1;122(11):2594-9. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23413.

Mean sojourn time and effectiveness of mortality reduction for lung cancer 
screening with computed tomography.

Chien CR(1), Chen TH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive Medicine, College of Public Health, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

This study aimed to estimate the mean sojourn time (MST) and sensitivity of 
asymptomatic lung cancer (ALC) detected by computed tomography (CT) or chest 
X-ray (CXR). Translation of early diagnosis into mortality reduction by 2 
detection modalities and inter-screening interval was projected using a Markov 
model. On the basis of systematic literature review, data from 6 prospective CT 
screening studies were retrieved. The MST in association with the natural 
history of lung cancer depicted by a 3-state Markov model was estimated with a 
Bayesian approach. To project mortality reduction attributed to screening, the 
model was further extended to 5 health states for the inclusion of prognostic 
part. The analysis was run with a 10-year time horizon of follow-up, mimicking 
the Dutch-Belgian randomized lung cancer screening trial (NELSON). Screening for 
lung cancer with CT had high sensitivity (median: 97%) and may advance 1 year 
earlier than CXR in detecting ALC. By simulating the scenario similar to NELSON 
study, CT screen may gain an extra of 0.019 year of life expectancy per person, 
yields 15% mortality reduction (relative risk (RR): 0.85, 95% confidence 
interval [95%CI: (0.58-1.01)]. Approximate 23% [RR: 0.77, 95%CI: (0.43-0.98)] 
mortality reduction would be achieved by annual CT screening program. The 
mortality findings in conjunction with higher sensitivity and shorter MST 
estimate given data on prevalent and incident (2nd) screen may provide a 
tentative evidence, suggesting that annual CT screening may be required in order 
to be effective in reducing mortality before the results of randomized 
controlled studies available.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23413
PMID: 18302157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2008 Mar;17(2):136-44. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2354.2007.00818.x. Epub 2007 Sep 20.

The economic burden of cancer in Korea in 2002.

Kim SG(1), Hahm MI, Choi KS, Seung NY, Shin HR, Park EC.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Control Research Institute, National Cancer Center, 
Goyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

Cancer is the leading cause of death and one of the most significant healthcare 
expenses in Korea. The purpose of this study was to estimate the economic burden 
of cancer on Korean society. We studied the medical, non-medical, morbidity and 
mortality costs related to cancer treatment, lost productivity and premature 
death. Healthcare claims for 2002 obtained from the Health Insurance Review 
Agency were used to estimate medical expenditures; these were linked with the 
Korean Central Cancer Registry database to identify cancer patients. The number 
of deaths used to estimate mortality costs was obtained from the Annual Report 
of Mortality from the National Statistics Office of Korea. Moreover, data from 
the Korean National Statistics Office and Ministry of Labor were used to 
calculate life expectancy at the age of death, labour force participation, and 
average age- and gender-specific earnings. In 2002, the estimated total economic 
cost of cancer amounted to $9.4 billion (1.72% of GDP) at a 3% discount rate. 
Medical care costs amounted to 13.7% of total costs, non-medical costs 6.5%, 
morbidity costs 14.5%, and mortality costs accounted for 65.3%. Increased 
prevention, earlier diagnosis, new therapies and effective cancer control 
policies are needed to reduce the economic burden of cancer in Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2354.2007.00818.x
PMID: 18302650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Environ Health. 2008 Feb 26;7:8. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-7-8.

Mortality and life expectancy of Yokkaichi asthma patients, Japan: late effects 
of air pollution in 1960-70s.

Guo P(1), Yokoyama K, Suenaga M, Kida H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Occupational Medicine, Mie University 
Graduate School of Medicine, 2-174 Edobashi, Tsu-shi, Mie 514-8507, Japan. 
guo321@doc.medic.mie-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The incidence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and 
bronchial asthma began increasing in early 1960s in the population of 
Yokkaichi-city (Mie Prefecture, Japan). The cause of the disease was sulfur 
oxide air pollution, and it is known as Yokkaichi Asthma. The pollution markedly 
decreased by the end of 1970s; no new cases have been reported since 1988. This 
study aimed at examining the late effects of air pollution on the health of 
Yokkaichi Asthma patients.
METHODS: Mortality rate and life expectancy of patients, registered between 1965 
and 1988, were investigated from 1975 through 2000.
RESULTS: Mortality rates for COPD and asthma in patients from Yokkaichi-city 
were significantly higher than in the whole population of Mie Prefecture. For 
all ages (except for males between 80 and 84 years in 1985), the life expectancy 
of both males and females were significantly reduced in patients from 
Yokkaichi-city as compared with the whole population of Mie Prefecture. The 
potential gains in life expectancy excluding the mortality for respiratory 
diseases including COPD and asthma were larger for all ages in patients from 
Yokkaichi-city.
CONCLUSION: Mortality and life expectancy were adversely affected in patients 
from Yokkaichi-city, despite the fact that the air pollution problem has been 
already solved.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-7-8
PMCID: PMC2311286
PMID: 18302742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. PLoS Med. 2008 Feb;5(2):e46. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050046.

The fall and rise of US inequities in premature mortality: 1960-2002.

Krieger N(1), Rehkopf DH, Chen JT, Waterman PD, Marcelli E, Kennedy M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Society, Human Development and Health, Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. nkrieger@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Debates exist as to whether, as overall population health improves, 
the absolute and relative magnitude of income- and race/ethnicity-related health 
disparities necessarily increase-or decrease. We accordingly decided to test the 
hypothesis that health inequities widen-or shrink-in a context of declining 
mortality rates, by examining annual US mortality data over a 42 year period.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Using US county mortality data from 1960-2002 and county 
median family income data from the 1960-2000 decennial censuses, we analyzed the 
rates of premature mortality (deaths among persons under age 65) and infant 
death (deaths among persons under age 1) by quintiles of county median family 
income weighted by county population size. Between 1960 and 2002, as US 
premature mortality and infant death rates declined in all county income 
quintiles, socioeconomic and racial/ethnic inequities in premature mortality and 
infant death (both relative and absolute) shrank between 1966 and 1980, 
especially for US populations of color; thereafter, the relative health 
inequities widened and the absolute differences barely changed in magnitude. Had 
all persons experienced the same yearly age-specific premature mortality rates 
as the white population living in the highest income quintile, between 1960 and 
2002, 14% of the white premature deaths and 30% of the premature deaths among 
populations of color would not have occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: The observed trends refute arguments that health inequities 
inevitably widen-or shrink-as population health improves. Instead, the magnitude 
of health inequalities can fall or rise; it is our job to understand why.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050046
PMCID: PMC2253609
PMID: 18303941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


187. Crit Rev Eukaryot Gene Expr. 2008;18(2):173-88. doi: 
10.1615/critreveukargeneexpr.v18.i2.60.

Sex differences in muscle-derived stem cells and skeletal muscle.

Deasy BM(1), Schugar RC, Huard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, School of Medicine, Rangos Research 
Center, University of Pittsburgh, 3705 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15260, USA. 
deasybm@upmc.edu

Sex is well known to influence life expectancy and disposition to disease. Stem 
and progenitor cells are believed to persist throughout life, and they 
contribute to the repair and healthy maintenance of tissue; consequently, 
sex-related differences demonstrated by stem cells may provide insight to 
sex-related differences in aging, disease, and healing. However, cell sex is an 
often overlooked variable in stem cell biology.

DOI: 10.1615/critreveukargeneexpr.v18.i2.60
PMID: 18304031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Rev Med Interne. 2008 Jul;29(7):541-9. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.12.015.
Epub  2008 Mar 4.

[Haematological malignancies in older adults: experience in a geriatric acute 
care department].

[Article in French]

Rollot-Trad F(1), Lahjibi H, Lazarovici C, Bauer C, Saint-Jean O, Gisselbrecht 
M.

Author information:
(1)Service de g√©riatrie, h√¥pital europ√©en Georges-Pompidou (HEGP), 20, rue 
Leblanc, 75908 Paris cedex 15, France. florollot@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Ageing of population due to improvement in life expectancy has 
increased blood diseases (BD) incidence in the elderly population. In addition, 
treatments get more and more complex with increasingly late diagnosis as well as 
concomitant comorbidities.
METHODS: We describe a series of 54 patients with BD, followed-up in an acute 
care geriatric department. Autonomy, way of life, nutritional status, 
comorbidities, treatment, mortality and evolution were analyzed.
RESULTS: Mean age at BD was 86+/-6 years (range 75-99) for 29 women and 25 men. 
Median follow up was 20 months (0-60). Lymphoma was the most frequent BD (44%). 
Thirty-one patients (57%) received chemotherapy. Mortality rate was 41% (22 
patients). Forty patients (74%) were discharged and 25 patients (46%) required 
enhanced professional assistance. Survival was significantly decreased in 
patients with albuminemia less than or equal to 30 g/l. IADL score less than or 
equal to 3, ADL score less than or equal to 5, performance status more than or 
equal to 2, MMS less than 25 and weight loss more than or equal to 3 kg. After 
multivariate analysis, only albuminemia less than or equal to 30 g/l tended to 
predict death (hazard ratio 3.57, 95% confidence interval 0.96-13.3, p=0.06).
CONCLUSION: Our study confirms the importance of nutritional status on survival. 
A global geriatric evaluation is required for appropriate treatment, as 
currently available therapeutic protocols are not really adapted for old 
population. Additional studies should be conducted in this direction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.12.015
PMID: 18304703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Knee. 2008 Jun;15(3):168-73. doi: 10.1016/j.knee.2007.11.004. Epub 2008 Mar
4.

A pilot clinical evaluation comparing the Mitek bone-tendon-bone cross pin and 
bioabsorbable screw in anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction fixation, a 
randomized double blind controlled trial.

Marks P(1), O'Donnell S, Yee G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Holland Orthopaedic & Arthritic Centre, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
paul.marks@sunnybrook.ca

PURPOSE: To compare the clinical efficacy of ACL reconstruction using the Mitek 
bone-tendon-bone cross pin (RIGIDfix) to the Linvatec Bioscrew (control device).
METHODS: Forty subjects were randomized into one of two groups: the RIGIDfix or 
control group. Eligible subjects were male and female, 18 years of age and 
older, with an ACL injury of at least 3 weeks duration and no evidence of ACL 
insufficiency on the contralateral side. Subjects were followed for 24-month 
post-operatively. Evaluations included the International Knee Documentation 
Committee (IKDC) Knee Ligament Standard Evaluation, Mohtadi's ACL Deficiency 
Quality of Life (ACL-QOL) questionnaire and the attainment of six rehabilitation 
milestones. Subjects and assessors were blinded to the surgical device used.
RESULTS: Four subjects in the RIGIDfix group and four controls were lost to 
follow-up. The change in final IKDC scores did not differ significantly between 
groups with the majority demonstrating an improvement of one to two grades. The 
change in ACL-QOL scores did not differ significantly between the RIGIDfix 
subjects (40.0+4.4) and controls (46.0+3.6). Furthermore, the number of weeks 
that the RIGIDfix subjects versus controls attained full active extension, 
functional range of motion, normal gait, stair climbing, running gait and 
sprinting did not differ significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: The RIGIDfix results in a similar post-operative course to the 
control device and is efficacious for the reconstruction of the ACL. No adverse 
events were associated with the use of the RIGIDfix. The results of this study 
should be considered preliminary due to the small sample size.

DOI: 10.1016/j.knee.2007.11.004
PMID: 18304817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Cells Tissues Organs. 2008;188(1-2):70-7. doi: 10.1159/000119407. Epub 2008
Feb  29.

Cell therapy for diabetes mellitus: an opportunity for stem cells?

Soria B(1), Bedoya FJ, Tejedo JR, Hmadcha A, Ruiz-Salmer√≥n R, Lim S, Martin F.

Author information:
(1)CABIMER (Andalusian Center for Molecular Biology and Regenerative Medicine), 
Isla de la Cartuja, Seville, Spain. bernat.soria@cabimer.es

Diabetes is a chronic disease characterized by a deficit in beta cell mass and a 
failure of glucose homeostasis. Both circumstances result in a variety of severe 
complications and an overall shortened life expectancy. Thus, diabetes 
represents an attractive candidate for cell therapy. Reversal of diabetes can be 
achieved through pancreas and islet transplantation, but shortage of donor 
organs has prompted an intensive search for alternative sources of beta cells. 
This achievement has stimulated the search for appropriate stem cell sources. 
Both embryonic and adult stem cells have been used to generate surrogate beta 
cells or otherwise restore beta cell functioning. In this regard, several 
studies have reported the generation of insulin-secreting cells from embryonic 
and adult stem cells that normalized blood glucose values when transplanted into 
diabetic animal models. Due to beta cell complexity, insulin-producing cells 
generated from stem cells do not possess all beta cell attributes. This 
indicates the need for further development of methods for differentiation and 
selection of completely functional beta cells. While these problems are 
overcome, diabetic patients may benefit from therapeutic strategies based on 
autologous stem cell therapies addressing late diabetic complications. In this 
article, we discuss the recent progress in the generation of insulin-producing 
cells from embryonic and adult stem cells, together with the challenges for the 
clinical use of diabetes stem cell therapy.

(c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000119407
PMID: 18305378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Adv Gerontol. 2007;20(2):7-13.

[Life expectancy and its modeling].

[Article in Russian]

Novosel'tsev VN, Shvitra D, Novosel'tseva ZhA.

Modeling of the limited life span in an individual organism is discussed. Two 
models are presented in this discussion, a model of "natural technology" and a 
homeostatic model of aging in an organism. The problem of a transition from a 
model of an individual organism to a model of cohort and a population is 
studied. It is shown that it is enough to have only one property in an 
organism--death occurrence to model a cohort, whereas to model a population with 
overlapped generations two properties are needed, that is ability to die and 
ability to produce progenies. Examples of modeling of an individual organism, a 
cohort and a population are presented.

PMID: 18306684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Adv Gerontol. 2007;20(2):14-22.

[Aging of population in Russia and Ukraine: look into the future].

[Article in Russian]

Pirozhkov SI, Safarova GL, Shcherbov SIa.

The paper aims at comparative analysis of future trends of population ageing in 
Russia and Ukraine. The UN Population Prospects (The 2004 Revision) and 
probabilistic projections for Russia and Ukraine up to the year 2050 are 
analyzed. A number of ageing characteristics (proportions of the population aged 
65+ and 80+, old age dependency ratio, median age) are considered.

PMID: 18306685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Adv Gerontol. 2007;20(2):56-9.

Is there such thing as "vaccine against aging"?

Davidovic M(1), Milosevic DP, Despotovic N, Sekularac N, Erceg P.

Author information:
(1)Center of geriatrics, KBC Zvezdara, 11000 Beograd, Presevska 31, Serbia. 
davidovi@eunet.yu

Problem could be found in the fact that very often we look for one deciding, 
definitive reason for the process of aging. It is a sort of search for a big 
discovery, like a fountain of youth or such. More and more authors are trying to 
explain the unknowns in the understanding of these observations about ageing, by 
adding the statement that there are two subgroups in the general population. 
This acknowledgement of two subpopulations explains why there are numerous cases 
that can not be explained or defined or fitted in these basic observations about 
caloric restrictions and the delay of reproduction. The identification of those 
two groups would allow us to find more realistic results in studies, and 
therefore a more efficient therapy of certain diseases. This hypothesis does not 
contradict theories of aging that we have accepted (at least not the majority of 
accepted theories), and this hypothesis also does not contradict the fact that 
there is a large interindividual variability. This hypothesis doubts, and claims 
there are exceptions to the starting assumption of geriatrics and gerontology's 
that: "parallel to the aging process the functions of all organs and organ 
systems lessen". In future we could use one of these screening tools to detect 
genetic instable population: the cytokinesis-block micronucleus assay, 
expression of hTERT, the component of the enzyme telomerase, identification of 
the "longevity" genes like daf-16, p53, THO, HSP70 or the level of 
insulin-growth factor-I. This would enable us to correct genetic instability in 
this population with "vaccine of youth", making the human race living 30 years 
longer with excellent life quality.

PMID: 18306689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2007;108(10-11):477-9.

Social determinants of health in Slovakia.

Ginter E(1), Hulansk√° K.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Authority of the Slovak Republic, Bratislava, Slovakia. 
ginter.emil@mail-t.com.sk

OBJECTIVES: Substantial inequalities of health in various parts of Slovak 
Republic (SR) are observed.
BACKGROUND: Our aim was to analyse the combination of sociological and medical 
aspects of these inequalities.
METHODS: Sociological and mortality data from all 76 counties of SR were 
analysed by cluster analysis, ANOVA, multiple regressions, parametric and 
nonparametric tests.
RESULTS: In the sociologically weaker clusters the life expectancy was shorter, 
male and female premature cardiovascular mortality was higher and the male (not 
female) cancer mortality was higher than in sociologically better clusters.
CONCLUSION: Social and economic conditions--low educational level, poverty, 
unemployment, social exclusion and poor housing--strongly influence the health 
of inhabitants in SR (Fig. 3, Ref. 8). Full Text (Free, PDF) www.bmj.sk.

PMID: 18306732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. BJU Int. 2008 Mar;101 Suppl 2:16-22. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07487.x.

Management of localized prostate cancer in senior adults: the crucial role of 
comorbidity.

Fitzpatrick JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Mater Misericordiae Hospital and University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland. 
jfitzpatrick@mater.ie

Prostate cancer is predominantly a disease of senior adults, i.e. those aged >70 
years. With the increasing life expectancy worldwide, the burden of prostate 
cancer in senior adults is expected to increase. The management of senior adults 
with localized prostate cancer is not optimal. While most senior adults have 
indolent disease and will not die from it, some patients with aggressive tumours 
will rapidly progress to an advanced stage if not adequately treated. Treatment 
decisions need to balance life expectancy and the benefits of therapy vs 
treatment-related adverse events. Comorbidity is a crucial predictor of 
nonprostate cancer mortality in senior adults. Moreover, complications of 
curative treatments appear to be related to comorbidity to a greater degree than 
to chronological age. Nevertheless, there is evidence that, in everyday clinical 
practice, treatment decisions are strongly influenced by patient age and that a 
minority of senior adults with prostate cancer will benefit from curative 
therapy, regardless of the comorbidity. Conversely, a large proportion of senior 
adults will receive hormone-deprivation therapy, although it has no curative 
intent and is associated with an increased risk of metabolic syndrome, 
cardiovascular mortality and bone fractures. In conclusion, every effort should 
be made to improve the standard of care of senior adults with localized prostate 
cancer. There is a need for specific treatment guidelines dedicated to this 
population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07487.x
PMID: 18307688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. BJU Int. 2008 Mar;101 Suppl 2:23-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07486.x.

Management of metastatic prostate cancer: the crucial role of geriatric 
assessment.

Droz JP(1), Chaladaj A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre L√©on-B√©rard, Lyon, France. 
jfitzpatrick@mater.ie

Prostate cancer predominantly affects older men, with a median age at diagnosis 
of 68 years. Due to the increased life expectancy, management of prostate cancer 
in senior adults (aged >70 years) represents a major public health problem. This 
patient population may not receive optimal therapy for their disease, if 
decisions are made based on their chronological age alone. More so than age 
alone, health status is a major factor affecting individual life expectancy. 
Comorbidity is the key predictor of health status and should weigh more heavily 
on the treatment decision than age alone. Other important parameters to consider 
in senior adults are the degree of dependence in activities of daily living, the 
nutritional status and the presence or not of a geriatric syndrome. Although 
clinical trials are rarely designed specifically for senior adults, evidence 
suggests that healthy senior adults have similar treatment outcomes to their 
younger counterparts. The urological approach in senior adults with advanced 
prostate cancer should be fundamentally the same as in younger patients. In 
hormone-sensitive metastatic prostate cancer, androgen deprivation represents 
the first-line treatment. In senior adults, care should be given to the 
increased risk of metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular mortality and bone 
fracture. In hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer, chemotherapy with 
docetaxel (75 mg/m(2) every 3 weeks) plus low-dose prednisone is the standard 
and shows the same efficacy in healthy senior adults as in younger patients. The 
tolerance of docetaxel (3-weekly schedule) has not been specifically studied in 
vulnerable and frail senior adults. The place of weekly docetaxel in this 
setting should be further evaluated. Palliative treatments (palliative surgery, 
radiopharmaceutics, radiotherapy, medical treatments for pain and symptoms, 
pharmacological palliative therapies) should also be integrated in the global 
management of these patients. In conclusion, treatment decisions in senior 
adults should be adapted to health status. Healthy senior adults should be 
treated the same as younger patients. The development of guidelines for the 
management of localized and advanced prostate cancer in senior adults is 
underway.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2007.07486.x
PMID: 18307689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Biomed Eng Online. 2008 Feb 28;7:9. doi: 10.1186/1475-925X-7-9.

Influence on fluid dynamics of coronary artery outlet angle variation in 
artificial aortic root prosthesis.

Verhey JF(1), Bara C.

Author information:
(1)MVIP ImagingProducts GmbH, N√∂rten-Hardenberg, Germany. jverhey@mvip.de

BACKGROUND: Because of higher life expectancy, the number of elderly patients 
today with degenerative aortic diseases is on the increase. Often artificial 
aortic roots are needed to replace the native tissue. This surgical procedure 
requires re-implantation of the previous separated coronary arteries into the 
wall of the prosthesis. Regardless of the prosthesis type, changes in the 
reinsertion technique, e.g., the variation of the outlet angle of the coronary 
arteries, could influence the coronary blood flow. Whether the prosthesis type 
or the outlet angle variation significantly improves the blood circulation and 
lowers the risk of coronary insufficiency is still an open question. The 
numerical calculations presented can help to clear up these disputable 
questions.
METHODS: Two simplified base geometries are used for simulating the blood flow 
in order to determine velocity and pressure distributions. One model uses a 
straight cylindrical tube to approximate the aortic root geometry; the other 
uses a sinus design with pseudosinuses of Valsalva. The coronary outlet angle of 
the right coronary artery was discretely modified in both models in the range 
from 60 degrees to 120 degrees . The pressure and velocity distributions of both 
models are compared in the ascending aorta as well as in the right and the left 
coronary artery.
RESULTS: The potentially allowed and anatomic limited variation of the outlet 
angle influences the pressure only a little bit and shows a very slight relative 
maximum between 70 degrees and 90 degrees . The sinus design and variations of 
the outlet angle of the coronary arteries were able to minimally optimize the 
perfusion pressure and the velocities in the coronary circulation, although the 
degree of such changes is rather low and would probably not achieve any clinical 
influence.
CONCLUSION: Our results show that surgeons should feel relatively free to vary 
the outlet angle within the anatomic structural conditions when employing the 
technique of coronary reinsertion.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-925X-7-9
PMCID: PMC2275278
PMID: 18307786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Occup Environ Med. 2008 Sep;65(9):620-7. doi: 10.1136/oem.2007.036533. Epub
2008  Feb 28.

Air pollution and mortality benefits of the London Congestion Charge: spatial 
and socioeconomic inequalities.

Tonne C(1), Beevers S, Armstrong B, Kelly F, Wilkinson P.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Research Group, King's College London, 150 Stamford Street, 
London SE1 9NH, UK. cathryn.tonne@erg.kcl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To alleviate traffic congestion in Central London, the Mayor 
introduced the Congestion Charging Scheme (CCS) in February 2003. We modelled 
the impact of the CCS on levels of traffic pollutants, life expectancy and 
socioeconomic inequalities.
METHODS: Annual average NO(2) and PM(10) were modelled using an 
emission-dispersion model. We assumed the meteorology and vehicle fleet remained 
constant during the pre- and post-CCS periods to isolate changes due to traffic 
flow. Air pollution concentrations were linked to small area socioeconomic, 
population and mortality data. Associated changes in life expectancy were 
predicted using life table analysis and exposure-response coefficients from the 
literature.
RESULTS: Before the introduction of the CCS, annual average NO(2) was 39.9 
microg/m(3) and PM(10) was 26.2 microg/m(3) across Greater London. 
Concentrations were 54.7 microg/m(3) for NO(2) and 30.3 microg/m(3) for PM(10) 
among census wards within or adjacent to the charging zone. Absolute and 
relative reductions in concentrations following the introduction of the CCS were 
greater among charging zone wards compared to remaining wards. Predicted 
benefits in the charging zone wards were 183 years of life per 100,000 
population compared to 18 years among the remaining wards. In London overall, 
1888 years of life were gained. More deprived areas had higher air pollution 
concentrations; these areas also experienced greater air pollution reductions 
and mortality benefits compared to the least deprived areas.
CONCLUSIONS: The CCS, a localised scheme targeting traffic congestion, appears 
to have modest benefit on air pollution levels and associated life expectancy. 
Greater reductions in air pollution in more deprived areas are likely to make a 
small contribution to reducing socioeconomic inequalities in air pollution 
impacts.

DOI: 10.1136/oem.2007.036533
PMID: 18308748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Radiology. 2008 Mar;246(3):763-71. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2463070224.

Breast cancer screening in BRCA1 mutation carriers: effectiveness of MR 
imaging--Markov Monte Carlo decision analysis.

Lee JM(1), Kopans DB, McMahon PM, Halpern EF, Ryan PD, Weinstein MC, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Institute for Technology Assessment, Division of 
Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 
Merrimac St, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. jlee45@partners.org

PURPOSE: To project intermediate and long-term clinical outcomes of magnetic 
resonance (MR) imaging screening for breast cancer in women with BRCA1 gene 
mutations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A microsimulation model was developed to compare three 
annual screening strategies versus clinical surveillance: (a) mammography, (b) 
MR imaging, and (c) combined MR imaging and mammography. Input parameters were 
obtained from the published medical literature, existing databases, and expert 
opinion. The model was calibrated to targets from the Surveillance Epidemiology 
and End Results database (1975-1980) compiled during a period prior to the onset 
of widespread mammographic screening. Sensitivity analysis was performed to 
evaluate the effect of uncertainty in parameter estimates.
RESULTS: With clinical surveillance, the estimated median diameter of invasive 
breast cancers at presentation was 2.6 cm. Average life expectancy was 71.15 
years. With annual screening with mammography, MR imaging, or combined 
mammography and MR imaging, median invasive tumor diameters at diagnosis 
decreased to 1.9, 1.3, and 1.1 cm, respectively. Annual screening with 
mammography, MR imaging, or combined mammography and MR imaging increased 
average life expectancy by 0.80 year, 1.10 years, and 1.38 years, respectively, 
and decreased relative mortality from breast cancer (16.8%, 17.2%, and 22.0%, 
respectively). Program sensitivity was greater than 50% only with MR imaging 
screening strategies. The majority of women undergoing screening had one or more 
false-positive screening examinations (53.8%, 80.2%, and 84.0% for mammography, 
MR imaging, and combined mammography and MR imaging, respectively). Many women 
also underwent one or more biopsies for benign disease (11.3%, 26.3%, and 30.3%, 
respectively). Results were sensitive to BRCA1 penetrance estimates and to MR 
imaging sensitivity in the detection of ductal carcinoma in situ.
CONCLUSION: Annual screening with combined mammography and MR imaging provides 
BRCA1 mutation carriers with the greatest life expectancy gain and breast cancer 
mortality reduction. However, an important trade-off of this strategy is an 
increased rate of false-positive screening results and biopsies performed for 
benign disease.

(c) RSNA, 2008.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2463070224
PMID: 18309013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Am J Public Health. 2008 Apr;98(4):589-94. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2007.116012.
Epub  2008 Feb 28.

Interplay of politics and law to promote health: improving economic equality and 
health: the case of postwar Japan.

Bezruchka S(1), Namekata T, Sistrom MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, School of Public Health and Community 
Medicine, Box 357660, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7660, USA. 
sabez@u.washington.edu

The health situation in Japan after World War II was extremely poor. However, in 
less than 35 years the country's life expectancy was the highest in the world. 
Japan's continuing health gains are linked to policies established at the end of 
World War II by the Allied occupation force that established a democratic 
government. The Confucian principles that existed in Japan long before the 
occupation but were preempted during the war years were reestablished after the 
war, facilitating subsequent health improvements. Japan's good health status 
today is not primarily the result of individual health behaviors or the 
country's health care system; rather, it is the result of the continuing 
economic equality that is the legacy of dismantling the prewar hierarchy.

