of Luebeck, Ratzeburger Allee 160, 23538 Luebeck, Germany. 
perbandt@biochem.uni-luebeck.de

Onchocerciasis or river blindness, caused by the filarial worm Onchocerca 
volvulus, is the world's second leading infectious cause of blindness. In order 
to chronically infect the host, O. volvulus has evolved molecular strategies 
that influence and direct immune responses away from the modes most damaging to 
it. The O. volvulus GST1 (OvGST1) is a unique glutathione S-transferase (GST) in 
that it is a glycoprotein and possesses a signal peptide that is cleaved off in 
the process of maturation. The mature protein starts with a 25-amino-acid 
extension not present in other GSTs. In all life stages of the filarial worm, it 
is located directly at the parasite-host interface. Here, the OvGST1 functions 
as a highly specific glutathione-dependent prostaglandin D synthase (PGDS). The 
enzyme therefore has the potential to participate in the modulation of immune 
responses by contributing to the production of parasite-derived prostanoids and 
restraining the host's effector responses, making it a tempting target for 
chemotherapy and vaccine development. Here, we report the crystal structure of 
the OvGST1 bound to its cofactor glutathione at 2.0 A resolution. The structure 
reveals an overall structural homology to the haematopoietic PGDS from 
vertebrates but, surprisingly, also a large conformational change in the 
prostaglandin binding pocket. The observed differences reveal a different 
vicinity of the prostaglandin H(2) binding pocket that demands another 
prostaglandin H(2) binding mode to that proposed for the vertebrate PGDS. 
Finally, a putative substrate binding mode for prostaglandin H(2) is postulated 
based on the observed structural insights.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2008.01.029
PMID: 18258257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2008 
Feb;51(2):151-7. doi: 10.1007/s00103-008-0443-7.

Health inequities and social justice. The moral foundations of public health.

Faden RR(1), Powers M.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Berman Institute of Bioethics, 624 N. Broadway, Baltimore, MD 
21205, USA. rfaden@jhsph.edu

Recently we argued that social justice is concerned with human well-being, which 
is best understood as involving plural, irreducible dimensions, each of which 
represents something of independent moral significance. Health is one of these 
distinct dimensions of well-being, as is personal security, the development and 
exercise of cognitive capacities for reasoning, living under conditions of 
social respect, developing and sustaining deep personal attachments, and being 
able to lead self-determining lives. In this paper, we address why 
considerations of justice, and not utilitarian aims as applied narrowly to 
health outcomes, are most foundational to public health. In particular, we argue 
that the aspiration for improvement of the health of populations defines the 
positive aim of justice in public health, along with the negative aim of 
reducing or combating systematic disadvantage that affects adversely 
historically situated social groups and, more generally, children across the 
normal life span when their well-being is not assigned a special priority in the 
development of public health policies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-008-0443-7
PMID: 18259708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Dis Colon Rectum. 2008 May;51(5):578-83. doi: 10.1007/s10350-008-9207-6. Epub
 2008 Feb 8.

Clinical application of self-expandable metallic stent for treatment of 
colorectal obstruction caused by extrinsic invasive tumors.

Shin SJ(1), Kim TI, Kim BC, Lee YC, Song SY, Kim WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Institute of Gastroenterology, Yonsei 
University, College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to extend the application of 
self-expandable metallic stents by investigating their usefulness in treating 
colorectal obstructions caused by unresectable extrinsic tumors.
METHODS: From January 2000 to November 2005, a total of 60 colorectal stenting 
procedures were performed, and 57 stents were deployed in 39 patients with 
extrinsic tumors. The success rate and complications were analyzed 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: The most common etiology and location of obstruction were advanced 
gastric cancer and transverse colon. Technical success was 34 of 39 patients 
(87.2 percent). The causes of technical failure were immediate stent migration 
(n = 1), technical problems (n = 1), and access failure because of bowel 
immobilization (n = 3). Clinical success was 32 of 34 technical successes (82.1 
percent). The two patients without clinical success had multifocal strictures of 
the bowel. Complications occurred in 22 of 57 stents (38.6 percent), including 
stent reobstruction (n = 14) and stent migration (n = 5). All of stent 
migrations except one developed with covered stents.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with colonic obstruction caused by extrinsic tumors, 
stent insertion provided effective symptom relief and can be a reasonable 
alternative choice to a colostomy. An uncovered stent might be more preferable, 
considering less migration and remaining short life expectancy, compared with a 
covered stent.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-008-9207-6
PMID: 18259816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Nucleosides Nucleotides Nucleic Acids. 2008 Mar;27(3):261-78. doi: 
10.1080/15257770701853679.

Incorporation of multiple sequential pseudothymidines by DNA polymerases and 
their impact on DNA duplex structure.

Havemann SA(1), Hoshika S, Hutter D, Benner SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology & Cell Science, Space Life Sciences Laboratory, 
Kennedy Space Center, University of Florida, FL, USA.

Thermal denaturation and circular dichroism studies suggested that multiple (up 
to 12), sequential pseudothymidines, a representative C-glycoside, do not 
perturb the structure of a representative DNA duplex. Further, various Family A 
and B DNA polymerases were found to extend a primer by incorporating four 
sequential pseudothymidine triphosphates, and then continue the extension to 
generate full-length product. Detailed studies showed that Taq polymerase 
incorporated up to five sequential C-glycosides, but not more. These results 
constrain architectures for sequencing, quantitating, and analyzing DNA analogs 
that exploit C-glycosides, and define better the challenge of creating a 
synthetic biology using these with natural polymerases.

DOI: 10.1080/15257770701853679
PMID: 18260010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Rejuvenation Res. 2008 Feb;11(1):39-42. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0579.

Epigenetic engineering and its possible role in anti-aging intervention.

Vaiserman AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, Kiev, Ukraine. vaiserman@geront.kiev.ua

Recently a cluster of new hypotheses of aging has been suggested, which 
explicitly predict the importance of early-life events in health and life span 
modulations. It has been widely assumed that these long-lasting consequences of 
early-life exposures may depend on the same mechanisms as those underlying 
"cellular memory," that is, epigenetic inheritance systems. There is a growing 
body of evidence that environmentally induced perturbations in the epigenetic 
processes (which involve alterations of gene expression without a change in DNA 
sequence) can determine different aspects of aging, as well as etiology and 
pathogenesis of age-related diseases. Long-term beneficial effects can also 
occur under some conditions. Changes in gene expression were detected by the 
life-extending hormetic interventions, such as irradiation, both heat and cold 
shocks, repeated mild heat stress, dietary restriction, and hypergravity, as 
well as by geroprotectors (e.g., antioxidants). It might be hypothesized that 
life-extending effects are most likely a consequence of unspecific (hormetic) 
action, rather than specific (geroprotective) action, and induced 
transcriptional changes may be a common mechanism for all anti-aging treatments. 
The epigenetic interventions (e.g., pre- and postnatal mild stresses), it seems, 
can be specifically useful in the modulation of aging processes and healthy life 
extension.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0579
PMID: 18260779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2008 Mar;52(Pt 3):182-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2007.00992.x.

Bone mass in young adults with Down syndrome.

Guijarro M(1), Valero C, Paule B, Gonzalez-Macias J, Riancho JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital U.M. Valdecilla, University of 
Cantabria, Santander, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Down syndrome (DS) is a frequent cause of intellectual disability. 
With the increasing life expectancy of these patients, concerns have been raised 
about the risk of osteoporosis. In fact, several investigators have reported a 
reduced bone mass in DS. However, the results may be confounded by comorbid 
diseases, and differences in lifestyle habits and body size. Therefore, we 
planned to determine anthropometric and lifestyle factors influencing bone 
mineral density (BMD) in young adults with DS.
METHODS: Thirty-nine patients with DS (mean age 26 years) and 78 controls were 
studied. Areal BMD was measured by dual x-ray densitometry (DXA); volumetric BMD 
at the lumbar spine and femoral neck was estimated with published formulae.
RESULTS: DS patients had lower areal BMD than controls at all regions (spine, 
hip and total body). Height and projected bone area were also lower. There were 
no differences between both groups regarding estimated volumetric BMD at the 
femoral neck. However, spine volumetric BMD was also lower in DS than controls. 
In multivariate analysis, DS, male sex, little physical activity and low 
sunlight exposure were associated with lower spine volumetric BMD; on the other 
hand, fat mass and sunlight exposure were associated with femoral neck 
volumetric BMD.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that patients with DS had a reduced areal BMD, but 
it is in part a consequence of the reduced body size, particularly at the 
femoral neck. Physical activity and sunlight exposure are associated to 
volumetric BMD and should be stimulated in order to maintain an adequate bone 
mass in these patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2007.00992.x
PMID: 18261017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Pharm Pharm Sci. 2007;10(4):504-18. doi: 10.18433/j3vc75.

Hydromorphone in the management of cancer-related pain: an update on routes of 
administration and dosage forms.

Kumar MG(1), Lin S.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Allied Health Professions, St. John's University, 
Jamaica, New York, USA.

Pain is experienced by a majority of cancer patients. As life expectancy has 
increased in developed and developing countries, cancer-related pain has become 
a major health concern. Despite the use of the three-step analgesic ladder 
proposed by the World Health Organization, pain still remains under treated. 
Morphine, the gold standard against which all other opioids has been compared is 
considered the first choice for management of cancer-related pain. However, 
recently focus has shifted to the use of hydromorphone, a semi-synthetic 
derivative of morphine, which is more potent, more soluble and has a comparable 
side-effect profile. This review focuses on the use of hydromorphone for the 
management of cancer-related pain emphasizing on the various routes of 
administration as well as dosage forms, and providing a direction for the 
preference of a particular route depending on the need for a rapid effect and 
the individual's situation. Various approaches used to modify the release of 
hydromorphone from the drug delivery systems with the perspective of improving 
patient compliance are also being discussed.

DOI: 10.18433/j3vc75
PMID: 18261371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jan-Feb;28(1):33-43. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07309638.

Identifying research priorities: the value of information associated with repeat 
screening for age-related macular degeneration.

Bojke L(1), Claxton K, Sculpher MJ, Palmer S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, United Kingdom. 
kpc1@york.ac.uk

The authors report an analysis that was developed as part of a pilot study 
examining the use of decision analysis and value-of-information methods to 
inform research prioritization decisions for the UK health care system. This 
analysis was conducted to inform decision makers whether additional research on 
screening for age-related macular degeneration (AMD) would be worthwhile and to 
demonstrate the benefits and feasibility of using such analytic methods to 
inform policy decision within the time-lines demanded by existing procedures. A 
probabilistic decision model was developed to establish the cost-effectiveness 
of a policy of repeat screening for AMD using the Amsler grid followed by 
treatment with photodynamic therapy (PDT) compared with 2 alternatives: PDT 
without screening (self-referral) and no screening or treatment. Screening for 
AMD appears to be cost-effective on the basis of existing evidence; however, the 
decision to implement a policy of screening is somewhat uncertain, with a 
probability that screening is cost-effective of 0.87 and 0.72 for the 20/40 and 
20/80 models, respectively, at a threshold of 30,000 pounds per quality-adjusted 
life-year. The expected value of perfect information (EVPI) associated with this 
decision is substantial (6.9 million pounds for the 20/40 model and 14.5 million 
pounds for the 20/80 model), with a sizeable EVPI associated with the effect of 
PDT on quality of life. The analysis demonstrates that EVPI analysis can be 
implemented in a timely fashion to inform the type of research prioritization 
decisions faced by any health care system. This case study also illustrates the 
need to account for any structural uncertainties appropriately.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07309638
PMID: 18263560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jan-Feb;28(1):66-89. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07309642.

Comparing the incomparable? A systematic review of competing techniques for 
converting descriptive measures of health status into QALY-weights.

Mortimer D(1), Segal L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Faculty of Business & Economics, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Clayton, Australia. duncan.mortimer@buseco.monash.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Algorithms for converting descriptive measures of health status into 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY)--weights are now widely available, and their 
application in economic evaluation is increasingly commonplace. The objective of 
this study is to describe and compare existing conversion algorithms and to 
highlight issues bearing on the derivation and interpretation of the 
QALY-weights so obtained.
METHODS: Systematic review of algorithms for converting descriptive measures of 
health status into QALY-weights.
RESULTS: The review identified a substantial body of literature comprising 46 
derivation studies and 16 studies that provided evidence or commentary on the 
validity of conversion algorithms. Conversion algorithms were derived using 1 of 
4 techniques: 1) transfer to utility regression, 2) response mapping, 3) effect 
size translation, and 4) "revaluing" outcome measures using preference-based 
scaling techniques. Although these techniques differ in their 
methodological/theoretical tradition, data requirements, and ease of derivation 
and application, the available evidence suggests that the sensitivity and 
validity of derived QALY-weights may be more dependent on the coverage and 
sensitivity of measures and the disease area/patient group under evaluation than 
on the technique used in derivation.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the recent proliferation of conversion algorithms, a number 
of questions bearing on the derivation and interpretation of derived 
QALY-weights remain unresolved. These unresolved issues suggest directions for 
future research in this area. In the meantime, analysts seeking guidance in 
selecting derived QALY-weights should consider the validity and feasibility of 
each conversion algorithm in the disease area and patient group under evaluation 
rather than restricting their choice to weights from a particular derivation 
technique.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07309642
PMID: 18263562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Nutr Health Aging. 2008 Feb;12(2):99-100. doi: 10.1007/BF02982560.

Longevity, health and well-being. Issues in aging in North America.

Keating N, Fox Wetle T.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02982560
PMID: 18264635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. J Nutr Health Aging. 2008 Feb;12(2):139-43. doi: 10.1007/BF02982567.

Evidence-based roads to the promotion of health in old age.

Ljubuncic P(1), Globerson A, Reznick AZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel 
Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel.

The increase in life expectancy, along with the accompanying ongoing increase in 
the proportion and absolute numbers of nonagenarians and centenarians have set 
forth the curiosity regarding the question of the quality of health in very old 
age. Studies on that issue have pointed to the fact that the very old people are 
actually healthier than originally predicted on the basis of the earlier studies 
on aging. Current efforts are thus invested in elucidating the possible basis of 
health in the very old people, as well as better understanding of potential 
causes of frailty and common diseases in old age. This review recounts on the 
various aspects underlying evidence-based recommendations for healthy life in 
old age. We focus on the genetic and non-genetic bases of aging and longevity, 
and the various directions towards the promotion of health, both via avoiding, 
or eliminating risk factors and deleterious effects, as well as conducting 
healthy lifestyle - in terms of proper nutrition and physical exercise. Next, we 
touch upon preventive medicine, particularly as related to vaccination, with a 
note also on the need for a reasonable use of medications. In addition, we 
report about the developing area of regenerative medicine and its potential in 
relation to the prevention of damage and possible strategies towards tissue 
repair in cases of age-related degenerative processes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02982567
PMID: 18264642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Nutr Health Aging. 2008 Feb;12(2):145-50. doi: 10.1007/BF02982568.

Prognosis and vascular co-morbidity in dementia a historical cohort study in 
general practice.

Meerman L(1), van de Lisdonk EH, Koopmans RT, Zielhuis GA, Olde Rikkert MG.

Author information:
(1)Medical Health FAculty, Radboud University, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Disease management of dementia in general practice (GP) is hampered 
by a lack of data on the prognosis of dementia.
AIM: To gain more insight into the life expectancy of and the effects of 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular co-morbidity in dementia patients in GP.
DESIGN OF STUDY: Historical cohort.
SETTING: 4 general practices in Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
POPULATION: All patients in these practices participating in the Continuous 
Morbidity Registration (CMR).
METHODS: The patient cohort was diagnosed with dementia between January 1st 1985 
and December 31st 2002. The control cohort consisted of patients matched 
one-to-one with demented patients on age, sex, and socio-economic status. 
Cardiovascular and cerebrovascular co-morbidity was studied from 5 years before 
the diagnosis of dementia till the endpoints of data collection.
RESULTS: 251 couples of patients and controls were formed (79 men, 172 women, 
mean age 81.4+/-7.0 years). The median life expectancy after diagnosis was 2.3 
years for the dementia patients, and 3.7 years for the controls. Median time 
from diagnosis till nursing home placement was 1.4 years. Cerebrovascular and 
cardiovascular morbidity preceding dementia diagnosis decreased survival of 
cases with dementia with a relative risk of 1.54 (95%CI: 1.13-2.09) and in 
controls with a relative risk of 1.91 (95%CI: 1.48-2.46). Obesity was associated 
with a lower risk of dementia (RR=0.77 (95%-CI 0.63-0.94)). Hypertension and 
obesity diagnosed after the dementia diagnosis were significantly associated 
with an increase in survival.
CONCLUSION: In general practice, the diagnosis of dementia is made at a late 
stage, when patients will continue to live at home only for a short time. 
Moreover, life expectancy at diagnosis is very limited and prognosis is 
furthermore negatively influenced by preceding cardio- and cerebrovascular 
co-morbidity.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02982568
PMID: 18264643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2009 Jan;113(1):145-51. doi:
10.1007/s10549-008-9915-6.  Epub 2008 Feb 9.

Increase in response rate by prolonged treatment with neoadjuvant letrozole.

Dixon JM(1), Renshaw L, Macaskill EJ, Young O, Murray J, Cameron D, Kerr GR, 
Evans DB, Miller WR.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Breast Unit, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, Scotland. 
jmd@ed.ac.uk

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to investigate the potential benefits of 
prolonged treatment with neoadjuvant letrozole.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: About 182 consecutive patients have been treated in 
Edinburgh with neoadjuvant letrozole for 3 months or longer and 63 patients have 
continued on letrozole beyond 3 months. Outcomes are reported.
RESULTS: Of the 63 patients who continued on letrozole, 38 patients took 
letrozole for more than 1 year and 23 took letrozole for more than 24 months. 
The median reduction in clinical volume in the first 3 months in these 63 
patients was 52%. Similar reductions in median clinical volume were seen between 
three to 6 months (50%), 6-12 months and 12-24 months (medians 37 and 33%, 
respectively). At 3 months 69.8% of the 182 patients had a partial or complete 
response. The response rate increased to 83.5% with prolonged letrozole 
treatment. Continuing letrozole beyond 3 months increased the number of women 
who initially required mastectomy or had locally advanced breast cancer who were 
subsequently suitable for breast conserving surgery from 60% (81/134) at 3 
months to 72% (96/134). Thirty-three women remain on letrozole alone (man age at 
diagnosis 83 years) and at 3 years the median time to treatment failure has not 
been reached.
CONCLUSION: Continuing letrozole in responding patients beyond 3-4 months 
achieves further clinical reduction in tumour size. For elderly women with a 
short life expectancy letrozole alone may provide long-term disease control.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-008-9915-6
PMID: 18264759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Mem Cognit. 2007 Dec;35(8):1928-39. doi: 10.3758/bf03192926.

Looking back across the life span: a life story account of the reminiscence 
bump.

Glück J(1), Bluck S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Alpen-Adria University Klagenfurt, Klagenfurt, 
Austria. judith.glueck@uni-klu.ac.at

The reminiscence bump is a robust finding in the autobiographical memory 
literature: Adults recall more events from the second and third decades of life 
than from other periods. Berntsen and Rubin (2004; Rubin & Berntsen, 2003) 
proposed a life script account of the reminiscence bump. We extend the life 
script account by taking a theory-based, life span developmental approach, 
proposing a life story account for the bump. This account predicts that events 
in the reminiscence bump are characterized not only by positive valence, but 
also by high perceived control and high perceived influence on later 
development. Predictions from the life story account were confirmed in analyses 
of 3,541 life events collected from 659 participants 50-90 years of age. Only 
high-perceived-control positive events showed a reminiscence bump, and these 
events were rated as more influential on later development than were events 
showing any other combination of valence and perceived control. Findings are 
discussed in terms of a theoretical extension of the life script account 
embracing (1) principles of life span development and (2) the personal creation 
of a life story that helps to organize autobiographical memory.

DOI: 10.3758/bf03192926
PMID: 18265609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Hepatogastroenterology. 2007 Dec;54(80):2249-58.

Benefit-risk analysis of different risk-related surveillance schedules following 
colorectal polypectomy.

Becker F(1), Nusko G, Welke J, Hahn EG, Mansmann U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biometry and Informatics, University of Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: For colorectal screening patients a gain of life time was 
previously calculated to be about 30-50 days. Different recommendations for 
recognizing at-risk groups and defining surveillance intervals after an initial 
finding of colorectal adenomas have been published. However, no benefit-risk 
analysis regarding specific long-term effects of follow-up patients has been 
reported to date.
METHODOLOGY: A Markov model based on time-dependent transition possibilities was 
developed to compare two surveillance schedules: recommendations based on the 
Erlangen Registry of Colorectal Polyps (ERCRP) and the National Polyp Study 
(NPS). The outcome was calculated for a 50-year-old patient with 30 years of 
follow-up after initial polypectomy. The data used in this model were taken from 
different sources, namely the ERCRP, the German Study Group of Colorectal 
Cancer, the German Statistical Yearbook, and from meta-analyses of studies 
reporting data on complications and sensitivity of colonoscopy.
RESULTS: Patients under surveillance have a mean lifetime gain of 98 (ERCRP) and 
91 (NPS) days compared with those who do not come for surveillance. 
Approximately 84% and 79% of deaths from colorectal carcinoma (CRC) could be 
prevented if patients were followed up according to the recommendations of the 
ERCRP and the NPS, respectively. The risk of death due to colonoscopy for 
patients during followup is about 0.05% lifetime risk. Sensitivity analysis 
showed the stability of the results under a wide range of reasonable variations 
of relevant parameters. In a pessimistic one-way sensitivity analysis regarding 
compliance, effectiveness was reduced to one third.
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance using colonoscopy is an effective tool for preventing 
CRC after colorectal polypectomy and similar to the screening procedure. The 
effectiveness is slightly higher when following the recommendations of the 
ERCRP, especially if a more realistic compliance is assumed.

PMID: 18265643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Ann Urol (Paris). 2007 Oct;41(5):237-53. doi: 10.1016/j.anuro.2007.08.004.

[Indications, techniques and outcomes of high-intensity focused ultrasound 
(HIFU) for the treatment of localized prostate cancer].

[Article in French]

Poissonnier L(1), Murata FJ, Chapelon JY, Gelet A.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital edouard Herriot, 5, place d'Arsonval, 69437 Lyon 03, France.

High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a minimally invasive alternative for 
patients with localized prostate cancer, not suitable for radical prostatectomy 
because of a life expectancy less than 10 years or because of major 
co-morbidities precluding surgery. HIFU can be performed in patients with LUTS 
(associated TURP) or with a previous history of BPH surgery. HIFU is repeatable 
after the initial procedure if a recurrent cancer is diagnosed on control 
biopsies. Furthermore, this therapy is a viable option for patients with a local 
relapse after external beam radiation therapy: oncologic efficacy is conversely 
related to the initial prostate cancer stage before radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anuro.2007.08.004
PMID: 18265750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Int Bioethique. 2007 Sep;18(3):85-102, 118. doi: 10.3917/jib.183.0085.

Death with dignity and euthanasia: comparative European approaches.

Byk C(1).

Author information:
(1)International Association of Law, Ethics and Science. 
christian.byk@wanadoo.fr

From 1800 to 1960, the average life expectancy doubled making medical activities 
a fight against death. In doing so, the dying process became medicalized. Some 
infectious diseases clearly disappeared while new surgical interventions, such 
as organ transplants, may be viewed as some kinds of human resuscitation. 
Sociologically, medicine has replaced religion and doctors are the new priests 
of our techno society. Paradoxically this has created a new fear The artificial 
process of dying is replacing death but it is transforming the individuals into 
artificially supported and suffering bodies relying on medical supervision while 
the family is left away, making social solidarity and compassion a relic of the 
past. There comes the wish to re appropriate our own death, to give a true 
meaning to the dying process by making it peaceful and respectful of our human 
dignity. This evolution takes place in a very controversial context because it 
is founded on various and contradictory attitudes. A rights based approach will 
support both the termination of futile treatment and active euthanasia while a 
duty-based approach will allow the physicians to accept responding positively to 
death claims that follow some predetermined criteria and refused others.

DOI: 10.3917/jib.183.0085
PMID: 18265823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2008 Apr;19(4):416-28. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01489.x. Epub 2008 Feb 11.

Dental implants placed in grafted maxillary sinuses: a retrospective analysis of 
clinical outcome according to the initial clinical situation and a proposal of 
defect classification.

Chiapasco M(1), Zaniboni M, Rimondini L.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Oral Surgery, Department of Medicine, Surgery, and Dentistry, San 
Paolo Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. matteo.chiapasco@unimi.it

OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY: To present a classification of maxillary defects 
necessitating sinus floor elevation procedures (SFEPs) with two objectives: (a) 
to propose a standardization of surgical procedures according to initial type of 
atrophy and (b) to allow the evaluation of the success/survival rates of 
implants placed in the grafted areas according to the initial situation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Nine-hundred and fifty-two consecutive SFEP were 
performed on 692 patients. Initial defects were classified according to a new 
classification, which considered not only residual bone height below the sinus 
but also the width of the alveolar crest and horizontal/vertical intermaxillary 
relationship. Results were evaluated according to the different classes. The 
sinuses were grafted with autogenous bone taken from intra-oral or extra-oral 
sites: 579 SFEP were associated with vertical and/or horizontal onlay grafts to 
correct concomitant alveolar ridge deficits. A total of 2037 implants were 
inserted into the grafted sinuses either immediately or 4-6 months later. Three 
to 6 months afterwards, implants were loaded. The mean follow-up was 59 months 
(range: 12-144 months).
RESULTS: The success rate of the reconstructive procedures varied between 93.2% 
and 100%, according to class of atrophy; the overall survival and success rates 
of implants were 95.8% and 92.5%, respectively, whereas the survival and success 
rates according to class of atrophy varied between 90% and 97.6%, and between 
85.4% and 95.5%, respectively. Lower success rates were found in classes 
presenting with more severe atrophy.
CONCLUSION: The results obtained demonstrated that sinus floor elevation, alone 
or in association with reconstructive procedures with autogenous bone grafts, is 
a reliable procedure to allow implant placement in atrophic edentulous maxillae, 
irrespective of the initial clinical situation. However, it must be underlined 
that the success rates of reconstructive procedures and implants differ 
according to class of atrophy, showing lower success rates in classes presenting 
with more severe atrophy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2007.01489.x
PMID: 18266875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Colorectal Dis. 2008 Sep;10(7):668-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2007.01446.x.
 Epub 2008 Feb 11.

Long-term results of palliative stenting or surgery for incurable obstructing 
colon cancer.

Faragher IG(1), Chaitowitz IM, Stupart DA.

Author information:
(1)Western Hospital, Footscray, Melbourne, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Self-expanding metal stents are an effective means of relieving 
left-sided malignant colonic obstruction, and in the setting of incurable 
disease may provide palliation while allowing the patients to avoid surgery 
altogether. With modern chemotherapy regimes, patients may have a long-life 
expectancy, even in the presence of metastases. The purpose of this study was to 
investigate the long-term results of palliative stent placement, compared with 
patients undergoing palliative surgery.
METHOD: This is a retrospective study of 55 consecutive patients who underwent 
colonic stenting or palliative surgery for incurable, obstructing adenocarcinoma 
of the left colon.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients underwent colonic stenting, and 26 had surgery 
during the study period. Survival was similar in the two groups (14 months in 
the stent group, 11 months in the surgery group). Median hospital stay was 
shorter in the stent group (4 vs 13.5 days), and fewer patients in the stent 
group had complications (2 vs 14). Only four patients in the stent group went on 
to require later surgery. The median time to failure of the stents was 14 
months.
CONCLUSION: Colonic stenting provides effective and durable palliation for 
patients with incurable, obstructing adenocarcinomas of the left colon. It can 
be performed with less morbidity than palliative surgery, and offers similar 
long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2007.01446.x
PMID: 18266885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Aging Cell. 2008 Jun;7(3):291-304. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00378.x.
Epub  2008 Feb 11.

Altered bacterial metabolism, not coenzyme Q content, is responsible for the 
lifespan extension in Caenorhabditis elegans fed an Escherichia coli diet 
lacking coenzyme Q.

Saiki R(1), Lunceford AL, Bixler T, Dang P, Lee W, Furukawa S, Larsen PL, Clarke 
CF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of California, Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA.

Coenzyme Q(n) is a fully substituted benzoquinone containing a polyisoprene tail 
of distinct numbers (n) of isoprene groups. Caenorhabditis elegans fed 
Escherichia coli devoid of Q(8) have a significant lifespan extension when 
compared to C. elegans fed a standard 'Q-replete'E. coli diet. Here we examine 
possible mechanisms for the lifespan extension caused by the Q-less E. coli 
diet. A bioassay for Q uptake shows that a water-soluble formulation of Q(10) is 
effectively taken up by both clk-1 mutant and wild-type nematodes, but does not 
reverse lifespan extension mediated by the Q-less E. coli diet, indicating that 
lifespan extension is not due to the absence of dietary Q per se. The enhanced 
longevity mediated by the Q-less E. coli diet cannot be attributed to dietary 
restriction, different Qn isoforms, reduced pathogenesis or slowed growth of the 
Q-less E. coli, and in fact requires E. coli viability. Q-less E. coli have 
defects in respiratory metabolism. C. elegans fed Q-replete E. coli mutants with 
similarly impaired respiratory metabolism due to defects in complex V also show 
a pronounced lifespan extension, although not as dramatic as those fed the 
respiratory deficient Q-less E. coli diet. The data suggest that feeding 
respiratory incompetent E. coli, whether Q-less or Q-replete, produces a robust 
life extension in wild-type C. elegans. We believe that the fermentation-based 
metabolism of the E. coli diet is an important parameter of C. elegans 
longevity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00378.x
PMCID: PMC3104051
PMID: 18267002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Minn Med. 2008 Jan;91(1):36-9.

Emerging therapies for refractory angina.

Satran D(1), Traverse JH, Barsness GW, Lerman A, Simari RD, Poulose AK, Johnson 
RK, Henry TD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Disease, Minneapolis Heart Institute 
Foundation/Abbott Northwestern Hospital, University of Minnesota, USA.

Comment in
    Minn Med. 2009 Sep;92(9):6; author reply 6.

In recent years, improvements in both pharmacologic and revascularization 
therapies have greatly increased life expectancy for patients with coronary 
artery disease (CAD). As patients with more extensive CAD live longer, many 
develop myocardial ischemia and clinical angina that is not amenable to 
traditional revascularization therapy. Patients with severe, symptomatic, 
chronic CAD have been described as having refractory angina; they have also been 
termed "no-option" patients. This article discusses clinical management of this 
unique and growing group of patients and emerging therapeutic options including 
pharmacologic agents, enhanced external counterpulsation therapy, therapeutic 
angiogenesis, neurostimulation, and transmyocardial revascularization.

PMID: 18269067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2008 Apr-May;42(2):113-9; discussion 120-1. doi: 
10.1177/1538574407312656. Epub 2008 Feb 12.

Should endovascular repair be used for small abdominal aortic aneurysms?

LeCroy CJ(1), Passman MA, Taylor SM, Patterson MA, Combs BR, Jordan WD Jr.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, University of Alabama 
at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama 35294-0012, USA.

The outcomes of endovascular repair for small abdominal aortic aneurysm (4.0-4.9 
cm) is reported. All patients undergoing endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm 
repair between 2000 and 2006 with maximal diameter 4.0 to 4.9 cm form the small 
aneurysm study cohort. Data were analyzed retrospectively and life-table methods 
were used. Of 743 endovascular repairs, 132 (17.8%) were performed for small 
abdominal aortic aneurysm. Perioperative complication rate was 9.1%. Freedom 
from aneurysm expansion was 96% at 1 year, 86% at 3 years, and 77% at 5 years. 
Overall survival was 98%, 93%, and 84% at 1, 3, and 5 years, respectively. 
Perioperative 30-day mortality was 0.8% with an aneurysm-related mortality of 
1.5% at 5 years. There were no deaths from delayed aneurysm rupture. 
Endovascular repair of small abdominal aortic aneurysm is associated with low 
perioperative morbidity and mortality compared with published results for open 
repair, and treatment threshold can be reduced to 4 cm in selected patients.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574407312656
PMID: 18270271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2008 Feb 20;100(4):230-1. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djn015. Epub 
2008 Feb 12.

Time to remove the subspecialty blinders: breast cancer does not exist in 
isolation.

Giordano SH, Hortobagyi GN.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2008 Feb 20;100(4):252-60.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djn015
PMID: 18270334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. JAMA. 2008 Feb 13;299(6):688-90. doi: 10.1001/jama.299.6.688.

Medical challenges of improving the quality of a longer life.

Michel JP(1), Newton JL, Kirkwood TB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics and Rehabilitation, University of Geneva, Hopital 
des 3 Chêne Ch Pont Bochet, Thônex-Geneva, Switzerland. 
jean-pierre.michel@hcuge.ch

DOI: 10.1001/jama.299.6.688
PMID: 18270358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. World Health Popul. 2007 Jan;9(1):5-13. doi: 10.12927/whp.2007.18744.

The use of audit to identify maternal mortality in different settings: is it 
just a difference between the rich and the poor?

van Dillen J(1), Stekelenburg J, Schutte J, Walraven G, van Roosmalen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Leiden University Medical Centre, 
Albinusdreef 2, 2333ZA Leiden, The Netherlands. gwamupanda@caiway.nl

OBJECTIVE: To illustrate how maternal mortality audit identifies different 
causes of and contributing factors to maternal deaths in different settings in 
low- and high-income countries and how this can lead to local solutions in 
reducing maternal deaths.
DESIGN: Descriptive study of maternal mortality from different settings and 
review of data on the history of reducing maternal mortality in what are now 
high-income countries.
SETTINGS: Kalabo district in Zambia, Farafenni division in The Gambia, 
Onandjokwe district in Namibia, and The Netherlands.
POPULATION: Population of rural areas in Zambia and The Gambia, peri-urban 
population in Namibia and nationwide data from The Netherlands.
METHODS: Data from facility-based maternal mortality audits from three African 
hospitals and data from the latest confidential enquiry in The Netherlands.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Maternal mortality ratio (MMR), causes (direct and 
indirect) and characteristics.
RESULTS: MMR ranged from 10 per 100,000 (The Netherlands) to 1,540 per 100,000 
(The Gambia). Differences in causes of deaths were characterized by HIV/AIDS in 
Namibia, sepsis and HIV/AIDS in Zambia, (pre-)eclampsia in The Netherlands and 
obstructed labour in The Gambia.
CONCLUSION: Differences in maternal mortality are more than just differences 
between the rich and poor. Acknowledging the magnitude of maternal mortality and 
harnessing a strong political will to tackle the issues are important factors. 
However, there is no single, general solution to reduce maternal mortality, and 
identification of problems needs to be promoted through audit, both national and 
local.

DOI: 10.12927/whp.2007.18744
PMID: 18270496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. PLoS One. 2008 Feb 13;3(2):e1594. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001594.

RNA Pol II promotes transcription of centromeric satellite DNA in beetles.

Pezer Z(1), Ugarković D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Ruder Bosković Institute, Zagreb, Croatia.

Transcripts of centromeric satellite DNAs are known to play a role in 
heterochromatin formation as well as in establishment of the kinetochore. 
However, little is known about basic mechanisms of satellite DNA expression 
within constitutive heterochromatin and its regulation. Here we present 
comprehensive analysis of transcription of abundant centromeric satellite DNA, 
PRAT from beetle Palorus ratzeburgii (Coleoptera). This satellite is 
characterized by preservation and extreme sequence conservation among 
evolutionarily distant insect species. PRAT is expressed in all three 
developmental stages: larvae, pupae and adults at similar level. Transcripts are 
abundant comprising 0.033% of total RNA and are heterogeneous in size ranging 
from 0.5 kb up to more than 5 kb. Transcription proceeds from both strands but 
with 10 fold different expression intensity and transcripts are not processed 
into siRNAs. Most of the transcripts (80%) are not polyadenylated and remain in 
the nucleus while a small portion is exported to the cytoplasm. Multiple, 
irregularly distributed transcription initiation sites as well as termination 
sites have been mapped within the PRAT sequence using primer extension and 
RLM-RACE. The presence of cap structure as well as poly(A) tails in a portion of 
the transcripts indicate RNA polymerase II-dependent transcription and a 
putative polymerase II promoter site overlaps the most conserved part of the 
PRAT sequence. The treatment of larvae with alpha-amanitin decreases the level 
of PRAT transcripts at concentrations that selectively inhibit pol II activity. 
In conclusion, stable, RNA polymerase II dependant transcripts of abundant 
centromeric satellite DNA, not regulated by RNAi, have been identified and 
characterized. This study offers a basic understanding of expression of highly 
abundant heterochromatic DNA which in beetle species constitutes up to 50% of 
the genome.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0001594
PMCID: PMC2220036
PMID: 18270581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


91. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2008 Feb;55(1):24-32.

[The experience of parents caring for adult children with HIV/AIDS].

[Article in Chinese]

Feng MC(1), Kao SC, Lu PL, Ko NY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Kaohsiung Medical University Chung-Ho Memorial 
Hospital.

Antiretroviral treatment dramatically reduces mortality and prolongs the life 
expectancy of HIV/AIDS patients in Taiwan. The stigma attached to AIDS, and 
conflicts within the family result in family stress and emotional distress. 
Consequently, parents of adult children with HIV/AIDS endure perpetual distress 
while caring for their adult children. The purpose of this study is to elucidate 
the experiences of seven parents caring for children over 18 years of age with 
HIV/AIDS. Hermeneutic phenomenological methodology was applied to reveal the 
trajectory of parents' caring experiences and to discover the hidden meanings of 
the phenomena. Data were collected using semi-structured in-depth interviews 
lasting from 1.5 to three hours. Interviews were tape-recorded and transcribed 
verbatim. Data were analyzed using thematic analysis with the concept of the 
hermeneutic circle. Four essential themes emerged, and were identified and 
clarified. The parents' caring experiences were: (1) We didn't expect our 
children's controversial illness, so we pretend to ignore the taboo; (2) We are 
suffering from shame, and our daily lives and interaction with others have 
changed; (3) We provide advice frequently to protect our children from pain, and 
try our best to take care of them in order to bring them better fortune; and (4) 
We feel helpless in the face of predestined causality, and wish we could bear 
the burden of sin for our children. Unconditional love and endless 
responsibility, furthermore, were the essential experiences of these parents. 
Our findings highlight the importance of patient-center nursing care for 
HIV/AIDS patients and for healthcare professionals to assist HIV affected 
families on related family stress throughout the illness trajectory.

PMID: 18270930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Surg Oncol. 2008 Apr 1;97(5):396-403. doi: 10.1002/jso.20964.

Cost-effectiveness of laparoscopy versus laparotomy for initial surgical 
evaluation and treatment of potentially resectable hepatic colorectal 
metastases: a decision analysis.

Karuna ST(1), Thirlby R, Biehl T, Veenstra D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Virginia Mason Medical Center, Seattle, WA 98101, USA. 
jstrekkers@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Approximately 10-40% of colorectal cancer patients 
with potentially resectable hepatic metastases are incorrectly deemed resectable 
on standard pre-operative evaluation, including contrast-enhanced CT. 
Laparoscopy can identify unresectability in a majority of patients at highest 
risk of being incorrectly deemed resectable, sparing them an unnecessary 
laparotomy. However, laparoscopy requires an added investment by surgeons, 
patients, and payers. This analysis seeks to ascertain whether that investment 
is cost-effective.
METHODS: A decision tree model was developed to evaluate the societal 
cost-effectiveness of laparoscopy versus laparotomy in colorectal cancer 
patients with hepatic metastases deemed resectable on standard pre-operative 
evaluation. This comparison involved the cost, the effectiveness, and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness (the cost in dollars for each quality-adjusted 
life-year saved) of each option. Sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate 
the model's validity under a variety of assumptions.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of performing laparoscopy prior to laparotomy 
for resection of colorectal hepatic metastases depends primarily upon the 
probability of resectability determined at laparoscopy, and on the sensitivity 
of diagnostic laparoscopy.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopy for initial evaluation of resectability of hepatic 
metastases from colorectal cancer is most likely to benefit patients and save 
costs when performed after pre-operative risk stratification in patients at high 
risk of radiographically occult unresectable disease.

(Copyright) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.20964
PMID: 18270972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Heart Advis. 2007 Nov;10(11):1, 7.

Pushing your LDL cholesterol even lower may save your life. Trials show that 
achieving an LDL level below 70 mg/dL with statin therapy reduces cardiac 
deaths, with only minor risks.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18271098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Time. 2008 Jan 28;171(4):73-6.

Marry me.

Oliwenstein L.

PMID: 18271210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Jan 19;152(3):158-63.

[Cardiotoxicity of trastuzumab of significance in the adjuvant treatment of 
breast cancer].

[Article in Dutch]

Menke-van der Houven van Oordt CW(1), Fliervoet HJ, Mandigers CM, van Spronsen 
DJ.

Author information:
(1)Canisius-Wilhelmina Ziekenhuis, afd. Interne Geneeskunde, Nijmegen.

Three women aged 53, 52 and 36 years, respectively, underwent surgery for breast 
cancer, i.e. right-sided grade II invasive ductal carcinoma, left-sided grade 
III invasive ductal carcinoma, and left-sided multifocal grade III invasive 
ductal carcinoma, respectively. All 3 received adjuvant anthracycline-containing 
chemotherapy followed by trastuzumab. They developed significant cardiac 
dysfunction, as determined by a decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction 
(LVEF), which necessitated trastuzumab discontinuation. Trastuzumab therapy was 
resumed in the third patient after LVEF recovery but was stopped definitively 
when the LVEF decreased again. Trastuzumab has been shown to improve both 
disease-free and overall survival in patients with human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (HER2)-positive breast cancer. However, symptomatic cardiac failure 
due to cardiomyopathy has been observed in 0.6-4.1% of patients treated with 
trastuzumab after adjuvant anthracycline-based chemotherapy, whereas in 5-19% of 
the patients the decline in cardiac function led to permanent discontinuation of 
trastuzumab therapy. Cardiac function should be monitored regularly during 
trastuzumab therapy. An LVEF less than 50% or an absolute reduction of more than 
10% warrant treatment discontinuation and close follow-up. Cardiac dysfunction 
is usually reversible; however, the long-term consequences of LVEF reduction 
following trastuzumab therapy are still unknown and warrant close attention, 
given the relatively young age and long life expectancy of these patients.

PMID: 18271465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. An Med Interna. 2007 Oct;24(10):467-72. doi: 10.4321/s0212-71992007001000002.
