expectancy of less than six months. Once discovered, it is often too late for 
surgical intervention. Like other vascular tumors of the liver and spleen, 
intraperitoneal hemorrhage is a well-documented finding of angiosarcoma which 
can be lethal if not diagnosed and treated immediately. As in our case, 
intraperitoneal hemorrhage from primary tumor rupture was the only clinical 
presentation of this neoplasm. Approximately 15% of patients present with acute 
hemoperitoneum from either tumor rupture or peritoneal metastasis. Although 
several therapeutic options are available, we describe apalliative therapy for 
hepatic angiosarcoma utilizing transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) 
techniques incorporating the newer embolization agent Embospheres to locally 
target and treat this aggressive tumor.

DOI: 10.1155/2007/90169
PMCID: PMC2225468
PMID: 18288242


149. Bioinformation. 2007 Nov 3;2(3):91-5. doi: 10.6026/97320630002091.

Alzheimer's disease care and management: role of information technology.

Thota H, Rao AA, Reddi KK, Akula S, Changalasetty SB, Srinubabu G.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) an ailment that is supposed to affect people in old 
age. There are evidences that it might affect others also. The number of elders 
is increasing as the average life expectancy is increasing. AD afflicts its 
patients with the dementia and AD might increase in malignance over time. People 
with cognitive disabilities can be overwhelmed through cognitive prosthetics. 
With the help of information technology we can enhance the quality of life. 
Significant achievements are possible with an interdisciplinary approach that 
includes genomic, genetic, technological and therapeutic measures. The 
combination and coordination of Bioinformatics facilitates generation of various 
diagnostic tools for the people who are suffering from Alzheimer's disease. 
These tools help the care providers also. In this article, we emphasize the 
literature regarding the use of technology and its methodologies to improve the 
quality of care for the people with Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.6026/97320630002091
PMCID: PMC2248444
PMID: 18288330


150. Oncol Rep. 2008 Mar;19(3):831-5.

Phase I trial of PC-Spes2 in advanced hormone refractory prostate cancer.

Shabbir M(1), Love J, Montgomery B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Frimley Park Hospital, Portsmouth Road, Surrey GU16 
7UJ, UK. majidshabbir@hotmail.com

There are few treatment options for prostate cancer once it becomes hormone 
refractory, with a mean life expectancy of 9-12 months. During the period 
1997-2002, a product known as PC-Spes, containing a mixture of extracts from 
eight herbs based on the principles of traditional Chinese medicine, was 
reported to inhibit prostate cancer cell growth in vitro and reduce PSA in 
patients with hormone refractory prostate cancer (HRPC). This product was 
withdrawn from the market in 2002 due to concerns over quality control and 
reported contamination with traces of warfarin, indomethacin and 
diethylstilbesterol. PC-spes2, manufactured by Active Botanicals Ltd. (UK) with 
strict, independently-conducted quality control, has demonstrated no 
contaminants by high pressure liquid chromatography and liquid 
chromatography/mass spectroscopy. This compound was investigated in a 
single-centre, prospective, open pilot study. Eighteen patients with HRPC, mean 
age 72, median Gleason sum 8 (range 4-9) and median PSA 110 (range 4-2870) with 
three consecutive monthly increases in PSA were studied. Ten patients withdrew 
during the study period with significant diarrhoea (8 out of the first 10 
patients at one month and only 2 out of the last 8 due to an improved dosing 
schedule). At one month, 7 out of 10 patients had a drop in their PSA doubling 
time or PSA velocity, which was still apparent in 4 out of 5 patients still on 
trial at three months and all three patients still on trial at six months. No 
serious adverse events or derangement of coagulation were observed. PC-Spes2 
offers renewed hope and a safe alternative treatment option for patients with 
advanced HRPC. Further investigation with phase II trials is warranted.

PMID: 18288423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Gerodontology. 2008 Mar;25(1):1-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2008.00216.x.

Death is not the major problem--it is ageing and disability.

Newton JP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2008.00216.x
PMID: 18289128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Dent Mater. 2008 Aug;24(8):1095-101. doi: 10.1016/j.dental.2007.12.007. Epub
 2008 Mar 4.

Fatigue failure of as-received and retrieved NiTi orthodontic archwires.

Bourauel C(1), Scharold W, Jäger A, Eliades T.

Author information:
(1)Cendres+Métaux Endowed Chair of Oral Technology, School of Dentistry, Bonn 
University, Germany.

AIM: To investigate the fracture resistance of as-received and retrieved NiTi 
archwires.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: NiTi archwires (German Orthodontics, CA, USA) of various 
cross-sections were retrieved from orthodontic patients and brand-, type- and 
size-matched wires were included as controls. Specimens prepared from the 
selected wires were subjected to bending deformation at a loading frequency of 2 
Hz and cyclic loading was applied either until fatigue failure or with a maximum 
number of loading cycles of 2 x 10(6). For each wire cross-section a minimum of 
five specimens were loaded; the cycle number of the fatigue fracture was 
recorded and the mean of the cycles was calculated from the five specimens to 
provide the corresponding point in the Wöhler diagram. Scanning electron 
microscopy was used to assess the fracture pattern of broken wires. The results 
of the fracture cycles of as-received and retrieved wires were analyzed with a 
general linear regression model with state (as-received vs. retrieved) and wire 
size serving as discriminating variables and Tukey's test at the 0.05 level of 
significance.
RESULTS: Retrieved wires fractured at a significantly lower number of cycles 
compared to their as-received matches. The size of the wire played a role in 
determining fracture with larger cross-sections showing reduced fatigue failure 
properties and 0.30 and 0.035-mm specimens showing no fracture at the selected 
strain and number of cycles. The SEM investigations revealed evidence of 
smoother fractured surfaces in large-sized, rectangular cross-sectioned 
retrieved wires. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis with log rank test demonstrated 
the effect of aging and size in predicting survival of NiTi wires.
SIGNIFICANCE: The extended life expectancy of NiTi archwires proposed in current 
treatment trends is associated with higher probability of fatigue fracture of 
wires. Large diameter and square or rectangular cross-sections possess an 
increased chance of failure relative to smaller diameter wires. A necessity may 
emerge to monitor patients to identify wire failures despite the commonly 
employed practice of increased time intervals between appointments in patients 
treated with NiTi wires.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dental.2007.12.007
PMID: 18289660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Respir Med. 2008 May;102(5):699-710. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2007.12.018. Epub
2008  Mar 4.

Varenicline as compared to bupropion in smoking-cessation therapy--cost-utility 
results for Sweden 2003.

Bolin K(1), Mörk AC, Willers S, Lindgren B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Sweden kristian.bolin@luche.lu.se.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To calculate incremental cost-utility ratios (cost per QALY 
gained) for varenicline (Champix; Pfizer), as compared to bupropion, in 
smoking-cessation programmes for a lifetime follow-up period.
DESIGN: The Benefits of Smoking Cessation on Outcomes (BENESCO) simulation model 
was used for a male and female cohort, respectively, as a point of departure but 
further extended in order to include the indirect effects of smoking-cessation 
on production and consumption in the economy. All calculations were performed in 
2003 Swedish prices.
SETTING: Sweden in 2003.
PATIENTS OR PARTICIPANTS: Model cohort consisting of 25% of all smokers among 
men and women (168,844 males and 208,737 females), distributed by age, 18 and 
older, as in the Swedish population of 2003.
INTERVENTIONS: Varenicline as compared to bupropion, in smoking-cessation 
programmes for 20-year, 50-year, and lifetime follow-up periods.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: When the indirect effects on production and 
consumption were included, the incremental costs per QALY gained were euro2056 
(euro14,743) for men and euro1193 (euro14,214) for women, in comparison to 
bupropion and computed for a time horizon of 20 and 50 years (1euro 
approximately euroSEK9.12). Excluding the indirect effects on production and 
consumption, varenicline was cost-saving in comparison to bupropion. Sensitivity 
analysis indicated that the results are robust. Variation of treatment 
efficiency and intervention costs, respectively, had a larger effect on cost per 
QALY gained than other variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimated costs per QALY gained rated smoking-cessation 
intervention using varenicline among the most cost-effective life-saving medical 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2007.12.018
PMID: 18289839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Nutr Rev. 2007 Dec;65(12 Pt 2):S139-259. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-4887.2007.tb00351.x.

Living Well to 100: Is Inflammation Central to Aging? Proceedings of a 
conference, November 2006, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-4887.2007.tb00351.x
PMID: 18290303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Respir Care. 2008 Mar;53(3):346-50.

Interdisciplinary approach to the rehabilitation of an 18-year-old patient with 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia, using telerehabilitation technology.

Marshall SG(1), Shaw DK, Honles GL, Sparks KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Care, Health Professions Building, Room 350 A, 601 
University Drive, Texas State University-San Marcos, San Marcos, Texas 78666, 
USA. sm10@txstate.edu

We describe the use of telehealth technology in the rehabilitation of a college 
student with bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The present telerehabilitation 
application was necessitated by the absence of a formal university-based 
pulmonary rehabilitation program at Texas State University-San Marcos. Patient 
referral, evaluation, and rehabilitation were accomplished via interdisciplinary 
efforts of 3 separate university entities. Initial referral was obtained from 
the student health center, with pulmonary evaluation provided by the respiratory 
care department. Commercially available telerehabilitation equipment was then 
utilized to resolve exercise supervision and physiologic data-acquisition 
concerns. Forty-five individualized exercise sessions were administered by 
physical therapists via telerehabilitation distance voice and vision technology. 
Results reveal no substantive changes in pulmonary function test results, but 
there was improvement in functional aerobic capacity. Given the reduced life 
expectancy associated with bronchopulmonary dysplasia, investigators were 
afforded a unique opportunity to study an adult patient with this condition. 
Further, it appears the combined application of telerehabilitation technology 
and interdisciplinary cooperation among university departments is efficacious in 
the identification, evaluation, and rehabilitation of students with selected 
pulmonary disorders.

PMID: 18291051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Rev Med Interne. 2008 Nov;29(11):901-7. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.12.020.
Epub  2008 Mar 4.

[Cystic fibrosis in 2008].

[Article in French]

Durieu I(1), Josserand RN.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, service adulte du centre de référence national 
de lyon, centre de ressource et de compétences de la mucoviscidose, centre 
hospitalier Lyon-Sud, 69495 Pierre-Bénite cedex, France. 
isabelle.durieu@chu-lyon.fr

PURPOSE: To describe the epidemiological, physiopathological, clinical and 
therapeutic knowledge concerning cystic fibrosis (CF). Important modifications 
in the health organization of the care concerning this orphan disease have been 
implemented in France. The life expectancy has dramatically increased, as well 
as the knowledge concerning the pathological structure and function of the CFTR 
gene and protein. This will lead to the development of emerging drug treatments 
for this lethal disease.
CURRENT KNOWLEDGE AND KEY POINTS: The life expectancy is predicted to exceed 40 
years for children born in the 2000s. As a result, there has been a tremendous 
growth of the adult population that reached 40% of the overall approximately 
5000 patients included in the CF French registry (Observatoire National de la 
Mucoviscidose). Lung disease remains the primary cause of morbidity and 
mortality. The characteristic phenotypic presentation associates bronchial and 
rhinosinusal symptoms, pancreatic insufficiency and liver disease. Bronchial 
damage leads to progressive chronic respiratory insufficiency. Diabetes mellitus 
and osteoporosis frequently appears in adulthood. Neonatal screening has been 
implemented in France since 2002. It will prevent delayed diagnosis and its 
deleterious consequences. Some atypical cases of CF presenting only with one or 
two organ system involvement can be diagnosed in adulthood. Isolated chronic 
rhinosinusitis, bronchiectasis, congenital bilateral absence of vas deferens, 
recurrent pancreatitis, allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, and some case 
of cholangitis may so revealed late form of cystic fibrosis.
FUTURE PROSPECTS AND PROJECTS: The health care is organized in cystic fibrosis 
centres. Despite gene discovery, treatment still remains symptomatic, based on 
intensive pulmonary and nutritional treatments. Challenges for new treatments 
are to correct the basic defect, either by gene therapy or by pharmacological 
modulation of the abnormal physiological processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2007.12.020
PMID: 18291560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Apr;66(8):1797-808. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.01.006.
Epub  2008 Feb 21.

Potential impacts of iron biofortification in India.

Stein AJ(1), Meenakshi JV, Qaim M, Nestel P, Sachdev HP, Bhutta ZA.

Author information:
(1)University of Hohenheim, Agricultural Economics and Social Sciences, Inst. 
490b, 70593 Stuttgart, Germany. academic@ajstein.de

Iron deficiency is a widespread nutrition and health problem in developing 
countries, causing impairments in physical activity and cognitive development, 
as well as maternal mortality. Although food fortification and supplementation 
programmes have been effective in some countries, their overall success remains 
limited. Biofortification, that is, breeding food crops for higher micronutrient 
content, is a relatively new approach, which has been gaining international 
attention recently. We propose a methodology for ex ante impact assessment of 
iron biofortification, building on a disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
framework. This methodology is applied in an Indian context. Using a large and 
representative data set of household food consumption, the likely effects of 
iron-rich rice and wheat varieties are simulated for different target groups and 
regions. These varieties, which are being developed by an international public 
research consortium, based on conventional breeding techniques, might be ready 
for local distribution within the next couple of years. The results indicate 
sizeable potential health benefits. Depending on the underlying assumptions, the 
disease burden associated with iron deficiency could be reduced by 19-58%. Due 
to the relatively low institutional cost to reach the target population, the 
expected cost-effectiveness of iron biofortification compares favourably with 
other micronutrient interventions. Nonetheless, biofortification should not be 
seen as a substitute for other interventions. Each approach has its particular 
strengths, so they complement one another.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.01.006
PMID: 18291567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Osteoporos Int. 2008 Apr;19(4):437-47. doi: 10.1007/s00198-007-0550-6. Epub
2008  Feb 22.

Cost-effective osteoporosis treatment thresholds: the United States perspective.

Tosteson AN(1), Melton LJ 3rd, Dawson-Hughes B, Baim S, Favus MJ, Khosla S, 
Lindsay RL; National Osteoporosis Foundation Guide Committee.

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Clinical Research Center in Musculoskeletal Diseases and 
The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Dartmouth 
Medical School, Lebanon, NH 03756, USA. anna.tosteson@dartmouth.edu

A United States-specific cost-effectiveness analysis, which incorporated the 
cost and health consequences of clinical fractures of the hip, spine, forearm, 
shoulder, rib, pelvis and lower leg, was undertaken to identify the 10-year hip 
fracture probability required for osteoporosis treatment to be cost-effective 
for cohorts defined by age, sex, and race/ethnicity. A 3% 10-year risk of hip 
fracture was generally required for osteoporosis treatment to cost less than 
$60,000 per QALY gained.
INTRODUCTION: Rapid growth of the elderly United States population will result 
in so many at risk of osteoporosis that economically efficient approaches to 
osteoporosis care warrant consideration.
METHODS: A Markov-cohort model of annual United States age-specific incidence of 
clinical hip, spine, forearm, shoulder, rib, pelvis and lower leg fractures, 
costs (2005 US dollars), and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) was used to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis treatment ($600/yr drug cost for 5 
years with 35% fracture reduction) by gender and race/ethnicity groups. To 
determine the 10-year hip fracture probability at which treatment became 
cost-effective, average annual age-specific probabilities for all fractures were 
multiplied by a relative risk (RR) that was systematically varied from 0 to 10 
until a cost of $60,000 per QALY gained was observed for treatment relative to 
no intervention.
RESULTS: Osteoporosis treatment was cost-effective when the 10-year hip fracture 
probability reached approximately 3%. Although the RR at which treatment became 
cost-effective varied markedly between genders and by race/ethnicity, the 
absolute 10-year hip fracture probability at which intervention became 
cost-effective was similar across race/ethnicity groups, but tended to be 
slightly higher for men than for women.
CONCLUSIONS: Application of the WHO risk prediction algorithm to identify 
individuals with a 3% 10-year hip fracture probability may facilitate efficient 
osteoporosis treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-007-0550-6
PMCID: PMC2729707
PMID: 18292976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2007 Oct;23(136):288-90.

[Interstitial lung diseases--problem of ageing societies].

[Article in Polish]

Golec M(1), Władysiuk-Blicharz M, Spiewak R.

Author information:
(1)Uniwersytet Jagielloński Collegium Medicum, Kraków, Wydział Ochrony Zdrowia, 
Instytut Zdrowia Publicznego, Zakład Promocji Zdrowia. msgolec@yahoo.com

Chronic lung diseases are on increase mainly in developed countries that are 
characteristic by ageing societies. Despite this, interstitial lung diseases, 
together with lung fibrosis, seemed to be forgotten by researchers and 
clinicians till last years. Sufficient epidemiological data are lacking 
(especially little is known on the environmental and occupational causative 
factors). No effective treatment is available so far - diagnostic and 
therapeutic options available nowadays are characterized by high costs (e.g. 
lung transplantation) and low effectiveness. The average age of patients first 
diagnosed with lung fibrosis is 61 +/- 0,7 years, which poses a rising public 
health problem of ageing societies, especially those in Europe, USA and Japan. 
The average duration of life after the diagnosis is only 3 years. Facing these 
facts, a new approach to this group of diseases is urgently needed. A first step 
should include thorough epidemiological studies aimed at identification of 
causes and risk factors of these diseases. Results of such research should be 
subsequently transferred into health policy. Especially needed are sensitive 
screening programs and development of effective treatment that would 
substantially improve life expectancy and quality of life of the affected 
people.

PMID: 18293853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Pharmacotherapy. 2008 Mar;28(3):366-75. doi: 10.1592/phco.28.3.366.

Effects of antihypertensive drug treatment on the risk of dementia and cognitive 
impairment.

Poon IO(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Texas Southern University, and the 
Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center, Houston, Texas 77004, USA. chui_io@tsu.edu

Dementia is a common and serious health problem that affects 33 million persons 
globally. With the increase in life expectancy, the prevalence of dementia is 
expected to reach 81.1 million persons by 2040. Dementia impairs quality of life 
and is associated with profound disease burden, morbidity, and mortality in both 
patients and caregivers. Therefore, identifying measures to prevent dementia is 
a research priority. Midlife hypertension has increased the risk of dementia in 
large prospective cohort studies. Researchers have investigated the blood 
pressure-lowering effects of antihypertensive drugs on the incidence of 
dementia. Although prospective cohort studies have shown that use of 
antihypertensive drugs was associated with a reduced rate of cognitive 
impairment and dementia, these studies were not placebo controlled. Four 
randomized, placebo-controlled studies-the Systolic Hypertension in Europe 
(Syst-Eur) study, Study on Cognition and Prognosis in the Elderly (SCOPE), 
Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program (SHEP), and Perindopril Protection 
Against Recurrent Stroke Study (PROGRESS)-investigated the effects of 
antihypertensive agents on the incidence of dementia. The Syst-Eur study found 
that active treatment with nitrendipine, enalapril, and/or hydrochlorothiazide 
reduced the rate of dementia by 50% compared with placebo (p=0.05). The PROGRESS 
study showed that active treatment with perindopril and indapamide was 
associated with reduced cognitive decline compared with placebo (risk ratio 19%, 
p=0.01). In contrast, the SCOPE study (candesartan or hydrochlorothiazide vs 
placebo) and the SHEP trial (chlorthalidone, atenolol, or reserpine vs placebo) 
found no significant difference between the active treatment and placebo groups 
on the incidence of dementia. Some researchers have suggested that certain 
antihypertensive drug classes, such as angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, 
angiotensin II receptor blockers, diuretics, and calcium channel blockers, may 
offer benefit in reducing dementia risk in addition to their blood 
pressure-lowering effect. Further prospective randomized studies comparing 
different antihypertensive classes are needed to provide more evidence regarding 
the effects of antihypertensive drugs on dementia risk and to determine whether 
certain antihypertensive classes provide greater benefits than others.

DOI: 10.1592/phco.28.3.366
PMID: 18294116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Arthritis Res Ther. 2008;10(1):R24. doi: 10.1186/ar2377. Epub 2008 Feb 22.

Cost-utility of an 8-month aquatic training for women with fibromyalgia: a 
randomized controlled trial.

Gusi N(1), Tomas-Carus P.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sports Sciences, University of Extremadura, Avda, Universidad s/n, 
10071 Cáceres, Spain. ngusi@unex.es

INTRODUCTION: Physical therapy in warm water has been effective and highly 
recommended for persons with fibromyalgia, but its efficiency remains largely 
unknown. Should patients or health care managers invest in this therapy? The aim 
of the current study was to assess the cost-utility of adding an aquatic 
exercise programme to the usual care of women with fibromyalgia.
METHODS: Costs to the health care system and to society were considered in this 
study that included 33 participants, randomly assigned to the experimental group 
(n = 17) or a control group (n = 16). The intervention in the experimental group 
consisted of a 1-h, supervised, water-based exercise sessions, three times per 
week for 8 months. The main outcome measures were the health care costs and the 
number of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) using the time trade-off 
elicitation technique from the EuroQol EQ-5D instrument. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed for variations in staff salary, number of women attending 
sessions and time spent going to the pool. The cost effectiveness acceptability 
curves were created using a non-parametric bootstrap technique.
RESULTS: The mean incremental treatment costs exceeded those for usual care per 
patient by euro 517 for health care costs and euro 1,032 for societal costs. The 
mean incremental QALY associated with the intervention was 0.131 (95% CI: 0.011 
to 0.290). Each QALY gained in association with the exercise programme cost an 
additional euro 3,947/QALY (95% CI: 1,782 to 47,000) for a health care 
perspective and euro 7,878/QALY (3,559 to 93,818) from a societal perspective. 
The curves showed a 95% probability that the addition of the water-based 
programme is a cost-effective strategy if the ceiling of inversion is euro 
14,200/QALY from a health care perspective and euro 28,300/QALY from a societal 
perspective.
CONCLUSION: The addition of an aquatic exercise programme to the usual care 
regime for fibromyalgia in women is cost effective in terms of both health care 
costs and societal costs. However, the characteristics of facilities (distance 
from the patients' homes and number of patients that can be accommodated per 
session) are major determinants to consider before investing in such a 
programme.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current controlled trials ISRCTN53367487.

DOI: 10.1186/ar2377
PMCID: PMC2374450
PMID: 18294367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. J Orthop Surg Res. 2008 Feb 22;3:9. doi: 10.1186/1749-799X-3-9.

Is tension band wiring technique the "gold standard" for the treatment of 
olecranon fractures? A long term functional outcome study.

Chalidis BE(1), Sachinis NC, Samoladas EP, Dimitriou CG, Pournaras JD.

Author information:
(1)1st Orthopaedic Department of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece. 
byronchalidis@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Tension band wiring (TBW) remains the most common operative 
technique for the internal fixation of olecranon fractures despite the potential 
occurrence of subjective complaints due to subcutaneous position of the 
hardware. Aim of this long term retrospective study was to evaluate the elbow 
function and the patient-rated outcome after TBW fixation of olecranon 
fractures.
METHODS: We reviewed 62 patients (33 men and 29 women) with an average age of 
48.6 years (range, 18-85 years) who underwent TBW osteosynthesis for isolated 
olecranon fractures. All patients were assessed both clinically with measurement 
of flexion-extension and pronation-supination arcs and radiologically with elbow 
X-Rays. Functional outcome was estimated using the Mayo Elbow Performance Score 
(MEPS), Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) subjective pain score and VAS patient 
satisfaction score. Follow up: 6-13 years (average 8.2 years).
RESULTS: There was a higher prevalence of fractures among men until the 5th 
decade of life and among women in elderly (p = 0.032). Slip or simple fall onto 
the arm was the main mechanism of injury for 38 fractures (61.3%) while high 
energy trauma, such as fall from a height (> 2 m) or road accident, was reported 
in 24 fractures (38.7%). Hardware removal performed in 51 patients (82.3%) but 
34 of them (66.6% of removals) were still complaining for mild pain during daily 
activities. The incidence of pin migration and loosening was not statistically 
decreased when penetration of the anterior ulnar cortex was accomplished (p = 
0.304). Supination was more often affected than pronation (p = 0.027). According 
to MEPS, 53 patients (85.5%) had a good to excellent result, 6 (9.7%) fair and 3 
(4.8%) poor result. The average satisfaction rating was 9.3 out of 10 (range, 
6-10) with 31 patients (50%) to remain completely satisfied from the final 
result. Degenerative changes recorded in 30 elbows (48.4%). However, no 
correlation could be found between radiographic findings and MEPS (p = 0.073).
CONCLUSION: Tension band wiring fixation remains the "gold standard" for the 
treatment of displaced and minimally comminuted olecranon fractures. In long 
term, low levels of pain may be evident regardless of whether the metalware is 
removed and degenerative changes have been developed.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-799X-3-9
PMCID: PMC2265682
PMID: 18294381


163. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2008 Mar;9(3):190-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2007.12.003.

Osteoporosis is underdiagnosed in skilled nursing facilities: a large-scale heel 
BMD screening study.

Gloth FM 3rd(1), Simonson W.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, University of Maryland School of 
Medicine, Victory Springs Senior Health Associates, Reisterstown, MD, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the common assertion that osteoporosis is 
underdiagnosed in the skilled nursing facility setting.
METHODS: Skilled nursing facilities participated in a nationwide heel-screening 
study conducted by their local consultant pharmacists. The nursing facility 
residents were categorized into 4 age groups: 59 years and younger; 60 to 69 
years; 70 to 79 years; and 80 years and older. Residents were screened on a 
voluntary basis. Heel scanning was performed using a peripheral dual-energy 
x-ray absorptiometry (pDXA) machine, and the data were collected by an 
independent contractor (On-Site Wellness). Residents were grouped by low, 
moderate, or high risk for osteoporosis based on their bone mineral density 
(BMD) T-scores. Bedridden patients, patients with a short life expectancy, and 
those currently receiving osteoporosis therapy were excluded from the study.
RESULTS: A total of 34,486 residents of skilled nursing facilities in 26 states 
were screened, 7728 (22.4%) of whom were grouped as low risk, 12,095 (35.1%) as 
moderate risk, and 14,663 (42.5%) as high risk for osteoporosis and related 
fracture. Findings by state were comparable to those for the total study 
population.
CONCLUSION: This large-scale heel-screening study suggests a considerable 
prevalence of undiagnosed osteoporosis (as measured by peripheral DXA scans) in 
skilled nursing facilities, underscoring the need for more vigilant awareness of 
fracture risk in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2007.12.003
PMID: 18294602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Structure. 2008 Mar;16(3):449-59. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2007.12.019. Epub 2008
Feb  21.

Molecular basis of fibrin clot elasticity.

Lim BB(1), Lee EH, Sotomayor M, Schulten K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, 
Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Blood clots must be stiff to stop hemorrhage yet elastic to buffer blood's shear 
forces. Upsetting this balance results in clot rupture and life-threatening 
thromboembolism. Fibrin, the main component of a blood clot, is formed from 
molecules of fibrinogen activated by thrombin. Although it is well known that 
fibrin possesses considerable elasticity, the molecular basis of this elasticity 
is unknown. Here, we use atomic force microscopy (AFM) and steered molecular 
dynamics (SMD) to probe the mechanical properties of single fibrinogen molecules 
and fibrin protofibrils, showing that the mechanical unfolding of their 
coiled-coil alpha helices is characterized by a distinctive intermediate force 
plateau in the systems' force-extension curve. We relate this plateau force to a 
stepwise unfolding of fibrinogen's coiled alpha helices and of its central 
domain. AFM data show that varying pH and calcium ion concentrations alters the 
mechanical resilience of fibrinogen. This study provides direct evidence for the 
coiled alpha helices of fibrinogen to bring about fibrin elasticity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2007.12.019
PMID: 18294856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Am J Kidney Dis. 2008 Mar;51(3):515-23. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2007.12.006.

CKD prevention in Sub-Saharan Africa: a call for governmental, nongovernmental, 
and community support.

Arogundade FA(1), Barsoum RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, 
Nigeria. fatiu3@yahoo.com

The upsurge in incidence and prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in both 
developed and developing nations has necessitated a renewed interest in global 
CKD prevention because it is now regarded as a public health threat. Although 
CKD management is consuming a huge proportion of health care finances in 
developed countries, it is contributing significantly to morbidity, mortality, 
and decreased life expectancy in developing ones. CKD epidemiological 
characteristics in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) are strikingly different from those 
observed in other regions. Although middle-aged and elderly populations are 
predominantly affected in developed countries, in SSA, CKD mainly affects young 
adults in their economically productive years, with hypertension and 
infection-related chronic glomerulonephritis as the major causes. Morbidity and 
mortality are high because most affected individuals cannot access renal 
replacement therapy. Other contributory factors for this dismal picture include 
late presentation, limited renal replacement therapy and its unaffordability, 
absence of kidney disease prevention programs, and the poor literacy level. This 
gloomy outlook of CKD in the subregion makes prevention the only viable option 
in the long term while struggling to improve access to renal replacement therapy 
in the short term. Unfortunately, most countries in SSA have no prevention 
programs, and where available, they are either institutions or individual based 
with very little or no governmental support. This review focuses on the burden 
of CKD in SSA and reviews the available prevention programs with a view to 
stimulating governments, communities, and organizations to establishing an 
inexpensive and affordable program in the entire subregion.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2007.12.006
PMID: 18295068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Vasc Nurs. 2008 Mar;26(1):22-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jvn.2007.09.008.

Multiple mycotic aneurysms with a rare fungus, Aspergillus niger: a complex case 
report.

Parameswaran V(1).

Author information:
(1)Ryerson University, Cardiovascular Surgery Unit, Toronto General Hospital, 
Toronto, Ontario.

The term "mycotic aneurysm" was first used by William Osler in 1885 to describe 
a nonsyphilitic bacterial infection of the arterial wall. It is now known that 
mycotic aneurysm, a rare infectious condition, can arise from a wide variety of 
clinical causes. The aorta is most often affected; however, such aneurysms may 
arise in any artery. Mycotic aneurysms are classified as primary (direct 
extension from surrounding area of infection), secondary (septic embolization 
that lodges in peripheral arteries), and cryptogenic (unknown cause). A mycotic 
aneurysm is a threat to life, organs, and limbs. Mycotic aneurysms of the aorta 
caused by fungi are rare. William Osler used the term "mycotic," referring to 
all infected aneurysms excluding fungal infections. Yet, the term "mycotic" by 
definition is a disease caused by a fungus. Only seven cases of aneurysms caused 
by a fungus were reported from 1966 to 1999. This article will focus on the care 
of a young female patient with end-stage renal disease receiving peritoneal 
dialysis who developed a mycotic aneurysm. She was treated with high doses of 
antifungal medications for the fungus Aspergillus niger. She was switched to 
hemodialysis from peritoneal dialysis and was later diagnosed with a primary 
multiple mycotic aneurysms. This article will describe the complex medical, 
surgical, and nursing care provided to this patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvn.2007.09.008
PMID: 18295164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Fertil Steril. 2009 Feb;91(2):580-8. doi: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2007.11.078.
Epub  2008 Mar 4.

Uterine artery embolization, hysterectomy, or myomectomy for symptomatic uterine 
fibroids: a cost-utility analysis.

You JH(1), Sahota DS, Yuen PM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics Research, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Medicine, Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong, People's Republic 
of China. joyceyou@cuhk.edu.hk

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of 
hysterectomy, myomectomy, and uterine artery embolization (UAE) for symptomatic 
control of uterine fibroids.
DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis conducted by using Markov modeling.
SETTING: The analysis was conducted from the perspective of Hong Kong society.
PATIENT(S): A hypothetical cohort of patients presenting with symptomatic 
uterine fibroids.
INTERVENTION(S): Hysterectomy, myomectomy, or UAE.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Health-care resource use and QALYs over 5 years.
RESULT(S): The base-case analysis showed that hysterectomy was the most 
effective treatment (4.368 QALYs), followed by myomectomy (4.273 QALYs) and UAE 
(4.245 QALYs) over 5 years. Hysterectomy was less costly (USD8418) (1USD = 
7.8HKD) than UAE (USD8847) and myomectomy (USD9036). Monte Carlo 10,000 
simulations showed that the hysterectomy group was less costly than the UAE and 
myomectomy groups 84.1% and 79.1% of the time, and it also gained higher number 
of QALYs than the UAE and myomectomy groups over 97% of the time.
CONCLUSION(S): Hysterectomy appears to be more cost-effective than myomectomy 
and UAE for management of symptomatic uterine fibroids over a 5-year period 
among patients who do not have a preference for uterus-conserving interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2007.11.078
PMID: 18295216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Lung Cancer. 2008 Sep;61(3):405-15. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2007.12.023. Epub
 2008 Mar 4.

Comparative clinical and economic outcomes of treatments for refractory 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

Carlson JJ(1), Reyes C, Oestreicher N, Lubeck D, Ramsey SD, Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Public Health Genetics, School of Public Health and Community 
Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, United States.

BACKGROUND: Various drug therapies are available for treatment of refractory 
stage IIIB/IV non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), but their comparative economic 
value is unclear.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic model to evaluate the incremental 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of erlotinib, docetaxel, or 
pemetrexed in a cohort of refractory advanced stage NSCLC patients 60 years of 
age from a US payer perspective. Mean progression-free and overall survival were 
assumed equal for the three treatments based on published clinical trials, from 
which adverse event rates were also derived. Costs and utilities were obtained 
from publicly available sources. We performed sensitivity analyses to evaluate 
uncertainty in the results.
RESULTS: Treatment with erlotinib, docetaxel, and pemetrexed yielded 0.42, 0.41, 
and 0.41 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), respectively. The slightly 
increased QALYs for erlotinib compared to docetaxel and pemetrexed resulted from 
less severe treatment complications and oral vs. IV administration. Total costs 
were US$ 37,000, US$ 39,100 and US$ 43,800 for erlotinib, docetaxel and 
pemetrexed, respectively. In the probabilistic sensitivity analyses, erlotinib 
was cost-saving in 65 and 87% of the simulations compared to docetaxel and 
pemetrexed, respectively, and had improved QALYs and decreased costs or was 
cost-effective in 42 and 55% of simulations. Estimates of treatment duration 
were among the most influential parameters in the analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of our analysis suggest treatment of refractory NSCLC 
with erlotinib is less costly compared with alternative treatments, and 
suggested improvements in QALYs should be confirmed in controlled clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2007.12.023
PMID: 18295368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2008 May 2;369(2):654-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.056. Epub 2008 Feb 22.

Calmodulin-like protein enhances myosin-10 translation.

Bennett RD(1), Strehler EE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Mayo Clinic College of 
Medicine, 200 First Street S.W., Rochester, MN 55905, USA; Mayo Graduate School, 
Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA.

Myosin-10 (Myo10) is involved in processes ranging from filopodial formation and 
extension to spindle orientation during cell division. Myo10 contains three IQ 
motifs that bind calmodulin and calmodulin-like protein (CLP) as light chains. 
We recently found that CLP expression up-regulates Myo10, leading to increased 
Myo10-dependent cell motility and filopodial extension [R.D. Bennett, et al., J. 
Biol. Chem. 282 (2007) 3205-3212]. CLP-dependent Myo10 up-regulation occurs 
without increase in Myo10 mRNA. We followed Myo10 degradation in vivo and in 
vitro and found that it was unaffected by CLP. Myo10 decayed rapidly with a 
half-life of approximately 2.5h. Using an in vitro transcription/translation 
system we determined that CLP increased Myo10 translation, resulting in a higher 
relative accumulation of Myo10 in the presence than in the absence of CLP. Our 
data suggest that CLP functions to increase translation of Myo10 possibly by 
acting as a chaperone for the emerging Myo10 heavy chain protein.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2008.02.056
PMID: 18295593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2008 Mar;89(3):572-4. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2007.11.025.

Economic factors and longevity in spinal cord injury: a reappraisal.

Strauss D(1), DeVivo M, Shavelle R, Brooks J, Paculdo D.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review and reassess the findings of Krause and colleagues on the 
effect of economic and other risk factors on life expectancy after spinal cord 
injury, using an expanded and updated database.
DESIGN: Pooled person-year analysis.
SETTING: Model Spinal Cord Injury Systems hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 7331 persons injured since 1973 who were enrolled in 
the National Spinal Cord Injury Database and received an evaluation between 
November 1995 and December 2005.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality, determined by routine follow-up supplemented 
by information from the Social Security Death Index. Logistic regression models 
based on the predictor variables were developed to estimate the chance of dying 
in a given year.
RESULTS: As in the Krause study, life expectancies of persons with the greatest 
handicap in economic self-sufficiency were substantially shorter than average. 
However, the positive effect of favorable economics was much less than 
previously reported, largely because having health insurance coverage through 
workers' compensation was no longer a powerful (or statistically significant) 
predictor of survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The beneficial effect of favorable economics appears to be much 
less than previously reported. Further, the interpretation of the effects of 
modifiable factors (such as economics and social integration) is complicated by 
questions of cause and effect.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2007.11.025
PMID: 18295640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2008;17 Suppl 1:257-60.

Inhibition of colon cancer cell growth by dietary components: role of the 
insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system.

Park JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Hallym University, Department of Food Sciences and Nutrition, Chuncheon, 
Korea. jyoon@hallym.ac.kr

Large bowel cancer is one of the leading causes of deaths from cancer in Western 
countries, and the incidence of colorectal cancer is increasing with the steady 
increase in life expectancy. Modification of diet and lifestyle provide measures 
of reducing the risk of developing colon cancer. Evidence suggests that the 
components of the insulin-like growth factor (IGF) system may be appropriate 
targets for cancer prevention and therapy. A positive correlation was found 
between dietary and lifestyle, plasma IGF-I, and colon cancer incidence rates. 
Diet, nutrition, and other lifestyle features affect the expression and 
production of IGF-1 and other members of the IGF family. The purpose of this 
review is to examine current evidence obtained from our recent studies and 
others that investigated the role of dietary components in the regulation of the 
IGF system and colon cancer cell growth.

PMID: 18296350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Bull World Health Organ. 2008 Feb;86(2):140-6. doi: 10.2471/blt.07.040089.

Vaccination greatly reduces disease, disability, death and inequity worldwide.

Andre FE(1), Booy R, Bock HL, Clemens J, Datta SK, John TJ, Lee BW, Lolekha S, 
Peltola H, Ruff TA, Santosham M, Schmitt HJ.

Author information:
(1)feandre@yahoo.com

In low-income countries, infectious diseases still account for a large 
proportion of deaths, highlighting health inequities largely caused by economic 
differences. Vaccination can cut health-care costs and reduce these inequities. 
Disease control, elimination or eradication can save billions of US dollars for 
communities and countries. Vaccines have lowered the incidence of hepatocellular 
carcinoma and will control cervical cancer. Travellers can be protected against 
"exotic" diseases by appropriate vaccination. Vaccines are considered 
indispensable against bioterrorism. They can combat resistance to antibiotics in 
some pathogens. Noncommunicable diseases, such as ischaemic heart disease, could 
also be reduced by influenza vaccination. Immunization programmes have improved 
the primary care infrastructure in developing countries, lowered mortality in 
childhood and empowered women to better plan their families, with consequent 
health, social and economic benefits. Vaccination helps economic growth 
everywhere, because of lower morbidity and mortality. The annual return on 
investment in vaccination has been calculated to be between 12% and 18%. 
Vaccination leads to increased life expectancy. Long healthy lives are now 
recognized as a prerequisite for wealth, and wealth promotes health. Vaccines 
are thus efficient tools to reduce disparities in wealth and inequities in 
health.

Dans les pays à faible revenu, les maladies infectieuses représentent encore une 
forte proportion des décès, mettant en lumière des inégalités sur le plan 
sanitaire résultant dans une large mesure d’écarts économiques. La vaccination 
peut faire baisser les coûts des soins de santé et réduire ces inégalités. La 
lutte contre les maladies, leur élimination ou leur éradication permettent aux 
communautés et aux pays d’épargner des milliards de dollars des Etats-Unis. Les 
vaccins ont également fait baisser l’incidence du carcinome hépatocellulaire et 
permettront d’endiguer le cancer du col utérin. Les voyageurs sont protégés 
contre les maladies « exotiques » par une vaccination appropriée. Les vaccins 
sont considérés comme indispensables dans la lutte contre le bioterrorisme. Ils 
peuvent s’opposer au développement d’une résistance aux antibiotiques pour 
certains agents pathogènes. La vaccination antigrippale pourrait aussi faire 
reculer des maladies non transmissibles, comme les cardiopathies ischémiques. 
Les programmes de vaccination ont permis d’améliorer l’infrastructure de soins 
de santé primaire dans les pays en développement, de faire baisser la mortalité 
infanto-juvénile et de favoriser l’autonomie des femmes dans le cadre d’une 
meilleure planification familiale, avec des bénéfices sanitaires, sociaux et 
économiques conséquents. La vaccination contribue partout à la croissance 
économique, grâce aux baisses de morbidité et de mortalité. On a calculé que le 
retour annuel sur investissement de cette intervention se situait entre 12 et 
18%. Elle entraîne également une augmentation de l’espérance de vie. Il est 
maintenant reconnu que des vies longues et en bonne santé sont un préalable à la 
richesse et la richesse favorise à son tour la santé. Les vaccins constituent 
ainsi des outils efficaces pour réduire les inégalités en matière de richesse et 
de santé.

En los países de ingresos bajos, las enfermedades infecciosas representan 
todavía una gran proporción de las defunciones, lo que pone de manifiesto unas 
inequidades sanitarias cuya causa fundamental son las desigualdades económicas. 
La vacunación puede reducir los costos de la atención de salud y reducir esas 
inequidades. El control, la eliminación y la erradicación de enfermedades 
permiten ahorrar miles de millones de dólares estadounidenses en beneficio de 
las comunidades y los países. Las vacunas han reducido la incidencia de 
carcinoma hepatocelular y permitirán controlar el cáncer cervicouterino. Los 
viajeros pueden protegerse contra enfermedades «exóticas» mediante la vacunación 
apropiada. Las vacunas son un arma imprescindible contra el bioterrorismo. En el 
caso de algunos agentes patógenos, pueden dificultar la aparición de resistencia 
a los antibióticos. Algunas enfermedades no transmisibles, como la cardiopatía 
isquémica, también podrían reducirse mediante la vacunación contra la gripe. Los 
programas de inmunización han mejorado la infraestructura de atención primaria 
en los países en desarrollo, reducido la mortalidad en la niñez y empoderado a 
las mujeres para planificar mejor su familia, con los consiguientes beneficios 
sanitarios, sociales y económicos. La vacunación contribuye al crecimiento 
económico en todas partes, debido a la menor morbilidad y mortalidad. Se estima 
que las ganancias que reportan anualmente las inversiones en inmunización 
ascienden a un 12%-18%. La vacunación propicia una mayor esperanza de vida, y es 
un hecho admitido hoy día que las vidas longevas y sanas son una condición de la 
riqueza, y que ésta favorece a su vez la salud. Las vacunas constituyen por 
consiguiente un instrumento eficiente para mitigar las disparidades de riqueza y 
las inequidades en salud.

ماتـزال الأمراض المعدية مسؤولة عن نسبة كبيرة من الوفيات في البلدان المنخفضة 
الدخل، مما يلقي الضوء على جوانب الجور الصحي الناجم، في جزء كبير منە، عن الفوارق 
الاقتصادية. ويمكن أن يخفِّض التلقيح من تكاليف الرعاية الصحية، ويقلِّص جوانب 
الجور فيەا. ويمكن توفير بلايـين الدولارات للمجتمعات والبلدان من خلال مكافحة 
الأمراض أو التخلُّص منەا أو اجتثاثەا. فقد قلَّصت اللقاحات وقوع سرطانة الخلايا 
الكبدية، وستضع سرطان عنق الرحم تحت السيطرة. ويمكن توفير الحماية للمسافرين ضد 
الأمراض الأجنبية من خلال تلقِّيەم للّقاحات المناسبة. ولا غنى عن اللقاحات لمواجەة 
الإرەاب البيولوجي. فاللقاحات قادرة على مكافحة المقاومة للمضادات الحيوية لدى عدد 
من الـمُمرضات. ومن الممكن كذلك تقليص الأمراض غير السارية مثل أمراض القلب 
الإقفارية وذلك عن طريق لقاح الإنفلونزا. وتسەم برامج التمنيع في تحسين البنية 
الأساسية للرعاية الأولية في البلدان النامية، كما تسەم في خفض وفيات الأطفال، 
وتمكين المرأة كي تخطط لأسرتەا بشكل أفضل، مما يفضي إلى تحقيق منافع صحية واجتماعية 
واقتصادية لەذە الأسر. والتلقيح يعزِّز النمو الاقتصادي في جميع البلدان لما ينتج 
عنە من انخفاض في المراضة والوفيات. وحُسب المردود السنوي للاستثمار في التلقيح، 
فوجد أنە يتـراوح بين 12% و18%. ويؤدي التلقيح إلى زيادة مأمول الحياة. ويُنظر الآن 
إلى طول الحياة الصحية على أنە شرط أساسي للثروة، فالثروة تؤدِّي إلى تعزيز الصحة. 
وعلى ذلك، فإن اللقاحات تُعد من الأدوات الفعَّالة لتقليص التفاوت في الثروة والجور 
في الصحة.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.07.040089
PMCID: PMC2647387
PMID: 18297169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Adhes Dent. 2007 Oct;9(5):469-75.

Longevity and reasons for failure of sandwich and total-etch posterior composite 
resin restorations.

Opdam NJ(1), Bronkhorst EM, Roeters JM, Loomans BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Curative Dentistry, Radboud University Nijmegen 
Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. n.opdam@dent.umcn.nl

PURPOSE: To investigate longevity and reasons for failure of Class II posterior 
composite restorations (PCRs) placed with or without a lining of glass-ionomer 
cement.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Four hundred fifty-eight Class II PCR placed in 248 
patients (110 male, 138 female, age 18 to 80) by two dentists in a general 
practice between 1988 and 1997 were retrospectively examined from the patient 
files. The restorations were placed either with a total-etch technique or with a 
resin-modified glass-ionomer lining placed on the dentin. Items recorded were 
date of placement, date of last check-up visit, tooth number, and restored 
surfaces. Date of replacement and reason for failure of the PCR was recorded. A 
restoration was clinically acceptable when still in function and acceptable at 
the last check-up visit. Additionally, the caries risk for each patient was 
estimated by the treating clinician. Life tables and Kaplan-Meier curves were 
used to express survival rates. A Cox regression was applied to assess the 
influence of variables on survival.
RESULTS: Three hundred seventy-six total-etch PCRs and 82 PCRs with a lining 
were investigated. After 9 years, survival percentages of 88.1% for total-etch 
restorations and 70.5% for restorations with a resin-modified glass-ionomer 
lining were found. The most important reasons for failure were fracture and 
caries. Predominantly, failures started occurring after 3 to 4 years of clinical 
service. Results of the Cox regression show that the presence of a lining and 
high risk for caries significantly increased the failure rate of the 
restorations.
CONCLUSION: PCRs placed with a resin-modified glass-ionomer lining clinically 
showed more frequent fractures than PCRs placed with a total-etch technique.

PMID: 18297828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Assist Inferm Ric. 2007 Oct-Dec;26(4):234-43.

[Old and very old age, and "life expectancy"?].

[Article in Italian]

