short-term data should be systematically updated to reflect new information.
METHODS: We used 60-month survival data from the IRIS (International Randomized 
study of Interferon vs STI571) trial to update previously published 
cost-effectiveness estimates, based on 19 months of follow-up, of imatinib 
versus interferon (IFN)-alpha plus low-dose cytarabine in patients with 
chronic-phase chronic myeloid leukaemia. For patients treated with imatinib, we 
used the 60-month data to calibrate the survival curves generated from the 
original cost-effectiveness model. We used historical data to model survival for 
patients randomized to IFNalpha. We updated costs for medical resources using 
2006 Medicare reimbursement rates and applied average wholesale prices (AWPs) 
and wholesale acquisition costs (WACs) to study medications.
RESULTS: Five-year survival for patients randomized to imatinib was better than 
predicted in the original model (89.4% vs 83.2%). We estimated remaining life 
expectancy with first-line imatinib to be 19.1 life-years (3.8 life-years over 
the original model) and 15.2 QALYs (3.1 QALYs over the original estimate). 
Estimates for IFNalpha remained at 9.1 life-years and 6.3 QALYs. When we applied 
AWPs to study medications, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
$US 51,800-57,500 per QALY. When we applied WACs, ICERs were $US 42,000-46,200 
per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Although the analysis revealed that the original survival estimates 
were conservative, the updated cost-effectiveness ratios were consistent with, 
or slightly higher than, the original estimates, depending on the method for 
assigning costs to study medications.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826050-00007
PMID: 18429659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Dent Child (Chic). 2007 Jan-Apr;74(1):67-72.

Orofacial findings and dental treatment in an 8-year-old patient with trisomy 
18: a case report.

de Queiroz AM(1), Raffaini MS, de Camargo LM, de Pina Neto JM, Melo DG, Silva 
RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Clinics, Faculdade de Odontologia de Ribeirão Preto, 
Ribeirão Preto, São Paulo, Brazil. amqueiroz@forp.usp.br

Trisomy 18 is characterized by: psychomotor disabilities, dysmorphic features, 
organ malformations, including mental retardation, growth deficiency, poor motor 
ability, micrognathia, microcephaly, congenital heart defects, and kidney 
abnormalities. The oral findings typically observed in these patients are: cleft 
lip and a high, narrow, and sometimes cleft palate. The degree of severity of 
the malformations is directly related to life expectancy. Only 5% to 10% of 
affected infants survive beyond the first year of life. Although trisomy 18 has 
been widely investigated from a medical standpoint, there is a lack of reports 
addressing the oral manifestations and dental treatment approach in affected 
children, presumably due to their shortened life expectancy. The purpose of this 
article was to present the case of an 8-year-old child diagnosed with trisomy 18 
and address the clinical features observed--emphasizing the disease-specific 
oral, craniofacial, and dental findings. Dental care management of the patient 
is described.

PMID: 18430358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2008 Aug;17(5):264-73. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-007-0640-1. Epub 2008 Apr 21.

Prevalence and correlates of conduct disorder and problem behavior in Caribbean 
and Filipino immigrant adolescents.

Rousseau C(1), Hassan G, Measham T, Lashley M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Social and Cultural Psychiatry, McGill University, Youth Mental 
Health CSSS de la Montagne, CLSC Parc Extension, 7085 Hutchison Room 204.2, 
Montreal, QC, H3N 1Y9, Canada. cecile.rousseau@mcgill.ca

This study investigates the prevalence and subtypes of conduct disorder (CD) and 
behavioral problems among youth in two communities characterized by prolonged 
parent-child separation upon immigration. CD and problem behaviors were assessed 
in 252 Caribbean-Canadian and Filipino-Canadian adolescents (12-19-year-old) 
using the DISC-C, the YSR and the CBCL cross-informant construct. Adolescents 
reported less problem behaviors than their host country peers, despite immigrant 
background or parent-child separation. The high adolescent-onset CD rate 
supports the hypothesis that psychosocial stressors play a role in the emergence 
of the disorder. Specifically, high levels of perceived racism and low 
collective self-esteem predicted problem behaviors in these youngsters.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-007-0640-1
PMID: 18431540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Bull Soc Pathol Exot. 2008 Feb;101(1):11-3.

[Polyneuropathies in patients treated with HAART in Bobo-Dioulasso hospital, 
Burkina Faso].

[Article in French]

Millogo A(1), Lankoandé D, Yaméogo I, Yaméogo AA, Sawadogo AB.

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, CHU Souro Sanou, Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina Faso. 
athanase.millogo@gmail.com

Peripheral neuropathies (PN) represent the most common neurological 
manifestation in patients with HIV infection. Introduction of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) had a significant impact on the epidemiology of 
HIV-associated neuropathies even in poor-resources countries. HIV-infected 
patients were followed up over a 2-years period from January 2002 to December 
2003. PN was clinically diagnosed based on abnormalities of ankle reflexes or 
vibratory perception and if patients described pain, paresthesia or numbness. 
Electromyography was not performed in this study Among the 133 HIV-infected 
patients treated with HAART 31 patients (23 females and 8 males) with 38.8 of 
mean age were followed up for PN. 95.5% among them were HIV1-infected. According 
to the availability of the antiretroviral therapy, 9 patients were treated with 
protocol A including lamivudine + stavudine + nevirapine, 12 patients with 
protocol B including combination of stavudine + lamivudine + efavirenz, and 10 
patients with protocol C with other combinations of antiretroviral therapies. 
Average CD4 cell count was 229.3/microl and 60% of the sample had < 200 CD4 cell 
counts at the time of diagnosis. PN occurred within 5.6 months from the 
institution of the HAART and 80% less than 3 months after the beginning of the 
treatment. Burning feet syndrome was found in 16.1% of the sample. 45.2% of 
polyneuropathies occurred in late stage of HIV infection (< 200 CD4/microl). The 
presence of PN was related to decreased CD4 cells counts and neurotoxic 
antiretroviral therapy Introduction of HAART has modified the course and the 
prognosis of HIV infection even in poor resources setting. The incidence of 
toxic neuropathies is increasing with longer patients' life expectancy and 
represents a major factor in treatment limitation and the neurological side 
effects of HAART should be well identified by physicians.

PMID: 18431998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Osaka City Med J. 2007 Dec;53(2):53-61.

Thresholds of physical activities necessary for living a self-supporting life in 
elderly women.

Nakao H(1), Yoshikawa T, Hara T, Wang L, Suzuki T, Fujimoto S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports Medicine, Osaka City University, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Japan. hayato-hj@med.osaka-cu.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: To decide the minimal levels (thresholds) of physical activities 
necessary for a self-supporting life using discriminate analysis between 
community-dwelling elderly individuals and daycare-service-receiving elderly 
individuals in Japan.
METHOD: A total of twenty-six elderly women, including twelve living a 
self-supporting life and fourteen using a daycare service, were recruited in 
this study. The parameters examined were physical performance, activities of 
daily living, exercise capacity. Discriminate analysis was used to determine the 
thresholds of physical activities needed to live a self-supporting life.
RESULTS: Muscle masses, grip strength, lower-extremity muscle force, gait 
ability and balance function in elderly individuals living a self-supporting 
life were significant higher than those in elderly individuals using a daycare 
service. A threshold of physical ability over 75% classifies accurately using 
the methods of discriminate analysis indicate total body muscle mass, thigh 
muscle mass, knee extension force, 6 min walking distance (6MD), 10 m obstacle 
walking time, Activity of daily living (ADL) index and daily steps.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study indicates that thresholds of physical activities 
including gait abilities, muscle force, and muscle mass are very important 
factors in maintaining a self-supporting life for elderly individuals. 
Thresholds of physical activities were more effective than standard values of 
physical activity for elderly individuals using a care service in meeting the 
goals of rehabilitation.

PMID: 18432061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Scand J Urol Nephrol. 2008;42(3):293-300. doi: 10.1080/00365590701797556.

Rising from a chair: a simple screening test for physical function in 
predialysis patients.

Brodin E(1), Ljungman S, Sunnerhagen KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Göteborg, 
Sweden. elisabeth.brodin@vgregion.se

OBJECTIVES: Patients with chronic end-stage renal diseases have decreased 
physical fitness. This physical deconditioning is relative but the consequences 
in daily life are related to functional thresholds. The main purpose of this 
study was to gather information about physical performance, physical fitness and 
activity in predialysis patients. A second aim was to investigate the 
possibility of identifying patients at risk of physical deconditioning using 
clinical tests.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Fifty-five predialysis patients with a glomerular 
filtration rate (GFR) of <or=20 ml/min/1.73 m(2) were investigated. They filled 
out questionnaires about their physical activity. Muscle performance was 
measured by using an electronic force transducer for grip strength and knee 
extension. Clinical tests, such as 'Timed up and go', walking, standing 
heel-rise and 'Climbing up a 45-cm high step', were performed.
RESULTS: There were no associations between GFR and the assessments of the 
above-mentioned tests. However, odds ratios calculated for 'Rising from a 45-cm 
chair without using the arms' and GFR and diabetes showed that, for every 1 
ml/min/1.73 m(2) drop in GFR, the odds were 1.5 times higher that the patient 
would not be able to rise from a chair and, when the diagnosis was diabetes, the 
odds ranged from 1.7 to 21 times higher.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients, especially diabetics, with chronic renal failure with a 
GFR of <or=20 ml/min/1.73 m(2) have decreased physical fitness. 'Rising from a 
45-cm chair without using the arms' is an uncomplicated test to use in the 
clinical setting for identifying patients who need help with muscle training and 
functional exercise in order to improve their everyday functioning.

DOI: 10.1080/00365590701797556
PMID: 18432536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. PLoS Med. 2008 Apr 22;5(4):e66. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050066.

The reversal of fortunes: trends in county mortality and cross-county mortality 
disparities in the United States.

Ezzati M(1), Friedman AB, Kulkarni SC, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of 
America. majid_ezzati@harvard.edu

Erratum in
    PLoS Med. 2008 May 27;5(5). doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050119.

BACKGROUND: Counties are the smallest unit for which mortality data are 
routinely available, allowing consistent and comparable long-term analysis of 
trends in health disparities. Average life expectancy has steadily increased in 
the United States but there is limited information on long-term mortality trends 
in the US counties This study aimed to investigate trends in county mortality 
and cross-county mortality disparities, including the contributions of specific 
diseases to county level mortality trends.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used mortality statistics (from the National Center for 
Health Statistics [NCHS]) and population (from the US Census) to estimate 
sex-specific life expectancy for US counties for every year between 1961 and 
1999. Data for analyses in subsequent years were not provided to us by the NCHS. 
We calculated different metrics of cross-county mortality disparity, and also 
grouped counties on the basis of whether their mortality changed favorably or 
unfavorably relative to the national average. We estimated the probability of 
death from specific diseases for counties with above- or below-average mortality 
performance. We simulated the effect of cross-county migration on each county's 
life expectancy using a time-based simulation model. Between 1961 and 1999, the 
standard deviation (SD) of life expectancy across US counties was at its lowest 
in 1983, at 1.9 and 1.4 y for men and women, respectively. Cross-county life 
expectancy SD increased to 2.3 and 1.7 y in 1999. Between 1961 and 1983 no 
counties had a statistically significant increase in mortality; the major cause 
of mortality decline for both sexes was reduction in cardiovascular mortality. 
From 1983 to 1999, life expectancy declined significantly in 11 counties for men 
(by 1.3 y) and in 180 counties for women (by 1.3 y); another 48 (men) and 783 
(women) counties had nonsignificant life expectancy decline. Life expectancy 
decline in both sexes was caused by increased mortality from lung cancer, 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes, and a range of other 
noncommunicable diseases, which were no longer compensated for by the decline in 
cardiovascular mortality. Higher HIV/AIDS and homicide deaths also contributed 
substantially to life expectancy decline for men, but not for women. Alternative 
specifications of the effects of migration showed that the rise in cross-county 
life expectancy SD was unlikely to be caused by migration.
CONCLUSIONS: There was a steady increase in mortality inequality across the US 
counties between 1983 and 1999, resulting from stagnation or increase in 
mortality among the worst-off segment of the population. Female mortality 
increased in a large number of counties, primarily because of chronic diseases 
related to smoking, overweight and obesity, and high blood pressure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.0050066
PMCID: PMC2323303
PMID: 18433290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


530. Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Apr 7;170(15):1250-4.

[Health economic consequences of insulin analogues in the treatment of type 1 
diabetes in Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Palmer AJ(1), Lammert M, Hermansen K.

Author information:
(1)CORE-Center for Outcomes Research, Allschwill, Schweiz Novo Nordisk 
Scandinavia AB, København S.

INTRODUCTION: Diabetes is a major challenge to the Danish health care system, 
and complications account for the majority of total treatment costs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The majority of type 1 diabetes patients in Denmark are 
treated with the flexible basal-bolus insulin regimen. Use of insulin analogues 
provides superior metabolic control, lower blood glucose viability, flexible 
life style, reduced frequency of hypoglycaemia and no undesired weight gain. The 
long term health economic consequences were projected in a published and 
validated Markov model. Treatment effects of insulin analogues and a similar 
human insulin regimen were based on results from a clinical RCT study and Danish 
health care costs were applied in the model.
RESULTS: In the model, the improved glycaemic control and the reduction in 
hypoglycaemia episodes obtained with insulin analogues resulted in a reduction 
in late stage diabetes complications, improved quality of life and increased 
life expectancy compared to human insulin. The incremental costs-effectiveness 
ratio was estimated to DKK 55,867 per quality-adjusted life year gained, which 
is considered beneficial to society.
CONCLUSION: Modelling predicts insulin analogues to be a cost-effective 
alternative to human insulin in Denmark.

PMID: 18433583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Apr 14;170(16):1370-2.

[Future perspectives in liver surgery].

[Article in Danish]

Bergenfeldt M(1), Gandrup P.

Author information:
(1)Herlev Hospital, Kirurgisk Gastroenterologisk Afdeling D, Herlev. 
maber@heh.regionh.dk

Resection of colorectal liver metastases will increase due to increased life 
expectancy and widened indications. Complex combinations of chemotherapy, 
surgery, and local ablation are used in advanced disease. Advances in 
laparoscopic and telerobotic liver resection are expected. Hepatocellular 
carcinoma is rare, results are poor, and better treatment is needed. The complex 
management of liver neoplasms requires a centralized effort. Further advances in 
xenotransplantation, artificial liver, and stem cell technology may influence 
liver transplantation as well as cancer surgery.

PMID: 18433604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Patient Educ Couns. 2008 Aug;72(2):239-45. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2008.02.021.
Epub  2008 Apr 22.

Comparing patients' and their partners' preferences for adjuvant chemotherapy in 
early breast cancer.

Duric VM(1), Butow PN, Sharpe L, Heritier S, Boyle F, Beith J, Wilcken NR, 
Coates AS, Simes RJ, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
vlatka@ctc.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Preferences of women who had completed adjuvant chemotherapy for 
early breast cancer were compared with those of their partners by determining 
the smallest benefits they judged sufficient to make adjuvant chemotherapy 
worthwhile.
METHODS: Forty-six women and their partners were interviewed separately, 3-34 
months after completing adjuvant chemotherapy. Preferences were elicited using 
four sets of validated, hypothetical trade-off scenarios about the possible 
benefits of adjuvant chemotherapy on survival times (5 and 15 years) and 
survival rates (65% and 85% at 5 years). Agreement within couples was assessed 
with the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC). Associations between baseline 
characteristics, preferences, and agreement within couples were assessed with 
linear regression after normal score transformation.
RESULTS: The mean age of the women was 57 years and of their partners' was 60. 
Most couples were married (91%). Benefits of an extra 1 day or 0.1% were judged 
sufficient to make adjuvant chemotherapy worthwhile by 59-72% of women and 
54-59% of partners. Agreement was exact in 35-41% of couples and approximate in 
59-83%. Agreement was better for scenarios with a worse prognosis (ICC 0.67 and 
0.35) than for scenarios with a better prognosis (ICC 0.13 and 0.05). Having 
dependent children was associated with partners requiring larger benefits but 
patients requiring smaller benefits to make adjuvant chemotherapy worthwhile 
(interaction P=0.001).
CONCLUSION: Patients' and partners' preferences for adjuvant chemotherapy 
differed and were influenced by considerations other than length and quality of 
life.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Clinicians who are aware of these differences can tailor 
discussions to ensure that all interested parties understand and agree on the 
goals and benefits of treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2008.02.021
PMID: 18434070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2008 May 1;177(9):935-6. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.200801-019ED.

Lung transplantation in children with cystic fibrosis: a view from Europe.

Aurora P, Spencer H, Moreno-Galdó A.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.200801-019ED
PMID: 18434329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Eur J Public Health. 2008 Aug;18(4):417-21. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckn028. Epub
 2008 Apr 23.

The health effects of education: a meta-analysis.

Furnée CA(1), Groot W, van den Brink HM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, BEOZ, Maastricht University, 
P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. c.furnee@beoz.unimaas.nl

BACKGROUND: There is an abundance of empirical evidence, mainly from the 
epidemiological and social science literature, on the relation between education 
and health. Until now a meta-analysis of the relation between education and 
health was not available. This article presents a meta-analysis of studies that 
use self- reported health as an outcome variable to quantify the effect of 
education on health.
METHODS: Meta-analysis using a random and a fixed-effects model to quantify the 
marginal effect of education on self-reported health.
RESULTS: The results of the meta-analysis show that the quality adjusted life 
years weight (QALYweight) of a year of education is approximately 0.036. Some 
tentative calculations suggest that the cost-benefit ratio of investments in 
education on health is highly positive.
CONCLUSION: For public policy this implies that a more integrated approach to 
education and health policies should be taken.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckn028
PMID: 18434381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Crit Care Med. 2008 May;36(5):1523-30. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e318170a405.

Determinants of long-term survival after intensive care.

Williams TA(1), Dobb GJ, Finn JC, Knuiman MW, Geelhoed E, Lee KY, Webb SA.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health and School of Medicine and Pharmacology, 
University of Western Australia and Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, Western 
Australia.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2008 May;36(5):1668-9.

OBJECTIVE: To identify prognostic determinants of long-term survival for 
patients treated in intensive care units (ICUs) who survived to hospital 
discharge.
DESIGN: An ICU clinical cohort linked to state-wide hospital records and death 
registers.
SETTING AND PATIENTS: Adult patients admitted to a 22-bed ICU at a major 
teaching hospital in Perth, Western Australia, between 1987 and 2002 who 
survived to hospital discharge (n = 19,921) were followed-up until December 31, 
2003.
MEASUREMENTS: The main outcome measures are crude and adjusted survival.
MAIN RESULTS: The risk of death in the first year after hospital discharge was 
high for patients who survived the ICU compared with the general population 
(standardized mortality rate [SMR] at 1 yr = 2.90, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
2.73-3.08) and remained higher than the general population for every year during 
15 yrs of follow up (SMR at 15 yrs = 2.01, 95% CI 1.64-2.46). Factors that were 
independently associated with survival during the first year were older age 
(hazard ratio [HR] = 4.09; 95% CI 3.20-5.23), severe comorbidity (HR = 5.23; 95% 
CI 4.25-6.43), ICU diagnostic group (HR range 2.20 to 8.95), new malignancy (HR 
= 4.60; 95% CI 3.68-5.76), high acute physiology score on admission (HR = 1.55; 
95% CI 1.23-1.96), and peak number of organ failures (HR = 1.51; 95% CI 
1.11-2.04). All of these factors were independently associated with subsequent 
survival for those patients who were alive 1 yr after discharge from the 
hospital with the addition of male gender (HR = 1.17; 95% CI 1.10-1.25) and 
prolonged length of stay in ICU (HR = 1.42; 95% CI 1.29-1.55).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who survived an admission to the ICU have worse survival 
than the general population for at least 15 yrs. The factors that determine 
long-term survival include age, comorbidity, and primary diagnosis. Severity of 
illness was also associated with long-term survival and this suggests that an 
episode of critical illness, or its treatment, may shorten life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e318170a405
PMID: 18434893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Health Econ. 2009 Jan;18(1):91-101. doi: 10.1002/hec.1347.

The impact of using different imputation methods for missing quality of life 
scores on the estimation of the cost-effectiveness of lung-volume-reduction 
surgery.

Blough DK(1), Ramsey S, Sullivan SD, Yusen R; Nett Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. dkblough@u.washington.edu

A post hoc analysis of data from a prospective cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) 
conducted alongside a randomized controlled trial (National Emphysema Treatment 
Trial - NETT) was used to assess the impact of using different imputation 
methods for missing quality of life data on the estimation of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). The NETT compared lung-volume-reduction surgery 
plus medical therapy with medical therapy alone in patients with severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease due to emphysema. One thousand sixty-six patients 
were followed for up to 3 years after randomization. The cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained was obtained, computing costs from a societal 
perspective and using the self-administered Quality of Well Being questionnaire 
to measure quality of life. Different methods of imputation resulted in 
substantial differences in ICERs as well as differences in estimates of the 
uncertainty in the point estimates as reflected in the CEA acceptability curves. 
Paradoxically, the use of a conservative single imputation method resulted in 
relatively less uncertainty (anticonservative) about the ICER. Owing to the 
effects of different imputation methods for missing quality of life data on the 
estimation of the ICER, we recommend use of a minimum of two imputation methods 
that always include multiple imputation.

Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1347
PMID: 18435426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2008 Jun;10 Suppl 1:33-42. doi: 
10.1111/j.1463-1326.2008.00885.x.

Development of a diabetes treatment simulation model: with application to 
assessing alternative treatment intensification strategies on survival and 
diabetes-related complications.

Chen J(1), Alemao E, Yin D, Cook J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economic Statistics, Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co., Inc., 
Upper Gwynedd, PA 19454-1099, USA. jieling_chen@merck.com

AIMS: The objective of this analysis is to project the long-term impacts on life 
expectancy and occurrence over 5, 10, and 40 years of microvascular and 
macrovascular complications of diabetes when using different haemoglobin A1c 
(HbA1c) thresholds for intensifying treatment of type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: A flexible, discrete-event simulation model has been developed to 
evaluate alternative treatment strategies based on the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study Outcomes Model. In the present analysis, the model is 
used to investigate the impact of alternative HbA1c thresholds for treatment 
intensification ranging from 7.0 to 9.0%. For each intensification strategy, the 
model is run using 80 simulated patients for each of 1224 patient profiles from 
the Real-Life Effectiveness and Care Patterns of Diabetes Management study (for 
a total of 97,920 simulated patients) to project the number of patients who will 
experience diabetes-related complications over time.
RESULTS: The use of lower HbA1c thresholds for intensifying treatment is 
associated with improved long-term outcomes. When the HbA1c threshold for 
intensifying therapy from oral treatment to basal insulin (T1) is 7.0% and the 
threshold for intensifying basal insulin to multiple-dose insulin (T2) is 7.0%, 
simulated patients spend 54% of their time with HbA1c >7.0%, but 95% of their 
time with HbA1c >7.0% if T1 and T2 are set to 9.0%. More aggressive or proactive 
treatment postures are projected to reduce clinical events, including 
diabetes-related deaths and diabetes-related complications, particularly 
myocardial infarctions (MIs). When T1 and T2 are set to 7.0%, there are 592 
fewer diabetes-related deaths in the first 5 years of the simulation and 3740 
fewer deaths over 40 years compared with the results when T1 and T2 are set to 
9.0%. These decreases in deaths were also associated with a 0.35 year gain in 
projected life expectancy. Compared with an aggressive strategy with both T1 and 
T2 being 7%, 644 more patients are projected to experience at least one episode 
of MI in the first 5 years if treatment intensification is delayed until HbA1c 
reaches 9.0%. This number increases over time, reaching 2906 additional patients 
experiencing at least one MI over a 40-year time period.
CONCLUSIONS: We report results from a discrete-event simulation model to explore 
the impact of alternative treatment strategies for patients with type 2 
diabetes. Strategies that intensify therapy (in response to rising HbA1c levels) 
at lower HbA1c thresholds (e.g. 7.0%) are associated with enhanced projected 
long-term health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2008.00885.x
PMID: 18435672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Endod. 2008 May;34(5):519-29. doi: 10.1016/j.joen.2008.01.002.

A review of factors influencing treatment planning decisions of single-tooth 
implants versus preserving natural teeth with nonsurgical endodontic therapy.

Iqbal MK(1), Kim S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontics, The Robert Schattner Center, University of 
Pennsylvania, School of Dental Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104-6030, 
USA. miqbal@pobox.upenn.edu

One of the major issues confronting the contemporary dental clinician is the 
treatment decision between extracting a tooth with placement of a dental implant 
or preserving the natural tooth by root canal treatment. The factors that 
dictate the correct selection of one procedure over the other for each 
particular case are not yet established by randomized controlled studies. The 
aim of this review is to evaluate key factors allowing the clinician to make 
clinical decisions on the basis of the best evidence and in the patient's best 
interests. General considerations are discussed that will help the reader 
analyze clinical studies focused on this problem. Importantly, the major studies 
published to date indicate that there is no difference in long-term prognosis 
between single-tooth implants and restored root canal-treated teeth. Therefore, 
the decision to treat a tooth endodontically or to place a single-tooth implant 
should be based on other criteria such as prosthetic restorability of the tooth, 
quality of bone, esthetic demands, cost-benefit ratio, systematic factors, 
potential for adverse effects, and patient preferences. It can be concluded that 
endodontic treatment of teeth represents a feasible, practical, and economical 
way to preserve function in a vast array of cases and that dental implants serve 
as a good alternative in selected indications in which prognosis is poor.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joen.2008.01.002
PMID: 18436028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Jul;67(1):111-21. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.03.032.
Epub  2008 Apr 23.

What do people value when they provide unpaid care for an older person? A 
meta-ethnography with interview follow-up.

Al-Janabi H(1), Coast J, Flynn TN.

Author information:
(1)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. hareth.al-janabi@bristol.ac.uk

Government policies to shift care into the community and demographic changes 
mean that unpaid (informal) carers will increasingly be relied on to deliver 
care, particularly to older people. As a result, careful consideration needs to 
be given to informal care in economic evaluations. Current methods for economic 
evaluations may neglect important aspects of informal care. This paper reports 
the development of a simple measure of the caring experience for use in economic 
evaluations. A meta-ethnography was used to reduce qualitative research to six 
conceptual attributes of caring. Sixteen semi-structured interviews were then 
conducted with carers of older people, to check the attributes and develop them 
into the measure. Six attributes of the caring experience comprise the final 
measure: getting on, organisational assistance, social support, activities, 
control, and fulfilment. The final measure (the Carer Experience Scale) focuses 
on the process of providing care, rather than health outcomes from caring. 
Arguably this provides a more direct assessment of carers' welfare. Following 
work to test and scale the measure, it may offer a promising way of 
incorporating the impact on carers in economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.03.032
PMID: 18436359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2008 May;49(5):2025-9. doi: 10.1167/iovs.07-0871.

Mapping of the neonatal Fc receptor in the rodent eye.

Kim H(1), Fariss RN, Zhang C, Robinson SB, Thill M, Csaky KG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Duke University Medical Center, 1530 Erwin, 
Durham, NC 27705, USA.

PURPOSE: The neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) has been known to modulate IgG 
transport and protect against IgG catabolism, resulting in extension of the 
serum half-life of IgG. The goal of this study was to localize FcRn receptor 
expression in the rat's eye.
METHODS: The cornea, retina, conjunctiva, ciliary body and iris, retinal pigment 
epithelium and choroid, and lens were dissected from each rat's eye, and total 
RNA was purified. The first-strand cDNAs were synthesized and subjected to PCR 
reaction. For control samples, reverse transcriptase was omitted. A monoclonal 
antibody against the FcRn heavy chain was used to localize the distribution of 
the FcRn receptor in ocular tissues. Lymphatic vessels and blood vessels were 
stained with a rabbit anti-mouse lymphatic vessel endothelial receptor-1 
polyclonal antibody and a rabbit anti-human von Willebrand factor polyclonal 
antibody, respectively.
RESULTS: RT-PCR demonstrated expression of FcRn RNA in cornea, retina, 
conjunctiva, ciliary body and iris, and lens but absence of expression in the 
retinal pigment epithelium and choroid. Immunohistochemistry and double staining 
confirmed the expression of FcRn receptor to the conjunctival lymphatic vessels 
but not in the conjunctival blood vessels. In the ciliary body, the FcRn 
receptor was found to be expressed in both the nonpigmented ciliary epithelium 
and the ciliary blood vessels. The expression of FcRn receptor was confirmed in 
the retinal blood vessels, iris blood vessels, optic nerve vascular structures, 
corneal epithelium and endothelium, and lens epithelium.
CONCLUSIONS: The FcRn receptor is expressed in multiple ocular tissues. The 
blood-ocular barrier showed FcRn receptor expression, indicating that IgG 
transport from ocular tissues to the blood system may use this receptor. The 
role of the FcRn receptor in the anterior segment and the conjunctiva remains 
unclear.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.07-0871
PMCID: PMC3950474
PMID: 18436836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Can Respir J. 2008 Apr;15(3):159-65. doi: 10.1155/2008/719231.

Cost-effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure therapy in patients 
with obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea in British Columbia.

Tan MC(1), Ayas NT, Mulgrew A, Cortes L, FitzGerald JM, Fleetham JA, Schulzer M, 
Ryan CF, Ghaeli R, Cooper P, Marra CA.

Author information:
(1)Vancouver Coastal Health Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnea-hypopnea (OSAH) is a common disorder 
characterized by recurrent collapse of the upper airway during sleep. Patients 
experience a reduced quality of life and an increased risk of motor vehicle 
crashes (MVCs). Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), which is the 
first-line therapy for OSAH, improves sleepiness, vigilance and quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of CPAP therapy versus no treatment 
for OSAH patients who are drivers.
METHODS: A Markov decision analytical model with a five-year time horizon was 
used. The study population consisted of male and female patients, between 30 and 
59 years of age, who were newly diagnosed with moderate to severe OSAH. The 
model evaluated the cost-effectiveness of CPAP therapy in reducing rates of MVCs 
and improving quality of life. Utility values were obtained from previously 
published studies. Rates of MVCs under the CPAP and no CPAP scenarios were 
calculated from Insurance Corporation of British Columbia data and a systematic 
review of published studies. MVCs, equipment and physician costs were obtained 
from the British Columbia Medical Association, published cost-of-illness studies 
and the price lists of established vendors of CPAP equipment in British 
Columbia. Findings were examined from the perspectives of a third-party payer 
and society.
RESULTS: From the third-party payer perspective, CPAP therapy was more effective 
but more costly than no CPAP (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] of 
$3,626 per quality-adjusted life year). From the societal perspective, the ICER 
was similar ($2,979 per quality-adjusted life year). The ICER was most dependent 
on preference elicitation method used to obtain utility values, varying almost 
sixfold under alternative assumptions from the base-case analysis.
CONCLUSION: After considering costs and impact on quality of life, as well as 
the risk of MVCs in individuals with OSAH, CPAP therapy for OSAH patients is a 
highly efficient use of health care resources. Provincial governments who do not 
provide funding for CPAP therapy should reconsider.

HISTORIQUE : L’apnée obstructive du sommeil (AOS) est un trouble courant 
caractérisé par une obstruction récurrente des voies respiratoires supérieure 
pendant le sommeil. Les patients présentent une diminution de la qualités de vie 
et une augmentation du risque de collisions de la route (CR). La ventilation 
spontanée en pression positive continue (VSPPC), le traitement de première ligne 
de l’AOS, réduit la somnolence et améliore la vigilance et la qualité de vie.
OBJECTIF : Évaluer le rapport coût-efficacité de la VSPPC par rapport à 
l’absence de traitement chez les patients atteints d’AOS qui conduisent un 
véhicule.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Les auteurs ont utilisé un modèle d’analyse décisionnelle de 
Markov avec un horizon prévisionnel de cinq ans. L’étude de population portait 
sur des patients de sexe masculin et féminin de 30 à 59 ans qui venaient de 
recevoir un diagnostic d’AOS modérée à grave. Le modèle permettait d’évaluer le 
rapport coût-efficacité de la VSPPC à l’é-gard de la réduction des CR et de 
l’amélioration de la qualité de vie. Les auteurs ont obtenu les valeurs 
utilitaires dans des études déjà publiées. Ils ont calculé les taux de CR avec 
ou sans VSPPC à partir des données de la corporation d’assurance de la 
Colombie-Britannique et d’une analyse systématique d’études publiées. Ils ont 
colligé les CR, le matériel et les frais médicaux auprès de l’association 
médicale de la Colombie-Britannique, des études publiées sur le coût des 
maladies et des listes de prix de fournisseurs établis de matériel de VSPPC en 
Colombie-Britannique. Ils ont examiné les résultats selon le point de vue d’un 
tiers payeur et de la société.
RÉSULTATS : Du point de vue d’un tiers payeur, la VSPPC était plus efficace mais 
plus coûteuse que l’absence de VSPPC (ratio coût-efficacité incrémentiel [RCEI] 
de 3 626 $ par année de vie pondérée par la qualité). D’un point de vue 
sociétal, le RCEI était similaire (2 979 $ par année de vie pondérée par la 
qualité). Le RCEI dépendait surtout de la méthode préférée de stimulation à la 
conversation utilisée pour obtenir les valeurs utilitaires, puisqu’elle pouvait 
être près de six fois plus élevée selon d’autres hypothèses tirées de l’analyse 
de référence.
CONCLUSION : Compte tenu des coûts, des répercussions sur la qualité de vie et 
du risque de CR chez les personnes atteintes d’AOS, la VSPPC chez ces patients 
représente une utilisation hautement efficace des ressources de santé. Les 
gouvernements provinciaux qui ne financent pas ce type de traitement devraient 
réévaluer leur décision.

DOI: 10.1155/2008/719231
PMCID: PMC2677941
PMID: 18437259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2009 Apr;114(3):589-95. doi:
10.1007/s10549-008-0035-0.  Epub 2008 Apr 25.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of adjuvant therapy for node positive breast cancer 
in Korea: docetaxel, doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (TAC) versus fluorouracil, 
doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (FAC).

Lee SG(1), Jee YG, Chung HC, Kim SB, Ro J, Im YH, Im SA, Seo JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Dankook University College of Medicine, 
San#29, Anseo dong, Cheonan, Chungnam 330-715, Korea. leevan@dankook.ac.kr

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2009 Apr;114(3):597-8.

BACKGROUND: This study evaluated the incremental cost-effectiveness (ICER) and 
cost-utility ratios (ICUR) of TAC compared with FAC following primary surgery 
for node positive breast cancer patients in Korea.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using the 
Markov model from the combined view of Korean National Health Insurance and 
patients. The model allowed assessment from the beginning of the first cycle of 
adjuvant chemotherapy following primary surgery until death. Relevant clinical 
data were obtained from the clinical trial BCIRG 001 and data for local 
treatment patterns and direct medical costs were obtained from three Korean 
hospitals.
RESULTS: Over a life time horizon, the life expectancy of TAC was 0.9 years 
longer than that of FAC. The ICER was 8,025,879 Korean won (KW, 6,573 euro) per 
life year gained and the ICUR was 8,885,794 KW (7,277 euro) per QALY gained when 
the cost and effectiveness were discounted at 5%. The model was most sensitive 
to the percent patient receiving prophylactic granulocyte colony stimulating 
factor (G-CSF) in TAC arm and the ICUR was 12,119,561 KW (9,926 euro) when 
assuming 100%.
CONCLUSIONS: TAC appears to be cost-effective in the management of early breast 
cancer in Korea.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-008-0035-0
PMID: 18437555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2009 Apr;114(3):537-47. doi:
10.1007/s10549-008-0025-2.  Epub 2008 Apr 25.

Prognostic imaging in neoadjuvant chemotherapy of locally-advanced breast cancer 
should be cost-effective.

Schegerin M(1), Tosteson AN, Kaufman PA, Paulsen KD, Pogue BW.

Author information:
(1)Amos Tuck School of Business, Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH 03755, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy in cases of locally advanced 
breast cancer has been steadily increasing, and is also in wider use for other 
cancers. As a consequence, a growing number of studies have focused on the 
question of how best to assess the therapeutic response to various chemotherapy 
or systemic therapy regimens. Prognostic imaging of response to therapy early in 
the course of a planned chemotherapy regimen could be of considerable value, 
particularly if shifting to another therapy regimen would be more effective.
METHODS: A cost effectiveness analysis was completed, specific to imaging of 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy response in breast cancer, to determine the dominant 
parameters that would make imaging systems cost effective. The cost analysis was 
completed with respect to a system for near infrared spectral imaging, but the 
costs are not dramatically different for other systems such as PET or MRI. Using 
a standard metric of $25,000 per discounted life year gained as a measure of a 
successful system.
RESULTS: It is shown that system specificity and patient average life expectancy 
are not dominant factors. Increases in cure rate and the efficacy of the initial 
chemotherapy are dominant factors. As long as the initial chemotherapy was less 
than 90% effective, most imaging systems would be cost effective, and if the 
cure rate of the disease could be increased as little as 1% through a change to 
alternate therapy, then the cost effectiveness of the system would be 
acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS: Based upon this simple economic analysis, diagnostic imaging of 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy appears warranted, assuming that it can be shown that 
the early shift from ineffective neoadjuvant chemotherapy to a more effective 
one has a measurable benefit in cure rate. This study indicates that the most 
important issue is to assess the added benefit of individualized chemotherapy in 
patient management, and clinical trials in this area would then provide the data 
required to justify analysis of prognostic imaging procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-008-0025-2
PMCID: PMC2807135
PMID: 18437559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Med Care. 2008 May;46(5):542-8. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318160b479.

A forensic evaluation of the National Emphysema Treatment Trial using the 
expected value of information approach.

Ramsey SD(1), Blough DK, Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington 98109, USA. sramsey@fhcrc.org

BACKGROUND/RATIONALE: Expected value of information (EVI) analyses allow 
researchers to estimate the returns to conducting research. We used EVI 
techniques to estimate the value of the National Emphysema Treatment Trial 
(NETT), a multicenter randomized trial of lung-volume-reduction surgery (LVRS) 
versus medical therapy (MT) for patients with severe emphysema, then compared 
that result to the trial cost.
METHODS: We gathered information on costs and benefits of LVRS and MT before the 
trial and the costs of conducting the NETT, and compared these data with the 
results of the cost-effectiveness analysis conducted alongside the trial. We 
used 2 thresholds to represent the societal value of a quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY): USD 50,000 and USD100,000.
RESULTS: The cost effectiveness of LVRS versus MT using historical (nontrial) 
information was USD 305,000/QALY. Based on these data and the threshold 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio values, the expected value of perfect 
information was USD 46 million and USD 670 million for thresholds USD 50,000 and 
USD 100,000 per QALY, respectively. The NETT was powered for 1,250 patients in 
each arm; ultimately approximately 600 patients in each arm were recruited. With 
1,250 patients per arm, the expected value of sample information was USD 660 
million for the threshold of USD100,000. The actual cost of the NETT was 
approximately USD 60 million. The expected net benefit of sampling was USD 600 
million.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the difference between the cost of the trial and the economic 
benefits of the information, the EVI analyses suggest that federal investment in 
the NETT trial represented good value for money.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318160b479
PMID: 18438203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Strength Cond Res. 2008 May;22(3):672-7. doi:
10.1519/JSC.0b013e31816a5d45.

Influence of strength training on adult women's flexibility.

Monteiro WD(1), Simão R, Polito MD, Santana CA, Chaves RB, Bezerra E, Fleck SJ.

Author information:
(1)Rio de Janeiro State University, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The purpose of the current study was to investigate the effect of 10 weeks of 
strength training on the flexibility of sedentary middle-aged women. Twenty 
women were randomly assigned to either a strength training group (n = 10; age, 
37 +/- 1.7 years; body mass, 65.2 +/- 10.7 kg; height, 157.7 +/- 10.8 cm; and 
body mass index, 25.72 +/- 3.3 kg x m(-2)) or a control group (n = 10; age, 36.9 
+/- 1.2 years; body mass, 64.54 +/- 10.18 kg; height, 158.1 +/- 8.9 cm; and body 
mass index, 26.07 +/- 2.8 kg x m(-2)). The strength training program was a total 
body session performed in a circuit fashion and consisted of 7 exercises 
performed for 3 circuits of 8 to 12 repetitions maximum (RM), except for the 
abdominal exercise which was performed for 15 to 20 RM. Flexibility measurements 
were taken for 10 articulation movements pre and post training: shoulder flexion 
and extension, shoulder horizontal adduction and abduction, elbow flexion, hip 
flexion and extension, knee flexion, and trunk flexion and extension. Pre and 
post training, 10 RM strength significantly increased (p < 0.05). Of the 
movements examined, only shoulder horizontal adduction, hip flexion and 
extension, and trunk flexion and extension demonstrated significant increases (p 
< 0.05). Neither elbow nor knee flexion showed a significant change with weight 
training. The control group showed no significant change in any of the 
flexibility measures determined. In conclusion, weight training can increase 
flexibility in previously sedentary middle-aged women in some, but not all joint 
movements.

DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0b013e31816a5d45
PMID: 18438255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2008 Apr;63(2):215-22. doi: 
10.1590/s1807-59322008000200010.

The disease burden attributable to smoking in the state of Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil in 2000.

Oliveira AF(1), Valente JG, Leite IC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Quantitative Health Methods, National School 
of Public Health, FIOCRUZ, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. andreiaf@ensp.fiocruz.br

INTRODUCTION: Smoking is one of the main risk factors for morbidity and 
mortality. An estimated 59 million (4.4%) disability-adjusted life years were 
lost due to smoking throughout the world in 2000.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the disease burden attributable to smoking in the State 
of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, for the year 2000.
METHODS: Based on estimates of smoking prevalence and relative death risks, the 
smoking-attributable fraction was calculated for each selected cause, by age and 
gender. The disease burden attributable to smoking was estimated by multiplying 
the fractions by the corresponding disability-adjusted life years.
RESULTS: In the State of Rio de Janeiro, 7% of all disability-adjusted life 
years were due to smoking. For individuals 30 or more years old, the fraction 
increased to 10.6% (13.6% in males and 7.5% in females). Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and 
tracheal, bronchial, and lung cancer accounted for 32.2%, 15.7%, 13.2%, and 
11.1% of the estimated total DALYs, respectively, amounting to 72.2% of the 
smoking-attributable disease burden.
DISCUSSION: Limitations related to parameter estimates were not unique to this 
study, and therefore should not compromise the comparability of our results. 
Outcomes were similar to those obtained in other countries, despite 
methodological differences.
CONCLUSION: Smoking is an important risk factor and places a significant disease 
burden on Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, showing a pattern similar to that observed in 
high income countries.

DOI: 10.1590/s1807-59322008000200010
PMCID: PMC2664213
PMID: 18438576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Jun;24(6):1609-21. doi: 10.1185/03007990802077442.
Epub  2008 Apr 24.

Cost-utility analysis of deferasirox compared to standard therapy with 
desferrioxamine for patients requiring iron chelation therapy in the United 
Kingdom.

Karnon J(1), Tolley K, Oyee J, Jewitt K, Ossa D, Akehurst R.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVE: The primary objective of the study was to evaluate the cost-utility 
of deferasirox (Exjade) compared to standard therapy using desferrioxamine 
(Desferal) for the control of iron overload in patients receiving frequent blood 
transfusions. The perspective adopted was that of the National Health Service in 
the UK.
METHODS: Phase II/III clinical trials have shown deferasirox in the recommended 
doses of 20-30 mg/kg per day to have similar efficacy to desferrioxamine at 
equivalent doses in the control of chronic iron overload. The main difference 
between them is in the mode of administration. Desferrioxamine is administered 
parenterally as a slow subcutaneous infusion typically infused 8-12 hours a day 
for 5-7 days a week. In comparison, deferasirox provides 24 hour chelation via a 
once daily oral tablet dispersed in water or juice. An excel based economic 
model was developed to evaluate the annual healthcare costs and quality of life, 
or utility, benefits associated with differences in mode of administration, 
using beta-thalassaemia as the reference case. A community utility study using 
time trade-off methods was performed to determine utility outcomes associated 
with iron chelation therapy (ICT) mode of administration.
RESULTS: In the reference case (patient mean weight 42 kg), deferasirox 
'dominated' desferrioxamine, i.e. resulted in lower net costs and higher quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs). Drug dose and cost is patient weight related. 
Incremental cost per QALY gained was pound 7775 for patients with a mean weight 
of 62 kg.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-utility analysis did not take drug compliance into 
account. However, Deferasirox is cost-effective compared to standard iron 
chelation therapy with desferrioxamine, due to the cost and quality of life 
benefits derived from a simpler and more convenient oral mode of administration.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990802077442
PMID: 18439348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Surg Neurol. 2009 Feb;71(2):188-95; discussion 195, 195-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.surneu.2008.01.029. Epub 2008 Apr 24.

Brain stem metastases treated with radiosurgery: prognostic factors of survival 
and life expectancy estimation.

Lorenzoni JG(1), Devriendt D, Massager N, Desmedt F, Simon S, Van Houtte P, 
Brotchi J, Levivier M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hôpital Erasme, Gamma Knife Center, Université 
Libre de Bruxelles, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. jls@med.puc.cl

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study is to study prognostic factors of 
survival and 3 stratification systems for life expectancy estimation in patients 
with brain stem metastases treated with radiosurgery.
METHODS: Between December 1999 and November 2006, 25 patients with 27 brain stem 
