
Causes of death in pedigrees with the 3243A>G mutation in mitochondrial DNA.

Majamaa-Voltti K(1), Turkka J, Kortelainen ML, Huikuri H, Majamaa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Oulu, P.O. Box 5000, FIN-90014 
Oulu, Finland. kirsi.majamaa-voltti@ppshp.fi

BACKGROUND: Causes of death of patients with the 3243A>G mutation have been 
described in case reports or case series with a limited number of subjects.
METHODS: Eighty-two maternally related sibships of 11 families with 3243A>G were 
included in this survey. The lifespan of each subject in these families was 
compared with the life expectancy of the general population, adjusted with 
respect to year of birth and gender. Causes of death were determined among 
3243A>G carriers and their first-degree maternal relatives.
RESULTS: We identified 123 deceased subjects in families with 3243A>G and found 
an excess mortality during the early years of life and young adulthood. The 
median age at death for 3243A>G carriers and their first-degree maternal 
relatives was significantly lower than that of the general population. 
Neurological and cardiovascular diseases made up one-third of the causes of 
death. Sudden and unexpected death was not uncommon in patients with 
cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and epilepsy.
CONCLUSIONS: 3243A>G carriers and their first-degree maternal relatives died 
younger than was predicted by their life expectancy at birth. Neurological 
disease was the most common cause of death.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2007.122648
PMID: 18202211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Genetics. 2008 Jan;178(1):513-26. doi: 10.1534/genetics.107.083253.

Distinct activities of the germline and somatic reproductive tissues in the 
regulation of Caenorhabditis elegans' longevity.

Yamawaki TM(1), Arantes-Oliveira N, Berman JR, Zhang P, Kenyon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San 
Francisco, California 94158-2517, USA.

The two parts of the Caenorhabditis elegans reproductive system, the germ cells 
and the somatic reproductive tissues, each influence the life span of the 
animal. Removing the germ cells increases longevity, and this life span 
extension requires the somatic gonad. Here we show that the somatic gonad and 
the germ cells make distinct contributions to life span determination. The life 
span increase produced by loss of the germ cells requires the DAF-16/FOXO 
transcription factor. In response to germ-cell removal, DAF-16 accumulates in 
nuclei. We find that the somatic gonad is not required for DAF-16 nuclear 
accumulation or for the increased stress resistance that is produced by 
germ-cell removal. The somatic gonad is required, however, for expression of 
specific DAF-16 target genes. DAF-16 is known to be activated by reduced 
insulin/IGF-1 signaling in C. elegans. In certain insulin/IGF-1-pathway mutants, 
the somatic gonad is not required for germ-cell removal to extend life span. Our 
genetic experiments suggest that these mutations reduce insulin/IGF-1 signaling 
below a critical threshold level. At these low levels of insulin/IGF-1 
signaling, factors normally provided by the somatic gonad are no longer needed 
for germ-cell removal to increase the expression of DAF-16 target genes.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.107.083253
PMCID: PMC2206098
PMID: 18202391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Cancer Gene Ther. 2008 Apr;15(4):268-74. doi: 10.1038/sj.cgt.7701114. Epub
2008  Jan 18.

Retroviral vectors for clinical immunogene therapy are stable for up to 9 years.

Lamers CH(1), van Elzakker P, Luider BA, van Steenbergen SC, Sleijfer S, Debets 
R, Gratama JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Laboratory of Clinical and Tumor Immunology, 
Erasmus MC-Daniel den Hoed Cancer Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
c.lamers@erasmusmc.nl

Recombinant retroviruses are one of the most commonly used gene transfer 
vehicles for therapeutic gene delivery. The stability of viral vectors upon 
long-term storage, anticipated to be short lived, is expected to impact timeline 
and financial course of clinical immunogene therapy. However, to date little is 
known about vector stability. Therefore, we analyzed the stability of retroviral 
vectors produced in culture supernatants (RTVsup) for ex vivo gene therapy upon 
long-term storage. We have generated RTVsups derived from two packaging cell 
lines, PG13 and Phoenix(Ampho). Both lines produced murine leukemia 
virus-derived SFG-scFv(G250)-CD4gamma vector, which were pseudotyped with the 
gibbon ape leukemia virus envelope and amphotropic envelope, respectively. The 
supernatants were stored at -80 or -196 degrees C. To date, the PG13-derived 
RTVsups have been evaluated over a period of 9 years (1998-2007). In addition, a 
clinical batch of Phoenix(Ampho)-derived RTVsup has been evaluated over a period 
of 5 years (2002-2007). Here, we show that both RTVsups, when stored up to 9 and 
5 years, respectively, do not show any sign of decay in their capacity to 
functionally transduce primary human T cells. These data provide evidence that 
in terms of 'life expectancy' the production and storage of clinical batches of 
RTVsup for gene therapy warrants the corresponding professional and financial 
risks.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.cgt.7701114
PMID: 18202714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Theory Biosci. 2004 Jun;123(1):17-32. doi: 10.1016/j.thbio.2004.03.003.

Critical periods as fundamental events in life.

Amzallag GN(1).

Author information:
(1)The Judea Center for Research and Development, 90404, Carmel, Israel, 
nissamz@bgumail.bgu.ac.il.

Development is not a continuous phenomenon. Rather, phenophases are interspaced 
with short critical periods. This phenomenon reflects an alternance between 
stabilization (during a phenophase) and dismantling (during a critical period) 
of a network of between-organ relationships generating the organism. Networks of 
relationships may be compared to dissipative systems in physics. In this 
context, a critical period represents a transient phase of isolation of the 
systems enabling its evolution towards equilibrium. As suggested here, this 
transition from dissipative to isolated system represents the source of newly 
emerging dissipative structures in which environmental or developmental 
perturbations are adaptively integrated. In contrast to non-living systems, an 
endogenous control of the transition towards critical period seems to exist 
during development. By extension to other scales of biological organization, it 
is suggested that the capacity to self-define its status (dissipative or 
close-to-equilibrium) represents the key property of living systems. This asks 
for a reconsideration of some basic notions about life, such as the role of 
genes in normal development, in physiological adaptation, and even in the 
emergence of evolutionary novelty.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thbio.2004.03.003
PMID: 18202878


930. Hinyokika Kiyo. 2007 Dec;53(12):863-8.

Clinical outcome of conservative therapy with transurethral resection for 
patients with invasive bladder cancer who cannot tolerate cystectomy.

Akamatsu S(1), Kanamaru S, Takenawa J, Soeda A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Nishi-Kobe Medical Center.

Among patients with invasive bladder cancer, there are patients who cannot 
tolerate cystectomy due to high age or comorbidities. We retrospectively 
reviewed 27 patients who were treated conservatively with transurethral 
resection (TUR). All patients had undergone TUR and 5 patients had received 
subsequent pelvic radiation therapy. The survival and control of local symptoms 
were analyzed statistically. Sixteen patients died of bladder cancer and 4 died 
of other causes with a median survival of 10 months. Seven patients were alive 
at a median follow up of 36 months. Tumor stage, grade and hydronephrosis at 
diagnosis were related with survival. Hematuria, bladder tamponade, and lower 
urinary tract obstruction could be controlled with TUR. However, those patients 
who complained of bladder irritative symptoms at diagnosis were likely to 
develop uncontrollable bladder irritability. Conservative treatment with TUR 
alone was an acceptable option in terms of survival for stage II patients with a 
short life expectancy. Even at more advanced stages, most of the local symptoms 
could be controlled with TUR. However, in patients with bladder irritability at 
diagnosis, the merit of cystectomy may outweigh its risk even among high age 
patients or those with severe comorbidities.

PMID: 18203523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Digestion. 2008;77 Suppl 1:29-35. doi: 10.1159/000111485. Epub 2008 Jan 18.

Palliative radiation therapy for advanced gastrointestinal cancer.

Murakami N(1), Nakagawa K, Yamashita H, Nagawa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Tokyo Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
ore-murakami@hotmail.co.jp

Patients with locally advanced disease can have significant local symptoms. The 
most common symptoms from local extension are pain, bleeding (hematemesis, 
melena) and obstruction (dysphagia, vomiting). These can cause a significant 
impact on a patient's quality of life. Radiation therapy is used to control 
these symptoms with modern 3-dimensional conformal techniques or brachytherapy. 
The aim of this study was therefore to review the outcome of palliative 
radiation therapy in patients with symptomatic locally advanced or recurrent 
gastrointestinal cancer.

2008 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000111485
PMID: 18204259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2008 Feb 15;33(4 Suppl):S184-91. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31816454f8.

Identifying the best treatment among common nonsurgical neck pain treatments: a 
decision analysis.

van der Velde G(1), Hogg-Johnson S, Bayoumi AM, Cassidy JD, Côté P, Boyle E, 
Llewellyn-Thomas H, Chan S, Subrata P, Hoving JL, Hurwitz E, Bombardier C, Krahn 
M.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Work & Health, Toronto, ON, Canada. gvdvelde@uhnresearch.ca

Republished in
    J Manipulative Physiol Ther. 2009 Feb;32(2 Suppl):S209-18.

STUDY DESIGN: Decision analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To identify the best treatment for nonspecific neck pain.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: In Canada and the United States, the most commonly 
prescribed neck pain treatments are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs), exercise, and manual therapy. Deciding which treatment is best is 
difficult because of the trade-offs between beneficial and harmful effects, and 
because of the uncertainty of these effects.
METHODS: (Quality-adjusted) life expectancy associated with standard NSAIDs, 
Cox-2 NSAIDs, exercise, mobilization, and manipulation were compared in a 
decision-analytic model. Estimates of the course of neck pain, background risk 
of adverse events in the general population, treatment effectiveness and risk, 
and patient-preferences were input into the model. Assuming equal effectiveness, 
we conducted a baseline analysis using risk of harm only. We assessed the 
stability of the baseline results by conducting a second analysis that 
incorporated effectiveness data from a high-quality randomized trial.
RESULTS: There were no important differences across treatments. The difference 
between the highest and lowest ranked treatments predicted by the baseline model 
was 4.5 days of life expectancy and 3.4 quality-adjusted life-days. The 
difference between the highest and lowest ranked treatments predicted by the 
second model was 7.3 quality-adjusted life-days.
CONCLUSION: When the objective is to maximize life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, none of the treatments in our analysis were 
clearly superior.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31816454f8
PMID: 18204391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Nat Immunol. 2008 Feb;9(2):109-12. doi: 10.1038/ni0208-109.

Connecting immunology research to public health: Cuban biotechnology.

Lage A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre of Molecular Immunology, Havana City 11600, Cuba. lage@cim.sld.cu

Erratum in
    Nat Immunol. 2008 Mar;9(3):329.

The close connection between immunology and public health has been successful in 
reducing infant mortality and infectious diseases in Cuba. The next challenge is 
to find treatments for chronic diseases of adulthood and to extend life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/ni0208-109
PMID: 18204419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Nature. 2008 Feb 7;451(7179):716-9. doi: 10.1038/nature06516. Epub 2008 Jan
20.

The coming acceleration of global population ageing.

Lutz W(1), Sanderson W, Scherbov S.

Author information:
(1)World Population Program, International Institute for Applied Systems 
Analysis, Schlossplatz 1, A-2361 Laxenburg, Austria. lutz@iiasa.ac.at

The future paths of population ageing result from specific combinations of 
declining fertility and increasing life expectancies in different parts of the 
world. Here we measure the speed of population ageing by using conventional 
measures and new ones that take changes in longevity into account for the world 
as a whole and for 13 major regions. We report on future levels of indicators of 
ageing and the speed at which they change. We show how these depend on whether 
changes in life expectancy are taken into account. We also show that the speed 
of ageing is likely to increase over the coming decades and to decelerate in 
most regions by mid-century. All our measures indicate a continuous ageing of 
the world's population throughout the century. The median age of the world's 
population increases from 26.6 years in 2000 to 37.3 years in 2050 and then to 
45.6 years in 2100, when it is not adjusted for longevity increase. When 
increases in life expectancy are taken into account, the adjusted median age 
rises from 26.6 in 2000 to 31.1 in 2050 and only to 32.9 in 2100, slightly less 
than what it was in the China region in 2005. There are large differences in the 
regional patterns of ageing. In North America, the median age adjusted for life 
expectancy change falls throughout almost the entire century, whereas the 
conventional median age increases significantly. Our assessment of trends in 
ageing is based on new probabilistic population forecasts. The probability that 
growth in the world's population will end during this century is 88%, somewhat 
higher than previously assessed. After mid-century, lower rates of population 
growth are likely to coincide with slower rates of ageing.

DOI: 10.1038/nature06516
PMID: 18204438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Dis Colon Rectum. 2008 Mar;51(3):355-9. doi: 10.1007/s10350-007-9169-0. Epub
 2008 Jan 19.

SECCA procedure for the treatment of fecal incontinence: results of five-year 
follow-up.

Takahashi-Monroy T(1), Morales M, Garcia-Osogobio S, Valdovinos MA, Belmonte C, 
Barreto C, Zarate X, Bada O, Velasco L.

Author information:
(1)Service of Colon and Rectal Surgery, Department of Surgery, Instituto 
Nacional de Ciencias Medicas y Nutricion Salvador Zubiran, Mexico, DF, Mexico. 
takahashit@infosel.net.mx

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the long-term (5-year) durability of 
radiofrequency energy delivery for fecal incontinence.
METHODS: This was an extension of the follow-up from our original prospective 
study in which patients who suffered from fecal incontinence were treated with 
the SECCA system for radiofrequency energy delivery to the anal canal muscle. 
The Cleveland Clinic Florida Fecal Incontinence Scale (0-20), fecal 
incontinence-related quality of life score, and Medical Outcomes Study 
Short-Form 36 were administered to five years. Differences between baseline and 
follow-up were analyzed by using paired t-test.
RESULTS: A total of 19 patients were treated and followed for five years, 
including 18 females (aged 57.1 (range, 44-77) years). The mean duration for 
fecal incontinence was 7.1 (range, 1-21) years. At five-year follow-up, the mean 
fecal incontinence score had improved from 14.37 to 8.26 (P<0.00025) with 16 
patients (84.2 percent) demonstrating>50 percent improvement. All fecal 
incontinence-related quality of life scores improved, including lifestyle (2.43 
to 3.15; P<0.00075), coping (1.73 to 2.6; P<0.00083), depression (2.24 to 3.15; 
P<0.0002), and embarrassment (1.56 to 2.51; P<0.0003). The social function 
component of the Short-Form 36 improved from 38.3 to 60 (P<0.05). There was a 
trend toward improvement in the mental component summary of the Short-Form 36 
from 38.1 to 48.14. There were no long-term complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant and sustained improvements in fecal incontinence 
symptoms and quality of life are seen at five years after treatment with the 
SECCA system. This treatment should be considered for patients suffering from 
fecal incontinence not amenable to surgery and who have failed conservative 
management.

DOI: 10.1007/s10350-007-9169-0
PMID: 18204954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Med J Aust. 2008 Jan 7;188(1):26-8. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2008.tb01500.x.

Paying for costly pharmaceuticals: regulation of new drugs in Australia, England 
and New Zealand.

Raftery JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute for Health Research and Development, University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK. raftery@soton.ac.uk

The United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand use different criteria for public 
funding of pharmaceuticals, but all include estimates of clinical effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness. Drug appraisal is done through the National Institute 
for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the UK, the Pharmaceutical Benefits 
Advisory Committee (PBAC) in Australia, and the Pharmaceutical Management Agency 
(PHARMAC) in NZ. Of the 10 drugs deemed least cost-effective by NICE between 
1996 and 2005, all were approved for funding in the UK, six were approved in 
Australia and five were approved in NZ. Australia and NZ refused funding for 
drugs for obesity, influenza and growth deficiency. All three countries made 
exceptions in order to fund drugs of poor cost-effectiveness for some "dread" 
diseases, but some drugs for less alarming conditions were either not funded or 
heavily restricted.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2008.tb01500.x
PMID: 18205559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Med J Aust. 2008 Jan 7;188(1):36-40. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2008.tb01503.x.

Burden of disease and injury in Australia in the new millennium: measuring 
health loss from diseases, injuries and risk factors.

Begg SJ(1), Vos T, Barker B, Stanley L, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia. s.begg@sph.uq.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To describe the magnitude and distribution of health problems in 
Australia, in order to identify key opportunities for health gain.
DESIGN: Descriptive epidemiological models for a comprehensive set of diseases 
and injuries of public health importance in Australia were developed using a 
range of data sources, methods and assumptions. Health loss associated with each 
condition was derived using normative techniques and quantified for various 
subpopulations, risks to health, and points in time. The baseline year for 
comparisons was 2003.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Health loss expressed as disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) and presented as proportions of total DALYs and DALY rates (crude and 
age-standardised) per 1000 population.
RESULTS: A third of total health loss in 2003 was explained by 14 selected 
health risks. DALY rates were 31.7% higher in the lowest socioeconomic quintile 
than in the highest, and 26.5% higher in remote areas than in major cities. 
Total DALY rates were estimated to decline for most conditions over the 20 years 
from 2003 to 2023, but for some causes, most notably diabetes, they were 
projected to increase.
CONCLUSION: Despite steady improvements in Australia's health over the past 
decade, there are still opportunities for further progress. Significant gains 
can be made through achievable changes in exposure to a limited number of well 
established health risks.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2008.tb01503.x
PMID: 18205562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Med J Aust. 2008 Jan 7;188(1):44-6. doi: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2008.tb01505.x.

Should Australia lift its ban on low nitrosamine smokeless tobacco products?

Gartner CE(1), Hall WD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.

Comment on
    Med J Aust. 2008 Jan 7;188(1):47-9.

In Australia, 2.9 million people continue to smoke daily, and tobacco still 
accounts for 8% of disease burden. Tobacco harm-reduction strategies, such as 
the use of Swedish snus, have been suggested as a way to further reduce this 
disease burden. In Australia, the most dangerous tobacco products (cigarettes) 
are the least regulated, while oral tobacco products, including snus, cannot be 
sold legally. Recent epidemiological modelling indicates that there are only 
small differences in life expectancy between smokers who quit and those who 
switch to snus. There is a case on public health and ethical grounds for 
allowing inveterate smokers who want to reduce their health risks to access 
snus. At a minimum, the recent increase in tax on smokeless tobacco should be 
reversed, and the ban on the commercial importation and supply of low 
nitrosamine smokeless tobacco should be reconsidered in light of the 
epidemiological evidence on its potential to reduce tobacco-related disease in 
smokers.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2008.tb01505.x
PMID: 18205564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Feb;24(2):601-8. doi: 10.1185/030079908x260853.

An economic evaluation of sevelamer in patients new to dialysis.

Taylor MJ(1), Elgazzar HA, Chaplin S, Goldsmith D, Molony DA.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium Ltd, University of York, UK. mt25@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: The overall objective of this study was to estimate the costs and 
outcomes associated with treatment with sevelamer for hyperphosphataemia 
compared with calcium-based binders.
METHODS: Using published data on mortality and hospitalisation rates, a Markov 
model was developed to predict health outcomes and associated costs for the 
treatment of hyperphosphataemia using either sevelamer or calcium binders in 
chronic kidney disease patients who had recently started haemodialysis. Patient 
outcomes were modelled for 5 years, and incremental cost-effective ratios 
(ICERs) were calculated for sevelamer relative to calcium carbonate and calcium 
acetate binders. The perspective adopted was that of the UK National Health 
Service.
RESULTS: The total 5-year discounted treatment cost for patients treated with 
sevelamer is pound 24,216, while for the calcium carbonate group total cost was 
pound 17,695. This is an incremental cost of pound 6521 per sevelamer-treated 
patient over 5 years. Patients receiving sevelamer can be expected to experience 
2.70 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared to 2.46 for those treated with 
calcium carbonate (i.e. an incremental gain of 0.24 QALYs). This results in an 
incremental cost per QALY of pound 27,120 and an incremental cost per life year 
gained of pound 15,508. Results were similar with calcium acetate.
CONCLUSION: Together with the unique morbidity and mortality benefits, this 
study suggests that treatment with sevelamer confers clinical benefits with a 
modest investment of additional economic resources.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908x260853
PMID: 18205996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2008 Jun;70(2):327-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2007.12.002. Epub 2008 Feb 21.

Does Cry1Ab protein affect learning performances of the honey bee Apis mellifera 
L. (Hymenoptera, Apidae)?

Ramirez-Romero R(1), Desneux N, Decourtye A, Chaffiol A, Pham-Delègue MH.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ecologia A.C., Km. 2.5 Carretera Antigua a Coatepec No. 351 El 
Haya, 91070 Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico.

Genetically modified Bt crops are increasingly used worldwide but side effects 
and especially sublethal effects on beneficial insects remain poorly studied. 
Honey bees are beneficial insects for natural and cultivated ecosystems through 
pollination. The goal of the present study was to assess potential effects of 
two concentrations of Cry1Ab protein (3 and 5000 ppb) on young adult honey bees. 
Following a complementary bioassay, our experiments evaluated effects of the 
Cry1Ab on three major life traits of young adult honey bees: (a) survival of 
honey bees during sub-chronic exposure to Cry1Ab, (b) feeding behaviour, and (c) 
learning performance at the time that honey bees become foragers. The latter 
effect was tested using the proboscis extension reflex (PER) procedure. The same 
effects were also tested using a chemical pesticide, imidacloprid, as positive 
reference. The tested concentrations of Cry1Ab protein did not cause lethal 
effects on honey bees. However, honey bee feeding behaviour was affected when 
exposed to the highest concentration of Cry1Ab protein, with honey bees taking 
longer to imbibe the contaminated syrup. Moreover, honey bees exposed to 5000 
ppb of Cry1Ab had disturbed learning performances. Honey bees continued to 
respond to a conditioned odour even in the absence of a food reward. Our results 
show that transgenic crops expressing Cry1Ab protein at 5000 ppb may affect food 
consumption or learning processes and thereby may impact honey bee foraging 
efficiency. The implications of these results are discussed in terms of risks of 
transgenic Bt crops for honey bees.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2007.12.002
PMID: 18206234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. J Pediatr Nurs. 2008 Feb;23(1):37-48. doi: 10.1016/j.pedn.2007.07.008.

Predictors of self-care in adolescents with cystic fibrosis: a test of Orem's 
theories of self-care and self-care deficit.

Baker LK(1), Denyes MJ.

Author information:
(1)Cedarville University, Cedarville, OH 45314, USA. bakerl@cedarville.edu

Pediatric nurses often struggle to find ways to encourage adolescents with 
cystic fibrosis (CF) to engage in self-care that is essential to their health 
and life. A study of predictors of self-care was conducted to provide a stronger 
evidence base for nursing practice with these youth. Orem's theories of 
self-care and self-care deficit were tested to explain and predict the universal 
and health deviation self-care of 123 adolescents with CF. Four dimensions of 
self-care agency emerged as predictors of universal self-care, two of which were 
also predictive of health deviation self-care. Seventy percent of the variance 
or change in universal self-care scores and 40% of health deviation self-care 
variance were explained. Clarification and extension of Orem's theories were 
also an important outcome. Development of nursing interventions designed to 
strengthen predictors of universal and health deviation-specific self-care 
identified in this research holds the potential to improve length and quality of 
life for adolescents with CF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pedn.2007.07.008
PMID: 18207046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. J Clin Neurosci. 2008 Mar;15(3):257-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2006.07.015.
Epub  2008 Jan 22.

Vertebroplasty combined with pedicular instrumentation.

Wenger M(1), Markwalder TM.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery, Hirslanden Group, Klinik Beau-Site, Bern, Switzerland.

Osteoporosis and cancer patients may suffer sudden severe back pain due to 
vertebral body osteolysis, microfractures and/or compression fractures. These 
patients need immediate restabilisation of the vertebral body to eliminate the 
pain generator, to prevent further crushing, and to reduce the comorbidity of 
prolonged immobilisation. Vertebroplasty combined with pedicular instrumentation 
is presented as a therapy for a selected group of such patients. Eight patients 
with an average age of 69.1 years experienced significant relief from disabling 
back pain. The ability to ambulate increased significantly. The risks associated 
with prolonged bed rest and hospital stay were reduced. There were only minor 
surgical complications. Follow-up was short because of the limited life 
expectancy of these severely ill patients. Disabling back pain was successfully 
treated and ongoing vertebral body collapse was prevented by vertebroplasty 
combined with pedicular instrumentation in the eight selected osteoporosis and 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2006.07.015
PMID: 18207410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Waste Manag. 2008 Nov;28(11):2393-402. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2007.11.010.
Epub  2008 Jan 18.

Evaluating source separation of plastic waste using conjoint analysis.

Nakatani J(1), Aramaki T, Hanaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urban Engineering, School of Engineering, The University of 
Tokyo, 7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-8656, Japan. 
nakatani@chemsys.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Using conjoint analysis, we estimated the willingness to pay (WTP) of households 
for source separation of plastic waste and the improvement of related 
environmental impacts, the residents' loss of life expectancy (LLE), the 
landfill capacity, and the CO2 emissions. Unreliable respondents were identified 
and removed from the sample based on their answers to follow-up questions. It 
was found that the utility associated with reducing LLE and with the landfill 
capacity were both well expressed by logarithmic functions, but that residents 
were indifferent to the level of CO2 emissions even though they approved of CO2 
reduction. In addition, residents derived utility from the act of separating 
plastic waste, irrespective of its environmental impacts; that is, they were 
willing to practice the separation of plastic waste at home in anticipation of 
its "invisible effects", such as the improvement of citizens' attitudes toward 
solid waste issues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2007.11.010
PMID: 18207727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Fukuoka Igaku Zasshi. 1948 Jun;39(2):103.

[Life-expectancy table for women of Japan as of 1 October 1940].

[Article in Undetermined Language]

HARA H.

PMID: 18207835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Biol Chem. 2008 Mar;389(3):221-31. doi: 10.1515/BC.2008.032.

Sirt1 protects the heart from aging and stress.

Hsu CP(1), Odewale I, Alcendor RR, Sadoshima J.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research Institute, Department of Cell Biology and Molecular 
Medicine, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, New Jersey Medical 
School, Newark, NJ 07103, USA.

The prevalence of heart diseases, such as coronary artery disease and congestive 
heart failure, increases with age. Optimal therapeutic interventions that 
antagonize aging may reduce the occurrence and mortality of adult heart 
diseases. We discuss here how molecular mechanisms mediating life span extension 
affect aging of the heart and its resistance to pathological insults. In 
particular, we review our recent findings obtained from transgenic mice with 
cardiac-specific overexpression of Sirt1, which demonstrated delayed aging and 
protection against oxidative stress in the heart. We propose that activation of 
known longevity mechanisms in the heart may represent a novel cardioprotection 
strategy against aging and certain types of cardiac stress, such as oxidative 
stress.

DOI: 10.1515/BC.2008.032
PMID: 18208353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. BMC Geriatr. 2008 Jan 21;8:2. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-8-2.

(Cost)-effectiveness of family meetings on indicated prevention of anxiety and 
depressive symptoms and disorders of primary family caregivers of patients with 
dementia: design of a randomized controlled trial.

Joling KJ(1), van Hout HP, Scheltens P, Vernooij-Dassen M, van den Berg B, 
Bosmans J, Gillissen F, Mittelman M, van Marwijk HW.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Institute for Research in Extramural 
Medicine, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
k.joling@vumc.nl

BACKGROUND: Dementia is a major public health problem with enormous costs to 
society and major consequences for both patients and their relatives. Family 
members of persons with dementia provide much of the care for older adults with 
dementia in the community. Caring for a demented relative is not easy and 
fraught with emotional strain, distress, and physical exhaustion. Family 
caregivers of dementia patients have an extremely high risk developing affective 
disorders such as major depression and anxiety disorder. Family meetings appear 
to be among the most powerful psychosocial interventions to reduce depression in 
caregivers. An American landmark study reported substantial beneficial effects 
of a multifaceted intervention where family meetings had a central place on 
depression in family caregivers as well as on delay of institutionalization of 
patients. These effects were not replicated in other countries yet. We perform 
the first trial comparing only structured family meetings with significant 
others versus usual care among primary family caregivers of community dwelling 
demented patients and measure the effectiveness on both depression and anxiety 
in the primary caregiver, both on disorder and symptom levels.
METHODS/DESIGN: In this randomized controlled trial effectiveness as well as 
cost-effectiveness of family meetings is evaluated. The intervention group 
receives four family meetings with family and close friends of the primary 
family caregiver of a community dwelling patient with a clinical diagnosis of 
dementia. Dyads of patients and their primary caregiver are followed up to one 
year after baseline assessment. The main outcome measures are the incidence of 
anxiety and depressive disorders assessed with the Mini-International 
Neuropsychiatric Interview (MINI) and the severity of anxiety and depressive 
symptoms in caregivers is measured by validated self report instruments: the 
Centre for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) for depression and the 
anxiety scales of the Hospital Anxiety and Depression scales (HADS) for anxiety. 
The economic evaluation is performed from a societal perspective.
DISCUSSION: By evaluating the effectiveness of only structured family meetings 
organized in the Netherlands, this study will contribute to the existing 
literature about the value of psychosocial interventions for dementia 
caregivers.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Dutch Trial Registry ISRCTN90163486.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-8-2
PMCID: PMC2259355
PMID: 18208607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Mar;24(3):609-24. doi: 10.1185/030079908X272742.

HIV lipodystrophy and its metabolic consequences: implications for clinical 
practice.

Wierzbicki AS(1), Purdon SD, Hardman TC, Kulasegaram R, Peters BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Pathology, St. Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) 
around 1996 markedly reduced mortality and morbidity from human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection. As life expectancy has improved, the chronic 
complications of HIV and HAART have become increasingly relevant.
SCOPE: This article provides an overview of the HIV-associated lipodystrophy, 
its pathogenesis and its clinical consequences (based on a search strategy in 
PubMed including literature published to November 2007).
FINDINGS: Lipodystrophy syndrome is characterized by abnormal fat distribution 
syndrome associated with metabolic disturbances and includes insulin resistance, 
deranged glucose and lipid metabolism. It is associated with increased risks of 
progression to type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease. Robust diagnostic 
criteria are required for lipodystrophy, and subsequent prospective cohort 
studies and randomized controlled trials are then required to determine the 
etiology and prognosis of lipodystrophy, and to evaluate therapeutic 
interventions for this consequence of HAART. Therapies to improve insulin 
resistance have been tried but they are frequently ineffective, and are limited 
by potential toxicity in this population. Hence, current management options for 
HIV associated lipodystrophy are limited and are mostly based on avoidance of 
risk factors and switching of antiretroviral drugs.
CONCLUSION: As the '3 by 5 strategy' of providing HIV drugs to the developing 
world is implemented worldwide, the numbers of patients adhering to 
antiretroviral medicines is dramatically increasing. One must be aware that in 
reducing the burden of acute retroviral disease, the treatments proposed might 
lead to significant rates of metabolic complications and further exacerbation of 
the epidemic of diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1185/030079908X272742
PMID: 18208641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Jan 14;170(3):138-42.

[Economic evaluation of a tablet-based vaccination against hay fever in 
Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Poulsen PB(1), Pedersen KM, Christensen J, Vestenbaek U.

Author information:
(1)MUUSMANN Research & Consulting, Kolding Syddansk Universitet Odense, Institut 
for Sundhedstjenesteforskning Sundhedsøkonomi, Kolding. pbpo@muusmann-as.dk

INTRODUCTION: Hay fever (allergic rhinoconjunctivitis) is a frequent disease and 
12% of the Danish adult population suffer from grass-pollen induced hay fever. 
Symptomatic medication is the traditional treatment, while immunotherapy with 
sustained effect is an alternative. Grazax (Phleum pratense, ALK-Abelló) is a 
new tablet-based vaccination against grass-pollen induced hay fever. The aim was 
to investigate the cost-effectiveness of the tablet-based vaccination of 
grass-pollen induced hay fever in Denmark.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Based on a prospective collection of data as part of a 
clinical trial cost and quality of life (QALY) data for 493 patients, the 
tablet-based vaccine (Grazax) was compared in a cost-utility analysis (societal 
perspective) with symptomatic treatment. The analysis was based on three years 
of immunotherapy followed by six years of sustained effect.
RESULTS: Significant more QALYs were gained from using the tablet-based vaccine 
(0.9799) compared with traditional symptomatic treatment (0.9567), which with a 
nine-year time horizon corresponds to 0.19 extra QALYs. The costs of vaccination 
against hay fever were DKK 34,498. With a nine-year time horizon, the cost per 
extra QALY from using the tablet-based vaccine was DKK 52,646 or DKK 134,105, 
focussing on direct costs alone. These results are below the unofficial 
thresholds for what the costs of a QALY should be.
CONCLUSION: The analysis has shown that tablet-based immunotherapy (Grazax) for 
the treatment of hay fever results in an improved quality of life and that it is 
a cost-effective choice.

PMID: 18208729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Br J Radiol. 2008 Apr;81(964):299-303. doi: 10.1259/bjr/54488578. Epub 2008
Jan  21.

Treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms: a decision analysis.

Takao H(1), Nojo T, Ohtomo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo, 
7-3-1 Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. takaoh-tky@umin.ac.jp

The purpose of our study was to evaluate the outcomes of neurosurgical and 
endovascular treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms over a lifetime, based 
on the results of the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial. We performed a 
decision analysis, using a Markov model, to evaluate outcomes of neurosurgical 
and endovascular treatment of ruptured intracranial aneurysms that were suitable 
for both treatments over a lifetime. We chose 50 years as cohort age. 
Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). In addition, 
we calculated life expectancy and subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH)-related 
mortality and disability rates. Compared with neurosurgery, endovascular 
treatment increased effectiveness by 1.0 QALY (neurosurgery, 13.1 QALYs; 
endovascular treatment, 14.1 QALYs) and life expectancy by 0.7 years 
(neurosurgery, 23.2 years; endovascular treatment, 23.9 years), and decreased 
SAH-related mortality by 0.4% (neurosurgery, 11.5%; endovascular treatment, 
11.1%) and SAH-related disability by 5.0% (neurosurgery, 21.3%; endovascular 
treatment, 16.3%). One-way sensitivity analysis showed that no parameters 
influenced the effectiveness of endovascular treatment compared with 
neurosurgery. For ruptured intracranial aneurysms suitable to both neurosurgical 
and endovascular treatment, endovascular treatment is more effective than 
neurosurgery over a lifetime.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/54488578
PMID: 18208854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Int J Obes (Lond). 2008 May;32(5):730-9. doi: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803801. Epub
2008  Jan 22.

Past body mass index and risk of mortality among women.

Moore SC(1), Mayne ST, Graubard BI, Schatzkin A, Albanes D, Schairer C, Hoover 
RN, Leitzmann MF.

Author information:
(1)Nutritional Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and 
Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Department of Health and Human Services, 
Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. moorest@mail.nih.gov

BACKGROUND: Epidemiologic studies of body mass index (BMI) in relation to 
mortality commonly exclude persons with health conditions and/or a history of 
smoking to prevent bias resulting from illness-related weight loss ('reverse 
causation'). Analysis of BMI from an earlier time period may minimize reverse 
causation without requiring exclusion of participants based on disease or 
smoking history.
METHODS: We prospectively examined BMI based on technician measurements of 
weight and height from 10 years prior to start of follow-up in relation to 
subsequent mortality in a cohort of 50 186 women who were 40-93 years old at 
baseline in 1987-1989. Deaths were ascertained through the US National Death 
Index. Proportional hazards regression was used to estimate hazard ratios (HRs) 
of mortality, adjusted for age, education, race/ethnicity, income, menopausal 
hormone use, smoking and physical activity.
RESULTS: During 10 years of follow-up through 1997, 5201 women died. Overall, we 
observed a J-shaped association between BMI and mortality, with increased risk 
for women who were underweight, overweight or obese. The HRs and 95% confidence 
intervals of mortality for BMI categories of <18.5, 18.5-20.9, 21.0-23.4 
(reference), 23.5-24.9, 25.0-27.4, 27.5-29.9, 30.0-34.9 and 35.0+ kg m(-2) were 
1.43 (1.19, 1.72), 1.07 (0.98, 1.17), 1.00 (reference), 1.10 (1.00, 1.20), 1.20 
(1.11, 1.31), 1.23 (1.11, 1.37), 1.60 (1.44, 1.77) and 1.92 (1.64, 2.24). There 
was little evidence that pre-existing conditions (heart disease, diabetes and/or 
cancer) or smoking history modified the past BMI and mortality relation (P=0.54 
and 0.76).
CONCLUSIONS: In this large cohort of women, BMI based on technician measurements 
of weight and height from 10 years prior to baseline showed increased risk for 
mortality across the range of overweight and obesity, regardless of disease and 
smoking history. Observed associations between overweight, obesity and mortality 
in healthy individuals may also apply to persons with a history of disease or 
smoking.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.ijo.0803801
PMCID: PMC3051416
PMID: 18209736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Cell Biochem Biophys. 2008;50(2):53-78. doi: 10.1007/s12013-007-9002-3. Epub
 2007 Oct 24.

Vascular adaptation and mechanical homeostasis at tissue, cellular, and 
sub-cellular levels.

Humphrey JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, 337 Zachry Engineering Center, Texas 
A&M University, 3120 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-3120, USA. 
jhumphrey@tamu.edu

Blood vessels exhibit a remarkable ability to adapt throughout life that depends 
upon genetic programming and well-orchestrated biochemical processes. Findings 
over the past four decades demonstrate, however, that the mechanical environment 
experienced by these vessels similarly plays a critical role in governing their 
adaptive responses. This article briefly reviews, as illustrative examples, six 
cases of tissue level growth and remodeling, and then reviews general 
observations at cell-matrix, cellular, and sub-cellular levels, which 
collectively point to the existence of a "mechanical homeostasis" across 
multiple length and time scales that is mediated primarily by endothelial cells, 
vascular smooth muscle cells, and fibroblasts. In particular, responses to 
altered blood flow, blood pressure, and axial extension, disease processes such 
as cerebral aneurysms and vasospasm, and diverse experimental manipulations and 
clinical treatments suggest that arteries seek to maintain constant a preferred 
(homeostatic) mechanical state. Experiments on isolated microvessels, 
cell-seeded collagen gels, and adherent cells isolated in culture suggest that 
vascular cells and sub-cellular structures such as stress fibers and focal 
adhesions likewise seek to maintain constant a preferred mechanical state. 
Although much is known about mechanical homeostasis in the vasculature, there 
remains a pressing need for more quantitative data that will enable the 
formulation of an integrative mathematical theory that describes and eventually 
predicts vascular adaptations in response to diverse stimuli. Such a theory 
promises to deepen our understanding of vascular biology as well as to enable 
the design of improved clinical interventions and implantable medical devices.

DOI: 10.1007/s12013-007-9002-3
PMID: 18209957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2008 Feb;49(1):119-24.

Rheumatic mitral valve surgery in the fifth decade: our experience.

Rathore KS(1), Kumar P, Jadhav U, Tendolkar AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic Surgery, Lokmanya Tilak Medical 
College and Hospital, Sion, Mumbai, India. kaushalendra_rathore @hotmail.com

AIM: Rheumatic mitral patients reach their fifth decade of life more often now 
than in the past. The purpose of this study is to provide insight into improving 
morbidity and mortality in these patients.
METHODS: This retrospective study included 105 patients aged 50 years or more. 
Seventy-five underwent mechanical valve replacement and 30 received a 
bioprosthetic valve. Data were collected from medical records and outpatient 
department (OPD) registers. Follow-up included transthoracic 2D 
echocardiography, supported by clinical parameters, and X-ray findings.
RESULTS: Mean age was 58.52+/-2.4 years. Follow-up period ranged from one to 
eleven years (mean 6.8+/-0.9 years). Immediate perioperative mortality included 
five patients (4.76%) and long term mortality included three patients (3%). 35 
patients previously underwent closed and open commissurotomy and balloon 
valvotomy. Multivariate analysis showed age, repeat surgery, atrial 
fibrillation, tricuspid valve disease, and preoperative functional status to be 
incremental risk factors. Freedom from repeat operation at 3 and 6 years was 90% 
and 85% in group I (<60 years), respectively. Actuarial survival at 4 and 6 
years of follow up was 94.24% and 88.52%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: With improving life expectancy and early interventions, the number 
of < or = 50-year old rheumatic valvular disease patients is increasing. The 
present study showed a marked improvement for this subset of patients, although 
age still remains the main risk factor along with atrial fibrillation, repeat 
surgery, stroke and tricuspid valve disease.

PMID: 18212697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Cancer. 2008 Mar 15;112(6):1337-44. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23297.

Cost-effectiveness of temozolomide for the treatment of newly diagnosed 
glioblastoma multiforme: a report from the EORTC 26981/22981 NCI-C CE3 
Intergroup Study.

Lamers LM(1), Stupp R, van den Bent MJ, Al MJ, Gorlia T, Wasserfallen JB, 
Mittmann N, Jin Seung S, Crott R, Uyl-de Groot CA; EORTC 26981/22981 NCI-C CE3 
Intergroup Study.

Collaborators: Krauseneck P, Vecht CJ, Twijnstra A, Gijtenbeek J, Bogdahn U, van 
den Bent MJ, Weller M, Kortmann RD, Taphoorn M, Grisold W, Fulton D, Gertler S, 
Perry J, Mason W, Curschmann J, Stupp R, Mirimanoff RO.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment bv, Erasmus University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The study aimed to compare the cost-effectiveness of concomitant and 
adjuvant temozolomide (TMZ) for the treatment of newly diagnosed glioblastoma 
multiforme versus initial radiotherapy alone from a public health care 
perspective.
METHODS: The economic evaluation was performed alongside a randomized, 
multicenter, phase 3 trial. The primary endpoint of the trial was overall 
survival. Costs included all direct medical costs. Economic data were collected 
prospectively for a subgroup of 219 patients (38%). Unit costs for drugs, 
procedures, laboratory and imaging, radiotherapy, and hospital costs per day 
were collected from the official national reimbursement lists based on 2004. For 
the cost-effectiveness analysis, survival was expressed as 2.5 years restricted 
mean estimates. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was constructed. 
Confidence intervals for the ICER were calculated using the Fieller method and 
bootstrapping.
RESULTS: The difference in 2.5 years restricted mean survival between the 
treatment arms was 0.25 life-years and the ICER was euro37,361 per life-year 
gained with a 95% confidence interval (CI) ranging from euro19,544 to 
euro123,616. The area between the survival curves of the treatment arms suggests 
an increase of the overall survival gain for a longer follow-up. An 
extrapolation of the overall survival per treatment arm and imputation of costs 
for the extrapolated survival showed a substantial reduction in ICER.
CONCLUSIONS: The ICER of euro37,361 per life-year gained is a conservative 
estimate. We concluded that despite the high TMZ acquisition costs, the costs 
per life-year gained are comparable to accepted first-line treatment with 
chemotherapy in patients with cancer.

Copyright (c) 2008 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23297
PMID: 18213621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Can J Public Health. 2007;98 Suppl 2:S218-24.

Physical activity guidelines and guides for Canadians: facts and future.

Tremblay MS(1), Shephard RJ, Brawley LR, Cameron C, Craig CL, Duggan M, Esliger 
DW, Hearst W, Hicks A, Janssen I, Katzmarzyk PT, Latimer AE, Ginis KA, McGuire 
A, Paterson DH, Sharratt M, Spence JC, Timmons B, Warburton D, Young TK, Zehr L.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada. mark.tremblay@statcan.ca

This article summarizes the main findings from the papers included in this 
journal supplement. It consolidates the evidence currently available to inform 
and advance the development of physical activity guidelines for Canadians, and 
it highlights the specific needs of various population subgroups. The challenges 
of translating guideline information into effective and persuasive physical 
activity messages, of campaigns to disseminate messages, and of related 
evaluations are underlined. Recommendations on how to proceed are based on the 
evidence base provided by this series of papers; the immediate next steps 
mandated by this initiative are outlined and priorities for future research are 
indicated.

