
Author information:
(1)Environmental Engineering Division, Department of Hydraulic Maritime and 
Environmental Engineering, Technical University of Catalonia (UPC), C/Jordi 
Girona 1-3, Mòdul D1, 08034 Barcelona, Spain. ivet.ferrer@upc.edu

Parque Porcino de Ventanilla has an extension of 840ha with 2200 farmers 
dedicated to pig production. There is a lack of services in the area (i.e., 
water supply, electricity, or waste collection). Anaerobic treatment of pig 
manure would replace current dumping and incineration, reducing environmental 
pollution and hazards to public health, as well as providing an organic 
fertilizer and biogas. The objective of the present work was to study the 
viability of ambient temperature anaerobic digestion of pig manure diluted in 
urine, by means of on-site pilot scale reactors. The final goal was to establish 
design parameters for anaerobic digesters to be implemented; since it was part 
of a project to improve life conditions for the farmers through the 
incorporation of better management techniques. Experiments were carried out in a 
low-cost pilot plant, which consists of three anaerobic digesters (225L total 
volume), without heating or agitation, placed in a greenhouse. The start-up of 
the digestion process was performed with a mixture of temperature adapted pig 
manure-sludge and fresh rumen, and showed a good performance regardless of the 
dilution of pig manure with water or urine, which is a key parameter due to the 
scarcity of water in the area under study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2008.02.014
PMID: 18417337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Nephrol Ther. 2008 Jul;4(4):256-65. doi: 10.1016/j.nephro.2008.01.003. Epub
2008  Apr 15.

[DOPPS estimate of patient life years attributable to modifiable hemodialysis 
practices in France].

[Article in French]

Canaud B(1), Combe C, Bragg-Gresham JL, Eichleay MA, Pisoni RL, Port FK.

Author information:
(1)Néphrologie, Dialyse et Soins Intensifs, Hôpital Lapeyronie, CHRU de 
Montpellier, Montpellier Cedex 05, France. b-canaud@chu-montpellier.fr

In this study, we used a prevalent cross-sectional sample of French hemodialysis 
patients from Dialysis Outcomes and Practice Patterns Study (DOPPS) 2 
(2002-2004) to determine the percentage of patients whose values failed to meet 
targets in six different areas of hemodialysis practice (dialysis dose, anemia, 
serum phosphorus (PO(4)), serum calcium (Ca), serum albumin and catheter use for 
vascular access). Cox survival models, with adjustments for patient 
characteristics, were used for these analyses to estimate mortality hazard 
ratios (HR). Based on the mortality HR, the fraction of patients outside each 
target and the total HD population in France, we estimated the number of patient 
life years that could potentially be gained if every chronic, in-center 
hemodialysis patient in France who is currently outside of the specified target 
was able to achieve it. The proportion of patients failing to meet one of the 
six practice targets in France varied from 15% (dialysis dose) to 75% (albumin) 
while the percentage of patients complying with all six targets was restricted 
to 1.2%. The relative risk of mortality (RR) associated with being outside these 
targets varied from 1.12 to 1.46. Based on these two measures the life-years 
survival was estimated. The projected number of patients and life years 
potentially gained from adherence to the six targets was estimated close to 
10,600 years-patient. In conclusion, this study suggests large opportunities to 
improve hemodialysis patient care in France still exist. Compliance with two 
major practice targets, such as albumin and restriction of catheter use will 
save highly significant life years of hemodialysis patient. Implementing and 
strict adherence to national and international guidelines should serve as a 
basic inspiration for continual improvement of hemodialysis patient care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nephro.2008.01.003
PMID: 18417439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2008 Jul;3(4):1185-94. doi: 10.2215/CJN.00410108.
Epub  2008 Apr 16.

Treating elderly people with diabetes and stages 3 and 4 chronic kidney disease.

Abaterusso C(1), Lupo A, Ortalda V, De Biase V, Pani A, Muggeo M, Gambaro G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Biomedical and Surgical Sciences, 
University Hospital of Verona, Verona, Italy.

Dedicated European and US clinical guidelines for type 2 diabetes in the elderly 
have been released, but they do not specifically address the issue of advanced 
chronic kidney disease (CKD) in older patients with diabetes. General clinical 
guidelines have been published on the treatment of patients with diabetic 
nephropathy (DN), but these address the issue of how to prevent progression and 
treat advanced DN without distinguishing between different age groups. Elderly 
patients with diabetes and stages 3 to 4 CKD have particular needs that differ 
from those of younger patients with the same conditions. This is mainly due to 
their frailty and shorter life expectancy. Differently tailored therapeutic 
strategies are needed, which may have less stringent targets; and the use of 
common drugs should be critically evaluated. The management agenda (metabolic 
control, low-protein diet, controlling BP, preventing progression of advanced 
DN, preventing cardiovascular outcomes) for these patients is discussed in light 
of the limits and perspectives of current guidelines. Intensive, simultaneous 
management of all items on the agenda may not be feasible for a proportion of 
older patients, and clinicians may have to give priority to reducing some risk 
factors rather than others, choosing between different therapies.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.00410108
PMID: 18417749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol. 2007;72:489-97. doi:
10.1101/sqb.2007.72.068.

Identification of Caenorhabditis elegans genes regulating longevity using 
enhanced RNAi-sensitive strains.

Samuelson AV(1), Klimczak RR, Thompson DB, Carr CE, Ruvkun G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

A systematic genome-wide RNA interference screen was performed in the 
Caenorhabditis elegans lin-15b;eri-1 strain, which has an enhanced response to 
double-stranded RNA including the nervous system, to identify life-span 
regulatory factors. In total, 16,757 genes were examined, revealing 115 gene 
inactivations that extended life span. A more stringent longitudinal analysis 
revealed 18 gene inactivations that induced the greatest increase in life span 
(10-90%), all of which extended life span when inactivated either in eri-1 alone 
or in a second strain with an enhanced response to double-stranded RNA, eri-3. 
Most reduced the rate of aging, implying that animals aged more slowly. As was 
the case in previous studies, genes critical for metabolism caused the greatest 
extension of longevity. Extension of life span occurs through disparate 
mechanisms as increased resistance to thermal stress, oxidative damage, and 
decreased age pigment accumulation analysis of the 18 stronger positives failed 
to demonstrate a correlation between enhanced stress resistance and decreased 
lysosomal function. Consistently, aps-3 and lys-10, two genes annotated to have 
lysosomal functions, extended life span when inactivated without enhancing 
stress resistance. The results of this study reinforce the importance of 
metabolism, mitochondrial and lysosomal functions, genomic stability, and stress 
resistance on animal life-span determination.

DOI: 10.1101/sqb.2007.72.068
PMID: 18419309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Neurology. 2008 May 27;70(22):2053-62. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000304372.01248.02.  Epub 2008 Apr 16.

Effectiveness and costs of screening for aneurysms every 5 years after 
subarachnoid hemorrhage.

Wermer MJ(1), Koffijberg H, van der Schaaf IC; ASTRA Study Group.

Collaborators: Algra A, Buskens E, Greebe P, Koffijberg HG, Rinkel GJ, van der 
Schaaf IC, Velthuis BK, Wermer MJ, Albrecht KW, Algra A, Bossuyt PM, Buskens E, 
van Gijn J, Greebe P, Gorissen A, den Heeten GJ, Koffijberg H, Majoie CB, Rinkel 
GJ, van der Schaaf IC, Velthuis BK, Vermeulen M, Wermer MJ, Algra A, Bossuyt PM, 
Buskens E, van Gijn J, Greebe P, Koffijberg H, Majoie CB, Rinkel GJ, van der 
Schaaf IC, Velthuis BK, Wermer MJ, Algra A, Buskens E, Koffijberg H, van der 
Schaaf IC, Wermer MJ, Albrecht KW, Greebe P, Gorissen A, Wermer MJ, Freling N, 
de Kort G, Majoie CB, Velthuis BK, Witkamp T, de Kort G, Lo TH, Majoie CB, van 
Rooij WJ, Albrecht KW, Tulleken CA, van der Zwan A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology: G03.228, University Medical Center Utrecht, 
Heidelberglaan 100, 3500 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. m.wermer@umcutrecht.nl

Comment in
    Neurology. 2008 May 27;70(22):2022-3.

BACKGROUND: Patients who survive after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) are at risk 
for a recurrence despite successful treatment of the ruptured aneurysm and may 
therefore benefit from screening for new aneurysms.
METHODS: We screened 610 patients with SAH with CT angiography 2-18 years after 
clipping of the aneurysms. Results of screening were used as input for a Markov 
decision model. We compared the expected number of recurrent hemorrhages, life 
expectancy, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and costs associated with the 
strategies "screening every 5 years" and "no screening."
RESULTS: Screening individuals with previous SAH prevented almost half of the 
recurrences, slightly increased life expectancy (from 21.06 to 21.08 years), but 
reduced QALYs (from 12.18 to 12.04) and increased costs (from $2,750 to $4,165 
per patient). Screening was cost-saving without increasing QALYs in patients 
with a more than twofold risk above baseline of both aneurysm formation and 
rupture and it was cost-saving while increasing QALYs if both risks were at 
least 4.5 times higher. In patients with reduced quality of life because of fear 
for a recurrence, screening increased QALYs at a maximum cost of $17,422 per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, screening patients with previous subarachnoid 
hemorrhage (SAH) cannot be recommended. Screening can save costs and increase 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) in patients with a relatively high risk of 
both aneurysm formation and rupture, and increases QALYs at acceptable costs in 
patients with fear for a recurrence. More data are needed on risk factors for 
aneurysm formation and rupture in patients with previous SAH and on management 
of fear for a recurrence to identify patients who can benefit from screening.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000304372.01248.02
PMID: 18420481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. BMJ. 2008 May 24;336(7654):1177-80. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39526.674873.BE. Epub
2008  Apr 17.

Cost effectiveness of self monitoring of blood glucose in patients with 
non-insulin treated type 2 diabetes: economic evaluation of data from the DiGEM 
trial.

Simon J(1), Gray A, Clarke P, Wade A, Neil A, Farmer A; Diabetes Glycaemic 
Education and Monitoring Trial Group.

Collaborators: French D, Holman R, Kinmonth AL, Mant D, Ziebland S, Yudkin P, 
Stott N, Sutton S, Tewson H, Chapman D, Hearnshaw H, Goyder E, Glasziou P, Jiwa 
M, Gordon M, French D, Kinmonth AL, Selwood MP, Craven A, Yudkin P, Fuller A, 
Walker V, Baigent C, Levy J, Wheatley K, Kirlow H, Chapman M, Turner S, Casbolt 
A, Dobson K, Willert A, Roberts A, Wood H, Islam K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF. judit.simon@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008 Jun 7;336(7656):1263.
    ACP J Club. 2008 Nov-Dec;149(4):4-5.
    Evid Based Med. 2008 Dec;13(6):170-1.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of self monitoring of blood glucose 
alone or with additional training in incorporating the results into self care, 
in addition to standardised usual care for patients with non-insulin treated 
type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN: Incremental cost utility analysis from a healthcare perspective. Data on 
resource use from the randomised controlled diabetes glycaemic education and 
monitoring (DiGEM) trial covered 12 months before baseline and 12 months of 
trial follow-up. Quality of life was measured at baseline and 12 months using 
the EuroQol EQ-5D questionnaire.
SETTING: Primary care in the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 453 patients with non-insulin treated type 2 diabetes.
INTERVENTIONS: Standardised usual care (control) compared with additional self 
monitoring of blood glucose alone (less intensive self monitoring) or with 
training in self interpretation of the results (more intensive self monitoring).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality adjusted life years and healthcare costs 
(sterling in 2005-6 prices).
RESULTS: The average costs of intervention were pound89 (euro113; $179) for 
standardised usual care, pound181 for less intensive self monitoring, and 
pound173 for more intensive self monitoring, showing an additional cost per 
patient of pound92 (95% confidence interval pound80 to pound103) in the less 
intensive group and pound84 ( pound73 to pound96) in the more intensive group. 
No other significant cost difference was detected between the groups. An initial 
negative impact of self monitoring on quality of life occurred, averaging -0.027 
(95% confidence interval-0.069 to 0.015) for the less intensive self monitoring 
group and -0.075 (-0.119 to -0.031) for the more intensive group.
CONCLUSIONS: Self monitoring of blood glucose with or without additional 
training in incorporating the results into self care was associated with higher 
costs and lower quality of life in patients with non-insulin treated type 2 
diabetes. In light of this, and no clinically significant differences in other 
outcomes, self monitoring of blood glucose is unlikely to be cost effective in 
addition to standardised usual care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN47464659.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39526.674873.BE
PMCID: PMC2394644
PMID: 18420663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AG has been reimbursed by 
Eli Lily for attending several advisory meetings.


504. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jul-Aug;28(4):500-10. doi: 10.1177/0272989X07312711.
Epub  2008 Apr 17.

Feasibility and reliability of the annual profile method for deriving QALYs for 
short-term health conditions.

Janssen MF(1), Birnie E, Bonsel G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine-Public Health Epidemiology, Academic Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. m.f.janssen@amc.uva.nl

INTRODUCTION: When health varies over time, the standard quality-adjusted life 
year model operates under the assumptions of time utility independence within 
each health state and additive independence between health states. These 
assumptions can be relaxed by an integral assessment of disease severity over 
time. The authors present the annual profile method (APM), which values health 
profiles on a 1-year base, and test the APM for feasibility, consistency, and 
test-retest reliability.
METHODS: A population panel, general practitioners, medical advisers, and a 
panel of the Dutch Consumers Association valued vignettes for 46 disease stages 
using the visual analog scale (VAS) and time tradeoff (TTO) methods. Vignettes 
contained disease-specific information, a generic description (EQ-6D5L), a 
description of the disease course over time, and a visual representation of the 
disease. Feasibility was tested by missing and inconsistent responses. 
Consistency between and within panels was tested with a generalizability study, 
analysis of variance, and standard correlation coefficients. Test-retest 
reliability was tested with a generalizability study and intra-class correlation 
coefficients.
RESULTS: Missing and inconsistent responses were < 2.6%. The valuations were 
consistent across panels, with generalizability coefficients of 0.78 (VAS) and 
0.64 (TTO). Within the main population panel, internal consistency was 
satisfactory and the influence of background characteristics negligible. 
Test-retest reliability was high, with generalizability coefficients of 0.90 
(VAS) and 0.72 (TTO).
CONCLUSION: Feasibility and reliability of the APM for realistic health profiles 
are good to excellent. The APM is a promising step to bridge the gap between the 
quality-adjusted life year methodology and clinical reality.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X07312711
PMID: 18420835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2008 Jun;466(6):1309-17. doi:
10.1007/s11999-008-0246-z.  Epub 2008 Apr 18.

Does the second-generation intercalary humeral spacer improve on the first?

Damron TA(1), Leerapun T, Hugate RR, Shives TC, Sim FH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, State University of New York Upstate Medical 
University, Suite 130, 550 Harrison Street, Syracuse, NY 13202, USA. 
damront@upstate.edu

Since publication of the results of a first-generation intercalary humeral 
spacer, a newer design has been available that addressed the weaknesses of the 
first. This study evaluated the hypothesis that the second-generation lap joint 
junction intercalary humeral spacer reduced complications compared with the 
original male-female taper design. We retrospectively reviewed the charts of 32 
consecutive patients who had undergone placement of an intercalary humeral 
spacer. Twenty-one with the male-female taper (minimum followup 0 months, mean 
19.2 months) were compared with 11 with the lap joint configuration (minimum 
followup 0 months, mean 20.3 months). Demographic, tumor, treatment, and 
radiographic variables were similar between groups. We observed a lower 
complication rate in the lap joint group (three of 11 versus 11 of 21). The most 
common complications in the male-female group, neuropraxia, periprosthetic 
fracture, and disengagement, were not seen in the lap joint group. Aseptic 
loosening was more frequent in the lap joint group. There were no differences in 
blood loss, operative time, or Musculoskeletal Tumor Society scores between 
groups. We noted improvement in Musculoskeletal Tumor Society scores from 
preoperatively to postoperatively in both groups. Use of these implants should 
be reserved for patients with limited life expectancy.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, therapeutic study. See the Guidelines for Authors 
for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-008-0246-z
PMCID: PMC2384029
PMID: 18421535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Br J Hosp Med (Lond). 2008 Mar;69(3):137-40. doi:
10.12968/hmed.2008.69.3.28749.

HIV and the kidney.

Post FA(1), Hendry BM.

Author information:
(1)Academic Department of HIV/Genitourinary Medicine, King's College London, 
London SE5 9RJ.

Kidney disease is an important complication of HIV infection. Antiretroviral 
therapy has dramatically improved the life expectancy of HIV-infected patients 
with end-stage renal disease. Renal replacement therapy, including kidney 
transplantation, should be offered to HIV-positive patients.

DOI: 10.12968/hmed.2008.69.3.28749
PMID: 18422216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Fam Pract Manag. 2008 Mar;15(3):18-22.

Discussing end-of-life care with your patients.

Old JL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Kansas School of Medicine, Department of Family Medicine, 
Kansas City, USA.

PMID: 18422262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Haemophilia. 2008 Jul;14(4):743-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01664.x.
Epub  2008 Apr 16.

Cost-utility analysis of Canadian tailored prophylaxis, primary prophylaxis and 
on-demand therapy in young children with severe haemophilia A.

Risebrough N(1), Oh P, Blanchette V, Curtin J, Hitzler J, Feldman BM.

Author information:
(1)HOPE Research Centre, Division of Clinical Pharmacology, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
nancy.risebrough@sunnybrook.ca

Primary prophylaxis is the emerging standard treatment for boys with severe 
haemophilia. Tailored (escalating-dose) prophylaxis (EscDose), beginning at a 
low frequency and escalating with repeated bleeding may prevent arthropathy at a 
lower cost than standard prophylaxis (SP). From a societal perspective, we 
compared the incremental cost per joint-haemorrhage that is avoided and 
quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY) gained of SP and EscDose to on-demand (Demand) 
therapy in severe haemophilia A boys treated to age 6 using a decision analytic 
model. Costs included factor VIII (FVIII), professional visits and tests, 
central venous placement/complications, hospitalization, home programmes and 
parents' lost work-days. Resource utilization was estimated by surveying 17 
Canadian clinics. The natural history of bleeding and other probabilities were 
determined from a longitudinal chart review (n = 24) and published literature. 
EscDose costs an additional $3192 per joint-haemorrhage that was avoided 
compared with Demand whereas SP costs an additional $9046 per joint-haemorrhage 
that was avoided compared with EscDose. Clinic costs and lost wages were reduced 
by 60-80% for EscDose and SP compared with Demand. EscDose attained more QALYs 
than SP and Demand on account of less bleeding than Demand and lower need for 
ports than SP. The incremental cost per QALY for EscDose vs. Demand was $542 
938. EscDose was less expensive with similar QALYs compared to SP. Sensitivity 
analysis was performed on all probability- and cost-estimates, and showed the 
model was sensitive to the cost of FVIII and the SP and target joint utilities. 
In conclusion, prophylaxis will substantially improve clinical outcomes and 
quality of life compared to Demand treatment, but with substantial cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01664.x
PMID: 18422610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. FEBS J. 2008 May;275(10):2574-84. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2008.06404.x.
Epub  2008 Apr 15.

An alternative transcript from the death-associated protein kinase 1 locus 
encoding a small protein selectively mediates membrane blebbing.

Lin Y(1), Stevens C, Hrstka R, Harrison B, Fourtouna A, Pathuri S, Vojtesek B, 
Hupp T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Cell Signalling Unit, CRUK p53 
Signal Transduction Group, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK-1) is a multidomain protein kinase with 
diverse roles in autophagic, apoptotic and survival pathways. Bioinformatic 
screens were used to identify a small internal mRNA from the DAPK-1 locus (named 
s-DAPK-1). This encodes a 295 amino acid polypeptide encompassing part of the 
ankyrin-repeat domain, the P-loop motifs, part of the cytoskeletal binding 
domain of DAPK-1, and a unique C-terminal 'tail' extension not present in 
DAPK-1. Expression of s-DAPK-1 mRNA was detected in a panel of normal human 
tissues as well as primary colorectal cancers, indicating that its expression 
occurs in vivo. s-DAPK-1 gene transfection into cells produces two protein 
products: one with a denatured mass of 44 kDa, and a smaller product of 40 kDa. 
Double alanine mutation of the C-terminal tail extension of s-DAPK-1 
(Gly296/Arg297) prevented production of the 40 kDa fragment, suggesting that the 
smaller product is generated by in vivo proteolytic processing. The s-DAPK-1 
gene cannot substitute for full-length DAPK-1 in an mitogen-activated protein 
kinase kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase-dependent apoptotic 
transfection assay. However, the transfection of s-DAPK-1 was able to mimic 
full-length DAPK-1 in the induction of membrane blebbing. The 44 kDa 
protease-resistant mutant s-DAPK-1G296A/R297A had very low activity in membrane 
blebbing, whereas the 40 kDa s-DAPK-1Deltatail protein exhibited the highest 
levels of membrane blebbing. Deletion of the tail extension of s-DAPK-1 
increased its half-life, shifted the equilibrium of the protein from 
cytoskeletal to soluble cytosolic pools, and altered green fluorescent 
protein-tagged s-DAPK-1 protein localization as observed by confocal microscopy. 
These data highlight the existence of an alternative product of the DAPK-1 
locus, and suggest that proteolytic removal of the C-terminal tail of s-DAPK-1 
is required to stimulate maximally its membrane-blebbing function.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2008.06404.x
PMID: 18422656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Cell. 2008 Apr 18;133(2):292-302. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2008.02.037.

Yeast life span extension by depletion of 60s ribosomal subunits is mediated by 
Gcn4.

Steffen KK(1), MacKay VL, Kerr EO, Tsuchiya M, Hu D, Fox LA, Dang N, Johnston 
ED, Oakes JA, Tchao BN, Pak DN, Fields S, Kennedy BK, Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

In nearly every organism studied, reduced caloric intake extends life span. In 
yeast, span extension from dietary restriction is thought to be mediated by the 
highly conserved, nutrient-responsive target of rapamycin (TOR), protein kinase 
A (PKA), and Sch9 kinases. These kinases coordinately regulate various cellular 
processes including stress responses, protein turnover, cell growth, and 
ribosome biogenesis. Here we show that a specific reduction of 60S ribosomal 
subunit levels slows aging in yeast. Deletion of genes encoding 60S subunit 
proteins or processing factors or treatment with a small molecule, which all 
inhibit 60S subunit biogenesis, are each sufficient to significantly increase 
replicative life span. One mechanism by which reduced 60S subunit levels leads 
to life span extension is through induction of Gcn4, a nutrient-responsive 
transcription factor. Genetic epistasis analyses suggest that dietary 
restriction, reduced 60S subunit abundance, and Gcn4 activation extend yeast 
life span by similar mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2008.02.037
PMCID: PMC2749658
PMID: 18423200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Exp Gerontol. 2008 Jun;43(6):505-19. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.03.001. Epub
2008  Mar 18.

14-3-3 regulates life span by both DAF-16-dependent and -independent mechanisms 
in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Araiz C(1), Château MT, Galas S.

Author information:
(1)CRBM-CNRS, 1919 route de Mende, F34293 Montpellier cedex 5, France.

Caenorhabditis elegans life span, stress resistance and metabolism are regulated 
by the Insulin/IGF-1/DAF-2/DAF-16 pathway. DAF-16, a member of FOXO/Forkhead 
transcription factor family, can be targeted by 14-3-3 proteins to promote 
stress resistance. We have identified a 14-3-3 C. elegans homolog which promotes 
life span by both DAF-2-dependent and -independent mechanisms and by an 
unexpected DAF-16-independent mechanism. Our results demonstrate that C. elegans 
14-3-3 proteins modulate stress-responsive genes throughout adulthood. In 
conclusion, 14-3-3 can be considered as an acute stress-responsive regulator as 
well as a sustained modulator of the Insulin/IGF-1/DAF-2/DAF-16 regulatory 
pathway in promoting life expectancy of growing old worms.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.03.001
PMID: 18423931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Surg Neurol. 2008 May;69(5):546-7. doi: 10.1016/j.surneu.2008.02.019.

Therapeutic nihilism and the elderly.

Ausman JI.

Comment in
    Surg Neurol. 2008 Nov;70(5):554.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surneu.2008.02.019
PMID: 18424303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Ann Behav Med. 1999 Spring;21(1):3-11. doi: 10.1007/BF02895027.

Shared medical decision-making: a new paradigm for behavioral medicine--1997 
presidential address.

Kaplan RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California/San 
Diego, Mail Code 0628, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA.

Different conceptual models lead to different health care choices. The 
traditional biomedical model emphasizes identification of pathology (diagnosis) 
and remediation of these biological deficits (treatment). An alternative 
approach, known as the outcomes model, focuses attention on the outcomes of 
health care. Specifically, health care is regarded as effective only if it 
extends life or if it improves quality of life. Indices that combine life 
expectancy and life quality can be used to monitor the benefits of health care. 
According to the traditional model, medical care is effective if it improves a 
clinical indicator (i.e. reduces blood pressure, decreases tumor size, etc.). 
According to the outcomes model, treatments are not advocated unless they 
improve general outcomes. There are circumstances in which clinical indicators 
improve but general outcomes remain the same or get worse. Data on the detection 
and treatment of prostate cancer are used to illustrate how these models might 
lead to different treatment decisions. According to the traditional model, 
aggressive screening and treatment of prostate cancer should be advocated 
because more cases are detected early and more tumors are removed. According to 
the outcomes model, net quality-adjusted life may be reduced rather than 
enhanced with screening. Shared medical decision-making is an outgrowth of the 
outcomes model. Using these methods, patients and providers integrate the best 
scientific evidence on treatment efficacy with patient preferences for outcomes. 
Often shared decision-making leads to reductions in the use of medical 
procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02895027
PMID: 18425648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Apr 16;(2):CD006682. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006682.pub2.

Duration of intravenous antibiotic therapy in people with cystic fibrosis.

Fernandes B, Plummer A, Wildman M.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(1):CD006682.

BACKGROUND: Respiratory disease is the major cause of mortality and morbidity in 
cystic fibrosis (CF). Life expectancy of people with CF has increased 
dramatically in the last 40 years. One of the major reasons for this increase is 
the mounting use of antibiotics to treat chest exacerbations caused by bacterial 
infections. The optimal duration of intravenous antibiotic therapy is not 
clearly defined. Individuals usually receive intravenous antibiotics for 14 
days, but treatment may range from 10 to 21 days. A shorter duration of 
antibiotic treatment risks inadequate clearance of infection which could lead to 
further lung damage. Prolonged courses of intravenous antibiotics are expensive 
and inconvenient and the incidence of allergic reactions to antibiotics also 
increases with prolonged courses. The use of aminoglycosides requires frequent 
monitoring to avoid some of their side effects. However, some organisms which 
infect people with CF are known to be multi-resistant to antibiotics, and may 
require a longer course of treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the optimal duration of intravenous antibiotic therapy for 
treating chest exacerbations in people with cystic fibrosis.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Trials Register which comprises references identified from comprehensive 
electronic database searches, handsearches of relevant journals, abstract books 
and conference proceedings. Most recent search of the Group's Cystic Fibrosis 
Trials Register: February 2008.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised and quasi-randomised controlled trials comparing 
different durations of intravenous antibiotic courses for acute respiratory 
exacerbations in people with CF, either with the same drugs at the same dosage, 
the same drugs at a different dosage or frequency or different antibiotics 
altogether, including studies with additional therapeutic agents.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: No eligible trials were identified.
MAIN RESULTS: No eligible trials were identified.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There are no clear guidelines on the optimum duration of 
intravenous antibiotic treatment. Duration of treatment is currently based on 
unit policies and response to treatment. Shorter duration of treatment should 
improve quality of life and compliance; result in a reduced incidence of drug 
reactions; and be less costly. However, this may not be sufficient to clear a 
chest infection and may result in an early recurrence of an exacerbation. This 
systematic review identifies the need for a multicentre, randomised controlled 
trial comparing different durations of intravenous antibiotic treatment as it 
has important clinical and financial implications.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006682.pub2
PMID: 18425963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. BMC Public Health. 2008 Apr 21;8:127. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-127.

Sex and the city: differences in disease- and disability-free life years, and 
active community participation of elderly men and women in 7 cities in Latin 
America and the Caribbean.

Rose AM(1), Hennis AJ, Hambleton IR.

Author information:
(1)Chronic Disease Research Centre, Tropical Medicine Research Institute, The 
University of the West Indies, Barbados. arose@uwichill.edu.bb

BACKGROUND: The world's population is ageing, and four of the top 10 most 
rapidly ageing developing nations are from the region of Latin America and the 
Caribbean (LAC). Although an ageing population heralds likely increases in 
chronic disease, disability-related dependence, and economic burden, the 
societal contribution of the chronically ill or those with disability is not 
often measured.
METHODS: We calculated country-specific prevalences of 'disability' (difficulty 
with at least one activity of daily living), 'disease' and 'co-morbidity' 
(presence of at least one, and at least two, of seven chronic 
diseases/conditions, respectively), and 'active community engagement' (using 
five levels of community participation, from less than weekly community contact 
to voluntary or paid work) in seven LAC cities. We estimated remaining life 
expectancy (LE) with and without disability, disease and co-morbidity, and 
investigated age, sex, and regional variations in disability-free LE. Finally, 
we modeled the association of disease, co-morbidity and disability with active 
community participation using an ordinal regression model, adjusted for 
depression.
RESULTS: Overall, 77% of the LAC elderly had at least one chronic 
disease/condition, 44% had co-morbidity and 19% had a disability. The proportion 
of disability-free LE declined between the youngest (60-64 years) and the eldest 
(90 years and over) age-groups for both men (from 85% to 55%) and women (from 
75% to 45%). Disease-free and co-morbidity-free LE, however, remained at 
approximately 30% and 62%, respectively, for men (20% and 48% for women), until 
80-84 years of age, then increased. Only Bridgetown's participants had 
statistically significantly longer disability-free LE than the regional average 
(IRR = 1.08; 95%CI 1.05-1.10; p < 0.001). Only Santiago's participants had 
disability-free LE which was shorter than the regional average (IRR = 0.94; 
95%CI 0.92-0.97; p < 0.001). There was 75% active community participation 
overall, with more women than men involved in active help (49% vs 32%, 
respectively) and more men involved in voluntary/paid work (46% vs 25%, 
respectively). There was either no, or borderline significance in the 
association between having one or more diseases/conditions and active community 
engagement for both sexes. These associations were limited by depression (odds 
ratio [OR] reduced by 15-17% for men, and by 8-11% for women), and only remained 
statistically significant in men. However, disability remained statistically 
significantly associated with less community engagement after adjusting for 
depression (OR = 0.58, 95%CI 0.49-0.69, p < 0.001 for women and OR = 0.50, 95%CI 
0.47-0.65, p < 0.001 for men).
CONCLUSION: There is an increasing burden of disease and disability with older 
age across the LAC region. As these nations cope with resulting social and 
economic demands, governments and civic societies must continue to develop and 
maintain opportunities for community participation by this increasingly frail, 
but actively engaged group.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-127
PMCID: PMC2387143
PMID: 18426599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Farm Hosp. 2008 Jan-Feb;32(1):25-34. doi: 10.1016/s1130-6343(08)72806-x.

[Rituximab cost analysis for maintenance treatment of patients with follicular 
lymphoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Grupo de Farmacoeconomía del Linfoma Folicular.

INTRODUCTION: In patients with refractory or recurrent follicular lymphoma 
responding to induction therapy with CHOP or rituximab + CHOP, maintenance 
treatment with rituximab compared to the "observation" option improves both 
overall survival and progression-free survival.
OBJECTIVE: Estimate whether maintenance treatment with rituximab is a 
cost-effective intervention compared to the clinical practice of "observing" its 
evolution.
POPULATION: the EORTC 20981 clinical trial population.
PERSPECTIVE: Spanish National Health System (direct healthcare costs).
DESIGN: Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis, with a transition model between 
states of health.
MAIN VARIABLES: cost of gaining a quality-adjusted life year (QALY), per life 
year gained (LYG) and per progression-free LYG. Premises of the basic case: 
Weibull distribution for survival extrapolation, 5 year duration of the benefits 
of the treatment, time horizon of 10 years and annual discount rate (costs and 
benefits) of 3.5%. These premises were modified in the sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Deterministic analysis: the cost per QALY gained was 9,358 euro, 8,493 
euro per LYG and 5,485 euro per progression-free LYG. Probabilistic and 
sensitivity analysis: they confirmed the stability of the deterministic analysis 
results.
CONCLUSIONS: According to this model, maintenance treatment with rituximab is 
cost-effective (cost per LYG < 30,000 euro) in patients with resistant or 
recurrent follicular lymphoma responding to induction treatment, in comparison 
to the usual practice of observing patients' evolution.

DOI: 10.1016/s1130-6343(08)72806-x
PMID: 18426699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Scand J Public Health. 2008 Jan;36(1):44-51. doi: 10.1177/1403494807085193.

Increase in social inequality in health expectancy in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Baadsgaard M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, 
Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

AIMS: Health expectancy represents the average lifetime in various states of 
health and differs among social groups. The purpose of the study was to 
determine trends in social inequality in health expectancy since 1994 between 
groups with high, medium and low educational levels in Denmark.
METHODS: The study was based on data from nationwide registers on educational 
level and mortality during the period 1994-2005 and data on health status 
derived from the Danish Health Interview Surveys carried out in 1994, 2000 and 
2005. Expected lifetime in self-rated good and poor health, lifetime without and 
with longstanding illness and expected lifetime without and with long-lasting 
difficulties or restrictions were estimated by Sullivan's method.
RESULTS: Between 1994 and 2005, life expectancy at age 30 years increased by 1.9 
years for men and 1.5 years for women with a low educational level. For people 
with a high educational level, the increase was 2.7 years for men and 2.2 years 
for women. The difference between people with low and high educational level in 
expected lifetime in self-rated good health increased by 2.0 and 1.3 years for 
30-year-old men and women, respectively. The social gap also increased for other 
indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: During the past 12 years, social inequality in life expectancy and 
health expectancy has increased in Denmark, but the proportion of the population 
with a low educational level has decreased.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494807085193
PMID: 18426784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Eur J Endocrinol. 2008 May;158(5):749-53. doi: 10.1530/EJE-07-0849.

Elevated serum parathyroid hormone predicts impaired survival prognosis in a 
general aged population.

Björkman MP(1), Sorva AJ, Tilvis RS.

Author information:
(1)Clinics of Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Helsinki University Central 
Hospital, POB 340, FI-00290 HUS Helsinki, Finland. mikko.bjorkman@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVE: Short-term studies on selected patients have indicated that elevated 
serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) is an independent risk factor of death. However, 
long-term data on unselected populations are lacking, thus far. In order to 
evaluate the predictive value of elevated serum PTH during the last years of 
life, random persons of age cohorts of 75, 80 and 85 years were followed for 17 
years.
DESIGN: A prospective cohort study.
METHODS: Subjects (n=567) were investigated for calcaemic status including serum 
intact PTH, serum total calcium (CaT) and ionized calcium (Ca(2+)). Thorough 
clinical examinations included an assessment of co-morbidity. Mortality data 
were collected from National Census Records.
RESULTS: Up to 93% of the subjects died within the follow-up. In contrast to 
Ca(2+) levels, high serum PTH (> or =63 ng/l, IV quartile cut point) was 
associated with significant over-mortality (HR=1.56, 95% CI: 1.29-1.88) and a 
2.3-year reduction of median life expectancy. After controlling for age, gender, 
co-morbidity and creatinine, the prognostic impact of elevated serum PTH was 
still significant (HR=1.24, 95% CI: 1.01-1.53). The tendency for over-mortality 
was consistent in both genders, in all age groups as well as in subjects with 
varying co-morbidity, renal function, body mass index categories and Ca(2+) 
levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated serum PTH level is an independent predictor of impaired 
long-term survival prognosis in unselected aged population. Serum Ca(2+) did not 
emerge as a significant prognostic indicator. The long-term prognostic impact of 
vitamin D deficiency, the most common cause of elevated PTH levels in the 
elderly, remains to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-07-0849
PMID: 18426835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. BMJ. 2008 May 24;336(7654):1180-5. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39545.585289.25. Epub
2008  Apr 21.

Different strategies for screening and prevention of type 2 diabetes in adults: 
cost effectiveness analysis.

Gillies CL(1), Lambert PC, Abrams KR, Sutton AJ, Cooper NJ, Hsu RT, Davies MJ, 
Khunti K.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biostatistics and Genetic Epidemiology, Department of Health 
Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester LE1 7RH. clg13@le.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008 May 24;336(7654):1140-1.
    BMJ. 2008 Jun 7;336(7656):1263.

OBJECTIVE: To compare four potential screening strategies, and subsequent 
interventions, for the prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes: (a) 
screening for type 2 diabetes to enable early detection and treatment, (b) 
screening for type 2 diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance, intervening with 
lifestyle interventions in those with a diagnosis of impaired glucose tolerance 
to delay or prevent diabetes, (c) as for (b) but with pharmacological 
interventions, and (d) no screening.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis based on development and evaluation of 
probabilistic, comprehensive economic decision analytic model, from screening to 
death.
SETTING: A hypothetical population, aged 45 at time of screening, with above 
average risk of diabetes.
DATA SOURCES: Published clinical trials and epidemiological studies retrieved 
from electronic bibliographic databases; supplementary data obtained from the 
Department of Health statistics for England and Wales, the screening those at 
risk (STAR) study, and the Leicester division of the ADDITION study.
METHODS: A hybrid decision tree/Markov model was developed to simulate the long 
term effects of each screening strategy, in terms of both clinical and cost 
effectiveness outcomes. The base case model assumed a 50 year time horizon with 
discounting of both costs and benefits at 3.5%. Sensitivity analyses were 
carried out to investigate assumptions of the model and to identify which model 
inputs had most impact on the results.
RESULTS: Estimated costs for each quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained 
(discounted at 3.5% a year for both costs and benefits) were pound14,150 (euro17 
560; $27,860) for screening for type 2 diabetes, pound6242 for screening for 
diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance followed by lifestyle interventions, and 
pound7023 for screening for diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance followed by 
pharmacological interventions, all compared with no screening. At a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of pound20,000 the probability of the intervention 
being cost effective was 49%, 93%, and 85% for each of the active screening 
strategies respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for type 2 diabetes and impaired glucose tolerance, with 
appropriate intervention for those with impaired glucose tolerance, in an above 
average risk population aged 45, seems to be cost effective. The cost 
effectiveness of a policy of screening for diabetes alone, which offered no 
intervention to those with impaired glucose tolerance, is still uncertain.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39545.585289.25
PMCID: PMC2394709
PMID: 18426840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: MJD and KK have received 
sponsorship for attending conferences and small honorariums and funding for 
research from pharmaceutical companies that manufacture hypoglycaemic and 
anti-obesity drugs. KRA has also received funding for research from 
pharmaceutical companies that manufacture hypoglycaemic and anti-obesity drugs 
and has acted as a paid consultant to consultancy companies who undertake work 
for the healthcare industry generally.


520. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2008 Apr;63(4):338-49. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/63.4.338.

They really are that old: a validation study of centenarian prevalence in 
Okinawa.

Willcox DC(1), Willcox BJ, He Q, Wang NC, Suzuki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Welfare, Okinawa International University, 2-6-1 Ginowan, 
Ginowan City, Okinawa, Japan. d.willcox@okiu.ac.jp

Long-lived individuals, such as centenarians, may harbor genetic or 
environmental advantages important for healthy aging. Populations with high 
prevalence of such individuals offer fertile ground for such research. However, 
precise phenotypes are required, particularly accurate age. Okinawa has among 
the world's highest reported prevalence of centenarians but, despite extensive 
study, no systematic validation of centenarian prevalence has been published. 
Therefore, we performed comprehensive age validation of a subset (8%) of the 
total centenarian population and assessed the reliability of the age 
registration system. Self-reported age was validated with several common methods 
and found to correlate well with documented age. Demographic methods, including 
assessment of age heaping, maximum age at death, centenarian proportions, and 
male to female ratios of centenarians indicate that the age registration system 
is reliable. We conclude that the high reported centenarian prevalence in 
Okinawa is valid and warrants further study for its genetic and environmental 
correlates.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/63.4.338
PMID: 18426957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Arch Surg. 2008 Apr;143(4):389-94. doi: 10.1001/archsurg.143.4.389.

Patient and physician preferences for surgical and adjuvant treatment options 
for rectal cancer.

Harrison JD(1), Solomon MJ, Young JM, Meagher A, Butow P, Salkeld G, Hruby G, 
Clarke S.

Author information:
(1)BSc(Hons), Surgical Outcomes Research Centre, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, 
PO Box M157, Missenden Road, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia 2050. 
james.harrison@email.cs.nsw.gov.au

HYPOTHESIS: Patients and their clinicians hold varying preferences for surgical 
and adjuvant treatment therapies for rectal cancer.
DESIGN: Preferences were determined using the Prospective Measure of Preference.
SETTING: Royal Prince Alfred and St Vincent's hospitals in Sydney, Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with colorectal cancer were interviewed during their 
postoperative hospital stay, and physicians were asked to complete a mailed 
survey.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The Prospective Measure of Preference method produces 2 
outcome measures of preference: willingness to trade and prospective measure of 
preference time trade-off.
RESULTS: Patients' strongest preference was to avoid a stoma: more than 60% 
would give up a mean of 34% of their life expectancy to avoid this surgical 
option. This was followed by treatment options involving chemoradiotherapy, 
where more than 50% would give up a mean of almost 25% of their life to avoid 
treatment. Surgeons held stronger preferences against all adjuvant options 
compared with oncologists (P </= .01).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients had strong preferences against all treatment options, and 
these preferences frequently differed from those of physicians. These results 
highlight the importance of determining patients' own preferences in the 
clinical encounter. Furthermore, the diversity of preferences of clinical 
subspecialists emphasizes the need for multidisciplinary treatment planning to 
ensure a balanced approach to treatment decision making for patients with rectal 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1001/archsurg.143.4.389
PMID: 18427027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Strategies Trauma Limb Reconstr. 2007 Dec;2(2-3):63-8. doi: 
10.1007/s11751-007-0021-9. Epub 2007 Dec 7.

The tantalum screw for treating femoral head necrosis: rationale and results.

Aldegheri R(1), Taglialavoro G, Berizzi A.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Clinic of the Padua University, Via Giulio Alessio 21, 35121, 
Padova, Italy.

Femoral head necrosis (FHN) is a progressive pathology due to the failure of 
blood supply to the proximal femoral epiphysis, with consequent necrosis of the 
sub-chondral bone and collapse of the articular cartilage and loss of congruity 
between the head and the acetabulum. Borrowing the biological and mechanical 
principles from the vascularized fibular graft technique for the femoral neck, 
the tantalum screws have been introduced. They show an extraordinary porosity, 
osteoconductivity, biocompatibility and very good osteoinductivity. Vitreous 
tantalum can be processed to take the form of a screw, with a round medial 
extremity and a 25 mm threaded lateral extremity that can be inserted into the 
neck of the femur, thereby supporting the articular cartilage, stimulating the 
repair process, interrupting the interface between necrotic and healthy tissue 
and favoring local vascularization. We have drawn up a treatment protocol for 
early-stage FHN, based on the insertion of a tantalum screw into the femoral 
neck. The implant has a cylindrical shape, with a 10 mm diameter in the smooth 
part and 15 mm in the threaded part. It is available in different sizes from 70 
to 130 mm, with 5 mm increments. The aim of the study is to describe the 
clinical and instrumental results of the tantalum screw for FHN. From June 2004 
to June 2006 we performed 15 implants. The tantalum screw was inserted with an 
incision on the trochanteric region with traction and under X-ray control. For 
the clinical evaluation of the hip, we used the Harris hip score (HHS). For 
diagnosis and staging we used standard X-rays in two views and/or MRI, using the 
Steinberg classification (J Bone Joint Surg Br 77:34-41, 1995) and CT. In all 
cases, the osteonecrosis extended to not more than 30% of the joint surface and 
the cartilage was intact with no collapse. To assess the results, we compared 
the pre-operative and the post-operative HHS, calculated the percentage 
differences between the two. We then compared X-rays, CT scans and MRI before 
and some time after the operation to assess whether the problem had been 
addressed, taking into account the intracancellous edema and the possible 
extension of necrosis. After an average follow-up period of 15.43 +/- 5.41 
months, ten implants (seven patients out of ten) were examined and all but one 
patient showed a marked improvement in HHS (the average increase was 127.9%), 
with no further progression of the disease. We believe that this procedure can 
be suitable for young patients with limited first or second stage osteonecrosis. 
The objective for the foreseeable future is to resolve the pain, improve the 
quality of life and prevent or at least postpone arthroplasty.

DOI: 10.1007/s11751-007-0021-9
PMCID: PMC2322835
PMID: 18427746


523. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(5):435-46. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200826050-00007.

Updated estimates of survival and cost effectiveness for imatinib versus 
interferon-alpha plus low-dose cytarabine for newly diagnosed chronic-phase 
chronic myeloid leukaemia.

Reed SD(1), Anstrom KJ, Li Y, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, 
North Carolina 27715, USA. shelby.reed@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: For trials in which participants are followed beyond the main study 
period to assess long-term outcomes, economic evaluations conducted using 
