
Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Medical University Vienna, 1090 Vienna, Austria.

This study addresses the correlation of retinal topography with factors such as 
the visual environment, life style, and behavior for a major mammalian group, 
the artiodactyls. To provide a broader basis for semiquantitative comparison, 
short-wavelength-sensitive (S)- and middle-to-long-wavelength-sensitive 
(M)-opsin cone receptor populations from 25 species from five artiodactyl 
families and of the African elephant were labeled and sampled. The resulting 
topographic maps were analyzed with respect to the position and extension of 
high-density regions. For better parameter differentiation, systematic 
relationships were statistically normalized. In all species examined, two 
classes of cones have been detected. In most species, the S-cone maxima were 
located in the temporodorsal retina, but there are exceptions such as the roe 
deer with accumulation in the ventral retina. For M-cones, as a consequence of 
their role in terrain/food assessment and predator detection, the standard 
topography is L-shaped: a horizontal visual streak including a temporal area 
centralis is extended by a temporal rim. Its extension is correlated with the 
animal's body height (P = 0.0017): small species (pudu, mouse deer) tend to have 
a visual streak only, whereas the giraffe shows a complete dorsal arch of 
elevated densities. Furthermore, a size-independent habitat correlation was 
revealed for a similar M-cone pattern (P < 0.0001): mountainous species show a 
striking specialization around the dorsal retina, pointing to the importance of 
the inferior visual field in precipitous terrain.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.21626
PMID: 18189305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. J Chem Phys. 2008 Jan 7;128(1):014903. doi: 10.1063/1.2813896.

Heterogeneous directional mobility in the early stages of polymer 
crystallization.

Lacevic N(1), Fried LE, Gee RH.

Author information:
(1)Chemistry, Materials, Earth, and Life Sciences Directorate, Chemical Sciences 
Division, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, PO Box 808, L-268, Livermore 
California 94550, USA. lacevic.n@gmail.com

Recently, we demonstrated via large-scale molecular dynamics simulations a 
"coexistence period" in polymer melt ordering before crystallization, where 
nucleation and growth mechanisms coexist with a phase-separation mechanism [Gee 
et al., Nat. Mater. 5, 39 (2006)]. Here, we present an extension of this work, 
where we analyze the directional displacements as a measure of the mobility of 
monomers as they order during crystallization over more than 100 ns of 
simulation time. It is found that the polymer melt, after quenching, rapidly 
separates into many ordered hexagonal domains separated by amorphous regions, 
where surprisingly, the magnitude of the monomer's displacement in the ordered 
state, parallel to the domain axial direction, is similar to its magnitude in 
the melt. The monomer displacements in the domain's lateral direction are found 
to decrease during the time of the simulation. The ordered hexagonal domains do 
not align into uniform lamellar structures during the timescales of our 
simulations.

DOI: 10.1063/1.2813896
PMID: 18190222


896. J Infect Dis. 2007 Dec 15;196(12):1836-43. doi: 10.1086/523653.

Polymorphisms in the gene for lymphotoxin-alpha predispose to chronic Chagas 
cardiomyopathy.

Ramasawmy R(1), Fae KC, Cunha-Neto E, Müller NG, Cavalcanti VL, Ferreira RC, 
Drigo SA, Ianni B, Mady C, Goldberg AC, Kalil J.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute (InCor), Department of Clinical Medicine, University of São 
Paulo School of Medicine, São Paulo, Brazil. ramasawm@usp.br

BACKGROUND: Chagas disease, caused by Trypanosoma cruzi infection, displays 
clinical heterogeneity and may be attributable to differential genetic 
susceptibility. Chronic Chagas cardiomyopathy (CCC) develops only in a subset of 
T. cruzi-infected individuals and may lead to heart failure that has a worse 
clinical course and that leads to reduced life expectancy, compared with heart 
failure of other etiologies. Proinflammatory cytokines play a key role in the 
development of CCC. Clinical, genetic, and epidemiological studies have linked 
lymphotoxin-alpha (LTA), a proinflammatory cytokine, to coronary artery disease 
and myocardial infarction.
METHODS: We used polymerase chain reaction to genotype the LTA +80A-->C and LTA 
+252A-->G variants in 169 patients with CCC and in 76 T. cruzi-infected 
asymptomatic (ASY) patients.
RESULTS: Homozygosity with respect to the LTA +80C and LTA +252G alleles was 
significantly more frequent in the patients with CCC than in the ASY patients 
(homozygosity for LTA +80C, 47% vs. 33%; homozygosity for LTA +252G, 16% vs. 
8%). Haplotype LTA +80A-252A was associated with protection against CCC, whereas 
haplotype LTA +80C-252G was associated with susceptibility to CCC. Furthermore, 
homozygosity for the LTA +80A allele correlated with the lowest levels of 
plasmatic tumor-necrosis factor-alpha.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the study of genetic variations in 
patients with Chagas disease may help in the identification of individuals at 
increased risk of progressing to CCC and, by providing early treatment, reduce 
the morbidity and mortality associated with this disease.

DOI: 10.1086/523653
PMID: 18190265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. J Health Econ. 2008 May;27(3):624-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.08.003.
Epub  2007 Nov 29.

Avoidable mortality risks and measurement of wellbeing and inequality.

Tang KK(1), Chin JT, Rao DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia. 
kk.tang@uq.edu.au

This paper proposes a data envelopment method to separate avoidable and 
unavoidable mortality risks. As unavoidable mortality is either beyond the 
control of humanity or likely to be very cost-ineffective to reduce in the short 
to medium term, avoidable mortality is of much greater practical relevance in 
measuring wellbeing and inequality. The new method is applied to a dataset 
consisting of life tables for 191 countries in the year 2000 to obtain a 
reference distribution of unavoidable mortality risks. The reference 
distribution is used to improve on the standard age-at-death measure to obtain 
an age-at-avoidable-death measure. Compared with the standard measure, 
age-at-avoidable-death provides a very different picture of wellbeing, and more 
so when it comes to inequality measures.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2007.08.003
PMID: 18191488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Immunity. 2008 Jan;28(1):75-87. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2007.11.019.

The rap GTPases regulate B cell morphology, immune-synapse formation, and 
signaling by particulate B cell receptor ligands.

Lin KB(1), Freeman SA, Zabetian S, Brugger H, Weber M, Lei V, Dang-Lawson M, Tse 
KW, Santamaria R, Batista FD, Gold MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, I3 and CELL Research Groups, Life 
Sciences Institute, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia 
V6T 1Z3, Canada.

B lymphocytes spread and extend membrane processes when searching for antigens 
and form immune synapses upon contacting cells that display antigens on their 
surface. Although these dynamic morphological changes facilitate B cell 
activation, the signaling pathways underlying these processes are not fully 
understood. We found that activation of the Rap GTPases was essential for these 
changes in B cell morphology. Rap activation was important for B cell receptor 
(BCR)- and lymphocyte-function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1)-induced spreading, 
for BCR-induced immune-synapse formation, and for particulate BCR ligands to 
induce localized F-actin assembly and membrane-process extension. Rap activation 
and F-actin assembly were also required for optimal BCR signaling in response to 
particulate antigens but not soluble antigens. Thus by controlling B cell 
morphology and cytoskeletal organization, Rap might play a key role in the 
activation of B cells by particulate and cell-associated antigens.

DOI: 10.1016/j.immuni.2007.11.019
PMID: 18191594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Mar;66(5):1070-83. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.11.040.
Epub  2008 Jan 8.

A health transition: birth weights, households and survival in an Australian 
working-class population sample born 1857-1900.

McCalman J(1), Morley R, Mishra G.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 
janetsm@unimelb.edu.au

There is increasing interest in life course epidemiology. In this article we 
investigated the relationship between characteristics at birth and survival and 
year of birth and survival. We have detailed information about birth 
characteristics and cause of death for 8584 subjects from a cohort of 16,272 
registered live births to European Australians in a charity hospital in 
Melbourne between 1857 and 1900. Women giving birth at the hospital were among 
the poorest in Melbourne, with almost half unmarried. The adult death 
certificates of the subjects were traced until 1985. We found that infant 
mortality was substantially higher in babies who were illegitimate, firstborn, 
had younger mothers, a birth weight <6lb or were a preterm birth. These factors 
had a weaker association with child mortality and were not associated with adult 
survival time. Infant mortality was substantially lower in the cohort born 
1891-1900 (36%) than previously (58%), a major improvement not seen for child 
mortality or adult lifespan. Likely reasons for this improvement are the 
introduction of antisepsis in maternity wards, enforced registration and police 
supervision of persons other than their mother who cared for babies, strictly 
monitored feeding practices and a mandatory autopsy and coronial enquiry for 
such babies who died. We conclude that this is an early example of a successful 
public health intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2007.11.040
PMID: 18191884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008 Oct;67(10):1399-405. doi: 10.1136/ard.2007.077792. Epub
2008  Jan 11.

Cost effectiveness of the determination of autoantibodies against cyclic 
citrullinated peptide in the early diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis.

Konnopka A(1), Conrad K, Baerwald C, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. alexander.konnopka@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
antibodies against cyclic citrullinated peptides (aCCP) in the early diagnosis 
of rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: A Markov model was used to model 10-year progression of RA in patients 
first diagnosed with undifferentiated arthritis (UA) and to estimate the 
incremental costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of using aCCP 
additionally to American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria. The impact of 
later diagnosis and treatment due to non-use of aCCP was modelled as increased 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) progression. Utilities were assigned to 
HAQ states for calculating QALYs. Uncertainty was analysed using univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses (Monte Carlo simulation).
RESULTS: Baseline ICER was euro 930/QALY. Univariate sensitivity analyses 
identified the impact of later diagnosis on HAQ progression as a major source of 
uncertainty, resulting in an ICER range from "dominance" to euro 153 092/QALY, 
compared with a maximum ICER of euro4870/QALY for other variables. Monte Carlo 
simulation resulted in a 95% uncertainty interval from euro 3537/QALY 
(dominance) to euro 5429/QALY; when indirect costs were considered, Monte Carlo 
simulation resulted in a 95% uncertainty interval from euro 78 115/QALY 
(dominance) to -euro 23 444/QALY (dominance).
CONCLUSIONS: Using aCCP in the diagnosis of RA in patients with UA is likely to 
be cost effective compared with using ACR criteria alone. When indirect costs 
are incorporated, aCCP seems to save costs. Clearly, more research is needed 
relating the effects of diagnosis and treatment on the long-term course and the 
resulting functional impairment of RA as measured by the HAQ.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2007.077792
PMID: 18192304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. J Hypertens. 2008 Feb;26(2):186-7. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0b013e3282f4a631.

Long life to olive oil and wine! Long life with olive oil and wine?

Versari D, Ghiadoni L, Taddei S.

Comment on
    J Hypertens. 2008 Feb;26(2):223-9.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0b013e3282f4a631
PMID: 18192829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Rev Esc Enferm USP. 2007 Dec;41(4):589-96. doi:
10.1590/s0080-62342007000400008.

[Changes and expectations experienced by individuals with spinal cord injury and 
their families].

[Article in Portuguese]

Venturini DA(1), Decésaro Md, Marcon SS.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual de Maringá (UEM), Maringá, PR, Brasil. 
danieleventurini@bol.com.br

This study was aimed at identifying the main changes resulting from the presence 
of an individual with spinal cord injury in family life, as well as the 
expectations regarding this condition. It was developed with 32 families in the 
city of Maringá, State of Paraná. From data analysis three categories emerged: 
relations with health services; family relations; and expectations regarding the 
treatment. Results suggest that the changes after a spine cord injury alter not 
only the individual's life, but also the family's routine and its internal 
relations. For that reason it is considered vital for families to get outside 
support for the difficulties they face so that they can ensure continuous 
assistance and contribute to a better life quality of their members with spinal 
cord injury, increasing their life expectancy and treatment prospects.

DOI: 10.1590/s0080-62342007000400008
PMID: 18193613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Dev Cell. 2008 Jan;14(1):76-85. doi: 10.1016/j.devcel.2007.12.002.

Keap1/Nrf2 signaling regulates oxidative stress tolerance and lifespan in 
Drosophila.

Sykiotis GP(1), Bohmann D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Genetics, University of Rochester Medical Center, 
Rochester, NY 14642, USA.

Keap1/Nrf2 signaling defends organisms against the detrimental effects of 
oxidative stress and has been suggested to abate its consequences, including 
aging-associated diseases like neurodegeneration, chronic inflammation, and 
cancer. Nrf2 is a prominent target for drug discovery, and Nrf2-activating 
agents are in clinical trials for cancer chemoprevention. However, aberrant 
activation of Nrf2 by keap1 somatic mutations may contribute to carcinogenesis 
and promote resistance to chemotherapy. To evaluate potential functions of Keap1 
and Nrf2 for organismal homeostasis, we characterized the pathway in Drosophila. 
We demonstrate that Keap1/Nrf2 signaling in the fruit fly is activated by 
oxidants, induces antioxidant and detoxification responses, and confers 
increased tolerance to oxidative stress. Importantly, keap1 loss-of-function 
mutations extend the lifespan of Drosophila males, supporting a role for Nrf2 
signaling in the regulation of longevity. Interestingly, cancer chemopreventive 
drugs potently stimulate Drosophila Nrf2 activity, suggesting the fruit fly as 
an experimental system to identify and characterize such agents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.devcel.2007.12.002
PMCID: PMC2257869
PMID: 18194654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Urology. 2007 Dec;70(6 Suppl):3-8. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2007.06.1129.

Preoperative prediction of multifocal prostate cancer and application of focal 
therapy: review 2007.

Meiers I(1), Waters DJ, Bostwick DG.

Author information:
(1)Bostwick Laboratories, Glen Allen, Virginia 23060, USA.

Prostate cancer is a leading malignancy among men. Early prostate cancer is most 
commonly treated with radical surgery and radiotherapy. In the era of 
prostate-specific antigen and newly emerging highly specific screening tests, a 
greater number of men are given a diagnosis earlier in life, and disease is more 
often confined. Less-invasive treatments, such as focal therapy, are becoming 
increasingly popular, yielding shorter hospital stays, faster recovery, and 
fewer complications. Potential drawbacks to focal therapy include the risk of 
incomplete treatment, which may result from missed cancer foci and inadequate 
ablation to target tissues. Furthermore, this approach is not universally 
applicable to all patients--for example, those who have periurethral and 
extraprostatic extension of the tumor may not benefit from focal treatment. This 
article reviews the importance of multifocal prostate cancer and the application 
of focal treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2007.06.1129
PMID: 18194709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):140-4. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.128785.

Economic burden and the cost-effectiveness of treatment of cardiovascular 
diseases in Africa.

Gaziano TA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham & Women's Hospital, 75 Francis 
Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA. tgaziano@partners.org

Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in those over the age of 45 
in Africa. The economic toll from cardiovascular diseases is equally 
devastating, leading to billions of dollars lost due to healthcare costs and 
reduced productivity from the disabling and fatal outcomes related to diabetes, 
hypertension, stroke, valvular heart disease, and heart failure. Much of it is 
preventable. With reasonable screening programmes and judicious use of scarce 
resources much of the suffering can be alleviated. This article reviews the 
economic burden attributable to cardiovascular disease in Africa and many of the 
potential cost-effective solutions to the large burden. It further outlines many 
of the areas where we know less and must focus our future research in trying to 
outline cost-effective solutions.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.128785
PMID: 18195120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):229; author reply 229. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.134734.

Coronary heart disease trends in England and Wales from 1984 to 2004: concealed 
levelling of mortality rates among young adults.

Chester M.

Comment on
    Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):178-81.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.134734
PMID: 18195128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Heart. 2008 Feb;94(2):230-6. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2005.066381.

What cardiology trainees should know about coronary artery surgery--and coronary 
artery surgeons: ischaemic heart disease.

Munsch C(1).

Author information:
(1)Yorkshire Heart Centre, Leeds General Infirmary, Great George Street, Leeds, 
LS1 3EX, UK. chris.munsch@tiscali.co.uk

Comment in
    Heart. 2008 Oct;94(10):1333-4; author reply 1334.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2005.066381
PMID: 18195129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2008 Jan;466(1):146-52. doi:
10.1007/s11999-007-0009-2.  Epub 2008 Jan 3.

The new demands by patients in the modern era of total joint arthroplasty : a 
point of view.

Mason JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Orthocarolina Hip and Knee Center and Orthocarolina Research Institute, 1915 
Randolph Road, Charlotte, NC 28207, USA. Bo.mason@orthocarolina.com

Historians have the opportunity of viewing events, people, and their epoch 
through an aperture in time. With retrospective clarity, change and the forces 
effecting change can be appropriately categorized, emphasized, and interpreted. 
Sociologists see change in a forward-focused manner. When we examine our 
patients today, it is clear our current patients having total joint arthroplasty 
are different from those in years past. The sociologic influences effecting this 
change are many and include the revolutionary explosion of, access to, and 
dissemination of information; increased wealth, life activity expectation, and 
life expectancy; and an aging workforce. Concurrent with these forces 
registering change in our patient population is an erosion in respect for 
professionalism and vertically oriented authoritarian structure throughout 
society. Our patients are citizens of our modern age. Our public has come to 
expect miracles in medicine as the norm, yet these miracles are not without 
inherent risk. The trap implicit in allowing an incompletely informed populace 
to drive the decisions we make may be bridged by a more complete understanding 
of who our patients are and what their needs include. This discussion attempts 
to offer some insight into the forces at play. It focuses on how the changes in 
society, population, and technology have affected patients' knowledge and 
attitude toward medicine and what our response as physicians should be.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-007-0009-2
PMCID: PMC2505298
PMID: 18196387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Ala Nurse. 2007 Dec-2008 Feb;34(4):22.

CVD drives 25-year loss in life expectancy among the mentally Ill.

Wood S.

PMID: 18196684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Pediatr Nurs. 2007 Nov-Dec;33(6):532-4.

ACT--for pediatric palliative care.

Calabrese CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, PA, USA.

There are approximately 400,000 children living in America with life-threatening 
conditions, and every year approximately 55,000 children die. Many of these 
children suffer at the time of their death due to lack of aggressive symptom 
management. While curative medicine is always the primary goal of treatment, 
there may come a time when parents must choose another option of care for their 
child. Aggressive Comfort Treatment (ACT) is the option that will make the 
difference in the life and loss of a child. ACT proposes aggressive symptom 
management with attention to psychosocial and spiritual needs. Allowing the 
individual and family to have a voice in the dying process, palliation is 
pursued just as aggressively as cure once was. In support of ACT, the American 
Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends the development and broad availability of 
pediatric palliative care services (AAP, 2007). Promoting life enhancement 
rather than life extension, ACT will have a monumental impact on the care of a 
dying child.

PMID: 18196718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Anthropol Anz. 2007 Dec;65(4):435-46.

Life expectancy in a western and immigrant receiving population (El Ejido, SE 
Spain).

Luna F(1), García-Moro C, Alonso V.

Author information:
(1)Departmento Zoología y Antropología Física, Facultad de Biología, Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, 28040 Madrid, Spain. pacoluna@bio.ucm.es

This study deals with the mortality pattern of El Ejido population, an 
agricultural Spanish community with a sub-tropical climate, located on the 
western Mediterranean coast (Andalusia). Based on the incorporation of modern 
agrarian techniques, this region has experienced a great economic development. 
Its demographic consequences were relevant, such as the arrival of immigrants 
throughout the second half of the twentieth century. The analysis of several 
demographic parameters shown in the abridged life table has revealed a small but 
non-random decrease of mortality during the last two decades of the past 
century. Furthermore, from the low value reached by the current entropy 
coefficient (H = 0.131), and the comparison of El Ejido life-expectancy at birth 
(e0) with Spain and Andalusia, we concluded that: a) The current mortality of El 
Ejido has approached a theoretical situation, where all deaths tend to take 
place at the age of 78.09 (its e0), and the death probability is very low at 
earlier ages. b) Some peculiar characteristics of its immigration as well as the 
high influence of the great public health system reached currently in Spain, 
reveal that El Ejido mortality does not depend on its remarkable immigration.

PMID: 18196766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Environ Health Perspect. 2008 Jan;116(1):64-9. doi: 10.1289/ehp.9955.

The effect of dose and timing of dose on the association between airborne 
particles and survival.

Schwartz J(1), Coull B, Laden F, Ryan L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Health, Harvard School of Public Health, 401 Park 
Dr., Suite 415 W, P.O. Box 15698, Boston, MA 02215 USA. 
jschwrtz@hsph.harvard.edu <jschwrtz@hsph.harvard.edu>

BACKGROUND: Understanding the shape of the concentration-response curve for 
particles is important for public health, and lack of such understanding was 
recently cited by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) as a reason for not 
tightening the standards. Similarly, the delay between changes in exposure and 
changes in health is also important in public health decision making. We 
addressed these issues using an extended follow-up of the Harvard Six Cities 
Study.
METHODS: Cox proportional hazards models were fit controlling for smoking, body 
mass index, and other covariates. Two approaches were used. First, we used 
penalized splines, which fit a flexible functional form to the concentration 
response to examine its shape, and chose the degrees of freedom for the curve 
based on Akaike's information criterion. Because the uncertainties around the 
resultant curve do not reflect the uncertainty in model choice, we also used 
model averaging as an alternative approach, where multiple models are fit 
explicitly and averaged, weighted by their probability of being correct given 
the data. We examined the lag relationship by model averaging across a range of 
unconstrained distributed lag models.
RESULTS: We found that the concentration-response curve is linear, clearly 
continuing below the current U.S. standard of 15 microg/m3, and that the effects 
of changes in exposure on mortality are seen within two years.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduction in particle concentrations below U.S. EPA standards would 
increase life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.9955
PMCID: PMC2199297
PMID: 18197301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2008 Mar;35 Suppl 1:S4-11. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-007-0697-6.

Basic pathologies of neurodegenerative dementias and their relevance for 
state-of-the-art molecular imaging studies.

Drzezga A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische 
Universität München, Ismaninger Strasse 22, Munich, Germany. 
a.drzezga@lrz.tu-muenchen.de

INTRODUCTION: Rising life-expectancy in the modern society has resulted in a 
rapidly growing prevalence of dementia, particularly of Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). Dementia turns into one of the most common age-related disorders with 
deleterious consequences for the concerned patients and their relatives, as well 
as worrying effects on the socio-economic systems. These facts justify 
strengthened scientific efforts to identify the pathologic origin of dementing 
disorders, to improve diagnosis, and to interfere therapeutically with the 
disease progression.
BASIC PATHOLOGIES: In the recent years, remarkable progress has been made 
concerning the identification of molecular mechanisms underlying the pathology 
of neurodegenerative disorders. Growing evidence indicates that a common basis 
of many neurodegenerative dementias can be found in increased production, 
misfolding and pathological aggregation of proteins, such as beta-amyloid, tau 
protein, a-synuclein, or the recently described ubiquitinated TDP-43. This 
progressive insight in pathological processes is paralleled by the development 
of new therapeutic approaches. However, the exact contribution or mechanism of 
different pathologies with regard to the development of disease is not yet 
sufficiently clear. Considerable overlap of pathologies has been documented in 
different types of clinically defined dementias post mortem, and it has been 
difficult to correlate post mortem histopathology data with disease-expression 
during life. Molecular imaging procedures may play a valuable role to circumvent 
this limitation.
RELEVANCE FOR IMAGING STUDIES: In general, methods of molecular imaging have 
recently experienced an impressive advance, with numerous new and improved 
technologies emerging. These exciting tools may play a key role in the future 
regarding the evaluation of pathomechanisms, preclinical evaluation of new 
diagnostic procedures in animal models, selection of patients for clinical 
trials, and therapy monitoring. In this overview, molecular key pathologies, 
which are currently regarded to be strongly associated with the development of 
different dementias, will be shortly summarized; it will also be discussed how 
state-of-the-art imaging technology can assist to visualize these processes now 
and in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-007-0697-6
PMID: 18197407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Support Care Cancer. 2008 May;16(5):437-45. doi: 10.1007/s00520-007-0397-6.
Epub  2008 Jan 16.

Detection and monitoring of cardiotoxicity-what does modern cardiology offer?

Jurcut R(1), Wildiers H, Ganame J, D'hooge J, Paridaens R, Voigt JU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Catholic 
University Leuven, Herestraat 49, 3000, Leuven, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: With new anticancer therapies, many patients can have a long life 
expectancy. Treatment-related comorbidities become an issue for cancer 
survivors. Cardiac toxicity remains an important side effect of anticancer 
therapies. Myocardial dysfunction can become apparent early or long after end of 
therapy and may be irreversible. Detection of cardiac injury is crucial since it 
may facilitate early therapeutic measures. Traditionally, chemotherapy-induced 
cardiotoxicity has been detected by measuring changes in left ventricular 
ejection fraction. This parameter is, however, insensitive to subtle changes in 
myocardial function as they occur in early cardiotoxicity.
DISCUSSION: This review will discuss conventional and modern cardiologic 
approaches of assessing myocardial function. It will focus on Doppler myocardial 
imaging, a method which allows to sensitively measure myocardial function 
parameters like myocardial velocity, deformation (strain), or deformation rate 
(strain rate) and which has been shown to reliably detect early abnormalities in 
both regional and global myocardial function in an early stage. Other newer 
echocardiographic function estimators are based on automated border detection 
algorithms and ultrasonic integrated backscatter analysis. A further technique 
to be discussed is dobutamine stress echocardiography. The use of new biomarkers 
like B-type natriuretic peptide and troponin and less often used imaging 
techniques like magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography will also be 
mentioned.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-007-0397-6
PMID: 18197426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. NeuroRehabilitation. 2007;22(6):463-72.

Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis: ethical issues from diagnosis to end of life.

McCluskey L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Penn 
Neurological Institute, Philadelphia, PA 19107, USA. lfmcclusky@pahosp.com

The variable clinical course of Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) confronts 
the clinician, the patient and caregivers with many ethical challenges from the 
moment of breaking the news of the diagnosis and throughout the relentlessly 
progressive trajectory of the disease. Each patient faces the prospect of 
life-threatening bulbar and respiratory muscle dysfunction that may ensue soon 
after disease onset or after months or years of progressive weakness. This 
reality eventually forces the patient to choose life extension via gastrostomy 
tube insertion, mechanical ventilation or both or to forego these treatments in 
favor of terminal palliative care. Faced with these prospects some patients 
contemplate voluntary cessation of food and water, physician assisted suicide or 
euthanasia. Depending upon the presence and severity of frontotemporal dementia 
(FTD) related to frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) the capacity to make 
these forced choices may be compromised. Clinicians caring for ALS patients 
should appreciate and communicate the significance of life threatening symptoms, 
monitor capacity for decision making, anticipate and manage multiple possible 
end of life scenarios, and aggressively manage symptoms.

PMID: 18198432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Consult Pharm. 2007 Aug;22(8):669-74. doi: 10.4140/tcp.n.2007.669.

A pharmacist's introduction to the effects of aging on patients with cerebral 
palsy.

Haddad AR(1), Coover K, Faulkner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, School of Pharmacy and Health Professions, 
Creighton University, Omaha, NE 68178, USA. annryan-haddad@creighton.edu

OBJECTIVE: To review the development of comorbidities in patients living with 
cerebral palsy (CP) and explore potential areas for intervention by consultant 
pharmacists.
DATA SOURCES: A MEDLINE search (1993 to present) was conducted to identify 
literature in the English language focusing on CP and aging. Based on the 
initial literature evaluation, an additional search was conducted to locate 
literature focusing on comorbidities in CP including, but not limited to, 
nutritional deficiencies, medication misadventures, osteoporosis, 
gastroesophageal reflux disease, and pain.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All studies evaluating coexisting medical 
conditions associated with CP as they relate to aging.
DATA SYNTHESIS: CP affects nearly 500,000 adults in the United States. Spastic 
CP is the most common form. Chronic medical conditions typically seen in the 
general older adult population may occur earlier in life for patients with CP.
CONCLUSION: Health care maintenance issues are often overlooked in adult 
patients with CP. Consultant pharmacists can be helpful resources and advocates 
for appropriate medication therapy, monitoring, and preventive services for 
these patients.

DOI: 10.4140/tcp.n.2007.669
PMID: 18198965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Nat Clin Pract Neurol. 2008 Jan;4(1):22-33. doi: 10.1038/ncpneuro0686.

Stroke and the female brain.

Bushnell CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest University Health Sciences, Medical Center Boulevard, 
Winston-Salem, NC 27157, USA. cbushnel@wfubmc.edu

Stroke is a major public health problem. The female population carries a higher 
stroke burden than the male population, both because females have a longer life 
expectancy and because most stroke deaths occur in women. Differences between 
the sexes in relation to stroke are increasingly being recognized; for example, 
among stroke survivors, women tend to have worse outcomes than men, as indicated 
by more-severe disability and an increased likelihood of institutionalization in 
women. Women and men with stroke also differ in their risk factor profiles, and 
they respond differently to primary-prevention and acute stroke treatment. Women 
experience variations in endogenous estrogens throughout their life cycle and 
might also be exposed to exogenous estrogens, both of which markedly affect the 
brain. An understanding of the effects of endogenous and exogenous estrogens on 
cerebral hemodynamics could guide research into explaining how hormone therapy 
increases the risk of stroke in postmenopausal women. This Review summarizes the 
sex differences related to stroke, and the effect of endogenous and exogenous 
hormones on the cerebrovasculature of the female brain. It also proposes 
potential research approaches, the results of which could fill in gaps in our 
knowledge regarding the mechanism of action of estrogen in the brain.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpneuro0686
PMID: 18199994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2008 Feb;56(1):14-9. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-965642.

Cardiac surgery for octogenarians--a suitable procedure? Twelve-year operative 
and post-hospital mortality in 641 patients over 80 years of age.

Schmidtler FW(1), Tischler I, Lieber M, Weingartner J, Angelis I, Wenke K, 
Kemkes BM, Gansera B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, City Hospital Munich, Munich, Germany. 
fabian.schmidtler@freenet.de

OBJECTIVES: The increase in life expectancy as a result of therapeutic 
improvements subsequently leads to a large number of patients with advanced age. 
The aim of this study was to review the 30-day mortality and mid-term outcome of 
octogenarians undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) or valve 
replacement (AVR/MVR).
METHODS: The data of 641 patients with a mean age of 82.6 years (range 80.0 - 
92.6), operated between 9/93 and 12/05, were reviewed. 432 patients underwent 
CABG, 188 had AVR and 21 had MVR. We analysed peri-/postoperative mortality and 
clinical outcomes. Follow-up was obtained by phone contact with patients or 
their physician. Mid-term survival was determined for the whole population by 
the Kaplan-Meier method; peri- and postoperative risk factor analysis was done 
using logistic regression. Follow-up ranged from 0.1 to 11.8 years (mean 3.6 +/- 
2.6) and was complete for 99%.
RESULTS: We observed a perioperative mortality of 8.8% for CABG, 4.8% for AVR 
and 9.5% for MVR. Perioperative mortality was strongly associated with 
urgent/emergent operations (P < 0.03), poorer clinical status (P < 0.03), renal 
dysfunction (P < 0.05) and male gender (P < 0.04). Actuarial survival after 3, 5 
and 8 years was as follows: CABG 78%, 66% and 44%; AVR 79%, 68% and 38%; MVR 
76%, 61% and 23%. The mean NYHA functional class for survivors improved in the 
group of patients with CABG from 2.7 to 2.0 (P < 0.03), in the AVR group from 
2.8 to 2.0 (P < 0.03), and in the MVR group from 2.9 to 2.3 (P < 0.05). More 
than 80% of all surviving patients live at home, either alone or with their 
family.
CONCLUSION: In our cohort of octogenarians, cardiac surgery was found to be 
associated with an acceptable, although increased perioperative mortality. 
Despite the enhanced perioperative risk, the clinical benefit, as verified by 
improved functional status and satisfactory mid-term survival rates, justifies 
surgery in these patients with advanced age.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-965642
PMID: 18200461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2008 Feb;56(1):37-41. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-965057.

Is systemic node dissection for accuracy staging in clinical stage I non-small 
cell lung cancer worthwhile in the elderly?

Iwasaki A(1), Hamatake D, Hamanaka W, Hamada T, Shirakusa T, Yamamoto S, 
Shiraishi T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, School of Medicine, Fukuoka University, 
Fukuoka, Japan. akinori@fukuoka-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: The therapeutic role of systematic node dissection (SND) for early 
lung cancer remains controversial. Elderly patients have a background of 
insufficient physiological function and comorbidity, and a shorter life 
expectancy than that of younger patients. Therefore, we have evaluated the 
impact on survival, local recurrence, and complications of not performing 
systematic lymph node dissection in the elderly.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 126 patients, including the elderly (75 - 
89 years), who underwent a lobectomy for clinical stage I was performed. The 
patients were grouped according to node dissection numbers after surgery, and 
finally separated into two groups (SG: sufficient group, dissections of more 
than 10 nodes and 3 or more mediastinal stations; IG: insufficient group, less 
than 10 nodes and one or two mediastinal stations). Postoperative morbidity and 
sites of recurrence were evaluated between the two groups, and the survival 
rates were analyzed at 5 years.
RESULTS: Upstage was identified in 12.6% of patients: 7.3% in IG (n = 45), 15.2% 
in SG (n = 86). Postoperative mortality occurred in 2 cases (1.58%). The 
incidence of postoperative respiratory or cardiac complications was more 
frequent in the SG, while there were fewer complications in the IG. There was no 
significant difference in recurrence rates between the two groups. Both local 
and distant recurrence was observed in the two groups. The 5-year survival rates 
were 61.5% for the SG and 59.4% for the IG. There was no significant difference 
in the survival rate between the IG and SG patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Proper staging and the avoidance of nontherapeutic lymph node 
dissection seems acceptable for clinical stage I lung cancer in the group of 
elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-965057
PMID: 18200466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Health Promot J Austr. 2007 Dec;18(3):177-83. doi: 10.1071/he07177.

Democracy: the forgotten determinant of mental health.

Wise M(1), Sainsbury P.

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for Health Promotion, School of Public Health, University 
of Sydney, New South Wales. marilynw@health.usyd.edu.au

ISSUE ADDRESSED: Promoting mental health is a relatively new initiative being 
taken across the world, stimulated by concerns about the global burden of mental 
illness, inequalities in mental health and debate about the relationship between 
quality of life and economic growth. Social factors influence the health of 
populations but the distribution of these is determined by people who exercise 
political power through societies' institutions of governance. Inequalities in 
health (and mental health) arise from the unequal distribution of these social 
determinants of health. This paper aims to stimulate interest and debate on the 
role of democracy, a mechanism for allocating political power, as a determinant 
of health and of mental health in particular.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Drawing principally on the political science literature, we 
briefly describe the development of democracy in some of its commoner current 
forms and relate this to the spread of political power and participation in 
collective decision making and improvements in public health over the past 200 
years. We conducted a non-systematic literature search and identified 34 studies 
examining the link between democracy and health. Despite methodological 
weaknesses, these papers suggest that there is a weak empirical link between 
democracy and health, including mental health. We suggest mechanisms that might 
account for this.
CONCLUSIONS: Historical, theoretical and empirical evidence suggests that 
democracy is a (frequently forgotten) determinant of health.

DOI: 10.1071/he07177
PMID: 18201159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 2007 Sep;89(6):586-8. doi: 10.1308/003588407X209248.

High-grade dysplasia in Barrett's oesophagus. The case against oesophageal 
resection.

Barr H(1).

Author information:
(1)Cranfield Health, Gloucestershire Royal Hospital, Gloucester, UK. 
hugh.barr@glos.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 2007 Sep;89(6):588-90.

DOI: 10.1308/003588407X209248
PMCID: PMC2203305
PMID: 18201472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Am J Prev Med. 2008 Feb;34(2):143-152. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2007.09.035.

Primary care intervention to reduce alcohol misuse ranking its health impact and 
cost effectiveness.

Solberg LI(1), Maciosek MV, Edwards NM.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440-1524, USA. 
leif.i.solberg@healthpartners.com

BACKGROUND: The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) has recommended 
screening and behavioral counseling interventions in primary care to reduce 
alcohol misuse. This study was designed to develop a standardized rating for the 
clinically preventable burden and cost effectiveness of complying with that 
recommendation that would allow comparisons across many recommended services.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature from 1992 through 2004 to 
identify relevant randomized controlled trials and cost-effectiveness studies 
was completed in 2005. Clinically preventable burden (CPB) was calculated as the 
product of effectiveness times the alcohol-attributable fraction of both 
mortality and morbidity (measured in quality-adjusted life years or QALYs), for 
all relevant conditions. Cost effectiveness from both the societal perspective 
and the health-system perspective was estimated. These analyses were completed 
in 2006.
RESULTS: The calculated CPB was 176,000 QALYs saved over the lifetime of a birth 
cohort of 4,000,000, with a range in sensitivity analysis from -43% to +94% 
(primarily due to variation in estimates of effectiveness). Screening and brief 
counseling was cost-saving from the societal perspective and had a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $1755/QALY saved from the health-system perspective. 
Sensitivity analysis indicates that from both perspectives the service is very 
cost effective and may be cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: These results make alcohol screening and counseling one of the 
highest-ranking preventive services among the 25 effective services evaluated 
using standardized methods. Since current levels of delivery are the lowest of 
comparably ranked services, this service deserves special attention by 
clinicians and care delivery systems.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2007.09.035
PMID: 18201645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Exp Cell Res. 2008 Feb 15;314(4):677-90. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2007.12.003.
Epub  2007 Dec 14.

Coordinated expression of cytoskeleton regulating genes in the accelerated 
neurite outgrowth of P19 embryonic carcinoma cells.

Bogoch Y(1), Linial M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry, Institute of Life Sciences, The Hebrew 
University of Jerusalem, 91904 Israel.

The embryonal carcinoma P19 cells provide a model to study neuronal 
differentiation. Cells that are exposed to retinoic acid become mature neurons 
within a few days with a pronounced axonal and dendritic polarity. Notably, an 
accelerated rate of neurite extension characterizes densely but not sparsely 
plated cells. DNA microarray experiments show maximal differences in gene 
expression of the dense compared to sparse plated cultures at 18 h after 
plating. The differentially expressed genes are enriched by functions of cell 
adhesion and cytoskeletal regulation. Doublecortin, Lis1, Reelin, Map2 and 
dozens of proteins that regulate cytoskeleton dynamics increase in concordance 
with a rapid neurite extension. A brief elevation in intracellular cAMP via PKA 
is sufficient to instigate the phenotype of accelerated neurite extension with 
no effect on P19 cell fate. Furthermore, we show that the cAMP dependent changes 
in the expression of cytoskeleton regulators such as doublecortin are restricted 
to a short time window prior to the establishment of functional neurons. We 
propose that the wave of gene expression of cytoskeletal regulators that is 
accompanied by accelerated neurite extension acts in remodeling young developing 
neurons in the CNS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2007.12.003
PMID: 18201697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2008 Mar;110(3):213-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.clineuro.2007.11.011. Epub 2008 Jan 16.

Life expectancy in hydranencephaly.

Merker B.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2007.11.011
PMID: 18201820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Brachytherapy. 2008 Jan-Mar;7(1):17-21. doi: 10.1016/j.brachy.2007.11.002.
Epub  2008 Jan 16.

Salvage prostate brachytherapy for localized prostate cancer failure after 
external beam radiation therapy.

Lee HK(1), Adams MT, Motta J.

Author information:
(1)Richmond University Medical Center, Staten Island, NY 10310, USA. 
dr.hoon@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To determine the toxicity and clinical outcome of salvage prostate 
brachytherapy for localized prostate cancer failure after external beam 
radiation therapy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Twenty-one patients underwent (103)Pd salvage 
brachytherapy (median minimum peripheral dose, 90Gy) after local failure after 
external beam radiation (median dose, 66.6Gy) from 1/21/1998 to 4/5/2005. The 
median age was 72 years. Six patients had prior transurethral resection of the 
prostate. The median Gleason score was 7 and the median preimplant 
prostate-specific antigen was 3.8. Twelve patients received concurrent androgen 
ablation with prostate brachytherapy. Biochemical failure was defined as three 
consecutive rises in prostate-specific antigen scored at the call date, 
initiation of hormone therapy, or clinical failure. Toxicity was defined 
according to the National Cancer Institute common toxicity criteria and the 
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group/European Organization for Research and 
Treatment of Cancer late radiation morbidity scoring scheme.
RESULTS: With a median followup of 36 months, the actuarial 3-year and 5-year 
overall survival rates were 81% and 81%, and the biochemical failure-free 
survival rates were 94% and 38%, respectively. There was no significant 
difference in biochemical failure-free survival (p=0.98) and overall survival 
(p=0.13) for patients who had androgen ablation. Four patients developed 
biochemical failure and 1 patient developed distant metastasis at 59 months from 
treatment. Four patients had Grade 2 genitourinary adverse events, 2 patients 
had Grade 1 genitourinary adverse events, and 1 patient had a Grade 2 
gastrointestinal adverse event. There were no Grade 3 or higher adverse events. 
All three deaths were secondary to other medical comorbidities.
CONCLUSIONS: Salvage prostate brachytherapy after external beam radiation 
failure can be safely performed with acceptable biochemical control. This 
treatment option should be considered for patients who have prolonged life 
expectancy after localized external beam radiation failure.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brachy.2007.11.002
PMID: 18201939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2008 Feb;79(2):209-11. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2007.122648.
