method of abortion was that surgical abortion is complete (35), repeated visits 
are avoided (18), quick (10) would be with service provider and feel safe (5), 
lack of expectancy (2) side effect of medical treatment (1), twin pregnancy (1), 
easy (1), fear of pain (1). Medical method of abortion was favoured due to fear 
of surgery (9), easy and less painful (8) and maintains privacy (6).
CONCLUSION: Factors affecting the choice of abortion method appear to be 
numerous and complex. Providers need to be sensitive to differences in women's 
values and life circumstances when counselling them about an abortion method. In 
particular, providers should incorporate into their counselling sessions what 
women need to know about the characteristics of abortion methods and help women 
to identify what is the best option for them. Key words: Early abortion medical 
methods, surgical methods, choice.

PMID: 18604048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Soc Secur Bull. 2007;67(3):1-28.

Trends in mortality differentials and life expectancy for male social 
security-covered workers, by socioeconomic status.

Waldron H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Economic Research, Office of Research, Evaluation, and 
Statistics, Social Security Administration, USA.

This article presents an analysis of trends in mortality differentials and life 
expectancy by average relative earnings for male Social Security-covered workers 
aged 60 or older. Because average relative earnings are measured at the peak of 
the earnings distribution (ages 45-55), it is assumed that they act as a rough 
proxy for socioeconomic status. The historical literature reviewed in this 
analysis generally indicates that mortality differentials by socioeconomic 
status have not been constant over time. For this study, time trends are 
examined by observing how mortality differentials by average relative earnings 
have been changing over 29 years of successive birth cohorts that encompass 
roughly the first third of the 20th century. Deaths for these birth cohorts are 
observed at ages 60-89 from 1972 through 2001, encompassing roughly the last 
third of the 20th century. The large size and long span of death observations 
allow for disaggregation by age and year-of-birth groups in the estimation of 
mortality differentials by socioeconomic status. This study finds a difference 
in both the level and the rate of change in mortality improvement over time by 
socioeconomic status for male Social Security-covered workers. Average relative 
earnings (measured as the relative average positive earnings of an individual 
between ages 45 and 55) are used as a proxy for adult socioeconomic status. In 
general, for birth cohorts spanning the years 1912-1941 (or deaths spanning the 
years 1972-2001 at ages 60-89), the top half of the average relative earnings 
distribution has experienced faster mortality improvement than has the bottom 
half. Specifically, male Social Security-covered workers born in 1941 who had 
average relative earnings in the top half of the earnings distribution and who 
lived to age 60 would be expected to live 5.8 more years than their counterparts 
in the bottom half. In contrast, among male Social Security-covered workers born 
in 1912 who survived to age 60, those in the top half of the earnings 
distribution would be expected to live only 1.2 years more than those in the 
bottom half. The life expectancy estimates in this article represent one 
possible outcome under one set of assumptions. These projections should not be 
regarded as an accurate depiction of the future. Specifically, this study adopts 
a simple projection method in which differentials are assumed to follow the 
pattern observed over the last 30 years of the 20th century for the first 30 
years of the 21st century. This assumption lacks theoretical underpinnings 
because the causes of the widening differentials observed over the past 30 years 
have not been determined. On the one hand, if the trend of widening mortality 
differentials by year of birth observed over the past 30 years does not 
continue, the projection method used in this analysis could lead to an 
overestimation of future differences in life expectancy between socioeconomic 
groups. On the other hand, if mortality differentials do not narrow by age as 
observed in the past, the projection method used could lead to an 
underestimation of the differences in life expectancy between socioeconomic 
groups aged 60 or older.

PMID: 18605216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Natl Cancer Inst. 1970 Nov;45(5):979-88.

Relationship between growth rate, cell volume, cell cycle kinetics, and 
antigenic properties of cultured murine lymphoma cells.

Cikes M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Tumor Biology, Karolinska Institute School of Medicine, 
Stockholm 60, Sweden.

The expression of H-2 and Moloney leukemia virus (MLV)-determined surface 
antigens of MLV-induced mouse lymphoma cells (YCAB) was studied during growth in 
vitro by indirect membrane immunofluorescence and complement-dependent, 
antibody-mediated cytotoxic sensitivity. In a growing cell population, the 
degree of antigenic expression was inversely related to the growth rate and cell 
volume. These findings suggest that the antigenic properties of YCAB cells are 
maximally expressed during the early interphase, presumably a part of the G1 
period, and that the fast-growing cells pass relatively quickly through G1. The 
life cycle analysis of the same cells at varying intervals during the growth 
cycle revealed that the prolongation of population doubling time was mainly due 
to an extension of the G1 period, whereas the duration of S, G2, and mitosis was 
much less affected. The cell volume per se did not appreciably influence the 
expression of surface antigens. Populations of large cells were more rapidly 
growing, since they were in the late stage of their cycle.

PMID: 18605424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Jul 7;8:143. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-143.

The cost-effectiveness of a new disease management model for frail elderly 
living in homes for the elderly, design of a cluster randomized controlled 
clinical trial.

Boorsma M(1), van Hout HP, Frijters DH, Ribbe MW, Nijpels G.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, EMGO-Institute, VU University medical center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. ma.boorsma@wxs.nl

BACKGROUND: The objective of this article is to describe the design of a study 
to evaluate the clinical and economic effects of a Disease Management model on 
functional health, quality of care and quality of life of persons living in 
homes for the elderly.
METHODS: This study concerns a cluster randomized controlled clinical trial 
among five intervention homes and five usual care homes in the North-West of the 
Netherlands with a total of over 500 residents. All persons who are not 
terminally ill, are able to be interviewed and sign informed consent are 
included. For cognitively impaired persons family proxies will be approached to 
provide outcome information. The Disease Management Model consists of several 
elements: (1) Trained staff carries out a multidimensional assessment of the 
patients functional health and care needs with the interRAI Long Term Care 
Facilities instrument (LTCF). Computerization of the LTCF produces immediate 
identification of problem areas and thereby guides individualized care planning. 
(2) The assessment outcomes are discussed in a Multidisciplinary Meeting (MM) 
with the nurse, primary care physician, nursing home physician and 
Psychotherapist and if necessary other members of the care team. The MM presents 
individualized care plans to manage or treat modifiable disabilities and risk 
factors. (3) Consultation by an nursing home physician and psychotherapist is 
offered to the frailest residents at risk for nursing home admission (according 
to the interRAI LTCF). Outcome measures are Quality of Care indicators (LTCF 
based), Quality Adjusted Life Years (Euroqol), Functional health (SF12, 
COOP-WONCA), Disability (GARS), Patients care satisfaction (QUOTE), hospital and 
nursing home days and mortality, health care utilization and costs.
DISCUSSION: This design is unique because no earlier studies were performed to 
evaluate the effects and costs of this Disease Management Model for disabled 
persons in homes for the elderly on functional health and quality of care. TRAIL 
REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN11076857.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-143
PMCID: PMC2488343
PMID: 18606020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Chemother. 2008 Jun;20(3):291-6. doi: 10.1179/joc.2008.20.3.291.

Treatment options in myelodysplastic syndromes: a new frontier.

Santini V(1), Gozzini A, Bosi A.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, AOU Careggi, University of Florence, Italy. santini@unifi.it

Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are very heterogeneous diseases in terms of 
clinical presentation and prognosis. Patients with pure red cell dysplasias have 
a life expectancy of more than 10 years, whereas those with refractory anemias 
with excess blasts have survival shorter than 6 months. Until a few years ago, 
therapeutic options were palliative and supportive care only. Quite recently, 
the treatment panorama for MDS has radically changed and the different 
biological behavior of MDS requires a precise choice among completely different 
therapies: immunosuppressive agents, anti-apoptotic agents and growth factors 
are effective in low risk MDS, whereas epigenetic drugs, tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors, and possibly high dose chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation 
are valuable in high risk MDS. We review the results of such therapies and the 
selection criteria for MDS patients.

DOI: 10.1179/joc.2008.20.3.291
PMID: 18606581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. QJM. 2008 Sep;101(9):723-9. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hcn077. Epub 2008 Jul 7.

Evidence and consequences of spectrum bias in studies of criteria for liver 
transplant in paracetamol hepatotoxicity.

Ding GK(1), Buckley NA.

Author information:
(1)Australian National University Medical School, ACT, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: In severe paracetamol hepatotoxicity, orthotopic liver transplant 
(OLT) is a standard treatment in patients judged to have a hopeless prognosis. 
The most commonly used criteria to make this decision are the King's College 
Criteria (KCC). We aimed to compare the expected survival for patients who meet 
the KCC and do not receive transplant and those who receive OLT.
METHODS: A systematic review of studies of survival in patients who met the KCC 
according to whether they were transplanted. Data from these studies was 
extrapolated to compare long-term survival with and without adjustment for 
Quality of Life.
RESULTS: The survival of patients meeting KCC and undergoing transplant has not 
been specifically studied. UK data on transplants for acute liver failure 
indicate 1 and 10 year survival rates of 65 and 44%, respectively. Survival in 
those without transplant was documented in 15 studies. The average long-term 
survival rate was 24.9%. Survival was worse in studies originating in the King's 
unit (13.8 vs. 30.0%). It was apparent that this may be due to spectrum bias 
occurring in this much larger unit. There was clear evidence that those with the 
best prognosis were preferentially transplanted at the Kings liver unit, 
indicating the criteria may perform significantly worse at predicting death 
without transplant than previously estimated. Even so, for a 20-year-old meeting 
KCC, the best estimate of life expectancy with transplant (13.5 years) is no 
better than without (13.4 years). Adjustment for quality of life made OLT 
clearly a worse option.
CONCLUSION: Criteria for OLT that have a much higher positive predictive value 
(for death without transplant) are required. Such studies must be conducted only 
on those who would be considered suitable for transplant. Non-orthotopic liver 
transplant may be a preferred option in such circumstances, although much more 
data on survival after this procedure are required.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hcn077
PMID: 18606611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Circulation. 2008 Jul 29;118(5):576-85. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.190186.  Epub 2008 Jul 7.

The impact of prevention on reducing the burden of cardiovascular disease.

Kahn R(1), Robertson RM, Smith R, Eddy D.

Author information:
(1)American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, VA, USA. rkahn@diabetes.org

OBJECTIVE: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is prevalent and expensive. While many 
interventions are recommended to prevent CVD, the potential effects of a 
comprehensive set of prevention activities on CVD morbidity, mortality, and 
costs have never been evaluated. We therefore determined the effects of 11 
nationally recommended prevention activities on CVD-related morbidity, 
mortality, and costs in the United States.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We used person-specific data from a representative 
sample of the US population (National Health and Nutrition Education Survey IV) 
to determine the number and characteristics of adults aged 20-80 years in the 
United States today who are candidates for different prevention activities 
related to CVD. We used the Archimedes model to create a simulated population 
that matched the real US population, person by person. We then used the model to 
simulate a series of clinical trials that examined the effects over the next 30 
years of applying each prevention activity one by one, or altogether, to those 
who are candidates for the various activities and compared the health outcomes, 
quality of life, and direct medical costs to current levels of prevention and 
care. We did this under two sets of assumptions about performance and 
compliance: 100% success for each activity and lower levels of success 
considered aggressive but still feasible.
RESULTS: Approximately 78% of adults aged 20-80 years alive today in the United 
States are candidates for at least one prevention activity. If everyone received 
the activities for which they are eligible, myocardial infarctions and strokes 
would be reduced by 63% and 31%, respectively. If more feasible levels of 
performance are assumed, myocardial infarctions and strokes would be reduced 36% 
and 20%, respectively. Implementation of all prevention activities would add 
approximately 221 million life-years and 244 million quality-adjusted life-years 
to the US adult population over the coming 30 years, or an average of 1.3 years 
of life expectancy for all adults. Of the specific prevention activities, the 
greatest benefits to the US population come from providing aspirin to high-risk 
individuals, controlling pre-diabetes, weight reduction in obese individuals, 
lowering blood pressure in people with diabetes, and lowering LDL cholesterol in 
people with existing coronary artery disease (CAD). As currently delivered and 
at current prices, most prevention activities are expensive when considering 
direct medical costs; smoking cessation is the only prevention strategy that is 
cost-saving over 30 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Aggressive application of nationally recommended prevention 
activities could prevent a high proportion of the CAD events and strokes that 
are otherwise expected to occur in adults in the United States today. However, 
as they are currently delivered, most of the prevention activities will 
substantially increase costs. If preventive strategies are to achieve their full 
potential, ways must be found to reduce the costs and deliver prevention 
activities more efficiently.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.190186
PMID: 18606915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2008 Jul;162(7):665-74. doi: 
10.1001/archpedi.162.7.665.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of herpes simplex virus testing and treatment 
strategies in febrile neonates.

Caviness AC(1), Demmler GJ, Swint JM, Cantor SB.

Author information:
(1)Texas Children's Hospital, Section of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, 6621 
Fannin St, Houston, TX 77030, USA. accavine@texaschildrenshospital.org

OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
testing for and empirically treating herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection in 
neonates with fever aged from birth to 28 days.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: Decision model.
PATIENTS: Neonates with fever with no other symptoms and neonates with fever 
with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) pleocytosis.
INTERVENTIONS: Four clinical strategies: (1) HSV testing and empirical treatment 
while awaiting test results; (2) HSV testing and treatment if test results were 
positive for HSV or the patient had symptoms of HSV; (3) treatment alone without 
testing; or (4) no HSV testing or treatment unless the patient exhibited 
symptoms. The 2 HSV testing methods used were CSF HSV polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) and comprehensive evaluation with blood HSV PCR, CSF HSV PCR, and multiple 
viral cultures.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Twelve-month survival and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy with a cost-effectiveness threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Clinical strategy 1, when applied in febrile neonates with CSF 
pleocytosis, saved 17 lives per 10,000 neonates and was cost-effective using CSF 
HSV PCR testing ($55,652/QALY gained). The cost-effectiveness of applying 
clinical strategy 1 in all febrile neonates depended on the cost of the CSF HSV 
PCR, prevalence of disease, and parental preferences for neurodevelopmental 
outcomes. Clinical strategies using comprehensive HSV testing were not 
cost-effective in febrile neonates ($368,411/QALY gained) or febrile neonates 
with CSF pleocytosis ($110,190/QALY gained).
CONCLUSIONS: Testing with CSF HSV PCR and empirically treating with acyclovir 
sodium saves lives and is cost-effective in febrile neonates with CSF 
pleocytosis. It is not a cost-effective use of health care resources in all 
febrile neonates.

DOI: 10.1001/archpedi.162.7.665
PMID: 18606938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Health Aff (Millwood). 2008 Jul-Aug;27(4):921-32. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.27.4.921.

The health care systems of China and India: performance and future challenges.

Yip W(1), Mahal A.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2008 Jul-Aug;27(4):933-6.

Both China and India have recently committed to injecting new public funds into 
health care. Both countries are now deciding how best to channel the additional 
funds to produce benefits for their populations. In this paper we analyze how 
well the health care systems of China and India have performed and what 
determines their performance. Based on the analysis, we suggest that money 
alone, channeled through insurance and infrastructure strengthening, is 
inadequate to address the current problems of unaffordable health care and heavy 
financial risk, and the future challenges posed by aging populations that are 
increasingly affected by noncommunicable diseases.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.27.4.921
PMID: 18607024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Sex Transm Dis. 2008 Sep;35(9):775-84. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e318176196d.

Cost-effectiveness of rapid point-of-care prenatal syphilis screening in 
sub-Saharan Africa.

Rydzak CE(1), Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)MD-PhD Program in Health Policy, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA. chara_rydzak@student.hms.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Sex Transm Dis. 2008 Sep;35(9):785-6.

BACKGROUND: Syphilis continues to be an important public health problem among 
pregnant women in sub-Saharan Africa with prevalence rates as high as 17%. 
Pregnant women are a critical population to screen to prevent the devastating 
consequences of infection to their unborn children. Although screening and 
appropriate treatment of infected pregnant women can prevent fetal and maternal 
complications, traditional screening algorithms requiring multiple tests have 
proven to be difficult to implement in resource-poor settings. We assess the 
cost-effectiveness of on-site prenatal syphilis screening with newly available 
rapid point-of-care screening tests in sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: Data from the literature were used to model the acquisition and 
subsequent natural history of syphilis in pregnant sub-Saharan African women 
over the course of their lifetime. We assessed the health and economic outcomes 
associated with screening strategies that differed by the initial test [rapid 
plasma reagin (RPR), immunochromographic strip (ICS)], need for confirmation 
with Treponema pallidum hemagglutination assay, and number of visits required. 
Model outcomes include adverse pregnancy outcomes (miscarriage, low birth 
weight, congenital syphilis, stillbirth, and neonatal death), life expectancy, 
lifetime costs (2004 US dollars), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: With no screening, for a cohort of 1000 women with an average of 6 
pregnancies in their lifetime, there were 256 cases of congenital syphilis, 583 
low birth weight infants, and 170 stillbirths or neonatal deaths. The most 
effective and least costly strategy was one-visit rapid testing with ICS, which 
averted 178 cases of congenital syphilis, 43 low birth weight infants, and 37 
perinatal deaths, and saved $170,030 per 1000 women compared with no screening. 
The choice between ICS and RPR was most influenced by test kit, labor and supply 
costs, and test sensitivity. RPR was preferred when the ICS cost more than 
doubled or ICS test sensitivity fell below 88%.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal prenatal syphilis screening using rapid point-of-care 
tests will improve both maternal and infant outcomes and is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e318176196d
PMID: 18607319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Minerva Chir. 2008 Aug;63(4):293-9.

The artificial kidney: past, present, and future.

Eknoyan G(1).

Author information:
(1)Renal Section, Department of Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, 
TX 77030-3498, USA. geknoyan@bcm.edu

World War II can be taken as a turning point after which the introduction and 
development of several new diagnostic and therapeutic discoveries have 
revolutionized medicine and improved the expectancy of life for millions. 
Notable amongst those technological therapeutic achievements is that of the 
artificial kidney, first used successfully in the closing years of the war. As a 
result of the improvements that followed, the kidney was the first solid organ 
whose function could be replaced, at least partially, by a machine. What started 
then as exploratory efforts to sustain life evolved over the next few decades 
into life saving replacement therapy for millions worldwide. Chronic maintenance 
hemodialysis has certainly changed the prognosis of the otherwise fatal end 
stage kidney disease that had afflicted humans theretofore. Unfortunately, many 
of the challenges and problems that had to be overcome in making artificial 
kidney treatment available continue to plague end-stage kidney disease patients 
on maintenance hemodialysis. Concerted investigative efforts are currently 
underway to improve the replacement of kidney function with artificial kidneys 
that better mimic kidney function. This article reviews the beginnings, 
evolution, and current challenges of the artificial kidney.

PMID: 18607326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Acta Oncol. 2008;47(6):1029-36. doi: 10.1080/02841860802120028.

Cost-effectiveness of maintenance rituximab treatment after second line therapy 
in patients with follicular lymphoma in Sweden.

Kasteng F(1), Erlanson M, Hagberg H, Kimby E, Relander T, Lundkvist J.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. Frida.K@healtheconomics.se

INTRODUCTION: Rituximab has significantly improved the prognosis for patients 
with both indolent and aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. An economic evaluation 
was carried out to assess the cost-effectiveness in Sweden of rituximab as 
maintenance therapy for patients with follicular lymphoma in remission after 
second line therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The incremental cost and effectiveness of rituximab 
maintenance therapy versus observation were evaluated in a health-state 
transition model. Primary effect measures were quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY) and life-years gained (LYG). Model state transitions were calculated 
based on progression-free and overall survival data from the EORTC20981 trial. 
The analysis was made from the perspective of the healthcare provider, including 
direct medical costs presented in euro, 2007 value. Effects and costs were 
discounted at a 3% annual rate. The stability of the base case results were 
tested in one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The evaluation assessed rituximab maintenance therapy to be associated 
with an incremental cost per QALY gained of euro 12,600 and an incremental cost 
per LYG of euro 11,200. The average discounted life expectancy for patients on 
rituximab maintenance was 1.0 year longer than for patients on observation (5.96 
vs. 4.94 years). Rituximab maintenance was associated with an additional 0.9 
QALY, and total costs per patient were euro 11,500 higher in the treatment arm, 
compared to observation.
DISCUSSION: The results indicate that rituximab maintenance treatment after 
successful induction therapy for patients with relapsed/refractory follicular 
lymphoma in Sweden is cost-effective compared to observation.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860802120028
PMID: 18607857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Acta Oncol. 2008;47(6):1018-28. doi: 10.1080/02841860801901618.

Cost-effectiveness of HER2 testing and trastuzumab therapy for metastatic breast 
cancer.

Lidgren M(1), Wilking N, Jönsson B, Rehnberg C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Management Centre, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. 
Mathias.L@healtheconomics.se

BACKGROUND: Trastuzumab is a monoclonal antibody that together with chemotherapy 
significantly improves time to progression and overall survival for metastatic 
breast cancer patients with tumours overexpressing HER2. The aim of this study 
was to analyse the cost-effectiveness of HER2 testing and trastuzumab in 
combination with chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone from a societal 
perspective in a Swedish setting.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We used a Markov state transition model to simulate HER2 
testing and subsequent treatment in a hypothetical cohort of 65 year old 
metastatic breast cancer patients. Outcomes included life-time costs, quality 
adjusted life years (QALY), and cost per QALY gained. Five different testing and 
treatment strategies were evaluated.
RESULTS: We estimated the cost per QALY gained to be about 485,000 SEK for the 
strategy of IHC testing for all patients, with FISH confirmation of 2+ and 3+, 
and trastuzumab and chemotherapy treatment for FISH positive patients. For the 
strategy of FISH testing for all patients, with trastuzumab and chemotherapy for 
FISH positive patients, we estimated the cost per QALY gained to about 561,000 
SEK. The remaining testing and treatment strategies were dominated. Results were 
sensitive to changes in utilities, the risk of breast cancer related death, and 
test characteristics.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis indicate that FISH testing for all patients with 
trastuzumab and chemotherapy treatment for FISH positive patients is a 
cost-effective treatment option from a societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860801901618
PMID: 18607881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Disabil Rehabil. 2008;30(23):1786-93. doi: 10.1080/09638280701661380.

Does a cognitive-training programme improve the performance of middle-aged 
employees undergoing in-patient psychosomatic treatment?

Wagner S(1), Kaschel R, Paulsen S, Bleichner F, Knickenberg RJ, Beutel ME.

Author information:
(1)Klinik fur Psychosomatische Medizin und Psychotherapie, Johannes-Gutenberg 
Universitat Mainz, Germany. stefwagn@uni-mainz.de

PURPOSE: With the ever-increasing average life expectancy and rising age of 
retirement, cognitive and work capacities in advanced age take on great 
importance. Cognitive impairments, however, increase with age. The effect of 
cognitive-training programmes on people with mild cognitive impairment has not 
been verified in any systematic investigations.
METHOD: This study presents a cognitive-training programme designed for 
middle-aged employees that was implemented and evaluated at the Psychosomatic 
Clinic Bad Neustadt/Saale in an AB study design (A: no intervention; B: 
intervention).
RESULTS: Memory performance of the intervention group (n = 33) improved 
significantly between intake and discharge, compared with that of the control 
group (n = 40), as did self-ratings of memory and work-related attitudes.
CONCLUSIONS: A cognitive-training programme is useful and effective in patients 
with mild cognitive impairment. Future studies should investigate how older or 
more severely impaired patients benefit from such a programme.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280701661380
PMID: 18608414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Disabil Rehabil. 2009;31(5):370-80. doi: 10.1080/09638280801976159.

Disability in end-stage knee osteoarthritis.

Kauppila AM(1), Kyllonen E, Mikkonen P, Ohtonen P, Laine V, Siira P, Niinimaki 
J, Arokoski JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Oulu University Hospital, 
Oulu, Finland. anna-maija.kauppila@oulu.fi

OBJECTIVE: To examine the attributes of disability in end-stage knee 
osteoarthritis (OA) by analyzing the relationships between self-reported 
disability and objectively measured physical function after controlling pain, 
personal characteristic factors, and pathophysiological factors.
METHODS: The present study adopted a cross-sectional design. The subjects (n=88, 
aged 60-80 years) were scheduled for primary unilateral total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA) due to knee OA. Self-reported disability and pain were measured with the 
Western Ontario and McMaster Universities OA Index (WOMAC) and the RAND 36-item 
Health Survey 1.0 (RAND-36). Physical performance tests included a 15-m walk 
test and stair performance. Knee isometric muscle strength was measured. A 
clinical examination included analyses of comorbidity, body mass index (BMI), 
and a detailed knee examination: The flexion range of motion (ROM) was measured; 
the presence of varus/valgus malalignments and antero-posterior laxity was 
assessed. Radiographs were analyzed with the Kellgren-Lawrence grading scale.
RESULTS: In the linear regression model the WOMAC pain score, antero-posterior 
laxity of the knee, age, and BMI accounted for 54.8% of the variance in the 
WOMAC function score. In the bivariate analyses the WOMAC function score had a 
positive correlation with the 15-m walk (r(s)=0.32, p=0.003), stairs up 
(r(s)=0.40, p=0.001), and stairs down (r(s)=0.38, p=0.001) tests, and a negative 
correlation with RPT extension (r(s)=-0.45, p < 0.001) and RPT flexion 
(r(s)=-0.39, p=0.001) of the affected side and RPT flexion (r(s)=-0.39, p 
<0.001) of the contralateral side. The results of the physical performance tests 
also correlated with the RAND-36 Physical function (PF) score. Comorbid diseases 
and pain deteriorated the results of the physical performance tests and 
self-reported disability. Female gender deteriorated the results of the physical 
performance tests and the RAND-36 PF, but not the WOMAC function score. 
Malalignments, restriction in the flexion ROM of the knee, and the radiologic 
severity of knee OA did not affect self-reported disability.
CONCLUSION: Pain, BMI, and antero-posterior laxity of the knee joint were major 
attributes of self-reported disability. The negative effect of comorbid diseases 
and female gender on health-related quality of life was significant. The results 
of objectively measured physical performance tests correlated with self-reported 
disability.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280801976159
PMID: 18608423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Scand J Rheumatol. 2008 Sep-Oct;37(5):365-9. doi: 10.1080/03009740801998796.

Hypogonadism in Wegener's granulomatosis.

Richter JG(1), Becker A, Specker C, Schneider M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Rheumatology, Rheumatology Section, 
University Hospital Düsseldorf, D 40225 Düsseldorf, Germany. 
richter@rheumanet.org

OBJECTIVE: Current developments in the management of Wegener's granulomatosis 
(WG) focus on adoption of therapeutic strategies to avoid complications of both 
the disease and its therapy. Systematic analyses with respect to the 
reproductive system in WG are missing.
METHODS: Data of a cross-sectional study of sexual hormones in 19 male WG 
patients were analysed. Disease extension was classified according to the ears, 
nose, and throat (E), lungs (L), and kidneys (K) classification (ELK 
classification) and to the disease extent index (DEI). Laboratory investigation 
included measurement of gonadotrophins, oestradiol, and total serum 
testosterone. Hypogonadism was defined by an increase in follicle-stimulating 
hormone (FSH) beyond twice the upper reference range in the presence of low 
serum testosterone. Thirty-eight age-matched men served as controls.
RESULTS: Hypogonadism was found in 52.6% of the patients but was not detectable 
in any of the controls (p<0.0001). No significant correlation to any clinical 
factor of systemic vasculitis, current or past medication was detected. In 
particular, testosterone or FSH levels were not correlated with current or 
cumulative use of cyclophosphamide or corticosteroids (p = 0.417, p = 0.293; p = 
0.893, p = 0.317).
CONCLUSION: Data of our study revealed an unexpected high rate of hypogonadism 
irrespective of cyclophosphamide use, and subclinical involvement of the testes 
by the vasculitis itself might be an alternative explanation. Screening during 
the course of the disease is reasonable as hypogonadism might severely affect 
patients' quality of life. Further prospective studies with respect to 
gender-specific changes in the reproductive system are warranted.

DOI: 10.1080/03009740801998796
PMID: 18609261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Public Health. 2008 Jun;122(6):597-601. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.02.005.

2006 Harben Lecture. World poverty and population health: the need for 
sustainable change.

Aitsi-Selmi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, UK. 
aminal@doctors.org.uk

Despite important recent initiatives to improve the health of the most 
disadvantaged in the world (the Millennium Development Goals, debt cancellation 
campaigns), poverty and preventable diseases still plague many parts of the 
globe. Sub-Saharan Africa remains one of the most severely affected. It is the 
only region in the world where life expectancy has not seen much improvement. 
Some countries have employed strategies of investment in public services, such 
as education, with positive results (e.g. the 'tiger economies'). Others have 
tried to follow prescribed strategies from global institutions such as the 
International Monetary Fund and World Bank with varying degrees of success. 
Sustainable development will require continuous commitment from donors and 
recipients to long-term strategies. Oxfam believes investment in public services 
and education is key to sustainability, in combination with more effective debt 
cancellation. These concepts are explored in the 2006 Harben Lecture given by 
Barbara Stocking, Director of Oxfam.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.02.005
PMID: 18609761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Health Serv J. 2008 May 29:21.

Data briefing. The bottom line on new policies.

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)King's Fund.

PMID: 18609777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2008 Jul;50(7):487-93. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2008.03000.x.

Life expectancy in cerebral palsy: an update.

Strauss D(1), Brooks J, Rosenbloom L, Shavelle R.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122, USA. 
Strauss@Life.Expectancy.org

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 1998 Jun;40(6):369-75.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2007 Feb;49(2):86-92.

This paper clarifies and updates some issues of life expectancy in cerebral 
palsy. These are: (1) the definition of life expectancy and how it is 
calculated; (2) the secular trends that have occurred since the data for the 
1998 paper were collected; (3) revised estimates reflecting improvements of some 
of the analytical methods and statistics provided in that paper; (4) comparison 
of life expectancies among countries; (5) issues regarding quality of care; and 
(6) consideration of prospective life expectations in addition to current life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2008.03000.x
PMID: 18611196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. BMC Public Health. 2008 Jul 8;8:231. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-231.

Cost-utility of a walking programme for moderately depressed, obese, or 
overweight elderly women in primary care: a randomised controlled trial.

Gusi N(1), Reyes MC, Gonzalez-Guerrero JL, Herrera E, Garcia JM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sports Sciences, University of Extremadura, Cáceres, Spain. 
ngusi@unex.es

BACKGROUND: There is a considerable public health burden due to physical 
inactivity, because it is a major independent risk factor for several diseases 
(e.g., type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease, moderate mood disorders neurotic 
diseases such as depression, etc.). This study assesses the cost utility of the 
adding a supervised walking programme to the standard "best primary care" for 
overweight, moderately obese, or moderately depressed elderly women.
METHODS: One-hundred six participants were randomly assigned to an 
interventional group (n = 55) or a control group (n = 51). The intervention 
consisted of an invitation, from a general practitioner, to participate in a 
6-month walking-based, supervised exercise program with three 50-minute sessions 
per week. The main outcome measures were the healthcare costs from the Health 
System perspective and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) using EuroQol 
(EQ-5D.)
RESULTS: Of the patients invited to participate in the program, 79% were 
successfully recruited, and 86% of the participants in the exercise group 
completed the programme. Over 6 months, the mean treatment cost per patient in 
the exercise group was 41 euros more than "best care". The mean incremental QALY 
of intervention was 0.132 (95% CI: 0.104-0.286). Each extra QALY gained by the 
exercise programme relative to best care cost 311 euros (95% CI, 143 euros-394 
euros). The cost effectiveness acceptability curves showed a 90% probability 
that the addition of the walking programme is the best strategy if the ceiling 
of inversion is 350 euros/QALY.
CONCLUSION: The invitation strategy and exercise programme resulted in a high 
rate of participation and is a feasible and cost-effective addition to best 
care. The programme is a cost-effective resource for helping patients to 
increase their physical activity, according to the recommendations of general 
practitioners. Moreover, the present study could help decision makers enhance 
the preventive role of primary care and optimize health care resources.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: [ISRCTN98931797].

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-231
PMCID: PMC2491610
PMID: 18611277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Eat Weight Disord. 2008 Jun;13(2):e32-4.

Anorexia nervosa: a survival analysis.

Harbottle EJ(1), Birmingham CL, Sayani F.

Author information:
(1)Eating Disorders Program, St. Paul's Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6Z 1Y6.

BACKGROUND: There are numerous reports of the standardized mortality ratio (SMR) 
of anorexia nervosa (AN). However, the life expectancy of AN, has not been 
reported.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the average life expectancy of patients who are diagnosed 
with AN at various ages.
METHODS: A survival analysis was performed using decision analysis software and 
mortality data for British Columbia, Canada from Statscan and the SMR for AN 
previously reported for British Columbia, Canada.
RESULTS: The life expectancy of patients who are diagnosed with AN is displayed 
in Table 1 and Figure 2. For example, statistically, a woman who has had AN 
since 15 years of age is likely to live 25 years less than predicted for the 
normal population.
DISCUSSION: Survival curves should be used to illustrate the loss of life in AN, 
to motivate patients and families, and to assist in legal arguments and requests 
for funding.

PMID: 18612251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Br J Cancer. 2008 Jul 22;99(2):230-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604462. Epub 2008
Jul  8.

Health and economic impact of HPV 16 and 18 vaccination and cervical cancer 
screening in India.

Diaz M(1), Kim JJ, Albero G, de Sanjosé S, Clifford G, Bosch FX, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Infections and Cancer (UNIC), Cancer Epidemiology Research Programme, 
Catalan Institute of Oncology (ICO), Av. Gran Via, s/n km. 2.7, 08907 
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.

Cervical cancer is a leading cause of cancer death among women in low-income 
countries, with approximately 25% of cases worldwide occurring in India. We 
estimated the potential health and economic impact of different cervical cancer 
prevention strategies. After empirically calibrating a cervical cancer model to 
country-specific epidemiologic data, we projected cancer incidence, life 
expectancy, and lifetime costs (I$2005), and calculated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (I$/YLS) for the following strategies: pre-adolescent 
vaccination of girls before age 12, screening of women over age 30, and combined 
vaccination and screening. Screening differed by test (cytology, visual 
inspection, HPV DNA testing), number of clinical visits (1, 2 or 3), frequency 
(1 x , 2 x , 3 x per lifetime), and age range (35-45). Vaccine efficacy, 
coverage, and costs were varied in sensitivity analyses. Assuming 70% coverage, 
mean reduction in lifetime cancer risk was 44% (range, 28-57%) with HPV 16,18 
vaccination alone, and 21-33% with screening three times per lifetime. Combining 
vaccination and screening three times per lifetime provided a mean reduction of 
56% (vaccination plus 3-visit conventional cytology) to 63% (vaccination plus 
2-visit HPV DNA testing). At a cost per vaccinated girl of I$10 (per dose cost 
of $2), pre-adolescent vaccination followed by screening three times per 
lifetime using either VIA or HPV DNA testing, would be considered cost-effective 
using the country's per capita gross domestic product (I$3452) as a threshold. 
In India, if high coverage of pre-adolescent girls with a low-cost HPV vaccine 
that provides long-term protection is achievable, vaccination followed by 
screening three times per lifetime is expected to reduce cancer deaths by half, 
and be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604462
PMCID: PMC2480962
PMID: 18612311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Stud Alcohol Drugs. 2008 Jul;69(4):510-9. doi: 10.15288/jsad.2008.69.510.

Universal or targeted screening for fetal alcohol exposure: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Hopkins RB(1), Paradis J, Roshankar T, Bowen J, Tarride JE, Blackhouse G, Lim M, 
O'Reilly D, Goeree R, Longo CJ.

Author information:
(1)Program for Assessment of Technology in Health, Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology & Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University, 
25 Main Street West, Suite 2000, Hamilton, Ontario, L8P 2A1, Canada. 
hopkinr@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVE: In this article, we compared the costs of testing meconium for 
alcohol exposure in newborns with the lifetime benefits of early detection and 
intervention.
METHOD: A decision analytic model was developed to assess the cost-effectiveness 
of testing meconium for two scenarios: (1) all infants in the Canadian province 
of Ontario and (2) infants who have an older sibling diagnosed with fetal 
alcohol spectrum disorder (FASD). The model incorporated the costs of early 
screening, early intervention, and the lifetime societal benefits of early 
intervention.
RESULTS: The cost of the meconium test is Can. $150. The lifetime societal cost 
of the disease is Can. $1.3 million per incident case. The benefit of early 
intervention is an improvement in literacy, which improves the quality of life 
parameter by 0.17 and increases adult lifetime earnings by $26,400 per year. The 
ratio of the incremental cost to the incremental benefits results in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for mandating a universal screen of all 
newborns in Ontario of $65,874 per quality-adjusted life years. When considering 
targeted screening, there is a cost savings for society and improvements in 
quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Depending on society's willingness-to-pay threshold for improving 
infants' lives in a setting of considerable equity concerns, universal screening 
and targeted screening of infants who have an older sibling diagnosed with FASD 
both represent policies that are good value for the money.

DOI: 10.15288/jsad.2008.69.510
PMID: 18612566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Stat Med. 2008 Nov 20;27(26):5525-55. doi: 10.1002/sim.3355.

Empirical estimation of life expectancy from large clinical trials: use of 
left-truncated, right-censored survival analysis methodology.

Nelson CL(1), Sun JL, Tsiatis AA, Mark DB.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 
27715, USA. charlotte.nelson@duke.edu

In the current era of ever-increasing health care costs, economic analyses are 
an essential component in the comprehensive evaluation of new medical 
interventions. Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA)--the most common form of 
economic analysis used in medicine--aids policy-makers in determining how to 
allocate finite health care dollars among possible alternative therapies. CEA 
relates the incremental benefits of a new technology to its incremental costs in 
a cost-effectiveness (CE) ratio. Although the generally agreed-upon standard of 
presentation for the CE ratio is the lifetime perspective (incremental lifetime 
cost to add one life year), this perspective presents an obvious challenge to 
the statistical analyst. Most large clinical trials collect limited follow-up 
data, and yet their findings form the basis of therapeutic recommendations that 
often extend far beyond the limits of the empirical data. Although clinical 
practice guidelines do not yet require explicit modeling to examine the 
long-term implications of their recommendations, health policy analyses 
routinely rely upon such extrapolations. This paper describes methods for using 
empirical patient-level data to extrapolate survival in large clinical trials 
and cohorts beyond a limited follow-up period in which most patients remain 
alive in order to estimate the entire survival distribution for a cohort of 
patients. We accomplish this task through a novel combination of models that 
estimate the hazard rate not only as a function of time but also as a function 
of patient age. Extrapolation of survival beyond a limited time frame is made 
possible by capitalizing on the extensive latitude of survival information 
available across the range of ages represented in the data. Variations in 
approach are presented, and issues arising in these analyses are discussed. The 
proposed methodology is developed, applied, and evaluated in both a large 
clinical trial cohort with 5-year follow-up on over 23,000 patients and a large 
observational database with long-term follow-up on over 4000 patients.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3355
PMID: 18613251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. J Econ Entomol. 2008 Jun;101(3):880-4. doi: 
10.1603/0022-0493(2008)101[880:fpocfi]2.0.co;2.

Feeding preference of Coptotermes formosanus (Isoptera: Rhinotermitidae) for 
gamma-irradiated wood impregnated with benzoylphenylurea compounds under 
laboratory conditions.

Katsumata N(1), Tsunoda K, Toyoumi A, Yoshimura T, Imamura Y.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Sustainable Humanosphere, Kyoto University, Gokasho, 
Uji, Kyoto 611-0011, Japan. katsumata@rish.kyoto-u.ac.jp

The feeding preference of Coptotermes formosanus Shiraki (Isoptera: 
Rhinotermitidae) for 200-kGy gamma-irradiated Cryptomeria japonica D. Don 
(Japanese cedar) sapwood impregnated with benzoylphenylurea compounds such as 
hexaflumuron and noviflumuron was examined by three laboratory tests. Although 
termites were not deterred from feeding on gamma-irradiated wood samples that 
had been impregnated with hexaflumuron or noviflumuron, termite mortality was 
significantly higher compared with solvent controls in the no-choice test. All 
live termites were transferred to paper disks immediately after the no-choice 
test to investigate changes in mortality with time, and this test also confirmed 
the effects of hexaflumuron and noviflumuron on worker termites, which showed a 
significant feeding preference for gamma-irradiated wood. Only the 1480 ppm 
noviflumuron-impregnated gamma-irradiated wood specimens showed significant 
differences in mortality in the two-choice test. These results suggest that 
gamma-irradiated C. japonica wood, which is locally abundant in Japan, may have 
potential as a bait substrate for benzoylphenylurea compounds.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2008)101[880:fpocfi]2.0.co;2
PMID: 18613590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Econ Entomol. 2008 Jun;101(3):982-8. doi: 
10.1603/0022-0493(2008)101[982:LTOHHH]2.0.CO;2.

Life tables of Habrobracon hebetor (Hymenoptera: Braconidae) parasitizing 
Anagasta kuehniella and Plodia interpunctella (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae): effect 
of host density.

Eliopoulos PA(1), Stathas GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Production, Technological Educational Institute of 
Larissa, 41 110 Larissa, Greece. p_eliopoulos@hotmail.com

The reproductive performance of the parasitoid Habrobracon hebetor (Say) 
(Hymenoptera: Braconidae) against the moths Anagasta kuehniella Zeller and 
Plodia interpunctella (Hübner) (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae) was studied in the 
laboratory. The analysis was based on the comparison of parasitoid's life table 
parameters related to those of its hosts at various conditions of host density 
(daily supply of 1, 5, 15, and 30 full-grown host larvae). The estimated 
parameters were the intrinsic rate of natural increase (rm), the net 
reproductive rate (R0), the mean generation time (G), the finite capacity of 
increase (lambda), the gross reproductive rate (GRR), the doubling time (DT), 
the reproductive value (Vx), and the life expectancy (ex). The rm of H. hebetor 
proved to be significantly higher than those of its hosts at all host densities. 
When only one host per day was supplied, the wasp had the lowest reproductive 
potential, whereas it was maximized when 15 hosts per day were exposed. Maximum 
values of R0 and GRR were obtained at densities > or =15 host larvae per day. 
Any increase in host supply above this threshold did not cause significant 
changes in life table parameters. Variation of rm as a function of host density 
can be described by the linear regression. Sex ratio of wasp progeny 
(females/total) ranged from 0.36 to 0.42, irrespective of host density or 
species. Newly emerged adults recorded maximum ex and Vx. The results of this 
study can be used to improve mass rearing programs and inoculative release 
applications of H. hebetor against moth pests of stored products.

DOI: 10.1603/0022-0493(2008)101[982:LTOHHH]2.0.CO;2
PMID: 18613603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2008 Jul;7(4):481-9. doi: 10.1517/14740338.7.4.481.

Recognition and management of drug-induced blood cytopenias: the example of 
drug-induced acute neutropenia and agranulocytosis.

Andrès E(1), Federici L, Weitten T, Vogel T, Alt M.

Author information:
(1)Hôpitaux Universitaires de Strasbourg, Service de Médecine Interne, Clinique 
Médicale B, Hôpital Civil, 1 Porte de l'Hôpital, 67 091 Strasbourg Cedex, 
France. emmanuel.andres@chru-strasbourg.fr

BACKGROUND: More than several hundred drugs, toxins, and herbs have been 
reported to cause blood abnormalities, and drugs account for 20 - 40% of all 
instances of cytopenias.
OBJECTIVE: In the present paper, we report and discuss the recognition and the 
management of drug-induced acute neutropenia or agranulocytosis (neutrophil 
count of < 0.5 x 10(9)/l).
METHODS: A bibliographic search was performed on the PubMed database of the US 
National Library of Medicine for articles published from January 1990 to January 
2008. Additional not published data of our cohort of drug-induced 
agranulocytosis in the University Hospital of Strasbourg, France were 
incorporated in this review.
RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: Idiosyncratic drug-induced acute neutropenia or 
agranulocytosis is a serious adverse event due to the frequency of severe 
infections (such as deep infections, septicemia and septic shock) but modern 
management with broad spectrum antibiotics and hematopoietic growth factors is 
likely to improve the prognosis. Given the increased life expectancy, increasing 
use of medications as a therapeutic modality and subsequent longer exposure to 
drugs, as well as the development of new agents, healthcare professionals should 
be aware of this adverse event and its management.

DOI: 10.1517/14740338.7.4.481
PMID: 18613811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
