CONCLUSIONS: Aggressive application of nationally recommended prevention 
activities could prevent a high proportion of the CAD events and strokes that 
are otherwise expected to occur in adults in the U.S. today. However, as they 
are currently delivered, most of the prevention activities will substantially 
increase costs. If preventive strategies are to achieve their full potential, 
ways must be found to reduce the costs and deliver prevention activities more 
efficiently.

DOI: 10.2337/dc08-9022
PMCID: PMC2494659
PMID: 18663233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Neth J Med. 2008 Jul-Aug;66(7):311-22.

Treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus infection - Dutch national guidelines.

de Bruijne J(1), Buster EH, Gelderblom HC, Brouwer JT, de Knegt RJ, van Erpecum 
KJ, Schalm SW, Bakker CM, Zaaijer HL, Janssen HL, Reesink HW; Netherlands 
Association of Gastroenterologists and Hepatologists.

Collaborators: Janssen HL, Buster EH, Gelderblom HC, Bakker CM, Brouwer JT, van 
Erpecum KJ, de Knegt RJ, Reesink HW, Schalm SW, Zaaijer HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Academic Medical Centre 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Neth J Med. 2008 Dec;66(11):456. Dosage error in article text.

The development of this guideline was initiated and coordinated by the 
Netherlands Association of Gastroenterologists and Hepatologists (Nederlandse 
Vereniging van Maag-Darm-Leverartsen). The aim is the establishment of practical 
guidelines in the evaluation and antiviral treatment of patients with chronic 
hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. This includes recommendations for the initial 
evaluation of patients, the choice and duration of antiviral therapy and the 
follow-up after antiviral therapy. Hepatitis C is a slowly progressive disease. 
The initial evaluation of chronically HCV-infected patients should include liver 
biochemistry testing, virological testing and abdominal ultrasound imaging. 
Liver biopsy is no longer a routine procedure. Antiviral treatment should be 
considered for all HCV-infected patients. Current antiviral treatment is a 
long-term process and is associated with substantial side effects. When deciding 
whether to start treatment or not, the chance of successful treatment (80% with 
hepatitis C genotype 2 and 3 and 50% with hepatitis C genotype 1 and 4), the 
fibrosis stage, the expected side effects and the compliance of the patient 
should be taken into consideration. In the absence of significant fibrosis and 
necroinflammation in liver biopsy, postponing treatment is an option. Current 
antiviral treatment is contraindicated in patients with Child-Pugh-class B or C 
cirrhosis. The possibility of a liver transplantation should be investigated in 
these patients. Significant comorbidity with a limited life expectancy is an 
absolute contraindication for antiviral treatment Treatment of chronic hepatitis 
C consists of administration of peginterferon and ribavirin for 24 or 48 weeks. 
Patients with hepatitis C genotype 1 or 4 are treated for 48 weeks. Patients 
with hepatitis C genotype 2 or 3 are treated for 24 weeks. In patients with 
undetectable HCV RNA after four weeks (28 days) of treatment, a shorter 
treatment is equally effective (12 to 16 weeks for hepatitis C genotype 2 or 3; 
24 weeks for hepatitis C genotype 1 or 4). Outpatient clinic visits are 
recommended at the start and after 2, 4, 8, and 12 weeks of treatment, and 
thereafter every four to six weeks until the end of treatment. It is recommended 
to stop treatment if the HCV RNA level has not decreased by at least 2 log10 
IU/ml (c/ml) after 12 weeks of treatment or when HCV RNA is still detectable 
after 24 weeks of treatment. The recommended frequency of outpatient clinic 
visits for patients who are not being treated is once every six months in 
patients with cirrhosis, otherwise every 12 months. It is expected that new 
anti-HCV-medication (STAT-C, specifically targeted antiviral therapy for HCV) 
will become available in the near future. Therefore treatment of chronic HCV 
infection will probably be more effective in the future.

PMID: 18663263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Behav Ecol Sociobiol. 2008 Aug;62(10):1621-1631. doi:
10.1007/s00265-008-0591-7.

Aging and demographic plasticity in response to experimental age structures in 
honeybees (Apis mellifera L).

Rueppell O(1), Linford R, Gardner P, Coleman J, Fine K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, 312 
Eberhart Building, Greensboro, NC, 27403, USA.

Honeybee colonies are highly integrated functional units characterized by a 
pronounced division of labor. Division of labor among workers is mainly 
age-based, with younger individuals focusing on in-hive tasks and older workers 
performing the more hazardous foraging activities. Thus, experimental disruption 
of the age composition of the worker hive population is expected to have 
profound consequences for colony function. Adaptive demography theory predicts 
that the natural hive age composition represents a colony-level adaptation and 
thus results in optimal hive performance. Alternatively, the hive age 
composition may be an epiphenomenon, resulting from individual life history 
optimization. We addressed these predictions by comparing individual worker 
longevity and brood production in hives that were composed of a single age 
cohort, two distinct age cohorts, and hives that had a continuous, natural age 
distribution. Four experimental replicates showed that colonies with a natural 
age composition did not consistently have a higher life expectancy and/or brood 
production than the single cohort or double cohort hives. Instead, a complex 
interplay of age structure, environmental conditions, colony size, brood 
production, and individual mortality emerged. A general trade-off between worker 
life expectancy and colony productivity was apparent, and the transition from 
in-hive tasks to foraging was the most significant predictor of worker lifespan 
irrespective of the colony age structure. We conclude that the natural age 
structure of honeybee hives is not a colony-level adaptation. Furthermore, our 
results show that honeybees exhibit pronounced demographic plasticity in 
addition to behavioral plasticity to react to demographic disturbances of their 
societies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00265-008-0591-7
PMCID: PMC2440700
PMID: 18663386


53. Chirurg. 2008 Sep;79(9):807-10, 812-6, 818. doi: 10.1007/s00104-008-1534-6.

[Epidemiology of obesity].

[Article in German]

Gellner R(1), Domschke W.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik B, Universitätsklinikum Münster, 
Albert-Schweitzer-Strasse 33, 48149 Münster, Deutschland. 
gellner@uni-muenster.de

Decades of obesity research have yielded no generally accepted strategy for safe 
and lasting weight loss. In spite of the importance given to it, obesity seems 
to be spreading like a virus. Is there really an epidemic of obesity? This 
survey looks at studies of the last 10 years from Germany, Europe, and worldwide 
and compares them with older data.Currently 32.9% of US adults and 13% of US 
children are obese; in Europe 15.7% of adults are obese and 4% of children and 
adolescents; in Germany 22.9% of adults are obese, while the figure is 6.3% for 
children and adolescents. Obviously there are characteristic differences in the 
worldwide distribution: obesity is more prevalent among women and also in lower 
social classes or among migrants. Every seventh non-Hispanic black woman in the 
US has a body mass index of over 40 kg/m(2) (morbid obesity). Obesity is 
increasing worldwide, especially among children. Morbid obesity is growing twice 
as fast as diabetes mellitus prevalence and will overtake it.In summary, obesity 
has developed from a secondary issue to a major national and international 
epidemic. In the near future, costs of prevention and treatment of obesity and 
its complications can no longer be covered by the health system. This explains 
why obesity is politically not recognized as a chronic illness.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-008-1534-6
PMID: 18663421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Radiologe. 2008 Oct;48(10):940-5. doi: 10.1007/s00117-008-1652-7.

[Neuroblastoma in children].

[Article in German]

Hörmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung allgemeine Radiologie und Kinderradiologie, Medizinische 
Universität Wien, Währingergürtel 18-20, A-1090 Wien, Osterreich. 
marcus.hoermann@meduniwien.ac.at

Neuroblastomas have a very heterogenic clinical presentation, ranging from 
relatively benign forms with the potential of spontaneous regression, to 
foudroyant malignant forms. Over half of neuroblastomas must be classified as 
high-risk tumors with a markedly high rate of recurrence. Despite 
multidisciplinary therapeutic approaches, the survival rate of children with 
this type of tumor is still below 40%. An ever-growing amount of data from 
international studies dating from the early 1970s onwards, points to the 
necessity of re-evaluating the medical approach in establishing the diagnosis 
and staging, understanding tumor biology and pathology, as well as therapy 
planning.

DOI: 10.1007/s00117-008-1652-7
PMID: 18663423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Neurourol Urodyn. 2008;27(6):540-7. doi: 10.1002/nau.20620.

Long-term benefits of darifenacin treatment for patient quality of life: results 
from a 2-year extension study.

Dwyer P(1), Kelleher C, Young J, Haab F, Lheritier K, Ariely R, Ebinger U.

Author information:
(1)Urogynaecology Department, Mercy Hospital for Women, 163 Studley Road, 
Heidelberg, Victoria 3084, Australia. pdwyer@connexus.net.au

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Overactive bladder (OAB), a chronic condition requiring 
long-term management, is associated with substantial impact on health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL). The short-term benefits of antimuscarinic drug 
treatment are well known. Here we investigate the impact on HRQoL of long-term 
treatment with the M(3)-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist darifenacin 
over 2 years.
METHODS: HRQoL was assessed using the King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ) for 
patients with 'wet' OAB treated with darifenacin (7.5/15 mg once daily [o.d.]) 
in an open-label 2-year extension of two double-blind feeder studies. Data were 
also analyzed for the subset of patients who continued darifenacin 7.5/15 mg 
o.d. directly into the extension study from the feeder studies (the 'darifenacin 
continuation' group), and also older patients (>or=65 years) and men within this 
group.
RESULTS: The total study population comprised 716 patients, of whom 303 patients 
formed the 'darifenacin continuation' group (including 85 patients >or=65 years 
and 41 men). Substantial impairment of HRQoL was noted in baseline KHQ 
assessments. KHQ scores improved significantly from feeder-study baseline to 
extension study end/last visit in eight of the nine domains, with more than 50% 
of patients reporting improvements in seven of the nine domains. Despite fewer 
patients, significant improvements in KHQ scores were also observed in the 
subsets of older patients (>or=65 years) and men. Almost two-thirds of the 
'darifenacin continuation' group were either satisfied or extremely satisfied 
with treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term darifenacin treatment was associated with significant and 
clinically meaningful improvements in HRQoL for patients with 'wet' OAB over 2 
years.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/nau.20620
PMID: 18663723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Clin Pract Epidemiol Ment Health. 2008 Jul 29;4:22. doi:
10.1186/1745-0179-4-22.

Bipolar disorder in late life: clinical characteristics in a sample of older 
adults admitted for manic episode.

Benedetti A(1), Scarpellini P, Casamassima F, Lattanzi L, Liberti M, Musetti L, 
Cassano GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Neurobiology, Pharmacology and Biotechnologies, 
University of Pisa, Via Roma, 67, Pisa, Italy. a.benedetti@med.unipi.it.

BACKGROUND: Although manic episodes in older adults are not rare, little 
published data exist on late-life manic episodes. Resistance to treatment and 
concomitant neurological lesions are frequent correlates of elderly mania. The 
aim of this study was to investigate the prevalence of hospitalizations due to 
mania in patients older than 64 years through a period of 5 years in an Italian 
public psychiatric ward. Moreover, we aimed at describing clinical presentation 
of elderly manic episodes.
METHODS: A retrospective chart review was conducted in order to describe 
clinical presentation of 20 elderly patients hospitalized for manic episode; 
moreover, we compared age at onset, the presence of family history for mood 
disorders, psychosis and irritability between the elderly group and a matched 
group of 20 younger manic inpatients.
RESULTS: Seven percent of the whole inpatient elderly people suffered from 
mania. Half of those patients had a mood disorder age at onset after 50 years 
and 5 patients were at their first manic episode. Geriatric- and adulthood mania 
showed similar clinical presentation but younger people had more frequently a 
mood disorders family history.
CONCLUSION: Half of our older manic inpatients consisted of "classic" bipolar 
patients with an extension of clinical manifestations into later life; the other 
half of our sample was heterogeneous, even though it was not possible to 
identify clearly which patients may have had vascular lesions related to the 
onset of mania.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-0179-4-22
PMCID: PMC2518147
PMID: 18664253


57. J Fam Pract. 2007 Dec;56(12 Suppl New):S17-23.

Practical treatment strategies for patients with Alzheimer's disease.

Christensen DD(1), Lin P.

Author information:
(1)Neuropsychiatric Institute, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, UT USA.

With the "baby boomers" entering retirement and beyond and the life expectancy 
of the entire population increasing, the burden of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) 
grows alarmingly greater. Over 5 million people in the United States currently 
have AD, and that number could triple by 2050. The financial impact of caring 
for these patients is substantial. Estimates of direct and indirect costs are as 
high as $148 billion per year. In addition to its substantial economic impact, 
AD has devastating effects on patients and their families. Alzheimer's disease 
begins with gradual memory loss and progresses to personality change, behavioral 
disturbance, loss of executive function, and loss of the ability to perform 
basic activities of daily living, including eating, walking, dressing, and 
grooming. These impairments strain families and caregivers and create challenges 
to the care and safety of the patient as well as threaten the health and 
well-being of the caregiver. As the number of patients diagnosed with AD 
increases, there is an ever-growing need for early diagnosis, which often is 
first observed in the primary care setting. While AD cannot be reversed or 
stopped, disease progression can be delayed and quality of life enhanced with 
early diagnosis and treatment. Early and accurate diagnosis has become 
increasingly important and will become even more so with the anticipated new 
generation of medications. Though several consensus statements on diagnosis and 
treatment of AD have been developed, few primary care physicians routinely 
follow evidence-based guidelines in their clinical practices. A 2006 survey 
conducted by the American Academy of Family Physicians identified a moderate to 
high level of need for education on AD in a majority of respondents. This 
article illustrates the primary care management of AD beginning with diagnosis 
and concluding with autopsy. Enhancing diagnostic and treatment skills in 
primary care will promote earlier diagnosis, improved patient management, and 
ongoing research into this increasingly important dilemma of aging.

PMID: 18664338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2008 Aug;38(8):571-6. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyn061. Epub 2008
Jul  29.

Lifetime and age-conditional probabilities of developing or dying of cancer in 
Japan.

Kamo K(1), Katanoda K, Matsuda T, Marugame T, Ajiki W, Sobue T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Mathematics, School of Medicine Liberal Arts and Sciences, 
Sapporo Medical University,Chuo-ku, Sapporo 060-8543, Japan. kamo@sapmed.ac.jp

The concepts of lifetime and age-conditional probabilities of developing and 
dying of cancer are introduced as indexes to understand the risk of cancer. In 
this paper, we estimated the lifetime and age-conditional probabilities of 
developing and dying of cancer in 2001 and 2005, respectively, in Japan. It is 
estimated that one in two Japanese males and one in three females will develop 
cancer, and one in four Japanese males and one in six females will die of 
cancer. Moreover, the probabilities of developing cancer within specific decades 
of age are obtained as the short-term risks.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyn061
PMID: 18664480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. AIDS. 2008 Jul;22 Suppl 1:S121-2. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327632.08093.bd.

Combining evidence for access to and benefits from antiretroviral treatment to 
inform planning.

Editorial Steering Committee(1); Marlink R, Forsythe S, Bertozzi SM, Muirhead D, 
Holmes M, Sturchio J.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA, USA. marlink@hsph.harvard.edu

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327632.08093.bd
PMID: 18664943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. AIDS. 2008 Jul;22 Suppl 1:S123-30. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327633.85221.9a.

Utility assessment of HIV/AIDS-related health states in HIV-infected Ugandans.

Lara AM(1), Wakholi BN, Kasirye A, Munderi P, Watera C, Lalloo DG, Haycox A, 
Gilks CF, Grosskurth H.

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool Management School, Chatham Street, L69 7ZH, 
Liverpool, UK. amedina@liv.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the psychometric performance of using standard gamble (SG), 
time trade-off (TTO) and visual analogue scale (VAS) in the evaluation of three 
predetermined HIV/AIDS health states in HIV-infected Ugandans, for use in 
cost-effectiveness analyses.
METHODS: We recruited participants with CD4 cells <200/microl from the 
Development of AntiRetroviral Therapy in Africa (DART) trial cohort [randomized 
trial evaluating antiretroviral therapy (ART) management strategies] in Uganda, 
before they initiated ART (n = 276). A comparison group of ART-naive 
HIV-infected individuals was recruited from the Entebbe Cohort study (n = 159). 
Participants were interviewed and asked to rate his/her own health state using 
VAS; rank and evaluate HIV/AIDS predetermined health states using TTO and SG 
relative to an improved health state. Tools were tested for psychometrical 
properties.
RESULTS: Women constituted 64% and 76% of the DART and Entebbe Cohorts. Mean age 
was 36.5 and 36.7 years, respectively. Participants could discriminate between 
predetermined HIV/AIDS health states. Deterioration in health status was 
associated with a reduction in rating scores (VAS), increased willingness to 
give up time (TTO) and acceptance of increased risk (SG) to achieve a better 
health state, independent of the participant's actual health state, as measured 
by CD4 cell counts.
CONCLUSION: VAS, TTO and SG have good psychometric properties, making them good 
candidates for use in resource-constrained settings. Further research in a wider 
population is necessary to generate an evidence base with which to inform 
resource allocation decisions.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327633.85221.9a
PMID: 18664944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. AIDS. 2008 Jul;22 Suppl 1:S141-8. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327635.74919.fd.

Costs and benefits of HAART for patients with HIV in a public hospital in 
Mexico.

Aracena-Genao B(1), Navarro JO, Lamadrid-Figueroa H, Forsythe S, Trejo-Valdivia 
B.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México. 
baracena@corre.insp.mx

BACKGROUND: The Mexican government is currently implementing strategies to 
improve and expand comprehensive treatment for people living with HIV. Limited 
data, however, are available on the benefits obtained and costs incurred by 
these strategies.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effects of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART) on a cohort of people living with HIV and to estimate the cost of 
extending patients' lives.
METHODS: A survival analysis was used to follow a dynamic cohort of 797 people 
receiving AIDS treatment in Mexico from 1982 to 2006. The Kaplan-Meier method 
was applied to estimate the probability of survival for different lengths of 
time starting on the date of diagnosis. The Cox's proportional hazards 
regression model was used to assess differences in AIDS mortality by 
antiretroviral therapy regimen, age and sex.
RESULTS: The probability of survival after diagnosis without antiretroviral 
therapy (ART) was approximately 0.73 (95% CI 0.69-0.77) after the first year, 
0.36 (95% CI 0.32-0.40) at 5 years, 0.28 (95% CI 0.24-0.33) at the tenth year, 
0.26 (95% CI 0.21-0.31) at the fifteenth year and 0.22 (95% CI 0.14-0.30) 
thereafter. The results showed a longer life expectancy when patients took HAART 
(as opposed to monotherapy or dual therapy) from the beginning of their 
treatment. Results from the Cox model showed that those who started and 
continued on HAART were 7.1 (P < 0.01) times more likely to survive than those 
who received no treatment. Extending the length of life beyond 15 years after 
the initial diagnosis represents an accumulated cost of more than US$280,000.00 
per individual.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327635.74919.fd
PMID: 18664946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. AIDS. 2008 Jul;22 Suppl 1:S35-42. doi: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327621.24232.71.

Assessing efficiency and costs of scaling up HIV treatment.

Cleary SM(1), McIntyre D, Boulle AM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, School of Public Health and Family Medicine, 
University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. Susan.cleary@uct.ac.za

INTRODUCTION: Whereas cost-effectiveness/utility analyses theoretically assess 
efficiency in HIV treatment, in practice they are of limited use to policy 
makers who are also concerned with the total costs of scaling up. This paper 
proposes an approach to simultaneously assessing both factors when setting 
priorities for HIV treatment.
METHODS: Three interventions were assessed: a no antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
status quo, ART including first-line only, and ART including first and 
second-line regimens. Data were from a cohort receiving healthcare in a poor 
South African setting. Markov modelling was used to calculate patient-level 
lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) as well as 
population-level total costs and QALY in each intervention. Linear programming 
was used to assess efficiency at the population level.
RESULTS: First-line ART costs US$795 per QALY gained compared to no ART, while 
first and second-line costs US$1625 compared to first-line alone. The efficiency 
of either ART strategy depends on the HIV treatment budget. If this is less than 
US$10 billion during the planning period, first-line ART is most efficient. A 
combination of first-line with first and second-line treatment is most efficient 
if the budget is US$10-12 billion. Using both first and second-line treatment 
for everyone becomes efficient as the main strategy only at budgets greater than 
US$13 billion.
CONCLUSION: An approach has been developed to HIV treatment priority setting 
that simultaneously considers efficiency and the costs of scaling up. This can 
help to establish explicit and evidence-based priorities and budgets to meet 
scaling up challenges.

DOI: 10.1097/01.aids.0000327621.24232.71
PMID: 18664951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2008 Aug;9(8):833-5.

Respiration consists of two acts: first inspiration, then expect(or)ation..

Jones T.

PMID: 18666030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. IUBMB Life. 2008 Nov;60(11):734-42. doi: 10.1002/iub.113.

DeSUMOylating enzymes--SENPs.

Drag M(1), Salvesen GS.

Author information:
(1)Program in Apoptosis and Cell Death Research, Burnham Institute for Medical 
Research, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. mdrag@burnham.org

Modification of proteins by ubiquitin and SUMO (small ubiquitin-like modifiers) 
is a dynamic and reversible process. Similar to the ubiquitin pathway, where the 
action of deubiquitinating enzymes removes ubiquitin from ubiquitin-adducts, 
SUMO is also removed intact from its substrates by proteases belonging to the 
sentrin-specific proteases (SENPs) family. In addition to their isopeptidase 
activity, SENPs also execute another essential function as endopeptidases by 
removing the short C-terminal extension from immature SUMOs. The defining 
characteristics of SENPs are their predicted conserved molecular 
scaffold-defined as members of peptidase Clan CE, conserved catalytic mechanism, 
and their reported activity on SUMO or Nedd8 conjugated proteins (or the 
respective precursors). We discuss recent progress on the human SENPs and their 
substrates.

Copyright (c) 2008 IUBMB

DOI: 10.1002/iub.113
PMID: 18666185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Pharmacoepidemiol Drug Saf. 2008 Sep;17(9):896-903. doi: 10.1002/pds.1634.

Pattern of intravenous bisphosphonate use in outpatient care in Germany.

Hoffmann F(1), Jung TI, Felsenberg D, Glaeske G.

Author information:
(1)Health Policy and Outcomes Research, Division Health Economics, Centre for 
Social Policy Research, University of Bremen, Bremen, Germany. 
hoffmann@zes.uni-bremen.de

PURPOSE: Intravenous bisphosphonate therapy has recently been associated with 
the development of an osteonecrosis of the jaws (ONJ). If new adverse events 
have been linked to drugs, basic information on drug exposure in routine care is 
essential. The aim of this study was to investigate prevalence as well as 
duration and cumulative doses of intravenous bisphosphonate treatment.
METHODS: We analysed data of the statutory health insurance company Gmünder 
ErsatzKasse (GEK) over the years 2000-2006. We first estimated treatment 
prevalence in 2006. We further studied a cohort of new users of intravenous 
bisphosphonates who initiated treatment between 1 January 2001 and 31 December 
2005. We used the Kaplan-Meier method to estimate the time to end of treatment 
(composite of discontinuation and death).
RESULTS: A total of 1024 patients received at least one dose of intravenous 
bisphosphonates in 2006. The most commonly prescribed agent was zoledronate 
(53.7%). After standardizing for sex and age, an estimated 0.1% of the German 
population would have been treated in 2006. Of 1259 new users in 2001-2005, an 
estimated 40% of men and 22% of women died within 12 months. The median 
treatment duration was 3.5 months in men and 5.7 months in women. This 
difference disappears when studying only survivors.
CONCLUSIONS: Although our study suggests that intravenous bisphosphonates were 
prescribed mainly for short durations, this result is strongly influenced by the 
fact that new users had a poor prognosis with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/pds.1634
PMID: 18666268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2007 Nov;191(8):1685-94.

[Transforming medicine through discovery. Major trends in biomedical research].

[Article in French]

Zerhouni EA(1).

Author information:
(1)NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

The NIH, which originated from the Marine Hospital Laboratory of Hygiene (1887), 
was established as the national agency for medical research by President F. D. 
Roosevelt in 1944. The NIH rests on its independent, world-class peer review 
process and its distinctive scientific and public advisory structure. The 
two-fold mission of NIH is to define research priorities based on public health 
needs and to allocate funding. Eighty-four percent of the budget supports 
300,000 extramural scientists and research workers at more than 3,000 
universities. Only 16% of the budget is spent within the NIH itself (on 
administration and the 27 institutes and centers, including some 10,000 
intramural scientists, that make up NIH today). The ecosystem of science and 
biotechnology connects NIH, the public, Congress, universities, the FDA, 
industry, and investors. The budget, which in 2007 was $29 billion, is submitted 
to Congress by the Director. The impact of biomedical research over the last 30 
years is demonstrated by an increase in life expectancy anda decrease in death 
and disability from many diseases. Five evolving challenges in public health 
include acute conditions becoming chronic, the aging of the population, health 
disparities, emerging or re-emerging infectious diseases, and emerging 
non-communicable diseases (obesity, mental illness). Medical strategies must 
clearly be transformed for the 21st century. Molecular diagnosis of preclinical 
disease is the paradigm of the future: intervening before symptoms appear 
because the preclinical molecular events are known and because we have the 
ability to detect at-risk patients constitutes the "future paradigm of the 4 
P's." Currently, the fundamental scientific barrier is our limited understanding 
of the complexity of biologic networks. New theoretical concepts are needed in 
this "hardware-to-software phase." Any roadmap for the acceleration of medical 
discovery will have to integrate new pathways, future research teams, and the 
restructuring of clinical research.

PMID: 18666466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2007 Nov;191(8):1717-27; discussion 1728-9.

[Assessment and follow-up of normal aging].

[Article in French]

Dall'Ava-Santucci J(1).

Author information:
(1)Physiolologie-Exploration Fonctionnelle, Hôpital Cochin, 27 Rue du Faubourg 
St Jacques 75679 Paris cedex 14. josette.dallava@cch.aphp.fr

The ongoing increase in life expectancy is worthless unless we can retain our 
cognitive and physical health and autonomy. The aging process does not lead to a 
simultaneous functional decline in all organs and tissues. A global and 
interdisciplinary approach to human aging is needed. While the role of genes in 
aging is increasingly evident, lifestyle (exercise and nutrition) and hormonal 
status are also major determinants of the rate of functional decline. It is 
important to distinguish between physiological (i.e. normal) aging and 
age-related disease. Maximal exercise testing (V'O2max) is a good candidate for 
monitoring physical adaptation to aging, as it reflects not only heart, lung and 
muscle function but also autonomic and hormonal regulation. Such targeted tests 
could be used early in adulthood to determine whether aggressive preventive 
policies aimed at promoting successful aging are more cost-effective than a 
simple wait-and-treat attitude.

PMID: 18666469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Clin Drug Investig. 2008;28(9):583-601. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200828090-00005.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a lidocaine 5% medicated plaster compared with 
gabapentin and pregabalin for treating postherpetic neuralgia: a german 
perspective.

Liedgens H(1), Hertel N, Gabriel A, Nuijten M, Dakin H, Mitchell S, Nautrup BP.

Author information:
(1)Grünenthal GmbH, Aachen, Germany. hiltrud.liedgens@grunenthal.com

OBJECTIVE: This study set out to assess the cost effectiveness of using a 5% 
lidocaine (lignocaine) medicated plaster for the treatment of postherpetic 
neuralgia (PHN) compared with gabapentin, pregabalin 300 mg/day or 600 mg/day in 
German primary care. The analysis took the perspective of the Statutory Health 
Insurance scheme (GKV).
METHODS: A Markov model was used to calculate the costs (2007) and benefits of 
the lidocaine plaster, gabapentin 1800 mg/day and pregabalin 300 or 600 mg/day 
over a 6-month time horizon in elderly patients with PHN who experienced 
insufficient pain relief with standard analgesics and could not tolerate or had 
contraindications to tricyclic antidepressants. The model calculated the cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained and the cost per additional month 
without symptoms or intolerable adverse effects. The majority of transition 
probabilities were obtained from randomized controlled trials identified from a 
systematic literature review. Further model inputs, including resource use, 
concomitant medication and long-term efficacy/adherence data, were obtained from 
a Delphi panel. Utility values were taken from a previous study and age 
adjusted. Cost data were obtained from official price tariffs. Mortality, 
indirect costs and costs associated with inpatient treatment were not considered 
in the present analysis due to the perspective and time horizon employed.
RESULTS: Over the 6-month period modelled, the mean total therapy cost per 
patient treated with the lidocaine plaster was euro911, compared with euro728 
for gabapentin, euro875 for pregabalin 300 mg/day and euro977 for pregabalin 600 
mg/day. Treatment with the lidocaine plaster was related to greater numbers of 
QALYs and more months without symptoms or intolerable adverse effects (mean 
0.300 QALYs and 4.06 months per patient) than with gabapentin (mean 0.247 QALYs 
and 2.72 months), pregabalin 300 mg/day (mean 0.253 QALYs and 3.02 months) or 
pregabalin 600 mg/day (mean 0.256 QALYs and 3.22 months). The lidocaine plaster 
cost euro3453/QALY gained and euro137 per additional month without adverse 
effects or symptoms relative to gabapentin and euro766/QALY and euro35 per month 
without adverse effects or symptoms relative to pregabalin 300 mg/day. The 
lidocaine plaster dominated pregabalin 600 mg/day, being less costly and more 
effective. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that there is a 99.36% 
chance that the lidocaine plaster is the most clinically effective treatment 
considered in the analysis and a 99.09% chance that the lidocaine plaster is the 
most cost-effective treatment of the four therapies considered in the analysis 
if the GKV is willing to pay at least euro20 000/QALY gained. Extensive 
deterministic sensitivity analyses demonstrated that the findings are robust.
CONCLUSIONS: The 5% lidocaine-medicated plaster is a cost-effective treatment 
option for the management of PHN in Germany compared with gabapentin and both 
300 and 600 mg/day of pregabalin.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200828090-00005
PMID: 18666805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Prof Inferm. 2008 Apr-Jun;61(2):98-111.

[Multidimensional approach aimed at the frail elderly. Review of the 
literature].

[Article in Italian]

Vario M(1).

Author information:
(1)DAI, Dott. Coordinatore infermieristico Azienda Ospedaliera Sant'Andrea di 
Roma, Docente discipline infermieristiche Università La Sapienza di Roma.

Italy is among the EU countries with the highest number of elderly persons, with 
a percentage of over sixties destined to increase further in the next few years. 
As far as health care demands are concerned , life expectancy of 65 year-olds is 
about 16 years for men ( with at least 5 years of disability) and about 20 years 
for women (with 6 years of disability), according to the CEIS Health figures for 
2006. This tendency has brought about a proportional increase in the demand for 
nursing experience in the field of geriatrics. The principal problems regarding 
the basic needs of the elderly are identified with reference to nursing studies 
and to other sources. In fact, a multidimensional approach is necessary not only 
for a complete evaluation but also to allow nurses to identify any problems 
related to functionality and autonomy and to keep them under control.

PMID: 18667130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. J Med Ethics. 2008 Aug;34(8):598-601. doi: 10.1136/jme.2007.023028.

Not a NICE fallacy: a reply to Dr Quigley.

Claxton K(1), Culyer AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Related Studies, University of York, Heslington, 
York.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2007 Aug;33(8):465-6.

A repudiation of Muireann Quigley's argument that the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) values and assesses the worth of people's 
lives; together with an alternative account of what it appears that NICE 
actually does, why these procedures are not unreasonable and some of the 
unresolved problems, especially when making interpersonal comparisons of health, 
which remain for NICE or, indeed, anyone seeking to determine the contents of 
the benefits bundles of a public health insurance programme such as the NHS. 
Some other ethically dubious propositions by Dr Quigley are also rejected.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2007.023028
PMID: 18667648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2008 Aug;47 Suppl 1:S24-6. doi: 
10.1097/MPG.0b013e3181818f69.

Digestive, hepatic, and nutritional manifestations in Latin American children 
with HIV/AIDS.

Velasco-Benítez CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Valle, Cali, Colombia. 
cvelasco@univalle.edu.co

The HIV/AIDS infection is increasing in Latin America and the Caribbean regions, 
according to the World Health Organization (WHO). In Latin America, most cases 
are in Brasil, Mexico, and Colombia. Some causes of the HIV/AIDS infection in 
Latin America are poverty, limitations on the access to antiretroviral drugs, 
poor response from governmental and health authorities, migration, and 
scantiness of research resources. In the pediatric population, perinatal 
transmission is the main contact mechanism. Several digestive, hepatic, and 
nutritional manifestations allow the classification of HIV infection in 
children, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Improvement in knowledge of the epidemiology, pathogenesis, physiopathology; and 
management of HIV enteropathy and on nutritional care practices of infected HIV 
children is recommended.

DOI: 10.1097/MPG.0b013e3181818f69
PMID: 18667913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Med Health Care Philos. 2009 Jun;12(2):179-85. doi:
10.1007/s11019-008-9162-y.  Epub 2008 Jul 31.

Living longer: age retardation and autonomy.

Hildt E(1).

Author information:
(1)Chair for Ethics in the Life Sciences, Eberhard Karls Universität Tübingen, 
Wilhelmstrasse 19, Tübingen, Germany. elisabeth.hildt@uni-tuebingen.de

Research into human ageing is a growing field of research with two central foci: 
geriatric medicine works to reduce the incidence and severity of age-related 
diseases and disabilities by devising adequate therapeutic and preventive 
strategies. A second focus, this time in the emerging field of biogerontology, 
is to bring about a general retardation of the ageing process and by this 
increase the average and maximum human lifespan. This contribution looks into 
the second focus, i.e. the possibility of age retardation which, for the time 
being, is merely hypothetical. After outlining research strategies studying age 
retardation in animal experiments, it will ask how extending human life by 
technological interventions might play out on the individual, familial and 
social level. The central concern here will be autonomy-linked issues, seeing 
that in debates concerning the ethical implications of age-retarding techniques 
the argument from autonomy is one of the main arguments in favour of the 
prolongation of human life. In particular, this contribution will assess whether 
the argument from autonomy does, in fact, unequivocally support the recourse to 
age-retarding techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s11019-008-9162-y
PMID: 18668344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Scand Cardiovasc J. 2008 Aug;42(4):274-8. doi: 10.1080/14017430802276114.

The causal role of blood lipids in the aetiology of coronary heart disease--an 
epidemiologist's perspective.

Thelle DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Institute of Basic Medical Science, University 
of Oslo. d.s.thelle@medisin.uio.no

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular (CVD) mortality decreased abruptly in Norway during 
WW II but increased faster than in other European countries from the 1950's. 
Mean life expectancy for middle-aged men declined during 1960's.
OBJECTIVES: To give a short overview of CVD epidemiology, especially changes in 
coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality, total serum cholesterol and diet during 
the latter half of the 20th century.
METHODS: Review of mortality statistics, reports from the previous National 
Health Screening Service and papers concerning risk factor and dietary changes. 
Data on CHD morbidity are not available.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: CHD mortality reached its peak during 1966-1970. It 
declined during the next 30 years bringing Norwegian mortality rates to levels 
comparable to some Mediterranean countries. The main causes for the decline 
during the first twenty years of this time period are reduced total cholesterol 
levels from the 1970's to the 1990's, as well as a declined prevalence of 
smoking in the male population. Improved medical and interventional treatment 
are likely to explain the changes occurring during the last decade of the 20th 
century.

DOI: 10.1080/14017430802276114
PMID: 18668402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Gut. 1971 Jul;12(7):536-40. doi: 10.1136/gut.12.7.536.

Ileostomy and excisional surgery for chronic inflammatory disease of the colon: 
A survey of one hospital region: Part II The health of ileostomists.

[No authors listed]

To the ileostomist who asks, ;Am I as healthy as the rest of the population', 
the answer can be a qualified affirmative. There is probably an increased 
likelihood of his developing calculi in the urinary tract but, apart from this, 
there is no suggestion of diseases of a general nature to which he is more 
subject than another individual of comparable age. If the surgery has been 
undertaken for ulcerative colitis in the absence of malignant change and the 
patient has survived one postoperative year, then an assurance can be given that 
life expectancy is little less than that in the general population.

DOI: 10.1136/gut.12.7.536
PMCID: PMC1411860
PMID: 18668824


75. Rev Argent Microbiol. 2008 Jan-Mar;40(1):3-8.

[Molecular typification of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strains isolated from patients 
with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Iglesias NG(1), Marengo JM, Rentería F, Gatti B, Segal E, Semorile L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Microbiología Molecular, Departamento de Ciencia y Tecnología, 
Universidad Nacional de Quilmes, Roque Sáenz Peña No 352 (B1876BXD) Bernal, 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Cystic fibrosis is the most frequent lethal genetic disease that affects the 
caucasian population. The main cause of morbidity is the chronic lung infection, 
being the infection caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa the most difficult to 
eradicate. This bacteria can be acquired in direct form, by person-to-person 
transfer, or indirectly, by hospital acquired infection. The Centro Provincial 
de Referencia de Fibrosis Quistica functioning in the Hospital de Niños "Sor 
María Ludovica", in La Plata, cares almost 220 patients aged two months to 45 
years. The life expectancy depends of factors like the early diagnosis of the 
disease and the later acquisition of the chronic lung infection. The purpose of 
this work was the molecular typing of P. aeruginosa isolates obtained from 
cystic fibrosis patients to evaluate the genomic relationship among them. The 
study was carried out using RAPD-PCR. The analysis showed a great genetic 
heterogeneity among the isolates. The separation of the patients in groups in 
accordance with its bacteriology, that implies the attendance in different days 
and the implementation of isolation (or segregation) measures had demonstrated 
to be, in addition to other strategies, effective in the reduction of cross 
infections.

PMID: 18669045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Bull World Health Organ. 2008 Jul;86(7):542-51. doi: 10.2471/blt.07.045377.

Schizophrenia treatment in the developing world: an interregional and 
multinational cost-effectiveness analysis.

Chisholm D(1), Gureje O, Saldivia S, Villalón Calderón M, Wickremasinghe R, 
Mendis N, Ayuso-Mateos JL, Saxena S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems Financing, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland. ChisholmD@who.int

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is a highly disabling disease and is costly to treat. 
We set out to establish what are the most cost-effective interventions 
applicable to developing regions and countries.
METHODS: Analysis was undertaken at the level of three WHO subregions spanning 
the Americas, Africa and South-East Asia, and subsequently in three member 
states (Chile, Nigeria and Sri Lanka). A state transition model was used to 
estimate the population-level health impact of older and newer antipsychotic 
drugs, alone or in combination with psychosocial intervention. Total 
population-level costs (in international dollars or local currencies) and 
effectiveness (measured in disability-adjusted life years averted) were combined 
to form cost-effectiveness ratios.
FINDINGS: The most cost-effective interventions were those using older 
antipsychotic drugs combined with psychosocial treatment, delivered via a 
community-based service model (I$ 2350-7158 per disability-adjusted life year 
averted across the three subregions, I$ 1670-3400 following country-level 
contextualisation within each of these subregions). The relative 
cost-effectiveness of interventions making use of newer, "atypical" 
antipsychotic drugs is estimated to be much less favourable.
CONCLUSION: By moving to a community-based service model and selecting efficient 
treatment options, the cost of substantially increasing treatment coverage is 
not high (less than I$ 1 investment per capita). Taken together with other 
priority-setting criteria such as disease severity, vulnerability and human 
rights protection, this study suggests that a great deal more could be done for 
persons and families living under the spectre of this disorder.

OBJECTIF: La schizophrénie est une maladie hautement handicapante et coûteuse à 
traiter. Nous nous sommes efforcés de déterminer les interventions les plus 
efficaces parmi celles applicables aux régions et aux pays en développement.
MÉTHODES: L’analyse a été effectuée au niveau de trois régions de l’OMS, 
comprenant les Amériques, la région africaine et l’Asie du Sud-est, puis dans 
trois de leurs Etats Membres (le Chili, le Nigeria et le Sri Lanka). Un modèle 
de transition d’état a été utilisé pour estimer l’impact sanitaire en population 
de médicaments antipsychotiques anciens et plus récents, seuls ou associés à une 
intervention psychosociale. A partir des coûts totaux pour les populations (en 
dollars internationaux ou en monnaie locale) et de l’efficacité (mesurée en 
perte d’années de vie corrigée de l’incapacité évitée), on a établi les rapports 
coût/efficacité.
RÉSULTATS: Le meilleur rapport coût/efficacité a été établi pour les 
interventions associant des antipsychotiques anciens et un traitement 
psychosocial, délivrés par un service à base de communautaire (I$ 2350 – 7158 
par perte d’année de vie corrigée de l’incapacité évitée pour l’ensemble des 
trois régions et I$ 1670 – 3400 après contextualisation au niveau des pays dans 
chacune des régions). Le rapport coût/efficacité des interventions faisant usage 
d’antipsychotiques nouveaux et « atypiques » est estimé comme nettement moins 
favorable.
CONCLUSION: Si l’on passe à un service à base de communautaire et si l’on 
choisit des options de traitement efficaces, le coût d’une augmentation 
substantielle de la couverture thérapeutique n’est pas élevé (moins de I$ 1 
d’investissement par habitant). Cette étude, ainsi que d’autres critères de 
définition des priorités tels que la gravité de la maladie, la vulnérabilité et 
la protection des droits de l’homme, laissent à penser que beaucoup de choses 
pourrait être faites pour les personnes et leurs familles confrontées dans la 
vie à ce trouble.

OBJETIVO: La esquizofrenia es una enfermedad muy discapacitante y de tratamiento 
costoso. Decidimos determinar cuáles son las intervenciones más costoeficaces 
aplicables a los países y regiones en desarrollo.
MÉTODOS: Se emprendieron análisis en tres subregiones de la OMS que abarcaban 
las Américas, África y Asia Sudoriental, y posteriormente en tres Estados 
Miembros (Chile, Nigeria y Sri Lanka). Se utilizó un modelo de transición de 
estados para estimar el impacto sanitario en la población de medicamentos 
antipsicóticos viejos y nuevos, solos o en combinación con medidas 
psicosociales. A partir de los costos totales a nivel poblacional (en dólares 
internacionales o en las monedas nacionales) y de la eficacia (medida como el 
número de años de vida ajustados en función de la discapacidad evitados) se 
calculó la relación costo-eficacia.
RESULTADOS: Las intervenciones más costoeficaces fueron las basadas en el uso de 
los medicamentos antipsicóticos más viejos unidos a tratamiento psicosocial, en 
el marco de un modelo de servicios basados en la comunidad (I$ 2350-7158 por año 
de vida ajustado en función de la discapacidad evitado en las tres subregiones, 
I$ 1670-3400 tras la contextualización por países dentro de cada una de esas 
subregiones). Se calcula que la relación costo-eficacia relativa de las 
intervenciones basadas en medicamentos antipsicóticos «atípicos» más nuevos es 
mucho menos favorable.
CONCLUSIÓN: Adoptando un modelo de servicio comunitario y seleccionando opciones 
terapéuticas eficaces, el costo de aumentar sustancialmente la cobertura de 
tratamiento no es elevado (menos de I$ 1 por habitante). Considerados junto con 
otros criterios de fijación de prioridades como la gravedad de la enfermedad, la 
vulnerabilidad y la protección de los derechos humanos, el presente estudio 
parece indicar que se puede ayudar mucho más a las personas y las familias que 
viven bajo la amenaza de ese trastorno.

الەدف: الفُصام مرض يسبـب العجز في معظم الأحيان ويستدعي تكاليف باەظة لمعالجتە. 
وقد بدأنا في توضيح أكثر التدخلات فعَّالية لقاء التكاليف، وقابلية للتطبيق في 
الأقاليم والبلدان النامية.
الطريقة: أجرينا التحليل على مستوى ثلاثة أقاليم فرعية لمنظمة الصحة العالمية ضمن 
الإقليم الأمريكي والأفريقي وجنوب شرق آسيا، وبالتالي في ثلاثة بلدان ەي تشيلي 
ونيجيريا وسيريلانكا، واستخدمنا نموذجاً مرحلياً لكل بلد لتقدير مستوى تأثر صحة 
السكان من الأدوية المضادة للذەان الجديدة والقديمة، عند استخدامەا بمفردەا أو مع 
تدخلات نفسية اجتماعية، وقد جمع مستوى التكاليف لجميع السكان (مقومة بالدولار 
الدولي أو بالعملات المحلية) مع قياس مدى الفعَّالية (مقدرة بسنوات العمر المصححة 
وفقاً لتفادي العجز) للحصول على معدلات الفعَّالية لقاء التكاليف.
الموجودات: لقد كانت أكثر التدخلات فعالية لقاء التكاليف تلك التدخلات التي استخدم 
فيەا أدوية مضادة للذەان قديمة إلى جانب معالجة نفسية اجتماعية، مقدمة من خلال 
نماذج الخدمات المجتمعية (2350 – 7158 دولاراً دولياً لكل سنة من سنوات العمر 
المصححة وفقاً لتفادي العجز). فيما كانت الفعَّالية النسبية لقاء التكاليف للتدخلات 
التي استخدم فيەا أدوية أحدث وأدوية مضادة للذەان غير نموذجية أقل مقبولية بكثير.
الاستنتاج: لم تـزدد تكاليف التغطية بالمعالجة عند التحول إلى نموذج الخدمات 
المجتمعية مع انتقاء خيارات فعَّالة بشكل كبير للمعالجة (فلم تـتجاوز دولاراً 
دولياً واحداً لكل فرد). فإذا أخذت ەذە النتيجة مع معايـير وضع الأولويات مثل شدة 
المرض ومدى التأثر وحماية حقوق الإنسان، فإن الدراسة تشير إلى أن ەناك الكثير مما 
يمكن عملە للأفراد وللأسر الذين يعيشون تحت وطأة ەذا المرض.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.07.045377
PMCID: PMC2647485
PMID: 18670667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Clin Rheumatol. 2008 Nov;27(11):1343-53. doi: 10.1007/s10067-008-0964-3. Epub
 2008 Aug 1.

Abatacept: a T-cell co-stimulation modulator for the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Ostör AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Cambridge, UK. andrew.ostor@addenbrookes.nhs.uk

Erratum in
