
196. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2008 Nov;69(5):697-704. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2008.03340.x. Epub 2008 Aug 22.

Increased death risk and altered cancer incidence pattern in patients with 
isolated or combined autoimmune primary adrenocortical insufficiency.

Bensing S(1), Brandt L, Tabaroj F, Sjöberg O, Nilsson B, Ekbom A, Blomqvist P, 
Kämpe O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Karolinska Institutet, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden. Sophie.Bensing@ki.se

OBJECTIVES: Primary adrenocortical insufficiency is mostly caused by an 
autoimmune destruction of the adrenal cortex. The disease may appear isolated or 
as a part of an autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome (APS). APS1 is a rare 
hereditary disorder with a broad spectrum of clinical manifestations. In APS2, 
primary adrenocortical insufficiency is often combined with autoimmune thyroid 
disease and/or type 1 diabetes. We analysed mortality and cancer incidence in 
primary adrenocortical insufficiency patients during 40 years. Data were 
compared with the general Swedish population.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: A population based cohort study including all patients with 
autoimmune primary adrenocortical insufficiency (3299) admitted to Swedish 
hospitals 1964-2004.
MEASUREMENTS: Mortality risk was calculated as the standardized mortality ratio 
(SMR) and cancer incidence as the standardized incidence ratio (SIR).
RESULTS: A more than 2-fold increased mortality risk was observed in both women 
(SMR 2.9, 95% CI 2.7-3.0) and men (SMR 2.5, 95% CI 2.3-2.7). Highest risks were 
observed in patients diagnosed in childhood. SMR was higher in APS1 patients 
(SMR 4.6, 95% CI 3.5-6.0) compared with patients with APS2 (SMR 2.1, 95% CI 
1.9-2.4). Cancer incidence was increased (SIR 1.3, 95% CI 1.2-1.5). When tumours 
observed during the first year of follow-up were excluded, only the cancer risk 
among APS1 patients remained increased. Cause-specific cancer incidence analysis 
revealed significantly higher incidences of oral cancer, nonmelanoma skin 
cancer, and male genital system cancer among patients. Breast cancer incidence 
was lower than in the general population.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows a reduced life expectancy and altered cancer 
incidence pattern in patients with autoimmune primary adrenocortical 
insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2008.03340.x
PMID: 18727712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Gend Med. 2008 Sep;5(3):259-69. doi: 10.1016/j.genm.2008.08.002.

Frequency of discussing HIV prevention and care topics with patients with HIV: 
influence of physician gender, race/ethnicity, and practice characteristics.

Gardner LI(1), Metsch L, Strathdee SA, del Rio C, Mahoney P, Holmberg SD; 
Antiretroviral Treatment and Access Studies (ARTAS) Study Group.

Collaborators: Gardner LI, Holmberg SD, Krawczyk CS, Abrams C, Barragan M, Berry 
F, del Rio C, Duffus W, Green S, Hunter V, Leonard M, O'Daniels C, Pope H, Burt 
O, Huettner S, Loughlin A, Reaves J, Strathdee S, Woolf M, Anderson-Mahoney P, 
Chan A, Curreri S, Fernandez L Jr, Gatson B, Gutierrez S, Kerndt P, Perez N, 
Schmidt B, Valera E, Brewer T, Camacho YD, Dickinson G, Gomez O, Gooden L, McCoy 
C, Metsch L, Valverde E, Wohler-Torres B, Yeomans F, Zhao W, Rapp RC, Rust TL, 
Siegel HA, Wang J.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral 
Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. lig0@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Because people living with HIV now have greater life expectancy and 
reduced morbidity, there is a greater need for physicians to discuss HIV 
transmission risk reduction with these patients. Very limited data are available 
examining how frequently this discussion is held.
OBJECTIVE: We examined the frequency of discussing HIV prevention and HIV care 
topics, as well as the associations of gender, race/ethnicity, and practice 
characteristics of physicians caring for persons with HIV.
METHODS: In a 4-city (Miami, Atlanta, Baltimore, Los Angeles) survey, 417 
licensed physicians who primarily cared for patients with HIV were mailed a 
58-item questionnaire about how frequently they discussed HIV transmission risk 
reduction, adherence to HIV antiretroviral treatment (ART), adherence to 
opportunistic infection (OI) prophylaxis, and how to take medicines. 
Multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to examine the association 
between physician gender, race/ethnicity, and practice characteristics, and the 
frequency of discussing these topics.
RESULTS: A total of 317 physicians responded to the mailed questionnaire. Less 
than 40% of the physicians reported always discussing HIV transmission risk 
reduction with patients. In contrast, 83.9% and 65.0% reported always discussing 
adherence to ART and to OI prophylaxis, respectively. Of these physicians, 65.1% 
strongly agreed or somewhat agreed that they had sufficient time to provide the 
care and information needed to their patients. In multivariate analysis, the 
frequency of discussing HIV transmission risk reduction was higher for 
physicians who were Hispanic (P = 0.03) or Asian/Pacific Islander (P = 0.001), 
for physicians who reported they had enough time to provide care and information 
to patients (P = 0.003), and for physicians who cared for fewer patients (P = 
0.05). The frequency of discussing HIV transmission risk reduction was 
suggestive of a higher rate for female physicians, but did not quite reach 
statistical significance.
CONCLUSIONS: We observed a lower frequency of discussing the topic of HIV 
prevention compared with that of HIV care among the physicians surveyed. This 
infrequent discussion with patients with HIV represents a missed opportunity, 
and physicians should be encouraged to include discussion of prevention as a 
standard of care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genm.2008.08.002
PMID: 18727992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. JAMA. 2008 Aug 27;300(8):945-51. doi: 10.1001/jama.300.8.945.

Opt-out testing for human immunodeficiency virus in the United States: progress 
and challenges.

Bartlett JG(1), Branson BM, Fenton K, Hauschild BC, Miller V, Mayer KH.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 1830 E Monument St, Room 447, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. jb@jhmi.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2009 Jan 21;301(3):274-5; author reply 275-6.
    JAMA. 2009 Jan 21;301(3):274; author reply 275-6.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has recommended human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) testing for all persons aged 13 to 64 years in all 
health care settings. Signed consent would not be required and counseling with 
referral would be managed as it is for other serious conditions. The goal of the 
recommendations is to promote earlier entry into care to reduce unnecessary 
mortality and facilitate prevention by behavioral changes that accompany 
knowledge of serostatus. Concerns about the change include laws in some states 
that mandate signed consent and counseling, a perception that counseling is an 
effective prevention strategy, variability in payment coverage for the test, 
concerns about the stigma and discrimination that may accompany the HIV 
diagnosis, and the possibility that other testing policies would be more 
effective. Eleven of 16 states have changed legislation to reduce barriers to 
testing, 35 of 74 national professional societies have endorsed the new 
recommendations, and multiple demonstration projects have shown feasibility. 
Metrics to evaluate the health outcomes of the CDC's recommendations for HIV 
testing have been defined, but the data necessary to determine the effects on 
early entry into care, the actual reduction in disease incidence, and the 
unanticipated consequences are not yet available.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.300.8.945
PMID: 18728268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Autophagy. 2008 Oct;4(7):870-3. doi: 10.4161/auto.6730. Epub 2008 Oct 4.

The effects of p53 on whole organism longevity are mediated by autophagy.

Tavernarakis N(1), Pasparaki A, Tasdemir E, Maiuri MC, Kroemer G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology, Foundation for Research and 
Technology, Crete, Greece. tavernarakis@imbb.forth.gr

The tumor suppressor protein p53 has a major impact on organismal aging. 
Recently it has become clear that p53 not only controls DNA damage responses, 
senescence and apoptosis but also plays a major role in the control of 
autophagy. Thus, deletion, depletion, or inhibition of p53 induces autophagy in 
human, mouse and nematode cells. We therefore tested the hypothesis that the 
mutation of the p53 orthologue CEP-1 might increase the life span of 
Caenorhabditis elegans through an increase in baseline autophagy. For this, we 
evaluated the survival of nematodes lacking cep-1, alone or in combination with 
RNA inference with the autophagy gene bec-1 (which encodes the orthologue of 
Atg6/Beclin 1). cep-1 mutants exhibited a prolonged life span. While BEC-1 
depletion during adult life did not cause significant modification of the life 
expectancy of wild type controls, it did reduce the increased life span of cep-1 
mutants down to approximately normal levels. These results indicate that the 
life span-extending effect of the cep-1 mutation is mediated by autophagy. These 
results lend support to the hypothesis that autophagy has a broad positive 
impact on organismal aging.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.6730
PMID: 18728385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2008 Sep-Oct;23(5):386-94; quiz 395-6. doi: 
10.1097/01.JCN.0000317446.97951.c2.

Cardiovascular disease in Chinese women: an emerging high-risk population and 
implications for nursing practice.

Cao Y(1), DiGiacomo M, Du HY, Ollerton E, Davidson P.

Author information:
(1)Chinese Nursing Association, Qilu Hospital of Shandong University, PR China.

BACKGROUND: Globally, cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death 
among women. In China, the burden of CVD is increasing at an alarming rate; yet, 
it is underestimated and has important primary, secondary, and tertiary 
prevention issues.
AIM: This article seeks to document the issues surrounding the increased rate of 
CVD among Chinese women and describe the etiological factors and potential 
strategies to decrease the burden of disease.
METHODS: The Medline, Current Information in Nursing and Allied Health 
Literature, Ovid, Science Direct, and Government Reports were searched using the 
key words heart disease, cardiovascular, ischemic heart disease, coronary, 
women, and Chin (China, Chinese). Articles were selected if they described 
epidemiological factors and/or interventions to address heart disease in Chinese 
women.
FINDINGS: Rapid industrialization and urbanization in China have extended the 
life expectancy of the population, particularly among women. Social, political, 
and economic factors have caused lifestyle changes that have a direct bearing on 
health. Heart disease has become the most common cause of death among Chinese 
women and the second most common cause among men. Paradoxically, prevention and 
management strategies are sparse in relation to the high prevalence. A number of 
modifiable risk factors have been identified as major contributors of CVD and 
should be a focus of primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention.
CONCLUSION: Cardiovascular disease is already a leading cause of death and 
disability among Chinese women. The high prevalence of risk factors and low rate 
of awareness, treatment, and control signal an urgent need for focusing on this 
issue in Chinese women. Strategies on individual, community, and government 
levels are recommended. Involving Chinese nurses in these strategies is 
essential.

DOI: 10.1097/01.JCN.0000317446.97951.c2
PMID: 18728510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Issues Compr Pediatr Nurs. 2008 Jul-Sep;31(3):107-21. doi: 
10.1080/01460860802272870.

A review of pediatric HIV effects on neurocognitive development.

Burns S(1), Hernandez-Reif M, Jessee P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Educational Psychology, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, 
Alabama 35487-0160, USA.

There are 2.3-million children infected with HIV worldwide. Medical advances and 
therapies have increased the life expectancy of HIV-infected children and 
improved their quality of life. This article reviews the HIV literature over the 
past 15 years related to children's development including: (1) the effects of 
HIV on the neurocognitive development of children; (2) the relationship between 
disease status and developmental functioning in HIV-infected children; and (3) 
the influence of the environmental context on HIV-infected children's 
development. As children with HIV continue to live longer, they will become a 
population of children with special needs. This paper reflects the current 
evidence of these needs and explores the interventions available to HIV-infected 
children.

DOI: 10.1080/01460860802272870
PMID: 18728957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Rejuvenation Res. 2008 Aug;11(4):735-48. doi: 10.1089/rej.2007.0627.

Identifying the genes and genetic interrelationships underlying the impact of 
calorie restriction on maximum lifespan: an artificial intelligence-based 
approach.

Goertzel B(1), Pennachin C, de Alvarenga Mudado M, de Souza Coelho L.

Author information:
(1)Biomind LLC, 1405 Bernerd Place, Rockville, ND 20851, USA. ben@goertzel.org

Novel artificial intelligence methodologies were applied to analyze gene 
expression microarray data gathered from mice under a calorie restriction (CR) 
regimen. The data were gathered from three previously published mouse studies; 
these datasets were merged together into a single composite dataset for the 
purpose of conducting a broader-based analysis. The result was a list of genes 
that are important for the impact of CR on lifespan, not necessarily in terms of 
their individual actions but in terms of their interactions with other genes. 
Furthermore, a map of gene interrelationships was provided, suggesting which 
intergene interactions are most important for the effect of CR on life 
extension. In particular our analysis showed that the genes Mrpl12, Uqcrh, and 
Snip1 play central roles regarding the effects of CR on life extension, 
interacting with many other genes (which the analysis enumerates) in carrying 
out their roles. This is the first time that the genes Snip1 and Mrpl12 have 
been identified in the context of aging. In a follow-up analysis aimed at 
validating these results, the analytic process was rerun with a fourth dataset 
included, yielding largely comparable results. Broadly, the biological 
interpretation of these analytical results suggests that the effects of CR on 
life extension are due to multiple factors, including factors identified in 
prior theories of aging, such as the hormesis, development, cellular, and free 
radical theories.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2007.0627
PMID: 18729806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Nov 15;28(10):1230-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2008.03839.x. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

A model of the long-term cost effectiveness of scheduled maintenance treatment 
with infliximab for moderate-to-severe ulcerative colitis.

Tsai HH(1), Punekar YS, Morris J, Fortun P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Castle Hill Hospital, Cottingham and Hull 
York Medical School, UK.

BACKGROUND: Infliximab (IFX) has been shown to be efficacious in moderate-severe 
ulcerative colitis (UC). Aim To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a scheduled 
maintenance treatment (SMT) with IFX in moderate-severe UC patients.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate the progression of a cohort 
of moderate-severe UC patients treated with IFX (5 mg/kg) SMT. Transitions were 
estimated from two phase III trials of IFX (ACT I and ACT II). Standard care, 
comprising immunomodulators and/or corticosteroids was used as a comparator. Two 
separate treatment strategies were evaluated - continued treatment in IFX 
responders and continued treatment in IFX patients achieving remission. The dose 
of IFX was estimated for a 73 kg typical UC patient in the UK. The results were 
calculated over 10 years using a discount rate of 3.5% for costs and outcomes. 
The outcome measure was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) estimated using 
EQ-5D. Sensitivity analyses explored the uncertainty around the results.
RESULTS: The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) for IFX was 27,424 
pounds in the responder strategy and 19,696 pounds in the remission strategy at 
10 years. In sensitivity analysis, the ICER for IFX in the responder strategy 
ranged from 21,066 pounds to 86,322 pounds and in the remission strategy ranged 
from 14,728 pounds to 46,765 pounds. The model time horizon and patient body 
weight were important factors affecting results.
CONCLUSION: Eight-week SMT with IFX appears to be a cost-effective treatment 
option for adult patients suffering from moderate to severe UC.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2008.03839.x
PMID: 18729845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Cal West Med. 1934 Jun;40(6):430.

Reducible Hernia and Life Expectancy.

Watson LF.

PMCID: PMC1659192
PMID: 18742897


205. West J Med. 2000 May;172(5):313-4. doi: 10.1136/ewjm.172.5.313.

Why do physicians overestimate life expectancy of a person who is terminally 
ill?: Commentary.

Smith JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospice of Rochester Rochester, NY 14607.

Comment on
    West J Med. 172:310.

DOI: 10.1136/ewjm.172.5.313
PMCID: PMC1070877
PMID: 18751283


206. Hosp Health Netw. 2008 Jul;82(7):127.

Death rates fall for 8 of 10 top causes; Alzheimer's up to no. 6.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18751335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Nord J Psychiatry. 2008;62(5):342-5. doi: 10.1080/08039480801959323.

Schizophrenia and sudden cardiac death: a review.

Koponen H(1), Alaräisänen A, Saari K, Pelkonen O, Huikuri H, Raatikainen MJ, 
Savolainen M, Isohanni M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Kuopio, Kuopio, Finland. 
hannujuhani.koponen@uku.fi

Schizophrenia is a devastating mental disorder, which is often associated with 
severe loss of functioning and shortened life expectancy. Suicides and accidents 
are well-known causes of the excess mortality, but patients with schizophrenia 
have also been reported to be three times as likely to experience sudden 
unexpected death as individuals from the general population. This review is 
aimed to offer an update of the prevalence and mechanisms for sudden cardiac 
death in schizophrenia. The PubMed database was searched from 1966 up to May 
2007 with key words schizophrenia AND " sudden cardiac death" OR "autonomic 
dysfunction" OR "torsades de pointes". Part of the high death rates may be 
explained by long-lasting negative health habits, disease- and treatment-related 
metabolic disorders, and consequent increased frequencies of cardiovascular 
diseases. The antipsychotic medications may also increase the risk as some 
antipsychotics may cause prolongation of QT-time, serious ventricular 
arrhythmias and predispose to sudden death. Autonomic dysfunction seen as low 
heart rate variability and decreased baroreflex sensitivity may also contribute 
via malignant arrhythmias. Due to the complex interaction of various risk 
factors for sudden death, the patients need a comprehensive follow-up of their 
physical health. In addition, more studies on the role and prevalence of 
autonomic dysfunction in psychotic patients are needed.

DOI: 10.1080/08039480801959323
PMID: 18752109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Sci Total Environ. 2008 Aug 1;400(1-3):162-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2008.07.011. Epub 2008 Aug 26.

Review of cadmium transfers from soil to humans and its health effects and 
Jamaican environment.

Lalor GC(1).

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Environmental and Nuclear Sciences, University of 
the West Indies Mona, Kingston, Jamaica. gerald.lalor@uwimona.edu.jm

Concerns about the effects of cadmium on human health have led to numerous 
guidelines and regulations limiting its concentrations in soils and food and 
allowable human intakes. These have socio-economic consequences in terms of land 
use and the marketing of food. The bauxite soils in Jamaica, which are both 
aluminium ores and agricultural soils contain orders of magnitude higher than 
world normal concentrations of cadmium resulting in elevated Cd concentrations 
in several foodstuffs and significant transfers to humans, which would seem to 
represent a risk factor for increased mortality and/or morbidity in the local 
populations. But, as in Shipham and other examples, there is no evidence of 
cadmium-related human distress. Macro-indicators like life expectancy and median 
ages of death do not show cadmium related geographical distributions. The 
present review focuses on the soils and foods and illnesses of high incidence 
especially cancers and renal disease that have been traditionally associated 
with cadmium. In view of the remarkable concentrations of cadmium involved in 
Jamaica, and often contradictory reports in the literature, it appears that much 
remains to be learned about certain details of cadmium toxicity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2008.07.011
PMID: 18752835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2008 Oct;68 Suppl 1:S1-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.07.005. Epub 2008 Aug 26.

Overcoming challenges associated with chemotherapy treatment in the senior adult 
population.

Droz JP(1), Aapro M, Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Claude Bernard Lyon 1 University, Centre Léon 
Bérard, Lyon, France. jpdroz@wanadoo.fr

Prostate, breast, colorectal, and lung cancer have a high prevalence in the 
senior adult population. Traditionally, senior adult patients have been viewed 
as too frail to cope with chemotherapy; however, some patients can benefit from 
such treatment. This review emphasizes the heterogeneity of the senior adult 
population and the need to make treatment decisions on a case-by-case basis. 
Suitability for chemotherapy should be determined by assessment of functional 
status, performance status, life expectancy, and existing comorbidities. These 
factors can be evaluated by means of a comprehensive geriatric assessment, 
aiding treatment decisions. To ensure the safe administration of chemotherapy to 
elderly patients, awareness of the physiological changes associated with aging 
and when to make dose adjustments is required. With the global demographic shift 
towards a more elderly population and continuing advances in cancer treatment, 
it is imperative that chronologic age alone does not prevent senior adult 
patients from receiving chemotherapy and care in line with best practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.07.005
PMID: 18752969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Sleep Med. 2008 Dec;9(8):865-73. doi: 10.1016/j.sleep.2008.04.012. Epub 2008
Aug  26.

One year open-label safety and efficacy trial with rotigotine transdermal patch 
in moderate to severe idiopathic restless legs syndrome.

Oertel WH(1), Benes H, Garcia-Borreguero D, Geisler P, Högl B, Trenkwalder C, 
Tacken I, Schollmayer E, Kohnen R, Stiasny-Kolster K; Rotigotine SP710 Study 
Group.

Collaborators: Poewe W, Hoegl B, Saletu B, Benes H, Bergtholdt B, Bodenschatz R, 
Clarenbach P, Eisensehr I, Franz P, Geisler P, Hegerl U, Kaefferlein W, Lang M, 
Karlbauer G, Kraemer S, Maier I, Mayer G, Oertel W, Stiasny-Kolster K, Möller 
JC, Oehlwein C, Peglau I, Sallach K, Schlinsog K, Schwerdtfeger T, Schulze A, 
Siever A, Sigel K, Sommer H, Tinschert K, Trenkwalder C, Veit B, Warmuth R, 
Estevil E, Garcia-Borreguero D, Puertas F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Philipps Universität, Marburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Long-term efficacy and tolerability data are not yet available for 
patch formulations of dopamine agonists in restless legs syndrome.
METHODS: Efficacy and safety of rotigotine (0.5-4mg/24h), formulated as a 
once-daily transdermal system (patch), were investigated in an open extension 
(SP710) of a preceding 6-week placebo-controlled trial (SP709, 341 randomized 
patients) in patients with idiopathic restless legs syndrome. For efficacy 
assessment the international RLS severity scale (IRLS), the RLS-6 scales, the 
clinical global impressions (CGI) and the QoL-RLS questionnaire were 
administered. In addition, long-term tolerability and safety were assessed.
RESULTS: Of 310 patients who finished the controlled trial, 295 (mean age 
58+/-10 years, 66% females) with a mean IRLS score of 27.8+/-5.9 at baseline of 
SP709 were included. We report results after one year of this ongoing long-term 
trial. Two hundred twenty patients (retention rate=74.6%) completed the 12-month 
follow-up period. The mean daily dose was 2.8+/-1.2mg/24h with 4mg/24h (40.6%) 
being the most frequently applied dose; 14.8% were sufficiently treated with 0.5 
or 1.0mg/24h. The IRLS total score improved by ?17.4+/-9.9 points between 
baseline and end of Year 1 (p<0.001). The other measures of severity, sleep 
satisfaction and quality of life supported the efficacy of rotigotine (p<0.001 
for pre-post-comparisons of all efficacy variables). The tolerability was 
described as "good" or "very good" by 80.3% of all patients. The most common 
adverse events were application site reactions (40.0%), which led to withdrawal 
in 13.2%. Further relatively frequent adverse events were nausea (9.5%) and 
fatigue (6.4%). Two drug-related serious adverse events, nausea and syncope, 
required hospitalization. Symptoms of augmentation were not reported by the 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Rotigotine provided a stable, clinically relevant improvement in all 
efficacy measures throughout one year of maintenance therapy. The transdermal 
patch was safe and generally well tolerated by the majority of patients. 
Comparable to any transdermal therapy, application site reactions were the main 
treatment complication.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sleep.2008.04.012
PMID: 18753003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. HIV Clin Trials. 2008 Jul-Aug;9(4):225-37. doi: 10.1310/hct0904-225.

Cost-effectiveness of tipranavir in treatment-experienced HIV patients in the 
United States.

Simpson KN(1), Roberts G, Hicks CB, Finnern HW.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina 29425, USA. 
simpsonk@musc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare the estimated long-term outcomes, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of tipranavir boosted with ritonavir (TPV/r) versus 
investigator-selected ritonavir-boosted comparator protease inhibitor (CPI/r) 
using the observed 48-week data from the RESIST trials in a previously published 
Markov model.
METHOD: A previously developed 3-stage Markov model was modified to reflect US 
practice patterns for treatment-experienced HIV patients using 2007 costs and 
combined phase III tipranavir trial data (RESIST-1 and -2). The 12 model health 
states were defined by CD4 cell count and viral load that have previously been 
identified as predictors of HIV/AIDS progression. Resource use and quality of 
life weights were linked to each health state. Disease progression beyond the 
48-week trial period was based on HAART treatment-experienced patients from data 
collected by the University of South Carolina. Costs were estimated from the 
payer perspective.
RESULTS: TPV/r patients remained longer in health states defined by higher CD4 
cell count and lower viral load compared to CPI/r patients. This reduced the 
rate of AIDS-defining events by 12.35% over 5 years and resulted in 0.64 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained (discounted at 3%) over the model 
time horizon (remaining lifetime). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of TPV/r versus CPI/r was $56,517/QALY (discounted at 3%). Excluding 
patients also treated with enfuvirtide reduced the ICER to $46,147/QALY.
CONCLUSION: TPVI/r is cost-effective in the United States compared to CPI/r in 
treatment-experienced HIV-1-infected patients.

DOI: 10.1310/hct0904-225
PMID: 18753117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. BMJ. 2008 Aug 27;337:a1451. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a1451.

WHO calls for better living conditions to reduce health gap.

Mayor S.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a1451
PMID: 18753159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Diabetes Care. 2008 Sep;31(9):1816-23. doi: 10.2337/dc08-0029. Epub 2008 Jun
20.

Sustained weight loss following 12-month pramlintide treatment as an adjunct to 
lifestyle intervention in obesity.

Smith SR(1), Aronne LJ, Burns CM, Kesty NC, Halseth AE, Weyer C.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University, Baton 
Rouge, Louisiana, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess long-term weight loss efficacy and safety of pramlintide 
used at different dosing regimens and in conjunction with lifestyle intervention 
(LSI).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: In a 4-month, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
dose-ranging study, 411 obese subjects were randomized to receive pramlintide 
(six arms: 120, 240, and 360 microg b.i.d. and t.i.d.) or placebo in conjunction 
with a structured LSI program geared toward weight loss. Of the 4-month 
evaluable subjects (n = 270), 77% opted to continue preexisting treatment during 
an 8-month single-blind extension (LSI geared toward weight maintenance).
RESULTS: At month 4, mean weight loss from baseline in the pramlintide arms 
ranged from 3.8 +/- 0.7 to 6.1 +/- 0.8 kg (2.8 +/- 0.8 kg with placebo). By 
month 12, initial 4-month weight loss was regained in the placebo group but was 
maintained in all but the 120-microg b.i.d. group. Placebo-corrected weight loss 
with 120 microg t.i.d. and 360 microg b.i.d. averaged 3.2 +/- 1.2 kg (3.1 +/- 
1.1% body wt) and 3.3 +/- 1.1 kg (3.1 +/- 1.0% body wt), respectively, at month 
4 (both P < 0.01; 4-month evaluable n = 270) and 6.1 +/- 2.1 kg (5.6 +/- 2.1% 
body wt) and 7.2 +/- 2.3 kg (6.8 +/- 2.3% body wt), respectively, at month 12 
(both P < 0.01; 12-month evaluable n = 146). At month 12, 40 and 43% of subjects 
treated with 120 microg t.i.d. and 360 microg b.i.d., respectively, achieved 
>or=10% weight loss (vs. 12% for placebo). Nausea, the most common adverse event 
with pramlintide in the 4-month study (9-29% pramlintide vs. 2% placebo), was 
generally mild to moderate and occurred in <10% of subjects during the 
extension.
CONCLUSIONS: When used over 12 months as an adjunct to LSI, pramlintide 
treatment, with low-dose three-times-daily or higher-dose two-times-daily 
regimens, helped obese subjects achieve greater initial weight loss and enhanced 
long-term maintenance of weight loss.

DOI: 10.2337/dc08-0029
PMCID: PMC2518351
PMID: 18753666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. AIDS. 2008 Sep 12;22(14):1829-39. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32830e00f5.

Modeling the impact of HIV chemoprophylaxis strategies among men who have sex 
with men in the United States: HIV infections prevented and cost-effectiveness.

Desai K(1), Sansom SL, Ackers ML, Stewart SR, Hall HI, Hu DJ, Sanders R, Scotton 
CR, Soorapanth S, Boily MC, Garnett GP, McElroy PD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London, 
Norfolk Place, London, UK. kamal.desai@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: HIV chemoprophylaxis may be a future prevention 
strategy to help control the global epidemic of HIV/AIDS. Safety and efficacy 
trials of two agents are currently underway. We assess the expected number of 
HIV cases prevented and cost-effectiveness of a hypothetical HIV 
chemoprophylaxis program among men who have sex with men in a large US city.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We developed a stochastic compartmental mathematical model 
using HIV/AIDS surveillance data to simulate the HIV epidemic and the impact of 
a 5-year chemoprophylaxis program under varying assumptions for epidemiological, 
behavioral, programmatic and cost parameters. We estimated program effectiveness 
and costs from the perspective of the US healthcare system compared with current 
HIV prevention practices. The main outcome measures were number of HIV 
infections prevented and incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-years saved.
RESULTS: A chemoprophylaxis program targeting 25% of high-risk men who have sex 
with men in New York City could prevent 780 (4%) to 4510 (23%) of the 19 510 HIV 
infections predicted to occur among all men who have sex with men in New York 
City in 5 years. More than half of prevented infections would be among those not 
taking chemoprophylaxis but who benefit from reduced HIV prevalence in the 
community. Under base-case assumptions, incremental cost was US$ 31 970 per 
quality-adjusted life-years saved. The program was cost-effective under most 
variations in efficacy, mechanism of protection and adherence.
CONCLUSION: HIV chemoprophylaxis among high-risk men who have sex with men in a 
major US city could prevent a significant number of HIV infections and be 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32830e00f5
PMID: 18753932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Aug 9;152(32):1771-5.

[Practice guideline 'Prostate cancer: diagnosis and treatment'].

[Article in Dutch]

de Reijke TM(1), Battermann JJ, van Moorselaar RJ, de Jong IJ, Visser AP, 
Burgers JS.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum/Universiteit van Amsterdam, afd. Urologie, 
Amsterdam. t.m.dereyke@amc.uva.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Sep 20;152(38):2099-100; author reply 2100.

--A national, multidisciplinary practice guideline was developed concerning 
diagnosis and treatment of patients with prostate cancer. Because of the lack of 
sufficient scientific evidence at this moment no practice guideline on screening 
is included. --The diagnosis of prostate cancer is made by transrectal 
ultrasound-guided prostate biopsies. The Gleason score is used for histological 
grading. --In localized prostate cancer and comorbidity 'active surveillance' is 
advised if the life expectancy is < 10 years. In healthy patients radical 
prostatectomy, external and internal radiotherapy are equivalent treatment 
options. The final decision is made after the patient has received adequate 
counselling. --In locally advanced prostate cancer in a patient with a life 
expectancy > or = 10 years external beam radiotherapy is the preferred treatment 
whether or not in combination with hormonal therapy. --In locally recurring 
prostate cancer following radical prostatectomy and prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA) < 1.0 ng/ml salvage radiotherapy can be advised. Recurrence following 
external beam radiotherapy may be treated by salvage radical prostatectomy or 
brachytherapy in selected cases. --In metastatic prostate cancer androgen 
deprivation therapy is advised, i.e. surgical castration, luteinizing 
hormone-releasing hormone (LH-RH) analogues, or parenteral estrogens. --In 
hormone resistant prostate cancer palliative treatment of painful metastases is 
advised, e.g. painkillers, local radiotherapy, or radionuclides. The role of 
docetaxel-based chemotherapy should be discussed. --During follow-up PSA is 
determined; digital rectal examination and imaging are performed whenever 
indicated.

PMID: 18754308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2008 Aug;31(8):299-308.

[Lutein and eye health--current state of discussion].

[Article in German]

Hahn A(1), Mang B.

Author information:
(1)Leibniz Universität Hannover, Institut für Lebensmittelwissenschaft, 
Hannover. andreas.hahn@lw.uni-hannover.de

Due to increased life expectancy the number of people with age-related diseases 
like age-related macular degeneration (AMD) will grow. Currently AMD is 
incurable and only a few therapeutic strategies are available. Therefore 
prevention becomes more important. Protective effects related to eye health are 
discussed for the two carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin. Meanwhile both 
substances are offered as food supplements to a great extent. Both carotenoids 
lutein and zeaxanthin are accumulated in the retina, especially in the macula 
lutea. They are able to absorb blue light, which damages photoreceptors and 
pigmentary epithelium. Due to their antioxidative properties they can reduce 
changes in membrane permeability via quenching reactive oxygen species and free 
radicals. Research studies suppose lutein and zeaxanthin may contribute to 
improvement of vision in patients with AMD and other eye diseases. Based on the 
scientific rationale, these carotenoids may be effective in the prevention of 
age-related eye diseases. However, this issue has to be examined in a 
differentiated way.

PMID: 18754570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Proteome Res. 2008 Oct;7(10):4483-91. doi: 10.1021/pr800145j. Epub 2008
Aug  28.

Multilevel data analysis of a crossover designed human nutritional intervention 
study.

van Velzen EJ(1), Westerhuis JA, van Duynhoven JP, van Dorsten FA, Hoefsloot HC, 
Jacobs DM, Smit S, Draijer R, Kroner CI, Smilde AK.

Author information:
(1)Biosystems Data Analysis, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, 
Universiteit van Amsterdam, Nieuwe Achtergracht 166, 1018 WV Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

A new method is introduced for the analysis of 'omics' data derived from 
crossover designed drug or nutritional intervention studies. The method aims at 
finding systematic variations in metabolic profiles after a drug or nutritional 
challenge and takes advantage of the crossover design in the data. The method, 
which can be considered as a multivariate extension of a paired t test, 
generates different multivariate submodels for the between- and the 
within-subject variation in the data. A major advantage of this variation 
splitting is that each submodel can be analyzed separately without being 
confounded with the other variation sources. The power of the multilevel 
approach is demonstrated in a human nutritional intervention study which used 
NMR-based metabolomics to assess the metabolic impact of grape/wine extract 
consumption. The variations in the urine metabolic profiles are studied between 
and within the human subjects using the multilevel analysis. After variation 
splitting, multilevel PCA is used to investigate the experimental and biological 
differences between the subjects, whereas a multilevel PLS-DA model is used to 
reveal the net treatment effect within the subjects. The observed treatment 
effect is validated with cross model validation and permutations. It is shown 
that the statistical significance of the multilevel classification model ( p << 
0.0002) is a major improvement compared to a ordinary PLS-DA model ( p = 0.058) 
without variation splitting. Finally, rank products are used to determine which 
NMR signals are most important in the multilevel classification model.

DOI: 10.1021/pr800145j
PMID: 18754629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Biochemistry. 2008 Sep 23;47(38):9934-6. doi: 10.1021/bi801315m. Epub 2008
Aug  29.

pH-induced conformational change of the influenza M2 protein C-terminal domain.

Nguyen PA(1), Soto CS, Polishchuk A, Caputo GA, Tatko CD, Ma C, Ohigashi Y, 
Pinto LH, DeGrado WF, Howard KP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, 
Pennsylvania 19081, USA.

The M2 protein from influenza A is a pH-activated proton channel that plays an 
essential role in the viral life cycle and serves as a drug target. Using spin 
labeling EPR spectroscopy, we studied a 38-residue M2 peptide spanning the 
transmembrane region and its C-terminal extension. We obtained residue-specific 
environmental parameters under both high- and low-pH conditions for nine 
consecutive C-terminal sites. The region forms a membrane surface helix at both 
high and low pH, although the arrangement of the monomers within the tetramer 
changes with pH. Both electrophysiology and EPR data point to a critical role 
for residue Lys 49.

DOI: 10.1021/bi801315m
PMCID: PMC2746938
PMID: 18754675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Eur J Haematol. 2008 Dec;81(6):467-74. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-0609.2008.01141.x.

Economic evaluation of posaconazole vs. standard azole prophylaxis in high risk 
neutropenic patients in the Netherlands.

Stam WB(1), O'Sullivan AK, Rijnders B, Lugtenburg E, Span LF, Janssen JJ, Jansen 
JP.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, Houten, The Netherlands. wiro.stam@mapivalues.com

BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) 
patients experience prolonged neutropenia after treatment with intensive 
chemotherapy, leading to a high risk of invasive fungal infections (IFI). The 
present study evaluates the cost effectiveness of posaconazole vs. standard 
azoles for the prevention of IFIs in neutropenic patients in the Netherlands.
METHODS: A decision-tree model was developed using data from a randomized trial 
that compared posaconazole and standard azole (fluconazole or itraconazole) 
prophylaxis in neutropenic patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy 
for AML/MDS (Cornely et al., N Engl J Med 2007;356:348-359). Following 
initiation of prophylaxis, clinical events are modeled with chance nodes 
reflecting probabilities of IFIs, IFI-related death, and death from other 
causes. Patients surviving the prophylaxis are assumed to have a life expectancy 
according to the underlying condition. This allows translation of the trial 
outcomes to a lifetime horizon. Data on life expectancy, quality of life, 
medical resource consumption and costs were obtained from the literature. Model 
outcomes include cost per life year (LY) gained and cost per quality adjusted 
life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The total cost (treatment of breakthrough IFI + prophylaxis) for 
posaconazole amounted to 4412 euros (95% uncertainty interval 3403 euros - 5666 
euros), which is -183 euros (-1985 euros to 1564 euros) less than costs with 
standard azoles. Posaconazole prophylaxis resulted in 0.08 (0.02-0.15) QALYs 
gained in comparison with prophylaxis with standard azoles. Results from a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicate that there is a 90% probability that 
the cost per QALY gained with posaconazole is below 20,000 euros. Additional 
scenario analyzes with different assumptions confirmed these findings.
CONCLUSION: Given the underlying data and assumptions, the economic evaluation 
demonstrated that posaconazole prophylaxis is expected to be cost-effective 
compared with fluconazole/itraconazole in neutropenic AML/MDS patients after 
intensive chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2008.01141.x
PMID: 18754857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Orthop Surg Res. 2008 Aug 28;3:37. doi: 10.1186/1749-799X-3-37.

Comparison of prognostic scores and surgical approaches to treat spinal 
metastatic tumors: a review of 57 cases.

Yilmazlar S(1), Dogan S, Caner B, Turkkan A, Bekar A, Korfali E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, School of Medicine, Uludag University, Gorukle 
Kampus, Bursa 16059, Turkey. selsus@uludag.edu.tr

Surgical treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression with or without neural 
deficit is controversial. Karnofsky and Tokuhashi scores have been proposed for 
prognosis of spinal metastasis. Here, we conducted a retrospective analysis of 
Karnofsky and modified Tokuhashi scores in 57 consecutive patients undergoing 
surgery for secondary spinal metastases to evaluate the value of these scores in 
aiding decision making for surgery. Comparison of preoperative Karnofsky and 
modified Tokuhashi scores with the type of the surgical approach for each 
patient revealed that both scores not only reliably estimate life expectancy, 
but also objectively improved surgical decisions. When the general status of the 
patient is poor (i.e., Karnofsky score less than 40% or modified Tokuhashi score 
of 5 or greater), palliative treatments and radiotherapy, rather than surgery, 
should be considered.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-799X-3-37
PMCID: PMC2553066
PMID: 18755019


221. Med Hypotheses. 2008 Dec;71(6):829-38. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2008.07.020. Epub
 2008 Aug 27.

Peaks of solar cycles affect the gender ratio.

Davis GE(1), Lowell WE.

Author information:
(1)Research Group, Psybernetics, Incorporated, Augusta, Maine 04330, USA. 
georgedavi@gmail.com

In this study, we report that the gender ratio (GR) at death [where 
GR=(N(males)/N(males)+N(females))] of those born (and likely conceived) in solar 
cycle peaks (about a 3-year period occurring on average every approximately 11 
years), is inversely related to mean male age at death; e.g., the higher the 
GR(at death) the lower the mean lifespan, while the GR(at death) of those born 
in non-peak years has no relation to mean male lifespan. Although changes in the 
GR are small and may be of little clinical significance, the GR is a sensitive 
indicator of environmental effects, and therefore is pertinent to epigenetics. 
This paper supports the hypothesis that solar radiation, probably in the 
ultraviolet spectrum, by some manner interacts with chromosomal DNA (genes) and 
produces the genetic variety that not only fosters adaptation, but also produces 
the diseases that reduce lifespan. This paper also proposes that sunlight is 
more effective in modifying genomes at the time of conception than later in 
gestation or infancy. Referring to the work of others, this study also reveals 
that geographic latitude also affects the GR, suggesting that the variation in 
light is probably as important as the intensity of light in modifying genomes. 
This study finds that men sustain more genetic variation, producing 28% more 
disease than women, as well as a 2% decrease in GR from birth to death, and a 
shorter life (in Maine) by 7 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2008.07.020
PMID: 18755551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Biol Chem. 2008 Nov 7;283(45):30699-706. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M805339200. Epub
 2008 Aug 28.

Promoting the formation of an active synthetase/tRNA complex by a nonspecific 
tRNA-binding domain.

Chang CP(1), Lin G, Chen SJ, Chiu WC, Chen WH, Wang CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, National Central University, Jung-li, 32001 
Taiwan.

Previous studies showed that valyl-tRNA synthetase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
contains an N-terminal polypeptide extension of 97 residues, which is absent 
from its bacterial relatives, but is conserved in its mammalian homologues. We 
showed herein that this appended domain and its human counterpart are both 
nonspecific tRNA-binding domains (K(d) approximately 0.5 microm). Deletion of 
the appended domain from the yeast enzyme severely impaired its tRNA binding, 
aminoacylation, and complementation activities. This N-domain-deleted yeast 
valyl-tRNA synthetase mutant could be rescued by fusion of the equivalent domain 
from its human homologue. Moreover, fusion of the N-domain of the yeast enzyme 
or its human counterpart to Escherichia coli glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase enabled 
the otherwise "inactive" prokaryotic enzyme to function as a yeast enzyme in 
vivo. Different from the native yeast enzyme, which showed different affinities 
toward mixed tRNA populations, the fusion enzyme exhibited similar binding 
affinities for all yeast tRNAs. These results not only underscore the 
significance of nonspecific tRNA binding in aminoacylation, but also provide 
insights into the mechanism of the formation of aminoacyl-tRNAs.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M805339200
PMCID: PMC2662155
PMID: 18755686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Age Ageing. 2008 Sep;37(5):491-3. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afn154.

Economic evaluations of complex services for older people.

Harwood RH.

Comment on
    Age Ageing. 2008 Sep;37(5):513-20.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afn154
PMID: 18755780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008 Aug 29;57(34):938-41.

Alcohol-attributable deaths and years of potential life lost among American 
Indians and Alaska Natives--United States, 2001--2005.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Excessive alcohol consumption is a leading preventable cause of death in the 
United States and has substantial public health impact on American Indian and 
Alaska Native (AI/AN) populations. To estimate the average annual number of 
alcohol-attributable deaths (AADs) and years of potential life lost (YPLLs) 
among AI/ANs in the United States, CDC analyzed 2001-2005 data (the most recent 
data available), using death certificate data and CDC Alcohol-Related Disease 
Impact (ARDI) software. This report summarizes the results of that analysis, 
which indicated that AADs accounted for 11.7% of all AI/AN deaths, that the 
age-adjusted AAD rate for AI/ANs was approximately twice that of the U.S. 
general population, and that AI/ANs lose 6.4 more years of potential life per 
AAD compared with persons in the U.S. general population (36.3 versus 29.9 
years). These findings underscore the importance of implementing effective 
population-based interventions to prevent excessive alcohol consumption and to 
reduce alcohol-attributable morbidity and mortality among AI/ANs.

PMID: 18756193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Nature. 2008 Aug 28;454(7208):1065-71. doi: 10.1038/nature07216.

Puzzles, promises and a cure for ageing.

Vijg J(1), Campisi J.

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, 8001 Redwood Boulevard, Novato, California 
94945, USA. jvijg@aecom.yu.edu

Recent discoveries in the science of ageing indicate that lifespan in model 
organisms such as yeast, nematodes, flies and mice is plastic and can be 
manipulated by genetic, nutritional or pharmacological intervention. A better 
understanding of the targets of such interventions, as well as the proximate 
causes of ageing-related degeneration and disease, is essential before we can 
evaluate if abrogation of human senescence is a realistic prospect.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07216
PMCID: PMC2774752
PMID: 18756247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Cir Pediatr. 2008 Jul;21(3):143-8.

[Evaluation of radiological risk associated to pieloureteral surgery in 
paediatric patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Molina López MY(1), Calama Santiago JA, Penedo Cobos JM, Angulo Madero JM, 
González Ruiz C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Dosimetría y Radioprotección, Sección de Urología Infantil, 
Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, Madrid. 
