psychosocial, lifestyle and socioeconomic factors influence subsequent health 
status of elderly people in a complex manner.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-6612.2008.00297.x
PMID: 18713198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Australas J Ageing. 2008 Mar;27(1):8-13. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-6612.2007.00258.x.

Current issues on ageing in Japan: a comparison with Australia.

Someya Y(1), Wells Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Tokyo Woman's Christian University, Suginami-ku, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Japan's demography has changed dramatically, and with it, Japanese society and 
the circumstances of older people. These changes include shifts in family roles 
and functions, employment and social relations. Traditionally, families provided 
financial, physical and psychological support to their parents in the same 
household. While the proportion of older Japanese who live with adult children 
is still high in comparison to the rate in Western developed countries, patterns 
of care in Japan are gradually shifting towards the Western model. Public 
pensions supply financial support and the Long-Term Care Insurance System (LCIS) 
provides substantial physical care for frail older people. This paper focuses on 
current issues for older people in Japan, and provides a brief comparison with 
the situation in Australia. Japan's LCIS provides a simpler and more consistent 
basis for funding long-term care than Australia's system. On the other hand, 
Australia's pension system is comparatively robust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-6612.2007.00258.x
PMID: 18713209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. PLoS One. 2008 Aug 20;3(8):e3006. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003006.

Habitat-specific population growth of a farmland bird.

Arlt D(1), Forslund P, Jeppsson T, PÃ¤rt T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala, 
Sweden. Debora.Arlt@ekol.slu.se

BACKGROUND: To assess population persistence of species living in heterogeneous 
landscapes, the effects of habitat on reproduction and survival have to be 
investigated.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used a matrix population model to estimate 
habitat-specific population growth rates for a population of northern wheatears 
Oenanthe oenanthe breeding in farmland consisting of a mosaic of distinct 
habitat (land use) types. Based on extensive long-term data on reproduction and 
survival, habitats characterised by tall field layers (spring- and autumn-sown 
crop fields, ungrazed grasslands) displayed negative stochastic population 
growth rates (log lambda(s): -0.332, -0.429, -0.168, respectively), that were 
markedly lower than growth rates of habitats characterised by permanently short 
field layers (pastures grazed by cattle or horses, and farmyards, log lambda(s): 
-0.056, +0.081, -0.059). Although habitats differed with respect to reproductive 
performance, differences in habitat-specific population growth were largely due 
to differences in adult and first-year survival rates, as shown by a life table 
response experiment (LTRE).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our results show that estimation of survival rates is 
important for realistic assessments of habitat quality. Results also indicate 
that grazed grasslands and farmyards may act as source habitats, whereas crop 
fields and ungrazed grasslands with tall field layers may act as sink habitats. 
We suggest that the strong decline of northern wheatears in Swedish farmland may 
be linked to the corresponding observed loss of high quality breeding habitat, 
i.e. grazed semi-natural grasslands.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003006
PMCID: PMC2500169
PMID: 18714351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


166. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Jul 26;152(30):1686-93.

[Percutaneous vertebroplasty for vertebral fractures caused by multiple myeloma, 
an aggressive vertebral haemangioma and in a traumatic burst fracture].

[Article in Dutch]

Muijs SP(1), Dijkstra PD, van Erkel AR.

Author information:
(1)Afd. Orthopedie, Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, Leiden.

Percutaneous vertebroplasty (PVP) using polymethylmethacrylate bone cement is 
frequently used in the treatment of painful osteoporotic vertebral compression 
fractures in the Netherlands. In three patients there was another indication. A 
44-year-old woman suffering from vertebral pain due to an osteolytic lesion 
caused by multiple myeloma was treated with vertebroplasty of 4 vertebral 
levels. A 60-year-old woman with progressive complaints of back pain due to an 
aggressive vertebral haemangioma was treated with vertebroplasty after 
embolisation had only been partially successful. Lastly, a 50-year-old 
non-osteoporotic man with back pain persisting for six weeks due to a stable 
traumatic burst fracture of TIX could not be treated with standard care, i.e. 
corset and analgesics, because of obesity. He was treated with PVP after a 
cavity had been created in the vertebral corpus. Vertebroplasty is a minimal 
invasive procedure resulting in most patients in rapid diminishment of the pain 
caused by pathological vertebral fractures, which may be present for a longer 
period and may have different causes. The indication triad for vertebroplasty 
consists of localised back pain, pain when pressure is applied to the processus 
spinosus of the fractured level and MRI bone oedema, findings suggestive of 
microfractures in a pathologically changed vertebral body. The procedure is also 
suitable in patients with extensive comorbidity or a short life expectancy.

PMID: 18714523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Sleep. 2008 Aug;31(8):1087-96.

Sleep duration associated with mortality in elderly, but not middle-aged, adults 
in a large US sample.

Gangwisch JE(1), Heymsfield SB, Boden-Albala B, Buijs RM, Kreier F, Opler MG, 
Pickering TG, Rundle AG, Zammit GK, Malaspina D.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Department of 
Psychiatry, Division of Medical Genetics, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
jeg64@columbia.edu

STUDY OBJECTIVES: To explore age differences in the relationship between sleep 
duration and mortality by conducting analyses stratified by age. Both short and 
long sleep durations have been found to be associated with mortality. Short 
sleep duration is associated with negative health outcomes, but there is little 
evidence that long sleep duration has adverse health effects. No epidemiologic 
studies have published multivariate analyses stratified by age, even though life 
expectancy is 75 years and the majority of deaths occur in the elderly.
DESIGN: Multivariate longitudinal analyses of the first National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey using Cox proportional hazards models.
SETTING: Probability sample (n = 9789) of the civilian noninstitutionalized 
population of the United States between 1982 and 1992.
PARTICIPANTS: Subjects aged 32 to 86 years.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: In multivariate analyses controlling for many 
covariates, no relationship was found in middle-aged subjects between short 
sleep of 5 hours or less and mortality (hazards ratio [HR] = 0.67, 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 0.43-1.05) or long sleep of 9 hours or more and 
mortality (HR = 1.04, 95% CI 0.66-1.65). A U-shaped relationship was found only 
in elderly subjects, with both short sleep duration (HR = 1.27, 95% CI 
1.06-1.53) and long sleep duration (HR = 1.36, 95% CI 1.15-1.60) having 
significantly higher HRs.
CONCLUSIONS: The relationship between sleep duration and mortality is largely 
influenced by deaths in elderly subjects and by the measurement of sleep 
durations closely before death. Long sleep duration is unlikely to contribute 
toward mortality but, rather, is a consequence of medical conditions and 
age-related sleep changes.

PMCID: PMC2542954
PMID: 18714780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Palliat Med. 2008 Jul;11(6):857-65. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2007.0268.

Assessment of implementation of an order protocol for end-of-life symptom 
management.

Walling AM(1), Brown-Saltzman K, Barry T, Quan RJ, Wenger NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, 
University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. awalling@mednet.ucla.edu

OBJECTIVES: Designing comfort care plans to treat symptoms at the end-of-life in 
the hospital is challenging. We evaluated the implementation of an inpatient 
end-of-life symptom management order (ESMO) protocol that guides the use of 
opiate medications and other modalities to provide palliation.
METHODS: Physicians and nurses caring for patients using the ESMO protocol were 
surveyed about care provided and their experiences.
RESULTS: Over 342 days, 127 patients (2.6 per week) were treated using the ESMO 
protocol and we surveyed a nurse and/or physician for 105 (83%) patients. Most 
patients were comatose, obtunded/stuperous, or disoriented when the ESMO 
protocol was initiated and most had a life expectancy of less than 1 day. One 
fourth of physicians felt that the protocol was instituted too late, principally 
citing family unwillingness to reorient toward comfort care. Providers reported 
that opiates were titrated appropriately, although a minority revealed 
discomfort with end-of-life opiate use. Nearly all clinicians found the ESMO 
protocol to be valuable.
CONCLUSIONS: A standardized protocol is a useful, but not fully sufficient, step 
toward improving care for dying hospitalized patients.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2007.0268
PMCID: PMC2988455
PMID: 18715178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Intern Med J. 2008 Jul;38(7):543-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2008.01722.x.

Reducing the inequalities in indigenous health: a new way forward.

Hayman N.

Comment in
    Intern Med J. 2008 Dec;38(12):927-8; author reply 928.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2008.01722.x
PMID: 18715301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Cyst Fibros. 2008 Nov;7(6):537-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2008.06.003. Epub
2008  Aug 19.

An international/multicentre report on patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) over 
the age of 40 years.

Hodson ME(1), Simmonds NJ, Warwick WJ, Tullis E, Castellani C, Assael B, Dodge 
JA, Corey M; International Study Of Aging In Cystic Fibrosis.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cystic Fibrosis, Royal Brompton Hospital/Imperial College, 
London SW3 6NP, UK. m.hodson@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The lifespan of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is increasing 
significantly. The objective of this international pilot study was to study the 
characteristics of these long-term survivors.
METHODS: Four centres with large CF clinics from London (UK), Minneapolis (USA), 
Toronto (Canada) and Verona (Italy) identified 366 patients who had survived 40 
years and longer.
RESULTS: At all centres males survived longer than females. There were more 
pancreatic sufficient patients in Verona (60%) and Toronto (40%) than in London 
(16%) and Minneapolis (21%). The percentage of DeltaF508 homozygous patients 
varied between 47% in London and 45% in Minneapolis to only 26% in Toronto and 
9% in Verona. Average FEV(1) and BMI values of the surviving population appeared 
to stabilise after 40 years of age. FEV(1) was on average 12% higher in patients 
who were pancreatic sufficient (p > 0.0001). There was no difference in survival 
between the centres. The overall median survival after the age of 40 was 13 
years. The estimated annual death rate was approximately 3.4% from the age of 
40-60 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant numbers of patients are now surviving to 40 years or 
more, and it is hoped that an in-depth study of these patients may identify the 
factors contributing to longer survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2008.06.003
PMID: 18715831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Palliat Med. 2008 Sep;22(6):711-7. doi: 10.1177/0269216308095200.

Development and validation of a prognostic scale for use in patients with 
advanced cancer.

Stone P(1), Kelly L, Head R, White S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Mental Health, St George's University of London, London, UK. 
pstone@sgul.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to develop a new prognostic indicator to help predict 
survival in advanced cancer patients more accurately. Data on 329 patients 
obtained from a multi-centre study in London were analysed. A multifactorial Cox 
regression model was applied and validated using bootstrapping techniques. 
Predictive scores were calculated and used to produce a new prognostic index. 
The value of the index in predicting 14-day survival was then assessed. Four 
variables were found to be associated with worse survival: primary lung cancer, 
secondary liver cancer, raised C-Reactive protein and poor performance status 
(ECOG 4). Survival curves showed that patients designated as 'high' risk by the 
resulting index had significantly shorter survival than those designated as 
'low' risk. A high score on the newly derived prognostic index is associated 
with poorer survival, but its clinical utility is limited by the relatively low 
predictive probability of the score.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216308095200
PMID: 18715969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. N Engl J Med. 2008 Aug 21;359(8):821-32. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa0707052.

Health and economic implications of HPV vaccination in the United States.

Kim JJ(1), Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. jkim@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2008 Aug 21;359(8):861-2.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of prophylactic vaccination against human 
papillomavirus types 16 (HPV-16) and 18 (HPV-18) is an important consideration 
for guidelines for immunization in the United States.
METHODS: We synthesized epidemiologic and demographic data using models of 
HPV-16 and HPV-18 transmission and cervical carcinogenesis to compare the health 
and economic outcomes of vaccinating preadolescent girls (at 12 years of age) 
and vaccinating older girls and women in catch-up programs (to 18, 21, or 26 
years of age). We examined the health benefits of averting other HPV-16-related 
and HPV-18-related cancers, the prevention of HPV-6-related and HPV-11-related 
genital warts and juvenile-onset recurrent respiratory papillomatosis by means 
of the quadrivalent vaccine, the duration of immunity, and future screening 
practices.
RESULTS: On the assumption that the vaccine provided lifelong immunity, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio of vaccination of 12-year-old girls was $43,600 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, as compared with the current screening 
practice. Under baseline assumptions, the cost-effectiveness ratio for extending 
a temporary catch-up program for girls to 18 years of age was $97,300 per QALY; 
the cost of extending vaccination of girls and women to the age of 21 years was 
$120,400 per QALY, and the cost for extension to the age of 26 years was 
$152,700 per QALY. The results were sensitive to the duration of vaccine-induced 
immunity; if immunity waned after 10 years, the cost of vaccination of 
preadolescent girls exceeded $140,000 per QALY, and catch-up strategies were 
less cost-effective than screening alone. The cost-effectiveness ratios for 
vaccination strategies were more favorable if the benefits of averting other 
health conditions were included or if screening was delayed and performed at 
less frequent intervals and with more sensitive tests; they were less favorable 
if vaccinated girls were preferentially screened more frequently in adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination will depend on the 
duration of vaccine immunity and will be optimized by achieving high coverage in 
preadolescent girls, targeting initial catch-up efforts to women up to 18 or 21 
years of age, and revising screening policies.

2008 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa0707052
PMCID: PMC3080183
PMID: 18716299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


173. N Engl J Med. 2008 Aug 21;359(8):861-2. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe0804638.

Human papillomavirus vaccination--reasons for caution.

Haug CJ.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2008 Aug 21;359(8):821-32.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe0804638
PMID: 18716305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. World J Surg. 2008 Nov;32(11):2450-3. doi: 10.1007/s00268-008-9708-4.

Cost-effectiveness of a district trauma hospital in Battambang, Cambodia.

Gosselin RA(1), Heitto M.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, 
USA. froggydoc@comcast.net

BACKGROUND: The Emergency Hospital in Battambang, Cambodia, is essentially a 
surgical center for victims of injuries.
METHODS: Using methods previously described, operating costs were calculated, 
and effectiveness of treatment was estimated for 957 patients undergoing 895 
surgical procedures over a 3 month period (October--December 2006).
RESULTS: Results of the cost-effectiveness analysis are compared to the few 
existing ones in the literature.
CONCLUSION: At $77.4 per DALY averted, surgery for trauma in such a context is 
deemed very cost-effective and compares favorably to other non-surgical public 
health interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-008-9708-4
PMID: 18716830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Diabet Med. 2008 Aug;25 Suppl 2:47-51. doi:
10.1111/j.1464-5491.2008.02502.x.

The economic analyses of the UK prospective diabetes study.

Gray AM(1), Clarke P.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, UK. alastair.gray@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

An economic analysis was not initially included in the study design of the UK 
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS). However, data were collected throughout the 
study on hospital drugs and medications used and these were supplemented near 
the end of the study by cross-sectional surveys of non-inpatient healthcare use 
and quality of life. Evaluations of tight vs. less tight blood pressure control, 
intensive vs. less conventional blood glucose control and metformin showed that 
each was highly cost-effective and that all could be provided at modest total 
cost. Further analyses showed that amputations and stroke had particularly 
severe consequences for quality of life, and that amputations and non-fatal MI 
had high cost consequences. Finally, patient-level data were used to construct a 
diabetes outcomes model, which estimates the probability of longer-term 
complications from patient-specific risk factors and can be used in populations 
at different stages of diabetes progression. The economic analyses arising from 
the UKPDS have provided new evidence to clinicians, policymakers and researchers 
on the consequences of diabetes and the cost-effectiveness of interventions, 
thereby assisting the development of treatment guidelines and improved standards 
of care. The analyses also illustrated a number of methodological innovations. 
Finally, the UKPDS Outcomes Model is gaining widespread acceptance as a 
validated tool for long-term economic and clinical prediction in diabetes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2008.02502.x
PMID: 18717979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2008 Aug 21;6:65. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-65.

Development and validation of a preference based measure derived from the 
Cambridge Pulmonary Hypertension Outcome Review (CAMPHOR) for use in cost 
utility analyses.

McKenna SP(1), Ratcliffe J, Meads DM, Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)Galen Research Ltd, Enterprise House, Manchester Science Park, Lloyd Street 
North, Manchester, M15 6SE, UK. smckenna@galen-research.com

BACKGROUND: Pulmonary Hypertension is a severe and incurable disease with poor 
prognosis. A suite of new disease-specific measures--the Cambridge Pulmonary 
Hypertension Outcome Review (CAMPHOR) - was recently developed for use in this 
condition. The purpose of this study was to develop and validate a preference 
based measure from the CAMPHOR that could be used in cost-utility analyses.
METHODS: Items were selected that covered major issues covered by the CAMPHOR 
QoL scale (activities, travelling, dependence and communication). These were 
used to create 36 health states that were valued by 249 people representative of 
the UK adult population, using the time trade-off (TTO) technique. Data from the 
TTO interviews were analysed using both aggregate and individual level 
modelling. Finally, the original CAMPHOR validation data were used to validate 
the new preference based model.
RESULTS: The predicted health state values ranged from 0.962 to 0.136. The mean 
level model selected for analyzing the data had good explanatory power (0.936), 
did not systematically over- or underestimate the observed mean health state 
values and showed no evidence of auto correlation in the prediction errors. The 
value of less than 1 reflects a background level of ill health in state 1111, as 
judged by the respondents. Scores derived from the new measure had excellent 
test-retest reliability (0.85) and construct validity. The CAMPHOR utility score 
appears better able to distinguish between WHO functional classes (II and III) 
than the EQ-5D and SF-6D.
CONCLUSION: The tariff derived in this study can be used to classify an 
individual into a health state based on their responses to the CAMPHOR. The 
results of this study widen the evidence base for conducting economic 
evaluations of interventions designed to improve QoL for patients with PH.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-65
PMCID: PMC2546377
PMID: 18718016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Qual Prim Care. 2008;16(4):269-77.

The health of a nation: perspectives from Cuba's national health system.

Offredy M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, UK. m.v.offredy@herts.ac.uk

This paper focuses on the current healthcare system in Cuba and provides a 
description of an alternative healthcare provision. The information is based on 
a visit to the country in 2007 as a member of a health study tour. The purpose 
of the visit was to explore the functioning of a population-based health service 
and to interview key people. The data are compared with the literature on Cuba. 
The effects of the economic crisis, the US embargo and the absence of 
international debate about Cuba's health achievements are discussed.

PMID: 18718164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Palliat Med. 2008 Oct;22(7):835-41. doi: 10.1177/0269216308094336. Epub 2008
Aug  21.

Role of advance directives in palliative care units: a prospective study.

Pautex S(1), Herrmann FR, Zulian GB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, Service of Palliative Medicine, 
Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva. sophie.pautex@hcuge.ch

Advance directives (ADs) might be useful in achieving improved communication and 
satisfaction with decision making at the end-of-life. Our aims were to better 
characterise patients with advanced oncological disease who decided to complete 
ADs and to measure the effect of ADs completion on the satisfaction level with 
end-of-life care from both patients and their relatives. A prospective study was 
conducted in three palliative care units. Patients with advanced cancer were 
included if they met the following criteria: an estimated life expectancy of <6 
months, fluency in French, Mini Mental State Examination >20 and not yet 
completed ADs. All the patients received information about ADs and decided 
whether to complete ADs or not. The level of satisfaction with involvement in 
the decision process concerning end-of-life care was assessed by means of a 
written questionnaire. In all, 53 of 228 patients were included, and 12 decided 
to complete ADs. Patients who completed ADs had statistically less depression 
one week after inclusion (P = 0.030), had a lower anxiety score on the second 
week and had a lower depression score on the third week. There was a trend 
towards a higher satisfaction level with the involvement of the patients in 
end-of-life care for those completing ADs (P = 0.878). In conclusion, each 
patient with an advanced progressive disease should be informed about ADs and be 
encouraged to complete the ADs with the aim to ease many fears as well as to 
improve communication.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216308094336
PMID: 18718993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2008 Sep;216(1):69-75. doi: 10.1620/tjem.216.69.

Low prevalence of metabolic syndrome and its components in rural Japan.

Morimoto A(1), Nishimura R, Suzuki N, Matsudaira T, Taki K, Tsujino D, Miyashita 
Y, Ebara F, Ishikawa S, Tajima N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Diabetes, Metabolism and 
Endocrinology, Jikei University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan. 
aya@jikei.ac.jp

Tsunan, Niigata is a non-westernized rural Japanese town, known for heavy 
snowfalls and as a rice-producing area, whose inhabitants have a long life 
expectancy. We investigated the prevalence of obesity, metabolic syndrome (MetS) 
and its components in Tsunan. A total of 1,155 men and women, 40-69 years of age 
were recruited from participants in the 2005 public-health program in Tsunan. 
Obesity was defined as body-mass index (BMI) >or= 25 kg/m(2). MetS was defined 
as BMI >or= 25 kg/m(2) as well as at least two of the following three items: (1) 
high glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c >or= 5.5%); (2) high blood pressure (HBP: 
systolic blood pressure >or= 130 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure >or= 85 mmHg), 
and (3) low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C < 40 mg/dL). If an 
individual was diagnosed with diabetes, hypertension, or dyslipidemia, each item 
was recorded as a positive finding. The prevalence of MetS and its components 
among Tsunan inhabitants were compared to the results of the 2005 Japanese 
nationwide survey. The prevalence of MetS was 4.6% in males and 4.2% in females. 
The prevalence of obesity, high HbA1c, HBP, and low HDL-C were 22.1/22.2%, 
13.4/16.4%, 46.6/40.0%, and 9.2/3.9% in males/females, respectively. All values 
were significantly lower than the national results, except for the rate of 
female obesity. The lower prevalence of MetS and its components in Tsunan may be 
due to the consumption of traditional Japanese food, which is still commonly 
eaten there, and the higher levels of regular physical activity of farmers.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.216.69
PMID: 18719340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Cell Cycle. 2008 Sep 1;7(17):2615-8. doi: 10.4161/cc.7.17.6626. Epub 2008
Sep  16.

Cancer and aging: more puzzles, more promises?

Blagosklonny MV, Campisi J.

Comment on
    Cell Cycle. 2008 Sep 1;7(17):2769-73.

In this issue of Cell Cycle, a new paper shows that metformin, an oral 
antidiabetic drug that activates AMP-activated protein kinase, prolongs both 
mean and maximal life span and prevents reproductive aging of female mice. 
Unexpectedly, metformin did not decrease the incidence of cancer in this mice 
strain. Here, we discuss the relationship between aging and cancer, the 
mechanism of metformin action, and the prospects of using this compound for life 
span extension in humans.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.7.17.6626
PMID: 18719390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2008 Jun;55(6):396-8.

[Basis of clinical economics (12)].

[Article in Japanese]

Okubo I.

PMID: 18720585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Klin Med (Mosk). 2008;86(6):70-2.

[Case of giant cell myocarditis].

[Article in Russian]

Miroliubova OA, Supriadkina TV, Konopleva LV, Vasilev IaV.

A case of giant cell myocarditis with atrioventricular blockade and progressive 
cardiac insufficiency is reported that required implantation of an artificial 
pacemaker and ended in the death of the patient. The diagnosis was confirmed by 
a histological study following autopsy. The difficulty of diagnosis of this rare 
form of myocarditis with an aggressive clinical course is emphasized. It is 
concluded that life-time endomyocardial biopsy, combined immunosuppressive 
therapy, and frequently heart transplantation taken together may prolong life 
expectancy in such patients.

PMID: 18720717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. J Neuroimmunol. 2008 Sep 15;201-202:237-44. doi:
10.1016/j.jneuroim.2008.07.012.  Epub 2008 Aug 22.

Thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis: outcome, clinical and pathological 
correlations in 197 patients on a 20-year experience.

Maggi L(1), Andreetta F, Antozzi C, Baggi F, Bernasconi P, Cavalcante P, 
Cornelio F, Muscolino G, Novellino L, Mantegazza R.

Author information:
(1)Divisione Malattie Neuromuscolari e Neuroimmunologia, Fondazione Istituto 
Neurologico "Carlo Besta", Milan, Italy.

We studied 197 patients with thymoma-associated myasthenia gravis (T-MG) to 
identify variables that can influence the natural history of the disease and the 
therapeutical approaches. Multivariate analysis showed that neither clinical nor 
pathological variables were associated with a better chance to reach complete 
stable remission. The video-assisted thoracoscopic extended thymectomy (VATET) 
was not significantly correlated with a lower chance of achieving complete 
stable remission compared with the classical transsternal approach (T-3b) 
(p=0.1090). Thymoma recurrence was not correlated with surgery by VATET or T-3b. 
VATET was safe and reliable for removal of thymoma. The low chance of achieving 
remission (9.64%) in T-MG underlines the importance of an early diagnosis as 
well as the need for more aggressive therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2008.07.012
PMID: 18722676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Eur J Radiol. 2009 Nov;72(2):342-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2008.07.009. Epub
2008  Aug 22.

Radiation exposures of cancer patients from medical X-rays: how relevant are 
they for individual patients and population exposure?

Brix G(1), Nissen-Meyer S, Lechel U, Nissen-Meyer J, Griebel J, Nekolla EA, 
Becker C, Reiser M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Radiation Hygiene and Dosimetry, Federal Office for 
Radiation Protection, IngolstÃ¤dter Landstrasse,Neuherberg, Germany. gbrix@bfs.de

X-ray procedures have a substantial impact not only on patient care but also on 
man-made radiation exposure. Since a reliable risk-benefit analysis of medical 
X-rays can only be performed for diagnosis-related groups of patients, we 
determined specific exposure data for patients with the ten most common types of 
cancer. For all patients with the considered cancers undergoing medical X-ray 
procedures in a maximum-care hospital between 2000 and 2005, patient- and 
examination-specific data were retrieved from the hospital/radiology information 
system. From this data, the cumulative 5-year effective dose was estimated for 
each patient as well as the mean annual effective dose per patient and the mean 
patient observation time for each cancer site. In total, 151,439 radiographic, 
fluoroscopic, and CT procedures, carried out in 15,866 cancer patients (age, 
62+/-13 years), were evaluated. The mean 5-year cumulative dose varied between 
8.6 mSv (prostate cancer) and 68.8 mSv (pancreas cancer). Due to an increasing 
use of CT scans, the mean annual effective dose per patient increased from 13.6 
to 18.2 mSv during the 6-year period. Combining the results obtained in this 
study for a particular hospital with cancer incidence data for Germany, we 
estimated that cancer patients having X-ray studies constitute at least 1% of 
the population but receive more than 10% of the total effective dose related to 
all medical X-ray procedures performed nationwide per year. A large fraction of 
this dose is radiobiologically ineffective due to the reduced life expectancy of 
cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2008.07.009
PMID: 18722727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Lancet Neurol. 2008 Oct;7(10):915-26. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(08)70193-5.
Epub  2008 Aug 21.

Sex differences in stroke: epidemiology, clinical presentation, medical care, 
and outcomes.

Reeves MJ(1), Bushnell CD, Howard G, Gargano JW, Duncan PW, Lynch G, Khatiwoda 
A, Lisabeth L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, College of Human Medicine, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, MI 48824, USA. reevesm@msu.edu

Stroke has a greater effect on women than men because women have more events and 
are less likely to recover. Age-specific stroke rates are higher in men, but, 
because of their longer life expectancy and much higher incidence at older ages, 
women have more stroke events than men. With the exception of subarachnoid 
haemorrhage, there is little evidence of sex differences in stroke subtype or 
severity. Although several reports found that women are less likely to receive 
some in-hospital interventions, most differences disappear after age and 
comorbidities are accounted for. However, sex disparities persist in the use of 
thrombolytic treatment (with alteplase) and lipid testing. Functional outcomes 
and quality of life after stroke are consistently poorer in women, despite 
adjustment for baseline differences in age, prestroke function, and 
comorbidities. Here, we comprehensively review the epidemiology, clinical 
presentation, medical care, and outcomes of stroke in women.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(08)70193-5
PMCID: PMC2665267
PMID: 18722812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: PWD has received 
consultancy fees from the American Heart Association and GlaxoSmithKline. All 
other authors have no conflicts of interest.


186. Lancet. 2008 Aug 23;372(9639):601. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61249-0.

Welcome clinical leadership at NICE.

[No authors listed]

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 Oct 11;372(9646):1302.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61249-0
PMID: 18722845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Int J Health Serv. 2008;38(3):439-54. doi: 10.2190/HS.38.3.d.

Off target: a critical review of setting goals for reducing health inequalities 
in the United Kingdom.

Bauld L(1), Day P, Judge K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Policy Sciences, University of Bath, United Kingdom.

Health policy in the United Kingdom is devolved to the four home countries. 
Nevertheless, England, Northern Ireland, Scotland, and Wales share a common 
commitment to reducing health inequalities and have set explicit targets in 
areas such as life expectancy, cancer mortality, long-standing illness, and 
smoking prevalence. However, many of the targets leave much to be desired in 
terms of their limited conceptual scope and their selection of methods and 
approaches. At one level this might be regarded as relatively unimportant. The 
mere fact of having health inequalities targets is laudable. But because the 
United Kingdom has been in the vanguard of research and policy development to 
reduce health inequalities, a critical appraisal of the strengths and weaknesses 
of the approaches adopted in the four home countries is timely. Following a 
description of the health inequalities targets, the article focuses on 
experiences in England and Scotland as examples of contrasting approaches to 
target setting and describes progress toward meeting targets in each country. 
The authors then outline key emerging issues in relation to developing targets 
and measuring progress, including conceptual dilemmas, biased reporting, 
implementation failure, and statistical fallacy.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.38.3.d
PMID: 18724576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2008 Nov;47(11):1664-70. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/ken320. Epub 2008 Aug 24.

The psoriatic arthritis cost evaluation study: a cost-of-illness study on tumour 
necrosis factor inhibitors in psoriatic arthritis patients with inadequate 
response to conventional therapy.

Olivieri I(1), de Portu S, Salvarani C, Cauli A, Lubrano E, Spadaro A, Cantini 
F, Cutro MS, Mathieu A, Matucci-Cerinic M, Pappone N, Punzi L, Scarpa R, 
Mantovani LG; PACE working group.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, Ospedale San Carlo, Contrada Macchia Romana, 85100 
Potenza, Italy. i.olivieri@ospedalesancarlo.it

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate costs, benefits and cost-effectiveness of anti-TNF agents 
in PsA patients with inadequate response to conventional treatment.
METHODS: A total of 107 patients, from nine Italian rheumatology centres, with 
different forms of PsA were given anti-TNF treatment, mainly etanercept (87%). 
Information on resource use, health-related quality of life, disease activity, 
function and laboratory values were collected at baseline and through out the 12 
months of therapy. Cost (expressed in euro 2007) and utility (measured by 
EuroQol) before and after anti-TNF therapy initiation were compared in order to 
estimate the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curve was calculated.
RESULTS: At the end of 12 months, there was a significant increase in direct 
cost due to an increase of drug cost caused by TNF inhibitors that was only 
partially offset by the decrease in indirect cost. In the last 6 months of 
therapy, the direct cost increased by euro5052, the cost for the National Health 
System (NHS) by euro5044 and the social cost by euro4638. However, a gain of 
0.12 QALY resulted in a cost per QALY gained of euro40 876 for the NHS and of 
euro37 591 for the society. The acceptability curve showed that there would be a 
97% likelihood that anti-TNF therapy would be considered cost-effective at 
willingness-to-pay threshold of euro60 000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Cost-effectiveness ratios are within the commonly accepted 
willingness-to-pay threshold. These results need to be confirmed in larger 
samples of patients.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ken320
PMCID: PMC2569134
PMID: 18725374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Med Decis Making. 2008 Sep-Oct;28(5):732-50. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08315251.
Epub  2008 Aug 25.

Obtaining utility estimates of the health value of commonly prescribed 
treatments for asthma and depression.

Edelen MO(1), Burnam MA, Watkins KE, Escarce JJ, Huskamp H, Goldman HH, 
Rachelefsky G.

Author information:
(1)RAND Health, Santa Monica, California, USA. Maria_Edelen@rand.org

BACKGROUND: Comparing the costs and health value associated with alternative 
quality improvement efforts is useful. This study employs expert panel 
methodology to elicit numerical estimates based on a 0 to 1 utility scale of the 
health benefit of usual treatment patterns for 2 medical conditions.
METHOD: The approach includes development of clinical profiles and derivation of 
treatment benefit estimates via the elicitation of utility ratings before and 
after treatment. Clinical profiles specified characteristics of patient groups, 
treatments to be rated, and their combinations. A panel of 13 asthma and 
depression experts made a series of utility ratings (before any new treatment, 1 
or 3 mo later with no treatment, 1 or 3 mo after initiating various common 
treatments) for adult patient groups with depression or asthma. The panel 
convened to discuss discrepancies and subsequently made final ratings. Treatment 
benefit estimates were derived from the ratings made by the panelists after the 
panel meeting.
RESULTS: The treatment benefit estimates had face validity and minimal 
variability, indicating considerable consensus among experts. Treatment benefit 
estimates ranged from -0.03 to 0.25 for depression and from -0.04 to 0.24 for 
asthma. There was minimal variation in the estimates for both conditions (the 
estimates' standard deviations ranged from 0.01 to 0.06). Comparisons of the 
treatment benefit estimates before and after the expert panel meeting indicated 
substantial convergence, and evidence suggests that the benefit estimates are 
comparable across the 2 health conditions.
CONCLUSION: Comparable estimates of treatment benefit for distinct health 
conditions can be obtained from experts using the expert panel methodology.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08315251
PMCID: PMC6550301
PMID: 18725407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Med Care. 2008 Sep;46(9):946-53. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318179250f.

Tamoxifen for breast cancer risk reduction: impact of alternative approaches to 
quality-of-life adjustment on cost-effectiveness analysis.

Melnikow J(1), Birch S, Slee C, McCarthy TJ, Helms LJ, Kuppermann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of California, Davis, 
Sacramento, California 95817, USA. jamelnikow@ucdavis.edu

BACKGROUND: In cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), the effects of health-care 
interventions on multiple health dimensions typically require consideration of 
both quantity and quality of life.
OBJECTIVES: To explore the impact of alternative approaches to quality-of-life 
adjustment using patient preferences (utilities) on the outcome of a CEA on use 
of tamoxifen for breast cancer risk reduction.
RESEARCH DESIGN: A state transition Markov model tracked hypothetical cohorts of 
women who did or did not take 5 years of tamoxifen for breast cancer risk 
reduction. Incremental quality-adjusted effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) for models including and excluding a utility adjustment for 
menopausal symptoms were compared with each other and to a global utility model.
SUBJECTS: Two hundred fifty-five women aged 50 and over with estimated 5-year 
breast cancer risk >or=1.67% participated in utility assessment interviews.
MEASURES: Standard gamble utilities were assessed for specified 
tamoxifen-related health outcomes, current health, and for a global assessment 
of possible outcomes of tamoxifen use.
RESULTS: Inclusion of a utility for menopausal symptoms in the outcome-specific 
models substantially increased the ICER; at the threshold 5-year breast cancer 
risk of 1.67%, tamoxifen was dominated. When a global utility for tamoxifen was 
used in place of outcome-specific utilities, tamoxifen was dominated under all 
circumstances.
CONCLUSIONS: CEAs may be profoundly affected by the types of outcomes considered 
for quality-of-life adjustment and how these outcomes are grouped for utility 
assessment. Comparisons of ICERs across analyses must consider effects of 
different approaches to using utilities for quality-of-life adjustment.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e318179250f
PMID: 18725849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Med Care. 2008 Sep;46(9):984-90. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181791a9c.

Utilities should not be multiplied: evidence from the preference-based scores in 
the United States.

Fu AZ(1), Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, Cleveland Clinic, 
Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA. fuz@ccf.org

OBJECTIVE: Several estimators exist when average utility scores are not 
available for patient populations with multiple disease conditions. The 
multiplicative estimator is a widespread choice among them. Our study is to 
empirically test the accuracy of the multiplicative estimator and compare it 
with other estimators.
METHODS: The Medical Expenditure Panel Survey (MEPS) has a nationally 
representative sample of the US civilian noninstitutionalized population. Using 
the pooled 2001 and 2003 data, a sample of 40,846 individuals with EQ-5D index 
scores were categorized into 238 disease condition categories. The study focus 
was the difference between the estimated and the observed mean scores for each 
comorbid pair, with the observed one presumed to be the true value.
RESULTS: The scores estimated by multiplying the 2 mean scores of the 
corresponding disease conditions on average had a statistically significantly 
larger difference (P < 0.0001) from the observed ones (-0.094) than simply 
picking the smaller mean of the 2 paired conditions (difference = 0.025), the 
larger mean of the 2 (difference = 0.071), the average of the 2 means 
(difference = 0.048), or the mean of the condition with smaller sample size of 
the pair (difference = 0.049). However, the multiplicative estimator performed 
better than the additive estimator (sum of the means minus 1, difference = 
-0.123).
CONCLUSIONS: Multiplication is not a good estimate when the average utility 
score for patients with 2 disease conditions is not readily available. The lower 
of the 2 utility scores had the least error among those estimators that we 
compared. Further research with an experimental design is warranted before a 
specific alternative can be firmly recommended.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181791a9c
PMID: 18725854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Sci China C Life Sci. 1997 Apr;40(2):217-24. doi: 10.1007/BF02882051.

Characterization of sequences downstream from transcriptional start site 
ofRhizobium meliloti nifHDK promoter.

Gao Y(1), Wu T, Zhu J, Yu G, Shen S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Genetics, Shanghai Institute of Plant Physiology, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, 200032, Shanghai, China.

In freeliving state, the nifHDK promoter P1 ofRhizbium meliloti is induced in 
response to microaerobiosis and expressed to a high level, while the fixABCX 
promoter P2 is not. The sequences upstream from both P1 and P2 share extended 
homology (about 85%), which are about 160 bp in length, but the sequences 
downstream of the respective transcriptional start site are different. When the 
downstream sequence (DS) of P2 was replaced by the corresponding fragment from+ 
17 to + 61 of P1, the expression of P2 is greatly increased under freeliving 
condition by lowering the oxygen tension, and the activity of P2 promoter can 
also be significantly enhanced inE. coli by the NifA protein. The difference 
between the DS regions of P1 and P2 promoter resulted in different expressions 
of P1 and P2 promoter under freeliving microaerobic condition and inE. coli. The 
expression of P2 does not depend on the downstream sequences from the promoter 
element during symbiosis. Primer extension experiments identified the 
transcriptional start site of P2. Transcription from P2 was not changed when P2 
promoter region was inserted by P1 DS. Under symbiotic conditions, levels of 
expression of P2 were independent of the P1 DS region. It indicates that the 
regulations of P2 under symbiotic conditions are different from those under 
freeliving conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02882051
PMID: 18726319


193. Protoplasma. 2008;233(1-2):73-81. doi: 10.1007/s00709-008-0303-1. Epub 2008
Aug  26.

Expansins and coleoptile elongation in wheat.

Gao Q(1), Zhao M, Li F, Guo Q, Xing S, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Biology, College of Life Science, Shandong 
Agricultural University, Tai'an, Shandong, People's Republic of China.

Expansins are now generally accepted to be the key regulators of wall extension 
during plant growth. The aim of this study was to characterize expansins in 
wheat coleoptiles and determine their roles in regulating cell growth. 
Endogenous and reconstituted wall extension activities of wheat coleoptiles were 
measured. The identification of beta-expansins was confirmed on the basis of 
expansin activity, immunoblot analysis, and beta-expansin inhibition. Expansin 
activities of wheat coleoptiles were shown to be sensitive to pH and a number of 
exogenously applied factors, and their optimum pH range was found to be 4.0 to 
4.5, close to that of alpha-expansins. They were induced by dithiothreitol, 
K(+), and Mg(2+), but inhibited by Zn(2+), Cu(2+), Al(3+), and Ca(2+), similar 
to those found in cucumber hypocotyls. An expansin antibody raised against 
TaEXPB23, a vegetative expansin of the beta-expansin family, greatly inhibited 
acid-induced extension of native wheat coleoptiles and only one protein band was 
recognized in Western blot experiments, suggesting that beta-expansins are the 
main members affecting cell wall extension of wheat coleoptiles. The growth of 
wheat coleoptiles was closely related to the activity and expression of 
expansins. In conclusion, our results suggest the presence of expansins in wheat 
coleoptiles, and it is possible that most of them are members of the 
beta-expansin family, but are not group 1 grass pollen allergens. The growth of 
wheat coleoptiles is intimately correlated with expansin expression, in 
particularly that of beta-expansins.

DOI: 10.1007/s00709-008-0303-1
PMID: 18726548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. J Health Commun. 2008 Sep;13(6):521-2. doi: 10.1080/10810730802330044.

Values and health: tough challenges lie ahead.

Ratzan SC.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730802330044
PMID: 18726809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Nurs Stand. 2008 Aug 6-12;22(48):43-8. doi:
10.7748/ns2008.08.22.48.43.c6636.

The effect of antipsychotic medication on metabolic syndrome.

Jones M(1), Jones A.

Author information:
(1)The Ridgewood Centre, Surrey and Borders Partnership NHS Foundation Trust. 
martin.jones@sabp.nhs.uk

This article highlights the need for mental health nurses to take a proactive 
role in the identification and prevention of metabolic syndrome to improve 
quality of life for patients with schizophrenia. A range of strategies to help 
mental health nurses address some of the physical health problems associated 
with metabolic syndrome in individuals with schizophrenia is outlined.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2008.08.22.48.43.c6636
PMID: 18727355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

