

942. Health Place. 2009 Mar;15(1):273-83. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2008.05.007.
 Epub 2008 Jun 5.

Life-course socioeconomic environment and health risk behaviours. A multilevel 
small-area analysis of young-old persons in an urban neighbourhood in Lausanne, 
Switzerland.

Cornaz S(1), Taff√© P, Santos-Eggimann B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (IUMSP), Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire Vaudois and University of Lausanne, Bugnon 17, 1005 Lausanne, 
Switzerland. Sarah.Cornaz@chuv.ch

With a life expectancy at the age of 65 of around 20 years, damaging health risk 
behaviours of young-old adults have become a target for preventive actions. Such 
risk factors necessitate an accurate understanding of the present and past 
socioeconomic conditions associated with health risk behaviours. The aim of our 
study is to assess the impact of certain life events as well as economic and 
environmental factors on health risk behaviours. We included 1309 participants 
of the Lausanne Cohort Lc65+ aged 65-70 years and employed logistic regression 
analyses, with individuals nested within areas. The results illustrate the 
influences of socioeconomic factors from childhood to young-old age. Life 
experiences in adulthood and economic resources in young-old age are both 
associated with unfavourable health behaviours. Neighbourhood is a modest 
determinant as well, particularly regarding alcohol consumption. Therefore, 
prevention against health risk behaviours should focus on population subgroups 
defined on the basis of their socioeconomic and living contexts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2008.05.007
PMID: 18614388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. BMJ. 2008 Jul 8;337(7662):a414. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a414.

Has the time come to take on time itself?

Farrelly C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Political Science, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Canada N2L 
3G1. farrelly@uwaterloo.ca

Comment in
    Analysis, doi: 10.1136/bmj.a399.

Staying healthier for longer has benefits for society as well as individuals. 
Colin Farrelly examines the efforts of science to delay ageing

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a414
PMCID: PMC2483882
PMID: 18614507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


944. Curr Opin Crit Care. 2008 Aug;14(4):451-5. doi:
10.1097/MCC.0b013e328306ef13.

From rehabilitation to optimal function: role of clinical exercise therapy.

Storch EK(1), Kruszynski DM.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. 
storch.emily@medstudent.pitt.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Increasing numbers of critically ill and injured patients are 
surviving their initial hospitalization. The immobilization associated with 
long-term critical care can lead to deterioration of the musculoskeletal system 
within 6 h of bed rest, and muscle strength can decline by as much as 40% within 
a week of immobilization.
RECENT FINDINGS: The physical, emotional, and social deficits consequent to 
immobilization persist despite current rehabilitation, and a substandard quality 
of life following the event ensues for as long as 7 years post-trauma. The cause 
of decline in quality of life is believed to stem most directly from the 
physical impact of illness, resulting in such impairments as weakness, fatigue, 
and difficulty in mobilization.
SUMMARY: Physical therapy is a necessary component of the rehabilitation 
process. Although physical therapy often succeeds in restoration of the 
activities of daily life, patients are often unequipped to resume their 
pretrauma level of activity or functional capacity, including return to work or 
school. We opine that a vigorous program of physical training implemented soon 
after discharge from physical therapy is a logical and cost-effective extension 
of the continuum of rehabilitation after critical illness. Such extension, 
supervised by an advanced exercise specialist, addresses many physical 
limitations that persist after critical illness and limit functional recovery.

DOI: 10.1097/MCC.0b013e328306ef13
PMID: 18614911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Qual Life Res. 2008 Aug;17(6):955-61. doi: 10.1007/s11136-008-9369-7. Epub
2008  Jul 10.

Separating gains and losses in health when calculating the minimum important 
difference for mapped utility measures.

Nichol MB(1), Epstein JD.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. mnichol@usc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the minimum important difference (MID) for a variety of 
mapped utility measures and to determine whether patients perceiving gains and 
losses in health status should be treated equally when calculating the MID.
METHODS: A longitudinal study within a California managed care population of 
6,932 patients was retrospectively analyzed. Utilities were derived from the 
SF-36 short-form health survey using multiple validated mapping methods. 
Absolute utility changes for patients who considered their current health as 
'somewhat better' or 'somewhat worse' in the prior year were compared to 
determine if gains and losses in utility values could be combined. The MIDs were 
calculated and compared using anchor- and distribution-based methods.
RESULTS: Two thousand one hundred patients reported 'somewhat better' or 
'somewhat worse' health in the first year. When combining these patients, the 
average MID for all mapped utility measures was 0.03 (SD=0.1), a magnitude 
similar to that identified by Walters. However, when separated, the mean MID 
utility change for those reporting 'somewhat better' and 'somewhat worse' health 
was 0.02 (SD=0.1) and -0.06 (SD=0.1), respectively (P<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Researchers should consider the effects of combining gains and 
losses when determining utility MID values.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-008-9369-7
PMID: 18615271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Health Econ. 2009 Apr;18(4):377-88. doi: 10.1002/hec.1363.

The impact of using different costing methods on the results of an economic 
evaluation of cardiac care: microcosting vs gross-costing approaches.

Clement Nee Shrive FM(1), Ghali WA, Donaldson C, Manns BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Published guidelines on the conduct of economic evaluations provide 
little guidance regarding the use and potential bias of the different costing 
methods.
OBJECTIVES: Using microcosting and two gross-costing methods, we (1) compared 
the cost estimates within and across subjects, and (2) determined the impact on 
the results of an economic evaluation.
METHODS: Microcosting estimates were obtained from the local health region and 
gross-costing estimates were obtained from two government bodies (one provincial 
and one national). Total inpatient costs were described for each method. Using 
an economic evaluation of sirolimus-eluting stents, we compared the incremental 
cost-utility ratios that resulted from applying each method.
RESULTS: Microcosting, Case-Mix-Grouper (CMG) gross-costing, and 
Refined-Diagnosis-Related grouper (rDRG) gross-costing resulted in 4-year mean 
cost estimates of $16,684, $16,232, and $10,474, respectively. Using Monte Carlo 
simulation, the cost per QALY gained was $41,764 (95% CI: $41,182-$42 346), 
$42,538 (95% CI: $42 167-$42 907), and $36,566 (95% CI: $36,172-$36,960) for 
microcosting, rDRG-derived and CMG-derived estimates, respectively (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Within subject, the three costing methods produced markedly 
different cost estimates. The difference in cost-utility values produced by each 
method is modest but of a magnitude that could influence a decision to fund a 
new intervention.

(c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1363
PMID: 18615835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Health Econ. 2009 Apr;18(4):487-94. doi: 10.1002/hec.1375.

The valuation of prenatal life in economic evaluations of perinatal 
interventions.

Simon J(1), Petrou S, Gray A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK. judit.simon@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

Perinatal interventions delivered during the prenatal period have the potential 
to directly impact prenatal life. The decision on when to begin 'counting' the 
life of an infant in the calculus has received little attention in previous 
economic evaluations of perinatal interventions. We illustrate, using data from 
a recent trial-based economic evaluation of magnesium sulphate given to women 
with pre-eclampsia to prevent eclampsia, how different definitions of when human 
life commences can have a significant impact upon cost-effectiveness estimates 
based on composite outcome measures such as life years or quality-adjusted life 
years gained or disability-adjusted life years averted. Further, we suggest ways 
in which methods in this area can be improved.

(c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1375
PMID: 18615854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Can J Public Health. 2008 May-Jun;99(3):195-200. doi: 10.1007/BF03405473.

Long-term employment and health inequalities in Canadian communities.

Safaei J(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Program, University of Northern British Columbia, Prince George, 
BC. safaeij@unbc.ca

OBJECTIVES: This study examines the long-term unemployment rate and various 
health outcomes across Canadian communities to estimate employment-related 
health inequalities in these communities.
METHODS: The study uses cross-sectional community-level health data along with 
data on the long-term employment rate for various communities across Canada to 
quantify health inequalities among these communities. The health outcomes that 
are considered in this study include total and disease specific mortality rates; 
health conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes, injuries, and self 
rated health; and life expectancies at birth and at age 65. Health inequalities 
are estimated using the concentration index, which is used to measure health 
inequalities along socioeconomic dimensions. The concentration index is 
estimated by a regression of weighted relative health (ill health) over weighted 
cumulative relative rank of the populations. All the estimates are provided 
separately for males and females.
RESULTS: The findings of the study support the existence of inequalities in 
community health outcomes as related to the long-term employment rates in those 
communities. Communities with lower long term employment rates (higher 
unemployment rates) have poorer health outcomes in terms of higher mortality 
rates, worse health conditions, and shorter life expectancies.
CONCLUSION: Health inequalities related to long-term employment have important 
policy implications. They call for policies that would increase and maintain 
long term employment rates as part of a broader socioeconomic approach to 
health. Long term employment ensures income security and prevents the 
psychosocial experiences leading to mental and physical ill health.

OBJECTIFS: Notre √©tude compare les taux de ch√¥mage √† long terme et divers 
r√©sultats cliniques dans des localit√©s canadiennes afin d‚Äô√©valuer les in√©galit√©s 
en sant√© li√©es √† l‚Äôemploi dans ces localit√©s.
M√âTHODE: Des donn√©es transversales sur la sant√© et des donn√©es sur les taux 
d‚Äôemploi √† long terme dans diverses localit√©s du Canada ont servi √† quantifier 
les in√©galit√©s en sant√© d‚Äôune localit√© √† l‚Äôautre. Les r√©sultats cliniques pris 
en compte √©taient les taux de mortalit√© totaux et par maladie; les troubles 
m√©dicaux comme l‚Äôhypertension art√©rielle, le diab√®te, les blessures et l‚Äô√©tat de 
sant√© auto-√©valu√©; et l‚Äôesp√©rance de vie √† la naissance et √† 65 ans. Les 
in√©galit√©s en sant√© ont √©t√© √©valu√©es √† l‚Äôaide d‚Äôun indice de concentration, qui 
sert √† mesurer les in√©galit√©s en sant√© dans leurs dimensions socio√©conomiques. 
L‚Äôindice de concentration est calcul√© par la r√©gression de l‚Äô√©tat de sant√© 
relatif pond√©r√© (la morbidit√©) sur le rang cumulatif relatif pond√©r√© des 
populations. Toutes les estimations sont fournies s√©par√©ment pour les hommes et 
pour les femmes.
R√âSULTATS: L‚Äô√©tude confirme l‚Äôexistence d‚Äôin√©galit√©s dans les r√©sultats 
cliniques des localit√©s par rapport √† leurs taux d‚Äôemploi √† long terme. Les 
localit√©s o√π les taux d‚Äôemploi √† long terme sont faibles (taux de ch√¥mage √©lev√©) 
affichent de moins bons r√©sultats cliniques (des taux de mortalit√© sup√©rieurs, 
davantage de troubles m√©dicaux et une esp√©rance de vie plus courte).
CONCLUSION: Le lien entre les in√©galit√©s en sant√© et l‚Äôemploi √† long terme a 
d‚Äôimportantes r√©percussions strat√©giques. Il faudrait des politiques pour 
accro√Ætre et soutenir les taux d‚Äôemploi √† long terme dans le cadre d‚Äôune 
approche socio√©conomique √©largie de la sant√©. L‚Äôemploi √† long terme garantit la 
s√©curit√© du revenu et pr√©vient les exp√©riences psychosociales qui m√®nent aux 
probl√®mes de sant√© mentale et physique.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405473
PMCID: PMC6976229
PMID: 18615941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Kyobu Geka. 2008 Jul;61(7):525-9.

[Indication and timing of surgical intervention for cardiovascular disease in 
hemodialysis dependent patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Yamamoto Y(1), Kobayashi J, Miyashita K, Furutera R, Nishiyama K, Goto A, Kaneko 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Japanese Red Cross Medical Center, 
Tokyo, Japan.

Surgical intervention on cardiovascular disorders in patients with hemodialysis 
dependent renal failure improves their life expectancy, but carries high 
surgical mortality. Decision on the indication of surgery as well as on its 
timing has crucial impact on surgical outcome. We retrospectively analyzed the 
data of 21 hemodialysis dependent patients who had undergone cardiovascular 
surgery in our institution from May 2001 to May 2005 to elucidate the 
appropriate indication and timing of surgical intervention. The study revealed 
early mortality (< 30 days) of 4.8% and 5 year survival rate of 83.5%. Risk 
factors for poor prognosis were older age, and longer hemodialysis history. 
Despite the opinions advocating early surgery in these patients, we adopted a 
surgical strategy to wait until patients' condition is optimized. Low surgical 
mortality and high long-term survival of our surgical series indicated 
appropriateness of our strategy on the timing of surgery. However, extremely low 
long-term mortality rate raised the concern that our surgical indication might 
have been too conservative.

PMID: 18616093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Math Biosci Eng. 2008 Jul;5(3):549-65. doi: 10.3934/mbe.2008.5.549.

An extension of the Beretta-Kuang model of viral diseases.

Siekmann I(1), Malchow H, Venturino E.

Author information:
(1)Institut fur Umweltsystemforschung, Universitat Osnabruck, Germany. 
ivo.siekmann@uos.de.

A model for the complete life cycle of marine viruses is presented. The 
Beretta-Kuang model introduces an explicit equation for viral particles but the 
replication process of viral particles in their hosts is not considered. The 
extended model keeps the structure of the original model. This makes it possible 
to estimate the growth parameters of the viruses for a given parametrisation of 
the Beretta-Kuang model.

DOI: 10.3934/mbe.2008.5.549
PMID: 18616358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2008 Oct;69(4):515-525. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2008.03325.x.

Measurement of testosterone in the diagnosis of hypogonadism in the ageing male.

Wheeler MJ(1), Barnes SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Pathology, St Thomas'Hospital, London, SEI 7EH, UK, 
Department of Chemical Pathology and Immunology, St Mary's Hospital, London, W2 
1NY, UK

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2008.03325.x
PMID: 18616710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. J Exp Clin Assist Reprod. 2008 Jul 10;5:5. doi: 10.1186/1743-1050-5-5.

Methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene polymorphisms resulting in 
suboptimal oocyte maturation: a discussion of folate status, neural tube 
defects, schizophrenia, and vasculopathy.

Jongbloet PH(1), Verbeek AL, den Heijer M, Roeleveld N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Health Technology Assessment, 
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands. p.jongbloet@skynet.be.

Several conditions apparent at birth, e.g., neural tube defects (NTDs) and 
cardiac anomalies, are associated with polymorphisms in folate-related genes, 
such as the 677C --> T polymorphism of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 
(MTHFR) gene. Similar associations have been established for several 
constitutional chronic diseases in adulthood, such as schizophrenia, 
cardiovascular diseases, dementia, and even neoplasias in different organ 
systems. This spectrum of developmental anomalies and constitutional diseases 
may be linked to high-risk conceptions related to preovulatory overripeness 
ovopathy (PrOO). Some developmental anomalies, such as NTDs, are to a large 
extent prevented by supplementation of folic acid before conception, but 
supplementation does not seem to prevent cardiovascular disease or cognitive 
decline. These diverging results can be elucidated by introduction of the PrOO 
concept, as MTHFR polymorphisms and inherent low folate levels induce both 
non-optimal maturation of the oocyte and unsuccessful DNA methylation and 
demethylation, i.e. epigenetic mutations. The PrOO concept is testable and 
predicts in a random population the following: (1) female carriers of specific 
genetic MTHFR variants exhibit more ovulatory disturbances and inherent 
subfecundity traits, (2) descendents from a carrier mother, when compared with 
those from a wild-type mother, are more frequently conceived in PrOO high-risk 
conditions and, thus, (3) disadvantaged in life expectancy. If so, some MTHFR 
polymorphisms represent a novel, genetically determined, PrOO high-risk 
conception category comparable to those which are environmentally and behaviorly 
influenced. These high-risk conditions may cause developmental anomalies and 
defective epigenetic reprogramming in progeny. The interaction between genetic 
and environmental factors is a plausible mechanism of multifactorial 
inheritance.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-1050-5-5
PMCID: PMC2500045
PMID: 18616826


953. Blood. 2008 Sep 15;112(6):2508-11. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-01-134338. Epub
2008  Jul 10.

The Mll partial tandem duplication: differential, tissue-specific activity in 
the presence or absence of the wild-type allele.

Dorrance AM(1), Liu S, Chong A, Pulley B, Nemer D, Guimond M, Yuan W, Chang D, 
Whitman SP, Marcucci G, Caligiuri MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, James 
Cancer Hospital and Solove Research Institute, The Ohio State University, 
Columbus, USA.

The partial tandem duplication of MLL (MLL-PTD) is found in 5% to 10% of 
patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and normal cytogenetics. Its 
expression in leukemic blasts is coincident with a silenced wild-type (WT) MLL 
allele. We therefore generated mice expressing the Mll-PTD in the absence of 
Mll-WT. These Mll(PTD/-) mice die at birth unlike the normal life expectancy of 
Mll(PTD/WT), Mll(WT/-), and Mll(WT/WT) mice. Using Mll(WT/WT) fetal liver cells 
(FLC) as baseline, we compared Mll(PTD/-) with Mll(PTD/WT) FLC and found both 
had increased HoxA gene expression and granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming 
progenitor cells (CFU-GM); in contrast, only Mll(PTD/WT) FLC had increased 
pluripotent hemopoietic progenitors (CFU-GEMM). The similarities between 
Mll(PTD/WT) and Mll(PTD/-) mice suggest that the Mll-PTD mutation can 
up-regulate target genes in a dominant, gain-of-function fashion. The 
differences between these 2 genotypes suggest that in select tissues the Mll-PTD 
requires cooperation with the Mll-WT in the genesis of the observed abnormality.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-01-134338
PMCID: PMC2532816
PMID: 18617636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2008 Aug;31(4):473-80. doi: 10.1007/s10545-008-0878-x.
Epub  2008 Jul 13.

Neurological findings in Hunter disease: pathology and possible therapeutic 
effects reviewed.

Al Sawaf S(1), Mayatepek E, Hoffmann B.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Pediatrics, University Children's Hospital, 
Heinrich-Heine-University, Moorenstr. 5, D-40225, D√ºsseldorf 20, Germany.

Hunter disease (mucopolysaccharidosis type II, MPS II) is an X-linked lysosomal 
storage disease caused by deficiency of iduronate-2-sulfatase. Accumulation of 
chondroitin sulfate B and heparan sulfate in various tissues is the biochemical 
consequence of MPS II. Children with Hunter disease are normal at birth, and 
symptoms occur between 2 and 10 years of age. Typical symptoms include coarse 
facies with enlarged tongue and prominent forehead as well as a short, stocky 
built stature with short neck. The cardiovascular, respiratory and 
gastrointestinal systems may be affected, and oral, dermatological and 
psychiatric as well as neurological complications are described. Life expectancy 
is markedly reduced and may be limited to 12 years for severely affected 
patients. The most common causes of death are airway obstruction and cardiac 
failure. The most severe symptoms may result from neurological symptoms or 
complications including hydrocephalus, spinal cord compression, cervical 
myelopathy, optic nerve compression, and hearing impairment. Patients may also 
develop carpal tunnel syndrome, sleep apnoea, seizures or mental retardation. 
This review describes characteristic neurological manifestations in MPS II and 
its underlying pathophysiology. In addition, an appraisal is given whether or 
not enzyme replacement therapy may be able to improve in particular the 
neurological symptoms of Hunter disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-008-0878-x
PMID: 18618289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Stat Med. 2008 Nov 20;27(26):5440-55. doi: 10.1002/sim.3360.

Multi-state analysis of cognitive ability data: a piecewise-constant model and a 
Weibull model.

van den Hout A(1), Matthews FE.

Author information:
(1)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Institute of Public Health, Cambridge CB2 0SR, UK. 
ardo.vandenhout@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk

Longitudinal data can be used to estimate transition intensities between healthy 
and unhealthy states prior to death. When health is defined with respect to 
cognitive ability during old age, the trajectory of performance is either static 
or downward. An illness-death model is presented where the intensity of a 
transition is allowed to change over time by using a piecewise-constant model or 
by using a Weibull model. Observed improvement of cognitive ability is modelled 
as misclassification. The methodology is extended to estimate life expectancy 
with and without cognitive impairment. The measurement of cognitive ability is 
important as it is an important predictor of future need for care. The models 
can help to understand how cognitive decline develops over time and which 
factors play a role. The methods are illustrated using data from the Medical 
Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study in the U.K. (1991-2005).

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3360
PMID: 18618421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. J Health Econ. 2008 Sep;27(5):1224-36. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.05.010.
Epub  2008 Jun 5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis and innovation.

Jena AB(1), Philipson TJ.

Author information:
(1)The University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.

While cost-effectiveness (CE) analysis has provided a guide to allocating often 
scarce resources spent on medical technologies, less emphasis has been placed on 
the effect of such criteria on the behavior of innovators who make health care 
technologies available in the first place. A better understanding of the link 
between innovation and cost-effectiveness analysis is particularly important 
given the large role of technological change in the growth in health care 
spending and the growing interest of explicit use of CE thresholds in leading 
technology adoption in several Westernized countries. We analyze CE analysis in 
a standard market context, and stress that a technology's cost-effectiveness is 
closely related to the consumer surplus it generates. Improved CE therefore 
often clashes with interventions to stimulate producer surplus, such as patents. 
We derive the inconsistency between technology adoption based on CE analysis and 
economic efficiency. Indeed, static efficiency, dynamic efficiency, and improved 
patient health may all be induced by the cost-effectiveness of the technology 
being at its worst level. As producer appropriation of the social surplus of an 
innovation is central to the dynamic efficiency that should guide CE adoption 
criteria, we exemplify how appropriation can be inferred from existing CE 
estimates. For an illustrative sample of technologies considered, we find that 
the median technology has an appropriation of about 15%. To the extent that such 
incentives are deemed either too low or too high compared to dynamically 
efficient levels, CE thresholds may be appropriately raised or lowered to 
improve dynamic efficiency.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.05.010
PMID: 18619695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Eur J Pain. 2009 May;13(5):458-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpain.2008.05.016. Epub
2008  Jul 10.

Long-term oral lacosamide in painful diabetic neuropathy: a two-year open-label 
extension trial.

Shaibani A(1), Biton V, Rauck R, Koch B, Simpson J.

Author information:
(1)Nerve and Muscle Center of Texas, 6624 Fannin Suite 1670, Houston, TX 77030, 
USA. Nerveandmuscle@houston.rr.com

OBJECTIVES: This open-label follow-on trial aimed to investigate long-term 
safety and efficacy of lacosamide in patients with painful diabetic neuropathy.
METHODS: After 1-week baseline period, lacosamide 100mg/day was started. Each 
week, based on pain and safety assessments, doses were escalated by 100mg/day to 
an optimal level, up to a maximum of 400mg/day. Patients then entered the 
20-week maintenance period (dose adjusted as needed). Thereafter, patients could 
opt to continue lacosamide up to about 2.5 years (extension period).
RESULTS: Of the 69 enrolled patients, 47 (68%) completed the 20-week maintenance 
period and elected to continue into the extension period; 37/69 (54%) patients 
were in the extension period for more than one year and 34/69 (49%) continued 
until study termination. The modal lacosamide dose in most patients (54%) was 
400mg/day. Headache, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, sinusitis, 
nasopharyngitis, and back pain were the most frequently reported adverse events 
(10% of patients). Significant reductions from baseline in Likert pain scores 
began during dose titration and were sustained throughout the study. Significant 
improvements were also seen in Neuropathic Pain Scale, Quality of Life scores, 
and Patient's Global Impression of Change assessment. Of 34 patients at study 
termination, 32 (90%) elected to continue with lacosamide treatment in another 
long-term open-label trial (NCT00235443).
CONCLUSION: The long-term safety profile and sustained efficacy of lacosamide 
observed in this trial support its continued development for treatment of 
painful diabetic neuropathy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpain.2008.05.016
PMID: 18619874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Tissue Cell. 1993 Jun;25(3):333-41. doi: 10.1016/0040-8166(93)90075-v.

Morphological responses of dissociated sponge cells to different organic 
substrata.

Gaino E(1), Magnino G, Burlando B, Sara' M.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Zoologia, Via Balbi 5, 16126 Genova, Italy.

To study interactions between sponge cells and components of the extracellular 
matrix (ECM), cells of the calcareous sponge Clathrina cerebrum were 
investigated in vitro by scanning electron microscopy. Cells were settled on 
glass coverslips, used as controls, and on coverslips coated with various ECM 
components (laminin, collagens and fibronectin), and with an adhesive substance 
(polylysine). Cells tended to conserve a rounded shape, producing thin, stiff 
processes (scleropodia) and lamellipodia, whose shape and extension varied 
according to the substrata. Spreading was observed only on polylysine, inducing 
cells to assume a fibroblast-like aspect. On laminin, cell adhesion was assured 
only by scleropodia. On fibronectin, scleropodia and lamellipodia were present, 
but reduced in size and length. On collagens, laminar processes occurred among 
prevailing scleropodia. Measurements of cell area and perimeter allowed 
statistical comparison of substrata, on the basis of their induction of cell 
flattening and protuberance formation. In summary, sponge cells were found to 
modulate their morphology in response to the external environment, expressing 
features for dynamic activities most fully in the presence of substances close 
to their natural ECM constituents. These results are discussed in the context of 
tissue rearrangement as a basic adaptation occurring throughout the life span of 
these organisms.

DOI: 10.1016/0040-8166(93)90075-v
PMID: 18621236


959. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2008 Jul;27(4):372-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2008.05.002. Epub 2008 Jul 14.

The role of vascular endothelial growth factor and other endogenous interplayers 
in age-related macular degeneration.

Grisanti S(1), Tatar O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology at the University of Luebeck, Ratzeburger Allee 
160, 23538 Luebeck, Germany. Salvatore.Grisanti@uk-sh.de

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a multifaceted disease characterized 
by early subclinical changes at the choroidea-retinal pigment epithelium 
interface. Both the causal and formal pathogenesis of the disease is still 
puzzling. Similarly, the reason for progression into two distinct late forms 
which are "geographic atrophy" and "choroidal neovascularization" remains 
enigmatic. Late changes are usually responsible for the dramatic loss in central 
function that has a devastating effect on quality of life. In industrialized 
countries the disease is a major cause for visual disability among persons over 
60 years of age. Due to demographic right-shift and increased life expectancy, 
AMD is not only a medical problem but will have a pronounced socio-economic 
effect. Neovascular AMD with the development of choroidal neovascularization in 
the macular area accounts for 80% of the severe loss of visual acuity due to 
AMD. In the last decades, treatment modes were merely based on the destruction 
or surgical removal of the neovascular complex. In the present, however, the 
philosophical approach to treat the disease is changing to a pathology modifying 
manner. Intelligent targeting of the involved relevant factors and pathways 
should stop disease progression, reduce complications and improve vision. The 
first step into this new era has been accomplished with the introduction of 
antiangiogenic agents. The new agents act either directly on vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) or indirectly on its functional cascade. VEGF 
makes a fundamental contribution to neovascular processes but it also acts in 
physiological pathways. The main purpose of this review is to summarize its 
physiological role especially within the eye, the role in the development of AMD 
and to understand and foresee both the benefits and potential side-effects of 
the anti-VEGF-based therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2008.05.002
PMID: 18621565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Thorax. 2008 Nov;63(11):962-7. doi: 10.1136/thx.2007.089557. Epub 2008 Jul
11.

Cost effectiveness of therapy with combinations of long acting bronchodilators 
and inhaled steroids for treatment of COPD.

Najafzadeh M(1), Marra CA, Sadatsafavi M, Aaron SD, Sullivan SD, Vandemheen KL, 
Jones PW, Fitzgerald JM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the combination of different medications in 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). This study determined the cost 
effectiveness of adding salmeterol (S) or fluticasone/salmeterol (FS) to 
tiotropium (T) for COPD.
METHODS: This concurrent, prospective, economic analysis was based on costs and 
health outcomes from a 52 week randomised study comparing: (1) T 18 microg once 
daily + placebo twice daily (TP group); (2) T 18 microg once daily + S 25 
microg/puff, 2 puffs twice daily (TS group); and (3) T 18 microg once daily + FS 
250/25 microg/puff, 2 puffs twice daily (TFS group). The incremental cost 
effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were defined as incremental cost per exacerbation 
avoided, and per additional quality adjusted life year (QALY) between 
treatments. A combination of imputation and bootstrapping was used to quantify 
uncertainty, and extensive sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The average patient in the TP group generated CAN$2678 in direct 
medical costs compared with $2801 (TS group) and $4042 (TFS group). The TS 
strategy was dominated by TP and TFS. Compared with TP, the TFS strategy 
resulted in ICERs of $6510 per exacerbation avoided, and $243,180 per QALY 
gained. In those with severe COPD, TS resulted in equal exacerbation rates and 
slightly lower costs compared with TP.
CONCLUSIONS: TFS had significantly better quality of life and fewer 
hospitalisations than patients treated with TP but these improvements in health 
outcomes were associated with increased costs. Neither TFS nor TS are 
economically attractive alternatives compared with monotherapy with T.

DOI: 10.1136/thx.2007.089557
PMID: 18621985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Bull Hist Med. 2008 Summer;82(2):355-86. doi: 10.1353/bhm.0.0005.

"Physicians are not bootleggers": the short, peculiar life of the Medicinal 
Alcohol Movement.

Appel JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Community Health, Brown University, USA. jma38@columbia.edu

This essay seeks to chronicle the effort of physicians to secure the right to 
prescribe beer, liquor, and other alcoholic beverages to their patients for 
medicinal uses during the Prohibition era. A review of the medical literature 
and popular press from the period 1920-26 reveals that the physicians who 
lobbied for the right to prescribe alcohol and, ultimately, took their claim to 
the United States Supreme Court, were not uniformly antiprohibitionists 
attempting to circumvent the Eighteenth Amendment. Instead, this coalition of 
physician activists, led by John P. Davin and Samuel W. Lambert, included both 
supporters and opponents of prohibition. Their attitudes on the therapeutic 
value of beer and liquor also varied widely. Yet what united these men and 
women-and what defined their movement-was opposition to state interference with 
the practice of medicine and an increasing concern with the federal government's 
role in the regulation of their profession. The defeat of their efforts, 
presaging the passage of the Sheppard Towner Act in 1921 and the extension of 
veterans' health benefits in 1924, marked an important step in the development 
of antagonism between the medical community and the federal government during 
the mid-twentieth century.

DOI: 10.1353/bhm.0.0005
PMID: 18622072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Ther Umsch. 2008 Jun;65(6):323-8. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.65.6.323.

[Diagnosis, treatment and follow up of prostata cancer].

[Article in German]

Birkh√§user FD(1), Thalmann GN.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universit√§tsklinik, Universit√§tsspital, Bern.

Prostate cancer is the most frequent diagnosed malignancy in men with an 
increasing incidence. In well informed men between the age of 50 and 70 years 
screening should be offered when requested. Not every newly diagnosed prostate 
cancer requires immediate treatment. Curative treatment should be offered to men 
with a minimal life expectancy of 10 years. In men older than 50-75 years, 
therefore further screening is not necessary due to a lack of a therapeutic 
consequence. Curative treatment options enclose as the gold standard surgical 
removal, i.e. open radical prostatectomy with pelvic lymph node dissection, and 
radio-oncologic treatments, be it percutaneous radiation therapy, 
brachytherapies or a combination thereof. Palliative treatment options are 
mainly hormonal treatment (medical or surgical androgen deprivation), local 
radiation, treatment with bisphosphonates, chemotherapy and surgical 
desobstruction of the prostate. Regular follow up allows for early detection of 
recurrences and an active treatment concept.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.65.6.323
PMID: 18622955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Angew Chem Int Ed Engl. 2008;47(31):5718-38. doi: 10.1002/anie.200700724.

Regenerative medicine and stem cell based drug discovery.

Sakurada K(1), McDonald FM, Shimada F.

Author information:
(1)Bayer Yakuhin Research Center, BMA 3F, 1-5-5 Minatojima-minamimachi, Chuo-ku, 
Kobe 650-0047, Japan. kazuhiro.sakurada@gmail.com

As William Shakespeare beautifully described, increasing age often causes loss 
of tissue and organ function. The increase in average life expectancy in many 
countries is generating an aging society and an increase in age-related health 
problems. Regenerative medicine is expected to be a powerful actor in this 
drama, and stem cell technology may hold the key to the development of 
innovative treatments for acute and chronic degenerative conditions. This Review 
surveys the present situation and some future prospects for regenerative 
medicine and stem cell based drug discovery.

DOI: 10.1002/anie.200700724
PMID: 18624353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2008 Jul 14;6:51. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-51.

Do estimates of cost-utility based on the EQ-5D differ from those based on the 
mapping of utility scores?

Barton GR(1), Sach TH, Jenkinson C, Avery AJ, Doherty M, Muir KR.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, 
University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. g.barton@uea.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Mapping has been used to convert scores from condition-specific 
measures into utility scores, and to produce estimates of cost-effectiveness. We 
sought to compare the QALY gains, and incremental cost per QALY estimates, 
predicted on the basis of mapping to those based on actual EQ-5D scores.
METHODS: In order to compare 4 different interventions 389 individuals were 
asked to complete both the EQ-5D and the Western Ontartio and McMaster 
Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) at baseline, 6, 12, and 24 months 
post-intervention. Using baseline data various mapping models were developed, 
where WOMAC scores were used to predict the EQ-5D scores. The performance of 
these models was tested by predicting the EQ-5D post-intervention scores. The 
preferred model (that with the lowest mean absolute error (MAE)) was used to 
predict the EQ-5D scores, at all time points, for individuals who had complete 
WOMAC and EQ-5D data. The mean QALY gain associated with each intervention was 
calculated, using both actual and predicted EQ-5D scores. These QALY gains, 
along with previously estimated changes in cost, were also used to estimate the 
actual and predicted incremental cost per QALY associated with each of the four 
interventions.
RESULTS: The EQ-5D and the WOMAC were completed at baseline by 348 individuals, 
and at all time points by 259 individuals. The MAE in the preferred model was 
0.129, and the mean QALY gains for each of the four interventions was predicted 
to be 0.006, 0.058, 0.058, and 0.136 respectively, compared to the actual mean 
QALY gains of 0.087, 0.081, 0.120, and 0.149. The most effective intervention 
was estimated to be associated with an incremental cost per QALY of pound6,068, 
according to our preferred model, compared to pound13,154 when actual data was 
used.
CONCLUSION: We found that actual QALY gains, and incremental cost per QALY 
estimates, differed from those predicted on the basis of mapping. This suggests 
that though mapping may be of value in predicting the cost-effectiveness of 
interventions which have not been evaluated using a utility measure, future 
studies should be encouraged to include a method of actual utility measurement.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN93206785.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-51
PMCID: PMC2490675
PMID: 18625052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2008 Aug;19(3):653-60, xii. doi: 
10.1016/j.pmr.2008.04.006.

Clinical trials in spinal muscular atrophy.

Kaufmann P(1), Iannaccone ST.

Author information:
(1)The Neurological Institute, Columbia University, 710 West 168th Street, NY 
10032, USA. pk88@columbia.edu

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is an autosomal recessive disorder characterized 
by muscle atrophy and weakness due to degeneration of the anterior horn cells in 
the spinal cord. A great need exists for an effective treatment of SMA, a 
disease that often causes severe disability in patients who are cognitively 
intact and can have a normal life expectancy. Unlike many other neurologic 
diseases, SMA can be easily diagnosed through genetic testing. Also, preclinical 
progress over the last 2 decades has been major, with the discovery of the gene 
and of a "druggable" modifying gene that provides one of several promising 
targets for treatment. SMA is rare but is a common orphan disease, so trials 
should be feasible, raising the hope that we will find effective treatments for 
this disorder.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmr.2008.04.006
PMID: 18625422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Urol Oncol. 2009 Sep-Oct;27(5):473-82. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2008.04.017.
Epub  2008 Jul 14.

Prostate tumor alignment and continuous, real-time adaptive radiation therapy 
using electromagnetic fiducials: clinical and cost-utility analyses.

Quigley MM(1), Mate TP, Sylvester JE.

Author information:
(1)Calypso Medical Technologies, Seattle, WA 98121, USA. 
quigleyconsulting@tampabay.rr.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the accuracy, utility, and cost effectiveness of a new 
electromagnetic patient positioning and continuous, real-time monitoring system, 
which uses permanently implanted resonant transponders in the target (Calypso 4D 
Localization System and Beacon transponders, Seattle, WA) to continuously 
monitor tumor location and movement during external beam radiation therapy of 
the prostate.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This clinical trial studied 43 patients at 5 sites. All 
patients were implanted with 3 transponders each. In 41 patients, the system was 
used for initial alignment at each therapy session. Thirty-five patients had 
continuous monitoring during their radiation treatment. Over 1,000 alignment 
comparisons were made to a commercially available kV X-ray positioning system 
(BrainLAB ExacTrac, Munich, Germany). Using decision analysis and Markov 
processes, the outcomes of patients were simulated over a 5-year period and 
measured in terms of costs from a payer's perspective and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs).
RESULTS: All patients had satisfactory transponder implantations for monitoring 
purposes. In over 75% of the treatment sessions, the correction to conventional 
positioning (laser and tattoos) directed by an electromagnetic patient 
positioning and monitoring system was greater than 5 mm. Ninety-seven percent 
(34/35) of the patients who underwent continuous monitoring had target motion 
that exceeded preset limits at some point during the course of their radiation 
therapy. Exceeding preset thresholds resulted in user intervention at least once 
during the therapy in 80% of the patients (28/35). Compared with localization 
using ultrasound, electronic portal imaging devices (EPID), or computed 
tomography (CT), localization with the electromagnetic patient positioning and 
monitoring system yielded superior gains in QALYs at comparable costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Most patients positioned with conventional tattoos and lasers for 
prostate radiation therapy were found by use of the electromagnetic patient 
positioning and monitoring system to have alignment errors exceeding 5 mm. 
Almost all patients undergoing external beam radiation of the prostate have been 
shown to have target organ movement exceeding 3 mm during radiation therapy 
delivery. The ability of the electromagnetic technology to monitor tumor target 
location during the same time as radiation therapy is being delivered allows 
clinicians to provide real time adaptive radiation therapy for prostate cancer. 
This permits clinicians to intervene when the prostate moves outside the 
radiation isocenter, which should decrease adverse events and improve patient 
outcomes. Additionally, a cost-utility analysis has demonstrated that the 
electromagnetic patient positioning and monitoring system offers patient outcome 
benefits at a cost that falls well within the payer's customary willingness to 
pay (WTP) threshold of $50,000 per QALY.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2008.04.017
PMID: 18625565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Jul 14;168(13):1371-86. doi:
10.1001/archinte.168.13.1371.

Statistical models and patient predictors of readmission for heart failure: a 
systematic review.

Ross JS(1), Mulvey GK, Stauffer B, Patlolla V, Bernheim SM, Keenan PS, Krumholz 
HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics and Adult Development, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, One Gustave L Levy Place, Box 1070, New York, NY 10029, USA. 
joseph.ross@mssm.edu

BACKGROUND: Readmission after heart failure (HF) hospitalization is an 
increasing focus for physicians and policy makers, but statistical models are 
needed to assess patient risk and to compare hospital performance. We performed 
a systematic review to describe models designed to compare hospital rates of 
readmission or to predict patients' risk of readmission, as well as to identify 
studies evaluating patient characteristics associated with hospital readmission, 
all among patients admitted for HF.
METHODS: We identified relevant studies published between January 1, 1950, and 
November 19, 2007, by searching MEDLINE, Scopus, PsycINFO, and all 4 Ovid 
Evidence-Based Medicine Reviews. Eligible English-language publications reported 
on readmission after HF hospitalization among adult patients. We excluded 
experimental studies and publications without original data or quantitative 
outcomes.
RESULTS: From 941 potentially relevant articles, 117 met inclusion criteria: 
none contained models to compare readmission rates among hospitals, 5 (4.3%) 
presented models to predict patients' risk of readmission, and 112 (95.7%) 
examined patient characteristics associated with readmission. Studies varied in 
case identification, used multiple types of data sources, found few patient 
characteristics consistently associated with readmission, and examined differing 
outcomes, often either readmission alone or a combined outcome of readmission or 
death, measured across varying periods (from 14 days to 4 years). Two articles 
reported model discriminations of patient readmission risk, both of which were 
modest (C statistic, 0.60 for both).
CONCLUSIONS: Our systematic review identified no model designed to compare 
hospital rates of readmission, while models designed to predict patients' 
readmission risk used heterogeneous approaches and found substantial 
inconsistencies regarding which patient characteristics were predictive. 
Clinically, patient risk stratification is challenging. From a policy 
perspective, a validated risk-standardized statistical model to accurately 
profile hospitals using readmission rates is unavailable in the published 
English-language literature to date.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.13.1371
PMID: 18625917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Clin Infect Dis. 2008 Aug 15;47(4):542-53. doi: 10.1086/590150.

Aging and infectious diseases: workshop on HIV infection and aging: what is 
known and future research directions.

Effros RB(1), Fletcher CV, Gebo K, Halter JB, Hazzard WR, Horne FM, Huebner RE, 
Janoff EN, Justice AC, Kuritzkes D, Nayfield SG, Plaeger SF, Schmader KE, 
Ashworth JR, Campanelli C, Clayton CP, Rada B, Woolard NF, High KP.

Author information:
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, 
USA.

Highly active antiretroviral treatment has resulted in dramatically increased 
life expectancy among patients with HIV infection who are now aging while 
receiving treatment and are at risk of developing chronic diseases associated 
with advanced age. Similarities between aging and the courses of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
suggest that HIV infection compresses the aging process, perhaps accelerating 
comorbidities and frailty. In a workshop organized by the Association of 
Specialty Professors, the Infectious Diseases Society of America, the HIV 
Medical Association, the National Institute on Aging, and the National Institute 
on Allergy and Infectious Diseases, researchers in infectious diseases, 
geriatrics, immunology, and gerontology met to review what is known about HIV 
infection and aging, to identify research gaps, and to suggest high priority 
topics for future research. Answers to the questions posed are likely to help 
prioritize and balance strategies to slow the progression of HIV infection, to 
address comorbidities and drug toxicity, and to enhance understanding about both 
HIV infection and aging.

DOI: 10.1086/590150
PMCID: PMC3130308
PMID: 18627268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. All authors: no 
conflicts.


969. Trop Doct. 2008 Jul;38(3):167-70. doi: 10.1258/td.2007.070124.

Frontoethmoidal meningoencephalocoele repair in Cambodia: outcomes and cost 
comparisons.

Gollogly J(1), Oucheng N, Lauer G, Pinzer T, Lauwers F, Roux FE, Singleton W, 
Douglas S.

Author information:
(1)Children's Surgical Centre, Kien Khleang, Chroy Changvar, Phnom Penh, 
Cambodia. jim@csc.org

In Cambodia, spina bifida is rare, but frontoethmoidal meningoencephalocoeles 
(MECs) are common. Mean life expectancy for patients with congenital MECs may be 
<20 years, but the complex treatment required has not been available in the 
country until recently. During visits by combined neurosurgical/craniofacial 
teams from both Germany and France, a method of repair has been developed that 
is suitable for the local conditions, affordable and has allowed Cambodian 
surgeons to learn how to successfully treat MECs. The surgical technique and 
initial results with 30 patients have been described in a previous publication. 
This paper presents the outcomes of 128 cases and illustrates that it is 
cost-effective for these patients to be treated in Cambodia.

DOI: 10.1258/td.2007.070124
PMID: 18628548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Ann Hematol. 2009 Jan;88(1):1-10. doi: 10.1007/s00277-008-0531-7. Epub 2008
Jul  16.

