(1)Neuroscience Program, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-2520, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2008 Jul;8(1):4-5.

Sirtuins are known to protect cells and extend life span, but our previous 
studies indicated that S. cerevisiae Sir2 can also increase stress sensitivity 
and limit life-span extension. Here we provide evidence for a role of the 
mammalian Sir2 ortholog SirT1 in the sensitization of neurons to oxidative 
damage. SirT1 inhibition increased acetylation and decreased phosphorylation of 
IRS-2; it also reduced activation of the Ras/ERK1/2 pathway, suggesting that 
SirT1 may enhance IGF-I signaling in part by deacetylating IRS-2. Either the 
inhibition of SirT1 or of Ras/ERK1/2 was associated with resistance to oxidative 
damage. Markers of oxidized proteins and lipids were reduced in the brain of old 
SirT1-deficient mice, but the life span of the homozygote knockout mice was 
reduced under both normal and calorie-restricted conditions. These results are 
consistent with findings in S. cerevisiae and other model systems, suggesting 
that mammalian sirtuins can play both protective and proaging roles.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2008.05.004
PMCID: PMC2822839
PMID: 18590691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 1997 Nov;3(3):159-65. doi: 
10.1016/s1353-8020(97)00030-8.

Timely levodopa (LD) administration prolongs survival in Parkinson's disease.

Rajput AH(1), Uitti RJ, Rajput AH, Offord KP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Royal University Hospital, University of 
Saskatchewan, Saskatchewan, Canada S7N OW8.

Levodopa (LD) is the most effective drug for symptomatic control of Parkinsonism 
(PS). As prolonged LD therapy leads to response failure; is associated with 
adverse effects; may accelerate disease process, and its impact on life 
expectancy is controversial, delaying LD use has been recommended. We studied 
934 PS cases including 859 Parkinson's disease (PD) patients over twenty-two 
years (1968-1990) to identify: (i) survival change coincident with widespread LD 
use and (ii) the critical level of disease severity when LD influences survival. 
Survival was measured from the date of first assessment until the last 
evaluation for a cumulative 3563 person-years of follow-up and compared with 
that expected in the general population of the same age, sex and year of birth. 
A Cox regression model was used to identify independent clinical predictors of 
survival. The observed to expected survival was reduced significantly in PS. 
Dementia and advanced disability at initial assessment and the final non-PD 
diagnosis, each was independently associated with poor survival. Survival 
improved significantly coincident with the widespread unrestricted access to LD 
(p = 0.024 - < 0.001) compared to pre-levodopa era cases. Life expectancy was 
longest in the more recent non-demented PD cases. When the major disease and 
treatment related factors were considered the timely use of levodopa in the 
recent cases resulted in improved survival compared to the earlier cases who 
received LD later in the course of illness. When LD naive cases were considered, 
survival was significantly reduced if the drug was delayed until Stage 3 Hoehn 
and Yahr, but not so if the patients remained untreated during Stages 1 and 2 
Hoehn andYahr[1]. Life expectancy in PD has increased significantly since the 
widespread use of LD. This benefit is evident only if LD therapy is initiated 
before the patient reaches Stage 2.5 disability [2].

DOI: 10.1016/s1353-8020(97)00030-8
PMID: 18591070


889. Obstet Gynecol. 2008 Jul;112(1):56-63. doi: 10.1097/AOG.0b013e31817d53a4.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of endometrial cancer prevention strategies for 
obese women.

Kwon JS(1), Lu KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, 
USA. jskwon@mdanderson.org

OBJECTIVE: It is unknown whether obese women would benefit from oral 
contraceptives or screening as endometrial cancer prevention strategies. We 
estimated the net health benefits and cost-effectiveness of these strategies in 
a hypothetical cohort of obese women.
METHODS: A Markov decision-analytic model evaluated 4 strategies: 1) no 
prevention (reference strategy); 2) oral contraceptive pills (OCPs) for 5 years; 
3) annual screening with endometrial biopsy from age 30; 4) biennial screening 
from age 30. Net health benefit was life expectancy and primary outcome was the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Baseline and transition probabilities were 
obtained from published literature and the Surveillance Epidemiology and End 
Results database, and costs were from the U.S. Department of Health and Human 
Services and Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed for uncertainty around various measures.
RESULTS: Average life expectancy for all strategies ranged from 74.52 to 74.60 
years. None of the strategies had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio less 
than $50,000 per year of life saved relative to the next best strategy. 
Endometrial cancer risk in obese women had to be 13 times greater than the 
general population risk before OCPs were a cost-effective intervention.
CONCLUSION: Oral contraceptives and current screening methods are not 
cost-effective endometrial cancer prevention strategies for obese women. Risk 
factors such as morbid obesity and longstanding anovulation may define a 
subgroup at highest risk of endometrial cancer for whom OCPs may be a 
cost-effective strategy. Interventions that reduce endometrial cancer risk 
further or those with additional health benefits are needed in this population.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: III.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0b013e31817d53a4
PMID: 18591308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Neurology. 2008 Jul 1;71(1):21-7. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000316393.54258.d1.

Economic cost of Guillain-Barré syndrome in the United States.

Frenzen PD(1).

Author information:
(1)Economic Research Service, US Department of Agriculture, 1800 M Street, N.W., 
Washington, DC 20036-5831, USA. pfrenzen@ers.usda.gov

Comment in
    Neurology. 2009 Apr 7;72(14):1282; author reply 1282.

OBJECTIVE: This study estimated the annual economic cost of Guillain-Barré 
syndrome (GBS) in the United States in 2004, including the direct costs of 
medical care and the indirect costs due to lost productivity and premature 
death.
METHODS: The cost-of-illness method was used to determine the costs of medical 
care and lost productivity, and a modified value of a statistical life approach 
was used to determine the cost of premature deaths. Data were obtained from the 
Nationwide Inpatient Sample, the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey, the 
Compressed Mortality File, a telephone survey of 180 adult patients with GBS, 
and other sources.
RESULTS: The estimated annual cost of GBS was $1.7 billion (95% CI, $1.6 to 1.9 
billion), including $0.2 billion (14%) in direct medical costs and $1.5 billion 
(86%) in indirect costs. Most of the medical costs were for community hospital 
admissions. Most of the indirect costs were due to premature deaths. The mean 
cost per patient with GBS was $318,966 (95% CI, $278,378 to 359,554).
CONCLUSIONS: The economic cost of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) was substantial, 
and largely due to disability and death. The cost estimate summarizes the 
lifetime health burden due to GBS in monetary terms, and provides some of the 
information needed to assess the cost-effectiveness of health measures that 
affect GBS.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000316393.54258.d1
PMID: 18591502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. J Bone Joint Surg Br. 2008 Jul;90(7):946-51. doi:
10.1302/0301-620X.90B7.20577.

The outcome of surgical intervention for early deformity in young ambulant 
children with bilateral spastic cerebral palsy.

Gough M(1), Schneider P, Shortland AP.

Author information:
(1)Gait Laboratory, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Guy's Hospital, 
St Thomas' Street, London SE1 9RT, UK. Martin.Gough@gstt.nhs.uk

We reviewed the outcome in 24 children with bilateral spastic cerebral palsy 
aged seven years or younger for whom surgery was recommended between 1999 and 
2005 following gait analysis. A total of 13 children (operative group) had 
surgery and the remaining 11 (control group) did not, for family or 
administrative reasons. The operative group had at least two post-operative gait 
analyses at yearly intervals, with eight children having a third and six 
children a fourth. The control group had a second analysis after a mean interval 
of 1.5 years (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 1.9). In the operative group, the 
Gillette gait index, the ranges of movement in the lower limb joint and knee 
extension in stance improved following surgery, and this was maintained overall 
at the second post-operative analysis. The minimum knee flexion in stance in the 
control group increased between analyses. These results suggest that surgical 
intervention in selected children can result in improvements in gait and 
function in the short to medium term compared with non-operative management.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.90B7.20577
PMID: 18591608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Ann Intern Med. 2008 Jul 1;149(1):11-9. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-149-1-200807010-00005.

The effect of comorbid illness and functional status on the expected benefits of 
intensive glucose control in older patients with type 2 diabetes: a decision 
analysis.

Huang ES(1), Zhang Q, Gandra N, Chin MH, Meltzer DO.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. 
ehuang@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Comment in
    Nat Clin Pract Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Feb;5(2):78-9.

BACKGROUND: Physicians are uncertain about when to pursue intensive glucose 
control among older patients with diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of comorbid illnesses and functional status, 
mediated through background mortality, on the expected benefits of intensive 
glucose control.
DESIGN: Decision analysis.
DATA SOURCES: Major clinical studies in diabetes and geriatrics.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients 60 to 80 years of age who have type 2 diabetes and 
varied life expectancies estimated from a mortality index that was validated at 
the population level.
TIME HORIZON: Patient lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Health care system.
INTERVENTION: Intensive glucose control (hemoglobin A1c [HbA1c] level of 7.0) 
versus moderate glucose control (HbA1c level of 7.9).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime differences in incidence of complications and average 
quality-adjusted days.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Healthy older patients of different age groups 
had expected benefits of intensive glucose control ranging from 51 to 116 
quality-adjusted days. Within each age group, the expected benefits of intensive 
control steadily declined as the level of comorbid illness and functional 
impairment increased (mortality index score, 1 to 26 points). For patients 60 to 
64 years of age with new-onset diabetes, the benefits declined from 106 days at 
baseline good health (life expectancy, 14.6 years) to 44 days with 3 additional 
index points (life expectancy, 9.7 years) and 8 days with 7 additional index 
points (life expectancy, 4.8 years). A similar decline in benefits occurred 
among patients with prolonged duration of diabetes.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: With alternative model assumptions (such as 
Framingham models), expected benefits of intensive control declined as mortality 
index scores increased.
LIMITATIONS: Diabetes clinical trial data were lacking for frail, older 
patients. The mortality index was not validated for use in predicting 
individual-level life expectancies. Adverse effects of intensive control were 
not taken into account.
CONCLUSION: Among older diabetic patients, the presence of multiple comorbid 
illnesses or functional impairments is a more important predictor of limited 
life expectancy and diminishing expected benefits of intensive glucose control 
than is age alone.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-149-1-200807010-00005
PMCID: PMC2562733
PMID: 18591633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Med Law. 2008 Mar;27(1):29-51.

The political economy of health policy in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Cook CT(1), Kalu K.

Author information:
(1)General Studies Program, Global Culture: African Culture, New York 
University, New York, USA.

This paper discusses the health status of Sub-Saharan Africa focusing on 
infectious and parasitic diseases, HIV/AIDS, maternal and child health, famine, 
and political instability. Its contention is that Africa is stuck in the second 
stage of the demographic transition (high birth rate, low death rate) and the 
first stage of the epidemiological transition (deaths related to pestilence, 
famine, and war). Africa's lack of sustainable development is attributed to 
ineffective governmental policy and leadership. The prognosis is that the health 
and well-being of Africa's most vulnerable population, women and children, will 
improve when government shifts its attention from external funding and affairs 
to internal and concentrates on retaining Africa's 'talented tenth'; that the 
'brain drain' and political instability has robbed Africa of its most talented 
young people, medical and science professionals, who are needed to provide 
primary care and development to a region with a high mortality rate, a low life 
expectancy, and a low per capita income.

PMID: 18592880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2008 Jun;20(3):195-200. doi: 10.1007/BF03324769.

Functional and physiological characteristics of the aging skin.

Farage MA(1), Miller KW, Elsner P, Maibach HI.

Author information:
(1)The Procter & Gamble Company, Winton Hill Business Center, Cincinnati, OH 
45224, USA. farage.m@pg.com

As life expectancy in the U.S. increases - and with it the proportion of the 
aged in the population - appropriate care of elderly skin becomes a medical 
concern of increasing importance. As skin ages, the intrinsic structural changes 
that are a natural consequence of passing time are inevitably followed by 
subsequent physiological changes that affect the skin's ability to function as 
the interface between internal and external environments. The pH of the skin 
surface increases with age, increasing its susceptibility to infection. 
Neurosensory perception of superficial pain is diminished both in intensity and 
speed of perception (increasing the risk of thermal injury); deep tissue pain, 
however, may be enhanced. A decline in lipid content as the skin ages inhibits 
the permeability of nonlipophilic compounds, reducing the efficacy of some 
topical medications. Allergic and irritant reactions are blunted, as is the 
inflammatory response, compromising the ability of the aged skin to affect wound 
repair. These functional impairments (although a predictable consequence of 
intrinsic structural changes) have the potential to cause significant morbidity 
in the elderly patient and may, as well, be greatly exacerbated by extrinsic 
factors like photodamage. As numbers of the elderly increase, medical as well as 
cosmetic dermatological interventions will be necessary to optimize the quality 
of life for this segment of the population.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324769
PMID: 18594185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. J Orthop Trauma. 2008 Jul;22(6):432-8. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31817e793f.

Platelet rich concentrate: basic science and current clinical applications.

Mehta S(1), Watson JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Pennsylvania Health System, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.samir.mehta@uphs.upenn.edu

Improvements in resuscitation, dissemination of ATLS protocols, and growth of 
regional and local trauma centers has increased the survivability after severe 
traumatic injuries. Furthermore, advances in medical management have increased 
life expectancy and also patients with orthopaedic injuries. While mechanical 
stabilization has been a hallmark of orthopaedic fracture care, orthobiologics 
are playing an increasing role in the management of these patients with complex 
injuries. Platelet-rich concentrate is an autologous concentration of platelets 
and growth factors, including transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), 
vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and platelet-derived growth factor 
(PDGF). The enhancement of bone and soft tissue healing by the placement of 
supraphysiologic concentration of autologous platelets at the site of tissue 
injury or surgery is supported by basic science and clinical studies. Due to the 
increased concentration and release of these factors, platelet-rich plasma can 
potentially enhance the recruitment and proliferation of tenocytes, stem cells, 
and endothelial cells. A better understanding of platelet function and 
appropriate clinical use is essential in achieving the desired outcomes of 
platelet-rich concentrate in orthopaedic clinical applications.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31817e793f
PMID: 18594311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Health Stat Q. 2008 Summer;(38):6-18.

Geographical variations in premature mortality in England and Wales, 1981-2006.

Wells C(1), Gordon E.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

Levels of premature mortality in England and Wales have declined markedly over 
time, with the probability of survival to age 75 increasing from 38 to 66 per 
cent for males, and from 54 to 77 per cent for females, between 1950 and 2004. 
To assess the application of this measure to monitor premature mortality in 
sub-national geographical areas, this article presents an analysis of the 
probability of survival at local authority level. Results for 1981-83 and 
2004-06 are presented for Government Office Regions in England, Wales and local 
authorities in England and Wales. Significant differences in premature mortality 
are described within, and between, regions. Patterns of probability of survival 
to age 75 for local authorities are compared with other measures of mortality.

PMID: 18595384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2007;53(3):134-9.

[Prosthetic treatment needs among the elder in Germany].

[Article in Polish]

Fraczak B(1), Lupa-Bühmann J, Sobolewska E.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Protetyki Stomatologicznej Pomorskiej Akademii Medycznej w Szczecinie, 
Szczecin.

INTRODUCTION: The life expectancy has significantly increased in the last 100 
years. Therefore it has to be taken into account that many patients who come to 
the dentist are over 60. In this group of patients, you should pay attention to 
geriatric aspects of medical history and treatment plan. Nowadays as well as in 
the past, teeth loss correlates with the age especially thus with the branch of 
dentistry which is prosthetics. The aim of this study was to define: 1) the 
condition of the masticatory system of people over 60 who live with their 
families or at the nursing home; 2) the assessment of prosthetics needs of these 
groups; 3) differences (if occure) in these examined groups; 4) coexistence of 
general diseases.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was conducted on the group of 100 elder people 
in the range of age between 61-95. First group constituted 50 patients from 
nursing home in Hannover next 50 patients were treated in private dental 
practice in Lohne. The study included medical history and the dental 
examination. The dental examination focused on the inspection of the face 
symmetry, condition of TMJ, teeth, mucosa and the type of dental appliences as 
well as the level of oral hygiene.
RESULTS: The proper condition of masticatory system was classified in 58% of 
patients from nursing home and 62% of patients from private practice. Only in 
60% of patients from both of group the proper shape of the temporo-mandibular 
joint was determinated. Patients who suffered from general diseases constituted 
72% of those living in nursing home and 66% those from private practice. Among 
these patients, the circulatory system problems were the most frequent and the 
diabetes occure almost equally often. 42% of patients from nursing home 
determinated need to weave dentures or other dental appliences in comparison to 
32% from private practice.
CONCLUSIONS: The condition of the masticatory system was inefficient in both 
groups but the dental needs of patients from nursing home were significantly 
higher.

PMID: 18595496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2007;53(3):148-56.

[Views of students of extension nursing studies about cancer prophylaxis].

[Article in Polish]

Majewski WD(1), Majewska A.

Author information:
(1)Samodzielna Pracownia Pielegniarstwa Chirurgicznego Pomorskiej Akademii 
Medycznej w Szczecinie, Szczecin.

INTRODUCTION: Cancer prophylaxis seems nowadays to be the more and more powerful 
tool in fight with these serious diseases. The aim of this work is to find out 
opinions of students of nursing extension studies on contemporary cancer 
prophylaxis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The question about possibilities of practical efforts for 
prophylaxis and early detection of cancer was directed to 160 students of four 
consecutive years (2002-2006), at the end of the fourth year of lasting five and 
a half years extension nursing studies, during ending exam on subject: 
oncological nursing. There were 154 women and 6 men, predominantly at their 
third decade of life, with nursing experience approximately more than 5 years.
RESULTS: Out of 160 asked students, 131 of them firstly indicated necessity of 
breast cancer prophylaxis, 117 mentioned lung cancer, 113 cervix cancer, 95 
colorectal cancer, 33 prostate cancer. In families with cancer problems, more 
frequent control investigations (23 answers), and genetic tests (16) were called 
for. Patients should be qualified to appropriate risk groups (13) and controlled 
more frequently there (24). Apart from necessary wide education in media (126) 
personal contact with patient to discuss his or her personal problems relating 
to cancer is needed (91). If atypical symptoms are self-detected by patients it 
should alert them to not neglect and contact family physician (33). Healthy diet 
(62) containing fresh vegetables and fruits (73), high fibre diet (42) with less 
animal fat (38) and less red meat (30), containing no preservative agents (45) 
is recommended. Increased physical activity (84) to cease or reduce smoking 
(102), and alcohol intake (55), limited exposition to ultraviolet rays (49), and 
systematic controls of breast (105), uterus cervix (88), lungs (77), colon (55) 
and prostate (28) are proposed. The pollution of environment by combustion gases 
and smokes (34) not excluding risk factors of medical workplace (29) are 
mentioned as cancerogenic factors.
CONCLUSIONS: In the time of increasing incidence of cancer in Poland it is 
necessary to elaborate a complex model of primary cancer prophylaxis and early 
detection of it and to implement it in practice. For better effectiveness of 
such systemic solution wide involvement of nursing staff is mandatory. Nurses 
should be, very well and consciously prepared to play their role through 
adequate educational efforts undertaken during nursing studies.

PMID: 18595498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2008 Sep;3(5):1379-84. doi: 10.2215/CJN.00940208.
Epub  2008 Jul 2.

Utility of the "surprise" question to identify dialysis patients with high 
mortality.

Moss AH(1), Ganjoo J, Sharma S, Gansor J, Senft S, Weaner B, Dalton C, MacKay K, 
Pellegrino B, Anantharaman P, Schmidt R.

Author information:
(1)Section of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, West 
Virginia University, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-9022, USA. 
amoss@hsc.wvu.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Dialysis patients are increasingly characterized by 
older age, multiple comorbidities, and shortened life expectancy. This study 
investigated whether the "surprise" question, "Would I be surprised if this 
patient died in the next year?" identifies patients who are at high risk for 
early mortality.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: This prospective cohort study of 
147 patients in three hemodialysis dialysis units classified patients into "yes" 
and "no" groups on the basis of the "surprise" question response and tracked 
patient status (alive or dead) at 12 mo. Demographics, Charlson Comorbidity 
Index score, and Karnofsky Performance Status score were measured.
RESULTS: Initially, 34 (23%) patients were classified in the "no" group. 
Compared with the 113 patients in the "yes" group, the patients in the "no" 
group were older (72.5 +/- 12.8 versus 64.5 +/- 14.9), had a higher comorbidity 
score (7.1 +/- 2.3 versus 5.8 +/- 2.1), and had a lower performance status score 
(69.7 +/- 17.1 versus 81.6 +/- 15.8). At 12 mo, 22 (15%) patients had died; the 
mortality rate for the "no" group was 29.4% and for the "yes" group was 10.6%. 
The odds of dying within 1 yr for the patients in the "no" group were 3.5 times 
higher than for patients in the "yes" group, (odds ratio 3.507, 95% CI 1.356 to 
9.067, P = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The "surprise" question is effective in identifying sicker dialysis 
patients who have a high risk for early mortality and should receive priority 
for palliative care interventions.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.00940208
PMCID: PMC2518805
PMID: 18596118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. CA Cancer J Clin. 2008 Jul-Aug;58(4):231-44. doi: 10.3322/ca.2008.0008.

Economic evaluations of medical care interventions for cancer patients: how, 
why, and what does it mean?

Shih YC(1), Halpern MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Division of Quantitative Sciences, The 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.

While the past decade has seen the development of multiple new interventions to 
diagnose and treat cancer, as well as to improve the quality of life for cancer 
patients, many of these interventions have substantial costs. This has resulted 
in increased scrutiny of the costs of care for cancer, as well as the costs 
relative to the benefits for cancer treatments. It is important for oncologists 
and other members of the cancer community to consider and understand how 
economic evaluations of cancer interventions are performed and to be able to use 
and critique these evaluations. This review discusses the components, main 
types, and analytic issues of health economic evaluations using studies of 
cancer interventions as examples. We also highlight limitations of these 
economic evaluations and discuss why members of the cancer community should care 
about economic analyses.

DOI: 10.3322/ca.2008.0008
PMID: 18596196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2008;1130:68-77. doi: 10.1196/annals.1430.038.

Fluorescence interferometry: principles and applications in biology.

Bilenca A(1), Cao J, Colice M, Ozcan A, Bouma B, Raftery L, Tearney G.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School and Wellman Center for Photomedicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, 50 Blossom St., BAR 720, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. 
abilenca@partners.org

The use of fluorescence radiation is of fundamental importance for tackling 
measurement problems in the life sciences, with recent demonstrations of probing 
biological systems at the nanoscale. Usually, fluorescent light-based tools and 
techniques use the intensity of light waves, which is easily measured by 
detectors. However, the phase of a fluorescence wave contains subtle, but no 
less important, information about the wave; yet, it has been largely unexplored. 
Here, we introduce the concept of fluorescence interferometry to allow the 
measurement of phase information of fluorescent light waves. In principle, 
fluorescence interferometry can be considered a unique form of optical 
low-coherence interferometry that uses fluorophores as a light source of low 
temporal coherence. Fluorescence interferometry opens up new avenues for 
developing new fluorescent light-based imaging, sensing, ranging, and profiling 
methods that to some extent resemble interferometric techniques based on white 
light sources. We propose two experimental realizations of fluorescence 
interferometry that detect the interference pattern cast by the fluorescence 
fields. This article discusses their measurement capabilities and limitations 
and compares them with those offered by optical low-coherence interferometric 
schemes. We also describe applications of fluorescence interferometry to 
imaging, ranging, and profiling tasks and present experimental evidences of 
wide-field cross-sectional imaging with high resolution and large range of 
depth, as well as quantitative profiling with nanometer-level precision. 
Finally, we point out future research directions in fluorescence interferometry, 
such as fluorescence tomography of whole organisms and the extension to 
molecular interferometry by means of quantum dots and bioluminescence.

DOI: 10.1196/annals.1430.038
PMID: 18596334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. PLoS One. 2008 Jul 2;3(7):e2592. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002592.

Mating with stressed males increases the fitness of ant queens.

Schrempf A(1), Heinze J.

Author information:
(1)Biologie I, Universität Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany. 
alexandra.schrempf@biologie.uni-regensburg.de

BACKGROUND: According to sexual conflict theory, males can increase their own 
fitness by transferring substances during copulation that increase the 
short-term fecundity of their mating partners at the cost of the future life 
expectancy and re-mating capability of the latter. In contrast, sexual 
cooperation is expected in social insects. Mating indeed positively affects life 
span and fecundity of young queens of the male-polymorphic ant Cardiocondyla 
obscurior, even though males neither provide nuptial gifts nor any other care 
but leave their mates immediately after copulation and die shortly thereafter.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here, we show that mating with winged disperser males has a 
significantly stronger impact on life span and reproductive success of young 
queens of C. obscurior than mating with wingless fighter males.
CONCLUSIONS: Winged males are reared mostly under stressful environmental 
conditions, which force young queens to disperse and found their own societies 
independently. In contrast, queens that mate with wingless males under 
favourable conditions usually start reproducing in the safety of the established 
maternal nest. Our study suggests that males of C. obscurior have evolved 
mechanisms to posthumously assist young queens during colony founding under 
adverse ecological conditions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0002592
PMCID: PMC2434203
PMID: 18596983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


903. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2008;6 Suppl 4:S1-25; quiz S26-7.

NCCN Task Force Report: breast cancer in the older woman.

Carlson RW, Moench S, Hurria A, Balducci L, Burstein HJ, Goldstein LJ, Gradishar 
WJ, Hughes KS, Jahanzeb M, Lichtman SM, Marks LB, McClure JS, McCormick B, 
Nabell LM, Pierce LJ, Smith ML, Topham NS, Traina TA, Ward JH, Winer EP.

Breast cancer is common in older women, and the segment of the U.S. population 
aged 65 years and older is growing rapidly. Consequently, awareness is 
increasing of the need to identify breast cancer treatment recommendations to 
assure optimal, individualized treatment of older women with breast cancer. 
However, the development of these recommendations is limited by the 
heterogeneous nature of this population with respect to functional status, 
social support, life expectancy, and the presence of comorbidities, and by the 
underrepresentation of older patients with breast cancer in randomized clinical 
trials. The NCCN Breast Cancer in the Older Woman Task Force was convened to 
provide a forum for framing relevant questions on topics that impact older women 
with early-stage, locally advanced, and metastatic breast cancer. The task force 
is a multidisciplinary panel of 18 experts in breast cancer representing medical 
oncology, radiation oncology, surgical oncology, geriatric oncology, geriatrics, 
plastic surgery, and patient advocacy. All task force members were from NCCN 
institutions and were identified and invited solely by NCCN. Members were 
charged with identifying evidence relevant to their specific expertise. During a 
2-day meeting, individual members provided didactic presentations; these 
presentations were followed by extensive discussions during which areas of 
consensus and controversy were identified on topics such as defining the "older" 
breast cancer patient; geriatric assessment tools in the oncology setting; 
attitudes of older patients with breast cancer and their physicians; tumor 
biology in older versus younger women with breast cancer; implementation of 
specific interventions in older patients with breast cancer, such as curative 
surgery, surgical axillary staging, radiation therapy, reconstructive surgery, 
endocrine therapy, chemotherapy, HER2-directed therapy, and supportive 
therapies; and areas requiring future studies.

PMID: 18597715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Vaccine. 2008 Aug 18;26(35):4608-16. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.05.086.
Epub  2008 Jun 13.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of universal childhood hepatitis A vaccination in 
China.

Zhuang GH(1), Pan XJ, Wang XL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Medicine, Xi'an 
Jiaotong University, Xi'an, Shaanxi 710061, China. zhuanggh@mail.xjtu.edu.cn

The socioeconomic improvement has impacted hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection 
with a shift from high to intermediate endemicity in many parts of China. The 
first China-developed inactivated hepatitis A vaccine, with significantly low 
price, was licensed in 2002, prompting us to evaluate whether universal 
childhood vaccination is advisable now in China. We considered vaccination 
scheduled at ages 12 and 18 months for all healthy children, and assumed that a 
single cohort was enrolled in 2005. A Markov model was used to predict hepatitis 
A outcomes and costs. Vaccination was compared with no vaccination, and the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccination was evaluated from the health system and the 
societal perspectives. The analysis was run separately in five regions (covering 
all the 31 provinces of Mainland China) defined by anti-HAV prevalence (around 
50%, 50-69%, 70-79%, 80-89% and 90%-). The study projects that with the Chinese 
low-cost vaccine, vaccination could gain quality adjusted life years (QALYs) 
through the whole country and save health system or societal costs in the 
lowest, lower, intermediate and higher infection regions. Vaccination should 
also be cost-effective in the highest infection region because of low additional 
costs per QALY gained. However, vaccination would increase the probability of 
death due to hepatitis A in the highest and higher infection regions by 38 and 
37 per million enrolled, respectively, and as vaccine protection loss increases 
the risk would also occur in intermediate and lower infection regions. The trend 
that the lower infection level the region has, the more cost-effective 
vaccination would be is obvious. Sensitivity analyses prove that our conclusions 
are robust. Considering the potential risk of vaccination, as well as unbalanced 
socioeconomic developments and significant differences in HAV infection through 
the whole country, the study suggests that universal childhood hepatitis A 
vaccination should be first administrated in provinces with the lowest infection 
level. With knowledge accumulation and further evaluations, the zone of 
immunization would be considered to be expanded gradually from provinces with 
lower infection level to those with higher.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.05.086
PMID: 18597903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Proc Nutr Soc. 2008 May;67(OCE):E111. doi: 10.1017/S002966510800743X.

A cost-utility analysis in patients receiving enteral tube feeding at home and 
in nursing homes.

Stratton RJ(1), Elia M; British Artificial Nutrition Survey (BANS).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Nutrition, University of Southampton, Southampton SO16 
6YD, UK.

DOI: 10.1017/S002966510800743X
PMID: 18598439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Vaccine. 2008 Aug 18;26(35):4513-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.06.045. Epub
 2008 Jul 1.

The potential health and economic benefits of preventing recurrent respiratory 
papillomatosis through quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccination.

Chesson HW(1), Forhan SE, Gottlieb SL, Markowitz LE.

Author information:
(1)Division of STD Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, 
STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, 
USA. HChesson@cdc.gov

We estimated the health and economic benefits of preventing recurrent 
respiratory papillomatosis (RRP) through quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccination. We applied a simple mathematical model to estimate the averted 
costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) saved by preventing RRP in 
children whose mothers had been vaccinated at age 12 years. Under base case 
assumptions, the prevention of RRP would avert an estimated USD 31 (range: USD 
2-178) in medical costs (2006 US dollars) and save 0.00016 QALYs (range: 
0.00001-0.00152) per 12-year-old girl vaccinated. Including the benefits of RRP 
reduced the estimated cost per QALY gained by HPV vaccination by roughly 14-21% 
in the base case and by <2% to >100% in the sensitivity analyses. More precise 
estimates of the incidence of RRP are needed, however, to quantify this impact 
more reliably.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.06.045
PMID: 18598734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Jan-Feb;44(1-2):93-100. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.05.017.
 Epub 2008 Jun 13.

Running on empty: how p53 controls INS/IGF signaling and affects life span.

Scrable H(1), Medrano S, Ungewitter E.

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia, Department of Neuroscience, Charlottesville, 
Virginia, USA. hs2n@virginia.edu

In higher organisms dependent on the regenerative ability of tissue stem cells 
to maintain tissue integrity throughout adulthood, the failure of stem cells to 
replace worn out, dead, or damaged cells is seen as one mechanism that limits 
life span. In these organisms, tumor suppressors such as p53 are central 
participants in the control of longevity because they regulate stem cell 
proliferation. Several recent reports have identified p53 as a longevity gene in 
organisms such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, which lack 
proliferative stem cells in all but the germline and have relatively short life 
spans. This has forced us to reevaluate the role of p53 in the control of life 
span. We discuss how p53 might regulate longevity in both long- and short-lived 
species by controlling the activity of insulin-like molecules that operate in 
proliferating and non-proliferating compartments of adult somatic tissues. We 
also discuss the hierarchical structure of life span regulation where loss of 
p53 has life span extending effects. Finally, we suggest a molecular mechanism 
by which p53 might facilitate the response to severe nutrient deprivation that 
allows metabolically active cells to survive periods of starvation. 
Paradoxically, loss of p53 function in these cells would compromise life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.05.017
PMCID: PMC2764313
PMID: 18598747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2008 Sep;34(3):514-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.05.036.  Epub 2008 Jul 2.

Side effects, complications and outcome of thoracoscopic sympathectomy for 
palmar and axillary hyperhidrosis in 406 patients.

Rodríguez PM(1), Freixinet JL, Hussein M, Valencia JM, Gil RM, Herrero J, 
Caballero-Hidalgo A.

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Surgery Department, Hospital Universitario de Gran Canaria "Dr. 
Negrín", C/ Barranco de la Ballena s/n, 35020 Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Thoracic sympathectomy (TS) is the treatment of choice for severe 
primary hyperhidrosis. However, complications, side effects and satisfaction 
have not been well defined.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the complications, side effects, satisfaction degree and 
quality of life of patients after TS for primary upper limb hyperhidrosis.
METHODS: One-year follow-up after 406 consecutive TS for primary upper limb 
hyperhidrosis.
RESULTS: Bilateral TS was completed in all patients. Complications arose in 23 
cases (5.6%), with pneumothorax being the most frequent. The success rate after 
discharge, 6 and 12 months was respectively, 100%, 98.1% and 96.5% for 
palmo-axillary hyperhidrosis; 100%, 99.3% and 97.8% for isolated palmar 
hyperhidrosis and 100%, 85.7% and 71.4% for isolated axillary hyperhidrosis. No 
persistence of hyperhidrosis was observed. Global recurrence was 3.7% (28.5% 
axillary hyperhidrosis group). Compensatory sweating (CS) appeared in 55% and 
was not related to the extension of the TS. Being female was a predisposing 
factor of CS (p<0.004). Excessive dryness appeared at 9% and was associated with 
extensive TS (P<0.001). Plantar hyperhidrosis improved at 33.6%, worsened at 10% 
and remained stable during the follow-up. Satisfaction degree decreased with the 
passage of time and was associated with recurrence. Quality of life was 
excellent at discharge, 6 and 12 month in 100%, 100% and 97%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Pneumothorax is the most frequent complication of TS. CS is the 
main and undesirable side effect, appears with the passage of time, and is not 
related to the extension of TS. Being female is the only predictor factor of 
suffering CS. Plantar hyperhidrosis improves initially, although tends to 
reappear. Excessive dryness appears in extensive TS and does not improve over 
time. Postoperative satisfaction degree is high but decreases over time owing to 
the appearance of recurrence. Effectiveness and the absence of CS determine an 
excellent quality of life. Six percent of the patients regret the surgery 
because of severe CS. Informing patients of possible side effects before TS is 
essential.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.05.036
PMID: 18599303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Plant Physiol. 2008 Sep;148(1):620-41. doi: 10.1104/pp.108.123141. Epub 2008
Jul  3.

Proteome-wide characterization of seed aging in Arabidopsis: a comparison 
between artificial and natural aging protocols.

Rajjou L(1), Lovigny Y, Groot SP, Belghazi M, Job C, Job D.

Author information:
(1)UMR 204, INRA-AgroParisTech, Laboratoire de Biologie des Semences, 
AgroParisTech, Chaire de Physiologie Végétale, F-75231 Paris cedex 05, France. 
loic.rajjou@agroparistech.fr

A variety of mechanisms have been proposed to account for the extension of life 
span in seeds (seed longevity). In this work, we used Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis 
thaliana) seeds as a model and carried out differential proteomics to 
investigate this trait, which is of both ecological and agricultural importance. 
In our system based on a controlled deterioration treatment (CDT), we compared 
seed samples treated for different periods of time up to 7 d. Germination tests 
showed a progressive decrease of germination vigor depending on the duration of 
CDT. Proteomic analyses revealed that this loss in seed vigor can be accounted 
for by protein changes in the dry seeds and by an inability of the low-vigor 
seeds to display a normal proteome during germination. Furthermore, CDT strongly 
increased the extent of protein oxidation (carbonylation), which might induce a 
loss of functional properties of seed proteins and enzymes and/or enhance their 
susceptibility toward proteolysis. These results revealed essential mechanisms 
for seed vigor, such as translational capacity, mobilization of seed storage 
reserves, and detoxification efficiency. Finally, this work shows that similar 
molecular events accompany artificial and natural seed aging.

DOI: 10.1104/pp.108.123141
PMCID: PMC2528126
PMID: 18599647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Jun;18(6):1024-32.

Molecular analysis of the Salmonella typhimurium tdc operon regulation.

Kim MJ(1), Lim S, Ryu S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Animal Biotechnology, School of Agricultural 
Biotechnology, Center for Agricultural Biomaterials, and Research Institute for 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea.

Efficient expression of the Salmonella Typhimurium tdcABCDEG operon involved in 
the degradation of Lserine and L-threonine requires TdcA, the transcriptional 
activator of the tdc operon. We found that the tdcA gene was transiently 
activated when bacterial growth condition was changed from aerobic to anaerobic, 
but this was not observed if Salmonella was grown anaerobically from the 
beginning of the culture. Expression kinetics of six tdc genes after anaerobic 
shock demonstrated by a real-time PCR assay showed that the tdcCDEG genes were 
not induced in tdcA mutant but tdcB maintained its inducibility by anaerobic 
shock even in the absence of tdcA, suggesting that an additional unknown 
transcriptional regulation may work for the tdcB expression. We also 
investigated the effects of nucleoid-associated proteins by primer extension 
analysis and found that H-NS repressed tdcA under anaerobic shock conditions and 
fis mutation delayed the peak expression time of the tdc operon. DNA microarray 
analysis of genes regulated by TdcA revealed that the genes involved in 
Nacetylmannosamine, maltose, and propanediol utilization were significantly 
induced in a tdcA mutant. These findings suggest that Tdc enzymes may play a 
pivotal role in energy metabolism under a sudden change of oxygen tension.

PMID: 18600042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2008 Jul;19(5):333-40. doi: 
10.1097/MBC.0b013e328300c814.

Consensus opinion for the selection and use of therapeutic products for the 
treatment of haemophilia in Spain.

Batlle J(1), Villar A, Liras A, Alonso C, Altisent C, Brito D, Moreno M, Lucía 
F, Sedano C, Prieto M, Calvente N, Aznar JA, Jiménez V, Soriano V, Martorell JR, 
Iruín G, Bergua JM, Aguilar C.

Author information:
(1)Scientific Committee, Royal Foundation Victoria Eugenia, Madrid, Spain. 
jbattle@canalejo.org

The period between isolation of HIV in the early 1980s and the development of 
effective viral inactivation procedures able to eradicate the virus from the 
blood supply was long and unfortunately many recipients of blood-derived 
products became infected; this translated into a devastating impact on their 
quality of life, quality of care as well as on their life expectancy. Some years 
later, hepatitis C virus infection was identified as another known blood-borne 
disease complicating the treatment of haemophilia. Nowadays, the potential 
threat of emerging new pathogens has stressed the need to provide effective but 
primarily safe products with regard to infectious agents, as well as to 
regularly update therapeutic guidelines for haemophilia. The aim of the present 
publication was to review some of the crucial aspects related to the choice of 
haemostatic concentrates for the treatment of haemophilia and other inherited 
bleeding disorders, to analyse the current situation in the United States, 
Canada and European Union countries and to report the most relevant aspects of 
the Spanish consensus opinion of haemophilia-treating doctors for the use of 
therapeutic products for haemophilia recently issued. Essentially, it suggests 
that a gradual switch to recombinant concentrates may be a beneficial decision 
for patients with haemophilia and for the National Health Service.

DOI: 10.1097/MBC.0b013e328300c814
PMID: 18600079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Reprod Toxicol. 2008 Sep;26(1):47-50. doi: 10.1016/j.reprotox.2008.06.004.
Epub  2008 Jun 18.

An analysis of the results from Two-Generation Reproduction Toxicity Studies to 
assess the value of mating animals of the second (F1) generation for the 
detection of adverse treatment-related effects on reproductive performance.

Myers DP(1), Willoughby CR, Bottomley AM, Buschmann J.

Author information:
(1)Huntingdon Life Sciences, Eye, Suffolk IP23 7PX, UK. 
MyersD@ukorg.huntingdon.com

The need to routinely perform a two-generation study to assess reproductive 
performance is under debate. This review has analysed the results from 22 
consecutive Two-Generation Reproduction Toxicity Studies performed within our 
laboratories, to determine the value of mating each generation in the detection 
of treatment-related effects on reproductive performance. The chemicals included 
13 agrochemicals, 5 industrial chemicals and 4 food additives. Four chemicals 
(all from the agrochemical group) were found to have clear treatment-related 
effects and in three studies effects were confined to the second (F1) 
generation. For the three studies with second (F1) generation effects, we 
applied the triggers, proposed by the Agricultural Chemical Safety Assessment 
(ASCA) Technical Committee of HESI, for extension of the one-generation study 
and found that mating of the second (F1) generation would have been triggered in 
these studies by effects on the F1 offspring growth and sexual maturation. No 
effects were seen in the original parental (F0) generation which would have 
activated the change from a one- to a two-generation study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.reprotox.2008.06.004
PMID: 18602985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Kathmandu Univ Med J (KUMJ). 2006 Jul-Sep;4(3):354-62.

Demographic situation of population ageing in Nepal.

Chalise HN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Gerontology, School of Health Sciences and Nursing, 
Graduate School of Medicine, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. 
chalisehkpp@gmail.com

Advances in medical technology have led to increases in the life expectancy as 
well as increases in the number of older people, which makes population ageing 
an international priority in the 21st century. However, very little is known 
about the elderly in Nepal, one of the poorest countries of the world. Although 
the proportion of elderly is increasing both in absolute numbers and as a 
proportion of Nepal's total population, traditional family norms and values of 
supporting the elderly are eroding at an alarming rate. The objective of this 
paper is to illustrate population aging in Nepal using census data, other 
reports for the purpose of further research and inquiry.

PMID: 18603935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Kathmandu Univ Med J (KUMJ). 2007 Jan-Mar;5(1):121-23.

Of what diseases are Nepalese people dying?

Suvedi BK(1).

Author information:
(1)bksubedi@healthnet.org.np

PMID: 18604002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Kathmandu Univ Med J (KUMJ). 2007 Jul-Sep;5(3):324-9.

Patients choice for method of early abortion among comprehensive abortion care 
(CAC) clients at Kathmandu Medical College Teaching Hospital (KMCTH).

Saha R(1), Shrestha NS, Koirala B, Kandel P, Shrestha S.

Author information:
(1)Kathmandu Medical College Teaching Hospital, Sinamangal, Nepal.

OBJECTIVE: The over all objective of the study was to determine different 
methods of abortion opted by CAC clients at KMCTH. The specific objective of the 
study was to know the reasons for pregnancy termination and to know the reasons 
opted for either medical or surgical method of abortion.
METHODOLOGY: A hospital based prospective study was carried out for a period of 
six months at KMCTH from 1st January 2006 to 31st June 2006. All the patient 
undergoing CAC services were included for the study. Clients were provided with 
written and verbal information regarding the methods of terminating early 
abortion and its associated complications. After that they were asked to give 
their informed choice and decision. All the pertinent information was entered on 
pre-structured questionnaire.
RESULTS: During the study period a total of 100 patients underwent CAC services. 
The commonest reason for termination pregnancy was no desire for additional 
children (60%) followed by youngest child too small or short spacing (21%). 74% 
of the patients opted for surgical abortion, 23% patient opted for medical 
abortion and 3% of the patient remain undecided. Reasons for favouring surgical 
