Hospital, Espoo, Finland. jukka.lojander@kolumbus.fi

The effectiveness and cost-utility of nasal continuous positive airway pressure 
(nCPAP) treatment was evaluated in obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS), 
using a 15D health-related quality of life (HRQoL) instrument in a routine 
clinical setting. In total, 78 OSAS patients (43 receiving nCPAP; 35 receiving 
lifestyle guidance) were included in the study. nCPAP treatment had a minor 
effect on the total HRQoL score; only the dimension of sleep improved in both 
groups. The mean +/- SD number of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained was 
0.016 +/- 2.34 in the nCPAP group and 0.386 +/- 1.16 in the lifestyle guidance 
group. The mean cost per QALY gained was euro73 375 for the nCPAP group and 
euro845 for the lifestyle guidance group. The effect of nCPAP treatment on the 
HRQoL in a population of unselected OSAS patients was surprisingly small and the 
cost per QALY gained was high.

DOI: 10.1177/147323000803600418
PMID: 18652772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 2008 Jun;10(3):258-64. doi: 10.1007/s11920-008-0042-1.

Comorbid depression in rheumatoid arthritis: pathophysiology and clinical 
implications.

Bruce TO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of South 
Carolina School of Medicine, 15 Medical Park, 3555 Harden Street Extension, 
Columbia, SC 29203, USA. tbruce@gw.mp.sc.edu

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory illness that primarily 
affects the joints. It is associated with symptoms of fatigue, pain, and sleep 
disturbances that can overlap with or mimic symptoms of depression. Depressive 
symptoms are highly comorbid with RA and may occur with at least mild severity 
in up to 42% of RA patients. RA and depression contribute to mortality, 
decreased quality of life, increased health care costs, and disability. 
Inflammatory pathways may hold the key to a link between depression and RA, and 
cytokines have been a major target of research in this area. This article 
reviews some of the most recent research and commentary on this complex 
relationship.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-008-0042-1
PMID: 18652795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Curr Psychiatry Rep. 2008 Jun;10(3):272-9. doi: 10.1007/s11920-008-0044-z.

Depression in the medically ill: diagnostic and therapeutic implications.

Narasimhan M(1), Raynor JD, Jones AB.

Author information:
(1)Office of Biological Research, Department of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral 
Science, University of South Carolina School of Medicine, Medical Park, 3555 
Harden Street Extension, Columbia, SC 29203, USA. MNARASIM@gw.mp.sc.edu

Depression and medical comorbidities lead to increased morbidity and mortality 
and have been associated with higher health care costs. Depressive disorders can 
adversely impact the course of medical illnesses, whereas medical illnesses can 
serve as a risk factor for future depressive disorders. This interplay has 
spurred some interesting exploratory research to understand the common 
pathophysiology and neurobiologic substrates that may explain the bidirectional 
relationship between the two disorders. There is a paucity of well-designed, 
randomized, controlled trials to address some of the treatment-related 
prognostic issues in this population. However, more recent studies have focused 
on diagnostic and treatment implications with various available pharmacologic 
and psychotherapeutic modalities. Early identification and appropriate treatment 
of depression in the medically ill can positively influence medical outcomes and 
quality of life. Collaborative care models integrating mental health and primary 
care providers, combined with patient preference, are found to be cost-effective 
and may result in better response to depression treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s11920-008-0044-z
PMID: 18652797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 1996;22 Suppl 1:593-8. doi:
10.1016/0167-4943(96)87004-X.

The oncological therapy in the elderly.

Varricchio M(1), Gambardella A, Balbi V, Amato L, Tortoriello R, Ammendola S, 
Tagliamonte MR, Paolisso G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine and Metabolic Diseases, Second University of 
Naples, Piazza Miraglia, 2, I-80138 Napoli, Italy.

The rising incidence of cancer in old subjects yields great scientific interest. 
Cancer itself has different features in the elderly. Thus the choice of therapy 
must follow a wide investigation on the "performance status" through 
acknowledgements on psychological and social factors, too. The therapeutic 
strategy is not usually different from the one used in other sections of life, 
but it is important to remember that an aged patient with cancer has to be 
submitted to a multidimensional evaluation using specific tools, that consider 
not only the neoplastic pathology but also the functional consequences. Always 
respecting quality of life and the eventual side effects, the choice of less 
aggressive strategies is especially important in those patients presenting a 
reduced expectancy of life. The improvement of surgery and anesthesiological 
techniques, the use of high-energy radiotherapy, the use of hemopoietic growing 
factors, antiemetics of last generation and a suitable support therapy give the 
medical specialist the chance to choose the adequate therapeutic strategy. This 
is a short review of the main guide-lines to be taken into consideration in the 
assessment and management of elderly patients with cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/0167-4943(96)87004-X
PMID: 18653099


25. J Clin Neurosci. 2008 Sep;15(9):988-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2007.09.014. Epub
 2008 Jul 23.

Aggressive scalp carcinoma with intracranial extension: a multidisciplinary 
experience of 25 patients with long-term follow-up.

Soma PF(1), Chibbaro S, Makiese O, Marsella M, Diemidio P, Fricia M, Passanisi 
M, Catania V, Siragò P, Ventura F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, University Hospital, Catania, Italy.

Malignant skin cancer of the scalp with skull invasion, dural infiltration and 
brain involvement is a uncommon lesion. This scenario is most often encountered 
in patients where initial scalp lesions are not appropriately diagnosed or their 
extent is underestimated by the patient and/or the doctor. Our study is a 
retrospective review of 25 patients treated using a multidisciplinary approach 
(combined plastic surgery/neurosurgery procedure and neuro-oncological 
management). After a mean follow-up of 7 years, 22 patients did not show local 
recurrence or distant metastases of their primary disease. Overall, these 22 
patients had excellent quality of life; however, three patients died from causes 
not related to their primary pathology. To obtain a complete and definitive 
cure, prompt diagnosis of scalp cancers followed by appropriate 
multidisciplinary management is strongly advised.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2007.09.014
PMID: 18653348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Soc Neurosci. 2009;4(6):554-69. doi: 10.1080/17470910802299987.

Types of deception revealed by individual differences in cognitive abilities.

Morgan CJ(1), LeSage JB, Kosslyn SM.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. cmorgan@stat.harvard.edu

The two studies reported in this article are an extension of the neuroimaging 
study by Ganis et al. (2003), which provided evidence that different types of 
lies arise from different cognitive processes. We examined the initial response 
times (IRTs) to questions answered both deceptively and truthfully. We 
considered four types of deceptive responses: a coherent set of rehearsed, 
memorized lies about a life experience; a coherent set of lies spontaneously 
created about a life experience; a set of isolated lies involving 
self-knowledge; and a set of isolated lies involving knowledge of another 
person. We assessed the difference between truthful and deceptive IRTs. Scores 
from cognitive tasks included in the MiniCog Rapid Assessment Battery (MRAB) 
were significant predictors of IRT differences. Each type of lie was predicted 
by a distinct set of MRAB scores. These results provide further evidence that 
deception is a multifaceted process and that different kinds of lies arise from 
the operation of different cognitive processes.

DOI: 10.1080/17470910802299987
PMID: 18654937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Actas Urol Esp. 2008 Jun;32(6):589-93. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(08)73892-0.

[Do older men with localized prostate cancer Gleason 8-10 benefit from curative 
therapy?].

[Article in Spanish]

Ojea Calvo A(1), López García S, Rey Rey J, Alonso Rodrigo A, Rodríguez Iglesias 
B, Barros Rodríguez JM.

Author information:
(1)Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Vigo, Pontevedra. 
antonio.ojea.calvo@sergas.es

OBJECTIVE: The aim is to analyse until which age a radical procedure could have 
an influence on life expectancy of patients with localized prostate cancer 
Gleason 8-10.
METHODS: We analyse retrospectively 80 patients with localized prostate cancer 
T1-2N0-XM0 Gleason 8-10. The patients were stratified in 2 groups: group A 34 
patients who received hormonal treatment and group B, 46 patients submitted to 
radical prostatectomy. The analysed variables are: cancer mortality and cancer 
specific survival.
RESULTS: Patients characteristics: median age group A 75 years (66-84) and group 
B 64 years (56-75) (p = 0.033): median followup group A 54 months (20-180) and 
group B 37 months (12-140) (p = 0.016); median Gleason group A 8 (8-10) and 
group B 8 (8-10) (p = 0.144); percentage T1 group A 24% and group B 41% (p = 
0.096); median PSA group A 10 (4-91) and group B 12 (4-71) (p = 0.269). The 
cancer specific mortality from group A is 24 (71%) and in group B 3 (7%) (p = 
0.000). In the first 5 years, 20 (59%) patients died from prostate cancer in the 
group A and 1 (2%) in the group B. The Kaplan-Meier curves and Log-Rank test 
show significant differences in the survival cancer specific between the 2 
groups. The Cox regression shows that the possibilities of dying from prostate 
cancer are higher in the group of patients who did not receive treatment with 
curative intention. The relative risk (HR 95% IC) in group A is 6.826 
(2.032-22.931).
CONCLUSIONS: More than half of the patients with localized prostate cancer 
Gleason 8-10 treated in a conservative way die from cancer within the next 5 
years since the diagnosis. The patients with a life expectancy greater than 5 
years can benefit with a curative treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(08)73892-0
PMID: 18655341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2008 May;19(5):1104-9.

[Characteristics in life history of Brachionus forcatus and B. caudatus: a 
comparative study].

[Article in Chinese]

Tao LX(1), Xi YL, Hu CB.

Author information:
(1)Key College Laboratory of Biotic Environment and Ecological Safety of Anhui 
Province, College of Life Sciences, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241000, Anhui, 
China. taolx_tao@sohu.com

By the method of individual culture and with 3.0 x 10(6) cells ml(-1) of 
Scenedesmus obliquus as the food, a comparative study was made on the 
characteristics in life history of Brachionus forcatus and B. caudatus at 18 
degrees C, 23 degrees C, 28 degrees C and 33 degrees C. The results showed that 
at 18 degrees C and 23 degrees C, both the reproductive stage and the mean 
lifespan of B. caudatus were longer than those of B. forcatus, and the number of 
eggs produced by B. caudatus in its whole life was larger than that by B. 
forcatus. At 28 degrees C , there were no significant differences between B. 
forcatus and B. caudatus in the durations of their main development stages, mean 
lifespan, and the number of eggs produced. At 33 degrees C, the reproductive and 
post-reproductive stages and the mean lifespan of B. forcatus were longer than 
those of B. caudatus, and the number of eggs produced by B. forcatus in its 
whole life was larger than that by B. caudatus. At 18 degrees C, the life 
expectancy at hatching, net reproductive rate, and intrinsic rate of population 
increase were all larger for B. caudatus than for B. forcatus; but at 23 degrees 
C and 28 degrees C, only the life expectancy at hatching was larger for B. 
caudatus than for B. forcatus. When the temperature reached 33 degrees C, the 
generation time, life expectancy at hatching, net reproductive rate, and 
intrinsic rate of population increase were all larger for B. forcatus than for 
B. caudatus. There also existed differences between B. forcatus and B. caudatus 
in the responses of the durations of their main development stages, mean 
lifespan, number of eggs produced in whole life, generation time, life 
expectancy at hatching, net reproductive rate, and intrinsic rate of population 
increase to increasing temperature. B. caudatus was more adaptable to lower 
temperature, while B. forcatus was in adverse.

PMID: 18655600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Econ Hum Biol. 2008 Dec;6(3):431-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2008.06.002. Epub
2008  Jun 26.

The trade-off between a high and an equal biological standard of 
living--evidence from Germany.

Hiermeyer M(1).

Author information:
(1)Economic History, University of Munich, Munich, Germany. 
martin.hiermeyer@econhist.vwl.uni-muenchen.de

Following German re-unification, East Germany moved from a state-socialist to a 
market-based economic system. Using West Germany as a "control group", we 
examine how the change affected the level and the equality of the biological 
standard of living. We find that before unification, East Germany had a lower 
but somewhat more equally distributed biological standard of living than the 
West. After unification, East Germany rapidly caught up in terms of height but 
at the expense of equality. This suggests that a trade-off exists between a high 
and an equally distributed biological standard of living. Unlike previous 
research, we find that West Germany's pre-unification height advantage was 
smallest in towns with 5000-20,000 inhabitants and largest in cities with 
20,000-100,000 inhabitants (females) or in cities with more than 100,000 
inhabitants (males). Between regions, height converged both in East and West 
Germany, but particularly markedly among East-German males. Equality 
convergence, like height convergence, is significantly larger for East than for 
West-German males.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2008.06.002
PMID: 18656430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Gastrointest Endosc. 2008 Aug;68(2):228-30; quiz 333, 335. doi: 
10.1016/j.gie.2008.01.007.

Predicting life expectancy before percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy placement: 
a lesson in futility or an exercise of injustice?

McClave SA, Delegge MH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2008.01.007
PMID: 18656594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Surgery. 2008 Aug;144(2):290-8. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2008.03.044. Epub 2008
Jun  20.

How should age at diagnosis impact treatment strategy in asymptomatic primary 
hyperparathyroidism? A cost-effectiveness analysis.

Zanocco K(1), Sturgeon C.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Department of Surgery, 
Division of Gastrointestinal & Endocrine Surgery, Chicago, Illinois 60611-2908, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: The National Institutes of Health consensus conference on 
asymptomatic primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) recommended several criteria for 
parathyroidectomy (PTX), including age <50 years. We hypothesized that a 
cost-effectiveness analysis would show PTX to be the optimal strategy for 
asymptomatic patients >50 years of age.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed comparing operative, observational, and 
pharmacologic treatments. Costs were estimated from a third-party payer 
perspective. Outcomes were weighted with utility adjustment factors, yielding 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Future costs and QALYs were discounted at 
3%. Threshold analysis identified the optimal strategy at life expectancies 
ranging from 6 months to 75 years. Multivariate sensitivity analysis was 
completed with Monte Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: PTX was optimal when life expectancy reached 5 years for outpatient PTX 
and 6.5 years for inpatient PTX. Observation was the optimal strategy at all 
shorter life expectancies considered. The pharmacologic treatment strategy was 
not optimal at any life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: PTX is the optimal strategy for many patients with asymptomatic PHPT 
who are >50 years of age. PTX is cost effective for patients with a predicted 
life expectancy of 5 years (outpatient) or 6.5 years (inpatient). For patients 
with a shorter life expectancy, observation is the most cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2008.03.044
PMID: 18656638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):202-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00435.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 24.

Economic evaluation of the decisions of the Israeli Public Committee for 
updating the National List of Health Services in 2006/2007.

Shmueli A(1).

Author information:
(1)The Hebrew University and the Gertner Institute, Jerusalem, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: The Public Committee (PC), which decides on the inclusion and ranking 
of new technologies in the Israeli List of Health Services facing a given 
budget, does not explicitly consider the results of economic evaluations of the 
technologies discussed. The present article includes an ex post economic 
examination of the PC's 2006/2007 decisions.
METHODS: The cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) (CPQ) values of the 
technologies approved and rejected were retrieved from national health 
technologies assessments and the professional literature.
RESULTS: CPQ values were found for 40 technologies out of the 52 that were 
approved by the PC, and for 26 out of 42 randomly sampled among those rejected. 
The technologies approved for inclusion produce QALYs in a cheaper way, in 
general, than those rejected. A CPQ of about 50,000 new Israeli shekels (NIS) 
(15,500 USDPPP [purchasing power parity adjusted U.S. dollars]) is identified as 
the best discriminating value between approved and rejected technologies. The 
agreement between the PC's ranking of the approved technologies and the ranking 
by CPQ is low, and the only significant determinant of the Committee's ranking 
is the number of patients expected to benefit from the technology.
CONCLUSIONS: Although not considering CPQ data explicitly, the PC tends, in 
fact, to approve technologies with relatively low CPQ. In ranking the approved 
technologies, however, the PC tries to maximize the number of persons expected 
to benefit from the additional budget even at the expense of possibly giving up 
cheaper QALYs. The size of the budget should be determined in accordance with an 
Israeli value of QALY and Israeli values of the CPQ of the technologies 
submitted for inclusion.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00435.x
PMID: 18657095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):191-2. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00432.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 24.

FDAMA 1997 Section 114: another look.

Jackson J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00432.x
PMID: 18657097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):315-24. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00431.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 24.

Value of information and value of implementation: application of an analytic 
framework to inform resource allocation decisions in metastatic 
hormone-refractory prostate cancer.

Hoomans T(1), Fenwick EA, Palmer S, Claxton K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Organization, Policy, and Economics, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. t.hoomans@beoz.unimaas.nl

OBJECTIVE: In a budget-constrained health-care system, decisions about investing 
in strategies to promote implementation have to be made alongside decisions 
about health-care provision and research funding. Using a Bayesian 
decision-theoretic approach, an analytic framework has been developed to inform 
these separate but related decisions, establishing the expected value of both 
perfect information (EVPI) and perfect implementation (EVPIM). We applied this 
framework to inform decision-making about resource allocation to metastatic 
hormone-refractory prostate cancer (mHRPC) in the UK.
METHODS: Based on available evidence on the cost-effectiveness of all plausible 
treatments for mHRPC, we determined which treatment option(s) were 
cost-effective and explored the uncertainty surrounding this decision. Given the 
decision uncertainty and the variation in care provided by health-care 
professionals, we then determined the EVPI and EVPIM. Finally, we performed 
sensitivity analyses to explore the influence of alternative assumptions 
regarding various decision parameters on the efficiency of resource allocation.
RESULTS: Depending on the cost-effectiveness threshold (lambda), we identified 
mitoxantrone plus prednisone/prednisolone and docetaxel plus 
prednisone/prednisolone (3 weekly) as the optimal treatments for mHRPC. Given 
current clinical practice, there appears to be considerable scope for improving 
the efficiency of health-care provision: the EVPI (estimated to be over pound13 
million) indicates that acquiring further information could be cost-effective; 
and the EVPIM (estimated to be over pound4 million) suggests that investing in 
strategies to implement the treatments regimens being identified as optimal is 
potentially worthwhile. Through sensitivity analyses, we found that the EVPI and 
EVPIM are mainly driven by lambda, the number of treatment options being 
considered, the current level of implementation, and the size of the eligible 
patient population.
CONCLUSION: The application demonstrates that the framework provides a simple 
and useful analytic tool for decision-makers to address resource allocation 
problems between health-care provision, further research, and implementation 
efforts.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00431.x
PMID: 18657098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):392-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00430.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 24.

A longitudinal evaluation of health-related quality of life of patients with 
Parkinson's disease.

Visser M(1), Verbaan D, van Rooden S, Marinus J, van Hilten J, Stiggelbout A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. m.visser@lumc.nl

OBJECTIVES: Few longitudinal studies have evaluated health-related quality of 
life (HRQoL) in Parkinson's disease (PD) and these studies have not evaluated 
all potentially relevant domains of PD. Our objective was to identify domains at 
baseline that predict change in HRQoL, and to evaluate the relation between 
change in HRQoL and change in particular domains of PD.
METHODS: A total of 336 patients who participated in the longitudinal 
SCOPA-PROPARK cohort study and had data from the first and third annual 
evaluation were included in this study. The Scales for Outcomes in Parkinson's 
disease (SCOPA) evaluation was used to assess impairments and disabilities. 
HRQoL was assessed with the EuroQol-5D visual analogue scale. Multiple linear 
regression analysis with "change in HRQoL" as dependent variable was used to 
identify factors that influence the change in HRQoL.
RESULTS: Health-related quality of life as well as most impairment and 
disability domains decreased significantly from baseline to follow-up. The two 
regression models of "change in HRQoL," adjusted for baseline HRQoL, included 1) 
the baseline domains autonomic dysfunction, nighttime sleep problems, and 
cognitive function, and 2) "change in psychosocial problems,""change in 
depressive symptoms," and "change in cognitive function."
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who have autonomic dysfunction, nighttime sleep problems, 
and cognitive dysfunction are at risk for deterioration in HRQoL. Deterioration 
in HRQoL over 2-year time was associated with worsening in psychosocial 
well-being, mood, and cognitive function. Interventions aiming to improve these 
domains are important and would likely contribute to improvement in HRQoL, 
although more research is necessary.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00430.x
PMID: 18657099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Value Health. 2009 Jan-Feb;12(1):1-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00403.x. 
Epub 2008 Jul 24.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone versus placebo in addition to 
existing diabetes treatment: a US analysis based on PROactive.

Valentine WJ(1), Tucker D, Palmer AJ, Minshall ME, Foos V, Silberman C; 
PROactive Study Group.

Author information:
(1)IMS-Health, Allschwil, Switzerland. wvalentine@ch.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the long-term cost-effectiveness of adding pioglitazone 
versus placebo to standard treatment in high-risk patients with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: The validated CORE Diabetes Model was modified to project long-term 
clinical and cost outcomes associated with pioglitazone versus placebo, based on 
results from PROactive. The model retained basic structure and functionality, 
with interdependent Markov submodels, Monte Carlo simulation and user interface. 
Adjustments to submodels were made to accommodate the PROactive primary end 
points. The analysis was from the perspective of a third party US health-care 
payer perspective, projected over a lifetime horizon using a 3% annual discount.
RESULTS: Over a lifetime horizon, addition of pioglitazone was associated with 
increased life expectancy (0.237 life-years) and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) [0.166 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)] versus placebo. 
Estimated long-term complication rates showed that pioglitazone reduced the 
number of events versus placebo for most outcomes. Lifetime total direct costs 
were marginally higher with pioglitazone versus placebo ($272,694 vs. $265,390, 
difference $7,305). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for pioglitazone 
versus placebo was $44,105 per QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
indicated a 55% likelihood that pioglitazone would be considered cost-effective 
in the United States, with a willingness to pay of $50,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of pioglitazone to existing therapy in high-risk 
patients with type 2 diabetes was projected to improve life expectancy, QALE and 
complication rates compared with placebo. Addition of pioglitazone was in the 
range generally considered acceptable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00403.x
PMID: 18657104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Bipolar Disord. 2008 Jul;10(5):588-96. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-5618.2007.00553.x.

Differences in incidence of suicide attempts during phases of bipolar I and II 
disorders.

Valtonen HM(1), Suominen K, Haukka J, Mantere O, Leppämäki S, Arvilommi P, 
Isometsä ET.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health and Alcohol Research, National Public Health 
Institute, Helsinki, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Differences in the incidence of suicide attempts during various 
phases of bipolar disorder (BD), or the relative importance of static versus 
time-varying risk factors for overall risk for suicide attempts, are unknown.
METHODS: We investigated the incidence of suicide attempts in different phases 
of BD as a part of the Jorvi Bipolar Study (JoBS), a naturalistic, prospective, 
18-month study representing psychiatric in- and outpatients with DSM-IV BD in 
three Finnish cities. Life charts were used to classify time spent in follow-up 
in the different phases of illness among the 81 BD I and 95 BD II patients.
RESULTS: Compared to the other phases of the illness, the incidence of suicide 
attempts was 37-fold higher [95% confidence interval (CI) for relative risk 
(RR): 11.8-120.3] during combined mixed and depressive mixed states, and 18-fold 
higher (95% CI: 6.5-50.8) during major depressive phases. In Cox's proportional 
hazards regression models, combined mixed (mixed or depressive mixed) or major 
depressive phases and prior suicide attempts independently predicted suicide 
attempts. No other factor significantly modified the risks related to these 
time-varying risk factors; their population-attributable fraction was 86%.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of suicide attempts varies remarkably between illness 
phases, with mixed and depressive phases involving the highest risk by time. 
Time spent in high-risk illness phases is likely the major determinant of 
overall risk for suicide attempts among BD patients. Studies of suicidal 
behavior should investigate the role of both static and time-varying risk 
factors in overall risk; clinically, management of mixed and depressive phases 
may be crucial in reducing risk.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-5618.2007.00553.x
PMID: 18657243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Econ Hum Biol. 2008 Dec;6(3):363-76. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2008.06.001. Epub
2008  Jun 21.

Cost-effectiveness of a family-based GP-mediated intervention targeting 
overweight and moderately obese children.

Moodie M(1), Haby M, Wake M, Gold L, Carter R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, School of Health and Social Development, Deakin 
University, Burwood, Victoria, Australia. marj.moodie@deakin.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To assess from a societal perspective the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of a family-based GP-mediated intervention targeting 
overweight and moderately obese children. The intervention was modelled on the 
LEAP (live, eat and play) trial, a randomised controlled trial conducted by the 
Centre for Community Child Health, Melbourne, Australia in 2002-2003. This study 
was undertaken as part of the assessing cost-effectiveness (ACE) in obesity 
project which evaluated, using consistent methods, 13 interventions targeting 
unhealthy weight gain in children and adolescents.
METHOD: A logic pathway was used to model the effects of the intervention 
compared to no intervention on body mass index (BMI) and health outcomes 
(disability-adjusted life years-DALYs). Disease costs and health benefits were 
tracked until the cohort of eligible children reached the age of 100 years or 
death. Simulation-modelling techniques were used to present a 95% uncertainty 
interval around the cost-effectiveness ratio. The intervention was also assessed 
against a series of filters ('equity', 'strength of evidence', 'acceptability', 
'feasibility', sustainability' and 'side-effects') to incorporate additional 
factors that impact on resource allocation decisions.
RESULTS: The intervention, as modelled, reached 9685 children aged 5-9 years 
with a BMI z-score of >or=3.0, and cost $AUD6.3M (or $AUD4.8M excluding time 
costs). It resulted in an incremental saving of 2300 BMI units which translated 
to 511 DALYs. The cost-offsets stemming from the intervention totalled $AUD3.6M, 
resulting in a net cost per DALY saved of $AUD4670 (dominated; $0.1M) (dominated 
means intervention costs more for less effect).
CONCLUSION: Compared to a 'no intervention' control group, the intervention was 
cost-effective under current assumptions, although the uncertainty intervals 
were wide. A key question related to the long-term sustainability of the small 
incremental weight loss reported, based on the 9-month follow-up results for 
LEAP.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2008.06.001
PMID: 18657487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Lancet. 2008 Jul 26;372(9635):266-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61086-7.

Life and death in the cART era.

Cooper DA(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia. dcooper@nchecr.unsw.edu.au

Comment on
    Lancet. 2008 Jul 26;372(9635):293-9.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61086-7
PMID: 18657689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Lancet. 2008 Jul 26;372(9635):293-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61113-7.

Life expectancy of individuals on combination antiretroviral therapy in 
high-income countries: a collaborative analysis of 14 cohort studies.

Antiretroviral Therapy Cohort Collaboration.

Collaborators: Hogg R, Lima V, Sterne JA, Grabar S, Battegay M, Bonarek M, 
D'Arminio Monforte A, Esteve A, Gill MJ, Harris R, Justice A, Hayden A, Lampe F, 
Mocroft A, Mugavero MJ, Staszewski S, Wasmuth JC, van Sighem A, Kitahata M, 
Guest J, Egger M, May M.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 Jul 26;372(9635):266-7.

BACKGROUND: Combination antiretroviral therapy has led to significant increases 
in survival and quality of life, but at a population-level the effect on life 
expectancy is not well understood. Our objective was to compare changes in 
mortality and life expectancy among HIV-positive individuals on combination 
antiretroviral therapy.
METHODS: The Antiretroviral Therapy Cohort Collaboration is a multinational 
collaboration of HIV cohort studies in Europe and North America. Patients were 
included in this analysis if they were aged 16 years or over and 
antiretroviral-naive when initiating combination therapy. We constructed 
abridged life tables to estimate life expectancies for individuals on 
combination antiretroviral therapy in 1996-99, 2000-02, and 2003-05, and 
stratified by sex, baseline CD4 cell count, and history of injecting drug use. 
The average number of years remaining to be lived by those treated with 
combination antiretroviral therapy at 20 and 35 years of age was estimated. 
Potential years of life lost from 20 to 64 years of age and crude mortality 
rates were also calculated.
FINDINGS: 18 587, 13 914, and 10 854 eligible patients initiated combination 
antiretroviral therapy in 1996-99, 2000-02, and 2003-05, respectively. 2056 
(4.7%) deaths were observed during the study period, with crude mortality rates 
decreasing from 16.3 deaths per 1000 person-years in 1996-99 to 10.0 deaths per 
1000 person-years in 2003-05. Potential years of life lost per 1000 person-years 
also decreased over the same time, from 366 to 189 years. Life expectancy at age 
20 years increased from 36.1 (SE 0.6) years to 49.4 (0.5) years. Women had 
higher life expectancies than did men. Patients with presumed transmission via 
injecting drug use had lower life expectancies than did those from other 
transmission groups (32.6 [1.1] years vs 44.7 [0.3] years in 2003-05). Life 
expectancy was lower in patients with lower baseline CD4 cell counts than in 
those with higher baseline counts (32.4 [1.1] years for CD4 cell counts below 
100 cells per muL vs 50.4 [0.4] years for counts of 200 cells per muL or more).
INTERPRETATION: Life expectancy in HIV-infected patients treated with 
combination antiretroviral therapy increased between 1996 and 2005, although 
there is considerable variability between subgroups of patients. The average 
number of years remaining to be lived at age 20 years was about two-thirds of 
that in the general population in these countries.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61113-7
PMCID: PMC3130543
PMID: 18657708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement Michael Magavero 
has received grant support from Tibotec Therapuetics and Bristol-Myers Squibb. 
Robert Hogg, Amy Justice, Anna Hayden, Viviane Lima, Jan Christian Wasmuth, Ross 
Harris, Amanda Mocroft, Matthias Egger, Ard van Sigheim, and John Gill declares 
that they have no conflict of interest.


41. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2009 Apr;58(2):117-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.ancard.2008.05.007. Epub 2008 Jun 9.

[Cardiac extension of a non-Hodgkin lymphoma revealed by an atrial flutter].

[Article in French]

Mioulet D(1), Braem L, Heno P, Paule P, Peloni JM, Bonnet D, Fourcade L.

Author information:
(1)Service de cardiologie, hôpital d'instruction des armées-Laveran, 13, 
boulevard A.-Laveran, 13998 Marseille-Armées, France. dmioulet@yahoo.fr

Primary or secondary cardiac lymphomas are not frequent. Their clinical 
expression is unusual and the diagnosis is rarely made during the patient's 
life. Our case report, which is a slow atrial flutter with a pericardial 
effusion, is an uncommon discovery mode for a malignant lymphoma. Their 
diagnosis and the mechanism of the arythmia were allowed by non-invasive cardiac 
imagery (transesophageal echography and magnetic resonance imaging), which 
showed a tumour-like infiltration of the right atrium, of the right ventricle 
posterior wall, and of the atrioventricular junction. The diagnosis of a high 
grade B cell malignant non-hodgkin lymphoma, involving the bone marrow, the 
liver and the kidneys was made by biopsies of lymph nodes, histological analysis 
of the bone marrow, and a body CT scan. Throughout the first chemotherapy 
sequence, we observed a spontaneous return to a sinusal rhythm, and the cardiac 
MRI showed a regression of the myocardial infiltration and of the pericardial 
effusion; moreover, the patient's state improved and the peripheral lymph nodes 
shrank back to a normal size. However, the patient passed away, due to 
neurological complications 13 months after the diagnosis of lymphoma, without 
recurrence of cardiac involvement.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ancard.2008.05.007
PMID: 18657797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Med Decis Making. 2008 Jul-Aug;28(4):460-1. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08321903.

Budget impact analysis and its rational basis.

Hilden J.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2008 Jul-Aug;28(4):481-90.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08321903
PMID: 18660488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2007 Apr;1(1):11-5. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0b013e328133f5d8.

Update on radiation treatment for cancer pain.

Chow E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Toronto, Toronto Sunnybrook 
Regional Cancer Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Edward.Chow@sunnybrook.ca

Comment in
    Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2007 Apr;1(1):3-5.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review addresses the latest advances in radiation 
treatment for cancer pain.
RECENT FINDINGS: There is reluctance worldwide to adopt single fraction 
radiotherapy as standard practice. This is well summarized by a review article 
reporting on surveys on practice patterns among radiation oncologists worldwide. 
It was suggested by the Tasman Radiation Oncology Group trial, however, that 
patients with neuropathic pain may need multiple treatments. Patients with bone 
metastases may outlive the benefits of palliative radiation and require 
re-irradiation. A recent report from the Dutch Bone Metastasis Study confirmed 
the effectiveness of re-irradiation in both responders and nonresponders to 
initial radiation therapy. Effects of palliative radiotherapy on function and 
quality of life have been explored in various studies but with disparate 
conclusions. This may stem from a lack of a good, patient-based instrument with 
which to measure quality of life. A project by the European Organisation for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Group is currently under way to 
develop a bone metastases module. Patients receiving single fraction 
radiotherapy may be at greater risk for pain flare.
SUMMARY: Patients with uncomplicated bone metastases can be effectively 
palliated with single fraction radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0b013e328133f5d8
PMID: 18660718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2007 Apr;1(1):50-6. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0b013e32813aeb23.

Anxiety and its management in advanced cancer.

Roth AJ(1), Massie MJ.

Author information:
(1)Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York 10022, USA. 
rotha@mskcc.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: As patients enter the palliative phase of their illness, both 
physical and psychological burdens change. Anxiety commonly increases as 
patients become aware of both the relative ineffectiveness of medical treatments 
in halting the progress of their disease and, consequently, their limited life 
expectancy. This review will allow clinicians to be more effective in helping 
patients manage their psychological distress.
RECENT FINDINGS: Anxious cancer patients facing death may often be plagued with 
recurrent unpleasant thoughts including fears of pain, of death and of 
dependency on others. In the palliative care setting it may not be easy to 
distinguish the somatic causes of anxiety from the psychological ones; in 
addition, anxiety may be a manifestation of either depression, delirium or 
another medical problem. The most effective management of anxiety often involves 
psychotherapy, behavioral therapy and pharmacological management.
SUMMARY: It is our hope that this article will inform oncologists, oncology 
nurses and mental health workers about the prevalence, assessment and treatment 
options for anxiety in advanced cancer patients. Unfortunately, there is a 
scarcity of research in this field; we hope that this article will encourage the 
motivation for more studies to assess different treatments for anxiety in this 
population.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0b013e32813aeb23
PMID: 18660725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Rev Urol. 2008 Spring;10(2):111-9.

Prostate cancer in elderly men.

Stangelberger A, Waldert M, Djavan B.

Due to increasing life expectancy and the introduction of prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) screening, a rising number of elderly men are diagnosed with 
prostate cancer. Besides PSA serum levels and Gleason score, age is considered 
to be a key prognostic factor in terms of treatment decisions. In men older than 
70 years, treatment without curative intent may deprive the frail patient of 
years of life. Modern radical prostatectomy techniques are associated with low 
perioperative morbidity, excellent clinical outcome, and documented long-term 
disease control. Thus, radical prostatectomy should be considered because local 
treatment of organ-confined prostate cancer potentially cures disease. The huge 
extent of PSA screening programs may lead to overdiagnosis of prostate cancer. 
Not every man who is diagnosed with prostate cancer will develop clinically 
significant disease. This has led to the concept of expectant management for 
screen-detected, small-volume, low-grade disease, with the intention of 
providing therapy for those men with disease progression.

PMCID: PMC2483315
PMID: 18660852


46. J Calif Dent Assoc. 2008 Jun;36(6):399, 403.

New biological clock links tooth growth to other metabolic processes.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18661789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2008 Dec;19(12):1275-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8167.2008.01258.x. Epub 2008 Jul 25.

Benefit of primary prevention implantable cardioverter-defibrillators in the 
setting of chronic kidney disease: a decision model analysis.

Amin MS(1), Fox AD, Kalahasty G, Shepard RK, Wood MA, Ellenbogen KA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Virginia 
Commonwealth University Medical Center, Richmond, Virginia 23298-0053, USA.

Comment in
    J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2008 Dec;19(12):1281-3.
    J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2009 Mar;20(3):E60; author reply E61.

INTRODUCTION: Primary prevention ICD trials have excluded patients with CKD. 
Comorbidities and lower life expectancy in patients with CKD make the benefit of 
primary prevention ICD implantation uncertain.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was devised to evaluate the risks and 
benefits of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD) implantation in 
patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) who meet current criteria for a 
primary prevention ICD. Published data capturing event rates, infection risks, 
and overall survival in CKD patients with and without ICDs were utilized. 
Variables included patient's age, GFR and stage of CKD, probability of sudden 
cardiac death (SCD), and device implantation mortality.
RESULTS: The benefit of an ICD for primary prevention of SCD in patients with 
CKD depends primarily on the patient's age and stage of kidney disease. With 
stages 1 and 2 CKD, ICD implantation reduces mortality. However, in patients 
with more advanced stages of CKD, the benefit is less significant and 
age-dependent. This is attributed to patients with advanced CKD having a higher 
procedural risk and decreased life expectancy. With average procedural 
mortality, ICD implantation is favored at ages <80 for stage 3, ages <75 for 
stage 4, and ages <65 for stage 5. As procedural mortality rates increase, age 
thresholds for ICD implantation decrease.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model shows that benefit from primary prevention ICD 
implantation is determined by the patient's age and stage of kidney disease. 
While there is limited impact with lower stages of CKD, careful consideration of 
ICD implantation is suggested for older patients with more advanced stages of 
kidney disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8167.2008.01258.x
PMID: 18662180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Palliat Support Care. 2008 Sep;6(3):259-64. doi: 10.1017/S1478951508000394.

Hope in adults, ages 20-59, with advanced stage cancer.

Reynolds MA(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Idaho State University, Pocatello, Idaho 83209-8101, USA. 
reynmary@isu.edu

OBJECTIVES: The diagnosis of terminal cancer begins one of the most complex and 
challenging individual experiences of human life that requires multiple coping 
responses, one of those being hope. There are few studies that provide 
descriptions of hope over time for adults, ages 20-59, with advanced stage 
cancer. The purpose of this study was to describe hope as defined and 
experienced by young and middle age adults with advanced stage cancer.
METHODS: This descriptive, longitudinal qualitative research study interviewed 
12 hopeful adults with advanced stage cancer once a month for 3 months.
RESULTS: By definition, this population exhibited high levels of hope at study 
entry. Hope scores did not change overtime. Four qualities associated with high 
levels of hope included: reliance on strong spiritual beliefs, maintenance of 
positive attitudes, accommodation of cancer symptoms, and the presence of 
supportive resource people. The emphasis or importance of each quality and 
specific hope related goals were determined and defined individually. Hope goals 
varied in degree of expectancy and concreteness and require reassessment as 
conditions change. SIGNIFICANCES OF RESULTS: By identifying an individual's hope 
goals, palliative care clinicians can then plan and implement interventions to 
move toward that hope goal.

DOI: 10.1017/S1478951508000394
PMID: 18662419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Neurology. 2008 Jul 29;71(5):357-64. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000319648.65173.7a.

Quantitative risk-benefit analysis of natalizumab.

Thompson JP(1), Noyes K, Dorsey ER, Schwid SR, Holloway RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY, USA.

Comment in
    Neurology. 2009 May 19;72(20):1791-2; author reply 1791-2.

OBJECTIVE: To model the long-term risks and benefits of natalizumab in 
individuals with relapsing multiple sclerosis (MS).
METHODS: We created a Markov model to evaluate treatment effects on reducing 
relapses and slowing disease progression using published natural history data 
and clinical trial results. Health changes, measured in quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), were based on patient health preferences. Patient cohorts 
treated with no disease-modifying treatment, natalizumab, subcutaneous 
interferon beta-1a, and a theoretical "perfect" MS treatment were modeled. 
Sensitivity analysis was used to explore model uncertainty, including varying 
risks of developing progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML).
RESULTS: Treatment with natalizumab resulted in 9.50 QALYs over a 20-year time 
horizon, a gain of 0.80 QALYs over the untreated cohort and 0.38 QALYs over 
interferon beta-1a. The health loss due to PML was small (-0.06 QALYs). To 
offset natalizumab's incremental health gain over interferon beta-1a, the risk 
had to increase from 1 to 7.6 PML per 1,000 patients treated over 17.9 months. 
The "perfect" MS treatment accumulated 10.59 QALYs over the 20-year time 
horizon, 1.89 QALYs above the untreated cohort. Interferon beta-1a resulted in 
greater QALY gains compared with natalizumab if natalizumab's relative relapse 
reduction was reduced from 68% to 35% or if interferon beta-1a's relative 
reduction was increased from 32% to 65%.
CONCLUSIONS: A more than sevenfold increase in actual risk of progressive 
multifocal leukoencephalopathy was required to decrease natalizumab's health 
gain below that of interferon beta-1a, and there remains considerable room for 
additional gains in health (>50%) beyond those already achieved with current 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000319648.65173.7a
PMCID: PMC2676947
PMID: 18663181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Diabetes Care. 2008 Aug;31(8):1686-96. doi: 10.2337/dc08-9022.

The impact of prevention on reducing the burden of cardiovascular disease.

Kahn R(1), Robertson RM, Smith R, Eddy D.

Author information:
(1)American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, Virginia, USA. rkahn@diabetes.org

OBJECTIVE: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is prevalent and expensive. While many 
interventions are recommended to prevent CVD, the potential effects of a 
comprehensive set of prevention activities on CVD morbidity, mortality, and 
costs have never been evaluated. We therefore determined the effects of 11 
nationally recommended prevention activities on CVD-related morbidity, 
mortality, and costs in the U.S.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We used person-specific data from a representative 
sample of the U.S. population (National Health and Nutrition Education Survey 
IV) to determine the number and characteristics of adults aged 20-80 years in 
the U.S. today who are candidates for different prevention activities related to 
CVD. We used the Archimedes model to create a simulated population that matched 
the real U.S. population, person by person. We then used the model to simulate a 
series of clinical trials that examined the effects over the next 30 years of 
applying each prevention activity one by one, or altogether, to those who are 
candidates for the various activities and compared the health outcomes, quality 
of life, and direct medical costs to current levels of prevention and care. We 
did this under two sets of assumptions about performance and compliance: 100% 
success for each activity and lower levels of success considered aggressive but 
still feasible.
RESULTS: Approximately 78% of adults aged 20-80 years alive today in the U.S. 
are candidates for at least one prevention activity. If everyone received the 
activities for which they are eligible, myocardial infarctions and strokes would 
be reduced by approximately 63% and 31%, respectively. If more feasible levels 
of performance are assumed, myocardial infarctions and strokes would be reduced 
approximately 36% and 20%, respectively. Implementation of all prevention 
activities would add approximately 221 million life-years and 244 million 
quality-adjusted life-years to the U.S. adult population over the coming 30 
years, or an average of 1.3 years of life expectancy for all adults. Of the 
specific prevention activities, the greatest benefits to the U.S. population 
come from providing aspirin to high-risk individuals, controlling pre-diabetes, 
weight reduction in obese individuals, lowering blood pressure in people with 
diabetes, and lowering LDL cholesterol in people with existing coronary artery 
disease (CAD). As currently delivered and at current prices, most prevention 
activities are expensive when considering direct medical costs; smoking 
cessation is the only prevention strategy that is cost-saving over 30 years.
