carcinoma of the bladder, providing oncological safety with improved quality of 
life. Our extraperitoneal technique, which is an extension of our successful 
experience with retrograde extraperitoneal radical cystectomy in men, minimizes 
intraoperative complications and simplifies the management of post-operative 
morbidity with the neobladder.

DOI: 10.1590/s1677-55382008000200008
PMID: 18462516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Vaccine. 2008 Jun 2;26(23):2841-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.03.046. Epub
2008  May 6.

Cost-effectiveness of live attenuated influenza vaccine versus inactivated 
influenza vaccine among children aged 24-59 months in the United States.

Luce BR(1), Nichol KL, Belshe RB, Frick KD, Li SX, Boscoe A, Rousculp MD, 
Mahadevia PJ.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, 7101 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 600, Bethesda, MD 
20814, USA. bryan.luce@unitedbiosource.com

BACKGROUND: The US Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recently 
expanded the influenza vaccine recommendation to include children 24-59 months 
of age. In a large head-to-head randomized controlled trial, live attenuated 
influenza vaccine, trivalent (LAIV) demonstrated a 54% relative reduction in 
culture-confirmed influenza illness compared with trivalent inactivated 
influenza vaccine (TIV) among children aged 24-59 months.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relative cost and benefit between two influenza 
vaccines (LAIV and TIV) for healthy children 24-59 months of age.
METHODS: Using patient-level data from the clinical trial supplemented with cost 
data from published literature, we modeled the cost-effectiveness of these two 
vaccines. Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and 
cases of influenza avoided. The analysis used the societal perspective.
RESULTS: Due to its higher acquisition cost, LAIV increased vaccination costs by 
USD7.72 per child compared with TIV. However, compared with TIV, LAIV reduced 
the number of influenza illness cases and lowered the subsequent healthcare use 
of children and productivity losses of parents. The estimated offsets in direct 
and indirect costs saved USD15.80 and USD37.72 per vaccinated child, 
respectively. LAIV had a net total cost savings of USD45.80 per child relative 
to TIV. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses indicated that the model 
was robust across a wide range of relative vaccine efficacy and cost estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to its increased relative vaccine efficacy over TIV, LAIV 
reduced the burden of influenza and lowered both direct health care and societal 
costs among children 24-59 months of age.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2008.03.046
PMID: 18462851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008 May 13;51(19):1844-53. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2008.01.042.

Balancing the risks of restenosis and stent thrombosis in bare-metal versus 
drug-eluting stents: results of a decision analytic model.

Garg P(1), Cohen DJ, Gaziano T, Mauri L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008 May 13;51(19):1854-6.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to define what incremental risk of very late stent 
thrombosis (VLST) in drug-eluting stents (DES) would outweigh the restenosis 
benefit.
BACKGROUND: Although there are robust data on the restenosis benefit of DES 
versus bare-metal stents (BMS), the incremental risk of stent thrombosis, a rare 
but serious complication of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), is not 
known with certainty.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic Markov model comparing DES versus BMS 
strategies for a contemporary PCI population. Procedure-related morbidity and 
mortality data from published reports were used to derive the model 
probabilities. Over a range of incremental risk and duration of risk of VLST, we 
identified the net benefit of DES versus BMS in terms of quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE).
RESULTS: Under an assumption of equal stent thrombosis rates beyond 1 year, the 
DES strategy was superior to BMS in terms of QALE (16.262 vs. 16.248 
quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], difference = 0.014). Under the alternative 
assumption of an incremental risk difference of 0.13%/year, the net benefit was 
substantially reduced (difference = 0.001 QALYs). The threshold excess risk of 
very late DES thrombosis compared with BMS, above which BMS would be the 
preferred strategy, was 0.14%/year (over 4 years of follow-up). This threshold 
increased as the population risk of restenosis increased and decreased as the 
vulnerable time window lengthened.
CONCLUSIONS: A small absolute increase in DES thrombosis compared with BMS after 
1 year (>0.14%/year) would result in BMS being the preferred strategy for the 
overall PCI population. Larger clinical trials with longer follow-up are needed 
to estimate the risk of late stent thrombosis with greater certainty for 
existing and new DES.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2008.01.042
PMID: 18466798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Heart. 2009 Mar;95(3):221-7. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2008.144022. Epub 2008 May 8.

Evaluation of risk scores for risk stratification of acute coronary syndromes in 
the Myocardial Infarction National Audit Project (MINAP) database.

Gale CP(1), Manda SO, Weston CF, Birkhead JS, Batin PD, Hall AS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular and Diabetes Research, Leeds Institute of Genetics 
Health and Therapeutics, University of Leeds, Clarendon Way, West Yorkshire, 
Leeds LS2 9JT, UK. c.p.gale@leeds.ac.uk

Comment in
    Heart. 2009 Jun;95(12):1019; author reply 1019-20.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the discriminative performance of the PURSUIT, GUSTO-1, 
GRACE, SRI and EMMACE risk models, assess their performance among risk 
supergroups and evaluate the EMMACE risk model over the wider spectrum of acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS).
DESIGN: Observational study of a national registry.
SETTING: All acute hospitals in England and Wales.
PATIENTS: 100 686 cases of ACS between 2003 and 2005.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Model performance (C-index) in predicting the likelihood 
of death over the time period for which they were designed. The C-index, or area 
under the receiver-operating curve, range 0-1, is a measure of the 
discriminative performance of a model.
RESULTS: The C-indexes were: PURSUIT C-index 0.79 (95% confidence interval 0.78 
to 0.80); GUSTO-1 0.80 (0.79 to 0.81); GRACE in-hospital 0.80 (0.80 to 0.81); 
GRACE 6-month 0.80 (0.79 to 0.80); SRI 0.79 (0.78 to 0.80); and EMMACE 0.78 
(0.77 to 0.78). EMMACE maintained its ability to discriminate 30-day mortality 
throughout different ACS diagnoses. Recalibration of the model offered no 
notable improvement in performance over the original risk equation. For all 
models the discriminative performance was reduced in patients with diabetes, 
chronic renal failure or angina.
CONCLUSION: The five ACS risk models maintained their discriminative performance 
in a large unselected English and Welsh ACS population, but performed less well 
in higher-risk supergroups. Simpler risk models had comparable performance to 
more complex risk models. The EMMACE risk score performed well across the wider 
spectrum of ACS diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2008.144022
PMID: 18467355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 May 13;105(19):7094-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0707025105. Epub 2008 May 8.

Proteasomal adaptation to environmental stress links resistance to 
proteotoxicity with longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Yun C(1), Stanhill A, Yang Y, Zhang Y, Haynes CM, Xu CF, Neubert TA, Mor A, 
Philips MR, Ron D.

Author information:
(1)The Kimmel Center for Biology and Medicine at the Skirball Institute for 
Biomolecular Medicine.

The burden of protein misfolding is believed to contribute to aging. However, 
the links between adaptations to conditions associated with protein misfolding 
and resistance to the time-dependent attrition of cellular function remain 
poorly understood. We report that worms lacking aip-1, a homologue of mammalian 
AIRAP (arsenic-inducible proteasomal 19S regulatory particle-associated 
protein), are not only impaired in their ability to resist exposure to arsenite 
but also exhibit shortened lifespan and hypersensitivity to misfolding-prone 
proteins under normal laboratory conditions. Mammals have a second, 
constitutively expressed AIRAP-like gene (AIRAPL) that also encodes a 
proteasome-interacting protein, which shares with AIRAP the property of 
enhancing peptide accessibility to the proteasome's active site. Genetic rescue 
experiments suggest that features common to the constitutively expressed worm 
AIP-1 and mammalian AIRAPL (but missing in the smaller, arsenite-inducible 
AIRAP) are important to lifespan extension. In worms, a single AIRAP-related 
protein links proteasomal adaptation to environmental stress with resistance to 
both proteotoxic insults and maintenance of animal life span under normal 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0707025105
PMCID: PMC2383958
PMID: 18467495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


613. In Silico Biol. 2007;7(6):623-38.

Cell system ontology: representation for modeling, visualizing, and simulating 
biological pathways.

Jeong E(1), Nagasaki M, Saito A, Miyano S.

Author information:
(1)Human Genome Center, Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo 
108-8639, Japan.

With the rapidly accumulating knowledge of biological entities and networks, 
there is a growing need for a general framework to understand this information 
at a system level. In order to understand life as system, a formal description 
of system dynamics with semantic validation will be necessary. Within the 
context of biological pathways, several formats have been proposed, e.g., SBML, 
CellML, and BioPAX. Unfortunately, these formats lack the formal definitions of 
each term or fail to capture the system dynamics behavior. Thus, we have 
developed a new system dynamics centered ontology called Cell System Ontology 
(CSO). As an exchange format, the ontology is implemented in the Web Ontology 
Language (OWL), which enables semantic validation and automatic reasoning to 
check the consistency of biological pathway models. The features of CSO are as 
follows: (1) manipulation of different levels of granularity and abstraction of 
pathways, e.g., metabolic pathways, regulatory pathways, signal transduction 
pathways, and cell-cell interactions; (2) capture of both quantitative and 
qualitative aspects of biological function by using hybrid functional Petri net 
with extension (HFPNe); and (3) encoding of biological pathway data related to 
visualization and simulation, as well as modeling. The new ontology also 
predefines mature core vocabulary, which will be necessary for creating models 
with system dynamics. In addition, each of the core terms has at least one 
standard icon for easy modeling and accelerating the exchangeability among 
applications. In order to demonstrate the potential of CSO-based pathway 
modeling, visualization, and simulation, we present an HFPNe model for the ASEL 
and ASER regulatory networks in Caenorhabditis elegans.

PMID: 18467775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Acta Cardiol. 2008 Apr;63(2):207-12. doi: 10.2143/AC.63.2.2029530.

Value of clinical, electrocardiographic, echocardiographic and neurohumoral 
parameters in non-ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy.

Tigen K(1), Karaahmet T, Tanalp AC, Gurel E, Cevik C, Mutlu B, Basaran Y.

Author information:
(1)Kartal Kosuyolu Heart Education and Research Hospital, Cardiology Department, 
Istanbul Turkey; mktigen@yahoo.com

AIM: The aim of this study was to assess the predictive value of 
electrocardiographic, echocardiographic and neurohumoral parameters for adverse 
outcomes in non-ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy patients with sinus rhythm.
METHODS: Seventy-eight patients with non-ischaemic dilated cardiomyopathy (LVEF 
< 40%) and sinus rhythm were enrolled. All patients underwent 
electrocardiographic, echocardiographic examination and coronary angiography. 
Blood samples for plasma NT pro-BNP levels were obtained at rest, following 
echocardiographic examination. Patients were followed up for clinical end points 
of death from worsening heart failure, sudden cardiac death and heart 
transplantation.
RESULTS: The study population consisted of 24 (30.8%) women and 54 (69.2%) men. 
Forty-four patients (65.4%) suffered from clinical end points during a mean of 
1278 +/- 188 days follow-up; cardiac transplantation was performed in 5 (11%), 
sudden cardiac death occurred in 10 (23%) and death due to worsening heart 
failure in 29 (66%) patients. The patients were grouped according to the 
presence (group 1, 44 patients) or absence (group 2, 34 patients) of clinical 
end points. The patients in group 1 had lower systolic blood pressures (P = 
0.006) and higher NYHA functional classes (P < 0.0001). When echocardiographic 
parameters and NT pro-BNP values were compared, the patients in group 1 had 
lower left ventricular ejection fractions (P < 0.0001), higher E/A ratios (P < 
0.0001), shorter E wave deceleration times (P = 0.004), pulmonary acceleration 
times (P < 0.0001) and isovolumetric relaxation times (P = 0.03), increased 
mitral regurgitant volumes (P = 0.033) and higher plasma NT pro-BNP levels (P < 
0.0001). There was no significant difference between the two groups regarding 
electrocardiographic parameters. In univariate analysis, the prognostic 
predictors of life expectancy were identified as plasma NT pro-BNP, NYHA 
functional class, left ventricular ejection fraction, E/A ratio and E wave 
deceleration time. However, in multivariate analysis by logistic regression only 
plasma NT pro-BNP was determined as independent predictor of life expectancy (P 
= 0.04, HR (95% CI) = 1.0003 (1.0000-1.0007), chi2 = 3.9).
CONCLUSION: Electrocardiographic parameters failed to predict clinical end 
points in this group of patients. Plasma NT pro-BNP is a useful biochemical 
marker to define the high-risk group that warrants closer follow-up in dilated 
cardiomyopathy patients with sinus rhythm.

DOI: 10.2143/AC.63.2.2029530
PMID: 18468202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Ann Fr Anesth Reanim. 2008 Jun;27(6):472-80. doi:
10.1016/j.annfar.2008.03.015.  Epub 2008 May 12.

[Admission of elderly in intensive care: does age affect access to care?].

[Article in French]

Borel M(1), Veber B, Robillard F, Rigaud JP, Dureuil B, Hervé C.

Author information:
(1)Département d'anesthésie-réanimation-Samu, hôpital universitaire de Rouen, 1, 
rue Germont, 76000 Rouen, France. marie.borel@chu-rouen.fr

Comment in
    Ann Fr Anesth Reanim. 2008 Jun;27(6):470-1.

OBJECTIVES: The life expectancy of the population increasing, contrary to the 
resources of beds in reanimation, the question of the admission of the old 
subject in reanimation is increasingly frequent. We will be interested in the 
role of the age in the medical decision-making.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A questionnaire was sent to the intensivists of the same 
department, then the troop of the subjects refused within an intensive care of 
the University Hospital of this same department was studied.
RESULTS: The age arrives in third place among the factors of refusal of 
admission quoted. It does not seem to be an appalling criterion for access to 
intensive care, but rather to lead to a thorough evaluation of the patient. This 
idea is translated in the open questions as in the clinical settings in 
situation. The age modulates the recourse to the entry in intensive care. It 
tends to be integrated in a total process of evaluation of a patient, even if 
the consensus is not total... The analysis of the troop of the refused subjects 
showed a first reason for refusal which is the lack of place. The age is not 
quoted.
CONCLUSION: The age does not seem a determining element. It cannot solve the 
question which is to know if the admission in reanimation is relevant or not for 
the patient proposed. More than the admission or not of a possibly old subject 
in reanimation, the problem lies in the resolution with accuracy of the acute 
dilemma which is the decision-making to admit or refuse a patient whatever it is 
for the benefit of the person.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annfar.2008.03.015
PMID: 18468838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Eukaryot Cell. 2008 Jul;7(7):1127-35. doi: 10.1128/EC.00330-07. Epub 2008
May 9.

Increased respiration in the sch9Delta mutant is required for increasing 
chronological life span but not replicative life span.

Lavoie H(1), Whiteway M.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Research Institute, National Research Council, Montreal, Quebec 
H4P 2R2, Canada.

Loss of the protein kinase Sch9p increases both the chronological life span 
(CLS) and the replicative life span (RLS) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae by 
mimicking calorie restriction, but the physiological consequences of SCH9 
deletion are poorly understood. By transcriptional profiling of an sch9Delta 
mutant, we show that mitochondrial electron transport chain genes are 
upregulated. Accordingly, protein levels of electron transport chain subunits 
are increased and the oxygen consumption rate is enhanced in the sch9Delta 
mutant. Deletion of HAP4 and CYT1, both of which are essential for respiration, 
revert the sch9Delta mutant respiratory rate back to a lower-than-wild-type 
level. These alterations of the electron transport chain almost completely 
blocked CLS extension by the sch9Delta mutation but had a minor impact on the 
RLS. SCH9 thus negatively regulates the CLS and RLS through inhibition of 
respiratory genes, but a large part of its action on life span seems to be 
respiration independent and might involve increased resistance to stress. 
Considering that TOR1 deletion also increases respiration and that Sch9p is a 
direct target of TOR signaling, we propose that SCH9 is one of the major 
effectors of TOR repression of respiratory activity in glucose grown cells.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00330-07
PMCID: PMC2446671
PMID: 18469137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Home Healthc Nurse. 2008 May;26(5):267-8. doi: 
10.1097/01.NHH.0000318939.39667.c0.

Helping the government understand the value of home healthcare and hospice: what 
is wrong with this picture?

Marrelli TM.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NHH.0000318939.39667.c0
PMID: 18469597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. J Immigr Minor Health. 2008 Dec;10(6):475-88. doi:
10.1007/s10903-008-9146-2.

Health status of Mexican-origin persons: do proxy measures of acculturation 
advance our understanding of health disparities?

Carter-Pokras O(1), Zambrana RE, Yankelvich G, Estrada M, Castillo-Salgado C, 
Ortega AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of Maryland College 
Park School of Public Health, College Park, MD 20742, USA 
olivia.carterpokras@verizon.net

OBJECTIVES: This paper compares select health status indicators between the U.S. 
and Mexico, and within the Mexican-origin population using proxy measures of 
acculturation.
METHODS: Statistical data were abstracted and a Medline literature review 
conducted of English-language epidemiologic articles on Mexican-origin groups 
published during 1976-2005.
RESULTS: U.S.-born Mexican-Americans have higher morbidity and mortality 
compared to Mexico-born immigrants. Mexico has lower healthcare resources, life 
expectancy, and circulatory system and cancer mortality rates, but similar 
infant immunization rates compared to the U.S. Along the U.S.-Mexico border, the 
population on the U.S. side has better health status than the Mexican side. The 
longer in the U.S., the more likely Mexican-born immigrants engage in behaviors 
that are not health promoting. Conclusions Researchers should consider SEP, 
community norms, behavioral risk and protective factors when studying 
Mexican-origin groups. It is not spending-time in the U.S. that worsens health 
outcomes but rather changes in health promoting behaviors.

DOI: 10.1007/s10903-008-9146-2
PMID: 18470618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Am J Manag Care. 2008 May;14(5):267-76.

Cancer screening across the aging continuum.

Resnick B(1), McLeskey SW.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Maryland, 655 W Lombard St, Baltimore MD 
21201, USA. resnick@son.umaryland.edu

OBJECTIVES: To review current screening guidelines and practice related to 
cancer screening among older adults and to establish a best practice approach to 
screening for older individuals applicable to all levels of care.
STUDY DESIGN: A comprehensive literature search was performed with consideration 
given to research and practice.
METHODS: Review article.
RESULTS: There is some evidence to support the effectiveness of screening for 
cancer among older adults, particularly when comorbidity, functional status, and 
life expectancy are considered. Moreover, most older individuals (at least the 
subpopulations of well-educated individuals of white race/ethnicity) have 
positive attitudes about cancer screening and are willing to engage in available 
screening tests. However, strict adherence to any of the selected guidelines for 
all older individuals can result in unnecessary stress and burden to some 
individuals related to screening and subsequent testing. Furthermore, screening 
for all older adults regardless of age and status has ethical implications for 
the community at large.
CONCLUSION: Providers should take an individualized approach to screening that 
addresses the immediacy of the screening benefit, associated risks of screening, 
preferences of the patient or his or her proxy, ethical concerns (eg, the 
futility of screening or treatment), and the patient's life expectancy, health 
status, and quality of life.

PMID: 18471031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Mar Pollut Bull. 2008;57(6-12):245-9. doi: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2008.03.034.
Epub  2008 May 8.

Use of exposure time and life expectancy in models for toxicity to aquatic 
organisms.

Connell D(1), Yu J.

Author information:
(1)Griffith School of Environment, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia. D.Connell@griffith.edu.au

The exposure time is a variable which is usually not incorporated into models 
for toxicity. However, with persistent organic pollutants (POPs) exhibiting a 
nonspecific mode of action and lipophilic properties this variable can be 
modeled by the usage of the internal concentrations as a measure of the toxicity 
with fish. The bioconcentration process with fish is a relatively well 
understood and predictable process which allows the calculation of the internal 
lethal concentration. When the exposure time is relatively short the critical 
internal lethal concentrations are relatively constant for the group of POPs 
whereaas the LC50 measured in the ambient water is quite variable. When the 
exposure time is relatively long, results on the measurement of the critical 
internal concentration with fish over different exposure times has demonstrated 
that the internal lethal concentration falls with increasing exposure times in a 
consistent and predictable manner. This reduction in life expectancy can be 
described in a model which can be used to estimate the critical internal 
concentration for any exposure time. It also provides information useful in 
assessing the risk to fish and potentially other species due to the occurrence 
of residues of POPs in natural aquatic systems. It is suggested that these 
relationships can be extended to other groups of organisms and chemicals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2008.03.034
PMID: 18471833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Cortex. 2008 Jun;44(6):717-27. doi: 10.1016/j.cortex.2006.11.004. Epub 2007
Dec  23.

Influence of unilateral motor behaviors on the judgment of valenced stimuli.

Dru V(1), Cretenet J.

Author information:
(1)UFRSTAPS, Unité de Formation et de Recherche en Sciences et Techniques des 
Activités Physiques et Sportives, Université Paris 10, Nanterre, France. 
dru@u-paris10.fr

Two experiments were conducted so as to examine how different motor activations 
(unilateral contraction and extension-flexion paradigms) of the motivational 
systems of approach and avoidance influenced participants' evaluations of 
valenced stimuli (figurative expressions and everyday life pictures). The 
results of the first Study (Study 1) showed that a motor congruence model was 
operative when processing positive facial expressions, this phenomenon was 
reversed, however, when negative faces were processed. This occurrence 
disappeared when weaker negative or positive faces were evaluated. These results 
were replicated in Study 2 with the use of valenced pictures taken from the 
International Affective Picture System (IAPS). The overall results were analyzed 
as a combination of conceptual-motor compatibility and motor congruence models 
throwing new light on the influence of motor behaviors on judgments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cortex.2006.11.004
PMID: 18472041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Assoc Physicians India. 2008 Jan;56:13-4.

Physician's health : time to take care.

Ghosh AK, Joshi SR.

Comment on
    J Assoc Physicians India. 2008 Jan;56:17-20.

PMID: 18472493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. G Ital Nefrol. 2008 May-Jun;25(3):277-83.

[Should dialysis be for all? Yes indeed!].

[Article in Italian]

Panzetta G(1), Grignetti M, Toigo G.

Author information:
(1)S.C. di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Ospedali 
Riuniti di Trieste, Trieste, Italy.

Comment in
    G Ital Nefrol. 2008 May-Jun;25(3):284-9.

Clinically compromised patients who must undergo chronic dialysis are, in 
general, at risk because the procedure can be difficult to perform and give poor 
results in terms of survival and of rehabilitation. However, it is dialysis of 
the very elderly which is routinely characterized by misgivings about the 
indication for and limits of the technique. Patients older than 75 years of age 
currently represent more than 35% of the population that begin dialysis in most 
European registries. In our center at least 30 very old patients begin dialysis 
every year, which represents 45% of the total incident patients. About 30% of 
these patients, because of severe physical and/or mental disability, often 
associated with a situation of social deprivation, rarely achieve true clinical 
stability and depend upon outside caregivers in order to survive. The treatment 
of these patients strains the resources of the health and social structure, as 
well as the Nephrology Division, whose organization can be disrupted by their 
urgent needs, such as hospitalization, transportation, convalescent care, etc. 
Despite these difficulties and a mean survival of only 28 months, the global 
clinical conditions of patients older than 75 years of age are not much 
different than patients in the age bracket of 65 to 75 years. In fact, excluding 
patients older than 85 years of age (a category which geriatricians consider 
separately), the survival and rehabilitation of the very elderly appear similar 
to those of patients 65 to 75 years of age. Many of the clinical problems of the 
dialyzed elderly, such as sensory, mental and functional impairment, are the 
result of advanced age per se rather than of uremia or of dialysis. Therefore, 
ethical considerations of dialysis and of health maintenance in the very elderly 
are similar to those presented by patients who are afflicted by other serious 
diseases such as cancer, heart failure, or extensive stroke. As a result of 
modern technology and the advancement of our clinical knowledge, it is difficult 
to conceive of a true motive to not dialyze a patient--whether very elderly or 
any other patient in critical conditions--except in situations of futility or 
the impossibility to attain a reasonable quality of life. Thus, the true nature 
of the debate regarding the indications or the limits of dialysis in developed 
countries is not economic, technical nor clinical, but ethical. The challenge 
for the Nephrologist is to balance the need to alleviate human suffering and the 
institutional support that society can offer, which is the "bottom line" which 
unifies dialysis for the very elderly with every other therapy which prolongs 
life in tenuous conditions.

PMID: 18473297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. G Ital Nefrol. 2008 May-Jun;25(3):325-41.

[Long-term management of renal transplant recipients].

[Article in Italian]

Icardi A(1), Sacco P, Salvatore F.

Author information:
(1)U.O. Nefrologia e Dialisi, Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Ospedale La 
Colletta, ASL 3, Via del Giappone 5, Arenzano, Genoa, Italy. 
andrea.icardi.usl3@libero.it

Transplantation has been demonstrated to improve the quality of life and 
long-term survival of patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) when compared 
with dialysis. This has resulted in a progressive increase in patients living 
with a functioning kidney graft as a percentage of the total ESRD population. 
Renal transplant recipients require complex long-term medical care, which is 
straining the limited resources of transplant centers. Moreover, due to 
considerations of geography or individual preference, a large number of 
patients, once their condition has stabilized, move away from the transplant 
center to the local nephrology unit. To facilitate and enhance the specialized 
care of these patients, it is crucial that nephrology units understand and 
manage the medical problems affecting long-term transplant recipients (e.g., 
chronic graft dysfunction, toxicity of immunosuppressive therapy, 
cardiovascular, infectious and neoplastic complications, hematological issues, 
bone disease, pregnancy and nonadherence to prescriptions). Regular interactive 
communication between the nephrology unit and the transplant center optimizes 
the continuity of care. Practice guidelines and the available literature on the 
subject are revised and critically analyzed in this paper.

PMID: 18473304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Transplantation. 2008 May 15;85(9):1277-80. doi:
10.1097/TP.0b013e31816c4e6b.

Decreased survival in liver transplant patients requiring chronic dialysis: a 
Canadian experience.

Al Riyami D(1), Alam A, Badovinac K, Ivis F, Trpeski L, Cantarovich M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Multiorgan Transplant Program, Royal Victoria 
Hospital, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Québec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease is associated with increased mortality among 
nonrenal organ transplant recipients. End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is a 
serious complication after orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). It is unclear 
if the outcomes of these individuals are different from nontransplant patients 
requiring dialysis or a kidney transplant.
METHODS: We report the incidence of ESRD in OLT recipients and compare their 
outcomes to matched dialysis controls. We analyzed 4186 patients who received an 
OLT in Canada between January 1981 and December 2002 and 228 matched, 
nontransplant, chronic dialysis controls.
RESULTS: The incidence of ESRD after OLT was 2.9% (n=120). The unadjusted 
mortality rate for those who required chronic dialysis was 49.2% compared with 
26.8% in those who did not develop kidney failure (P<0.0001). The survival of 
OLT recipients on dialysis was lower than the matched chronic dialysis cohort 
(log-rank test, P=0.01). A kidney transplant was performed in 24% of the OLT 
recipients and 21% of the matched dialysis cohort, and their overall survival 
was similar. The OLT patients who remained on dialysis had a significantly lower 
survival when compared with matched dialysis patients who did not receive a 
kidney transplant (log-rank test, P=0.0002).
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality was greater for OLT recipients on dialysis than would be 
expected from a matched, nontransplant, dialysis cohort. Kidney transplantation 
may abrogate some of this increased mortality risk.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e31816c4e6b
PMID: 18475183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Hormones (Athens). 2008 Apr-Jun;7(2):133-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03401504.

Growth hormone treatment in human ageing: benefits and risks.

Giordano R(1), Bonelli L, Marinazzo E, Ghigo E, Arvat E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University of Turin, Turin, Italy.

This paper will focus on the rationale of using Growth Hormone (GH) as an 
anti-ageing therapy in the healthy elderly with age-related decline in the 
activity of the GH/IGF-I axis, the so called "somatopause". Although the 
age-related decline in the activity of the GH/IGF-I axis is considered to 
contribute to age-related changes similar to those observed in Growth Hormone 
Deficient (GHD) adults, GH/IGF-I deficiency or resistance is also known to 
result in prolonged life expectancy, at least in animals. These data raise the 
question whether or not GH deficiency constitutes a beneficial adaptation to 
ageing and therefore requires no therapy. Moreover, although GH therapy has been 
shown to exert positive effects in GHD patients, its safety, efficacy and role 
in healthy elderly individuals is highly controversial. This review provides a 
comprehensive account of the implications of GH therapy in the ageing subject.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03401504
PMID: 18477550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. J Biochem. 2008 Aug;144(2):259-66. doi: 10.1093/jb/mvn064. Epub 2008 May 13.

Protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type Z dephosphorylates TrkA receptors and 
attenuates NGF-dependent neurite outgrowth of PC12 cells.

Shintani T(1), Noda M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Neurobiology, National Institute for Basic Biology, and 
School of Life Science, Graduate University for Advanced Studies, Okazaki 
444-8787, Japan.

Protein tyrosine phosphatase receptor type Z (Ptprz/Ptpzeta/RPTPbeta) is a 
receptor-like protein tyrosine phosphatase (RPTP) which is predominantly 
expressed in the central nervous system. Tropomyosin-related kinases (Trks) are 
single-pass transmembrane molecules that are highly expressed in the developing 
nervous system. Upon the ligand binding of neurotrophins, Trk receptors are 
activated through autophosphorylation of tyrosine residues; however, the PTPs 
responsible for the negative regulation of Trk receptors have not been fully 
elucidated. Here, we identified Ptprz as a specific PTP that efficiently 
dephosphorylates TrkA as a substrate. Co-expression of Ptprz with Trk receptors 
in 293T cells showed that Ptprz suppresses the ligand-independent tyrosine 
phosphorylation of TrkA, but not of TrkB or TrkC, and that Ptprz attenuates TrkA 
activation induced by nerve growth factor (NGF). Co-expression analyses with 
TrkA mutants revealed that Ptprz dephosphorylates phosphotyrosine residues in 
the activation loop of the kinase domain, which are requisite for activation of 
the TrkA receptor. Consistent with these findings, forced expression of Ptprz in 
PC12D cells markedly inhibited neurite extension induced by a low dose of NGF. 
In addition, an increment in the tyrosine phosphorylation of TrkA was observed 
in the brain of Ptprz-deficient mice. Ptprz thus appears to be one of the PTPs 
which regulate the activation and signalling of TrkA receptors.

DOI: 10.1093/jb/mvn064
PMID: 18477627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Support Care Cancer. 2008 Sep;16(9):1089-93. doi: 10.1007/s00520-008-0455-8.
 Epub 2008 May 14.

Development of a score that predicts survival among patients with bone 
metastasis revealing solid tumor.

Penel N(1), Hollebecque A, Maynou C, Dewaele J, Jasserand M, Beuscart R, 
Vieillard MH.

Author information:
(1)Département de Cancérologie Générale, Centre Oscar Lambret, 3 Rue F 
Combemale, Lille, France. n-penel@o-lambret.fr

BACKGROUND: Bone metastases revealing solid tumors require a multidisciplinary 
treatment that may include aggressive surgery. Nevertheless, decision making is 
very difficult because of lack of reliable guidance for life expectancy. 
Therefore, we had conducted a retrospective study to analyze prognostic factors 
in this vulnerable population.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed the medical charts of 119 consecutive 
patients with solid tumors treated between August 1999 and December 2007. 
Survival was estimated using Kaplan-Meier method. Prognostic factors were 
assessed with Log-rank test and Cox model. There were 77 men and 42 women.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The median age was 57 (range, 29-84). The most frequent 
primaries were lung (51 cases), unknown primary (42 cases), and breast (six 
cases). The median overall survival was 118 days (1-2,815). Six independent 
prognostic factors were identified by multivariate analysis: Karnosky index < 
80% (HR = 1.92), albuminemia < 38 g/l (HR = 2.60), natremia < 135 mEq/l (HR = 
2.78), platelet count > 500,000/mm(3) (HR = 2.71), cutaneous metastasis (HR = 
4.6), and pleural metastasis (HR = 4.76). For example, patients with < or =2 of 
these prognostic factors experienced a median overall survival of 196 days 
(1-2,875) and their risk of death within the 90 days was 15/77. On the contrary, 
the patients with more than two poor prognostic factors experienced a median 
overall survival of about 80 days (1-834) and their risk of early death was 
22/32. We had proposed an easily obtained at bedside score that needs further 
validation on independent cohort.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-008-0455-8
PMID: 18478277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Int J Clin Pract. 2008 Jun;62(6):869-76. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01766.x.

Biphasic insulin aspart 70/30 vs. insulin glargine in insulin naïve type 2 
diabetes patients: modelling the long-term health economic implications in a 
Swedish setting.

Goodall G(1), Jendle JH, Valentine WJ, Munro V, Brandt AB, Ray JA, Roze S, Foos 
V, Palmer AJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term clinical and economic outcomes of biphasic 
insulin aspart 70/30 (BIAsp 70/30) treatment vs. insulin glargine in insulin 
naïve, type 2 diabetes patients failing oral antidiabetic drugs in a Swedish 
setting.
METHODS: A published and validated computer simulation model (the CORE Diabetes 
Model) was used to project life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE) and costs over patient lifetimes. Cohort characteristics [54.5% male, 
mean age 52.4 years, 9 years mean diabetes duration, mean glycosylated 
haemoglobin (HbA1c) 9.77%] and treatment effects were based on results from the 
Initiate Insulin by Aggressive Titration and Education (INITIATE) clinical 
trial. Direct medical costs were accounted in 2006 Swedish Kronor (SEK) and 
economic and clinical benefits were discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: Biphasic insulin aspart 70/30 treatment when compared with insulin 
glargine treatment was associated with improvements in discounted life 
expectancy of 0.21 years (13.10 vs. 12.89 years) and QALE of 0.21 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (9.16 vs. 8.96 QALYs). Reductions in the 
incidence of diabetes-related complications in the BIAsp 70/30 treatment arm led 
to reduced total costs of SEK 10,367 when compared with insulin glargine (SEK 
396,475 vs. SEK 406,842) over patient lifetimes. BIAsp 70/30 treatment was 
projected to be dominant (cost and lifesaving) when compared with insulin 
glargine in the base case analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Biphasic insulin aspart 70/30 treatment was associated with 
improved clinical outcomes and reduced costs compared with insulin glargine 
treatment over patient lifetimes. These results were driven by improved HbA1c 
levels associated with BIAsp 70/30 compared with insulin glargine and the 
accompanying reduction in diabetes-related complications despite increases in 
body mass index.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01766.x
PMID: 18479280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Eur J Cancer. 2008 Jul;44(11):1485-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.04.008. Epub
2008  May 12.

Large increase in a Dutch woman's lifetime risk of developing breast cancer.

Paap E(1), Broeders MJ, van Schoor G, Otten JD, Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Health Technology Assessment, 
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
e.paap@epib.umcn.nl

A large increase in the incidence of breast cancer has been observed in many 
countries over the last two decades. On the other hand, however, breast cancer 
mortality has decreased. The prominent burden of breast cancer in the female 
population induces a lot of discussion about incidence and mortality rates, 
whereas lifetime risks are less mentioned. This study provides information on 
the changes in risks for Dutch women with regards to being diagnosed with breast 
cancer (both invasive and in situ) or dying from this disease during the 
screening era. We used the life table method to calculate lifetime risks for the 
period 1989-2003. The lifetime risk for developing breast cancer increased from 
1 in 10 in 1989 to 1 in 7 in 2003; the risk of dying from breast cancer 
decreased respectively from 1 in 22 to 1 in 26. The increasing incidence is 
alarming but has to be seen in perspective; the decreasing mortality is 
promising and shows that, at most, one third of the breast cancer cases are 
fatal.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.04.008
PMID: 18479909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Epidemiol. 2008;18(3):111-8. doi: 10.2188/jea.je2007416. Epub 2008 May 14.

Reduced life expectancy due to smoking in large-scale cohort studies in Japan.

Ozasa K(1), Katanoda K, Tamakoshi A, Sato H, Tajima K, Suzuki T, Tsugane S, 
Sobue T.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology for Community Health and Medicine, Kyoto Prefectural University 
of Medicine, 465 Kajii-cho, Kamigyo-ku, Kyoto 602-8566, Japan. 
kozasa@koto.kpu-m.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: To show the reduction in life expectancy due to smoking and the 
recovery of normal life expectancy by smoking cessation is useful for tobacco 
control health policy.
METHODS: This study included 140,026 males and 156,810 females aged 40-79 years, 
who were participants of large-scale cohort studies in Japan (Japan Health 
Center-based Prospective Study [JPHC]-I, JPHC-II, Three-Prefecture Study, and 
Japan Collaborative Cohort [JACC] Study), which commenced around 1990. The mean 
follow-up period (+/-standard deviation) was 9.6 +/- 2.3 years, during which 
16,282 men and 9,418 women died. For persons aged 40-79 years grouped according 
to each defined smoking status in the baseline questionnaire, sex- and 
age-specific death rates at attained ages were calculated. The age-specific 
death rate was calculated by dividing the number of persons who died at the age 
by the number of persons who were followed-up at the attained age. From these 
death rates, current life tables were constructed according to the smoking 
status, and survival curves were plotted.
RESULTS: The life expectancy of male smokers, ex-smokers, and never-smokers at 
age 40 years was 38.5, 40.8, and 42.4 years respectively. In women, the 
corresponding life expectancies were 42.4, 42.1, and 46.1 years. In both sexes, 
the age by which half of the current smokers had died was approximately 4 years 
younger than that for never-smokers. The life expectancies of male ex-smokers 
who quit smoking before ages 40, 50, 60, and 70 years were 4.8, 3.7, 1.6, and 
0.5 years longer than those of smokers, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Smoking considerably reduced the life expectancy, and earlier 
smoking cessation resulted in a better survival than that seen with continued 
smoking.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je2007416
PMCID: PMC4771605
PMID: 18480591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2008 Jun;68(2):89-99. doi: 10.1002/arch.20251.

Gene cloning and expression analysis of ubiquitin derived from Musca domestica.

Ren Q(1), Zhang W, Zhao XF, Wang JX.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong 250100, China.

Ubiquitin (Ub) is a highly conserved 8-kDa protein that was first identified as 
a tag for protein degradation. Recently, its role in nonproteolytic cellular 
processes such as DNA repair and endocytosis has also been reported. An 
ubiquitin-fusion gene was cloned from Musca domestica. The complete length of 
this ubiquitin-fusion gene is 531 bp, of which 471 bp is an open reading frame 
(ORF) encoding a 156-amino acid peptide, and 60 bp is a 3'-untranslated region 
with the polyadenylation sequence AATAAA and a poly(A) tail. The 
ubiquitin-fusion protein includes an ubiquitin monomer of 76 amino acids with a 
6-amino acid motif (LRLRGG) and 3 conserved lysine functional sites, which 
participate in the formation of the ubiquitin-protease complex. The 
ubiquitin-fusion protein also contains an 80-amino acid carboxyl extension 
protein, namely, ribosomal protein S27 with a classical zinc finger motif 
C-X(4)-C-X(14)-C-X(2)-C. Because of its carboxyl extension protein S27, the M. 
domestica ubiquitin-fusion protein was named Mub(S27). It has a predicted 
molecular weight of 18 kDa and a theoretical isoelectric point of 9.82. No 
signal peptides were predicted for the protein. Northern blot analysis revealed 
that Mub(S27) transcript level is higher at the embryo stage than that at any 
other developmental stages. When houseflies develop into 5-day pupae, the Ub 
mRNA level is relatively low. After infection with gram-negative and 
gram-positive bacteria, Mub(S27) transcript level was upregulated. Mub(S27) 
transcript level was also regulated by heat or cold stress.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.20251
PMID: 18481301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Gastroenterology. 2008 Jun;134(7):2182-4. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2008.05.019.
 Epub 2008 May 13.

Effect of heartburn on life expectancy.

Gerson LB.

Comment on
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2008 Jan;103(1):12-9.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2008.05.019
PMID: 18482586


634. Biogerontology. 2008 Oct;9(5):345-50. doi: 10.1007/s10522-008-9146-6. Epub
2008  May 17.

Life extension in Drosophila maintained under lengthened light/dark regime.

Vaiserman AM(1), Pisaruck AV, Timchenko AN, Voitenko VP, Koshel NM, Grigoriev 
PE.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Gerontology, Kiev, Ukraine. vaiserman@geront.kiev.ua

In the present study, we investigated whether the length of light/dark cycle 
could influence the pre-adult developmental time and adult life span in 
Drosophila melanogaster. Flies were reared to adulthood and maintained as adults 
under both 24-h (light/dark 12:12 h) and 48-h (light/dark 24:24 h) cycles. The 
flies reared during pre-adult stages at the 48-h light/dark cycle had 
significantly prolonged developmental time compared to those in flies reared at 
normal 24-h cycle. Irrespective of the duration of pre-adult light/dark period, 
the males maintained as adults at prolonged 48-h cycle had a 13-16% longer mean 
adult life span than those maintained at normal 24-h cycle (P<0.001 in all 
cases). In females reared under normal 24-h cycle such differences were lower 
but also significant (P=0.03); no significant difference in life span was found 
in females reared under prolonged 48-h cycle. The results are interpreted to 
demonstrate that pre-adult developmental time and adult life span in Drosophila 
melanogaster are both influenced by the length of light/dark cycle.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-008-9146-6
PMID: 18484190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Med Klin (Munich). 2008 May 15;103(5):321-4. doi: 10.1007/s00063-008-1039-6.

[Assessment of the value of health-care services--the first step].

[Article in German]

Porzsolt F(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinische Okonomik, Universität Ulm, Ulm. Franz.Porzsolt@uniklinik-ulm.de

The average increase of health-care expenditures in OECD countries is higher 
than the corresponding increase in gross national products (GNPs). Therefore, it 
is necessary in these countries to react to this increase. Although there is 
agreement that rationing cannot be avoided, the optimal method has not yet been 
found. In order to contribute to the solution of this problem, the Institute for 
Quality and Economics in Health Care (IQWiG) has been established in 2004 in 
Germany. One of the central tasks of this institute is the development of a 
method to assess the value of health-care services. In this paper, general 
problems of the assessment of health-care value and specific problems which 
emerge from the presently proposed concepts for assessment of the health-care 
value are summarized. Based on the analysis of these problems it is tried to 
derive a new approach. The approach presumes that the decisions which have to be 
made for assessment of health-care value are rather complex and subjective. 
Scientific methods can increase transparency but cannot replace democratic 
decisions. The new approach requires the introduction of strategies like shared 
or democratic decision-making. The discussion of this essential strategy is the 
first step in the development of a consensus for assessment of the value of 
health care.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-008-1039-6
PMID: 18484218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. AIDS Care. 2008 May;20(5):565-70. doi: 10.1080/09540120701867222.

Positive futures? The impact of HIV infection on achieving health, wealth and 
future planning.

Harding R(1), Molloy T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Care, King's College London, London, UK. 
richard.harding@kcl.ac.uk

Although HIV is now cast as a chronic condition with favourable clinical 
outcomes under new treatments, it is unclear how living with HIV affects 
expectations and planning for the future. This mixed-methods study aimed to 
investigate UK gay men's expectations of their own future when living with HIV, 
and to identify the heath and social interventions required to enhance roles, 
participation and personal fulfilment. A preliminary focus group identified 
relevant domains of enquiry for a subsequent online cross-sectional survey. A 
total of 347 gay men living in the UK with HIV participated in the survey, and 
56.6% were currently on treatment. However, high 7-day prevalence of 
psychological and physical symptoms was identified (42.6% in pain, 80.2% 
worrying); 57.8% perceived reduced career options due to their infection and 
71.8% reduced life expectancy. Being on treatment was not significantly 
associated with perceived life expectancy. Coded open-ended survey data 
identified eight principle themes related to goal planning and attainment. The 
integrated open and closed data items offer an understanding of barriers and 
challenges that focus on poor mental health due to clinical inattention, 
discrimination and stigma, poor career and job opportunities due to benefit and 
workplace inflexibility and lack of understanding, a lack of personal goals and 
associated skills deficit related to confidence and self esteem. Gay men living 
with HIV require an integrated holistic approach to wellbeing that incorporates 
clinical, social and individual intervention in order to lead productive lives 
with maximum benefit from treatment gains.
