in 2004-77.8 years. Age-specific death rates decreased for the age group 65-74 
years but increased for the age groups 15-24 years, 25-34 years, and 45-54 
years. The 15 leading causes of death in 2005 remained the same as in 2004. 
Heart disease and cancer continued to be the leading and second leading causes 
of death, together accounting for almost one-half of all deaths. The infant 
mortality rate in 2005 was 6.87 deaths per 1,000 live births.
CONCLUSIONS: Generally, mortality patterns in 2005, such as the age-adjusted 
death rate declining to a record historical low, were consistent with long-term 
trends. Life expectancy in 2005 remained the same as that in 2004.

PMID: 18512336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Ned Tijdschr Tandheelkd. 2008 Apr;115(4):201-2.

[Medical treatment of solid tumours].

[Article in Dutch]

Buter J(1).

Author information:
(1)Uit de afdeling Geneeskundige Oncologie van her Vrije Universiteit medisch 
centrum in Amsterdam, Amsterdam. j.buter@vumc.nl

The medical treatment of solid tumours depends on many different factors. The 
choice of drug is stipulated by the tumour type, the stage of the disease and a 
number of patient characteristics, such as biological age, co-morbidity, and 
general performance status. The treatment can be curative, palliative or 
(neo-)adjuvant in nature. The groups of drugs which are used are hormones, 
cytostatics, immune-modulating drugs and (a new group) targeted-drugs consisting 
of small-molecules and monoclonal antibodies. Only a few tumour types are 
curable with chemotherapy in an advanced stage. In some tumour types an increase 
in life-expectancy can be achieved; other tumours are hardly or not at all 
sensitive to medical treatment. Treatment is limited by the side-effects of the 
drugs. With supporting medication some of the side-effects can be alleviated. 
With palliative therapy the aim is to improve the general condition by 
temporarily inhibiting the tumour with minimal side effects. Adjuvant 
chemotherapy raises the chance of cure after primary treatment with surgery or 
radiotherapy.

PMID: 18512518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Jun;12(25):iii, xi-194. doi: 10.3310/hta12250.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening programmes for 
amblyopia and strabismus in children up to the age of 4-5 years: a systematic 
review and economic evaluation.

Carlton J(1), Karnon J, Czoski-Murray C, Smith KJ, Marr J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of screening for amblyopia and 
strabismus in children aged up to 4-5 years, also identifying the major areas of 
uncertainty and so inform future research priorities in this disease area.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases were searched in January 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic literature reviews were undertaken to determine the 
prevalence and natural history, the screening methods, the effectiveness of 
treatment options and health-related quality of life issues relating to 
amblyopia and strabismus. The review of treatment interventions was restricted 
to high-quality reviews, meta-analyses and guidelines. The data derived from the 
review informed the structure and implementation of the decision-analytic model.
RESULTS: The amblyopia screening model was analysed in detail to estimate the 
cost and effects of six alternative screening options comprising screening at 
different ages (3, 4 and 5 years) and using alternative sets of tests (visual 
acuity testing and the cover tests, with and without autorefraction). The 
reference case results showed that screening programmes that included 
autorefraction dominated screening programmes without autorefraction. Analyses 
based on the cost per case of amblyopia prevented showed screening at either 3 
or 4 years prevented additional cases at a low absolute cost (3000-6000 pounds 
sterling). However, when these results were extrapolated to estimate the cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, the reference case analysis found 
that no form of screening is likely to be cost-effective at currently accepted 
values of a QALY. The wide-ranging sensitivity analyses found that the results 
were robust to most parameter changes. The only parameter that radically 
affected the results was the utility effect of loss of vision in one eye. No 
direct evidence of a utility effect was identified and the reference case 
assumed no effect. When a small effect is assumed (a reduction in utility of 
2%), the incremental cost per QALY gained becomes extremely attractive for 
screening at both 3 and at 4 years. The expected value of perfect information 
was shown to be large when the unilateral vision loss utility parameter was 
allowed to vary, but not when it was kept constant at zero.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that the cost-effectiveness of screening for 
amblyopia is dependent on the long-term utility effects of unilateral vision 
loss. There is limited evidence on any such effect, although our subjective 
interpretation of the available literature is that the utility effects are 
likely to be minimal. Any utility study investigating such effects would need to 
be careful to avoid introducing bias. The reference case model did not represent 
potential treatment-related utility effects, primarily due to an increased 
probability of treated children being bullied at school. The evidence indicates 
that this may be a problem, and additional sensitivity analyses show that small 
utility decrements from bullying would improve the cost-effectiveness of early 
screening significantly. A prospective study of the utility effects of bullying 
would usefully inform the analysis, although such a study would need to be 
carefully planned in order to distinguish whether the overall incidence of 
bullying decreases with reduced school-age treatment, or whether it is displaced 
to other children.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12250
PMID: 18513466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Jun;12(27):iii-iv, ix-124. doi:
10.3310/hta12270.

A preliminary model-based assessment of the cost-utility of a screening 
programme for early age-related macular degeneration.

Karnon J(1), Czoski-Murray C, Smith K, Brand C, Chakravarthy U, Davis S, 
Bansback N, Beverley C, Bird A, Harding S, Chisholm I, Yang YC.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of screening for age-related 
macular degeneration (AMD) by developing a decision analytic model that 
incorporated and assessed all of the National Screening Committee criteria. A 
further objective was to identify the major areas of uncertainty in the model, 
and so inform future research priorities in this disease area.
DATA SOURCES: Major databases were searched in March 2004 and updated in January 
2005.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic literature reviews covered the epidemiology and 
natural history of AMD, the screening and treatment effectiveness and 
health-related quality of life relating to AMD. A hybrid cohort-individual 
sampling model was implemented to describe the range of pathways between the 
incidence of age-related maculopathy (ARM) and death via clinical presentation 
and treatment at different stages of the disease. As significant shortfalls in 
the data available from the literature were apparent, so a range of primary data 
sources were also used to populate the model. To obtain estimates for the value 
of parameters deemed to be within an expert's remit, data describing some 
parameters were elicited from relevant experts. The data identified informed 
probability distributions describing the uncertainty around the model 
parameters. To incorporate joint parameter uncertainty (i.e. correlations 
between parameters), the AMD natural history model was calibrated 
probabilistically. Randomly sampled sets of input parameters were assigned 
weights representing the accuracy of their predictions of a set of observed 
model outputs. The analysis of the AMD screening model estimated the costs, 
numbers of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and cases of blindness in a 
general population sample of 50-year-olds over the remainder of their lifetime, 
for 16 alternative screening options (including no screening). The reference 
case analysis incorporated current treatment options of laser photocoagulation 
and photodynamic therapy. Sensitivity analyses describing six alternative sets 
of intervention strategies, based on horizon scanning of potential future 
treatments for AMD, were also undertaken.
RESULTS: There remains significant uncertainty about whether any form of 
screening for AMD is cost-effective. However, annual screening from age 60 years 
seems to provide the highest mean net benefits, but this is based on a 
cost-effectiveness estimate that has very poor precision (high levels of 
uncertainty). The probabilistic sensitivity analysis shows that the 95% credible 
interval for annual screening from age 60 years ranges from this option 
dominating the previous option to an incremental cost per QALY of over 0.5 
million pounds sterling. Plotting a cost-effectiveness acceptability frontier 
shows that although annual screening from age 60 years has the highest net 
benefits at a value of QALY of 30,000 pounds sterling, the associated 
probability of this option being the most cost-effective option is only around 
20%. The sensitivity analyses around potential future treatment options indicate 
that screening may become more cost-effective with the new treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: The conclusions focus on the interpretation of the results from the 
perspective of defining the major areas of uncertainty, which were defined as 
disease progression, rates of clinical presentation, screening test and optician 
effectiveness, treatment effectiveness, and costs of blindness. Future research 
may be best targeted at assessing how routine data may be used to describe 
clinical presentation rates of ARM. Other potential studies include a pilot 
study of the effectiveness of screening and opticians' referral patterns for AMD 
and a costing study of blindness as a continuum of association with 
deterioration in vision.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12270
PMID: 18513468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2008 Jul;18(3):168-74. doi:
10.1016/j.semradonc.2008.01.004.

Economic analysis of health care interventions.

Konski A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fox Chase Cancer Center, Philadelphia, PA 
19111, USA.

According to US government statistics, health care expenditures approached $2 
trillion in 2005 or $6,697/person, with spending expected to exceed $4.1 
trillion by 2016 (http://www.cms.hhs.gov/NationalHealthExpendData/). Total 
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services spending (including Medicaid, State 
Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP), and Medicare) was $660.7 million in 
2005. Despite the decline in the growth rate of health care spending growth over 
the past 4 years, health care spending increased 6.9% from 2004 to 2005 and was 
16% of the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2005 and forecasted to be 19.6% of 
the GDP by 2016. Although the percentage of GDP may not concern providers of 
health care products or services, it has an affect on the rest of the economy. 
Spending on health care by employers or patients increases the cost of the 
products produced, making goods produced here in the United States less 
attractive to world markets in the age of globalization in addition to leaving 
less money for patients to spend on other goods and services or save.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2008.01.004
PMID: 18513626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2008 Jun;9(2):144-8. doi: 10.1016/j.prrv.2008.01.004.
Epub  2008 May 12.

Recent advances in cystic fibrosis.

Ratjen F(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
felix.ratjen@sickkids.ca

Considerable advances in cystic fibrosis (CF) research have translated into 
improved patient care, reflected by a continuing trend of improving life 
expectancy in CF patients. This review summarises some of the major findings of 
CF research that have occurred in the past year. The review specifically focuses 
on those developments that have direct implications for patient care or those in 
which clinical trials suggest benefits that may impact on the treatment of CF 
patients in the near future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prrv.2008.01.004
PMID: 18513677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Age Ageing. 2008 Sep;37(5):513-20. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afn120. Epub 2008 May
30.

Post-acute care for older people in community hospitals--a cost-effectiveness 
analysis within a multi-centre randomised controlled trial.

O'Reilly J(1), Lowson K, Green J, Young JB, Forster A.

Author information:
(1)Health Research and Information Division, Economic and Social Research 
Institute, Dublin, Ireland.

Comment in
    Age Ageing. 2008 Sep;37(5):491-3.

OBJECTIVES: to compare the cost effectiveness of post-acute care for older 
people provided in community hospitals with general hospital care.
DESIGN: cost-effectiveness study embedded within a randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: seven community hospitals and five general hospitals at five centres in 
the midlands and north of England.
PARTICIPANTS: 490 patients needing rehabilitation following hospital admission 
with an acute illness.
INTERVENTION: multidisciplinary team care for older people in community 
hospitals.
MEASUREMENTS: EuroQol EQ-5D scores transformed into quality-adjusted life years; 
health and social service costs during the 6-month period following 
randomisation.
RESULTS: there was a non-significant difference between the community hospital 
and general hospital groups for changes in quality-adjusted life-year values 
from baseline to 6 months (mean difference 0.048; 95% confidence interval -0.028 
to 0.123; P = 0.214). Resource use was similar for both groups. The mean 
(standard deviation) costs per patient for health and social services resources 
used were comparable for both groups: community hospital group 8,946 pounds ( 
6,514 pounds); general hospital group 8,226 pounds ( 7,453 pounds). These 
findings were robust to sensitivity analyses. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio estimate was 16,324 pounds per quality-adjusted life year. A cost 
effectiveness acceptability curve suggests that if decision makers' willingness 
to pay per quality-adjusted life year was 10,000 pounds, then community hospital 
care was effective in 47% of cases, and this increased to only 50% if the 
threshold willingness to pay was raised to 30,000 pounds.
CONCLUSIONS: the cost effectiveness of post-acute rehabilitation for older 
people was similar in community hospitals and general hospitals.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afn120
PMID: 18515290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Br J Psychiatry. 2008 Jun;192(6):450-7. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.106.033597.

Out-patient psychotherapy for borderline personality disorder: 
cost-effectiveness of schema-focused therapy v. transference-focused 
psychotherapy.

van Asselt AD(1), Dirksen CD, Arntz A, Giesen-Bloo JH, van Dyck R, Spinhoven P, 
van Tilburg W, Kremers IP, Nadort M, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Maastricht, Department KEMTA, PO Box 5800, 6202 AZ 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. avas@kemta.azm.nl

BACKGROUND: Schema-focused therapy (SFT) and transference-focused psychotherapy 
(TFP) for borderline personality disorder were recently compared in a randomised 
multicentre trial.
AIMS: To assess the societal cost-effectiveness of SFT v. TFP in treating 
borderline personality disorder.
METHOD: Costs were assessed by interview. Health-related quality of life was 
measured using EQ-5D. Outcomes were costs per recovered patient (recovery 
assessed with the Borderline Personality Disorder Severity Index) and costs per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: Mean 4-year bootstrapped costs were euro37 826 for SFT and euro46 795 
for TFP (95% uncertainty interval for difference -21 775 to 3546); QALYs were 
2.15 for SFT and 2.27 for TFP (95% UI -0.51 to 0.28). The percentages of 
patients who recovered were 52% and 29% respectively. The SFT intervention was 
less costly and more effective than TFP (dominant), for recovery; it saved 
euro90 457 for one QALY loss.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the initial slight disadvantage in QALYs, there is a high 
probability that compared with TFP, SFT is a cost-effective treatment for 
borderline personality disorder.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.106.033597
PMID: 18515897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Oncology. 2007;73(5-6):395-400. doi: 10.1159/000136794. Epub 2008 Jun 2.

Endobronchial metastases from colorectal adenocarcinomas: clinical and 
endoscopic characteristics and patient prognosis.

Coriat R(1), Diaz O, de la Fouchardière C, Desseigne F, Négrier S.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Department, Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon, France. 
romain.coriat@laposte.net

BACKGROUND: Endobronchial metastases (EBM) secondary to extrapulmonary solid 
malignant tumours are rare but may occur. The most common extrathoracic 
malignancies associated with EBM are breast, renal and colorectal carcinomas. 
This study aimed to evaluate the clinical and bronchoscopic aspects of EBM from 
colorectal carcinomas and the prognosis of the patients.
METHODS: EBM were diagnosed in 7 patients with colorectal carcinomas between 
2004 and 2005. All patients underwent colorectal resection at the time of 
primary tumour diagnosis. Bronchial involvement was proved by bronchoscopy, and 
the metastatic nature of the lesions was confirmed histopathologically in all 
patients. EBM patients were compared with a control group of 7 patients with 
pulmonary metastases from colorectal cancer.
RESULTS: Median age at time of colorectal carcinoma was 55 years in EBM patients 
and 57 years in controls. Distressing airway symptoms caused by EBM were 
relieved by use of newer intrabronchial therapies: radiotherapy, brachytherapy 
and cryotherapy. One patient underwent metastasis resection. The median survival 
after diagnosis of EBM was 18.9 months. All patients had pulmonary metastases. 
The median survival after diagnosis of pulmonary metastasis from colorectal 
carcinoma was 55.7 months in EBM patients and 12.7 months in controls (p < 
0.005).
DISCUSSION: EBM are generally underdiagnosed in patients with colorectal 
carcinoma. Bronchoscopy is not part of the standard evaluation of these 
patients. Physicians must be more attentive to pulmonary symptoms, even when 
patients' pulmonary metastases are known. Various management options are 
available for localized endobronchial tumours.
CONCLUSION: On average, EBM are diagnosed about 5 years after the diagnosis of 
the primary tumour, which is a relatively long lead time. Although this 
metastatic location usually implies a very negative prognosis regarding life 
expectancy, it did not seem to significantly reduce survival in our patients. 
Local treatments allow substantial improvement of pulmonary symptoms.

2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000136794
PMID: 18515979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Biogerontology. 2009 Feb;10(1):73-81. doi: 10.1007/s10522-008-9149-3. Epub
2008  May 31.

Professional and personal attitudes of researchers in ageing towards life 
extension.

Underwood M(1), Bartlett HP, Hall WD.

Author information:
(1)Australasian Centre on Ageing, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia.

It is often assumed that there is broad public support for strong life extension 
research (i.e. research aimed at the dramatic extension of human life beyond the 
current maximum), and that there would be a near universal interest in using any 
life extending technologies that this research may produce. In this paper we 
report the opinions of researchers in ageing on the controversial promise of 
life extension, and compare these views. This paper describes the professional 
attitudes, personal interest and concerns expressed by Australian and 
international researchers in ageing (n = 14) as expressed during 
semi-structured, in-depth interviews. Researchers held varying opinions about 
the possibility of significantly extending human life. Some saw a limit to the 
extension of human life, while others did not. Some felt that research into the 
fundamental ageing process was a priority; others did not. Researchers tended to 
weigh up the potential risks and benefits of life extension with most expressing 
a personal interest in life extension that was contingent on the technology 
providing a good quality of life. Some participants were not interested in the 
prospect of life extension for personal reasons, because they felt the potential 
risks outweighed the potential benefits, or because life extension raised issues 
of justice and equity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-008-9149-3
PMID: 18516699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2008 Jun;225(6):548-54. doi: 10.1055/s-2007-963760.

[Pathomechanisms for aging of retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and prophylactic 
therapy options in regard to AMD].

[Article in German]

Schütt F(1), Kopitz J, Yu A, Welge-Lüssen U.

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik der Universität Heidelberg, Heidelberg. 
florian_schuett@med.uni-heidelberg.de

An intact retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) represents an essential condition for 
the visual process. This post-mitotic RPE monolayer combines different functions 
such as degradation of photoreceptor outer segments, vitamin A cycle, support of 
retinal metabolism and maintenance of the outer blood-retina barrier. As a 
consequence of excessive metabolism, high oxygen levels, exposition to light of 
short wave length and ensuing radical formation, the RPE is highly dependent on 
protective systems. In spite of differentiated defence mechanisms, aging 
processes cause cumulative RPE damage, representing a major component of 
age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of irreversible severe 
vision loss in people over 50 years old. A better understanding of the 
underlying pathophysiology will help to develop new prophylactic options which 
is becoming more and more important with increasing life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2007-963760
PMID: 18516775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Indian J Tuberc. 2008 Apr;55(2):64-9.

Survival of tuberculosis patients treated under DOTS in a rural Tuberculosis 
Unit (TU), south India.

Vasantha M(1), Gopi PG, Subramani R.

Author information:
(1)Tuberculosis Research Centre, Chennei.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate survival probabilities and identify risk factors for 
death of tuberculosis (TB) patients during treatment period.
METHODS: TB patients registered during May 1999 to December 2004 from a rural TB 
unit (TU) with a population of 580,000 in Tiruvallur district, South India, 
formed study population. Life table and Cox's regression methods were used.
RESULTS: Of the 3818 TB patients who were initiated on treatment, 96, 94 and 97% 
of category--I, II and III respectively, were surviving after completion of 
treatment. Higher death rates were independently associated with patient's age 
(45 years), previous history of treatment, alcoholism and initial body weight 
(<35 kgs).
CONCLUSION: The survival probability was found to be similar in all patients 
irrespective of categorization. Necessary actions need to be initiated in the 
programme to improve body weight and abstain from alcoholism.

PMID: 18516821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Brain Nerve. 2008 May;60(5):538-46.

[On the occasion of my retirement as head of the Neurochirurgische 
Universitätsklinik Zürich--changing aspects of treatment modality in modern 
neurosurgery and of neuroscience research. Presentation of our experience and 
historical backgrounds].

[Article in Japanese]

Yonekawa Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurochirurgie FMH, Haldenbachstrasse 18 CH-8091 Zürich, Switzerland. 
yasuhiro.yonekawa@usz.ch

On the occasion of my retirement as head of the Neurochirurgische 
Universitätsklinik Zürich on 31. May 2007, the changing aspects of neurosurgery 
in diseases dealt with and in their treatments during the last 70 years (from 
the foundation of the department by Prof. Krayenbuehl in 1937 successed by Prof. 
Yaşargil and later on by myself.) were presented. Number of surgical procedures 
were 1,000 times per year during the interval and the busiest era was that of 
Prof. Krayenbühl, in which it amounted to as much as 1,500 at the maximum. 
Lumbar disc surgery was the most frequent one (around 250/year with the use of 
more than 70 beds) and this belonged to the beginning of the resident's surgical 
training program. This is now mainly performed by neurosurgeons in practice 
outside of the university hospital. Although "new" technique such as Chymopapain 
injection or endoscopic methods have been applied, microsurgical lumbar disc 
surgery remains as the gold standard. Newly the situation of medical economics 
has changed dramatically. One is forced to adapt oneself more or less to this 
change, so that these 1,000 surgeries/year could be performed using 30 beds. 
Vascular neurosurgery has changed considerably in its aspects from development 
of microsurgery pioneered by Prof. Yaşargil at the end of 1960 and to the 
endovascular methods by Serbinenco, Grüntzig in 1970s followed by Guglielmi's 
electrothrombosis at the end of 1980. Our cases of aneurysm clipping decreased 
from 100 (1993) to 80 (2006), while cases of aneurysm coiling increased from 40 
(1993) to 60 (2006). Long-term follow-up results of endovascular methods are 
still to be evaluated for the final judgement of appropriateness of this 
tendency. AVMs are now mainly treated with endovascular method (70/year) and 
their microsurgical removal of AVMs is usually performed in combination with 
hematoma removal in the acute stage (20/year). Gamma-knife application for AVMs 
were rare. Traditionally, carotid endarterectomy belonged to vascular surgeons 
in our hospital, but the tendency of conversion from conventional carotid 
endarterectomy to endovascular PTA and/or stenting seemed to be marked, while 
microvascular revascularization procedure represented by extracranial 
intracranial EC-IC bypass remained constant (around 20/year) in various occasion 
(277 times on 203 cases: atherosclerosis 93, Moyamoya angiopathy (MMA) 47, 
aneurysm 57 and skull base tumour 6, during the last 13 years], in spite of 
negative results of EC-IC bypass international cooperative study for stroke 
prevention in 1985. Glioma surgery especially glioblastoma surgery the most 
frequent surgery in our department around 170 / year contributed to improvement 
of both life expectancy and quality of life by development of therapy modalities 
(irradiation microsurgery and chemotherapy). Recent life expectancy of cases 
with primary glioblastoma amounted to 25.8 ms on the average by combination of 
treatments; microsurgical gross total removal + irradiation + temodal and 
thalidomide. This was 8.5 ms and 14 ms respectively at the time of Prof. 
Krayenbühl 1960 (surgical removal plus irradiation) and of Prof. Yaşargil 1970 
(microsurgical removal plus irradiation) and these results being those on cases 
of primary and secondary glioblastoma together. Postoperative quality of life 
improved also by using modern techniques: intraoperative stimulation, cortical 
mapping, navigation, open MRI etc.. Acoustic neurinoma (just less than 20/year) 
is one of benign brain tumours whose treatment has changed remarkably. Cases 
were referred to us only when their size exceeded 2-3 cm in extrameatal 
diameter, as the smaller ones are treated by Gamma-knife. Thanks to development 
of intaroperative neurophysiological monitoring and of surgical technique, 
preservation of facial nerve function has improved from 60% to more than 85% in 
spite of the increase of size. Functional neurosurgery represented by 
microvascular decompression for hemifacial spasm and trigeminal neuralgia 
pioneered by Prof. Jannetta and by the selective amgdalohippocampectomy SAHE for 
intractable mesial temporal lobe epilepsy MTLE pioneered by Prof. Yaşargil both 
in 1970s were around 20/year respectively. Recently stereotactic intervention 
decreased remarkably. Shunting procedure for hydrocephalus malresorptivus (after 
subarachnoid hemorrhage and/or idiopathic) were around 100/year. Programmable 
valve (opening pressure can be changed magnetically percutaneously) has 
increased clinical effectiveness of the shunt. It was the authors pleasure to 
have succeeded the Neurochirurgische Universitätsklinik Zürich directed by two 
foregoing giant neurosurgeons Prof. Krayenbühl and Prof. Yaşargil and therefore 
to have completed a hard task more or less and have experienced considerable 
changing aspects of modern neurosurgery as mentioned above.

PMID: 18516976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Neurosurg Focus. 2008;24(6):E2. doi: 10.3171/FOC/2008/24/6/E2.

Pyogenic brain abscess.

Erdoğan E(1), Cansever T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Gulhane Military Medical School, Ankara, Turkey.

Brain abscesses have been one of the most challenging lesions, both for surgeons 
and internists. From the beginning of the computed tomography (CT) era, the 
diagnosis and treatment of these entities have become easier and less invasive. 
The outcomes have become better with the improvement of diagnostic techniques, 
neurosurgery, and broad-spectrum antibiotics. Atypical bacterial abscesses are 
more often due to chemotherapy usage in oncology, long life expectancy in 
patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and 
immunosuppression in conjunction with organ transplantation. Surgical treatment 
options showed no significant difference with respect to mortality levels, but 
lower morbidity rates were achieved with stereotactically guided aspiration. 
Decompression with stereotactically guided aspiration, antibiotic therapy based 
on results of pus culture, and repeated aspirations if indicated from results of 
periodic CT follow-up scans seem to be the most appropriate treatment modality 
for brain abscesses. Immunosuppression and comorbidities, initial neurological 
status, and intraventricular rupture were significant factors influencing the 
outcomes of patients. The pitfalls and evolution in the diagnosis and treatment 
of brain abscesses are discussed in this study.

DOI: 10.3171/FOC/2008/24/6/E2
PMID: 18518747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2008 Jun;9(9):1609-18. doi:
10.1517/14656566.9.9.1609.

Clinical impact of trabectedin (ecteinascidin-743) in advanced/metastatic soft 
tissue sarcoma.

Schöffski P(1), Dumez H, Wolter P, Stefan C, Wozniak A, Jimeno J, Van Oosterom 
AT.

Author information:
(1)Catholic University Leuven, University Hospital Gasthuisberg, Department of 
General Medical Oncology, Leuven Cancer Institute, Herestraat 49, 3000 Leuven, 
Belgium. patrick.schoffski@uz.kuleuven.be

BACKGROUND: Patients with advanced or metastatic non-gastrointestinal stromal 
tumour soft tissue sarcoma (STS) whose disease progresses during or after 
chemotherapy with doxorubicin or ifosfamide have few options and very limited 
life expectancy. In this setting, the DNA and transcription interacting agent 
trabectedin (ecteinascidin-743), isolated originally from the tunicate 
Ecteinascidia turbinata, has encouraging activity and is now approved in the 
European Union.
OBJECTIVE: To review evidence for the efficacy of trabectedin in STSs.
METHODS: This review includes material known to the authors through preclinical 
and clinical work with trabectedin, and information from relevant papers and 
abstracts.
RESULTS: Pooled analysis of Phase II studies suggests that around 50% of STS 
patients, failing conventional chemotherapy, experienced long lasting tumour 
control (either objective response or stabilization of disease) when treated 
with trabectedin. Twenty-nine per cent of patients were alive at 2 years, and 
median overall survival was 10.3 months. Leiomyosarcomas and liposarcomas appear 
particularly sensitive to the drug. In myxoid and round-cell liposarcomas 
trabectedin seems exceptionally active. A link between specific translocations 
underlying this disease and the drug's mechanism of action is being explored. 
Trabectedin is also active in synovial, ewing sarcoma and other 
translocation-related STSs. Trabectedin is not cardio- or neurotoxic. The 
neutropenia and hepatic toxicity that occur are non-cumulative, reversible, and 
lessened by steroid premedication. The lack of cumulative toxicities could make 
trabectedin appropriate for prolonged treatment.
CONCLUSION: The potential of trabectedin should be further explored in STSs in 
general and in specific subtypes, both in combination with other cytotoxic 
agents and with modulators of intracellular signalling.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.9.9.1609
PMID: 18518789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nephrology (Carlton). 2008 Oct;13(5):419-27. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2008.00960.x. Epub 2008 May 29.

Cost-effectiveness of the oral adsorbent AST-120 versus placebo for chronic 
kidney disease.

Takahashi T(1), Reed SD, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Genetic Economics, Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 27715, USA.

AIM: This study was designed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of AST-120, an 
oral adsorbent that attenuates the progression of chronic kidney disease.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model with six health states, including four 
levels of serum creatinine, haemodialysis and death, using data from a 
randomized clinical trial conducted in Japan. Direct costs relevant to chronic 
kidney disease were calculated from a Japanese reimbursement perspective. 
Projected quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and costs were compared between the 
AST-120 and placebo groups. The target population was nondiabetic patients with 
serum creatinine levels from 5.0 to 8.0 mg/dL (442-707 micromol/L) at baseline. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the stability of 
the results.
RESULTS: At 3 years, mean total costs per patient were estimated at 6.67 million 
yen (US$56,982) in the AST-120 group and 9.38 million yen (US$80,196) in the 
placebo group. Mean total costs were 2.72 million yen (US$23,205) lower among 
patients receiving AST-120. QALY per patient were 0.295 (approximately 3.5 
months) greater for patients receiving AST-120 than for those receiving placebo 
over 3 years. The finding that treatment with AST-120 dominated placebo (i.e. 
was less costly and resulted in more QALY) was upheld in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: The use of AST-120 in patients with advanced chronic kidney disease 
may help to slow the rate of growth in expenditures for kidney disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2008.00960.x
PMID: 18518936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Scand J Public Health. 2008 May;36(3):265-71. doi: 10.1177/1403494807086983.

Preventive home visits to older people are cost-effective.

Sahlen KG(1), Löfgren C, Mari Hellner B, Lindholm L.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
klasse.sahlen@epiph.umu.se

AIMS: There is ongoing debate over the effectiveness of preventive home visits 
(PHVs) for the elderly. A municipality in the north of Sweden carried out a 
controlled trial of such visits. Healthy seniors aged 75 years and over received 
two PHVs per year over 2 years. The aim of this study was to do a cost utility 
analysis of the intervention.
METHODS: The intervention group (n=196) was compared with a control group 
(n=346), and a cost utility analysis was performed. The analysis was carried out 
with three different time perspectives. Data were sourced from official 
documents and medical and social records.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, using a time period of 4 years, the 
analysis of PHVs to healthy seniors showed net savings. When including estimated 
future costs for health and elderly care during gained life years, the result 
changed from a net saving to a cost of Euro 200,000. A lifetime perspective also 
resulted in net savings if the costs of future health and elderly care were not 
included in the analysis. In this case, the total costs rose to approximately 
Euro 900,000. The cost could also be expressed as Euro 14,200 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained if future costs for elderly care and 
healthcare were included.
CONCLUSIONS: PHVs represent a cost-effective intervention in this setting. The 
costs are justified by the outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494807086983
PMID: 18519295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Cancer Res. 2008 Jun 1;68(11):4465-78. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-1670.

Cancer suppression at old age.

Harding C(1), Pompei F, Lee EE, Wilson R.

Author information:
(1)Jefferson Laboratories, Department of Physics, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
MA 02138, USA.

Comment in
    Cancer Res. 2009 Jan 1;69(1):379; author reply 379.

Increased age is regularly linked with heightened cancer risk, but recent 
research suggests a flattening around age 80. We report that, independent of 
cancer site or time period, most incidence rates decrease in the more elderly 
and drop to or toward zero near the ceiling of human life span. For all major 
organ sites, male and female, we use 1979 to 2003 Surveillance, Epidemiology, 
and End Results registry records (8-26% of the U.S. population) to construct 
three sequential cross-sections at 10-year intervals, totaling 129 sets of 
age-specific cancer data. To compute incidence rates, we estimate older 
populations at risk with census counts and NIH life tables. This article 
provides both a minimal and a more comprehensive extension of Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results cancer rates to those above 85. Almost all cancers 
peak at age approximately 80. Generally, it seems that centenarians are 
asymptomatic or untargeted by cancers. We suggest that the best available 
justification for this pattern of incidence is a link between increased 
senescence and decreased proliferative potential among cancers. Then, thus far, 
as senescence may be a carcinogen, it might also be considered an anticarcinogen 
in the elderly. We model rising and falling incidence rates with a beta curve 
obtained by appending a linearly decreasing factor to the well-known 
Armitage-Doll multistage model of cancer. Taken at face value, the beta model 
implies that medical, diet, or lifestyle interventions restricting 
carcinogenesis ought to be examined for possible effects on longevity.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-07-1670
PMID: 18519710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. FASEB J. 2008 Jun;22(6):1619-22. doi: 10.1096/fj.08-0601ufm.

Tithonus and the fruit fly: new science and old myths.

Weissmann G.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.08-0601ufm
PMID: 18519805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Med Care. 2008 Jun;46(6):614-9. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181618ef2.

Does smoking affect hospital use before death? A comparison of ever- and 
never-smokers in the last years of life.

McGhee SM(1), Schooling CM, Wong LC, Leung GM, Ho LM, Thomas GN, Ho DS, Lam TH, 
Hedley AJ.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Community Medicine, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong. smmcghee@hkucc.hku.hk

BACKGROUND: Given the apparent greater use of health care services by smokers 
and predictions of higher costs for a never-smoking population, we aimed in this 
study to determine whether the acute hospital costs in the last years of life of 
never- and ever-smokers differed before death using a database of the decedents 
in 1 year in Hong Kong.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the acute hospital use of ever- and never-smoker 
decedents.
METHODS: The data on cause of death, personal characteristics, and public 
hospital discharges were linked for all decedents in 1998 in Hong Kong. The 
incidence rate ratio was used to compare, for ever- and never-smokers, the 
number of days spent in an acute hospital over the prior 7 years. Analyses were 
done using specific and all cause mortality, adjusted for sex, lifestyle 
factors, and life expectancy.
RESULTS: Compared with never-smokers who died of the same condition, 
ever-smokers who died of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease used 28% more 
acute hospital bed days and those dying of smoking-related cancer 9% fewer. 
These differences cancelled out over the case-mix of deaths with no net 
difference in acute bed day use by smoking status for all-cause mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no difference in acute hospital bed days in the last 
years of life of ever- and never-smokers but some differences by cause of death. 
Reducing smoking in this population will not increase acute hospital use.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181618ef2
PMID: 18520316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. J Comput Assist Tomogr. 2008 May-Jun;32(3):329-40. doi: 
10.1097/RCT.0b013e3180dc8cb1.

Computed tomographic imaging findings of bowel ischemia.

Saba L(1), Mallarini G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Science of the Images, Policlinico Universitario, University of 
Cagliari, 554 Monserrato, Cagliari, Italy. lucasaba@tiscali.it

LEARNING OBJECTIVES: Learning objectives of this paper are to review and to 
summarize the pathogenesis of bowel ischemia and to describe its clinical, 
pathological, and radiological manifestations.
BACKGROUND: Bowel ischemia is a common disorder produced by several causes, and 
it shows various clinical presentations connected with an high mortality. With 
the increase in average life expectancy, bowel ischemia represents one of the 
most threatening abdominal conditions in elderly patients. In the last decade, 
computed tomography has tremendously altered the diagnostic approach to bowel 
ischemia also influencing the therapeutic approach in the current practice.
IMAGING FINDINGS: Computed tomographic imaging findings include bowel wall 
thickening, portal venous gas, intramural pneumatosis, engorgement of mesenteric 
veins, loss or increase of bowel wall enhancement, and infarction of other 
abdominal organs.
CONCLUSIONS: Bowel ischemia shows a broad spectrum of radiological 
manifestations, and regardless of the primary causes, it produces similar 
radiological features. Bowel ischemia may simulate cancer or inflammatory 
conditions; so it is a mandatory tight integration between radiological and 
clinical signs.

DOI: 10.1097/RCT.0b013e3180dc8cb1
PMID: 18520533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Curr Opin Urol. 2008 Jul;18(4):413-8. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328302ede7.

Urological issues in pediatric renal transplantation.

Alam S(1), Sheldon C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Urology, Cincinnati Children's Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45229, USA. shumyle.alam@cchmc.org

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The pediatric patient with end-stage renal disease provides a 
great opportunity for the involvement of the pediatric urologist because of the 
high incidence of associated urologic anomalies.
RECENT FINDINGS: Renal transplant remains the procedure of choice in the child 
with end-stage renal disease. The durability of survival of the graft is 
impacted by successful management of the genitourinary tract.
SUMMARY: Preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative evaluation is critical 
for the child with associated urologic disease and end-stage renal disease. 
Early and appropriate management may stabilize renal function and prolong the 
time to transplant. Due to the relatively long life expectancy of children 
compared with adults with end-stage renal disease, appropriate management may be 
of benefit to avoid the morbidity associated with renal replacement therapy. In 
certain children, the appropriate management and reconstruction of the 
genitourinary tract may allow for a planned and preemptive renal transplant, 
thus avoiding dialysis.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328302ede7
PMID: 18520765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2008 Jun;121(6):386e-395e. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0b013e318170a78b.

Extracranial correction of frontoethmoidal meningoencephaloceles: feasibility 
and outcome in 52 consecutive cases.

Holm C(1), Thu M, Hans A, Martina M, Silvia GS, Moritz S, Wolfgang M.

Author information:
(1)Munich, Germany; and Yangon, Myanmar From the Department of Plastic, 
Reconstructive, and Hand Surgery, Burn Center, Klinikum Bogenhausen, Technical 
University Munich; Plastic Surgery Department, Arabella Clinic; and Department 
of Neurosurgery, Yangon General Hospital.

BACKGROUND: Although rare in the West, frontoethmoidal meningoencephaloceles are 
a common problem in Southeast Asia. The patients present with congenital 
herniation of brain tissue from the anterior cranial fossa through a defect in 
the facial skeleton. Associated craniofacial deformities include hypertelorism, 
orbital dystopia, and elongation of the face. The natural history of the disease 
is progressive, and the life expectancy of affected patients is drastically 
reduced. Conventional surgical therapy includes extracranial and intracranial 
approaches with frontal craniotomy or trepanation of the frontal bone.
METHODS: Given a lack of appropriate facilities in a developing country in the 
Third World, the authors operated on 52 Burmese patients with frontoethmoidal 
meningoceles using a purely extracranial approach.
RESULTS: Twenty nasofrontal, 16 nasoethmoidal, one nasoorbital, and 15 combined 
nasoethmoidal/nasoorbital meningoencephaloceles were surgically treated. Early 
cerebrospinal rhinorrhea was observed in 15 patients, and one of them required 
operative dural repair by means of an intracranial approach. In the other 14 
patients, rhinorrhea resolved spontaneously. None of the patients developed 
meningitis or other infections of the central nervous system. There were no 
perioperative or postoperative deaths. Two patients developed secondary healing 
with exposure of wires or screws.
CONCLUSIONS: Frontal craniotomy is not mandatory in the treatment of 
frontoethmoidal meningoencephaloceles. Extracranial correction alone is capable 
of reliably closing the connection between the intracranial and extracranial 
spaces, and the incidence of early postoperative complications is low. The 
extracranial approach may be an attractive option in countries where 
craniofacial expertise is not available and where surgical facilities are 
limited.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e318170a78b
PMID: 18520865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2008 Jun 1;13(6):E395-7.

Macroglossia caused by adenoid cystic carcinoma. Case report.

Luna Ortiz K(1), Carmona Luna T, Herrera Gómez A, Cano Valdez AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Instituto Nacional de Cancerología 
(Mexico), Av. San Fernando no. 22 Col. Sección XVI Tlalpan, Mexico, DF, 14080, 
MEXICO. kuauhyama@starmedia.com.or

A 33-year-old woman sought medical care at our institution for macroglossia. She 
had been treated before with tracheostomy and gastrostomy due to an adenoid 
cystic carcinoma (ACC) of the mobile tongue, in clinical stage IVC. She was 
subjected to total glossectomy with larynx preservation, modified radical 
dissection of the right neck and of the left supraomohyoid muscle, as well as 
reconstruction using a free flap from the rectus abdominus. The histological 
report described a 15x11 cm solid type ACC of the mobile tongue (grade III), 
with infiltration to adjacent soft tissues, vascular and lymphatic vessels, as 
well as two metastatic lymph nodes in the right neck dissection. One month after 
surgery, bone and bilateral pulmonary tumor activity became evident. In 
advanced-stage tumors, treatment must be individualized, and when accompanied by 
severe deterioration of the quality of life, surgery is recommended 
independently from the extension, provided that a good reconstruction is 
accomplished.

PMID: 18521061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Cancer. 2008 Aug 1;113(3):654-61. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23594.

How do patient expectancies, quality of life, and postchemotherapy nausea 
interrelate?

Colagiuri B(1), Roscoe JA, Morrow GR, Atkins JN, Giguere JK, Colman LK.

Author information:
(1)Medical Psychology Research Unit, School of Psychology, University of Sydney, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. benc@psych.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Increasing evidence suggests a relation between patient expectancies 
and chemotherapy-induced nausea. However, this research has often failed to 
adequately control for other possible contributing factors. In the current 
study, the contribution of patient expectancies to the occurrence and severity 
of postchemotherapy nausea was examined using more stringent statistical 
techniques (namely hierarchical regression) than other similar studies that have 
relied on bivariate correlations, chi-square tests, and stepwise regression, and 
further extended upon previous research by including quality of life (QoL) in 
the analysis.
METHODS: In all, 671 first-time chemotherapy patients taking part in a trial 
comparing antiemetic regimens answered questions regarding their expectancies 
for experiencing nausea. Patients then completed a diary assessing both the 
occurrence and severity of their nausea in the 4 days after their first 
infusion.
RESULTS: Stronger expectancies for nausea corresponded with greater average and 
peak nausea after chemotherapy and this was after controlling for age, sex, 
susceptibility to motion sickness, diagnosis, and QoL. Interestingly, patients 
classified as highly expectant (first quartile) experienced significantly 
greater average and peak nausea than those classified as somewhat expectant, 
slightly expectant, and not expectant (second, third, and fourth quartiles, 
respectively), whereas there were no significant differences between these lower 
levels of expectancy. Furthermore, increases in average nausea led to a 
significant reduction in QoL after chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient expectancies appear to contribute to postchemotherapy 
nausea and patients that are highly expectant of experiencing nausea appear to 
be at particular risk. Interventions that target these patients should reduce 
the burden of nausea and may also improve QoL.

(c) 2008 American Cancer Society

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23594
PMCID: PMC3079444
PMID: 18521919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2008 May;29(5):385-94. doi: 10.1086/587155.

Economic evaluation of standing order programs for pneumococcal vaccination of 
hospitalized elderly patients.

Middleton DB(1), Lin CJ, Smith KJ, Zimmerman RK, Nowalk MP, Roberts MS, Fox DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of 
Public Health, Pittsburgh, PA 15232, USA.

Comment in
    Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2008 May;29(5):395-7.

BACKGROUND: Standing order programs (SOPs), which allow for vaccination without 
an individual physician order, are the most effective mechanism to achieve high 
vaccination rates. Among the suggested settings for the utilization of SOPs are 
hospital inpatient units, because they provide care for those most likely to 
benefit from vaccination. The cost-effectiveness of this approach for elderly 
hospitalized persons is unknown. The purpose of this study was to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of SOPs for pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPV) 
vaccination for patients 65 years of age or older in 2 types of hospital.
METHODS: In 2004, a 1,094-bed tertiary care hospital implemented a 
pharmacy-based SOP for PPV, and a 225-bed community hospital implemented a 
nursing-based SOP for PPV. Newly admitted patients 65 years of age or older were 
screened for PPV eligibility and then offered PPV. Vaccination rates before and 
after initiation of SOPs in the United States, incidence rates of invasive 
pneumococcal disease in the United States, and US economic data were the bases 
of the cost-effectiveness analyses. One-way and multivariate sensitivity 
analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: PPV vaccination rates increased 30.5% in the tertiary care hospital and 
15.3% in the community hospital. In the base-case cost-effectiveness analysis, 
using a societal perspective, we found that both pharmacy-based and 
nursing-based SOPs cost less than $10,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, 
with program costs (pharmacy-based SOPs cost $4.16 per patient screened, and 
nursing-based SOPs cost $4.60 per patient screened) and vaccine costs ($18.33 
per dose) partially offset by potential savings from cases of invasive 
pneumococcal disease avoided ($12,436 per case). Sensitivity analyses showed 
SOPs for PPV vaccination to be cost-effective, compared with PPV vaccination 
without SOPs, unless the improvement in vaccination rate was less than 8%.
CONCLUSION: SOPs do increase PPV vaccination rates in hospitalized elderly 
patients and are economically favorable, compared with PPV vaccination rates 
without SOPs.

DOI: 10.1086/587155
PMID: 18521990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Insur Med. 2007;39(4):237-8.

Cognitive testing in the elderly--a predictor of mortality?

