Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90033, USA.

Metabolic rate and parameters associated with oxidative stress were compared in 
two strains of mice, one of which, C57BL/6, exhibits an extension of life span 
in response to caloric restriction while the other, DBA/2, shows no such effect. 
Metabolic rate was higher in the DBA/2 than in the C57BL/6 mice, when measured 
at 5-6 months of age as in vivo and in vitro rates of oxygen consumption or body 
temperature. There were no remarkable inter-strain differences in activities of 
the antioxidant enzymes, superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione 
peroxidase or in the rates of mitochondrial superoxide anion radical generation 
in heart or skeletal muscles. Comparison of glutathione redox state in the heart 
and skeletal muscles at 3 and 20 months of age indicated that the amount of 
glutathione (GSH) and the GSH:GSSG (glutathione disulfide) ratio were relatively 
higher in the young DBA/2 mice, but there were no inter-strain differences in 
the older mice. The age-related elevation in the level of oxidative stress 
reflected by GSH:GSSG ratio was greater in the C57BL/6 than DBA/2 mice. The 
energy balance, indicated by the gain/loss in body weight per unit of food 
consumed, is higher in C57BL/6 than DBA/2 mice. It is hypothesized that the 
genotype-specific extension of life span by caloric restriction may involve 
modulation of oxidative stress produced as a result of an interplay between 
metabolic rate and energy balance during aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.04.016
PMCID: PMC2579783
PMID: 18541398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Jun 9;168(11):1230-1; author reply 1231. doi: 
10.1001/archinte.168.11.1230-b.

The next frontier: quantifying risks for interventions with no end in sight.

Durso S.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2007 Nov 26;167(21):2361-5.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.11.1230-b
PMID: 18541837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2008 Jul;11(4):452-8. doi: 
10.1097/MCO.0b013e3282fcec49.

Economic impact and quality of life as endpoints of nutritional therapy.

Darmon P(1), Lochs H, Pichard C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Nutrition, Geneva University Hospital, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The present review exposes why considering primary endpoints 
such as cost-effectiveness and quality of life in wasting disease research is 
critical for promoting medical nutrition therapy.
RECENT FINDINGS: Despite growing evidence that nutritional support improves 
patients' clinical outcome, its use is not widely considered as a routine by 
most healthcare professionals. Many factors, depending on physicians, patients 
and institutions, could explain such a resistance to implement nutritional 
therapy in routine care. One of these factors is the lack of indisputable 
evidence that nutritional intervention improves patients' quality of life and is 
cost-effective.
SUMMARY: In today's resource-constrained environment, disease management 
strategies are judged in terms of not only clinical efficacy and safety but also 
patient satisfaction and economic dimensions. The demonstration of a positive 
costs/saving ratio is crucial to obtain the political backing of health 
administrators and sustain further investment in research. Moreover, improving 
patients' quality of life promotes their capacity to cope with psychological 
distress, increases their tolerance and response to treatments, and enhances the 
global image of the healthcare system. In wasting diseases research, there is a 
need for well designed clinical trials from which cost-utility performance of 
nutritional interventions could be assessed in order to convince all the 
stakeholders and to get support from clinicians and patients themselves.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e3282fcec49
PMID: 18542006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Spinal Cord. 2009 Feb;47(2):115-21. doi: 10.1038/sc.2008.75. Epub 2008 Jun
10.

Metastatic paraplegia: care management characteristics within a rehabilitation 
center.

Fattal C(1), Gault D, Leblond C, Gossens D, Schindler F, Rouays-Mabit H, Fabro 
M, Bauchet L.

Author information:
(1)Centre Mutualiste Neurologique Propara, Montpellier, France. 
c.fattal@propara.languedoc-mutualite.fr

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the potential impact of rehabilitation care on 
associated symptoms and functional improvements of paraplegic patients with 
metastatic spinal cord compression.
SETTING: CMN Propara, Montpellier (France).
MEASURES: Demographics, Functional Independence Measure (FIM), Frankel Modified 
Score and Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain, intercurrent adverse medical 
events and neurological outcome, duration of stay, survival time, 
rehospitalization in a non-Spinal Cord Injury unit, number of contracts defining 
the patients rehabilitation goals, number of contracts defining the patients 
duration of stay within the rehabilitation center.
RESULTS: We reviewed the charts of 26 patients. The initial neurological profile 
was paraplegia or paraparesis for 24 patients and quadriparesis for 2 patients. 
Regarding functional improvements: four patients demonstrated a poor functional 
evolution, five patients showed no functional improvements or very slight 
improvements and all the other patients showed an increase in their overall 
functional aptitudes. At the end of the stay, 14 patients were urinary 
independent. Our study reports 52 rehospitalizations in an another unit and 101 
outpatient visits during their rehabilitation stay in a physical medicine and 
rehabilitation (PM&R) center. For the 14 patients who were deceased at the time 
of data collection, the median survival rate post-paraplegia was 12.7 months. A 
total of 12 of the 14 patients spent more than a third of their remaining 
survival time in a rehabilitation center.
DISCUSSION: Compared to the patients' life expectancy, their stay in a 
rehabilitation center is too long and prevents them from spending time with 
family and loved ones. The occurrence rate of the associated symptoms is high 
because of both cancer-related disorders and neurological disorders caused by 
the spinal cord lesion. PM&R professionals are faced with patients affected by 
chronic pain and fatigue as well as frequent rehospitalizations, short stays and 
outpatient stays, in the primary oncology unit. This study focuses on the need 
to privilege the patients' comfort over their functional rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2008.75
PMID: 18542085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Jul;24(7):2045-58. doi: 10.1185/03007990802224762.
Epub  2008 Jun 9.

The cost-effectiveness of thrombolysis administered by paramedics.

Scuffham PA(1), Tippett V.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Griffith University, Meadowbrook, Queensland, Australia. 
p.scuffham@griffith.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to estimate the expected health 
outcomes, costs and cost-effectiveness of changing from current practice, where 
thrombolytic therapy is given in hospital, to paramedic practice where 
thrombolytic therapy is administered by appropriately trained paramedics 
(pre-hospital) for STEMI patients.
METHODS: A decision-analysis microsimulation model was constructed with a 30-day 
component and a long-term health state transition component. A brief review of 
the literature was undertaken to obtain data on time-to-needle to populate the 
model. The primary health outcome was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); 
secondary outcomes included cardiac events, procedures and survival. Costs to 
the Australian healthcare system for the rest of life were taken as the 
analytical perspective.
RESULTS: On average, STEMI patients gain 0.13 QALYs at an additional life-time 
cost of $343. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were $3428 per life-year 
gained and $2601 per QALY gained. These estimates were robust to changes in a 
range of assumptions and parameter values. The most important factor was the 
time-to-needle - the greater the difference between current practice times and 
paramedic practice times, the greater the health benefits and lower the cost per 
QALY (and life-year) gained. A key factor in the model was the substantially 
lower incidence of heart failure from earlier time-to-needle. Importantly, there 
was little change in the cost per QALY gained for a wide range of ages; thus, 
there is no argument to limit thrombolysis by paramedics to above or below an 
age threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: Paramedics administering thrombolysis can avert some STEMI deaths 
and the pre-hospital administration of thrombolysis is good value for money.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990802224762
PMID: 18544187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Diabetes. 2008 Sep;57(9):2503-10. doi: 10.2337/db08-0284. Epub 2008 Jun 10.

Extension of type 2 diabetes genome-wide association scan results in the 
diabetes prevention program.

Moore AF(1), Jablonski KA, McAteer JB, Saxena R, Pollin TI, Franks PW, Hanson 
RL, Shuldiner AR, Knowler WC, Altshuler D, Florez JC; Diabetes Prevention 
Program Research Group.

Collaborators: Bray GA, Culbert IW, Champagne CM, Eberhardt B, Greenway F, 
Guillory FG, Herbert AA, Jeffirs ML, Kennedy BM, Lovejoy JC, Morris LH, Ryan D, 
Sanford DA, Smith KG, Smith LL, St Amant JA, Tulley RT, Vicknair PC, Williamson 
D, Zachwieja JJ, Polonsky KS, Tobian J, Ehrmann D, Matulik MJ, Clark B, Czech K, 
DeSandre C, Hillbrich R, McNabb W, Semenske AR, Caro JF, Watson PG, Goldstein 
BJ, Smith KA, Mendoza J, Liberoni R, Pepe C, Spandorfer J, Donahue RP, Goldberg 
RB, Prineas R, Rowe P, Calles J, Cassanova-Romero P, Florez HJ, Giannella A, 
Kirby L, Larreal C, McLymont V, Mendez J, Ojito J, Perry A, Saab P, Haffner SM, 
Montez MG, Lorenzo C, Martinez A, Hamman RF, Nash PV, Testaverde L, Anderson DR, 
Ballonoff LB, Bouffard A, Calonge BN, Delve L, Farago M, Hill JO, Hoyer SR, 
Jortberg BT, Lenz D, Miller M, Price DW, Regensteiner JG, Seagle H, Smith CM, 
Steinke SC, VanDorsten B, Horton ES, Lawton KE, Arky RA, Bryant M, Burke JP, 
Caballero E, Callaphan KM, Ganda OP, Franklin T, Jackson SD, Jacobsen AM, Kula 
LM, Kocal M, Malloy MA, Nicosia M, Oldmixon CF, Pan J, Quitingon M, Rubtchinsky 
S, Seely EW, Schweizer D, Simonson D, Smith F, Solomon CG, Warram J, Kahn SE, 
Montgomery BK, Fujimoto W, Knopp RH, Lipkin EW, Marr M, Trence D, Kitabchi AE, 
Murphy ME, Applegate WB, Bryer-Ash M, Frieson SL, Imseis R, Lambeth H, 
Lichtermann LC, Oktaei H, Rutledge LM, Sherman AR, Smith CM, Soberman JE, 
Williams-Cleaves B, Metzger BE, Johnson MK, Behrends C, Cook M, Fitzgibbon M, 
Giles MM, Heard D, Johnson CK, Larsen D, Lowe A, Lyman M, McPherson D, Molitch 
ME, Pitts T, Reinhart R, Roston S, Schinleber PA, Nathan DM, McKitrick C, 
Turgeon H, Abbott K, Anderson E, Bissett L, Cagliero E, Delahanty L, Goldman V, 
Poulos A, Olefsky JM, Carrion-Petersen ML, Barrett-Connor E, Edelman SV, Henry 
RR, Horne J, Janesch SS, Leos D, Mudaliar S, Polonsky W, Smith J, Vejvoda K, 
Pi-Sunyer FX, Lee JE, Allison DB, Aronoff N, Crandall JP, Foo ST, Pal C, Parkes 
K, Pena MB, Rooney ES, Van Wye GE, Viscovich KA, Marrero DG, Prince MJ, Kelly 
SM, Dotson YF, Fineberg ES, Guare JC, Hadden AM, Ignaut JM, Jackson ML, Kirkman 
MS, Mather KJ, Porter BD, Roach PJ, Rowland ND, Wheeler ML, Ratner RE, Youssef 
G, Shapiro S, Bavido-Arrage C, Boggs G, Bronsord M, Brown E, Cheatham WW, Cola 
S, Evans C, Gibbs P, Kellum T, Levatan C, Nair AK, Passaro M, Uwaifo G, Saad MF, 
Budget M, Jinagouda S, Akbar K, Conzues C, Magpuri P, Ngo K, Rassam A, Waters D, 
Xapthalamous K, Santiago J, Dagogo-Jack S, White NH, Das S, Santiago A, Brown A, 
Fisher E, Hurt E, Jones T, Kerr M, Ryder L, Wernimont C, Saudek CD, Bradley V, 
Sullivan E, Whittington T, Abbas C, Brancati FL, Clark JM, Charleston JB, Freel 
J, Horak K, Jiggetts D, Johnson D, Joseph H, Loman K, Mosley H, Rubin RR, 
Samuels A, Stewart KJ, Williamson P, Schade DS, Adams KS, Johannes C, Alter LF, 
Boyle PJ, Burge MR, Canady JL, Chai L, Gonzales Y, Hernandez-McGinnis DA, Katz 
P, King C, Rassam A, Rubinchik S, Senter W, Waters D, Shamoon H, Brown JO, 
Adorno E, Cox L, Crandall J, Duffy H, Engel S, Friedler A, Howard-Century CJ, 
Kloiber S, Longchamp N, Martinez H, Pompi D, Scheindlin J, Violino E, Walker E, 
Wylie-Rosett J, Zimmerman E, Zonszein J, Orchard T, Wing RR, Koenning G, Kramer 
MK, Barr S, Boraz M, Clifford L, Culyba R, Frazier M, Gilligan R, Harrier S, 
Harris L, Jeffries S, Kriska A, Manjoo Q, Mullen M, Noel A, Otto A, Semler L, 
Smith CF, Smith M, Venditti E, Weinzierl V, Williams KV, Wilson T, Arakaki RF, 
Latimer RW, Baker-Ladao NK, Beddow R, Dias L, Inouye J, Mau MK, Mikami K, 
Mohideen P, Odom SK, Perry RU, Knowler WC, Cooeyate N, Hoskin MA, Percy CA, 
Acton KJ, Andre VL, Barber R, Begay S, Bennett PH, Benson MB, Bird EC, Broussard 
BA, Chavez M, Dacawyma T, Doughty MS, Duncan R, Edgerton C, Ghahate JM, Glass J, 
Glass M, Gohdes D, Grant W, Hanson RL, Horse E, Ingraham LE, Jackson M, Jay P, 
Kaskalla RS, Kessler D, Kobus KM, Krakoff J, Manus C, Michales S, Morgan T, 
Nashboo Y, Nelson JA, Poirier S, Polczynski E, Reidy M, Roumain J, Rowse D, 
Sangster S, Sewenemewa J, Tonemah D, Wilson C, Yazzie M, Bain R, Fowler S, 
Brenneman T, Abebe S, Bamdad J, Callaghan J, Edelstein S, Gao Y, Grimes KL, 
Grover N, Haffner L, Jones S, Jones TL, Katz R, Lachin JM, Mucik P, Orlosky R, 
Rochon J, Sapozhnikova A, Sherif H, Stimpson C, Temprosa M, Walker-Murray F, 
Marcovina S, Strylewicz G, Aldrich FA, Eastman R, Fradkin J, Garfield S, Florez 
JC, Altshuler D, de Bakker PI, Franks P, Hanson RL, Jablonski K, Knowler WC, 
McAteer J, Pollin TI, Shuldiner AR.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Genetic Research, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Genome-wide association scans (GWASs) have identified novel 
diabetes-associated genes. We evaluated how these variants impact diabetes 
incidence, quantitative glycemic traits, and response to preventive 
interventions in 3,548 subjects at high risk of type 2 diabetes enrolled in the 
Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), which examined the effects of lifestyle 
intervention, metformin, and troglitazone versus placebo.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We genotyped selected single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) in or near diabetes-associated loci, including EXT2, 
CDKAL1, CDKN2A/B, IGF2BP2, HHEX, LOC387761, and SLC30A8 in DPP participants and 
performed Cox regression analyses using genotype, intervention, and their 
interactions as predictors of diabetes incidence. We evaluated their effect on 
insulin resistance and secretion at 1 year.
RESULTS: None of the selected SNPs were associated with increased diabetes 
incidence in this population. After adjustments for ethnicity, baseline insulin 
secretion was lower in subjects with the risk genotype at HHEX rs1111875 (P = 
0.01); there were no significant differences in baseline insulin sensitivity. 
Both at baseline and at 1 year, subjects with the risk genotype at LOC387761 had 
paradoxically increased insulin secretion; adjustment for self-reported 
ethnicity abolished these differences. In ethnicity-adjusted analyses, we noted 
a nominal differential improvement in beta-cell function for carriers of the 
protective genotype at CDKN2A/B after 1 year of troglitazone treatment (P = 
0.01) and possibly lifestyle modification (P = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: We were unable to replicate the GWAS findings regarding diabetes 
risk in the DPP. We did observe genotype associations with differences in 
baseline insulin secretion at the HHEX locus and a possible pharmacogenetic 
interaction at CDKNA2/B.

DOI: 10.2337/db08-0284
PMCID: PMC2518503
PMID: 18544707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Front Radiat Ther Oncol. 2008;41:1-6. doi: 10.1159/000139867.

Prostate cancer and active surveillance.

Abrahamsson PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Malmö University Hospital, Malmö , Sweden.

This review outlines the different treatment options in localized prostate 
cancer. This information can be considered alongside other important factors, 
such as the individual patient's values and situation as well as the potential 
impact of treatment on his quality of life, in the treatment decision-making 
process. Taking all these factors into consideration, the data support active 
surveillance as an appropriate choice in patients with well or moderately 
differentiated, low-volume prostate cancer who have a life expectancy of less 
than 10 years. Men with higher-grade tumors and longer life expectancy may be at 
excess risk of death from prostate cancer managed with active surveillance.

DOI: 10.1159/000139867
PMID: 18544979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Front Radiat Ther Oncol. 2008;41:49-57. doi: 10.1159/000139878.

Hormone therapy for prostate cancer - immediate initiation.

Schostak M(1), Miller K, Schrader M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin , Germany.

Although hormone therapy is widely used in the management of prostate cancer, 
the optimal timing of its initiation remains a matter of debate. Many studies of 
the last decades have reported a small but significant survival benefit and a 
clear delay in the development of clinical symptoms after early initiation of 
therapy. Patients who have localized or locally advanced prostate cancer and are 
not suitable for curative options like radical prostatectomy or radiotherapy can 
best be managed by hormone therapy alone, which has already been recognized as 
the optimal treatment for metastatic disease. On the other hand, long-term 
hormone treatment will expose the patient to the risk of substantial adverse 
effects, including muscle wasting, chronic fatigue and osteoporosis. Prognostic 
and quality-of-life factors also have an impact on the treatment decision, 
particularly in patients most likely to profit from an extension of the 
remaining life span. Based on available evidence, early hormone therapy may be 
recommended for men with poorly differentiated tumors or advanced disease and 
for those infrequently seen by their physicians. This management can prevent 
prostate cancer from migrating to the bones, where treatment becomes extremely 
difficult and cure or even longterm control of the disease is an exception.

DOI: 10.1159/000139878
PMID: 18544985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Front Radiat Ther Oncol. 2008;41:77-85. doi: 10.1159/000139881.

Radiotherapy in biochemical recurrences after surgery for prostate cancer.

Höcht S(1), Lohm G, Moser L, Hinkelbein W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Radiotherapy, Charité 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Berlin , Germany.

A biochemical recurrence following prostatectomy is often diagnosed in 
relatively young and healthy men, and hence deemed very relevant concerning 
life, given the generally high life expectancy of these patients. Therefore, 
there is a need for a therapy that offers a long-term chance of cure. Following 
salvage radiotherapy in large multicenter series, about 45% of the patients 
treated are in biochemical complete remission 4 years after radiotherapy. The 
best chances of response are in those patients in whom none of the established 
risk factors, that will be discussed, are present. Given the established 
curative potential of salvage radiotherapy and the fact that there are no 
therapeutic alternatives with a realistic chance of cure, the rather moderate 
rates of side effects seem acceptable.

DOI: 10.1159/000139881
PMID: 18544988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Implant Dent. 2008 Jun;17(2):128-35. doi: 10.1097/ID.0b013e318177798e.

Guided implant placement and immediate prosthesis delivery using traditional 
Brånemark System abutments: a pilot study of 23 patients.

Balshi SF(1), Wolfinger GJ, Balshi TJ.

Author information:
(1)CM Ceramics USA, 800 Corporate Drive, Suite 202, Mahwah, NJ, USA. 
balshi2@aol.com

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to demonstrate the accuracy and clinical 
precision of a guided surgery protocol by using traditional Brånemark System 
abutments in conjunction with a prefabricated all-acrylic provisional prosthesis 
that is immediately installed after implant placement.
MATERIALS: All presurgical methods in this treatment follow the standard 
NobelGuide protocol with the exception of the laboratory phase. Once the master 
cast is retroengineered from the surgical template, traditional Brånemark System 
abutments were secured onto the implant replicas (master cast) and an 
all-acrylic provisional prosthesis was constructed at the abutment level. The 
typical abutments used with this protocol, adjustable Guided Abutments, were not 
used.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients were treated in this pilot study. Via the 
surgical template, all implants were placed to the desired depth as planned in 
the virtual implant planning program. After the traditional Brånemark Abutments 
were installed, the provisional prosthesis was delivered and occlusion verified. 
The prosthesis fit was checked at abutment level clinically and 
radiographically.
CONCLUSION: This report shows the extreme accuracy of this guided surgery 
protocol. If each step of this protocol is followed precisely, it is possible to 
deliver a prefabricated prosthesis built to traditional Brånemark System 
Abutments, which is extremely favorable for long-term patient and prosthesis 
management.

DOI: 10.1097/ID.0b013e318177798e
PMID: 18545043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Clin Biochem Nutr. 2008 May;42(3):215-21. doi: 10.3164/jcbn.2008031.

A system for nutritional consulting using quick questionnaires on diet and 
unidentified complaints.

Hashizume N(1), Nakamura T, Minato K, Furuie D, Sugihara K, Okamoto M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Nutrition, Wayo Women’s University, Kounodai, 
Ichikawa-shi, Chiba 272-8533, Japan.

The aging of society and ongoing health care cost-control policy set the trend 
for the self-medication which leads to the growing interest in health promotion 
and prolongation of healthy life expectancy through self-health management. We 
developed a self-medication support system to provide comprehensive support to 
consumers at pharmacies and drug stores. This system facilitates the effective 
use of information and knowledge based on medicine and health. This 
self-medication support system comprised a set of two terminals connected 
network server in the data center: a user terminal for consumers use and an 
advisor terminals for specialized advisor, pharmacists, registered dieticians, 
and etc. This system enables specialized sales people to provide the appropriate 
advice based on the factors of consumer's problem, and to make suggestions for 
improving his/her lifestyle: eating habit, doing exercise, and having relaxation 
time. As a result of the trial use of this system at pharmacy stores, a certain 
degree of correlation between the results of a questionnaire on unidentified 
complaints and dietary patterns causing potential micronutrient deficiency was 
demonstrated.

DOI: 10.3164/jcbn.2008031
PMCID: PMC2386524
PMID: 18545643


784. Pediatr Diabetes. 2008 Jun;9(3 Pt 1):202-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-5448.2008.00373.x.

Does social-economical transformation influence the incidence of type 1 diabetes 
mellitus? A Polish example.

Jarosz-Chobot P(1), Polanska J, Polanski A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, Medical University of 
Silesia, Katowice, Poland. piarosz-chobot@slam.katowice.pl

BACKGROUND: The dramatic increase in the incidence of diabetes mellitus type 1 
(DMT1) in all countries of Central and Eastern Europe seems to be correlated 
with the rapid transformations of the political, economical, and social 
conditions. The aim of this study was to analyze the increase of DMT1 incidence 
vs. changes of parameters describing economical conditions, medical care 
standards, and level of hygiene.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was based on the Upper Silesia, Poland, 
prospective register of DMT1 cases, a part of the EURODIAB program. The analyzed 
parameters were number of salmonellosis, taeniasis, diarrhea, and diarrhea in 
children aged 0 - 2 yr, alimentary toxicosis, neonatal mortality rate, average 
male and female life expectancy, gross domestic product (GDP), and accessibility 
to the water supply and sewage lines.
RESULTS: The dynamics of incidence increase has been very high: from 4.71/100 
000 (1989) to 15.20/100 000 (2002); average increase per year is 7.52%. The 
statistically significant positive associations between DMT1 incidence and 
average male and female life expectancy, GDP, and accessibility of the water 
supply and sewage systems as well as the negative association for both neonatal 
mortality rate and nursery attendance were observed. No significant correlation 
was found between DMT1 and incidence rates of chosen diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Currently, Poland and its part, Upper Silesia, belong to regions 
with high DMT1 incidence in children. The change from low to high incidence of 
DMT1 over the past 14 yr corresponded to profound social and economical 
transformations. Our observations confirm the importance of environmental 
factors in the aetiopathogenesis of DMT1. The state of hygiene and the state of 
the health of the society influence its susceptibility to DMT1.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-5448.2008.00373.x
PMID: 18547234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Jul;12(30):iii, ix-x, 1-117. doi:
10.3310/hta12300.

A systematic review of repetitive functional task practice with modelling of 
resource use, costs and effectiveness.

French B(1), Leathley M, Sutton C, McAdam J, Thomas L, Forster A, Langhorne P, 
Price C, Walker A, Watkins C.

Author information:
(1)University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine whether repetitive functional task practice (RFTP) 
after stroke improves limb-specific or global function or activities of daily 
living and whether treatment effects are dependent on the amount of practice, or 
the type or timing of the intervention. Also to provide estimates of the 
cost-effectiveness of RFTP.
DATA SOURCES: The main electronic databases were searched from inception to week 
4, September 2006. Searches were also carried out on non-English-language 
databases and for unpublished trials up to May 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: Standard quantitative methods were used to conduct the 
systematic review. The measures of efficacy of RFTP from the data synthesis were 
used to inform an economic model. The model used a pre-existing data set and 
tested the potential impact of RFTP on cost. An incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for RFTP was estimated from the model. 
Sensitivity analyses around the assumptions made for the model were used to test 
the robustness of the estimates.
RESULTS: Thirty-one trials with 34 intervention-control pairs and 1078 
participants were included. Overall, it was found that some forms of RFTP 
resulted in improvement in global function, and in both arm and lower limb 
function. Overall standardised mean difference in data suitable for pooling was 
0.38 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.09 to 0.68] for global motor function, 0.24 
(95% CI 0.06 to 0.42) for arm function and 0.28 (95% CI 0.05 to 0.51) for 
functional ambulation. Results suggest that training may be sufficient to have 
an impact on activities of daily living. Retention effects of training persist 
for up to 6 months, but whether they persist beyond this is unclear. There was 
little or no evidence that treatment effects overall were modified by time since 
stroke or dosage of task practice, but results for upper limb function were 
modified by type of intervention. The economic modelling suggested that RFTP was 
cost-effective. Given a threshold for cost-effectiveness of 20,000 pounds per 
QALY gained, RFTP is cost-effective so long as the net cost per patient is less 
than 1963 pounds. This result showed some sensitivity to the assumptions made 
for the model. The cost-effectiveness of RFTP tends to stem from the relatively 
modest cost associated with this intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence suggests that some form of RFTP can be effective in 
improving lower limb function at any time after stroke, but that the duration of 
intervention effect is unclear. There is as yet insufficient good-quality 
evidence to make any firm recommendations for upper limb interventions. If 
task-specific training is used, adverse effects should be monitored. While the 
effectiveness of RFTP is relatively modest, this sort of intervention appears to 
be cost-effective. Owing to the large number of ongoing trials, this review 
should be updated within 2 years and any future review should include a 
comparison against alternative treatments. Further research should evaluate RFTP 
upper limb interventions and in particular constraint-induced movement therapy, 
address practical ways of delivering RFTP interventions, be directed towards the 
evaluation of suitable methods to maintain functional gain, and be powered to 
detect whether RFTP interventions are cost-effective.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12300
PMID: 18547501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Aug;84(2):263-6. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2008.117. Epub
2008  Jun 11.

The economics of drug discovery and the ultimate valuation of pharmacotherapies 
in the marketplace.

Sollano JA(1), Kirsch JM, Bala MV, Chambers MG, Harpole LH.

Author information:
(1)GlaxoSmithKline, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania, USA. 
Josephine.a.sollano@gsk.com

Although it is commonly believed that the innovation of new medicines is of 
paramount importance for improving the health and quality of life of patients, 
there is also a keen recognition regarding upward-spiraling costs of innovation, 
drug discovery, and drug development against a backdrop of dwindling successes 
in research and development (R&D) efforts. We propose a new model of valuation 
of pharmacotherapies that attempts to secure an adequate return on investment in 
innovation by ensuring optimal pricing and reimbursement.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2008.117
PMID: 18547999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2008 Mar-Apr;23(2):281-8.

Initial clinical efficacy of 3-mm implants immediately placed into function in 
conditions of limited spacing.

Reddy MS(1), O'Neal SJ, Haigh S, Aponte-Wesson R, Geurs NC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, University of Alabama at Birmingham School of 
Dentistry, Birmingham, Alabama 35294-0007, USA. mreddy@uab.edu

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to determine changes in interdental 
papillae, alveolar bone loss, esthetics, and initial healing survival when 
1-piece narrow-diameter implants were immediately loaded in sites with limited 
tooth-to-tooth spacing.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: One-piece titanium alloy implants with a maximum diameter 
of 3.0 mm and a resorbable blast surface texture on a square-thread form were 
evaluated. Digital photographs were made at each clinical visit to assess soft 
tissue healing. Interproximal soft tissue fill of the embrasure was assessed 
with a modified Jemt index. Standardized radiographs were made at baseline 
(implant placement) and at 6 and 12 months postsurgery. Radiographic bone height 
was measured from a consistent landmark on the implant. A 1-sided t test was 
used to determine statistical differences of bone height.
RESULTS: Thirty-one implants were placed in 17 subjects. One implant had 
clinical mobility and was removed, for an overall survival rate of 96.7%. Mean 
bone height on the day of placement and restoration was 2.33 + 0.73 mm above the 
first thread. Mean bone height was 1.75 +/- 0.78 mm at 6 months postrestoration 
and 1.63 +/- 0.81 mm at 12 months postrestoration. There was a statistically 
significant loss of bone support over the initial 6 months (0.58 mm; P < .01), 
with no significant progression thereafter (0.12 mm; NS). Complete fill of 
papillae was found in 92% of maxillary lateral incisor sites and 60% of 
mandibular incisor sites.
CONCLUSION: The use of 1-piece narrow-diameter immediately loaded implants 
appears to be an effective prosthetic treatment for areas of limited space.

PMID: 18548925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2008 Mar-Apr;23(2):343-52.

Implant-supported maxillary overdentures retained with milled bars: maxillary 
anterior versus maxillary posterior concept--a retrospective study.

Krennmair G(1), Krainhöfner M, Piehslinger E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Dental School, University of Vienna, Austria. 
krennmair@aon.at

PURPOSE: The aim of the present retrospective investigation was to evaluate 
implant-supported maxillary overdentures using either anterior (group 1) or 
posterior (group 2) maxillary implant placement.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Maxillary overdentures were planned with support by either 
4 implants placed in the maxillary anterior region (group 1) or 6 to 8 implants 
placed in augmented maxillary posterior regions (group 2, bilateral sinus 
augmentation) and anchored either on an anterior or on 2 bilaterally placed 
milled bars. Cumulative implant survival rate, peri-implant conditions (marginal 
bone loss, pocket depth, Plaque Index, Gingival Index, Bleeding Index, and 
Calculus Index) and the incidence and type of prosthodontic maintenance were 
assessed and compared for the 2 groups. In addition, the cumulative survival 
rate for implants placed in grafted regions was compared with that of implants 
placed in nongrafted regions.
RESULTS: Thirty-four patients (16 for group 1 and 18 for group 2) with 179 
implants were available for follow-up examination after a mean period of 42.1 
+/- 20.1 months. Four initially placed implants failed to osseointegrate and 
were replaced, but no further losses were seen during the loading period, for a 
5-year cumulative implant survival rate of 978%. No differences in implant 
survival rates were seen between either the group-1 (98.4%) and group-2 (97.4%) 
concepts or nongrafted (98.0%) and grafted (97.5%) implants. The peri-implant 
parameters showed a healthy soft tissue, good oral hygiene, and an acceptable 
degree of peri-implant marginal bone loss. The rigid fixation of all 
overdentures was associated with a low incidence of prosthodontic maintenance, 
without any significant differences between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSIONS: In well-planned overdenture treatment programs, a high survival 
rate and excellent peri-implant conditions can be achieved for implants placed 
in the anterior or posterior maxilla. Rigid anchorage of maxillary overdentures 
either on an extended anterior milled bar or on 2 bilateral posterior milled 
bars provides for a low incidence of prosthodontic maintenance.

PMID: 18548933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Jun 12;8:128. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-128.

Cost-utility of a visiting service for older widowed individuals: randomised 
trial.

Onrust S(1), Smit F, Willemse G, van den Bout J, Cuijpers P.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction (Trimbos-instituut), 
P,O, Box 725, 3500 AS, Utrecht, The Netherlands. sonrust@trimbos.nl

BACKGROUND: Despite a growing understanding of the effectiveness of bereavement 
interventions and the groups that benefit most from them, we know little about 
the cost-effectiveness of bereavement interventions.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-utility analysis alongside a randomized clinical 
trial on a visiting service for older widowed individuals (n=110) versus care as 
usual (CAU; n=106). The visiting service is a selective bereavement intervention 
that offers social support to lonely widows and widowers by a trained volunteer. 
Participants were contacted 6-9 months post-loss. Eleven percent of all 
contacted persons responded and eight percent participated in the trial. The 
primary outcome measure was quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained (assessed 
with the EQ-5D), which is a generic measure of health status. Costs were 
calculated from a societal perspective excluding costs arising from productivity 
losses. Using the bootstrap method, we obtained the incremental cost utility 
ratio (ICUR), projected these on a cost-utility plane and presented as an 
acceptability curve.
RESULTS: Overall, the experimental group demonstrated slightly better results 
against slightly higher costs. Whether the visiting service is acceptable 
depends on the willingness to pay: at a willingness to pay equal to zero per 
QALY gained, the visiting service has a probability of 31% of being acceptable; 
beyond euro20,000, the visiting service has a probability of 70% of being more 
acceptable than CAU.
CONCLUSION: Selective bereavement interventions like the visiting service will 
not produce large benefits from the health economic point of view, when targeted 
towards the entire population of all widowed individuals. We recommend that in 
depth analyses are conducted to identify who benefits most from this kind of 
interventions, and in what subgroups the incremental cost-utility is best. In 
the future bereavement interventions are then best directed to these groups.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Controlled trials ISRCTN17508307.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-128
PMCID: PMC2543011
PMID: 18549489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. J Urol. 2008 Aug;180(2):505-8; discussion 508-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.juro.2008.04.033. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

Active surveillance of renal masses in elderly patients.

Abouassaly R(1), Lane BR, Novick AC.

Author information:
(1)Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2008 Aug;180(2):433-4.

PURPOSE: We identify and report on a large number of patients treated with 
active surveillance for incidentally diagnosed renal masses at our institution.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We identified all patients 75 years or older evaluated in 
our department for a renal mass between January 2000 and December 2006. A total 
of 110 patients with enhancing renal masses were initially treated with active 
surveillance and this group made up the cohort for our study. Medical records 
were reviewed for clinical and radiological followup, and vital status was 
obtained from the Social Security Death Index. Clinical and radiographic 
followup was available for review on 104 and 89 patients, respectively.
RESULTS: Patients had a median age of 81 years (range 76 to 95) with a median 
Charlson comorbidity index of 2 (range 0 to 7) at diagnosis. Patients had as 
many as 9 tumors being followed (median of 1) with a median tumor size of 2.5 cm 
(range 0.9 to 11.2). During a median followup of 24 months (range 1 to 90) mean 
tumor growth rate was 0.26 cm per year. Of the 89 patients with radiological 
followup 38 (43%) exhibited no tumor growth on active surveillance. Comparison 
of the clinical and radiographic features of patients with tumor growth and 
those with stable disease revealed no statistical differences. Four patients 
(3.6%) were treated as a result of disease progression 12 to 54 months after 
diagnosis. At the conclusion of the study 34 patients (31%) were deceased. To 
our knowledge the renal mass did not contribute to the cause of death in any 
patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Active surveillance of incidental renal masses appears to be a 
viable option for older patients with multiple medical comorbidities and a 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2008.04.033
PMID: 18550113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Urol. 2008 Aug;180(2):499-504; discussion 504. doi: 
10.1016/j.juro.2008.04.031. Epub 2008 Jun 11.

Long-term oncological and overall outcomes of percutaneous radio frequency 
ablation in high risk surgical patients with a solitary small renal mass.

Levinson AW(1), Su LM, Agarwal D, Sroka M, Jarrett TW, Kavoussi LR, Solomon SB.

Author information:
(1)The James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, The Johns Hopkins Medical 
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. doctorlevinson@gmail.com

PURPOSE: We present long-term outcomes in patients receiving RFA for solitary 
small renal masses.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We reviewed the overall oncological and survival outcomes 
of patients with a solitary renal mass treated with radio frequency ablation in 
whom it had been at least 40 months since treatment. Patients were offered radio 
frequency ablation due to the high risk of surgical management and surgeon 
preference. Followup consisted of serum creatinine measurement, physical 
examination and serial contrast enhanced computerized tomography or magnetic 
resonance imaging.
RESULTS: The 31 patients received a total of 34 radio frequency ablation 
treatments to a 1.0 to 4.0 cm solitary renal mass (median 2.0). Mean followup in 
survivors was 61.6 months (median 62.4, range 41 to 80). There was 1 primary 
treatment failure, which was successfully retreated. There were 3 recurrences 7, 
13 and 31 months after radio frequency ablation, respectively. The overall 
recurrence-free survival rate was 90.3%. There was a 100% metastasis-free and 
disease specific survival rate in the cohort. Overall patient survival was 71.0% 
since 9 died of nonrenal cell carcinoma causes. Of the 31 patients 18 had 
pathologically confirmed renal cell carcinoma. In these 18 cases the actuarial 
disease specific, metastasis-free, recurrence-free and overall survival rates 
were 100%, 100%, 79.9% and 58.3%, respectively, at a mean of 57.4 months of 
followup. In the entire cohort the difference between the pretreatment and the 
last known serum creatinine level was 0.15 mg/dl (p = 0.06).
CONCLUSIONS: In patients who have limited life expectancy or are high risk 
surgical candidates radio frequency ablation provides reasonable long-term 
oncological control and it may have a role in the management of small renal 
masses. Meticulous long-term followup is required in patients receiving radio 
frequency ablation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2008.04.031
PMID: 18550123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Ann Readapt Med Phys. 2008 Jul;51(6):491-500. doi:
10.1016/j.annrmp.2008.04.008.  Epub 2008 May 23.

[Deep brain stimulation and Parkinson's disease].

[Article in French]

Boisson D(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de rééducation neurologique, hôpital Henry-Gabrielle, hospices civils 
de Lyon, 20, route de Vourles, 69230 Saint-Genis-Laval, France. 
dominique.boisson@chu-lyon.fr

Ten years after the therapeutic revolution that emerged from the discovery of 
l-dopa, some pioneer teams led the rebirth of a new nonablative stereotaxical 
surgical treatment, which came from the interest of high frequency stimulation. 
Three targets were retained as the main location of a reversible functional 
inhibition: Vim, GPI and STN. The unilateral or bilateral stimulation, 
adjustable and possibly reversible, led to an exceptional medicosurgical 
collaboration, within expert dedicated places, based on the control of the 
Parkinson's disease's (PD) triad. The stimulation was initially applied to the 
most advanced forms of PD, after the medical control period of the motor 
performance, when the pejorative effects of the evolution settled and/or when 
side effects of the treatment appeared. Subsequently, the research of selection 
criterions and the strict control of the stereotaxical procedure during the per- 
and postoperatory period, with the collaboration of the patient and his family, 
progressively brought different teams to an earlier indication of this new 
treatment option, up to now reserved for fully medicosurgical concerted cases. 
Apparition of cognitive and postural decline as well as the known resistance 
stage to l-dopa tend to become a real contra-indication. Despite the initial 
relative weakness of controlled studies with limited number of patients, the 
multiplication of follow-up studies among high quality multicentric cohorts 
enabled the validation of practices respecting the differences related to the 
initial background of each different team. In Europe first, the prevalence of 
the subthalamic target is now to be generally admitted. A new objective is now 
imposing itself: trying to maintain the patient's quality of life, beyond the 
only motor benefit. The social adaptation of a young patient is now also taken 
into account. If this exemplary clinical research approach, efficient for a few 
highly selected patients, has not transformed the long-term prognostic of the 
PD, it will continue to improve the comprehension of this degenerative pathology 
and its extension. It still remains hopeful for the future in the actual 
constant technological progress, and that probably beyond the only PD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annrmp.2008.04.008
PMID: 18550197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Eur J Cancer. 2008 Jul;44(11):1536-40. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.04.017. Epub
 2008 Jun 10.

90-Days mortality rate in patients treated within the context of a phase-I 
trial: how should we identify patients who should not go on trial?

Arkenau HT(1), Olmos D, Ang JE, Barriuso J, Karavasilis V, Ashley S, de Bono J, 
Judson I, Kaye S.

Author information:
(1)Drug Development Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital and Institute of Cancer 
Research, Downs Road, SM2 5PT Sutton, United Kingdom. 
hendrik-tobias.arkenau@icr.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The primary objectives of phase-I trials include the definition of 
drug toxicities and the recommendation of phase-II doses. In order to safeguard 
the well-being of its participants, a common inclusion criterion is that of life 
expectancy >3 months. However, previous studies have shown that about 20% of 
these patients do not survive beyond this time-point.
METHODS: We identified 97 patients who died within the first 90 days of 
treatment out of a total of 654 consecutively treated phase-I patients, from 
June 2003 to June 2007. This cohort was compared to a control group comprising 
215 patients who lived >90 days on phase-I studies and were treated from January 
2005 to June 2006.
RESULTS: In keeping with our recently reported phase-I survival risk score, 
multivariate analysis demonstrated that patients who died within the first 90 
days had lower albumin (p=0.010), greater number of metastatic sites (p=0.00001) 
and higher frequency of elevated LDH (p=0.0002). This analysis also showed that 
86% of patients who died during the first 90 days had an increased risk score of 
2/3 compared to 39% in the control group. Furthermore, three additional factors 
were identified, namely younger age (p=0.024), higher white cell count (p=0.028) 
and poorer ECOG PS (p=0.012) but the addition of these did not improve the 
ability to predict 90-day mortality compared to the afore-mentioned risk score.
CONCLUSIONS: There is good evidence that our easily derivable scoring system 
provides an objective method to identify patients with a very limited life 
expectancy in whom participation in phase-I trials should be carefully 
evaluated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.04.017
PMID: 18550361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Int J Clin Oncol. 2008 Jun;13(3):239-43. doi: 10.1007/s10147-007-0745-z.
Epub  2008 Jun 14.

Current trends in diagnostic and therapeutic principles for prostate cancer in 
Japan.

Okihara K(1), Shiraishi T, Ukimura O, Mizutani Y, Kawauchi A, Miki T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Kyoto Prefectural University of Medicine, Kawaramachi 
Hirokoji, Kyoto 602-8566, Japan. okihara@koto.kpu-m.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to clarify characteristics of the diagnosis and 
treatment of prostate cancer in Japan.
METHODS: In September 2005, questionnaire surveys were mailed to Japanese 
urologists (response rate, 43%; 474/1090) who were listed as voting members 
(VMs) of the Japanese Urological Association (JUA); the questionnaire surveys 
were also mailed to professors and chairmen (PCs) of urology departments at 
Japanese national, public, and private universities who were also VMs of the JUA 
(response rate, 76%; 68/90). The questionnaires asked about beliefs and 
practices regarding prostate cancer management.
RESULTS: The answers of the VMs and PCs to the questionnaire were very similar. 
About 60% of these urologists answered that they did not set an age limit for 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing, and about 40% answered that they did 
not set an age limit for prostate needle biopsy in individuals with an 
intermediately elevated PSA level. The age limit for radical prostatectomy (RP) 
was set at 75 years by 69% (322/470) of the VMs and 66% (45/68) of the PCs. The 
order of priority of factors considered for the selection of RP for early 
prostate cancer was radicality, including tumor grade (mean, 1.97); patient's 
wish for radical surgery (mean, 2.47); comorbidity (mean, 2.72); and age (mean, 
2.81).
CONCLUSION: There are trends in diagnostic and therapeutic principles for 
prostate cancer which are characteristic of Japan, and these trends are 
associated with the recent rapid extension of life expectancy in that country.

DOI: 10.1007/s10147-007-0745-z
PMID: 18553234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Am J Manag Care. 2008 Jun;14(6):395-6.

The importance of recognizing patients' time as a cost of self-management.

Russell LB, Safford MM.

Comment on
    Am J Manag Care. 2008 Mar;14(3):131-40.

PMID: 18554078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. BMC Public Health. 2008 Jun 13;8:211. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-211.

(Cost)effectiveness of life review for older adults: design of a randomized 
controlled trial.

Pot AM(1), Melenhorst AS, Onrust S, Bohlmeijer ET.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction (Trimbos-instituut), 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. ampot@trimbos.nl

BACKGROUND: Depression in older adults is a serious health problem with a poor 
prognosis. There is a need for indicated preventive psychological interventions 
for older adults, that show to be promising in preventing depressive disorders.
METHODS/DESIGN: This manuscript describes the design of a study evaluating 
'Looking for Meaning', a newly developed prevention course for older adults with 
depressive symptoms, based on life-review. Both clinical and economic 
effectiveness are evaluated in a pragmatic randomized controlled trial. The 
control condition of this 12-session preventive intervention is a 20-minute 
video movie. The primary outcome is symptoms of depression at post-treatment and 
follow-up (6 months after post-treatment). Secondary outcomes are symptoms of 
anxiety, satisfaction with life, mastery, reminiscence styles, quality of life, 
and health care costs. An additional result of this study is the insight into 
the working elements of the course, provided by the qualitative study. The 
qualitative data, mainly based on 20 open-ended interviews with participants, 
are to be analyzed with an emphasis on newly emerging insight.
DISCUSSION: This study will add to the existing scientific knowledge in several 
ways, especially by also including an economic evaluation and a qualitative 
study to gain insight into the working mechanisms of the course, both rather new 
in the field of life review. Positive results of this study will make an 
evidence-based intervention to improve public health among older people 
available.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials Ltd, ISRCTN66645855.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-211
PMCID: PMC2442071
PMID: 18554393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2008 Jun 15;8:24. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-8-24.

Discussing life expectancy with surgical patients: do patients want to know and 
how should this information be delivered?

Clarke MG(1), Kennedy KP, MacDonagh RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology & General Surgery, Taunton & Somerset Hospital, 
Musgrove Park, Taunton, TA1 5DA, UK. mgclarkey@doctors.org.uk

BACKGROUND: Predicted patient life expectancy (LE) and survival probability 
(SP), based on a patient's medical history, are important components of surgical 
decision-making and informed consent. The objective of this study was to assess 
patients' interpretation of and desire to know information relating to LE, in 
addition to establishing the most effective format for discussion.
METHODS: A cross sectional survey of 120 patients (mean age = 68.7 years, range 
50-90 years), recruited from general urological and surgical outpatient clinics 
in one District General and one Teaching hospital in Southwest England (UK) was 
conducted. Patients were included irrespective of their current diagnosis or 
associated comorbidity. Hypothetical patient case scenarios were used to assess 
patients' desire to know LE and SP, in addition to their preferred presentation 
format.
RESULTS: 58% of patients expressed a desire to know their LE and SP, if it were 
possible to calculate, with 36% not wishing to know either. Patients preferred a 
combination of numerical and pictorial formats in discussing LE and SP, with 
numerical, verbal and pictorial formats alone least preferred. 71% patients 
ranked the survival curve as either their first or second most preferred graph, 
with 76% rating facial figures their least preferred. No statistically 
significant difference was noted between sexes or educational backgrounds.
CONCLUSION: A proportion of patients seem unwilling to discuss their LE and SP. 
This may relate to their current diagnosis, level of associated comorbidity or 
degree of understanding. However it is feasible that by providing this 
information in a range of presentation formats, greater engagement in the shared 
decision-making process can be encouraged.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-8-24
PMCID: PMC2440736
PMID: 18554419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Int Psychogeriatr. 2009 Feb;21(1):69-77. doi: 10.1017/S1041610208007527.
Epub  2008 Jun 16.

The relationship between elderly suicide rates and the human development index: 
a cross-national study of secondary data from the World Health Organization and 
the United Nations.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ageing, Ethnicity and Mental Health, University of Central Lancashire, 
Preston, UK. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Elderly suicides rates are associated with socio-economic status and 
life expectancy. Although suicide rates in younger people are associated with 
both higher and lower levels of educational attainment, little is known about 
this association in the elderly.
