Bravo Vergel Y(1), Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

Many health systems now use cost-effectiveness analysis to decide which 
interventions and programmes to fund. A key issue for such decision making is 
how to measure health outcomes from interventions to reflect changes in both 
health-related quality of life and life expectancy. For some decision makers, 
including the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the UK, 
the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is central to health measurement. This 
article describes the concept of the QALY, its derivation, and its strengths and 
weaknesses.

DOI: 10.1136/pn.2007.140186
PMID: 18502950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Gerontology. 2008;54(4):232-7. doi: 10.1159/000135069. Epub 2008 May 26.

Differences in overall mortality in the elderly may be explained by diet.

González S(1), Huerta JM, Fernández S, Patterson AM, Lasheras C.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología Funcional, Area de Fisiología, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad de Oviedo, Oviedo, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Although a relationship between diet and mortality is well 
recognized, there is little information on the extent to which different food 
sources contribute to survival in elderly people.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of individual food groups on mortality in 
institutionalized elderly people from Asturias (Northern Spain) after 6 years of 
follow-up.
METHOD: The dietary intake of 288 elderly people aged 60-85 years was assessed 
using a semiquantitative food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Age, gender, energy 
intake, chewing ability, hyperglycemia, hypercholesterolemia, physical activity, 
smoking habit, self-perceived health, education level and the institution from 
which participants were recruited were covariates in Cox regression models 
analyzing the effect of food on survival.
RESULTS: Fruit intake was found to be inversely associated with overall 
mortality. Multivariate adjusted mortality rate ratio (95% CI) per 1 SD increase 
in fruit intake was 0.714 (0.519-0.981). On the contrary, each 1 SD of potato 
intake led to a 32% higher risk of death (RR (95% CI) = 1.319 (1.033-1.685)).
CONCLUSION: A high intake of fruit late in life was associated with a longer 
survival. An inverse association between potato intake and survival was also 
observed, but further research is necessary before any firm conclusions about 
the possible harmful aspects of potato consumption can be drawn.

Copyright 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000135069
PMID: 18503250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Neurosurg. 2006 Dec;105 Suppl:91-8. doi: 10.3171/sup.2006.105.7.91.

Volumetric follow up of brain metastases: a useful method to evaluate treatment 
outcome and predict survival after Gamma Knife surgery?

Feigl GC(1), Horstmann GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, Germany. 
guenther.feigl@web.de

OBJECT: Brain metastases are diagnosed in 20 to 40% of all cancer patients and 
are associated with a considerable drop in life expectancy and often also in 
quality of life for these patients. Several treatment options are available 
including surgery, chemotherapy, whole-brain radiotherapy, stereotactic 
radiotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery, and Gamma Knife surgery (GKS). However, 
management of brain metastases still presents a challenge and there is no 
general consensus on the best treatment strategy. The aim of the authors' study 
was to further evaluate the efficacy of GKS in the treatment of brain metastases 
and to evaluate the predictive value of volumetric tumor follow-up measurement.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with controlled systemic cancer and variable 
numbers of brain metastases were included in this prospective study. Patients 
with severe symptoms of brain compression underwent surgery before GKS. Each 
follow-up examination included a thorough neurological examination and a 
neuroradiological quantitative volumetric tumor analysis. A total of 300 
consecutive patients (mean age 58 years) with 703 brain metastases were treated 
between December 1998 and October 2005. The mean total tumor volume (TTV) was 
2.1 cm3. The overall local tumor control rate was 84.5%. In 79% of all treated 
metastases a mean TTV reduction of 84.7% was achieved using a mean prescription 
dose of 21.8 Gy. Only few, mostly mild, side effects were observed during the 
mean follow-up period of 12.7 months. The overall mean progression-free survival 
period was 9.4 months. There was a statistically significant difference in 
survival of patients with one compared with multiple metastases, regardless of 
the histological type and preceding treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Gamma Knife surgery is a safe and effective treatment for patients 
with brain metastases regardless of the history of treatment and histological 
tumor type. It achieves excellent tumor control, significant TTV reduction 
without causing severe side effects, and accordingly, preserves quality of live. 
Volume changes after GKS did not serve as a predictor for treatment outcome and 
survival.

DOI: 10.3171/sup.2006.105.7.91
PMID: 18503338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. BJOG. 2008 Jul;115(8):947-56. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2008.01743.x. Epub
2008  May 22.

The epidemiological and economic impact of a quadrivalent human papillomavirus 
vaccine (6/11/16/18) in the UK.

Dasbach EJ(1), Insinga RP, Elbasha EH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economic Statistics, Merck Research Laboratories, UG1C-60, PO Box 
1000, North Wales, PA 19454-1099, USA. erik_dasbach@merck.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential epidemiological and economic impact of a 
prophylactic quadrivalent human papillomavirus (HPV) (6/11/16/18) vaccine for 
preventing cervical cancer, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grades 2 and 3 
(CIN2/3), CIN1 and genital warts.
DESIGN: Cost-utility analysis.
SETTING: UK.
POPULATION: Female and male UK population 12 years or older.
METHODS: We adapted a previously developed multi-HPV type dynamic transmission 
to compare four female vaccination strategies, routine vaccination at age 12 
years, and routine vaccination at age 12 years combined with temporary catch-up 
vaccination at ages 12-14, 12-17 and 12-24 years.
MAIN OUTCOMES MEASURES: Costs, cases avoided, incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: The model projected that at year 100, each vaccination strategy could 
reduce the number of HPV 6/11/16/18-related cervical cancer, CIN2/3, CIN1 and 
genital wart cases among women by 86, 85, 79 and 89% respectively. Over 25 
years, routine vaccination at age 12 years combined with a 12- to 24-year-old 
catch-up programme was the most effective strategy, reducing the cumulative 
number of cases of cervical cancer, CIN2/3, CIN1 and genital warts by 5800, 146 
000, 28 000, and 1.1 million respectively. Over 100 years, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios across all strategies ranged from pound5882 to 
pound11,412 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: In the UK, a quadrivalent HPV vaccination programme that includes a 
catch-up strategy can reduce the incidence of cervical cancer, CIN and genital 
warts at a cost per QALY ratio within the range typically regarded as 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2008.01743.x
PMID: 18503574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Ann Epidemiol. 2008 Jul;18(7):522-30. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2008.03.008.
Epub  2008 May 27.

Daily total physical activity level and premature death in men and women: 
results from a large-scale population-based cohort study in Japan (JPHC study).

Inoue M(1), Iso H, Yamamoto S, Kurahashi N, Iwasaki M, Sasazuki S, Tsugane S; 
Japan Public Health Center-Based Prospective Study Group.

Collaborators: Tsugane S, Inoue M, Sobue T, Hanaoka T, Ogata J, Baba S, Mannami 
T, Okayama A, Kokubo Y, Miyakawa K, Saito F, Koizumi A, Sano Y, Hashimoto I, 
Ikuta T, Miyajima Y, Suzuki N, Nagasawa S, Furusugi Y, Nagai N, Sanada H, 
Hatayama Y, Kobayashi F, Uchino H, Shirai Y, Kondo T, Sasaki R, Watanabe Y, 
Miyagawa Y, Kobayashi Y, Kishimoto Y, Takara E, Fukuyama T, Kinjo M, Irei M, 
Sakiyama H, Imoto K, Yazawa H, Seo T, Seiko A, Ito F, Shoji F, Murata A, Minato 
K, Motegi K, Fujieda T, Matsui K, Abe T, Katagiri M, Suzuki M, Doi M, Terao A, 
Ishikawa Y, Tagami T, Sueta H, Doi H, Urata M, Okamoto N, Ide F, Sakiyama H, 
Onga N, Takaesu H, Uehara M, Horii F, Asano I, Yamaguchi H, Aoki K, Maruyama S, 
Ichii M, Takano M, Tsubono Y, Suzuki K, Honda Y, Yamagishi K, Sakurai S, Kabuto 
M, Yamaguchi M, Matsumura Y, Sasaki S, Watanabe S, Akabane M, Kadowaki T, Noda 
M, Kawaguchi Y, Takashima Y, Nakamura K, Matsushima S, Natsukawa S, Shimizu H, 
Sugimura H, Tominaga S, Iso H, Iida M, Ajiki W, Ioka A, Sato S, Maruyama E, 
Konishi M, Okada K, Saito I, Yasuda N, Kono S.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Prevention Division, Research Center for Cancer Prevention 
and Screening, National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan. mnminoue@ncc.go.jp

PURPOSE: The impact of daily total physical activity level on premature deaths 
has not been fully clarified in non-Western, relatively lean populations. We 
prospectively examined the association between daily total physical activity 
level (METs/day) and subsequent risk of all-cause mortality and mortalities from 
cancer, heart disease, and cerebrovascular disease.
METHODS: A total of 83,034 general Japanese citizens ages 45-74 years who 
responded to the questionnaire in 1995-1999 were followed for any cause of death 
through December 2005. Mutlivariate-adjusted hazard ratios were calculated with 
a Cox proportional hazards model controlling for potential confounding factors.
RESULTS: During follow-up, a total of 4564 deaths were recorded. Compared with 
subjects in the lowest quartile, increased daily total physical activity was 
associated with a significantly decreased risk of all-cause mortality in both 
sexes (hazard ratios for the second, third, and highest quartiles were: men, 
0.79, 0.82, 0.73 and women, 0.75, 0.64, 0.61, respectively). The decreased risk 
was observed regardless of age, frequency of leisure-time sports or physical 
exercise, or obesity status, albeit with a degree of risk attenuation among 
those with a high body mass index. A significantly decreased risk was similarly 
observed for death from cancer and heart disease in both sexes, and from 
cerebrovascular disease in women.
CONCLUSION: Greater daily total physical activity level, either from occupation, 
daily life, or leisure time, may be of benefit in preventing premature death.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2008.03.008
PMID: 18504139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2008 Apr;23(4):237-46. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892008000400003.

[Health indicators in the elderly: a comparison of Brazil and the United 
States].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rebouças M(1), Pereira MG.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal do Ceará, Disciplina de Geriatria, Fortaleza, Ceará, 
Brasil. monicareboucas@terra.com.br

OBJECTIVE: To identify indicators used in evaluating the population 65 years of 
age and older in Brazil that are comparable to those used in the United States, 
and to compare the situation of this age group in the two countries.
METHOD: This was a descriptive, cross-sectional study, based on secondary data. 
Brazilian equivalents to the well-being indicators employed in the United States 
were searched in websites published by government health or planning 
institutions. Data from national surveys were also employed, and when necessary, 
data from existing databases were reanalyzed.
RESULTS: Of the 31 indicators used in the United States, an equivalent in Brazil 
was not found for only three: memory impairment, social activity, and violent 
crime. In the United States, the number of older individuals was greater; level 
of education was also higher in this age group. The two countries were similar 
in terms of health status and life expectancy at 65 years of age. Death rates 
due to cerebrovascular disease and diabetes were higher in Brazil, while death 
rates due to malignant neoplasms were higher in the United States. Disabilities 
and self-reported morbidity due to arthritis and depression were more frequent 
in the United States. The self-perception of health status as good was higher in 
Brazil, whereas the indicators related to life habits and risk factors indicated 
a more favorable situation in the United States.
CONCLUSIONS: If the discriminating power of the indicators is truly adequate, 
the health conditions of the elderly in these two countries are similar.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892008000400003
PMID: 18505604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Circulation. 2008 Jun 10;117(23):3010-9. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107.742510.  Epub 2008 May 27.

Ambrisentan for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension: results of the 
ambrisentan in pulmonary arterial hypertension, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, multicenter, efficacy (ARIES) study 1 and 2.

Galiè N(1), Olschewski H, Oudiz RJ, Torres F, Frost A, Ghofrani HA, Badesch DB, 
McGoon MD, McLaughlin VV, Roecker EB, Gerber MJ, Dufton C, Wiens BL, Rubin LJ; 
Ambrisentan in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension, Randomized, Double-Blind, 
Placebo-Controlled, Multicenter, Efficacy Studies (ARIES) Group.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, University of Bologna, Via Massarenti, 9, 
40138-Bologna, Italy. nazzareno.galie@unibo.it

Comment in
    Circulation. 2008 Jun 10;117(23):2966-8.

BACKGROUND: Ambrisentan is a propanoic acid-based, A-selective endothelin 
receptor antagonist for the once-daily treatment of pulmonary arterial 
hypertension.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Ambrisentan in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension, Randomized, 
Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled, Multicenter, Efficacy Study 1 and 2 (ARIES-1 
and ARIES-2) were concurrent, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies that 
randomized 202 and 192 patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, 
respectively, to placebo or ambrisentan (ARIES-1, 5 or 10 mg; ARIES-2, 2.5 or 5 
mg) orally once daily for 12 weeks. The primary end point for each study was 
change in 6-minute walk distance from baseline to week 12. Clinical worsening, 
World Health Organization functional class, Short Form-36 Health Survey score, 
Borg dyspnea score, and B-type natriuretic peptide plasma concentrations also 
were assessed. In addition, a long-term extension study was performed. The 
6-minute walk distance increased in all ambrisentan groups; mean 
placebo-corrected treatment effects were 31 m (P=0.008) and 51 m (P<0.001) in 
ARIES-1 for 5 and 10 mg ambrisentan, respectively, and 32 m (P=0.022) and 59 m 
(P<0.001) in ARIES-2 for 2.5 and 5 mg ambrisentan, respectively. Improvements in 
time to clinical worsening (ARIES-2), World Health Organization functional class 
(ARIES-1), Short Form-36 score (ARIES-2), Borg dyspnea score (both studies), and 
B-type natriuretic peptide (both studies) were observed. No patient treated with 
ambrisentan developed aminotransferase concentrations >3 times the upper limit 
of normal. In 280 patients completing 48 weeks of treatment with ambrisentan 
monotherapy, the improvement from baseline in 6-minute walk at 48 weeks was 39 
m.
CONCLUSIONS: Ambrisentan improves exercise capacity in patients with pulmonary 
arterial hypertension. Improvements were observed for several secondary end 
points in each of the studies, although statistical significance was more 
variable. Ambrisentan is well tolerated and is associated with a low risk of 
aminotransferase abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.107.742510
PMID: 18506008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Rev Prat. 2008 Feb 29;58(4):359-60.

[Adult depression. Improving screening and preventing recurrences].

[Article in French]

Rouillon F(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinique des maladies mentales et de l'encéphale, hôpital Sainte-Anne, 75674 
Paris Cedex 14. f.rouillon@ch-sainte-anne.fr

PMID: 18506972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2008 Mar;69(1):11-7. doi: 10.4081/monaldi.2008.406.

Heart and lungs in COPD. Close friends in real life--separate in daily medical 
practice?

Lusuardi M(1), Garuti G, Massobrio M, Spagnolatti L, Bendinelli S.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Cardiology and Pulmonary Rehabilitation, AUSL Reggio Emilia, S. 
Sebastiano Hospital, Correggio, Italy. lusuardimi@ausl.re.it

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is associated with a 2-3 times 
higher rate of cardiovascular disorders (CVD) which is independent of other risk 
factors. A low FEV1 is a specific predictor of mortality as a result of cardiac 
causes, even stronger than increased cholesterol: for each 10% reduction of 
FEV1, cardiovascular mortality increases by 28%. The main causes of death among 
COPD patients are of cardiovascular origin. COPD and CVD have two major risk 
factors in common - advanced age and tobacco smoking. The search for a 
pathogenetic link between the two conditions focuses mainly on systemic 
extension of pulmonary inflammation. Despite such a frequent association, 
pulmonologists and cardiologists in both the clinical and the research settings 
often underestimate the importance of a correct diagnosis and severity 
stratification of the two combined conditions. Spirometry, in particular, is 
largely underprescribed. Missed diagnosis and severity stratification, 
incomplete knowledge of adverse drug events and lack of resources lead to 
undertreatment of patients combining COPD and CVD, and in particular, the 
underuse of beta-blockers, inhaled bronchodilators and rehabilitation. Clinical 
studies focusing on this group of patients should be promoted in the future to 
test therapies and manage options. Furthermore, efforts must be made to improve 
the present standards of care, which falls short of recommended levels, starting 
from the often-neglected use of spirometry to confirm a diagnosis of COPD.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2008.406
PMID: 18507194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. J Manag Care Pharm. 2008 May;14(4 Suppl):S3-6. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2008.14.s4-a.3.

The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: are they worth the price?

Sullivan SD(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7630, USA. sdsull@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Specialty pharmaceuticals have evolved beyond their status as niche 
drugs designed to treat rare conditions and are now poised to become the 
standard of care in a wide variety of common chronic illnesses. Due in part to 
the cost of these therapies, payers are increasingly demanding evidence of their 
value. Determining the value of these medications is hampered by a lack of 
robust pharmacoeconomic data.
OBJECTIVE: To outline emerging strategies and case study examples for the 
medical and pharmacy benefits management of specialty pharmaceuticals.
SUMMARY: The promise of specialty pharmaceuticals: increased life expectancy, 
improved quality of life, enhanced workplace productivity, decreased burden of 
disease, and reduced health care spending comes at a significant cost. These 
agents require special handling, administration, patient education, clinical 
support, and risk mitigation. Additionally, specialty drugs require distribution 
systems that ensure appropriate patient selection and data collection. With the 
specialty pharmaceutical pipeline overflowing with new medicines and an aging 
population increasingly relying on these novel treatments to treat common 
diseases, the challenge of managing the costs associated with these agents can 
be daunting. Aided by sophisticated pharmacoeconomic models to assess value, the 
cost impacts of these specialty drugs can be appropriately controlled.
CONCLUSION: Current evidence suggests that when used in targeted patient 
populations, specialty pharmaceuticals may represent a good health care value.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2008.14.s4-a.3
PMCID: PMC10438149
PMID: 18507507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Neuromuscul Disord. 2008 Jun;18(6):447-52. doi: 10.1016/j.nmd.2008.04.009.
Epub  2008 May 27.

Eight years experience with enzyme replacement therapy in two children and one 
adult with Pompe disease.

van Capelle CI(1), Winkel LP, Hagemans ML, Shapira SK, Arts WF, van Doorn PA, 
Hop WC, Reuser AJ, van der Ploeg AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Metabolic Diseases and Genetics, 
Erasmus MC University Medical Center-Sophia Children's Hospital, P.O. Box 2060, 
3000 CB Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Pompe disease (type 2 glycogenosis, acid maltase deficiency) is a disorder 
affecting skeletal and cardiac muscle, caused by deficiency of acid 
alpha-glucosidase. In 2006 enzyme therapy with recombinant human 
alpha-glucosidase received marketing approval based on studies in infants. 
Results in older children and adults are awaited. Earlier we reported on the 
3-year follow-up data of enzyme therapy in two adolescents and one adult. In the 
present study these patients were followed for another 5 years. Two severely 
affected patients, wheelchair and ventilator dependent, who had shown 
stabilization of pulmonary and muscle function in the first 3 years, maintained 
this stabilization over the 5-year extension period. In addition patients became 
more independent in daily life activities and quality of life improved. The 
third moderately affected patient had shown a remarkable improvement in muscle 
strength and regained the ability to walk over the first period. He showed 
further improvement of strength and reached normal values for age during the 
extension phase. The results indicate that both long-term follow-up and timing 
of treatment are important topics for future studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nmd.2008.04.009
PMID: 18508267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Front Biosci. 2008 May 1;13:6966-90. doi: 10.2741/3203.

DNA repair, insulin signaling and sirtuins: at the crossroads between cancer and 
aging.

Mostoslavsky R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. rmostoslavsky@mgh.harvard.edu

For many years organismal aging and cancer were viewed as separate entities. 
Recent studies however have suggested that these two seemingly disparate 
biological processes may in fact share common biochemical pathways. One area of 
emerging convergence involves the intersection of pathways known to mediate DNA 
repair with pathways previously implicated in insulin signaling. Recent evidence 
suggests that the sirtuin family of proteins act as central mediators of this 
molecular crosstalk. The coordination of DNA repair with overall energy balance 
may be essential for reducing the risk of developing cancer as well as for 
determining the rate at which we age. This review will summarize our current 
knowledge on how the maintenance of genomic integrity and insulin signaling 
intersect, the potential regulation of sirtuins in this crosstalk, and how this 
coordinated regulation may have important implication for both tumor-free and 
overall survival.

DOI: 10.2741/3203
PMID: 18508709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Front Biosci. 2008 May 1;13:7022-31. doi: 10.2741/3207.

The use of genetically engineered model systems for research on human aging.

Lepperdinger G(1), Berger P, Breitenbach M, Frohlich KU, Grillari J, 
Grubeck-Loebenstein B, Madeo F, Minois N, Zwerschke W, Jansen-Durr P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Extracellular Matrix Research, Institute for Biomedical Aging 
Research, Austria Academy of Sciences, Rennweg 10, 6020 Innsbruck, Austria.

A major goal in the field of aging research is to identify molecular mechanisms 
of aging at the cellular level, which are anticipated to form the basis for the 
development of age-associated dysfunctions and diseases in human beings. Recent 
progress in research into model organisms of aging has allowed determining 
precise molecular mechanisms and genetic determinants of the aging process, 
which appear to be conserved in evolution and some of which apply to human aging 
as well. The consortium of the authors focuses on aging mechanisms at the 
cellular level, and exploits the potential of genetic analyses in lower 
eukaryotic model organisms for a better understanding of regulatory pathways 
implicated in aging processes. We have established a new database (GiSAO), which 
provides a unique resource for the analysis of genome-wide expression patterns 
as being regulated by senescence, apoptosis and oxidative stress in our model 
systems. This has led to the identification of candidate genes, which are being 
tested for their impact on lifespan regulation in yeast, the fruit fly 
Drosophila melanogaster and the nematode C. elegans.

DOI: 10.2741/3207
PMID: 18508713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Postgrad Med J. 2008 May;84(991):228-37. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2007.064592.

Chemoprevention and screening in primary sclerosing cholangitis.

Kitiyakara T(1), Chapman RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, John Radcliffe Hospital, 
Headley Way, Oxford OX3 9DU, UK.

Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic inflammatory disease that 
causes fibrosis of the biliary tree. Life expectancy of patients is reduced by 
liver failure and a high incidence of malignancy. It is closely associated with 
inflammatory bowel disease, particularly ulcerative colitis, which coexists in 
approximately three-quarters of northern European patients. Cancers include 
cholangiocarcinoma, gallbladder cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, pancreatic 
cancer and colorectal cancer. Ursodeoxycholic acid appears to reduce the 
incidence of colorectal neoplasia in patients with PSC, and there is some 
suggestion that it may also reduce the incidence of cholangiocarcinoma. A 
chemoprotective benefit of 5-aminosalicylates has not been confirmed in patients 
with PSC with associated inflammatory bowel disease. There is no accepted 
screening programme for cholangiocarcinoma, but methods for detecting early 
disease using biochemical markers, scanning using positron emission tomography 
or MRI, and endoscopic procedures such as endosonography and endoscopic 
retrograde cholangiopancreatography are discussed. A combination of techniques 
is often used in an attempt to diagnose early cholangiocarcinoma. 
Cholecystectomy should be performed for gallbladder polyps, as many are 
malignant, and ultrasonography and alpha-fetoprotein testing are suggested for 
screening for hepatocellular carcinoma. Colorectal carcinoma screening should be 
performed after the diagnosis of PSC, and surveillance colonoscopy should be 
performed annually if there is concomitant colitis.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2007.064592
PMID: 18508979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2008 Jun;11(2):79-88.

Methodological advances in unit cost calculation of psychiatric residential care 
in Spain.

Moreno K(1), Sanchez E, Salvador-Carulla L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Business Administration, Public University of Navarre, Navarre, 
Spain. karen.moreno@unavarra.es

BACKGROUND: The care of the severe mentally ill who need intensive support for 
their daily living (dependent persons), accounts for an increasingly large 
proportion of public expenditure in many European countries.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The main aim of this study was the design and implementation 
of solid methodology to calculate unit costs of different types of care. To 
date, methodologies used in Spain have produced inaccurate figures, suggesting 
few variations in patient consumption of the same service.
METHODS: An adaptation of the Activity-Based-Costing methodology was applied in 
Navarre, a region in the North of Spain, as a pilot project for the public 
mental health services. A unit cost per care process was obtained for all levels 
of care considered in each service during 2005. The European Service Mapping 
Schedule (ESMS) codes were used to classify the services for later comparisons. 
Finally, in order to avoid problems of asymmetric cost distribution, a simple 
Bayesian model was used.
RESULTS: As an illustration, we report the results obtained for long-term 
residential care and note that there are important variations between unit costs 
when considering different levels of care. Considering three levels of care 
(Level 1-low, Level 2-medium and Level 3-intensive), the cost per bed in Level 3 
was 10% higher than that of Level 2.
DISCUSSION: The results obtained using the cost methodology described provide 
more useful information than those using conventional methods, although its 
implementation requires much time to compile the necessary information during 
the initial stages and the collaboration of staff and managers working in the 
services. However, in some services, if no important variations exist in patient 
care, another method would be advisable, although our system provides very 
useful information about patterns of care from a clinical point of view.
CONCLUSIONS: Detailed work is required at the beginning of the implementation in 
order to avoid the calculation of distorted figures and to improve the levels of 
decision making within the Health Care Service. IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE 
POLICY AND FORMULATIONS: As other European countries, Spain has adopted a new 
care system for the dependent population. To finance this new system, reliable 
figures must be calculated for each type of user in order to establish tariffs 
or public prices. This study provides a useful management tool to assist in 
decision making.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FUTURE RESEARCH: The methodology should be implemented in other 
regions of Spain and even in other countries in order to compare our results and 
validate the cost system designed.

PMID: 18509215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2008 May;215(1):33-42. doi: 10.1620/tjem.215.33.

Cost-effectiveness of the national screening program for hepatitis C virus in 
the general population and the high-risk groups.

Nakamura J(1), Terajima K, Aoyagi Y, Akazawa K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Information Science and Biostatistics, Niigata University 
Graduate School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Niigata, Japan. 
junichirojn@yahoo.co.jp

In Japan, the national screening for the hepatitis C virus (HCV) has been 
started for both the general population and the high-risk groups. Our 
cost-effectiveness analysis was based on the result of the screening program 
including 99,001 people among the general population and 42,538 people among the 
high risk group from 2003 to 2006. The screening was performed using the three 
steps of the semi-quantitative HCV antibody test, the HCV core antigen test and 
the HCV-PCR test. A Markov model for HCV infected patients was constructed to 
estimate the future clinical benefits and the lifetime cost and the 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed considering the recent treatment with 
peginterferon plus ribavirin. In the cost-effectiveness analysis, the cohort, in 
which the screening was implemented (= screening strategy), was compared with 
the similar cohort without the screening (= no-screening strategy) in both the 
general population and the high-risk group, stratified by age. The infection 
rates of the general population and the high-risk group were 0.36% and 0.81%, 
respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), a measure of 
cost-effectiveness, of the general population and the high-risk group was 
calculated to be from 848 to 4,825 and--749 to 2,297 $/life expectancy gained, 
respectively. The treatment effectiveness, transition probabilities and the 
infection rate varied in the one-way sensitivity analyses, but the superiority 
of the screening strategy regarding the cost-effectiveness was unchanged. In 
conclusion, the screening strategy in both the general population and the 
high-risk group therefore appears to be more cost-effective than a no-screening 
strategy.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.215.33
PMID: 18509233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Acta Chir Iugosl. 2008;55(1):115-8. doi: 10.2298/aci0801115b.

The first transendoscopic plastic to self-expandable metal stent replacement in 
Serbia and Montenegro using a diagnostic duodenoscope.

Bulajić M(1), Milojković B, Jakovljević M, Milosević P, Gazivoda I, Sankovic Z, 
Bulajić M.

Author information:
(1)Endoscopy Unit, Clinical Hospital Center Dr D. Misović-Dedinje, Belgrade, 
Serbia.

Studies have shown that SEMS remain patient longer with fewer associated 
complications compared with conventional plastic strents. Zilver stent, a 
nitinol zig-zag mash SEMS has a special advantage, having a thin introducer 
diameter of 7 Fr with a fully deployed span of 10mm. For a 48-year-old woman 
presented with obstructive jaundice and a diagnosis of unresectable pancreatic 
carcinoma with consequent stenosis of common bile duct (CBD), infiltration of 
local blood vessels and life expectancy longer than six months, it was decided 
that an endoscopic palliative drainage procedure should be performed. The 
technique of transendoscopic plastic to metal stent exchange is described, using 
a diagnostic duodenoscope. The patient lived 7 months after implementation of 
Zilver stent and died anicteric due to progression of a primary disease. The 
transendoscopic plastic to metal stent exchange is feasible palliative method 
which requires a basic endoscopic equipment and experienced staff and therefore 
is applicable in developing countries as well.

DOI: 10.2298/aci0801115b
PMID: 18510071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2009 Jun;19(3):419-24. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0838.2008.00814.x. Epub 2009 May 28.

Golf: a game of life and death--reduced mortality in Swedish golf players.

Farahmand B(1), Broman G, de Faire U, Vågerö D, Ahlbom A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

The specific health benefits achieved from different forms and patterns of 
leisure-time physical activity are not established. We analyzed the mortality in 
a cohort of Swedish golf players. We used the Swedish Golf Federation's 
membership registry and the nationwide Mortality Registry. We calculated 
standardized mortality ratios (SMR) with stratification for age, sex, and 
socioeconomic status. The cohort included 300 818 golfers, and the total number 
of deaths was 1053. The overall SMR was 0.60 [95% confidence intervals (CIs): 
0.57-0.64]. The mortality reduction was observed in men and women, in all age 
groups, and in all socioeconomic categories. Golfers with the lowest handicap 
(the most skilled players) had the lowest mortality; SMR=0.53 (95% CI: 
0.41-0.67) compared with 0.68 (95% CI: 0.61-0.75) for those with the highest 
handicap. While we cannot conclude with certainty that all the 40% decreased 
mortality rates are explained by the physical activity associated with playing 
golf, we conclude that most likely this is part of the explanation. To put the 
observed mortality reduction in context, it may be noted that a 40% reduction of 
mortality rates corresponds to an increase in life expectancy of about 5 years.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0838.2008.00814.x
PMID: 18510595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Blood Rev. 2008 Sep;22(5):283-92. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2008.04.001. Epub 2008
Jun  3.

Thalassemia and hypercoagulability.

Taher AT(1), Otrock ZK, Uthman I, Cappellini MD.

Author information:
(1)Hematology-Oncology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, American 
University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon. ataher@aub.edu.lb

Thalassemia is a congenital hemolytic disease caused by defective globin 
synthesis resulting in decreased quantity of globin chains. Although the life 
expectancy of beta-thalassemia patients has markedly improved over the last few 
years, patients still suffer from many complications of this congenital disease. 
The presence of a high incidence of thromboembolic events, mainly in 
beta-thalassemia intermedia, has led to the identification of a hypercoagulable 
state in these patients. In this paper, we review the molecular and cellular 
mechanisms leading to hypercoagulability in beta-thalassemia, with a special 
focus on thalassemia intermedia being the group with the highest incidence of 
thrombotic events as compared to other types of thalassemias. We also discuss 
the recommendations for thrombosis prophylaxis in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2008.04.001
PMID: 18511163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Bull Cancer. 2008 May 28;95 FMC Onco:F11-5. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0538.

[Aging and geriatric oncology].

[Article in French]

Saint-Jean O(1), Lahjibi-Paulet H, Maamar M.

Author information:
(1)Service de gériatrie, Hôpital européen Georges Pompidou, 20, rue Leblanc, 
75015 Paris, France. olivier.saint-jean@egp.aphp.fr

Chronologic age is not the exclusive factor for therapeutic decision, specially 
because life expectancy in very old age remains significant. Evaluation of 
health, autonomy and diseases are more important. Health status in very old age 
results from genetic factors, life-course and aging. The later may be understood 
as an adaptative process in response to life-course. These factors lead to 
frailty, whose evaluation is essential to high quality care in elderly patients. 
This evaluation must be multidimensional and lead to a care-plan. Even no 
randomized controlled trial had demonstrated benefits of geriatric intervention 
in cancer elderly patients, there is a high probability that improvement in 
mortality, morbidity, autonomy and quality of care may be obtained by strong 
collaboration of oncologists and geriatricians.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0538
PMID: 18511361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Bull Cancer. 2008 May 28;95 FMC Onco:F21-7. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0541.

[Pharmacology of anticancer drugs in the elderly: tools for dose-adjustment].

[Article in French]

Tranchand B(1), Falandry C, You B, Girard P, Ribba B, Tod M, Freyer G.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon, 69003 Lyon, France. brigitte.tranchand@adm.univlyon1.fr

Life expectancy increasing and cancer incidence rising with age, geriatric and 
cancer care will become a significant medical, public health, challenge. It is 
possible that the lack of efficacy of cancer therapies in the elderly may simply 
be due to the fact that physicians reduce anticancer drug doses empirically, in 
order to avoid "putative" toxicities that might arise as a result of alterations 
of physiological functions or as a result of co-morbidities generally present 
within this population. However, many authors have demonstrated that some 
patients over 70 years old could tolerate and obtain same benefit from therapies 
as younger adults, when some who are frail need less aggressive therapies. It is 
imperative that decisions regarding the management of cancer in older persons 
should be based upon the individual needs and fitness of the patient, and not 
based on chronological age. The main difficulty is the lack of scientific 
references on optimal treatment-dosing in the elderly, and we cannot 
extrapolate, as it stands, the information from younger patient. Indeed, aging 
is associated with multidimensional changes, including alteration of 
physiological status, comorbidities and polymedications. These changes may lead 
to pharmacokinetic (PK) modifications, namely in absorption, distribution, 
metabolism and elimination of drugs as well as pharmacodynamic (PD) 
modifications. Prospective studies need to be implemented in the elderly in 
order to study in depth the PK and PD properties of the drugs used for these 
patients, and establish PK-PD relationships in this specific population. Such 
studies have been successfully conducted in the elderly, some of them leading to 
dose recommendations. This paper detail the different sources of PK-PD 
variability in the elderly, some practical considerations regarding the design 
of studies using the population approach, as well as some examples of studies 
performed in the elderly. We conclude with some recommendations in this 
population at risk.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0541
PMID: 18511363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Bull Cancer. 2008 May 28;95 FMC Onco:F65-9. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0539.

[Prostate carcinoma in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Ravaud A(1), Pasticier G, Davin JL, Demeaux H, Maire JP.

Author information:
(1)Service d'oncologie médicale et de radiothérapie, hôpital Saint-André, CHU, 
1, rue Jean-Burguet, 33075 Bordeaux Cedex, France. alain.ravaud@chu-bordeaux.fr

Prostate carcinoma is the most frequent cancer in French men. Prostate carcinoma 
in elderly is the topic of this review. The review included chapters on age as 
the main factor for prostate carcinoma, the modification of disease presentation 
or PSA level depending on age, and then the challenge of age in therapeutic 
decisions. Finally, we evaluate the place of elderly patients in prospective 
trials and in adjustable therapies.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0539
PMID: 18511369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Bull Cancer. 2008 May 28;95 FMC Onco:F79-83. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0543.

[Non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Dupuis J(1), Haioun C.

Author information:
(1)Service d'hématologie clinique, CHU Henri-Mondor, Créteil, France.

Non-Hodgkin's lymphomas form a heterogeneous group of tumors whose incidence is 
rising in elderly subjects. While most cases are accessible to treatment with 
chemotherapy, elderly patients tolerate treatments less well than younger ones. 
Nevertheless, treatment efficacy does not seem different. Two approaches can 
thus be proposed: the first is to give the patient a conventional treatment with 
a higher risk of toxicity, the second one would be to propose a "lighter", 
dose-adapted treatment. Two examples are examined more closely: diffuse large 
B-cell lymphomas and follicular lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0543
PMID: 18511372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Bull Cancer. 2008 May 28;95 FMC Onco:F104-7. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0542.

[Development of oncogeriatry: national and international strategies].

[Article in French]

Droz JP(1), Rodde-Dunet MH, Vitoux A.

Author information:
(1)Projet lyonnais d'oncogériatrie (Prolog) de l'Institut national du cancer, 
Centre Léon-Bérard, Université Claude-Bernard-Lyon I, Département de 
cancérologie médicale, Centre Léon-Bérard, 28 rue Laennec, 69008 Lyon, France. 
droz@lyon.fnclcc.fr

Incidence of cancer increases with the recent increase of the life expectancy. 
Aging is characterized by health status heterogeneity. It is therefore difficult 
to exactly predict tolerance to treatment and to make decision. One of the major 
question is to classify the problems on the base of their impact on health 
status and outcome. It is only possible if oncologists and geriatricians work 
together. The objectives at the national and international levels are the same: 
to develop formation (teaching programs), information (for professionals and the 
public), clinical research. It is more difficult to develop case management, 
because it depends on health organisation status. A strong global program has 
been developed in France with the emergence of Pilot Units for the coordination 
of Oncogeriatrics. It begins to produce results.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2007.0542
PMID: 18511376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2008 Jul;47(7):1077-81. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/ken128.  Epub 2008 May 29.

Cost-effectiveness of advising the use of topical or oral ibuprofen for knee 
pain; the TOIB study [ISRCTN: 79353052].

Castelnuovo E(1), Cross P, Mt-Isa S, Spencer A, Underwood M; TOIB study team.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Sciences, Barts and The London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Advice to use topical or oral NSAIDs is equally effective for the 
treatment of knee pain in older people. The ingredient cost of topical 
preparations is typically more than oral preparations, but could save costs 
because they have fewer adverse effects. A cost-utility study is needed to 
decide on their comparative cost effectiveness.
METHODS: We recruited 585 people aged >or=50 yrs with knee pain; 282 
participated in a randomized controlled trial and 303 in a patient preference 
study from 26 MRC General Practice Research Framework practices in the UK. They 
received advice to preferentially use topical or oral NSAIDs for knee pain. We 
calculated the comparative cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) from both 
a National Health Service (NHS) and a societal perspective over 12 and 24 
months.
RESULTS: Compared with the topical route, oral NSAIDs cost the NHS pound191 and 
pound72 more over 1 yr in the randomized trial and preference study, 
respectively. The cost per QALY, from an NHS perspective, was in the range of 
pound9000- pound12000 in the randomized trial. In the preference study, it was 
pound2564 over 1 yr, but over 2 yrs the oral route was dominant.
CONCLUSIONS: Our cost-effectiveness analysis supports the use of oral NSAIDs in 
selected patients. Nevertheless, deciding to recommend oral NSAIDs in preference 
to topical NSAIDs could have a substantial impact on NHS costs because of the 
uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness estimate.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ken128
PMID: 18511476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Am J Public Health. 2008 Jul;98(7):1167-70. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.133900.
Epub  2008 May 29.

Subdividing the age group of 85 years and older to improve US disease reporting.

Boscoe FP(1).

Author information:
(1)New York State Cancer Registry, New York State Department of Health, Albany, 
USA. fpb01@health.state.ny.us

The standard terminal age category in disease reporting in the United States has 
been 85 years and older since the 1940s, but the dramatically increasing share 
of the US population reaching this age has rendered the single category 
inadequate for surveillance, research, and analysis. Important age-specific 
variations in mortality among the oldest old are masked by the continued use of 
this category. Greater specificity in age-specific data for the oldest old would 
aid in disease surveillance and etiologic research and broaden awareness and 
understanding of human longevity.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.133900
PMCID: PMC2424097
PMID: 18511712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Am J Public Health. 2008 Nov;98(11):2085-91. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2007.114041.
Epub  2008 May 29.

Prospective change in health-related quality of life and subsequent mortality 
among middle-aged and older women.

Kroenke CH(1), Kubzansky LD, Adler N, Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA. 
ckroenke@berkeley.edu

OBJECTIVES: We sought to determine prospective changes in health-related quality 
of life (HRQoL) measures and subsequent mortality in middle-aged and older 
women.
METHODS: We obtained data from 40 337 healthy women from the Nurses' Health 
Study aged 46 to 71 years in 1992. We used Cox proportional hazards regression 
to evaluate associations of changes in self-assessed physical and mental 
component summary (PCS and MCS) scores from the Short Form 36 Health Survey 
between 1992 and 1996 and between 1996 and 2000, with all-cause mortality 
through 2004.
RESULTS: Women with low HRQoL (PCS and MCS scores) and the greatest HRQoL 
declines had higher mortality than did women with stable scores. Change in PCS 
score predicted mortality across the range of 4-year change: severe decline 
(relative risk [RR] = 3.32; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 2.45, 4.50), moderate 
decline (RR = 1.44; 95% CI = 1.16, 1.79), slight decline (RR = 1.35; 95% CI = 
1.12, 1.63), no change (reference category), improvement (RR = 0.72; 95% CI = 
0.56, 0.91; continuous P < .001). MCS score results were similar. Score 
increases were associated with lifestyle improvements, especially increased 
physical activity.
CONCLUSIONS: Observed associations demonstrate the predictive validity of 
changes in self-assessed HRQoL for subsequent mortality in healthy populations. 
Future research should examine determinants of patterns of change.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2007.114041
PMCID: PMC2636439
PMID: 18511734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2008 May;63(5):454-60. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/63.5.454.

A genetic-demographic approach reveals male-specific association between 
survival and tumor necrosis factor (A/G)-308 polymorphism.

Cardelli M(1), Cavallone L, Marchegiani F, Oliveri F, Dato S, Montesanto A, 
Lescai F, Lisa R, De Benedictis G, Franceschi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontological Research, Italian National Research Center on 
Aging, Ancona, Italy. maucard@libero.it

The (A/G)-308 polymorphism of the tumor necrosis factor alpha gene (TNF) is 
associated with age-related diseases, but its influence on longevity is 
controversial. We genotyped for this polymorphism 747 Italian volunteers (401 
women and 346 men, age 19-110 years). By applying a genetic-demographic (GD) 
approach we found that, in men, the survival function of allele A carriers is 
lower than that of noncarriers at all the ages (p =.044). After defining (by 
exploiting again demographic information) three age classes, we found that the 
frequency of men carrying the A allele decreases with age (p =.019), thus 
confirming the GD analysis results. The same analyses gave negative results in 
women. Therefore, allele A has a detrimental effect on life expectancy, and this 
effect is specific to men. A haplotype analysis carried out in men by screening 
the TNFa, TNFc, and TNFe microsatellite polymorphisms (spanning about 20 kb) 
confirmed the association of the TNF region with life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/63.5.454
PMID: 18511747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2008 Apr 24;56(10):1-120.

Deaths: final data for 2005.

Kung HC(1), Hoyert DL, Xu J, Murphy SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 
National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2005 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant and maternal mortality, and trends by selected 
characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, marital status, 
educational attainment, injury at work, state of residence, and cause of death.
METHODS: This report presents descriptive tabulations of information reported on 
death certificates, which are completed by funeral directors, attending 
physicians, medical examiners, and coroners. The original records are filed in 
the state registration offices. Statistical information is compiled into a 
national database through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's National Center for Health 
Statistics (NCHS). Causes of death are processed in accordance with the 
International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
RESULTS: In 2005, a total of 2,448,017 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 798.8 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, representing a decrease of 0.2 percent from the 2004 rate and a 
record low historical figure. Life expectancy at birth remained the same as that 
