hospitals in Sweden. The cost per QALY gained from administration of EPO was 
estimated at EUR 24,700 in the base case analysis. Practicing an EPO treatment 
target Hb-level of 12 g/dl yields a cost per QALY about 40% lower than 
practicing a Hb-target level of 13 g/dl, which is in agreement with updated 
recommendations of using a 12 g/dl target.
CONCLUSION: The estimated cost per QALY falls well within the range acceptable 
in Sweden when practicing a Hb-target level of 12 g/dl. The incremental cost of 
elevating Hb-levels above 13 g/dl is very high in relation to the incremental 
QALY gain achieved.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860701744498
PMID: 18770060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Rev Med Liege. 2008 Jul-Aug;63(7-8):480-7.

[Long-term risk of osteoporotic fracture in Belgium].

[Article in French]

Hiligsmann M(1), Bruyère O, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Département d'Economie, HEC-ULg, Université de Liège. m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

This work has been realised to estimate the lifetime risk of osteoporotic 
fracture for Belgian men and women aged 50 and 60 years. Estimates were based on 
a microsimulation Markov model. They take account of the incidence of fracture 
as well as of life expectancy. Several approaches have been taken to model life 
expectancy. Our estimates also take account of future mortality reductions based 
on official estimates and secular trends in life expectancy. Lifetime risk of 
osteoporotic population (bone mineral density below -2.5 T-score) was also 
estimated. Lifetime risk of hip fracture and any major osteoporotic fracture 
(hip, clinical vertebral or wrist) were 20.5% and 39% respectively for women 
aged 60 years. Corresponding values for men were 7.9% and 14.8% and for 
osteoporotic women 32.3% and 53.4%. Our lifetime risk estimates re-emphasize 
that osteoporosis is a major public health problem and that its societal burden 
is likely to increase due to demographic changes.

PMID: 18771226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2008 Oct;17(8):1311-20. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2007.0682.

Work-life policies for faculty at the top ten medical schools.

Bristol MN(1), Abbuhl S, Cappola AR, Sonnad SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Pennsylvania, School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

PURPOSE: There exists a growing consensus that career flexibility is critical to 
recruiting and retaining talented faculty, especially women faculty. This study 
was designed to determine both accessibility and content of work-life policies 
for faculty at leading medical schools in the United States.
METHODS: The sample includes the top ten medical schools in the United States 
published by U.S. News and World Report in August 2006. We followed a 
standardized protocol to collect seven work-life policies at each school: 
maternity leave, paternity leave, adoption leave, extension of the probationary 
period for family responsibilities, part-time faculty appointments, job sharing, 
and child care. A review of information provided on school websites was followed 
by e-mail or phone contact if needed. A rating system of 0-3 (low to high 
flexibility) developed by the authors was applied to these policies. Rating 
reflected flexibility and existing opinions in published literature.
RESULTS: Policies were often difficult to access. Individual scores ranged from 
7 to 15 out of a possible 21 points. Extension of the probationary period 
received the highest cumulative score across schools, and job sharing received 
the lowest cumulative score. For each policy, there were important differences 
among schools.
CONCLUSIONS: Work-life policies showed considerable variation across schools. 
Policy information is difficult to access, often requiring multiple sources. 
Institutions that develop flexible work-life policies that are widely promoted, 
implemented, monitored, and reassessed are likely at an advantage in attracting 
and retaining faculty while advancing institutional excellence.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2007.0682
PMID: 18771390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Cyberpsychol Behav. 2008 Oct;11(5):565-9. doi: 10.1089/cpb.2007.0189.

Internet embeddedness: links with online health information seeking, expectancy 
value/quality of health information websites, and Internet usage patterns.

Leung L(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Journalism & Communication, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, Hong Kong. louisleung@cuhk.edu.hk

To see how the Internet is actually embedded in our lives, this exploratory 
study examines how Internet users search the Web for important information, 
especially health or medical information, to make critical decisions, and the 
perception of how intimately our lives are embedded in the Internet intersects 
with patterns of health information seeking online and the expected quality of 
health information websites. Data from a probability sample of 569 Internet 
users found four types of commonly sought health information clusters online 
which included information on (a) health improvement, (b) medical treatment, (c) 
family health, and (d) health issues that are difficult to talk about. Results 
also show that behavior or behavioral intentions in health information seeking 
are in fact either a function of value expectancy or the evaluation of health 
information websites. More importantly, people who often go to the Internet for 
health information and have high expectations of the value and quality of health 
information websites (especially in terms of reliability, relevance/context, and 
interaction) tend to be those who are more likely to perceive the Internet as 
playing an important role in life decisions or rate the Internet as more 
embedded in their lives.

DOI: 10.1089/cpb.2007.0189
PMID: 18771393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2008 Oct;164(10):781-6. doi:
10.1016/j.neurol.2008.07.012.  Epub 2008 Sep 3.

Natural history, epidemiology and screening of unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms.

Rinkel GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Medical Centre Utrecht, 3508 Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. g.j.e.rinkel@umcutrecht.nl

INTRODUCTION: The prevalence of unruptured intracranial aneurysms is around 2%; 
most of these aneurysms are small and located in the anterior circulation. 
Unruptured intracranial aneurysms may give rise to subarachnoid hemorrhage in 
the near or distant future and sometimes, these lesions warrant preventive 
intervention.
STATE OF THE ART: Most studies, on risk of rupture, have methodological 
weaknesses; the overall risk of rupture found in follow-up studies is around 1% 
per year. Size is the most important risk factor for rupture, with smaller risks 
for smaller aneurysms. Other risk factors are site of the aneurysm (higher risk 
for posterior-circulation aneurysms), age, female gender, population (higher 
risks in Finland and Japan) and probably also smoking. For aneurysms smaller 
than 10mm, treatment carries a risk of around 5% of complications leading to 
death or dependence on help for activities of daily living.
PERSPECTIVES: There are no good comparisons between clipping and coiling of 
unruptured aneurysms. The efficacy of coiling in the long-term is unsettled. 
Good-quality data are urgently needed to settle these questions.
CONCLUSIONS: In deciding whether or not to treat an aneurysm, life expectancy is 
a pivotal factor; other important factors are size and site of the aneurysm.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurol.2008.07.012
PMID: 18771787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. HPB (Oxford). 2008;10(3):154-60. doi: 10.1080/13651820801992567.

Guidelines for palliative surgery of cholangiocarcinoma.

Witzigmann H(1), Lang H, Lauer H.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Visceral Surgery, Hospital Dresden-Friedrichstadt, 
Dresden, Germany. witzigmann-he@khdf.de

The aims of the guidelines are to help assess the evidence for palliation 
surgery in patients with cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). The guidelines are classified 
in accordance with the location of the primary lesion, i.e. intrahepatic, hilar, 
and distal. They are based on comprehensive literature surveys, including 
results from randomized controlled trials, systematic reviews and meta-analysis, 
and cohort, prospective, and retrospective studies. Intrahepatic CCA, i.e. 
resection of lymph-node-positive tumors and R1/R2 resections have not been shown 
to provide survival benefit: Evidence levels: 2b, 4; Recommendation grade C. 
Hilar CCA: R1 resection is justified as a very efficient palliation. 
Non-surgical biliary stenting is the first choice of palliative biliary 
drainage. Distal CCA: Resection of lymph-node-positive tumours and R1/R2 
resections should be performed. Non-surgical stenting is regarded as the first 
choice of palliation for patients with short life expectancy. For patients with 
longer projected survival, surgical bypass should be considered. Palliative 
resections have a relevant beneficial impact on the outcome of patients with 
distal and hilar CCA. Non-surgical stenting is the first choice of palliative 
biliary drainage for patients with hilar CCA and for those with distal CCA and 
short life expectancy. For patients with distal CCA and longer projected 
survival, surgical bypass should be considered.

DOI: 10.1080/13651820801992567
PMCID: PMC2504365
PMID: 18773044


261. Pathologe. 2008 Nov;29(6):434-41. doi: 10.1007/s00292-008-1063-6.

[Molecular neuropathology of Non-Alzheimer dementia].

[Article in German]

Neumann M(1), Kretzschmar HA.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Neuropathologie und Prionforschung, Ludwig Maximilians 
Universität München, Feodor-Lynen-Str. 23, 81377, München, Deutschland.

The increasing life expectancy will cause an increasing share for 
neurodegenerative and dementing illnesses in the total cost for health care. New 
developments such as the discovery of TDP-43 as disease protein have opened new 
viewpoints on frontotemporal dementias, as well as its relation to amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis. As pathologists and neuropathologists we are committed to 
contributing to the progress of clinical diagnosis, which often proves 
difficult, by standardized post-mortem diagnosis. The diagnostic responsibility 
will increase with the development of new specific therapeutics and knowledge of 
contraindications such as the use of neuroleptics in patients suffering from 
Lewy body dementia. The Reference Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases of the 
German Society of Neuropathology and Neuroanatomy and the German Brain Bank 
(Brain-Net) at the Institute for Neuropathology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University 
Munich, are available for diagnosis in difficult or complex cases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00292-008-1063-6
PMID: 18773209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Health Econ. 2009 Apr;18(4):403-19. doi: 10.1002/hec.1373.

A linear index for predicting joint health-states utilities from single 
health-states utilities.

Basu A(1), Dale W, Elstein A, Meltzer D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of General Internal Medicine, Center for 
Health and the Social Sciences, University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
abasu@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Direct elicitation of utilities for joint health (JS) states may pose 
substantial interview burden, while traditional models to predict these 
utilities from utilities of component single states (SS) are inconsistent with 
the data. Using individual-level data on utilities for health states associated 
with prostate cancer, we report the performance of a new model that encompasses 
three traditional models - additive, multiplicative, and minimum - previously 
used for predicting utilities for joint health states. Describing utilities in 
terms of utility losses l(.) relative to prefect health, our final estimated 
linear index for predicting joint health-state utilities is El(JS)=0.05+0.72 x 
max l(SS1),l(SS2)+0.33.min x l(SS1),l(SS2)-0.18 x l(SS1) x l(SS2). Based on 
out-of-sample predictions, this model produces up to 50% reduction in 
mean-square error compared with traditional models and consistent prediction 
across different ranges of joint-state utilities, which the traditional models 
do not. Parameter estimates of the new model proposed here provide direct 
evidence on the inconsistencies of the traditional models, are grounded in 
psychological theory by emphasizing the more severe component of a joint health 
state, and provide a simple linear index to generate consistent predictions of 
utilities for joint health states. Further validation of this function for joint 
health states in other clinical scenarios is warranted.

(c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1373
PMID: 18773392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2008 Sep;94(5):472-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.rco.2008.03.031. Epub 2008 May 21.

[Influence of disc height on outcome of posterolateral fusion].

[Article in French]

Drain O(1), Lenoir T, Dauzac C, Rillardon L, Guigui P.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Orthopédique, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 
Hôpital Beaujon, Clichy, France.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Experimentally, posterolateral fusion only provides 
incomplete control of flexion-extension, rotation and lateral inclination 
forces. The stability deficit increases with increasing height of the anterior 
intervertebral space, which for some warrants the adjunction of an intersomatic 
arthrodesis in addition to the posterolateral graft. Few studies have been 
devoted to the impact of disc height on the outcome of posterolateral fusion. 
The purpose of this work was to investigate the spinal segment immobilized by 
the posterolateral fusion: height of the anterior intervertebral space, the 
clinical and radiographic impact of changes in disc height, and the short- and 
long-term impact of disc height measured preoperatively on clinical and 
radiographic outcome.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In order to obtain a homogeneous group of patients, the 
series was limited to patients undergoing posterolateral arthrodesis for 
degenerative spondylolisthesis, in combination with radicular release. This was 
a retrospective analysis of a consecutive series of 66 patients with mean 52 
months follow-up (range 3-63 months). A dedicated self-administered 
questionnaire was used to collect data on pre- and postoperative function, the 
SF-36 quality of life score, and patient satisfaction. Pre- and postoperative 
(early, one year, last follow-up) radiographic data were recorded: olisthesic 
level, disc height, intervertebral angle, intervertebral mobility (angular, 
anteroposterior), and global measures of sagittal balance (thoracic kyphosis, 
lumbar lordosis, T9 sagittal tilt, pelvic version, pelvic incidence, sacral 
slope). SpineView was used for all measures. Univariate analysis searched for 
correlations between variation in disc height and early postoperative function 
and quality of fusion at last follow-up. Multivariate analysis was applied to 
the following preoperative parameters: intervertebral angle, disc height, 
intervertebral mobility, sagittal balance parameters, use of osteosynthesis or 
not.
RESULTS: At the olisthesic level, there was a 30% mean decrease in disc height 
and intervertebral angle. These variations were not correlated with functional 
outcome or quality of fusion observed at last follow-up. Disc height 
preoperatively did not affect these variations. The only factor correlated with 
decreased disc height was T9 sagittal tilt: disc height decreased more when T9 
sagittal tilt approached 0 degrees .
DISCUSSION: In this very restricted context (retrospective study, short 
arthrodesis for degenerative spondylolisthesis), we were unable to find any 
evidence supporting the notion that high disc height is an argument which should 
favor complementary intersomatic arthrodesis in combination with posterolateral 
fusion. Analysis of the spinal balance in the sagittal plane would probably 
allow a more pertinent assessment of the specific needs of individual patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rco.2008.03.031
PMID: 18774022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2009 Jan;69(1):64-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.08.002. Epub 2008 Sep 5.

The medical treatment of metastatic renal cell cancer in the elderly: position 
paper of a SIOG Taskforce.

Bellmunt J(1), Négrier S, Escudier B, Awada A, Aapro M; SIOG Taskforce.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Service, University Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Spain. 
jbellmunt@imas.imim.es

Treatments currently recommended for metastatic renal cell cancer (mRCC) have 
not been evaluated specifically in elderly patients. Here we consider what may 
be learned by analysing according to age the efficacy and toxicity data from key 
phase III trials of the targeted agents sorafenib (Nexavar), sunitinib (Sutent), 
temsirolimus (Torisel), and bevacizumab (Avastin), and from a study of expanded 
access to sunitinib and sorafenib. This paper represents the first systematic 
review of the role of targeted agents specifically in the elderly population. 
Retrospective subgroup analyses of clinical trial data cannot be considered 
definitive. However, they suggest in general that the progression-free and 
overall survival benefits seen in mRCC patients aged 65 years and over are 
similar to those in the younger age group. The frequency of major toxicities in 
elderly patients treated with targeted agents is no greater than in younger 
patients, although such toxicities may have greater impact on the quality of 
life. That said, no meaningful data are available for patients over 85 years. To 
confirm and extend these conclusions, prospective studies should be undertaken 
in the elderly to determine whether recommendations made for the wider mRCC 
population apply equally to this group of patients in whom comorbidities, 
comedication and the greater impact of low-grade toxicity may influence the 
efficacy and tolerability of treatment. Such studies are increasingly needed, 
given the growing number of elderly people and their rising life expectancy. 
Meanwhile, when considering the most appropriate drug to use in a particular 
patient, the toxicity profiles of the individual targeted agents--and any 
implications for specific comorbid conditions--should be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.08.002
PMID: 18774306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Urol Oncol. 2008 Sep-Oct;26(5):511-5. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2008.03.006.

Screen detected, low volume prostate cancer: the case for active treatment.

Montie JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Michigan Medical Center, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA. jmontie@umich.edu

Comment in
    Urol Oncol. 2009 Jul-Aug;27(4):454; author reply 454.

There has been a significant increase in prostate cancer identification due to 
current detection methods, especially in the proportion of men with low volume, 
often potentially clinically indolent disease (<0.5 ml). Physicians are 
struggling to find an appropriate balance between undertreatment and 
overtreatment for men with low volume prostate cancer. Both physicians and 
patients alike face tough treatment decisions about the appropriate balance 
between the risks and benefits of therapy. Treatment decisions regarding either 
active surveillance or targeted focal therapy must be made with as much 
information as can be garnered safely. As active surveillance or targeted focal 
therapy protocols are developed, it would seem prudent to prospectively employ a 
more stringent biopsy sampling strategy. Without better tumor sampling 
methodologies, physicians may occasionally underestimate the extent of a 
patient's disease and potentially make ill-advised treatment recommendations. In 
the future, intraprostatic imaging models with high sensitivity could improve 
treatment management and outcomes. Currently, periodic PSA values and biopsies 
are key components of monitoring disease progression, which will likely continue 
into the foreseeable future. Both PSA velocity and PSA doubling time are 
diagnostic tools that have proven to be useful for prostate cancer detection and 
provide prognostic information for both localized and metastatic disease. Our 
goal should be to use all of these treatment tools to improve patient life 
expectancy and quality of life no matter what the burden level of disease 
happens to be.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2008.03.006
PMID: 18774465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Lancet Neurol. 2008 Oct;7(10):885-92. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(08)70195-9.
Epub  2008 Sep 5.

Endarterectomy Versus Angioplasty in Patients with Symptomatic Severe Carotid 
Stenosis (EVA-3S) trial: results up to 4 years from a randomised, multicentre 
trial.

Mas JL(1), Trinquart L, Leys D, Albucher JF, Rousseau H, Viguier A, Bossavy JP, 
Denis B, Piquet P, Garnier P, Viader F, Touzé E, Julia P, Giroud M, Krause D, 
Hosseini H, Becquemin JP, Hinzelin G, Houdart E, Hénon H, Neau JP, Bracard S, 
Onnient Y, Padovani R, Chatellier G; EVA-3S investigators.

Collaborators: Mas JL, Chatellier G, Becquemin JP, Bonneville JF, Branchereau A, 
Crochet D, Gaux JC, Larrue V, Leys D, Watelet J, Moulin T, Bracard S, Hommel M, 
Magne JL, Mounier-Vehier F, Weber S, Beyssen B, Bonneville JF, Boyer L, Favre 
JP, Giroud M, Hassen-Kodja K, Ricco JB, Pruvo JP, Meder JF, Arquizan C, Becker 
F, Cattin F, Debray JM, Jausseran JM, Long A, Naggara O, Touboul PJ, Liévre M, 
Beregi JP, Bogousslavsky J, Testart M, Albucher JF, Chollet F, Rousseau H, 
Cognard C, Degeilh M, Barret A, Bossavy JP, Viguier A, Larrue V, Rousseau H, 
Arrué P, Tall P, Glock Y, Denis B, Cohen S, Nicoli F, Bartoli JM, Piquet P, 
Garnier P, Veyret C, Barral FG, Favre JP, Barral X, Viader F, Duretête A, 
Carluer L, Théron J, Courthéoux P, Coffin O, Maïza D, Touzé E, Arquizan C, Lamy 
C, Calvet D, Domigo V, Beyssen B, Méder JF, Trystram D, Sarfati PO, Julia P, 
Fabiani JN, Giroud M, Osseby GV, Rouaud O, Benatru I, Krause D, Cercueil JP, 
Brenot R, David M, Hosseini H, Kobeiter H, Becquemin JP, Desgranges P, Hinzelin 
G, Bouyssou A, Pillet JC, Favrole P, Berthet K, Gobron C, Bousser MG, Chapot R, 
Houdart E, Petitjean C, Lucas C, Hénon H, Lefebvre C, Leys D, 
Mackowiak-Cordoliani MA, Leclerc X, Pruvo JP, Koussa M, Neau JP, Godenèche G, 
Moumy H, Drouineau J, Ricco JB, Ducrocq X, Lacour JC, Bracard S, Amicabile C, 
Hassani O, Fiévé G, Onnient Y, Mihout B, Clavier E, Thiebot J, Watelet J, 
Plissonnier D, Rouane JR, Laborde JC, Escude B, Berthoumieu F, Padovani R, Bayle 
O, Bergeron P, Jausseran JM, Milandre L, Bartoli JM, Moulin G, Branchereau A, 
Magnan PE, Rouanet F, Berge J, Barreau X, Midy D, Baste JC, Guinot H, Commeau P, 
Houel F, Wolff V, Warter JM, Beaujeux R, Jahn C, Kretz JG, Saudeau D, Bonnaud I, 
Herbreteau D, Lermusiaux P, Martinez R, Masson I, Amor M, Carpena JP, Amicabile 
C, Mahagne MH, Baque J, Sedat J, Dib M, Hassen-Khodja R, Batt M, Sablot D, 
Bertrand JL, Beaufigeau M, Pelouze GA, Amarenco P, Simon O, Meseguer E, Lavallée 
P, Abboud H, Houdart E, Mazighi M, Lesèche G, Combelles M, Courteville V, Gozet 
G, Depriester C, Lambert I, Pommier J, Rodier G, Weisse D, Aventin J, Dalcher G, 
Marcel P, Maillet P, Gagliardi JM, Moulin T, Bonneville JF, Huart JY, Gauthier 
C, Pernes JM, Laurian C.

Author information:
(1)Hôpitaux Sainte-Anne, Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France. 
jl.mas@ch-sainte-anne.fr

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2008 Oct;7(10):862-4.
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Feb 17;150(4):JC2-10, JC2-11.

BACKGROUND: Carotid stenting is a potential alternative to carotid 
endarterectomy but whether this technique is as safe as surgery and whether the 
long-term protection against stroke is similar to that of surgery are unclear. 
We previously reported that in patients in the Endarterectomy Versus Angioplasty 
in Patients with Symptomatic Severe Carotid Stenosis (EVA-3S) trial, the rate of 
any stroke or death within 30 days after the procedure was higher with stenting 
than with endarterectomy. We now report the results up to 4 years.
METHODS: In this follow-up study of a multicentre, randomised, open, 
assessor-blinded, non-inferiority trial, we compared outcome after stenting with 
outcome after endarterectomy in 527 patients who had carotid stenosis of at 
least 60% that had recently become symptomatic. The primary endpoint of the 
EVA-3S trial was the rate of any periprocedural stroke or death (ie, within 30 
days after the procedure). The prespecified main secondary endpoint was a 
composite of any periprocedural stroke or death and any non-procedural 
ipsilateral stroke during up to 4 years of follow-up. Other trial outcomes were 
any stroke or periprocedural death, any stroke or death, and the above endpoints 
restricted to disabling or fatal strokes. This trial is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00190398.
FINDINGS: 262 patients were randomly assigned to endarterectomy and 265 to 
stenting. The cumulative probability of periprocedural stroke or death and 
non-procedural ipsilateral stroke after 4 years of follow-up was higher with 
stenting than with endarterectomy (11.1%vs 6.2%, hazard ratio [HR] 1.97, 95% CI 
1.06-3.67; p=0.03). The HR for periprocedural disabling stroke or death and 
non-procedural fatal or disabling ipsilateral stroke was 2.00 (0.75-5.33; 
p=0.17). A hazard function analysis showed the 4-year differences in the 
cumulative probabilities of outcomes between stenting and endarterectomy were 
largely accounted for by the higher periprocedural (within 30 days of the 
procedure) risk of stenting compared with endarterectomy. After the 
periprocedural period, the risk of ipsilateral stroke was low and similar in 
both treatment groups. For any stroke or periprocedural death, the HR was 1.77 
(1.03-3.02; p=0.04). For any stroke or death, the HR was 1.39 (0.96-2.00; 
p=0.08).
INTERPRETATION: The results of this study suggest that carotid stenting is as 
effective as carotid endarterectomy for middle-term prevention of ipsilateral 
stroke, but the safety of carotid stenting needs to be improved before it can be 
used as an alternative to carotid endarterectomy in patients with symptomatic 
carotid stenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(08)70195-9
PMID: 18774745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2008;6(1):1-18. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200806010-00001.

Cost effectiveness of screen-and-treat strategies for low bone mineral density: 
how do we screen, who do we screen and who do we treat?

Schousboe JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Park Nicollet Health Services, Park Nicollet Clinic, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55416, USA. schouj@parknicollet.com

Bone densitometry is currently widely recommended for, and considered central 
to, identifying post-menopausal women and older men at high risk of fracture and 
establishing an indication for pharmacological fracture-prevention therapy. The 
purpose of this article is to comprehensively review cost-effectiveness 
modelling studies published to date of bone mass measurement technologies 
(primarily dual energy x-ray absorptiometry [DXA]) designed to identify those 
individuals at sufficiently high risk of fracture to warrant pharmacological 
fracture-prevention therapy.Based on older paradigms of the pharmacological 
treatment of those with a bone density value below a specific threshold, bone 
densitometry appears to be cost effective for post-menopausal women aged > or 
=65 years, regardless of the presence or absence of other clinical risk factors. 
For younger post-menopausal women, bone densitometry is likely to be cost 
effective only for those with specific clinical risk factors, such as prior 
fracture or low bodyweight. For older men, bone densitometry may be cost 
effective for those who have had a prior fracture and/or are aged > or =80 
years, but the subset of men for whom bone densitometry is likely to be cost 
effective may vary from country to country depending on societal willingness to 
pay for health benefits, fracture rates in the population and the costs of bone 
densitometry and drug treatment. The cost effectiveness of other technologies 
such as heel ultrasound, peripheral DXA and quantitative CT remains 
uncertain.However, in the context of the new WHO paradigm of directing treatment 
based on absolute fracture risk rather than bone density, a new generation of 
cost-effectiveness modelling studies will be required to define the most 
cost-effective way bone densitometry can be used to identify those who are 
likely to benefit sufficiently from pharmacological fracture-prevention 
therapies.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200806010-00001
PMID: 18774866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2008;6(1):67-80. doi: 
10.2165/00148365-200806010-00006.

Cost effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators for primary 
prevention in a Belgian context.

Neyt M(1), Thiry N, Ramaekers D, Van Brabandt H.

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre, Administratief Centrum Kruidtuin, 
Brussels, Belgium. mattias.neyt@kce.fgov.be

BACKGROUND: Implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) therapy was 
traditionally applied in patients who survived a cardiac arrest or who 
experienced a symptomatic ventricular tachyarrhythmia. Its use in primary 
prevention (i.e. in patients who have yet to experience a serious arrhythmic 
event, but who are considered at high risk for sudden cardiac death) has become 
more common, and policy makers question whether ICD therapy should be reimbursed 
in these instances.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of primary prevention ICD therapy 
versus conventional therapy from the perspective of the Belgian health insurance 
system.
METHOD: A lifetime 1-month cycle Markov model was constructed and populated with 
clinical and effectiveness data from the SCD-HeFT study and real-world Belgian 
cost data expressed in year 2005 values. Probabilistic modelling and sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: ICD therapy results in 1.22 life-years gained (LYG) or 1.03 QALYs 
gained. The lifetime cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios were euro 59,989 
(95% CI 35 873, 113 518) per LYG and euro 71 428 (95% CI 40 225, 134 623) per 
QALY gained, respectively. A cost-effectiveness ratio <euro 50,000 per QALY 
gained was obtained in 15.5% of 1000 simulations. Increasing the service life of 
the device from 5 to 7 years would improve the cost effectiveness to euro 57,229 
(95% CI 32 568, 106 410) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: ICD therapy may not be judged cost effective for the primary 
prevention of death in patients with a SCD-HeFT profile in the Belgian context 
using current technology and patient selection. A combination of price 
reductions and increased service life of the device may alter this conclusion.

DOI: 10.2165/00148365-200806010-00006
PMID: 18774871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Am J Gastroenterol. 2008 Dec;103(12):3094-105. doi: 
10.1111/j.1572-0241.2008.02130.x. Epub 2008 Sep 4.

Cost-effectiveness of 5-aminosalicylic acid therapy for maintenance of remission 
in ulcerative colitis.

Yen EF(1), Kane SV, Ladabaum U.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143-0538, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Oral 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA, mesalamine) is effective in 
inducing and maintaining remission in ulcerative colitis (UC). The relative 
benefits and costs of maintenance 5-ASA therapy are uncertain. Our aims were to 
evaluate this strategy's potential cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model to compare two strategies over 2 yr: (a) 
no maintenance 5-ASA, with 5-ASA 4.8 g/day given for flares, (b) maintenance 
5-ASA 2.4 g/day, escalated and maintained at 4.8 g/day after the first flare. In 
both arms, the failure to induce remission led to other treatments, as needed: 
prednisone, parenteral corticosteroids, cyclosporine, 6-mercaptopurine, 
infliximab, and colectomy.
RESULTS: Without maintenance 5-ASA, the mean flares per person were 1.92, and 
the mean cost per person was $3,402. With maintenance 5-ASA providing a relative 
risk of flare of 0.7 at 5-ASA cost of $198/month, flares per person decreased to 
1.38 at a cost of $8,810/flare prevented. Maintenance 5-ASA increased discounted 
quality-adjusted life-years per person (QALYs per person) from 1.75 to 1.77 at a 
discounted cost of $224,000/QALY gained. The results were most sensitive to the 
flare risk reduction and cost of 5-ASA, the utilities of being in remission 
without or with 5-ASA, and the colectomy rates. At $15/month (the cost of 
sulfasalazine), maintenance 5-ASA cost $640/flare prevented and $16,300/QALY 
gained.
CONCLUSION: Maintenance 5-ASA therapy decreases UC flares, but its cost may be 
substantial, depending on society's willingness to pay. If sulfasalazine can be 
tolerated and yields comparable benefits, sulfasalazine maintenance therapy is 
likely to be cost-effective. The cost per QALY gained by 5-ASA maintenance is 
highly dependent on the quality of life while taking versus not taking 
maintenance 5-ASA, highlighting the importance of patients' preferences.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1572-0241.2008.02130.x
PMID: 18775007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Affect Disord. 2009 May;115(1-2):241-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2008.07.020.
Epub  2008 Sep 5.

Lamotrigine in bipolar disorder: results of a mirror-image evaluation using the 
NIMH Lifechart-Methodology.

Born C(1), Bernhard B, Dittmann S, Seemüller F, Grunze H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Ludwig Maximilians-University, Nussbaumstr. 7, 
D-80336, Munich, Germany. christoph.born@med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Lamotrigine (LTG) is characterized by prophylactic efficacy against 
bipolar depression (BPD). We evaluated retro- and prospectively the naturalistic 
treatment outcome with LTG analysing lifecharts of patients from the bipolar 
outpatient clinic.
METHODS: Lifechart-data of 20 patients routinely treated with LTG for the first 
time were evaluated, comparing number and duration of manic, depressive and 
mixed episodes prior to LTG and after initiation of treatment (mirror-image 
evaluation). The mean prospective evaluation period based on the lifechart was 
18.1 months. Also we compared the number and severity of "switches" from 
depression in mania. Additionally, CGI-BP, YMRS, IDS-C and GAF scores at the 
monthly visits were compared for time after LTG initiation.
RESULTS: We found no significant differences in the absolute number of manic, 
depressive and mixed episodes, respectively, before and after initiation of LTG. 
The number of "switches" did not differ significantly. A significant difference 
in duration of time patients suffered from a depressive state before and after 
initiation of LTG was observed in favour of LTG treatment (p=.006). A similar 
finding was observed for the time spent in mixed episodes (p<.001). No 
significant difference was observed for scores of mood scales at the monthly 
visits (CGI-BP, YMRS, IDS-C, GAF).
LIMITATIONS: Generalizability of these results is limited due to the 
uncontrolled design and the issues in comparing prospective and retrospective 
data.
CONCLUSION: These data underline not only the antidepressant profile of LTG, but 
also the usefulness of the Lifechart-Methodology (LCM) in the evaluation of 
treatment outcome under routine conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2008.07.020
PMID: 18775569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Patient Educ Couns. 2009 Jan;74(1):104-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2008.07.043.
Epub  2008 Sep 4.

Concise evaluation of decision aids.

Stalmeier PF(1), Roosmalen MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Radboud University Medical Center Nijmegen 
(PFMS, MSR), Nijmegen, The Netherlands. P.Stalmeier@ebh.umcn.nl

OBJECTIVE: Decision aids purport to help patients make treatment related 
choices. Several instruments exist to evaluate decision aids. Our aim is to 
compare the responsiveness of several instruments.
METHODS: Two different decision aids were randomized in patients at high risk 
for breast and ovarian cancer. Treatment choices were between prophylactic 
surgery and screening. Effect sizes were calculated to compare the 
responsiveness of the measures.
RESULTS: One decision aid was randomized in 390 women, the other in 91 ensuing 
mutation carriers. Three factors were identified related to Information, 
Well-being and Decision Making. Within each factor, single item measures were as 
responsive as multi-item measures.
CONCLUSION: Four single items, 'the amount of information received for decision 
making,' 'strength of preference,' 'I weighed the pros and cons,' and 'General 
Health,' were adequately responsive to the decision aids.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: These items might be considered for inclusion in 
questionnaires to evaluate decision aids.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2008.07.043
PMID: 18775622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Scand J Public Health. 2008 Aug;36(6):650-61. doi: 10.1177/1403494807090165.

Health tests and health consultations reduced cardiovascular risk without 
psychological strain, increased healthcare utilization or increased costs. An 
overview of the results from a 5-year randomized trial in primary care. The 
Ebeltoft Health Promotion Project (EHPP).

Lauritzen T(1), Jensen MS, Thomsen JL, Christensen B, Engberg M.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Institute of Public Health, University of 
Aarhus, Denmark. tl@alm.au.dk

BACKGROUND: Few randomized controlled trials (RCT) have evaluated health tests 
and health consultations in primary care with a long follow-up period. The 
Ebeltoft Health Promotion Project (EHPP) evaluated health tests and health 
consultations over a period of 5 years in the frame of a health technology 
assessment.
OBJECTIVE: To review the results of EHPP.
DESIGN: RCT with a control group answering questionnaires and two intervention 
groups having questionnaires, a comprehensive health test with written advice 
followed by either a normal consultation on demand or a planned 45 minutes 
patient-centred consultation.
SETTING: Primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: The target population was all 30-49 year old persons in the 
municipality of Ebeltoft, Denmark. Invitations were received by 2000 randomly 
selected persons.
INTERVENTION: A comprehensive biomedical health test including a cardiovascular 
risk score (CVRS) followed by written advice and health consultations.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Biomedical measures, psychological measures, healthcare 
contacts, life years gained, direct and total health costs.
RESULTS: At baseline 75% participated. During the 5 years 85% participated at 
least once. Elevated CVRS was found in 19% in the control group compared to 10% 
in the intervention groups (p<0.01) after 5 years. There were no measurable long 
term psychological reactions. Numbers of contacts to the healthcare system were 
not increased. Significantly better life expectancy was found without extra 
direct and total costs.
CONCLUSIONS: An offer of health tests and patient-centred health consultations 
to the middle-aged population can be cost-effective and may be considered in the 
fight against the increasing burden of lifestyle diseases.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494807090165
PMID: 18775821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Eur J Endocrinol. 2008 Dec;159 Suppl 1:S95-9. doi: 10.1530/EJE-08-0400. Epub
 2008 Sep 5.

'Do no harm': management of craniopharyngioma.

Gleeson H(1), Amin R, Maghnie M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Endocrinology, Royal Manchester Children's Hospital, 
Manchester M274HA, UK. helena.gleeson@cmmc.nhs.uk

Craniopharyngioma management is challenging. Although histology is benign, the 
tumour can be clinically aggressive with local invasion and frequent 
recurrences. Extensive morbidity may be present at diagnosis and furthermore, 
occurs as a consequence of neurosurgery and radiotherapy. Hypothalamic symptoms 
can have a devastating effect on quality of life and may reduce life expectancy. 
This case highlights both the challenge of managing hyperphagia and morbid 
obesity and the importance of initial treatment preserving existing hypothalamic 
function and the need to avoid tumour recurrence and further surgery. A 11-year 
old boy presented with hydrocephalus secondary to a craniopharyngioma (he had 
visual failure and hypopituitarism but few hypothalamic symptoms). He underwent 
radical resection followed by radiotherapy. Following this treatment, he 
developed psychological and behavioural problems and hyperphagia. Weight gain in 
the first year (an increase from +1.4 to +3.7 s.d.) resulted in poor mobility 
and a fall which caused a slipped femoral epiphysis. In the next year, there was 
a 6-month period of unexpected weight loss (+4.2 to +3.8 s.d.) that culminated 
in emergency treatment for diabetic ketoacidosis secondary to severe insulin 
resistance. He developed a left hemiplegia, and a subsequent cerebral angiogram 
identified multiple stenoses of the Circle of Willis with a Moyamoya appearance 
secondary to radiotherapy. Weight gain has continued (+3.8 to +5.5 s.d.) so that 
bariatric surgery is a management option.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-08-0400
PMID: 18775978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Soc Secur Bull. 2007;67(4):21-50.

Disabled workers and the indexing of Social Security benefits.

Strand A(1), Rupp K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Policy Evaluation, Office of Research, Evaluation, and 
Statistics, Office of Retirement and Disability Policy, Social Security 
Administration, USA.

We examine how benefit amounts and family income would change in response to 
changing the Social Security (Old-Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance, 
OASDI) benefit indexing scheme. We are interested in a class of reform options 
designed to gradually slow the growth of benefits across the board. These 
options include the "price indexing" and "longevity indexing" proposals that 
have been part of the recent Social Security reform debate in the United States 
as well as a range of proposals developed in Europe. In this article, we focus 
on the distributional effects on the disabled. This focus leads to two 
comparisons. First, we compare disabled-worker beneficiaries to another group 
that would be affected by the changes, retired-worker beneficiaries. Second, we 
examine relative changes for particularly vulnerable subgroups of disabled 
workers. In the empirical analysis, we use two illustrative examples of 
potential indexing changes: Shifting from wage indexing to price indexing of the 
initial level of OASDI benefits; and Adjusting the initial benefit level for 
changes in life expectancy at retirement, that is, longevity indexing. We employ 
a historical counterfactual simulation to evaluate outcomes that would have 
resulted from changing the indexing scheme at one particular point in time. The 
hypothetical implementation period begins with the historical start of the 
current regime of indexing in 1979 and ends with one of the reference periods of 
the 1996 Survey of Income and Program Participation (SIPP), a 17-year period. 
However, we briefly assess the extent to which the results would be applicable 
to other time horizons. The analysis uses a cross-sectional sample of OASDI 
beneficiaries from the 1996 SIPP matched to Social Security administrative 
records. Further, we use total income from the SIPP (as adjusted to correspond 
to the calculated OASDI benefit amounts) to simulate eligibility for 
Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and SSI benefit amounts. Our overall findings 
pertain to three outcomes: (1) effects on OASDI benefits viewed in isolation, 
(2) the offsetting role of SSI, and (3) the diluting effect of other sources of 
family income. We find that a broader perspective incorporating all three 
measures is necessary to obtain an appropriate picture of distributional 
outcomes. Even though the proposals were designed to have proportional effects, 
differences between groups--such as disabled and retired workers--can arise from 
differences in the timing of benefit claiming, mortality, and other factors. 
Specifically, our cross-sectional estimates suggest that the average change in 
OASDI benefit levels would be higher for disabled-worker beneficiaries than for 
retired-worker beneficiaries. These differences are attributable to the fact 
that a higher proportion of the stock of disabled beneficiaries have been on the 
Disability Insurance (DI) program rolls for a relatively short period of time 
and therefore have been affected by the shift in indexing scheme for a longer 
period of time. These results must be interpreted within the context of the 
methodology that was used. Further, other methodologies may lead to different 
results. For example, in previous studies that restricted the sample to a 
particular birth cohort, a higher proportion of disabled workers than retired 
workers were observed to have been on the DI program rolls for a relatively long 
period of time. Longer time on the beneficiary rolls corresponds to less 
exposure to the new indexing scheme and smaller estimated benefit changes. Thus, 
the same underlying factor-the timing of benefit claiming-influences both 
results. When the offsetting role of SSI benefits is also considered, we 
estimate smaller overall changes, especially for those at the bottom of the 
income distribution. When OASDI and SSI are considered together, differences in 
average benefit changes between disabled and retired workers are removed. This 
is due to a higher rate of SSI program participation among disabled workers than 
among retired workers. In addition, including SSI substantially reduces the 
proportion of disabled workers that have large simulated changes in benefit 
amounts. The estimated effects of changing the indexing scheme are further muted 
when total family income is considered. This occurs on a roughly equivalent 
scale for disabled and retired workers. As a result, changing the indexing 
scheme would produce little change in the status quo differences in poverty 
status between disabled and retired workers. Finally, we examine the most 
economically vulnerable subgroups of OASDI beneficiaries. Within the general 
group of beneficiaries, we find that the most vulnerable would be less affected 
than average, primarily as a result of the mitigating effect of SSI benefits. 
Further, within the population of disabled-worker beneficiaries, we examine 
economically vulnerable subgroups including those in the lowest primary 
insurance amount quartile, with less than a high school education, with an early 
onset of disability, or a primary mental impairment. These groups would also be 
less affected than average.

PMID: 18777668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2008;125(1):41-54; discussion 55-8.

[Fundamental epidemiology for health professional].

[Article in Spanish]

del Rey Calero J.

The authors, Professors of different Universities, of this book are introduced 
in the Epidemiology principles and concepts and to fcilitate comprehension and 
retention new material with relevant to evidence based medicine and the 
affectivity relationship in the care of the patients. The aims provide specific 
topic areas: Measuring disease frequency, describing pattern of disease 
occurrence, the utility of diagnosis test, the clinical areas of application, 
infectious and chronic diseases, ad prevention, vaccination shedules identifying 
the causes of diseases, effectiveness of treatment, decision making about 
treatment strategies. The measure to impact of disease in population, according 
the social and demography patterns, necessary for determining health Management 
and Medical service needs it is written concisely and can be used as a stand 
study guide.

PMID: 18777842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Nurs Econ. 2008 Jul-Aug;26(4):263-9.

Health services utilization and cost utility analysis of a walking program for 
residential community elderly.

Chen IJ(1), Chou CL, Yu S, Cheng SP.

Author information:
(1)Institute and Department of Nursing, National Yang-Ming University, Taiwan.

Promoting the health and improving the ability and confidence of the elderly to 
live independently can reduce health care expenditures and increase the health 
of society as a whole. However, the evidence to promote physical activity in 
order to promote health among the aged population is weak, especially in regards 
to the economic evaluation of a walking program. These researchers confirmed 
that the cost utility of a 12-week walking training program is acceptable. 
Therefore, an outpatient clinic-based walking program for older adults is worth 
promoting. Cost utility analysis is the critical evaluation method in exercise 
programs. Health professionals are encouraged to apply the integrated indicators 
such as the Health Utility Index and the Incremental Cost Utility Ratio to 
clarify the effects of health-promotion interventions.

PMID: 18777976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Am J Manag Care. 2008 Sep;14(9):598-604.

Long-term economic benefits attributed to IVF-conceived children: a lifetime tax 
calculation.

Connolly MP(1), Pollard MS, Hoorens S, Kaplan BR, Oskowitz SP, Silber SJ.

Author information:
(1)Ferring International Center, St Prex, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether lifetime future net tax revenues from an in vitro 
fertilization (IVF)-conceived child are substantial enough to warrant public 
subsidy relative to the mean IVF treatment costs required to obtain 1 live 
birth.
STUDY DESIGN: Mathematical generational accounting model.
METHODS: The model estimates direct financial interactions between the 
IVF-conceived child and the government during the child's projected lifetime. In 
the model, we accrue IVF costs required to conceive the child to the government, 
and then we estimate future net tax revenue to the federal and state governments 
from this individual, offset by direct financial transfers from the government 
(eg, child allowances, education, Medicare, and Social Security). We discount 
lifetime costs and gross tax payments at Treasury Department rates to establish 
the present value of investing in IVF. We applied US Congressional Budget Office 
projected changes in tax rates over the course of the model.
RESULTS: An IVF-conceived child, average in every respect (eg, future earnings, 
healthcare consumption, and life expectancy), represents a net positive return 
to the government. Based on an average employed individual born in 2005, the 
projected net lifetime tax contribution is US $606,200. Taking into 
consideration IVF costs and all direct financial interactions, the net present 
value is US $155,870.
CONCLUSIONS: Lifetime net taxes paid from a child relative to the child's 
initial IVF investment represent a 700% net return to the government in 
discounted US dollars from fully employed individuals. This suggests that 
removing barriers to IVF would have positive tax benefits for the government, 
notwithstanding its beneficial effect on overall economic growth.

PMID: 18778175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Am J Manag Care. 2008 Sep;14(9):605-15.

Therapies for treatment of osteoporosis in US women: cost-effectiveness and 
budget impact considerations.

Tosteson AN(1), Burge RT, Marshall DA, Lindsay R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dartmouth Medical School, and The Dartmouth Institute 
of Health Policy and Clinical Practice (ANAT), Lebanon, NH 03756, USA. 
anna.tosteson@dartmouth.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis treatments for 
women at high fracture risk and estimate the population-level impact of 
providing bisphosphonate therapy to all eligible high-risk US women.
STUDY DESIGN: Fractures, healthcare costs, and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were estimated over 10 years using a Markov model.
METHODS: No therapy, risedronate, alendronate, ibandronate, and teriperatide 
(PTH) were compared among 4 risk groups. Sensitivity analyses examined the 
robustness of model results for 65-year-old women with low bone density and 
previous vertebral fracture.
RESULTS: Women treated with a bisphosphonate experienced fewer fractures and 
more QALYs compared with no therapy or PTH. Total costs were lowest for the 
untreated cohort, followed by risedronate, alendronate, ibandronate, and PTH in 
all risk groups except women aged 75 years with previous fracture. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness of risedronate compared with no therapy ranged 
from cost saving for the base case to $66,722 per QALY for women aged 65 years 
with no previous fracture. Ibandronate and PTH were dominated in all risk 
groups. (A dominated treatment has a higher cost and poorer outcome.) Treating 
all eligible women with a bisphosphonate would cost an estimated additional 
$5563 million (21% total increase) and would result in 390,049 fewer fractures 
(35% decrease). In the highest risk group, the additional cost of therapy was 
offset by other healthcare cost savings.
CONCLUSIONS: Osteoporosis treatment of high-risk women is cost-effective, with 
bisphosphonates providing the most benefit at lowest cost. For highest risk 
women, costs are offset by savings from fracture prevention.

PMID: 18778176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Cytokine. 2008 Oct;44(1):154-9. doi: 10.1016/j.cyto.2008.07.468. Epub 2008
Sep  7.

CFTR mutations impart elevated immune reactivity in a murine model of cystic 
fibrosis related diabetes.

Stalvey MS(1), Brusko TM, Mueller C, Wasserfall CH, Schatz DA, Atkinson MA, 
Flotte TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Florida, College of Medicine, P.O. 
Box 100296, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. Michael.Stalvey@umassmed.edu

Increased life expectancy in cystic fibrosis (CF) is accompanied by an 
increasing incidence of CF related diabetes (CFRD). Altered immune reactivity 
occurs in CF, which we hypothesize, is exacerbated by hyperglycemia. Cystic 
fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator deficient (CFTR-/-) mice were 
rendered hyperglycemic by streptozotocin (STZ) to test this hypothesis. CFTR-/-, 
C57BL/6J, and FVB/NJ mice received either STZ or lactated ringers (LR) (n=5-10). 
Four weeks later, splenocytes were harvested, mitogen stimulated, and analyzed 
for cytokine production (IL-2, IL-4, and IL-10) along with stimulation indices 
(SI). SI of STZ-treated CFTR-/- were elevated compared to LR-treated mice, 
although both were greater than C57BL/6J and FVB/NJ (p<0.05). Fasting glucose 
levels of STZ-treated CFTR-/- mice correlated with SI (p<0.003). Stimulated 
IL-10 concentrations were elevated in STZ-treated CFTR-/- compared to LR-treated 
