104) at DBPC end of treatment (EOT) had significantly more improvement (P < 
0.05) on all SEX-Q, IIEF (except the Sexual Desire domain), QEQ, and SEAR 
outcomes, more frequent SIAs and EHS 3 (hard enough for penetration but not 
completely hard) or EHS 4 (completely hard) erections (odds ratio [OR], 2.52 and 
3.46, respectively), EHS 4 erections four times as often (OR, 6.41), more men 
satisfied with treatment (EDITS; OR, 2.6), approximately twice as many men with 
improved erections (GEQ1; OR, 5.8) and ability to have sexual intercourse (GEQ2; 
OR, 5.4), and GEQ3 scores that indicated better sex (P < 0.0001). SEX-Q score 
improvements correlated positively with all other outcomes. At OL EOT, most 
outcomes were >60% (and approximately half were > or =80%) of the maximum 
positive result.
CONCLUSIONS: SEX-Q change scores correlate with several other functional, 
emotional, and satisfaction-related outcomes in men treated with sildenafil for 
ED, allowing a simple and focused evaluation of the sexual experience.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2008.00879.x
PMID: 18564150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Health Soc Care Community. 2009 Feb;17(1):36-44. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2524.2008.00795.x. Epub 2008 Jun 17.

A population-based retrospective cohort study comparing care for Western 
Australians with and without Alzheimer's disease in the last year of life.

Rosenwax L(1), McNamara B, Zilkens R.

Author information:
(1)School of Occupational Therapy, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, 
Western Australia. l.rosenwax@curtin.edu.au

Our study investigated health service use for people in the last year of life, 
comparing those who died with and without Alzheimer's disease (AD) documented on 
the death certificate. Using a population-based retrospective cohort design, and 
utilizing the Western Australian Data Linkage System for the period 2000-2002 
(2.5 years), the study found that 992 people died of either AD alone or AD with 
at least one other condition recorded on the death certificate. Of those with 
documented AD, 90.4% were aged 75 or more years, two-thirds were female (68.8%), 
more than one-half were widowed (59.3%) and the majority lived in a major city 
(77.0%). Most deceased people had comorbidities recorded on death certificates 
(90.0%); the majority having either two (34.5%) or three (28.8%) comorbid 
conditions. Over two-thirds of people aged over 75 years with AD died in a 
residential aged care facility (RACF, 67.4%), while the greatest proportion of 
people without AD died in hospital (52.9%). When a comparison was made in the 
use of hospital and community-based services for decedents aged over 75 years 
with and without AD, dissimilarities were evident. Less than one-half of people 
with documented AD received hospital care in the last year of life (46.3%) 
compared to over 80% of people without AD (80.5%). Likewise, fewer people in the 
Alzheimer's group received community care when compared to those without 
documented AD (10.8% vs. 28.5%). Despite a small group of people with AD (5.4%) 
who were transferred to an RACF shortly before dying, most people in this group 
lived and died in an RACF and had their care provided in this setting. Adequate 
nursing, medical and allied health services, and the provision of appropriate 
social support, including the use of advance care directives in RACFs, are 
essential for equitable provision of care to people with AD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2524.2008.00795.x
PMID: 18564194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Yale J Health Policy Law Ethics. 2008 Winter;8(1):93-143.

Toward solving the health care crisis: the paradoxical case for universal access 
to high technology.

Satz AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Emory University, USA.

PMID: 18564494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Tumori. 2008 Mar-Apr;94(2):164-71. doi: 10.1177/030089160809400206.

Towards quality, comprehensiveness and excellence. The accreditation project of 
the Organisation of European Cancer Institutes (OECI).

Saghatchian M(1), Hummel H, Otter R, de Valeriola D, Van Harten W, Paradiso A, 
Koot B, Ringborg U, Tursz T; Organisation of European Cancer Institutes.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gustave-Roussy Villejuif, France. saghatchian@igr.fr

There are important gaps in the health status of citizens across Europe, as 
measured by life expectancy, mortality or morbidity data (Report for the 
European Commission on the health status of the European Union, 2003). Among the 
main determinants of the major causes of mortality and morbidity, stated in this 
report, stands recurrently access to quality healthcare. There is a fundamental 
need to define quality indicators and set minimal levels of performance quality 
criteria for healthcare. There is a need to integrate research into healthcare 
and to provide patients with equity of access to such high quality care. 
Oncology is a specialty particularly suited to experimenting a first application 
of accreditation at European level. The Organisation of European Cancer 
Institutes is a growing network of cancer Centres in Europe. The focus of the 
OECI is to work with professionals and organisations with regard to prevention, 
care, research, development, patient's role and education. In order to fulfil 
its mission, the OECI initiated in 2002 an accreditation project with three 
objectives: * to develop a comprehensive accreditation system for oncology care, 
taking into account prevention, care, research, education and networking. * to 
set an updated database of cancer centres in Europe, with exhaustive information 
on their resources and activities (in care, research, education and management) 
* to develop a global labelling tool dedicated to comprehensive cancer centres 
in Europe, designating the various types of cancer structures, and the 
comprehensive cancer centres of reference and Excellence. An accreditation tool 
has been established, defining standards and criteria for prevention, care, 
research, education and follow-up activities. A quantitative database of cancer 
centres is integrated in the tool, with a questionnaire, that provides an 
overall view of the oncological landscape in OECI cancer centres in Europe. Data 
on infrastructures, resources and activities have been collected. This OECI 
accreditation tool will be launched in autumn 2008 for all cancer centres in 
Europe. It serves as a basis for the development of the labelling tool for 
cancer structures in Europe, with a focus on Comprehensiveness and Excellence 
labels. Quality assessment and improvement is a critical need in Europe and is 
addressed by the OECI for cancer care in Europe. Accreditation is a well 
accepted process and is feasible. Standards and criteria as well as an 
accreditation tool have been developed. The OECI questionnaire gives an accurate 
vision of cancer institutions throughout Europe, helping assessing the needs and 
providing standards. The accreditation project is a long-term complete and 
voluntary process with external and internal added value, an active process of 
sharing information and experience that should help the whole cancer community 
reach comprehensiveness and excellence.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160809400206
PMID: 18564602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Sociol Health Illn. 2008 Nov;30(7):1070-85. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9566.2008.01106.x. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

'Health is not a man's domain': lay accounts of gender difference in 
life-expectancy in Russia.

Pietilä I(1), Rytkönen M.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland.

The substantial gender difference in life-expectancy is among the key 
characteristics of current health crisis in Russia. Despite a relatively large 
body of epidemiological literature on gender difference, there is little 
empirical research on the gendered meanings of health among Russian lay people. 
This study aims to enhance understanding of gendered meanings of health by 
analysing lay accounts of the gender gap in life-expectancy on the basis of 29 
interviews with Russians aged 15-81. The analysis showed that gender difference 
was largely attributed to structural conditions and changes in Russian society 
and, to a lesser extent, to behavioural factors. Another important conclusion 
drawn from the analysis was that talk about gender included very few 
alternatives to conventional gender relations, or negotiation of their effects 
on health and illness. We interpret these findings to reflect, first, the 
culturally weak role of the individual in Russian discourses of health that are 
still largely focused on the role of government as primarily responsible for 
public health. Secondly, it seems that there are few alternatives to 
conventional discourses of gender in post-Soviet Russia; the gender relations in 
people's understanding appear to be static and persistent despite recent 
profound social changes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9566.2008.01106.x
PMID: 18564970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2008 Jul;19(7):677-85. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2008.01538.x.

Treatment outcome of immediately loaded implants installed in edentulous jaws 
following computer-assisted virtual treatment planning and flapless surgery.

Komiyama A(1), Klinge B, Hultin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Institute of Odontology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Huddinge, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: The objective was to evaluate the outcome of immediately loaded 
implants installed in edentulous jaws following computer-assisted virtual 
treatment planning combined with flapless surgery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Twenty-nine edentulous patients (9 females, 20 males, mean 
age of 71.5 years) were treated using the Nobel Guide protocol for surgical 
planning, fixture installation and immediate functioning of a prefabricated 
fixed implant prosthesis. One hundred and seventy-six fixtures were installed to 
support 21 maxillary and 10 mandibular reconstructions. Patients were followed 
for up to 44 months.
RESULTS: Nineteen out of 176 fixtures were lost between 2 and 18 months after 
installation. Fixture survival rate was 89% (92% maxilla, 83% mandible). 
Implant-supported suprastructures remained stable during the follow-up period in 
26 out of 31 jaws (90% maxilla, 70% mandible). Surgical or technical 
complications occurred in 42% of treated cases. Misfit of abutment-bridge 
appeared in five cases, resulting in disconnection of the bridge in two patients 
where fixtures were left for unloaded healing. Fixture losses resulted in the 
removal of the suprastructure in three patients, who returned to removable 
dentures. Extensive adjustments of occlusion were made in 10% of the immediately 
connected bridges. Radiographic bone defects developed in three patients after 
drilling, which appeared in two cases after anchor-pin drilling in the maxilla 
and another in a severely resorbed mandible.
CONCLUSION: The patient's post-operative discomfort such as swelling and pain 
was almost negligible. However, compared to conventional protocols, the 
occurrences of surgical and technical complications were higher, and thus this 
method must still be regarded to be in an exploratory phase.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2008.01538.x
PMID: 18565011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2008 Sep;81(3):316-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2008.05.001. Epub 2008 Jun 18.

Declining prevalence of diabetes mellitus in hereditary haemochromatosis--the 
result of earlier diagnosis.

O'Sullivan EP(1), McDermott JH, Murphy MS, Sen S, Walsh CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, South Infirmary Victoria University 
Hospital, Old Blackrock Road, Cork, Ireland. eoinosullivan@beaumont.ie

AIMS: The aims of this study were to describe the prevalence and clinical 
features of diabetes in hereditary haemochromatosis (HH), with particular 
emphasis to how this has changed since the introduction of genetic testing in 
1996.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Two hundred and thirty-seven patients were diagnosed with 
HH (based on elevated iron indices and liver biopsy or genetic testing) by a 
single physician, and all biochemical and clinical data recorded from diagnosis 
to the end of the study.
RESULTS: The prevalence of diabetes (21.9%) was lower than most previously 
published studies. There was a significantly greater prevalence of diabetes and 
cirrhosis in those diagnosed before the introduction of genetic testing, 
p<0.001. The type of genetic mutation for HH, degree of ferritin elevation at 
diagnosis, or the presence of cirrhosis was not predictive for the development 
of diabetes. Iron depletion did not result in an improvement in glycaemic 
control or reduction in insulin requirements in the majority of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: This is one of the largest published series of diabetes in HH. 
Because the occurrence of diabetes in patients with HH reduces life expectancy, 
our finding of a lower prevalence of diabetes is expected to translate into a 
greater survival rate in these patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2008.05.001
PMID: 18565609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Psychol Rep. 2008 Apr;102(2):369-76. doi: 10.2466/pr0.102.2.369-376.

Association of suicide rates of elderly persons with fertility rates.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Central Lancashire, Preston. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

A negative correlation between societal suicide rates and social integration has 
been reported, but rarely specifically examined for suicide rates of the elderly 
although suicide rates of elderly persons are among the highest. The 
associations of suicide rates of elderly persons and fertility rates for 81 
countries were examined using data from the World Health Organisation and United 
Nations. Fertility rates were considered a proxy measure for social integration. 
Multiple regression analysis indicated that suicide rates for males and females 
in the age bands 65-74 years and 75+ years were independently (negative) 
correlated with fertility rates. Fertility rates, as a measure of social 
integration, may interact with, modify and mediate the effect of cultural 
factors on suicide rates of elderly persons.

DOI: 10.2466/pr0.102.2.369-376
PMID: 18567206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2008 Jan;39(1):39-47.

Life tables study of immature Aedes albopictus (Skuse) (Diptera : Culicidae) 
during the wet and dry seasons in Penang, Malaysia.

Hashim NA(1), Ahmad AH, Rawi CS, Tahir NA, Basari N.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, Penang, Malaysia.

Life tables were constructed for twelve cohorts of immature stages of the dengue 
vector Ae. albopictus in a wooded area of Penang, Malaysia. The development time 
of Ae. albopictus ranged from 6 to 10 days depending on the mean environmental 
temperature (r = - 0.639, p < 0.05). Total cohort mortality was correlated with 
total development time (r = 0.713, p < 0.05) but not temperature (r = -0.477, p 
> 0.05). Rainfall was correlated with neither development time (r = 0.554, p > 
0.05) nor mortality (r = 0.322, p > 0.05). There was a significant difference 
among the total mortality that occurred in the twelve cohorts (H = 119.783, df = 
11, p < 0.05). There was also a significant difference in mortality among the 
different stages (H = 274.00, df = 4, p < 0.05).

PMID: 18567442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Adv Ther. 2008 Jun;25(6):567-84. doi: 10.1007/s12325-008-0069-z.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of therapy conversion to insulin detemir in 
patients with type 2 diabetes in Germany: a modelling study of long-term 
clinical and cost outcomes.

Valentine WJ(1), Goodall G, Aagren M, Nielsen S, Palmer AJ, Erny-Albrecht K.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Gewerbestrasse 25, 4123 
Allschwil, Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of transferring type 2 
diabetes patients to an insulin detemir regimen after failure to achieve 
adequate control with oral antidiabetic agents (OADs) alone, or in combination 
with neutral protamine hagedorn (NPH) insulin, or with insulin glargine in 
Germany.
METHODS: A computer simulation model of diabetes was used to make long-term 
projections of future clinical outcomes and direct medical costs based on 
findings from a German subanalysis of the PREDICTIVE trial. The study analysed 
the impact of converting patients failing their current treatments to an insulin 
detemir regimen. Therapy conversion to insulin detemir +/- OADs was associated 
with a significant reduction in glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1)c) compared with 
OADs alone, NPH insulin +/- OADs, and insulin glargine +/- OADs. Across all 
three groups, hypoglycaemia rates decreased by 80% and patients lost an average 
of 0.9 kg of body weight during treatment with insulin detemir +/- OADs.
RESULTS: Therapy conversion to insulin detemir +/- OADs was projected to improve 
life expectancy by 0.28 years compared with OADs alone, and by 0.13 years 
compared with the NPH and glargine regimens. Transfer to insulin detemir was 
associated with improvements in quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.21 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) over OADs alone, 0.28 QALYs over NPH +/- 
OADs, and 0.29 QALYs over glargine +/- OADs. Insulin detemir was associated with 
savings over patient lifetimes due to reduced diabetes-related complications in 
all three comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS: Therapy conversion to insulin detemir +/- OADs in type 2 diabetes 
patients failing OADs alone, NPH or insulin glargine regimens was associated 
with improvements in life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy and cost 
savings in all three scenarios evaluated.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-008-0069-z
PMID: 18568451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Int J Behav Med. 2008;15(2):120-32. doi: 10.1080/10705500801929742.

A cross-national study on the multidimensional characteristics of the five-item 
psychological demands scale of the Job Content Questionnaire.

Choi B(1), Kawakami N, Chang S, Koh S, Bjorner J, Punnett L, Karasek R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Work Environment, University of Massachusetts Lowell, Lowell, 
Massachusetts 01854, USA. bongkyoo@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The five-item psychological demands scale of the Job Content 
Questionnaire (JCQ) has been assumed to be one-dimensional in practice.
PURPOSE: To examine whether the scale has sufficient internal consistency and 
external validity to be treated as a single scale, using the cross-national JCQ 
datasets from the United States, Korea, and Japan.
METHOD: Exploratory factor analyses with 22 JCQ items, confirmatory factor 
analyses with the five psychological demands items, and correlations analyses 
with mental health indexes.
RESULTS: Generally, exploratory factor analyses displayed the predicted 
demand/control/support structure with three and four factors extracted. However, 
at more detailed levels of exploratory and confirmatory factor analyses, the 
demands scale showed clear evidence of multi-factor structure. The correlations 
of items and subscales of the demands scale with mental health indexes were 
similar to those of the full scale in the Korean and Japanese datasets, but not 
in the U.S. data. In 4 out of 16 sub-samples of the U.S. data, several 
significant correlations of the components of the demands scale with job 
dissatisfaction and life dissatisfaction were obscured by the full scale.
CONCLUSION: The multidimensionality of the psychological demands scale should be 
considered in psychometric analysis and interpretation, occupational 
epidemiologic studies, and future scale extension.

DOI: 10.1080/10705500801929742
PMID: 18569130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Jun 23;170(26-32):2323-6.

[Cost effectiveness in the Danish health care of ezetemibe co-administration 
compared to simvastatin].

[Article in Danish]

Keiding H(1), Hildebrandt P, Alemao E, Davies GM.

Author information:
(1)Københavns Universitet, Økonomisk Institut, København K. 
hans.keiding@pop.oko.ku.dk

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Sep 15;170(38):2987; author reply 2988.
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2008 Sep 15;170(38):2987; author reply 2988.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this analysis is to evaluate the cost effectiveness 
of ezetemibe coadministration compared to a shift to higher doses of simvastatin 
or to a more potent statin.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The calculations are based on a Markov model in which a 
patient who does not attain the desired cholesterol outcome with simvastatin 
treatment is treated either with ezetemibe coadministration, or with increased 
simvastatin doses, or with a more potent statin. Calculations are conducted for 
a total of 72 different patient types followed over the remainder of their 
lives.
RESULTS: Ezetemibe coadministration evaluated over the entire lifetime will be 
somewhat more expensive than simvastatin titration but must, however, be seen in 
relation to improved survival and increased quality of life. For the typical 
patient, treatment will be associated with costs of between DKK 50,000 and 
100,000 per gained year of life, which cannot be deemed too expensive in 
relation to other interventions provided by the Health Authorities. For some 
patient types who receive treatment with a potent statin (atorvastatin), savings 
will also be possible here as well as an increase in life expectancy and quality 
of life.
CONCLUSION: The results of the study indicate that ezetemibe coadministration is 
cost effective. The results are sustainable even with quite significant changes 
of the estimates used and taking into account uncertainties in the material and 
methods.

PMID: 18570764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Rev Esp Med Nucl. 2008 May-Jun;27(3):191-8. doi: 10.1157/13121029.

Evaluation of cardiovascular complications with 99mTc tetrofosmin gated 
myocardial perfusion scintigraphy in patients with thalassemia major.

Gedik GK(1), Cağlar M, Unal S, Gümrük F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine. Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine. 
Ankara. Turkey. goncakara@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: Iron overload limits the life expectancy of thalassaemic patients by 
causing cardiac toxicity. Iron also plays a catalytic role in the pathogenesis 
of atherosclerosis. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of (99m)Tc 
Tetrofosmin gated myocardial perfusion scintigraphy (GMPS) in the detection of 
cardiac dysfunction in patients with thalassemia major.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty two patients with homozygous beta-thalassemia were 
enrolled in the study. Myocardial perfusion and wall motion were analysed in all 
patients (mean age 17 +/- 5.28) and 34 age-matched controls using GMPS. Clinical 
data, liver function tests, hemoglobin, ferritin, low density lipoprotein (LDL) 
and cholesterol levels, and the total number and frequency of transfusions were 
collected from patient records.
RESULTS: 97.6 % and 78.5 % of patients had normal myocardial perfusion and wall 
motion respectively. Nine out of 42 thalassaemic patients had abnormal left 
ventricular wall motion; half of these had septal hypokinesia. No significant 
correlation was found between the total number of transfusions, serum ferritin 
levels and left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.442 and p = 1.00, 
respectively). Echocardiography revealed systolic dysfunction in 5 out of 9 
patients with wall motion abnormality. LDL was normal in 38 out of 42 patients 
and cholesterol levels were normal in 37 out of 42 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Regional wall motion abnormalities can be seen in patients with 
thalassemia major. This early damage is frequently located in the septum and can 
be detected by GMPS. Serum ferritin levels and the number of blood transfusions 
are inadequate as predictors of myocardial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1157/13121029
PMID: 18570861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Am J Cardiol. 2008 Jul 1;102(1):102-6. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2008.02.104.
Epub  2008 May 2.

Indian poverty and cardiovascular disease.

Ramaraj R(1), Alpert JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Arizona College of Medicine, 
Tucson, AZ, USA. drkutty2@gmail.com <drkutty2@gmail.com>

Cardiovascular disease is among the world's leading causes of death, and nearly 
80% of deaths occur in developing countries. Cardiovascular disease is becoming 
a major health problem in India, where life expectancy has increased with 
decreases in infectious disease and childhood mortality. It is well established 
that this population experiences coronary artery disease at a younger age than 
other populations. With infectious diseases still endemic, noncommunicable 
diseases are a lower priority for the governments of developing countries. There 
is a clear progression to degenerative and lifestyle-related diseases such as 
cardiovascular disease as a result of current social and economic change. The 
lack of a public response to the increasing risk for cardiovascular disease thus 
far is due mostly to a perception among policy makers and the public that 
cardiovascular disease is largely a problem of the urban rich. In conclusion, 
this review addresses the imminent threats and ways to tackle the epidemic in 
India.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2008.02.104
PMID: 18572045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Sep;67(5):874-82. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.05.015.
Epub  2008 Jun 21.

Valuing the ICECAP capability index for older people.

Coast J(1), Flynn TN, Natarajan L, Sproston K, Lewis J, Louviere JJ, Peters TJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Department of Health Economics, Public Health 
Building, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK. j.coast@bham.ac.uk

This paper reports the first application of the capabilities approach to the 
development and valuation of an instrument for use in the economic evaluation of 
health and social care interventions. The ICECAP index of capability for older 
people focuses on quality of life rather than health or other influences on 
quality of life, and is intended to be used in decision making across health and 
social care in the UK. The measure draws on previous qualitative work in which 
five conceptual attributes were developed: attachment, security, role, enjoyment 
and control. This paper details the innovative use within health economics of 
further iterative qualitative work in the UK among 19 informants to refine lay 
terminology for each of the attributes and levels of attributes used in the 
eventual index. For the first time within quality of life measurement for 
economic evaluation, a best-worst scaling exercise has been used to estimate 
general population values (albeit for the population of those aged 65+ years) 
for the levels of attributes, with values anchored at one for full capability 
and zero for no capability. Death was assumed to be a state in which there is no 
capability. The values obtained indicate that attachment is the attribute with 
greatest impact but all attributes contribute to the total estimation of 
capability. Values that were estimated are feasible for use in practical 
applications of the index to measure the impact of health and social care 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.05.015
PMID: 18572295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Urologiia. 2008 Mar-Apr;(2):10-4.

[Intensive therapy in complicated forms of purulent gestational pyelonephritis].

[Article in Russian]

Dovlatian AA.

The experience with 65 cases of purulent gestational pyelonephritis (PGP) is 
reviewed. The efficacy of PGP intensive therapy depends on early surgical 
elimination of the source of bacteriemia and sepsis. Choice of the surgical 
technique should be based both on extension of destructive changes in the kidney 
and severity of the complications. In some cases it is necessary to perform 
nephrostomy with sanation of the pyonecrotic foci in the kidney, in the 
other--it is necessary to perform urgent nephrectomy. Three basic components of 
pre- and postoperative intensive care should be considered: antibacterial 
treatment, infusion-transfusion therapy and efferent detoxication. Etiotropic 
therapy is conducted with three antibiotics injected intravenously and 
intramuscularly to provide effective concentrations of the drugs in the blood, 
urine and affected organs. PGP medication is based on inhibitor-defended 
penicillines and cephalosporines of the third-forth generation. Combined use of 
these antibiotics is effective in 95% cases. If the condition is 
life-threatening, carbapenems, fluoroguinolones, aminoglycosides and 
metronidasol can be applied. Detoxication is provided by 24-h infusion of 
crystalloids, concentrated glucose solutions (10-20%) with insulin, transfusion 
of fresh frozen plasm, albumin, protein. Plasmapheresis accelerates recovery, 
diminished nephrectomy rate by 14% and obstetric complications 1.8 fold, enables 
physiological term of delivery (37-39 weeks) in significant reduction of 
postnatal complications. Lethal outcomes were absent.

PMID: 18572762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Jul;86(1):308-10. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2008.01.056.

Tracheal malignant melanoma: successful outcome with tracheal resection.

Terra RM(1), Minamoto H, Junqueira JJ, Falzoni R, Pêgo-Fernandes PM, Jatene FB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Hospital das Clínicas, São Paulo University 
School of Medicine, São Paulo, Brazil. rmterra@uol.com.br

Primary tracheal malignant melanomas are uncommon neoplasms: only five cases 
have been reported. Different therapeutic approaches are described, with a short 
life expectancy observed. We report a case of a young woman with a primary 
tracheal malignant melanoma who underwent complete tracheal resection and is 
free of disease 4 years after surgical treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2008.01.056
PMID: 18573450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2009 Jul-Aug;49(1):54-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2008.05.001. Epub 2008 Jun 24.

Adjuvant radiotherapy on older and oldest elderly rectal cancer patients.

Fiorica F(1), Cartei F, Carau B, Berretta S, Spartà D, Tirelli U, Santangelo A, 
Maugeri D, Luca S, Leotta C, Sorace R, Berretta M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, Universitary Hospital S'Anna, C.so Giovecca 
203, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy. francesco.fiorica@unife.it

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the impact of radiotherapy in terms of 
feasibility and activity in the patients aged > or = 75 with advanced rectal 
cancer. From January 2002 to December 2006, 41 consecutive patients (27 men and 
14 women) aged > or = 75 received radiotherapy for local advanced rectal cancer, 
9 in a pre-operative and 22 in a post-operative setting. Sixteen patients 
received concomitant chemotherapy. Variables considered were age, 
co-morbidities, evaluated according to the adult co-morbidity evaluation index 
(ACE-27), surgery versus no surgery, and timing of radiotherapy. The median age 
was 80.5 years (range 75-90). A total of 19.5% of the patients had no 
co-morbidity, 48.8% mild, 17.1% moderate, and 14.6% had severe co-morbidities. 
Thirty-nine subjects (95.1%) were submitted to surgery. All patients but one 
completed the planned radiation schedule. At a median follow-up of 23.1 months, 
the 2- and 4-year overall survival rates were 71.8% and 61.6%, respectively. 
There was a better survival for patients with no or mild co-morbidities 
(p=0.002) and a good performance status (p=0.003). The cancer-free survival at 2 
and 4 years was 78.9% and 26.4%, respectively. No difference in acute and late 
toxicity rates was found between patients with different ACE-27 indexes. We 
conclude that compliance with radiotherapy is good and rate of toxicity is 
acceptable in elderly patients. Patients with no or mild co-morbidities have a 
significantly better survival. Increasing severity of co-morbidity may 
sufficiently shorten remaining life expectancy to cancel gains with adjuvant 
radiotherapy. Further prospective trials are needed to confirm these results.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2008.05.001
PMID: 18573548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Eur J Heart Fail. 2008 Jul;10(7):675-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2008.05.012.
 Epub 2008 Jun 24.

Home care as an option in worsening chronic heart failure -- a pilot study to 
evaluate feasibility, quality adjusted life years and cost-effectiveness.

Patel H(1), Shafazand M, Ekman I, Höjgård S, Swedberg K, Schaufelberger M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Care Sciences, Sahlgrenska Academy, Sweden. 
harshidaben.patel@vgregion.se

BACKGROUND: Worsening chronic heart failure (CHF) is largely characterized by 
frequent hospital admissions and the need for specialist care.
AIM: To evaluate the feasibility of home care (HC) versus conventional care (CC) 
in relation to health-related quality of life (HRQL) and cost-utility in 
patients with worsening CHF.
METHODS: Thirty-one patients seeking medical attention at hospital for worsening 
CHF were randomised to HC or CC. Following discharge within 48 hours from the 
hospital, patients in the HC group were followed-up in their homes by a 
specialist nurse. Follow-ups were conducted for both groups, 1, 4, 8 and 12 
months after inclusion in the study.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in clinical events, adverse events 
or in HRQL. The total cost related to CHF was lower in the HC group after 12 
months (p=0.05).
CONCLUSION: Reduction in cost of care for selected patients with CHF eligible 
for hospital care might be achieved by early discharge from hospital followed by 
home visits. Due to the small number of patients, these results must be 
interpreted with caution.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2008.05.012
PMID: 18573692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Jun 23;168(12):1252-3. doi:
10.1001/archinte.168.12.1252.

Subtle neurological abnormalities and functional cognition in older adults.

Boustani M, Justiss MD.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2008 Jun 23;168(12):1270-6.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.12.1252
PMID: 18574079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. J Environ Qual. 2008 Jun 23;37(4):1575-82. doi: 10.2134/jeq2007.0454. Print
2008  Jul-Aug.

Treatment of drainage water with industrial by-products to prevent phosphorus 
loss from tile-drained land.

McDowell RW(1), Sharpley AN, Bourke W.

Author information:
(1)AgResearch, Invermay Agricultural Centre, Private Bag 50034, Mosgiel, New 
Zealand. richard.mcdowell@agresearch.co.nz

Comment in
    J Environ Qual. 2009 Mar-Apr;38(2):379-80, author reply 380.

Tile drained land with phosphorus (P)-rich topsoil is prone to P loss, which can 
impair surface water quality via eutrophication. We used by-products from steel 
and energy industries to mitigate P loss from tile drains. For each by-product, 
P sorption maximum (P(max)) and strength (k) were determined, while a fluvarium 
trial assessed P uptake with flow rate. Although two ash materials (fly ash and 
bottom ash) had high P(max) and k values, heavy metal concentrations negated 
their use in the field. The fluvarium experiment determined that P uptake with 
by-products was best at low flow, but decreased at higher flow in proportion to 
k. A mixture of melter slag (<10 mm) and basic slag (high P(max), 7250 mg 
kg(-1); and k, 0.508 L mg P(-1)) was installed as backfill in eight drains on a 
dairy farm. Four drains with greywacke as backfill were constructed for 
controls. The site (10 ha) had P-rich topsoil (Olsen P of 64 mg kg(-1)) and 
yielded a mean dissolved reactive P (DRP) and total P (TP) concentration from 
greywacke backfilled drains of 0.33 and 1.20 mg L(-1), respectively. In 
contrast, slag backfilled drains had DRP and TP concentrations of 0.09 and 0.36 
mg L(-1), respectively. Loads of DRP and TP in greywacke drains (0.45 and 1.92, 
respectively) were significantly greater (P < 0.05) than those from slag drains 
(0.18 and 0.85, respectively). Data from a farm where melter slag was used as a 
backfill suggested that slag would have a life expectancy of about 25 yr. Thus, 
backfilling tile drains with melter slag and a small proportion of basic slag is 
recommended as an effective means of decreasing P loss from high P soils.

DOI: 10.2134/jeq2007.0454
PMID: 18574190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Amyotroph Lateral Scler. 2008 Jun;9(3):168-72. doi:
10.1080/17482960801934072.

Spanish adaptation of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Questionnaire ALSAQ-40 
for ALS patients.

Salas T(1), Mora J, Esteban J, Rodríguez F, Díaz-Lobato S, Fajardo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital Carlos III, Madrid, Spain. 
teresa@fundela.info

We studied the cross-cultural Spanish adaptation of the Amyotrophic Lateral 
Sclerosis Assessment Questionnaire (ALSAQ-40) to assess the subjective health 
status in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients. The ALSAQ-40 
questionnaire was adapted and applied to 53 randomly selected ALS patients from 
different regions in Spain. Reliability assessment and factorial analysis were 
performed in order to determine the dimensions of the scale. The validation was 
carried out by means of comparing the ALSAQ-40 with two instruments usually used 
in the assessment of ALS patients--the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional 
Rating Scale (ALSFRS) and the McGill's Quality of Life Questionnaire (MQOL), 
comparing the latter with the emotional dimension of ALSAQ-40. This Spanish 
adaptation closely resembles the ALSAQ-40 although the emotional dimension is 
more heterogeneous and there are cluster-gathering Feeding and Communication 
dimensions. ALSAQ-40 and ALSFRS questionnaires showed a high correlation, as did 
the emotional dimension of ALSAQ-40 with the Psychological Symptoms, Life 
Expectancy, Meaningful Existence and the whole score of the MQOL. In conclusion, 
this Spanish adaptation of ALSAQ-40 is in accordance with the statistical 
results from the original English version.

DOI: 10.1080/17482960801934072
PMID: 18574761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. WMJ. 2008 May;107(3):147-8.

Social security: take the money at 62 or wait?

McCarragher MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)SVA Wealth Management, Inc., USA.

PMID: 18575101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Health Hum Serv Adm. 2008 Summer;31(1):105-23.

The population health and income nexus in the Mississippi River Delta Region and 
beyond.

Bloom DE(1), Bowser DM.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Department of Population and International 
Health, USA.

The association between health and income has been well established using 
cross-country panel data. This paper explores this association further using 
data for corresponding cross sections of counties in the United States in 1970 
and 2000. Special attention is paid to the stability of the associations over 
time and to differences between counties in the Mississippi River Delta Region 
and those in the rest of the United States. Regression results show that income 
is positively correlated with improvements in life expectancy over the period 
1970 to 2000. This relationship strengthens from 1970 to 2000 for the U.S. and 
the non-Delta region and weakens slightly for the Delta region. Decomposition 
analysis shows that income explains more of the improvements in life expectancy 
from 1970 to 2000 for the Delta region (49%) than for the U.S. (35%) or the 
non-Delta region (32%). Factors other than income are less important in the 
Delta region during this time period. In 1970, income (64%) explains more of the 
difference in health between the Delta and non-Delta counties than non-income 
factors (36%). By the year 2000, non-income factors (77%) explain more of the 
disparities in health between the Delta and non-Delta countries than income 
factors (23%). For the year 2000, if the Delta region were to count on increased 
income to improve life expectancy to the average of the non-Delta region, it 
would need to increase its income level by 135%. The analysis indicates that 
population health in the Mississippi River Delta Region lags behind the rest of 
the United States not only because of lower income levels, but more importantly 
because of lower contributions to health of non-income factors.

PMID: 18575150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Manag Care. 2007 Mar;16(3 Suppl 4):2-4.

Issues in oncology management. Introduction.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18575213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;22(4):450-2.

[Treatment of old scaphoid fracture with absorbable screw].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu C(1), Tian D, Zhang Y, Zhang Y, Liu L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Third Hospital of Hebei Medical University, 
Shijiazhuang Hebei, 050051, P.R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore a new approach to treat old scaphoid fracture by grafting 
bones from distal radius and fixing absorbable screws.
METHODS: From January 2002 to May 2007, 18 patients with old scaphoid fractures 
were treated by grafting bones from distal radius and fixing absorbable screws. 
All of the 18 patients (13 males and 5 females, aged from 17 to 41 years old) 
had the injury history of the palm of hand touching the ground. They felt 
tenderness on the anatomical snuff-box and tubercle of scaphoid bone. The 
grasping force decreased. The range of motion of the wrist was (36 +/- 2) 
degrees extension/(30 +/- 3) degrees flexion, (8 +/- 3) degrees radialis/(13 +/- 
2) degrees ulnaris.
RESULTS: The average postoperative follow-up period was 15.7 months. A total of 
18 cases achieved bone union. The range of motion of the wrist in the 16 healed 
cases was (68 +/- 2) degrees extension/(65 +/- 3) degrees flexion, (15 +/- 3) 
degrees radialis/(28 +/- 5) degrees ulnaris. There was no pain of motion and 
symptom of powerlessness. As to the other 2 cases, the range of motion of the 
wrist was (40 +/- 8) degrees extension/(35 +/- 6) degrees flexion, (8 +/- 5) 
degrees radialis/(12 +/- 5) degrees ulnaris; no obvious improvement was found; 
the patients occasionally felt painful in daily life; the extension force 
decreased. No infection and break of internal fixation were seen.
CONCLUSION: The absorbable screw as a new biomaterial for internal fixation has 
obvious advantages of good biocompatibility, promoting union of the fracture and 
no need of a second operation for removal.

PMID: 18575446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2008 Jun 25;2(6):e244. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0000244.

Trick or treat: the role of vaccines in integrated schistosomiasis control.

Bergquist R(1), Utzinger J, McManus DP.

Author information:
(1)Ingerod, Brastad, Sweden. robert.bergquist@yahoo.se

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000244
PMCID: PMC2430529
PMID: 18575619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


853. Arthritis Rheum. 2008 Jul 15;59(7):1018-26. doi: 10.1002/art.23813.

Health state utility values: a description of their development and application 
for rheumatic diseases.

Bansback N(1), Harrison M, Brazier J, Davies L, Kopec J, Marra C, Symmons D, 
Anis A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

DOI: 10.1002/art.23813
PMID: 18576311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Parasitol. 2008 Oct;94(5):999-1008. doi: 10.1645/GE-1407.1.

Rodent Plasmodium: population dynamics of early sporogony within Anopheles 
stephensi mosquitoes.

Poudel SS(1), Newman RA, Vaughan JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, North Dakota 
58202, USA.

Early sporogony of Plasmodium parasites involves 2 major developmental 
transitions within the insect vector, i.e., gametocyte-to-ookinete and 
ookinete-to-oocyst. This study compared the population dynamics of early 
sporogony among murine rodent Plasmodium (Plasmodium berghei, Plasmodium 
chabaudi, Plasmodium vinckei, and Plasmodium yoelii) developing within Anopheles 
stephensi mosquitoes. Estimates of absolute densities were determined for 
gametocytes, ookinetes, and oocysts for 108 experimental infections. Total 
losses throughout early sporogony were greatest in P. vinckei (ca. 250,000-fold 
loss), followed by P. yoelii (ca. 70,000-fold loss), P. berghei (ca. 45,000-fold 
loss), and P. chabaudi (ca. 15,000-fold loss). The gametocyte-to-ookinete 
transition represented the most severe population bottleneck. Numerical losses 
during this transition (ca. 3,000- to 30,000-fold, depending on species) were 
orders of magnitude greater than losses incurred during the ookinete-to-oocyst 
transition (3- to 14-fold). There were no significant correlations between 
gametocyte and ookinete densities. Significant correlations between ookinete and 
oocyst densities existed for P. berghei, P. chabaudi, and P. yoelii (but not for 
P. vinckei), and were best described by nonlinear functions (P. berghei = 
sigmoid, P. chabaudi = hyperbolic, P. yoelii = sigmoid), indicating that 
conversion of ookinetes to oocysts in these species is density dependent. The 
upper theoretical limit for oocyst density on the mosquito midgut for P. 
chabaudi and P. yoelii (ca. 300 oocysts per midgut) was higher than for P. 
berghei (ca. 30 oocysts per midgut). This study provides basic information about 
population processes that occur during the early sporogonic development of some 
common laboratory model systems of malaria.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-1407.1
PMID: 18576764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2008 Jul;10 Suppl 2:66-75. doi: 
10.1111/j.1463-1326.2008.00845.x.

The cost-effectiveness of insulin glargine vs. neutral protamine Hagedorn 
insulin in type 2 diabetes: a focus on health economics.

Levin P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The Diabetes Center at Mercy, Baltimore, MD 
21202, USA. pal3420@yahoo.com

Diabetes mellitus is a major public health problem, in particular because of 
long-term complications affecting essential organs, such as the eyes and 
kidneys, which can lead to a reduction in life expectancy and high healthcare 
costs. The number of individuals with diabetes mellitus is projected to rise 
worldwide from 171 million people in 2000 to 366 million people in 2030. With 
the number of patients with diabetes continually growing, the burden of pressure 
on worldwide health systems is huge. Accordingly, regulatory and marketing 
approvals of new medicines are beginning to incorporate economic evaluation 
techniques to determine their cost-effectiveness. Overall, the studies included 
in this review show that the initiation of insulin glargine is cost-effective 
and is expected to lead to substantial improvements in both life years (LYs) and 
quality-adjusted LYs compared with neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2008.00845.x
PMID: 18577158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Poult Sci. 2008 Jul;87(7):1435-40. doi: 10.3382/ps.2007-00339.

The effect of an acidic, copper sulfate-based commercial sanitizer on indicator, 
pathogenic, and spoilage bacteria associated with broiler chicken carcasses when 
applied at various intervention points during poultry processing.

Russell SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Poultry Science, The University of Georgia, Athens, GA 
30602-2772, USA. srussell@uga.edu

Studies were conducted to evaluate 1) the effect of an acidic, copper 
sulfate-based commercial sanitizer on pathogenic, indicator, and spoilage 
bacteria in a model scalder system, 2) the effect of this sanitizer on total 
aerobic bacteria (APC) and Escherichia coli counts, and Salmonella prevalence on 
broiler chicken carcasses when applied during scalding or scalding and postpick 
dipping, and 3) the ability of sanitizer to extend the shelf-life of broiler 
chicken carcasses. Exposure of Salmonella Typhimurium, Listeria monocytogenes, 
Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas fluorescens, or Shewanella putrefaciens to 
the sanitizer in scalder water at 54 degrees C for 2 min resulted in complete 
elimination of these bacterial species. Exposure of E. coli to the treated scald 
water resulted in a 4.9 log(10) reduction. These data suggest that this 
sanitizer would be effective for use in scalders. When applied during scalding 
in a commercial processing plant, APC and E. coli counts were significantly (P 
<or= 0.05) reduced on all days of sampling. The average log10 reduction overall 
was 3.80 and 3.05 for APC and E. coli, respectively. Salmonella prevalence was 
reduced by an average of 30%. For carcasses that were scalded, picked, and 
dipped postpick using this sanitizer, APC were significantly P <or= 0.05) 
reduced on all days of sampling by an average of 1.19 log10. Escherichia coli 
counts were reduced on all but 2 d of sampling for carcasses scalded, picked, 
and dipped in this sanitizer, except for d 2 and 10. Averages on these days were 
higher for controls, but were not significantly different. Salmonella prevalence 
was not consistently impacted overall. For the shelf-life study, odor scores 
were significantly (P <or= 0.05) reduced for treated carcasses at d 8 through 14 
of storage. The psychrotrophic plate counts were significantly (P <or= 0.05) 
lower on treated carcasses at d 6 through 14 of storage. This sanitizer 
suppressed spoilage bacteria with a 99.99% reduction at d 10 and a 99.9% 
reduction at d 12 of storage. This effect could result in an extension of the 
shelf life of the poultry carcasses by up to 4 d.

DOI: 10.3382/ps.2007-00339
PMID: 18577627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Khirurgiia (Mosk). 2008;(6):45-9.

[Noninvasive diagnostics and treatment of pelvic organs blood repletion 
syndrome].

[Article in Russian]

Sukovatykh BS, Rodionov OA, Sukovatykh MB, Khodykin SP.

Analysis of complex clinical and ultrasound research in 78 women with chronic 
pelvic venous insufficiency was carried out. Left-side regional renal venous 
hypertension leading to valve insufficiency of left ovarian vein with extension 
of reno-ovarian blood reflux on racemose, uterovaginal, presacral, vesical and 
rectal venous plexuses was discovered in 100% of patients. Right-side 
cava-ovarian blood reflux was discovered only in 26.9% of patients and in 
combination with reno-ovarian lead to complete decompensation of venous outflow 
from pelvis. Three degrees of blood repletion of small pelvis organs were marked 
out. At first degree (61.5% of patients) complex drug treatment was carried out, 
at second degree (18%) - sclerotherapy, at third degree (20.5%) - operative 
excision of ovarian veins. Perfect results were seen in 35.9% of patients, good 
results - in 44.9% of patients, satisfactory - in 19.2% of patients. On basis of 
self-appraisal 80.8% of patients consider their life quality as completely 
recovered, 15.7% of patients - as improved, 3.5% of patients - without any 
changes.

PMID: 18577945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


