unrestricted research and education funds from Abbott, Amgen-Wyeth and Schering. 
PO has received consulting fees or honoraria from Abbott and Amgen. CTR has 
received consulting fees and honoraria from Abbott, Centocor, Wyeth and Biogen. 
FVdB has received speaker’s bureau honorarium and has served as a consultant for 
Abbott Laboratories. JTS has received consulting fees or honoraria from Abbott 
and Amgen. GTDT reports no competing interests. JM, RJP and RLW are employees of 
Abbott Laboratories and own shares of Abbott stock.


106. Scand J Public Health. 2008 Nov;36(8):832-40. doi: 10.1177/1403494808090633.
 Epub 2008 Aug 6.

How important are individual counselling, expectancy beliefs and autonomy for 
the maintenance of exercise after cardiac rehabilitation?

Mildestvedt T(1), Meland E, Eide GE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Health Care, Section for General 
Practice, University of Bergen. thomas.mildestvedt@isf.uib.no

AIMS: We examined whether autonomy supportive and self-efficacy enhancing 
individual lifestyle counselling was associated with improved maintenance of 
exercise and physical capacity compared with group based counselling. We also 
tested whether self-efficacy beliefs and autonomous motivation was associated 
with improved maintenance of exercise over time.
METHODS: Randomised controlled trial and longitudinal study of predictor 
variables. One hundred and seventy six (38 female) patients mainly with coronary 
heart disease were randomized to either have standard group based rehabilitation 
or to additionally receive the intervention. Patients were recruited from a 
4-week cardiac rehabilitation programme with two years follow-up at Krokeide 
Centre in Bergen, Norway.
RESULTS: We found no statistically significant between-group differences. The 
groups showed an overall improvement of their self-evaluated physical capacity 
during the two years of the study, corresponding 7% change of score (p<0.001). 
The composite exercise score improved 6% during follow-up (p<0.001). Intensity 
of exercise activities improved 17% from inclusion to 24 months' follow-up 
(p<0.001). Self-efficacy for increased exercise, general expectancy and 
autonomous motivation were significant predictors of increased exercise and 
physical capacity. Controlled motivation hampered physical capacity improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: Among this self-selected and motivated group of rehabilitation 
patients we found no additional effect of adding individual counselling to 
group-based interventions. Based on longitudinal documentation this cardiac 
rehabilitation programme improves long-term maintenance of exercise and physical 
capacity and this maintenance is related to autonomous motivation, general 
expectancy and self-efficacy.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494808090633
PMID: 18684777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2008 Aug;133(33):1667-72. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1082782.

[Prevalence of complications and comorbidities in type 2 diabetes: a 
cross-sectional study of disease management program participants in Bavaria].

[Article in German]

Görlitz N(1), Keller M, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Kassenärztliche Vereinigung Bayerns, München. nico.goerlitz@kvb.de

BACKGROUND: Complications and comorbidities of type 2 diabetes account for high 
costs and reduced life expectancy. There are only incomplete data on the 
prevalence of those secondary disorders in Germany.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 390,459 data sets of single patients in 
Bavaria, who were enrolled to disease management program "type 2 diabetes" 
between 2004 and 2006, were studied. Data obtained from the initial visit 
documentation were screened retrospectively and analyzed with statistical 
methods.
RESULTS: About three-fourths of the diabetic population have hypertension. 
Adiposity and lipometabolic disorder each are found in half of the population. 
Macro- and microangiopathic disease each occur in about twenty percent. 
Calculated prevalences of nephropathy, retinopathy and neuropathy are lower than 
expected.
CONCLUSION: Complications of type 2 diabetes were frequently observed in the 
study population. With regard to neuropathy, nephropathy and retinopathy 
type-2-diabetics should be examined even more thoroughly.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1082782
PMID: 18686207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Ecol Appl. 2008 Jul;18(5):1171-81. doi: 10.1890/07-1048.1.

Role of plant enemies in the forestry of indigenous vs. nonindigenous pines.

Lombardero MJ(1), Vázquez-Mejuto P, Ayres MP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Producción Vegetal, Universidad de Santiago, 27002 Lugo, 
Spain. Flombard@lugo.usc.es

Plantations of rapidly growing trees are becoming increasingly common because 
the high productivity can enhance local economies, support improvements in 
educational systems, and generally improve the quality of life in rural 
communities. Landowners frequently choose to plant nonindigenous species; one 
rationalization has been that silvicultural productivity is enhanced when trees 
are separated from their native herbivores and pathogens. The expectation of 
enemy reduction in nonindigenous species has theoretical and empirical support 
from studies of the enemy release hypothesis (ERH) in the context of invasion 
ecology, but its relevance to forestry has not been evaluated. We evaluated ERH 
in the productive forests of Galicia, Spain, where there has been a profusion of 
pine plantations, some with the indigenous Pinus pinaster, but increasingly with 
the nonindigenous P. radiata. Here, one of the most important pests of pines is 
the indigenous bark beetle, Tomicus piniperda. In support of ERH, attacks by T. 
piniperda were more than twice as great in stands of P. pinaster compared to P. 
radiata. This differential held across a range of tree ages and beetle 
abundance. However, this extension of ERH to forestry failed in the broader 
sense because beetle attacks, although fewer on P. radiata, reduced productivity 
of P. radiata more than that of P. pinaster (probably because more 
photosynthetic tissue is lost per beetle attack in P. radiata). Productivity of 
the nonindigenous pine was further reduced by the pathogen, Sphaeropsis sapinea, 
which infected up to 28% of P. radiata but was absent in P. pinaster. This was 
consistent with the forestry axiom (antithetical to ERH) that trees planted 
"off-site" are more susceptible to pathogens. Fungal infections were positively 
correlated with beetle attacks; apparently T. piniperda facilitates S. sapinea 
infections by creating wounds and by carrying fungal propagules. A globally 
important component in the diminution of indigenous flora has been the 
deliberate large-scale propagation of nonnative trees for silviculture. At least 
for Pinus forestry in Spain, reduced losses to pests did not rationalize the 
planting of nonindigenous trees. There would be value in further exploration of 
relations between invasion ecology and the forestry of nonindigenous trees.

DOI: 10.1890/07-1048.1
PMID: 18686579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Harefuah. 2008 Apr;147(4):309-10, 375, 374.

[Utilization of healthcare services by groups in the Israeli population as a 
measurement reflecting equity in the healthcare system].

[Article in Hebrew]

Afek A.

The Israeli health care system bases itself on the principles of justice, 
equality, and social solidarity. In 1994 a Health Insurance Act was passed, 
based upon these principles, which helped to reduce the differences between 
Israeli population groups. People from lower socio-economic status suffer from 
more illnesses and have shorter life spans than their more fortunate countrymen. 
These differences in well-being, as well as being unnecessary and avoidable, are 
also unfair and unjust - and define the inequities in our health care system. 
Therefore, the goal of the health care system should be to reduce or eliminate 
these disparities, especially when they are avoidable and unjust. A study by 
Orna Apel Brown describes the results of a health care survey among new 
immigrants to Israel from the former U.S.S.R. She shows that there has been an 
increase in their utilization of healthcare services, excluding preventive 
measures such as mammography, along with a reduction in the differences in their 
self perception of health care status and well-being - now placing them on the 
same par as their fellow Israeli-born citizens. The results, although 
encouraging, stress the importance of the health care system's need to direct 
its efforts to decreasing the disparity and making the system more equitable to 
the underprivileged populations in Israel.

PMID: 18686811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Int J Gynaecol Obstet. 2008 Oct;103(1):1-2. doi: 10.1016/j.ijgo.2008.06.003.
 Epub 2008 Aug 8.

Indigenous women's health: A continuing concern for many high-income nations.

Clark K.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijgo.2008.06.003
PMID: 18687431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Orv Hetil. 2008 Aug 17;149(33):1549-54. doi: 10.1556/OH.2008.28383.

[Psychosocial factors determining life expectancy of patients undergoing open 
heart surgery].

[Article in Hungarian]

Cserép Z(1), Losoncz E, Malik A, Székely A, Balog P, Kopp M.

Author information:
(1)Gottsegen György Országos Kardiológiai Intézet, Budapest, Hungary.

Not only the physical status of the patient and the clinical variables determine 
the outcome and recovery following open heart surgery. Psychosocial and 
socioeconomic factors have growing importance regarding this field. During the 
last decades, in the assessment of the results of revascularization the 
self-perceived health related quality of life of the patient has come into the 
limelight. Evidence suggests that self-perceived health related quality of life, 
depressive symptoms and anxiety together influence short and long term recovery 
following coronary bypass surgery. There is also a higher risk for morbidity and 
mortality among the lonely and the socially isolated. Lower education and poor 
social background may play a role in the higher mortality rates. In our review 
we summarize the psychosocial factors determining the outcome of heart surgery.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2008.28383
PMID: 18687573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Vasc Med. 2008 Aug;13(3):281-91. doi: 10.1177/1358863X08091485.

Critical limb ischemia: medical and surgical management.

Slovut DP(1), Sullivan TM.

Author information:
(1)North Shore Medical Center, Salem, MA , USA. david.slovut@mssm.edu

Chronic critical limb ischemia (CLI), defined as > 2 weeks of rest pain, ulcers, 
or tissue loss attributed to arterial occlusive disease, is associated with 
great loss of both limb and life. Therapeutic goals in treating patients with 
CLI include reducing cardiovascular risk factors, relieving ischemic pain, 
healing ulcers, preventing major amputation, improving quality of life and 
increasing survival. These aims may be achieved through medical therapy, 
revascularization, or amputation. Medical therapy includes administration of 
analgesics, local wound care and pressure relief, treatment of infection, and 
aggressive therapy to modify atherosclerotic risk factors. For patients who are 
not candidates for revascularization, and who are unwilling or unable to undergo 
amputation, treatments such as intermittent pneumatic compression or spinal cord 
stimulation may offer symptom relief and promote wound healing. 
Revascularization offers the best option for limb salvage. The decision to 
perform surgery, endovascular therapy, or a combination of the two modalities 
('hybrid' therapy) must be individualized. Patients who are relatively fit and 
able to withstand the rigors of an open procedure may benefit from the long-term 
durability of surgical repair. In contrast, frail patients with a limited life 
expectancy may experience better outcomes with endovascular reconstruction. 
Hybrid therapy is an attractive option for patients with limited autologous 
conduit, as it permits complete revascularization with a less extensive 
procedure, shorter duration of operation, and decreased risk of peri-operative 
complications. Amputation should be considered for patients who are 
non-ambulatory, demented, or unfit to undergo revascularization.

DOI: 10.1177/1358863X08091485
PMID: 18687766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J R Soc Med. 2008 Aug;101(8):409-15. doi: 10.1258/jrsm.2008.080035.

Geriatric surgery is about disease, not age.

Preston SD(1), Southall AR, Nel M, Das SK.

Author information:
(1)Cellular Pathology, Southampton University Hospitals NHS Trust, Tremona Road, 
Southampton, UK.

Maintaining life span and quality of life remains a valid aim of surgery in 
elderly people. Surgery can be an effective way of restoring both length and 
quality of life to older people. Minimally invasive techniques and surgery under 
local anaesthesia make fewer demands on geriatric physiology; given that 
co-morbidity is a stronger predictor of outcome from surgery than age, this is a 
significant consideration.

DOI: 10.1258/jrsm.2008.080035
PMCID: PMC2500244
PMID: 18687864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Am J Clin Nutr. 2008 Aug;88(2):570S-577S. doi: 10.1093/ajcn/88.2.570S.

Sun exposure and vitamin D sufficiency.

Gilchrest BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, 
USA. bgilchre@bu.edu

Comment on
    Skin Therapy Lett. 2008 Nov-Dec;13(8):4.

Ultraviolet radiation is a carcinogen that also compromises skin appearance and 
function. Because the ultraviolet action spectra for DNA damage, skin cancer, 
and vitamin D(3) photosynthesis are identical and vitamin D is readily available 
from oral supplements, why has sun protection become controversial? First, the 
media and, apparently, some researchers are hungry for a new message. Second, 
the controversy is fueled by a powerful special interest group: the tanning 
industry. This industry does not target the frail elderly or inner-city ethnic 
minorities, groups for whom evidence of vitamin D(3) insufficiency is strongest, 
but rather fair-skinned teenagers and young adults, who are at highest risk of 
ultraviolet photodamage. Third, evolution does not keep pace with civilization. 
When nature gave humans the appealing capacity for cutaneous vitamin D(3) 
photosynthesis, life expectancy was <40 y; long-term photodamage was not a 
concern; and vitamin D(3) deficiency, with its resulting skeletal abnormalities 
(rickets), was likely to be fatal in early life. In the 21st century, life 
expectancy approaches 80 y in developed countries, vitamin D(3) is available at 
the corner store, and the lifetime risk of skin cancer is 1 in 3 among white 
Americans. Medical and regulatory groups should avoid poorly reasoned, 
sensationalistic recommendations regarding unprotected ultraviolet exposure. 
Instead, they should rigorously explore possible cause-and-effect relations 
between vitamin D(3) status and specific diseases while advocating the safest 
possible means of ensuring vitamin D(3) sufficiency.

DOI: 10.1093/ajcn/88.2.570S
PMID: 18689404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Autophagy. 2008 Oct;4(7):874-86. doi: 10.4161/auto.6556. Epub 2008 Oct 8.

A life-span extending form of autophagy employs the vacuole-vacuole fusion 
machinery.

Tang F(1), Watkins JW, Bermudez M, Gray R, Gaban A, Portie K, Grace S, Kleve M, 
Craciun G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Arkansas, Little Rock, Arkansas 
72204-1099, USA. fxtang@ualr.edu

While autophagy is believed to be beneficial for life-span extension, it is 
controversial which forms or aspects of autophagy are responsible for this 
effect. We addressed this topic by analyzing the life span of yeast autophagy 
mutants under caloric restriction, a longevity manipulation. Surprisingly, we 
discovered that the majority of proteins involved in macroautophagy and several 
forms of microautophagy were dispensable for life-span extension. The only 
autophagy protein that is critical for life-span extension was Atg15, a lipase 
that is located in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and transported to vacuoles 
for disintegrating membranes of autophagic bodies. We further found that 
vacuole-vacuole fusion was required for life-span extension, which was indicated 
by the shortened life span of mutants missing proteins (ypt7Delta, nyv1Delta, 
vac8Delta) or lipids (erg6Delta) involved in fusion. Since a known function of 
vacuole-vacuole fusion is the maintenance of the vacuole membrane integrity, we 
analyzed aged vacuoles and discovered that aged cells had altered vacuolar 
morphology and accumulated autophagic bodies, suggesting that certain forms of 
autophagy do contribute to longevity. Like aged cells, erg6Delta accumulated 
autophagic bodies, which is likely caused by a defect in lipase instead of 
proteases due to the existence of multiple vacuolar proteases. Since 
macroautophagy is not blocked by erg6Delta, we propose that a new form of 
autophagy transports Atg15 via the fusion of vacuoles with vesicles derived from 
ER, and we designate this putative form of autophagy as secretophagy. Pending 
future biochemical studies, the concept of secretophagy may provide a mechanism 
for autophagy in life-span extension.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.6556
PMID: 18690010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2008;8(4):257-63. doi:
10.2165/00129784-200808040-00005.

Cardioprotective effect of dexrazoxane in patients with breast cancer treated 
with anthracyclines in adjuvant setting: a 10-year single institution 
experience.

Testore F(1), Milanese S, Ceste M, de Conciliis E, Parello G, Lanfranco C, 
Manfredi R, Ferrero G, Simoni C, Miglietta L, Ferro S, Giaretto L, Bosso G.

Author information:
(1)Oncology Unit, Ospedale Cardinal Massaia, Asti, Italy.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Anthracyclines are highly effective and widely used 
cytotoxic agents, but their application is often limited by cumulative 
dose-dependent cardiotoxicity. Dexrazoxane has been shown in several clinical 
trials to prevent the development of this serious toxicity. The aim of our study 
was to analyze the incidence of cardiac dysfunction over a 10-year period in 
patients with breast cancer who were treated with anthracycline-based regimens 
with addition of dexrazoxane, mainly in an adjuvant setting.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective analysis on a population of women with 
breast cancer treated at our institution between January 1993 and October 2003. 
We reviewed patients' medical records and data on patient characteristics, 
treatment history, and adverse events that were collected, starting from the 
time of first visit before starting therapy, with the use of software created 
and designed for clinical records management in our institution (1999 OK-DH). 
Patients underwent an ECG assessment prior to starting chemotherapy, and were 
clinically monitored for cardiac failure. Those who developed signs and symptoms 
suggestive of cardiac dysfunction underwent further ECG. If clinical findings 
indicated, echocardiography and further cardiologic investigations were 
performed. The main outcome measure was the development of signs and symptoms 
indicative of congestive heart failure (CHF).
RESULTS: A total of 318 female patients were treated with an anthracycline 
(doxorubicin or epirubicin)-based combination chemotherapy regimen during this 
time, in most cases in the adjuvant setting (n = 285). Most patients (n = 302) 
had early-stage disease and only 16 women presented with metastatic disease with 
good life expectancy (at least 1 year). All patients received dexrazoxane 1000 
mg/m(2) intravenously prior to anthracycline administration during each 
chemotherapy cycle. The median follow-up duration was 35 months. During this 
time, five patients (1.57%) developed signs and symptoms of CHF. No patient at 
our institution died of heart failure during the period analyzed. Dexrazoxane 
was well tolerated, with no reports of adverse events associated with this drug.
CONCLUSIONS: The reported incidence of cardiotoxicity in this study represents a 
marked reduction compared with historical data for patients receiving 
anthracycline-based chemotherapy without dexrazoxane. Dexrazoxane appears to 
have a cardioprotective effect in women with early-stage or advanced breast 
cancer treated with anthracycline-based combination chemotherapy, mainly as an 
adjuvant treatment. Prospective, randomized, controlled clinical trials in 
adjuvant setting should be performed to confirm these results.

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200808040-00005
PMID: 18690759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Curr HIV Res. 2008 Jun;6(4):279-85. doi: 10.2174/157016208785132482.

A careful look at "A re-look at recent statistics on mortality in the context of 
HIV/AIDS with particular reference to South Africa".

Dorrington R(1), Moultrie TA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Actuarial Research, University of Cape Town, South Africa. 
rob.dorrington@uct.ac.za

Comment on
    Curr HIV Res. 2008 Mar;6(2):143-51.

An article recently published in this journal argues that the life expectancies 
(and other mortality statistics) produced by models of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in 
Southern Africa are inconsistent, and questions their reliability. To 
demonstrate the argument, the author of that paper derived empirical estimates 
of several mortality statistics from three different sources of data and, on the 
grounds that the estimates of life expectancy for 2001 and 2006 are somewhat 
higher than is typically estimated by projection models, concludes that the 
empirical evidence supports the theoretical view outlined in that paper. If 
correct, the reasoning (and its empirical demonstration) could be construed as a 
strong challenge to a dominant orthodoxy surrounding the estimation of mortality 
statistics in an era of HIV/AIDS and offering some comfort to governments with 
low Human Development Indices because of the index's dependence, inter alia, on 
estimates of life expectancy at birth derived from such models. This paper shows 
how, on theoretical, methodological and empirical grounds, the reasoning and 
estimates in the paper are severely flawed, and thus that the conclusions drawn 
in that paper are unjustified.

DOI: 10.2174/157016208785132482
PMID: 18691026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Curr Med Chem. 2008;15(19):1887-98. doi: 10.2174/092986708785132951.

Trans-resveratrol: a magical elixir of eternal youth?

Orallo F(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Farmacología, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad de Santiago 
de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela (La Coruña), Spain. fforallo@usc.es

Trans-resveratrol or (E)-resveratrol [3,4',5 trihydroxy-trans-stilbene, t-RESV 
or (E)-RESV] is a natural component of Vitis vinifera L. (Vitaceae), abundant in 
the skin of grapes (but not in the flesh) and in the leaf epidermis and present 
in wines (especially red wines). In in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo experiments, 
t-RESV exhibits a number of biological activities, including anti inflammatory, 
antioxidant, platelet antiaggregatory and anticarcinogenic properties, and 
modulation of lipoprotein metabolism. Some of these activities have been 
implicated in the cardiovascular protective effects attributed to t-RESV and to 
red wine. Prior to 2002 there had been no previous studies describing the 
potential effects of t-RESV on the lifespan extension. However, in the last 5 
years, several researchers have reported that t-RESV is a potent activator of 
sirtuin enzymatic activity, mimics the beneficial effects of caloric restriction 
(CR), retards the aging process and increases longevity in a number of organisms 
from different phyla such as yeasts, worms, flies and short-lived fish. In 
addition, t-RESV seems to be effective in delaying the onset of a variety of 
age-related diseases in mammals (e.g.: rodents). Therefore, this review will 
basically focus on the possible role of t-RESV to extend life duration and on 
some of the mechanisms by which t-RESV may act as an anti-aging agent.

DOI: 10.2174/092986708785132951
PMID: 18691046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Theor Biol. 2008 Nov 21;255(2):223-36. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2008.07.021.
Epub  2008 Jul 23.

The natural distribution of survival.

Milne EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, University of Newcastle upon Tyne, c/o 
Government Office for the North East, Citygate, Newcastle upon Tyne NE1 4WH, UK. 
eugene.milne@ncl.ac.uk

Great similarities in survival patterns permit the Gompertz and other 
established equations to describe parts of mortality curves in various species. 
These patterns appear non-random and invite inference of biological meaning, 
though no unifying explanation is agreed. Under the theory described here, 
linear decline of an initial quantity of species or strain-specific redundant 
reserve interacts with extrinsic hazards via a 'nested binomial' model, which is 
presented both in a simple, four parameter form, and a more complex form that 
incorporates inter-individual and inter-functional biological variation. This 
approach demonstrates exponential rises in mortality, late-life deceleration and 
Strehler-Mildvan correlation. Biological variation within the complex model, 
specifically in the redundancy decay rate parameter, is shown to generate 
mortality plateaux, while outlier phenotypes produce mortality decelerations, 
supporting inter-individual heterogeneity as the cause of these phenomena. The 
model is robust to large variations in organism complexity, and to broad 
intra-population hazard variation. Specific parameters appear analogous to 
observed elements of ageing, and a central role for redundancy depletion 
provides a context for longevity genes and rapid evolution of increased 
lifespan. This approach offers a unifying model for a great variety of ageing 
phenomena across a wide range of species.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2008.07.021
PMID: 18692509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Harefuah. 2008 Jun;147(6):488-92, 576.

[Economic examination of the 2006/7 update of the Israeli national list of 
health services].

[Article in Hebrew]

Shmueli A(1), Nissan-Englcin E.

Author information:
(1)The Hebrew University. amirsh@ekmd.huji.ac.il

BACKGROUND: The Public Committee bases its choices on clinical, ethical and 
social considerations, and not, in general, on the (minimal) cost per Quality 
Adjusted Life Year (QALY) of the technologies.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the Public Committee's 2006/7 decisions from an economic 
viewpoint.
METHODS: The examination analyzes the findings from reviews of: 1) Recent 
studies which estimated the Value of Statistical Life (VSL), and hence the value 
of QALY, in Israel and abroad, and 2) Reports of the costs per QALY of the 
technologies adopted.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The paper recommends that the Israeli willingness to 
pay (WTP) for human life is set at NIS 10 million, for life year at NIS 200,000 
and for QALY at NIS 250,000. While the Committee's ranking of the 40 
technologies, on which data was found, does not match the ranking by cost per 
QALY, the cost per QALY of all but three (Avastin, Myozyme and Zomera) was below 
NIS 250,000, and of most of the technologies was below NIS 150,000. Apart from 
these cases--which can be argued for on social-ethical-political specific 
grounds--the costs per QALY are below the WTP. In order to achieve an efficient 
and equitable allocation of national resources to areas which improve safety and 
health, the social WTP for life and for QALY must be seriously and publicly 
discussed.

PMID: 18693622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2008 Aug 11;7:24. doi: 10.1186/1475-2840-7-24.

Evaluation of the cost effectiveness of exenatide versus insulin glargine in 
patients with sub-optimally controlled type 2 diabetes in the United Kingdom.

Woehl A(1), Evans M, Tetlow AP, McEwan P.

Author information:
(1)School of Mathematics, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK. woehla@cardiff.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: Exenatide belongs to a new therapeutic class in the treatment of 
diabetes (incretin mimetics), allowing glucose-dependent glycaemic control in 
type 2 diabetes. Randomised controlled trial data suggest that exenatide is as 
effective as insulin glargine at reducing HbA1c in combination therapy with 
metformin and sulphonylureas; with reduced weight but higher incidence of 
adverse gastrointestinal events. The objective of this study is to evaluate the 
cost effectiveness of exenatide versus insulin glargine using RCT data and a 
previously published model of type 2 diabetes disease progression that is based 
on the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study; the perspective of the 
health-payer of the United Kingdom National Health Service.
METHODS: The study used a discrete event simulation model designed to forecast 
the costs and health outcome of a cohort of 1,000 subjects aged over 40 years 
with sub-optimally-controlled type 2 diabetes, following initiation of either 
exenatide, or insulin glargine, in addition to oral hypoglycaemic agents. 
Sensitivity analysis for a higher treatment discontinuation rate in exenatide 
patients was applied to the cohort in three different scenarios; (1) either 
ignored or (2) exenatide-failures excluded or (3) exenatide-failures switched to 
insulin glargine. Analyses were undertaken to evaluate the price sensitivity of 
exenatide in terms of relative cost effectiveness. Baseline cohort profiles and 
effectiveness data were taken from a published randomised controlled trial.
RESULTS: The relative cost-effectiveness of exenatide and insulin glargine was 
tested under a variety of conditions, in which insulin glargine was dominant in 
all cases. Using the most conservative of assumptions, the cost-effectiveness 
ratio of exenatide vs. insulin glargine at the current UK NHS price was -29,149 
pounds/QALY (insulin glargine dominant) and thus exenatide is not cost-effective 
when compared with insulin glargine, at the current UK NHS price.
CONCLUSION: This study evaluated the relative cost effectiveness of insulin 
glargine versus exenatide in the management of type 2 diabetes using a published 
model. Given no significant difference in glycaemic control and applying the 
additional effectiveness of exenatide over insulin glargine, with respect to 
weight loss, and using the current UK NHS prices, insulin glargine was found to 
be dominant over exenatide in all modelled scenarios. With current clinical 
evidence, exenatide does not appear to represent a cost-effective treatment 
option for patients with type 2 diabetes when compared to insulin glargine.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2840-7-24
PMCID: PMC2546382
PMID: 18694484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Int J Obes (Lond). 2008 Aug;32 Suppl 3:S8-14. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2008.82.

Does obesity shorten life? The importance of well-defined interventions to 
answer causal questions.

Hernán MA(1), Taubman SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 
02115, USA. miguel_hernan@post.harvard.edu

Many observational studies have estimated a strong effect of obesity on 
mortality. In this paper, we explicitly define the causal question that is asked 
by these studies and discuss the problems associated with it. We argue that 
observational studies of obesity and mortality violate the condition of 
consistency of counterfactual (potential) outcomes, a necessary condition for 
meaningful causal inference, because (1) they do not explicitly specify the 
interventions on body mass index (BMI) that are being compared and (2) different 
methods to modify BMI may lead to different counterfactual mortality outcomes, 
even if they lead to the same BMI value in a given person. Besides precluding 
the estimation of unambiguous causal effects, this violation of consistency 
affects the ability to address two additional conditions that are also necessary 
for causal inference: exchangeability and positivity. We conclude that 
consistency violations not only preclude the estimation of well-defined causal 
effects but also compromise our ability to estimate ill-defined causal effects.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2008.82
PMID: 18695657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Nat Clin Pract Cardiovasc Med. 2008 Oct;5(10):600-1. doi:
10.1038/ncpcardio1310.  Epub 2008 Aug 12.

Management of elderly patients with aortic valve disease.

Bogers AJ(1), Kappetein AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery at Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. a.j.j.c.bogers@erasmusmc.nl

Increased life expectancy has resulted in a growing population of elderly 
people, among whom aortic stenosis is increasingly prevalent. For the majority 
of patients, the treatment of aortic stenosis is surgical, and every symptomatic 
patient should be considered for aortic valve replacement. Although operative 
mortality seems to be declining over time, a substantial number of patients do 
not undergo surgery because of excessive risk, advanced age, or treatment 
preference of either the patient or the physician. The challenge in the near 
future will be the enhancement of tools for proper clinical decision-making, so 
that patients can be stratified to appropriate treatment alternatives. Reports 
on the treatment of aortic valve stenosis should, therefore, include all 
patients presenting with the disease and not only those who receive surgery.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpcardio1310
PMID: 18695696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Nat Clin Pract Cardiovasc Med. 2008 Oct;5(10):606-7. doi:
10.1038/ncpcardio1309.  Epub 2008 Aug 12.

Eliminating out-of-pocket drug costs may improve outcomes after myocardial 
infarction--but at what cost to Medicare?

Moran A(1), Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Columbia University, New York, NY 
10032, USA. aem35@columbia.edu

A standard four-drug regimen of aspirin, a beta-blocker, a lipid-lowering agent, 
and an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin-receptor blocker 
improves outcomes in survivors of myocardial infarction (MI), but adherence to 
this regimen is often poor. Choudhry et al. used a computer model to simulate 
the effectiveness and cost of improving medication adherence by eliminating 
out-of-pocket costs for the four-drug regimen in a hypothetical cohort of 
65-year-old Medicare beneficiaries with MI. Based on the model's main 
assumptions, eliminating cost sharing for the regimen would be cost saving from 
a societal perspective, but would cost Medicare $7,182 per quality-adjusted life 
year. The results of the Choudhry et al. analysis suggest that improving 
adherence to a secondary prevention strategy by eliminating out-of-pocket costs 
for standard post-MI medications would be a cost-effective Medicare policy.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpcardio1309
PMID: 18695697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Am Fam Physician. 2008 Jul 15;78(2):206-15.

Geriatric screening and preventive care.

Spalding MC(1), Sebesta SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Texas Tech University Health 
Sciences Center at El Paso, El Paso, Texas 79924, USA.

Preventive health care decisions and recommendations become more complex as the 
population ages. The leading causes of death (i.e., heart disease, malignant 
neoplasms, cerebrovascular disease, and chronic lower respiratory disease) among 
older adults mirror the actual causes of death (i.e., tobacco use, poor diet, 
and physical inactivity) among persons of all ages. Many aspects of mortality in 
older adults are modifiable through behavior change. Patients 65 years and older 
should be counseled on smoking cessation, diets rich in healthy fats, aerobic 
exercise, and strength training. Other types of preventive care include aspirin 
therapy; lipid management; and administration of tetanus and diphtheria, 
pneumococcal, and influenza vaccines. Although cancer is the second leading 
cause of death in patients 65 years and older, a survival benefit from cancer 
screening is not seen unless the patient's life expectancy exceeds five years. 
Therefore, it is best to review life expectancy, functionality, and 
comorbidities with older patients when making cancer screening recommendations. 
Other recommended screenings include abdominal aortic aneurysm for men 65 to 75 
years of age, breast cancer for women 40 years and older with a life expectancy 
greater than five years, and colorectal cancer for men and women 50 years and 
older with a life expectancy greater than five years.

PMID: 18697503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Clin Cancer Res. 2008 Aug 15;14(16):5255-9. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-0358.

An initial report of a radiation dose-escalation trial in patients with one to 
five sites of metastatic disease.

Salama JK(1), Chmura SJ, Mehta N, Yenice KM, Stadler WM, Vokes EE, Haraf DJ, 
Hellman S, Weichselbaum RR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation and Cellular Oncology, The University of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois 60637, USA. jsalama@radonc.uchicago.edu

PURPOSE: Previous investigations have suggested that a subset of patients with 
metastatic cancer in a limited number of organs may benefit from local 
treatment. We investigated whether cancer patients with limited sites of 
metastatic disease (oligometastasis) who failed standard therapies could be 
identified and safely treated at one to five known sites of low-volume disease 
with radiotherapy.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Patients with one to five sites of metastatic cancer with a 
life expectancy of >3 months and good performance status received escalating 
doses of radiation to all known sites of cancer with hypofractionated radiation 
therapy. Patients were followed radiographically with computed tomography scans 
of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis and metabolically with 
[18F]fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography 1 month following treatment 
and then every 3 months. Acute toxicities were scored using the National Cancer 
Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0 and late 
toxicities were scored using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group late toxicity 
scoring system.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients with 56 metastatic lesions were enrolled from 
November 2004 to March 2007, with a median follow-up of 14.9 months. Two 
patients experienced acute (radiation pneumonitis and nausea) and one 
experienced chronic (gastrointestinal hemorrhage) grade > or =3 toxicity. 
Fifty-nine percent of patients responded to protocol therapy. Twenty-one percent 
of patients have not progressed following protocol treatment. Fifty-seven 
percent of treated lesions have not progressed at last follow-up. Progression 
was amenable to further local therapy in 48% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with low-volume metastatic cancer can be identified, 
safely treated, and may benefit from radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-0358
PMID: 18698045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. JAMA. 2008 Aug 13;300(6):652-3. doi: 10.1001/jama.300.6.652.

Risk of suicide among US veterans after returning from the Iraq or Afghanistan 
war zones.

Kang HK, Bullman TA.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.300.6.652
PMID: 18698062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Haematologica. 2008 Sep;93(9):1335-42. doi: 10.3324/haematol.12918. Epub
2008  Aug 12.

Second malignancies after treatment of diffuse large B-cell non-Hodgkin's 
lymphoma: a GISL cohort study.

Sacchi S(1), Marcheselli L, Bari A, Marcheselli R, Pozzi S, Gobbi PG, Angrilli 
F, Brugiatelli M, Musto P, Federico M.

Author information:
(1)Centro Oncologico Modenese, Policlinico, Largo del Pozzo 71, 4100 Modena 
Italy. ssacchi@unimo.it

BACKGROUND: Improved treatment has increased the life expectancy of patients 
with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, but few studies have addressed the issue of second 
cancer in patients treated for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. The aims of this 
study were to determine the incidence and time free of second cancers in this 
subset of patients.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We evaluated a cohort of 1280 patients with diffuse large 
B-cell lymphoma who were first treated between 1988 and 2003. We utilized the 
central database of the Gruppo Italiano Studio Linfomi, which includes data on 
demographics, clinical characteristics, laboratory parameters, treatment and 
follow-up of all patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma enrolled in clinical 
trials.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 51 months, 48 patients had developed a 
second cancer: 13 hematologic malignancies and 35 solid tumors. The overall 
standardized incidence ratio in our cohort (with a median age of 58 years) 
matched that of the general Italian population. The incidence ratio of second 
tumors was age related, and the age groups 20-39 and 40-59 years showed an 
increased risk. Overall, the cumulative incidence of second cancer was 8.2% at 
15 years. A multivariate analysis showed that older age at the time of diagnosis 
of lymphoma had a negative influence on the time free of second tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: In our cohort, only young patients showed an increased incidence 
ratio of second malignancies, while the incidence ratio in patients aged over 59 
years matched the incidence in the Italian general population. Demographics, 
baseline characteristics, laboratory parameters and treatment modalities did not 
have any significant impact on the incidence ratio of a second cancer.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.12918
PMID: 18698083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2008 May-Jun;23(3):481-6.

A 5-year prospective multicenter study on 1-stage smooth-surface Brånemark 
System implants with early loading in edentulous mandibles.

Friberg B(1), Raghoebar GM, Grunert I, Hobkirk JA, Tepper G.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Odontology, Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health, Göteborg, 
Sweden. bertil.friberg@vgregion.se

PURPOSE: The purpose of the current prospective multicenter study was to 
evaluate the 5-year implant success and peri-implant conditions of 
smooth-surface Brånemark System implants when using a novel technique including 
a 1-stage surgical procedure with early loading in edentulous mandibles.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study protocol included 1-stage surgery as well as 
placement of the definitive prosthesis within 6 weeks after implant insertion 
(ie, early loading). Clinical evaluation, as well as evaluation of function and 
esthetics, was performed at each follow-up visit. Radiographs were obtained at 
connection of the prostheses and at the 1, 3-, and 5-year check-ups.
RESULTS: A total of 40 patients with a mean age of 56 years (range, 30 to 70) 
were included in the study. In all, 170 implants were placed in between the 
mental foramina, of which 120 implants in 30 patients were associated with 
overdenture treatment and 50 implants in 10 patients with fixed complete 
dentures. Twelve implants failed in 6 patients. The cumulative implant survival 
rate was 92.9% after both 1 and 5 years of follow-up. Another 3 implants were 
recorded as mobile but still in function when individually checked at the 5-year 
visit, which resulted in a cumulative success rate of 91.0%. Mean bone 
remodeling over the study period was less than 0.1 mm/y after the first year of 
loading, resulting in a mean marginal bone level of 0.66 mm (SD 0.73, n = 138) 
apical to the implant collar reference point after 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: One-stage, early loaded smooth-surface Brånemark System implants 
functioned well for the majority of patients with edentulous mandibles. Stable 
peri-implant conditions were observed. Bone remodeling resulted in a mean bone 
level above the first implant thread after 5 years. The somewhat lower success 
rate of 91.0% compared to a 2-stage procedure may be related to generous 
inclusion criteria and to a learning curve involving a novel treatment 
procedure.

PMID: 18700372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Popul Trends. 2008 Summer;(132):8-16.

Estimating the changing population of the 'oldest old'.

Dini E(1), Goldring S.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

The population of England and Wales is becoming older. This poses an increasing 
demand for detailed data on the size an trends of the population at the oldes 
ages. Using the recently released Offic for National Statistics estimates of th 
population aged 90 and over in England and Wales, this article shows trends in 
the population of the oldest old and demographic causes of the rapid increase in 
centenarians during the twentieth century. It also presents further validation 
of the ON estimates of the oldest old with estimat from other data sources.

PMID: 18700519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Indian J Public Health. 2008 Jan-Mar;52(1):21-7.

Estimation of mortality due to AIDS--a review.

Bhattacharya M(1), Neogi SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Administration, National Institute of Health 
and Family Welfare, New Delhi, India. bhattacharya_40@hotmail.com

HIV/AIDS has emerged as a major public health problem since its recognition as 
an emerging disease a couple of decades ago. While detection of HIV/AIDS cases 
remains a problem, ascertainment of AIDS deaths has emerged as a bigger 
challenge and concern. Despite a plethora of literature focusing on the methods 
to estimate AIDS deaths, none seems to be fulfilling the requirements for 
universal acceptance. In this paper, we give a systematic review of various 
methods used by experts to have a reliable estimate of the number of deaths due 
to AIDS. Initial assessments were derived from morgue based estimates in Africa 
which showed that AIDS was a leading cause of death. Its impact on demography 
was noticed in some of the studies conducted wherein age and sex specific 
mortality rates, standardized mortality ratios, potential years of life lost and 
decrease in life expectancy were calculated. "Excess mortality factor" as 
observed in 1980s and 1990s also indicated the approximate number of AIDS 
deaths. Besides, orphan hood method and verbal autopsy technique too, emerged as 
reliable means to identify mortality due to AIDS. Some indirect methods like 
estimation of deaths due to opportunistic infections like tuberculosis could 
also be a good indicator. The paper reviews the merits and possible biases 
encountered with each of the methods.

PMID: 18700717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Aug 13;8:174. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-174.

Cost effectiveness of chest pain unit care in the NHS.

Oluboyede Y(1), Goodacre S, Wailoo A; ESCAPE Research Team.

Collaborators: Arnold J, Capewell S, Cross L, Goodacre S, Johnson M, Lewis C, 
Morris F, Nicholl J, Oluboyede Y, Read S, Tod A, Adams P, Coats T, Cullum N, 
Gray A, Kendall J, Newby D, Dixon S, Benger J, Gray D, Prescott R, Hollingsworth 
J, Rodrigues E, McCarten P, Roe D, Johns D, Osula S, Randles K, Walter D, 
Lancaster C, Brett C, Bickerton G, Russell R, Okereke D, Chawla A, Lindley J, 
Housham J, McGugan S, Coffey F, Miller P, Mann C, Haffenden A, Capewell B, 
Keaney J, Langford N, Johnson R, Amos S, Baker S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science (HEDS), School of health and related 
research, University of Sheffield, 30 Regent Street,Sheffield, UK. 
y.oluboyede@leeds.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Acute chest pain is responsible for approximately 700,000 patient 
attendances per year at emergency departments in England and Wales. A single 
centre study of selected patients suggested that chest pain unit (CPU) care 
could be less costly and more effective than routine care for these patients, 
although a more recent multi-centre study cast doubt on the generalisability of 
these findings.
METHODS: Our economic evaluation involved modelling data from the ESCAPE 
multi-centre trial along with data from other sources to estimate the 
comparative costs and effects of CPU versus routine care. Cost effectiveness 
ratios (cost per QALY) were generated from our model.
RESULTS: We found that CPU compared to routine care resulted in a 
non-significant increase in effectiveness of 0.0075 QALYs per patient and a 
non-significant cost decrease of 32 pounds sterling per patient and thus a 
negative incremental cost effectiveness ratio. If we are willing to pay 20,000 
pounds sterling for an additional QALY then there is a 70% probability that CPU 
care will be considered cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Our analysis shows that CPU care is likely to be slightly more 
effective and less expensive than routine care, however, these estimates are 
surrounded by a substantial amount of uncertainty. We cannot reliably conclude 
that establishing CPU care will represent a cost-effective use of health service 
resources given the substantial amount of investment it would require.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-174
PMCID: PMC2527313
PMID: 18700961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Chin Med J (Engl). 2008 May 5;121(9):858.

Women in 180 U.S. counties see decrease in lifespan.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18701056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Adolesc. 2009 Apr;32(2):247-57. doi: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2008.03.009.
Epub  2008 Aug 13.

You're all grown up now: Termination of foster care support at age 18.

Avery RJ(1), Freundlich M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Policy Analysis and Management, Cornell University, 119B MVR 
Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853, USA. rja7@cornell.edu

This article considers the repercussions of discharging youth from foster care 
at age 18 based on recent research demonstrating that youth at this age are not 
developmentally prepared to live independently and have a continued need for 
strong social scaffolding during emerging adulthood. Drawing upon recent 
research findings, we make recommendations for changes to state and federal 
policy that provide youth transitioning from foster care an extension of 
federal/state financial and social support into the third decade of life. We 
argue for a re-conceptualization of "independent living" as "interdependent 
living," and recommend that policymakers require a permanent committed adult be 
identified for each youth prior to discharge from foster care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.adolescence.2008.03.009
PMID: 18701156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Arthroplasty. 2009 Sep;24(6):854-60. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2008.05.008. Epub
 2008 Aug 12.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of the arthroplasty options for displaced femoral 
neck fractures in the active, healthy, elderly population.

Slover J(1), Hoffman MV, Malchau H, Tosteson AN, Koval KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. P60 AR48094

This study was performed to explore the cost-effectiveness of total hip 
arthroplasty (THA) compared with hemiarthroplasty (HEMI) in the treatment of 
displaced femoral neck fractures in active otherwise healthy older patients in 
whom the optimum treatment is believed to be an arthroplasty procedure. A Markov 
decision model was used to determine whether THA or HEMI was most cost-effective 
for the management of a displaced femoral neck fracture in this patient 
population. Total hip arthroplasty was associated with an average cost $3000 
more than HEMI, and the average quality-adjusted life year gain was 1.53. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio associated with the THA treatment strategy 
is $1960 per quality-adjusted life year. Currently available data support the 
use of THA as the more cost-effective treatment strategy in this specific 
population. The increased upfront cost appears to be offset by the improved 
functional results when compared with HEMI in this select patient group.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2008.05.008
PMCID: PMC2876817
PMID: 18701245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2008 Sep;62(9):783-9. doi: 
