
Author information:
(1)NHMRC Centre for Clinical Research Excellence in Renal Medicine, Children's 
Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, NSW, Australia. germainw@chw.edu.au

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2008 Nov;52(5):830-3.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer screening is recommended for women 50 years and older 
in most developed countries. Women on dialysis therapy have a risk of acquiring 
breast cancer similar to that for other women, but a greater all-cause mortality 
rate because of mortality from other competing causes. It is uncertain whether 
routine screening is cost-effective in women on dialysis therapy. In this study, 
we determine the costs and health outcomes of annual mammographic breast cancer 
screening in women on dialysis therapy.
STUDY DESIGN: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis. Sensitivity and 
scenario analyses were performed to assess uncertainties in the model's 
parameter estimates. BASE CASE: A cohort (n = 1,000) of women on dialysis 
therapy aged 50 to 69 years in Australia. MODEL, PERSPECTIVE, AND TIME FRAME: A 
deterministic Markov model was developed from the perspective of a health care 
payer. Patients were followed up over their life time.
INTERVENTION: We compared a cohort of women who underwent annual mammography 
with a cohort that did not.
OUTCOMES: Life-years saved (LYS), costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Average costs for a program of annual screening for a woman on dialysis 
therapy were $4,805 over 30 years. Incremental costs of screening were $403, and 
benefits were 0.0037 LYS. Five breast cancer deaths occurred in the screened arm 
and 6 breast cancer deaths occurred in the unscreened arm, a difference of 1 
breast cancer averted by screening, with an estimated ICER of $109,852/LYS. The 
absolute reduction in breast cancer mortality was 0.1%, with a net gain in life 
expectancy of 1.3 days. The ICER was strongly dependent on age, with the most 
favorable ICER approximately $100,000/LYS at age 45 years.
LIMITATIONS: Costs and clinical data were obtained from the nonindigenous 
Australian population and may not be generalizable to African Americans on 
dialysis therapy and indigenous populations from other countries.
CONCLUSION: Using the most optimistic assumptions, survival gains expected from 
screening for breast cancer in women on dialysis therapy are very small. Annual 
population breast cancer screening should not be recommended for all women on 
dialysis therapy, but should be an individual decision between the patient and 
health care provider.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2008.06.015
PMID: 18789566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Med Hypotheses. 2009 Feb;72(2):125-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2008.07.044. Epub
2008  Sep 11.

The low-methionine content of vegan diets may make methionine restriction 
feasible as a life extension strategy.

McCarty MF(1), Barroso-Aranda J, Contreras F.

Author information:
(1)Oasis of Hope Hospital, Tijuana, Mexico. mccarty@pantox.com

Recent studies confirm that dietary methionine restriction increases both mean 
and maximal lifespan in rats and mice, achieving "aging retardant" effects very 
similar to those of caloric restriction, including a suppression of 
mitochondrial superoxide generation. Although voluntary caloric restriction is 
never likely to gain much popularity as a pro-longevity strategy for humans, it 
may be more feasible to achieve moderate methionine restriction, in light of the 
fact that vegan diets tend to be relatively low in this amino acid. Plant 
proteins - especially those derived from legumes or nuts - tend to be lower in 
methionine than animal proteins. Furthermore, the total protein content of vegan 
diets, as a function of calorie content, tends to be lower than that of omnivore 
diets, and plant protein has somewhat lower bioavailability than animal protein. 
Whole-food vegan diets that moderate bean and soy intake, while including ample 
amounts of fruit and wine or beer, can be quite low in methionine, while 
supplying abundant nutrition for health (assuming concurrent B12 
supplementation). Furthermore, low-fat vegan diets, coupled with exercise 
training, can be expected to promote longevity by decreasing systemic levels of 
insulin and free IGF-I; the latter effect would be amplified by methionine 
restriction - though it is not clear whether IGF-I down-regulation is the sole 
basis for the impact of low-methionine diets on longevity in rodents.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2008.07.044
PMID: 18789600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Mech Ageing Dev. 2008 Oct;129(10):614-23. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.08.002.
Epub  2008 Aug 23.

Aging-from molecules to populations.

Sander M(1), Avlund K, Lauritzen M, Gottlieb T, Halliwell B, Stevnsner T, Wewer 
U, Bohr VA.

Author information:
(1)Page One Editorial Services, Boulder, Colorado, USA.

The mean age of the human population is steadily increasing in many areas around 
the globe, a phenomenon with large social, political, economic and 
biological/medical implications. Inevitably, this phenomenon is stimulating 
great interest in understanding and potentially modulating the process of human 
aging. To foster interactions and collaboration between diverse scientists 
interested in the biochemical, physiological, epidemiological and psychosocial 
aspects of aging, The University of Copenhagen Faculty of Health Sciences 
recently organized and co-sponsored a workshop entitled Aging-From Molecules to 
Populations. The following questions about human aging were discussed at the 
workshop: What is the limit of human life expectancy? What are the key 
indicators of human aging? What are the key drivers of human aging? Which genes 
have the greatest impact on human aging? How similar is aging-related cognitive 
decline to pathological cognitive decline associated with neurological disease? 
Are human progeriod diseases, characterized by premature aging, good models for 
"normal" human aging? Is delayed or "elite" aging informative about "normal" 
human aging? To what extent and by what mechanisms do early life environmental 
factors influence aging-associated physical and cognitive decline? To what 
extent and by what mechanism does the social environment influence life course 
outcomes? What physiological factors underlie the timing and extent of 
aging-associated physical and cognitive decline? How do cultural stereotypes and 
perceptions of aging influence the process and experience of aging? One of the 
primary outcomes of the workshop was a recognition that cross-disciplinary 
studies and "out-of-the-box" approaches, especially those that adopt an 
integrated life course perspective on human health status, are needed to 
expedite advances in aging research. This and other outcomes of the workshop are 
summarized and discussed in this report.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.08.002
PMCID: PMC4586257
PMID: 18789959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Lancet. 2008 Sep 13;372(9642):893-901. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61399-9.

Implications of mortality transition for primary health care in rural South 
Africa: a population-based surveillance study.

Tollman SM(1), Kahn K, Sartorius B, Collinson MA, Clark SJ, Garenne ML.

Author information:
(1)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit 
(Agincourt), School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 Sep 13;372(9642):866-8.

BACKGROUND: In southern Africa, a substantial health transition is underway, 
with the heavy burden of chronic infectious illness (HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis) 
paralleled by the growing threat of non-communicable diseases. We investigated 
the extent and nature of this health transition and considered the implications 
for primary health care.
METHODS: Health and sociodemographic surveillance started in the Agincourt 
subdistrict, rural South Africa, in 1992. In a population of 70 000, deaths 
(n=6153) were rigorously monitored with a validated verbal autopsy instrument to 
establish probable cause. We used age-standardised analyses to investigate the 
dynamics of the mortality transition by comparing the period 2002-05 with 
1992-94.
FINDINGS: Mortality from chronic non-communicable disease ranked highest in 
adults aged 50 years and older in 1992-94 (41% of deaths [123/298]), whereas 
acute diarrhoea and malnutrition accounted for 37% of deaths (59/158) in 
children younger than 5 years. Since then, all-cause mortality increased 
substantially (risk ratio 1.87 [95% CI 1.73-2.03]; p<0.0001) because of a 
six-fold rise in deaths from infectious disease affecting most age and sex 
groups (5.98 [4.85-7.38]; p<0.0001), and a modest increase in deaths from 
non-communicable disease (1.15 [0.99-1.33]; p=0.066). The change in female risk 
of death from HIV and tuberculosis (15.06 [8.88-27.76]; p<0.0001) was almost 
double that of the change in male risk (8.13 [5.55-12.36]; p<0.0001). The burden 
of disorders requiring chronic care increased disproportionately compared with 
that requiring acute care (2.63 [2.30-3.01]; p<0.0001 vs 1.31 [1.12-1.55]; 
p=0.0003).
INTERPRETATION: Mortality from non-communicable disease remains prominent 
despite the sustained increase in deaths from chronic infectious disease. The 
implications for primary health-care systems are substantial, with integrated 
chronic care based on scaled-up delivery of antiretroviral therapy needed to 
address this expanding burden.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61399-9
PMCID: PMC2602585
PMID: 18790312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Lancet. 2008 Sep 13;372(9642):950-61. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61405-1.

30 years after Alma-Ata: has primary health care worked in countries?

Rohde J(1), Cousens S, Chopra M, Tangcharoensathien V, Black R, Bhutta ZA, Lawn 
JE.

Author information:
(1)Management Sciences for Health, Boston, MA, USA; James P Grant School of 
Public Health, BRAC University, Dhaka, Bangladesh.

We assessed progress for primary health care in countries since Alma-Ata. First 
we analysed life expectancy relative to national income and HIV prevalence to 
identify overachieving and underachieving countries. Then we focused on the 30 
low-income and middle-income countries with the highest average yearly reduction 
of mortality among children less than 5 years of age, describing coverage and 
equity of primary health care as well as non-health sector actions. These 30 
countries have scaled up selective primary health care (eg, immunisation, family 
planning), and 14 have progressed to comprehensive primary health care, marked 
by high coverage of skilled attendance at birth. Good governance and progress in 
non-health sectors are seen in almost all of the 14 countries identified with a 
comprehensive primary health care system. However, these 30 countries include 
those that are making progress despite very low income per person, political 
instability, and high HIV/AIDS prevalence. Thailand has the highest average 
yearly reduction in mortality among children less than 5 years of age (8.5%) and 
has achieved universal coverage of immunisation and skilled birth attendance, 
with low inequity. Lessons learned from all these countries include the need for 
a nationally agreed package of prioritised and phased primary health care that 
all stakeholders are committed to implementing, attention to district management 
systems, and consistent investment in primary health-care extension workers 
linked to the health system. More detailed analysis and evaluation within and 
across countries would be invaluable in guiding investments for primary health 
care, and expediting progress towards the Millennium Development Goals and 
"health for all".

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61405-1
PMID: 18790318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Placenta. 2008 Oct;29 Suppl B:160-5. doi: 10.1016/j.placenta.2008.08.006.

Reproductive assistance for infected couples with bloodborne viruses.

Savasi V(1), Ferrazzi E, Fiore S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Sacco Clinical Sciences Institute, 
University of Milan Medical School, Via GB Grassi 74, 20157 Milan, Italy. 
valeria.savasi@unimi.it

During the past 15 years Assisted Reproduction has been facing a new demand from 
patients requiring ART: couples at risk of partner to partner, and mother to 
child transmission of viral infections, mainly HIV-1, HCV and HIV-HCV 
co-infected partners. The general conditions and life expectancy of many 
patients with HIV infection are very good, and three-quarters of these 
individuals are in their reproductive years. For these reasons, a large number 
of young couples are expected to make future plans to have children. This desire 
is not easy to realize for serodiscordant couples, if we consider that, in order 
to avoid HIV virus transmission, it is necessary to encourage the condom use in 
vaginal and anal contacts. On the other hand infertile discordant HCV couples 
need to be included in protocols of controlled assisted reproduction procedures 
to avoid any risk of HCV transmission to the partner. In this paper we consider 
assisted reproduction in discordant couples for HIV or HCV-positive men.

DOI: 10.1016/j.placenta.2008.08.006
PMID: 18790329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2009 Apr;70(1):39-58. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.08.003. Epub 2008 Sep 14.

Paraneoplastic glomerular diseases and malignancies.

Bacchetta J(1), Juillard L, Cochat P, Droz JP.

Author information:
(1)Reference Centre for Rare Renla Diseases, Hôpital Femme Mère Enfant, Bron 
F-69600, France. j.bacchetta@laposte.net

Paraneoplastic glomerulopathies are rare manifestations of neoplastic disease to 
be distinguished from iatrogenic renal damage. Solid tumors are preferentially 
associated with membranous nephropathy, whereas Hodgkin's lymphomas are 
associated with minimal change disease. The most common neoplasia associated 
with paraneoplastic glomerular disease are carcinomas of the lung and of the 
gastrointestinal tract. Nephrotic syndrome is the most frequent presentation of 
paraneoplastic glomerulopathy and the most critical glomerular disease regarding 
prognosis and patient care. Renal biopsy is recommended in patients with 
glomerular proteinuria or nephrotic syndrome and cancer, depending on life 
expectancy and therapeutic options. The primary treatment must be directed at 
the cancer in all cases. Symptomatic treatment of the nephrotic syndrome with 
diuretics and ACE inhibitors is justified. Prevention of nephrotic syndrome 
complications, i.e. thromboses and infections, should also be addressed and 
systematic regular renal follow-up is warranted. All treatments should be 
regularly reviewed to avoid toxicity, associated renal function loss or low 
albumin levels for patients receiving albumin-binding drugs. Epidemiologic 
studies have low evidence-based value. There is no widely accepted experimental 
model of the association of glomerulopathy and cancer. Thus, epidemiologic and 
mechanistic studies are needed to determine the true prevalence of 
paraneoplastic glomerulopathies and investigate new pathophysiologic approaches.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.08.003
PMID: 18790651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2008 Nov;74(21):6774-81. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01233-08.
Epub  2008 Sep 12.

Time-lapse microscopy of Streptomyces coelicolor growth and sporulation.

Jyothikumar V(1), Tilley EJ, Wali R, Herron PR.

Author information:
(1)Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biomedical Science, University of 
Strathclyde, Royal College, Glasgow, United Kingdom.

Bacteria from the genus Streptomyces are among the most complex of all 
prokaryotes; not only do they grow as a complex mycelium, they also 
differentiate to form aerial hyphae before developing further to form spore 
chains. This developmental heterogeneity of streptomycete microcolonies makes 
studying the dynamic processes that contribute to growth and development a 
challenging procedure. As a result, in order to study the mechanisms that 
underpin streptomycete growth, we have developed a system for studying hyphal 
extension, protein trafficking, and sporulation by time-lapse microscopy. 
Through the use of time-lapse microscopy we have demonstrated that Streptomyces 
coelicolor germ tubes undergo a temporary arrest in their growth when in close 
proximity to sibling extension sites. Following germination, in this system, 
hyphae extended at a rate of approximately 20 microm h(-1), which was not 
significantly different from the rate at which the apical ring of the 
cytokinetic protein FtsZ progressed along extending hyphae through a spiraling 
movement. Although we were able to generate movies for streptomycete 
sporulation, we were unable to do so for either the erection of aerial hyphae or 
the early stages of sporulation. Despite this, it was possible to demonstrate an 
arrest of aerial hyphal development that we suggest is through the 
depolymerization of FtsZ-enhanced green fluorescent protein (GFP). Consequently, 
the imaging system reported here provides a system that allows the dynamic 
movement of GFP-tagged proteins involved in growth and development of S. 
coelicolor to be tracked and their role in cytokinesis to be characterized 
during the streptomycete life cycle.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01233-08
PMCID: PMC2576688
PMID: 18791015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. J Endocrinol Invest. 2008 Jul;31(7 Suppl):22-7.

Role of apoptosis in osteoporosis induced by glucocorticoids.

Spreafico A(1), Frediani B, Francucci CM, Capperucci C, Chellini F, Galeazzi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Immunological Sciences, Division of 
Rheumathology, Policlinico S. Maria alle Scotte, University of Siena, 53100 
Siena, Italy. spreafico@unisi.it

Glucocorticoid (GC)-induced osteoporosis (GIO) is a common and serious 
complication of prolonged systemic GC use. Bone loss with risk of fractures 
resulting from GC therapy is a relatively common disorder, and is the most 
prevalent form of secondary osteoporosis. It is generally accepted that GC can 
cause a rapid bone loss, decreasing bone formation and increasing bone 
resorption in vitro as well as in vivo. The decrease in bone formation has been 
mainly attributed to GC effects on osteoblastogenesis and osteocyte apoptosis, 
while the increase in bone resorption has been referred to an extension of the 
life-span of pre-existing osteoclasts. This article focuses on newer molecular 
aspects regarding the apoptotic mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of GIO 
and is based on a presentation that was held at the 3rd Congresso Nazionale in 
Osteoporosi Secondarie e Endocrinopatie, in Ancona, Italy, October 2007.

PMID: 18791347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2009 Feb;24(2):201-7. doi: 10.1007/s00384-008-0581-2.
Epub  2008 Sep 13.

Prolapse of the rectum, long-term results of surgical treatment.

Hoel AT(1), Skarstein A, Ovrebo KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Haukeland University Hospital, 5021, Bergen, Norway.

Comment in
    Int J Colorectal Dis. 2010 Aug;25(8):1023.

AIMS: This study evaluates patency and functional results of abdominal and 
perineal treatment approaches to prolapse of the rectum.
METHODS: A database search identified patients operated upon for prolapse of the 
rectum. The operations were abdominal or perineal approaches. The patient's 
records were reviewed, patients alive were contacted, and a self-report form 
evaluated functional results. Patients were followed until the prolapse 
recurred.
RESULTS: A primary operation for prolapse of the rectum was performed in 56 
patients. Median age was 59 years (range 20-87) and 78 (40-91) for abdominal and 
perineal approaches, respectively (p < 0.001). The average length of the 
prolapses was 8.7 cm (2-25) and 8.6 cm (2-15) for abdominal or perineal 
approaches. All prolapses treated with a Thiersch's operation recurred within a 
few months and all prolapses treated with the Delorme's operation recurred 
within 5 years, whereas the 5-year patency of the abdominal approach was 93% (p 
< 0.001). No prolapses recurred after mesh rectopexy and the 5-year patency of 
resection rectopexy was 86%. The abdominal approaches improved stool evacuation 
and constipation significantly, and anal leakage improved somewhat (p = 0.065). 
The median hospital stay was 11 (4-20) and 7 (2-155) days after abdominal and 
perineal approaches (p = 0.003). Complications occurred in 20% of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The patency of abdominal approach to prolapse of the rectum is 
better than that of perineal repairs. The abdominal approaches also have a 
favorable effect on constipation and anal insufficiency. Perineal approaches 
should be reserved for patients with a very short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00384-008-0581-2
PMID: 18791726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Ther Umsch. 2008 Sep;65(9):493-501. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.65.9.493.

[Selective application of tumor markers PSA].

[Article in German]

Kwiatkowski M(1), Stieber P, Huber AR, Recker F.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik, Kantonsspital Aarau. maciej.kwiatkowski@ksa.ch

Tumor markers are being used in the early detection of cancer disease, 
diagnostics, prognosis, therapy and disease follow-up. A lot of clinical studies 
would not be nowadays possible without tumor markers. As in clinical practice 
the informative value of results is limited (by limited sensitivity and/or 
specificity) those markers should be selectively used, i.e. in such clinical 
setting where there is a clear benefit. Prostate specific antigen (PSA) has 
become the most important tumor marker in oncology. Its importance ranges from 
early detection of prostate cancer until therapy decision making in hormone 
refractory cancer. To prevent initial PSA- "terrorism" in early detection the 
patient must be well informed about risk of prostate cancer and therapeutic 
options inclusively possible side effects. Does the man at risk agree further 
evaluation by biopsy has to be performed directly above a PSA-cut-off 4.0 ng/ml. 
A high percentage of free PSA is not allowed to prolong diagnostic procedure. On 
the opposite, in PSA range 3.0-3.9 ng/ml and free-to-total PSA ratio less than 
12% a prostate biopsy is also indicated. The diagnostic "grey zone" 4.0-10 ng/ml 
does not exist any more. Further follow-up should be done if the estimated life 
expectancy exceeds 10 years and should be performed in the PSA-range 2.0-3.9 
ng/ml annually, in the PSA-range 1.0-1.9 ng/ml biannually and in the PSA range 
less that 1.0ng/ml triennially. About 3-25% of newly detected cancers are 
clinically insignificant. Models based on PSA, Gleason Score and tumor load of 
biopsies are helpful in identifying these men for "active surveillance" in 
curative intent.
IN CONCLUSION: "Not every early detected cancer must be cured, but cancer where 
cure is necessary, must be early detected!" After primary therapy 
(operation/radiotherapy) one third of men will document a PSA only relapse. 30% 
of them will develop clinical symptoms and possible die from disease. PSA and 
especially PSA doubling time is a promising marker to identify these men at risk 
for whom salvage-radiotherapy, salvage prostatectomy or hormonal therapy can be 
an option. However the benefit in survival must be weight against a possible 
loss in quality of life.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.65.9.493
PMID: 18791963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Cochlear Implants Int. 2000 Mar;1(1):18-38. doi: 10.1179/cim.2000.1.1.18.

Non-use of cochlear implants by post-lingually deafened adults.

Summerfield AQ(1), Marshall DH.

Author information:
(1)MRC Institute of Hearing Research, University Park, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. 
aqs@ihr.mrc.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To document the occurrence of medical/surgical complications in the 
provision of cochlear implants to a cohort of post-lingually deafened adult 
patients; to compare cumulative mortality in the cohort with cumulative 
mortality predicted from an aged-matched control population; to relate the 
occurrence of medical/surgical complications to the patient's position in the 
case series; to identify risk factors for elective non-use of implants; and to 
examine the impact of complications, mortality and elective non-use on the cost 
of creating a successful user of a cochlear implant.
DESIGN: Longitudinal prospective observational study.
SETTING: Nine hospitals in the UK, which received central funding between 1990 
and 1994 to participate in a programme of adult implantation.
PARTICIPANTS: All 313 post-lingually deafened adults who received multichannel 
cochlear implants in this programme.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Status of patients in July 1998 (dead, an elective 
non-user or a user); duration of use prior to death or elective non-use; costs 
of creating and sustaining a successful user; ability to identify environmental 
sounds; self-reported benefit.
RESULTS: Cumulative mortality after 7.5 years was 6.3% (95% CI 2.5-10.1%) and 
was no different from cumulative mortality predicted from life expectancy in the 
general population. Cumulative elective non-use was stable at 6.3% (95% CI 
3.6%-9.1%) between 4 and 7 years after implantation but rose to 11.0% (95% CI 
1.7%-20.3%) at 7.5 years after implantation. Major medical/surgical 
complications were experienced by 25/313 patients (8.0%). The occurrence of such 
complications declined to ca. 1% over the first 50 cases in a hospital's case 
series. For patients who were users, self-reported benefit did not differ 
between patients who had experienced complications and those who had not. Older 
age at implantation, greater duration of deafness prior to implantation or an 
early position in a hospital's case series were not significant risk factors for 
elective non-use. Experiencing a major complication was a marginally significant 
risk factor (odds ratio = 3.2, 95% CI 1.0-10.6). Low auditory performance (odds 
ratio = 8.2, 95% CI 2.1-31.9) and low self-reported benefit (odds ratio = 19.6, 
95% CI 4.6-84.4) were significant risk factors. Medical/surgical complications 
raised the cost of creating a successful user by less than 1%. Elective non-use 
raised the cost by between 5% and 10%.
CONCLUSIONS: Medical/surgical complications were generally managed successfully 
without detriment to benefit; life expectancy in the general population can be 
used to predict the length of time for which patients have the potential to use 
cochlear implants; patients who experience little benefit are most at risk for 
elective non-use; given the high cost of cochlear implantation, benefit should 
be monitored to allow early rehabilitative intervention in cases of low benefit; 
patient cohorts such as the present one should continue to be followed up with a 
view to identifying pre-operative risk factors for elective non-use.

DOI: 10.1179/cim.2000.1.1.18
PMID: 18791991


319. Chemphyschem. 2008 Oct 6;9(14):2002-9. doi: 10.1002/cphc.200800370.

Nucleosome immobilization strategies for single-pair FRET microscopy.

Koopmans WJ(1), Schmidt T, van Noort J.

Author information:
(1)Physics of Life Processes, Leiden Institute of Physics, Leiden University, 
Niels Bohrweg 2, 2333 CA, Leiden, The Netherlands.

All genomic transactions in eukaryotes take place in the context of the 
nucleosome, the basic unit of chromatin, which is responsible for DNA 
compaction. Overcoming the steric hindrance that nucleosomes present for 
DNA-processing enzymes requires significant conformational changes. The dynamics 
of these have been hard to resolve. Single-pair Fluorescence Resonance Energy 
Transfer (spFRET) microscopy is a powerful technique for observing 
conformational dynamics of the nucleosome. Nucleosome immobilization allows the 
extension of observation times to a limit set only by photobleaching, and thus 
opens the possibility of studying processes occurring on timescales ranging from 
milliseconds to minutes. It is crucial however, that immobilization itself does 
not introduce artifacts in the dynamics. Here we report on various nucleosome 
immobilization strategies, such as single-point attachment to polyethylene 
glycol (PEG) or surfaces coated with bovine serum albumin (BSA), and confinement 
in porous agarose or polyacrylamide gels. We compare the immobilization 
specificity and structural integrity of immobilized nucleosomes. A crosslinked 
star polyethylene glycol coating performs best with respect to tethering 
specificity and nucleosome integrity, and enables us to reproduce for the first 
time bulk nucleosome unwrapping kinetics in single nucleosomes without 
immobilization artifacts.

DOI: 10.1002/cphc.200800370
PMID: 18792054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(10):815-30. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200826100-00003.

Unrelated medical costs in life-years gained: should they be included in 
economic evaluations of healthcare interventions?

Rappange DR(1), van Baal PH, van Exel NJ, Feenstra TL, Rutten FF, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy & Management and Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
d.rappange@erasmusmc.nl

Which costs and benefits to consider in economic evaluations of healthcare 
interventions remains an area of much controversy. Unrelated medical costs in 
life-years gained is an important cost category that is normally ignored in 
economic evaluations, irrespective of the perspective chosen for the analysis. 
National guidelines for pharmacoeconomic research largely endorse this practice, 
either by explicitly requiring researchers to exclude these costs from the 
analysis or by leaving inclusion or exclusion up to the discretion of the 
analyst. However, the inclusion of unrelated medical costs in life-years gained 
appears to be gaining support in the literature.This article provides an 
overview of the discussions to date. The inclusion of unrelated medical costs in 
life-years gained seems warranted, in terms of both optimality and internal and 
external consistency. We use an example of a smoking-cessation intervention to 
highlight the consequences of different practices of accounting for costs and 
effects in economic evaluations. Only inclusion of all costs and effects of 
unrelated medical care in life-years gained can be considered both internally 
and externally consistent. Including or excluding unrelated future medical costs 
may have important distributional consequences, especially for interventions 
that substantially increase length of life. Regarding practical objections 
against inclusion of future costs, it is important to note that it is becoming 
increasingly possible to accurately estimate unrelated medical costs in 
life-years gained. We therefore conclude that the inclusion of unrelated medical 
costs should become the new standard.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826100-00003
PMID: 18793030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(10):861-77. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200826100-00006.

Costs and effects of secondary prevention with perindopril in stable coronary 
heart disease in Poland: an analysis of the EUROPA study including 1251 Polish 
patients.

Redekop WK(1), Orlewska E, Maciejewski P, Rutten FF, Niessen LW.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment and Institute of Health Policy 
and Management, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands. w.redekop@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the long-term impact of treatment with perindopril on 
costs and health effects in patients with stable coronary artery disease in 
Poland.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness analysis was based on data from a randomized 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. A decision-tree analysis was employed, 
including Monte Carlo and bootstrapping techniques. This study was a sub-study 
of the EUROPA (European Trial on Reduction of Cardiac Events with Perindopril in 
Stable Coronary Artery Disease) trial (n = 12,218; mean follow-up 4.2 years). 
Resource use was based on data from Polish EUROPA study patients (n = 1251), 
while effectiveness was based on the whole EUROPA study. The health gain of 
perindopril in life-years was based on overall EUROPA study results, and the 
adapted Polish life expectancy of patients not dying during the trial. Costs 
were calculated in new Polish zloty (PLN), year 2003 values; euro1 = PLN4.053. 
Only direct healthcare costs related to cardiovascular events and medication use 
were studied.
RESULTS: When observed mortality was combined with life expectancy beyond the 
end of the study, perindopril use showed a gain in life expectancy of 0.182 
life-years (SD +/- 0.129) at a cost of PLN1983 (SD +/- 103) with discounting of 
5% per annum on costs and no discounting on effects. This resulted in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of PLN10 896 per life-year gained. 
The probability that the ICER for perindopril was below the threshold of PLN60 
000 was 88%. The overall results were insensitive to discount rates for costs 
and life-years.
CONCLUSIONS: Perindopril leads to a reduction in the risk of coronary events 
among patients with stable heart disease. When the expected improvement in life 
expectancy is combined with associated medical costs, there is a high 
probability that perindopril is cost effective, given the threshold of PLN60 000 
per life-year gained.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826100-00006
PMID: 18793033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(10):879-89. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200826100-00007.

Long-term cost-effectiveness analysis of nebivolol compared with standard care 
in elderly patients with heart failure: an individual patient-based simulation 
model.

Yao G(1), Freemantle N, Flather M, Tharmanathan P, Coats A, Poole-Wilson PA; 
SENIORS Investigators.

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The SENIORS trial demonstrated that nebivolol is 
effective in the treatment of heart failure in elderly patients (e.g. > or = 70 
years). This analysis evaluates the cost effectiveness of nebivolol compared 
with standard treatment.
METHODS: An individual patient-simulation model based on a Markov modelling 
framework was developed to compare costs and outcomes for nebivolol and standard 
care in patients with heart failure starting treatment at the age of 70 years. 
Health states were defined by New York Heart Association (NYHA) class and death. 
At a given NYHA class and a given cycle, patients could die, be hospitalized for 
cardiovascular disease or remain stable. Risks for these events were derived 
from individual patient data from the SENIORS trial. The risk of each event in a 
given cycle was based on the subject's baseline characteristics and time in the 
current health state. The economic analysis was conducted from the UK NHS 
perspective with a lifetime horizon. The costs (euro; year 2006 values) 
considered were drug costs for nebivolol and other cardiac drugs, costs of GP 
visits, outpatient specialist visits and cardiovascular-related 
hospitalizations. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
conducted.
RESULTS: In the baseline analysis, the total cost per patient was euro6740 and 
euro9288, and QALYs were 5.194 and 5.843 for patients aged 70 years at the start 
of treatment for the standard treatment and nebivolol groups, respectively. The 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis provided an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of euro3926 (95% CI 3731, 4159) per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis indicates that nebivolol appears to be a 
cost-effective treatment for elderly patients with heart failure compared with 
standard care.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826100-00007
PMID: 18793034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(10):891-2; author reply 892-4. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200826100-00008.

Assessing the value of a future study.

Gandjour A.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2007;25(11):903-11.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826100-00008
PMID: 18793035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Biochem Soc Trans. 2008 Oct;36(Pt 5):1045-50. doi: 10.1042/BST0361045.

Dicarbonyls linked to damage in the powerhouse: glycation of mitochondrial 
proteins and oxidative stress.

Rabbani N(1), Thornalley PJ.

Author information:
(1)Protein Damage and Systems Biology Research Group, Clinical Sciences Research 
Institute, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, University Hospital, 
Coventry CV2 2DX, UK.

Protection of mitochondrial proteins from glycation by endogenous dicarbonyl 
compounds, methylglyoxal and glyoxal, was found recently to prevent increased 
formation of reactive oxygen species and oxidative and nitrosative damage to the 
proteome during aging and produce life extension in the nematode Caenorhabditis 
elegans. This suggests that dicarbonyl glycation damage to the mitochondrial 
proteome may be a preceding event to mitochondrial dysfunction leading to 
oxidative stress. Future research will address the functional charges in 
mitochondrial proteins that are the targets for dicarbonyl glycation.

DOI: 10.1042/BST0361045
PMCID: PMC2639773
PMID: 18793186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Health Serv J. 2008 Aug 28:19.

Data briefing. Measure the mix of interventions.

Airoldi M(1), Smith J.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics.

PMID: 18795442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Spinal Cord Med. 2008;31(3):357-8.

Spinal cord injury Facts and figures at a glance.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18795487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2008 Sep 16;3:24. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-24.

The prevalence of and survival in Mucopolysaccharidosis I: Hurler, Hurler-Scheie 
and Scheie syndromes in the UK.

Moore D(1), Connock MJ, Wraith E, Lavery C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Epidemiology, University of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, UK. d.j.moore@bham.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) is a rare lysosomal storage 
disease subdivided into three phenotypes of increasing severity: Scheie, 
Hurler-Scheie and Hurler. To gauge the effectiveness of treatments and to 
determine the load likely to fall on health-care systems, it is necessary to 
understand the prevalence and natural progression of the disease especially with 
regard to life-expectancy. In general such data on the natural history of 
lysosomal storage diseases is sparse.
METHODS: Analysis of prevalence and patient survival in MPS I disease using a 
unique longitudinal data set initiated and maintained over a period of more than 
20 years by the Society for Mucopolysaccharide Diseases (UK).
RESULTS: The birth prevalence of MPS I in England and Wales over the period 1981 
to 2003 was 1.07/100,000 births and within +/- 5% of estimates reported in 
several studies that examined reasonably large populations. The median survival 
for MPS I patients (including all phenotypes irrespective of various treatments) 
was found by Kaplan-Meier analysis to be 11.6 years. This result was driven by 
the relatively poor survival of patients with the Hurler phenotype who, 
irrespective of any treatments received, had a median survival of 8.7 years; 
when censoring for receipt of bone marrow transplant (BMT) was implemented 
median survival of Hurler patients was diminished to 6.8 years. The difference 
between these survival curves was statistically significant by log rank test and 
can be attributed to beneficial effects of BMT and or selection of patients with 
superior prognosis for intervention with BMT. Survival curves for Hurler 
patients who received and did not receive BMT were very different. Probability 
of survival at 2 year after BMT was ~68% and was similar to this after 5 years 
(66%) and ten years (64%); the mean age of Hurler patients at receipt of BMT was 
1.33 years (range 0.1 to 3 years). Follow up was insufficient to determine 
median survival of the milder phenotypes however, unsurprisingly, this was 
clearly superior to that for Hurler patients.
CONCLUSION: The birth prevalence of MPS I in England and Wales is 1.07/100,000 
and the median survival for MPS I patients is 11.6 years.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-24
PMCID: PMC2553763
PMID: 18796143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Sep;12(31):1-181, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta12310.

The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of minimal access surgery amongst 
people with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease - a UK collaborative study. The 
REFLUX trial.

Grant A(1), Wileman S, Ramsay C, Bojke L, Epstein D, Sculpher M, Macran S, 
Kilonzo M, Vale L, Francis J, Mowat A, Krukowski Z, Heading R, Thursz M, Russell 
I, Campbell M; REFLUX Trial Group.

Collaborators: Mowat A, Krukowski Z, El-Omar E, Phull P, Sinclair T, Swan L, 
Clements B, Collins J, Kennedy A, Lawther H, Bennett D, Davies N, Toop S, 
Winwood P, Alderson D, Barham P, Green K, Mittal R, Asante M, El Hasani S, De 
Beaux A, Heading RC, Meekison L, Paterson-Brown S, Barkell H, Ferns G, Bailey M, 
Karanjia N, Rockall TA, Skelly L, Dakkak M, Royston C, Sedman P, Gordon K, Potts 
LF, Smith C, Zentler-Munro PL, Munro A, Dexter S, Moayeddi P, Lloyd DM, Loh V, 
Thursz M, Darzi A, Ahmed A, Greaves R, Sawyerr A, Wellwood J, Taylor T, Hosking 
S, Lowrey S, Snook J, Goggin P, Johns T, Quine A, Somers S, Toh S, Bancewicz J, 
Greenhalgh M, Rees W, Cheruvu CV, Deakin M, Evans S, Green J, Leslie F, Maxton 
D, Sigurdsson A, Smith MS, Townson G, Buckley C, Gore S, Kennedy RH, Khan ZH, 
Knight J, Alexander D, Miller G, Parker D, Turnbull A, Turvill J.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, UK.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Jan 20;150(2):JC1-12.
    Evid Based Med. 2009 Apr;14(2):54.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness and 
safety of a policy of relatively early laparoscopic surgery compared with 
continued medical management amongst people with gastro-oesophageal reflux 
disease (GORD) judged suitable for both policies.
DESIGN: Relative clinical effectiveness was assessed by a randomised trial (with 
parallel non-randomised preference groups) comparing a laparoscopic 
surgery-based policy with a continued medical management policy. The economic 
evaluation compared the cost-effectiveness of the two management policies in 
order to identify the most efficient provision of future care and describe the 
resource impact that various policies for fundoplication would have on the NHS.
SETTING: A total of 21 hospitals throughout the UK with a local partnership 
between surgeon(s) and gastroenterologist(s) who shared the secondary care of 
patients with GORD.
PARTICIPANTS: The 810 participants, who were identified retrospectively or 
prospectively via their participating clinicians, had both documented evidence 
of GORD (endoscopy and/or manometry/24-hour pH monitoring) and symptoms for 
longer than 12 months. In addition, the recruiting clinician(s) was clinically 
uncertain about which management policy was best.
INTERVENTION: Of the 810 eligible patients who consented to participate, 357 
were recruited to the randomised arm of the trial (178 allocated to surgical 
management, 179 allocated to continued, but optimised, medical management) and 
453 recruited to the parallel non-randomised preference arm (261 chose surgical 
management, 192 chose to continue with best medical management). The type of 
fundoplication was left to the discretion of the surgeon.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Participants completed a baseline REFLUX questionnaire, 
developed specifically for this study, containing a disease-specific outcome 
measure, the Short Form with 36 Items (SF-36), the EuroQol-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D) 
and the Beliefs about Medicines and Surgery questionnaires (BMQ/BSQ). Postal 
questionnaires were completed at participant-specific time intervals after 
joining the trial (equivalent to approximately 3 and 12 months after surgery). 
Intraoperative data were recorded by the surgeons and all other in-hospital data 
were collected by the research nurse. At the end of the study period, 
participants completed a discrete choice experiment questionnaire.
RESULTS: The randomised groups were well balanced at entry. Participants had 
been taking GORD medication for a median of 32 months; the mean age of 
participants was 46 years and 66% were men. Of 178 randomised to surgery, 111 
(62%) actually had fundoplication. There was a mixture of clinical and personal 
reasons why some patients did not have surgery, sometimes related to long 
waiting times. A total or partial wrap procedure was performed depending on 
surgeon preference. Complications were uncommon and there were no deaths 
associated with surgery. By the equivalent of 12 months after surgery, 38% in 
the randomised surgical group (14% amongst those who had surgery) were taking 
reflux medication compared with 90% in the randomised medical group. There were 
substantial differences (one-third to one-half standard deviation) favouring the 
randomised surgical group across the health status measures, the size depending 
on assumptions about the proportion that actually had fundoplication. These 
differences were the same or somewhat smaller than differences observed at 3 
months. The lower the REFLUX score, the worse the symptoms at trial entry and 
the larger the benefit observed after surgery. The preference surgical group had 
the lowest REFLUX scores at baseline. These scores improved substantially after 
surgery, and by 12 months they were better than those in the preference medical 
group. The BMQ/BSQ and discrete choice experiment did distinguish the preference 
groups from each other and from the randomised groups. The latter indicated that 
the risk of serious complications was the most important single attribute of a 
treatment option. A within-trial cost-effectiveness analysis suggested that the 
surgery policy was more costly (mean 2049 pounds) but also more effective 
[+0.088 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)]. The estimated incremental cost per 
QALY was 19,000-23,000 pounds, with a probability between 46% (when 62% received 
surgery) and 19% (when all received surgery) of cost-effectiveness at a 
threshold of 20,000 pounds per QALY. Modelling plausible longer-term scenarios 
(such as lifetime benefit after surgery) indicated a greater likelihood (74%) of 
cost-effectiveness at a threshold of 20,000 pounds, but applying a range of 
alternative scenarios indicated wide uncertainty. The expected value of perfect 
information was greatest for longer-term quality of life and proportions of 
surgical patients requiring medication.
CONCLUSIONS: Amongst patients requiring long-term medication to control symptoms 
of GORD, surgical management significantly increases general and reflux-specific 
health-related quality of life measures, at least up to 12 months after surgery. 
Complications of surgery were rare. A surgical policy is, however, more costly 
than continued medical management. At a threshold of 20,000 pounds per QALY it 
may well be cost-effective, especially when putative longer-term benefits are 
taken into account, but this is uncertain. The more troublesome the symptoms, 
the greater the potential benefit from surgery. Uncertainty about 
cost-effectiveness would be greatly reduced by more reliable information about 
relative longer-term costs and benefits of surgical and medical policies. This 
could be through extended follow-up of the REFLUX trial cohorts or of other 
cohorts of fundoplication patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN15517081.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12310
PMID: 18796263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Radiology. 2008 Oct;249(1):16-31. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2491070783.

Management of the incidental renal mass.

Silverman SG(1), Israel GM, Herts BR, Richie JP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Abdominal Imaging and Intervention, Department of 
Radiology,Brigham and Women's Hospital, 75 Francis St, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
sgsilverman@partners.org

Despite substantial advances in the imaging-based diagnosis of renal masses, the 
increased detection of incidental renal masses with cross-sectional imaging 
poses problems to the radiologist and referring physician. Most incidental renal 
masses can be diagnosed with confidence and either ignored or treated without 
further testing. However, some renal masses, particularly small ones, remain 
indeterminate and require a management strategy that is both medically 
appropriate and practical. In this article, the literature will be reviewed and 
an approach to the diagnosis and management of the incidental renal mass will be 
suggested. Management recommendations, derived from data regarding the 
probability of malignancy in cystic and solid renal masses, are provided for two 
types of patients, those in the general population and those with limited life 
expectancy or co-morbidity. The Bosniak classification is used to guide the 
management of cystic masses, with observation reserved for selected patients, 
and the presumption of benignity recommended for simple-appearing cystic masses 
smaller than 1 cm. Among solid renal masses, a more aggressive overall approach 
is taken. However, additional imaging, and in selected patients, percutaneous 
biopsy, is recommended to diagnose benign neoplasms. Although additional studies 
are needed to establish risks and benefits, observation of solid masses may be 
considered in selected patients. Minimally invasive treatments of renal cancer 
(including percutaneous ablation) show promise but at the same time challenge 
the radiologist to review the approach to the incidental renal mass.

(c) RSNA, 2008.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2491070783
PMID: 18796665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Orthop Sports Phys Ther. 1988;10(4):138-41. doi:
10.2519/jospt.1988.10.4.138.

The Treatment of Soft Tissue Hemorrhages in a Severe Classical Hemophiliac with 
an Unusual Antibody to Factor VIII.

Abereoje OK, Heim M, Martinowitz U, Graif M, Ganel A, Horoszowski H.

A known severe classical hemophiliac patient presented with a large hemorrhage 
into his left shin and complained of paresthesia in his toes. Large doses of 
factor VIII had failed to halt the expanding shin hematoma. Laboratory 
investigations revealed an antibody titer of 5 Bethesda units. In vitro and in 
vivo testing showed swift neutralization of factor VIII to a level of 20% and 
thereafter degradation of factor VIII in accordance to the half-life expectancy. 
The patient was successfully treated with a continuous infusion of small doses 
of cryoprecipitate. The Bethesda method of antibody measurement does not 
distinguish between low and high affinity antibodies and thus in vitro testing 
should be carried out before a decision is made on the use of expensive 
activated prothrombin complex. The initial approach of the physical therapist is 
to aid in attempting to limit the swelling and enhance hematoma reabsorption. 
Once the bleeding has been controlled, a long-term physical therapy program is 
necessary to regain dorsiflexion of the ankle joint.J Orthop Sports Phys Ther 
1988;10(4):138-141.

DOI: 10.2519/jospt.1988.10.4.138
PMID: 18796965


331. Br J Cancer. 2008 Oct 21;99(8):1232-8. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604666. Epub
2008  Sep 16.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy with uracil-tegafur for curatively 
resected stage III rectal cancer.

Hisashige A(1), Yoshida S, Kodaira S.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Healthcare Technology Assessment, Tokushima 770-0044, Japan. 
akih@k3.dion.ne.jp

Recently, the National Surgical Adjuvant Study of Colorectal Cancer in Japan, a 
randomised controlled trial of oral uracil-tegafur (UFT) adjuvant therapy for 
stage III rectal cancer, showed remarkable survival gains, compared with surgery 
alone. To evaluate value for money of adjuvant UFT therapy, cost-effective 
analysis was carried out. Cost-effectiveness analysis of adjuvant UFT therapy 
was carried out from a payer's perspective, compared with surgery alone. Overall 
survival and relapse-free survival were estimated by Kaplan-Meier method, up to 
5.6 years from randomisation. Costs were estimated from trial data during 
observation. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated using utility 
score from literature. Beyond observation period, they were simulated by the 
Boag model combined with the competing risk model. For 5.6-year observation, 
10-year follow-up and over lifetime, adjuvant UFT therapy gained 0.50, 0.96 and 
2.28 QALYs, and reduced costs by $2457, $1771 and $1843 per person compared with 
surgery alone, respectively (3% discount rate for both effect and costs). 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability and net monetary benefit analyses showed the 
robustness of these results. Economic evaluation of adjuvant UFT therapy showed 
that this therapy is cost saving and can be considered as a cost-effective 
treatment universally accepted for wide use in Japan.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604666
PMCID: PMC2570527
PMID: 18797469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. N Z Med J. 2008 Sep 5;121(1281):7-11.

"Social injustice is killing people on a grand scale".

Blakely T.

PMID: 18797478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. N Z Med J. 2008 Sep 5;121(1281):15-27.

Have geographical inequalities in cause-specific mortality in New Zealand 
increased during the period 1980-2001?

Pearce J(1), Tisch C, Barnett R.

Author information:
(1)GeoHealth Laboratory, Department of Geography, University of Canterbury, 
Private Bag 4800, Christchurch, New Zealand. jamie.pearce@canterbury.ac.nz

AIMS: To monitor geographical inequalities in cause-specific mortality in New 
Zealand during the period 1980 to 2001, a time of rapid social and economic 
change.
