Margolis B.

Comment on
    J Insur Med. 2007;39(4):264-9.

PMID: 18522139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Insur Med. 2007;39(4):264-9.

Underwriting the elderly: the utility of DWR, part II.

Vecchione L(1), Golus E.

Author information:
(1)Gen Re LifeHealth, 695 East Main Street, Stamford, CT 06901, USA. 
laura.vecchione@genre.com

Comment in
    J Insur Med. 2007;39(4):237-8.

Cognitive function is an important predictor of mortality in the elderly. Over 
the past few years, an increasing number of life insurance companies have 
incorporated screening for cognitive impairment into the underwriting process at 
older ages. Many different test instruments provide a measurement of cognitive 
function. Among these, the 10 word delayed word recall test (DWR) offers the 
best opportunity to study mortality directly, because of a long history of use 
in long-term care risk assessment. This article revises and extends a previous 
report published in the Journal in 2006 looking at the relationship between DWR 
score and mortality.

PMID: 18522144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Int J Public Health. 2008;53(1):13-22. doi: 10.1007/s00038-007-6116-8.

Social epidemiology after the German reunification: East vs. West or poor vs. 
rich?

Razum O(1), Altenhöner T, Breckenkamp J, Voigtländer S.

Author information:
(1)Bielefeld University School of Public Health, Department of Epidemiology & 
International Public Health, Bielefeld, Germany. oliver.razum@uni-bielefeld.de

OBJECTIVE: Social epidemiology has consistently demonstrated an association 
between socio-economic disadvantage and ill health. Seventeen years after 
reunification, economic disparities persist between former "East" and "West" 
Germany. We examine whether there are according health disparities and how they 
developed over time.
METHODS: Secondary analysis of socio-economic and health data for Germany.
RESULTS: Health disparities, for example in life expectancy, are decreasing 
between East and West. Throughout Germany, however, differences in living 
conditions and demographic trends are widening at city and county level. This 
development is easily missed when only East and West are compared.
CONCLUSION: Small-area analyses are required to disentangle the association 
between socio-economic inequalities and health in Germany. In such analyses, not 
only individual but also contextual (e.g. area level) characteristics need to be 
included. Contextual variables can be used to group smaller areas such as 
counties into clusters with similar properties. Thus, individual survey data can 
be linked with contextual characteristics while maintaining data protection and 
at the same time achieving sufficiently large case numbers. Concurrently, 
theoretical models explaining health inequalities need to be further developed 
so that they embrace contextual characteristics.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-007-6116-8
PMID: 18522365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Bioethics. 2008 Jul;22(6):307-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2008.00642.x.

Felicitometry: measuring the 'quality' in quality of life.

Kowalski C(1), Pennell S, Vinokur A.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan - Dental School Ann Arbor, MI 48109, United States. 
chuckk@umich.edu

Following Bernheim,(1) we examine aspects of 'felicitometrics,'(2) the 
measurement of the 'quality' term in Quality of Life (QOL). Bernheim argued that 
overall QOL is best captured as the Gestalt(3) of a global self-assessment and 
suggested that the Anamnestic Comparative Self Assessment (ACSA) approach, in 
which subjects' memories of the best and worst times of their lives are used to 
anchor a Visual Analog Scale (VAS), provided a serious answer to the serious 
question, 'How have you been?' Bernheim compares and contrasts the ACSA to 
multi-item questionnaire QOL instruments, such as the SF-36, concluding that the 
ACSA has a number of advantages. His discussion assumes that the use of QOL 
outcomes in clinical trials is both relevant and appropriate. In the present 
paper, we document the reasonableness of this latter assumption,(4) contribute 
to the characterization of the similarities and differences between multi-item 
and individualized QOL instruments, and point to some other individualized 
instruments that may be used in clinical trial contexts. These 'other 
individualized instruments' differ from the ACSA in fundamental ways; but they 
are individualized in that the subject defines those areas in his/her life that 
are most important, and these may vary from subject-to-subject.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2008.00642.x
PMID: 18522590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Health Serv Res. 2008 Oct;43(5 Pt 1):1662-73. doi: 
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2008.00872.x. Epub 2008 Jun 3.

Decision-analytic modeling to assist decision making in organizational 
innovation: the case of shared care in hearing aid provision.

Grutters JP(1), Joore MA, Van Der Horst F, Stokroos RJ, Anteunis LJ.

Author information:
(1)Maastro Clinic, PO Box 5800, 6202 AZ Maastricht, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To illustrate the use of decision-analytic modeling to assist 
decision making in organizational innovations.
STUDY SETTING/DATA SOURCES: Regarding an organizational innovation (shared care 
in hearing aid provision) available evidence from different sources was 
synthesized.
STUDY DESIGN: A probabilistic Markov model was constructed.
DATA COLLECTION/EXTRACTION: We modeled the long-term cost-effectiveness of 
different organizational formats of shared care as opposed to the current 
organization. We assessed the expected value of perfect information (EVPI) for 
several groups of parameters in the model.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The current organization had the highest probability of 
being cost-effective. Additional research is worthwhile, especially on access to 
care and safety (sensitivity to detect pathology).
CONCLUSIONS: Decision-analytic modeling in an early stage of organizational 
innovation is a valuable tool to facilitate evidence-based decision making.

© Health Research and Educational Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2008.00872.x
PMCID: PMC2653881
PMID: 18522663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. JAMA. 2008 Jun 4;299(21):2533-42. doi: 10.1001/jama.299.21.2533.

Discordance between patient-predicted and model-predicted life expectancy among 
ambulatory patients with heart failure.

Allen LA(1), Yager JE, Funk MJ, Levy WC, Tulsky JA, Bowers MT, Dodson GC, 
O'Connor CM, Felker GM.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute and Division of Cardiology, Durham, NC 
27705, USA. larry_allen@post.harvard.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2008 Jun 4;299(21):2566-7.
    JAMA. 2008 Nov 12;300(18):2116-7; author reply 2117.

CONTEXT: Patients with chronic heart failure have impaired long-term survival, 
but their own expectations regarding prognosis have not been well studied.
OBJECTIVES: To quantify expectations for survival in patients with heart 
failure, to compare patient expectations to model predictions, and to identify 
factors associated with discrepancies between patient-predicted and 
model-predicted prognosis.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective face-to-face survey of patients 
from the single-center Duke Heart Failure Disease Management Program between 
July and December 2004, with follow-up through February 2008. Patient-predicted 
life expectancy was obtained using a visual analog scale. Model-predicted life 
expectancy was calculated using the Seattle Heart Failure Model. 
Actuarial-predicted life expectancy, based on age and sex alone, was calculated 
using life tables. Observed survival was determined from review of medical 
records and search of the Social Security Death Index.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Life expectancy ratio (LER), defined as the ratio of 
patient-predicted to model-predicted life expectancy.
RESULTS: The cohort consisted of 122 patients (mean age, 62 years; 47% African 
American, 42% New York Heart Association [NYHA] class III or IV). On average, 
patients overestimated their life expectancy relative to model-predicted life 
expectancy (median patient-predicted life expectancy, 13.0 years; 
model-predicted expectancy, 10.0 years). Median LER was 1.4 (interquartile 
range, 0.8-2.5). Younger age, increased NYHA class, lower ejection fraction, and 
less depression were the most significant predictors of higher LER. During a 
median follow-up of 3.1 years, 29% of the original cohort died. There was no 
association between higher LER and improved survival (adjusted hazard ratio for 
overestimated compared with concordant LER, 1.05; 95% confidence interval, 
0.46-2.42).
CONCLUSIONS: Ambulatory patients with heart failure tended to substantially 
overestimate their life expectancy compared with model-based predictions for 
survival. Because differences in perceived survival could affect decision making 
regarding advanced therapies and end-of-life planning, the causes of these 
discordant predictions warrant further study.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.299.21.2533
PMCID: PMC3623529
PMID: 18523222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. JAMA. 2008 Jun 4;299(21):2566-7. doi: 10.1001/jama.299.21.2566.

Predicting life expectancy in heart failure.

Yancy CW.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2008 Jun 4;299(21):2533-42.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.299.21.2566
PMID: 18523227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Oncol Pharm Pract. 2008 Sep;14(3):105-12. doi: 10.1177/1078155208088695.
Epub  2008 Jun 4.

Verification of imatinib cost-effectiveness in advanced gastrointestinal stromal 
tumor in British Columbia (VINCE-BC study).

Mabasa VH(1), Taylor SC, Chu CC, Moravan V, Johnston K, Peacock S, Knowling M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, B.C., Canada.

BACKGROUND: This cost-effectiveness analysis of imatinib in British Columbia 
Cancer Agency (BCCA) patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors 
(GIST) was performed to justify funding.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A pragmatic, retrospective review identified BCCA patients 
with advanced GIST who received imatinib or historical treatment during 
successive, pre-specified time periods. Primary outcome was the 
cost-effectiveness (CE) of imatinib based on median overall survival (MOS). 
Secondary outcomes were cost-effectiveness based on median progression-free 
survival (PFS) and comparison to literature efficacy. This study took the BCCA 
perspective. Sensitivity analyses varying effectiveness over the 95% confidence 
interval (CI), cost to its extremes, discounting level at 0, 3, and 5%, and 
substituting life expectancy for MOS were performed.
RESULTS: Forty-six and 47 patients in the imatinib and historical groups 
respectively showed MOS with imatinib to be 66.7 months (95%CI 61.7- infinity) 
compared to 7.7 (95%CI 6.0-12.6) in the historical group. Median-PFS were 45.3 
months (95%CI 24.4-infinity) and 5.6 (95%CI 3.5-8.5) respectively. Imatinib 
effectiveness was similar to literature reports. The annual incremental CE ratio 
for imatinib was $15,882 CDN per median life year gained and $23,603 CDN per 
median year of PFS.
CONCLUSIONS: Imatinib for advanced GIST seems cost-effective in BC.
RESULT: were robust across a range of sensitivity analyses.

DOI: 10.1177/1078155208088695
PMID: 18524863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2008 Jun;15(3):347-53. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e3282f5ffab.

Cost-effectiveness of cardiac rehabilitation program delivery models in patients 
at varying cardiac risk, reason for referral, and sex.

Papadakis S(1), Reid RD, Coyle D, Beaton L, Angus D, Oldridge N.

Author information:
(1)MINTO Prevention and Rehabilitation Centre, University of Ottawa Heart 
Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. SPapadakis@ottawaheart.ca

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the relative cost-effectiveness of different 
secondary prevention cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program designs or how 
cost-effectiveness is influenced by patient clinical and demographic 
characteristics. The purpose of the study was (i) to evaluate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of a standard 3-month CR program (SCR) versus a program 
distributed over 12 months (distributed CR, DCR); and (ii) to determine the 
effect of patient demographic characteristics (cardiac risk, cardiac diagnosis, 
sex) on incremental cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A two group cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted alongside a 
randomized controlled trial. Patients with coronary artery disease (mean age=58 
years, SD+/-10) were randomized to either SCR (n=196) or DCR (n=196) and 
followed for 24 months. Program delivery costs, cardiac healthcare use, 
morbidity, mortality, and quality-adjusted life years were assessed. 
Cost-effectiveness was evaluated with incremental cost-utility analysis.
RESULTS: In the pooled analysis, we found the probability of SCR being more 
cost-effective than DCR was 63-67%. The subanalysis found SCR to be the more 
cost-effective intervention for patients at high risk, patients with previous 
coronary artery bypass graft and for male patients. The DCR program was more 
cost-effective for patients with lower risk of disease progression and for 
female patients.
CONCLUSION: Differences were noted in the cost-effectiveness of CR models based 
on cardiac risk level, reason for referral, and demographic characteristics. Our 
results suggest improved cost-effectiveness may be gained by triaging patients 
to different CR intervention models, however, further investigation is required.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e3282f5ffab
PMID: 18525392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Clin Neuromuscul Dis. 2008 Jun;9(4):421-31. doi:
10.1097/CND.0b013e318176dbe4.

Pompe disease: a review of the current diagnosis and treatment recommendations 
in the era of enzyme replacement therapy.

Katzin LW(1), Amato AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of South Florida, Tampa, FL 33606, USA. 
lkatzin@hsc.usf.edu

Pompe disease, or glycogen storage disease type II, is a rare autosomal 
recessive disorder caused by mutations in the gene that encodes for 
alpha-glucosidase. Presentation in infancy is associated with respiratory 
failure, cardiomyopathy, and severe muscle weakness. Juvenile- or adult-onset 
cases typically present with proximal muscle weakness and are associated with 
respiratory insufficiency or exertional dyspnea. Treatment, until recently, was 
focused on supportive measures, and infants diagnosed with Pompe disease usually 
died within the first year of life. The recent development of recombinant 
alpha-glucosidase has dramatically improved the life expectancy and quality of 
life of infantile-onset disease with improvements in respiratory and motor 
function observed in juvenile- or adult-onset cases. This review focuses on the 
presentation, pathogenesis, diagnosis, and treatment recommendations for Pompe 
disease in this new era of enzyme replacement therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/CND.0b013e318176dbe4
PMID: 18525427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J Investig Med. 2008 Jun;56(5):752-69. doi: 10.1097/JIM.0b013e3181788d15.

The roles of HIV-1 proteins and antiretroviral drug therapy in HIV-1-associated 
endothelial dysfunction.

Kline ER(1), Sutliff RL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Department of Medicine, Allergy and Critical Care 
Medicine, Emory University/Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.

Since the emergence of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), human 
immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1)-infected patients have demonstrated dramatic 
decreases in viral burden and opportunistic infections, and an overall increase 
in life expectancy. Despite these positive HAART-associated outcomes, it has 
become increasingly clear that HIV-1 patients have an enhanced risk of 
developing cardiovascular disease over time. Clinical studies are instrumental 
in our understanding of vascular dysfunction in the context of HIV-1 infection. 
However, most clinical studies often do not distinguish whether HIV-1 proteins, 
HAART, or a combination of these 2 factors cause cardiovascular complications. 
This review seeks to address the roles of both HIV-1 proteins and antiretroviral 
drugs in the development of endothelial dysfunction because endothelial 
dysfunction is the hallmark initial step of many cardiovascular diseases. We 
analyze recent in vitro and in vivo studies examining endothelial toxicity in 
response to HIV-1 proteins or in response to the various classes of 
antiretroviral drugs. Furthermore, we discuss the multiple mechanisms by which 
HIV-1 proteins and HAART injure the vascular endothelium in HIV-1 patients. By 
understanding the molecular mechanisms of HIV-1 protein- and 
antiretroviral-induced cardiovascular disease, we may ultimately improve the 
quality of life of HIV-1 patients through better drug design and the discovery 
of new pharmacological targets.

DOI: 10.1097/JIM.0b013e3181788d15
PMCID: PMC2586126
PMID: 18525451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Support Care Cancer. 2009 Feb;17(2):153-61. doi: 10.1007/s00520-008-0467-4.
Epub  2008 Jun 5.

Nutritional support and risk status among cancer patients in palliative home 
care services.

Orrevall Y(1), Tishelman C, Permert J, Cederholm T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Science, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University 
Hospital, 141 86, Stockholm, Sweden. ylva.orrevall@ki.se

GOAL OF WORK: The aim of this study was to investigate the nutritional risk 
status and use of nutritional support among cancer patients enrolled in 
palliative home care services. Differences in the use of nutritional support in 
relation to nutritional, social and clinical factors, as well as survival were 
also investigated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Structured telephone interviews were conducted with cancer 
patients enrolled in all 21 palliative home care services in the Stockholm 
region. An interview guide was designed to investigate topics related to the 
patient's nutritional situation.
MAIN RESULTS: Interviews with 621 patients were analysed. Sixty-eight percent of 
the patients were scored as at nutritional risk according on a modified version 
of NRS-2002. Nutritional support was used by 55% of the patients, with oral 
nutritional supplements most common and 14% using artificial nutrition. Use of 
nutritional support was related to low BMI and severe weight loss and was more 
common in patients with shorter survival times.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that nutritional support is used to 
treat already malnourished patients with shorter survival time, rather than to 
prevent malnutrition. A more structured approach to nutritional issues for 
patients in palliative phases, which considers life expectancy and psycho-social 
aspects of nutritional issues, could help identify potential candidates for 
nutritional support.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-008-0467-4
PMID: 18528714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Proteomics. 2008 Jun;8(11):2211-9. doi: 10.1002/pmic.200701167.

Detection of pancreatic cancer using antibody microarray-based serum protein 
profiling.

Ingvarsson J(1), Wingren C, Carlsson A, Ellmark P, Wahren B, Engström G, 
Harmenberg U, Krogh M, Peterson C, Borrebaeck CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunotechnology, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.

The driving force behind oncoproteomics is to identify protein signatures that 
are associated with a particular malignancy. Here, we have used a recombinant 
scFv antibody microarray in an attempt to classify sera derived from pancreatic 
adenocarcinoma patients versus healthy subjects. Based on analysis of 
nonfractionated, directly labeled, whole human serum proteomes we have 
identified a protein signature based on 19 nonredundant analytes, that 
discriminates between cancer patients and healthy subjects. Furthermore, a 
potential protein signature, consisting of 21 protein analytes, could be defined 
that was shown to be associated with cancer patients having a life expectancy of 
<12 months. Taken together, the data suggest that antibody microarray analysis 
of complex proteomes will be a useful tool to define disease associated protein 
signatures.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200701167
PMID: 18528842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. World J Gastroenterol. 2008 Jun 7;14(21):3338-49. doi: 10.3748/wjg.14.3338.

Clinical features and management of primary sclerosing cholangitis.

Silveira MG(1), Lindor KD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Miles and Shirley Fiterman 
Center for Digestive Diseases, Mayo Clinic and Foundation, Rochester, MN 55905, 
USA.

Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a chronic cholestatic liver disease 
characterized by inflammation and fibrosis of the bile ducts, resulting in 
cirrhosis and need for liver transplantation and reduced life expectancy. The 
majority of cases occur in young and middle-aged men, often in association with 
inflammatory bowel disease. The etiology of primary sclerosing cholangitis 
includes immune-mediated components and elements of undefined nature. No 
effective medical therapy has been identified. The multiple complications of 
primary sclerosing cholangitis include metabolic bone disease, dominant 
strictures, bacterial cholangitis, and malignancy, particularly 
cholangiocarcinoma, which is the most lethal complication of primary sclerosing 
cholangitis. Liver transplantation is currently the only life-extending 
therapeutic alternative for patients with end-stage disease, although recurrence 
in the allografted liver has been described. A PSC-like variant attracting 
attention is cholangitis marked by raised levels of the immunoglobulin G4 
subclass, prominence of plasma cells within the lesions, and steroid 
responsiveness.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.14.3338
PMCID: PMC2716588
PMID: 18528931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Biomech Eng. 2008 Jun;130(3):031017. doi: 10.1115/1.2907749.

A structural model of the venous wall considering elastin anisotropy.

Rezakhaniha R(1), Stergiopulos N.

Author information:
(1)Hemodynamics and Cardiovascular Technology Laboratory (LHTC), School of Life 
Sciences, Institute of Bioengineering, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne 
(EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland. rana.rezakhaniha@epfl.ch

The three-dimensional biomechanical behavior of the vascular wall is best 
described by means of strain energy functions. Significant effort has been 
devoted lately in the development of structure-based models of the vascular 
wall, which account for the individual contribution of each major structural 
component (elastin, collagen, and vascular smooth muscle). However, none of the 
currently proposed structural models succeeded in simultaneously and accurately 
describing both the pressure-radius and pressure-longitudinal force curves. We 
have hypothesized that shortcomings of the current models are, in part, due to 
unaccounted anisotropic properties of elastin. We extended our previously 
developed biomechanical model to account for elastin anisotropy. The 
experimental data were obtained from inflation-extension tests on facial veins 
of five young white New Zealand rabbits. Tests have been carried out under a 
fully relaxed state of smooth muscle cells for longitudinal stretch ratios 
ranging from 100% to 130% of the in vivo length. The experimental data 
(pressure-radius, pressure-force, and zero-stress-state geometries) provided a 
complete biaxial mechanical characterization of rabbit facial vein and served as 
the basis for validating the applicability and accuracy of the new biomechanical 
model of the venous wall. When only the pressure-radius curves were fitted, both 
the anisotropic and the isotropic models gave excellent results. However, when 
both pressure-radius and pressure-force curves are simultaneously fitted, the 
model with isotropic elastin shows an average weighted residual sum of squares 
of 8.94 and 23.9 in the outer radius and axial force, respectively, as compared 
to averages of 6.07 and 4.00, when anisotropic elastin is considered. Both the 
Alkaike information criterion and Schwartz criterion show that the model with 
the anisotropic elastin is more successful in predicting the data for a wide 
range of longitudinal stretch ratios. We conclude that anisotropic description 
of elastin is required for a full 3D characterization of the biomechanics of the 
venous wall.

DOI: 10.1115/1.2907749
PMID: 18532866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Arthroplasty. 2008 Dec;23(8):1204-11. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2007.10.016.
Epub  2008 Apr 14.

Is there a place for rotating-hinge arthroplasty in knee revision surgery for 
aseptic loosening?

Joshi N(1), Navarro-Quilis A.

Author information:
(1)Knee Unit, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.

We reviewed the results of 78 revision total knee arthroplasties using a 
rotating-hinge device, performed from 1993 through 2002. The average follow-up 
was 7.83 years. Only patients requiring revision arthroplasty due to aseptic 
loosening were included. Reasons for revision were malalignment with or without 
polyethylene wear (47), instability (24), extensor mechanism failure (3), and 
periprosthetic fracture (4). The mean preoperative scores according to the 
American Knee Society rating scale was 37.5 points for knee score and 32.8 
points for function score. Postoperatively, the knee score improved to 85.7 
points and the function score improved to 61.4 points. Nineteen patients had 
complications related to the design prostheses (mostly minor complications). 
Fifty-seven patients (73%) had excellent results, with a range of motion of 104 
degrees in flexion and complete extension. For extreme circumstances, such as 
gross instability of the medial collateral ligament, massive bone loss, 
comminuted fracture, and chronic dysfunction of the extensor mechanism, there is 
a place for hinged revision implant surgery with good clinical results and 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2007.10.016
PMID: 18534467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Przegl Epidemiol. 2008;62(1):143-7.

[The role of ribavirin in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C].

[Article in Polish]

Pawłowska M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinika i Katedra Chorób Zakaźnych i Hepatologii CM UMK. mpawlowska@cm.umk.pl

Ribavirin, a guanosine analogue synthesized in 1970, possess activity against 
several RNA and DNA viruses. The addition of ribavirin to IFN-alpha in the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C led to marked improvements in SVR rates. Now 
ribavirin plays an important role in combination with pegylated interferon 
during all stages of HCV therapy. Potential mechanisms for antiviral activity of 
ribavirin includes direct inhibition of HCV replication, inhibition of the 
enzyme inosine-monophosphate-dehydrogenase (IMPDH), immunomodulation and 
mutagenesis. Efficacy of ribavirin in hepatitis C combined therapy depends of 
appropriate ribavirin initial dose and maintaining the patient on this dose for 
as long as possible-until the end of therapy.

PMID: 18536237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2008 Apr;55(4):228-37.

[Effectiveness of a community health service program using exercise intervention 
for elderly people with osteoarthritis of the knees: a randomized controlled 
trial].

[Article in Japanese]

Oida Y(1), Morozumi K, Nakamura N, Kitabatake Y, Shiozawa S, Sato S, Miura K, 
Nishi A, Itakura M.

Author information:
(1)School of Life System Science and Technology, Chukyo University.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of an 
exercise program conducted as part of community health services to improve pain 
and physical function in elderly people with osteoarthritis of the knee (knee 
OA). METHODS; The subjects were 88 (12 males aged 77.8 +/- 5.4 years and 76 
females aged 73.2 +/- 5.3 years) community-dwelling independent elderly people 
with knee OA who participated voluntarily in exercise classes sponsored by 
Musashino city of Tokyo. They were allocated randomly to the intervention group 
(n = 44) and the control group (n = 44). For the intervention group, exercise 
classes of 90 min duration were held 8 times over 3 months. The exercise program 
comprised flexibility exercises (stretching of knee and ankle joints), 
resistance exercises (strengthening of quadriceps, extension and flexion of the 
knee joint with an elastic band), and movement exercises (turning over, getting 
up, standing up). The subjects were instructed to perform these exercises at 
home every day. Knee pain scores (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities OA 
Index; WOMAC), peak torque of joint during knee flexion and extension, range of 
motion (ROM) of the knee joint, and functional fitness (standing and walking 
ability) were evaluated before and after the intervention period.
RESULTS: Significant inter-group differences were observed for peak torque 
during knee flexion and standing and walking ability of females. Assessment of 
interactions between time and group by repeated measure ANOVA adjusted for age 
and sex revealed significance differences for the WOMAC score (P = 0.031), the 
peak torque during knee extension (P = 0.016) and knee flexion (P = 0.000), ROM 
(P = 0.037), standing ability (P = 0.000)and walking ability (P = 0.000). The 
effect of the intervention was 0.44 for WOMAC score, 0.23 for peak torque during 
knee extension, 0.64 for knee flexion, 0.32 for ROM, 0.81 for standing ability, 
and 1.13 for walking ability.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggested that the exercise program for elderly 
people with knee OA improved knee pain and physical function.

PMID: 18536337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Cancer J. 2008 May-Jun;14(3):138-46. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e318172d6e1.

An update on the treatment of CNS metastases in small cell lung cancer.

Castrucci WA(1), Knisely JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, Yale 
Cancer Center, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8040, USA.

Brain metastases occur frequently and are a significant threat to the quality of 
life in patients with small cell lung carcinoma. The primary treatment modality 
has historically been whole brain radiation, which can provide a moderate 
extension of life and improvement in neurologic symptoms. Despite increasing 
interest in the use of alternative therapeutic agents-primarily 
chemotherapy-these have yet to be demonstrated to be superior to radiation in 
management of brain metastasis. Prophylactic cranial irradiation prevents or 
delays the occurrence of brain metastases in patients with small cell lung 
carcinoma. Until recently, this benefit has been thought to be primarily 
restricted to a minority of patients with limited stage disease. A large 
European trial, however, has now shown a survival benefit to the use of 
prophylactic cranial irradiation in patients who have any response to systemic 
chemotherapy. This finding should significantly shift management practices for 
this aggressive disease for most patients.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e318172d6e1
PMID: 18536552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Osteoporos Int. 2009 Feb;20(2):221-9. doi: 10.1007/s00198-008-0641-z. Epub
2008  Jun 7.

Relative survival after hospitalisation for hip fracture in older people in New 
South Wales, Australia.

Hindmarsh DM(1), Hayen A, Finch CF, Close JC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Epidemiology and Research, NSW Department of Health, Sydney, 
Australia. diane.hindmarsh@sesiahs.health.nsw.gov.au

Survival after hospitalisation for hip fracture by age group and sex relative to 
survival in the general population was assessed in people aged 65+. Men had 
double the risk of death compared with women to 1 year, but age effects lasted 
only to 3 months. Clinical outcomes need to be improved.
INTRODUCTION: We assessed the relative survival of hospitalised fall-related hip 
fracture patients aged 65+ years leaving hospital in New South Wales, Australia, 
between July 2000 and December 2003.
METHOD: We carried out a population-based study of all hospital separations for 
NSW residents with a principal diagnosis of hip fracture (ICD-10-AM S72.0 to 
S72.2) and first external cause of fall (ICD-10-AM codes W00 to W19), linked to 
NSW death data. A total of 16,836 cases were included. Relative survival 3 to 36 
months post-admission by 10-year age groups and sex was calculated, using NSW 
life tables for 2002-2004. Relative excess risk was modelled using a generalised 
linear model with Poisson error structure, using the life table data.
RESULTS: One-year cumulative relative survival in 65- to 74-year-olds was 82% 
(men), 90% (women); in 85+-year-olds 65% (men), 80% (women). Men have a relative 
excess risk of death of 2.2 (95% CI 2.03-2.38) times that of women. Only 21% of 
deaths mention the hip fracture as contributing to death.
CONCLUSION: There is a need to reduce the number of hip fractures and improve 
clinical outcomes for older people hospitalised with hip fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-008-0641-z
PMID: 18536952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Hepatology. 2008 Jul;48(1):119-28. doi: 10.1002/hep.22336.

Lifestyle intervention and antioxidant therapy in children with nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease: a randomized, controlled trial.

Nobili V(1), Manco M, Devito R, Di Ciommo V, Comparcola D, Sartorelli MR, 
Piemonte F, Marcellini M, Angulo P.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, "Bambino Gesù" Children's Hospital and Research Institute, Rome, 
Italy.

No proven treatment exists for nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in 
children and adolescents. We sought to determine the efficacy of lifestyle 
intervention with or without antioxidant therapy in pediatric NAFLD. A total of 
53 patients (age 5.7-18.8 years, 37 boys) were included. Lifestyle intervention 
consisting of a diet tailored to the patient's calorie needs, and increased 
physical activity was prescribed in all. Patients were concomitantly randomized 
to alpha-tocopherol 600 IU/day plus ascorbic acid 500 mg/day (n = 25) or placebo 
(n = 28), and treated for 24 months. The study was an extension of a previous 
study aimed at evaluating the effect of 12-month lifestyle intervention and 
antioxidant therapy on serum levels of aminotransferases. The primary end point 
of the present study was change in liver histology on repeated biopsy at 24 
months. Secondary end points were changes in body weight, liver enzymes, and 
insulin sensitivity indices on 2-hour oral glucose tolerance test. The amount of 
weight lost at 24 months was similar in the placebo and antioxidant groups 
(-4.75 [range, -16-4.0] versus -5.5 [range, -12.2-0.4] kg, respectively, P = 
0.9). A significant improvement occurred in the grade of steatosis, lobular 
inflammation, and hepatocyte ballooning, and in the NAFLD activity score in both 
groups. Levels of aminotransferases, triglycerides, cholesterol, fasting 
glucose, and insulin, and insulin sensitivity indices improved significantly as 
well. The improvement in all these parameters was not significantly different 
between the two groups.
CONCLUSION: Lifestyle intervention with diet and increased physical activity 
induces weight loss and is associated with a significant improvement in liver 
histology and laboratory abnormalities in pediatric NAFLD. Alpha-tocopherol plus 
ascorbic acid does not seem to increase the efficacy of lifestyle intervention 
alone.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.22336
PMID: 18537181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. FEBS Lett. 2008 Jun 25;582(15):2325-32. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2008.05.036.
Epub  2008 Jun 4.

Pnas4 is a novel regulator for convergence and extension during vertebrate 
gastrulation.

Yao S(1), Xie L, Qian M, Yang H, Zhou L, Zhou Q, Yan F, Gou L, Wei Y, Zhao X, Mo 
X.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital and Life Science 
College, Sichuan University, Chengdu, China.

Erratum in
    FEBS Lett. 2008 Oct 29;582(25-6):3710.

Recent studies show that human Pnas4 might be tumor associated, while its 
function remains unknown. Here, we investigate the developmental function of 
Pnas4 using zebrafish as a model system. Knocking down Pnas4 causes gastrulation 
defects with a shorter and broader axis, as well as a posteriorly mis-positioned 
prechordal plate, due to the defective convergence and extension movement. 
Conversely, over-expression of Pnas4 mRNA leads to an elongated body axis. We 
further demonstrate that Pnas4 is required cell-autonomously for dorsal 
convergence but not for anterior migration. In addition, genetic interaction 
assays indicate that Pnas4 might act in parallel with non-canonical Wnt signal 
in the regulation of cell movement. Our data suggest that Pnas4 is a key 
regulator of cell movement during gastrulation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2008.05.036
PMID: 18538138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Mech Ageing Dev. 2008 Sep;129(9):507-14. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.04.012.
Epub  2008 May 2.

Repeated temperature fluctuation extends the life span of Caenorhabditis elegans 
in a daf-16-dependent fashion.

Galbadage T(1), Hartman PS.

Author information:
(1)Texas Christian University, United States.

Thermocyclers were utilized to regularly shift nematodes between 12 degrees C 
and 25 degrees C throughout their life spans. When wild-type worms (N2) were 
"thermocycled" between 12 degrees C and 25 degrees C at 10-min intervals they 
lived almost as long as those that were incubated constantly at 12 degrees C. 
Shifting at 1-min or 1-h intervals lessened this effect. Similar results were 
observed for the long-lived mutants daf-2, eat-2 and clk-1, each of which 
prolongs life span through different mechanisms. In contrast, the life span of a 
daf-16 mutant was not prolonged by thermocycling worms, indicating that the 
effect is mediated by an insulin-like signaling pathway. To elucidate the 
molecular basis for the life span extension, two transgenic strains were 
employed in which heat shock proteins (HSPs) drove expression of the green 
fluorescent protein (GFP) gene. As expected, both HSPs were expressed at 
significantly higher levels in animals grown at 25 degrees C. Moreover, HSP 
expression in the thermocycled worms approximated that of animals grown at 25 
degrees C more so than animals grown at 12 degrees C. This suggests that 
incubation at the higher temperatures for short time intervals induced 
stress-responsive gene expression that led to significant life span extension.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.04.012
PMID: 18538371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Lancet. 2008 Jun 7;371(9628):1915-20. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60833-8.

Cardiac death and reinfarction after 1 year in the Thrombus Aspiration during 
Percutaneous coronary intervention in Acute myocardial infarction Study (TAPAS): 
a 1-year follow-up study.

Vlaar PJ(1), Svilaas T, van der Horst IC, Diercks GF, Fokkema ML, de Smet BJ, 
van den Heuvel AF, Anthonio RL, Jessurun GA, Tan ES, Suurmeijer AJ, Zijlstra F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Centre Groningen, University of 
Groningen, Netherlands. p.j.j.vlaar@thorax.umcg.nl

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 Jun 7;371(9628):1889-90.
    Lancet. 2008 Jun 7;371(9628):1890-1.
    Lancet. 2008 Sep 20;372(9643):1034; author reply 1034-5.
    Lancet. 2008 Sep 20;372(9643):1034; author reply 1034-5.

BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for ST-elevation myocardial 
infarction can be complicated by spontaneous or angioplasty-induced embolisation 
of atherothrombotic material. Distal blockage induces microvascular obstruction 
and can result in less than optimum reperfusion of viable myocardium. The 
Thrombus Aspiration during Percutaneous coronary intervention in Acute 
myocardial infarction Study (TAPAS) found that thrombus aspiration resulted in 
improved myocardial reperfusion compared with conventional PCI, but whether this 
benefit improves clinical outcome is unknown. We aimed to investigate whether 
the early efficacy of thrombus aspiration seen in TAPAS translated into clinical 
benefit after 1 year.
METHODS: Patients with ST-elevation myocardial infarction enrolled at the 
University Medical Centre Groningen were randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to 
either thrombus aspiration or conventional treatment, before undergoing initial 
coronary angiography. Exclusion criteria were rescue PCI after thrombolysis and 
known existence of a concomitant disease with life expectancy less than 6 
months. Of the 1071 patients enrolled between January, 2005, and December, 2006, 
vital status at or beyond 1 year after randomisation was available for 1060 
(99%). The primary endpoint was cardiac death or non-fatal reinfarction after 1 
year, and analysis was by intention to treat. The TAPAS trial is registered with 
Current Controlled Trials number ISRCTN16716833.
FINDINGS: Cardiac death at 1 year was 3.6% (19 of 535 patients) in the thrombus 
aspiration group and 6.7% (36 of 536) in the conventional PCI group (hazard 
ratio [HR] 1.93; 95% CI 1.11-3.37; p=0.020). 1-year cardiac death or non-fatal 
reinfarction occurred in 5.6% (30 of 535) of patients in the thrombus aspiration 
group and 9.9% (53 of 536) of patients in the conventional PCI group (HR 1.81; 
95% CI 1.16-2.84; p=0.009).
INTERPRETATION: Compared with conventional PCI, thrombus aspiration before 
stenting of the infarcted artery seems to improve the 1-year clinical outcome 
after PCI for ST-elevation myocardial infarction.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60833-8
PMID: 18539223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Eukaryot Cell. 2008 Aug;7(8):1278-88. doi: 10.1128/EC.00039-08. Epub 2008
Jun 6.

Aspergillus nidulans ArfB plays a role in endocytosis and polarized growth.

Lee SC(1), Schmidtke SN, Dangott LJ, Shaw BD.

Author information:
(1)Program for the Biology of Filamentous Fungi, Department of Plant Pathology 
and Microbiology, Texas A&M University, 2132 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843, 
USA.

Filamentous fungi undergo polarized growth throughout most of their life cycles. 
The Spitzenkörper is an apical organelle composed primarily of vesicles that is 
unique to filamentous fungi and is likely to act as a vesicle supply center for 
tip growth. Vesicle assembly and trafficking are therefore important for hyphal 
growth. ADP ribosylation factors (Arfs), a group of small GTPase proteins, play 
an important role in nucleating vesicle assembly. Little is known about the role 
of Arfs in filamentous hyphal growth. We found that Aspergillus nidulans is 
predicted to encode six Arf family proteins. Analysis of protein sequence 
alignments suggests that A. nidulans ArfB shares similarity with ARF6 of Homo 
sapiens and Arf3p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. An arfB null allele (arfB 
disrupted by a transposon [arfB::Tn]) was characterized by extended isotropic 
growth of germinating conidia followed by cell lysis or multiple, random germ 
tube emergence, consistent with a failure to establish polarity. The mutant germ 
tubes and hyphae that do form initially meander abnormally off of the axis of 
polarity and frequently exhibit dichotomous branching at cell apices, consistent 
with a defect in polarity maintenance. FM4-64 staining of the arfB::Tn strain 
revealed that another phenotypic characteristic seen for arfB::Tn is a reduction 
and delay in endocytosis. ArfB is myristoylated at its N terminus. Green 
fluorescent protein-tagged ArfB (ArfB::GFP) localizes to the plasma membrane and 
endomembranes and mutation (ArfB(G2A)::GFP) of the N-terminal myristoylation 
motif disperses the protein to the cytoplasm rather than to the membranes. These 
results demonstrate that ArfB functions in endocytosis to play important roles 
in polarity establishment during isotropic growth and polarity maintenance 
during hyphal extension.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00039-08
PMCID: PMC2519773
PMID: 18539885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Radiology. 2008 Aug;248(2):398-405. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2482071635. Epub
2008  Jun 6.

Detecting nonpalpable recurrent breast cancer: the role of routine mammographic 
screening of transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap reconstructions.

Lee JM(1), Georgian-Smith D, Gazelle GS, Halpern EF, Rafferty EA, Moore RH, Yeh 
ED, D'Alessandro HA, Hitt RA, Kopans DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 Merrimac St, 
10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. jlee45@partners.org

PURPOSE: To perform a retrospective cohort study to determine the rates of 
recall and cancer detection and then to develop a decision analytic model to 
evaluate the effectiveness of routine screening of transverse rectus abdominis 
myocutaneous (TRAM) flap reconstructions.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was approved by the institutional review 
board, and the methods comply with HIPAA regulations. A retrospective search of 
the institutional mammographic results database was done to identify bilateral 
screening mammographic examinations obtained from January 1, 1999, through July 
15, 2005. The search included the term TRAM; the recall and cancer detetion 
rates were then detected. Subsequently, a decision analytic model was 
constructed to evaluate a hypothetical cohort of women with TRAM flap 
reconstructions.
RESULTS: Of 554 mammograms (265 TRAM flap reconstructions), 546 (98.6%) had 
negative results (Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System category 1 or 2). 
Eight (1.4%) had positive test results (Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System 
category 0, 3, 4, or 5). All suspicious lesions underwent biopsy and had benign 
pathologic results. No interval breast cancers were identified. The detection 
rate for nonpalpable recurrent breast cancer was 0% (exact 95% confidence 
interval: 0.0%, 1.4%). According to decision analysis, screening would help 
detect an estimated 12 additional recurrent cancers per 1000 women screened, 
providing an additional 1.6 days of life expectancy for the screened cohort. 
Under base-case conditions, screening of TRAM flap reconstructions is less 
effective than screening asymptomatic women in their 40s. Sensitivity analysis 
revealed that a benefit equivalent to that of screening asymptomatic women in 
their 40s was achievable under conditions related to estimates of screening 
effectiveness and cancer detection rate.
CONCLUSION: Routine screening mammography of TRAM flap reconstructions has a 
very low detection rate for nonpalpable recurrent breast cancer. Decision 
analysis indicates that screening such women is less effective than screening 
asymptomatic women in their 40s for primary breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2482071635
PMID: 18539887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2008 Mar;11(1):1-2.

Costs of psychological treatment.

Moscarelli M, Rupp A.

PMID: 18540131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Int J Adolesc Med Health. 2008 Jan-Mar;20(1):93-6. doi: 
10.1515/ijamh.2008.20.1.93.

Trends in the number of Arabs with intellectual disability in residential care 
in Israel 1998-2006.

Merrick J(1), Merrick-Kenig E, Kandel I, Morad M.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, Division for Mental 
Retardation, Ministry of Social Affairs, Jerusalem, Israel. 
jmerrick@internet-zahav.net

Life expectancy for persons with intellectual disability has increased over the 
past 100 years, and today is closer to the life expectancy of the general 
population (except for Down syndrome). In this study, we looked at trends in the 
numbers of Arab persons with intellectual disability living in residential care 
centers in Israel. Analysis of annual questionnaires to the medical clinics in 
all residential care centers for the period 1998-2006 revealed that the Arab 
population had increased from 749 to 921 persons in 13 residential care centers 
(13.5% of the total residential care population). Of the 921 persons in 2006, 58 
were children aged 0-9 years and 260 were aged 10-19 years, with the majority 
having severe or profound intellectual disability. The increase in the number 
over time can been seen as a longer life expectancy in this population; the 
lower than expected numbers in residential care can be seen as a result of 
children staying at home with their families for a longer time than in the 
Jewish population.

DOI: 10.1515/ijamh.2008.20.1.93
PMID: 18540288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Int J Health Geogr. 2008 Jun 9;7:29. doi: 10.1186/1476-072X-7-29.

Integrating open-source technologies to build low-cost information systems for 
improved access to public health data.

Yi Q(1), Hoskins RE, Hillringhouse EA, Sorensen SS, Oberle MW, Fuller SS, 
Wallace JC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Public Health Informatics, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington, USA. qyi@u.washington.edu

Effective public health practice relies on the availability of public health 
data sources and assessment tools to convey information to investigators, 
practitioners, policy makers, and the general public. Emerging communication 
technologies on the Internet can deliver all components of the "who, what, when, 
and where" quartet more quickly than ever with a potentially higher level of 
quality and assurance, using new analysis and visualization tools. Open-source 
software provides the opportunity to build low-cost information systems allowing 
health departments with modest resources access to modern data analysis and 
visualization tools. In this paper, we integrate open-source technologies and 
public health data to create a web information system which is accessible to a 
wide audience through the Internet. Our web application, "EpiVue," was tested 
using two public health datasets from the Washington State Cancer Registry and 
Washington State Center for Health Statistics. A third dataset shows the 
extensibility and scalability of EpiVue in displaying gender-based longevity 
statistics over a twenty-year interval for 3,143 United States counties. In 
addition to providing an integrated visualization framework, EpiVue's highly 
interactive web environment empowers users by allowing them to upload their own 
geospatial public health data in either comma-separated text files or MS Excel 
spreadsheet files and visualize the geospatial datasets with Google Maps.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-072X-7-29
PMCID: PMC2432052
PMID: 18541035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Exp Gerontol. 2008 Aug;43(8):757-63. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.04.016. Epub
2008  May 4.

Comparison of metabolic rate and oxidative stress between two different strains 
of mice with varying response to caloric restriction.

Ferguson M(1), Rebrin I, Forster MJ, Sohal RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
