    Clin Rheumatol. 2008 Nov;27(11):1477.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a debilitating autoimmune disease that has 
traditionally been treated with disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). 
In the European Union (EU), patients who fail to respond to traditional DMARDs 
may receive tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) antagonists. However, 
approximately one-third of patients fail TNF-alpha antagonists due to adverse 
effects or lack of efficacy, and there are limited treatment options available 
to these patients. As knowledge of the underlying immunopathology of RA evolves, 
new strategies for inhibiting the inflammatory process have emerged. It is well 
known that activated T cells play a key role in orchestrating the 
immunopathological mechanisms of RA. Inhibiting the full activation of T cells 
is a rational strategy in the treatment of RA and represents a novel method of 
inhibiting disease activity, distinct from inflammatory cytokine blockade. Here, 
the safety and efficacy of abatacept, a selective T-cell co-stimulation 
modulator recently approved in the EU, is reviewed in patients with RA who have 
shown an inadequate response to TNF-alpha antagonists. In a randomized, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind, phase III trial of patients with an inadequate 
response to TNF-alpha antagonism, abatacept was effective in improving the signs 
and symptoms of RA, as well as patient-centered outcomes, such as fatigue, 
disability, and other mental and physical aspects of health-related quality of 
life. These improvements were sustained through 2 years during the open-label, 
long-term extension period. In this trial, abatacept demonstrated a safety and 
tolerability profile similar to placebo. Taken together, these data suggest that 
selective co-stimulation modulation with abatacept may be a viable option for 
patients who are refractory to both traditional therapies and TNF-alpha 
antagonists.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-008-0964-3
PMID: 18670735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):226-33. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00437.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 30.

Economic evaluation of influenza pandemic mitigation strategies in the United 
States using a stochastic microsimulation transmission model.

Sander B(1), Nizam A, Garrison LP Jr, Postma MJ, Halloran ME, Longini IM Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Canada. bsander@uhnres.utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVES: To project the potential economic impact of pandemic influenza 
mitigation strategies from a societal perspective in the United States.
METHODS: We use a stochastic agent-based model to simulate pandemic influenza in 
the community. We compare 17 strategies: targeted antiviral prophylaxis (TAP) 
alone and in combination with school closure as well as prevaccination.
RESULTS: In the absence of intervention, we predict a 50% attack rate with an 
economic impact of $187 per capita as loss to society. Full TAP (FTAP) is the 
most effective single strategy, reducing number of cases by 54% at the lowest 
cost to society ($127 per capita). Prevaccination reduces number of cases by 48% 
and is the second least costly alternative ($140 per capita). Adding school 
closure to FTAP or prevaccination further improves health outcomes but increases 
total cost to society by approximately $2700 per capita.
CONCLUSION: FTAP is an effective and cost-saving measure for mitigating pandemic 
influenza.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00437.x
PMCID: PMC3710126
PMID: 18671770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Neurosurg Focus. 2008;25(2):E18. doi: 10.3171/FOC/2008/25/8/E18.

Review of spinal radiosurgery: a minimally invasive approach for the treatment 
of spinal and paraspinal metastases.

Sheehan JP(1), Jagannathan J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Virginia Health Sciences Center, 
Charlottesville, Virginia 22908, USA. jps2f@virginia.edu

Intracranial radiosurgery has been proved effective for the treatment of brain 
metastasis. The treatment of paraspinal and spinal metastasis with spinal 
radiosurgery represents a natural extension of the principles of intracranial 
radiosurgery. However, spinal radiosurgery is a far more complicated process 
than intracranial radiosurgery. Larger treatment volumes, numerous organs at 
risk, and the inability to utilize rigid, frame-based immobilization all 
contribute to the substantially more complex process of spinal radiosurgery. 
Beyond the convenience of a shorter duration of treatment for the patient, 
spinal radiosurgery affords a greater biological equivalent dose to a metastatic 
lesion than conventional radiotherapy fractionation schemes. This appears to 
translate into a high rate of tumor control and fast pain relief for patients. 
The minimally invasive nature of this approach is consistent with trends in open 
spinal surgery and helps to maintain or improve a patient's quality of life. 
Spinal radiosurgery has expanded the neurosurgical treatment armamentarium for 
patients with spinal and paraspinal metastasis.

DOI: 10.3171/FOC/2008/25/8/E18
PMID: 18673047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Altern Complement Med. 2008 Jul;14(6):637-44. doi: 10.1089/acm.2007.0815.

Effect of short-term intensive yoga program on pain, functional disability and 
spinal flexibility in chronic low back pain: a randomized control study.

Tekur P(1), Singphow C, Nagendra HR, Raghuram N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Yoga and Life Sciences, Swami Vivekananda Yoga Research 
Foundation (SVYASA), Bangalore, India. p_tekur@yahoo.co.in

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the effect of a short-term 
intensive residential yoga program with physical exercise (control) on pain and 
spinal flexibility in subjects with chronic low-back pain (CLBP).
DESIGN: This was a wait-list, randomized controlled study.
SETTING: The study was conducted at a residential integrative health center in 
Bangalore, South India.
SUBJECTS: Eighty (80) subjects (females, n = 37) with CLBP, who consented were 
randomly assigned to receive yoga or physical exercise if they satisfied the 
selection criteria.
INTERVENTION: The intervention consisted of a 1-week intensive residential yoga 
program comprised of asanas (physical postures) designed for back pain, 
pranayamas (breathing practices), meditation, and didactic and interactive 
sessions on philosophical concepts of yoga. The control group practiced physical 
exercises under a trained physiatrist and also had didactic and interactive 
sessions on lifestyle change. Both of the groups were matched for time on 
intervention and attention.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Pain-related outcomes were assessed by the Oswestry Disability 
Index (ODI) and by spinal flexibility, which was assessed using goniometer at 
pre and post intervention. Data were analyzed using repeated measures analysis 
of variance (RMANOVA).
RESULTS: Data conformed to a Gaussian distribution. There was a significant 
reduction in ODI scores in the yoga group compared to the control group (p = 
0.01; effect size 1.264). Spinal flexibility measures improved significantly in 
both groups but the yoga group had greater improvement as compared to controls 
on spinal flexion (p = 0.008; effect size 0.146), spinal extension (p = 0.002; 
effect size 0.251), right lateral flexion (p = 0.059; effect size 0.006); and 
left lateral flexion (p = 0.006; effect size 0.171).
CONCLUSIONS: Seven (7) days of a residential intensive yoga-based lifestyle 
program reduced pain-related disability and improved spinal flexibility in 
patients with CLBP better than a physical exercise regimen.

DOI: 10.1089/acm.2007.0815
PMID: 18673078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Curr Pharm Des. 2008;14(17):1655-60. doi: 10.2174/138161208784746833.

HCV screening to enable early treatment of hepatitis C: a mathematical model to 
analyse costs and outcomes in two populations.

Tramarin A(1), Gennaro N, Compostella FA, Gallo C, Wendelaar Bonga LJ, Postma 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Agenzia Regionale Socio Sanitaria del Veneto, Venice, Italy. 
tramarinandrea@gmail.com

Early treatment of acute hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections reflects a new 
clinical paradigm and a significant option to reduce the socioeconomic burden of 
HCV. Therefore, this approach seems suitable as a new strategy to face HCV and 
prevent end stage liver diseases and premature deaths due to progressed chronic 
HCV-infections. The main limitation of this approach is that the majority of 
acute infections show an asymptomatic course and do thus not present to the 
health-care settings. Screening for HCV has already been extensively studied in 
the literature. This paper offers further insights in screening for HCV using 
cost effectiveness analysis for the impact of screening in two cohorts: 
Injecting Drug Users (IDUs) and Individuals With Surgery (IWSs). The setting of 
the cost effectiveness simulation is the Veneto Region in the North-east of 
Italy. Using a Markov model of the natural history of HCV infection we derive 
costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and incremental cost-effectiveness 
related to screening vs. no-screening strategies. In the IDUs cohort, the 
screening strategy can result in a substantial difference in premature deaths 
and dominates (less costs better outcomes) the no-screening one. The overall 
outcomes of the screening strategy are mostly affected by the prevalence of HCV 
and of genotypes that are more relatively more difficult to treat (above 10% of 
prevalence for its cost effectiveness). The number of premature deaths prevented 
in the IWSs cohort is lower and there seems to be an unacceptable incremental 
cost per QALY gained, which may be unsustainable for society.

DOI: 10.2174/138161208784746833
PMID: 18673188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Value Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;12(2):217-25. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00434.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 31.

Cost-effectiveness of primary versus secondary prophylaxis with pegfilgrastim in 
women with early-stage breast cancer receiving chemotherapy.

Ramsey SD(1), Liu Z, Boer R, Sullivan SD, Malin J, Doan QV, Dubois RW, Lyman GH.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Sciences Division, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center and 
University of Washington Department of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98109, USA. 
sramsey@fhcrc.org

OBJECTIVE: Prophylaxis with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) 
reduces the risk of febrile neutropenia (FN) in patients receiving 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. We estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness 
of G-CSF pegfilgrastim primary (starting in cycle 1 and continuing in subsequent 
cycles of chemotherapy) versus secondary (only after an FN event) prophylaxis in 
women with early-stage breast cancer receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy 
with a >or=20% FN risk.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed from a health insurer's 
perspective with a lifetime study horizon. The model considers direct medical 
costs and outcomes related to reduced FN and potential survival benefits because 
of reduced FN-related mortality. Inputs for the model were obtained from the 
medical literature. Sensitivity analyses were conducted across plausible ranges 
in parameter values.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of pegfilgrastim as 
primary versus secondary prophylaxis was $48,000/FN episode avoided. Adding 
survival benefit from avoiding FN mortality yielded an ICER of 
$110,000/life-year gained (LYG) or $116,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. The most influential factors included FN case-fatality, FN relative risk 
reduction from primary prophylaxis, and age at diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with secondary prophylaxis, the cost-effectiveness of 
pegfilgrastim as primary prophylaxis may be equivalent or superior to other 
commonly used supportive care interventions for women with breast cancer. 
Further assessment of the direct impact of G-CSF on short- and long-term 
survival is needed to substantiate these findings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00434.x
PMID: 18673353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2009 Feb 5;299(1):64-71. doi: 10.1016/j.mce.2008.07.001.
 Epub 2008 Jul 11.

Hormonal control of aging in rodents: the somatotropic axis.

Brown-Borg HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology & Therapeutics, University of North 
Dakota School of Medicine & Health Sciences, 501 North Columbia Road, Grand 
Forks, ND 58203, United States. brownbrg@medicine.nodak.edu

There is a growing body of literature focusing on the somatotropic axis and 
regulation of aging and longevity. Many of these reports derive data from 
multiple endocrine mutants, those that exhibit both elevated growth hormone (GH) 
and insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1) or deficiencies in one or both of these 
hormones. In general, both spontaneous and genetically engineered GH and IGF-1 
deficiencies have lead to small body size, delayed development of sexual 
maturation and age-related pathology, and life span extension. In contrast, 
characteristics of high circulating GH included larger body sizes, early puberty 
and reproductive senescence, increased cancer incidence and reduced life span 
when compared to wild-type animals with normal plasma hormone concentrations. 
This information, along with that found in multiple other species, implicates 
this anabolic pathway as the major regulator of longevity in animals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2008.07.001
PMCID: PMC4390024
PMID: 18674587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Gastrointest Endosc Clin N Am. 2008 Jul;18(3):523-33, ix-x. doi: 
10.1016/j.giec.2008.05.002.

Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms.

Burdick JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Baylor University Medical Center, 3600 Gaston Avenue, Dallas, TX 75246, USA. 
j.burdick@baylorhealth.edu

Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) is characterized by enhanced 
mucus secretion. It is a benign or low-grade neoplasm associated with a dilated 
main pancreatic duct, patulous ampullary orifice, and abundant mucus secretion. 
Foci of aggressive cancer may arise and become invasive. Surgery is the only 
treatment that can cure IPMN, but the extent of pancreatic resection and the 
intraoperative margins remain areas of controversy. The risks of total 
pancreatectomy must be weighed against the risk for developing cancer in the 
residual pancreas. Risks must be factored against the natural course of the 
disease and the likelihood of malignancy developing over the life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.giec.2008.05.002
PMID: 18674701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Transplant Proc. 2008 Jul-Aug;40(6):1865-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.05.050.

Quality of life in renal transplant patients over 60 years of age.

Cornella C(1), Brustia M, Lazzarich E, Cofano F, Ceruso A, Barbé MC, Fenoglio R, 
Cella D, Stratta P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Amedeo Avogadro University, 
Novara, Italy.

Kidney transplantation not only drastically improves the life-expectancy of 
hemodialyzed patients, but it also affords psychological and social advantages 
with improvements in short- and long-term personal and working lives. Quality of 
life (QoL) is one of the parameters of psychological well-being. There is an 
improvement of QoL from pre- to posttransplant, but it is not to the level of 
healthy samples. The aim of this study was to examine QoL in older renal 
transplant recipients. All recipients older than age 60 were included, with a 
minimum follow-up of 12 months. To measure QoL, the nationally standardized 
ShortForm-36 (SF-36) questionnaire was administered. The SF-36 responses by our 
patients were compared with national age- and gender-appropriate norms, and also 
between genders. The enrolled population included 19 women (36.5%) and 33 men 
(63.5%), with a mean age of 66.8 years (range, 60-73 years). Enrolled women 
reported significant limitations compared to gender- and age-matched norms in 
social activities (42.11 vs 70.58), perception of pain (22.11 vs 59.17), and 
general health perception (39.58 vs 48.69). Enrolled men reported significant 
limitations compared to gender- and age-matched norms in social activities 
(46.59 vs 78.35), perception of pain (18.18 vs 73.62), psycho-physical energy 
(50.15 vs 67.88), and general health perception (37.33 vs 61.66). No significant 
differences were noted between the genders. This study clearly showed how the 
psychological state was not as good as the clinico-physical recovery following 
renal transplantation in older recipients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.05.050
PMID: 18675072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Jan-Feb;44(1-2):10-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.07.002.
Epub  2008 Jul 15.

Long-living growth hormone receptor knockout mice: potential mechanisms of 
altered stress resistance.

Brown-Borg HM(1), Rakoczy SG, Sharma S, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology and Therapeutics, University of North 
Dakota, School of Medicine and Health Sciences, 501 N. Columbia Road, Grand 
Forks, ND 58203, USA. brownbrg@medicine.nodak.edu

Endocrine mutant mice have proven invaluable toward the quest to uncover 
mechanisms underlying longevity. Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth 
factor (IGF) have been shown to be key players in physiological systems that 
contribute to aging processes including glucose metabolism, body composition and 
cellular protection. Examination of these mutant mice across several 
laboratories has revealed that differences exist in both the direction and 
magnitude of change, differences that may result in variation in life span. 
Growth hormone receptor knockout mice lack a functional GH receptor, therefore 
GH signaling is absent. These mice have been shown to lack the heightened 
oxidative defense mechanisms observed in other GH mutants yet live significantly 
longer than wild type mice. In this study, glutathione (GSH) and methionine 
(MET) metabolism was examined to determine the extent of variation in this 
mutant in comparison to the Ames dwarf, a mouse that exhibits delayed aging and 
life span extension of nearly 70%. Components of GSH and MET were altered in GHR 
KO compared to wild type controls. The results of these experiments suggest that 
these pathways may be partially responsible for differences observed in stress 
resistance and the capacity to respond to stressors, that in the long term, 
affect health and life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.07.002
PMCID: PMC2743895
PMID: 18675334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Ophthalmology. 2008 Aug;115(8):1433; author reply 1433-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.03.002.

Cost-effectiveness.

Brown GC, Brown MM.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2008 Jan;115(1):94-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.03.002
PMID: 18675701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Econ Hum Biol. 2008 Dec;6(3):469-81. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2008.06.006. Epub
2008  Jul 1.

Convergence of body mass with aging: the longitudinal interrelationship of 
health, weight, and survival.

Yang Z(1), Bishai D, Harman J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Rollins School of Public Health, 
Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. yang26@sph.emory.edu

There has been ongoing debate about the health risks associated with increased 
body weight among the elderly population. One issue has not been investigated 
thoroughly is that body weight changes over time, as both the reasons and 
results of, the development of chronic diseases and functional disabilities. 
Structural models have the ability to unravel the complicated simultaneous 
relationship between body weight, disability, and mortality along the aging 
process. Using longitudinal data from the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey 
from 1992 to 2001, we constructed a structural model to estimate the 
longitudinal dynamic relationship between weight, chronic diseases, functional 
status, and mortality among the aging population. A simulation of an age cohort 
from 65 to 100 was conducted to show the changes in weight and health outcomes 
among the cohorts with different baseline weight based on the parameters 
estimated by the model. The elderly with normal weight at age 65 experience 
higher life expectancy and lower disability rates than the same age cohorts in 
other weight categories. The interesting prediction of our model is that the 
average body size of an elderly cohort will converge to the normal weight range 
through a process of survival, senescence, and behavioral adjustment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2008.06.006
PMID: 18676210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Eukaryot Cell. 2008 Sep;7(9):1549-64. doi: 10.1128/EC.00195-08. Epub 2008 Aug
1.

Dissecting colony development of Neurospora crassa using mRNA profiling and 
comparative genomics approaches.

Kasuga T(1), Glass NL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Pathology, University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, 
CA 95616, USA. tkasuga@ucdavis.edu

Colony development, which includes hyphal extension, branching, anastomosis, and 
asexual sporulation, is a fundamental aspect of the life cycle of filamentous 
fungi; genetic mechanisms underlying these phenomena are poorly understood. We 
conducted transcriptional profiling during colony development of the model 
filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa, using 70-mer oligonucleotide microarrays. 
Relative mRNA expression levels were determined for six sections of defined age 
excised from a 27-h-old N. crassa colony. Functional category analysis showed 
that the expression of genes involved in cell membrane biosynthesis, polar 
growth, and cellular signaling was enriched at the periphery of the colony. The 
relative expression of genes involved in protein synthesis and energy production 
was enriched in the middle section of the colony, while sections of the colony 
undergoing asexual development (conidiogenesis) were enriched in expression of 
genes involved in protein/peptide degradation and unclassified proteins. A 
cross-examination of the N. crassa data set with a published data set of 
Aspergillus niger revealed shared patterns in the spatiotemporal regulation of 
gene orthologs during colony development. At present, less than 50% of genes in 
N. crassa have functional annotation, which imposes the chief limitation on data 
analysis. Using an evolutionary approach, we observed that the expression of 
phylogenetically conserved groups of genes was enriched in the middle section of 
an N. crassa colony whereas expression of genes unique to euascomycete species 
and of N. crassa orphan genes was enriched at the colony periphery and in the 
older, conidiating sections of a fungal colony.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00195-08
PMCID: PMC2547062
PMID: 18676954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Ther Umsch. 2008 Aug;65(8):445-8. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.65.8.445.

[Chronic heart failure].

[Article in German]

Gosch M(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Innere Medizin und Akutgeriatrie, Landeskrankenhaus Hochzirl, 
Anna Dengel Haus, Hochzirl, Austria. markus.gosch@tilak.at

As a consequence of the increasing life expectancy the number of patients 
suffering from chronic heart failure has been growing continuously in the past 
few decades, especially in the group of the old and oldest. Frailty is a 
clinical syndrome that geriatricians attach great importance to. Like many other 
diseases chronic heart failure can cause frailty. Based on the experience that 
we see only a small correlation between the functional capacity of patients with 
heart failure and the results of cardiological findings, the model of peripheral 
myopathy in chronic heart failure was developed. Different pathophysiological 
changes may cause the increasing exercise intolerance in patients with chronic 
heart failure. We can already consider different experimental approaches to the 
therapy of frailty caused by chronic heart failure. At the moment we have to 
focus our efforts on an optimal therapy of heart failure, especially with 
angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors and beta-blockers, and on individual 
endurance and strength training.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.65.8.445
PMID: 18677695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. J Interdiscip Hist. 2001;31(4):581-612. doi: 10.1162/00221950151115098.

Urban demographic stagnation in early modern Germany: a simulation.

McIntosh T.

DOI: 10.1162/00221950151115098
PMID: 18677842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Biol Chem. 2008 Oct 10;283(41):27810-27819. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M804681200.
Epub  2008 Aug 4.

Life span extension and neuronal cell protection by Drosophila nicotinamidase.

Balan V(1), Miller GS(2), Kaplun L(1), Balan K(1), Chong ZZ(3), Li F(3), Kaplun 
A(1), VanBerkum MFA(2), Arking R(2), Freeman DC(2), Maiese K(3), Tzivion G(4).

Author information:
(1)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201; 
Pathology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201.
(2)Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201.
(3)Neurology, Anatomy & Cell Biology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 
48201.
(4)Karmanos Cancer Institute, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201; 
Pathology, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 48201. Electronic address: 
tziviong@karmanos.org.

The life span of model organisms can be modulated by environmental conditions 
that influence cellular metabolism, oxidation, or DNA integrity. The yeast 
nicotinamidase gene pnc1 was identified as a key transcriptional target and 
mediator of calorie restriction and stress-induced life span extension. PNC1 is 
thought to exert its effect on yeast life span by modulating cellular 
nicotinamide and NAD levels, resulting in increased activity of Sir2 family 
class III histone deacetylases. In Caenorhabditis elegans, knockdown of a pnc1 
homolog was shown recently to shorten the worm life span, whereas its 
overexpression increased survival under conditions of oxidative stress. The 
function and regulation of nicotinamidases in higher organisms has not been 
determined. Here, we report the identification and biochemical characterization 
of the Drosophila nicotinamidase, D-NAAM, and demonstrate that its 
overexpression significantly increases median and maximal fly life span. The 
life span extension was reversed in Sir2 mutant flies, suggesting Sir2 
dependence. Testing for physiological effectors of D-NAAM in Drosophila S2 
cells, we identified oxidative stress as a primary regulator, both at the 
transcription level and protein activity. In contrast to the yeast model, stress 
factors such as high osmolarity and heat shock, calorie restriction, or 
inhibitors of TOR and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathways do not appear to 
regulate D-NAAM in S2 cells. Interestingly, the expression of D-NAAM in human 
neuronal cells conferred protection from oxidative stress-induced cell death in 
a sirtuin-dependent manner. Together, our findings establish a life span 
extending the ability of nicotinamidase in flies and offer a role for 
nicotinamide-modulating genes in oxidative stress regulated pathways influencing 
longevity and neuronal cell survival.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M804681200
PMCID: PMC2562057
PMID: 18678867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Aug;84(2):188-90. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2008.120.

Pharmacoeconomics is coming of age.

Pizzi L(1), Singh V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA. laura.pizzi@jefferson.edu

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2008.120
PMID: 18679179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2008 Aug;84(2):197-200. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2008.124.

Using pharmacoeconomics to value pharmacotherapy.

Hay JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Pharmaceutical Economics, and Policy, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA. Jhay@usc.edu

Pharmacotherapeutic decisions are increasingly constrained in all clinical 
settings by the costs of drug treatment and medical care. Some biotech therapies 
(e.g., Avastin, Cerzyme, Herceptin, Gleevec, Erbitux) can cost from $10,000 to 
more than $100,000 per treatment episode. In 1996 the average drug treatment 
cost for advanced colon cancer was $500, and the average patient survival was 11 
months. In 2006 the average drug treatment cost for such patients was $250,000, 
and the average patient survival was 24 months.(1) It is apparent that we are 
quickly arriving at a situation in which the determinants of medical decision 
making are not simply the clinical risks and benefits of treatment options but 
also how these are balanced against the economic costs of therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2008.124
PMID: 18679182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Langenbecks Arch Surg. 2008 Nov;393(6):857-63. doi:
10.1007/s00423-008-0388-1.  Epub 2008 Aug 5.

Permanent stenting in "unextractable" common bile duct stones in high risk 
patients. A prospective randomized study comparing two different stents.

Pisello F(1), Geraci G, Li Volsi F, Modica G, Sciumè C.

Author information:
(1)Section of General and Thoracic Surgery, University Hospital of Palermo, 
Palermo, Sicily, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic sphincterotomy (ES) and stone extraction is the treatment 
of choice for bile duct stones. Therefore, if ES and conventional stone 
extraction fail, further treatment is mandatory. Insertion of a biliary 
endoprosthesis is an effective option.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We treated 30 high-risk patients (17 women and 13 men, 
mean age 82 years) affected by difficult common bile duct stones. The patients 
were randomly assigned preoperatively using closed envelopes (blind 
randomization) into two groups to receive insertion of polyethylene or 
hydrophilic hydromer-coated polyurethane stent, respectively. Follow-up was 
achieved by contacting referring physicians and patient's relatives.
RESULTS: Biliary drainage was established in all patients. Early minor 
complications occurred in 28%. In all these patients, the stent was a definitive 
measure. Median follow-up was 38 months. Late complications occurred in 34%. 
Cholangitis was the most frequent. During follow up, 11 patients died, two as 
result of a biliary-related cause. No statistically significant difference was 
observed on different stents patency.
CONCLUSION: Endoprosthesis insertion as a permanent therapy is an effective 
alternative to surgery or dissolution therapy. Therefore, biliary stenting 
should preferably be restricted to high-risk patients unfit for operative 
treatment and with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00423-008-0388-1
PMID: 18679709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Stat Med. 2008 Sep 10;27(20):3927-40. doi: 10.1002/sim.3375.

What is the difference? Evidence on the distribution of wealth, health, life 
expectancy, and health insurance coverage.

Kennickell AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Microeconomic Surveys, Mail Stop 153, Federal Reserve Board, Washington, DC, 
USA. Arthur.Kennickell@frb.gov

There is a literature of long standing that considers the relationship between 
income and differentials in mortality and morbidity, but information on 
differentials over the distribution of accumulated wealth have been far more 
scarce and subject to measurement problems. This paper provides evidence from 
the Survey of Consumer Finances, which is designed as a survey of wealth, on the 
distribution of wealth and income and how those distributions have shifted in 
recent years. Particular attention is paid to the distribution of wealth across 
minority groups and across age groups. The paper also examines the relationship 
between wealth and health status, life expectancy, and health insurance 
coverage.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3375
PMID: 18680166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Conserv Biol. 2008 Oct;22(5):1309-19. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.00997.x. 
Epub 2008 Jul 29.

The future of scattered trees in agricultural landscapes.

Gibbons P(1), Lindenmayer DB, Fischer J, Manning AD, Weinberg A, Seddon J, Ryan 
P, Barrett G.

Author information:
(1)The Fenner School of Environment and Society, Building 43, The Australian 
National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, Australia. philip.gibbons@anu.edu.au

Mature trees scattered throughout agricultural landscapes are critical habitat 
for some biota and provide a range of ecosystem services. These trees are 
declining in intensively managed agricultural landscapes globally. We developed 
a simulation model to predict the rates at which these trees are declining, 
identified the key variables that can be manipulated to mitigate this decline, 
and compared alternative management proposals. We used the initial numbers of 
trees in the stand, the predicted ages of these trees, their rate of growth, the 
number of recruits established, the frequency of recruitment, and the rate of 
tree mortality to simulate the dynamics of scattered trees in agricultural 
landscapes. We applied this simulation model to case studies from Spain, United 
States, Australia, and Costa Rica. We predicted that mature trees would be lost 
from these landscapes in 90-180 years under current management. Existing 
management recommendations for these landscapes--which focus on increasing 
recruitment--would not reverse this trend. The loss of scattered mature trees 
was most sensitive to tree mortality, stand age, number of recruits, and 
frequency of recruitment. We predicted that perpetuating mature trees in 
agricultural landscapes at or above existing densities requires a strategy that 
keeps mortality among established trees below around 0.5% per year, recruits new 
trees at a rate that is higher than the number of existing trees, and recruits 
new trees at a frequency in years equivalent to around 15% of the maximum life 
expectancy of trees. Numbers of mature trees in landscapes represented by the 
case studies will decline before they increase, even if strategies of this type 
are implemented immediately. This decline will be greater if a management 
response is delayed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.00997.x
PMID: 18680500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Conserv Biol. 2008 Dec;22(6):1608-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.00995.x. 
Epub 2008 Jul 29.

A behaviorally explicit demographic model integrating habitat selection and 
population dynamics in california sea lions.

González-Suárez M(1), Gerber LR.

Author information:
(1)Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Science, School of Life Sciences, 
Arizona State University, College & University Drive, Tempe, AZ 85287-1501, USA. 
manuela.gonzalez@asu.edu

Although there has been a call for the integration of behavioral ecology and 
conservation biology, there are few tools currently available to achieve this 
integration. Explicitly including information about behavioral strategies in 
population viability analyses may enhance the ability of conservation biologists 
to understand and estimate patterns of extinction risk. Nevertheless, most 
behavioral-based PVA approaches require detailed individual-based data that are 
rarely available for imperiled species. We present a mechanistic approach that 
incorporates spatial and demographic consequences of behavioral strategies into 
population models used for conservation. We developed a stage-structured matrix 
model that includes the costs and benefits of movement associated with 2 
habitat-selection strategies (philopatry and direct assessment). Using a life 
table for California sea lions (Zalophus californianus), we explored the 
sensitivity of model predictions to the inclusion of these behavioral 
parameters. Including behavioral information dramatically changed predicted 
population sizes, model dynamics, and the expected distribution of individuals 
among sites. Estimated population sizes projected in 100 years diverged up to 1 
order of magnitude among scenarios that assumed different movement behavior. 
Scenarios also exhibited different model dynamics that ranged from stable 
equilibria to cycles or extinction. These results suggest that inclusion of 
behavioral data in viability models may improve estimates of extinction risk for 
imperiled species. Our approach provides a simple method for incorporating 
spatial and demographic consequences of behavioral strategies into population 
models and may be easily extended to other species and behaviors to understand 
the mechanisms of population dynamics for imperiled populations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.00995.x
PMID: 18680502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Jul 5;152(27):1503-6.

[Genetic cancer syndromes and reproductive choice: dialogue between parents and 
politicians on preimplantation genetic diagnosis].

[Article in Dutch]

Niermeijer MF(1), de Die-Smulders CE, Page-Christiaens GC, de Wert GM.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, afd. Antropogenetica, sectie 
Klinische Genetica, Postbus 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen. m.niermeijer@antrg.umcn.nl

Comment in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Sep 13;152(37):2042; author reply 2042.

Genetic cancer syndromes have identical clinical severity, limited therapeutic 
options, reduced life expectancy, and risks of genetic transmission, as do other 
genetic or congenital diseases for which prenatal genetic diagnosis or 
preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) is allowed in the Netherlands. That was 
implied in the certification of one Dutch PGD centre at Maastricht University 
Hospital by the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport in 2003. A report by 
the Health Council of the Netherlands in 2006 confirmed this view with 
scientific and ethical evaluation. However, in 2006 the State Secretary for 
Health strongly objected to PGD for cancer, and disease risks of 50-100% for 
gene carriers, i.e. for highly, but not always fully penetrant genes. In 2006, 
the Maastricht centre discontinued PGD for cancer and couples were referred to 
other countries; prenatal genetic diagnosis remained available, however. On 26 
May 2008, the present State Secretary proposed to parliament that the Health 
Council of the Netherlands report from 2006 be followed. This once again clashed 
with the fears of some Christian parties for a slippery slope and embryo 
selection for 'only a risk and not certainty of disease'. Yet no firm evidence 
for the existence of such a slope has been found. The Dutch framework for 
handling the ethical and medical evaluation of new reproductive and genetic 
technologies by the Health Council of the Netherlands Advisory Committees, 
professional and patient organisations, and the Ministry, has functioned for 
over 30 years without leading to any wrongdoing. There is no actual need for a 
new government body to license genetic tests on a case-by-case or per disease 
basis.

PMID: 18681358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2008 Mar-Apr;43(2):96-105. doi: 
10.1016/s0211-139x(08)71162-4.

[Longevity and geographical location. Geodemographic analysis of the centenarian 
population in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Reques Velasco P(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Geografía, Urbanismo y Ordenación del Territorio, Universidad 
de Cantabria, Santander, España. pedro.reques@unican.es

INTRODUCTION: the number of centenarians in Spain has continued to grow in the 
last few decades, reaching almost 6000 at present. The aim of this study was to 
analyze, from a geodemographic perspective, inter-provincial imbalances and the 
relative importance of the centenarian population in Spain.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: data were gathered from the last Census of Population and 
Housing, updated with data from the Municipal Census of Inhabitants for 2006. 
The rates of centenarians per 100,000 inhabitants, location indices, and sex 
ratio were calculated.
RESULTS: in Spain the rate of centenarians showed a widely unbalanced 
territorial distribution: when the first five provinces were compared with the 
last five provinces, the ratio between the average rate of centenarians and the 
population aged 85 years and older was 3 to 1. This ratio increased to 4 to 1, 
when persons aged 65 years and older were considered.
CONCLUSIONS: the imbalances shown by the rates of centenarians in Spain can be 
explained by inter-provincial differences in social development, cultural 
context, environmental and territorial factors, together with the contribution 
of geographic factors, which are less well-known and analyzed than those termed 
"individual factors of longevity". Undoubtedly, these latter factors, which have 
a hereditary or genetic component, are involved. A satisfactory explanation 
would have to take into account the interplay between geographic and individual 
factors.

DOI: 10.1016/s0211-139x(08)71162-4
PMID: 18682120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Gen Dent. 2008 Jul-Aug;56(5):420-2.

Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease: children grow older.

Waldman HB(1), Perlman SP, Roesch RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Dentistry, Stony Brook University, NY, USA.

The co-morbidity of Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease is an increased 
reality due to an increased life expectancy among individuals with Down syndrome 
and the very early onset of Alzheimer's disease in this population. In addition, 
deinstitutionalization and mainstreaming these patients into the general 
community setting has meant that individuals with Down syndrome are dependent 
upon neighborhood practitioners for needed dental services. This article 
presents a review of the natural history of Down syndrome and Alzheimer's 
disease, along with the particular signs and symptoms of individuals with these 
co-morbidities and the implications for dental practice.

PMID: 18683397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2008 Jan-Feb;43(1):19-31. doi: 
10.1016/s0211-139x(08)71146-6.

[Sociodemographic typologies of individuals with dependence in Spain and healthy 
life expectancy].

[Article in Spanish]

Bermúdez Morata L(1), Bolancé Losilla C, Guillén Estany M, Mustafa Gondolbeu K.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Matemática Económica, Financiera y Actuarial, RFA-IREA, 
Universidad de Barcelona, Barcelona, España. lbermudez@ub.edu

INTRODUCTION: the main objective of this study was to construct indicators that 
would allow individuals with dependence to be grouped, based on their 
socioeconomic situation, with special interest in the elderly.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: data were taken from the Survey of Disabilities, 
Deficiencies and Health Status (Spanish National Institute of Statistics). The 
distinct typologies of dependent individuals were analyzed by means of 
multivariate statistical techniques. Firstly, the factors that best established 
differences among individuals with dependence were determined; secondly, the 
sample was segmented to identify disabled individuals with dependence; and 
finally, healthy life expectancy and dependent life expectancy after the age of 
65 years were calculated for the different groups.
RESULTS: the characteristics that best defined individuals with dependence were 
related to marital status, the care received, economic and work situation, and 
educational level. With these factors, seven groups for each degree of 
dependence were defined. The greatest differences in dependent life expectancy 
were found between pensioners who retired due to age and those who retired due 
to disability.
CONCLUSIONS: the profiles defined and their differences in dependent life 
expectancy are useful to plan long-term care resources and to quantify the costs 
of dependency, as well as to create systems that ensure that sufficient 
resources are used to decrease the differences among the groups of dependent 
individuals, thus inducing convergence among them.

DOI: 10.1016/s0211-139x(08)71146-6
PMID: 18684384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2008 Aug;56(4):245-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.respe.2008.05.025. Epub 2008 Aug 5.

[Measure of premature mortality: comparison of deaths before age 65 and expected 
years of life lost].

[Article in French]

Lapostolle A(1), Lefranc A, Gremy I, Spira A.

Author information:
(1)Inserm U822/service de santé publique, hôpital de Kremlin-Bicêtre, 82, rue du 
Général-Leclerc, 94276 Le Kremlin-Bicêtre cedex, France. 
annabelle.lapostolle@inserm.fr

Comment in
    Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2009 Jun;57(3):214-6.

BACKGROUND: For many years in France, premature mortality (i.e., deaths before 
65 years old) and avoidable deaths have generally been used to monitor health of 
the population and help to elaborate policies in this area. This paper aims to 
examine the utility of another indicator of premature mortality, which makes it 
possible to take into account the impact of deaths, the expected years of life 
lost (EYLL).
METHODS: Mortality data for France in the years 2000 to 2002 were obtained from 
the Centre for Epidemiology of the Medical Causes of Death. Premature mortality 
was defined as death before 65 years of age. For the calculation of EYLL, the 
mortality norm chosen was French-life expectancy for the years 2001 to 2003. In 
order to study the spatial distribution of the indicators above defined, 
standardized ratios were calculated for each administrative area, taking France 
as the reference population.
RESULTS: Irrespective of the gender and indicator considered, ranking of the 
causes emphasized three major groups of pathological conditions, which are 
strongly distinguished from the others: cardiovascular diseases, malignant 
neoplasm and injuries. The ranking of causes varied considerably according to 
the indicator used. The spatial representation of standardized ratios of 
expected years of life lost and deaths before 65 showed a strong North-South 
trend.
CONCLUSION: The concept of premature mortality is difficult to define and 
discussions persist on the age limit to use for its quantification. The choice 
of an indicator strongly depends on the use which one wishes to make. The simple 
analysis of deaths before 65 years currently used to describe premature 
mortality in France makes it possible to describe its frequency. The use of a 
summary measure as EYLL allows to quantify the impact of premature mortality by 
giving different weights to deaths depending on the age of occurrence. EYLL, 
thus, seems to be an indicator, which is particularly adapted to decision-making 
in public health, depending on choices and values one wishes to give preference 
to.

DOI: 10.1016/j.respe.2008.05.025
PMID: 18684576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Eur J Heart Fail. 2008 Sep;10(9):869-77. doi: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2008.06.018.
 Epub 2008 Aug 5.

Cost effectiveness of cardiac resynchronization therapy in the Nordic region: an 
analysis based on the CARE-HF trial.

Blomström P(1), Ekman M, Lundqvist CB, Calvert MJ, Freemantle N, Lönnerholm S, 
Wikström G, Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital in Uppsala, Stockholm, Sweden. 
per.blomstrom@akademiska.se

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to investigate the cost-effectiveness of 
cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. The 
analysis was based on the CARE-HF trial, a randomised clinical trial 
investigating the efficacy of adding CRT (n=409) to optimal pharmacological 
treatment (n=404) in patients with moderate to severe heart failure with markers 
of cardiac dyssynchrony. The average follow-up time was 29.4 months.
METHODS: The health effects were measured in terms of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained. Data on health care resource consumption from CARE-HF was 
combined with costs for CRT implantation and hospitalisation from university 
hospitals in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Calculations were based on patients' 
expected life time. The expected device lifetime (6 years) was used for CRT, and 
no additional gains in clinical effects were assumed after the 6 years.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness ratio per QALY gained was 4800 euros in Denmark, 
3600 euros in Finland and 6700 euros in Sweden. The 95% confidence intervals for 
the cost per QALY gained varied between a lower limit of 1169 euros in Finland 
to an upper limit of 17,482 euros in Sweden. These values were all below the 
threshold for being cost-effective in Denmark, Finland and Sweden.
CONCLUSIONS: The study indicates that CRT is a cost-effective treatment in 
Scandinavian health care settings compared to traditional pharmacological 
therapy and can therefore be recommended for routine use in patients with 
moderate to severe heart failure and markers of dyssynchrony.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejheart.2008.06.018
PMID: 18684664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Ann Rheum Dis. 2009 May;68(5):702-9. doi: 10.1136/ard.2008.092767. Epub 2008
Aug  6.

Adalimumab for long-term treatment of psoriatic arthritis: 2-year data from the 
Adalimumab Effectiveness in Psoriatic Arthritis Trial (ADEPT).

Mease PJ(1), Ory P, Sharp JT, Ritchlin CT, Van den Bosch F, Wellborne F, Birbara 
C, Thomson GT, Perdok RJ, Medich J, Wong RL, Gladman DD.

Author information:
(1)Swedish Medical Center and University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA. pmease@nwlink.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term effectiveness and tolerability of 
adalimumab in the treatment of psoriatic arthritis (PsA).
METHODS: Patients with PsA who completed a 24-week, double-blind study of 
adalimumab versus placebo were eligible to enroll in an open-label extension 
study and receive adalimumab 40 mg subcutaneously every other week for up to an 
additional 120 weeks. At the time of this analysis, available efficacy 
evaluations throughout 2 years of treatment (n = 245) included American College 
of Rheumatology (ACR) 20%, 50% and 70% improvement scores, measures of joint 
disease and skin disease, disability and quality of life; modified total Sharp 
scores (mTSS) were available for 2.75 years of treatment for patients who 
received adalimumab in the 24-week study.
RESULTS: After 24 weeks of double-blind treatment, the mean change in mTSS was 
-0.2 for the adalimumab group (N = 144) and 1.0 for the placebo group (N = 152; 
p<0.001), and outcomes for all individual ACR component variables were 
significantly improved in adalimumab compared with placebo-treated patients. 
Compared with 24-week responses, inhibition of radiographic progression and 
improvements in joint disease were maintained in most patients during long-term, 
open-label adalimumab treatment. Also, improvements in skin disease were 
maintained, with >20% of patients achieving the strict criterion of psoriasis 
area and severity index 100. The nature and frequency of adverse events during 
long-term adalimumab treatment were consistent with the safety profile during 
short-term treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical and radiographic efficacy of adalimumab demonstrated 
during short-term treatment was sustained during long-term treatment. Adalimumab 
has a favourable risk-benefit profile in patients with PsA.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: NCT00195689.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2008.092767
PMCID: PMC2663711
PMID: 18684743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: PJM has received research 
grants and speaker’s bureau honorarium from Abbott Laboratories and has served 
as a consultant for Abbott Laboratories. DDG has received consulting fees and 
honoraria from Abbott, Amgen, Centocor, Schering and Wyeth and received 
