Long-term management of thrombocytosis in essential thrombocythaemia.

Birgegård G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Division of Medicine, Institution for Medical 
Sciences, University Hospital, Uppsala 75185, Sweden. 
gunnar.birgegard@medsci.uu.se

Essential thrombocythaemia (ET) is an acquired myeloproliferative disorder with 
a prolonged clinical course and a near-normal life expectancy. Therapy is 
stratified according to risk of thrombohaemorrhagic events. In high-risk 
patients, platelet reduction is generally recommended. In intermediate-risk 
patients, therapy should be considered depending on the severity of associated 
risk factors, especially cardiovascular. In low-risk patients, a watch-and-wait 
approach is appropriate. Hydroxycarbamide is generally first-line therapy. 
Concerns for possible leukemogenicity make anagrelide or interferon-alpha 
possible choices in younger patients and those who are resistant or intolerant 
to hydroxycarbamide. Each pharmacotherapy is associated with specific long-term 
risks and benefits. The potential risk of major bleeding is the main drawback of 
aspirin. Hydroxycarbamide is an established, effective drug for ET, but it may 
increase the risk of transformation to acute myeloid leukaemia and may give 
mucocutaneous ulcers. Anagrelide is a licensed treatment that also reduces 
platelet counts and is generally well tolerated, with evidence that some common 
side effects diminish over time. Anagrelide can have cardiac effects due to 
inhibition of phosphodiesterase III and therefore requires cautious use in 
patients with cardiac insufficiency. There is no evidence of leukaemogenicity 
with anagrelide or interferon-alpha therapy. Interferon-alpha is the only 
treatment suitable for use during pregnancy, although it is not licensed in ET. 
While it is effective for platelet reduction, the use of interferon-alpha is 
restricted by psychiatric side effects. Our knowledge of the optimum 
pharmacotherapy for each patient with ET continues to evolve through research 
and clinical trials, particularly into the molecular basis of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-008-0531-7
PMID: 18629498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Osteoporos Int. 2008 Dec;19(12):1717-23. doi: 10.1007/s00198-008-0634-y.
Epub  2008 Jul 16.

Incidence of fractures compared to cardiovascular disease and breast cancer: the 
Women's Health Initiative Observational Study.

Cauley JA(1), Wampler NS, Barnhart JM, Wu L, Allison M, Chen Z, Hendrix S, 
Robbins J, Jackson RD; Women's Health Initiative Observational Study.

Collaborators: Nabel E, Rossouw J, Ludlam S, Pottern L, McGowan J, Ford L, 
Geller N, Prentice R, Anderson G, LaCroix A, Kooperberg CL, Patterson RE, 
McTiernan A, Shumaker S, Stein E, Cummings S, Wassertheil-Smoller S, Hays J, 
Manson J, Assaf AR, Phillips L, Beresford S, Hsia J, Chlebowski R, Whitlock E, 
Caan B, Kotchen JM, Howard BV, Van Horn L, Black H, Stefanick ML, Lane D, 
Jackson R, Lewis CE, Bassford T, Wactawski-Wende J, Robbins J, Hubbell FA, Judd 
H, Langer RD, Gass M, Limacher M, Curb D, Wallace R, Ockene J, Lasser N, 
O'Sullivan MJ, Margolis K, Brunner R, Heiss G, Kuller L, Johnson KC, Brzyski R, 
Sarto GE, Bonds D, Hendrix S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. jcauley@edc.pitt.edu

Comment in
    Osteoporos Int. 2008 Dec;19(12):1679-81.

To compare the absolute risk of fracture to the risk of other conditions by 
race/ethnicity, we studied 83,724 women, aged 70-79. The projected number of 
fractures was similar to or exceeded the combined number of cardiovascular 
events and breast cancers. Osteoporosis prevention efforts should target women 
of all ethnicities.
INTRODUCTION: The relative risk of fracture is lower in non-white compared to 
white women but the absolute risk of fracture in comparison to other common 
chronic conditions is uncertain.
METHODS: We performed a prospective cohort study of 83,724 women, age 50-79 
years. Cardiovascular disease (CVD), invasive breast cancer and all fractures 
were identified over an average of 7.7 +/- 2.6 years.
RESULTS: The incidence of fracture, breast cancer, stroke and CVD varied across 
ethnicity. The annualized (%) incidence of fracture was greatest in whites 
(2.4%) and American Indians (2.8%) and lowest among blacks (1.3%). The majority 
of hip fractures occurred in white women. The projected number of women who will 
experience a fracture in one year exceeded the combined number of women who 
would experience invasive breast cancer or a broad category of CVD events in all 
ethnic groups except blacks. In 10,000 black women, an estimated 153 women would 
experience CVD, and 35 women, breast cancer compared to 126 women expected to 
fracture in one year.
CONCLUSION: The annual risk of suffering a fracture is substantial in women of 
all ethnicities. Osteoporosis prevention efforts should target all women 
irrespective of their race/ethnic backgrounds.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-008-0634-y
PMCID: PMC2663802
PMID: 18629572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest Dr. Cauley has received 
research support from Merck & Company, Eli Lilly & Company, Pfizer 
Pharmaceuticals and Novartis Pharmaceuticals. She has also received consulting 
fees from Eli Lilly & Company, and Novartis Pharmaceuticals. Dr. Robbins reports 
that he has worked on grants with industry support but that he has received no 
salary support. Dr. Jackson has received research support from and is on the 
speaker’s bureau for Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, has received research and 
conference support from Novartis, and has received an honorarium as a Continuing 
Medical Education speaker for Aventis/Alliance for Better Bone Health. Drs. 
Wampler, Barnhart, Allison, Chen, Hendrix and Ms. Wu, have no conflicts to 
report.


972. Nicotine Tob Res. 2008 Jul;10(7):1199-207. doi: 10.1080/14622200802163142.

The impact of smoking on health-related and overall quality of life: a general 
population survey in Finland.

Heikkinen H(1), Jallinoja P, Saarni SI, Patja K.

Author information:
(1)National Public Health Institute (KTL), Department of Health Promotion and 
Chronic Disease Prevention, Helsinki, Finland. hanne.heikkinen@ktl.fi

The objective of the study was to examine the association between overall and 
health-related quality of life and smoking in men and women of discrete smoking 
groups in Finland. The design was a Health 2000 Survey, conducted in Finland 
2000--2001. The setting and participants were a two-stage, stratified, 
nationally representative cluster sample that comprised 8,028 persons aged 30 or 
over living in mainland Finland. Health-related quality of life was measured by 
the 15D questionnaire; and overall quality of life was assessed by a single 
question measure capturing the respondent's own perception and estimation of 
his/her quality of life. The present study showed that daily smokers had both 
lower health-related and overall quality of life than never-smokers among the 
Finnish adult population. Health-related quality of life profiles showed that 
daily smokers did worse than never-smokers in a considerable number of the 
health dimensions. The effects of smoking were observed not only through health: 
the daily smokers registered significantly lower ratings of overall quality of 
life compared with never-smokers, too. Both the health-related and overall 
quality of life of ex-smokers approached those of never-smokers. The results of 
the present study suggest that improved health is not the only benefit of 
smoking cessation; better quality of life and more fulfilling everyday living 
can also be expected. As the major health consequences of smoking usually 
manifest themselves only after several years of smoking, both health-related and 
overall quality of life measurements could be used as an intervention tool for 
motivating people to quit.

DOI: 10.1080/14622200802163142
PMID: 18629730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Zhonghua Er Bi Yan Hou Tou Jing Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2008 Mar;43(3):192-7.

[Quality of life outcome of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis and nasal 
polyposis after endoscopic sinus surgery and its influencing factors].

[Article in Chinese]

Zuo KJ(1), Xu G, Xu R, Shi JB, Wen WP, Chen HX, Hu LJ, Liu LQ.

Author information:
(1)Otorhinolaryngology Hospital and Institute of the First Affiliated Hospital 
of SUN Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510080, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the quality of life (QOL) outcome of patients with chronic 
rhinosinusitis (CRS) after endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) and its influencing 
factors.
METHODS: prospective trial was conducted to survey the QOL status of 120 CRS 
patients undergoing ESS, in contrast that of 200 healthy individuals passing 
health examination, at the baseline and at 12-months after operation by Medical 
Outcomes Study Short Form-36 (SF-36) and Sino-Nasal Outcome Test-20 (SNOT-20). 
QOL changes and its influencing factors were analyzed statistically.
RESULTS: (1) By the assessment of SF-36, the scores of 6 domains were less than 
that of healthy individuals preoperatively (P < 0.01). After 6 months, the 
scores of these domains resumed normal level and the proportion of scores also 
restored normally (P > 0.05). (2) By the assessment of SNOT-20, the total scores 
of 20 items and 5 most important items of patients were more than that of 
healthy objects (P < 0.01). After 9 and 12 months, the former and latter 
returned to normal, respectively (P > 0.05). In 12 months setting, the 
proportion of scores also restored normally (P > 0.05). (3) According to the 
survey of SNOT-20, we concluded the following equation: convalescent time 
(months) = 39--(normal scores/preoperative scores) x 50, by which the time of 
coming back to normal QOL status can be computed. (4) By analysis of Logistic 
Regression, residence in city or country, course of disease, extension of 
diseased sinus, and coexistence of nasal polyposis or not were correlated to the 
preoperative QOL scores; working environments, surgical extension, and 
preoperative scores of QOL were correlated to the score difference between pre 
and post operation.
CONCLUSIONS: CRS patients undergoing ESS could obtain entirely normal QOL status 
at 12 months postoperatively, so we suggest that the essential follow-up period 
should last at least one year. The risk factors influencing patients QOL status 
preoperatively includes residence in country, longer course of disease, more 
extension of diseased sinus, and coexistence of nasal polyposis. The risk 
factors hindering the improvement of QOL status postoperatively includes 
exposure to indoor working environments, insufficient surgical extension, and 
lower preoperative QOL scores.

PMID: 18630281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Transplant Rev (Orlando). 2008 Apr;22(2):141-9. doi:
10.1016/j.trre.2007.12.004.

Cancers after renal transplantation.

Wong G(1), Chapman JR.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Centre for Clinical Research Excellence in Renal Medicine, Children's 
Hospital at Westmead, NSW 2145, Australia. germainw@chw.edu.au

For patients with end-stage kidney failure, kidney transplantation improves both 
their quality of life and overall life expectancy compared with dialysis, but it 
is not without adverse effects. Cancer is second to cardiovascular disease as 
one of the major causes of morbidity and mortality in renal transplant 
recipients. Prolonged use of modern immunosuppression, which leads to alteration 
of immune function and immune surveillance, is associated with increased cancer 
risk. There is now convincing evidence from observational studies and registry 
data to confirm a 3- to 5-fold increase in overall cancer incidence, with 
viral-related neoplasia incurring the greatest risk when compare with the 
general population. Despite the increased risk, little is known about the 
overall cancer prognosis, screening, treatment strategies, and effectiveness in 
this population. Cancers can recur, occur de novo, and be transmitted from donor 
organs posttransplantation. Uncertainties exist as to how modern 
immunosuppressive agents impact on cancer management and outcomes in these 
patients, with some agents such as calcineurin inhibitors and azathioprine, 
being more carcinogenic than others. The newer agents, proliferation 
signal/mammalian target of rapamycin inhibitors and mycophenolate mofitil, may 
have some antiproliferative and antitumor activities demonstrated in preclinical 
and clinical studies, but long-term well-powered trial data are needed to 
determine whether they are either protective or curative for cancers in renal 
transplant recipients. In this review, the incidence, etiology, prognosis, and 
potential approaches to cancer screening and management post-renal 
transplantation are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trre.2007.12.004
PMID: 18631867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Prim Care Diabetes. 2007 Dec;1(4):203-5. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2007.10.041.
Epub  2007 Dec 3.

Primary care diabetes in Ukraine.

Khalangot M(1), Tronko M.

Author information:
(1)V.P. Komisarenko Institute of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Academy of 
Medical Sciences of Ukraine, Kiev, Ukraine. nikhalangot@ukr.net

People with diabetes in Ukraine are cared for by endocrinology specialists. 
Implementation of the National Diabetes Plan solved the problem of free insulin 
supply. However, many problems of diabetic care, including increase of 
accessibility to some laboratory tests and treatments, are still unresolved. An 
increase of life expectancy among diabetic patients has been noted during the 
past 5 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcd.2007.10.041
PMID: 18632047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2008 Jul;27(4):391-419. doi: 
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2008.05.003. Epub 2008 Jun 1.

Leber congenital amaurosis: genes, proteins and disease mechanisms.

den Hollander AI(1), Roepman R, Koenekoop RK, Cremers FP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics & Nijmegen Centre for Molecular Life Sciences, 
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, P.O. Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The 
Netherlands.

Leber congenital amaurosis (LCA) is the most severe retinal dystrophy causing 
blindness or severe visual impairment before the age of 1 year. Linkage 
analysis, homozygosity mapping and candidate gene analysis facilitated the 
identification of 14 genes mutated in patients with LCA and juvenile retinal 
degeneration, which together explain approximately 70% of the cases. Several of 
these genes have also been implicated in other non-syndromic or syndromic 
retinal diseases, such as retinitis pigmentosa and Joubert syndrome, 
respectively. CEP290 (15%), GUCY2D (12%), and CRB1 (10%) are the most frequently 
mutated LCA genes; one intronic CEP290 mutation (p.Cys998X) is found in 
approximately 20% of all LCA patients from north-western Europe, although this 
frequency is lower in other populations. Despite the large degree of genetic and 
allelic heterogeneity, it is possible to identify the causative mutations in 
approximately 55% of LCA patients by employing a microarray-based, 
allele-specific primer extension analysis of all known DNA variants. The LCA 
genes encode proteins with a wide variety of retinal functions, such as 
photoreceptor morphogenesis (CRB1, CRX), phototransduction (AIPL1, GUCY2D), 
vitamin A cycling (LRAT, RDH12, RPE65), guanine synthesis (IMPDH1), and outer 
segment phagocytosis (MERTK). Recently, several defects were identified that are 
likely to affect intra-photoreceptor ciliary transport processes (CEP290, LCA5, 
RPGRIP1, TULP1). As the eye represents an accessible and immune-privileged 
organ, it appears to be uniquely suitable for human gene replacement therapy. 
Rodent (Crb1, Lrat, Mertk, Rpe65, Rpgrip1), avian (Gucy2D) and canine (Rpe65) 
models for LCA and profound visual impairment have been successfully corrected 
employing adeno-associated virus or lentivirus-based gene therapy. Moreover, 
phase 1 clinical trials have been carried out in humans with RPE65 deficiencies. 
Apart from ethical considerations inherently linked to treating children, major 
obstacles for the treatment of LCA could be the putative developmental 
deficiencies in the visual cortex in persons blind from birth (amblyopia), the 
absence of sufficient numbers of viable photoreceptor or RPE cells in LCA 
patients, and the unknown and possibly toxic effects of overexpression of 
transduced genes. Future LCA research will focus on the identification of the 
remaining causal genes, the elucidation of the molecular mechanisms of disease 
in the retina, and the development of gene therapy approaches for different 
genetic subtypes of LCA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2008.05.003
PMID: 18632300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Am J Public Health. 2008 Sep;98(9 Suppl):S5-7. doi:
10.2105/AJPH.2008.145748.  Epub 2008 Jul 16.

Health is a human right, right?

Braithwaite K.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.145748
PMCID: PMC2518591
PMID: 18633066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. J Hum Hypertens. 2008 Dec;22(12):845-55. doi: 10.1038/jhh.2008.76. Epub 2008
Jul  17.

Cost-effectiveness of irbesartan/hydrochlorothiazide in patients with 
hypertension: an economic evaluation for Sweden.

Ekman M(1), Bienfait-Beuzon C, Jackson J.

Author information:
(1)1i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. mattias.ekman@i3innovus.com

Irbesartan, an angiotensin-II inhibitor, has been shown to be an effective 
antihypertensive agent in clinical trials. The purpose of this study was to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of irbesartan in combination with 
hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) in Swedish health-care setting by predicting clinical 
events and life years based upon observed reductions in blood pressure in 
clinical trials. The cost-effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment with 
irbesartan compared with placebo and to other selected angiotensin-II inhibitors 
(losartan, valsartan, candesartan) in combination with HCTZ was estimated using 
a Markov model. The incidence of cardiovascular disease was obtained from the 
Swedish inpatient registry, whereas the risk reductions associated with 
antihypertensive therapy were taken from the medical literature. Costs for 
antihypertensive therapy and for treatment of cardiovascular events were 
included, and the health effects were measured in terms of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). The study was conducted from a health-care payer perspective. For 
a 55-year-old male, irbesartan 150 mg/HCTZ 12.5 mg was a dominant strategy 
(better health effects at lower costs) when compared with losartan 50 mg/HCTZ 
12.5 mg and valsartan 80 mg/HCTZ 12.5 mg, and the cost-effectiveness ratio 
compared with placebo was 3500 euros per QALY gained. In moderate-to-severe 
hypertension, irbesartan was cost-effective compared with losartan, whereas the 
results compared with candesartan were mixed. High-dose combination therapy of 
irbesartan was also found to be cost-effective compared with low-dose 
combination therapy. The results from the model indicate that irbesartan 
provides a cost-effective antihypertensive treatment strategy compared with both 
placebo, and to valsartan and losartan.

DOI: 10.1038/jhh.2008.76
PMID: 18633426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jul;3(Pt 3):277-300. doi: 
10.1017/S1744133108004507.

Valuing lives and life years: anomalies, implications, and an alternative.

Dolan P(1), Metcalfe R, Munro V, Christensen MC.

Author information:
(1)Tanaka Business School, Imperial College London, UK.

Comment in
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2015 Oct;10(4):405-9.

Many government interventions seek to reduce the risk of death. The value of 
preventing a fatality (VPF) is the monetary amount associated with each 
statistical death that an intervention can be expected to prevent. The VPF has 
been estimated using a preference-based approach, either by observing market 
behaviour (revealed preferences) or by asking hypothetical questions that seek 
to replicate the market (stated preferences). The VPF has been shown to differ 
across and within these methods. In theory, the VPF should vary according to 
factors such as baseline and background risk, but, in practice, the estimates 
vary more by theoretically irrelevant factors, such as the starting point in 
stated preference studies. This variation makes it difficult to choose one 
unique VPF. The theoretically irrelevant factors also affect the estimates of 
the monetary value of a statistical life year and the value of a 
quality-adjusted life year. In light of such problems, it may be fruitful to 
focus more research efforts on generating the VPF using an approach based on the 
subjective well-being associated with different states of the world.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133108004507
PMID: 18634620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):69-77. doi:
10.1017/S1744133107004355.

Developing methods that really do value the 'Q' in the QALY.

Dolan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Tanaka Business School, Imperial College, London, UK. 
paul.dolan@imperial.ac.uk

Comment in
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):79-83.
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):85-91.

Most health economists recommend that improvements in health be valued by asking 
members of the general public to imagine themselves in different states of 
health and then to think about how many years of life they would give up or what 
risk of death they would be willing to accept in order to be in full health. In 
this paper, I argue that preferences are not a very good guide to future 
experiences and a more suitable way to value health is to ask people in 
different states of health how they think and feel about their lives. Valuing 
health in this way may result in greater priority being given to mental health 
services. Whatever the precise implications, it is my contention that it is much 
better to ration health care according to real experiences rather than according 
to hypothetical preferences.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133107004355
PMID: 18634633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):79-83. doi:
10.1017/S1744133107004343.

Valuing health properly.

Hausman DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Herbert A. Simon Professor, Department of Philosophy, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, WI 53706, USA. dhausman@wisc.edu

Comment in
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):93-5.

Comment on
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):69-77.

This comment on Paul Dolan's essay, 'Developing methods that really do value the 
"Q" in the QALY,' seconds his critique of current preference-based methods of 
valuing health states but disputes both his assumption that health states should 
be appraised by their bearing on well-being and his conclusion that the bearing 
of health states on well-being should be measured in terms of subjective 
experience. This comment defends instead the view that health states should be 
valued in terms of the range of activities that they permit.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133107004343
PMID: 18634634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):85-91. doi:
10.1017/S1744133107004367.

Are subjective well-being measures any better than decision utility measures?

Smith DM(1), Brown SL, Ubel PA.

Author information:
(1)VA Center for Practice Management and Outcomes Research, VA Ann Arbor 
Healthcare System, Ann Arbor, USA. dylsmith@umich.edu

Comment in
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):93-5.

Comment on
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2008 Jan;3(Pt 1):69-77.

There are a number of substantial problems with using decision-based utility 
measures such as the time trade off and standard gamble to value improvements in 
health. Dolan (this issue) argues that because of these problems, it would be 
better to use measures of real experiences (subjective well being). We review 
evidence that supports criticisms of decision-based utility measures, whether 
provided by patients or non-patients. But we also review a number of substantial 
problems with currently used measures of subjective well-being, and point out 
that there is no definitive evidence that they represent any improvement over 
decision utility measures. We conclude with a call for expanded research into 
developing new tools for quantifying health-related quality of life that are 
more valid, more sensitive to changes in health status, and less biased.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133107004367
PMID: 18634635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2008 Oct;7(5):945-6. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2008.184085. Epub 2008 Jul 17.

Primary left atrial haemangioendothelioma.

Messias P(1), Bernardo J, Antunes MJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Cardiothoracic Surgery, University Hospital, Coimbra, Portugal.

We describe the case of a 21-year-old female patient with epithelioid 
haemangioendothelioma of the roof of the left atrium. The patient underwent 
radical resection of the tumour with large disease-free margins, which required 
reconstruction of left and right atrial superior walls. The prognosis is 
unpredictable, but life expectancies ranging from 1 to 20 years have been 
described. There is no single treatment that can be prescribed but, because of 
their biologic behaviour, epithelioid haemangioendotheliomas must be regarded as 
fully malignant neoplasms and ought to be resected radically to prevent 
metastatic disease, and to improve life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2008.184085
PMID: 18635584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008 Jul 18;57(28):771-5.

Silicosis-related years of potential life lost before age 65 years--United 
States, 1968-2005.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Erratum in
    MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008 Aug 1;57(30):829.

Occupational exposure to respirable crystalline silica occurs in construction, 
mining, manufacturing, and other industries and can result in silicosis and 
other lung diseases. Classic (chronic) silicosis results from exposure to 
relatively low concentrations of respirable crystalline silica for >/=years. 
Exposure to higher concentrations of silica for 5-10 years can cause accelerated 
silicosis, and symptoms of acute silicosis can sometimes develop within weeks of 
initial exposure to extreme concentrations of silica. Deaths in young adults 
from acute or accelerated silicosis generally reflect more recent and intense 
exposures. Silicosis is incurable, but preventable through effective control and 
elimination of exposure to respirable crystalline silica. To characterize recent 
trends in premature mortality attributed to silicosis in the United States, CDC 
analyzed annual mortality data from 1968-2005, the most recent years for which 
complete data were available. Years of potential life lost before age 65 years 
(YPLL) and mean YPLL were calculated using standard methodology. During 
1968-2005, total annual YPLL attributed to silicosis (17,130) declined 90.2%, 
from 1,441 (mean per decedent: 7.7 YPLL) to 141 (mean per decedent: 11.8), with 
an annual average of 8.6 YPLL per decedent for the period. However, the 
proportion of YPLL attributable to young silicosis decedents increased; an 
estimated 3,600-7,300 new silicosis cases occur annually. Hazard surveillance, 
workplace-specific interventions, and further silicosis prevention and 
elimination efforts, especially among young adults, are needed.

PMID: 18636065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Psychooncology. 2009 Mar;18(3):237-47. doi: 10.1002/pon.1401.

Cognitive and mood changes in men undergoing intermittent combined androgen 
blockade for non-metastatic prostate cancer.

Cherrier MM(1), Aubin S, Higano CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98108, USA. cherrier@u.washington.edu

PURPOSE: Men with prostate-specific antigen (PSA)-only relapse of prostate 
cancer after primary therapy are generally fully functional and asymptomatic 
with a life expectancy of up to 10 or more years. Androgen deprivation therapy 
(ADT) is a common treatment option. This study examined mood and cognitive 
changes in otherwise healthy men with prostate cancer prior to, during and after 
ADT.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Twenty hormone naïve, eugonadal prostate cancer patients 
without evidence of metastases and with a rising PSA were treated with 
intermittent ADT consisting of 9 months of complete androgen blockade (CAB) 
achieved with combined leuprolide and flutamide followed by an 'off treatment' 
period. Cognitive function tests and mood measures were administered at 
baseline, after 3 and 9 months of ADT and after 3 months of no treatment. Twenty 
healthy control patients without prostate cancer range matched for age and 
education were tested at the same time intervals.
RESULTS: ADT patients evidenced a significant decline in spatial reasoning, 
spatial abilities and working memory during treatment compared with baseline. No 
changes were noted for measures of verbal or spatial memory, selective attention 
or language. Significant changes in self-rated mood such as increased 
depression, tension, anxiety, fatigue and irritability were evident during 
treatment compared with baseline for ADT patients. No significant changes in 
either cognitive tests or mood measures were noted for the healthy control 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings, suggest that 9 months of combined androgen blockade 
may result in some adverse changes in cognition and mood. However, many but not 
all of these changes can return to baseline after cessation of ADT.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.1401
PMCID: PMC2853938
PMID: 18636420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. World J Gastroenterol. 2008 Jul 14;14(26):4234-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.14.4234.

Successful photodynamic therapy for biliary papillomatosis: a case report.

Bechmann LP(1), Hilgard P, Frilling A, Schumacher B, Baba HA, Gerken G, Zoepf T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, 
University of Essen, Hufeland street 55, Essen D-45122, Germany.

Papillomatosis of the bile duct is a rare disease with a high risk of malignant 
transformation. Therapeutical options include partial hepatectomy and liver 
transplantation. A previously healthy 65-years old male developed jaundice and 
right upper abdominal quadrant pain in 1996. A villous adenoma of the distal 
bile duct was diagnosed. A Whipple procedure was performed. In 2002 the patient 
turned symptomatic again. Another adenoma was found in the right hepatic duct 
resulting in a right hepatectomy. Two years later the patient again developed 
cholestasis. After drainage of the left hepatic duct with a percutaneous 
transhepatic cholangial drainage (PTCD) catheter, a recurrent biliary 
adenomatosis was diagnosed by cholangioscopy. As there was no surgical option 
left, the patient received photodynamic therapy (PDT) for the recurrent biliary 
papillomatosis. Three mo after he received further photodynamic therapies, the 
bile duct epithelium appeared normal and the patient had no signs of 
adenomatosis, both macroscopically and histologically. The follow-up 
cholangioscopy in late 2005 revealed only a small papilloma without the need for 
intervention. In early 2006, the patient died of multi organ failure without 
signs of extrahepatic cholestasis or cholangitis at the age of 75, 10 years 
after the diagnosis of biliary papillomatosis was established. The patient 
exceeded the average life expectancy of patients with biliary papillomatosis by 
far. Thus, PDT might be a sufficient therapeutic option for recurrent 
papillomatosis patients with no significant side effects.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.14.4234
PMCID: PMC2725388
PMID: 18636672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Drug Saf. 2008;31(8):715-26. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200831080-00008.

Safety of efalizumab therapy in patients with moderate to severe psoriasis: an 
open-label extension of a phase IIIb trial.

Hamilton T(1), Menter A, Caro I, Compton P, Sobell J, Papp KA.

Author information:
(1)Atlanta Dermatology, Vein & Research Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30005, USA. 
drhamilton@dermandvein.com

BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic autoimmune disease characterized by 
infiltration of the dermis and epidermis by activated T cells and the 
hyperproliferation and abnormal differentiation of keratinocytes. It is a 
life-long disease with alternating periods of remission and recurrence. 
Efalizumab is a humanized, recombinant, T-cell targeting monoclonal antibody, 
approved for use in adults with chronic moderate to severe plaque psoriasis.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety of continued or newly initiated treatment with 
efalizumab for up to 48 weeks in patients with psoriasis who were treated 
previously with efalizumab or placebo.
METHODS: This study was an open-label, 48-week extension of a previously 
published 12-week, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled, 
multicentre, phase IIIb study, carried out in the US and Canada between 24 
October 2002 and 2 July 2004. Patients were followed and treated at the study 
clinic in an outpatient setting and also were trained to self-administer the 
drug at home. Patients comprising individuals with chronic moderate to severe 
plaque psoriasis who had completed the 12-week, placebo-controlled segment of 
the study were eligible for enrolment in the extension phase. Of the 686 
patients enrolled in the study, 636 (92.7%) enrolled in the open-label extension 
of the study, 418 of whom had received 12 weeks of efalizumab therapy and 218 of 
whom had received 12 weeks of placebo. All patients entering the open-label 
phase of the study received efalizumab 1 mg/kg/wk for an additional 48 weeks, 
for a maximum exposure of up to 60 weeks. Safety was evaluated by an assessment 
of adverse events, including infections and serious adverse events.
RESULTS: The rate of withdrawal due to adverse events remained low throughout 
the trial, ranging from 1.2% to 6.6% during the 12-week segments of the 
open-label extension phase of the trial. The incidence of adverse events 
decreased with increased exposure to efalizumab; the incidence during the 
initial 12 weeks of exposure to efalizumab was 79.0% compared with 72.9% for 
patients exposed to placebo. Patients treated with efalizumab for 13-24 weeks, 
25-36 weeks, 37-48 weeks and 49-60 weeks experienced adverse events at an 
incidence of 66.8%, 54.3%, 49.6% and 48.5%, respectively. The incidence of 
serious adverse events ranged from 1.6% to 3.5% during the 12-week segments of 
efalizumab therapy, compared with an incidence of 3.4% for placebo-treated 
patients. The incidence of infection ranged from 9.9% to 14.7% during the 
12-week segments of efalizumab therapy, compared with an incidence of 19.1% for 
placebo-treated patients. Malignancies were reported with an incidence of 
</=1.0% for efalizumab-treated patients during any 12-week segment compared with 
0.4% for the 12-week placebo-treated patients. Of the 15 malignancies reported 
for efalizumab-treated patients, 13 were basal cell (n = 4) or squamous cell (n 
= 9) carcinomas.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support the short-term safety profile demonstrated 
for efalizumab over a longer-term therapy period of up to 60 weeks.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200831080-00008
PMID: 18636790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Clin Infect Dis. 2008 Aug 15;47(4):487-95. doi: 10.1086/590010.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of introduction of rapid, alternative methods to 
identify multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in middle-income countries.

Acuna-Villaorduna C(1), Vassall A, Henostroza G, Seas C, Guerra H, Vasquez L, 
Morcillo N, Saravia J, O'Brien R, Perkins MD, Cunningham J, Llanos-Zavalaga L, 
Gotuzzo E.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Tropical Alexander Von Humboldt, Lima, Peru.

BACKGROUND: Resistance to commonly used antituberculosis drugs is emerging 
worldwide. Conventional drug-susceptibility testing (DST) methods are slow and 
demanding. Alternative, rapid DST methods would permit the early detection of 
drug resistance and, in turn, arrest tuberculosis transmission.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis of 5 DST methods was performed in the 
context of a clinical trial that compared rapid with conventional DST methods. 
The methods under investigation were direct phage-replication assay 
(FASTPlaque-Response; Biotech), direct amplification and reverse hybridization 
of the rpoB gene (INNO-LiPA; Innogenetics), indirect colorimetric minimum 
inhibitory concentration assay (MTT; ICN Biomedicals), and direct proportion 
method on Löwenstein-Jensen medium. These were compared with the widely used 
indirect proportion method on Löwenstein-Jensen medium.
RESULTS: All alternative DST methods were found to be cost-effective, compared 
with other health care interventions. DST methods also generate substantial cost 
savings in settings of high prevalence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. 
Excluding the effects of transmission, the direct proportion method on 
Löwenstein-Jensen medium was the most cost-effective alternative DST method for 
patient groups with prevalences of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis of 2%, 5%, 
20%, and 50% (cost in US$2004, $94, $36, $8, and $2 per disability-adjusted life 
year, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Alternative, rapid methods for DST are cost-effective and should be 
considered for use by national tuberculosis programs in middle-income countries.

DOI: 10.1086/590010
PMID: 18636955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Value Health. 2009 Jan-Feb;12(1):167-71. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00405.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 11.

Mapping the EORTC QLQ C-30 onto the EQ-5D instrument: the potential to estimate 
QALYs without generic preference data.

McKenzie L(1), van der Pol M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Scotland, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this article is to map the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ C-30 onto the EQ-5D measure to 
enable the estimation of health state values based on the EORTC QLQ C-30 data. 
The EORTC QLQ C-30 is of interest because it is the most commonly used 
instrument to measure the quality of life of cancer patients.
METHODS: Regression analysis is used to establish the relationship between the 
two instruments. The performance of the model is assessed in terms of how well 
the responses to the EORTC QLQ C-30 predict the EQ-5D responses for a separate 
data set.
RESULTS: The results showed that the model explaining EQ-5D values predicted 
well. All of the actual values were within the 95% confidence intervals of the 
predicted values. More importantly, predicted difference in quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) between the arms of the trial was almost identical to the 
actual difference.
CONCLUSION: There is potential to estimate EQ-5D values using responses to the 
disease-specific EORTC QLQ C-30 measure of quality of life. Such potential 
implies that in studies that do not include disease-specific measures, it might 
still be possible to estimate QALYs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00405.x
PMID: 18637140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Clin Transpl. 2007:261-9.

The co$t of mi$matching.

Zachary AA(1), Hart JM, Lucas DP, Leffell MS.

Author information:
(1)The Immunogenetics Laboratory, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

We have shown that the number of HLA mismatched antigens correlates with the 
development of new or changes in existing HLA-specific antibodies. We have 
further shown that the magnitude of the effect varies among groups defined by 
whether or not HLA-specific antibody was present prior to transplant, by the 
transplant number, by recipient race, and by donor type. The increases in 
antibody, which increase with increasing degree of mismatch, result in 
differences in waiting times reflective of the number of previous mismatches. 
For many patients, increased waiting time represents not only reduced quality of 
life but deteriorating health and shortened life expectancy. Globally, increased 
waiting times translate into increased costs for dialysis, antibody testing, and 
health care. These factors suggest that HLA matching should not be abandoned but 
should be given consideration for those patients most affected by mismatches.

PMID: 18637474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. J Clin Nurs. 2009 Jan;18(1):89-98. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2008.02282.x.
Epub  2008 Jul 12.

Effectiveness of the PLISSIT model for solving the sexual problems of patients 
with stoma.

Ayaz S(1), Kubilay G.

Author information:
(1)Gazi University School of Nursing, Ankara, Turkey. ayaz_sultan@hotmail.com

Comment in
    J Clin Nurs. 2009 Jan;18(1):154-6.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: This study was carried out to assess the effectiveness of 
the PLISSIT model in solving sexual problems of individuals with stoma.
BACKGROUND: Creating a stoma due to intestinal cancer may prolong the life 
expectancy of individuals. However, the problems resulting from stoma may cause 
significant changes in an individual's life and adversely affect relations with 
family members and social and sexual life.
DESIGN: Experimental.
METHODS: The study consisted of individuals with stoma, living in Ankara. The 
sample consisted of 60 patients. The case group consisted of 30 patients living 
in Ankara; and the control group consisted of 30 patients living outside Ankara. 
In data collection, a questionnaire form, the PLISSIT model intervention plan 
and Golombok-Rust Inventory of Sexual Satisfaction (GRISS) were used. The 
individuals in the case group were paid eight home visits. During these visits, 
sexual problems of individuals with stoma were assessed and solutions sought 
under the guidance of the PLISSIT model intervention plan.
RESULTS: Increase of mean scores of Golombok-Rust Inventory of Sexual 
Satisfaction and subgroups before evaluating the sexual problems by the PLISSIT 
model and the sixth week scores which the sexual activity is anticipated to 
start have been observed, but after evaluating the sexual problems by using the 
model, the mean scores decreased. It was determined that negative effects of 
concerns related to sexual life; some physical and emotional features and 
physiological problems have been observed and difference between the groups is 
significant (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: As a result, it can be claimed that decreasing sexual problems can 
be accomplished by using the PLISSIT model.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: People with stoma can meet sexual problems. 
However, nurses experience some difficulties while handling sexual problems. It 
is thought that an intervention plan prepared within the framework of the 
PLISSIT model will guide nurses in solving sexual problems of individuals with 
stoma and providing integrated care and help individuals to express their sexual 
problems.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2008.02282.x
PMID: 18637858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. J Sex Med. 2008 Sep;5(9):2202-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2008.00925.x. Epub
 2008 Jul 15.

Androgen replacement in men undergoing treatment for prostate cancer.

Rhoden EL(1), Averbeck MA, Teloken PE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Universidade Federal de Ciências 
da Saúde de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, Brazil. ernanirh@yahoo.com.br

INTRODUCTION: Hypogonadism is a clinical and biochemical syndrome that may cause 
significant detriment in the quality of life and adversely affect the function 
of multiple organ systems. With the increase in life expectancy and prostate 
cancer (PCa) survival, a significant increase in the number of men with 
hypogonadism who have undergone presumably curative treatment for PCa is 
anticipated.
AIM: To critically review the literature regarding testosterone replacement 
therapy (TRT) after PCa treatment with curative intent.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Review of peer-reviewed literature. There was special 
focus on the potential implications and safety of TRT in men with hypogonadism 
who have undergone curative treatment for PCa.
METHODS: English-language relevant publications were identified via electronic 
medical databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, and DARE).
RESULTS: Despite the wide spread of contraindication of testosterone replacement 
in men with known or suspected PCa, there is no convincing evidence that the 
normalization of testosterone serum levels in men with low but no castrate 
levels is deleterious. In the few available case series describing testosterone 
replacement after treatment for PCa, no case of clinical or biochemical 
progression was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Although further studies are necessary before definitive 
conclusions can be drawn, the available evidence suggests that TRT can be 
cautiously considered in selected hypogonadal men treated with curative intent 
for PCa and without evidence of active disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2008.00925.x
PMID: 18638000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Crit Care. 2008;12(4):R92. doi: 10.1186/cc6963. Epub 2008 Jul 18.

Health care costs, long-term survival, and quality of life following intensive 
care unit admission after cardiac arrest.

Graf J(1), Mühlhoff C, Doig GS, Reinartz S, Bode K, Dujardin R, Koch KC, Roeb E, 
Janssens U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine, Philipps-University 
Marburg, Baldingerstrasse, 35043 Marburg, Germany. jgraf@gmx.de

Comment in
    Crit Care. 2008;12(4):173.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study was to investigate the costs and health 
status outcomes of intensive care unit (ICU) admission in patients who present 
after sudden cardiac arrest with in-hospital or out-of-hospital cardiopulmonary 
resuscitation.
METHODS: Five-year survival, health-related quality of life (Medical Outcome 
Survey Short Form-36 questionnaire, SF-36), ICU costs, hospital costs and 
post-hospital health care costs per survivor, costs per life year gained, and 
costs per quality-adjusted life year gained of patients admitted to a single ICU 
were assessed.
RESULTS: One hundred ten of 354 patients (31%) were alive 5 years after hospital 
discharge. The mean health status index of 5-year survivors was 0.77 (95% 
confidence interval 0.70 to 0.85). Women rated their health-related quality of 
life significantly better than men did (0.87 versus 0.74; P < 0.05). Costs per 
hospital discharge survivor were 49,952 euro. Including the costs of 
post-hospital discharge health care incurred during their remaining life span, 
the total costs per life year gained were 10,107 euro. Considering 5-year 
survivors only, the costs per life year gained were calculated as 9,816 euro or 
14,487 euro per quality-adjusted life year gained. Including seven patients with 
severe neurological sequelae, costs per life year gained in 5-year survivors 
increased by 18% to 11,566 euro.
CONCLUSION: Patients who leave the hospital following cardiac arrest without 
severe neurological disabilities may expect a reasonable quality of life 
compared with age- and gender-matched controls. Quality-adjusted costs for this 
patient group appear to be within ranges considered reasonable for other groups 
of patients.

DOI: 10.1186/cc6963
PMCID: PMC2575575
PMID: 18638367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Jan-Feb;44(1-2):70-4. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.06.005.
Epub  2008 Jun 24.

Linking sirtuins, IGF-I signaling, and starvation.

Longo VD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, 3715 
McClintock Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA. vlongo@usc.edu

Our studies in yeast have shown that the down-regulation of major signal 
transduction mediators increases stress resistance and causes an up to 10 fold 
chronological life span extension. Whereas other laboratories have proposed that 
sirtuins (Sir2 and its homologs), a family of conserved proteins which are 
NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylases, can extend longevity in various model 
organisms, we propose that one sirtuin, i.e., Sir2, can also accelerate cellular 
aging and death. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae (yeast), the deletion of Sir2 
increases DNA damage but in combination with longevity mutations in principal 
intracellular signal transduction mediators, or in combination with calorie 
restriction it causes a further increase in the chronological lifespan as well 
as an increase in the stress resistance and a major reduction in age-dependent 
genomic instability. Our recent results also provide evidence for a role of the 
mammalian Sir2 ortholog SirT1 in the activation of a highly conserved neuronal 
pathway and in the sensitization of neurons to oxidative damage. However, the 
mean lifespan of the SirT1(+/-) mice is not different from that of wild type 
animals, and the survival of SirT1(-/-) mice was reduced under both normal and 
calorie restricted conditions. Here, I review the studies linking SirT1, IGF-I 
signaling and starvation in various model organisms with a focus on the 
post-mitotic cells, which indicate that sirtuins can play both protective and 
pro-aging roles.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.06.005
PMID: 18638538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. BMJ. 2008 Jul 17;337:a769. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a769.

Economic evaluation of human papillomavirus vaccination in the United Kingdom.

Jit M(1), Choi YH, Edmunds WJ.

Author information:
(1)Modelling and Economics Unit, Centre for Infections, Health Protection 
Agency, London NW9 6BT. mark.jit@hpa.org.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008;337:a842.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of routine vaccination of 12 year 
old schoolgirls against human papillomavirus infection in the United Kingdom.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation.
SETTING: UK. Population Schoolgirls aged 12 or older.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
incremental cost effectiveness ratios for a range of vaccination options.
RESULTS: Vaccinating 12 year old schoolgirls with a quadrivalent vaccine at 80% 
coverage is likely to be cost effective at a willingness to pay threshold of 
pound30,000 (euro37,700; $59,163) per QALY gained, if the average duration of 
protection from the vaccine is more than 10 years. Implementing a catch-up 
campaign of girls up to age 18 is likely to be cost effective. Vaccination of 
boys is unlikely to be cost effective. A bivalent vaccine with the same efficacy 
against human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 costing pound13- pound21 less per 
dose (depending on the duration of vaccine protection) may be as cost effective 
as the quadrivalent vaccine although less effective as it does not prevent 
anogenital warts.
CONCLUSIONS: Routine vaccination of 12 year old schoolgirls combined with an 
initial catch-up campaign up to age 18 is likely to be cost effective in the UK. 
The results are robust to uncertainty in many parameters and processes. A key 
influential variable is the duration of vaccine protection.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a769
PMCID: PMC2500202
PMID: 18640957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: WJE’s partner works for 
GlaxoSmithKline.


996. Health Psychol. 2008 Jul;27(4):409-18. doi: 10.1037/0278-6133.27.4.409.

Mediators of physical activity behavior change: a multivariate approach.

Napolitano MA(1), Papandonatos GD, Lewis BA, Whiteley JA, Williams DM, King AC, 
Bock BC, Pinto B, Marcus BH.

Author information:
(1)Temple University, Department of Kinesiology, USA. napolita@temple.edu

