662. Breast Cancer Res. 2008;10(2):206. doi: 10.1186/bcr1991. Epub 2008 Apr 29.

Cancer and fertility preservation: fertility preservation in breast cancer 
patients.

Maltaris T(1), Weigel M, Mueller A, Schmidt M, Seufert R, Fischl F, Koelbl H, 
Dittrich R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Johannes Gutenberg University, Mainz 
University Hospital, Langenbeckstr, 1, 55124 Mainz, Germany. 
maltaris@uni-mainz.de

Aggressive chemotherapy has improved the life expectancy for reproductive-age 
women with breast cancer, but it often causes infertility or premature ovarian 
failure due to destruction of the ovarian reserve. Many questions concerning 
fertility preservation in breast cancer patients remain unanswered--for example, 
whether fertility preservation methods interfere with chemotherapy, and whether 
subsequent pregnancy has negative effects on the prognosis. Fertility 
preservation is a critical factor in decision-making for younger breast cancer 
patients, however, and clinicians should address this. The present article 
reviews the incidence of chemotherapy-induced amenorrhea, and discusses 
fertility-preservation options and the prognosis for patients who become 
pregnant after breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/bcr1991
PMCID: PMC2397531
PMID: 18492214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. World J Gastroenterol. 2008 May 21;14(19):3021-7. doi: 10.3748/wjg.14.3021.

Cost effectiveness analysis of population-based serology screening and 
(13)C-Urea breath test for Helicobacter pylori to prevent gastric cancer: a 
markov model.

Xie F(1), Luo N, Lee HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario L8P 1H1, Canada. fengxie@mamaster.ca

AIM: To compare the costs and effectiveness of no screening and no eradication 
therapy, the population-based Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) serology screening 
with eradication therapy and (13)C-Urea breath test (UBT) with eradication 
therapy.
METHODS: A Markov model simulation was carried out in all 237900 Chinese males 
with age between 35 and 44 from the perspective of the public healthcare 
provider in Singapore. The main outcome measures were the costs, number of 
gastric cancer cases prevented, life years saved, and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained from screening age to death. The uncertainty surrounding 
the cost-effectiveness ratio was addressed by one-way sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Compared to no screening, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was $16166 per life year saved or $13571 per QALY gained for the serology 
screening, and $38792 per life year saved and $32525 per QALY gained for the 
UBT. The ICER was $477079 per life year saved or $390337 per QALY gained for the 
UBT compared to the serology screening. The cost-effectiveness of serology 
screening over the UBT was robust to most parameters in the model.
CONCLUSION: The population-based serology screening for H pylori was more 
cost-effective than the UBT in prevention of gastric cancer in Singapore Chinese 
males.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.14.3021
PMCID: PMC2712169
PMID: 18494053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. New Yorker. 2008 Apr 7:38-43.

Mine is longer than yours: the latest boomer game.

Kinsley M.

PMID: 18494109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Klin Med (Mosk). 2008;86(4):22-6.

[The relation between gene of lipoprotein-lipase and carrier protein of 
cholesterol ethers and life duration in patients with chronic cerebral 
ischemia].

[Article in Russian]

Kostomarov IV, Vodolagina NN, Malygina NA, Mitina ZS.

Comparative analysis of frequency distribution of genotypes and alleles of 
HindIII-polymorphism of gene LPL and TaqIB-polymorphism of gene CETP in 267 
patients of various ages with chronic cerebral ischemia (CCI) was performed. 
Relation between age and polymorphous variants of genes LPL and CETP was 
noticed. It was shown that genotype of H+H+ HindIII-polymorphism of and genotype 
B1B1 TaqIB-polymorphism of gene CETP were found more frequently in more young 
patients with chronic cerebral ischemia (CCI). Since there is an association of 
these genotypes with atherogenic dislipidemias, they apparently can be 
considered as risk factors of CCI development. On the contrary, genotype of gene 
LPL and B2 allele of gene CETP in patients elder 90 years (long-livers) are 
found significantly more frequently than in younger patients, that makes 
possible to consider they as markers of favorable course of disease and 
patients' long life.

PMID: 18494281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Klin Med (Mosk). 2008;86(4):51-4.

[The complex assessment of efficiency of therapeutic training in patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus and destructive pulmonary tuberculosis].

[Article in Russian]

Mel'nikova NV.

115 patients from 39 to 70 years old with type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) and 
destructive pulmonary tuberculosis (PT) were included in the study. All patients 
received standard regimens of antituberculous therapy. At admission all patients 
were in state of decompensation of carbohydrate metabolism. Criteria of DM 
optimal metabolic control were determined individually subject to state of 
cognitive functions and life expectancy. Combined clinico-laboratory and 
roentgenologic examinations and special questioning were performed. The patients 
were divided into groups matched for social-demographic, clinical parameters and 
methods of metabolic disturbances correction. The main group patients took 
complex training of DM patients program adapted for PT patients. The 
modification of training was based on psychosocial and clinical features of 
these patients category. Primary course last 8 hours with following dynamic 
observation and correction in 1 and 3 months. The patients of comparison group 
did not take purposeful training. They received required information from 
medical specialists during examinations. The study demonstrated higher 
efficiency of combined treatment in patients of main group. Use of therapeutic 
training of DM and PT patients is reasonable as an integrated component in the 
system of combined medical aid to these patients category.

PMID: 18494288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Value Health. 2008 Dec;11(7):1033-40. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00328.x.
 Epub 2008 May 20.

Cost-effectiveness of a low-calorie diet and orlistat for obese persons: 
modeling long-term health gains through prevention of obesity-related chronic 
diseases.

van Baal PH(1), van den Berg M, Hoogenveen RT, Vijgen SM, Engelfriet PM.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Center for 
Prevention and Health Services Research, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
pieter.van.baal@rivm.nl

OBJECTIVE: Our study estimated the cost-effectiveness of pharmacologic treatment 
of obesity in combination with a low-calorie diet in The Netherlands.
METHODS: Costs and effects of a low-calorie diet-only intervention and of a 
low-calorie diet in combination with 1 year of orlistat were compared to no 
treatment. The RIVM Chronic Disease Model was used to project the differences in 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and lifetime health-care costs because of 
the effects of the interventions on body mass index (BMI) status. This was done 
by linking BMI status to the occurrence of obesity-related diseases and by 
relating quality of life to disease status. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
was employed to study the effect of uncertainty in the model parameters. In 
univariate sensitivity analysis, we assessed how sensitive the results were to 
several key assumptions.
RESULTS: Incremental costs per QALY gained were Euro 17,900 for the low-calorie 
diet-only intervention compared to no intervention and Euro 58,800 for the 
low-calorie diet + orlistat compared to the low-calorie diet only. Assuming a 
direct relation between BMI and quality of life, these ratios decreased to Euro 
6000 per QALY gained and Euro 24,100 per QALY gained. Costs per QALY gained were 
also sensitive to assumptions about long-term weight loss maintenance.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness ratios of interventions aiming at weight 
reduction depend strongly on assumptions regarding the relation between BMI and 
quality of life. We recommend that a low-calorie diet should be the first option 
for policymakers in combating obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00328.x
PMID: 18494748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Value Health. 2008 Sep-Oct;11(5):830-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00324.x.  Epub 2008 May 20.

Economic evaluation of caspofungin versus liposomal amphotericin B for empiric 
antifungal treatment in patients with neutropenic fever in Italy.

Stam WB(1), Aversa F, Kumar RN, Jansen JP.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, Houten, The Netherlands. wiro.stam@mapivalues.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of caspofungin versus liposomal 
amphotericin B as empiric antifungal treatment in patients with neutropenic 
fever in Italy.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of caspofungin versus liposomal amphotericin B 
was evaluated using a decision-tree model. Patients were stratified by presence 
or absence of baseline infection. Model outcomes included success in terms of 
resolution of fever, resolution of baseline infection, absence of breakthrough 
infection, survival, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) saved. 
Discontinuation because of nephrotoxicity or other adverse events were included 
in the model. Efficacy and safety data were based on a randomized, double-blind, 
multinational trial of caspofungin compared to liposomal amphotericin B (Walsh 
2004). Information on life expectancy, quality of life, medical resource 
consumption, and costs was obtained from the literature.
RESULTS: The caspofungin estimated total treatment cost amounted to 8351 euros 
(95% uncertainty interval 7801 euros-8903 euros), which is 3470 euros (2575 
euros-4382 euros) less than with liposomal amphotericin B. Treatment with 
caspofungin resulted in 0.25 (-0.11; 0.59) QALYs saved in comparison to 
treatment with liposomal amphotericin B. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
demonstrated a 93% probability that caspofungin was economically dominant, i.e., 
cost and QALY saving, and a probability of more than 99% that the costs per QALY 
saved were below 20,000 euros, a commonly accepted threshold for 
cost-effectiveness. Additional analyses with alternative doses of liposomal 
amphotericin B confirmed these findings.
CONCLUSION: Given the underlying assumptions, our economic evaluation 
demonstrated that caspofungin is cost-effective compared to liposomal 
amphotericin B in empiric antifungal treatment of patients with neutropenic 
fever in Italy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00324.x
PMID: 18494752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Leukoc Biol. 2008 Oct;84(4):915-23. doi: 10.1189/jlb.0108025. Epub 2008
May  21.

Cytokines, leptin, and stress-induced thymic atrophy.

Gruver AL(1), Sempowski GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA.

Thymopoiesis is essential for development and maintenance of a robust and 
healthy immune system. Acute thymic atrophy is a complication of many 
infections, environmental stressors, clinical preparative regimens, and cancer 
treatments used today. This undesirable sequela can decrease host ability to 
reconstitute the peripheral T cell repertoire and respond to new antigens. 
Currently, there are no treatments available to protect against acute thymic 
atrophy or accelerate recovery, thus leaving the immune system compromised 
during acute stress events. Several useful murine models are available for 
mechanistic studies of acute thymic atrophy, including a sepsis model of 
endotoxin-induced thymic involution. We have identified the IL-6 cytokine gene 
family members (i.e., leukemia inhibitory factor, IL-6, and oncostatin M) as 
thymosuppressive agents by the observation that they can acutely involute the 
thymus when injected into a young, healthy mouse. We have gone on to explore the 
role of thymosuppressive cytokines and specifically defined a 
corticosteroid-dependent mechanism of action for the leukemia inhibitory factor 
in acute thymic atrophy. We also have identified leptin as a novel, 
thymostimulatory agent that can protect against endotoxin-induced acute thymic 
atrophy. This review will highlight mechanisms of stress-induced thymic 
involution and focus on thymosuppressive agents involved in atrophy induction 
and thymostimulatory agents that may be exploited for therapeutic use.

DOI: 10.1189/jlb.0108025
PMCID: PMC2538595
PMID: 18495786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Neurosurgery. 2008 Apr;62(4):753-64; discussion 264-6. doi: 
10.1227/01.neu.0000318159.21731.cf.

Glioma extent of resection and its impact on patient outcome.

Sanai N(1), Berger MS.

Author information:
(1)Brain Tumor Research Center, Department of Neurological Surgery, University 
of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA. 
sanain@neurosurg.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: There is still no general consensus in the literature regarding the 
role of extent of glioma resection in improving patient outcome. Although the 
importance of resection in obtaining tissue diagnosis and alleviating symptoms 
is clear, a lack of Class I evidence prevents similar certainty in assessing the 
influence of extent of resection.
METHODS: We reviewed every major clinical publication since 1990 on the role of 
extent of resection in glioma outcome.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight high-grade glioma articles and 10 low-grade glioma 
articles were examined in terms of quality of evidence, expected extent of 
resection, and survival benefit.
CONCLUSION: Despite persistent limitations in the quality of data, mounting 
evidence suggests that more extensive surgical resection is associated with 
longer life expectancy for both low- and high-grade gliomas.

DOI: 10.1227/01.neu.0000318159.21731.cf
PMID: 18496181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2008 May 20;33(12):1391-5. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318173dc8f.

Cross-cultural adaptation and validation of the Argentinean version of the 
Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire.

Scharovsky A(1), Pueyrredón M, Craig D, Rivas ME, Converso G, Pueyrredón JH, 
Salvat F, Alzúa O.

Author information:
(1)Therapeutic Education and Rehabilitation Institute, FLENI, Pain Center.

STUDY DESIGN: Psychometric testing of a translated, culturally adapted 
questionnaire.
OBJECTIVE: Argentinean Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ) validation 
and cross-cultural adaptation for its use in Argentinean population with lumbar 
pain.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The RMDQ is one of the most widely used and 
validated instruments for measuring disability in low back pain. However, no 
validated Argentine version of the Test was available at the time our study was 
initiated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The RMDQ Argentinean cross-cultural adaptation was tested 
among 132 chronic lumbar pain patients, of which, 50 completed the pre-final 
RMDQ questionnaire and did a retest 24 hours later. The data gathered, as well 
as the absent response rate and the conflictive sentences for the patient were 
reviewed. There were no sentences marked as conflictive, therefore, the RMDQ 
(final) was handed out to another 82 patients. The interclass correlation 
coefficient was used to assess reliability and internal consistency by means of 
the Cronbach's alpha. The convergent validity was assessed calculating Pearson's 
correlation coefficient comparing the RMDQ's results with: the amount of pain 
(EVA), the range of movement of the spine, and the tightening of the hamstrings 
by means of the Active Knee Extension Test (through digital inclinometry).
RESULTS: Reliability Test-retest (24 hours): interclass correlation coefficient: 
0.940 (P < 0.01). Internal consistency reached 0.904 Cronbach's alpha. The 
RMDQ's convergent validity calculating Pearson's correlation coefficient was r: 
0.544 (P < 0.01) for EVA and r: -0.378 (P < 0.01) for range of movement from T1, 
which is in agreement with previous results published in similar studies. 
Concurrent validity was assessed correlating the RMDQ results with the 
Argentinean Oswestry Disability Index calculating Pearson's Coefficient and it 
proved very good, r: 0.811 (P < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The results of the study show that the Argentinean version of the 
RMDQ is reliable and valid as a lumbar disability measurement tool. The authors 
recommend this tool for future clinical studies.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318173dc8f
PMID: 18496354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Science. 2008 May 23;320(5879):1012; author reply 1012. doi: 
10.1126/science.1152366.

Comment on "Brain IRS2 signaling coordinates life span and nutrient 
homeostasis".

Selman C(1), Lingard S, Gems D, Partridge L, Withers DJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Diabetes and Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University 
College London, Rayne Institute, 5 University Street, London WC1E 6JJ, UK.

Comment on
    Science. 2007 Jul 20;317(5836):369-72.

Taguchi et al. (Reports, 20 July 2007, p. 369) reported that mice heterozygous 
for a null mutation in insulin receptor substrate-2 (Irs2) display a 17% 
increase in median life span. However, using the same mouse model, we find no 
evidence for life-span extension and suggest that the findings of Taguchi et al. 
were due to atypical life-span profiles in their study animals.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1152366
PMID: 18497277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. BMJ. 2008 May 24;336(7654):1155. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a125.

Life expectancy gap between better and less educated in US widens.

Dobson R.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a125
PMCID: PMC2394629
PMID: 18497403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Ophthalmologica. 2008;222(3):205-12. doi: 10.1159/000126085. Epub 2008 May
22.

Impact of low vision on well-being in 10 European countries.

Mojon-Azzi SM(1), Sousa-Poza A, Mojon DS.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for Labour Economics and Labour Law, University of St. 
Gallen, St. Gallen, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Because of the growing life expectancy in developed countries and 
the exponential increase in vision loss with increasing age, a growing number of 
elderly persons will eventually suffer from visual impairment and blindness. 
This paper describes the association between self-reported vision and well-being 
in individuals aged 50 years and older and their families.
METHODS: Using binary logistic regressions on data from the 2004 Survey of 
Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe (SHARE), we analysed the association 
between self-reported corrected vision in general, corrected distance vision and 
corrected reading vision on 11 variables capturing emotional well-being, future 
hopes and perspectives, and concentration on daily activities.
RESULTS: For 22,486 individuals from 10 European countries, aged 64.23 +/- 10.52 
years, lower vision was associated with a highly significant negative impact on 
all measured aspects of well-being.
CONCLUSIONS: These data from a large population base in Europe provide evidence 
that persons with low vision have a higher probability of concentration problems 
during reading and entertainment; losing interest and enjoyment in their 
activities; feeling fatigued, irritable, sad, and tearful; having less hope for 
the future; and wishing for death. Effective measures of early detection, 
prevention, rehabilitation, education and research, as well as a holistic view 
of a patient, could help counter these problems, thereby improving mental and 
physical health and reducing the economic impact of low vision.

(c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000126085
PMID: 18497531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Dev Dyn. 2008 Jun;237(6):1668-81. doi: 10.1002/dvdy.21578.

Differential expression pattern of the four mitochondrial adenine nucleotide 
transporter ant genes and their roles during the development of Caenorhabditis 
elegans.

Farina F(1), Alberti A, Breuil N, Bolotin-Fukuhara M, Pinto M, Culetto E.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Sud 11, CNRS UMR8621, Institut de Génétique et 
Microbiologie, Orsay Cedex, France.

The adenine nucleotide transporter (ANT) mediates exchange of cytosolic ADP and 
mitochondrial ATP. Although most species contain more than one ANT family 
member, it is not known whether their roles in developmental processes are 
redundant or specific. Here, we show that the Caenorhabditis elegans genome 
encodes four candidate ant genes (ant-1.1, ant-1.2, ant-1.3, and ant-1.4). We 
have investigated their spatiotemporal expression patterns and discovered that, 
whereas ANT-1.1 is a ubiquitously expressed mitochondrial protein, the other 
three ANT proteins show a restricted range of cell type expression. Moreover, 
only the disruption of ant-1.1 function, through RNA interference (RNAi), gives 
a mutant phenotype. Most of the ant-1.1(RNAi) mutant embryos arrest before the 
morphogenesis stage. Furthermore, ant-1.1 is also required postembryonically 
because RNAi mutants exhibit small size and life-span extension. Our results 
suggest that ant-1.1 is the only ant gene strictly required for embryonic and 
postembryonic development in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1002/dvdy.21578
PMID: 18498090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Clin Ther. 2008 Apr;30(4):749-60. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.03.014.

Cost-effectiveness of palivizumab against respiratory syncytial viral infection 
in high-risk children in Austria.

Resch B(1), Gusenleitner W, Nuijten MJ, Lebmeier M, Wittenberg W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital Graz, Graz, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
palivizumab, a monoclonal antibody against severe respiratory syncytial virus 
infection, in high-risk infants in Austria.
METHODS: A decision tree model was developed to determine cost-effectiveness in 
infants born prematurely (<or=35 weeks' gestational age), those with 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), and children with congenital heart disease 
(CHD). The primary perspective of the analysis was that of the compulsory health 
insurance fund. The societal perspective was also considered.
RESULTS: From the health insurance fund perspective, including the costs 
associated with asthma, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (cost per 
quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained) without discounting was estimated to 
be euro 4484 (2006 euros) in preterm infants, euro 6719 in children with BPD, 
and euro 2668 in the CHD population. When discounted, these figures increased to 
euro 14,439, euro 21,672, and euro 9754, respectively. The results from the 
societal perspective were substantially more cost-effective in all populations. 
The undiscounted cost per QALY was euro 1435 in preterm infants, euro 4881 in 
children with BPD, and euro 251 in the CHD group. Discounted figures were euro 
4623, euro 15,741, and euro 917, respectively. Sensitivity analyses confirmed 
the robustness of the model, and scenario analyses found that the inclusion of 
indirect costs led to further improvement in the cost-effectiveness outcomes for 
palivizumab.
CONCLUSION: Use of palivizumab was cost-effective compared with no prophylaxis 
in high-risk infants and children in Austria.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.03.014
PMID: 18498923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Infant Behav Dev. 2008 Sep;31(3):511-7. doi: 10.1016/j.infbeh.2008.04.002.
Epub  2008 May 21.

Demonstration of the shape bias without label extension.

Hupp JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, The Ohio State University-Newark, 1179 University 
Drive, Newark, OH 43055, United States. hupp.34@osu.edu

Existing shape bias research has determined that children generally extend 
object labels to novel instances on the basis of shape, and this typically 
occurs by around age 2.5. This research was conducted to further examine the 
nature of this bias during the second year of life, and determined that by using 
a more sensitive measure (novelty preference looking time) an emerging shape 
bias can be found as early as 14 months of age. In addition, demonstration of 
the shape bias in the current experiment appears to be unrelated to the 50 count 
noun marker.

DOI: 10.1016/j.infbeh.2008.04.002
PMID: 18499262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Eur J Med Res. 2008 Mar 31;13(3):93-9.

HIV-associated facial lipoatrophy--review of current therapy options.

Bechara FG(1), Sand M, Potthoff A, Altmeyer P, Brockmeyer NH; German Competence 
Network for HIV/AIDS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergology, Ruhr-University Bochum, St. Josef 
Hospital, Gudrunstr. 56, 44791 Bochum, Germany. f.bechara@derma.de

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has dramatically improved the life 
expectancy for HIV-infected patients. Long-term complications of both 
HIV-infection and antiretroviral agents are therefore of increasing concern. 
Facial lipoatrophy (FLA) is a stigmatizing complication associated with sever 
social impact and a reduced quality of life for the patient. - We aimed to 
review the treatment options of HIV-associated FLA. The current treatments 
available for treating FLA are limited and can be classified in three main 
categories: I. Medial therapy, II. Injectables with different duration of 
effect, and III. Surgical treatment options. Medical therapy can provide a small 
benefit but improvement is, at best, slow and partial. Injectables can yield 
marked results but are costly, time consuming and may be associated with 
complications such as granuloma formation. Surgical options such as augmentation 
with specially designed silicone implants may be of benefit for severe cases of 
FLA, however, they are associated with higher surgical complications and do not 
account for the dynamic process of FLA. - To summarize, until today no ideal 
strategies for treatment of HIV-associated FLA are available, and new therapies 
are strongly required. heart disease.

PMID: 18499554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Biostatistics. 2009 Jan;10(1):3-16. doi: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxn013. Epub
2008  May 21.

Case series analysis for censored, perturbed, or curtailed post-event exposures.

Farrington CP(1), Whitaker HJ, Hocine MN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, The Open University, Milton Keynes 
MK7 6AA, UK. c.p.farrington@open.ac.uk

A new method is developed for analyzing case series data in situations where 
occurrence of the event censors, curtails, or otherwise affects post-event 
exposures. Unbiased estimating equations derived from the self-controlled case 
series model are adapted to allow for exposures whose occurrence or observation 
is influenced by the event. The method applies to transient point exposures and 
rare nonrecurrent events. Asymptotic efficiency is studied in some special 
cases. A computational scheme based on a pseudo-likelihood is proposed to make 
the computations feasible in complex models. Simulations, a validation study, 
and 2 applications are described.

DOI: 10.1093/biostatistics/kxn013
PMID: 18499654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Nurs Older People. 2008 Apr;20(3):7-8. doi: 10.7748/nop.20.3.7.s8.

Turn of the century.

Neno R.

DOI: 10.7748/nop.20.3.7.s8
PMID: 18500123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Minerva Urol Nefrol. 2008 Jun;60(2):77-9.

Sexual dysfunctions in multiple sclerosis.

Dachille G(1), Ludovico GM, Pagliarulo G, Vestita G.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Urology, Hospital San Giacomo Monopoli, Bari, Italy. 
gdachille@hotmail.com

AIM: The aim of this study was to analyze the sexual dysfunction in patients 
affected by multiple sclerosis.
METHODS: From January 2005 to December 2007, 221 consecutive patients, 97 women 
and 124 men, were included in the study. Age range was 20+/-65 years (average 
38.77). Fifty-two patients, 14 women (26.9%) and 38 men (73%), among those who 
have had sexual dysfunctions, showed their will to tackle their problem, and 
were thus taken into consideration by the Department of Andrology. Sexual 
activity of these patients has been estimated by self-administered 
questionnaire, through the International Index of Erectile Function (IIEF) for 
men and Index of Female Sexual Arousal (IFSA) for women. All 64 patients started 
a domiciliary therapy with sildenafil 50 mg, and in case of failure, sildenafil 
100 mg. Results have been estimated for men according to the IIEF questionnaire 
and to the answers to the third and fourth question, concerning the capacity to 
have and keep an adequate erection during a sexual intercourse, and for women 
according to the IFSA questionnaire and to the answers given to questions number 
1, 5, 6, and 10.
RESULTS: Among the 124 male patients, 25 (20.1%) had a serious deficiency of the 
erectile function (score IIEF<10), 11 (8.8%) had a moderate deficiency (score 
from 11 to 16), and 20 (16.12%) had a light deficiency (score from 17 to 25). 
Twenty-five patients affected with serious erectile deficiency, also reported a 
contemporaneous decrease of libido. Among the 97 female patients, 22 (28.86%) of 
them reported a serious decrease of the genital sensitivity and of the sexual 
desire; 22 (22.68%) of them reported instead a serious decrease of the vaginal 
lubrication; 9 (9.2%) reported a moderate decrease of the sensitivity, and 10 
(10.30%) reported a moderate decrease of the vaginal lubrication. According to 
Disability Scale Expanded Score 52 male patients showed a 2.6 mean score (range 
1.5-7); 14 female patients showed a 2.9 mean score (range 3-6). The answers to 
IIEF questions number three and four, and to the IFSA questions number 1, 5, 6 
and 10 reported the achievement and keeping of an adequate erection after a 
follow-up of 4 sexual intercourse, and lubrication and sensitivity during a 
sexual intercourse in all the cases analysed.
CONCLUSION: Sildenafil has been effective and safe in the treatment of sexual 
dysfunctions for both sexes. In all analysed patients sexual deficiency was due 
to the neurological and central nervous system on which depend different 
dysfunctions correlated with the extension and the gravity of the multiple 
sclerosis. IIEF questions number 13 and 14 and IFSA questions number 21 and 22 
showed a clear improvement of the sexual life quality of these patients, after 
sildenafil therapy.

PMID: 18500221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Horm Metab Res. 2008 Aug;40(8):566-71. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1073165. Epub
2008  May 21.

Exposure to environmental factors in drinking water: risk of islet autoimmunity 
and type 1 diabetes--the BABYDIAB study.

Winkler C(1), Mollenhauer U, Hummel S, Bonifacio E, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute and Academic Hospital Schwabing, Munich, Germany.

Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is characterized by autoimmunity against pancreatic 
islets, and autoantibodies may be present for years before diagnosis. 
Environmental factors during early life, including drinking water, may play a 
role in pathogenesis of T1D. The German BABYDIAB study is a prospective 
observational study that followed newborn offspring of mothers or fathers with 
T1D from birth to 17 years of age. The present study was a nested case-control 
analysis, where subjects with islet autoimmunity were defined as cases (n=95), 
those without as controls (n=139). Drinking water quality was obtained from the 
German Water Supply Authorities for the participating families for the first 
year of the child's life. There was no significant association between water 
acidity or drinking water quality (concentration of minerals and elements) and 
islet autoimmunity risk. Increased progression to diabetes in islet 
autoantibody-positive children was associated with exposure to water with lower 
pH values (less than cohort median, 7.62; odds ratio [OR]: 2.5; 95% confidence 
interval [CI]: 1.1-5.7; p=0.03) but was not significant after correction for 
multiple comparisons. Concentrations of nitrate, nitrite, iron, aluminum, and 
manganese were not associated with risk of T1D progression. This is the first 
prospective study with water quality measured before the onset of islet 
autoimmunity and T1D. Consistent with a previous cross-sectional case-control 
study, we found an association between drinking water pH and the rate of T1D 
development in at-risk children. The association is marginal and requires 
validation in other prospective cohorts.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1073165
PMID: 18500677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2008 May-Jun;4(3 Suppl):S31-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.soard.2008.04.005.

Efficacy of a low-pressure laparoscopic adjustable gastric band for morbid 
obesity: patients at long term in a multidisciplinary center.

Toouli J(1), Kow L, Collins J, Schloithe A, Oppermann C.

Author information:
(1)Adelaide Bariatric Center and Flinders University, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia. jim.toouli@flinders.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Obesity is an increasingly common condition with serious associated 
morbidity and decreased life expectancy. Laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding 
(LAGB) has demonstrated its safety and efficacy as a surgical therapy for morbid 
obesity over the short term. The current study sought to determine the long-term 
safety and efficacy of a low-pressure LAGB.
METHODS: Between August 1996 and July 2007, 1,000 consecutive patients underwent 
LAGB implantation with the Swedish Adjustable Gastric Band (SAGB). This series 
was retrospectively reviewed with regard to weight loss and morbidity. Patients 
served as their own controls.
RESULTS: Preoperatively, there were 808 women (81.0%) and 192 men (19.0%) with a 
mean age of 46 +/- 11 years (range 13-81 yrs) and mean body mass index (BMI) of 
42.0 +/- 7.0 kg/m2 (range 27-82 kg/m2). At 1-, 3-, 6-, and 8-year follow-up, 
mean percent excess weight loss was 41% (n = 600), 56% (n = 367), 51% (n = 114), 
and 52% (n = 43), respectively. At the same time points, BMI decreased, from 
42.0 to 31.0, 32.5, and 30.5 kg/m2, respectively. Complications occurred in 197 
patients. There were 2 operative complications (i.e., stomach perforation and 
vascular injury) and 25 conversions (2.4%) to open surgery. Major and minor 
wound infection in the perioperative period occurred in 47 (4.7%) and 43 (4.3%) 
patients, respectively. There was 1 death from a myocardial infarct 1 week after 
surgery. Long term, there were 30 (3.0%) band slippages, 31 (3.1%) erosions, 67 
(6.7%) port problems, and 12 (1.2%) incisional hernias.
CONCLUSION: LAGB with the SAGB is effective in achieving a mean sustainable 
weight loss of >50% at 8 years after surgery, with an acceptably low morbidity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2008.04.005
PMID: 18501313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2008 Dec 1;72(5):1523-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2008.03.048. Epub 2008 May 22.

Reirradiation after radical radiation therapy: a survey of patterns of practice 
among Canadian radiation oncologists.

Joseph KJ(1), Al-Mandhari Z, Pervez N, Parliament M, Wu J, Ghosh S, Tai P, Lian 
J, Levin W.

Author information:
(1)Cross Cancer Institute & University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to survey the use of reirradiation 
(Re-RT) for in-field failures after previous radical radiation treatment (RT) 
among Canadian radiation oncologists (ROs).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: An electronic survey was sent to 271 ROs in Canada. The 
completed surveys were received electronically via e-mail and the data were 
analyzed using SAS 9.1.3 software.
RESULTS: A total of 183 ROs (67.5%) completed and returned the survey. The 
majority of the respondents were involved in the practice of either breast (48%) 
or genitourinary (43%) tumor sites. A total of 49% of the participants were 
interested in using Re-RT for the management of in-field recurrences. The goals 
of the therapy would be improvement of quality of life (99%), locoregional 
control (80%), or cure (32%). Most of the physicians believed that patients 
should have a minimum Karnofsky performance status of 50 or Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group performance status of 3, a minimum life expectancy of 3 months, 
and a minimum interval from initial treatment of 3 months if Re-RT were to be 
given with curative intent.
CONCLUSIONS: This survey showed that a wide variation existed among ROs in their 
approach to Re-RT. Newer technologies in RT planning and delivery would be 
employed to facilitate normal tissue avoidance. The results of this study 
suggested that a consensus meeting was needed to establish guidelines for the 
practice and prospective evaluation of Re-RT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2008.03.048
PMID: 18501531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. J Vasc Surg. 2008 Jul;48(1):54-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2008.02.028. Epub 2008
May  23.

Thoracic aortic lesions treated with the Zenith TX1 and TX2 thoracic devices: 
intermediate- and long-term outcomes.

Morales JP(1), Greenberg RK, Morales CA, Cury M, Hernandez AV, Lyden SP, Clair 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, 
Ohio 44195, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Little data exist to support the durability of thoracic endovascular 
repair during prolonged periods of follow-up. This study examines the durability 
and long-term results with the Zenith TX1 and TX2 thoracic devices (Cook Inc, 
Bloomington, Ind) in high-risk patients.
METHODS: Data were collected prospectively from 2001 to 2007 on high-risk 
patients who presented with thoracic aneurysms, chronic aortic dissection, or 
fistulas treated with a Zenith thoracic device. Surgical modifications of 
proximal or distal landing zones were performed when necessary. Computed 
tomography follow-up scans were performed before discharge, at 1, 6, and 12 
months, and yearly thereafter. Three-dimensional reconstruction software with 
central line of flow measurements was used to assess aortic morphologic 
characteristics. Kaplan-Meier analysis was used to assess survival, freedom from 
reintervention, predictive factors of poor outcome, and morphologic changes, 
including aneurysm sac behavior.
RESULTS: A total of 160 patients (44% women; mean age, 70) were treated for 130 
thoracic aneurysms, 25 aortic dissections with aneurysm, 2 fistulas, and 3 
symptomatic or aortic ruptures, or both. Mean follow-up was 36 months, and 
aneurysm size was 67 mm. Seventy-five patients (47%) had undergone prior aortic 
aneurysm repair. Surgical modifications were required to create adequate landing 
zones in 33% patients, including 28 elephant trunk/arch reconstruction, 22 
carotid-subclavian bypasses, and seven visceral vessel bypasses. Iliac conduits 
were required in 31 patients. Early mortality (<30 days) occurred in 11 patients 
(6.9%). Overall mortality at 1 year was 16%. Aneurysm sac increase (>5 mm) 
requiring intervention was observed only in one patient in the settings of 
component separation and type III endoleak that was treated; the sac is now 
stable. Twenty-seven endoleaks were detected in 25 patients: 15 primary 
endoleaks (9.4%) <30 days and 12 secondary endoleaks (7.5%) >30 days. Secondary 
interventions were required in 42 patients (26%).
CONCLUSION: Endovascular treatment of thoracic aortic pathologies with the 
Zenith TX1 and TX2 devices is feasible and durable. The mid- to long-term 
results are encouraging, with acceptable low reintervention rates and with good 
survival within high-risk patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2008.02.028
PMID: 18502083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Lancet. 2008 May 24;371(9626):1769-76. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60764-3.

Enhanced diabetes care to patients of south Asian ethnic origin (the United 
Kingdom Asian Diabetes Study): a cluster randomised controlled trial.

Bellary S(1), O'Hare JP, Raymond NT, Gumber A, Mughal S, Szczepura A, Kumar S, 
Barnett AH; UKADS Study Group.

Collaborators: Bellary S, Barnett AH, Mughal S, Begum S, Kauser T, Mirza N, 
Dixon AN, Hanif WM, Rahim A, Malik W, Jones A, Bhatti RA, Alvi MM, Akthar A, 
Sangra RA, Bangash NH, Sheik MD, Hakeem AG, Najak BG, Latif SA, Sanghera JS, 
Shah AU, Sen-Gupta T, O'Gara G, Moonga PS, Khattak SH, Machin P, Hartland F, 
Kaur H, Janood N, Dhalival J, Fatima T, Taylor J, Fitzpatrick D, Lucas J, 
Hemming S, O'Hare JP, Raymond NT, Kumar S, Szczepura A, Johal K, Gumber A, 
Agarwal IC, Mistry DK, Lyall FF, Dhadhania MR, Kakad KL, Jetty U, Sihota JF, 
Mall S, Webb K, Khatoon S, Parker R, Claire P, Turner G.

Author information:
(1)Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 May 24;371(9626):1728-30.

BACKGROUND: Delivery of high-quality, evidence-based health care to deprived 
sectors of the community is a major goal for society. We investigated the 
effectiveness of a culturally sensitive, enhanced care package in UK general 
practices for improvement of cardiovascular risk factors in patients of south 
Asian origin with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: In this cluster randomised controlled trial, 21 inner-city practices in 
the UK were assigned by simple randomisation to intervention (enhanced care 
including additional time with practice nurse and support from a link worker and 
diabetes-specialist nurse [nine practices; n=868]) or control (standard care [12 
practices; n=618]) groups. All adult patients of south Asian origin with type 2 
diabetes were eligible. Prescribing algorithms with clearly defined targets were 
provided for all practices. Primary outcomes were changes in blood pressure, 
total cholesterol, and glycaemic control (haemoglobin A1c) after 2 years. 
Analysis was by intention to treat. This trial is registered, number ISRCTN 
38297969.
FINDINGS: We recorded significant differences between treatment groups in 
diastolic blood pressure (1.91 [95% CI -2.88 to -0.94] mm Hg, p=0.0001) and mean 
arterial pressure (1.36 [-2.49 to -0.23] mm Hg, p=0.0180), after adjustment for 
confounders and clustering. We noted no significant differences between groups 
for total cholesterol (0.03 [-0.04 to 0.11] mmol/L), systolic blood pressure 
(-0.33 [-2.41 to 1.75] mm Hg), or HbA1c (-0.15% [-0.33 to 0.03]). Economic 
analysis suggests that the nurse-led intervention was not cost effective 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratio pound28 933 per QALY gained). Across the 
whole study population over the 2 years of the trial, systolic blood pressure, 
diastolic blood pressure, and cholesterol decreased significantly by 4.9 (95% CI 
4.0-5.9) mm Hg, 3.8 (3.2-4.4) mm Hg, and 0.45 (0.40-0.51) mmol/L, respectively, 
and we recorded a small and non-significant increase for haemoglobin A1c (0.04% 
[-0.04 to 0.13]), p=0.290).
INTERPRETATION: We recorded additional, although small, benefits from our 
culturally tailored care package that were greater than the secular changes 
achieved in the UK in recent years. Stricter targets in general practice and 
further measures to motivate patients are needed to achieve best possible 
health-care outcomes in south Asian patients with diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)60764-3
PMID: 18502301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Radiother Oncol. 2009 Jan;90(1):14-22. doi: 10.1016/j.radonc.2008.05.002.
Epub  2008 May 24.

Local relapse rates are falling after breast conserving surgery and systemic 
therapy for early breast cancer: can radiotherapy ever be safely withheld?

Mannino M(1), Yarnold JR.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, Department of Clinical Oncology, Surrey, UK.

Rates of local tumour relapse after breast conservation treatment in women with 
early breast cancer are falling. Explanations for this decline are considered in 
this review including advances in breast cancer management and aging of the 
breast cancer population. Breast surgery has become more standardised following 
publication of practice guidelines and is mostly carried out by specialist 
surgeons. Systemic therapies (hormonal therapy and chemotherapy) are now more 
effective and are recommended to a higher proportion of patients than ever 
before. Radiotherapy techniques have also improved. The contributions of each 
factor are difficult to quantify precisely, but all are likely to be relevant. 
In order to identify a subgroup of women that might safely be spared 
radiotherapy, several factors are analysed, including the prognostic 
significance for local relapse of tumour characteristics (pathologic data, 
gene-expression profiles), patient characteristics and life expectancy (age and 
comorbidities).

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2008.05.002
PMID: 18502528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. BMJ. 2008 Jun 14;336(7657):1355-8. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a143. Epub 2008 May 23.

Prolonged conservative care versus early surgery in patients with sciatica 
caused by lumbar disc herniation: two year results of a randomised controlled 
trial.

Peul WC(1), van den Hout WB, Brand R, Thomeer RT, Koes BW; Leiden-The Hague 
Spine Intervention Prognostic Study Group.

Collaborators: Eekhof JA, Tans JT, van Houwelingen HC, Nuyten M, Bergman P, 
Holtkamp G, Dukker S, Mast A, Smakman L, Waanders C, Polak P, Nieborg A, Tans 
JT, Walchenbach R, van Rossum J, Schutte P, Verheul GA, Dalman JE, Wurzer JA, 
Sven JW, Kloet A, Merkies IS, van Dulken H, Lambrechts PC, Wurzer JA, Keunen RW, 
Hoffmann C, Haan J, van Dulken H, Groen R, Kuiters RR, Roos RA, Voormolen JH, 
Eekhof JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Leiden University Medical Centre, PO Box 9600, 
2300 RC Leiden, Netherlands. w.c.peul@lumc.nl

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008 Jun 14;336(7657):1317-8.
    Evid Based Med. 2008 Dec;13(6):185.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effects of early lumbar disc surgery compared with 
prolonged conservative care for patients with sciatica over two years of 
follow-up.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Nine Dutch hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: 283 patients with 6-12 weeks of sciatica.
INTERVENTIONS: Early surgery or an intended six months of continued conservative 
treatment, with delayed surgery if needed.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Scores from Roland disability questionnaire for sciatica, 
visual analogue scale for leg pain, and Likert self rating scale of global 
perceived recovery.
RESULTS: Of the 141 patients assigned to undergo early surgery, 125 (89%) 
underwent microdiscectomy. Of the 142 patients assigned to conservative 
treatment, 62 (44%) eventually required surgery, seven doing so in the second 
year of follow-up. There was no significant overall difference between treatment 
arms in disability scores during the first two years (P=0.25). Improvement in 
leg pain was faster for patients randomised to early surgery, with a significant 
difference between "areas under the curves" over two years (P=0.05). This short 
term benefit of early surgery was no longer significant by six months and 
continued to narrow between six months and 24 months. Patient satisfaction 
decreased slightly between one and two years for both groups. At two years 20% 
of all patients reported an unsatisfactory outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: Early surgery achieved more rapid relief of sciatica than 
conservative care, but outcomes were similar by one year and these did not 
change during the second year.
TRIAL REGISTRY: ISRCT No 26872154.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a143
PMCID: PMC2427077
PMID: 18502911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


689. BMJ. 2008 Jun 14;336(7657):1351-4. doi: 10.1136/bmj.39583.709074.BE. Epub
2008  May 23.

Prolonged conservative care versus early surgery in patients with sciatica from 
lumbar disc herniation: cost utility analysis alongside a randomised controlled 
trial.

van den Hout WB(1), Peul WC, Koes BW, Brand R, Kievit J, Thomeer RT; Leiden-The 
Hague Spine Intervention Prognostic Study Group.

Collaborators: Eekhof JA, Tans JT, van Houwelingen HC, Nuyten M, Bergman P, 
Holtkamp G, Dukker S, Mast A, Smakman L, Waanders C, Polak L, Nieborg A, Tans 
JT, Walchenbach R, van Rossum J, Schutte P, Verheul GA, Dalman JE, Wurzer JA, 
Sven JW, Kloet A, Merkies IS, van Dulken H, Lambrechts PC, Wurzer JA, Keunen RW, 
Hoffmann CF, Haan J, van Dulken H, Groen R, Kuiters RR, Roos RA, Voormolen JH, 
Eekhof JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, PO 
Box 9600, 2300RC Leiden, Netherlands. hout@lumc.nl

Comment in
    BMJ. 2008 Jun 14;336(7657):1317-8.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the faster recovery after early surgery for 
sciatica compared with prolonged conservative care is attained at reasonable 
costs.
DESIGN: Cost utility analysis alongside a randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Nine Dutch hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: 283 patients with sciatica for 6-12 weeks, caused by lumbar disc 
herniation.
INTERVENTIONS: Six months of prolonged conservative care compared with early 
surgery.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality adjusted life years (QALYs) at one year and 
societal costs, estimated from patient reported utilities (UK and US EuroQol, 
SF-6D, and visual analogue scale) and diaries on costs (healthcare, patient's 
costs, and productivity).
RESULTS: Compared with prolonged conservative care, early surgery provided 
faster recovery, with a gain in QALYs according to the UK EuroQol of 0.044 (95% 
confidence interval 0.005 to 0.083), the US EuroQol of 0.032 (0.005 to 0.059), 
the SF-6D of 0.024 (0.003 to 0.046), and the visual analogue scale of 0.032 
(-0.003 to 0.066). From the healthcare perspective, early surgery resulted in 
higher costs (difference euro1819 (pound1449; $2832), 95% confidence interval 
euro842 to euro2790), with a cost utility ratio per QALY of euro41 000 
(euro14,000 to euro430 000). From the societal perspective, savings on 
productivity costs led to a negligible total difference in cost (euro-12, 
euro-4029 to euro4006).
CONCLUSIONS: Faster recovery from sciatica makes early surgery likely to be cost 
effective compared with prolonged conservative care. The estimated difference in 
healthcare costs was acceptable and was compensated for by the difference in 
absenteeism from work. For a willingness to pay of euro40,000 or more per QALY, 
early surgery need not be withheld for economic reasons. Trial registration 
Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN 26872154.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.39583.709074.BE
PMCID: PMC2427123
PMID: 18502912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest: None declared.


690. Pract Neurol. 2008 Jun;8(3):175-82. doi: 10.1136/pn.2007.140186.

Quality-adjusted life years.

