359. Heart Vessels. 2008 Sep;23(5):316-24. doi: 10.1007/s00380-008-1055-8. Epub
2008  Sep 20.

Intraoperative behavior of arterial grafts in the elderly and the young: a 
flowmetric systematic analysis.

Onorati F(1), Santarpino G, Lerose MA, Impiombato B, Mastroroberto P, Renzulli 
A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Unit, Magna Graecia University of Catanzaro, Catanzaro, 
Italy. frankono@libero.it

Extensive arterial grafting (Art-CABG) in the elderly is still questioned due to 
the reduced life expectancy and the supposed higher periprocedural risk. Reports 
further demonstrated accelerated atherosclerosis of arterial grafts in the 
elderly, with hampered short-term and long-term results. We reviewed our 
experience of patients undergoing Art-CABG between January 2003 and January 
2007, divided into two groups: the elderly (238 patients > or = 70 years; Group 
A) and the young (195 patients < or = 60 years; Group B). Transit time 
flowmetric (TTF) maximum and mean flow, pulsatility index (PI), and graft flow 
reserve (GFR) were compared. Hospital outcome was analyzed. Hospital mortality, 
need for intra-aortic balloon pump, troponin I, and echocardiographic segmental 
kinetics were comparable between the two groups (P = not significant [NS]). 
Stratifying patients for target vessels and type of arterial CABG, no 
differences in TTF results were recorded between the two groups either on-pump 
(P = NS) and off-pump (P = NS), both for the two internal mammary arteries (P = 
NS irrespective of the target vessel) and the radial artery conduits (P = NS 
irrespective of the target vessel). Although graft flow reserve was 
significantly recruited in all patients (P < 0.05 in young and elderly, either 
on-pump and off-pump, irrespective of the arterial conduit and the grafted 
vessel), GFR of all arterial grafts was comparable between elderly and young 
patients, either on-pump (P = NS) or off-pump (P = NS). Art-CABG showed similar 
TTF results in elderly and young patients, regardless of the arterial conduit, 
target vessel, or surgical technique employed. These functional results 
supported the reported survival benefit of arterial revascularization in the 
elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/s00380-008-1055-8
PMID: 18810580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2008 May-Jun;(3):3-6.

[The regional medical demographic characteristics in the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Belov VB, Rogovina AG, Antonova OI, Kozeeva GM.

The analysis of the aspects of demographic situation in several regions of the 
Russian Federation is made to determine the divergence of levels of life 
expectancy from 1998 to 2005. The key role of the male premature mortality in 
this respect is demonstrated. The contradiction of the revealed trends with the 
logic of development of resources supply and volumes of provided medical care is 
explained.

PMID: 18810788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Am Nat. 1997 Dec;150(6):771-89. doi: 10.1086/286093.

Survival rates of tropical and temperate passerines: a Trinidadian perspective.

Johnston JP(1), Peach WJ, Gregory RD, White SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Dundee, Dundee DD14 4HN, 
United Kingdom.

Mark-recapture data collected using mist nets over a 10-yr period in Trinidad 
were used to estimate adult survival rates for 17 species of forest passerines. 
Trinidadian survival rates (mean 65%, range 45%-85%) were significantly higher 
than published estimates for European (mean survival 52%, range 32%-71%) and 
North American (mean survival 53%, range 29%-63%) passerines of similar body 
size (equivalent to 45% higher mean life expectancy in Trinidad). These findings 
were confirmed after controlling for phylogeny using a method of independent 
contrasts. Transient and/or young birds were an important feature of the 
Trinidad data, and studies that fail to allow for the presence of such birds 
risk underestimating adult survival. This study lends support to the hypothesis 
that avian survival rates are higher in the humid tropics, although the 
magnitude of the difference may be smaller than previously suggested.

DOI: 10.1086/286093
PMID: 18811335


362. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2008 Sep 23;6:71. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-71.

A comparison of EQ-5D index scores using the UK, US, and Japan preference 
weights in a Thai sample with type 2 diabetes.

Sakthong P(1), Charoenvisuthiwongs R, Shabunthom R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand. phantipa_sakthong@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Data are scarce on the comparison of EQ-5D index scores using the 
UK, US, and Japan preference weights in other populations. This study was aimed 
to examine the differences and agreements between these three weights, 
psychometric properties including test-retest reliability, convergent and 
known-groups validity, and the impact of differences in the EQ-5D scores on the 
outcome of cost-utility analysis in Thai people.
METHODS: A convenience sample of 303 type 2 diabetic outpatients (18 years or 
older) from a cross-sectional study was examined. ANOVA and pos-hoc Bonferroni 
tests were used to determine the differences among the three EQ-5D scores. The 
agreements among the EQ-5D scores were assessed employing intraclass 
correlations coefficients (ICCs) and Bland-Altman plots. The ICCs were utilized 
to examine the test-retest reliability. Spearman's rho correlation coefficients 
were used to assess the convergent validity between the EQ-5D scores and 
sociodemographic & clinical data, and health status. Mann-Whitney U tests were 
used to test the differences in EQ-5D scores between the known groups including 
HbA1c level (cut point of 7%), and the presence of diabetic complications namely 
neuropathy, retinopathy, nephropathy and cardiovascular diseases. Seven 
hypothetical decision trees were created to evaluate the impact of differences 
in the EQ-5D scores on the incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR).
RESULTS: The US weights yielded higher scores than those of the UK and the Japan 
weights (p < 0.001, both), while the UK and the Japan weighted scores did not 
differ (p > 0.05). Both UK and US scores had more agreement with each other than 
with the Japan scores. Regarding psychometric properties, the Japan scheme 
provided better test-retest reliability, convergent and known-groups validity 
than both UK and US schemes. The variation in EQ-5D scores estimated from UK, 
US, and Japan preference weights had a marginal impact on ICUR (range: 
1.23-6.32%).
CONCLUSION: Since the Japan model showed more preferable psychometric properties 
than the UK and the US models and the differences in these EQ-5D scores had a 
small impact on ICUR, we recommended that for both clinical and policy purposes 
the Japan scheme should be used in Thai people. However, more research needs to 
be done.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-71
PMCID: PMC2559828
PMID: 18811935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Brain. 2008 Nov;131(Pt 11):3051-61. doi: 10.1093/brain/awn228. Epub 2008 Sep
23.

Vocal cord paresis and diaphragmatic dysfunction are severe and frequent 
symptoms of GDAP1-associated neuropathy.

Sevilla T(1), Jaijo T, Nauffal D, Collado D, Chumillas MJ, Vilchez JJ, Muelas N, 
Bataller L, Domenech R, Espin√≥s C, Palau F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital La Fe, Valencia, Spain. 
sevilla_ter@gva.es

Cranial nerve involvement in Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) is rare, though 
there are a number of CMT syndromes in which vocal cord paralysis is a 
characteristic feature. CMT disease due to mutations in the ganglioside-induced 
differentiation-associated protein 1 gene (GDAP1) has been reported to be 
associated with vocal cord and diaphragmatic palsy. In order to address the 
prevalence of these complications in patients with GDAP1 mutations we evaluated 
vocal cord and respiratory function in nine patients from eight unrelated 
families with this disorder. Hoarseness of the voice and inability to speak 
loudly were reported by eight patients and one had associated symptoms of 
respiratory insufficiency. Patients were investigated by means of peripheral and 
phrenic nerve conduction studies, flexible laryngoscopy, pulmonary function 
studies and polysomnography. Nerve conduction velocities and pathological 
studies were compatible with axonal CMT (CMT2). Flexible laryngoscopy showed 
left vocal cord palsy in four cases, bilateral cord palsies in four cases and 
was normal in one case. Restrictive respiratory dysfunction was seen in the 
eight patients with vocal cord paresis who were all chair-bound. These eight had 
confirmed phrenic nerve dysfunction on neurophysiology evaluation. The patient 
with normal vocal cord and pulmonary function had a less severe clinical 
course.This study shows that CMT patients with GDAP1 mutations develop severe 
disability due to weakness of limb muscles and that laryngeal and respiratory 
muscle involvement occurs late in the disease process when significant proximal 
upper limb weakness has developed. The early and predominant involvement of the 
left vocal cord innervated by the longer left recurrent laryngeal nerve suggests 
a length dependent pattern of nerve degeneration. In GDAP1 neuropathy, 
respiratory function should be thoroughly investigated because life expectancy 
can be compromised due to respiratory failure.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awn228
PMID: 18812441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Cornea. 2008 Oct;27(9):1001-7. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31817bb062.

The value-based medicine comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
penetrating keratoplasty for keratoconus.

Roe RH(1), Lass JH, Brown GC, Brown MM.

Author information:
(1)Retina-Vitreous Associates, Los Angeles, CA 90017, USA. roe.rick@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To perform a base case, comparative effectiveness, and 
cost-effectiveness (cost-utility) analysis of penetrating keratoplasty for 
patients with severe keratoconus.
METHODS: Visual acuity data were obtained from a large, retrospective 
multicenter study in which patients with keratoconus with less than 20/40 best 
corrected visual acuity and/or the inability to wear contact lenses underwent 
penetrating keratoplasty, with an average follow-up of 2.1 years. The results 
were combined with other retrospective studies investigating complication rates 
of penetrating keratoplasty. The data were then incorporated into a cost-utility 
model using patient preference-based, time trade-off utilities, computer-based 
decision analysis, and a net present value model to account for the time value 
of outcomes and money. The comparative effectiveness of the intervention is 
expressed in quality-of-life gain and QALYs (quality-adjusted life-years), and 
the cost-effectiveness results are expressed in the outcome of $/QALY (dollars 
spent per QALY).
RESULTS: Penetrating keratoplasty in 1 eye for patients with severe keratoconus 
results in a comparative effectiveness (value gain) of 16.5% improvement in 
quality of life every day over the 44-year life expectancy of the average 
patient with severe keratoconus. Discounting the total value gain of 5.36 QALYs 
at a 3% annual discount rate yields 3.05 QALYs gained. The incremental cost for 
penetrating keratoplasty, including all complications, is $5934 ($5913 
discounted at 3% per year). Thus, the incremental cost-utility (discounted at 3% 
annually) for this intervention is $5913/3.05 QALYs = $1942/QALY. If both eyes 
undergo corneal transplant, the total discounted value gain is 30% and the 
overall cost-utility is $2003. Surgery on the second eye confers a total 
discounted value gain of 2.5 QALYs, yielding a quality-of-life gain of 11.6% and 
a discounted cost-utility of $2238/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Penetrating keratoplasty for patients with severe keratoconus seems 
to be a comparatively effective and cost-effective procedure when compared with 
other interventions across different medical specialties.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31817bb062
PMID: 18812762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Cancer Control. 2008 Oct;15(4):322-33. doi: 10.1177/107327480801500407.

Interdisciplinary management of an intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm of 
the pancreas.

Nair RM(1), Barthel JS, Centeno BA, Choi J, Klapman JB, Malafa MP.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Tumor Program, H Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research 
Institute, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

BACKGROUND: Intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasm (IPMN) of the pancreas is 
less common than classic invasive ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas but is 
being diagnosed with greater frequency since its clinicopathologic features are 
now clearly defined. Often multifocal in its existence along the pancreatic 
duct, IPMN is associated with a significant risk for recurrence and warrants 
vigilant surveillance, even after a margin-negative resection.
METHODS: The authors present a case highlighting important features in the 
diagnosis, workup, and management of IPMN. They also review existing literature 
highlighting epidemiology, findings of molecular studies, and current treatment 
recommendations.
RESULTS: Physicians and patients must carefully weigh the risks and benefits 
associated with treatment options. Limited resection in a patient with a high 
likelihood of multifocal disease preserves pancreatic parenchyma and reduces the 
risk of developing pancreatic endocrine and exocrine insufficiency. Though the 
risk of developing invasive cancer in the remnant is small, the prognosis is 
worse if it does develop. Conversely, total pancreatectomy eliminates the risk 
of future malignancy but involves life-long insulin and exogenous pancreatic 
enzyme dependence and significant associated morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: Decision making for effective treatment of IPMN is complex and 
requires attention to detail by an interdisciplinary team with experience in the 
diagnosis and management of these tumors. Treatment must be individualized based 
on patient life expectancy in terms of remaining years and overall quality. 
Molecular profiling of these lesions may allow for more precise tailoring of 
treatment in the future.

DOI: 10.1177/107327480801500407
PMID: 18813200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Mol Ther. 2008 Dec;16(12):1937-43. doi: 10.1038/mt.2008.209. Epub 2008 Sep
23.

Biological pacemaker engineered by nonviral gene transfer in a mouse model of 
complete atrioventricular block.

Piron J(1), Quang KL, Briec F, Amirault JC, Leoni AL, Desigaux L, Escande D, 
Pitard B, Charpentier F.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, UMR915, l'institut du thorax, Nantes, France.

We hypothesized that a nonviral gene delivery of the hyperpolarization-activated 
HCN2 channel combined with the beta(2)-adrenergic receptor (ADRB2) would 
generate a functional pacemaker in a mouse model of complete atrioventricular 
block (CAVB) induced by radiofrequency ablation of the His bundle. Plasmids 
encoding HCN2 and ADRB2 mixed with tetronic 304, a poloxamine block copolymer, 
were injected in the left ventricular free wall (HCN2-ADRB2 mice). Sham mice 
received a noncoding plasmid. CAVB was induced 5 days later. Ventricular escape 
rhythms in HCN2-ADRB2 mice were significantly faster than in sham mice at day 15 
after ablation and later. In HCN2-ADRB2 mice, QRS complexes were larger than in 
sham mice and characterized by abnormal axes. Immunostaining of GFP-HCN2 fusion 
protein showed an expression of HCN2 channel in left ventricular myocardium for 
at least 45 days after injection. In the mouse, CAVB induces progressive 
hypertrophy and heart failure leading to 50% mortality after 110 days. 
HCN2-ADRB2 mice survived 3 weeks longer than sham mice. Finally, beta-adrenergic 
input increased ventricular escape rhythms significantly more in HCN2-ADRB2 mice 
than in sham mice. In conclusion, nonviral gene transfer can produce a 
functional cardiac biological pacemaker regulated by sympathetic input, which 
improves life expectancy in a mouse model of CAVB.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2008.209
PMID: 18813278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Cad Saude Publica. 2008 Sep;24(9):2141-50. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2008000900020.

[Raising children with mental disabilities: mothers' narratives].

[Article in Portuguese]

Bastos OM(1), Deslandes SF.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Fernandes Figueira, Funda√ß√£o Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. 
olgab@iff.fiocruz.br

Technical advances in neonatology have increased the life expectancy of children 
with serious health problems. Many of these children experience developmental 
delay (mental disability) and require special care. The family must adapt to 
better provide for the child's needs. This study aimed to identify mothers' 
reactions and the obstacles they face to obtain what they consider the best 
treatment for their children. The study methodology was based on analysis of the 
mothers' narratives, drawing on medical anthropology and linguistics. The most 
typical plots in the narratives showed the impact of the diagnosis and the 
search for means to adapt to the child's care, as well as the difficulties 
encountered in the public health system to obtain what the mothers considered 
adequate care. The value ascribed to characters in the support network showed 
the importance of such support in these situations.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2008000900020
PMID: 18813690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2008 Sep;66(3A):587-90. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-282x2008000400035.

Professor Antonio Branco Lef√®vre: the forefather of child neurology in Brazil.

Reim√£o R(1), Rossini S, Lima A, Moraes M, Rovere H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Neurology, Hospital das Clinicas, University of S√£o 
Paulo Medical School, Sao Paulo, SP, Brazil. reimaorubensneuro@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To report on the life and works of Prof. Antonio Branco Lef√®vre and 
the relevance that led him to be considered the Forefather of Child Neurology in 
Brazil.
METHOD: The method utilized was the historical documents research; 
bibliographical.
RESULTS: Antonio Branco Lef√®vre (1916-1981) was born in S√£o Paulo city; 
graduated in 1941 from the S√£o Paulo Medical School. The date--1950--can be 
considered when Child Neurology took shape for a fully specialty, when Lef√®vre 
presented his two internationally acclaimed thesis. Lef√®vre was recognized as he 
founder of Child Neurology in Brazil since the early years of his brilliant 
academic activities. In 1967 achieved the title of professor in the Child 
Neurology Clinic. His numerous trainees and Residents--from -1950 to 1981--held 
today key positions in Brazilian Child Neurology.
CONCLUSION: The extension and importance of the Child Neurology School of which 
he is the legitimate founder is recognized.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-282x2008000400035
PMID: 18813731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J R Soc Promot Health. 2008 Sep;128(5):240-1. doi: 10.1177/1466424008092800.

A call for mental health needs assessments in HIV positive children in Africa.

Idoniboye G(1).

Author information:
(1)geraldine_idoniboye@hms.harvard.edu

There is a worldwide pandemic of HIV infection. The WHO has compiled estimates 
of cases of HIV/AIDS for each country. In sub-Saharan Africa, HIV infection is 
causing decreased life expectancy. There is an overall increase in the number of 
orphans as a result of AIDS. Poverty, the lack of technologies and adequate 
resources are widening the gap between Africa and industrialized countries. In 
the instance of HIV positive children in Africa, we should aim to look into ways 
to identify and treat those with mental health issues or at risk for future 
mental health problems. This will help those affected to cope with the chronic 
illness associated with HIV infection, and to better comply with treatment that 
may lead to improved outcomes in terms of their quality of life.

DOI: 10.1177/1466424008092800
PMID: 18814405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2009 Jul-Aug;49(1):32-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2008.04.012. Epub 2008 Sep 23.

The health-care in the extreme longevity.

Branca S(1), Bennati E, Ferlito L, Spallina G, Cardillo E, Malaguarnera M, Motta 
M; IMUSCE.

Author information:
(1)ASL 3, Geriatrics and Long-Term Care Unit, S. Marta and S. Venera Hospital, 
I-95024 Acireale (CT), Italy. brancasanto@virgilio.it

The increase in life expectancy, the decrease of birth rate, and of the death 
rate in advanced ages caused, particularly in the industrialized countries, a 
progressive demographic transformation of the society, characterized by an 
increased proportion of the elderly. We assist an inevitable increase of 
morbidity and disability, not only due to the global aging of the population, 
but mainly to the increase of the age class above 80 years. For this reason, it 
is necessary to create and/or effort, especially in the Western countries, an 
adequate health-caring network. This should integrate and interact between the 
hospitals and the territories, offering all sanitary services (e.g., assisted 
sanitary residences, day hospitals (DHs), hospices, Alzheimer centers, diurnal 
centers, integrated domiciliary care (IDC), general practitioners), required by 
the elderly, and particularly by the oldest old people. All this should be 
maintained by an adequate financial support of the social-economic sources, 
which are necessary not only to activate the health-care services, but also to 
favor the economic and fiscal stimulation toward the families maintaining the 
elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2008.04.012
PMID: 18814924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. N Engl J Med. 2008 Sep 25;359(13):1406. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc081550.

Polygenes, risk prediction, and targeted prevention of breast cancer.

Wilkins RJ.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2008 Jun 26;358(26):2796-803.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc081550
PMID: 18815404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Math Biol. 2009 Apr;58(4-5):561-78. doi: 10.1007/s00285-008-0219-6. Epub
2008  Sep 25.

A mathematical model for brain tumor response to radiation therapy.

Rockne R(1), Alvord EC Jr, Rockhill JK, Swanson KR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Washington, USA.

Gliomas are highly invasive primary brain tumors, accounting for nearly 50% of 
all brain tumors (Alvord and Shaw in The pathology of the aging human nervous 
system. Lea & Febiger, Philadelphia, pp 210-281, 1991). Their aggressive growth 
leads to short life expectancies, as well as a fairly algorithmic approach to 
treatment: diagnostic magnetic resonance image (MRI) followed by biopsy or 
surgical resection with accompanying second MRI, external beam radiation therapy 
concurrent with and followed by chemotherapy, with MRIs conducted at various 
times during treatment as prescribed by the physician. Swanson et al. (Harpold 
et al. in J Neuropathol Exp Neurol 66:1-9, 2007) have shown that the defining 
and essential characteristics of gliomas in terms of net rates of proliferation 
(rho) and invasion (D) can be determined from serial MRIs of individual 
patients. We present an extension to Swanson's reaction-diffusion model to 
include the effects of radiation therapy using the classic linear-quadratic 
radiobiological model (Hall in Radiobiology for the radiologist. Lippincott, 
Philadelphia, pp 478-480, 1994) for radiation efficacy, along with an 
investigation of response to various therapy schedules and dose distributions on 
a virtual tumor (Swanson et al. in AACR annual meeting, Los Angeles, 2007).

DOI: 10.1007/s00285-008-0219-6
PMCID: PMC3784027
PMID: 18815786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Stat Med. 2008 Dec 30;27(30):6612-33. doi: 10.1002/sim.3432.

A comparison of three random effects approaches to analyze repeated bounded 
outcome scores with an application in a stroke revalidation study.

Molas M(1), Lesaffre E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Discrete bounded outcome scores (BOS), i.e. discrete measurements that are 
restricted on a finite interval, often occur in practice. Examples are 
compliance measures, quality of life measures, etc. In this paper we examine 
three related random effects approaches to analyze longitudinal studies with a 
BOS as response: (1) a linear mixed effects (LM) model applied to a logistic 
transformed modified BOS; (2) a model assuming that the discrete BOS is a 
coarsened version of a latent random variable, which after a logistic-normal 
transformation, satisfies an LM model; and (3) a random effects probit model. We 
consider also the extension whereby the variability of the BOS is allowed to 
depend on covariates. The methods are contrasted using a simulation study and on 
a longitudinal project, which documents stroke rehabilitation in four European 
countries using measures of motor and functional recovery.

Copyright 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3432
PMID: 18816501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Annu Rev Med. 2009;60:457-69. doi: 10.1146/annurev.med.60.061607.220533.

Prospects for life span extension.

Sierra F(1), Hadley E, Suzman R, Hodes R.

Author information:
(1)National Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland 20892, USA.

Life expectancy has increased dramatically in the United States and in much of 
the world in recent years and decades. The factors underlying this increase are 
incompletely understood and are undoubtedly complex. A question that drives 
current research is whether life expectancy can be further extended using 
current knowledge of modifiable risk factors. A still more challenging research 
focus is on the possibility that life expectancy might be further increased 
through knowledge gained from studies of the basic biology of aging and its 
genetic and environmental modifiers.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.med.60.061607.220533
PMID: 18817460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Cardiovasc Magn Reson. 2008 Sep 25;10(1):42. doi: 10.1186/1532-429X-10-42.

Improved survival of thalassaemia major in the UK and relation to T2* 
cardiovascular magnetic resonance.

Modell B(1), Khan M, Darlison M, Westwood MA, Ingram D, Pennell DJ.

Author information:
(1)UCL Centre for Health Informatics and Multiprofessional Education, Holborn 
Union Building, Whittington Campus, Highgate Hill, London, N19 5LW, UK. 
b.modell@pcps.ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The UK Thalassaemia Register records births, deaths and selected 
clinical data of patients with thalassaemia who are resident in the UK. A study 
of survival and causes of death was undertaken which aimed to include the 
possible impact of T2* cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR).
METHODS: The Register was updated to the end of 2003, copies of death 
certificates were obtained, and causes of death in beta thalassaemia major were 
extracted. In addition, patients who had T2* CMR assessment of cardiac iron load 
and/or received the oral iron chelator deferiprone were identified from clinical 
records.
RESULTS: The main causes of death were anaemia (before 1980), infections, 
complications of bone marrow transplantation and cardiac disease due to iron 
overload. From 1980 to 1999 there were 12.7 deaths from all causes per 1,000 
patient years. Forty per cent of patients born before 1980 had T2* 
cardiovascular magnetic resonance between 2000 and 2003, and 36% of these 
patients were prescribed deferiprone before end of 2003. In 2000-2003, the death 
rate from all causes fell significantly to 4.3 per 1,000 patient years (-62%, p 
< 0.05). This was mainly driven by the reduction in the rate of deaths from iron 
overload which fell from 7.9 to 2.3 deaths per 1,000 patient years (-71%, p < 
0.05).
CONCLUSION: Since 1999, there has been a marked improvement in survival in 
thalassaemia major in the UK, which has been mainly driven by a reduction in 
deaths due to cardiac iron overload. The most likely causes for this include the 
introduction of T2* CMR to identify myocardial siderosis and appropriate 
intensification of iron chelation treatment, alongside other improvements in 
clinical care.

DOI: 10.1186/1532-429X-10-42
PMCID: PMC2563008
PMID: 18817553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Bone. 2008 Dec;43(6):991-4. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2008.08.119. Epub 2008 Sep
10.

Lifetime absolute risk of hip and other osteoporotic fracture in Belgian women.

Hiligsmann M(1), Bruy√®re O, Ethgen O, Gathon HJ, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Li√®ge, Li√®ge, Belgium. 
m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the lifetime absolute risks of hip and other 
osteoporotic fracture in Belgian women aged 60 years and to examine the effect 
of changes in baseline population fracture risk and changes in life expectancy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Estimates were performed using a Markov microsimulation 
model and were based on the incidence of first fracture as well as life 
expectancy. Baseline scenario included projected mortality rates and increasing 
fracture incidence by 1% per year. Alternative scenarios were performed on age, 
life expectancy and trends in fracture incidence. Lifetime fracture risk for 
osteoporotic population (T-score <or= -2.5) was also estimated.
RESULTS: In the baseline scenario, lifetime absolute risks of hip fracture and 
of any major osteoporotic fracture (hip, clinical vertebral or wrist) were 
respectively 24.8% and 44.3%. Alternative scenarios showed that when assuming no 
change of age-specific fracture rates over time, these lifetime risks were 18.3% 
and 35.2%, while these values were 20.0% and 38.3% assuming no future mortality 
reductions. For osteoporotic women, these values were respectively 34.5% and 
51.5%.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that absolute lifetime fracture risks are substantial 
and that trends in fracture incidence and changes in life expectancy have a 
marked impact on absolute lifetime fracture risks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2008.08.119
PMID: 18817901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Trends Neurosci. 2008 Nov;31(11):577-84. doi: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.006.
Epub  2008 Sep 23.

Micro-rewiring as a substrate for learning.

DeBello WM(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuroscience, Department of Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior, 
University of California, Davis, 1544 Newton Court, Davis, CA 95618, USA. 
wmdebello@ucdavis.edu

How does the brain encode life experiences? Recent results derived from vital 
imaging, computational modeling, cellular physiology and systems neuroscience 
have pointed to local changes in synaptic connectivity as a powerful substrate, 
here termed micro-rewiring. To examine this hypothesis, I first review findings 
on micro-structural dynamics with focus on the extension and retraction of 
dendritic spines. Although these observations demonstrate a biological 
mechanism, they do not inform us of the specific changes in circuit 
configuration that might occur during learning. Here, computational models have 
made testable predictions for both the neuronal and circuit levels. Integrative 
approaches in the mammalian neocortex and the barn owl auditory localization 
pathway provide some of the first direct evidence in support of these 
'synaptic-clustering' mechanisms. The implications of these data and the 
challenges for future research are discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tins.2008.08.006
PMCID: PMC2581897
PMID: 18817991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Stroke. 2008 Dec;39(12):3431-6. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.525584. Epub 2008
Sep  25.

The 2008 William M. Feinberg lecture: prioritizing stroke research.

Johnston SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Neurovascular Service, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94143-0114, USA. clay.johnston@ucsfmedctr.org

Stroke is a tremendous burden to health worldwide both in the developed and 
developing world. Current levels of research funding do not adequately reflect 
this burden, particularly when expected increases in stroke rates are 
considered. Of course, an investment in stroke research is only justified if a 
return can be expected. The ultimate goal of stroke research is to reduce the 
burden of disease, and clinical trials are the clearest expression of the value 
of research because their results can directly impact health. In a review of 
stroke trials funded by the US National Institute of Neurological Disorders and 
Stroke, we found that the overall impact of the trials was dramatically positive 
and justified the entire research budget of the Institute. Nonetheless, there 
were obvious opportunities for improvement.
METHODS: meta--research--on topics not just relevant to stroke, but to the study 
of all disease.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.525584
PMID: 18818399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2008 Sep;63(5):S269-81. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/63.5.s269.

Cohort changes in active life expectancy in the U.S. elderly population: 
experience from the 1982-2004 National Long-Term Care Survey.

Manton KG(1), Gu X, Lowrimore GR.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Dean of Arts and Sciences, Campus Box 90408, Duke University, 
Trent Drive, Durham, NC 27708, USA. KGManton@duke.edu

OBJECTIVES: To understand declines in chronic disability prevalence in the U.S. 
elderly population, we examined cohort changes in active life expectancy, a 
health measure relating population disability and longevity dynamics.
METHODS: We computed active life expectancy and life expectancy using the six 
National Long-Term Care Surveys done from 1982 to 2004 and linked to 
continuous-time Medicare service data for the same time period by using a 
stochastic process model based on disability scores calculated using grade of 
membership analyses. We simultaneously estimated continuous-time disability 
dynamic and mortality functions to calculate life tables for specific disability 
states and for temporally changing mixtures of disability states.
RESULTS: Disability dynamics, measured as changes in grade of membership scores, 
showed significant variation across two birth cohorts followed for 24 years. 
Disability dynamics and disability-specific hazard functions were significantly 
improved in the younger cohort (persons aged 65-74 in 1982).
DISCUSSION: Our results, supporting the hypothesis of morbidity compression, 
indicate that younger cohorts of elderly persons are living longer in better 
health. The methods describe individual disability transitions and mortality and 
other factors associated with disability changes, making it possible to better 
evaluate interventions to promote future declines in disability.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/63.5.s269
PMID: 18818447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Neurosurg Rev. 2009 Jan;32(1):67-75; discussion 75. doi: 
10.1007/s10143-008-0170-4. Epub 2008 Sep 26.

Surgical treatment of skull base chondrosarcomas.

Samii A(1), Gerganov V, Herold C, Gharabaghi A, Hayashi N, Samii M.

Author information:
(1)INI-Hannover, International Neuroscience Institute-Hannover, Germany. 
a.samii@ini-hannover.de

Skull base chondrosarcomas are rare tumors and individual experience with their 
management is limited. We present a series of such tumors treated at our 
institution. Particular attention was paid to their extension pattern, choice of 
surgical approach, and outcome. Twenty-five patients were operated consecutively 
over a period of 19 years. Their clinical presentation, radiological features, 
surgical treatment, early and late treatment outcome, as well as survival rate 
were analyzed. The most frequent initial symptom was abducent palsy. The typical 
bone destruction of the petrous apex was found in 83%. Chondrosarcomas extended 
in 92% to the posterior cranial fossa. Total number of surgeries was 39. The 
operative approach was tailored to each case. The retrosigmoid approach was used 
in 30.8%, the pterional in 23%, and the transethmoid in 15.4%. Total tumor 
removal was achieved in 19 of the surgeries. New neurological deficits 
immediately after surgery appeared in 33.3%. The perioperative mortality was 0%. 
The average Karnofsky performance score at last follow-up was 91%, and 5- and 
10-year survival rates were 95%. Individually tailored approach in skull base 
chondrosarcomas allows radical removal with low morbidity rates and without 
mortality. Given the good long-term prognosis, surgical treatment should not 
deteriorate significantly patients' quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s10143-008-0170-4
PMID: 18818961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Curr Opin Investig Drugs. 2008 Oct;9(10):1089-94.

Advances in immunotherapy of castration-resistant prostate cancer: 
bisphosphonates, phosphoantigens and more.

Dieli F(1), Caccamo N, Meraviglia S.

Author information:
(1)Universit√† di Palermo, Dipartimento di Biopatologia e Metodologie Biomediche, 
Corso Tukory 211, 90134, Palermo, Italy. dieli@unipa.it

Medical progress has prolonged life expectancy in patients with 
castration-resistant prostate cancer; however, the lack of effective therapies 
has fuelled an intensive search for novel modalities, including immunotherapy. 
Human gammadelta T-cells can be activated by endogenous pyrophosphates 
(phosphoantigens), or by agents that provoke their accumulation. Among the 
latter, aminobisphosphonates are well-established in the clinic. In this review, 
the possibility that the intentional activation of gammadelta T-cells in vivo by 
phosphoantigens, or aminobisphosphonates and interleukin-2, may represent a 
promising target for the design of novel and highly innovative immunotherapy in 
patients with prostate cancer is discussed.

PMID: 18821471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2007;29(4):469-93.

What is marine biology?: Defining a science in the United States in the mid 20th 
century.

Ellis E(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Tacoma Interdisciplinary Arts & Sciences, Box 
358436, University of Washington, Tacoma, Tacoma, WA 98402, USA.

Marine biology and biological oceanography are two disciplinary subfields that 
have long struggled with their definitions. Should marine biology simply be 
considered a part of biology that takes place in the marine environment or is it 
a distinct entity, with conceptual problems and methodological approaches all 
its own? Similarly, biological oceanography could be seen as a necessary adjunct 
to physical and chemical oceanography or it could be defined more as an 
extension of biology into the marine realm. In the United States, these issues 
were directly addressed from the mid 1950s through the mid 1960s in a series of 
events that shed light on how marine biologists came to a working definition of 
their field that provided a broad methodological tent for practitioners and, at 
the same time, allied the field to oceanography during a period in which 
exploration of uncharted areas drew considerable funding from the post-WWII 
federal agencies charged with keeping American science at the forefront.

PMID: 18822664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2007;29(4):495-516.

Population regulation and the life history studies of LaMont Cole.

Blomquist GE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Missouri, 107 Swallow Hall, 
Columbia, MO 65211-1440, USA.

Transformative changes marked the growth of mid-twentieth century American 
ecology. This included redirection of the scholarly focus of the discipline, 
especially on the role evolutionary theory and "levels of selection", and 
increased visibility of ecologist as public figures in the environmental 
movement with special knowledge of how natural systems work. Cornell ecologist 
LaMont Cole is an important figure to examine both of these trends. Like many of 
his contemporaries, Cole was devoted to a perspective on natural selection 
operating at levels above the individual. However, because of his influential 
mathematical treatment of animal demography he has been historically subsumed 
into a group of scholars that views the events in the life course as adaptations 
to the maximization of individual fitness--life history theory. Cole's popular 
writings and lectures, which consumed his later career, extend his scholarly 
portrayal of natural populations as tending toward stable and homoeostatic 
equilibrium, with the goal of drawing contrasts with the deviance of rapid human 
population growth. In both regards, Cole serves as a topical and temporal 
extension of the well-documented and analyzed ecology of his mentors--Alfred 
Emerson, Thomas Park, and Warder Allee--in the University of Chicago Zoology 
Department.

PMID: 18822665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Commun Nurs Res. 2008 Spring;41:47-57.

Thoughts about the state of the science related to culturally competent care for 
persons with chronic illness and its relationship to practice.

Phillips LR(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.

In 1985, a very important event, the distribution of the Heckler Report, changed 
the direction of health policy and health research policy in this country. 
Although we have yet to see a yield of information that is substantially making 
a difference in health disparities, progress is being made and nurse scientists 
are at the forefront of the effort. For example, on December 21, 2001, NINR 
released a request for applications calling for proposals for Partnership 
Centers on Health Disparities (RFA-NR-02-004). The NINR in collaboration with 
the National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities now funds 11 such 
Centers. These centers are charged with "(1) expanding the cadre of nurse 
researchers involved in minority health or health disparities research, (2) 
increasing the number of research projects aimed at eliminating health 
disparities, and (3) enhancing the career development of potential minority 
nurse investigators." NINR also currently funds seven Institutional National 
Research Service Awards focused on educating young nurse scientists in the 
conduct of health disparities research. So while I'm a little impatient about 
the progress we've made, I believe that, if we keep sight on what nursing 
research is about and the pressing need to focus attention on answering clinical 
questions about the prevention and treatment of chronic conditions, we are well 
positioned to make an enormous difference in the future. Personally, I can't 
wait to see what's going to happen next.

PMID: 18822670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Int J Cancer. 2009 Jan 1;124(1):157-66. doi: 10.1002/ijc.23864.

Exploring the cost-effectiveness of Helicobacter pylori screening to prevent 
gastric cancer in China in anticipation of clinical trial results.

Yeh JM(1), Kuntz KM, Ezzati M, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Program in Health Decision 
Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
jyeh@hsph.harvard.edu

Gastric cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. 
Treatment for Helicobacter pylori infection, the leading causal risk factor, can 
reduce disease progression, but the long-term impact on cancer incidence is 
uncertain. Using the best available data, we estimated the potential health 
benefits and economic consequences associated with H. pylori screening in a 
high-risk region of China. An empirically calibrated model of gastric cancer was 
used to project reduction in lifetime cancer risk, life-expectancy and costs 
associated with (i) single lifetime screening (age 20, 30 or 40); (ii) single 
lifetime screening followed by rescreening individuals with negative results and 
(iii) universal treatment for H. pylori (age 20, 30 or 40). Data were from the 
published literature and national and international databases. Screening and 
treatment for H. pylori at age 20 reduced the mean lifetime cancer risk by 14.5% 
(men) to 26.6% (women) and cost less than $1,500 per year of life saved (YLS) 
compared to no screening. Rescreening individuals with negative results and 
targeting older ages was less cost-effective. Universal treatment prevented an 
additional 1.5% to 2.3% of risk reduction, but incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios exceeded $2,500 per YLS. Screening young adults for H. pylori could 
prevent one in every 4 to 6 cases of gastric cancer in China and would be 
considered cost-effective using the GDP per capita threshold. These results 
illustrate the potential promise of a gastric cancer screening program and 
provide rationale for urgent clinical studies to move the prevention agenda 
forward.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.23864
PMCID: PMC2597699
PMID: 18823009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2008 Sep 29;6:73. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-73.

Utility values for symptomatic non-severe hypoglycaemia elicited from persons 
with and without diabetes in Canada and the United Kingdom.

Levy AR(1), Christensen TL, Johnson JA.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd,, Vancouver, BC, Canada. adrian.levy@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVE: To elicit societal and patient utilities associated with diabetic 
symptomatic non-severe hypoglycaemia for three health states: 1) rare 
(quarterly), 2) intermittent (monthly), 3) and frequent (weekly) hypoglycaemia 
episodes.
METHODS: Using validated health states, time trade-off utilities were elicited 
from 51 Canadian respondents with diabetes, and 79 respondents in Canada and 75 
respondents in the United Kingdom (UK) without diabetes.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Each hypoglycaemic episode was associated with a 
reduction in utility and persons with diabetes consistently reported slightly 
higher utility values than respondents without diabetes. The utility for 
diabetes without hypoglycaemia ranged from 0.88 to 0.97, the mean utility for 
rare hypoglycaemic events (quarterly) ranged between 0.85 and 0.94. The utility 
for the intermittent state (monthly) ranged from 0.77 to 0.90 and from 0.66 to 
0.0.83 for the frequent state (weekly). Differences were observed between 
respondents without diabetes in Canada and the UK. Using a multivariate linear 
OLS regression, the estimated utilities associated with a single hypoglycaemic 
event were -0.0033 and -0.0032 for respondents with diabetes and without 
diabetes, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Among respondents with and without diabetes, there was a 
demonstrable utility loss associated with hypoglycaemia. Considering a utility 
loss of 0.03 as a minimum clinically important difference for persons with 
diabetes, the evidence from this study indicates that as low as ten symptomatic 
non-severe hypoglycaemic episodes per year may be of clinical importance and 
that the importance increases with frequency of episodes. Integrating directly 
elicited utility values such as those reported here will improve the quality and 
applicability of economic evaluations of diabetes treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-6-73
PMCID: PMC2567965
PMID: 18823555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. BMC Geriatr. 2008 Sep 30;8:23. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-8-23.

Cost effectiveness of preventing falls and improving mobility in people with 
Parkinson disease: protocol for an economic evaluation alongside a clinical 
trial.

Watts JJ(1), McGinley JL, Huxham F, Menz HB, Iansek R, Murphy AT, Waller ER, 
Morris ME.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Building 75, 3800 Melbourne, 
Australia. jenny.watts@buseco.monash.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Cost of illness studies show that Parkinson disease (PD) is costly 
for individuals, the healthcare system and society. The costs of PD include both 
direct and indirect costs associated with falls and related injuries.
METHODS: This protocol describes a prospective economic analysis conducted 
alongside a randomised controlled trial (RCT). It evaluates whether physical 
therapy is more cost effective than usual care from the perspective of the 
health care system. Cost effectiveness will be evaluated using a three-way 
comparison of the cost per fall averted and the cost per quality adjusted life 
year saved across two physical therapy interventions and a control group.
CONCLUSION: This study has the potential to determine whether targetted physical 
therapy as an adjunct to standard care can be cost effective in reducing falls 
in people with PD.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: No: ACTRN12606000344594.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-8-23
PMCID: PMC2573876
PMID: 18823565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Arthroplasty. 2009 Oct;24(7):1120-4. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2008.08.008. Epub
 2008 Sep 26.

Three-dimensional tibiofemoral kinematics during deep flexion kneeling in a 
mobile-bearing total knee arthroplasty.

Nakamura E(1), Banks SA, Tanaka A, Sei A, Mizuta H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic and Neuro-Musculoskeletal Surgery, Faculty of 
Medical, and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan.

Achieving very deep flexion after total knee arthroplasty is an important goal 
of most patients in Japan, Asia, and the Middle East because of floor-sitting 
lifestyles. Numerous knee arthroplasty designs have been introduced to permit 
high flexion. We performed an in vivo radiographic analysis of tibiofemoral 
motions during weight-bearing kneeling in one high-flexion knee arthroplasty 
design. Twenty knees implanted with a posterior-stabilized rotating-platform 
knee arthroplasty flexed an average of 126 degrees. The femoral condyles 
translated posteriorly from extension to maximum flexion. Total posterior 
condylar translations averaged 11.6 and 4.7 mm for the lateral and medial 
condyles, respectively. Tibial internal rotation in 19 knees averaged 9 degrees 
from extension to maximum flexion. Knees implanted with a posterior-stabilized, 
rotating-platform knee arthroplasty show deep flexion knee kinematics consistent 
with the implant design intent.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2008.08.008
PMID: 18823746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2008 Dec;34(6):1228-34. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.07.063. Epub 2008 Sep 27.

Pulmonary metastases of breast cancer. When is resection indicated?

Welter S(1), Jacobs J, Krbek T, T√∂tsch M, Stamatis G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Ruhrlandklinik, T√ºschener Weg 40, 45239 
Essen, Germany. stefan.we@t-online.de

OBJECTIVE: While resection of pulmonary metastases is a common treatment in 
other primaries, the role of breast cancer metastasectomy is still unclear. The 
objective of the present study was to investigate the clinical outcome of our 
