administrée aux patients atteints de la maladie de phase trois, de 47 500 $ par 
AVPQ si elle est administrée aux patients atteints de la maladie de phase 2 ou 
3, et de 450 333 $ par AVPQ si elle est administrée à tous les patients atteints 
d’une MPOC. Les résultats résistaient à diverses hypothèses vérifiées dans une 
simulation de Monte Carlo.
CONCLUSION : L’administration d’une polythérapie aux patients atteints d’une 
MPOC de phase 2 ou 3 est rentable. Le message à transmettre aux médecins de 
famille et aux spécialistes, c’est que lorsque le VEMS s’aggrave et atteint 50 
%, la polythérapie est recommandée.

DOI: 10.1155/2008/257618
PMCID: PMC2682167
PMID: 19107245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Pain. 2009 Feb;141(3):248-257. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.2008.11.006. Epub 2008
Dec  23.

Evaluating the effectiveness of exposure and acceptance strategies to improve 
functioning and quality of life in longstanding pediatric pain--a randomized 
controlled trial.

Wicksell RK(1), Melin L, Lekander M, Olsson GL.

Author information:
(1)Pain Treatment Service, Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, Karolinska 
University Hospital, 171 76 Stockholm, Sweden Department of Clinical 
Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute, Sweden Department of Psychology, Uppsala 
University, Sweden Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Karolinska 
Institute, Sweden Osher Center for Integrative Medicine, Karolinska Institute, 
Sweden.

Comment in
    Pain. 2009 Feb;141(3):189-90.

Although several studies have illustrated the effectiveness of cognitive 
behavior therapy (CBT) on adult pain patients, there are few randomized 
controlled trials on children and adolescents. There is particularly a need for 
studies on pediatric patients who are severely disabled by longstanding pain 
syndromes. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy, as an extension of traditional 
CBT, focuses on improving functioning and quality of life by increasing the 
patient's ability to act effectively in concordance with personal values also in 
the presence of pain and distress. Following a pilot study, we sought to 
evaluate the effectiveness of an ACT-oriented intervention based on exposure and 
acceptance strategies and to compare this with a multidisciplinary treatment 
approach including amitriptyline (n=32). The ACT condition underwent a 
relatively brief treatment protocol of approximately 10 weekly sessions. 
Assessments were made before and immediately after treatment, as well as at 3.5 
and 6.5 months follow-up. Prolonged treatment in the MDT group complicated 
comparisons between groups at follow-up assessments. Results showed substantial 
and sustained improvements for the ACT group. When follow-up assessments were 
included, ACT performed significantly better than MDT on perceived functional 
ability in relation to pain, pain intensity and to pain-related discomfort 
(intent-to-treat analyses). At post-treatment, significant differences in favor 
of the ACT condition were also seen in fear of re/injury or kinesiophobia, pain 
interference and in quality of life. Thus, results from the present study 
support previous findings and suggest the effectiveness of this ACT-oriented 
intervention for pediatric longstanding pain syndromes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pain.2008.11.006
PMID: 19108951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Eur Heart J. 2009 Apr;30(7):834-9. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehn567. Epub 2008
Dec  24.

Development of life-expectancy tables for people with type 2 diabetes.

Leal J(1), Gray AM, Clarke PM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Old Road Campus, Headington, Oxford, UK. jose.leal@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

AIMS: To develop tables that report the life expectancy associated with levels 
of major modifiable risk factors for patients with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A set of tables reporting life-expectancy stratified by 
age-sex groups for combinations of modifiable risk was constructed based on 
predictions from the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes 
Model. This model is based on a system of parametric proportional hazards risk 
equations for estimating mortality and vascular complications of diabetes that 
have been estimated from 3642 patients from the UKPDS. The tables show 
substantial potential gains in life expectancy within every age group from 
modifying major risk factors. The estimated life expectancy of men at age of 55 
years with type 2 diabetes, 5 years after diagnosis, varies between 13.2 years 
for a patient who smokes, has systolic blood pressure of 180 mmHg, a total:HDL 
cholesterol ratio of 8, and HbA(1c) of 10%, and 21.1 years for a non-smoker with 
SBP of 120 mmHg, total/HDL ratio of 4, and HbA(1c) of 6%.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy tables provide a potentially useful tool of 
conveying prognostic information to people with type 2 diabetes and suggest 
substantial scope for increasing longevity by improving modifiable risk factors.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehn567
PMCID: PMC2663724
PMID: 19109355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Neurology. 2009 Apr 14;72(15):1296-300. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000340980.19702.6e.  Epub 2008 Dec 24.

Quantifying the risk of neurodegenerative disease in idiopathic REM sleep 
behavior disorder.

Postuma RB(1), Gagnon JF, Vendette M, Fantini ML, Massicotte-Marquez J, 
Montplaisir J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, L7-305 Montreal General Hospital, 1650 Cedar Ave., 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada. ronald.postuma@mcgill.ca

Comment in
    Neurology. 2009 Apr 14;72(15):1294-5.

OBJECTIVE: Idiopathic REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a potential 
preclinical marker for the development of neurodegenerative diseases, 
particularly Parkinson disease (PD) and Lewy body dementia. However, the 
long-term risk of developing neurodegeneration in patients with idiopathic RBD 
has not been established. Obtaining an accurate picture of this risk is 
essential for counseling patients and for development of potential 
neuroprotective therapies.
METHODS: We conducted a follow-up study of all patients seen at the sleep 
disorders laboratory at the Hôpital du Sacré Coeur with a diagnosis of 
idiopathic RBD. Diagnoses of parkinsonism and dementia were defined according to 
standard criteria. Survival curves were constructed to estimate the 5-, 10-, and 
12-year risk of developing neurodegenerative disease.
RESULTS: Of 113 patients, 93 (82%) met inclusion criteria. The mean age of 
participants was 65.4 years and 75 patients (80.4%) were men. Over the follow-up 
period, 26/93 patients developed a neurodegenerative disorder. A total of 14 
patients developed PD, 7 developed Lewy body dementia, 4 developed dementia that 
met clinical criteria for AD, and 1 developed multiple system atrophy. The 
estimated 5-year risk of neurodegenerative disease was 17.7%, the 10-year risk 
was 40.6%, and the 12-year risk was 52.4%.
CONCLUSIONS: Although we have found a slightly lower risk than other reports, 
the risk of developing neurodegenerative disease in idiopathic REM sleep 
behavior disorder is substantial, with the majority of patients developing 
Parkinson disease and Lewy body dementia.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000340980.19702.6e
PMCID: PMC2828948
PMID: 19109537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Lancet Oncol. 2009 Jan;10(1):80-7. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(08)70336-X.

Effects of comorbidity on screening and early diagnosis of cancer in elderly 
people.

Terret C(1), Castel-Kremer E, Albrand G, Droz JP.

Author information:
(1)Centre Léon Bérard, Lyon University, Lyon, France; Sherbrooke University, 
Quebec, Canada.

There is currently little data showing that older adults can derive benefit from 
cancer screening. Advancing age is associated with an increasing prevalence of 
cancer and other chronic conditions, or comorbidity, and questions remain about 
the interactions between comorbidity and cancer screening in the elderly 
population. In this Review, we assess the available evidence on the effects of 
comorbidity on cancer screening in elderly individuals. In view of the high 
heterogeneity of existing data, consistent recommendations cannot be made. 
Decisions on cancer screening in older adults should be based on an appropriate 
assessment of each individual's health status and life expectancy, the benefits 
and harms of screening procedures, and patient preferences. We suggest that 
Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment might be a necessary step to identify 
candidates for cancer screening in the elderly population. Specific clinical 
trials should be done to improve the evidence and show the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of cancer screening in older adults.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(08)70336-X
PMID: 19111248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2009 Mar;37(3):357-63. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2008.11.013. Epub 2008 Dec 25.

Randomised comparison of costs and cost-effectiveness of cryostripping and 
endovenous laser ablation for varicose veins: 2-year results.

Disselhoff BC(1), Buskens E, Kelder JC, der Kinderen DJ, Moll FL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mesos Medical Centre, Van Heuven Goedhartlaan 1, 3527 
Utrecht, CE, The Netherlands. disselhoff@planet.nl

BACKGROUND: Although endovenous laser ablation for varicose veins is replacing 
surgical stripping, proper economic evaluation with adequate follow-up in a 
randomised clinical trial is important for considered policy decisions regarding 
the implementation of new techniques.
METHODS: Data from a randomised controlled trial comparing cryostripping and 
endovenous laser ablation in 120 patients were combined to study Short Form (SF) 
6D outcome, costs and cost-effectiveness 2 years after treatment. Incremental 
cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained 2 years after treatment was 
calculated using different strategies, and uncertainty was assessed with 
bootstrapping.
RESULTS: Over the total study period, mean SF-6D scores improved slightly from 
0.78 at baseline to 0.80 at 2 years for patients who underwent cryostripping and 
from 0.77 to 0.79 for patients who underwent endovenous laser. QALY (SF-6D) was 
1.59 in patients who underwent cryostripping and 1.60 in patients who underwent 
endovenous laser 2 years after treatment. The costs of cryostripping and 
endovenous laser per patient were euro 2651 and euro 2783, respectively. 
Bootstrapping indicated that cryostripping was associated with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of euro 32 per QALY gained. With regard to different 
strategies, outpatient cryostripping was less costly and more effective 2 years 
after treatment.
CONCLUSION: In this study, in terms of costs per QALY gained, outpatient 
cryostripping appeared to be the dominant strategy, but endovenous laser yielded 
comparable outcomes for a relatively little additional cost.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2008.11.013
PMID: 19111485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2009 May;1787(5):371-6. doi:
10.1016/j.bbabio.2008.12.001.  Epub 2008 Dec 9.

Neurological phenotype and reduced lifespan in heterozygous Tim23 knockout mice, 
the first mouse model of defective mitochondrial import.

Ahting U(1), Floss T, Uez N, Schneider-Lohmar I, Becker L, Kling E, Iuso A, 
Bender A, de Angelis MH, Gailus-Durner V, Fuchs H, Meitinger T, Wurst W, 
Prokisch H, Klopstock T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research 
Center for Environmental Health, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany.

The Tim23 protein is the key component of the mitochondrial import machinery. It 
locates to the inner mitochondrial membrane and its own import is dependent on 
the DDP1/TIM13 complex. Mutations in human DDP1 cause the Mohr-Tranebjaerg 
syndrome (MTS/DFN-1; OMIM #304700), which is one of the two known human diseases 
of the mitochondrial protein import machinery. We created a Tim23 knockout mouse 
from a gene trap embryonic stem cell clone. Homozygous Tim23 mice were not 
viable. Heterozygous F1 mutants showed a 50% reduction of Tim23 protein in 
Western blot, a neurological phenotype and a markedly reduced life span. 
Haploinsufficiency of the Tim23 mutation underlines the critical role of the 
mitochondrial import machinery for maintaining mitochondrial function.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbabio.2008.12.001
PMID: 19111522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Womens Health Issues. 2009 Jan-Feb;19(1):70-8. doi:
10.1016/j.whi.2008.07.002.

Financial and quality-of-life burden of dysfunctional uterine bleeding among 
women agreeing to obtain surgical treatment.

Frick KD(1), Clark MA, Steinwachs DM, Langenberg P, Stovall D, Munro MG, 
Dickersin K; STOP-DUB Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, 
USA. kfrick@jhsph.edu

PURPOSE: In this study, we sought to 1) describe elements of the financial and 
quality-of-life burden of dysfunctional uterine bleeding (DUB) from the 
perspective of women who agreed to obtain surgical treatment; 2) explore 
associations between DUB symptom characteristics and the financial and 
quality-of-life burden; 3) estimate the annual dollar value of the financial 
burden; and 4) estimate the most that could be spent on surgery to eliminate DUB 
symptoms for which medical treatment has been unsuccessful that would result in 
a $50,000/quality-adjusted life-year incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
METHODS: We collected baseline data on DUB symptoms and aspects of the financial 
and quality-of-life burden for 237 women agreeing to surgery for DUB in a 
randomized trial comparing hysterectomy with endometrial ablation. Measures 
included out-of-pocket pharmaceutical expenditures, excess expenditures on pads 
or tampons, the value of time missed from paid work and home management 
activities, and health utility. We used chi2 and t tests to assess the 
statistical significance of associations between DUB characteristics and the 
financial and quality-of-life burden. The annual financial burden was estimated.
RESULTS: Pelvic pain and cramps were associated with activity limitations and 
tiredness was associated with a lower health utility. Excess pharmaceutical and 
pad and tampon costs were $333 per patient per year (95% confidence interval 
[CI], $263-$403). Excess paid work and home management loss costs were $2,291 
per patient per year (95% CI, $1847-$2752). Effective surgical treatment costing 
$40,000 would be cost-effective compared with unsuccessful medical treatment.
CONCLUSION: The financial and quality-of-life effects of DUB represent a 
substantial burden.

DOI: 10.1016/j.whi.2008.07.002
PMID: 19111789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. PLoS One. 2008;3(12):e4062. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004062. Epub 2008 Dec
29.

Antidepressants of the serotonin-antagonist type increase body fat and decrease 
lifespan of adult Caenorhabditis elegans.

Zarse K(1), Ristow M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition, University of Jena, Jena, Germany.

It was recently suggested that specific antidepressants of the 
serotonin-antagonist type, namely mianserin and methiothepin, may exert 
anti-aging properties and specifically extend lifespan of the nematode C.elegans 
by causing a state of perceived calorie restriction (Petrascheck M, Ye X, Buck 
LB: An antidepressant that extends lifespan in adult Caenorhabditis elegans; 
Nature, Nov 22, 2007;450(7169):553-6, PMID 18033297). Using the same model 
organism, we instead observe a reduction of life expectancy when employing the 
commonly used, standardized agar-based solid-phase assay while applying the same 
or lower concentrations of the same antidepressants. Consistent with a 
well-known side-effect of these compounds in humans, antidepressants not only 
reduced lifespan but also increased body fat accumulation in C. elegans 
reflecting the mammalian phenotype. Taken together and in conflict with 
previously published findings, we find that antidepressants of the 
serotonin-antagonist type not only promote obesity, but also decrease nematode 
lifespan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004062
PMCID: PMC2605556
PMID: 19112515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


877. Int J Public Health. 2008;53(6):279-80. doi: 10.1007/s00038-008-8140-8.

Closing the global health gaps in a generation - how is it possible?

Vågerö D.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-008-8140-8
PMID: 19112589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2008 Dec 1;5(8):796-9. doi: 10.1513/pats.200805-044TH.

Introduction.

Sonia Buist A(1).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University, Mail 
Code UHN 67, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Rd., Portland, OR 97239, USA. 
buists@ohsu.edu

The traditional approach to the diagnosis and management of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD), cardiovascular disease, and lung cancer has been to 
address each separately. Guidelines have documented the scientific basis for 
diagnosis and management, but have done little to explore the interconnections 
between them or to address comorbidity. The past few years have seen greater 
attention to the problem of chronic diseases and increased awareness of the 
impending crisis in health care as a result of the changing demographics of the 
world's population with a steady increase in life expectancy and a higher 
proportion living into the chronic disease age range. COPD presents a particular 
problem, as its mortality rate continues to climb steadily in most countries, 
particularly in women. The same is true for lung cancer. Cardiovascular disease 
mortality shows a different pattern, with deaths continuing to increase in 
developing countries but stabilizing or decreasing in resource-rich countries as 
aggressive strategies to diagnose and treat cardiovascular disease have been put 
into place. Predictions for 2020 from the Global Burden of Disease Study are 
that ischemic heart disease will stay the number one cause of death worldwide, 
COPD will go from sixth to third place, and lung cancer will go from tenth to 
fifth place. The purpose of this introduction is to set the stage for a review 
and discussion of the major comorbidities of COPD, heart disease, and lung 
cancer, to expand our understanding of the interrelationships among the "Big 
Three" diseases, causes of morbidity and mortality worldwide.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.200805-044TH
PMID: 19112679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2008 Oct;118(10):572-80.

Chronic heart failure in the elderly: a current medical problem.

Nessler J(1), Skrzypek A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Coronary Heart Disease, Institute of Cardiology, Jagiellonian 
University School of Medicine, John Paul II Hospital, Kraków, Poland. 
jnessler@interia.pl

As a result of population ageing and improved medical care that contribute to 
better life expectancy, heart failure occurs more and more commonly in the 
elderly. In the USA approximately 80% of patients discharged from hospital with 
newly diagnosed heart failure are over 65 years of age, whereas 50% are over 75. 
The average 5-year mortality rate is about 50% in subjects with systolic 
dysfunction and similar in those with preserved left ventricular systolic 
function. Disorders of the cardiovascular system occurring in the elderly (e.g. 
increased left ventricular mass, myocardial rigidity, atrial fibrillation, 
decreased maximum oxygen uptake in cardiopulmonary exercise tests) result from 
the physiological ageing; they may also be caused by a concomitant cardiac 
failure syndrome. In the elderly, heart failure is often accompanied by 
concomitant conditions that often make diagnosis and treatment of chronic heart 
disease difficult. Non-specific clinical symptoms in the elderly as well as 
those associated with age (e.g. easy fatigability, exertional dyspnea) make a 
correct diagnosis difficult. The recognized biochemical marker of heart 
failure--brain natriuretic peptide, N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic 
peptide--has a limited diagnostic value in the elderly. Echocardiography plays a 
key role in the diagnosis. Owing to altered metabolism, impairment of hepatic 
processes to various degrees and decreased renal excretion of drugs, treatment 
requires attention, individual choice of drugs and doses, as well as periodic 
modification of both the doses and the intervals between them. Correct treatment 
improves quality of life and prolongs it. The aim of the present work is to 
present the differences in the pathophysiology, diagnostic evaluation and 
management of chronic heart failure in the elderly, in light of the current 
views and standards.

PMID: 19112819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Tumori. 2008 Sep-Oct;94(5):658-68. doi: 10.1177/030089160809400503.

Life tables for world-wide comparison of relative survival for cancer (CONCORD 
study).

Baili P(1), Micheli A, De Angelis R, Weir HK, Francisci S, Santaquilani M, 
Hakulinen T, Quaresmas M, Coleman MP; CONCORD Working Group.

Collaborators: Chérif MH, Mahayri N, Filho DC, Curado MP, Koifman S, Azevedo e 
Silva G, Garrote LF, Coldman AJ, McBride M, Demers A, Kliewer E, Turner D, Dewar 
R, Holowaty E, Marrett L, Mishri D, Tonita J, Hatcher J, Mao Y, Ugnat AM, Waters 
C, Young YL, Weir HK, Wright WE, Yin D, Deapen D, West D, Bol K, Bott R, Finch 
J, Polednak A, MacKinnon J, Goodman MT, Carson S, Johnson C, Lynch CF, Chen V, 
Copeland G, Graff J, Filos V, Frederick S, Kohler B, Wiggins C, McLaughlin CC, 
Schymura MJ, Fulton J, Rousseau D, Potts M, Schwartz S, Dibble R, Stroup N, 
Brockhouse J, Grandpré J, Fujita M, Ajiki W, Tsukuma H, Matsuda T, Oberaigner W, 
Holub J, Storm HH, Aareleid T, Rahu M, Hakulinen T, Hédelin G, Velten M, Launoy 
G, Macé-Lesech J, Chaplain G, Faivre J, Colonna M, Ziegler H, Tryggvadóttir L, 
Comber H, Ferretti S, Vercelli M, Albertoni F, Conti E, Pannozzo F, Pannelli F, 
Vitarelli S, Allemani C, Baili P, Berrino F, Ciccolallo L, Gatta G, Micheli A, 
Sant M, Artioli ME, Federico M, Ponz de Leon M, De Lisi V, Serventi L, Gafà L, 
Tumino R, Falcini F, Capocaccia R, De Angelis R, Francisci S, Santaquilani M, 
Verdecchia A, Budroni M, Cesaraccio R, Patriarca S, Zanetti R, Crocetti E, Paci 
E, Contiero P, Crosignani P, Tagliabue G, Guzzinati S, Zambon P, Dalmas M, 
Visser O, Otter R, Schaapveld M, Coebergh JW, Andersen A, Langmark V F, Rachtan 
J, Bielska-Lasota M, Wronkoski Z, Zwierko M, da Costa Miranda AM, Ob sitniková 
M, Plesko I, Pompe-Kirn V, Primic-Zakelj M, Izarzugaza I, Martinez Garcia C, 
Sánchez-Pérez MJ, Garau I, Chirlaque MD, Navarro Sanchez C, Ardanaz E, Moreno C, 
Galceran J, Alvegård TA, Barlow L, Jundt G, Lutz JM, Ussel M, Frick H, Ess S, 
Konzelmann I, Davies T, Godward S, Rashbass J, Cooper N, Quinn MJ, Coleman MP, 
Quaresma M, Rachet B, Shack L, Williams EM, Roche M, Møller H, Smith J, Verne J, 
Botha H, Meechan D, Lawrence G, Forman D, Gavin A, Black R, Brewster DH, Steward 
J, Elwood JM, Sitas F, Condon J, Aitken J, Roder D, Venn A, Giles G, Threlfall 
T.

Author information:
(1)Descriptive Epidemiology and Health Planning Unit, Fondazione IRCCS Istituto 
Nazionale dei Tumori, Milan, Italy. lifetable@istitutotumori.mi.it

BACKGROUND: The CONCORD study compares population-based relative survival from 
cancer using data from cancer registries in five continents. To estimate 
relative survival, general mortality life tables are required. Available 
statistics are incomplete, so various approaches are used to construct complete 
life tables. This article outlines how the life tables were constructed for 
CONCORD; it compares life expectancy at birth between 101 populations covered by 
cancer registries in 31 countries and compares the impact of two approaches to 
the deployment of life tables in relative survival analysis.
METHODS: The CONCORD approach, using specific mathematical methods, produced 
complete (single-year-of-age) life tables by sex, cancer registry area, calendar 
year (1990-1999) and race (only in the USA). In order to study the impact of 
different approaches, we compared relative survival in the USA using the US 
national life table, centered on the relevant census years, and the CONCORD 
approach. We estimated relative survival in each American participating cancer 
registry for patients diagnosed with breast (women), colorectal or prostate 
cancer during 1990-1994 and followed up to 1999.
RESULTS: Average life expectancy at birth during 1990-1999 varied in CONCORD 
cancer registry areas from 64 to 78 years in males and from 71 to 84 years in 
females. It increased during the 1990s more in men than in women. In the USA, it 
was lower in blacks than in whites. Relative survival in American populations 
was lower with the CONCORD approach, which incorporates trends and geographic 
variation in background mortality, than with the USA census life tables.
CONCLUSIONS: International variation in background mortality by geographic area, 
calendar time, race, age and sex is wide. We suggest that in international 
comparisons of cancer relative survival, complete life tables that are specific 
for cancer registry area, calendar year and race should be used.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160809400503
PMID: 19112937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Tumori. 2008 Sep-Oct;94(5):686-90. doi: 10.1177/030089160809400507.

Liposomal-encapsulated doxorubicin (Myocet; D-99) and vinorelbine in previously 
treated metastatic breast cancer patients: a feasibility study.

Poletti P(1), Bettini AC, Caremoli ER, Labianca R, Tondini C.

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Oncologia Medica, Ospedali Riuniti di Bergamo, Bergamo, 
Italy. ppoletti@ospedaliriuniti.bergamo.it

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: We conducted a feasibility study to determine the safety 
and efficacy of liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin (Myocet) and vinorelbine in 
previously treated metastatic breast cancer patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Liposome-encapsulated doxorubicin (30 mg/m2) plus 
vinorelbine (25 mg/m2) on days 1 and 8, every 3 weeks were given until disease 
progression, sever toxicity or up to 9 cycles. All patients underwent tumor 
assessment before enrollment. Patients with a life expectancy longer than 3 
months and measurable or assessable disease were eligible.
RESULTS: Twenty-one patients were included. Median number of treatment cycles 
was 5 (range, 3-9). No complete response was obtained. Stable disease and/or 
partial response was obtained in 9 patients. Fifteen patients experienced grade 
3-4 leukopenia. There was no significant decline in cardiac function. 
Non-hematological toxicity was tolerable (grade 1-2).
CONCLUSIONS: The association of doxorubicin and vinorelbine has been shown to be 
feasible in previously treated advanced breast cancer patients. Its efficacy 
should be tested as first-line therapy in metastatic patients with cardiac 
co-morbidities.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160809400507
PMID: 19112941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Int J Group Psychother. 2009 Jan;59(1):1-28. doi: 10.1521/ijgp.2009.59.1.1.

The radical nature of combined psychotherapy.

Billow RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Adelphi Postgraduate Programs in Psychoanalysis and Psychotherapy, Derner 
Institute, Adelphi University, Garden City, New York, USA. rmbillow@hotmail.com

Abstract The therapist's commitment in thought and action to combined practice 
influences all aspects of professional life. Hence, the "radical" (or 
foundational): The idea as well as the shared history of combined psychotherapy 
are rooted within the complexities and intensities of the multiple 
transference-countertransferences, intrapsychic defenses, interpersonal 
strategies, and inevitable enactments of all members of one's practice. Case 
anecdotes illustrate (a) the psycho-social impact of Establishment 
psychoanalysis and group analysis on the therapist; (b) the intertwining of 
dyadic-group experience on manifest and latent content, inference making, and 
interpretation; (c) how the "group" never leaves the room, that is, the salutary 
effects on the therapist's thinking and clinical relationships of the idea as 
well as the reality of group, even with those patients not exposed to combined 
treatment; and (d) resistances specific to combined treatment. Combined 
individual-group psychoanalytic therapy is a natural fit, yet a radical 
extension of contemporary relational psychoanalytic theory and practice.

DOI: 10.1521/ijgp.2009.59.1.1
PMID: 19113970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2009 Mar;200(3):267.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2008.10.035.  Epub 2008 Dec 27.

The cost-effectiveness of universal screening in pregnancy for subclinical 
hypothyroidism.

Thung SF(1), Funai EF, Grobman WA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether routine screening 
for subclinical hypothyroidism during pregnancy would be cost-effective.
STUDY DESIGN: We developed a decision analysis model to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of 2 screening strategies during pregnancy for subclinical 
hypothyroidism: (1) no routine screening of serum thyroid-stimulating hormone 
(TSH) levels (standard) and (2) routine screening of TSH levels. In the latter, 
women with subclinical hypothyroidism received thyroid hormone replacement. We 
assumed that thyroid hormone replacement could reduce the incidence of an 
offspring IQ < 85 for pregnancies with subclinical hypothyroidism. The main 
outcome measure was marginal cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Our model predicts that universal screening is the dominant strategy. 
For every 100,000 pregnant women who were screened, $8,356,383 are saved, and 
589.3 QALYs are gained. When subclinical hypothyroidism prevalence is reduced to 
0.25%, screening remains cost-effective at $21,664/QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Screening for subclinical hypothyroidism in pregnancy will be a 
cost-effective strategy under a wide range of circumstances.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2008.10.035
PMID: 19114278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. J Clin Oncol. 2009 Feb 20;27(6):953-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.17.8079. Epub
2008  Dec 29.

The terrible choice: re-evaluating hospice eligibility criteria for cancer.

Casarett DJ(1), Fishman JM, Lu HL, O'Dwyer PJ, Barg FK, Naylor MD, Asch DA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion, Philadelphia Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA, USA. casarett@mail.med.upenn.edu

PURPOSE: To be eligible for the Medicare Hospice Benefit, cancer patients with a 
life expectancy of 6 months or less must give up curative treatment. Our goal 
was to determine whether willingness to make this choice identifies patients 
with greater need for hospice services.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three hundred patients with cancer and 171 family members 
were recruited from six oncology practices. Respondents completed conjoint 
interviews in which their perceived need for five hospice services was 
calculated from the choices they made among combinations of services. Patients' 
preferences for treatment were measured, and patients were followed for 6 months 
or until death.
RESULTS: Thirty-eight patients (13%) said they would not want cancer treatment 
even if it offered an almost 100% chance of 6-month survival. These patients, 
who would have been eligible for hospice, did not have greater perceived need 
for hospice services compared with other patients (n = 262; mean, 1.75 v 1.98; 
Wilcoxon rank sum test, P = .46), nor did their family members (mean, 1.95 v 
2.04; Wilcoxon rank sum test, P = .80). Instead, independent predictors of 
patients' perceived need for hospice services included African American 
ethnicity, less social support, worse functional status, and a greater burden of 
psychological symptoms. For families, predictors included caregiver burden, 
worse self-reported health, working outside the home, and caring for a patient 
with worse functional status.
CONCLUSION: The requirement that patients forgo life-sustaining treatment does 
not identify patients with greater perceived need for hospice services. Other 
characteristics offer a better way to identify the patients who are most likely 
to benefit from hospice.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2008.17.8079
PMCID: PMC2738432
PMID: 19114698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


885. Am J Ther. 2009 Jan-Feb;16(1):24-34. doi: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e318032587d.

Atherothrombosis and the management of the vulnerable vascular patient.

Arora R(1), Rai F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Chicago Medical School, North Chicago, Illinois, USA. 
rohit.arora@va.gov

Atherothrombosis is a generalized and diffuse progressive process manifesting in 
multiple vascular beds leading to acute coronary syndrome (ACS), ischemic 
stroke, and peripheral arterial disease. The American Heart Association 
estimates the prevalence of ischemic stroke, coronary heart disease, and 
peripheral artery disease to be 4.8, 13.2, and 8 million, respectively. 
According to the World Health Organization, in 2004, atherothrombosis was the 
leading cause of death worldwide. Twenty-two percent of all deaths are 
attributed to atherothrombosis, which is greater than the percentage of deaths 
from AIDS and cancer combined. Data from the Framingham Heart Study has shown 
atherothrombosis significantly reduces life expectancy. According to current 
data, there is an established relationship among coronary artery disease, 
peripheral vascular disease, and cardiovascular disease. The REACH registry 
demonstrated that the 1-year cardiovascular event rates increase with the number 
of symptomatic disease locations. Unstable angina/non-ST-segment elevation MI is 
a major public health problem and represents the most common reason for hospital 
admission for coronary heart disease. Classification of "vulnerable patients" 
will help identify those with a high probability of developing cardiac events in 
the near future, and their early detection and treatment would help 50 to 60 
million Americans over the age of 35. The management of patients with ischemic 
coronary disease consists of 2 approaches: revascularization and systemic 
(aspirin, clopidogrel, lipid-lowering therapy, angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors, and β-blockers). There is a substantial long-term cardiovascular 
risk after discharge with non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome with an 
annual mortality rate estimated at 6%. This emphasizes the importance of risk 
stratification and aggressive management strategies that target high-risk 
patients. Based on CAPRIE study and Cure trial results, patients can benefit 
from clopidogrel or its combination with aspirin. CRUSADE registry data reveal 
some acute medications are still being underused, most notably GP IIb/IIIa 
inhibitors (47%) and clopidogrel (54%). Improved American College of 
Cardiology/American Heart Association guideline adherence is directly associated 
with reduced in-hospital mortality, and thus the need for quality improvement is 
imperative.

DOI: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e318032587d
PMID: 19114877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Med Oral Patol Oral Cir Bucal. 2009 Jan 1;14(1):E20-7.

Pharmacological interactions of vasoconstrictors.

Gómez-Moreno G(1), Guardia J, Cutando A, Calvo-Guirado JL.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacological Interactions in Odontological Patients with Systemic 
Pathology, Clinical Odontology for Special Patients, Department of Odontology, 
University of Granada, Spain. ggomez@ugr.es

This article is the first of a series on pharmacological interactions involving 
medicaments commonly prescribed and/or used in odontology: vasoconstrictors in 
local anaesthetics and anti-inflammatory and anti-microbial analgesics. The 
necessity for the odontologist to be aware of adverse reactions as a result of 
the pharmacological interactions is due to the increase in medicament 
consumption by the general population. There is a demographic change with 
greater life expectancy and patients have increased chronic health problems and 
therefore have increased medicament intake. The presence of adrenaline 
(epinephrine) and other vasoconstrictors in local odontological anaesthetics is 
beneficial in relation to the duration and depth of anaesthesia and reduces 
bleeding and systemic toxicity of the local anaesthetic. However, it might 
produce pharmacological interactions between the injected vasoconstrictors and 
the local anaesthetic and adrenergic medicament administered exogenically which 
the odontologist should be aware of, especially because of the risk of 
consequent adverse reactions. Therefore the importance of conducting a detailed 
clinical history of the general state of health and include all medicaments, 
legal as well as illegal, taken by the patient.

PMID: 19114951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. J Med Liban. 2008 Oct-Dec;56(4):195-6.

Why should doctors get involved in tobacco control?

Daher M.

Comment in
    J Med Liban. 2008 Oct-Dec;56(4):196-7.

PMID: 19115591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. S Afr Med J. 2008 Oct;98(10):750, 752.

AIDS reality bedevils social security plans.

Bateman C.

PMID: 19115745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Health Promot Pract. 2010 Jul;11(4):555-61. doi: 10.1177/1524839908324784.
Epub  2008 Dec 30.

Developing a cross-site evaluation tool for diverse health interventions.

Kruger DJ(1), Morrel-Samuels S, Davis-Satterla L, Harris-Ellis BJ, Slonim A.

Author information:
(1)Prevention Research Center of Michigan, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
USA.

The Prevention Research Center of Michigan provided technical assistance for the 
evaluation of 10 projects funded by the Michigan Department of Community 
Health's (MDCH) Health Disparities Reduction Program. These projects varied 
considerably in focus, methodology, geographical coverage, and populations 
served. The authors developed a cross-site evaluation tool to complement the 
internal evaluations of the projects. The tool contains four sections based on 
priorities identified by MDCH: evidence-based practice, research-based 
learning/evaluation (including process, impact, and outcomes indicators), 
cultural competence, and sustainability. Recognizing the diversity of 
programmatic efforts and organizational evaluation capacity, the authors sought 
to enable each project to create the best evaluation possible given the 
resources and data available. Each section contains a range of components from 
basic questions to more advanced evaluation techniques. The instrument attempts 
to use the highest quality of information available for each project. This 
evaluation tool can be used by programs with diverse goals and methodology.

DOI: 10.1177/1524839908324784
PMID: 19116423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2009 Jan;123(1):121-129. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181904cff.

The combination of muscle transpositions and static procedures for 
reconstruction in the paralyzed face of the patient with limited life expectancy 
or who is not a candidate for free muscle transfer.

Michaelidou M(1), Tzou CJ, Gerber H, Stüssi E, Mittlböck M, Frey M.

Author information:
(1)Vienna, Austria; and Zurich, Switzerland From the Division of Plastic and 
Reconstructive Surgery, Department of Surgery, and the Core Unit for Medical 
Statistics and Informatics, Section of Clinical Biometry, Medical University of 
Vienna, General Hospital Vienna, and the Laboratory for Biomechanics, Swiss 
Federal Institute of Technology.

BACKGROUND: In long-standing complete and irreversible facial palsy where 
reconstruction by nerve grafting alone is no longer sufficient, reconstruction 
by dynamic procedures such as muscle transplantation or muscle transposition is 
required. The authors present the results obtained by regional muscle 
transposition for reconstruction of eye closure and smile in patients with 
irreversible facial palsy.
METHODS: Twenty-nine patients treated by temporalis transposition for the eye 
and eight patients treated by masseter transposition for the mouth are 
presented. Assessment of outcome was based on clinical examination and analysis 
of facial movements by three-dimensional video analysis.
RESULTS: Preoperatively, the paretic eye fissure was on average 2.30 +/- 2.17 mm 
wider than the healthy one. The difference was reduced postoperatively to 0.95 
+/- 1.89 mm. Paralytic lagophthalmus during closure of the eyes was 9.59 +/- 
3.03 mm preoperatively and was reduced postoperatively to 4.33 +/- 2.68 mm. 
Ocular tearing and desiccation were reduced drastically in all patients. Static 
asymmetry of the mouth corner improved from 14.17 +/- 5.26 mm preoperatively to 
5.38 +/- 3.23 mm postoperatively. The index of dynamic symmetry improved from 
-0.17 +/- 0.25 preoperatively to 0.18 +/- 0.19 postoperatively. This means that, 
postoperatively, the amplitude of motion on the reconstructed side reached 18 
+/- 19 percent that of the amplitude on the healthy side, whereas preoperatively 
a shift of the paralyzed mouth corner toward the healthy side occurred.
CONCLUSIONS: Muscle transposition improves static symmetry and provides dynamic 
activity to a certain degree. It is therefore a valuable concept for patients 
with limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181904cff
PMID: 19116545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Clin Cancer Res. 2009 Jan 1;15(1):368-73. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-1302.

Alemtuzumab therapy for hypereosinophilic syndrome and chronic eosinophilic 
leukemia.

Verstovsek S(1), Tefferi A, Kantarjian H, Manshouri T, Luthra R, Pardanani A, 
Quintás-Cardama A, Ravandi F, Ault P, Bueso-Ramos C, Cortes JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, Texas 77030, USA. sverstov@mdanderson.org

PURPOSE: Patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES) or chronic eosinophilic 
leukemia (CEL) that are refractory to standard therapies are difficult to manage 
and have significantly shortened life expectancy.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: CD52 is a surface glycoprotein highly expressed on 
eosinophils. We treated 11 patients with advanced HES/CEL with alemtuzumab, a 
humanized anti-CD52 monoclonal antibody. Alemtuzumab was administered, in 
general, first in escalating doses (5, 10, 30 mg i.v. on days 1-3), then at the 
tolerated dose thrice per week for a total of 12 doses. Patients with complete 
hematologic response (CHR; normal percent and absolute eosinophil count) were 
allowed to continue therapy once weekly as maintenance.
RESULTS: Ten patients (91%) achieved CHR after a median of 2 weeks (0.5-5 weeks) 
of therapy. Bone marrow eosinophilia resolved in four of seven evaluable 
patients. The median duration of CHR was 3 months (1.5-17+ months). Seven of the 
10 CHR patients relapsed, five while off-therapy. Two patients achieved second 
CHR upon alemtuzumab rechallenge. Three patients experienced mild 
infusion-related symptoms, two developed cytomegalovirus reactivation requiring 
therapy, and one developed orbital lymphoma that was successfully treated.
CONCLUSIONS: Our limited experience suggests alemtuzumab to be a valuable 
therapy for advanced HES or CEL, refractory to standard therapies, and supports 
the clinical evaluation of alemtuzumab in a larger trial.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-1302
PMCID: PMC4822510
PMID: 19118067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Chest. 2009 May;135(5):1173-1180. doi: 10.1378/chest.08-1595. Epub 2008 Dec
31.

Association of IL-17RB gene polymorphism with asthma.

Jung JS(1), Park BL(2), Cheong HS(3), Bae JS(3), Kim JH(1), Chang HS(1), Rhim 
T(4), Park JS(1), Jang AS(1), Lee YM(5), Kim KU(5), Uh ST(5), Na JO(6), Kim 
YH(6), Park CS(7), Shin HD(8).

Author information:
(1)Genome Research Center for Allergy and Respiratory Disease, Soonchunhyang 
University Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon, Korea.
(2)Department of Genetic Epidemiology, SNP Genetics, Inc, Seoul, Korea; Genome 
Research Center for Allergy and Respiratory Disease, Soonchunhyang University 
Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon, Korea; Genome Research Center for Allergy and 
Respiratory Disease, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon, Korea.
(3)Department of Genetic Epidemiology, SNP Genetics, Inc, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Division of Allergy and Respiratory Medicine, Soonchunhyang University Seoul 
Hospital, Seoul, Korea.
(6)Division of Allergy and Respiratory Medicine, Soonchunhyang University Chunan 
Hospital, Chunan, Korea.
(7)Genome Research Center for Allergy and Respiratory Disease, Soonchunhyang 
University Bucheon Hospital, Bucheon, Korea. Electronic address: 
mdcspark@unitel.co.kr.
(8)Department of Life Science, Sogang University, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Interleukin (IL)-17E is a member of the IL-17 family, which induces 
IL-4, IL-5, IL-13, and eotaxin in experimental animals via IL-17 receptor B 
(IL-17RB). The activation of IL-17RB amplifies allergic-type inflammatory 
responses by inducing Jun kinase (or JNK), p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase 
(or MAPK), and nuclear factor-kappaB.
OBJECTIVES: We examined the association of polymorphisms in the IL-17RB gene 
with asthma susceptibility and investigated the effects of those polymorphisms 
on the transcription of various IL-17RB isoforms.
METHODS: In total, 954 asthmatic patients or 265 healthy control subjects were 
screened for polymorphisms in IL-17RB by single-base extension. The messenger 
RNA expression IL-17RB in B-cell lines derived from patients was also measured 
by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: Direct sequencing of 24 unrelated Korean DNA samples revealed 18 
genetic variants, including four insertion/deletions and 14 single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs). Six of the SNPs (-1465G>A, +5661G>A, +6297T>C [Y123Y], 
+13797C>T, +18661C>T, and +18965G>A) were used to screen a larger group of 
subjects. Intronic polymorphism +5661G>A was significantly associated with the 
development of asthma (p = 0.001); moreover, a minor allele of IL-17RB +5661G>A 
appeared at a lower frequency in the asthmatic patients than in the healthy 
control subjects (0.13 vs 0.19, respectively). The IL-17RB messenger RNA 
expression in B cells homozygous for IL-17RB+ 5661GG was significantly higher 
than that in B cells homozygous for IL-17RB+5661AA (p = 0.002).
CONCLUSIONS: A rare allele of IL-17RB +5661G>A may have a protective role 
against the development of asthma via regulation at the level of transcription. 
The SNPs identified in this study may be used to develop markers to assess the 
risk of asthma.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.08-1595
PMID: 19118269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Eur J Health Econ. 2009 May;10(2):121-3. doi: 10.1007/s10198-008-0141-2.

Is there a "continental" view of health economics evaluation?

Le Pen C.

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Dec;11(6):521-3.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-008-0141-2
PMID: 19118442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Ophthalmology. 2009 Jan;116(1):166-7; author reply 167. doi: 
10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.08.037.

Cost-effectiveness.

Tuulonen A, Azuara-Blanco A.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2008 Jan;115(1):94-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.08.037
PMID: 19118707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. J Assoc Nurses AIDS Care. 2009 Jan-Feb;20(1):39-49. doi: 
10.1016/j.jana.2008.10.005.

Changes in transmission risk behaviors across stages of HIV disease among people 
living with HIV.

Eaton LA(1), Kalichman SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT, USA.

Advances in treatments for HIV infection and related opportunistic illnesses 
have significantly extended the life expectancy of people living with HIV. A 
review of the literature on HIV transmission risks among HIV-infected 
individuals shows patterns of risk behavior that vary according to HIV disease 
stage. Studies confirm that the period immediately preceding HIV infection is 
characterized by high rates of risk behaviors, indicating the potential for 
rapid spread of HIV during acute infection. Reductions in risk behavior are 
often seen immediately following an HIV diagnosis. However, these behavioral 
changes are not universal, and an individual's state of health is an important 
factor relating to transmission risks. Chronic periods of asymptomatic HIV 
infection are generally associated with some degree of reverting to risky 
behaviors. CD4 cell counts below 200 cells/mm(3), resulting in a formal 
diagnosis of AIDS, are associated with decreased sexual and drug-related risk 
behaviors. HIV risk reduction interventions for HIV-infected persons, therefore, 
require tailoring to address the health and psychological challenges individuals 
face as they progress through stages of HIV disease. Additional research on both 
risk behaviors of long-term HIV-infected persons and longitudinal data on risk 
behaviors is needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jana.2008.10.005
PMCID: PMC3560412
PMID: 19118770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. PLoS One. 2009;4(1):e4067. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004067. Epub 2009 Jan
1.

Effect of a standardised dietary restriction protocol on multiple laboratory 
strains of Drosophila melanogaster.

Grandison RC(1), Wong R, Bass TM, Partridge L, Piper MD.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Healthy Ageing, Department of Genetics, Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Outcomes of lifespan studies in model organisms are particularly 
susceptible to variations in technical procedures. This is especially true of 
dietary restriction, which is implemented in many different ways among 
laboratories.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, we have examined the effect of laboratory 
stock maintenance, genotype differences and microbial infection on the ability 
of dietary restriction (DR) to extend life in the fruit fly Drosophila 
melanogaster. None of these factors block the DR effect.
CONCLUSIONS: These data lend support to the idea that nutrient restriction 
genuinely extends lifespan in flies, and that any mechanistic discoveries made 
with this model are of potential relevance to the determinants of lifespan in 
other organisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004067
PMCID: PMC2607010
PMID: 19119322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


897. Am Fam Physician. 2008 Dec 15;78(12):1336, 1338.

Cancer screening in older patients: life expectancy, prioritization, and health 
literacy.

Flaherty JH.

Comment on
    Am Fam Physician. 2008 Dec 15;78(12):1369-74.

PMID: 19119549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Am Fam Physician. 2008 Dec 15;78(12):1369-74.

Cancer screening in the older patient.
