(1)Department of Gastrointestinal and Pediatric Surgery, Institute of Life 
Sciences, Mie University Graduate School of Medicine, Tsu, Japan. 
nyokkin@clin.medic.mie-u.ac.jp

Extension of the inflammatory process to the terminal portion of the ileum in 
patients with ulcerative colitis is commonly known as backwash ileitis (BWI). To 
the best of our knowledge, few studies of severe BWI have been reported in the 
English literature, and surgical strategies for this disease have not been 
discussed. We report 2 patients with ulcerative colitis and severe BWI, with 
concomitant ileal bleeding and perforation. In both cases, staged operation 
without sacrificing the involved area of the terminal ileum led to ileal 
pouch-anal anastomosis, with a favorable postoperative outcome. Our cases 
suggest that the underlying pathophysiologic conditions in BWI may be 
reversible, and the involved lesion can be salvaged in some cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2008.10.074
PMID: 19159709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009 Jan 21;(1):CD006282. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006282.pub2.

Drug treatment for spinal muscular atrophy types II and III.

Bosboom W(1), Vrancken AF, van den Berg LH, Wokke JH, Iannaccone ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sint Lucas Andreas Hospital, Jan Tooropstraat 164, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands, 1061 AE. w.bosboom@slaz.nl

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2011;(12):CD006282.

BACKGROUND: Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is caused by degeneration of anterior 
horn cells, which leads to progressive muscle weakness. Children with SMA type 
II do not develop the ability to walk without support and have a shortened life 
expectancy, whereas children with SMA type III develop the ability to walk and 
have a normal life expectancy. There are no known efficacious drug treatments 
that influence the disease course of SMA.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate if drug treatment is able to slow or arrest the disease 
progression of SMA type II and III, and to assess if such therapy can be given 
safely. Drug treatment for SMA type I will be the topic of a separate Cochrane 
review.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Trials 
Register (September 30 2008), The Cochrane Library (Issue 3, 2008), MEDLINE 
(January 1966 to June 2008), EMBASE (January 1980 to June 2008), ISI (January 
1988 to June 2008), and ACP Journal Club (January 1991 to June 2008).
SELECTION CRITERIA: We sought all randomized or quasi-randomized trials that 
examined the efficacy of drug treatment for SMA type II and III. Participants 
had to fulfil the clinical criteria and, in studies including genetic analysis 
to confirm the diagnosis, have a deletion or mutation of the SMN1 gene 
(5q11.2-13.2)The primary outcome measure was to be change in disability score 
within one year after the onset of treatment. Secondary outcome measures within 
one year after the onset of treatment were to be change in muscle strength, 
ability to stand or walk, change in quality of life, time from the start of 
treatment until death or full time ventilation, and adverse events attributable 
to treatment during the trial period.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently reviewed and extracted 
data from all potentially relevant trials. Pooled relative risks and pooled 
weighted standardized mean differences were to be calculated to assess treatment 
efficacy
MAIN RESULTS: Four randomized placebo-controlled trials on treatment for SMA 
type II and III were found and included in the review. The treatments were 
creatine, phenylbutyrate, gabapentin and thyrotropin releasing hormone. None of 
these trials showed any effect on the outcome measures in patients with SMA type 
II and III. None of the patients in any of the four trials died or reached the 
state of full time ventilation and serious side effects were infrequent.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is no proven efficacious drug treatment for SMA type 
II and III.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006282.pub2
PMID: 19160275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2009 Jan 21;2009(1):CD006296. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006296.pub2.

Low glycaemic index, or low glycaemic load, diets for diabetes mellitus.

Thomas D(1), Elliott EJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Evidence Based Paediatrics Gastroenterology and Nutrition 
(CEBPGAN), Children's Hospital at Westmead, University of Sydney, Locked Bag 
4001, Westmead , Australia, NSW 2145. dianat@chw.edu.au

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2009 Aug;14(4):106.

BACKGROUND: The aim of diabetes management is to normalise blood glucose levels, 
since improved blood glucose control is associated with reduction in 
development, and progression, of complications. Nutritional factors affect blood 
glucose levels, however there is currently no universal approach to the optimal 
dietary treatment for diabetes. There is controversy about how useful the 
glycaemic index (GI) is in diabetic meal planning. Improved glycaemic control 
through diet could minimise medications, lessen risk of diabetic complications, 
improve quality of life and increase life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of low glycaemic index, or low glycaemic load, 
diets on glycaemic control in people with diabetes.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We performed electronic searches of The Cochrane Library, 
MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL with no language restriction.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We assessed randomised controlled trials of four weeks or 
longer that compared a low glycaemic index, or low glycaemic load, diet with a 
higher glycaemic index, or load, or other diet for people with either type 1 or 
2 diabetes mellitus, whose diabetes was not already optimally controlled.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two reviewers independently extracted data on 
study population, intervention and outcomes for each included study, using 
standardised data extraction forms.
MAIN RESULTS: Eleven relevant randomised controlled trials involving 402 
participants were identified. There was a significant decrease in the glycated 
haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) parallel group of trials, the weighted mean difference 
(WMD) was -0.5% with a 95% confidence interval (CI) of - 0.9 to -0.1, P = 0.02; 
and in the cross-over group of trials the WMD was -0.5% with a 95% CI of -1.0 to 
-0.1, P = 0.03. Episodes of hypoglycaemia were significantly fewer with low 
compared to high GI diet in one trial (difference of -0.8 episodes per patient 
per month, P < 0.01), and proportion of participants reporting more than 15 
hyperglycaemic episodes per month was lower for low-GI diet compared to measured 
carbohydrate exchange diet in another study (35% versus 66%, P = 0.006). No 
study reported on mortality, morbidity or costs.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: A low-GI diet can improve glycaemic control in diabetes 
without compromising hypoglycaemic events.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006296.pub2
PMCID: PMC6486008
PMID: 19160276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None known.


987. Methods Mol Biol. 2009;462:167-79. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60327-115-8_11.

Effects of sterols on the development and aging of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Lee EY(1), Jeong PY, Kim SY, Shim YH, Chitwood DJ, Paik YK.

Author information:
(1)Yonsei Proteome Research Center, Biomedical Proteome Research Center, 
Department of Biochemistry, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.

Although Caenorhabditis elegans lacks several components of the de novo sterol 
biosynthetic pathway, it requires sterols as essential nutrients. Supplemental 
cholesterol undergoes extensive enzymatic modification in C. elegans to form 
certain sterols of unknown function. Since sterol metabolism in C. elegans 
differs from that in other species, such as mammals and yeast, it is important 
to examine how sterols regulate worm physiology. To examine the functions of 
sterols in C. elegans, a sterol-feeding experiment was carried out and several 
critical parameters, such as brood size, growth rate, and life span, were 
measured. In addition, the change in lipid distribution in C. elegans can be 
both qualitatively and quantitatively determined by various methods, including 
staining and chromatographic techniques. Taken together, the effects of sterols 
on C. elegans are very prominent and can be easily assessed using the techniques 
described here.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60327-115-8_11
PMID: 19160668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Nutr Hosp. 2008 Sep-Oct;23(5):513-5.

[The megacystis-microcolon-intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome: apropos of a 
case with prolonged survival].

[Article in Spanish]

Magaña Pintiado MI(1), Al-Kassam Martínez M, Bousoño García C, Ramos Polo E, 
Gómez Alvarez ME.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Farmacia, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Oviedo. 
mmganyapintiado@yahoo.es

Megacystis microcolon intestinal hypoperistalsis syndrome (MMIHS) is a severe 
congenital disease with autosomal recessive inheritance, characterized by 
vesical distension and intestinal hypoperistalsis what causes intestinal 
obstruction in newborn, with other abnormalities associated. It presents a low 
incidence, about a hundred cases are reported in the bibliography. Life 
expectancy doesn't reach a year because of the sepsis failure generally. In our 
study the survival is higher than the majority of the cases reported, with good 
cuality of life and acceptable ponderal development. Home parenteral nutrition 
with the following and multidisciplinary collaboration in a strict way, 
establish the success' key in this pathology.

PMID: 19160903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Vojnosanit Pregl. 2008 Dec;65(12):871-5. doi: 10.2298/vsp0812871j.

SMART control stents in femoropopliteal region.

Jagić N(1), Stamenković D, Toncev S, Petrović D, Miloradović V, Milicić B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Radiology, Interventional Radiology Dept, Clinical Center 
"Kragujevac", Serbia. njagic@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION/AIM: Occlusive disease of lower limb arteries have been so far 
traditionally best treated with bypass surgery, but we want to find minimally 
invasive approach that should be at least as good as conventional surgery, and 
hopefully better. The aim of this study was to evaluate SMART Control stents 
(Cordis, J&J) in Trans Atlantic Society Consensus (TASC) B and C femoropopliteal 
lesions during one-year follow-up.
METHODS: Retrospective nonrandomized analysis included forty arteries in 
consecutive 40 patients who were stented with SMART Control stents. Primary 
patency at 12-month verified with Duplex Ultrasound and Acute Brachial Index 
(ABI) as well as freedom from Target Vessel Revascularization (TVR) were primary 
endpoints.
RESULTS: Primary technical success at stent implantation was 100%. Mean ABI 
values were preprocedurally 0.50, postprocedurally 0.83, at one month 0.86, at 
six months 0.84, at one year 0.78. After one year 39 stents were patent (97.5%).
CONCLUSION: Excellent performance of the stent from technical point of view and 
a midterm results in vessel patency, as well as the absence of need for TVR were 
achieved. Yet, life expectancy in this cohort group of patients demands longer 
follow up data to draw a definite sustained positive conclusion.

DOI: 10.2298/vsp0812871j
PMID: 19160979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. East Mediterr Health J. 2008 Nov-Dec;14(6):1338-48.

Urologic diseases in the Islamic Republic of Iran: what are the public health 
priorities?

Basiri A(1), Mousavi SM, Naghavi M, Araghi IA, Namini SA.

Author information:
(1)Urology Nephrology Research Centre, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Islamic Republic of Iran.

This study was designed to estimate the burden of urologic diseases in the 
Islamic Republic of Iran as a practical method for defining public health 
priorities. Using World Health Organization guidelines for national burden of 
disease studies, 6 steps were performed: selecting diseases to include; dynamic 
modelling of diseases; gathering data about urologic diseases; computing the 
local disability weights of urologic diseases; data analysis with DisMod II; and 
computing the disability-adjusted life years for each disease. Renal calculus, 
acute cystitis, chronic prostatitis, benign prostate hyperplasia, male 
infertility and adult polycystic kidney disease comprised the greatest burden.

PMID: 19161109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Nephrology (Carlton). 2008 Oct;13(7):560-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2008.01036.x.

Review article: Tackling the survival issue in end-stage renal disease: time to 
get physical on haemodialysis.

Cheema BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Food, Nutrition and Human Health, Division of Exercise and Sport 
Science, College of Sciences, Massey University, Wellington, New Zealand. 
b.cheema@massey.ac.nz

Life expectancy in haemodialysis patients is reduced fourfold on average versus 
healthy age-matched individuals. The purpose of this review is to present 
empirical evidence that intradialytic exercise can mitigate primary independent 
risk factors for early mortality in end-stage renal disease. These risk factors 
include measures of skeletal muscle wasting, systemic inflammation, 
cardiovascular functioning and dialysis adequacy. Overall, the available 
literature provides support for the integration of exercise within the 
conventional outpatient haemodialysis unit. The amelioration of various 
physiological risk factors through an appropriate exercise prescription may 
enhance survival in this vulnerable cohort. Investigations are required to 
determine the effects of various doses of intradialytic exercise on a broad 
range of clinical outcomes, and more thoroughly elucidate the relationship 
between exercise-induced adaptations and survival advantage in end-stage renal 
disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2008.01036.x
PMID: 19161363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Int J Food Microbiol. 2009 Feb 28;129(3):271-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2008.12.008. Epub 2008 Dec 13.

Investigation of shelf-life extension of sorghum beer (Chibuku) by removing the 
second conversion of malt.

Kutyauripo J(1), Parawira W, Tinofa S, Kudita I, Ndengu C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Food, Nutrition and Family Sciences, University of Zimbabwe, 
P.O. Box MP 167, Mt. Pleasant, Harare, Zimbabwe.

The effect of removing the second step of malt conversion in the brewing of 
Chibuku beer was investigated with the intention of extending the shelf-life of 
the product. Chibuku was brewed in the laboratory scale fermenters using Delta 
Beverages' standard brewing procedure. A variation was made where the second 
malt conversion was not conducted on one brew. The effect of increasing 
pasteurisation time was also investigated. The extension of shelf-life was 
determined by following the physicochemical and the sensory profile of the 
products for a period of ten days under sub-tropical ambient conditions. Ethanol 
productions were similar between the control and test beers (without second 
conversion malt). A product with overall acceptability of 70% was made from the 
brew without the second malt conversion and with 15 min pasteurisation at 80 
degrees C. The product was, however, low in bite and head retention, but had 
less bacterial load, decreased acid production, and improved keeping quality by 
at least two days. However, due to contamination of the pitching yeast with 
lactic acid bacteria (LAB), total acids rapidly increased after 168 h and caused 
unacceptable sourness. Increasing pasteurisation time to 20 min reduced 
bacterial load of the wort to figures as low as 2 x 10(3) cfu/ml. General 
hygiene levels of the brewery were acceptable and no coliforms were detected in 
the product or contact surfaces along the production line. Bacterial 
contamination of the product mainly comes from the raw materials with 
pasteurisation greatly reducing this load. If improved, the procedure has the 
potential of extending the shelf-life of the beer to beyond 168 h.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2008.12.008
PMID: 19162356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2009 Mar;35(3):538. doi:
10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.12.008.  Epub 2009 Jan 21.

Chest wall desmoid tumor with life-threatening intrathoracic extension.

Murakawa T(1), Fukami T, Nakajima J, Takamoto S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. murakawa-tky@umin.ac.jp

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.12.008
PMID: 19162501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2008;2008:891-4. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2008.4649297.

A subject-specific finite element model of the anterior cruciate ligament.

Zhang X(1), Jiang G, Wu C, Woo SL.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, Tongji University, Shanghai 200092, 
China. juliazhang61@hotmail.com

The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is commonly injured. The stress 
distribution in the ACL is the key for understanding its function and injury 
mechanism, as well as for developing optimal surgical reconstruction protocols. 
In this study, a three-dimensional subject-specific finite element model of 
human ACL was developed. Bony geometries were reconstructed from CT scan images, 
while the geometry of the ACL and the orientation of its fiber bundles were 
measured via a mechanical digitizer. A transversely isotropic, hyperelastic, and 
nearly incompressible constitutive model was implemented to describe the 
mechanical properties of the ACL. A 134N anterior tibial load were applied to a 
cadaveric knee specimen at full extension, 30 degrees , and 60 degrees of 
flexion by a 6-DOF Robotic/Universal Force-moment Sensor (UFS) system, which was 
also used to measure the ACL resultant force. Knee kinematics was collected by 
digitizing two registration blocks attached to the femur and the tibia, 
respectively, and was input into the FE model as boundary conditions. The 
resultant force of the ACL calculated by the FE model was comparable to the 
experimental data, with the error within 10%, thus validated the model. The FE 
results showed that the average stress in the ACL was between the range 
4.7-5.0MPa, with a peak stress between the range 9.8-10.9MPa, which shifted from 
the posterior lateral (PL) bundle to the anterior medial (AM) bundle as the knee 
flexed.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2008.4649297
PMID: 19162800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2008;2008:4644-7. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2008.4650248.

Sound and speech detection and classification in a Health Smart Home.

Fleury A(1), Noury N, Vacher M, Glasson H, Seri JF.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory TIMCIMAG, UMR CNRS/UJF 5525, team AFIRM. Faculté de Médecine de 
Grenoble, bâtiment Jean Roget, 38706 La Tronche, France. Anthony.Fleury@imag.fr

Improvements in medicine increase life expectancy in the world and create a new 
bottleneck at the entrance of specialized and equipped institutions. To allow 
elderly people to stay at home, researchers work on ways to monitor them in 
their own environment, with non-invasive sensors. To meet this goal, smart 
homes, equipped with lots of sensors, deliver information on the activities of 
the person and can help detect distress situations. In this paper, we present a 
global speech and sound recognition system that can be set-up in a flat. We 
placed eight microphones in the Health Smart Home of Grenoble (a real living 
flat of 47m(2)) and we automatically analyze and sort out the different sounds 
recorded in the flat and the speech uttered (to detect normal or distress french 
sentences). We introduce the methods for the sound and speech recognition, the 
post-processing of the data and finally the experimental results obtained in 
real conditions in the flat.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2008.4650248
PMID: 19163751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Hum Genomics. 2009 Jan;3(2):106-20. doi: 10.1186/1479-7364-3-2-106.

Comparative genomics of aldehyde dehydrogenase 5a1 (succinate semialdehyde 
dehydrogenase) and accumulation of gamma-hydroxybutyrate associated with its 
deficiency.

Malaspina P(1), Picklo MJ, Jakobs C, Snead OC, Gibson KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Tor Vergata University, Rome, Italy.

Succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase (SSADH; aldehyde dehydrogenase 5A1 
[ALDH5A1]; locus 6p22) occupies a central position in central nervous system 
(CNS) neurotransmitter metabolism as one of two enzymes necessary for 
gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) recycling from the synaptic cleft. Its importance 
is highlighted by the neurometabolic disease associated with its inherited 
deficiency in humans, as well as the severe epileptic phenotype observed in 
Aldh5a1(-/-) knockout mice. Expanding evidence now suggests, however, that even 
subtle decreases in human SSADH activity, associated with rare and common single 
nucleotide polymorphisms, may produce subclinical pathological effects. SSADH, 
in conjunction with aldo-keto reductase 7A2 (AKR7A2), represent two neural 
enzymes responsible for further catabolism of succinic semialdehyde, producing 
either succinate (SSADH) or gamma-hydroxybutyrate (GHB; AKR7A2). A GABA 
analogue, GHB is a short-chain fatty alcohol with unusual properties in the CNS 
and a long pharmacological history. Moreover, SSADH occupies a further role in 
the CNS as the enzyme responsible for further metabolism of the lipid 
peroxidation aldehyde 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (4-HNE), an intermediate known to 
induce oxidant stress. Accordingly, subtle decreases in SSADH activity may have 
the capacity to lead to regional accumulation of neurotoxic intermediates (GHB, 
4-HNE). Polymorphisms in SSADH gene structure may also associate with 
quantitative traits, including intelligence quotient and life expectancy. 
Further population-based studies of human SSADH activity promise to reveal 
additional properties of its function and additional roles in CNS tissue.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-7364-3-2-106
PMCID: PMC2657722
PMID: 19164088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 22;360(4):376-86. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa0805646.

Fine-particulate air pollution and life expectancy in the United States.

Pope CA 3rd(1), Ezzati M, Dockery DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602-2363, USA. 
cap3@byu.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 22;360(4):413-5.
    N Engl J Med. 2009 May 7;360(19):2032-3; author reply 2033-4.
    N Engl J Med. 2009 May 7;360(19):2033; author reply 2033-4.

BACKGROUND: Exposure to fine-particulate air pollution has been associated with 
increased morbidity and mortality, suggesting that sustained reductions in 
pollution exposure should result in improved life expectancy. This study 
directly evaluated the changes in life expectancy associated with differential 
changes in fine particulate air pollution that occurred in the United States 
during the 1980s and 1990s.
METHODS: We compiled data on life expectancy, socioeconomic status, and 
demographic characteristics for 211 county units in the 51 U.S. metropolitan 
areas with matching data on fine-particulate air pollution for the late 1970s 
and early 1980s and the late 1990s and early 2000s. Regression models were used 
to estimate the association between reductions in pollution and changes in life 
expectancy, with adjustment for changes in socioeconomic and demographic 
variables and in proxy indicators for the prevalence of cigarette smoking.
RESULTS: A decrease of 10 microg per cubic meter in the concentration of fine 
particulate matter was associated with an estimated increase in mean (+/-SE) 
life expectancy of 0.61+/-0.20 year (P=0.004). The estimated effect of reduced 
exposure to pollution on life expectancy was not highly sensitive to adjustment 
for changes in socioeconomic, demographic, or proxy variables for the prevalence 
of smoking or to the restriction of observations to relatively large counties. 
Reductions in air pollution accounted for as much as 15% of the overall increase 
in life expectancy in the study areas.
CONCLUSIONS: A reduction in exposure to ambient fine-particulate air pollution 
contributed to significant and measurable improvements in life expectancy in the 
United States.

2009 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa0805646
PMCID: PMC3382057
PMID: 19164188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 22;360(4):413-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe0809178.

Evaluating the effects of ambient air pollution on life expectancy.

Krewski D.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 22;360(4):376-86.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe0809178
PMID: 19164194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Eur J Heart Fail. 2009 Mar;11(3):256-63. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfn048. Epub
2009  Jan 22.

Years-needed-to-treat to add 1 year of life: a new metric to estimate treatment 
effects in randomized trials.

Levy WC(1), Mozaffarian D, Linker DT, Kenyon KW, Cleland JG, Komajda M, Remme 
WJ, Torp-Pedersen C, Metra M, Poole-Wilson PA; COMET Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Washington, Box 356422, 1959 NE Pacific 
Street, Seattle, WA 98177, USA. levywc@u.washington.edu

AIMS: A standard metric to estimate absolute treatment effects is 
numbers-needed-to-treat (NNT), which implicitly assumes that all benefits 
reverse at trial-end. However, in-trial survival benefits typically do not 
reverse until long after trial-end, so that NNT will substantially underestimate 
lifetime benefits.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a new concept, years-needed-to-treat (YNT) to 
add 1 year of life, that quantifies the expected average life expectancy for two 
treatments including the estimated years of life remaining post-trial. 
Numbers-needed-to-treat and YNT were calculated in the COMET trial, in which 
carvedilol vs. metoprolol tartrate resulted in 17% lower mortality over 4.8 
years. A multivariate Cox model was used to predict survival. Remaining years of 
life were estimated using the mortality-life-table method. At trial-end, 
survival was 9% higher in the carvedilol arm. Assuming that patients remained on 
the same therapy post-trial, the average total years of life for carvedilol vs. 
metoprolol were 10.63 +/- 0.19 vs. 9.48 +/- 0.18 (P < 0.0001) or 1.15 (95% 
confidence interval 0.64-1.66) additional years of life. The YNT was 9.2, 
indicating that 9.2 person-years of treatment added 1 person-year of life, 
compared with NNT of 59.
CONCLUSION: Compared with NNT, the YNT method more accurately accounts for 
potential long-term benefits of interventions in randomized trials.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfn048
PMCID: PMC2645057
PMID: 19164422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Feb 17;106(7):2277-82. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0812484106. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

Long-lived Indy induces reduced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production 
and oxidative damage.

Neretti N(1), Wang PY, Brodsky AS, Nyguyen HH, White KP, Rogina B, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry, Division of 
Biology and Medicine, and Institute for Brain and Neural Systems, Brown 
University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 May 26;106(21):E53; author reply E54.

Decreased Indy activity extends lifespan in D. melanogaster without significant 
reduction in fecundity, metabolic rate, or locomotion. To understand the 
underlying mechanisms leading to lifespan extension in this mutant strain, we 
compared the genome-wide gene expression changes in the head and thorax of adult 
Indy mutant with control flies over the course of their lifespan. A signature 
enrichment analysis of metabolic and signaling pathways revealed that expression 
levels of genes in the oxidative phosphorylation pathway are significantly lower 
in Indy starting at day 20. We confirmed experimentally that complexes I and III 
of the electron transport chain have lower enzyme activity in Indy long-lived 
flies by Day 20 and predicted that reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in 
mitochondria could be reduced. Consistently, we found that both ROS production 
and protein damage are reduced in Indy with respect to control. However, we did 
not detect significant differences in total ATP, a phenotype that could be 
explained by our finding of a higher mitochondrial density in Indy mutants. 
Thus, one potential mechanism by which Indy mutants extend life span could be 
through an alteration in mitochondrial physiology leading to an increased 
efficiency in the ATP/ROS ratio.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0812484106
PMCID: PMC2629441
PMID: 19164521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
1. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Feb 3;106(5):1496-501. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0802674106. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

The conserved NAD(H)-dependent corepressor CTBP-1 regulates Caenorhabditis 
elegans life span.

Chen S(1), Whetstine JR, Ghosh S, Hanover JA, Gali RR, Grosu P, Shi Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, 77 Ave Louis Pasteur, Boston 
MA 02115, USA.

CtBP (C-terminal binding protein) is an evolutionarily conserved 
NAD(H)-dependent transcriptional corepressor, whose activity has been shown to 
be regulated by the NAD/NADH ratio. Although recent studies have provided 
significant new insights into mechanisms by which CtBP regulates transcription, 
the biological function of CtBP remains incompletely understood. Here, we report 
that genetic inactivation of the Caenorhabditis elegans homolog, ctbp-1, results 
in life span extension, which is suppressed by reintroduction of the ctbp-1 
genomic DNA encoding wild-type but not NAD(H)-binding defective CTBP-1 protein. 
We show that CTBP-1 possibly modulates aging through the insulin/IGF-1 signaling 
pathway, dependent on the forkhead transcription factor DAF-16, but independent 
of the NAD-dependent histone deacetylase SIR-2.1. Genome-wide microarray 
analysis identifies >200 potential CTBP-1 target genes. Importantly, RNAi 
inhibition of a putative triacylglycerol lipase gene lips-7(C09E8.2) but not 
another lipase suppresses the life span extension phenotype. Consistently, 
metabolic analysis shows that the triacylglycerol level is reduced in the ctbp-1 
deletion mutant, which is restored to the wild-type level by RNAi inhibition of 
lips-7. Taken together, our data suggest that CTBP-1 controls life span probably 
through the regulation of lipid metabolism.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0802674106
PMCID: PMC2635826
PMID: 19164523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


2. Neurosurgery. 2009 Feb;64(2 Suppl):A73-83. doi: 
10.1227/01.NEU.0000341205.37067.DE.

Cost-utility analysis of the cyberknife system for metastatic spinal tumors.

Papatheofanis FJ(1), Williams E, Chang SD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy, Department of Radiology and Economics, Rebecca and 
John Moores Cancer Center, University of California, San Diego, California 
92103-8758, USA. fpapath@ucsd.edu

OBJECTIVE: Using decision analysis, a cost-utility study evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of CyberKnife (Accuray, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA) stereotactic 
radiosurgery (SRS) in comparison to external beam radiation therapy in the 
treatment of metastatic spinal malignancies.
METHODS: The published literature provided evidence on the effectiveness of the 
comparator interventions in the absence of primary outcomes data. Costs of care 
were derived from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services fee schedules. A 
Markov model was constructed from the payer perspective to simulate the outcomes 
of patients undergoing nonchemotherapeutic interventions for metastatic spinal 
tumors. Because cancer therapies bear significant health and economic 
consequences, the impact of treatment-related toxicities was integrated into the 
model. Given the terminal nature of these conditions and the limited life 
expectancy of the patient population, the time horizon for the analysis was 
limited to 12 months.
RESULTS: Patients treated with CyberKnife SRS gained an additional net health 
benefit of 0.08 quality-adjusted life year; the calculated cost of CyberKnife 
SRS was $1933 less than external beam radiation therapy for comparable 
effectiveness. The incremental cost per benefit for this strategy ($41 500 per 
quality-adjusted life year) met payers' willingness-to-pay criteria.
CONCLUSION: Cost-utility analysis demonstrated that CyberKnife SRS was a 
superior, cost-effective primary intervention for patients with metastatic 
spinal tumors compared with conventional external beam radiation therapy.

DOI: 10.1227/01.NEU.0000341205.37067.DE
PMID: 19165078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2009 Jan 23;58(2):29-33.

State-specific smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life 
lost--United States, 2000-2004.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Erratum in
    MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2009 Feb 6;58(4):91.

Smoking can cause lung and other cancers, coronary heart disease, stroke, 
chronic respiratory disease, and other diseases. In 2008, CDC reported that 
cigarette smoking and exposure to secondhand smoke resulted in an estimated 
443,000 deaths and 5.1 million years of potential life lost (YPLL) annually in 
the United States during 2000-2004. This report presents state-specific average 
annual smoking-attributable mortality (SAM) and YPLL estimates for the same 
period among adults aged >/=35 years. The report also compares 2000-2004 average 
annual SAM rates per 100,000 population with rates for 1996-1999. The analysis 
was based on data from CDC's Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and 
Economic Costs (SAMMEC) system. Substantial variation in average annual number 
of deaths attributed to smoking during 2000-2004 occurred among the states 
(range: 492 [Alaska] to 36,687 [California]). From 1996-1999 to 2000-2004, 
declines in SAM rates occurred in 49 states and the District of Columbia (DC), 
reflecting progress made in lowering smoking prevalence in the United States 
during the past 40 years. Rates declined in men in 49 states and DC, but 
declined in women in only 32 states. To reduce SAM rates further, comprehensive 
evidence-based approaches for preventing smoking initiation and increasing 
cessation need to be implemented fully, and states should fund tobacco control 
activities at the level recommended by CDC.

PMID: 19165137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2009 Apr;17(4):783-9. doi: 10.1038/oby.2008.640. Epub
 2009 Jan 22.

Smoking kills, obesity disables: a multistate approach of the US Health and 
Retirement Survey.

Reuser M(1), Bonneux LG, Willekens FJ.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute, The Hague, The 
Netherlands. Reuser@nidi.nl

Increasing BMI causes concerns about the consequences for health care. 
Decreasing cardiovascular mortality has lowered obesity-related mortality, 
extending duration of disability. We hypothesized increased duration of 
disability among overweight and obese individuals. We estimated age-, risk-, and 
state-dependent probabilities of activities of daily living (ADL) disability and 
death and calculated multistate life tables, resulting in the comprehensive 
measure of life years with and without ADL disability. We used prospective data 
of 16,176 white adults of the Health and Retirement Survey (HRS). Exposures were 
self-reported BMI and for comparison smoking status and levels of education. 
Outcomes were years to live with and without ADL disability at age 55. The 
reference categories were high normal weight (BMI: 23-24.9), nonsmoking and high 
education. Mild obesity (BMI: 30-34.9) did not change total life expectancy (LE) 
but exchanged disabled for disability-free years. Mild obesity decreased 
disability-free LE with 2.7 (95% confidence limits 1.2; 3.2) year but increased 
LE with disability with 2.0 (0.6; 3.4) years among men. Among women, BMI of 30 
to 34.9 decreased disability-free LE with 3.6 (2.1; 5.1) year but increased LE 
with disability with 3.2 (1.6;4.8) years. Overweight (BMI: 25-29.9) increases LE 
with disability for women only, by 2.1 (0.8; 3.3) years). Smoking compressed 
disability by high mortality. Smoking decreased LE with 7.2 years, and LE with 
disability with 1.3 (0.5; 2.5) years (men) and 1.4 (0.3; 2.6) years (women). A 
lower education decreased disability-free life, but not duration of ADL 
disability. In the aging baby boom, higher BMI will further increase care 
dependence.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2008.640
PMID: 19165165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Cuad Bioet. 2008 Sep-Dec;19(67):557-62.

[AIDS: a cause and consequence of poverty].

[Article in Spanish]

de Irala Estevez J(1).

Author information:
(1)Dpto. Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Universidad de Navarra C/ 
Irunlarrea 1, 31080 Pamplona. jdeirala@unav.es

The widespread consequences of the HIV/AIDS pandemic are well known; besides the 
obvious reduction in life expectancy, the epidemic has caused a decrease in 
economic productivity that has in turn affected entire sectors of society, 
including agricultural and educational fields. There is a tendency to associate 
HIV/AIDS with poverty. In other words, an increase in the poverty rate 
correlates with an increase in the probability of HIV/AIDS. This would seem to 
suggest that if the conditions of society could be improved, the spread of new 
infections could be checked. Although this may sound attractive, and may even be 
thought necessary and just, it would be a mistake to consider that a reduction 
in poverty is sufficient to prevent HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS is not necessarily, nor 
exclusively, " an infection and a disease of the poor. " Indeed, people with 
high economic and educational status have also been linked with a higher risk of 
developing HIV/AIDS. Prevention should be emphasized, taking into consideration 
that if this approach is to work there should be a change in current sexual 
behaviour. In order of priority, teenagers should be recommended to delay having 
sex. Partners should form a relationship based on trust and faithfulness. 
Lastly, those who do not accept these preventive measures should be advised that 
the use of condoms may "reduce risks" but not eliminate completely the spread of 
the disease. All of these preventive measures have been demonstrated as key 
aspects in the fight against HIV/AIDS in several countries. No country has been 
able to reduce the prevalence of HIV/AIDS relying solely on the promotion of 
condoms.

PMID: 19166258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2008 Sep;56(9):1770-1. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.01817.x.

Extension of the life span in patients with Werner syndrome.

Yokote K, Saito Y.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.01817.x
PMID: 19166457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Clin Ther. 2008 Dec;30(12):2436-51. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.12.025.

Cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab compared with photodynamic treatment of 
neovascular age-related macular degeneration.

Hernandez-Pastor LJ(1), Ortega A, Garcia-Layana A, Giraldez J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Clínica Universitaria, Universidad de Navarra, 
Pamplona, Spain. luisjaher@unav.es

OBJECTIVE: This study compared the cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab with that 
of photodynamic therapy (PDT) in the treatment of predominantly classic 
choroidal neovascularization secondary to age-related macular degeneration (AMD) 
from the perspective of a third-party payer in a Spanish setting.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model with 5 states defined by visual acuity 
(VA) in the better-seeing eye (Snellen scale), as follows: VA >20/40, <or=20/40 
to >20/80, </or20/80 to >20/200, <or=20/200 to >20/400, and <or=20/400. A death 
state was also included. We took transition probabilities, number of ranibizumab 
injections, and number of PDT treatments from the ANCHOR (Anti-Vascular 
Endothelial Growth Factor Antibody for the Treatment of Predominantly Classic 
Choroidal Neovascularization in Age-Related Macular Degeneration) trial. 
Utilities were taken from a published study of patients' preferences. We used 
unit costs from our hospital and drug costs from a national database. Resource 
utilization was determined by an ophthalmologist according to current clinical 
practice. We performed univariate, threshold, and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses. Incremental costs (2007 euro) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
both discounted at a 3% annual rate, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs; euro/QALY) were determined for the 2-year and life-expectancy time 
horizons.
RESULTS: Treating patients with varying degrees of visual impairment with 
ranibizumab instead of PDT, with a 2-year time horizon, was found to be 
euro18,328 more costly and to confer 0.140 additional QALY (euro131,275/QALY). 
This ICER was reduced to euro39,398/ QALY for the longer life-expectancy time 
horizon. According to the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, PDT is the therapy 
of choice in all cases below the threshold of euro30,000/QALY for the 2-year 
time horizon. Ranibizumab was the optimal intervention in 26% of cases in the 
longer lifetime horizon. When the initial VA was <or=20/400, the ICER increased 
to euro255,477 over 2 years. When ranibizumab was administered on an as-needed 
basis, as in the PrONTO (Prospective Optical coherence tomography imaging of 
patients with Neovascular AMD Treated with intra-Ocular ranibizumab) trial, the 
ICERs were reduced to euro29,566/QALY and euro11,469/QALY in the 2-year and 
life-expectancy horizons, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on these results, ranibizumab was not cost-effective when 
administered on a monthly basis. When administered as needed, ranibizumab was 
cost-effective compared with PDT for the treatment of AMD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.12.025
PMID: 19167602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Waste Manag. 2009 May;29(5):1558-67. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2008.12.010. Epub 
2009 Jan 23.

An assessment of bioreactor landfill costs and benefits.

Berge ND(1), Reinhart DR, Batarseh ES.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, University of South 
Carolina, 300 Main Street, Columbia, SC 29208, United States. berge@engr.sc.edu

Because effective operation of bioreactor landfills involves careful operation 
and construction of infrastructure beyond that necessary in traditional 
landfills, upfront capital and operating costs are greater than those associated 
with traditional landfills. Prior to investing in bioreactor landfills, landfill 
owners must be convinced that larger short-term expenses (e.g., liquid and/or 
air injection infrastructure) will be balanced by future economic benefits 
(e.g., extension of landfill life, reduced leachate treatment costs, etc.). The 
purpose of this paper is to describe an economic model developed to evaluate the 
impact of various operational (anaerobic, aerobic, or hybrid) and construction 
(retrofit and as-built) bioreactor landfill strategies on project economics. 
Model results indicate retrofit bioreactor landfills are more expensive than 
traditional landfills, while both the as-built and aerobic bioreactor landfills 
are less costly. Simulation results indicate the parameters that influence 
bioreactor economics most significantly are airspace recovery, gas recovery and 
subsequent use to generate electricity, and savings resulting from reduced 
leachate treatment costs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2008.12.010
PMID: 19167875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Prog Urol. 2009 Feb;19(2):94-100. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2008.10.007. Epub 2008 
Nov 29.

[Nephron sparing surgery for renal tumors on a solitary kidney: oncological 
outcomes and long-term functional evolution].

[Article in French]

Pignot G(1), Galiano M, Hajage D, Rouprêt M, Pasqui F, Chartier-Kastler E, 
Bitker MO, Richard F.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie et de transplantation, faculté de médecine 
Pierre-et-Marie-Curie, hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, Assistance publique-Hôpitaux 
de Paris, 47-83, boulevard de l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France. gg_pignot@yahoo.fr

OBJECTIVE: Nephron sparing surgery raises the challenge of avoiding chronic 
haemodialysis for patients having malignancies on a solitary kidney. The aim of 
this study was to estimate the long term renal function, survival and risk of 
recurrence of patients undergoing elective nephron sparing surgery for renal 
cancer on a solitary kidney.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Between January 1975 and December 2002, 37 elective 
nephron sparing surgery of kidney tumors were performed on 33 patients with a 
solitary kidney. Surgery was performed without interruption of blood flow. Pre- 
and postoperative renal function were compared by using a non parametric test of 
Kruskal and Wallis. Survival rates were estimated by the Kaplan Meier method and 
the prognostic factors were defined on a multivariate analysis using a Cox 
model.
RESULTS: Mean tumoral diameter was 4.6 cm [1.5-10]. The median follow-up was of 
83 months. Three patients died in the postoperative period. The postoperative 
creatinine clairance was significantly lower than the preoperative value 
(p=0.01), but without significant variation of the renal dysfunction rate 
(p=0.18) and without significant decrease during the follow-up. No patient 
required chronic haemodialysis. Overall and disease-free survival rates at five 
and 10 years was 69 and 56.2%, and 55.8 and 27%, respectively. Multivariate 
analysis retained tumor size, Fuhrman grade and antecedent of controlateral 
cancer as independent prognostic factors in overall survival.
CONCLUSION: In our experience, even in the presence of bad prognostic factors, 
nephron sparing surgery allows a relative savings of the long term renal 
function. Taking in account the poor life expectancy of people around 60 being 
put on haemodialysis, all attempt should be made to perform nephron sparing 
surgery in patients having a cancer on a solitary kidney.

DOI: 10.1016/j.purol.2008.10.007
PMID: 19168011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Health Policy. 2009 Aug;91(3):239-45. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2008.12.010.
Epub  2009 Jan 24.

Searching for cost effectiveness thresholds in the NHS.

Appleby J(1), Devlin N, Parkin D, Buxton M, Chalkidou K.

Author information:
(1)King's Fund, 11-13 Cavendish Square, London W1G 0AN, United Kingdom. 
j.appleby@kingsfund.org.uk

OBJECTIVES: The UK's National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
has an explicit cost-effectiveness threshold for deciding whether or not 
services are to be provided in the National Health Service (NHS), but there is 
currently little evidence to support the level at which it is set. This study 
examines whether it is possible to obtain such evidence by examining decision 
making elsewhere in the NHS. Its objectives are to set out a conceptual model 
linking NICE decision making based on explicit thresholds with the thresholds 
implicit in local decision making and to gauge the feasibility of (a) 
identifying those implicit local cost effectiveness thresholds and (b) using 
these to gauge the appropriateness of NICE's explicit threshold.
METHODS: Structured interviews with senior staff, together with financial and 
public health information, from six NHS purchasers and 18 providers. A list of 
health care services introduced or discontinued in 2006/7 was constructed. Those 
that were in principle amenable to estimation of a cost-effectiveness ratio were 
examined.
RESULTS: It was feasible to identify decisions and to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of some. These were not necessarily 'marginal' services. 
Issues include: services that are dominated (or dominate); decisions about how, 
rather than what, services should be delivered; the lack of local cost 
effectiveness evidence; and considerations other than cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: A definitive finding about the consistency or otherwise of NICE and 
NHS cost effectiveness thresholds would require very many decisions to be 
observed, combined with a detailed understanding of the local decision making 
processes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2008.12.010
PMID: 19168255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Med Care. 2009 Feb;47(2):146-53. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31818475c9.

The pivotal impact of center characteristics on survival of candidates listed 
for deceased donor kidney transplantation.

Schold JD(1), Harman JS, Chumbler NR, Duncan RP, Meier-Kriesche HU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Hypertension, and Renal 
Transplantation, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida, USA. 
scholjd@medicine.ufl.edu

BACKGROUND: There are currently over half a million end-stage renal disease 
patients and >70,000 patients listed to receive a deceased donor kidney 
transplant in the United States. To receive a deceased donor transplant, 
patients are placed on a waiting list at one of approximately 240 centers. 
Although candidate decisions to list at a particular center may often be made 
passively (based on proximity or physician referral), the important question 
remains as to whether the center of listing has a significant impact on patient 
outcomes.
METHODS: The study evaluated adult kidney transplant candidates in the United 
States listed from 1995 to 2000 (n = 108,928) with follow-up through 2006. The 
primary outcome of patient survival was investigated with survival models 
evaluated with respect to 4 center characteristics (volume, donor quality, 
waiting time, past performance). Center characteristics derived from years 
preceding listing, simulating information that could be attainable for 
prospective candidates.
RESULTS: Center waiting time had a marked association with survival (Adjusted 
hazard ratio = 1.32, 95% confidence interval: 1.27-1.38 for the longest waiting 
times). Past performance and donor quality also had significant association with 
survival; center volume was not a significant factor. The cumulative impact of 
center factors resulted in an average 4-year difference in life expectancy. 
Center characteristics at listing were strongly correlated with levels at the 
time of transplantation and centers with the "best" characteristics were located 
in every region of the country.
CONCLUSIONS: Center characteristics have significant impact on kidney transplant 
candidate survival. Information regarding the variability and importance of 
center factors should be clearly disseminated to transplant candidates.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31818475c9
PMID: 19169114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. An Sist Sanit Navar. 2008;31 Suppl 3:13-22.

[Ophthalmological manifestations of arterial hypertension].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez NA(1), Zurutuza A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital de Navarra, Pamplona 31008, Spain.

Systemic Arterial hypertension (AHT) is one of the most frequent diseases in the 
industrialised countries, with an incidence reaching 30%, a figure that is 
rising due to the greater life expectancy of the population. This rise in 
arterial tension causes, or accelerates, changes in the vascular wall of the 
target organs such as the kidney, brain, heart and eye. At the ocular level, AHT 
produces lesions in the retina, the choroids and optic nerve head; this can 
include a wide range of lesions, from slight vascular narrowing to severe visual 
