laboratory strain compared to these wild-derived lines.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Owing to large differences in aging phenotypes in 
different lines, N. furzeri could represent a model system for studying the 
genetic control of life-history traits in natural populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003866
PMCID: PMC2585814
PMID: 19052641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


756. Can J Cardiol. 2008 Dec;24(12):891-8. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(08)70695-0.

Preventing cardiovascular disease among Canadians: is the treatment of 
hypertension or dyslipidemia cost-effective?

Grover S(1), Coupal L, Lowensteyn I.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Analysis of Cost-Effective Care and the Division of General 
Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, The Montreal General Hospital, 
Department of Medicine, McGill University, Quebec, Canada. 
steven.grover@mcgill.ca

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The direct health care costs associated with treating 
hypertension and dyslipidemia continue to grow in most western countries, 
including Canada. Despite the proven effectiveness of hypertension and lipid 
therapies to prevent cardiovascular disease, the cost-effectiveness of long-term 
primary prevention, as currently advocated by Canadian treatment guidelines, 
remains to be determined.
METHODS: Therapeutic efficiency, defined as person-years of treatment per year 
of life saved (YOLS) and the cost-effectiveness of treatment were estimated for 
groups of Canadian adults, 40 to 74 years of age. The clinical indications for 
treatment were based on the Canadian national guidelines in 2005. Analyses 
focused on those without cardiovascular disease or diabetes using risk factor 
data from the Canadian heart health surveys and drug data from a national study, 
the MyHealthCheckUp survey. The expected impact of therapy was based on 
published results: statins would result in a 40% drop in low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol and a 6% increase in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol, while 
hypertension therapy would result in a 6.4% drop in systolic and a 5.6% drop in 
diastolic blood pressure.
RESULTS: The estimated daily cost of statins was $1.98 versus $1.72 for 
antihypertensives. Overall, 2.33 million patients would be treated with lipid 
therapy and 2.34 million with antihypertensives. The average cost-effectiveness 
of lipid therapy would be approximately $16,700 per YOLS while hypertension 
therapy would be approximately $37,100 per YOLS. Lifelong lipid and hypertension 
therapy would be associated with 1.1 million and 472,000 life years saved at a 
national cost of $18.3 billion and $17.5 billion, respectively. However, 
hypertension treatment for some groups of Canadians appeared relatively 
expensive (more than $50,000 per YOLS) including men or women younger than 50 
years of age. Despite attractive cost-effectiveness ratios, treatment appeared 
relatively inefficient (person-years of treatment per YOLS more than 100 years) 
for statin therapy among women younger than 50 years of age, and hypertension 
treatment for women younger than 60 years of age and men younger than 50 years 
of age.
CONCLUSIONS: Given Canadian guidelines, the treatment of dyslipidemia or 
hypertension in primary prevention appears economically attractive overall. 
However, for some groups of individuals, the forecasted future benefits appear 
to be relatively small given the many years of treatment that are required.

HISTORIQUE ET OBJECTIFS : Les coûts de santé directs associés au traitement de 
l’hypertension et de la dyslipidémie continuent de croître dans la plupart des 
pays occidentaux, y compris au Canada. Malgré l’efficacité éprouvée des 
traitements antihypertensifs et hypolipidémiants pour la prévention de la 
maladie cardiovasculaire, il reste à déterminer si la prévention primaire à long 
terme telle qu’elle est actuellement préconisée par les directives 
thérapeutiques canadiennes est rentable.
MÉTHODES : Les auteurs ont évalué l’efficience thérapeutique définie par le 
nombre d’années-personnes de traitement par année de vie sauvée (AVS) et le 
rapport coût:efficacité du traitement pour des groupes d’adultes canadiens de 40 
à 74 ans. Les indications cliniques des traitements se fondaient sur les 
directives nationales canadiennes de 2005. Les analyses ont porté sur des sujets 
indemnes de maladie cardiovasculaire ou de diabète, sur des données sur les 
facteurs de risque provenant de sondages sur la santé cardiaque des Canadiens et 
sur des données pharmacologiques provenant d’une étude nationale, l’enquête 
MonBilanSanté. L’impact escompté du traitement provenait de résultats publiés : 
les statines allaient entraîner une baisse de 40 % du LDL-cholestérol et une 
augmentation de 6 % du HDL-cholestérol, tandis que le traitement antihypertensif 
allait entraîner une baisse de 6,4 % de la TA systolique et de 5,6 % de la TA 
diastolique.
RÉSULTATS : Le coût quotidien estimé des statines a été de 1,98 $, contre 1,72 $ 
pour les antihypertenseurs. Dans l’ensemble, 2,33 millions de patients allaient 
être traités par hypolipidémiants et 2,34 millions, par antihypertenseurs. Le 
rapport coût:efficacité moyen du traitement hypo-lipidémiant allait être 
d’environ 16 700 $ par AVS, tandis que celui du traitement antihypertenseur 
allait être d’environ 37 100 $ par AVS. Le traitement à vie des dyslipidémies et 
de l’hypertension allait être associé à 1,1 million et 472 000 années de vies 
sauvées, pour un coût national de 18,3 milliards de dollars et de 17,5 milliards 
de dollars, respectivement. Toutefois, le traitement de l’hypertension chez 
certains groupes de Canadiens a semblé relativement coûteux (plus de 50 000 $ 
par AVS), y compris chez les hommes ou les femmes de moins de 50 ans. Malgré les 
rapports coût:efficacité attrayants, le traitement a semblé relativement non 
efficient (années-personnes de traitement par AVS > 100 ans) dans le cas du 
traitement par statines chez les femmes de moins de 50 ans et dans le cas du 
traitement antihypertensif chez les femmes de moins de 60 ans et les hommes de 
moins de 50 ans.
CONCLUSIONS : Compte tenu des directives canadiennes, le traitement des 
dyslipidémies ou de l’hypertension en prévention primaire semble globalement 
attrayant sur le plan économique. Toutefois, chez certains groupes d’individus, 
les avantages prévus semblent relativement faibles, compte tenu du grand nombre 
d’années de traitement requis.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(08)70695-0
PMCID: PMC2643230
PMID: 19052668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2008 Dec;133(50):2609-14. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1105858.
 Epub 2008 Dec 3.

[The prevalence of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in Germany. 
Results of the BOLD study].

[Article in German]

Geldmacher H(1), Biller H, Herbst A, Urbanski K, Allison M, Buist AS, Hohlfeld 
JM, Welte T.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Pneumologie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Hannover. 
Geldmacher.Henning@MH-Hannover.de

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of 
the most common causes of chronic morbidity and mortality. The "Burden of 
Obstructive Lung Disease" (BOLD) initiative was established as an international 
study collecting data about the prevalence of COPD. The Medical University of 
Hanover took part in this study collecting data representative for Germany.
METHODS: 683 individuals aged = 40 years from the city and region of Hannover 
were included in the study. On the basis of standardized questionnaires data 
were collected on general health, physical and mental capability, smoking habits 
and occupational exposure to dust. All participants performed spirometry before 
and after inhalation of salbutamol.
RESULTS: The prevalence of COPD, GOLD (Global Health Initiative on Obstructive 
Lung Disease) severity stage = I, was 13.2% (GOLD stage I: 7.4%; GOLD stage II: 
5.0%, GOLD stage III or IV: 0.8%). There was a marked increase of the prevalence 
of COPD depending on age and smoking habits. The percentage of active smokers in 
the sample was 20.6 %. Among younger participants the percentage of female 
smokers was noticeable higher than in older subjects. Although clinical symptoms 
of COPD, GOLD stage = III correlated with disease severity, only persons with 
COPD reported reduced physical capability.
CONCLUSION: COPD is a highly prevalent disease. With regard to the increasing 
life expectancy and the change of smoking habits of the population, a further 
increase of morbidity and mortality due to COPD must be expected, especially in 
women.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1105858
PMID: 19052996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Z Gastroenterol. 2008 Dec;46(12):1393-403. doi: 10.1055/s-2008-1027790. Epub
 2008 Dec 3.

[Surgery for pancreatic cancer].

[Article in German]

Welsch T(1), Büchler MW, Schmidt J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemein-, Viszeral- und Transplantationschirurgie, Universität 
Heidelberg.

Ductal pancreatic carcinomas are currently the fourth most common fatal cancer 
disease with a survival rate of less than 5 % when all stages are considered. 
Other malignant pancreatic tumours have markedly better prognoses. Even after 
complete resection and adjuvant chemotherapy, the 5-year survival rate amounts 
to merely 20 - 25%. Besides a high resistance to chemotherapy and early lympho- 
and haematogenic metastases, the reason for this is often tumour extension 
beyond the medial and dorsal resection margins. In standardised pathological 
examinations cancer cells can be detected in the resection margins in about 75 % 
of the cases, which reflect the aggressive and infiltrative tumour growth and 
probably explains the high rate of local recurrence. Standard operations for 
curative tumour resection are the pylorus-preserving pancreatoduodenectomy 
(PPPD) and the left pancreatic resection with splenectomy in cases of pancreas 
tail tumours. In high-volume centres the mortality can be reduced to under 3 % 
and the long-term survival improved with an increase of the resection rate. 
Considering surgical complications, pancreatic fistulas with a prevalence of up 
to 10 % play a decisive role. The technique of the pancreatic anastomosis as 
well as closure of the pancreatic tail thus represents major surgical 
challenges. In view of the high recurrence rate of pancreatic carcinomas, 
extended surgical procedures have been examined in numerous studies. Although 
infiltration of the portal vein is not a contraindication for curative resection 
with vascular reconstruction which gives comparable survival rates, a radical, 
extended lymphadenectomy does not seem reasonable on the basis the available 
data. In selected, individual cases, patients may benefit from neoadjuvant 
radiochemotherapy to down-stage an unresectable tumour with subsequent tumour 
resection, a metastasis resection, or a resection of a local recurrence. An R0 
resection and tumour-free lymph nodes (N0 stage) are the two factors that can 
provide the best prognosis for the patient with a median survival of 2 years and 
a good quality of life. Pancreas surgery is being increasingly oriented to the 
evidence-based data from randomised, controlled studies. In order to achieve a 
further and urgently needed improvement in treatment results, one should 
consider, if possible, all suitable patients for enrolment in current clinical 
studies on neoadjuvant, surgical, or adjuvant therapy.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1027790
PMID: 19053009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Agric Food Chem. 2008 Dec 24;56(24):11845-53. doi: 10.1021/jf802146v.

Application of multivariate analysis to the effects of additives on chemical and 
sensory quality of stored coffee brew.

Pérez-Martínez M(1), Sopelana P, de Peña MP, Cid C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Food Science, Physiology, and Toxicology, School of 
Pharmacy, University of Navarra, E-31080-Pamplona, Spain.

The aim of this work was to obtain a black coffee brew to be consumed hot by 
extension of its shelf life, by addition of additives. Four pH-regulator agents 
(sodium and potassium carbonates and bicarbonates), one pH regulator and 
antioxidant (sodium citrate), three antioxidants [sodium ascorbate, 
ethylenediaminetetracetic acid (EDTA), and sodium sulfite], and lactoserum were 
tested by sensory analysis. Sodium carbonate and bicarbonate were selected for a 
study of the physicochemical (soluble and volatile compounds related to the 
sensory properties) and sensorial quality of coffee brew stored for 90 days at 4 
degrees C. Although both additives extended the shelf life of the coffee brew up 
to 60 days, sodium carbonate was the chosen additive because it was the most 
useful in limiting the pH decrease and perception of sourness, which are some of 
the main factors involved in the rejection of stored coffee brews, and it better 
maintained the aroma and taste/flavor. Moreover, the application of multivariate 
analysis facilitated first the description of the global changes of the coffee 
brews with or without additives throughout the storage using principal component 
analysis and second the obtainment of a simple equation only with pH and caffeic 
acid parameters to discriminate the three types of coffee brews and simplify the 
analytical process, by means of the stepwise discriminant analysis.

DOI: 10.1021/jf802146v
PMID: 19053362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2008 Dec;289(2):138-45. doi: 
10.1111/j.1574-6968.2008.01374.x.

OxyR is involved in the expression of thioredoxin reductase TrxB in Pseudomonas 
putida.

Hishinuma S(1), Ohtsu I, Fujimura M, Fukumori F.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Sciences, Toyo University, Gunma, Japan.

OxyR regulates the expression of a peroxiredoxin (AhpC) and two catalases (KatA 
and KatB), which play roles in peroxide protection, at the transcription level 
in Pseudomonas putida KT2442. Proteome analysis indicated significantly 
increased amounts of the enzymes AhpC, KatA, KatB, and a peroxiredoxin reductase 
(AhpF) in the oxyR1 mutant cells; these increases reflected the upregulation of 
the expression of the genes encoding these enzymes. Additionally, although the 
effect of oxyR1 mutation on the trxB transcript level was not clearly evident, 
it increased the amount of thioredoxin reductase (TrxB) by fivefold. Primer 
extension analysis revealed that trxB was constitutively transcribed from the P1 
site; however, hydrogen peroxide treatment lowered the transcription of trxB 
from P1 but induced its transcription from P2. Adjacent to the -35 base of the 
P2 initiation site, sequences similar to those involved in the proposed OxyR 
binding in Escherichia coli were found in a region to which OxyR was shown to 
bind. These observations suggest that in P. putida, OxyR regulates TrxB 
expression by promoting trxB transcription from the P2 site when oxidative 
stresses lowered the transcription from the constitutive P1 site.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1574-6968.2008.01374.x
PMID: 19054104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. FEMS Yeast Res. 2009 Feb;9(1):115-25. doi: 10.1111/j.1567-1364.2008.00458.x.
 Epub 2008 Nov 13.

Identification and characterization of a gene required for alpha1,2-mannose 
extension in the O-linked glycan synthesis pathway in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.

Ikeda Y(1), Ohashi T, Tanaka N, Takegawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Kagawa University, 
Kagawa, Japan.

The KTRalpha1,2-mannosyltransferase gene family of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is 
responsible not only for outer-chain modifications of N-linked oligosaccharides 
but also for elongation of O-linked mannose residues. To identify genes involved 
in the elongation step of O-linked oligosaccharide chains in Schizosaccharomyces 
pombe, we characterized six genes, omh1(+)-omh6(+), that share significant 
sequence similarity to the S. cerevisiae KTR family. Six deletion strains were 
constructed, each carrying a single disrupted omh allele. All strains were 
viable, indicating that none of the omh genes was essential. Heterologous 
expression of a chitinase from S. cerevisiae in the omh mutants revealed that 
O-glycosylation of chitinase had decreased in omh1Delta cells, but not in the 
other mutants, indicating that the other omh genes do not appear to be required 
for O-glycan synthesis. Addition of the second alpha1,2-linked mannose residue 
was blocked in omh1Delta cells. An Omh1-GFP fusion protein was found to be 
localized in the Golgi apparatus. These results indicate that Omh1p plays a 
major role in extending alpha1,2-linked mannose in the O-glycan pathway in S. 
pombe.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1567-1364.2008.00458.x
PMID: 19054127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Appl Microbiol. 2009 Jan;106(1):241-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2672.2008.03997.x.  Epub 2008 Nov 29.

Antimicrobial effect and shelf-life extension by combined thermal and pulsed 
electric field treatment of milk.

Walkling-Ribeiro M(1), Noci F, Cronin DA, Lyng JG, Morgan DJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Agriculture, Food Science and Veterinary Medicine, College of Life 
Sciences, UCD Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland.

AIMS: The impact of a combined hurdle treatment of heat and pulsed electric 
fields (PEF) was studied on native microbiota used for the inoculation of 
low-fat ultra-high temperature (UHT) milk and whole raw milk. Microbiological 
shelf-life of the latter following hurdle treatment or thermal pasteurization 
was also investigated.
METHODS AND RESULTS: UHT milk was preheated to 30 degrees C, 40 degrees C or 50 
degrees C over a 60-s period, pulsed for 50 micros or 60 micros at a field 
strength of 40 kV cm(-1) or for 33 micros at 50 kV cm(-1). Heat and PEF reduced 
the microbial count by a maximum of 6.4 log in UHT milk (50 degrees C; 50 kV 
cm(-1), 33 micros) compared to 6.0 log (P > or = 0.05) obtained by thermal 
pasteurization (26 s, 72 degrees C). When raw milk was treated with a 
combination of hurdles (50 degrees C; 40 kV cm(-1), 60 micros) a 6.0 log 
inactivation of microbiota was achieved and microbiological milk shelf-life was 
extended to 21 days under refrigeration (4 degrees C) vs 14 days in thermally 
pasteurized milk. Native microbiota was decreased by 6.7 log following 
conventional pasteurization.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that heat and PEF achieved similar 
inactivation of native microbiota in milk and longer stabilization of 
microbiological shelf-life than thermal pasteurization.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: A hurdle approach of heat and PEF could 
represent a valid milk processing alternative to conventional pasteurization. 
Hurdle treatment might also preserve native milk quality better due to less 
thermal exposure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2672.2008.03997.x
PMID: 19054228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Acta Med Indones. 2008 Jan;40(1):3-10.

The impact of 'comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA)' implementation on the 
effectiveness and cost (CEA) of healthcare in an acute geriatric ward.

Soejono CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine University of 
Indonesia-dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jl. Diponegoro No. 71, Jakarta. 
geriatri_fkuirscm@yahoo.com

AIM: to investigate the cost effectiveness of CGA in an acute geriatric ward.
METHODS: a non-randomized controlled trial was carried out at Dr. Cipto 
Mangunkusumo General Hospital from January to December 2005. The inclusion 
criteria were elderly patients with geriatric syndrome. Exclusion criteria were 
advanced malignancy, APACHE II score > 34,in-hospital mortality in the first 24 
hours, move to another ward before completing CGA management, the presence of 
dementia. After patients were allocated into CGA and non-CGA group, 
effectiveness was assessed using ADL/WHO Unescap score, days of hospitalization, 
proportion of re-hospitalization, survival, quality of life score 
(EQ5D),patients and nurses satisfaction score. Cost effectiveness analysis was 
done using TreeAge-Pro 2004 software program.
RESULTS: the length of hospitalization was shorter in the CGA group than in 
non-CGA group (10.99 [0.79] days vs.20.16 [2.62] days; p=0.00). At the end of 
treatment, mean of ADL score changes was significantly higher in CGA group than 
non-CGA group. Mean of WHO-Unescap score changes in CGA group was higher than 
non-CGA group (0.71[0.04]vs 0.61 [0.04]; p=0.09). EQ5D-VAS score was also higher 
in CGA group (0.79[0,01] vs 0.75[0.01]; p=0,01). Survival proportion in CGA 
group was lower than non-CGA group(80.37% vs 86.92%; p>0.05). Rehospitalization 
proportion was higher in non-CGA group than in CGA group (21.5%vs 11.21%; p 
0.04). Patient's satisfaction level was higher in CGA group (193.38 [1.25] vs 
177.47 [3.04]; p=0.00).Nurse satisfaction level was also higher in CGA group 
than non-CGA group but not statistically significant (225.06[7.08] vs 
220.06[8.26]; p=0.65).Mean of healthcare cost in non-CGA group was higher than 
in CGA group (Rp. 9,746,426.00 [1,180,331] vs Rp 4,760,965.00 [338,089]). Cost 
effectiveness analysis indicated that CGA was superior to conventional approach 
because for each point score of QALD's, total cost was lower in geriatric acute 
care unit than in conventional ward(Rp 418,199.00 vs Rp 628,695.00). Moreover, 
QALD's in CGA group was better than in non-CGA group (24.1 vs 22.8; p= 0.03).
CONCLUSION: the CGA approach is more cost effective compared to conventional 
approach. Quality adjusted life days are better in CGA group than in non-CGA 
group although survival is not statistically different. In CGA group, length of 
hospitalization was shorter, functional status and patient satisfaction is 
better in general. Working satisfaction of nurses in CGA group was not lower 
than in non CGA group.

PMID: 19054877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Hum Reprod. 2009 Mar;24(3):626-32. doi: 10.1093/humrep/den435. Epub 2008 Dec
4.

Assessing long-run economic benefits attributed to an IVF-conceived singleton 
based on projected lifetime net tax contributions in the UK.

Connolly M(1), Gallo F, Hoorens S, Ledger W.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Global Market Access Solutions, St Prex 1162, Switzerland. 
mark@gmasoln.com

BACKGROUND: Over the past decade, demand for fertility treatments has increased 
as a result of delaying time to first pregnancy and growing awareness and 
acceptance of available treatment options. Despite increasing demand, health 
authorities often view infertility as a low health priority and consequently 
limit access to treatments by rationing and limiting funds.
METHODS: To assess the long-term economic benefits attributed to in vitro 
fertilization (IVF)-conceived children, we developed a health investment model 
to evaluate whether state-funded IVF programmes in the UK represent sound fiscal 
policies. Based on the average investment cost to conceive an IVF singleton, we 
describe the present value of net taxes derived from gross taxes paid minus 
direct government transfers received (e.g. education, health, pension) over the 
lifetime of the child. To establish the present value of investing in IVF, we 
have discounted all costs from benefits (i.e. lifetime taxes paid) using UK 
Treasury department rates based on a singleton delivery with similar 
characteristics for education, earnings, health and life expectancy to a 
naturally conceived child.
RESULTS: The lifetime discounted value of net taxes from an IVF-conceived child 
with mother aged 35 is pound 109,939 compared with pound 122,127 for a naturally 
conceived child. The lifetime undiscounted net tax contribution for the 
IVF-conceived child and naturally conceived child are pound 603,000 and pound 
616,000, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: An investment of pound 12,931 to achieve an IVF singleton is 
actually worth 8.5-times this amount to the UK Treasury in discounted future tax 
revenue. The analysis underscores that costs to the health sector are actually 
investments when a broader government perspective is considered over a longer 
period of time.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/den435
PMID: 19056775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Am J Pathol. 2009 Jan;174(1):14-20. doi: 10.2353/ajpath.2009.080660. Epub
2008  Dec 4.

Development of a Rab9 transgenic mouse and its ability to increase the lifespan 
of a murine model of Niemann-Pick type C disease.

Kaptzan T(1), West SA, Holicky EL, Wheatley CL, Marks DL, Wang T, Peake KB, 
Vance J, Walkley SU, Pagano RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Thoracic Diseases Research 
Unit, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, Minnesota 55905-0001, USA.

Niemann-Pick, type C (NP-C) disease is an autosomal recessive neurovisceral 
storage disorder in which cholesterol and sphingolipids accumulate. There is no 
specific treatment for this disease, which is characterized by progressive 
neurological deterioration, sometimes accompanied by hepatosplenomegaly. We and 
others have shown that overexpression of certain Rab GTPases corrects defective 
membrane trafficking and reduces lipid storage in cultured NP-C fibroblasts. 
Here, we tested the possibility that Rab protein overexpression might also have 
beneficial effects in vivo using a murine model of NP-C. We first generated 
several lines of transgenic mice that ubiquitously overexpress Rab9 up to 
approximately 30-fold more than endogenous levels and found that the transgene 
expression had no obvious effects on fertility, behavior, or lifespan in normal 
mice. These transgenic strains were then crossed with NP-C mutant mice to 
produce NP-C homozygous recessive mice with and without the Rab9 transgene. Life 
expectancy of the NPC1 homozygous recessive animals was extended up to 22% 
depending on gender and the transgenic strain that was used. Histological 
studies and lipid analysis of brain sections indicated that the NP-C mice 
carrying the Rab9 transgene had dramatically reduced storage of GM(2) and GM(3) 
gangliosides relative to NP-C animals lacking the transgene. These results 
demonstrate that Rab9 overexpression has the potential to reduce stored lipids 
and prolong lifespan in vivo.

DOI: 10.2353/ajpath.2009.080660
PMCID: PMC2631314
PMID: 19056848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Genes Dev. 2008 Dec 1;22(23):3236-41. doi: 10.1101/gad.504808.

Against the oxidative damage theory of aging: superoxide dismutases protect 
against oxidative stress but have little or no effect on life span in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Doonan R(1), McElwee JJ, Matthijssens F, Walker GA, Houthoofd K, Back P, 
Matscheski A, Vanfleteren JR, Gems D.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing and Research Department of Genetics, Evolution 
and Environment, University College London, London WC1E 6BT, United Kingdom.

The superoxide radical (O(2)(-)) has long been considered a major cause of 
aging. O(2)(-) in cytosolic, extracellular, and mitochondrial pools is 
detoxified by dedicated superoxide dismutase (SOD) isoforms. We tested the 
impact of each SOD isoform in Caenorhabditis elegans by manipulating its five 
sod genes and saw no major effects on life span. sod genes are not required for 
daf-2 insulin/IGF-1 receptor mutant longevity. However, loss of the 
extracellular Cu/ZnSOD sod-4 enhances daf-2 longevity and constitutive diapause, 
suggesting a signaling role for sod-4. Overall, these findings imply that 
O(2)(-) is not a major determinant of aging in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.504808
PMCID: PMC2600764
PMID: 19056880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Circ J. 2009 Jan;73(1):27-34. doi: 10.1253/circj.cj-08-1012. Epub 2008 Dec
4.

Cardiac adiposity and global cardiometabolic risk: new concept and clinical 
implication.

Shimabukuro M(1).

Author information:
(1)Second Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa, Japan. mshimabukuro-ur@umin.ac.jp

The obesity epidemic is a global public health concern that increases the 
likelihood of morbidity and mortality of metabolic and cardiovascular disease 
(CVD), and threatens to reduce life expectancy around the world. The concept of 
the metabolic syndrome (MetS) takes into account the essential role that 
visceral fat plays in the development of metabolic and CVDs, and indicates how 
waist circumference measurement aids patient identification in the clinical 
setting. However, MetS cannot be used to assess global CVD risk and is, at best, 
another modifiable risk factor. Thus, the global cardiometabolic risk (ie, 
global risk of CVD resulting from traditional risk factors combined with the 
additional contribution of MetS) should be considered individually. The 
contribution of abdominal obesity to global cardiometabolic risk is reviewed and 
also discussed are potential underlying mechanisms including adipocytokine, 
insulin resistance, lipotoxicity and ectopic fat deposition in the heart 
components: (1) circulatory and locally recruited fat, (2) intra-and 
extra-myocellular fat, (3) perivascular fat, and (4) pericardial fat.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.cj-08-1012
PMID: 19057089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Pain Physician. 2008 Nov-Dec;11(6):891-907.

Anti-inflammatory effects of electronic signal treatment.

Odell RH Jr(1), Sorgnard RE.

Author information:
(1)New Vision Pain Management, Las Vegas, NV 89114, USA. drodell46@lasvegas.net

Inflammation often plays a key role in the perpetuation of pain. Chronic 
inflammatory conditions (e.g. osteoarthritis, immune system dysfunction, 
micro-circulatory disease, painful neuritis, and even heart disease) have 
increased as baby boomers age. Medicine's current anti-inflammatory choices are 
NSAIDs and steroids; the value in promoting cure and side effect risks of these 
medications are unclear and controversial, especially considering individual 
patient variations. Electricity has continuously been a powerful tool in 
medicine for thousands of years. All medical professionals are, to some degree, 
aware of electrotherapy; those who directly use electricity for treatment know 
of its anti-inflammatory effects. Electronic signal treatment (EST), as an 
extension of presently available technology, may reasonably have even more 
anti-inflammatory effects. EST is a digitally produced alternating current 
sinusoidal electronic signal with associated harmonics to produce theoretically 
reasonable and/or scientifically documented physiological effects when applied 
to the human body. These signals are produced by advanced electronics not 
possible even 10 to 15 years ago. The potential long-lasting anti-inflammatory 
effects of some electrical currents are based on basic physical and biochemical 
facts listed in the text below, namely that of stimulating and signaling 
effective and long-lasting anti-inflammatory effects in nerve and muscle cells. 
The safety of electrotherapeutic treatments in general and EST in particular has 
been established through extensive clinical use. The principles of physics have 
been largely de-emphasized in modern medicine in favor of chemistry. These 
electrical treatments, a familiar application of physics, thus represent 
powerful and appropriate elements of physicians' pain care armamentaria in the 
clinic and possibly for prescription for use at home to improve overall patient 
care and maintenance of quality of life via low-risk and potentially curative 
treatments.

PMID: 19057635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Cancer. 2008 Dec 15;113(12 Suppl):3512-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23940.

Future perspectives on the treatment issues associated with cancer and aging.

Trask PC(1), Blank TO, Jacobsen PB.

Author information:
(1)Global Outcomes Research, Pfizer, Inc., New London, Connecticut 06320, USA. 
peter.c.trask@pfizer.com

For many older individuals, the decision to undergo treatment for cancer is 
viewed as a tradeoff between loss of function and extension of life: a decision 
that often is complicated by concomitant issues such as comorbid medical 
conditions, frailty, functional declines, family dynamics, and social and 
psychological issues. This poses several challenges and affords opportunities 
for healthcare professionals conducting research with older cancer patients who 
are undergoing treatment. The current article presents a summary of a roundtable 
discussion of the issues that face older individuals with cancer during the 
treatment phase of a cancer diagnosis. The issues covered include the importance 
of conducting thorough assessments, addressing methodological issues, 
differentiating age from cohort issues, reducing patient and healthcare provider 
misperceptions, and taking a multidisciplinary approach to care. To address the 
aforementioned issues, future research directions in the treatment phase of the 
cancer continuum should include encouraging transdisciplinary work; increasing 
age-related, behaviorally focused research that also is sensitive to 
differentiating age and cohort effects; understanding the impact of comorbidity; 
and separating out the influences of age, comorbidity, and performance status.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23940
PMID: 19058146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Time. 2008 Dec 1;172(22):42-4, 47-8, 51.

Truths about health care in America.

Dykman J.

PMID: 19058751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Blood Rev. 2008 Dec;22 Suppl 2:S29-34. doi: 10.1016/S0268-960X(08)70006-7.

The deleterious effects of iron overload in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndromes.

Dreyfus F(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hématologie, Hôopital Cochin, AP-HP, Paris, France. 
francois.dreyfus@cch.aphp.fr

Many patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) have severe anaemia. However, 
regular blood transfusions, which are widely used to maintain quality of life 
and prevent anaemia-related morbidity and mortality, have a negative impact on 
survival as a result of iron overload. Retrospective surveys have shown an 
association of transfusion dependence with hepatic, pituitary, and pancreatic 
dysfunction, cardiac failure, and cardiac death. Survival is significantly 
decreased in transfusion-dependent patients, and the main cause of non-leukaemic 
death is cardiac failure. However, iron chelation therapy reduces serum ferritin 
levels and is associated with significantly improved survival in patients with 
MDS. Current guidelines recommend starting iron chelation therapy after 25-50 
units of blood have been transfused, or when serum ferritin levels rise above 
1,000-2,000 microg/L. The patients who are most likely to benefit from iron 
chelation therapy are those who have low-risk disease (International Prognostic 
Scoring System low or intermediate-1 risk) with a life expectancy of more than 1 
year. More specific studies in patients with MDS are needed to evaluate the 
impact of iron chelation therapy on morbidity and mortality, and provide a 
stronger evidence base for treatment guidelines.

DOI: 10.1016/S0268-960X(08)70006-7
PMID: 19059054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Int J Surg. 2008 Dec;6(6):e31-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2006.10.004. Epub 2006
Nov  1.

Compartment syndrome of the leg in the coagulopathic, end-stage liver disease 
patient: Fasciotomy is not the best answer.

Milanchi S(1), Magner D.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Compartment syndrome of the leg secondary to spontaneous bleeding 
has been described in coagulopathic patients. Correction of the coagulopathy and 
emergency fasciotomy is the recommended treatment. We present a cirrhotic 
patient with a short life expectancy who developed compartment syndrome of the 
leg secondary to spontaneous bleeding. This patient underwent fasciotomy of the 
leg and subsequently developed persistent postoperative bleeding and required 
repeated transfusions of blood and blood products. The patient eventually 
expired in the hospital 1 month after surgery.
RESULTS: Compartment syndrome of the leg occurring in patients with coagulopathy 
secondary to cirrhosis is very difficult to manage. Coagulopathy in these 
patients is hard to correct and constant bleeding from fasciotomy site is a 
major complication mandating frequent transfusions of blood and blood products. 
The complications of fasciotomy in these patients may outweigh the complications 
of untreated fasciotomy, particularly in patients with a short life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Fasciotomy is not always the best treatment for compartment 
syndrome of the leg. In certain patients, particularly in the coagulopathic, 
end-stage cirrhotic patient with a short life expectancy who is not a candidate 
for liver transplantation, fasciotomy is not indicated. Fasciotomy should be 
used selectively, if at all, in patient population with end-stage and terminal 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2006.10.004
PMID: 19059130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Mech Ageing Dev. 2009 Mar;130(3):173-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.11.003. Epub
 2008 Nov 19.

SOD isoforms play no role in lifespan in ad lib or dietary restricted 
conditions, but mutational inactivation of SOD-1 reduces life extension by cold.

Yen K(1), Patel HB, Lublin AL, Mobbs CV.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, One Gustave Levy Place, Box 1065, New York, 
NY 10029, USA. kelvin.yen@mssm.edu

The free radical theory of aging is one of the most prominent theories of aging 
and senescence, but has yet to be definitively proven. If free radicals are the 
cause of senescence, then the cellular anti-oxidant system should play a large 
role in lifespan determination. Because superoxide dismutase (SOD) plays a 
central role in detoxifying superoxide radicals, we have examined the effects of 
mutational inactivation of each isoform of sod on normal lifespan and lifespan 
extension by dietary restriction (DR) or cold-/hypothermic-induced longevity 
(CHIL). We find no significant decrease in lifespan for control worms or worms 
undergoing DR when sod isoforms are knocked-out even though sod mutational 
inactivation produces hypersensitivity to paraquat. In contrast, sod-1 
inactivation significantly reduces lifespan extension by CHIL, suggesting that 
CHIL requires a specific genetic program beyond simple reduction in metabolic 
rate. Furthermore, CHIL paradoxically increases lifespan while reducing 
resistance to oxidative stress, further disassociating oxidative stress 
resistance and lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.11.003
PMID: 19059428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Nephron Clin Pract. 2009;111(1):c62-7; discussion c68. doi:
10.1159/000180121.  Epub 2008 Dec 5.

The challenge of doing what is right in renal transplantation: balancing equity 
and utility.

Courtney AE(1), Maxwell AP.

Author information:
(1)Regional Nephrology Unit, Belfast City Hospital, Belfast, UK. 
aecourtney@doctors.org.uk

Arguably the greatest challenge faced by the transplant community is the 
disparity between the number of persons waiting for a solid organ transplant and 
the finite supply of donor organs. For renal transplantation the gap between 
supply and demand has risen annually reflecting the increasing prevalence of 
end-stage renal disease versus the relatively static deceased donor organ pool. 
Maximising the benefit from this scarce resource raises difficult ethical 
issues. For most patients on dialysis therapy a successful transplant offers 
improved quality and quantity of life, but the absolute gain in survival 
provided by a donated organ varies greatly depending on recipient factors such 
as age and co-morbid illnesses. The philosophies of equity (a fair opportunity 
for everyone in need to receive a transplant) and utility (optimal profit from 
each organ) are often competing. National allocation schemes and local policies 
regarding assessment of potential recipients and acceptance of organs are 
designed to balance these ethical principles in a standardized and socially 
acceptable manner. The ongoing debate surrounding these issues and modifications 
to such policies reflect the evolving clinical picture of renal transplantation 
and the challenge in maintaining equipoise between renal transplant utility and 
equity.

Copyright 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000180121
PMID: 19060499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Am Nat. 2009 Jan;173(1):26-40. doi: 10.1086/593707.

Diversity, dilemmas, and monopolies of niche construction.

Krakauer DC(1), Page KM, Erwin DH.

Author information:
(1)Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, New Mexico 87501, USA. krakauer@santafe.edu

The behavior of organisms can contribute to the transformation of their 
environments. When organismal impacts on the environment feed back to influence 
organismal density, viability, fertility, or persistence, the environment can be 
construed as an extension of the organism. This process of fitness-enhancing 
environmental transformation has been called niche construction. We focus on the 
relationship of niche construction with species or strain diversity and on the 
variability of investment in niche construction versus reproduction. We 
demonstrate a fundamental dilemma of niche construction, whereby the 
construction of a shared resource leads to a tragedy of the commons, with 
competition tending to eliminate niche construction strategies. The ability to 
monopolize a niche, either through spatial proximity or through preferential 
exploitation, can stabilize niche construction and promote ecological 
coexistence among polymorphic constructors. We consider both sympatric and 
allopatric origins of niche construction. Under a variety of different 
construction mechanisms, variability in the investment in niche construction 
versus reproduction suggests reproductive altruism but is fully consistent with 
selfish behavior. We discuss the implications of niche-construction theory on 
the evolution of life cycles and development, behavioral plasticity, the 
division of labor, and long-term macroevolutionary trends.

DOI: 10.1086/593707
PMID: 19061421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Health Econ. 2009 Jan;28(1):234-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.10.004.
Epub  2008 Oct 30.

The correction of TTO-scores for utility curvature using a risk-free utility 
elicitation method.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University Medical 
Centre, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.attema@erasmusmc.nl

This paper describes and employs a new method to correct time tradeoff 
(TTO)-scores for utility of life duration curvature. In contrast to most 
previous attempts to do so, it uses a risk-free method that corresponds well to 
the risk-free properties of the TTO-method. In addition, the method is robust to 
several biases that occur under methods that incorporate risk. Our results show 
a significant degree of curvature in utility of life duration and therefore a 
clear bias in TTO-scores. The risk-free method seems to be useful to correct 
TTO-scores for this influence and leads to significantly higher 
quality-adjustment factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.10.004
PMID: 19062114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Feb;68(3):496-503. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.11.002.
Epub  2008 Dec 4.

Community perceptions on the significant extension of life: an exploratory study 
among urban adults in Brisbane, Australia.

Underwood M(1), Bartlett HP, Partridge B, Lucke J, Hall WD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4072, Australia. m.underwood@uq.edu.au

Some researchers in the field of ageing claim that significant extension of the 
human lifespan will be possible in the near future. While many of these 
researchers have assumed that the community will welcome this technology, there 
has been very little research on community attitudes to life extension. This 
paper presents the results of an in-depth qualitative study of community 
attitudes to life extension across age groups and religious boundaries. There 
were 57 individual interviews, and 8 focus groups (totalling 72 focus group 
participants) conducted with community members in Brisbane, Australia. Community 
attitudes to life extension were more varied and complex than have been assumed 
by some biogerontologists and bioethicists. While some participants would 
welcome the opportunity to extend their lives others would not even entertain 
the possibility. This paper details these differences of opinion and reveals 
contrasting positions that reflect individualism or social concern among 
community members. The findings also highlight the relationship between 
Christianity, in particular belief in an afterlife, and attitudes to life 
extension technology. Overall, the study raises questions about the relationship 
between interest in life extension, the medicalisation of ageing and the 
increasing acceptability of enhancement technologies that need to be addressed 
in more representative samples of the community.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.11.002
PMID: 19062150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Orthop Clin North Am. 2009 Jan;40(1):37-46, v-vi. doi: 
10.1016/j.ocl.2008.09.002.

Algorithms and planning in metastatic spine tumors.

Tokuhashi Y(1), Ajiro Y, Oshima M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nihon University School of Medicine, 30-1 
Oyaguchi-kamimachi, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, 173-8610, Japan. ytoku@med.nihon-u.ac.jp

Metastatic spine tumors cause the loss of the supporting function of the spine 
through vertebral destruction or invade and compress the spinal cord or cauda 
equine. As a result, metastatic spine tumor causes severe pain, paralysis, or 
impairment of activities of daily living (ADL). Also, because the finding of 
metastatic foci in the spine suggests a generalized disorder, life expectancy 
and treatment options have many limitations. For this reason, treatment is 
primarily symptomatic, and the major goals in selecting therapeutic modalities 
are to relieve pain, prevent paralysis, and improve ADL. This article discusses 
the selection of treatment for metastatic spine tumors and, in particular, the 
indications for surgical treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ocl.2008.09.002
PMID: 19064054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Orthop Clin North Am. 2009 Jan;40(1):133-44, vii. doi: 
10.1016/j.ocl.2008.09.001.

Radiation for spinal metastatic tumors.

Swift PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology, Alta Bates Comprehensive Cancer Center, 2001 Dwight Way, 
Berkeley, CA 94704, USA. pswift@aptiumoncology.com

Radiotherapeutic management of vertebral metastases varies based on the extent 
of disease within the spine and systemically, the histology of the tumor, and 
the life expectancy of the patient. The goals of pain reduction, structural 
stability of the axial skeleton, and maintenance of local control for the 
remainder of the patient's life guide the decision to proceed with a short 
simple course of standard therapy or a more complex approach with stereotactic 
regimens. The complex and rigorous processes involved in stereotactic 
radiotherapy for the spine require close cooperation among the radiation 
oncologist, neurosurgeon, orthopedic surgeon, and medical oncologist, but the 
clinical results show that the result is an enhanced quality of life for the 
patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ocl.2008.09.001
PMID: 19064061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2008;29(4):305-9. doi: 10.1080/02701960802497795.

When life exceeds safe driving expectancy: implications for gerontology and 
geriatrics education.

Silverstein NM(1).

Author information:
(1)Undergraduate Gerontology Program, College of Publicand Community Service, 
University of Massachusetts Boston, Boston, MA 02125-3393, USA. 
nina.silverstein@umb.edu

Research findings suggest that life expectancy exceeds safe driving expectancy 
after age 70 by about 6 years for men and 10 years for women; yet few people 
plan for a time when driving is no longer possible. Transportation planning 
should be considered along with financial, legal, health care, and housing 
issues during preretirement in the range of advice gerontologists and 
geriatricians provide to older adults and their families. The message is that we 
all should be planning for our nondriving years. Myriad issues of potential 
concern exist for gerontologists and geriatricians from the screening and 
assessment of functional impairments that may affect critical driving skills, to 
licensing and renewal and the monitoring of driver safety, to driving 
restriction and cessation, and to the introduction of senior friendly community 
mobility options. Transportation, after all, is critical for connecting us to 
goods and services as well as to employment, volunteering, and civic engagement 
opportunities. This theme issue brings together representatives from the 
research community, licensing authority, allied health profession of 
occupational therapy, and community transit. All have important messages for 
gerontology and geriatrics education.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960802497795
PMID: 19064467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Adv Skin Wound Care. 2008 Dec;21(12):568-75. doi: 
10.1097/01.ASW.0000323589.27605.71.

An evidence-based model comparing the cost-effectiveness of platelet-rich plasma 
gel to alternative therapies for patients with nonhealing diabetic foot ulcers.

Dougherty EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)B&D Consulting, Washington, DC, USA.

OBJECTIVE: A cost-effectiveness analysis compared the potential economic benefit 
of an autologous, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) gel to alternative therapies in 
treating nonhealing diabetic foot ulcers.
DESIGN: An economic model used peer-reviewed data to simulate clinical and cost 
outcomes and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with PRP gel and 
other treatment modalities.
PATIENTS: The model varies rates of healing, recurrence, infection, amputation, 
death, and associated costs for a hypothetical group of 200,000 patients with 
full-thickness, nonhealing diabetic foot ulcers for 5 years or until death.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The model simulates the clinical, cost, and QALY outcomes 
associated with PRP gel versus other modalities in treating nonhealing diabetic 
foot ulcers over a 5-year period.
MAIN RESULTS: The average 5-year direct wound care cost per modality and QALYs 
were PRP gel, $15,159 (2.87); saline gel, $33,214 (2.70); standard of care, 
$40,073 (2.65); noncontact kilohertz ultrasound therapy, $32,659 (2.73); human 
fibroblast-derived dermal substitute, $40,569 (2.65); allogenic bilayered 
culture skin substitute, $24,374 (2.79); bilayered cellular matrix, $37,340 
(2.71); negative pressure wound therapy, $20,964 (2.81); and recombinant human 
platelet-derived growth factor BB, $47,252 (2.69).
CONCLUSION: Use of PRP gel resulted in improved quality of life and lower cost 
of care over a 5-year period than other treatment modalities for nonhealing 
diabetic foot ulcers. Although actual treatment outcomes may differ from those 
modeled, PRP gel represents a potentially attractive treatment alternative for 
insurers and health care providers to address the cost burden and health effects 
of nonhealing diabetic foot ulcers.

DOI: 10.1097/01.ASW.0000323589.27605.71
PMID: 19065083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. PLoS One. 2008;3(12):e3883. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003883. Epub 2008 Dec
9.

Cost-effectiveness of new cardiac and vascular rehabilitation strategies for 
patients with coronary artery disease.

Spronk S(1), Bosch JL, Ryjewski C, Rosenblum J, Kaandorp GC, White JV, Hunink 
MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
s.spronk@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) often hinders the cardiac 
rehabilitation program. The aim of this study was evaluating the relative 
cost-effectiveness of new rehabilitation strategies which include the diagnosis 
and treatment of PAD in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) undergoing 
cardiac rehabilitation.
DATA SOURCES: Best-available evidence was retrieved from literature and combined 
with primary data from 231 patients.
METHODS: We developed a markov decision model to compare the following treatment 
strategies: 1. cardiac rehabilitation only; 2. ankle-brachial index (ABI) if 
cardiac rehabilitation fails followed by diagnostic work-up and 
revascularization for PAD if needed; 3. ABI prior to cardiac rehabilitation 
followed by diagnostic work-up and revascularization for PAD if needed. 
Quality-adjusted-life years (QALYs), life-time costs (US $), incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER), and gain in net health benefits (NHB) in QALY 
equivalents were calculated. A threshold willingness-to-pay of $75,000 was used.
