life expectancy. Advances in therapies for RA will likely continue to reduce the 
incidence of vasculitis, and improved management of cardiovascular comorbidity 
in patients with RA will be of particular benefit to those who suffer from 
vasculitis and other extraarticular manifestations.

DOI: 10.1097/BOR.0b013e32831c5303
PMID: 19077716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Int Angiol. 2008 Dec;27(6):494-9.

Early mobilisation in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis does not increase 
the risk of a symptomatic pulmonary embolism.

Romera-Villegas A(1), Cairols-Castellote MA, Vila-Coll R, Gómez AP, Martí-Mestre 
X, Bonell-Pascual A, Lapiedra-Mur O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Hospital Universitari de Bellvitge, 
Barcelona, Spain. 29072arv@comb.es

AIM: The purpose of the study was to determine if early mobilisation in patients 
with acute lower limb deep vein thrombosis (DVT) increases the incidence of 
symptomatic pulmonary embolism (PE) and to evaluate the predisposing factors for 
PE such as location of the thrombus and duration of symptoms.
METHODS: The current study was a prospective randomised clinical trial. Between 
January 2005 and December 2007, 219 patients with acute lower limb DVT were 
enrolled in the study (118 males and 101 females); the mean age was 64.2 years.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: <15 days of initial symptoms, life expectancy >1 year, no 
life-threatening clinical conditions, and signed informed consent. The patients 
were randomised into two groups. Group A, 105 patients (47.9%) were hospitalized 
and received 5 days of bed rest; Group B, 114 patients (52.1%) received care at 
home with early walking and compression stockings. The primary end point was the 
presence of symptomatic PE during the first 10 days of treatment. The 
relationships between the duration of symptoms, location of the thrombus, and 
symptomatic PE were also analysed.
RESULTS: Five cases of symptomatic PE were detected (2.3%), three in Group B and 
two in Group A. There was no significant difference in the occurrence of new PE 
between the two groups (P=0.54). Likewise, no difference was detected based on 
the duration of symptoms (P=0.62) and the location of the thrombus (P=0.43).
CONCLUSIONS: In acute DVT , early walking, thrombus location, and duration of 
the symptoms did not influence the incidence of symptomatic PE.

PMID: 19078912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008 Dec 12;57(49):1321-5.

Asbestosis-related years of potential life lost before age 65 years--United 
States, 1968-2005.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Exposure to asbestos fibers can cause asbestosis and other diseases after a 
latency of 10-40 years from initial exposure to onset of illness. Asbestos still 
is used in the United States (approximately 2,200 metric tons in 2006) in 
certain products manufactured domestically. In addition, an undocumented amount 
of asbestos continues to be imported in products manufactured elsewhere, and a 
substantial amount of asbestos remains in existing buildings and manufactured 
products. An estimated 1.3 million construction and general industry workers in 
the United States potentially are exposed to asbestos each year, mainly from 
manipulation of asbestos during renovation or demolition activities. Also, 
although asbestos ore is no longer mined in the United States, some U.S. mine 
workers might remain at risk for exposure to asbestos contained in other ores. 
To characterize trends in premature mortality attributed to asbestosis in the 
United States, CDC analyzed annual underlying cause-of-death data for 1968-2005, 
the most recent years for which data were available. This report describes the 
results of that analysis, which indicated that annual years of potential life 
lost before age 65 years (YPLL) attributed to asbestosis increased 64%, from an 
average of 146.0 YPLL per year during 1968-1972 to 239.6 per year during 
2001-2005 (regression trend for the 5-year moving average, p<0.001), for an 
overall total of 7,267 YPLL (mean per decedent: 6.2) over the entire period. 
These results demonstrate that asbestosis-attributable YPLL continue to occur 
and that efforts to prevent, track, and eliminate asbestosis need to be 
maintained.

PMID: 19078920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jan;13(2):iii, ix-x, 1-91. doi:
10.3310/hta13020.

Thrombophilia testing in people with venous thromboembolism: systematic review 
and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Simpson EL(1), Stevenson MD, Rawdin A, Papaioannou D.

Author information:
(1)The University of Sheffield, School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether thrombophilia testing following a venous 
thrombotic event is clinically effective and cost-effective in the management of 
thrombosis compared with no testing for thrombophilia.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases were searched from September to 
November 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness literature was undertaken according to standard methods. A 
discrete event simulation model was constructed to assess the cost-effectiveness 
of changing the standard 3-month duration of warfarin treatment to 10 years, 20 
years or lifelong.
RESULTS: No clinical studies were identified that met the inclusion criteria for 
the systematic review. Further literature searches and clinical opinion were 
therefore used to inform the cost-effectiveness analysis. Thrombophilia testing 
in patients with pulmonary embolism (PE) had an estimated mean cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of below 20,000 pounds regardless of sex or 
age. In patients with a previous deep vein thrombosis (DVT), thrombophilia 
testing had an estimated mean cost per QALY of below 20,000 pounds in men aged 
69 years or less and in women aged 49 years or less. The estimated duration of 
warfarin treatment (lifelong, 20 years, 10 years or no extended treatment) that 
was most cost-effective is presented for each age, sex, initial venous 
thromboembolism (VTE) event and type of thrombophilia.
CONCLUSIONS: In terms of determining the duration of anticoagulation management, 
scenarios were found in which the cost per QALY of thrombophilia testing was 
below 20,000 pounds. However, these results are subject to great uncertainty, 
largely because of lack of knowledge about the increased risk of recurrence with 
each type of thrombophilia. Results are influenced by the fact that men have a 
greater risk of recurrence than women and by the fact that the frequency of 
adverse events associated with warfarin treatment increases with age. Further 
research, for example on the likely sensitivity and specificity of the tests for 
specific types of thrombophilia, is needed to reduce the uncertainty associated 
with these results. Studies comparing patients with VTE tested for thrombophilia 
with those whose risk assessment was based on personal and family history of 
thrombosis would also be beneficial.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13020
PMID: 19080721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2008 Dec;89(12 Suppl):S1-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.apmr.2008.10.001.

Traumatic brain injury: recovery, prediction, and the clinician.

Robertson IH(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland. iroberts@tcd.ie

Traumatic Brain Injury produces long term disabling effects in a young 
population of normal life expectancy, yet very little is known about its medium 
to long-term outcome with the underlying pathologies often invisible to standard 
brain imaging methods. This collection of papers offers a major advance in 
defining the course of recovery following TBI, and demonstrating the utility of 
new brain imaging techniques such as diffusion-tensor imaging to predict outcome 
and detect hitherto concealed pathologies. These pathologies partly explain the 
profound behavioral deficits that have been widely demonstrated in TBI but often 
disputed in courts and elsewhere because of the lack of correlates in underlying 
brain structure. This edition also offers the first clear evidence of 
progressive postinsult long-term brain atrophy in some cases of TBI, as well as 
highlighting important neuropsychological and behavioral predictive variables 
for recovery, and including the possibility of effective behavioral treatments 
to mitigate some of these profoundly disabling deficits. This collection of 
papers is outstanding in a number of ways - in giving the clinician a sense of 
what can be said to the worried family and what cannot, and in offering 
researchers important insights from imaging and neuropsychology into the 
possible mechanisms for the postacute recovery process. But they are important 
in a third, even more important way - in yielding some real pointers as to how 
the course of recovery may be influenced.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2008.10.001
PMID: 19081436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Am J Infect Control. 2008 Dec;36(10 Suppl):S116-27. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajic.2008.09.007.

The health revolution: Medical and socioeconomic advances.

Aiello AE(1), Larson EL, Sedlak R.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2008.09.007
PMID: 19081495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Am J Infect Control. 2008 Dec;36(10 Suppl):S128-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.ajic.2008.09.008.

Hidden heroes of the health revolution. Sanitation and personal hygiene.

Aiello AE(1), Larson EL, Sedlak R.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan School of Public Health, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2008.09.008
PMID: 19081496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Feb;68(3):444-51. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.038.
Epub  2008 Dec 10.

Life-course socioeconomic positions and subclinical atherosclerosis in the 
multi-ethnic study of atherosclerosis.

Lemelin ET(1), Diez Roux AV, Franklin TG, Carnethon M, Lutsey PL, Ni H, O'Meara 
E, Shrager S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan, 1214 S. University, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48104, United States. elemelin@nshd.mrc.ac.uk

A major limitation of past work on the social patterning of atherosclerosis has 
been the reliance on measures of neighborhood or individual-level socioeconomic 
position (SEP) assessed at a single point in time in adulthood. Risk of chronic 
disease is thought to accumulate throughout the life-course, so the use of a 
measure for a single point in time may result in inaccurate estimates of the 
social patterning of subclinical disease. Using data from the US Multi-Ethnic 
Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA), we examined the relation between childhood SEP 
[CSEP] (father or caretaker's education), adulthood SEP [ASEP] (a summary score 
of income, education, and wealth), and 20-year average exposure to neighborhood 
poverty [NSEP] (residential addresses geocoded and linked to census data) and 
the prevalence of subclinical atherosclerosis, as assessed by common carotid 
intimal-medial thickness (IMT) in mid to late adulthood. Participants were 45-84 
years of age at baseline and were sampled from six study sites in the United 
States. After adjustment for age, CSEP and ASEP were both inversely and 
independently associated with IMT in men. All three indicators CSEP, ASEP, and 
NSEP were inversely and independently associated with IMT in women. Associations 
were somewhat reduced after adjustment for cardiovascular risk factors, 
suggesting that these factors may play a mediating role. There was evidence of 
heterogeneity in effects of NSEP by gender, and in the effects of ASEP and NSEP 
by race/ethnicity. Our results contribute to the growing body of work that shows 
that SEP at multiple points in the life-course, and at the individual and 
neighborhood level, contributes to the development of atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.038
PMCID: PMC5444463
PMID: 19081660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Feb;68(3):544-51. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.11.009.
Epub  2008 Dec 10.

"Conditional scholarships" for HIV/AIDS health workers: educating and retaining 
the workforce to provide antiretroviral treatment in sub-Saharan Africa.

Bärnighausen T(1), Bloom DE.

Author information:
(1)University of KwaZulu-Natal, Africa Centre for Health and Population Studies, 
P.O. Box 198, Mtubatuba, KwaZulu-Natal 3935, South Africa. 
tbaernig@hsph.harvard.edu

Without large increases in the number of health workers to treat HIV/AIDS (HAHW) 
many countries in sub-Saharan Africa will be unable to achieve universal 
coverage with antiretroviral treatment (ART), leading to large numbers of 
avoidable deaths among people living with HIV/AIDS. We conduct a cost-benefit 
analysis of a health care education scholarship that is conditional on the 
recipient committing to work for several years after graduation delivering ART 
in sub-Saharan Africa. Such a scholarship could address two of the main reasons 
for the low numbers of health workers in sub-Saharan Africa: low education rates 
and high emigration rates. We use Markov Monte Carlo microsimulation to estimate 
the expected net present value (eNPV) of "conditional scholarships" in 
sub-Saharan Africa. The scholarships are highly eNPV-positive under a wide range 
of assumptions. Conditional scholarships for a HAHW team sufficient to provide 
ART for 500 patients have an eNPV of 1.24 million year-2000 US dollars, assuming 
that the scholarship recipients are in addition to the health workers who would 
have been educated without scholarships and that the scholarships reduce annual 
HAHW emigration probabilities from 15% to 5% for five years. The eNPV of the 
education effect of the scholarships is larger than eNPV of the migration 
effect. Policy makers should consider implementing "conditional scholarships" 
for HAHW, especially in countries where health worker education capacity is 
currently underutilized or can be rapidly expanded.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.11.009
PMID: 19081662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 2008 Oct;37(10):510-2.

Reconstruction of the failed acetabular component using cemented shells and 
impaction grafting in revision hip arthroplasty.

Issack PS(1), Beksac B, Helfet DL, Buly RL, Sculco TP.

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY 10021, USA. psissack@aol.com

Cemented revision techniques have been used with variable success in the 
reconstruction of the failed acetabular component. Diminished cement-bone 
interlock secondary to diminished cancellous bone quality and quantity may 
contribute to the observed high rates of aseptic loosening of this construct in 
the revision setting. Nevertheless, this technique may still be an option in the 
elderly patient with limited function or life expectancy. Impaction bone 
grafting in conjunction with cemented acetabular cups has been reported to 
result in good midterm results. The reconstruction is challenging and tedious 
and requires meticulous execution for success. When performed well, impaction 
grafting can result in survivorship rates equaling those seen using cementless 
hemispheric cups with the additional advantage of increasing acetabular bone 
stock.

PMID: 19081878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Nutr Res. 2008 Jun;28(6):377-82. doi: 10.1016/j.nutres.2008.03.018.

Cocoa confers life span extension in Drosophila melanogaster.

Bahadorani S(1), Hilliker AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, York University, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M3J 1P3.

Cocoa is thought to be an excellent source of antioxidants. Here, we 
investigated the effects of cocoa supplementation on Drosophila melanogaster 
life span under different oxidative stress conditions. Our results illustrate 
that a moderate supplementation of cocoa under normoxia increases the average 
life span, whereas, at higher concentrations, average life span is normal. Under 
hyperoxia or in a Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase-deficient background, cocoa 
exhibited a strong antioxidant activity, significantly increasing the average 
life span. Nevertheless, cocoa supplementation in a Mn-superoxide 
dismutase-deficient background enhanced an earlier mortality accompanied by a 
loss of climbing ability, indicating that cocoa may act as a pro-oxidant in 
mitochondria under conditions of extreme oxidative stress. Finally, we 
illustrate that cocoa also acts as a metal chelator in the presence of excess 
heavy metals, enhancing larval survival to the adult stage on copper or 
iron-supplemented medium. Taken together, our results document the 
antioxidative, pro-oxidative, and metal-chelating effects of cocoa on Drosophila 
melanogaster life span.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nutres.2008.03.018
PMID: 19083435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. J Bodyw Mov Ther. 2008 Oct;12(4):356-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2008.03.008.
Epub  2008 Jun 4.

The effect of myofascial release (MFR) on an adult with idiopathic scoliosis.

LeBauer A(1), Brtalik R, Stowe K.

Author information:
(1)Elon University, Department of Physical Therapy Education, Elon, NC 27244, 
USA. alebauer@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The lack of evidence of conservative treatment has led to an 
interest in exploring myofascial release (MFR) as an effective means of 
controlling spinal curvature progression in adolescents with idiopathic 
scoliosis.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this case study is to measure the effects of MFR as a 
manual therapy technique in the treatment of idiopathic scoliosis.
METHODS: One 18-year-old female subject underwent 6 weeks of MFR treatment 
consisting of two sessions each week for 60min. Pain, pulmonary function, and 
quality of life were measured. Six goniometric measurements were taken 
encompassing trunk flexion, extension, and rotation.
RESULTS: The subject improved with pain levels, trunk rotation, posture, quality 
of life, and pulmonary function.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest further investigation is needed using MFR, as 
an effective manual therapy treatment for idiopathic scoliosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2008.03.008
PMID: 19083694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. J Hand Surg Am. 2008 Dec;33(10):1744-55, 1755.e1-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.jhsa.2008.06.022.

Total wrist arthroplasty and total wrist arthrodesis in rheumatoid arthritis: a 
decision analysis from the hand surgeons' perspective.

Cavaliere CM(1), Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Plastic Surgery, The University of Michigan 
Health System, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0340, USA.

PURPOSE: Treatment of severely destroyed rheumatoid wrists with total wrist 
arthroplasty or total wrist arthrodesis relies on patient and surgeon 
preferences rather than rigorous prospective outcomes data. The purpose of this 
study is to develop a decision analytic model of arthroplasty and arthrodesis in 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) using utility values obtained from a random sample of 
hand surgeons.
METHODS: A utility survey using a time trade-off design was administered to 175 
members of the American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Based on the results of 
the survey, the utility values that surgeons assign to health states associated 
with arthroplasty and arthrodesis and their complications were calculated. By 
combining utility values with complication rates in the published literature, we 
developed a decision tree to calculate the expected quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) for each procedure compared to living with a painful RA wrist.
RESULTS: Based on surgeon preferences, living for 30 years with a painful, 
poorly functioning RA wrist (utility = 0.54) is associated with 16.2 QALYs. 
Treatment with arthroplasty (utility = 0.85) is associated with 25.5 QALYs, a 
gain of 9.3 QALYs over nonsurgical management. Arthrodesis (utility = 0.82) is 
associated with 24.6 QALYs, a gain of 8.4 QALYs over nonsurgical management. 
Arthroplasty is associated with a small incremental increase in QALYs (0.9) 
compared to arthrodesis.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on utility scores, hand surgeons feel that living with a 
painful, poorly functioning RA wrist for 30 years is worth approximately half as 
many years with a painless, well-functioning wrist. The outcomes for 
arthroplasty and arthrodesis are valued more than nonsurgical management. On the 
basis of its higher expected gain in QALYs, arthroplasty should be the preferred 
treatment. The minimal increase in utility for arthroplasty over arthrodesis 
suggests however, that surgeons do not view arthroplasty as superior to 
arthrodesis.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and decision analysis IV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2008.06.022
PMCID: PMC4410850
PMID: 19084173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Mov Disord. 2009 Mar 15;24(4):564-73. doi: 10.1002/mds.22402.

Long-term outcome of early versus delayed rasagiline treatment in early 
Parkinson's disease.

Hauser RA(1), Lew MF, Hurtig HI, Ondo WG, Wojcieszek J, Fitzer-Attas CJ; TEMPO 
Open-label Study Group.

Collaborators: Marshall F, Gardiner IF, Pearson N, Berry D, Shannon K, Jaglin 
JA, Ondo W, Hunter C, Anderson CR, LeWitt PA, Kaminski P, Miller D, DeAngelis M, 
Miyasaki J, So J, Johnston L, Tanner C, Stewart T, Tagg L, Everett S, Germain G, 
Welsh M, McCollister M, Mann LL, Singer C, Koller WC, Weiner WJ, Bateman D, 
Mendis T, Moterson M, Alcorn-Costa C, Haas K, Gray P, Mohtat D, Mendis N, 
Sutherland L, Hurtig H, Lloyd M, Mathews M, Gauger L, Dyches P, Newcomb C, 
Hubble J, Betcher K, Weeks CC, Kostyk S, Rajput AH, Gerow M, Klassen L, 
Ewanishin M, Golbe LI, Patterson V, Caputo D, Seuffert P, Pahwa R, Gales T, 
Jenkins LJ, Parsons A, Crader S, Wellinghoff JN, Coe S, Lew MF, Armstrong C, 
Kawai C, Hawthorne KB, Gelles K, Lu X, Schuman SW, Cooper C, Marek K, Fussell B, 
Caplan K, Barnabei E, Karen Stavris K, Sethi KD, Carpenter JG, Osborne J Jr, 
Narayan S, Ligon KM, Molho E, Evans S, Nash J, Brown D, Stacy M, Williamson K, 
Novak P, Feldman RG, Thomas C, Martin W, King P, McInnes G, Caouette S, 
Wojcieszek J, Belden J, Feigin A, Ayan J, Shannon B, Adler CH, Newman S, Radam 
T, Schear M, Santoni N, Wortzel S, Satou N, Tuite P, Rolandelli S, Lowery J, 
Ebbitt BJ, Baranauskas A, Aminoff MJ, DiMinno M, Roth J, Borst T, Hevezi J, 
Deloa C, Tam T, Lopez A, Bertoni JM, Skrypnik LI, Peterson C, Gordon MF, Winnick 
R, Parness S, Hamann J, Calabrese V, Roberge P, Atchison PR, Allen CW, Rolli S, 
Kang UJ, Richman J, Uy S.

Author information:
(1)Parkinsons's Disease and Movement Disorders Center, University of South 
Florida, 5 Tampa General Circle, Tampa, FL 33606, USA. rhauser@health.usf.edu

The purpose of this study to compare the long-term clinical outcome of early 
versus delayed rasagiline treatment in early Parkinson's disease (PD). Subjects 
(N = 404) were randomly assigned to initial treatment with rasagiline 
(early-start group) or placebo for 6 months followed by rasagiline 
(delayed-start group) in the TEMPO study. Subjects who chose to participate in 
an open-label extension (N = 306) continued to receive rasagiline as well as 
other PD medications as needed. Average (+/-SD) duration in the study was 3.6 
+/- 2.1 years; 177 subjects received rasagiline for > or =5.0 years. Over the 
entire 6.5-year follow-up period, the adjusted mean difference in change from 
baseline in total UPDRS scores was 2.5 units (SE 1.1; P = 0.021) or 16% (SE 5.7; 
P = 0.006) in favor of the early-start versus delayed-start rasagiline group. 
Although the interaction between treatment and time was significant, values for 
the early-start group were better than the delayed-start group across all time 
points. Significantly less worsening (percent change) in total UPDRS scores was 
observed in the early-start group at the time points 0.5, 1.5, 2.0, 3.0, 4.5, 
5.0, and 5.5 years (P < 0.05). Compared to delayed start, early initiation of 
rasagiline provided long-term clinical benefit, even in the face of treatment 
with other dopaminergic agents. This might reflect enduring benefits due to 
neuroprotection or effects on compensatory mechanisms in early PD.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.22402
PMID: 19086083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Acad Emerg Med. 2008 Jul;15(7):623-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1553-2712.2008.00161.x.

Sixty-four-slice computed tomography of the coronary arteries: 
cost-effectiveness analysis of patients presenting to the emergency department 
with low-risk chest pain.

Khare RK(1), Courtney DM, Powell ES, Venkatesh AK, Lee TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Chicago, IL , USA. rkhare@northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVES: The aim was to use a computer model to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of 64-slice multidetector computed tomography (MDCT) of the 
coronary arteries in the emergency department (ED) compared to an observation 
unit (OU) stay plus stress electrocardiogram (ECG) or stress echocardiography 
for the evaluation of low-risk chest pain patients presenting to the ED.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed to compare health outcomes and 
costs that result from three different risk stratification strategies for 
low-risk chest pain patients in the ED: stress ECG testing after OU care, stress 
echocardiography after OU care, and MDCT with no OU care. Three patient 
populations were modeled with the prevalence of symptomatic coronary artery 
disease (CAD) being very low risk, 2%; low risk, 6% (base case); and moderate 
risk, 10%. Outcomes were measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), the ratio of change in costs of 
one test over another to the change in QALY, were calculated for comparisons 
between each strategy. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test the 
robustness of the results to assumptions regarding the characteristics of the 
risk stratification strategies, costs, utility weights, and likelihood of 
events.
RESULTS: In the base case, the mean (+/- standard deviation [SD]) costs and 
QALYs for each risk stratification strategy were MDCT arm $2,684 (+/- $1,773 to 
$4,418) and 24.69 (+/- 24.54 to 24.76) QALYs, stress echocardiography arm $3,265 
(+/- $2,383 to $4,836) and 24.63 (+/- 24.28 to 24.74) QALYs, and stress ECG arm 
$3,461 (+/- $2,533 to $4,996) and 24.59 (+/- 24.21 to 24.75) QALYs. The MDCT 
dominated (less costly and more effective) both OU plus stress echocardiography 
and OU plus stress ECG. This resulted in an ICER where the MDCT arm dominated 
the stress echocardiography arm (95% confidence interval [CI] = dominant to 
$29,738) and where MDCT dominated the ECG arm (95% CI = dominant to $7,332). The 
MDCT risk stratification arm also dominated stress echocardiography and stress 
ECG in the 2 and 10% prevalence scenarios, which demonstrated the same ICER 
trends as the 6% prevalence CAD base case. The thresholds where the MDCT arm 
remained a cost-saving strategy compared to the other risk stratification 
strategies were cost of MDCT, < $2,097; cost of OU care, > $1,092; prevalence of 
CAD, < 70%; MDCT specificity, > 65%; and a MDCT indeterminate rate, < 30%.
CONCLUSIONS: In this computer-based model analysis, the MDCT risk stratification 
strategy is less costly and more effective than both OU-based stress 
echocardiography and stress ECG risk stratification strategies in chest pain 
patients presenting to the ED with low to moderate prevalence of CAD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.2008.00161.x
PMID: 19086322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. J Assoc Physicians India. 2008 Sep;56:675-80.

Mumbai stroke registry (2005-2006)--surveillance using WHO steps stroke 
instrument--challenges and opportunities.

Dalal PM(1), Bhattacharjee M, Vairale J, Bhat P.

Author information:
(1)Lilavati Hospital and L. K. M. M. Trust Research Centre, A-791, Bandra 
Reclamation, Mumbai-400 050, India.

BACKGROUND: India will face enormous socioeconomic burden because life 
expectancy is increasing placing larger numbers of older people at risk of 
stroke and other chronic diseases. In order to plan prevention strategies, 
reliable information on stroke epidemiology is required. For uniform data 
collection (population based), WHO recommends use of STEPS Stroke instrument.
STUDY: A well-defined community (H-ward) with verifiable census data, and 
representative of population structure of Mumbai (Bombay), was selected. The 
manual on WHO STEPwise approach to stroke surveillance (STEPS; 
http://www.who.int/chp/steps/Manual.pdf) was the operational protocol.
RESULTS: During the two year study period (Jan 2005 to Dec 2006), 521 new stroke 
(CVD) cases (males--275 and females--246) were identified; of which 456 (238 
males and 218 females) had "first ever stroke"(FES) indicating an annual 
incidence of 145 per 100,000 persons (CI 95%: 120-170); age adjusted Segi rate: 
152/100,000/year (CI 95% 132-172). Two thirds of the FES cases were admitted to 
health care facilities (Step I: "in-hospital" cases), the remaining 150 (32.8%) 
either died outside of hospital or were treated at home or nursing homes (Step 
II: Fatal events in community and Step III: Non-fatal events in community). CVD 
Diagnosis was supported by CT (Computed Tomography) in 407 (89%) of 456 FES 
cases: 366 (80.2%) had Ischaemic CVD, 81 (17.7%) had hemorrhagic CVD and 9 (1%) 
were of unspecified category. The mean age was 66 yrs SD +/- 13.60 and women 
were older compared with men (mean age 68.9 yrs SD +/- 13.12 versus 63.4 yrs SD 
+/- 13.53). Hypertension (BP more than 140/90 mm Hg) alone or in various 
combinations was present in 378 ( 82.8%) cases. Case fatality at 28 days after 
the FES stroke was 29.8%. Of 320 surviving patients 38.5% had moderate to severe 
disability.
CONCLUSIONS: WHO STEPs stroke surveillance Instrument is simple to use and, 
practical for community surveys. The data are useful for planning stroke 
prevention campaigns on public awareness and education with regard to diet, 
exercise, blood pressure control and early symptoms of minor strokes.

PMID: 19086353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Dec 16;8:258. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-258.

Cost-effectiveness of gargling for the prevention of upper respiratory tract 
infections.

Sakai M(1), Shimbo T, Omata K, Takahashi Y, Satomura K, Kitamura T, Kawamura T, 
Baba H, Yoshihara M, Itoh H; Great Cold Investigators-I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research and Informatics, Research Institute, 
International Medical Center of Japan, Tokyo, Japan. sakai.michi1@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: In Japan, gargling is a generally accepted way of preventing upper 
respiratory tract infection (URTI). The effectiveness of gargling for preventing 
URTI has been shown in a randomized controlled trial that compared incidences of 
URTI between gargling and control groups. From the perspective of the 
third-party payer, gargling is dominant due to the fact that the costs of 
gargling are borne by the participant. However, the cost-effectiveness of 
gargling from a societal perspective should be considered. In this study, 
economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled trial was performed to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of gargling for preventing URTI from a societal 
perspective.
METHODS: Among participants in the gargling trial, 122 water-gargling and 130 
control subjects were involved in the economic analysis. Sixty-day cumulative 
follow-up costs and effectiveness measured by quality-adjusted life days (QALD) 
were compared between groups on an intention-to-treat basis. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was converted to dollars per quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY). The 95% confidence interval (95%CI) and probability of 
gargling being cost-effective were estimated by bootstrapping.
RESULTS: After 60 days, QALD was increased by 0.43 and costs were $37.1 higher 
in the gargling group than in the control group. ICER of the gargling group was 
$31,800/QALY (95%CI, $1,900-$248,100). Although this resembles many acceptable 
forms of medical intervention, including URTI preventive measures such as 
influenza vaccination, the broad confidence interval indicates uncertainty 
surrounding our results. In addition, one-way sensitivity analysis also 
indicated that careful evaluation is required for the cost of gargling and the 
utility of moderate URTI. The major limitation of this study was that this trial 
was conducted in winter, at a time when URTI is prevalent. Care must be taken 
when applying the results to a season when URTI is not prevalent, since the ICER 
will increase due to decreases in incidence.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests gargling as a cost-effective preventive strategy 
for URTI that is acceptable from perspectives of both the third-party payer and 
society.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-258
PMCID: PMC2651874
PMID: 19087312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Med Clin (Barc). 2008 Nov;131 Suppl 2:60-5. doi:
10.1016/s0025-7753(08)76451-0.

[Oral anticoagulat treatment in venous thromboembolic disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Fontcuberta J(1).

Author information:
(1)Unitat d'Hemostàsia i Trombosi, Departament d'Hematologia, Hospital de la 
Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, España. Jfontcuberta@santpau.cat

Coumarin or anti-vitamin K oral anticoagulants have been used in anticoagulation 
therapy for more than 50 years. Well-designed studies have demonstrated the 
effectiveness of these drugs in the primary and secondary prevention of venous 
thromboembolic disease (VTD). Because of greater life expectancy and the 
increase in the indications for oral anticoagulation therapy (OAT), more and 
more patients are receiving this type of treatment. In Spain, approximately 1% 
of the population receives OAT. The mechanism of action of coumarin 
anticoagulants is based on inhibition of the interconversion of vitamin K and 
its 2,3-epoxide (vitamin K epoxide, which modulates gamma-carboxylation of the 
glutamic acid residues in the N-terminal regions of vitamin-K-dependent factors, 
namely, II, VII, IX, X, protein C, protein S and protein Z). Due to the lack of 
gamma-carboxylation, these factors lose their procoagulant activity. Major 
hemorrhagic complications of OAT in VTD after 3-6 months of treatment, with an 
INR of 2-3, occur in nearly 2% of patients. The hemorrhagic complications of OAT 
are related to the intensity of anticoagulation, patient characteristics, the 
concomitant use of drugs that interfere with hemostasis, and treatment duration. 
The risk of VTD recurrence after 3-6 months of OAT is high and can be more than 
10% in patients with idiopathic thromboembolism or irreversible risk factors 
such as thrombophilia, cancer and other situations conferring permanent risk. 
The risk of recurrence is more frequent in men, in patients with thrombophilia 
especially in antithrombin deficiency, and in patients with cancer, residual 
venous obstruction, or elevated D dimer.

DOI: 10.1016/s0025-7753(08)76451-0
PMID: 19087853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Appl Oral Sci. 2006;14 Suppl:30-3. doi: 10.1590/s1678-77572006000700007.

Research proposal: evaluation of the ART approach in elderly patients.

Rabello T(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Ilha do Fundão - 
Rio de Janeiro - RJ, Brazil. tiagorabello@bol.com.br

With the increase of life expectancy in the world's population, oral health care 
of elderly people has attracted considerably more attention over the last years. 
Many elderly may benefit from oral health promotion measures that involve the 
Atraumatic Restorative Treatment (ART) approach. The purpose of this study will 
be to evaluate, over 3 years of follow-up, the clinical behavior of atraumatic 
restorations placed in elderly patients. The study will comprise a structured 
interview, intraoral clinical examination, oral hygiene instructions and the 
atraumatic restorative treatment. Intraoral examination will be carried out as 
recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). Small to medium size class 
I, II or V cavities without pulp involvement and spontaneous painful 
symptomatology will be selected to undergo the atraumatic restorative treatment. 
The restorations will be evaluated by direct observation at baseline and after 
6, 12, 24 and 36 months, using modified USPHS criteria. Two dentists with 
training and expertise in the ART approach, but who will not participate in the 
ART procedures, will evaluate the restorations.

DOI: 10.1590/s1678-77572006000700007
PMID: 19089084


828. J Environ Sci Health B. 2009 Jan;44(1):86-93. doi:
10.1080/03601230802519827.

Combined effects of exposure time and copper toxicity on the demography of Moina 
macrocopa (Crustacea: Cladocera).

Gama-Flores JL(1), Sarma SS, Nandini S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Aquatic Zoology, National Autonomous University of Mexico, 
Campus Iztacala, Tlalnepantla, Mexico. joluga@servidor.unam.mx

Cohort life table experiments were conducted on M. macrocopa using copper at 
three nominal concentrations (as CuSO(4), 0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 mg L(- 1), in 
addition to controls) for different periods of exposure (3 to 24 h). 
Age-specific survivorship of M. macrocopa decreased in relation to age of the 
cohort, concentration and duration of exposure to copper. Age-specific life 
expectancy curves also decreased with increasing age of the cohort. However, at 
low copper levels and shorter exposure time, there was an increase in life 
expectancy when the cohort was about 10 day old. Fecundity (m(x)) was nearly 
regular in controls; however, at higher copper levels and longer duration of 
exposure, the offspring production was more oscillating. The offspring 
production completely ceased when continuously exposed to CuSO(4) at 0.4 mg L(- 
1). Most of the measured demography variables significantly decreased with 
increasing concentration of Cu in the medium. The average lifespan and life 
expectancy at birth varied 2.9 to 9.6 and 2.4 to 9.1 days, respectively. Gross 
reproductive rate (GRR) varied from 31 to 89 offspring female(- 1) lifespan(- 
1), while the survival-weighted net reproductive rates were nearly one-third of 
the GRR. Generation time of M. macrocopa varied from 5 to 7 days while the rate 
of population increase ranged from 0.36 to 0.84 per day. The results are 
discussed in relation to the sensitivity of M. macrocopa to copper toxicity and 
the necessity of amending the national water quality criteria in Mexico.

DOI: 10.1080/03601230802519827
PMID: 19089719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Genes Cells. 2008 Nov;13(11):1171-83. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2008.01235.x.

N-acetyltransferase ARD1-NAT1 regulates neuronal dendritic development.

Ohkawa N(1), Sugisaki S, Tokunaga E, Fujitani K, Hayasaka T, Setou M, Inokuchi 
K.

Author information:
(1)Mitsubishi Kagaku Institute of Life Sciences, MITILS, 11 Minamiooya, Machida, 
Tokyo 194-8511, Japan.

ARD1 and NAT1 constitute an N-acetyltransferase complex where ARD1 holds the 
enzymatic activity of the complex. The ARD1-NAT1 complex mediates N-terminal 
acetylation of nascent polypeptides that emerge from ribosomes after 
translation. ARD1 may also acetylate the internal lysine residues of proteins. 
Although ARD1 and NAT1 have been found in the brain, the physiological role and 
substrates of the ARD1-NAT1 complex in neurons remain unclear. Here we 
investigated role of N-acetyltransferase activity in the process of neuronal 
development. Expression of ARD1 and NAT1 increased during dendritic development, 
and both proteins colocalized with microtubules in dendrites. The ARD1-NAT1 
complex displayed acetyltransferase activity against a purified microtubule 
fraction in vitro. Inhibition of the complex limited the dendritic extension of 
cultured neurons. These findings suggest that the ARD1-NAT1 complex has 
acetyltransferase activity against microtubules in dendrites. Regulation by 
acetyltransferase activity is a novel mechanism that is required for dendritic 
arborization during neuronal development.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2008.01235.x
PMID: 19090811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Eur J Cancer. 2009 Apr;45(6):1028-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.11.005. Epub
2008  Dec 16.

Long-term survival expectations of cancer patients in Europe in 2000-2002.

Brenner H(1), Francisci S, de Angelis R, Marcos-Gragera R, Verdecchia A, Gatta 
G, Allemani C, Ciccolallo L, Coleman M, Sant M; EUROCARE Working Group.

Collaborators: Oberaigner W, Hackl M, Van Eycken E, Verstreken M, Holub J, 
Jurickova L, Storm HH, Engholm G, Hakulinen T, Belot A, Hédelin G, Velten M, 
Tron I, Le Gall E, Launoy G, Guizard AV, Faivre J, Bouvier AM, Carli PM, 
Maynadié M, Danzon A, Buemi A, Tretarre B, Lacour B, Desandes E, Colonna M, 
Molinié F, Bara S, Schvartz C, Ganry O, Grosclaude P, Brenner H, Kaatsch P, 
Ziegler H, Tryggvadottir L, Comber H, Berrino F, Allemani G, Baili P, 
Ciampichini R, Ciccolallo L, Gatta G, Micheli A, Sant M, Sowe S, Zigon G, 
Tagliabue G, Contiero P, Bellù F, Giacomin A, Ferretti S, Dal Maso DS, De 
Dottori M, De Paoli A, Zanier L, Vercelli M, Orengo MA, Casella C, Quaglia A, 
Pannelli F, Federico M, Rashid I, Cirilli C, Fusco M, Traina A, De Lisi V, 
Bozzani F, Magnani C, Pastore G, Tumino R, La Rosa MG, Spata E, Sigona A, 
Mangone L, Falcini F, Foca F, Giorgetti S, Senatore G, Iannelli A, Budroni M, 
Zanetti R, Patriarca S, Rosso S, Piffer S, Franchini S, Paci E, Crocetti E, La 
Rosa F, Stracci F, Cassetti T, Zambon P, Guzzinati S, Caldora M, Capocaccia R, 
Carrani E, De Angelis R, Francisci S, Grande E, Inghelmann R, Lenz H, Martina L, 
Roazzi P, Santaquilani M, Simonetti A, Tavilla A, Verdecchia A, Dalmas M, 
Langmark F, Bray F, Johannesen TB, Rachtan J, Góźdź S, Siudowska U, Mezyk R, 
Bielska-Lasota M, Zwierko M, Pinheiro PS, Primic-Zakelj M, Mateos A, Izarzugaza 
I, Torrella-Ramos A, Zurriaga O, Marcos-Gragera R, Vilardell ML, Izquierdo A, 
Martinez-Garcia C, Sánchez MJ, Navarro C, Chirlaque MD, Peris-Bonet R, Ardanaz 
E, Moreno C, Galceran J, Klint A, Talbäck M, Jundt G, Usel M, Frick H, Ess SM, 
Bordoni A, Luthi JC, Konzelmann I, Probst N, Lutz JM, Pury P, Visser O, Otter R, 
Schaapveld M, Coebergh JW, Janssen-Heijnen ML, van der Heijden L, Greenberg DC, 
Coleman MP, Woods L, Moran T, Forman D, Cooper N, Roche M, Verne J, Møller H, 
Meechan D, Poole J, Lawrence G, Stiller C, Gavin A, Black RJ, Brewster DH, 
Steward JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, German Cancer Research 
Center, Heidelberg, Germany. h.brenner@dkfz.de

Period analysis has been shown to provide more up-to-date estimates of long-term 
cancer survival rates than traditional cohort-based analysis. Here, we provide 
detailed period estimates of 5- and 10-year relative survival by cancer site, 
country, sex and age for calendar years 2000-2002. In addition, pan-European 
estimates of 1-, 5- and 10-year relative survival are provided. Overall, 
survival estimates were mostly higher than previously available cohort 
estimates. For most cancer sites, survival in countries from Northern Europe, 
Central Europe and Southern Europe was substantially higher than in the United 
Kingdom and Ireland and in countries from Eastern Europe. Furthermore, relative 
survival was also better in female than in male patients and decreased with age 
for most cancer sites.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.11.005
PMID: 19091549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. J R Soc Med. 2008 Dec;101(12):577. doi: 10.1258/jrsm.2008.08k037.

Changing life expectancy throughout history.

Griffin JP.

Comment on
    J R Soc Med. 2008 Sep;101(9):454-62.

DOI: 10.1258/jrsm.2008.08k037
PMCID: PMC2625386
PMID: 19092024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Med Health R I. 2008 Nov;91(11):347-8.

Prognostication: medicine's lost art.

Jones CA(1).

Author information:
(1)The Warren A. Alpert Medical School of Brown University, USA.

PMID: 19093382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Can J Cardiovasc Nurs. 2008;18(4):40-6.

The potential of nursing to reduce the burden of heart failure in rural Canada: 
what strategies should nurses prioritize?

Clark AM(1), Freydberg N, Heath SL, Savard L, McDonald M, Strain L.

Author information:
(1)Level 3 CSB, Faculty of Nursing, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6R 2G3. 
alex.clark@ualberta.ca

Chronic heart failure (CHF) is an increasingly common condition in high-income 
countries that has a large and negative impact on life quality and expectancy, 
and is associated with high financial costs. In Canada, CHF has an especially 
large impact on rural settings because of the higher proportion of older adults 
(aged >65 years) in these settings, and because care and outcomes tend to be 
more adverse in rural parts of the country compared to urban settings. Much can 
be done to reduce these burdens in terms of pharmacological, behavioural and 
health service strategies. However, rural patients tend to have worse care and 
outcomes than urban patients. Realizing the benefits of these strategies in 
Canada's rural settings requires consideration of underlying reasons for poor 
care and outcomes. We propose the main reasons for adverse outcomes are related 
to the nature of CHF and the combined influence of demographics, health services 
and the rural context. Nurses remain under-used in CHF management in Canada and 
can play a vital and influential role in reducing the burden of CHF in rural 
settings. To increase and improve nurses' roles, we recommend that nurses should 
support the development and adaptation of disease management programs in rural 
settings and promote the centrality of nursing in these programs. Nurses in or 
working with rural settings should seek to support and use tele-health 
technologies effectively and provide better support to lay caregivers. It will 
also be vital to increase the nursing capacity regarding specialist roles for 
CHF management.

PMID: 19093421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Health Stat Q. 2008 Winter;(40):81-90.

Life expectancy at birth and at age 65 by local areas in the United Kingdom, 
2005-07.

Wells C(1), Gordon E.

Author information:
(1)Geographic Analysis of Mortality, Office of National Statistics, Newport. 
healthgeog@ons.gov.uk

PMID: 19093642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2008 Dec;56(12):2311-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.01999.x.

Survival in elderly persons with Down syndrome.

Coppus AM(1), Evenhuis HM, Verberne GJ, Visser FE, Oostra BA, Eikelenboom P, van 
Gool WA, Janssens AC, van Duijn CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

The longer life expectancy now experienced by persons with Down syndrome (DS) 
makes it necessary to know the factors influencing survival in older persons 
with this syndrome. In a prospective longitudinal cohort study of dementia and 
mortality, 506 persons with DS aged 45 and older were followed for a mean of 4.5 
years (range 0.0-7.6 years). Cognitive and social functioning were tested at 
baseline and annual follow-up. The diagnosis of dementia was determined 
according to a standardized protocol. Cox proportional hazards modeling was used 
for survival analysis. Relative preservation of cognitive and functional ability 
is associated with better survival in this study population. Clinically, the 
most important disorders in persons with DS that are related to mortality are 
dementia, mobility restrictions, visual impairment, and epilepsy but not 
cardiovascular diseases. Also, level of intellectual disability and 
institutionalization are associated with mortality.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.01999.x
PMID: 19093931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Law Med Ethics. 2008 Winter;36(4):693-702, 608. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-720X.2008.00324.x.

Reducing racial, ethnic, and socioeconomic disparities in health care: 
opportunities in national health reform.

Lillie-Blanton M(1), Maleque S, Miller W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, George Washington University School of Public 
Health and Health Services, USA.

Policy often focuses on reducing health care disparities through interventions 
at the patient and provider level. While unquestionably important, system-wide 
reforms to reduce uninsurance, improve geographic availability of services, 
increase workforce diversity, and promote clinical best practices are essential 
for progress in reducing disparities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-720X.2008.00324.x
PMID: 19093993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Urology. 2008 Dec;72(6 Suppl):S25-35. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2008.10.005.

Conventional treatments of localized prostate cancer.

Zerbib M(1), Zelefsky MJ, Higano CS, Carroll PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Groupe Hospitalier Cochin, Paris, France. 
marc.zerbib@cch.aphp.fr

Established therapeutic approaches for clinically localized prostate cancer 
include watchful waiting (active surveillance), radical prostatectomy, and 
radiotherapy. The risk of progression during surveillance is related to the 
initial cancer stage and grade; reasonable evidence has supported the safety and 
feasibility, during a period of 5-10 years, of an active surveillance regimen 
for men with low-risk prostate cancer. The progression rates at >10 years have 
not yet been studied in modern trials. Patients with low-risk tumor 
characteristics can be actively monitored without sacrificing the possibility of 
cure and without being exposed to an undue risk of disease progression, although 
some patients will not accept the emotional burden of living with an untreated 
cancer. Focal ablation might be an attractive alternative to active surveillance 
for some patients with low-risk cancer, if it proves to have minimal adverse 
effects on their quality of life. Radical prostatectomy is an effective form of 
therapy for patients with clinically significant prostate cancer; however, 
outcomes are highly sensitive to variations in surgical technique. Because of 
the risks of perioperative complications and urinary and sexual dysfunction, 
which appear to be as great with robotic-assisted prostatectomy as with any 
other technique, patients with low-risk cancer, especially those >60 years, 
might be attracted to more conservative alternatives, including active 
surveillance, radiotherapy, and focal ablation. External beam radiotherapy is an 
effective, noninvasive form of therapy, but it carries the long-term risks of 
troublesome bowel and sexual and urinary dysfunction. It might be too aggressive 
for many low-risk cancers detected in screened populations. For more aggressive 
cancers, local recurrence after radiotherapy carries substantial morbidity and 
low rates of long-term cancer control. Brachytherapy, a convenient, effective 
form of radiotherapy, is targeted at selected patients with clinically confined 
cancer and a prostate size of <60 g without evidence of extraprostatic extension 
on imaging. However, excellent outcomes require meticulous technique; acute 
urinary symptoms are frequent; and the long-term risks of proctitis and erectile 
dysfunction are comparable to the risks associated with external beam 
radiotherapy. Androgen-deprivation therapy is not recommended for men with 
localized prostate cancer who would otherwise be candidates for surgery or 
radiotherapy, because, even with short-term use, the risk of side effects, 
including osteopenic fracture and major cardiovascular events, serious. For 
locally extensive cancer, androgen-deprivation therapy should be used alone only 
for the relief of local symptoms in men with a life expectancy of <5 years who 
are not eligible for more aggressive treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2008.10.005
PMID: 19095125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Urology. 2008 Dec;72(6 Suppl):S3-11. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2008.10.006.

Prostate cancer: epidemiology and health-related quality of life.

Penson DF(1), Rossignol M, Sartor AO, Scardino PT, Abenhaim LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Southern California Keck School of 
Medicine, Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, Los Angeles, California 90089, 
USA. penson@usc.edu

The dramatic increase during the past decade in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
testing and prostate biopsies has resulted in the detection of large numbers of 
small lesions, an increase in the incidence of prostate cancer, and an 
increasing incidence-to-mortality ratio. Currently, the risk of being diagnosed 
with prostate cancer is increasingly greater than the risk of dying of it. The 
currently available treatments for prostate cancer are not well suited to 
treating small or indolent tumors. Radical treatment, whether surgery or 
radiotherapy, can eradicate cancer effectively, but these techniques, as well as 
