(1)ECRI Institute in Plymouth Meeting, Pennsylvania, USA. jlerner@ecri.org

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2009 May-Jun;28(3):925; author reply 925.

This paper assesses the implications for policy of recent aggressive efforts by 
manufacturers to enforce price-confidentiality clauses in contracts with 
hospitals for purchases of physician preference items (PPIs) such as implantable 
medical devices. Secrecy clauses prevent hospitals from revealing prices to 
third parties that help them negotiate prices and to surgeons who specify which 
device brands and models hospitals purchase. Litigation focused the attention of 
journalists and policymakers on problems that result from the asymmetry of 
information between buyers and sellers in the market for PPIs. Legislation is 
pending.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.27.6.1560
PMID: 18997212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Health Aff (Millwood). 2008 Nov-Dec;27(6):1577-86. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.27.6.1577.

The appropriate role of cost-effectiveness in determining device coverage: a 
case study of drug-eluting stents.

Firth BG(1), Cooper LM, Fearn S.

Author information:
(1)Cordis Corporation, a Johnson and Johnson subsidiary in Warren, New Jersey, 
USA.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2009 Mar-Apr;28(2):600-1; author reply 601.

The use of incremental cost-effectiveness ratios based on quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) as a critical determinant of what should be covered by a 
health system is a growing trend. This presents challenges when applied to 
rapidly evolving technologies. The case study here focuses on the example of 
drug-eluting stents and the four-year change in cost-effectiveness as determined 
by the U.K. National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE). We 
contend that classic cost-effectiveness as a blunt instrument for determining 
what should be covered may lead to erroneous conclusions when a broader 
perspective and the impact on health outcomes and costs are considered.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.27.6.1577
PMID: 18997214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. PLoS One. 2008;3(11):e3677. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003677. Epub 2008 Nov
10.

Probabilistic models for continuous ontogenetic transition processes.

Kuparinen A(1), O'Hara RB, Meril√§ J.

Author information:
(1)Ecological Genetics Research Unit, Department of Biological and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland. anna.kuparinen@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: Probabilistic reaction norms (PRNs) are an extension of the concept 
of reaction norms, developed to account for stochasticity in ontogenetic 
transitions. However, logistic regression based PRNs are restricted to discrete 
time intervals, whereas previously proposed models for continuous transitions 
are demanding in terms of modelling effort and data needed.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we introduce two alternative approaches for 
the probabilistic modelling of continuous ontogenetic transitions. The models 
are simplified in their description of forces underlying transitions, thus being 
empirical rather than mechanistic by their nature, but therefore applicable to 
situations where data and prior knowledge of transitions are limited. The models 
provide continuous time description of the transition pattern, insights into how 
it is affected by covariates, at the same time allowing for fine scale 
transition probability predictions. Performance of the models is demonstrated 
using empirical data on metamorphosis in common frogs (Rana temporaria) reared 
in a common garden experiment.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: As being user-friendly and methodologically easily 
accessible, the models introduced in this study aid the concept of probabilistic 
reaction norms becoming as general and applicable tool in the studies of 
life-history variation as the deterministic reaction norms are today.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003677
PMCID: PMC2577064
PMID: 18997864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


599. Soins. 2008 Oct;(729):16.

[Health is victim to social inequalities].

[Article in French]

Gabillat C(1).

Author information:
(1)c.gabillat@wanadoo.fr

PMID: 18998424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Sheng Wu Gong Cheng Xue Bao. 2008 Aug;24(8):1480-4.

[Cloning of human adiponectin gene by PCR-driven overlap extension and 
expression in Pichia pastoris].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang B(1), Zhang R, Ji J, Xue K, Jing E, Zhang Z, Wei Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Resource Biology and Biotechnology in Western China, School 
of Life Science, Northwest University, Xi'an 710069, China.

Gene of human adiponectin (ADPN) was cloned by PCR-driven overlap extension. The 
ADPN gene was linked into pGEM-T vector. After the sequence was determined, the 
ADPN gene was subcloned into expression vector pPIC3.5K to yield the recombinant 
expression vector pPIC3.5K-ADPN. The recombinant plasmid was transformed into 
Pichia pastoris GS115 by electroporation, then the recombinant strain was 
identified by PCR and Southern blotting. After induction by methanol, ADPN was 
expressed in GS115, then the protein was identified by Western blotting. The 
results showed that the ADPN was expressed successfully. The optimum conditions 
of expression were 30 degrees C and 1% methanol inducing 48 h.

PMID: 18998555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Am J Prev Med. 2008 Dec;35(6):578-88. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2008.06.040.

Cost effectiveness of community-based physical activity interventions.

Roux L(1), Pratt M, Tengs TO, Yore MM, Yanagawa TL, Van Den Bos J, Rutt C, 
Brownson RC, Powell KE, Heath G, Kohl HW 3rd, Teutsch S, Cawley J, Lee IM, West 
L, Buchner DM.

Author information:
(1)Physical Activity and Health Branch, Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity 
and Obesity, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. lroux@ucalgary.ca

BACKGROUND: Physical inactivity is associated with the increased risk of many 
chronic diseases. Such risks decrease with increases in physical activity. This 
study assessed the cost-effectiveness of population-wide strategies to promote 
physical activity in adults and followed disease incidence over a lifetime.
METHODS: A lifetime cost-effectiveness analysis from a societal perspective was 
conducted to estimate the costs, health gains, and cost-effectiveness (dollars 
per quality-adjusted life year [QALY] gained, relative to no intervention) of 
seven public health interventions to promote physical activity in a simulated 
cohort of healthy U.S. adults stratified by age, gender, and physical activity 
level. Interventions exemplifying each of four strategies strongly recommended 
by the Task Force on Community Preventive Services were evaluated: 
community-wide campaigns, individually adapted health behavior change, community 
social-support interventions, and the creation of or enhanced access to physical 
activity information and opportunities. Each intervention was compared to a 
no-intervention alternative. A systematic review of disease burden by physical 
activity status was used to assess the relative risk of five diseases (coronary 
heart disease, ischemic stroke, type 2 diabetes, breast cancer, and colorectal 
cancer) across a spectrum of physical activity levels. Other data were obtained 
from clinical trials, population-based surveys, and other published literature.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness ratios ranged between $14,000 and $69,000 per QALY 
gained, relative to no intervention. Results were sensitive to 
intervention-related costs and effect size.
CONCLUSIONS: All of the evaluated physical activity interventions appeared to 
reduce disease incidence, to be cost-effective, and--compared with other 
well-accepted preventive strategies--to offer good value for money. The results 
support using any of the seven evaluated interventions as part of public health 
efforts to promote physical activity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2008.06.040
PMID: 19000846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Heart. 2009 Mar;95(3):173-5. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2008.160515. Epub 2008 Nov 10.

Marfan syndrome: 30 years of research equals 30 years of additional life 
expectancy.

Pyeritz RE.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2008.160515
PMID: 19001001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Ann Fam Med. 2008 Nov-Dec;6(6):512-8. doi: 10.1370/afm.889.

Cost-effectiveness of automated telephone self-management support with nurse 
care management among patients with diabetes.

Handley MA(1), Shumway M, Schillinger D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Division of Preventive Medicine 
and Public Health, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco 
General Hospital, San Francisco, CA 94110, USA. handleym@fcm.ucsf.edu

PURPOSE: This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of an automated telephone 
self-management support with nurse care management (ATSM) intervention for 
patients with type 2 diabetes, which was tested among patients receiving primary 
care in publicly funded (safety net) clinics, focusing on non-English speakers.
METHODS: We performed cost analyses in the context of a randomized trial among 
primary care patients comparing the effects of ATSM (n = 112) and usual care (n 
= 114) on diabetes-related outcomes in 4 San Francisco safety net clinics. ATSM 
uses interactive phone technology to provide surveillance, patient education, 
and one-on-one counseling, and was implemented in 3 languages for a 9-month 
period. Cost utility was examined using quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
derived from changes in scores on the 12-Item Short Form Health Survey. We also 
examined cost-effectiveness for costs associated with a 10% increase in the 
proportion of patients meeting diabetes-specific public health goals for 
increasing exercise, as recommended by Healthy People 2010 and the American 
Diabetes Association.
RESULTS: The annual cost of the ATSM intervention per QALY gained, relative to 
usual care, was $65,167 for start-up and ongoing implementation costs combined, 
and $32,333 for ongoing implementation costs alone. In sensitivity analyses, 
costs per QALY ranged from $29,402 to $72,407. The per-patient cost to achieve a 
10% increase in the proportion of intervention patients meeting American 
Diabetes Association exercise guidelines was estimated to be $558 when all costs 
were considered and $277 when only ongoing costs were considered.
CONCLUSIONS: The ATSM intervention for diverse patients with diabetes had a cost 
utility for functional outcomes similar to that of many other accepted 
interventions targeted at diabetes prevention and treatment, and achieved public 
health physical activity objectives at modest costs. Because a considerable 
proportion of costs were fixed, cost-utility and cost-effectiveness estimates 
would likely be substantially improved in a scaled-up ATSM program.

DOI: 10.1370/afm.889
PMCID: PMC2582479
PMID: 19001303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2008 Nov 19;100(22):1571-3. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djn422.
Epub  2008 Nov 11.

Preventive Services Task Force recommends against PSA screening after age 75.

Twombly R.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djn422
PMCID: PMC3299218
PMID: 19001606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. JAMA. 2008 Nov 12;300(18):2116-7; author reply 2117. doi:
10.1001/jama.2008.551.

Patient-predicted life expectancy among ambulatory patients with heart failure.

Nusbaum NJ.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2008 Jun 4;299(21):2533-42.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2008.551
PMID: 19001619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Vasa. 2008 Nov;37(4):333-7. doi: 10.1024/0301-1526.37.4.333.

Screening for renal artery stenosis in patients with aorticoiliac occlusive 
disease.

Shakeri A(1), Shoja M, Tubbs RS, Loukas M, Ardalan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of atherosclerotic renal artery disease has increased 
with improved life expectancy. Because renal artery stenosis is a potentially 
correctable cause of hypertension and ischemic nephropathy, early identification 
of this entity may lead to proper hypertension control and improved renal 
function and survival. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence and 
patterns of subclinical renal artery stenosis in patients with aorticoiliac 
atherosclerosis.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The abdominal angiographies of 44 patients with high-grade 
aorticoiliac occlusive disease (> 70% stenosis) were reviewed for evidence of 
renal artery stenosis. This was compared to a group of 20 patients with 
mild-to-moderate aorticoiliac disease (< 70% stenosis). These patients had no 
history of renal artery disease or renal failure.
RESULTS: In patients with high-grade aorticoiliac occlusive disease, renal 
artery stenosis was found in 25 patients (56.8%); 13 with unilateral (29.5%) and 
12 (27.3%) with bilateral involvement. A hemodynamically significant stenosis (> 
50%) was found in 11 patients (25%), one of whom had bilateral stenosis (2.3%). 
High-grade renal artery stenosis (> 70%) or complete arterial occlusion was 
noted on seven sides (7.9%). The most common sites of stenosis were the origin 
and first centimeter of the renal artery. In patients with mild-to-moderate 
aorticoiliac disease, renal artery stenosis was found in two patients (10%).
CONCLUSIONS: The present study revealed that subclinical renal artery disease 
may be present in more than half of the patients with high-grade aorticoiliac 
atherosclerosis highlighting the need for proper risk stratifications and 
screening programs. Based on our results, we suggest that examination of the 
renal arteries in these patients may be necessary in order to delay or prevent 
complications. Additionally, such information may have important therapeutic 
implications in planning reconstructive vascular surgeries or percutaneous 
angioplasties.

DOI: 10.1024/0301-1526.37.4.333
PMID: 19003743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2008 Jul-Aug;(4):5-9.

[The application of the social economic zoning in the study of malignant 
neoplasm mortality].

[Article in Russian]

Gaƒ≠darov GM, Makarov SV.

The results of the application of the social economic zoning approach in 
studying the mortality of malignant neoplasms of digestive apparatus on the 
Irkutsk oblast territories with low population density are discussed.

PMID: 19004213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Przegl Lek. 2008;65(7-8):321-8.

[Influence of antiplatelet drugs (AD) on the efectiveness of combined therapy of 
small cell lung cancer. Part II. Influence of treatment on time of remission and 
patients survival].

[Article in Polish]

Ochma≈Ñski W(1).

Author information:
(1)Katedra Chor√≥b Wewnetrznych i Gerontologii, Uniwersytet Jagiello≈Ñski, 
Collegium Medicum, Krak√≥w.

In the experimental work evidence has been shown concerning the important 
relationship that exsists between the neoplastic process and blood coagulation 
status. In the 1st part of the paper it was shown that antiplatelet drugs (AD) 
prolonged bleeding and clotting time, increased the threshold ADP and collagen 
concentration causing platelets aggregation, as well as increased platelet 
aggregation ratio. The used AD (Defibrotide, Ticlide) resulted in activation of 
the plasma fibrynollytic system as expressed by the shortenning of ECLT, 
lowering of fibrinogen level and increasing FDP. The aim of the 2nd part of the 
paper was to verify the hypothesis that addition of AD blocked platelet 
aggregation and also destructed the protecting layer of platelets which surround 
the cancer cells. This may increase the effectiveness of antineoplastic 
chemotherapy, lengthen remission and life expectancy. The study was performed in 
87 male patients aged 35-73 years with unilateral SCLC (histologically 
verified). Beside the classical chemotherapy: - 2 series in 3 week intervals 
(VAC scheme according Greco): -Adriamycin (ADR) 40 mg on 1sq.m of body surface; 
- Vincristin (VCR) 1 mg; on 1sq.m of body surface; -Cyclophosfamid (CTX) 1000 
mg. on 1sq.m of body surface; radiation was applied in all patients (40 Gy 
during 20 days on the tumor and mediastinum). Patients were randomly divided 
into four groups. Group I, controls (n=22) were treated as above. In the 
remaining groups--additionally AD were used. Patients from Group II (n=22) 
received Defibrotide, from Group III (n=22) Ticlide and Group IV (n=21) Aspirin. 
In the studied groups the percentage of complete and partial remission (CR+PR) 
was 84% of which 42.5% had complete remission. In each individual group, these 
percentages differed variously and equaled for CR+PR from 47.6% in Aspirin 
treated group, to 100% in Defibrotide and Ticlide groups. In a similar fashion, 
the percentage of CR varied from 9.5% in patients treated with Aspirin to 68% in 
group of patients treated with Defibrotide. Remission obtained in patients 
treated with chemotherapy with addition of AD was significantly longer as 
compared with controls. In the studied controls and patients treated 
additionally with AD--median remission time equalled 27.5 and 32 weeks. The 
differences were statistically significant. In each particular group the 
remission time varied from 8 weeks in controls to 213 weeks in the patients 
group treated additionally with Defibrotide. The average remission time in each 
group also varied significantly from 27.5 weeks in group I to 50 weeks in 
patients treated with Defibrotide. In the studied patients group the medial 
survival time was on average 50 weeks. This comprised 36.5 weeks within the 
control group and 53 weeks in the groups treated with addition of AD. Patients 
treated with chemotherapy combined with AD had 1.5 fold greater probability of 
survival as compared with controls. The longest survival above 4 years was 
observed in the group of patients treated with addition with Defibrotide. The 
performed study in patients with unilateral SCLC treated with cytostatics, 
irradiation and AD indicate better survival of patients receiving AD. The 
obtained results confirm the suggestion that improvement of the fate of SCLC 
patients by utilizing parallel treatment comprising chemio-, radio- and anti- 
aggregatory therapy is possible.

PMID: 19004228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Presse Med. 2009 Jan;38(1):92-102. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.09.016. Epub 2008
Nov  11.

[Acromegaly].

[Article in French]

Chanson P(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie et des maladies de la reproduction, Assistance 
publique des h√¥pitaux de Paris, H√¥pital de Bic√™tre, Facult√© de m√©decine 
Paris-Sud, Universit√© Paris XI, F-94275 Le Kremlin-Bic√™tre, France. 
philippe.chanson@bct.ap-hop-paris.fr

Acromegaly is a rare disease usually caused by growth hormone (GH) 
hypersecretion, due to a pituitary adenoma; in very rare cases, acromegaly is 
due to ectopic secretion of GHRH, responsible for pituitary hyperplasia. Owing 
to its insidious onset, acromegaly is often diagnosed late (4 to > 10 years 
after onset), at an average age of about 40 years, in front of an acquired, 
slowly progressing disfigurement mainly involving the face and extremities. 
Acromegaly has also rheumatologic, cardiovascular, respiratory and metabolic 
consequences which determine its prognosis. The diagnosis is based on an 
increased serum GH concentration unsuppressed following an oral glucose load 
(oral glucose tolerance test -OGTT-) and an increased insulin-like growth 
factor-I (IGF-I); according to a 2000 Consensus statement, if the basal serum GH 
is above 0,4microg/L (1.2mIU/L) and/or if the IGF-I is elevated, an OGTT must be 
performed. If the lowest GH value (nadir) during OGTT remains above 1microg/L 
(3mIU/L), acromegaly is confirmed. With the generalized use of very sensitive 
assays nowadays, it has recently been considered that this cutoff should be 
decreased to 0,3microg/L (0.9mIU/L). Treatment is aimed at correcting (or 
preventing) tumor compression by excising the culprit lesion, and at reducing GH 
and IGF-I levels to normal values (or at least to a "safe" GH level of < 
2microg/L or < 6mIU/L). A stepwise therapeutic strategy is used: transsphenoidal 
surgery is often the first-line treatment; when surgery fails to correct 
GH/IGF-I hypersecretion, medical treatment with somatostatin analogs and/or 
radiotherapy can be used, somatostatin analogs being generally preferred; the GH 
antagonist (pegvisomant) is used in patients that are resistant or intolerant to 
somatostatin analogs. Prognosis of acromegaly has improved in the recent years: 
adequate hormonal disease control is achieved in most cases, allowing life 
expectancy similar to that of the general population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.09.016
PMID: 19004612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. J Clin Densitom. 2009 Jan-Mar;12(1):1-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jocd.2008.10.001.
Epub  2008 Nov 11.

Identification of factors influencing the intervention thresholds for treatment 
of osteoporosis based on 10-year absolute fracture risks.

Moayyeri A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocd.2008.10.001
PMID: 19004652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Scand J Public Health. 2008 Nov;36(8):841-9. doi: 10.1177/1403494808095086.

Long-term fiscal implications of subsidizing in-vitro fertilization in Sweden: a 
lifetime tax perspective.

Svensson A(1), Connolly M, Gallo F, H√§gglund L.

Author information:
(1)Lund University, Sweden. anders.e.svensson@gmail.com

AIMS: In Sweden approximately 3% of annual births are conceived using assisted 
reproductive technologies (ART). In light of increasing use of ART in Sweden we 
estimate the lifetime future tax revenues of a child conceived by in-vitro 
fertilization (IVF) to establish whether public subsidy of IVF represents sound 
fiscal policy.
METHODS: A modified generational accounting model was developed to calculate the 
net present value (NPV) of average investment costs required to achieve an 
IVF-conceived child. The model simulates direct lifetime financial interactions 
between the child and the Swedish government. Within the model we assume average 
direct financial transfers are made to the individual (eg, child allowance, 
education, health care, pension, etc). In return, the individual transfers 
resources to the government through taxation based on anticipated average 
earnings. The difference between direct transfers and gross taxes paid equals 
the net-tax contribution. Individual tax contributions were held constant in the 
model.
RESULTS: Based on average life-expectancy an individual born in 2005 will pay an 
undiscounted 32.5 million SEK in taxes to the Swedish government and receive 
20.9 million SEK in direct financial transfers over their lifetime. When these 
figures are discounted and IVF costs are included in the analysis we obtain a 
lifetime NPV of 254,000 SEK with a break-even point at age 41 (the age of 
achieving a positive NPV) for an individual conceived through IVF.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on results presented here we conclude that State-funded IVF 
in Sweden does not negatively impact the long run fiscal budget. Conversely, 
over an average lifetime an IVF offspring returns a positive net value to the 
State.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494808095086
PMID: 19004901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. PLoS One. 2008;3(11):e3715. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003715. Epub 2008 Nov
13.

The relative influence of competition and prey defenses on the phenotypic 
structure of insectivorous bat ensembles in southern Africa.

Corrie Schoeman M(1), Jacobs DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Cape Town, Rondebosch, South Africa. 
schoemanc@ukzn.ac.za

Deterministic filters such as competition and prey defences should have a strong 
influence on the community structure of animals such as insectivorous bats that 
have life histories characterized by low fecundity, low predation risk, long 
life expectancy, and stable populations. We investigated the relative influence 
of these two deterministic filters on the phenotypic structure of insectivorous 
bat ensembles in southern Africa. We used null models to simulate the random 
phenotypic patterns expected in the absence of competition or prey defences and 
analysed the deviations of the observed phenotypic pattern from these expected 
random patterns. The phenotypic structure at local scales exhibited non-random 
patterns consistent with both competition and prey defense hypotheses. There was 
evidence that competition influenced body size distribution across ensembles. 
Competition also influenced wing and echolocation patterns in ensembles and in 
functional foraging groups with high species richness or abundance. At the same 
time, prey defense filters influenced echolocation patterns in two species-poor 
ensembles. Non-random patterns remained evident even after we removed the 
influence of body size from wing morphology and echolocation parameters taking 
phylogeny into account. However, abiotic filters such as geographic distribution 
ranges of small and large-bodied species, extinction risk, and the physics of 
flight and sound probably also interacted with biotic filters at local and/or 
regional scales to influence the community structure of sympatric bats in 
southern Africa. Future studies should investigate alternative parameters that 
define bat community structure such as diet and abundance to better determine 
the influence of competition and prey defences on the structure of insectivorous 
bat ensembles in southern Africa.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003715
PMCID: PMC2579324
PMID: 19005563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


613. Eur Spine J. 2008 Dec;17 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):492-503. doi: 
10.1007/s00586-008-0750-6. Epub 2008 Nov 13.

Cell transplantation in lumbar spine disc degeneration disease.

Hohaus C(1), Ganey TM, Minkus Y, Meisel HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, BG-Clinic Bergmannstrost, Halle, Germany.

Low back pain is an extremely common symptom, affecting nearly three-quarters of 
the population sometime in their life. Given that disc herniation is thought to 
be an extension of progressive disc degeneration that attends the normal aging 
process, seeking an effective therapy that staves off disc degeneration has been 
considered a logical attempt to reduce back pain. The most apparent cellular and 
biochemical changes attributable to degeneration include a decrease in cell 
density in the disc that is accompanied by a reduction in synthesis of 
cartilage-specific extracellular matrix components. With this in mind, one 
therapeutic strategy would be to replace, regenerate, or augment the 
intervertebral disc cell population, with a goal of correcting matrix 
insufficiencies and restoring normal segment biomechanics. Biological 
restoration through the use of autologous disc chondrocyte transplantation 
offers a potential to achieve functional integration of disc metabolism and 
mechanics. We designed an animal study using the dog as our model to investigate 
this hypothesis by transplantation of autologous disc-derived chondrocytes into 
degenerated intervertebral discs. As a result we demonstrated that disc cells 
remained viable after transplantation; transplanted disc cells produced an 
extracellular matrix that contained components similar to normal intervertebral 
disc tissue; a statistically significant correlation between transplanting cells 
and retention of disc height could displayed. Following these results the Euro 
Disc Randomized Trial was initiated to embrace a representative patient group 
with persistent symptoms that had not responded to conservative treatment where 
an indication for surgical treatment was given. In the interim analyses we 
evaluated that patients who received autologous disc cell transplantation had 
greater pain reduction at 2 years compared with patients who did not receive 
cells following their discectomy surgery and discs in patients that received 
cells demonstrated a significant difference as a group in the fluid content of 
their treated disc when compared to control. Autologous disc-derived cell 
transplantation is technically feasible and biologically relevant to repairing 
disc damage and retarding disc degeneration. Adipose tissue provides an 
alternative source of regenerative cells with little donor site morbidity. These 
regenerative cells are able to differentiate into a nucleus pulposus-like 
phenotype when exposed to environmental factors similar to disc, and offer the 
inherent advantage of availability without the need for transporting, culturing, 
and expanding the cells. In an effort to develop a clinical option for cell 
placement and assess the response of the cells to the post-surgical milieu, 
adipose-derived cells were collected, concentrated, and transplanted under 
fluoroscopic guidance directly into a surgically damaged disc using our dog 
model. This study provides evidence that cells harvested from adipose tissue 
might offer a reliable source of regenerative potential capable of 
bio-restitution.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-008-0750-6
PMCID: PMC2587656
PMID: 19005697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Obes Surg. 2009 May;19(5):641-4. doi: 10.1007/s11695-008-9765-7. Epub 2008
Nov  13.

Referral for a bariatric surgical consultation: it is time to set a standard of 
care.

Dixon JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Head Obesity Research Unit, School of Primary Health Care, Monash University, 
270 Furntree Gully Road, Notting Hill, 3168, Australia. 
John.Dixon@med.monash.edu.au

Indications for bariatric surgery have been clear for some time and many would 
say that they are conservative. Unfortunately few eligible candidates seek or 
are referred for bariatric surgery, with less than 1% currently treated 
annually. In recent years, the evidence base supporting surgical therapy has 
strengthened with demonstrable improvements in both safety and efficacy. We now 
have evidence of remarkable improvements in health, quality of life, and 
increased life expectancy. There is continued frustration with the poor efficacy 
of non-surgical therapies and no indication that this is about to change. A 
caring physician should, as best care, refer the seriously ill morbidly obese 
patient for a surgical opinion. It is no different from their obligation to 
adequately manage type-2 diabetes, depression or unstable angina. Currently, 
even discussion of a surgical referral is optional. It is time we articulated 
and defined a group of patients where referral for a surgical opinion is no 
longer merely an option but a physician's responsibility as best care for the 
patient. It is time to provide leadership towards the delivery of better care 
for these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-008-9765-7
PMID: 19005734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Clin Cardiol. 2008 Nov;31(11):531-7. doi: 10.1002/clc.20305.

Prognosis of large, symptomatic pericardial effusion treated by echo-guided 
percutaneous pericardiocentesis.

Kil UH(1), Jung HO, Koh YS, Park HJ, Park CS, Kim PJ, Baek SH, Seung KB, Choi 
KB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kangnam St. Mary's 
Hospital, The Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUNDS: The causes and prognosis of pericardial effusion (PE) may be 
different according to time, region, economy, and hospital. This study was 
performed to evaluate the etiology, clinical outcome, and prognosis of patients 
with large, symptomatic PE treated by echo-guided pericardiocentesis at Kangnam 
St. Mary's Hospital (the Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea).
HYPOTHESIS: According to etiologies of large, symptomatic PE, the prognosis of 
patients may be different.
METHODS: We reviewed 116 consecutive patients who underwent echo-guided 
pericardiocentesis due to large, symptomatic PE over the last 12 y. The 
Kaplan-Meier survival curve with log-rank method was applied for the survival 
analysis.
RESULTS: Procedural success rate of echo-guided pericardiocentesis was 99.1%. 
Common causes of PE requiring pericardiocentesis were lung cancer (27.6%), 
tuberculosis (TB) (13.8%), and uremia (6.9%). The mortality rate of 6 mo after 
the pericardiocentesis was 80.3% in malignant PE, whereas the over-all mortality 
rate was 18.2% in nonmalignant PE (p < 0.0001). Among the malignant PE, lung 
cancer (27.6%) and breast cancers (6.9%) were the most common causes. The mean 
cytologic detection rate and mean life expectancy of malignant PE were 44% and 
5-7 mo. Patients with breast cancer and lymphoma had relatively better life 
expectancy (11.4 and 7.7 mo), whereas those with stomach cancer and metastases 
of unknown origin (MUO) had poorer prognosis (1.2 and 2.3 mo). The most common 
causes of nonmalignant PE were TB, uremia, and iatrogenic, and their mean life 
expectancy was approximately 54 mo.
CONCLUSIONS: Malignancy, especially lung cancer and TB, were the most common 
causes of large symptomatic PE. The prognosis of large symptomatic PE was 
related to the underlying disease. Malignant PE was associated with the poorest 
prognosis.

Copyright 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.20305
PMCID: PMC6653504
PMID: 19006110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2008 Jul-Aug;(4):12-5.

[The demographic conditions of the moderately urbanized territory of the Western 
Siberia].

[Article in Russian]

Kladov SIu, Novoselov VP.

The investigation of the structure of the premature mortality of the population 
living on the moderately urbanized territory of the Western Siberia was carried 
out to determine the major trends in disease prevention and life-span. In Tomsk 
oblast the mortality continues to remain on higher levels first of all because 
of higher mortality of population due to accidents, traumatism and 
intoxications. The impact on the mortality of such factors as alcoholism, 
tobacco smoking, traffic accidents, violent acts has been increased. The lower 
indicator of the population life expectancy in Tomsk oblast is an evidence of 
adverse demographic situation. As estimated, in Tomsk oblast in 2004 this 
indicator came to 64.8 years (66.8years in the Russian Federation). The growth 
of absolute and relative numbers of non-able-bodied population leads to increase 
of demographic burden on the able-bodied population. Recently, this burden 
increased comparatively not much, yet the children burden decreased and the 
elderly population increased as well.

PMID: 19006826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008 Nov 18;52(21):1702-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2008.08.028.

Changing preferences for survival after hospitalization with advanced heart 
failure.

Stevenson LW(1), Hellkamp AS, Leier CV, Sopko G, Koelling T, Warnica JW, Abraham 
WT, Kasper EK, Rogers JG, Califf RM, Schramm EE, O'Connor CM.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Division, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 
02115, USA. LStevenson@partners.org

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2008 Nov 18;52(21):1709-10.

OBJECTIVES: This study was designed to analyze how patient preferences for 
survival versus quality-of-life change after hospitalization with advanced heart 
failure (HF).
BACKGROUND: Although patient-centered care is a priority, little is known about 
preferences to trade length of life for quality among hospitalized patients with 
advanced HF, and it is not known how those preferences change after 
hospitalization.
METHODS: The time trade-off utility, symptom scores, and 6-min walk distance 
were measured in 287 patients in the ESCAPE (Evaluation Study of Congestive 
Heart Failure and Pulmonary Artery Catheter Effectiveness) trial at 
hospitalization and again during 6 months after therapy to relieve congestion.
RESULTS: Willingness to trade was bimodal. At baseline, the median trade for 
better quality was 3 months' survival time, with a modest relation to symptom 
severity. Preference for survival time was stable for most patients, but 
increase after discharge occurred in 98 of 145 (68%) patients initially willing 
to trade survival time, and was more common with symptom improvement and after 
therapy guided by pulmonary artery catheters (p = 0.034). Adjusting days alive 
after hospital discharge for patients' survival preference reduced overall days 
by 24%, with the largest reduction among patients dying early after discharge (p 
= 0.0015).
CONCLUSIONS: Preferences remain in favor of survival for many patients despite 
advanced HF symptoms, but increase further after hospitalization. The bimodal 
distribution and the stability of patient preference limit utility as a trial 
end point, but support its relevance in design of care for an individual 
patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2008.08.028
PMCID: PMC2763302
PMID: 19007689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No authors have potential conflicts of interest 
with this manuscript.


618. Anal Biochem. 2009 Feb 1;385(1):153-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2008.10.020. Epub
2008  Nov 1.

Identification of proteases and their types.

Shen HB(1), Chou KC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Image Processing and Pattern Recognition, Shanghai Jiaotong 
University, Shanghai 200240, China. hbshen@sjtu.edu.cn

Called by many as biology's version of Swiss army knives, proteases cut long 
sequences of amino acids into fragments and regulate most physiological 
processes. They are vitally important in the life cycle. Different types of 
proteases have different action mechanisms and biological processes. With the 
avalanche of protein sequences generated during the postgenomic age, it is 
highly desirable for both basic research and drug design to develop a fast and 
reliable method for identifying the types of proteases according to their 
sequences or even just for whether they are proteases or not. In this article, 
three recently developed identification methods in this regard are discussed: 
(i) FunD-PseAAC, (ii) GO-PseAAC, and (iii) FunD-PsePSSM. The first two were 
established by hybridizing the FunD (functional domain) approach and the GO 
(gene ontology) approach, respectively, with the PseAAC (pseudo amino acid 
composition) approach. The third method was established by fusing the FunD 
approach with the PsePSSM (pseudo position-specific scoring matrix) approach. Of 
these three methods, only FunD-PsePSSM has provided a server called ProtIdent 
(protease identifier), which is freely accessible to the public via the website 
at http://www.csbio.sjtu.edu.cn/bioinf/Protease. For the convenience of users, a 
step-by-step guide on how to use ProtIdent is illustrated. Meanwhile, the caveat 
in using ProtIdent and how to understand the success expectancy rate of a 
statistical predictor are discussed. Finally, the essence of why ProtIdent can 
yield a high success rate in identifying proteases and their types is 
elucidated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2008.10.020
PMID: 19007742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Mar;44(3):190-200. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.10.005. Epub
 2008 Oct 25.

Accelerated failure time models provide a useful statistical framework for aging 
research.

Swindell WR(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Geriatrics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109-2200, USA. wswindel@umich.edu

Survivorship experiments play a central role in aging research and are performed 
to evaluate whether interventions alter the rate of aging and increase lifespan. 
The accelerated failure time (AFT) model is seldom used to analyze survivorship 
data, but offers a potentially useful statistical approach that is based upon 
the survival curve rather than the hazard function. In this study, AFT models 
were used to analyze data from 16 survivorship experiments that evaluated the 
effects of one or more genetic manipulations on mouse lifespan. Most genetic 
manipulations were found to have a multiplicative effect on survivorship that is 
independent of age and well-characterized by the AFT model "deceleration 
factor". AFT model deceleration factors also provided a more intuitive measure 
of treatment effect than the hazard ratio, and were robust to departures from 
modeling assumptions. Age-dependent treatment effects, when present, were 
investigated using quantile regression modeling. These results provide an 
informative and quantitative summary of survivorship data associated with 
currently known long-lived mouse models. In addition, from the standpoint of 
aging research, these statistical approaches have appealing properties and 
provide valuable tools for the analysis of survivorship data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.10.005
PMCID: PMC2718836
PMID: 19007875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Am J Public Health. 2009 Jan;99(1):133-7. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.133801.
Epub  2008 Nov 13.

Mortality among men and women in same-sex marriage: a national cohort study of 
8333 Danes.

Frisch M(1), Br√∏nnum-Hansen H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology Research, Statens Serum Institut, 5 Artillerivej, 
DK-2300 Copenhagen S, Denmark. mfr@ssi.dk

OBJECTIVES: We studied overall mortality in a demographically defined, complete 
cohort of gay men and lesbians to address recent claims of markedly shorter life 
spans among homosexual persons.
METHODS: We calculated standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) starting 1 year 
after the date of same-sex marriage for 4914 men and 3419 women in Denmark who 
married a same-sex partner between 1989 and 2004.
RESULTS: Mortality was markedly increased in the first decade after same-sex 
marriage for men who married between 1989 and 1995 (SMR=2.25; 95% confidence 
interval [CI]=2.01, 2.50), but much less so for men who married after 1995, when 
efficient HIV/AIDS therapies were available (SMR=1.33; 95% CI=1.04, 1.68). For 
women who married their same-sex partner between 1989 and 2004, mortality was 
34% higher than was mortality in the general female population (SMR=1.34; 95% 
CI=1.09, 1.63). For women, and for men marrying after 1995, the significant 
excess mortality was limited to the period 1 to 3 years after the marriage.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite recent marked reduction in mortality among gay men, Danish 
men and women in same-sex marriages still have mortality rates that exceed those 
of the general population. The excess mortality is restricted to the first few 
years after a marriage, presumably reflecting preexisting illness at the time of 
marriage. Although further study is needed, the claims of drastically increased 
overall mortality in gay men and lesbians appear unjustified.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.133801
PMCID: PMC2636618
PMID: 19008504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Uisahak. 2008 Jun;17(1):1-22.

[The contradictive tendencies in medical treatment of the Hellenistic 
age--diversity versus simplification, chronic extension (physical therapy) 
versus rapidity, humane medicine versus worldly success].

[Article in Korean]

Che J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Mediterranean Studies, Pusan University of Foreign Studies.

It is a one-sided view to find the greatness of Hippocrates just in seeking 
after scientific medicine (medicina scientia) and sublating superstitious 
treatment. The scientific medicine did not begin with him, and the succeeding 
generations of him were not one and the same in opinions. For example, there 
were the confrontations between the school of Kos and that of Knidos in the very 
age of Hippocrates, as well as the opposition of rationalism and empiricism. The 
school of Kos was alleged to succeed the tradition of Hippocrates, taking into 
consideration individual physical conditions and being based on the principle of 
various clinical methods of physical therapy assuming chronical extension. On 
the contrary, the school of Knidos tended to define the diseases in simple 
aspects, paying no much attention to the difference of physical conditions and 
developmental stages of illness. Futhermore, the latter grasped the diseases 
rather in the point of individual organs than the disorder of physical state of 
the body. It can be said that the anatomical knowledge was more useful for the 
school of Knidos. The difference between the two schools can also be found in 
what purpose the medicine sought after. While Hippocrates attached much 
importance to physical therapy and made the people including the poor as object 
of medical treatment, there were doctors in no small number, we can suppose, in 
pursuit of money, power, worldly glory. As time passed, however, the two schools 
gradually got similar to each other, the difference of them reduced as well as 
the tradition of Hippocrates faded. The opposition between rationalism and 
empiricism in the Hellenistic Age shared, in some aspect, the difference of Kos 
and Knidos. According to Celsus, the conflict between rationalism and empiricism 
did not refer to pharmacy or anatomy, but just to diet. The rationalism 
materialized various methods of therapy considering environmental elements as 
well as individual physical conditions, but the empiricism in reality tended to 
expedite simplification of treatment. This tendency of simplification of the 
latter corresponded to the contemporary need of society, that is, speedy and 
effective treatment for the wounded in war or for epidemic in the army, farms of 
collective labour or much crowded cities. The bigger the groups were, the more 
the methods of treatment got simplified, individual conditions not much 
accounted. Then, the empiricism came to be united with anatomy, as the anatomy, 
being much developed in the process of curing the wounded in war, goes with 
simplification of medical treatment in the hospital of large scale. It can be 
said that the origin of simplified definition of diseases goes back far to the 
school of Knidos. On the other hand, in Hippocrates the drugs were in contrast 
to the diet. While the diet was to help health and rehabilitate physical 
conditions, the drugs were to result in strong effects of change. The drugs like 
as poison, eye-salve, ointment were to be made use of for rapid, effective 
change of physical state or for the treatment of a concrete, limited part of the 
body, These drugs were also much developed in the Hellenistic Age of the state 
of chronic war. In initial stages, the toxical drugs as well as the anatomy and 
surgical operations must have been developed on peaceful purpose, such like as 
'theriaca' detoxicating (antidoting) animal's poison, or for easing childbirth. 
With the increasement of social inequality and unexhausted human desire, 
however, the toxical drugs or anatomical knowledges got to be used for 
undesirable purposes. Thus, we can not estimate Hippocrates simply in the point 
whether he developed scientific medicine or not. The great fame of Hippocrates 
could be found rather in his method of medical treatment as well as the 
principle of medicine, as he believed that the medicine should not be exploited 
for worldly power or wealth but for the convenience of all the people. He 
pursued healthy life matching to natural state(physis) and took much account of 
different physical states of individual to embody various methods of treatment, 
which presupposed chronic delay. The opposite to the Hippocratic medicine is 
called for the wounded by war, or the collective labourer of large farm with 
intensive labour exploitation. The medical treatment for them assumed anatomical 
surgery and drugs of rapid, strong effect.

PMID: 19008651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2008 Nov 14;57(45):1226-8.

Smoking-attributable mortality, years of potential life lost, and productivity 
losses--United States, 2000-2004.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Cigarette smoking and exposure to tobacco smoke are associated with premature 
death from chronic diseases, economic losses to society, and a substantial 
burden on the United States health-care system. Smoking is the primary causal 
factor for at least 30% of all cancer deaths, for nearly 80% of deaths from 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and for early cardiovascular disease and 
deaths. In 2005, to assess the economic and public health burden from smoking, 
CDC published results of an analysis of smoking-attributable mortality (SAM), 
years of potential life lost (YPLL), and productivity losses in the United 
States from smoking during 1997-2001. The analysis was based on data from CDC's 
Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity, and Economic Costs (SAMMEC) system, 
which estimates SAM, YPLL, and productivity losses based on data from the 
National Health Interview Survey and death certificate data from the National 
Center for Health Statistics. This report presents an update of that analysis 
for 2000-2004, the most recent years for which source data are available. The 
updated analysis indicated that, during 2000-2004, cigarette smoking and 
exposure to tobacco smoke resulted in at least 443,000 premature deaths, 
approximately 5.1 million YPLL, and $96.8 billion in productivity losses 
annually in the United States. Comprehensive, national tobacco-control 
recommendations have been provided to the public health community with the goal 
of reducing smoking so substantially that it is no longer a significant public 
health problem in the United States.

PMID: 19008791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Gastrointest Surg. 2009 Mar;13(3):498-503. doi: 10.1007/s11605-008-0748-8.
 Epub 2008 Nov 14.

One thousand laparoscopic cholecystectomies in a single surgical unit using the 
"critical view of safety" technique.

Avgerinos C(1), Kelgiorgi D, Touloumis Z, Baltatzi L, Dervenis C.

Author information:
(1)1st Surgical Department, Agia Olga Hospital, 3-5 Agias Olgas Str, Athens 
14233, Greece.

INTRODUCTION: Bile duct injuries have been substantially increased after the 
introduction of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). They are accompanied by major 
morbidity, occasional mortality, lengthening of hospital stay, additional health 
costs, and deterioration of patients' quality of life and life expectancy. The 
aim of this study was to present the method of "critical view of safety" (CVS) 
as safe and feasible for the prevention of bile duct injuries during 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: During a 6-year period from January 2002 till December 
2007, 1,046 LCs (369 men and 677 women) were performed mainly for symptomatic 
gallstone disease. The CVS technique recommends clearing the triangle of Calot 
of fat and fibrous tissue and taking the gallbladder off the lowest part of its 
attachment to the gallbladder bed. The "infundibular" technique (identification 
of cystic duct and gallbladder junction) was used whenever CVS was not possible 
to perform.
RESULTS: The CVS was performed in 998 patients (95.4%). Overall, 27 patients 
needed conversion to the open approach (2.6%). This rate was higher in patients 
with acute inflammation undergoing early operation (nine of 128, 7%) compared 
with patients operated later or electively (18 of 914, 1.9%). There was no bile 
duct injury in the 1,046 cholecystectomies. Postoperatively, five patients had 
bile leaks which were transient and stopped spontaneously after 2-14 days. Two 
reoperations were performed because of severe bleeding.
CONCLUSION: CVS clarifies the relations of the anatomic structures that should 
be divided, and therefore, it should be ideally and routinely applied in all LCs 
because of its highly protective role against bile duct injuries.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-008-0748-8
PMID: 19009323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Oct 11;152(41):2233-41.

[The risk of cancer in the Netherlands].

[Article in Dutch]

Kiemeney LA(1), Lemmers FA, Verhoeven RH, Aben KK, Honing C, de Nooijer J, 
Peeters PH, Visser O, Vlems FA.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum St Radboud, afd. Epidemiologie, Biostatistiek en 
