hormonal manipulations, can have adverse effects on patients' health and quality 
of life. Watchful waiting, or "active surveillance," has the advantage of 
avoiding the deleterious effects on quality of life, but it confronts patients 
with the emotional burden of living with an untreated cancer that could progress 
and metastasize. For active surveillance, no established, objective criteria are 
available for progression that would signal the optimal time for therapeutic 
intervention. PSA levels in patients with low-risk, small-volume cancers are 
more indicative of the size of the benign prostate or the presence of 
inflammation than of changes in the volume or growth of the cancer, and PSA 
levels inherently fluctuate, creating a low signal-to-noise ratio until the 
cancer is very large. Little risk exists in waiting to confirm a sustained 
increase in the PSA level before proceeding with a diagnostic biopsy. This 
policy would decrease the number of unnecessary biopsies, but still diagnose men 
within a safe timeframe. In studies controlled for age and comorbidity, the 
survival rate for patients with low-risk prostate cancer mirrors that expected 
in the general population. This holds true across cohorts of patients, whatever 
the treatment used. Because no strong medical or scientific evidence supports 
any particular ablative technique for low-risk prostate cancer, no standard of 
care has been universally accepted. Therefore, practice patterns are 
heterogeneous and depend more on the availability of treatments than on the 
features of the disease itself.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2008.10.006
PMID: 19095126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Heart. 2009 May;95(9):733-9. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2008.158287. Epub 2008 Dec 18.

Left ventricular long axis dysfunction in adults with "corrected" aortic 
coarctation is related to an older age at intervention and increased aortic 
stiffness.

Lam YY(1), Mullen MJ, Kaya MG, Gatzoulis MA, Li W, Henein MY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, SH Ho Cardiovascular and Stroke Centre, Department of 
Medicine and Therapeutics, Prince of Wales Hospital, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR. yylam@cuhk.edu.hk

OBJECTIVES: This study examined the prevalence of left ventricular (LV) long 
axis dysfunction (LAD, septal annulus pulsed-wave (PW) tissue Doppler imaging 
(TDI) early diastolic velocity < or =8 cm/s) in patients with "corrected" aortic 
coarctation and its relationship to patient demographics and aortic elastic 
properties.
METHODS: A retrospective study of 80 consecutive patients with "corrected" 
aortic coarctation (aged 27 (SD 6) years, seven postballoon aortoplasty, 41 
poststenting and 32 postsurgical repair) was carried out. Patients' ages at 
intervention, comorbidities and medications were recorded. The LV long axis 
motions were recorded by M-mode and PW TDI. Aortic stiffness indices were 
calculated from the aortic diameters and pulse pressures.
RESULTS: Forty-seven patients (59%) had LAD. They were older (28 (5) vs 9 (6) 
years) at treatment, had stiffer aorta (stiffness index 18.4 (6.0) vs 9.2 
(2.3)), thicker LV walls (146.7 (59.7) vs 103.8 (44.9) g/m2), higher wall stress 
(80 (6) vs 70 (7) 10(3) dynes/cm2), larger left atria (31.7 (4.6) vs 24.5 (5.3) 
ml/m2) and higher LV filling pressures (p<0.01 for all) compared with those 
without LAD, despite a similar prevalence of antihypertensive use and bicuspid 
aortic valves. The age at intervention (OR 2.92, 95% CI 1.29 to 6.60, p<0.01) 
and aortic stiffness index (OR 1.98, 95% CI 1.41 to 2.79, p<0.001) were the two 
independent predictors for LAD in patients on multivariate analysis. A cut-off 
age of > or =25 year at intervention was 89% sensitive and 76% specific in 
predicting LAD (AUC = 0.90, p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: LAD is common in adults with aortic coarctation despite apparently 
successful treatment. Its presence is related to older age at intervention and 
increased aortic stiffness.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2008.158287
PMID: 19095712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Heart. 2009 Apr;95(7):542-9. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2008.147165. Epub 2008 Dec 18.

Cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency catheter ablation for the treatment of 
atrial fibrillation in the United Kingdom.

McKenna C(1), Palmer S, Rodgers M, Chambers D, Hawkins N, Golder S, Van Hout S, 
Pepper C, Todd D, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, UK. 
cm535@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency catheter ablation 
(RFCA) compared with anti-arrhythmic drug (AAD) therapy for the treatment of 
atrial fibrillation (AF) from the perspective of the UK NHS.
DESIGN: Bayesian evidence synthesis and decision analytical model.
METHODS: A systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted and Bayesian 
statistical methods used to synthesise the effectiveness evidence from 
randomised control trials. A decision analytical model was developed to assess 
the costs and consequences associated with the primary outcome of the trials 
over a lifetime time horizon.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Costs from a health service perspective and outcomes 
measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of RFCA varied between 
pound7763 and pound7910 for each additional QALY according to baseline risk of 
stroke, with a probability of being cost-effective from 0.98 to 0.99 for a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of pound20 000. Results were sensitive to the 
duration of quality of life benefits from treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: RFCA is potentially cost-effective for the treatment of paroxysmal 
AF in patients' predominantly refractory to AAD therapy provided the 
quality-of-life benefits from treatment are maintained for more than 5 years. 
These findings remain subject to limitations in the existing evidence regarding 
the nature of life benefits and the prognostic importance of restoring normal 
sinus rhythm conferred using RFCA.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2008.147165
PMID: 19095714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Am Acad Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2009 Jan;48(1):3-4. doi: 
10.1097/CHI.0b013e3181908c49.

Childhood psychopathology can be really bad for your health.

Angold A.

DOI: 10.1097/CHI.0b013e3181908c49
PMID: 19096294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Health Econ. 2009 Nov;18(11):1237-47. doi: 10.1002/hec.1424.

Adjusting life for quality or disability: stylistic difference or substantial 
dispute?

Airoldi M(1), Morton A.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science, London, UK. 
m.airoldi@lse.ac.uk

This paper focuses on the contrast between describing the benefit of a 
healthcare intervention as gain in health (QALY-type ideas) or a disability 
reduction (DALY-type ideas). The background is an apparent convergence in 
practice of the work conducted under both traditions. In the light of these 
methodological developments, we contrast a health planner who wants to maximise 
health and one who wants to minimise disability. To isolate the effect of 
framing the problem from a health or a disability perspective, we do not use 
age-weighting in calculating DALY and employ a common discounting methodology 
and the same set of quality of life weights. We find that interventions will be 
ranked in a systematically different way. The difference, however, is not 
determined by the use of a health or a disability perspective but by the use of 
life expectancy tables to determine the years of life lost. We show that this 
feature of the DALY method is problematic and we suggest its dismissal in favour 
of a fixed reference age rendering the use of a health or a disability 
perspective merely stylistic.

Copyright (c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1424
PMID: 19097040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Br J Ophthalmol. 2009 Jan;93(1):1-2. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.143685.

Are we doing too many cataract operations? Cataract surgery: a global 
perspective.

Dua HS, Said DG, Otri AM.

Comment on
    Br J Ophthalmol. 2009 Jan;93(1):13-7.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.143685
PMID: 19098039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. N Z Med J. 2008 Dec 12;121(1287):69-76.

Men's health and the health of the nation.

Johnson L(1), Huggard P, Goodyear-Smith F.

Author information:
(1)HealthWest PHO, Waitakere City, New Zealand. lannes@healthwest.co.nz

The health of the male population is a substantial contributor to the health of 
the nation. In general, men have a poorer health status and lower utilisation of 
health services than women. They have a lower life expectancy and are more 
likely to die from avoidable deaths than women. Men's health is increasingly 
being recognised as a specialty area of health promotion and of clinical 
practice. Male-specific approaches may assist in maximising the positive outcome 
of interventions aimed at educating men about their health issues, attracting 
men into seeking clinical services, and establishing and maintaining a 
gender-orientation in health services that encourages men to engage. With 
appropriate training and resources, primary health care is ideally placed to 
provide accessible, male-friendly services with lead to reduction in gender 
inequalities in health.

PMID: 19098970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2008 Dec 19;3:34. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-34.

Malignant mesothelioma.

Moore AJ(1), Parker RJ, Wiggins J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Wexham Park Hospital, Wexham, Slough, 
Berkshire, UK. a.moore@ic.ac.uk

Malignant mesothelioma is a fatal asbestos-associated malignancy originating 
from the lining cells (mesothelium) of the pleural and peritoneal cavities, as 
well as the pericardium and the tunica vaginalis. The exact prevalence is 
unknown but it is estimated that mesotheliomas represent less than 1% of all 
cancers. Its incidence is increasing, with an expected peak in the next 10-20 
years. Pleural malignant mesothelioma is the most common form of mesothelioma. 
Typical presenting features are those of chest pain and dyspnoea. Breathlessness 
due to a pleural effusion without chest pain is reported in about 30% of 
patients. A chest wall mass, weight loss, sweating, abdominal pain and ascites 
(due to peritoneal involvement) are less common presentations. Mesothelioma is 
directly attributable to occupational asbestos exposure with a history of 
exposure in over 90% of cases. There is also evidence that mesothelioma may 
result from both para-occupational exposure and non-occupational "environmental" 
exposure. Idiopathic or spontaneous mesothelioma can also occur in the absence 
of any exposure to asbestos, with a spontaneous rate in humans of around one per 
million. A combination of accurate exposure history, along with examination 
radiology and pathology are essential to make the diagnosis. Distinguishing 
malignant from benign pleural disease can be challenging. The most helpful CT 
findings suggesting malignant pleural disease are 1) a circumferential pleural 
rind, 2) nodular pleural thickening, 3) pleural thickening of > 1 cm and 4) 
mediastinal pleural involvement. Involvement of a multidisciplinary team is 
recommended to ensure prompt and appropriate management, using a framework of 
radiotherapy, chemotherapy, surgery and symptom palliation with end of life 
care. Compensation issues must also be considered. Life expectancy in malignant 
mesothelioma is poor, with a median survival of about one year following 
diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-34
PMCID: PMC2652430
PMID: 19099560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Int J Parasitol. 2009 May;39(6):735-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2008.11.006.
Epub  2008 Dec 7.

Circadian variation in shedding of the oocysts of Isospora turdi (Apicomplexa) 
in blackbirds (Turdusmerula): an adaptative trait against desiccation and 
ultraviolet radiation.

Martinaud G(1), Billaudelle M, Moreau J.

Author information:
(1)Equipe Ecologie-Evolutive, UMR CNRS 5561 Biogéosciences, Université de 
Bourgogne, 6 Bd Gabriel, F-21000 Dijon, France.

Many parasite species spend part of their life cycle in the external environment 
waiting for a new host. Emergence of parasites often occurs once a day, which 
may help to minimise mortality in an inhospitable environment and increase 
transition rates. Many intestinal parasites in birds are released in faeces only 
in the late afternoon. However, the adaptative significance of this pattern is 
unclear. One hypothesis is that a particular time of emergence may prevent 
parasite desiccation and therefore increase the parasite's life expectancy in 
the external environment. We tested this hypothesis experimentally using the 
blackbird (Turdus merula) infected with Isospora turdi (Protozoa: Apicomplexa). 
We found that short exposure of faeces to natural sunlight has a dramatic effect 
on oocyst survival. This appears to be due to the effect of warmth and 
ultraviolet (UV) radiation with UVB waves being more damaging than UVA. Oocysts 
contained in faeces shed in water are protected from the effect of sunlight. 
Together, these results suggest that the release of oocysts in the late 
afternoon is an adaptative trait to avoid desiccation and UV radiation, thus 
reducing mortality of the oocysts in the external environment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2008.11.006
PMID: 19100268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Transplant Proc. 2008 Dec;40(10 Suppl):S29-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.10.014.

Optimizing early de novo immunosuppression with sirolimus.

Weir MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Maryland School 
of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland 21201, USA. mweir@medicine.umaryland.edu

In the past, renal transplant deterioration was approached as a problem of 
"chronic rejection," which implied that deterioration of kidney function 
occurred because of past injuries that programmed the kidney for loss of 
function. New evidence suggests that deterioration occurs because of a new or 
recent source of injury. If a graft is losing function, the cause of 
deterioration needs to be identified. Some causes are treatable; those that are 
not should be diagnosed and further studied. To this end, we need to approach 
deterioration (loss of function or proteinuria) of renal transplant function by 
identifying distinct entities or components of the problem. Early and late 
kidney graft survival has improved considerably, owing to advances in clinical 
care, particularly immunosuppression. Many of the kidney transplants functioning 
today should serve their new owners for their life expectancy. The main cause of 
late kidney function deterioration remains allograft nephropathy. Often this 
reflects a failure of the immunosuppressive prescription. Subclinical rejection, 
chronic nephrotoxicity, recurrent disease, infections, or diabetes may 
contribute to this process. Optimal early and late immunosuppression is required 
to provide efficacy without attendant risk for graft dysfunction owing to 
nephrotoxicity. Because 1-year serum creatinine levels often provide an 
indication of long-term graft function, early evaluation of subtle degrees of 
graft dysfunction should prompt a graft biopsy to identify treatable causes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.10.014
PMID: 19100903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Public Health. 2009 Jan;123(1):e50-6. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.10.029. Epub
2008  Dec 19.

Improving male life expectancy in Birmingham.

Grayland J(1), Wilson R.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham Health and Wellbeing Partnership, UK. john.grayland@bhwp.nhs.uk

On average, a man in Birmingham can expect to live 2 years less than men in the 
rest of England. Taken together, diseases of the circulatory system are 
responsible for the majority of deaths. This paper lays out the challenge faced 
and the interventions used to close that gap, with a particular focus on a 
large-scale cardiovascular disease screening programme. Data from general 
practitioners' registers were used to target men over 40 years of age to be 
invited to special screening clinics to assess cardiovascular risk. The results 
obtained from almost 10,000 men are now being used to improve disease registers 
and to provide preventative treatments.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.10.029
PMID: 19100999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Lancet. 2008 Dec 20;372(9656):2088. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61902-9.

Europe's health divide.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61902-9
PMID: 19101365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Eur J Health Econ. 2009 Jul;10(3):309-21. doi: 10.1007/s10198-008-0134-1.
Epub  2008 Dec 21.

Cost-effectiveness of strong opioids focussing on the long-term effects of 
opioid-related fractures: a model approach.

Hass B(1), Lungershausen J, Hertel N, Poulsen Nautrup B, Kotowa W, Liedgens H.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, IMS HEALTH GmbH & Co. OHG, 90402, 
Nuremberg, Germany. BHass@de.imshealth.com

Opioid analgesics are known to impact on the central nervous system (CNS). These 
CNS side effects, such as dizziness and confusion, have been shown to lead to an 
increased risk of falling with subsequent fractures in elderly patients being 
treated with opioids. The risk of experiencing fractures has been shown to be 
dependent on the substance administered. Therefore, a health economic model was 
developed to investigate the cost-effectiveness of the most commonly used strong 
opioids in Germany, focussing on opioid-related fractures. By means of a Markov 
model, the consequences of hip, spine and forearm fractures due to the prior 
administration of transdermal (TD) buprenorphine, TD fentanyl, oral oxycodone as 
well as oral morphine were assessed from the perspectives of the German 
statutory health insurance (SHI) and the German social security (GSS) system 
over a time horizon of 6 years. The most frequently prescribed 
strength/package-size combinations of these opioids were taken into 
consideration, including generics where available. The results of the present 
analysis predict that TD buprenorphine is dominant compared to TD fentanyl and 
oxycodone by showing better effects [life years gained/quality adjusted life 
years (QALY) gained] at lower cost. From the SHI perspective, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) compared to morphine is <euro> 6,801.61 per life 
year gained, and <euro> 7,766.11 per QALY gained. From the GSS perspective, the 
ICER is <euro> 2,496.77 per life year gained and <euro> 2,850.83 per QALY 
gained. The model is robust regarding probabilistic variations of all parameters 
in the sensitivity analyses. Focussing on fractures due to the prior 
administration of strong opioids, TD buprenorphine is less costly and more 
effective than TD fentanyl and oxycodone and represents a cost-effective 
treatment option versus morphine in patients with chronic pain from both the SHI 
and GSS perspective in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-008-0134-1
PMID: 19101743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2009 Jun;24(6):610-23. doi: 10.1002/gps.2164.

Befriending carers of people with dementia: a cost utility analysis.

Wilson E(1), Thalanany M, Shepstone L, Charlesworth G, Poland F, Harvey I, Price 
D, Reynolds S, Mugford M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, 
University of East Anglia, UK. ed.wilson@uea.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: There is very little evidence on the cost-effectiveness of social 
care interventions for people with dementia or their carers. The BEfriending and 
Costs of CAring trial (BECCA, ISRCTN08130075) aimed to establish whether a 
structured befriending service improved the quality of life of carers of people 
with dementia, and at what cost.
METHODS: We performed an economic evaluation alongside a single blind, 
randomised controlled trial in a community setting of 236 carers of people with 
a primary progressive dementia. The intervention was contact with a Befriender 
Facilitator (BF), and offer of match with a trained lay volunteer befriender 
compared with no BF contact. Main outcome measures were health and social care, 
voluntary sector, and family care costs and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) 
in carers over 15 months.
RESULTS: Mean QALYs per carer over 15 months were 0.017 higher in the 
intervention group compared with control (95%CI: -0.051, 0.083). Mean costs from 
a societal perspective were pound 1,813 higher (- pound 11,312, pound 14,984). 
The point estimate Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) is thus pound 
105,954 per incremental QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggests 
a 42.2% probability that the ICER is below pound 30,000 per QALY. Inclusion of 
dementia patient QALYs reduces the ICER to pound 28,848 (51.4% probability below 
pound 30,000).
CONCLUSIONS: Befriending leads to a non-significant trend towards improved carer 
quality of life, and there is a non-significant trend towards higher costs for 
all sectors. It is unlikely that befriending is a cost-effective intervention 
from the point of view of society.

(c) 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.2164
PMID: 19101921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Gig Sanit. 2008 Jul-Aug;(4):13-5.

[Assessment health damage from use of tobacco aromatizers].

[Article in Russian]

Elinskaia OL.

Some concentrated natural tobacco aromatizers (FL-Marwal, FL-Achshe, FL-Vlakot) 
and casings (CC-Catjas, CC-Wenget, CC-Krawat) from British American Tobacco 
Germany GmbH (Germany) imported into the Republic of Uzbekistan to be used in 
the manufacture of cigarettes were tested. The author's toxicological studies 
have revealed that the test agents may be recommended for use in the manufacture 
of cigarettes as safe tobacco aromatizers and casings. The normal life span 
reduction caused by the test natural concentrated tobacco aromatizers and 
casings in the hygienic range will be expected to be 3-6 days a year.

PMID: 19102013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jan;13(4):iii-iv, xi-xiv, 1-119, 143-274. doi: 
10.3310/hta13040.

Continuous positive airway pressure devices for the treatment of obstructive 
sleep apnoea-hypopnoea syndrome: a systematic review and economic analysis.

McDaid C(1), Griffin S, Weatherly H, Durée K, van der Burgt M, van Hout S, Akers 
J, Davies RJ, Sculpher M, Westwood M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2009 Oct;14(5):143.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical effectiveness, safety and 
cost-effectiveness of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) devices for the 
treatment of obstructive apnoea-hypopnoea syndrome (OSAHS), compared with the 
best supportive care, placebo and dental devices.
DATA SOURCES: The main search was of fifteen electronic databases, including 
MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library, up to November 2006.
REVIEW METHODS: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing CPAP with best 
supportive/usual care, placebo, and dental devices in adults with a diagnosis of 
OSAHS were included. The primary outcomes of interest were subjective daytime 
sleepiness assessed by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) and objective 
sleepiness assessed by the Maintenance of Wakefulness Test (MWT) and the 
Multiple Sleep Latency Test (MSLT). A new economic model was developed to assess 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). The cost-effectiveness 
of CPAP was compared with that of the use of dental devices and conservative 
management. The costs and QALYs were compared over a lifetime time horizon. 
Effectiveness was based on the RCT evidence on sleepiness symptoms (ESS), which 
was 'mapped' to utilities using individual patient data from a subset of 
studies. Utilities were expressed on the basis of generic HRQoL instruments [the 
EQ-5D (EuroQoL-5 Dimensions) in the base-case analysis]. The base-case analysis 
focused on a male aged 50. A series of subgroup and scenario analyses were also 
undertaken.
RESULTS: The searches yielded 6325 citations, from which 48 relevant clinical 
effectiveness studies were identified, 29 of these providing data on daytime 
sleepiness. The majority of the included RCTs did not report using an adequate 
method of allocation concealment or use an intention-to-treat analysis. Only the 
studies using a sham CPAP comparator were double blinded. There was a 
statistically significant benefit with CPAP compared with control (placebo and 
conservative treatment/usual care) on the ESS [mean difference (MD) -2.7 points, 
95% CI -3.45 to -1.96]. However, there was statistical heterogeneity, which was 
reduced when trials were subgrouped by severity of disease. There was also a 
significant benefit with CPAP compared with usual care on the MWT. There was a 
non-statistically significant difference between CPAP and dental devices (six 
trials) in the impact on daytime sleepiness (ESS) among a population with 
moderate symptom severity at baseline (MD -0.9, 95% CI -2.1 to 0.4). A review of 
five studies evaluating the cost-effectiveness of CPAP was undertaken. All 
existing cost-effectiveness studies had limitations; therefore a new economic 
model was developed, based on which it was found that, on average, CPAP was 
associated with higher costs and benefits than dental devices or conservative 
management. The incremental cost per QALY gained of CPAP was below 20,000 pounds 
in the base-case analysis and most alternative scenarios. There was a high 
probability of CPAP being more cost-effective than dental devices and 
conservative management for a cost-effectiveness threshold of 20,000 pounds per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: CPAP is an effective and cost-effective treatment for OSAHS 
compared with conservative/usual care and placebo in populations with moderate 
to severe daytime sleepiness, and there may be benefits when the disease is 
mild. Dental devices may be a treatment option in moderate disease but some 
uncertainty remains. Further research would be potentially valuable, 
particularly investigation of the effectiveness of CPAP for populations with 
mild sleepiness and further trials comparing CPAP with dental devices.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13040
PMID: 19103134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Int J STD AIDS. 2009 Jan;20(1):46-51. doi: 10.1258/ijsa.2008.008128.

Cost-effectiveness of voluntary HIV screening in Russia.

Tole SP(1), Sanders GD, Bayoumi AM, Galvin CM, Vinichenko TN, Brandeau ML, Owens 
DK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305-6019, USA. swati.tole@gmail.com

Russia has one of the world's fastest growing HIV epidemics, and HIV screening 
has been widespread. Whether such screening is an effective use of resources is 
unclear. We used epidemiologic and economic data from Russia to develop a Markov 
model to estimate costs, quality of life and survival associated with a 
voluntary HIV screening programme compared with no screening in Russia. We 
measured discounted lifetime health-care costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained. We varied our inputs in sensitivity analysis. Early 
identification of HIV through screening provided a substantial benefit to 
persons with HIV, increasing life expectancy by 2.1 years and 1.7 QALYs. At a 
base-case prevalence of 1.2%, once-per-lifetime screening cost $13,396 per QALY 
gained, exclusive of benefit from reduced transmission. Cost-effectiveness of 
screening remained favourable until prevalence dropped below 0.04%. When 
HIV-transmission-related costs and benefits were included, once-per-lifetime 
screening cost $6910 per QALY gained and screening every two years cost $27,696 
per QALY gained. An important determinant of the cost-effectiveness of screening 
was effectiveness of counselling about risk reduction. Early identification of 
HIV infection through screening in Russia is effective and cost-effective in all 
but the lowest prevalence groups.

DOI: 10.1258/ijsa.2008.008128
PMCID: PMC2981087
PMID: 19103893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. J Med Ethics. 2009 Jan;35(1):27-31. doi: 10.1136/jme.2008.024398.

Age rationing and prudential lifespan account in Norman Daniels' Just health.

Brauer S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Ethics, University of Zurich, Zollikerstrasse 115, 
8008 Zurich, Switzerland. brauer@ethik.uzh.ch

Could age be a valid criterion for rationing? In Just health, Norman Daniels 
argues that under certain circumstances age rationing is prudent, and therefore 
a morally permissible strategy to tackle the problem of resource scarcity. 
Crucial to his argument is the distinction between two problem-settings of 
intergenerational equity: equity among age groups and equity among birth 
cohorts. While fairness between age groups can involve unequal benefit treatment 
in different life stages, fairness between birth cohorts implies enjoying 
approximate equality in benefit ratios. Although both questions of fairness are 
distinct, the resolution of the one depends on resolution of the other. In this 
paper, I investigate whether Daniels' account of age rationing could be defended 
as a fair way of setting limits to healthcare entitlements. I will focus on two 
main points. First, I will consider whether the age group problem could be 
resolved without appealing to a conception of the good. Second, I will 
demonstrate that the connection between the age group problem and the birth 
cohort problem runs deeper than Daniels initially thought-and that it ultimately 
suggests a method for prioritisation in problem solving strategies.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2008.024398
PMCID: PMC2603281
PMID: 19103939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


856. J Med Ethics. 2009 Jan;35(1):32-5. doi: 10.1136/jme.2008.024380.

The multiple self objection to the prudential lifespan account.

Schefczyk M(1).

Author information:
(1)Universität St Gallen, Kulturwissenschaftliche Abteilung, Gatterstr 1, 
CH-9010 St Gallen. michael.schefczyk@unisg.ch

Multiple self approaches purport that to have equal concern about all stages of 
one's life is not a requirement of rationality. This poses a challenge to the 
prudential lifespan account which Norman Daniels advocates in Just health: 
meeting health needs fairly. Daniels has criticised the multiple self approach 
in earlier works, most extensively in Am I my parents keeper? In Just health, he 
only takes up the issue except in one footnote, presumably because he is 
convinced that his preceding discussions settled the matter. This article argues 
that Daniels underestimates the force of the multiple self objection to 
prudential lifespan account.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2008.024380
PMID: 19103940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. J Med Ethics. 2009 Jan;35(1):53-6. doi: 10.1136/jme.2007.023762.

The fair innings argument and increasing life spans.

Farrant A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, University of York, Heslington, York YO105DD, UK. 
af523@york.ac.uk

The fair innings argument maintains that for healthcare resources to be 
distributed fairly every person should receive sufficient healthcare to provide 
them with the opportunity to live in good health for a normal span of years. 
What constitutes a normal span of years is often defined as life expectancy at 
birth, but this criterion fails to provide adequate grounds for the equal 
distribution of healthcare across and between generations. A more suitable 
criterion for the normal life span is the idea that the human life span is 
biologically limited. Many current gerontological theories argue that the 
biological limit to human life spans is related to the ageing process. If 
technological advances in medicine can retard the ageing process by treating and 
preventing the diseases and disorders associated with it, human longevity will 
be limited only by the developments in and the successful application of 
medicine. In consequence, the fair innings argument will no longer be able to 
justify denying people healthcare resources because they have lived longer than 
the normal life span.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2007.023762
PMID: 19103945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Aging Health. 2009 Mar;21(2):266-85. doi: 10.1177/0898264308328978. Epub
2008  Dec 22.

Trends in disability-free life expectancy among Chinese older adults.

Liu J(1), Chen G, Song X, Chi I, Zheng X.

Author information:
(1)Peking University, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates trends in disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) 
of Chinese adults aged 60 and older.
METHODS: Based on two national disability surveys in 1987 and 2006 as well as 
mortality data from World Population Prospects, the Sullivan method was used to 
calculate DFLE.
RESULTS: DFLE increased from 13.0 to 13.9 years at age 60 and from 1.2 to 1.5 
years at age 90 in 1987 and 2006, respectively. The proportion of DFLE increased 
after age 75. The proportion of DLE(x) with severe disability decreased while 
that of least disability increased. Onset of disability was delayed from 0.3 
years to 4.7 years across disability types.
CONCLUSIONS: Trends in DFLE by age and severity of disability as well as the 
delayed onset of disability provide evidence for the compression of morbidity 
among the oldest old in China. But a similar trend was not found among the 
young-old.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264308328978
PMID: 19104033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Newsweek. 2008 Dec 15;152(24):48, 51-2.

Never say die.

Underwood A, Springen K.

PMID: 19105309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Int J Cardiol. 2010 Apr 30;140(3):315-22. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2008.11.105.
 Epub 2008 Dec 23.

A cost-utility analysis of clopidogrel in patients with ST elevation acute 
coronary syndromes in the UK.

Karnon J(1), Holmes MW, Williams R, Bakhai A, Brennan A.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health and Clinical Practice, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, Australia. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To assess the long-term cost effectiveness of treatment for 1 month, 
and for 1 year with clopidogrel in addition to standard therapy (including 
aspirin) compared with standard therapy alone, in patients diagnosed with ST 
elevation acute myocardial infarction (STEMI) in the UK.
DESIGN: Cost utility analysis using a cohort Markov model, incorporating 
clinical data from two pivotal clinical trials (the COMMIT/CCS-2 and 
CLARITY-TIMI 28 trials) and data from UK and non-UK observational studies.
SETTING: Health economic evaluation carried out from the perspective of the UK 
NHS.
PATIENTS: A representative cohort of 1000 UK patients aged 60 years, diagnosed 
with STEMI.
INTERVENTIONS: 75 mg/day clopidogrel, with and without a 300 mg loading dose, in 
addition to standard therapy (including aspirin, 75-325 mg/day) for 1 month, and 
for 1 year, followed by standard therapy alone for their remaining lifetime, or 
standard therapy alone (including aspirin, 75-325 mg/day) for their remaining 
lifetime.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained (ICER).
RESULTS: For the 1-month treatment option both the COMMIT/CCS-2 and CLARITY-TIMI 
28 trials have ICERs below 2500 pounds. For the 1-year treatment option both 
trials have ICERs below 4000 pounds. Extensive univariate and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses showed these results to be robust.
CONCLUSIONS: In combination with previous economic analyses of clopidogrel in 
NSTEMI patients, this paper demonstrates that clopidogrel appears to offer a 
cost-effective treatment option for all ACS patients.

Copyright (c) 2008 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2008.11.105
PMID: 19106007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2008 Nov;35(12):1999-2001.

[Clinical significance of chemotherapy and chemo-radiotherapy in patients with 
metastatic esophageal cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Mitsuhashi T(1), Miyazaki T, Sakimoto T, Kubo N, Ishiguro T, Okada N, Yokoyama 
M, Ishibashi K, Matsuki M, Takahashi T, Ishida H.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Digestive Tract and General Surgery, Saitama Medical Center, Saitama 
Medical University.

PURPOSE: We investigated the clinical significance of chemo-radiotherapy (CRT) 
and chemotherapy (CT) in patients with primary metastatic esophageal cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-six patients with esophageal cancer received CRT (n 
=21) or CT alone (n=5) as a first treatment for para-aortic lymph node and/or 
hematogenous metastases. The therapeutic effect, duration of treatment, changes 
in performance status before and after treatment, and survival were analyzed 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: The median duration of treatment was 2.9 months for CRT and 2.3 months 
for CT. The response rate was 76% in patients who underwent CRT and 20% in 
patients who underwent CT. In 18 patients (69%), the level of performance status 
showed no change after treatment in comparison with that before treatment. The 
median survival time was 5.6 months after CRT and 5.8 months after CT (p=0.91).
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that the majority of patients with extremely 
advanced esophageal cancer can tolerate CRT or CT well without compromising 
their performance status within their limited life expectancy.

PMID: 19106503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Curr Opin Oncol. 2008 Sep;20(5):517-21. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e32830a4c87.

Malignancies in HIV: the Indian scenario.

Dhir AA(1), Sawant SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel, Mumbai, India. 
arunaalahari@hotmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: India has the second largest number of HIV/AIDS patients in 
the world; however, studies done in the area of HIV-related malignancies are 
few. With the availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy and treatment 
and prevention of opportunistic infections, an increase in life expectancy of 
HIV-infected individuals and an increase in HIV-related malignancies is 
expected. The purpose of this review is to put forth the Indian scenario of 
HIV-related malignancies.
RECENT FINDINGS: About 2.5 million Indians have HIV/AIDS. Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
and cervical cancer were found to occur in a higher proportion among the 
HIV-infected individuals in India as compared with non-HIV-infected individuals. 
The incidence of AIDS-related primary central nervous system lymphoma is low in 
India. Kaposi's sarcoma is rare in India. Amongst the non-AIDS defining cancers 
anal cancer, testicular cancer, Hodgkin's disease, colon cancer and certain head 
and neck cancer sites in men and vaginal cancers among women were found to occur 
more frequently.
SUMMARY: With the availability of highly active antiretroviral therapy an 
increased mortality and morbidity due to neoplastic diseases is expected in the 
future. As India is a large country and geographically and culturally diverse, 
large-scale studies need to be done linking the regional cancer centres with the 
AIDS centres across the country to evaluate the exact burden of HIV-related 
malignancies.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e32830a4c87
PMID: 19106653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Curr Opin Oncol. 2008 Sep;20(5):529-33. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e32830a4c99.

Smoke and mirrors: HIV-related lung cancer.

Bazoes A(1), Bower M, Powles T.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Cancer, Barts and the London NHS Trust, Queen Mary 
University of London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy has 
dramatically reduced AIDS-related illnesses and increased life expectancy for 
people living with HIV infection. At the same time, non-AIDS-defining cancers 
are becoming an increasing problem and now account for a large proportion of 
HIV-related deaths. Perhaps the most important and controversial of these is 
HIV-related lung cancer. There are a number of unresolved issues surrounding 
this illness, which are the subject of this review.
RECENT FINDINGS: Smoking does not account for all of the increase in the 
incidence of lung cancer seen in HIV patients. Other factors accounting for the 
increased incidence remain undefined. Highly active antiretroviral therapy may 
not have had a beneficial effect on either the incidence or outcome of the 
disease, which needs further investigation. Early diagnosis and offering these 
patients potentially curative therapy wherever appropriate is of utmost 
importance.
SUMMARY: HIV-related lung cancer is becoming an increasingly important problem 
as patients are living longer with HIV infection.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e32830a4c99
PMID: 19106655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2009 Feb;22(1):43-8. doi:
10.1097/QCO.0b013e328320ffec.

Recent developments in HIV and the kidney.

Post FA(1), Holt SG.

Author information:
(1)Department of HIV/GU Medicine, King's College London, London, UK. 
frank.post@kcl.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Antiretroviral therapy has been immensely successful in 
reducing the incidence of opportunistic infections and death after HIV 
infection. This has resulted in heightened interest in noninfectious 
comorbidities including kidney disease. This review focuses on recent progress 
in our understanding of the clinical epidemiology of HIV-associated kidney 
disease.
RECENT FINDINGS: Acute renal failure in the highly active antiretroviral therapy 
era is associated with delayed HIV diagnosis. The incidence of acute renal 
failure rapidly declines in patients who receive HIV care, which includes the 
provision of highly active antiretroviral therapy to patients with advanced HIV 
infection. The prevalence of chronic kidney disease among HIV-infected patients 
is approximately 17%, and chronic kidney disease is associated with older age, 
advanced HIV infection, metabolic and vascular disease, and use of indinavir and 
tenofovir. Black patients are at increased risk of progression to end-stage 
renal disease, particularly if not receiving highly active antiretroviral 
therapy. Although survival of patients requiring dialysis remains poor, renal 
transplantation is an increasingly promising treatment modality for 
HIV-associated end-stage renal disease.
SUMMARY: The various forms of HIV-associated kidney dysfunction are now much 
better defined. The burden of chronic kidney disease is likely to escalate as a 
result of increasing life expectancy and ageing of HIV-infected patients.

DOI: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e328320ffec
PMID: 19106702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Med Care. 2009 Jan;47(1):61-8. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181844855.

Using the EQ-5D index score as a predictor of outcomes in patients with type 2 
diabetes.

Clarke PM(1), Hayes AJ, Glasziou PG, Scott R, Simes J, Keech AC.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales. 
philipc@med.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To examine whether index scores based on the EQ-5D, a 5-item generic 
health status measure, are an independent predictor of vascular events, other 
major complications and mortality in people with type 2 diabetes and to quantify 
the relationship between these scores and future survival.
SUBJECTS: Five-year cohort study involving 7348 patients with type 2 diabetes, 
aged between 50-75 years who had been recruited to the FIELD (Fenofibrate 
Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes) study from Australia and New 
Zealand.
MEASURES: Multivariate Cox proportional hazard regression models were used to 
estimate the hazard ratio associated with index scores derived from the EQ-5D 
on: (1) cardiovascular events (including coronary heart disease event, stroke, 
hospitalization for angina, or cardiovascular death); (2) other major 
diabetes-related complications (heart failure, amputation, renal dialysis, and 
lower extremity ulcer); and (3) death from any cause. Life table methods were 
used to derive expected survival for patients with different index scores.
RESULTS: After adjusting for standard risk factors, a 0.1 higher index score 
(derived from the UK algorithm) was associated with an additional 7% (95% CI: 
4-11%) lower risk of vascular events, a 13% (95% CI: 9-17%) lower risk of 
complications, and up to 14% (95% CI: 8-19%) lower rate of all-cause mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Index scores derived from the EQ-5D are an independent predictor of 
the risk of mortality, future vascular events, and other complications in people 
with type 2 diabetes. This should be taken into account when extrapolating 
health outcomes such as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181844855
PMID: 19106732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Nat Clin Pract Rheumatol. 2009 Feb;5(2):78-9. doi: 10.1038/ncprheum0985.
Epub  2008 Dec 23.

Deficiencies in current evaluations of the cost-effectiveness of biologic agents 
for RA.

van den Hout WB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Centre, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. w.b.van_den_hout@lumc.nl

DOI: 10.1038/ncprheum0985
PMID: 19107111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. PLoS One. 2008;3(12):e4019. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004019. Epub 2008 Dec
24.

Lions and prions and deer demise.

Miller MW(1), Swanson HM, Wolfe LL, Quartarone FG, Huwer SL, Southwick CH, 
Lukacs PM.

Author information:
(1)Colorado Division of Wildlife, Wildlife Research Center, Fort Collins, 
Colorado, United States of America. mike.miller@state.co.us

BACKGROUND: Contagious prion diseases--scrapie of sheep and chronic wasting 
disease of several species in the deer family--give rise to epidemics that seem 
capable of compromising host population viability. Despite this prospect, the 
ecological consequences of prion disease epidemics in natural populations have 
received little consideration.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using a cohort study design, we found that prion 
infection dramatically lowered survival of free-ranging adult (>2-year-old) mule 
deer (Odocoileus hemionus): estimated average life expectancy was 5.2 additional 
years for uninfected deer but only 1.6 additional years for infected deer. Prion 
infection also increased nearly fourfold the rate of mountain lions (Puma 
concolor) preying on deer, suggesting that epidemics may alter predator-prey 
dynamics by facilitating hunting success. Despite selective predation, about one 
fourth of the adult deer we sampled were infected. High prevalence and low 
survival of infected deer provided a plausible explanation for the marked 
decline in this deer population since the 1980s.
CONCLUSION: Remarkably high infection rates sustained in the face of intense 
predation show that even seemingly complete ecosystems may offer little 
resistance to the spread and persistence of contagious prion diseases. Moreover, 
the depression of infected populations may lead to local imbalances in food webs 
and nutrient cycling in ecosystems in which deer are important herbivores.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004019
PMCID: PMC2602978
PMID: 19107193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


868. Can Respir J. 2008 Nov-Dec;15(8):437-43. doi: 10.1155/2008/257618.

Cost-effectiveness of combination therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease.

Chuck A(1), Jacobs P, Mayers I, Marciniuk D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: There is evidence that combination therapy (CT) in the form of 
long-acting beta(2)-agonists (LABAs) and inhaled corticosteroids can improve 
lung function for patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of using CT in none, all or a 
selected group of COPD patients.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed to compare four treatment strategies: no 
use of CT regardless of COPD severity (patients receive LABA only); use of CT in 
patients with stage 3 disease only (forced expiratory volume in 1 s [FEV(1)] 
less than 35% of predicted); use of CT in patients with stages 2 and 3 disease 
only (FEV(1) less than 50% of predicted); and use of CT in all patients 
regardless of severity of COPD. Estimates of mortality, exacerbation and disease 
progression rates, quality- adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs were derived 
from the literature. Three-year and lifetime time horizons were used. The 
analysis was conducted from a health systems perspective.
RESULTS: CT was associated with a cost of $39,000 per QALY if given to patients 
with stage 3 disease, $47,500 per QALY if given to patients with stages 2 and 3 
disease, and $450,333 per QALY if given to all COPD patients. Results were 
robust to various assumptions tested in a Monte Carlo simulation.
CONCLUSION: Providing CT for COPD patients in stage 2 or 3 disease is 
cost-effective. The message to family physicians and specialists is that as 
FEV(1) worsens and reaches 50% of predicted values, CT is recommended.

HISTORIQUE : Selon certaines données probantes, la polythérapie sous forme de 
bêta2-agonistes à action prolongée (BAAP) et de corticoïdes par aérosol peut 
améliorer la fonction pulmonaire des patients atteints d’une maladie pulmonaire 
obstructive chronique (MPOC).
OBJECTIF : Déterminer le rapport coût-efficacité de l’utilisation de la 
polythérapie chez aucun patient atteint de MPOC, tous les patients atteints de 
MPOC ou certains de ces patients.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Les auteurs ont conçu un modèle de Markov pour comparer quatre 
stratégies de traitement : ne pas recourir à la polythérapie, quelle que soit la 
gravité de la maladie (les patients ne reçoivent que des BAAP), recourir à la 
polythérapie seulement chez les patients atteints d’une MPOC de phase 3 (volume 
expiratoire maximal par seconde [VEMS] inférieur à 35 % de celui prévu), 
utilisation de la polythérapie seulement en présence d’une maladie de phase 2 ou 
3 (VEMS inférieur à 50 % de celui prévu) et recourir à la polythérapie chez tous 
les patients quelle que soit la gravité de la MPOC. Les auteurs ont dérivé des 
publications les estimations des taux de mortalité, d’exacerbation et 
d’évolution du diagnostic, les années de vie pondérée par la qualité (AVPQ) et 
les coûts. Ils ont utilisé un horizon prévisionnel de trois ans et d’une vie 
entière. Ils ont effectué l’analyse selon la perspective du système de santé.
RÉSULTATS : La polythérapie s’associe à un coût de 39 000 $ par AVPQ si elle est 
