preventive interventions to improve life expectancy in this most vulnerable 
patient cohort are essential. New-onset diabetic foot ulcers should be 
considered a marker for significantly increased mortality and should be 
aggressively managed locally, systemically, and psychologically.

DOI: 10.7547/0980489
PMID: 19017860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Chest. 2009 May;135(5):1243-1251. doi: 10.1378/chest.08-1164. Epub 2008 Nov
18.

Long-term anticoagulant therapy for idiopathic pulmonary embolism in the 
elderly: a decision analysis.

Haspel J(1), Bauer K(2), Goehler A(3), Roberts DH(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.
(2)Division of Hematology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA.
(3)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA.
(4)Division of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. Electronic 
address: dhrobert@bidmc.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: Elderly patients with idiopathic pulmonary embolism (PE) are at high 
risk for recurrent venous thromboembolic disease and might benefit from 
long-term anticoagulant therapy. But they are also at higher risk for bleeding 
complications. Because there have been no clinical trials addressing PE 
treatment in elderly patients, the balance of therapeutic benefits and risks is 
unclear.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to forecast the effects of 
long-term warfarin therapy for idiopathic PE. We focused on 65- and 80-year-old 
outpatients, with or without a propensity for falls, who previously had 
completed 6 to 12 months of anticoagulant therapy without experiencing a major 
bleed. The model incorporated age-appropriate thromboembolic recurrence rates 
after PE, major bleeding risks of warfarin use, and the contribution of falls to 
major bleeding episodes in anticoagulated elderly patients. We used 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis to model outcomes over ranges of potential 
thromboembolic and bleeding risks.
RESULTS: In our baseline analysis, long-term warfarin was superior to 
conventional duration therapy. Depending on the patient subgroup (stratified by 
age and fall risk), it increased life expectancy by 0.16 to 0.56 years and 
event-free life expectancy by 0.32 to 0.51 years. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis demonstrated that long-term warfarin therapy was likely to increase 
life expectancy when compared with conventional-duration therapy (76 to 93% 
likelihood across all groups).
CONCLUSIONS: Extended anticoagulant therapy for idiopathic PE may be beneficial 
in a subgroup of elderly patients who tolerate the initial 6 to 12 months of 
therapy without bleeding complications. In this population, advanced age and 
fall risk were not contraindications to long-term anticoagulation.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.08-1164
PMID: 19017863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Clin Oncol. 2008 Dec 20;26(36):5843-4. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.19.7772. Epub
 2008 Nov 17.

Practical model for prognostication in advanced cancer patients: is less more?

Bruera E, Hui D.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2008 Dec 20;26(36):5863-9.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2008.19.7772
PMID: 19018075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Pediatr Neurosurg. 2008;44(6):448-57. doi: 10.1159/000172967. Epub 2008 Nov
17.

Meta-analysis of cranial CT scans in children. A mathematical model to predict 
radiation-induced tumors.

Stein SC(1), Hurst RW, Sonnad SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, 
Philadelphia, PA 19106, USA. sherman.stein@uphs.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to estimate the risks of radiation exposure from a single 
head CT scan to children of different ages.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We constructed a multistate time-dependent Markov model 
to simulate the course of children exposed to a head CT. The relevant literature 
was reviewed for probabilities, which were used to calculate tumor types, 
latencies after exposure and outcomes in the model. Where multiple 
approximations of the same probability had been reported, meta-analytic 
techniques were employed to compute pooled estimates. The model was then used to 
calculate the effect of the radiation exposure on life expectancy and quality of 
life for children following head CT at different ages.
RESULTS: The tumors likely to be induced by low-level cranial irradiation 
include thyroid carcinoma (47%), meningioma (34%) and glioma (19%). According to 
the model, a single head CT is likely to cause one of these tumors in 0.22% of 
1-year-olds, 30% of whom will consequently die. The exposure will shorten the 
life expectancy of all exposed 1-year-olds by an average of 0.04 years and their 
expected quality of life by 0.02 quality-adjusted life years. The risks of 
radiation exposure diminish for older children.
CONCLUSIONS: The model predicts that the effective radiation dose from a single 
head CT is capable of inducing a thyroid or brain tumor in an infant or child. 
These tumors can severely impact both quality of life and life expectancy. Care 
should be taken before ordering CT scans in children, particularly in infants 
and toddlers.

Copyright 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000172967
PMID: 19018153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Health Serv J. 2008 Oct 30:12-3.

Johnson keeps the faith on inequalities.

Johnson A.

PMID: 19018625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Health Serv J. 2008 Oct 30:15.

Michael Marmot on eliminating social injustice.

Marmot M(1).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Society and Health.

PMID: 19018626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Health Serv J. 2008 Oct 30:20-2.

The time of their lives.

Moore A.

The rationing debate is split between utilitarian and moral stances. The 
government's current policy on older people's place in the priorities hierarchy 
seems contradictory. If the middle class starts topping up its healthcare and 
insurance, it might lose all incentive to contribute to the NHS.

PMID: 19018629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Nefrologia. 2008;28 Suppl 3:105-12.

[Access for starting kidney replacement therapy: vascular and peritoneal 
temporal access in pre-dialysis].

[Article in Spanish]

Rodríguez CR(1), Bardón Otero E, Vila Paz ML.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario de Puerto Real, Cádiz.

PATIENT EVALUATION AND PREPARATION PRIOR TO VASCULAR ACCESS (VA) PLACEMENT: 1. 
Early referral of patients with advanced chronic kidney disease (ACKD: GFR <or= 
30 ml/min: CKD stage 4) is necessary so that they are educated about the 
different modalities of kidney replacement therapy (KRT) and there is sufficient 
time to perform a permanent functioning VA before the initiation of HD (Strength 
of Recommendation C). 2. Preservation of the venous network of the upper 
extremities (UE): - Venipuntures and catheterizations in the UE should be 
avoided to reduce the incidence of venous occlusions and stenosis (Strength of 
Recommendation B). - If venipuncture or catheterization of veins of the UE is 
necessary, the dorsum of the hand should be the site of choice used and puncture 
sites should be rotated (Strength of Recommendation C). 3. Preoperative 
evaluation: Patient evaluation prior to VA placement should include: - A patient 
history and physical examination directed to evaluation of the existence and 
quality of the arterial and venous vessels of the UE (Strength of Recommendation 
B). - When necessary, a complementary examination by Doppler ultrasound 
(Strength of Recommendation B) or phlebography may be performed. Recommended 
when there is a history or central venous catheters (CVC) or pacemakers. 4. 
Timing of VA placement: - A vascular access should be placed starting from a GFR 
< 20 ml/min (Strength of Recommendation B). - The VA should be placed at least 6 
months before the start of HD in the case of native AV fistulae and 3-6 weeks 
before in the case of synthetic VA (Strength of Recommendation B). SELECTION OF 
TYPE OF PERMANENT VA AND ITS LOCATION: 1. Type of VA: - A native AV fistula is 
the VA of choice. When a native AV fistula cannot be established, a synthetic AV 
graft is the second option (Strength of Recommendation A). - A CVC is the last 
choice after the previous two options. 2. LOCATION of the VA: In general, the 
order of preference for the type and location of the VA is: - A wrist 
(radial-cephalic) primary AV fistula (Strength of Recommendation A). - An elbow 
(brachial-cephalic) primary AV fistula (Strength of Recommendation B). - A 
transposed brachial basilic vein fistula (Strength of Recommendation B). - 
Synthetic or biological grafts; in order of preference, antecubital straight or 
looped graft, in the arm, and lastly in the chest wall or lower extremity once 
all options in upper extremities have been discarded (Strength of Recommendation 
B). CARE OF VA IN PREDIALYSIS: 1. Maturation: - A native AV fistula should not 
be used in the first month and 6-8 weeks (minimum 4) should be waited before use 
(Strength of Recommendation C). - A synthetic AV fistula should not be used for 
puncture for at least 2 weeks after placement and up to 4 weeks may be desirable 
(Strength of Recommendation C). 2. Prevention of thrombosis: 
Antiaggregation/Anticoagulation: 1. Systematic use of platelet antiaggregants or 
anticoagulants in VA to prevent thrombosis or increase their survival has not 
been established by the evidence and also is associated with a greater risk of 
bleeding. Their use can be considered in certain situations after careful 
assessment of the risk-benefit balance (Strength of Recommendation C). CENTRAL 
VENOUS CATHETERS (CVC): 1.
INDICATIONS: They should not be the first option for a permanent VA and should 
be considered for temporary use only whenever possible. Their main indications 
are: - Need for urgent HD in patients without permanent VA, patients with a 
maturing VA or that cannot be cannulated (Strength of Recommendation A). - 
Inability or difficulty to establish an adequate VA due to either a poor 
arterial bed or lack of venous development (Strength of Recommendation B). - 
Hemodialysis for short periods while waiting for a living donor kidney 
transplant (Strength of Recommendation C). - Patients with special 
circumstances: very severe comorbidities that imply a life expectancy of less 
than 1 year, cardiovascular status contraindicating placement of VA, PD patients 
temporarily on HD, etc. (Strength of Recommendation C). 2. Types of CVC: 
Selection of the type of catheter should be based on local experience, the 
patient's individual circumstances and the requirements for its use. - 
Nontunneled CVC should be reserved for stays < 3 weeks due to their higher rate 
of complications (Strength of Recommendation B). - Intravascular lengths of 15 
cm are recommended in the right jugular vein, 20 cm in the left jugular vein, 
and 20-25 cm in the femoral veins (Strength of Recommendation B). 3.
LOCATION: - The first choice is the right internal jugular vein, followed by the 
left internal jugular vein, the external jugular vein and the femoral veins. The 
subclavian veins should only be used exceptionally (Strength of Recommendation 
A). - Placement of a CVC ipsilateral to a maturing AV fistula should be avoided 
(Strength of Recommendation B). The use of femoral catheters should be limited 
to hospitalized (bedridden) patients (Strength of Recommendation B) because they 
are associated with higher infection and dislodgement rates. - The tip of the 
CVC should be placed at the entry of the right atrium for nontunneled catheters 
and within the right atrium for tunneled catheters (Strength of Recommendation 
B). Placement of CVC in the jugular and subclavian vein should be confirmed 
radiologically (Strength of Recommendation A). TYPES OF CATHETER AND 
IMPLANTATION TECHNIQUES: - The implantation team (nephrologist, surgeon, nurse) 
is more important for results than the technique of implantation used (Strength 
of Recommendation A). - No catheter has been demonstrated to be superior to 
others (Strength of Recommendation A). - Surgical, laparoscopic or percutaneous 
technique show similar results (Strength of Recommendation A). TIMING OF 
CATHETER IMPLANTATION: - Between catheter insertion and the start of peritoneal 
dialysis (PD) at least two weeks should be allowed to avoid early leaks 
(Strength of Recommendation C). - Antibiotic prophylaxis should be performed 
prior to the implantation procedure (preferably a 1st generation cephalosporin) 
(Strength of Recommendation A). EARLY COMPLICATIONS AND THEIR TREATMENT: - 
Prevention of exit site infections: It is mandatory to identify Staphylococcus 
aureus nasal carriers and treat them with mupirocin ointment either intranasal 
or pericatheter, or gentamycin pericatheter, to reduce the incidence of 
infections by this germ (Strength of Recommendation A). - Treatment of exit site 
infections: Treatment should conform to the PD guidelines published by the SEN. 
Withdrawal of the catheter due to exit site infection should be considered when 
there is concurrent peritonitis by the same germ (except coagulase-negative 
staphylococcus) or treatment-refractory or recurrent infections by the same germ 
(Strength of Recommendation C). - Mechanical complications: If leakage of 
peritoneal fluid occurs and dialysis is necessary, the patient should be 
temporarily transferred to HD or started on automatic peritoneal dialysis (APD) 
with low volumes and in a decubitus position.

PMID: 19018747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Nefrologia. 2008;28 Suppl 3:119-22.

[Patients in pre-dialysis: decision taking and free choice of treatment].

[Article in Spanish]

Sarrias Lorenz X(1), Bardón Otero E, Vila Paz ML.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Bellvitge, Barcelona.

Predialysis is a clinical situation in which the patient has significant 
impairment of kidney function that will ultimately lead to either death or 
inclusion in kidney replacement therapy (dialysis and/or transplantation). Since 
a practical and effective dialysis technique was introduced, the length and 
quality of survival of patients with end-stage renal failure has constantly 
increased. Contraindications for dialysis are almost never of a renal origin. 
The obstacles are the concomitant diseases of the patient. The age of the 
patient may be one of these obstacles. The average age at initiation of dialysis 
in our country is currently 67 years and over 50% of patients are 60 years old 
or older. Decision making: From an ethical viewpoint, there is a consensus in 
stating that anything that can technically be done, should be done. The 
principle of nonmaleficence and respect for the autonomy of the patients are 
"prima facie" principles when the physician has doubts as to whether dialysis 
provides a benefit to the patient. The principle of autonomy, which makes the 
patient a competent subject of treatment, allows a framework of shared decisions 
to be created in which the physician uses his knowledge and experiences in 
assessing the risk and benefits of dialysis including the alternative of no 
dialysis. The competent patient, duly informed, will chose the option that is 
best for him and take the decision. Principle of treatment proportionality: This 
principle states that there is a moral obligation to implement all therapeutic 
measures that show a relationship of due proportion between the resources used 
and the expected result. Dialysis is in principle a proportional treatment for 
end-stage renal failure. However, it may become a disproportional treatment 
because of the physical and mental conditions of the elderly patient. The good 
that is sought with institution of treatment can cause a harm to the patient 
that justifies noninclusion of the patient in dialysis treatment. Because of the 
impossibility of establishing universal rules of proportionality, it is 
necessary to make a personal judgment of conscience in each specific case. 
Recommendations for initiation or not of dialysis: Taking shared decisions 
between the patient (or relatives and/or advisors) and the physician. These 
shared decisions will be documented with signing of the proposed informed 
consent or rejection of the treatment. The medical team should always be sure 
that the patients has fully understood the consequences of the decision taken. 
Explanation of the modalities should include: - Types of dialysis treatment 
available. - Not to initiate dialysis and continue with conservative treatment 
until death. This situation may cause many problems if we do not have the help 
of the palliative care service. - Try dialysis for a limited time. - Stop 
dialysis and receive medical care until death. - Evaluate the prognosis of renal 
disease and concomitant diseases, life expectancy and family support. Resolution 
of conflicts: Conflicts may occur: - Between nephrologist and patient/family. - 
Between members of the nephrological team. - Between nephrologist and other 
physicians. When conflicts persist and the need for initiation of dialysis is 
urgent, it is necessary to initiate treatment and continue it until the 
resolution of these conflicts, making a record of this decision. In such cases, 
the Hospital Ethics Care Committee can help with appropriate advice to solve the 
discrepancies. Decisions taken in advance may be useful in this type of 
patients. Patients with advanced chronic kidney disease with criteria for 
Noninclusion or withdrawal of dialysis. - Severe or irreversible dementia. - 
conditions of permanent unconsciousness. - advanced tumors with metastasis. - 
terminal disease of another nontransplantable organ. - severe physical and/or 
mental disabilities. (Strength of Recommendation C)

PMID: 19018749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Nefrologia. 2008;28 Suppl 3:123-8.

[Pre-emptive kidney transplant].

[Article in Spanish]

Morales Ruiz E(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid.

- Kidney transplant is nowadays an indisputable treatment, which has been shown 
to improve both the quantity and quality of life of patients with end-stage 
kidney disease (Strength of Recommendation A). - Time on dialysis is one of the 
factors associated with poor prognosis for graft and patient survival (Strength 
of Recommendation B). - Early kidney transplant avoids the inconveniences caused 
by dialysis techniques and the expenditure generated by them (Strength of 
Recommendation B). - Early kidney transplant from a living or cadaver donor has 
shown better graft and recipient survival results than kidney transplant 
performed in patients on dialysis (Strength of Recommendation B). - Early kidney 
transplant should be offered to all patients who are candidates for a living 
donor kidney. In the case of a cadaver donor, early kidney transplant can be an 
ideal option for all candidates, but in particular for children and patients 
with diabetic nephropathy. However, it should not be forgotten that there is a 
limited supply of cadaver donors (Strength of Recommendation B). - In patients 
over 65 years of age, kidney transplant should be considered as a treatment 
option since it increase life expectancy compared to dialysis (Strength of 
Recommendation B). - We should promote strategies to combat the shortage of 
organs (promote living donor transplant, use of suboptimal donors, asystolic 
donors, etc.) and so be able to consider the option of early kidney transplant 
(Strength of Recommendation C). - The ideal time for patients with chronic 
kidney disease to be included on the waiting list for a kidney transplant should 
be when their glomerular filtration rate is less than 15-20 ml/min and we can 
foresee that the time for their inclusion in dialysis will no extend beyond 1 to 
2 years (Strength of Recommendation C). - We should not forget that the time on 
the waiting list for a kidney transplant is exactly the same for all patients 
with chronic kidney disease whether or not they are on dialysis (Strength of 
Recommendation C). In conclusion, we can state that there is a sufficiently 
solid scientific basis for attempting that patients receive the option of a 
kidney transplant before their inclusion in dialysis.

PMID: 19018750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Int Psychogeriatr. 2009 Apr;21(2):379-83. doi: 10.1017/S1041610208007953.
Epub  2008 Nov 20.

The relationship between population growth and elderly suicide rates: a 
cross-national study.

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ageing, Ethnicity and Mental Health, University of Central Lancashire, 
Preston, U.K. ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Elderly suicide rates are associated with the elderly population 
size, the proportion of elderly in the general population and the elderly 
dependency ratio.
METHODS: A cross-national study examining the "a priori" hypothesis that the 
relationship between elderly suicide rates and average annual population growth 
rates would be curvilinear (U-shaped curve) fitting the quadratic equation y = a 
+ bx + cx2 (where y is the elderly suicide rate, x is the population growth rate 
and a, b and c are constants) was conducted using data from the World Health 
Organization and the United Nations.
RESULTS: There was a significant curvilinear (U-shaped curve) relationship 
between elderly suicide rates and average annual population growth rates fitting 
the above quadratic equation.
CONCLUSIONS: A theoretical model with three sequential stages incorporating 
population growth, the elderly population size, the proportion of elderly in the 
general population, life expectancy and birth rates was proposed to explain the 
findings. Caution should be exercised in the application of this model because 
of the cross-sectional and ecological study design whereby the findings are 
subject to ecological fallacy and require rigourous testing in within-country 
longitudinal studies over time.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610208007953
PMID: 19019260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Neurotherapeutics. 2008 Oct;5(4):569-78. doi: 10.1016/j.nurt.2008.08.009.

Therapeutic approaches in glycogen storage disease type II/Pompe Disease.

Schoser B(1), Hill V, Raben N.

Author information:
(1)Friedrich-Baur Institute, Department of Neurology, Ludwig Maximilians 
University Munich, Munich, Germany.

Glycogen storage disease type II (GSDII)/Pompe disease is an autosomal recessive 
multi-system disorder due to a deficiency of the glycogen-degrading lysosomal 
enzyme, acid alpha-glucosidase. Without adequate levels of alpha-glucosidase, 
there is a progressive accumulation of glycogen inside the lysosome, resulting 
in lysosomal expansion in many tissues, although the major clinical 
manifestations are seen in cardiac and skeletal muscle. Pompe disease presents 
as a continuum of clinical phenotypes. In the most severe cases, disease onset 
occurs in infancy and death results from cardiac and respiratory failure within 
the first 1 or 2 years of life. In the milder late-onset forms, cardiac muscle 
is spared and muscle weakness is the primary symptom. Weakness of respiratory 
muscles is the major cause of mortality in these cases. Enzyme replacement 
therapy (ERT) with alglucosidase alfa (Myozyme; Genzyme Corp., Framingham, MA) 
is now available for all forms of glycogen storage disease type II. ERT has 
shown remarkable success in reversing pathology in cardiac muscle and extending 
life expectancy in infantile patients. However, skeletal muscle has proven to be 
a more challenging target for ERT. Although ERT is less effective in skeletal 
muscle than was hoped for, the lessons learned from both clinical and 
pre-clinical ERT studies have greatly expanded our understanding of the 
pathogenesis of the disease. A combination of fundamental studies and clinical 
follow-up, as well as exploration of other therapies, is necessary to take 
treatment for glycogen storage disease type II to the next level.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nurt.2008.08.009
PMCID: PMC2761605
PMID: 19019308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jan;68(2):220-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.013.
Epub  2008 Nov 18.

Health among the oldest-old in China: which living arrangements make a 
difference?

Li LW(1), Zhang J, Liang J.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan School of Social, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1106, USA. 
lydiali@umich.edu

This study aims to (1) examine the association of living arrangements and health 
among oldest-old Chinese, and (2) investigate gender differences in the 
association of living arrangements and health. Data were from the first two 
waves of the Chinese Longitudinal Healthy Longevity Survey, which included 9093 
Chinese averaging 92 years old. Living arrangements had six mutually exclusive 
categories: living alone, with spouse, with children, with spouse and children, 
with others and in institutions. Using multinomial logistic regression, we found 
that baseline living arrangements are significantly associated with mortality, 
activities of daily living (ADL) disability, and self-rated health at Wave 2, 
controlling for baseline health, sociodemographic characteristics and 
availability of children. Further, the linkages between living arrangements and 
mortality vary by gender. Among the different living arrangements, having a 
spouse in the household (either with a spouse only or with both a spouse and 
children) provides the best health protection. Living alone and living with 
children are associated with both health advantages and disadvantages. 
Institutional living lowers mortality risk for men but not women. Living with 
others provides the least health benefits. Our study has extended the research 
on living arrangements and health to a unique population-the oldest-old in 
China-and clarified the health advantages and disadvantages of different living 
arrangements. Future research should examine the mechanisms linking living 
arrangements and health, and the experience of institutional living for men and 
women in China.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.013
PMCID: PMC4912352
PMID: 19019514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jan;68(2):362-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.09.048.
Epub  2008 Nov 18.

A note on the nature of utility in time and health and implications for cost 
utility analysis.

Buckingham KJ(1), Devlin NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, University of Otago, Dunedin, 
New Zealand. ken.buckingham@yahoo.co.uk

Time Trade-Off (TTO) valuations of health are widely used in economic evaluation 
of health care. Current approaches to eliciting TTO values, and their use in 
economic evaluation, rest on specific assumptions about the way utility relates 
to time and health. Both the assumptions themselves and evidence of violations 
of them are discussed in the literature - yet the issues appear not to be widely 
appreciated by those using and applying TTO in economic evaluation. This paper 
adds to that literature by demonstrating both the requirements of TTO and 
violations of these assumptions in terms of the underlying indifference curve 
maps and utility functions. The advantage of this approach is that it 
demonstrates very clearly a number of fundamental problems for the way TTO 
values are currently elicited and used in cost utility analysis. In essence, it 
is extremely unwise to assume that the current 'tariffs' of TTO values, such as 
those widely used in cost utility analysis to inform health sector decisions in 
many countries can be applied irrespective of the duration of the health states 
to which they are assigned. The estimates of QALYs that result will, quite 
often, simply be wrong. We conclude by pointing to a number of possible 
solutions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.09.048
PMID: 19019518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Maturitas. 2008 Dec 20;61(4):287-98. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2008.09.021.
Epub  2008 Nov 18.

The relationship between smoking and age at the menopause: A systematic review.

Parente RC(1), Faerstein E, Celeste RK, Werneck GL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Institute of Social Medicine, Universidade do 
Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. raphaelgnomo@hotmail.com

CONTEXT AND OBJECTIVE: Increasing life expectancy has made it ever more 
important to study the factors that influence the age at the menopause, given 
that when it is reached outside of the normal range, it is associated with 
increased risk of osteoporosis and cardiovascular diseases, among other 
conditions. Among the factors studied in relation to early menopause, smoking is 
prominent. Destruction of the ovarian follicles is one of the mechanisms 
postulated for this effect. The aim of this study was to review and describe the 
associations between age at the menopause and the habit of smoking, its duration 
and its intensity.
METHOD: A systematic review of the literature indexed in the MEDLINE and LILACS 
databases was conducted, without restriction on publication date. After 
initially identifying 1325 articles and preselecting 161 articles for 
consideration of their complete texts, 96 articles reporting on the results from 
109 studies were selected for analysis.
RESULTS: A great majority of the studies reported an association between the 
habit of smoking and early menopause, but there was no clear evidence that the 
duration of smoking and quantity of cigarettes smoked had any association with 
age at the natural menopause.
CONCLUSION: Additional studies are needed, preferably of prospective nature and 
with a large number of women, in order to deepen the knowledge of the effects of 
various aspects of smoking on age at the menopause. Experimental studies on 
animals may also contribute towards clarifying the physiopathological mechanisms 
through which smoking influences age at the menopause.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2008.09.021
PMID: 19019585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. J Endocrinol Invest. 2008 Sep;31(9 Suppl):33-8.

Hypopituitarism and HIV-infection: a new comorbidity in the HAART era?

Zirilli L(1), Orlando G, Diazzi C, Squillace N, Carani C, Guaraldi G, Rochira V.

Author information:
(1)Chair of Endocrinology, Integrated Department of Medicine, Endocrinology, 
Metabolism, and Geriatrics, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 41100 
Modena, Italy.

Several comorbidities are associated with the HIV infection and may involve also 
the endocrine-metabolic system. Consistently, the recent development of the 
therapeutic regimen highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) ruled out a 
significant improvement both in the prognosis and life expectancy of 
HIV-infected patients, but disclosed also new serious drug-related toxicity. Of 
these, the lipodystrophy syndrome is the most frequent, occurring in up to 83% 
of HIV-infected patients under HAART. The HIV-related lipodystrophy is 
associated with alterations in GH dynamics, affecting both basal and stimulated 
GH secretion. This GHIGF- I secretive pattern resembles that of severe GH 
deficiency in adulthood due to pituitary diseases, but without leading to IGF-I 
serum levels below the normal range. The impairment of pituitary GH secretion 
has been ascribed to the hormonal and metabolic inhibitory effect due to adipose 
tissue redistribution in HIV-infected males, since in these patients pituitary 
GH secretion appeared to be inversely related to visceral adipose tissue 
accumulation and waist to-hip-ratio. However, whether these patients suffer from 
a true GH deficiency due to an intrinsic pituitary failure or display only a 
functional reduction of GH secretion due to visceral adiposity remains still a 
matter of debate, especially in HIV-infected females.

PMID: 19020383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. J Endocrinol Invest. 2008 Sep;31(9 Suppl):85-90.

Replacement therapy and cardiovascular diseases.

Boschetti M(1), Goglia U, Teti C, Esposito D, Giusti M, Minuto F, Ferone D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Medical Sciences, University of Genoa, Genoa, 
Italy.

It is known that hypopituitarism reduces life expectancy and increases the risk 
of death for cardio- and cerebrovascular disease. Many studies report this 
phenomenon due to vascular diseases, and GH deficiency (GHD) seems to 
significantly contribute to the higher mortality. Aim of this article is to 
review the relationship between GH and cardiovascular risk factors to evaluate 
the beneficial effects of therapy in the adult GHD. GH replacement therapy 
(GHRT) improves insulin sensitivity, and reduces LDL cholesterol and 
triglyceride levels. Several studies also documented a decrease in the 
intima-media thickness at major arteries and improvement in microvascular and 
endothelial function. Other studies showed a decrease of inflammatory markers 
and the normalization of coagulation parameters. Finally, some authors have 
reported improvements in cardiac performance as well. These data evidence the 
positive effects of GHRT in the prevention of premature atherosclerosis in 
adults with GHD, and encourage the early administration of replacement therapy.

PMID: 19020394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. BJU Int. 2009 Apr;103(7):889-93. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.08119.x. Epub
 2008 Nov 18.

Race affects access to nephrectomy but not survival in renal cell carcinoma.

Zini L(1), Perrotte P, Capitanio U, Jeldres C, Duclos A, Arjane P, Villers A, 
Montorsi F, Patard JJ, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montréal, Québec, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether, in contemporary patients with renal cell 
carcinoma (RCC), access to nephrectomy is the same between the Blacks and 
Whites, and that there is no difference in mortality after stratification for 
treatment type.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The effect of race has received little attention in RCC; 
only two reports have addressed and suggested the presence of racial 
disparities, including access to nephrectomy and survival after nephrectomy, 
where Black patients were disadvantaged relative to Whites. We used the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results data from 12 516 patients of all 
stages diagnosed and treated for RCC between 2000 and 2004. The effect of race 
(Black vs White) on nephrectomy rate was addressed in logistic regression and 
binomial regression models, and Cox regression models tested the effect of race 
on overall survival.
RESULTS: Black patients were 50% less likely to have a nephrectomy than their 
White counterparts. However, race had no effect on overall survival when the 
entire cohort was assessed, as well as in subgroups of patients with or without 
nephrectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Although race is a determinant of access to nephrectomy, it should 
not be interpreted as a barrier to care, as survival was unaffected by race in 
patients having a nephrectomy or not. Instead, race might represent a proxy of 
comorbidity and life-expectancy, which represent surgical selection criteria for 
nephrectomy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.08119.x
PMID: 19021607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Early Hum Dev. 2009 Mar;85(3):201-6. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2008.10.003.
Epub  2008 Nov 20.

The influence of prenatal breech presentation on neonatal leg posture.

Fong BF(1), Savelsbergh GJ, Leijsen MR, de Vries JI.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute MOVE, Faculty of Human Movement Sciences, VU University, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. b.f.fong@mca.nl

The aim of our study was to examine the effect of prenatal breech presentation 
on postnatal leg posture. Twelve infants were born after breech presentation and 
nine infants after cephalic presentation participated. At 2, 4, 6, 12 and 18 
weeks postnatal age leg posture was examined during general movements in supine 
and vertical position.
RESULTS: Transient differences in hip posture between the groups were observed 
during the first 6 weeks postnatal age, with significantly more hip flexion and 
less hip extension in the breech group. For knee extension, differences between 
the groups were not statistically significant. Changing from supine to vertical 
position, the breech group demonstrated a significant increase in hip extension, 
with no significant changes in hip posture for the cephalic group. For both 
groups the vertical condition resulted in a significant increase in knee 
extension. Continuity from pre- to postnatal life was found for hip posture in 
both groups and for knee extension only in the breech group.
CONCLUSIONS: Significant differences between breech and cephalic-born infants 
were found during the first 6 weeks after birth and mainly concerned hip posture 
and not knee posture. An increase in gravitational force has more impact on leg 
posture in the breech than in the cephalic group. The observed differences in 
hip posture between the studied groups were found to be transient, however, in 
the long term subtle differences still remain between the groups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2008.10.003
PMID: 19022592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2009 Feb;17(2):363-9. doi: 10.1038/oby.2008.534.
Epub  2008 Nov 20.

The impact of obesity and arthritis on active life expectancy in older 
Americans.

Reynolds SL(1), McIlvane JM.

Author information:
(1)School of Aging Studies, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida, USA. 
sreynold@cas.usf.edu

This article examines the relationship of obesity and arthritis to length of 
life and length of disabled life in older American men and women. Secondary data 
analysis is conducted on three waves of the Asset and Health Dynamics Among the 
Oldest Old (AHEAD) survey (n = 7,381). Using integrated Markov chains, total, 
active, and disabled life expectancy in Americans aged > or =70 is estimated, 
with and without obesity and arthritis. Results indicate that neither obesity 
nor arthritis is related to the length of life for older men and women, alone or 
in combination. However, both conditions are significantly individually 
associated with increased length of disabled life in older men (1.4 years 
attributable to obesity; 1.2 years to arthritis at age 70; P < 0.05) and women 
(1.7 years attributable to obesity; 2.1 years to arthritis at age 70; P < 0.05). 
In addition, the combination of the two is significantly related to decreased 
active life, with nearly 50 and 60% of remaining life for 70-year-old men and 
women lived with disability, respectively (P < 0.05). Coupled with the fact that 
both obesity and arthritis are growing in prevalence, these findings represent 
one of the few clearly negative health trends in older adults today. These 
results should provide incentives for health-care professionals to make 
concerted efforts to address both conditions in clinical settings.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2008.534
PMID: 19023280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Nord J Psychiatry. 2009;63(1):17-21. doi: 10.1080/08039480802541765.

Disability from depression: the public health challenge to primary care.

Rost K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Humanities and Social Sciences, Florida State 
University College of Medicine, 1115 W. Call Street, Tallahassee, FL 32306, USA. 
Kathryn.Rost@med.fsu.edu

Epidemiologists have identified that depression will soon be the leading cause 
of disability throughout the world. To inform public health campaigns to reduce 
this problem, this paper summarizes current scientific knowledge about 
optimizing the potential of primary care settings to reduce disability by 
providing effective treatment for depression. To meet this challenge, primary 
care practices need to be re-engineered: 1) to conduct systematic screening 
programs to identify depressed patients, 2) to provide depressed patients 
initial evidence-based treatment, and 3) to monitor treatment adherence and 
symptom response in treated patients over 2 years. While additional research is 
needed in developing countries, preliminary evidence indicates that primary care 
practices re-engineered to improve depression management can make a substantial 
contribution to reducing depression-associated disability.

DOI: 10.1080/08039480802541765
PMID: 19023696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Ann Hum Biol. 2008 Nov-Dec;35(6):639-55. doi: 10.1080/03014460802471197.

Age at menarche in Portuguese rural women from Oleiros.

Gama A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciencias Universidade de Lisboa, Departamento de Biologia Animal 
FCUL, Campo Grande, Lisbon, Portugal. augusta.gama@fc.ul.pt

BACKGROUND: Several aspects of living conditions and behaviour may influence the 
age at menarche.
AIM: The present study investigated the relation of variables concerning the 
reproductive period and the socio-economic conditions on the recalled age at 
menarche of rural Portuguese women, born in the first half of the 20th century.
SUBJECTS AND METHOD: Recalled menarche age of a sample of 771 adult women over 
44 years old, from a rural municipality (Oleiros) in central Portugal was 
analysed.
RESULTS: The mean menarcheal age was 14.34+/-1.98 years. Menarcheal age 
increased significantly with the chronological age and age at marriage, and was 
negatively correlated with the duration of the period between menarche and 
marriage and with the biological reproductive span. The mean menarcheal age was 
lower (13.59+/-1.95 years) in women with an order of birth >/=7 than in those of 
birth order </=3 (14.41+/-2.16 years). The mean menarcheal age was lower in 
women with a surname (14.26+/-1.91) than in those without it (14.81+/-2.28). 
Child labour began at the age of 11.87+/-32.72 years. Women subject to early 
child labour had delayed menarches (14.53+/-2.18) when compared with women who 
had not worked before 17 years old (14.03+/-1.91). The menarcheal age varied 
with the birth decade, decreasing from 14.64+/-2.61 (1910s) to 13.98+/-1.46 
(1950s).
CONCLUSION: The variation of age at menarche was related to changes in family 
behaviour towards children, reduction of age at child labour and increasing 
access to schools. The secular decrease in menarcheal age from 1910 to 1980 was 
related to living condition factors such as illiteracy, female life expectancy 
and infant mortality rates.

DOI: 10.1080/03014460802471197
PMID: 19023736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Cogn Behav Ther. 2008;37(4):247-51. doi: 10.1080/16506070802473189.

Effect of a vocationally-focused brief cognitive behavioural intervention on 
employment-related outcomes for individuals with mood and anxiety disorders.

Kidd SA(1), Boyd GM, Bieling P, Pike S, Kazarian-Keith D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural Neurosciences, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario. skidd@stjosham.on.ca

Despite an increasing emphasis on the importance of vocational success to the 
quality of life of individuals with mental illness (Bond, Drake, & Becker, 
2008), minimal work has examined the impact of cognitive behavioural 
interventions that focus on vocational stressors. Vocational stressors commonly 
faced by persons with mental illness include difficulties with work task 
completion, obtaining employment, and coping with interpersonal stressors 
(Becker et al., 1998). The purpose of this pilot study was to examine the 
effectiveness of a brief cognitive behavioural therapy group intervention that 
targets vocational stressors for individuals whose vocational functioning had 
been significantly impacted by mental illness. Participants included 16 
individuals with mood and anxiety disorder diagnoses. After this intervention, 
it was found that employed persons reported an improved sense of mastery in the 
completion of work tasks, improved satisfaction with work supervision, and 
decreased satisfaction with advancement and job security. Unemployed 
participants reported improved expectancy for employment success.

DOI: 10.1080/16506070802473189
PMID: 19023766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Vital Health Stat 2. 2008 Oct;(148):1-23.

The validity of race and Hispanic origin reporting on death certificates in the 
United States.

Arias E(1), Schauman WS, Eschbach K, Sorlie PD, Backlund E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Disease and Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, 
Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents the results of an evaluation study of the 
validity of race and Hispanic origin reporting on death certificates in the 
United States and its impact on race- and Hispanic origin-specific mortality 
estimates.
METHODS: The National Longitudinal Mortality Study (NLMS) was used to evaluate 
death certificate classification of race and Hispanic origin by comparing death 
certificate with survey race-ethnicity classifications for a sample of decedents 
identified in NLMS. NLMS consists of a series of annual Current Population 
Survey files (1973 and 1978-1998) linked to death certificates for years 
1979-1998. To identify and measure the effect of race-ethnicity 
misclassification on death certificates on mortality estimates, pooled 1999-2001 
vital statistics mortality data and population data from the 2000 census were 
used to estimate and compare observed and corrected (for death certificate 
misclassification) race-ethnicity specific death rates.
RESULTS: Race and ethnicity reporting on the death certificate continues to be 
excellent for the white and black populations. It remains poor for the American 
Indian or Alaska Native (AIAN) population but is reasonably good for the 
Hispanic and Asian or Pacific Islander (API) populations. Decedent 
characteristics such as place of residence and nativity have an important effect 
on the quality of reporting on the death certificate. The effects of 
misclassification on mortality estimates were most pronounced for the AIAN 
population, where correcting for misclassification reverses a large AIAN over 
white mortality advantage to a large disadvantage. Among the Hispanic and API 
populations, adjustment for death certificate misclassification did not 
significantly affect minority-majority mortality differentials.

PMID: 19024798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2008;47(12):817-25. doi:
10.2165/0003088-200847120-00006.

Pharmacokinetics of sapropterin in patients with phenylketonuria.

Feillet F(1), Clarke L, Meli C, Lipson M, Morris AA, Harmatz P, Mould DR, Green 
B, Dorenbaum A, Giovannini M, Foehr E; Sapropterin Research Group.

Collaborators: Feigenbaum A, Abadie V, Dobbelaere D, Hennermann J, Trefz F, 
Wendel U, Treacy E, Milanowski A, Chakrapani A, Cleary M, Lee P, Baker J, 
Bergoffen J, Burton BK, Crombez E, Grange D, Harding C, Koch R, Levy H, Longo N, 
Randolph L, Seashore M, Vockley G, Waber L, Wasserstein M, Whitley C, Wolff J.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Référence des Maladies Héréditaires du Métabolisme, Hôpital 
d'Enfants, CHU Brabois, Vandoeuvre les Nancy, France. f.feillet@chu-nancy.fr

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Untreated phenylketonuria is characterized by 
neurocognitive and neuromotor impairment, which result from elevated blood 
phenylalanine concentrations. To date, the recommended management of 
phenylketonuria has been the use of a protein-restricted diet and the inclusion 
of phenylalanine-free protein supplements; however, this approach is often 
associated with poor compliance and a suboptimal clinical outcome. Sapropterin 
dihydrochloride, herein referred to as sapropterin, a synthetic formulation of 
6R-tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4), has been shown to be effective in reducing 
blood phenylalanine concentrations in patients with phenylketonuria. The 
objective of the current study was to characterize the pharmacokinetics and 
pharmacokinetic variability of sapropterin and to identify the characteristics 
that influence this variability.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a 12-week, fixed-dose phase of an open-label 
extension study. The study was conducted at 26 centres in North America and 
Europe.Patients with phenylketonuria were eligible to participate if they were > 
or =8 years of age and had received > or =80% of the scheduled doses in a 
previous 6-week, randomized, placebo-controlled study or had been withdrawn from 
that study after exceeding a plasma phenylalanine concentration of > or =1500 
micromol/L to > or =1800 micromol/L, depending on the subject's age and baseline 
plasma phenylalanine concentration. A total of 78 patients participated. 
Patients received oral once-daily doses of sapropterin (Kuvan) 5, 10 or 20 
mg/kg/day. Blood samples for the pharmacokinetic analysis were obtained during 
weeks 6, 10 and 12. A D-optimal sparse sampling strategy was used, and data were 
analysed by population-based, nonlinear, mixed-effects modelling methods.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: In a prospectively planned analysis, the apparent 
clearance, apparent volume of distribution, absorption rate constant and 
associated interindividual variabilities of each parameter were estimated by 
modelling observed BH4 plasma concentration-time data.
RESULTS: The best structural model to describe the pharmacokinetics of 
sapropterin was a two-compartment model with first-order input, first-order 
elimination and a baseline endogenous BH4 concentration term. Total bodyweight 
was the only significant covariate identified, the inclusion of which on both 
the apparent clearance (mean = 2100 L/h/70 kg) and central volume of 
distribution (mean = 8350 L/70 kg) substantially improved the model's ability to 
describe the data. The mean (SD) terminal half-life of sapropterin was 6.69 
(2.29) hours and there was little evidence of accumulation, even at the highest 
dose.
CONCLUSION: These findings, taken together with the observed therapeutic effect, 
support bodyweight-based, once-daily dosing of sapropterin 5-20 mg/kg/day.

DOI: 10.2165/0003088-200847120-00006
PMID: 19026037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Int Psychogeriatr. 2009 Apr;21(2):414-5. doi: 10.1017/S1041610208008077.
Epub  2008 Nov 25.

The relationship between annual predicted future population growth rates and 
elderly suicide rates.

Shah A.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610208008077
PMID: 19026090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Semin Oncol. 2008 Dec;35(6):597-617. doi: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2008.08.003.

Management of prostate cancer in the older man.

Mohile SG(1), Lachs M, Dale W.

Author information:
(1)James Wilmot Cancer Center, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14642, 
USA. supriya_mohile@urmc.rochester.edu

Due to the high incidence and prevalence in older men, prostate cancer is best 
understood as an age-associated disease. Physicians and their older patients 
commonly face the dilemma of whether or not to initiate treatment for localized 
disease or early systemic relapse (ie, biochemical recurrence). Although many 
older men with symptomatic advanced prostate cancer benefit from hormonal 
treatments and chemotherapies, treatment complications also may influence 
outcome. Older prostate cancer patients have a high prevalence of other factors 
that can limit remaining life expectancy (RLE), quality of life (QOL), and 
tolerance to treatment. A comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) can help 
identify other health status issues that can predict morbidity or mortality in 
vulnerable or frail older prostate cancer populations. Despite a growing body of 
evidence, more research is needed to establish optimal treatment strategies for 
all disease stages in prostate cancer patients diagnosed later in life.

DOI: 10.1053/j.seminoncol.2008.08.003
PMID: 19027464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. C R Biol. 2008 Dec;331(12):991-1006. doi: 10.1016/j.crvi.2008.09.002. Epub
2008  Oct 1.

[Mortality and morbidity worldwide, now and tomorrow: what is known?].

[Article in French]

Valleron AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)UPMC et Inserm, UMR S 707, 75012 Paris, France.

The knowledge of the global distribution of death, diseases and risk factors is 
important to make clear to the general public and to governments that health 
inequalities are incredibly high, at the dawn of this 21(st) century, and to 
help fight these. More than 20% of the 56 millions of deaths in 2001 were of 
children less than 5 years old. There are at least 1 million deaths per year 
from malaria. Diarrhoea kill more than 1.5 million, and measles more than half a 
million. The large majority of deaths by infectious diseases occur in 
underdeveloped countries. Moreover, chronic diseases kill an increasing number 
in underdeveloped countries, because populations are aging, because expansive 
health care which is needed to prevent and control these diseases is 
unavailable, and because the inhabitants are increasingly exposed to risk 
factors. In particular, smoking is increasing dramatically in underdeveloped 
countries as a result of the aggressive marketing of tobacco companies, the 
delay in implementing antismoking regulations, and because the public perception 
of the risk of smoking is still low. More than 4 million deaths per year are 
presently attributed to smoking, and reports forecast a death toll of 10 million 
in 2030. The WHO, Harvard University and the World Bank are at the origin of 
comprehensive data analyses on the "global burden of diseases" which help to 
identify health priorities. Unfortunately, global data are still scarce and of 
low quality, particularly in those underdeveloped countries where they would be 
most useful. Precise knowledge of the variations of mortality, morbidity and 
exposure to risk factors would be essential to monitor the improvements, or 
failures of health care progress. The optimal interpretation of the available 
data requires expertise in demography, epidemiology, statistics, and computer 
sciences, which are rarely found in this area. Thus, improvements in the 
collection of data and in the research effort in this field are necessary.
