
DOI: 10.1159/000193996
PMID: 19147988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. EMBO Rep. 2009 Feb;10(2):108-13. doi: 10.1038/embor.2008.251. Epub 2009 Jan
16.

Anticipating the anti-ageing pill. Lessons from the history of the oral 
contraceptive pill and hormone replacement therapy.

Lucke JC(1), Diedrichs PC, Partridge B, Hall WD.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. 
j.lucke@uq.edu.au

DOI: 10.1038/embor.2008.251
PMCID: PMC2637320
PMID: 19148223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Oncol Rep. 2009 Feb;21(2):431-5.

'Internal bracing' surgery in the management of solid tumor metastases of the 
thoracic and lumbar spine.

Di Martino A(1), Vincenzi B, Denaro L, Barnaba SA, Papalia R, Santini D, Tonini 
G, Denaro V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Campus Bio-Medico, 
Rome 00155, Italy. a.dimartino@unicampus.it

In patients with thoracolumbar spine metastasis, surgery is aimed at patient 
healing only when patient has a good prognosis with long life expectancy. In 
patients with short life expectancy a less aggressive surgical approach of 
posterior decompression and stabilization could improve patient care and allow 
for neurological recovery. Thirty-two consecutive patients affected by 
symptomatic thoracolumbar spine metastases with short life expectancy and good 
Karnofsky index (50-70) were subjected to surgery and reviewed retrospectively. 
After tumor embolization, surgery consisted of posterior decompression and 
stabilization with laminar hooks in the dorsal spine, and laminar hooks or 
lumbar pedicle screws. Patient's Karnofsky Index, average survival, Frankel 
neurological status, and pain were recorded before and after surgery, together 
with surgery related complications. Primary tumors were breast carcinoma (nine 
patients), renal cell carcinoma (three), lung carcinoma (four), GI tract 
carcinoma (six), prostate carcinoma (two), carcinoma of the uterus (two), 
melanoma (three), and malignant tumors at other different sites (three). Average 
survival after surgery was 23 months, with highest survival rates in renal 
cancer and breast carcinoma patients, and poorest survival rates in lung and 
dedifferentiated carcinoma. Karnofsky index improved from average 61 to 72% 
post-operatively. After surgery patients experienced significant overall 
improvement of Frankel score and decrease of referred pain. Hospitalization stay 
was on average 10 days. Results showed that operative treatment of symptomatic 
spinal metastases in patients with poor prognosis and good general health status 
improves or preserves neurological function, allows for adjuvant treatments to 
be performed and has a role in improving general health status in most patients.

PMID: 19148519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. J Asian Stud. 2007 May;66(2):363-87. doi: 10.1017/s0021911807000563.

Critical methods in Tibetan medical histories.

Garrett F(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto.

This paper addresses the development of scholastic medical traditions in Tibet 
through an extension of lists of physicians. I consider the debates that such 
lists and their accompanying narratives engender for Tibetan historians and 
reflect on the contributions they make to the identity of the medical tradition. 
By examining the structure and content of classificatory methods in medical 
histories, I argue that temporally organized lists document the place of 
medicine across time, geographically organized lists document the reach of 
medical knowledge across space, and thematically organized lists document the 
intertwining of medical knowledge and skill with other aspects of intellectual 
and civil life. In making these lists, medical historians paint a portrait of 
the Tibetan medical tradition that evokes connections to Buddhism and the 
strength and cosmopolitanism of the imperial period. Medical histories thus 
emphasize a picture of Tibet in the broader context of Asia- a Tibet whose 
empire lives on culturally or intellectually, if not militarily.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021911807000563
PMID: 19149026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Int J Prosthodont. 2008 Nov-Dec;21(6):514-20.

The influence of bar design (round versus milled bar) on prosthodontic 
maintenance of mandibular overdentures supported by 4 implants: a 5-year 
prospective study.

Krennmair G(1), Krainh√∂fner M, Piehslinger E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Dental School, University of Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria. krennmair@aon.at

PURPOSE: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the prosthodontic 
maintenance required for mandibular overdentures supported by 4 implants and 
splinted with either a round bar and resilient overdenture anchorage or a milled 
bar with rigid anchorage over a 5-year period.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a randomized prospective trial, 51 edentulous patients 
received 4 mandibular interforaminal implants to support an overdenture and 
maxillary complete dentures. For the implant-supported overdentures (IODs), bar 
architecture and denture stabilization were chosen randomly; 25 patients 
received round bars (group 1) and resilient anchorage and 26 patients received 
milled bars (group 2) and rigid anchorage. The prosthodontic maintenance 
required for the IODs and opposing dentures were evaluated during a 5-year 
follow-up period and compared between the 2 retention modalities used for IODs.
RESULTS: Forty-six patients (22 in group 1, 24 in group 2) were available for a 
5-year follow-up (dropout rate: 9.8%). Prosthodontic maintenance efforts were 
significantly greater (P < .01) with the round bar design (group 1) than with 
the overdentures stabilized with milled bars (group 2). In group 1, 
prosthodontic maintenance efforts were more frequent in the early phase of use 
(1 to 2 years), as compared with an evenly distributed incidence over the 5-year 
period with the rigid milled bar system. Major prosthetic complications (IOD 
remaking, bar fracture) were only seen in cases without metal-reinforced 
frameworks (group 1).
CONCLUSION: When 4 interforaminal implants are used to anchor mandibular 
overdentures, the design of the anchorage system will significantly affect 
prosthodontic maintenance efforts and complication rates. Rigid anchorage using 
milled bars and a metal-reinforced denture framework required less prosthodontic 
maintenance, ie, for clip activation/fracture, than resilient denture 
stabilization using multiple round bars without a rigid denture framework.

PMID: 19149069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Int J Prosthodont. 2008 Nov-Dec;21(6):524-30.

Effect of removable partial dentures on oral health-related quality of life in 
subjects with shortened dental arches: a 2-center cross-sectional study.

Armellini DB(1), Heydecke G, Witter DJ, Creugers NH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Restorative Dentistry, Baltimore College of Dental Surgery, 
University of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE: To assess the value of removable partial dentures (RPDs) in subjects 
with shortened dental arches (SDAs) with regard to quality of life.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Subjects from 2 university dental centers (82 men, 78 
women; mean age: 54 +/- 18 years) were categorized into the following groups: 
(1) SDA with intact anterior regions (SDA-1, n = 44); (2) SDA and interrupted 
anterior region (SDA-2, n = 21); (3) SDA (intact anterior region) extended with 
distal-extension RPD (RPD-1, n = 25); (4) subjects with interrupted SDA and 
interrupted anterior region treated with RPD (RPD-2, n = 32); or (5) complete 
dental arches (CDA, n = 38) as a control. All subjects underwent a short 
clinical examination and completed 2 structured questionnaires: the Oral Health 
Impact Profile (OHIP-49) and the Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36). Recorded 
clinical variables included: teeth present (yes/no), replacement by RPD 
(yes/no), and number of occlusal units. Age-dependent outcomes were adjusted to 
outcomes for the age of 60 years. Linear regression models were used to assess 
differences between the groups.
RESULTS: Reliability and validity were good for all subscales. For OHIP, the 
investigation groups had significantly higher scores (more complaints) than CDA 
for the subscales "functional limitation," "psychologic discomfort," and 
"physical disability." Of the 4 investigation groups, SDA-1 subjects had the 
lowest mean scores. SF-36 scores showed less prominent and less conclusive 
differences between investigation groups and CDA subjects. SDA-2 subjects showed 
worse health, with significantly lower scores than RPD-2 subjects for 
"vitality," "social function," and "mental health." For pure SDA subjects 
(SDA-1) there was a significant positive effect for "number of occlusal units" 
in 5 of the OHIP subscales and 2 of the SF-36 subscales.
CONCLUSION: From a quality-of-life perspective, patients with SDAs perceive 
benefits from RPDs only if anterior teeth replacements are included. In 
contrast, in subjects with uninterrupted SDAs, where only posterior teeth were 
replaced by distal-extension RPDs, such benefits could not be demonstrated.

PMID: 19149071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Ned Tijdschr Tandheelkd. 2008 Dec;115(12):643-51.

[Surgical dilemmas. Medical restrictions and risk factors].

[Article in Dutch]

Meijer GJ(1), Cune MS.

Author information:
(1)Mondziekten, Kaak- en Aangezichtchirurgie van het Universitair Medisch 
Centrum St Radboud Nijmegen, Nijmegen. g.meijer@dent.umcn.nl

In principle, only patients with an ASA (American Society of 
Anaesthesiologists)-score I or II qualify for an elective surgical procedure, 
such as an implantation treatment. Surgical risks are weighed against the 
potential benefits offered by oral implants. Counter-indications to implant 
rehabilitation include recent myocardial infarction and cerebrovascular 
accident, immunosuppression, active treatment of malignancy, drug abuse, as well 
as long-standing intravenous bisphosphonate use. In the case of patients with an 
endocarditis risk, and also in the case of patients with an orthopedic 
prosthesis, implants should be placed with some reluctance. If the decision is 
made for treatment, then consultation with the treating specialist is 
recommended. Beside absolute counter-indications, there are also conditions 
which compromise the success of an implant treatment, such as radiation of the 
jaw or long-term smoking. Concerning the effect which medical conditions have on 
the life-expectancy of the implant, little is known. There appear to be few 
existing factors which actually have a negative influence on the chance that an 
implant will survive.

PMID: 19149131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Lancet. 2009 Jan 31;373(9661):360-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60043-X.
Epub  2009 Jan 14.

Societal transition and health.

Bobak M(1), Marmot M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College London, 
London WC1E 6BT, UK. m.bobak@ucl.ac.uk

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 Jan 31;373(9661):399-407.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60043-X
PMID: 19150129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Int J Cardiol. 2010 Jun 11;141(3):275-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2008.12.042.
 Epub 2009 Jan 15.

Heart failure decreases passive tension generation of rat diaphragm fibers.

van Hees HW(1), Ottenheijm CA, Granzier HL, Dekhuijzen PN, Heunks LM.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Pulmonary Diseases, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, The 
Netherlands. h.vanhees@long.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Diaphragm dysfunction is well-known to limit quality of life and 
prognosis of patients with heart failure (HF), but its underlying mechanisms are 
not well understood. In an animal model for HF we recently showed that impaired 
diaphragm contractility arises at the single fiber level and is associated with 
sarcomeric injuries. For optimal muscle function and sarcomeric stability 
passive elastic structures, like titin, are indispensable. The current study 
aimed to investigate if impaired passive elasticity contributes to diaphragm 
dysfunction in rats with heart failure.
METHODS: Skinned muscle fibers were isolated from the diaphragm and soleus of 
rats with chronic HF, induced by left coronary artery ligation and of 
sham-operated rats. Passive tension-length relationships were determined by 
applying segmental extension tests. Immunofluorescence was performed on muscle 
cryosections using antibodies (T12) against a titin epitope near the Z-line. 
Titin content was determined by SDS-agarose-gel electrophoresis. Titin's 
mobility on gel was studied to detect changes in titin size.
RESULTS: Passive tension generation upon stretch was significantly reduced 
(>35%) in HF diaphragm fibers compared to sham. Immunostaining intensities 
against titin were reduced in diaphragm cryosections of HF rats compared to 
sham. Soleus fibers from HF and sham rats did not display differences, neither 
in passive tension nor in immunostaining. No differences in titin's size were 
detected in HF and sham diaphragm. Titin content, however, was significantly 
reduced ( approximately 25%) in HF diaphragm.
DISCUSSION: We conclude that in the diaphragm of HF rats, passive elasticity is 
impaired, mainly resulting from titin loss.

Copyright (c) 2008 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2008.12.042
PMID: 19150150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. J Urol. 2009 Mar;181(3):963-71. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2008.11.033. Epub 2009
Jan  16.

A new vision for the study of benign prostate disease: the NIDDK Prostate 
Research Strategic Plan.

Mullins C(1), Kaplan SA.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Disease, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

PURPOSE: The American population continues to enjoy a steady increase in life 
expectancy. A major goal for this population is to maintain and improve quality 
of life as it ages. For men a major source of age related health burden is 
benign disorders of the prostate which, despite much research, remain poorly 
defined and require greater advancement in prevention and treatment. Thus, there 
is a substantial need to develop a long-range vision to focus and promote 
efforts to better understand and manage benign prostate disease. In response the 
National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases convened a 
panel of key opinion leaders including basic researchers, translational 
scientists, epidemiologists, and clinicians and clinical researchers to develop 
a comprehensive strategic plan to advance research in benign prostate disease.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The overall mission statement of this effort is "To 
discuss, evaluate, and propose research needs and a long-range research agenda 
(ie a strategic plan) for NIDDK grant portfolios related to research into benign 
prostate disease." Implementation and practical application of this strategic 
plan will require a partnership of the scientific community, the Federal 
Government, and other public and private organizations and institutions.
RESULTS: This focused group of research and thought leaders identified 4 major 
areas of key significance for future investigation: basic science, 
epidemiology/population based studies, translational opportunities and clinical 
sciences. Great opportunities are identified within these 4 areas to develop new 
insights, and translate findings for benign prostate diseases and related 
syndromes between the research laboratory and the clinical setting.
CONCLUSIONS: The product of these efforts, the National Institute of Diabetes 
and Digestive and Kidney Diseases Prostate Research Strategic Plan, represents a 
blueprint that researchers and Federal Government can use to review where the 
field has been, define where the field is and, most importantly, identify where 
and how future research efforts should be directed. To accomplish this goal many 
priorities must be addressed, including the need to create more effective lines 
of communication among scientific disciplines to improve translation of research 
findings and ultimately advance patient treatment. The overall goals and 
missions of the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases 
Prostate Research Strategic Plan, along with key scientific recommendations and 
priorities for the major areas of focus, are summarized.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2008.11.033
PMID: 19150562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Alcohol Alcohol. 2009 Mar-Apr;44(2):148-54. doi: 10.1093/alcalc/agn118. Epub
 2009 Jan 16.

The Korsakoff syndrome: clinical aspects, psychology and treatment.

Kopelman MD(1), Thomson AD, Guerrini I, Marshall EJ.

Author information:
(1)King's College London, Institute of Psychiatry, London, UK. 
michael.kopelman@kcl.ac.uk

AIMS: The Korsakoff syndrome is a preventable memory disorder that usually 
emerges (although not always) in the aftermath of an episode of Wernicke's 
encephalopathy. The present paper reviews the clinical and scientific literature 
on this disorder.
METHODS: A systematic review of the clinical and scientific literature on 
Wernicke's encephalopathy and the alcoholic Korsakoff syndrome.
RESULTS: The Korsakoff syndrome is most commonly associated with chronic alcohol 
misuse, and some heavy drinkers may have a genetic predisposition to developing 
the syndrome. The characteristic neuropathology includes neuronal loss, 
micro-haemorrhages and gliosis in the paraventricular and peri-aqueductal grey 
matter. Lesions in the mammillary bodies, the mammillo-thalamic tract and the 
anterior thalamus may be more important to memory dysfunction than lesions in 
the medial dorsal nucleus of the thalamus. Episodic memory is severely affected 
in the Korsakoff syndrome, and the learning of new semantic memories is variably 
affected. 'Implicit' aspects of memory are preserved. These patients are often 
first encountered in general hospital settings where they can occupy acute 
medical beds for lengthy periods. Abstinence is the cornerstone of any 
rehabilitation programme. Korsakoff patients are capable of new learning, 
particularly if they live in a calm and well-structured environment and if new 
information is cued. There are few long-term follow-up studies, but these 
patients are reported to have a normal life expectancy if they remain abstinent 
from alcohol.
CONCLUSIONS: Although we now have substantial knowledge about the nature of this 
disorder, scientific questions (e.g. regarding the underlying genetics) remain. 
More particularly, there is a dearth of appropriate long-term care facilities 
for these patients, given that empirical research has shown that good practice 
has beneficial effects.

DOI: 10.1093/alcalc/agn118
PMID: 19151162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Acta Med Indones. 2008 Oct;40(4):233-40.

Management of immobilization and its complication for elderly.

Laksmi PW(1), Harimurti K, Setiati S, Soejono CH, Aries W, Roosheroe AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Indonesia-Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital, Jl. Diponegoro No. 71, Jakarta Pusat 
10430.

Increased life expectancy have an effect on the rising percentage of elderly 
population in Indonesia and health problem associated with the elderly, 
particularly immobilization. Immobilization may cause various complications, 
especially when it has been overlooked without any appropriate and proper 
medical care in keeping with the procedures. High incidence of immobilization in 
elderly and the life-threatening complication call for an agreement on 
management of immobilization and its complication. Management of immobilization 
needs interdisciplinary team-work cooperation, the patients and their family. 
The management may be commenced through a complete geriatric review, formulating 
functional goals and constructing therapeutic plan. Various medical conditions 
and external factors that may act as risk factors of immobilization as well as 
drugs intake that may exaggerate the immobilization should be evaluated and 
optimally managed. Any complication due to immobilization and other concomitant 
disease/condition should be recognized and managed comprehensively in order to 
reduce morbidity and mortality. Management of immobilization and its 
complications include pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment, i.e. 
various mobility exercises, utilization of ambulatory device and supporting 
appliance for assisting patients in stand-up position, as well as the management 
of urinary voiding and defecation.

PMID: 19151453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Public Health (Oxf). 2009 Mar;31(1):184-6. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdn117.
Epub  2009 Jan 18.

NICE public health guidance: what's new?

Killoran A(1), White P, Owen L, Fischer A, Millward L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health Excellence, NICE, London, UK. 
amanda.killoran@nice.org.uk

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdn117
PMID: 19153093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Ann Intern Med. 2009 Jan 20;150(2):73-83. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-150-2-200901200-00005.

Cost-effectiveness of using pharmacogenetic information in warfarin dosing for 
patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

Eckman MH(1), Rosand J, Greenberg SM, Gage BF.

Author information:
(1)University of Cincinnati Medical Center, Cincinnati, OH 45267-0535, USA. 
mark.eckman@uc.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Jan 20;150(2):139-41.
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Jul 7;151(1):71; author reply 71.

BACKGROUND: Variants in genes involved in warfarin metabolism and sensitivity 
affect individual warfarin requirements and the risk for bleeding. Testing for 
these variant alleles might allow more personalized dosing of warfarin during 
the induction phase. In 2007, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration changed the 
labeling for warfarin (Coumadin, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, New Jersey), 
suggesting that clinicians consider genetic testing before initiating therapy.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of genotype-guided dosing versus 
standard induction of warfarin therapy for patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation.
DESIGN: Markov state transition decision model.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE searches and bibliographies from relevant articles of 
literature published in English.
TARGET POPULATION: Outpatients or inpatients requiring initiation of warfarin 
therapy. The base case was a man age 69 years with newly diagnosed nonvalvular 
atrial fibrillation and no contraindications to warfarin therapy.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Genotype-guided dosing consisting of genotyping for CYP2C9*2, 
CYP2C9*3, and/or VKORC1 versus standard warfarin induction.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), and costs were in 2007 U.S. dollars.
RESULTS: In the base case, genotype-guided dosing resulted in better outcomes, 
but at a relatively high cost. Overall, the marginal cost-effectiveness of 
testing exceeded $170 000 per QALY. On the basis of current data and cost of 
testing (about $400), there is only a 10% chance that genotype-guided dosing is 
likely to be cost-effective (that is, <$50 000 per QALY). Sensitivity analyses 
revealed that for genetic testing to cost less than $50 000 per QALY, it would 
have to be restricted to patients at high risk for hemorrhage or meet the 
following optimistic criteria: prevent greater than 32% of major bleeding 
events, be available within 24 hours, and cost less than $200.
LIMITATION: Few published studies describe the effect of genotype-guided dosing 
on major bleeding events, and although these studies show a trend toward 
decreased bleeding, the results are not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Warfarin-related genotyping is unlikely to be cost-effective for 
typical patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, but may be cost-effective 
in patients at high risk for hemorrhage who are starting warfarin therapy.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-150-2-200901200-00005
PMID: 19153410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Glob Public Health. 2006;1(1):31-48. doi: 10.1080/17441690500443139.

Beyond the Millennium Development Goals: public health challenges in water and 
sanitation.

Rheingans R(1), Dreibelbis R, Freeman MC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Safe Water, Hubert Department of Global Health, Rollins 
School of Public Health at Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. 
rrheing@sph.emory.edu

Over 1 billion people lack access to improved water sources and 2.6 billion lack 
access to appropriate sanitation, greatly contributing to the global burden of 
disease. The international community has committed to reducing by half the 
proportion of the world's population lacking access to water and sanitation as a 
part of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). However, the disease burden due 
to poor access, is borne primarily by the poorest countries and the poorest 
people within them. Simply reducing the proportion of people without adequate 
access will not automatically result in proportional reductions in the related 
disease burden. The public health challenge inherent in meeting the MDG targets 
is ensuring that improvements result in access to water and sanitation for the 
critical at-risk populations. Innovative approaches are required to ensure the 
availability of low-cost, simple, and locally acceptable water and sanitation 
interventions and integrating these approaches into existing social 
institutions, such as schools, markets, and health facilities.

DOI: 10.1080/17441690500443139
PMID: 19153893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. BJU Int. 2009 Jun;103(11):1472-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.08281.x.
Epub  2009 Jan 19.

Gleason score 7 screen-detected prostate cancers initially managed expectantly: 
outcomes in 50 men.

van den Bergh RC(1), Roemeling S, Roobol MJ, Aus G, Hugosson J, Rannikko AS, 
Tammela TL, Bangma CH, Schr√∂der FH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands. r.vandenbergh@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE To assess whether men newly diagnosed with Gleason 7 prostate cancer 
are eligible for active surveillance (AS) instead of radical treatment. AS is an 
appropriate initial strategy in selected men who are presently diagnosed with 
prostate cancer, as many tumours will not progress during a patient's lifetime. 
PATIENTS AND METHODS Cancer-specific-, overall and treatment-free survival were 
analysed retrospectively in men with Gleason score 7 cancer who were initially 
managed expectantly. All were screen-detected in four centres of the European 
Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate Cancer. RESULTS In 50 men active 
therapy was initially withheld if they had Gleason 7 disease; 29 of 50 (58%) 
would otherwise have been suitable for AS, as they had a prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) level of < or =10.0 ng/mL, a PSA density of <0.2 ng/mL/mL, stage 
T1c/T2, and two or fewer positive biopsy-cores; 44 of 50 (88%) had a Gleason 
score 3 + 4 = 7. The mean (range) age of the men was 69.5 (59.6-76.2) years and 
the median (interquartile range) follow-up was 2.6 (0.8-5.0) years; the mean 
American Society of Anesthesiologists score was 1.8. The 6-year cancer-specific 
survival (nine patients at risk) was 100%, which sharply contrasted with the 68% 
overall survival. Men alive at the time of analysis had a favourable PSA level 
and PSA-doubling time. The 6-year treatment-free survival was only 59%, with 
most patients switching to active therapy, justified on the basis of their PSA 
level. However, men with otherwise favourable tumour characteristics and a 
Gleason score of 3 + 4 = 7 remained treatment-free significantly longer than 
their counterparts with unfavourable other tumour features and a Gleason score 
of 4 + 3 = 7. CONCLUSION In selected patients with screen-detected Gleason 3 + 4 
= 7 prostate cancer, AS might be an option, especially in those with comorbidity 
and/or a short life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.08281.x
PMID: 19154509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Clin Transl Oncol. 2009 Jan;11(1):41-7. doi: 10.1007/s12094-009-0309-y.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of docetaxel (Taxotere) vs. 5-fluorouracil in 
combined therapy in the initial phases of breast cancer.

Mart√≠n-Jim√©nez M(1), Rodr√≠guez-Lescure A, Ruiz-Borrego M, Segu√≠-Palmer MA, 
Brosa-Riestra M.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario San Carlos, Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The randomised controlled trial BCIRG001 has recently demonstrated 
that docetaxel in combination with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide (TAC) has 
better efficacy than the standard treatment (FAC, i.e., 5-fluorouracil, 
doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide) in the adjuvant treatment of patients with 
node-positive breast cancer. The cost-effectiveness of TAC vs. FAC in the 
Spanish setting is analysed.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Clinical outcomes from trial BCIRG001 were combined with 
Spanish costs and longterm efficacy of FAC and TAC extrapolated up to 5 years by 
means of a Markov model. Results are shown as cost per life year gained (C/LYG) 
and cost per quality-adjusted life year (C/QALY). Costs and effects were 
discounted at a rate of 3%.
RESULTS: Mean survival was 17.8 and 16.5 years for TAC and FAC, with total costs 
of euro14,611 and euro11,586, respectively. The results of the 
cost-effectiveness analysis showed that TAC achieves a C/LYG and a C/QALY of 
only euro2345 and euro2631, respectively. Sensitivity analysis confirmed the 
robustness of the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined therapy based on docetaxel (TAC) is not only an effective 
option, but also presents a favourable cost-effectiveness ratio, clearly below 
the Spanish efficiency threshold in all the scenarios considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-009-0309-y
PMID: 19155203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2009;109(1):44-50.

[The use of lidocaine-coated plates (versatis) in the treatment of back pain].

[Article in Russian]

Levin OS, Moseƒ≠kin IA.

Sixty patients with chronic vertebrogenic lumbalgia or lumboischialgia with 
exacerbation for at least 1 month were included in the study. A main group 
consisted of 40 patients and a control group of 20 patients. All patients took 
diclofenac in dosage 100 mg per day from the 1st day. Versatis was prescribed to 
patients of the main group from the 6th day. One-three plates were applied to 
the most painful spine areas and low extremities for 12 h during 5 days. To 
assess treatment efficacy, scales for measuring back pain, vertebral syndrome, 
neuropathic pain (NPS) as well as the Global Impression scale (CGI) and quality 
of life (EQ-5D) were used. A significant clinical effect was observed in 63% of 
patients of the main group: the additional reduction of pain by about a quarter, 
decrease of vertebral syndrome intensity, improvement of functional activity - 
spinal flexion-extension, ability to standing and quality of life. The NPS 
revealed that the use of versatis resulted in the significant decrease of 
"neuropathic" characteristics of pain; this effect remained after the end of 
treatment. The anesthetic effect of plates emerged in 1,2+/-1,1h after 
application, reached the maximum after 3,8+/-2,0 h, and continued during 
4,7+/-2,2 h after removing the plates from the skin. The safety of 
lidocaine-coated plates was observed.

PMID: 19156086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Eur Child Adolesc Psychiatry. 2009 May;18(5):274-83. doi: 
10.1007/s00787-008-0728-2. Epub 2009 Jan 20.

Polytraumatization and psychological symptoms in children and adolescents.

Gustafsson PE(1), Nilsson D, Svedin CG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine, Link√∂ping University, Link√∂ping, Sweden. 
per.e.gustafsson@imk.liu.se

Previous research on the impact of traumatic experiences in children and 
adolescents has focused almost entirely on the effect of single trauma. Research 
on cumulative traumas has been lacking, but Finkelhor (Child Abuse Negl 31:7-26, 
2007) has recently directed the attention to the concept of polyvictimization. 
As an extension of this concept, this study examined the impact of 
polytraumatization, operationalized as the number of different potentially 
traumatic events. The study population comprised two cross-sectional samples of 
school-aged children (n = 270) and adolescents (n = 400). Information of 
life-time incidence of traumatic events was collected by the life incidence of 
traumatic events (LITE), and psychological symptoms by the parent version of the 
strengths and difficulties questionnaire (SDQ) for the school children and the 
self-report trauma symptom checklist for children (TSCC) for the adolescents. We 
found that exposure to at least one traumatic event was common in both the 
samples (63% of the children and 89.5% of the adolescents). The number of 
different traumatic events, polytraumatization, was highly predictive of 
symptoms in both samples, and with a few exceptions surpassed the impact of 
specific events in exploratory analyses. We furthermore replicated previous 
findings of the important impact of interpersonal over non-interpersonal events 
on symptoms in both samples, and found an indication that this effect differed 
by gender in different manners in the two samples. This study emphasizes the 
significance of both the quantity of traumatic events, polytraumatization, as 
well as the quality, interpersonal events.

DOI: 10.1007/s00787-008-0728-2
PMID: 19156354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Rev Prat. 2008 Nov 15;58(17):1861-7.

[Chronic lymphocytic leukemia].

[Article in French]

Leporrier M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'h√©matologie clinique, CHU Caen, 14033 Caen Cedex, France. 
leporrier-m@chu-caen.fr

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia results from a proliferation/accumulation of 
monoclonal B lymphocytes. The diagnosis is easily made on blood cytology and 
immunophenotype. The complexity of mechanisms which govern the clonal evolution 
translate in a large pronostic diversity on long-term outcome, with a life 
expectancy ranging from a few years to more than 25 years in the most indolent 
forms. Prognostic appraisal is currently based on clinical and hematological 
presentation, whereas cytogenetics, immunoglobulin gene status, expression of 
proteins involved in cell proliferation such as ZAP70 or CD38 provide more 
precise but non routine indications. Although there is a lot of effective drugs 
against the clonal process, any of them are curative, and long term benefit of 
treatment tailored on individual prognostic features still deserves further 
studies. Therefore, current treatment recommendations aim at sustaining quality 
of life in elderly patients, whereas response quality and length are the main 
targets in younger ones.

PMID: 19157199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Public Health. 2009 Feb;123(2):156-62. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.10.026. Epub
 2009 Jan 20.

Life expectancy and age-period-cohort effects: analysis and projections of 
mortality in Spain between 1977 and 2016.

Cleries R(1), Mart√≠nez JM, Valls J, Pareja L, Esteban L, Gispert R, Moreno V, 
Ribes J, Borr√†s JM.

Author information:
(1)Catalan Cancer Registry, Generalitat de Catalunya/Catalan Institute of 
Oncology, IDIBELL, Hospitalet de Llobregat, Spain. r.cleries@iconcologia.net

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to: (1) assess Spanish mortality trends between 
1977 and 2001 and their impact on life expectancy; and (2) assess the 
differences in life expectancy between men and women for the period 2002-2016.
STUDY DESIGN: Time trends study using age-period-cohort (APC) analysis.
METHODS: A Bayesian APC model was fitted to describe Spanish mortality rates for 
the period 1977-2001 and to project Spanish mortality rates for 2002-2016. Life 
expectancy was predicted through Chiang's method using projected mortality 
rates.
RESULTS: There was a significant cohort effect for Spanish mortality, showing a 
slight increase in mortality among men aged 20-39 years between 1986 and 1997 
(birth cohorts 1940-1970). Life expectancy is expected to increase by 
approximately 0.5% in men and women between 1977 and 2016 (1 year per 5-year 
period). Life expectancy for males born between 2012 and 2016 will be 77.15 
years, compared with 84.95 years for females born during the same period.
CONCLUSIONS: The rising trend in mortality among the 1940-1970 cohorts may be 
due to the increased risk of avoidable causes of death related to acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome, traffic accidents, and drug and alcohol abuse during 
the mid 1980s. The decline in mortality rates in recent years could lead to a 
mean increase in life expectancy of 1 year per 5-year period in both genders 
between 2002 and 2016. An increase in life expectancy for women and a levelling 
off for men is expected for age groups older than 79 years.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.10.026
PMID: 19157468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Artif Intell Med. 2009 Jun;46(2):119-30. doi: 10.1016/j.artmed.2008.12.002.
Epub  2009 Jan 20.

A decision aid for intensity-modulated radiation-therapy plan selection in 
prostate cancer based on a prognostic Bayesian network and a Markov model.

Smith WP(1), Doctor J, Meyer J, Kalet IJ, Phillips MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Box 356043, University of Washington, 1959 
NE Pacific St., Seattle, WA 98195-6043, USA. wpsmith@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVE: The prognosis of cancer patients treated with intensity-modulated 
radiation-therapy (IMRT) is inherently uncertain, depends on many decision 
variables, and requires that a physician balance competing objectives: maximum 
tumor control with minimal treatment complications.
METHODS: In order to better deal with the complex and multiple objective nature 
of the problem we have combined a prognostic probabilistic model with 
multi-attribute decision theory which incorporates patient preferences for 
outcomes.
RESULTS: The response to IMRT for prostate cancer was modeled. A Bayesian 
network was used for prognosis for each treatment plan. Prognoses included 
predicting local tumor control, regional spread, distant metastases, and normal 
tissue complications resulting from treatment. A Markov model was constructed 
and used to calculate a quality-adjusted life-expectancy which aids in the 
multi-attribute decision process.
CONCLUSIONS: Our method makes explicit the tradeoffs patients face between 
quality and quantity of life. This approach has advantages over current 
approaches because with our approach risks of health outcomes and patient 
preferences determine treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.artmed.2008.12.002
PMCID: PMC2684564
PMID: 19157811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Orv Hetil. 2009 Feb 1;150(5):225-30. doi: 10.1556/OH.2009.28525.

[Home parenteral nutrition. May it be performed in Hungary, too?].

[Article in Hungarian]

Fut√≥ J(1), Hars√°nyi L, Sahin P, D√°rdai E, Arad√°n A, Darvas K.

Author information:
(1)Fov√°rosi Onkorm√°nyzat Szent Imre K√≥rh√°z, S√ºrgoss√©gi Betegell√°t√°si Centrum 
K√∂zponti Muto √©s Aneszteziol√≥giai Szolg√°lat Budapest T√©t√©nyi √∫t 12-15. 1115. 
futojud@gmail.com

Patients suffering from intestinal failure can receive home parenteral nutrition 
in several countries of the world since the end of the 1960s. In Hungary, 
intestinal failure patients can receive parenteral nutrition only in hospital, 
even if they can live in family or they are capable to work under certain 
circumstances because the present health financial system and legal environment 
do not allow home parenteral nutrition. This system is extremely uneconomical, 
reserves hospital beds and is opposing the European practice. Based on 
literature of recent years, the authors reviewed the life expectancy, the 
quality of life of patients receiving home parenteral nutrition and the 
frequency of complications and home parenteral nutrition systems applied 
worldwide. The specialized knowledge needed for home parenteral nutrition is 
entirely available, the solutions and technical supports are ready in the 
Hungarian market. Professionals committed to nutrition therapy have initiated 
academic collaboration among specialties to arrange the poorly handled questions 
of home parenteral nutrition and to establish the home parenteral nutrition 
system in Hungary.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2009.28525
PMID: 19158021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Can J Aging. 2008 Fall;27(3):267-83. doi: 10.3138/cja.27.3.267.

Family members providing home-based palliative care to older adults: the 
enactment of multiple roles.

Clemmer SJ(1), Ward-Griffin C, Forbes D.

Author information:
(1)New Dundee, Ontario. sjclemmer@gmail.com

Canadians are experiencing increased life expectancy and chronic illness 
requiring end-of-life care. There is limited research on the multiple roles for 
family members providing home-based palliative care. Based on a larger 
ethnographic study of client-family-provider relationships in home-based 
palliative care, this qualitative secondary analysis explores the enactment of 
multiple roles for family members providing home-based palliative care to 
seniors with advanced cancer. Family members had multiple expectations to 
provide care but felt their expectations of services were unmet. The process of 
enacting multiple roles was depicted by three interrelated themes: balancing, 
re-prioritizing, and evolving. Positive and negative health responses resulted 
from attempts to minimize personal health while simultaneously maintaining 
health. "True" family-centred care was found to be lacking, but should be a goal 
of health professionals involved in end-of-life care.

DOI: 10.3138/cja.27.3.267
PMID: 19158043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2008;8(6):419-27. doi:
10.2165/0129784-200808060-00005.

Cost effectiveness of ezetimibe in patients with cardiovascular disease and 
statin intolerance or contraindications: a Markov model.

Ara R(1), Pandor A, Tumur I, Paisley S, Duenas A, Williams R, Rees A, Wilkinson 
A, Durrington P, Chilcott J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, ScHARR, University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. r.m.ara@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of long-term ezetimibe monotherapy 
in patients with established cardiovascular disease (CVD) who do not tolerate 
statins or in whom they are contraindicated.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the potential costs and benefits 
associated with ezetimibe monotherapy compared with no treatment. The benefits 
associated with ezetimibe treatment were informed by a systematic review of 
clinical evidence and a published relationship linking changes in low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) levels to cardiovascular events.
RESULTS: In the absence of data from clinical outcome trials, surrogate 
endpoints such as changes in lipid levels were used as indicators of clinical 
outcomes. A meta-analysis of seven placebo-controlled trials included in the 
review showed that ezetimibe was associated with a statistically significant 
mean reduction (from baseline to endpoint) in LDL-C of 18.56% (95% CI -19.68, 
-17.44; p < 0.00001) compared with placebo. Using 10,000 Monte Carlo 
simulations, it is estimated that ezetimibe monotherapy would prevent an average 
of 49 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 11 nonfatal strokes, and 37 
cardiovascular deaths in a cohort of 1,000 patients aged 55 years with a 
baseline LDL-C concentration of 4.0 mmol/L. Events avoided provide an additional 
211 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over the 45 years modeled. With a mean 
incremental cost of pound 4,861,000 (year 2006 value), the discounted cost per 
QALY is pound 23,026 (Jackknife CI 22 979, 23 074). The model is reasonably 
robust to variations in key parameters. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
fall below pound 20,000 per QALY for cohorts with baseline LDL-C values >4.5 
mmol/L.
CONCLUSION: Ezetimibe monotherapy compared with no treatment is a cost-effective 
alternative for individuals with a history of CVD and high LDL-C levels, who do 
not tolerate statins or in whom they are contraindicated.

DOI: 10.2165/0129784-200808060-00005
PMID: 19159125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2008 Nov;100(11):706-15. doi: 
10.4321/s1130-01082008001100007.

[Prevalence and treatment of oncologic disease in the elderly --an impeding 
challenge].

[Article in Spanish]

G√≥mez Portilla A(1), Mart√≠nez de Lecea C, Cendoya I, Olabarr√≠a I, Mart√≠n E, 
Magrach L, Romero E, Cort√©s J, Muriel J, M√°rquez A, Kvadatze M.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Carcinomatosis Peritoneal. Hospital San Jose. Vitoria, Alava, 
Espana. agomezpor@teleline.es

Life expectancy in Spain has more than duplicated during the last 20th Century, 
and is currently 75 years for men and 83 years for women. Predictions on the 
evolution of the National and global population anticipate a demographic shock 
in Spain when individuals older than 65 years eventually make up more than 33.5% 
of the Spanish population by year 2050. It is known that cancer is directly 
related with age, and that it is a disease of older people -at least 60% of all 
cancers are diagnosed in patients older than 65 years. The older people group is 
the most important group of patients in oncologic practice today. Predictions on 
the aging of the Spanish population show that cancer in the aging patient and 
its treatment must be considered a first-line health problem. The diagnosis of 
cancer is not associated with death in the majority of patients. Sixty percent 
of cancers are globally cured or chronified. This advanced prognosis has its 
toll not only in the expectancy of treatment but also in subsequent follow-up 
and post-treatment adverse effects that can be generated. A greater and better 
knowledge and understanding of the aging process will allow to identify and 
select those old patients that can benefit from prevention and treatment 
options, and more importantly will identify those other patients that are not 
candidates to treatments with curative intention because of their frail status. 
Progress in surgery, mainly in minimally invasive surgery, and its application 
to the field of oncologic surgery allows to forecast that a greater number of 
aging patients will benefit from treatment with curative intent. Age will not be 
a barrier for adequate treatment in healthy elderly patients, especially in 
those with long life expectancy and functional reserves. Fighting this 
healthcare discrimination is one of the main priorities in the strategy of 
improved health in the elderly. We present in this study and analyze the 
foreseen changes in the world s population, particularly in Spain; the 
association between cancer and age with its peculiar specificities; the general 
criteria for frailty in older patients, the limitations that aging generate for 
adjuvant treatments, and the new alternatives of treatment to be used in elderly 
oncologic patients for the most frequent tumors.

DOI: 10.4321/s1130-01082008001100007
PMID: 19159175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Biochem J. 2009 Feb 15;418(1):1-12. doi: 10.1042/BJ20082102.

Insulin/IGF-like signalling, the central nervous system and aging.

Broughton S(1), Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Healthy Aging, GEE (Genetics, Evolution and Environment), 
University College London, Gower St., London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Enormous strides in understanding aging have come from the discovery that 
mutations in single genes can extend healthy life-span in laboratory model 
organisms such as the yeast Saccharomyces, the fruit fly Drosophila 
melanogaster, the nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans and the mouse. IIS 
[insulin/IGF (insulin-like growth factor)-like signalling] stands out as an 
important, evolutionarily conserved pathway involved in the determination of 
lifespan. The pathway has diverse functions in multicellular organisms, and 
mutations in IIS can affect growth, development, metabolic homoeostasis, 
fecundity and stress resistance, as well as lifespan. The pleiotropic nature of 
the pathway and the often negative effects of its disruption mean that the 
extent, tissue and timing of IIS manipulations are determinants of a positive 
effect on lifespan. One tissue of particular importance for lifespan extension 
in diverse organisms is the CNS (central nervous system). Although lowered IIS 
in the CNS can extend lifespan, IIS is also widely recognized as being 
neuroprotective and important for growth and survival of neurons. In the present 
review, we discuss our current understanding of the role of the nervous system 
in extension of lifespan by altered IIS, and the role of IIS in determination of 
neuronal function during aging. The nervous system can play both endocrine and 
cell-autonomous roles in extension of lifespan by IIS, and the effects of IIS on 
lifespan and neuronal function can be uncoupled to some extent. Tissue-specific 
manipulation of IIS and the cellular defence mechanisms that it regulates will 
better define the ways in which IIS affects neuronal and whole-organism function 
during aging.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20082102
PMID: 19159343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. BMC Public Health. 2009 Jan 21;9:29. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-29.

Cost-effectiveness of Rotavirus vaccination in Vietnam.

Kim SY(1), Goldie SJ, Salomon JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA. sykim@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus is the most common cause of severe diarrhea leading to 
hospitalization or disease-specific death among young children. New rotavirus 
vaccines have recently been approved. Some previous studies have provided broad 
qualitative insights into the health and economic consequences of introducing 
the vaccines into low-income countries, representing several features of 
rotavirus infection, such as varying degrees of severity and age-dependency of 
clinical manifestation, in their model-based analyses. We extend this work to 
reflect additional features of rotavirus (e.g., the possibility of reinfection 
and varying degrees of partial immunity conferred by natural infection), and 
assess the influence of the features on the cost-effectiveness of rotavirus 
vaccination.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model that reflects key features of rotavirus 
infection, using the most recent data available. We applied the model to the 
2004 Vietnamese birth cohort and re-evaluated the cost-effectiveness (2004 US 
dollars per disability-adjusted life year [DALY]) of rotavirus vaccination 
(Rotarix) compared to no vaccination, from both societal and health care system 
perspectives. We conducted univariate sensitivity analyses and also performed a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, based on Monte Carlo simulations drawing 
parameter values from the distributions assigned to key uncertain parameters.
RESULTS: Rotavirus vaccination would not completely protect young children 
against rotavirus infection due to the partial nature of vaccine immunity, but 
would effectively reduce severe cases of rotavirus gastroenteritis (outpatient 
visits, hospitalizations, or deaths) by about 67% over the first 5 years of 
life. Under base-case assumptions (94% coverage and $5 per dose), the 
incremental cost per DALY averted from vaccination compared to no vaccination 
would be $540 from the societal perspective and $550 from the health care system 
perspective.
CONCLUSION: Introducing rotavirus vaccines would be a cost-effective public 
health intervention in Vietnam. However, given the uncertainty about vaccine 
efficacy and potential changes in rotavirus epidemiology in local settings, 
further clinical research and re-evaluation of rotavirus vaccination programs 
may be necessary as new information emerges.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-29
PMCID: PMC2663769
PMID: 19159483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. J Pediatr Surg. 2009 Jan;44(1):e37-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2008.10.074.

Ulcerative colitis with severe backwash ileitis successfully treated by staged 
operation without sacrificing any involved ileum.

Okita Y(1), Miki C, Araki T, Inoue M, Otake K, Uchida K, Kusunoki M.

Author information:
