economics of public health investments should increase focus on the working 
needs of public health professionals.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2007.127134
PMCID: PMC2636521
PMID: 18923123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2008 Dec;87(12):1027-50. doi: 
10.1097/PHM.0b013e31818de070.

Rehabilitation and medical management of the adult with spina bifida.

Dicianno BE(1), Kurowski BG, Yang JM, Chancellor MB, Bejjani GK, Fairman AD, 
Lewis N, Sotirake J.

Author information:
(1)Adult Outpatient Spina Bifida Clinic, University of Pittsburgh Medical 
Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15206, USA.

.As the life expectancy of individuals with spina bifida increases, a lifelong 
need for management of many health issues in a rehabilitation setting has 
emerged in recent years. Physiatrists, in consultation with a variety of adult 
specialists, are particularly well suited to manage the common musculoskeletal, 
skin, bowel, bladder, renal, neurological, and other issues that arise in the 
adult population. This article reviews the last 20 yrs of literature pertinent 
to the rehabilitative care of this population, summarizes current evidence-based 
practice, and identifies key areas in which scientific evidence is lacking and 
future research is needed.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0b013e31818de070
PMID: 18923330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2008 Dec;76(12):703-14. doi:
10.1055/s-2008-1038279.  Epub 2008 Oct 15.

[Therapeutic options for weight management in schizophrenic patients treated 
with atypical antipsychotics].

[Article in German]

Cordes J(1), Sinha-Röder A, Kahl KG, Malevani J, Thuenker J, Lange-Asschenfeldt 
C, Hauner H, Agelink MW, Klimke A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, 
Heinrich-Heine-Universität, Düsseldorf. joachim.cordes@lvr.de

Comment in
    Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2008 Dec;76(12):697.

Extensive, selective literature review of 2500 articles from the last years (up 
to December 2007) predominantly from Medline and Cochrane, using as search terms 
"antipsychotic or schizophrenia or individual drug names (amisulpride, 
aripiprazole, clozapine, olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone, ziprasidone)" and 
the terms "BMI, weight gain, metabolic syndrome, diabetes, lipid(s), 
cholesterol, triglycerides" was conducted. Regardless of the advantages ascribed 
to atypical antipsychotics and the special effectiveness of clozapine in 
patients resistant to therapy and at risk for suicide, the probability of weight 
gain is considerably increased for some of these substances. Patients with 
schizophrenia have a considerably reduced life expectancy associated with an 
increased prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors. There is a lack of 
practical guidelines integrated into clinical psychiatric care for the 
management of cardiovascular risk factors. The monitoring of patients treated 
with atypics, which has been recommended in the APA/ADA Consensus Paper in light 
of these facts, is insufficiently established in clinical practice. A regular 
monitoring can convey self control and motivation to the patient. In the case of 
corresponding risk constellations further decisions regarding indication and 
therapy have to be considered. Especially patients with a high cardiovascular 
risk profile are highly recommended to participate in a weight-management 
program for prevention purposes. Such a special program should include elements 
of dietetic treatment and behaviour and exercise therapy. First controlled 
studies suggest an effective prevention of weight gain and metabolic changes 
when applying such a structured program. The practice oriented step by step 
concept presented here is meant to provide points of reference for the 
implementation of required medical and psychoeducative measures facilitating the 
management of weight and further cardiovascular risk factors in the context of 
psychiatric care in patients with schizophrenia.

DOI: 10.1055/s-2008-1038279
PMID: 18924059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. An R Acad Nac Med (Madr). 2008;125(2):277-309.

[Peculiarities of the surgery in the elderly. I. General considerations].

[Article in Spanish]

Martín LG.

Geriatric surgery has experienced a great development over the past decades, not 
only because of the aging of the population, but also because of the better 
understanding of the aging process and technical progress. All these 
circumstances have expanded surgical supply to the elderly, as well as similar 
results to those earned in younger patients. In this paper, we review the 
concept of elderly, population aging, pathophysiology of aging, the 
peculiarities of illness in the elderly and the impact of aging on surgical 
practice. After considering the concept of surgical risk, we discuss 
preoperative evaluation of the old patient, plus aspects related to the surgery 
itself and postoperative recommendations. Finally, we conclude with some ethical 
considerations about surgery in the elderly.

PMID: 18924355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2003;15 Suppl:S3-9. doi:
10.1177/101053950301500S03.

Longevity and diet in Okinawa, Japan: the past, present and future.

Miyagi S(1), Iwama N, Kawabata T, Hasegawa K.

Author information:
(1)Health Administration, Kagawa Nutrition University, Japan.

Japan has the longest life expectancy at birth (LEB) in the world. Okinawa, 
Japan's poorest prefecture, previously had the highest longevity indices in the 
country. However, the latest LEB for men in Okinawa is no higher than the 
national average. The purpose of this study is to examine why the longevity 
indices in Okinawa were once the highest in Japan, and to examine the reasons 
for their recent decline. In 1990, in Okinawa, the age-adjusted death rates 
(ADR) of the three leading causes of death were lower than their national 
averages. By 2000, the standard mortality ratios (SMR, Japan=100) of heart 
disease and cerebrovascular disease for both sexes in Okinawa had increased, 
compared to their 1990 levels. Both of the ADR of ischemic heart disease and the 
ADR of cerebrovascular disease for men increased to 45.5 and 63.5 in 2000, up 
from 42.9 and 59.1 in 1990, respectively, and the SMR of ischemic heart disease 
for men in Okinawa reached 101 in 2000. Consequently, the national ranking of 
Okinawa prefecture for LEB of men has dropped. As of 1988, in Okinawa, daily 
intake of meat and daily intake of pulses were both approximately 90 grams, 
which is about 20% and 30% higher than the national average, respectively. Also, 
as of 1988, daily intake of green and yellow vegetables in Okinawa was about 50% 
higher than the national average. However, by 1998, daily meat intake and fat 
energy ratio had surpassed 100 grams and 30%, respectively, and daily intake of 
pulses and green and yellow vegetables had declined to the level of the national 
average. Recently, young Japanese, particularly young men in Okinawa, have shown 
a tendency to avoid the traditional dishes of stewed meat and champuru.

DOI: 10.1177/101053950301500S03
PMID: 18924533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Epidemiol Psichiatr Soc. 2008 Jul-Sep;17(3):221-6. doi: 
10.1017/s1121189x00001317.

The metabolic implications of long term cannabis use in patients with psychosis.

Mushtaq F(1), Mondelli V, Pariante CM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, Division of Psychological 
Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

AIMS: The aim of this paper is to summarise the effects of cannabis use on 
appetite and energy balance, and to subsequently investigate the possible 
implications this may have in patients with psychosis, in whom a high prevalence 
of cannabis use has been reported.
METHODS: A narrative review based on the recent literature regarding cannabis 
use in the general population and patients with psychosis.
RESULTS: The short-term abilities of cannabis to increase appetite and body 
weight, through actions on the endogenous endocannabinoid system, have been well 
characterised throughout the literature. The long term effects of cannabis use 
are however unclear and only a minority of studies have been conducted in the 
general population with overall conflicting results. In terms of the effects of 
cannabis in patients with psychosis, there has only been one study to date that 
has investigated this and interestingly found cannabis use to be associated with 
increased body weight and blood glucose levels, thus providing evidence that 
cannabis use may be an important contributing factor to the reduced life 
expectancy, as is currently observed in this vulnerable patient group.
CONCLUSIONS: It is clear from the literature that patients with psychosis are at 
a high risk of metabolic and cardiovascular disease in comparison to the general 
population. However the contribution of cannabis use to this risk is as of yet 
undetermined and further long term studies are need to confirm current findings 
and evaluate hypothesised mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1017/s1121189x00001317
PMID: 18924561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2008 Oct;63(5):619-24. doi: 
10.1590/s1807-59322008000500009.

Progressive resistance training in elderly HIV-positive patients: does it work?

Souza PM(1), Jacob-Filho W, Santarém JM, Silva AR, Li HY, Burattini MN.

Author information:
(1)Pathology Department, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Elderly people present alterations in body composition and physical 
fitness, compromising their quality of life. Chronic diseases, including 
HIV/AIDS, worsen this situation. Resistance exercises are prescribed to improve 
fitness and promote healthier and independent aging. Recovery of strength and 
physical fitness is the goal of exercise in AIDS wasting syndrome.
OBJECTIVE: This study describes a case series of HIV-positive elderly patients 
who participated in a progressive resistance training program and evaluates 
their body composition, muscular strength, physical fitness and the evolution of 
CD4+ and CD8+ cell counts.
METHODS: Subjects were prospectively recruited for nine months. The training 
program consisted of three sets of 8-12 repetitions of leg press, seated row, 
lumbar extension and chest press, performed with free weight machines hts, 
twice/week for one year. Infectious disease physicians followed patients and 
reported all relevant clinical data. Body composition was assessed by 
anthropometric measures and dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry before and after 
the training program.
RESULTS: Fourteen patients, aged 62-71 years old, of both genders, without 
regular physical activity who had an average of nine years of HIV/AIDS history 
were enrolled. The strengths of major muscle groups increased (74%-122%, 
p=0.003-0.021) with a corresponding improvement in sit-standing and walking 2.4 
m tests (p=0.003). There were no changes in clinical conditions and body 
composition measures, but triceps and thigh skinfolds were significantly reduced 
(p=0.037). In addition, there were significant increases in the CD4+ counts 
(N=151 cells; p=0.008) and the CD4+/CD8+ ratio (0.63 to 0.81, p=0.009).
CONCLUSION: Resistance training increased strength, improved physical fitness, 
reduced upper and lower limb skinfolds, and were associated with an improvement 
in the CD4+ and CD4+/CD8+ counts in HIV positive elderly patients without 
significant side effects.

DOI: 10.1590/s1807-59322008000500009
PMCID: PMC2664719
PMID: 18925321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2009 May;1792(5):417-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2008.09.006. Epub 2008 Sep 26.

Diet-induced metabolic disturbances as modulators of brain homeostasis.

Zhang L(1), Bruce-Keller AJ, Dasuri K, Nguyen AT, Liu Y, Keller JN.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center/Louisiana State University System, 
Baton Rouge, LA 70808-4124, USA.

A number of metabolic disturbances occur in response to the consumption of a 
high fat western diet. Such metabolic disturbances can include the progressive 
development of hyperglycemia, hyperinsulemia, obesity, metabolic syndrome, and 
diabetes. Cumulatively, diet-induced disturbances in metabolism are known to 
promote increased morbidity and negatively impact life expectancy through a 
variety of mechanisms. While the impact of metabolic disturbances on the 
hepatic, endocrine, and cardiovascular systems is well established there remains 
a noticeable void in understanding the basis by which the central nervous system 
(CNS) becomes altered in response to diet-induced metabolic dysfunction. In 
particular, it remains to be fully elucidated which established features of 
diet-induced pathogenesis (observed in non-CNS tissues) are recapitulated in the 
brain, and identification as to whether the observed changes in the brain are a 
direct or indirect effect of peripheral metabolic disturbances. This review will 
focus on each of these key issues and identify some critical experimental 
questions which remain to be elucidated experimentally, as well as provide an 
outline of our current understanding for how diet-induced alterations in 
metabolism may impact the brain during aging and age-related diseases of the 
nervous system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2008.09.006
PMCID: PMC2735018
PMID: 18926905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Clin Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2008 Oct;13(4):543-64. doi: 
10.1177/1359104508090602.

Costs and cost-effectiveness of family CBT versus individual CBT in clinically 
anxious children.

Bodden DH(1), Dirksen CD, Bögels SM, Nauta MH, De Haan E, Ringrose J, Appelboom 
C, Brinkman AG, Appelboom-Geerts KC.

Author information:
(1)University of Utrecht, The Netherlands. d.bodden@uu.nl

The objective of this study was to investigate the cost-effectiveness of family 
cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) compared with individual CBT in children with 
anxiety disorders. Clinically anxious children (aged 8-18 years) referred for 
treatment were randomly assigned to family or individual CBT and were assessed 
pre-treatment, post treatment, and at 3 months and 1 year after treatment. 
Cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated expressing the incremental costs per 
anxiety-free child and the incremental costs per Quality Adjusted Life Year 
(QALY) for the referred child. Neither societal costs nor effectiveness were 
significantly different between individual and family CBT. However, the point 
estimates of the cost-effectiveness ratios resulted in dominance for individual 
CBT, indicating that individual CBT is more effective and less costly than 
family CBT. These results were confirmed by bootstrap analyses and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. Several secondary and sensitivity 
analyses showed that the results were robust. It can be concluded that family 
CBT is not a cost-effective treatment for clinically anxious children, compared 
with individual CBT.

DOI: 10.1177/1359104508090602
PMID: 18927140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Physiology (Bethesda). 2008 Oct;23:248-62. doi: 10.1152/physiol.00013.2008.

How to live long and prosper: autophagy, mitochondria, and aging.

Yen WL(1), Klionsky DJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, and Departments of Molecular, Cellular, and 
Developmental Biology, and Biological Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA.

Autophagy is a process of cellular self-degradation in which portions of the 
cytoplasm are sequestered within cytosolic double-membrane vesicles and 
delivered to the lysosome/vacuole. This process occurs in all eukaryotic cells 
and is partly a stress response; autophagy is induced during starvation and 
hypoxia. However, autophagy also plays a role during development and is 
associated with a range of diseases. Accumulating data also suggest the 
involvement of autophagy in aging. For example, the role of various hormones and 
nutrient sensing pathways in life span extension may involve autophagy. 
Similarly, autophagy is the primary mechanism for removing damaged organelles, 
such as mitochondria, which may have a direct impact on aging. Here, we review 
the role of autophagy, with an emphasis on the signaling pathways that are 
involved in regulation, and the consequences of autophagy induction with regard 
to aging.

DOI: 10.1152/physiol.00013.2008
PMID: 18927201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Blood. 2009 Jan 15;113(3):696-704. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-07-169003. Epub
2008  Oct 16.

Genetic elimination of prothrombin in adult mice is not compatible with survival 
and results in spontaneous hemorrhagic events in both heart and brain.

Mullins ES(1), Kombrinck KW, Talmage KE, Shaw MA, Witte DP, Ullman JM, Degen SJ, 
Sun W, Flick MJ, Degen JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Research Foundation and University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, OH 
45229-3039, USA.

Comment in
    Blood. 2009 Jan 15;113(3):500-1.

Mice carrying a conditional prothrombin knockout allele (fII(lox)) were 
established to develop an experimental setting for exploring the importance of 
thrombin in the maintenance of vascular integrity, the inflammatory response, 
and disease processes in adult animals. In the absence of Cre-mediated 
recombination, homozygous fII(lox/lox) mice or compound heterozygous mice 
carrying one fII(lox) allele and one constitutive-null allele were viable. Young 
adults exhibited neither spontaneous bleeding events nor diminished reproductive 
success. However, the induction of Cre recombinase in fII(lox) mice using the 
poly I:C-inducible Mx1-Cre system resulted in the rapid and near-complete 
recombination of the fII(lox) allele within the liver, the loss of circulating 
prothrombin, and profound derangements in coagulation function. Consistent with 
the notion that thrombin regulates coagulation and inflammatory pathways, an 
additional early consequence of reducing prothrombin was impaired antimicrobial 
function in mice challenged with Staphylococcus aureus peritonitis. However, 
life expectancy in unchallenged adults genetically depleted of prothrombin was 
very short ( approximately 5-7 days). The loss of viability was associated with 
the development of severe hemorrhagic events within multiple tissues, 
particularly in the heart and brain. Unlike the constitutive loss of either 
clotting or platelet function alone, the conditional loss of prothrombin is 
uniformly not compatible with maintenance of hemostasis or long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-07-169003
PMCID: PMC2628376
PMID: 18927430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Expert Rev Neurother. 2008 Oct;8(10):1537-48. doi:
10.1586/14737175.8.10.1537.

Recent developments in the psychosocial treatment of adult ADHD.

Knouse LE(1), Cooper-Vince C, Sprich S, Safren SA.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, 
USA.

Adult attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is an increasingly 
recognized Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM)-IV 
psychiatric disorder associated with significant functional impairment in 
multiple domains. Although stimulant and other pharmacotherapy regimens have the 
most empirical support as treatments for ADHD in adults, many adults with the 
disorder continue to experience significant residual symptoms. In the present 
manuscript, we review the published studies examining group and individual 
psychosocial treatments for adult ADHD. We include a discussion of coaching 
interventions and how they differ from cognitive-behavioral therapy. We conclude 
that the available data support the use of structured, skills-based psychosocial 
interventions as a viable treatment for adults with residual symptoms of ADHD. 
Common elements across the various treatment packages include psychoeducation, 
training in concrete skills (e.g., organization and planning strategies) and 
emphasis on outside practice and maintenance of these strategies in daily life. 
These treatments, however, require further study for replication, extension and 
refinement. Finally, we suggest future directions for the application of 
psychosocial treatments to the problems of adults with ADHD.

DOI: 10.1586/14737175.8.10.1537
PMCID: PMC2628311
PMID: 18928346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Med Clin (Barc). 2008 Oct 4;131(11):412-5. doi: 10.1157/13126216.

[Cardiac surgery in octogenarian patients: evaluation of predictive factors of 
mortality, long-term outcome and quality of life].

[Article in Spanish]

Viana-Tejedor A(1), Domínguez FJ, Moreno Yangüela M, Moreno R, López de Sá E, 
Mesa JM, López-Sendón J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cardiología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, España. 
avianatejedor@secardiologia.es

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2009 Jun 13;133(2):76.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Increasing life expectancy in Western countries in the 
last decades has resulted in a significant gradual increasing number of 
octogenarians referred for cardiac surgery. There is a need for a critical 
evaluation of the long-term surgical outcome and quality of life in the elderly. 
The aim of this study is to identify risk factors of mortality in octogenarians 
undergoing cardiac surgery and to assess the long term survival and quality of 
life.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: Data were reviewed on 150 patients aged over 80 years--mean 
age (standard deviation): 82.7 (2.5) years--who underwent cardiac surgery at our 
institution in the last 26 years. We analyzed clinical and epidemiological 
variables included in the European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation 
(euroSCORE), in-hospital morbidity and mortality, long term survival and quality 
of life after cardiac surgery.
RESULTS: The 30-day mortality rate was 30.1%, with a mean hospital stay of 16.5 
days (13-27). Emergent procedure, reparation of postinfarction ventricular 
ruptures, New York Heart Association functional class IV, chronic renal failure 
and previous myocardial infarction were independent predictors of in-hospital 
mortality. Mean follow up was 72.2 (9.9) months with survival rates of 87.3% and 
57% at 1 and 5 years, respectively. Late postoperative quality of life in our 53 
long-term survivors was significantly better than prior to surgery. New York 
Heart Association functional class improved from 2.52 to 1.48. Most survivors 
(97.7%) were satisfied with present quality of life
CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac surgery in octogenarians is associated with increased 
in-hospital mortality rate and longer hospital stay. Our findings support that 
cardiac surgery can be performed in a selected elderly population with good 
long-term survival and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1157/13126216
PMID: 18928721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Med Clin (Barc). 2008 Oct 4;131(11):419-21. doi: 10.1157/13126229.

[Oldest old: boundary of challonge].

[Article in Spanish]

Carrascal Y.

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2009 Jun 13;133(2):76.

DOI: 10.1157/13126229
PMID: 18928723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Rev Chir Orthop Reparatrice Appar Mot. 2008 Oct;94 Suppl(6):S108-32. doi: 
10.1016/j.rco.2008.06.006. Epub 2008 Sep 19.

[Femoral neck fractures in patients over 50 years old].

[Article in French]

Simon P(1), Gouin F, Veillard D, Laffargue P, Ehlinger M, Bel JC, Lopez R, 
Beaudet P, Luickx F, Molina V, Pidhorz LE, Bigorre N, Rochwerger A, Azam F, 
Louis ML, Cottias P, Hamonic S, Veillard D, Vogt F, Cambas PM, Tabutin J, 
Bonnevialle P, Lecoq M, Court C, Sitbon P, Lacoste S, Gagey O, Dujardin F, 
Gilleron M, Brzakala V, Roussignol X.

Author information:
(1)Centre hospitalier Saint-Joseph-Saint-Luc, 20, quai Claude-Bernard, 69365 
Lyon cedex 07, France. psimon@ch-stjoseph-stluc-lyon.fr

INTRODUCTION: Despite many papers and instructional course lectures, therapeutic 
guidelines are not clearly defined about treatment of femoral neck fractures. 
The aim of this multicentric French symposium was to prospectively study the 
results of current therapeutic options in order to propose scientifically proven 
options.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Three prospective studies were carried out in order to 
answer to these questions: (1) is it possible with anatomical reduction and 
stable fixation to lower the non union and osteonecrosis rate? (2) is functional 
treatment of Garden 1 fractures successful in more than 65 years patients? (3) 
what criteria are useful to choose the kind of arthroplasty for more than 65 
years patients?
RESULTS: For the 64 patients between 50 and 65 years old included in the first 
study, 44 ORIF and 17 prostheses were performed. No open reduction was performed 
in this series despite a 34% malreduction rate. The risk for displacement after 
functional treatment of Garden 1 fractures is 31%. For patients over 65 years 
old, almost fractures are treated in this series by an arthroplasty. The 
one-year mortality rate after displaced femoral neck fracture was 17%. 
Functional results were better in total hip prosthesis group than in bipolar or 
unipolar group. Non cemented stems were not safer than cemented ones in frail 
patients.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: For young patients, ORIF should be the treatment of 
choice: the initial displacement and its effects on the femoral head 
vascularisation, the quality of reduction and fixation are the two most 
significant factors for good outcome. For Garden 1, fractures in patients 65 
years old or more, it is proposed to performed an internal fixation despite in 
two thirds of the cases, it should be unnecessary because non identification of 
predictive factors of failure. For patients over 65 years old, the type of 
arthroplasty to perform in displaced fractures is to be chosen according to the 
preoperative mobility and comorbidities. Because of acetabular erosion with 
long-term follow-up, it is clearly indicated to perform total hip replacement 
for patients with life expectancy of 10 years or more. For frail patients, 
unipolar arthroplasty is the best option. The place for bipolar or uncemented 
implants is not yet well-defined and more prospective trials are needed. In this 
multicentric study, results appear quite different in terms of mortality, or 
functional status. These differences seem to be related to technical choice, 
geriatric care, nutritional consideration or surgical organisation, all factors 
that may be of major importance for prognostic.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rco.2008.06.006
PMID: 18928798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Oct;6(10):1162-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2008.05.015.

Diagnostic ascertainment of suspicious pancreatic mass: a threshold analysis.

Sonnenberg A(1), Rodriguez SA, Faigel DO.

Author information:
(1)Portland VA Medical Center, Portland, Oregon 97239, USA. sonnenbe@ohsu.edu

BACKGROUND & AIMS: It is frequently difficult to differentiate between a benign 
and malignant pancreatic mass. The aim of this study was to assess the 
parameters that affect the decision to perform surgery on a suspicious 
pancreatic head lesion.
METHODS: A cost-benefit analysis, using decision tree and threshold analysis, 
accumulates costs and quality-adjusted life years in patients undergoing 
pancreaticoduodenectomy or expectant management. The threshold value is defined 
as the diagnostic probability for pancreatic cancer when the cost-benefit 
relationships of pancreaticoduodenectomy or expectant management are equal.
RESULTS: For a localized pancreatic head lesion, the threshold probability of 
cancer is 43%. Any higher probability of pancreatic cancer makes 
pancreaticoduodenectomy the preferred treatment option. Within a range of 
$20,000 to $80,000 spent on surgery, the threshold in favor of Whipple procedure 
remains relatively low at 40% to 65%. A reduced quality of life after surgery 
weighs against surgery and raises its threshold. Varying quality of life between 
100% and 80% changes the threshold between 31% and 67%. The threshold also is 
increased in younger patients because of the potentially more dire consequences 
of unnecessary surgery in instances of long life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Even if diagnostic certainty cannot be achieved, it frequently is 
beneficial to perform surgery despite the risk of subjecting the occasional 
patient with benign pancreatic head lesion to an unnecessary 
pancreaticoduodenectomy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2008.05.015
PMID: 18928941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Cardiovasc Revasc Med. 2008 Oct-Dec;9(4):269-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.carrev.2008.04.004.

Percutaneous Impella Recover circulatory support in high-risk coronary 
angioplasty.

Arieti M(1), Pesarini G, Ribichini F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology of Ospedale Civile Maggiore, Department of Biomedical 
Sciences and Surgery, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.

Due to the increased life expectancy derived from better conditions of life and 
improved medical technology, interventional cardiologists are facing challenging 
procedures in older and much more delicate patients, in whom percutaneous 
coronary intervention is generally considered less dangerous than cardiac 
surgery. We present two recent cases of high-risk complete myocardial 
revascularization in patients older than 80 years assisted by the Impella 
Recover 2.5. In our initial experience this device proved to be relatively easy 
to set up and hemodynamically useful for patients with left ventricular 
dysfunction and end-stage coronary atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carrev.2008.04.004
PMID: 18928953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Ophthalmology. 2008 Oct;115(10):1852-3; author reply 1853. doi: 
10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.05.002.

Cost-effectiveness.

Lichter PR.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2008 Jan;115(1):94-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.05.002
PMID: 18929170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Cardiol Clin. 2008 Nov;26(4):507-26. doi: 10.1016/j.ccl.2008.07.001.

Angiotensin receptor blockers: novel role in high-risk patients.

Javed U(1), Deedwania PC.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Section, Cardiovascular Research, UCSF Fresno Medical Education 
Program, UCSF School of Medicine, Fresno, CA 93703, USA.

The identification of patients at high risk for cardiovascular events is 
imperative in the reduction of cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Although 
coronary artery disease, peripheral arterial disease, cerebrovascular disease, 
hypertension, and diabetes mellitus contribute to the risk of developing 
cardiovascular events, we are now faced with emerging fronts because of an 
increase in life expectancy and the epidemic of hypertension, obesity, metabolic 
syndrome, and diabetes. Recent data emphasize the beneficial role of 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockers. This article addresses the 
role of RAAS activation in the high-risk metabolic milieu and the role of 
angiotensin receptor blockers in targeting and inhibiting the RAAS for 
cardiovascular protection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccl.2008.07.001
PMID: 18929228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Lancet. 2008 Oct 11;372(9646):1302. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61550-0.

Cost-effectiveness considerations at NICE.

Rawlins M, Dillon A.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2008 Aug 23;372(9639):601.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61550-0
PMID: 18929903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Lancet. 2008 Nov 8;372(9650):1697-705. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61366-5.
Epub  2008 Oct 17.

Emergence of chronic non-communicable diseases in China.

Yang G(1), Kong L, Zhao W, Wan X, Zhai Y, Chen LC, Koplan JP.

Author information:
(1)Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China; Institute 
of Basic Medical Sciences of Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and School of 
Basic Medicine of Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

China has experienced an epidemiological transition shifting from the infectious 
to the chronic diseases in much shorter time than many other countries. The pace 
and spread of behavioural changes, including changing diets, decreased physical 
activity, high rates of male smoking, and other high risk behaviours, has 
accelerated to an unprecedented degree. As a result, the burden of chronic 
diseases, preventable morbidity and mortality, and associated health-care costs 
could now increase substantially. China already has 177 million adults with 
hypertension; furthermore, 303 million adults smoke, which is a third of the 
world's total number of smokers, and 530 million people in China are passively 
exposed to second-hand smoke. The prevalence of overweight people and obesity is 
increasing in Chinese adults and children, because of dietary changes and 
reduced physical activity. Emergence of chronic diseases presents special 
challenges for China's ongoing reform of health care, given the large numbers 
who require curative treatment and the narrow window of opportunity for timely 
prevention of disease.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61366-5
PMID: 18930526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Ophthalmology. 2008 Dec;115(12):2192-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.07.018.
Epub  2008 Oct 18.

Computerized model of cost-utility analysis for treatment of age-related macular 
degeneration.

Fletcher EC(1), Lade RJ, Adewoyin T, Chong NV.

Author information:
(1)King's College Hospital, London, United Kingdom. emily_cfletcher@yahoo.co.uk

PURPOSE: To present a computerized model assessing individualized cost utility 
for current treatments for neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD) to 
enhance discussion regarding treatment options.
DESIGN: Case- and eye-specific cost-utility analysis using individual case 
scenarios.
PARTICIPANTS: Visual acuity data from published randomized controlled trials are 
incorporated into this analysis.
METHODS: Computerized model (Microsoft Visual Basic 6.0 programming) to 
establish preference-based cost-utility analysis in association with individual 
cost of treatment and blindness for neovascular AMD for both the better and 
worst seeing eye, with extrapolation of results over a 5-year term.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and cost per 
QALY gained for comparison of treatments for specific visual acuities.
RESULTS: All treatments show an increase in utility in comparison with best 
supportive care (BSC) if the better-seeing eye is treated. Ranibizumab, using 
the Phase IIIb, Multicenter, Randomized, Double-Masked, Sham 
Injection-Controlled Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Ranibizumab in Subjects 
with Subfoveal Choroidal Neovascularisation (CNV) with or without Classic CNV 
Secondary to AMD (PIER) regimen, is the most cost effective at $626 938 per QALY 
gained for treatment of the better seeing eye. To increase utility value when 
treating the worst seeing eye, the vision must improve to such a degree that it 
becomes the better seeing eye. This level of improvement is only possible if 
there is <9 letters difference between the 2 eyes and treated with ranibizumab. 
Over 5 years, increasing influence from the cost of blindness results in 
increasing costs for those treatments unable to stabilize vision. Within 5 
years, the cost per QALY for the BSC is greater than all treatments except 
monthly ranibizumab injections.
CONCLUSIONS: Assessment of cost of treatment incorporates both effectiveness of 
treatment, cost of treatment, and cost of blindness. Cost analysis enables 
incorporation of these aspects of treatment with the quality of life data to 
provide a better comparison of treatments over time. This analysis has provided 
a method for individual analysis and therefore can provide the structure for 
resource allocation.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The authors have no proprietary or commercial interest 
in any materials discussed in this article.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.07.018
PMID: 18930556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Transfus Clin Biol. 2008 Nov;15(5):246. doi: 10.1016/j.tracli.2008.09.023.
Epub  2008 Oct 18.

[European competition and financial impact].

[Article in French]

Béchon C(1).

Author information:
(1)LFB Biomédicaments, Courtaboeuf, France. bechon@lfb.fr

DOI: 10.1016/j.tracli.2008.09.023
PMID: 18930690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Mech Ageing Dev. 2008 Dec;129(12):714-21. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.09.011.
Epub  2008 Sep 27.

Life span extension by dietary restriction is reduced but not abolished by loss 
of both SIR2 and HST2 in Podospora anserina.

Boivin A(1), Gaumer S, Sainsard-Chanet A.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Génétique Moléculaire, UPR 2167, Gif-sur-Yvette F-91198, France.

Dietary restriction (DR) extends life span of many organisms, from yeast to 
mammals. The question of whether or not the SIR2 protein functions to mediate 
life span extension in response to DR remains debated. In this paper, we studied 
the relationship between SIR2 and DR in the filamentous fungus Podospora 
anserina. We show that the loss of PaSir2, PaHst2 or PaPnc1 does not alter life 
span under standard conditions. PaHst2 is the closest paralog of PaSir2 and the 
ortholog of yeast HST2 and PaPnc1 is the ortholog of the yeast PNC1 which 
encodes a nicotinamidase that deaminates nicotinamide, a natural inhibitor of 
SIR2. As observed for other organisms, overexpression of PaSir2 weakly increases 
life span under standard condition. Under DR conditions, deletion of the PaSir2 
or PaHst2 genes induce a significant reduction in life span extension, while the 
double mutant strongly reduces life span extension. However, a clear response to 
DR subsists in the double mutant, demonstrating that DR acts through a SIR2/HST2 
independent pathway.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.09.011
PMID: 18930755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Harefuah. 2008 Aug-Sep;147(8-9):731-4, 748.

[Assessment of health related quality of life--Part 1--Direct measures].

[Article in Hebrew]

Horowitz E(1), Hassidim H, Abadi-Korek I, Shemer J.

Author information:
(1)Israel Center for Technology Assessment in Health Care, Gertner Institute, 
Tel Hashomer. einavh@gertner.health.gov.il

Assessment of the impact of medical interventions on patient's quality of life 
is becoming a major aspect in evaluating the effectiveness of these 
interventions. Based on the concept of combining life expectancy and quality of 
life in a single value, many tools for measuring this effect have been developed 
in the last few decades. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) are calculated by 
multiplying life expectancy by a factor representing the quality of life during 
that period. Health related quality of life may be measured directly by several 
methods. The most commonly used are Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Standard gamble 
(SG) and Time Trade-Off (TTO). This article reviews these three methods, their 
applications and their advantages and disadvantages. It also addresses some of 
the problems characteristic of each measure, their theoretical and practical 
differences and the implications of those differences on the values obtained 
from each one. Finally, the article discusses the attempts to map the 
relationships between the three measures, in order to be able to convert values 
from one to another.

PMID: 18935765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Ann Intern Med. 2008 Oct 21;149(8):540-8. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-149-8-200810210-00006.

Cost-effectiveness of nurse-led disease management for heart failure in an 
ethnically diverse urban community.

Hebert PL(1), Sisk JE, Wang JJ, Tuzzio L, Casabianca JM, Chassin MR, Horowitz C, 
McLaughlin MA.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Development, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health 
CareSystem, 1100 Olive Way, Suite 1400, Seattle, WA 98101, USA.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2009 Apr;12(2):59.

BACKGROUND: Randomized, controlled trials have shown that nurse-led disease 
management for patients with heart failure can reduce hospitalizations. Less is 
known about the cost-effectiveness of these interventions.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of a nurse-led disease management 
intervention over 12 months, implemented in a randomized, controlled 
effectiveness trial.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis conducted alongside a randomized trial.
DATA SOURCES: Medical costs from administrative records, and self-reported 
quality of life and nonmedical costs from patient surveys.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with systolic dysfunction recruited from ambulatory 
clinics in Harlem, New York.
TIME HORIZON: 12 months.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal and payer.
INTERVENTION: 12-month program that involved 1 face-to-face encounter with a 
nurse and regular telephone follow-up.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Quality of life as measured by the Health Utilities Index Mark 
3 and EuroQol-5D and cost-effectiveness as measured by the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Costs and quality of life were higher in the 
nurse-managed group than the usual care group. The ICERs over 12 months were 
$17,543 per EuroQol-5D-based quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and $15,169 per 
Health Utilities Index Mark 3-based QALY (in 2001 U.S. dollars).
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: From a payer perspective, the ICER ranged from 
$3673 to $4495 per QALY. Applying national prices in place of New York City 
prices yielded a societal ICER of $13,460 to $15,556 per QALY. 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves suggest that the intervention was most 
likely cost-effective for patients with less severe (New York Heart Association 
classes I to II) heart failure.
LIMITATION: The trial was conducted in an ethnically diverse, inner-city 
neighborhood; thus, results may not be generalizable to other communities.
CONCLUSION: Over 12 months, the nurse-led disease management program was a 
reasonably cost-effective way to reduce the burden of heart failure in this 
community.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-149-8-200810210-00006
PMCID: PMC4312002
PMID: 18936502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Demography. 2008 Aug;45(3):641-50. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0021.

Migration, fertility, and aging in stable populations.

Alho JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Joensuu, P.O. Box 111, 80101 Joensuu, 
Finland. juha.alho@joensuu.fi

Fertility is below replacement level in all European countries, and population 
growth is expected to decline in the coming decades. Increasing life expectancy 
will accentuate concomitant aging of the population. Migration has been seen as 
a possible means to decelerate aging. In this article, I introduce a stable, 
open-population model in which cohort net migration is proportional to births. 
In this case, the migration-fertility trade-off can be studied with particular 
ease. I show that although migration can increase the growth rate, which tends 
to make the age distribution younger, it also has an opposite effect because of 
its typical age pattern. I capture the effect of the age pattern of net 
migration in a migration-survivor function. The effect of net migration on 
growth is quantified with data from 17 European countries. I show that some 
countries already have a level of migration that will lead to stationarity. For 
other countries with asymptotically declining population, migration still 
provides opportunities for slowing down aging of the population as a whole.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0021
PMCID: PMC2831398
PMID: 18939665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Demography. 2008 Aug;45(3):673-91. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0011.

The exceptionally high life expectancy of Costa Rican nonagenarians.

Rosero-Bixby L(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro Centroamericano de Población, Universidad de Costa Rica, Apartado 
2060, San Jose, Costa Rica. Lrosero@ccp.ucr.ac.cr

Robust data from a voter registry show that Costa Rican nonagenarians have an 
exceptionally high live expectancy. Mortality at age 90 in Costa Rica is at 
least 14% lower than an average of 13 high-income countries. This advantage 
increases with age by 1% per year Males have an additional 12% advantage. Age-90 
life expectancy for males is 4.4 years, one-half year more than any other 
country in the world. These estimates do not use problematic data on reported 
ages, but ages are computed from birth dates in the Costa Rican 
birth-registration ledgers. Census data confirm the exceptionally high survival 
of elderly Costa Ricans, especially males. Comparisons with the United States 
and Sweden show that the Costa Rican advantage comes mostly from reduced 
incidence of cardiovascular diseases, coupled with a low prevalence of obesity, 
as the only available explanatory risk factor Costa Rican nonagenarians are 
survivors of cohorts that underwent extremely harsh health conditions when 
young, and their advantage might be just a heterogeneity in frailty effect that 
might disappear in more recent cohorts. The availability of reliable estimates 
for the oldest-old in low-income populations is extremely rare. These results 
may enlighten the debate over how harsh early-life health conditions affect 
older-age mortality.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0011
PMCID: PMC2831395
PMID: 18939667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. BMC Public Health. 2008 Oct 21;8:362. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-362.

Factors associated with improvement in disability-adjusted life years in 
patients with HIV/AIDS.

Bermudez-Tamayo C(1), Martin JJ, Ruiz-Pérez I, Lima AO.

Author information:
(1)Andalusian School of Public Health, Granada, Spain. 
clara.bermudez.easp@juntadeandalucia.es

BACKGROUND: The epidemic of HIV/AIDS and treatments that have emerged to 
alleviate, have brought about a shift in the burden of disease from death to 
quality of life/disability. The aim was to determine which factors are 
associated with improvements in the level of health of male and female patients 
with HIV/AIDS in Andalusia, in terms of disability-adjusted life years.
METHODS: Descriptive study based on a sample group of 8800 people on the 
Andalusian AIDS register between 1983 and 2004.
DEPENDENT VARIABLES: Life lost due to premature mortality (YLL), years lost due 
to disability (YLD) and disability-adjusted life years (DALY).
INDEPENDENT VARIABLES: vital state, sex, age at the time of diagnosis, age at 
the time of death, transmission category, province of residence, AIDS-indicator 
disease and the period of diagnosis. A bivariate analysis was carried out to 
find out if the health level variables changed in accordance with the 
independent variables. Using the independent variables which had a statistically 
significant link with the level of health variables, a multivariate linear 
regression model, disaggregated by gender, was constructed.
RESULTS: Amongst the women, we found a model which explained the level of health 
of 64.9%: a link was found between a higher level of health (lower DALYs) and 
not intravenous drug use, the province of residence, being diagnosed during the 
HAART era and older age at the time of diagnosis. Amongst the men, we found a 
model which explained the level of health of 64.4%: a link was found between a 
higher level of health (lower DALYs) and intravenous drug use, the province of 
residence, being diagnosed during the HAART era and older age at the time of 
diagnosis.
CONCLUSION: A higher level of health (lower DALY) amongst both men and women was 
found to be linked to not be intravenous drug user, the province of residence, 
being diagnosed during the HAART era and older age at the time of diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-362
PMCID: PMC2585091
PMID: 18939970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Neurochem Int. 2008 Dec;53(6-8):395-400. doi: 10.1016/j.neuint.2008.09.012.
Epub  2008 Sep 27.

Inhibition of mitochondrial respiratory chain in brain of rats subjected to an 
experimental model of depression.

Rezin GT(1), Cardoso MR, Gonçalves CL, Scaini G, Fraga DB, Riegel RE, Comim CM, 
Quevedo J, Streck EL.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Fisiopatologia Experimental, Programa de Pós-graduação em 
Ciências da Saúde, Universidade do Extremo Sul Catarinense, 88806-000 Criciúma, 
SC, Brazil.

Depressive disorders, including major depression, are serious and disabling. 
However, the exact pathophysiology of depression is not clearly understood. Life 
stressors contribute in some fashion to depression and are an extension of what 
occurs normally. In this context, chronic stress has been used as an animal 
model of depression. Based on the hypothesis that metabolism impairment might be 
involved in the pathophysiology of depression, in the present work we evaluated 
the activities of mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes and creatine kinase 
in brain of rats subjected to chronic stress. After 40 days of mild stress, a 
reduction in sweet food ingestion was observed, as well as increased adrenal 
gland weight, when compared to control group. We also verified that control 
group gained weight after 40 days, but stressed group did not. Moreover, our 
findings showed that complex I, III and IV were inhibited in stress group only 
in cerebral cortex and cerebellum. On the other hand, complex II and creatine 
kinase were not affected in stressed group. Although it is difficult to 
extrapolate our findings to the human condition, the inhibition of mitochondrial 
respiratory chain by chronic stress may be one mechanism in the pathophysiology 
of depressive disorders.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuint.2008.09.012
PMID: 18940214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. J Psychosom Res. 2008 Nov;65(5):405-13. doi:
10.1016/j.jpsychores.2008.02.006.  Epub 2008 Jun 4.

