
Albert RH(1), Clark MM.

Author information:
(1)Family Medicine Residency Program, Abington Memorial Hospital, Abington, 
Pennsylvania, USA. ralbert@amh.org

Comment in
    Am Fam Physician. 2008 Dec 15;78(12):1336, 1338.

Although there are clear guidelines that advise at what age to begin screening 
for various cancers, there is less guidance concerning when it may be 
appropriate to stop screening. The decision to stop screening must take into 
account patients' age; overall health and life expectancy; the natural history 
of the disease; and the risks, expense, and convenience of the screening test, 
and any subsequent testing and treatment. The U.S. Preventive Services Task 
Force and the American Academy of Family Physicians suggest that Papanicolaou 
smears can be discontinued in women at 65 years of age, provided they have had 
adequate recent normal screenings. Evidence suggests that cessation of breast 
cancer screening at approximately 75 to 80 years of age is appropriate, although 
American Geriatric Society guidelines recommend cessation at a more advanced 
age. Studies support continuing colon cancer screening until approximately 75 
years of age in men and 80 years of age in women for patients without 
significant comorbidities. Prostate cancer screening, if conducted at all, may 
be discontinued at approximately 75 years of age in otherwise healthy men. 
Ultimately, the decision to screen or to discontinue screening must be made 
after careful discussion with each patient, using evidence-based guidelines and 
individual patient preferences.

PMID: 19119555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Oral Health Prev Dent. 2008;6(3):209-16.

Patients' views on periodontal disease; attitudes to oral health and expectancy 
of periodontal treatment: a qualitative interview study.

Abrahamsson KH(1), Wennström JL, Hallberg U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Institute of Odontology, The Sahlgrenska 
Academy at Göteborg University, Box 450, 405 30 Göteborg, Sweden. 
Kajsa.Henning.Abrahamsson@odontologi.gu.se

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to explore and gain an understanding of 
patients' views on their periodontal conditions, their perceived impact of 
periodontitis on daily life, as well as their attitudes to oral health and 
expectations of treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study subjects were patients with chronic 
periodontitis, who had been referred to a specialist clinic. The constant 
comparative method for grounded theory was used to collect and analyse the data. 
Audiotaped, open-ended interviews were conducted after periodontal examination, 
but before treatment. The interviews were transcribed verbatim and consecutively 
analysed in hierarchical coding processes and continued until saturation was 
reached (n = 17). In the analysis, a conceptual model that outlined the steps 
involved in the diagnosis of periodontitis was generated. The core concept of 
the model, keeping up appearance and self-esteem, was related to the following 
four additional categories and their dimensions; doing what you have to 
do--trying to live up to the norm, suddenly having a shameful and disabling 
disease, feeling deserted and in the hands of an authority, and investing all in 
a treatment with an unpredictable outcome.
RESULTS: The results illustrated that subjects diagnosed with chronic 
periodontitis felt ashamed and were willing to invest all they had in terms of 
time, effort and financial resources to become healthy and to maintain their 
self-esteem. However, they perceived a low degree of control over treatment 
decisions and treatment outcome.
CONCLUSIONS: The results demonstrate the vulnerability of patients diagnosed 
with chronic periodontitis and emphasise the importance of communication in 
dentistry.

PMID: 19119575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. J Insur Med. 2008;40(2):120-3.

Underwriting the presidents.

Shavelle RM(1), Kush SJ, Paculdo DR, Strauss DJ, Day SM.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 - 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, 
USA. Shavelle@Life.Expectancy.org

The United States has had 43 presidents. We examined whether they survive 
significantly longer or shorter than their contemporaries. We found that 
survival was better for presidents elected in the 1789-1841 and 1933-2001 
periods (SMRs of 0.7 and 0.6, respectively), but worse for those elected in 
1845-1929 (SMR = 2.9). We also found increased mortality during the years lived 
in office (SMR = 1.4), but no increase in mortality after leaving office (SMR = 
1.0).

PMID: 19119591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2008 Dec;9(12):835-43.

[Screening for asymptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction in high-risk 
patients. Preliminary experience with a program based on the use of ECG and 
natriuretic peptide].

[Article in Italian]

Tarantini L(1), Cioffi G, Di Lenarda A, Valle R, Pulignano G, Del Sindaco D, 
Frigo G, Soravia G, Tessier R, Catania G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Cardiologia, Ospedale San Martino, Belluno. 
gitarant@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Patients with asymptomatic left ventricular systolic dysfunction 
(ALVSD) have an increased risk of heart failure (HF) and a worse life 
expectancy. Since valuable therapies may prevent such dismal evolution, 
screening programs for ALVSD have recently been advocated to detect as early as 
possible such ominous condition. Echocardiography represents the gold standard 
for the assessment of ALVSD but its indiscriminate use in screening programs is 
impractical. Clinical multivariate risk assessment associated with ECG and serum 
brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) may be a feasible strategy to screen ALVSD. We 
prospectively sought to investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of a 
screening program for ALVSD based on ECG and BNP used in a hierarchical sequence 
in patients at high risk for HF.
METHODS: Patients > or =55 years old with > or =2 risk factors for HF or > or 
=70 years old with > or =1 risk factor for HF entered the study performing 
sequentially ECG, BNP and echocardiographic evaluation. ALVSD was defined as a 
left ventricular ejection fraction < or =50%.
RESULTS: Thirty-three of 122 enrolled patients (27%) had ALVSD. They were older, 
presented more frequently a history of chemotherapy exposure, had often bundle 
branch block and higher BNP levels. No patient without any major abnormalities 
(atrial fibrillation, left ventricular hypertrophy, STT alterations of 
ischemic/strain origin, pathologic Q wave, bundle branch block) on ECG (n=31, 
24.4%) had ALVSD. Among the 91 patients with abnormal ECG, ALVSD was observed in 
33 (36%). The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve to detect 
ALVSD by BNP was 0.86 (confidence interval 0.79-0.94, p<0.0001) and BNP values 
of > or =43 pg/ml showed a sensitivity and a specificity of 94% and 57%, 
respectively. The proposed screening program was able to identify 95% (31/33) of 
patients with ALVSD saving 53% of echocardiographic examinations with a 
substantial reduction of the costs to diagnose ALVSD.
CONCLUSIONS: Our prospective investigation confirms that ECG and BNP may be 
useful in detecting ALVSD in high-risk patients. A cost-effective screening 
program based on such simple and low-cost diagnostic tests might be employed for 
the prevention of HF in primary and secondary prevention programs in high-risk 
patients.

PMID: 19119693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Milbank Q. 2008 Dec;86(4):557-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2008.00534.x.

The relative merits of population-based and targeted prevention strategies.

Zulman DM(1), Vijan S, Omenn GS, Hayward RA.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, University of Michigan, 6312 
Medical Science Building I, 1150 W. Medical Center Drive, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109-5604, USA. dzulman@umich.edu

CONTEXT: Preventive medicine has historically favored reducing a risk factor by 
a small amount in the entire population rather than by a large amount in 
high-risk individuals. The use of multivariable risk prediction tools, however, 
may affect the relative merits of this strategy.
METHODS: This study uses risk factor data from the National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey III to simulate a population of more than 100 million 
Americans aged thirty or older with no history of CV disease. Three strategies 
that could affect CV events, CV mortality, and quality-adjusted life years were 
examined: (1) a population-based strategy that treats all individuals with a 
low- or moderate-intensity intervention (in which the low-intensity intervention 
represents a public health campaign with no demonstrable adverse effects), (2) a 
targeted strategy that treats individuals in the top 25 percent based on a 
single risk factor (LDL), and (3) a risk-targeted strategy that treats 
individuals in the top 25 percent based on overall CV risk (as predicted by a 
multivariable prediction tool). The efficiency of each strategy was compared 
while varying the intervention's intensity and associated adverse effects, and 
the accuracy of the risk prediction tool.
FINDINGS: The LDL-targeted strategy and the low-intensity population-based 
strategy were comparable for CV events prevented over five years (0.79 million 
and 0.75 million, respectively), as were the risk-targeted strategy and 
moderate-intensity population-based strategy (1.56 million and 1.87 million, 
respectively). The risk-targeted strategy, however, was more efficient than the 
moderate-intensity population-based strategy (number needed to treat [NNT] 19 
vs. 62). Incorporating a small degree of treatment-related adverse effects 
greatly magnified the relative advantages of the risk-targeted approach over 
other strategies. Reducing the accuracy of the prediction tool only modestly 
decreased this greater efficiency.
CONCLUSIONS: A population-based prevention strategy can be an excellent option 
if an intervention has almost no adverse effects. But if the intervention has 
even a small degree of disutility, a targeted approach using multivariable risk 
prediction can prevent more morbidity and mortality while treating many fewer 
people.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2008.00534.x
PMCID: PMC2690369
PMID: 19120980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Milbank Q. 2008 Dec;86(4):601-27. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2008.00536.x.

Helping smokers quit: understanding the barriers to utilization of smoking 
cessation services.

Gollust SE(1), Schroeder SA, Warner KE.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, USA.

CONTEXT: Counseling smokers to quit smoking and providing them with 
pharmaceutical cessation aides are among the most beneficial and cost-effective 
interventions that clinicians can offer patients. Yet assistance with quitting 
is not universally covered by health plans or offered by all clinicians. 
Analysis of stakeholders' perspectives and interests can identify the barriers 
to more widespread provision of cessation services and suggest strategies for 
the public policy agenda to advance smoking cessation.
METHODS: Review of literature and discussions with representatives of 
stakeholders.
FINDINGS: All stakeholders-health plans, employers, clinicians, smokers, and the 
government-face barriers to broader smoking cessation activities. These range 
from health plans' perceiving that covering counseling and pharmacotherapy will 
increase costs without producing commensurate health care savings, to 
clinicians' feeling unprepared and uncompensated for counseling. Like other 
preventive measures aimed at behavior, efforts directed at smoking cessation 
have marginal status among health care interventions. State governments can help 
correct this status by increasing Medicaid coverage of treatment and expanding 
coverage for state employees. The federal government can promote the adoption of 
six initiatives recommended by a government subcommittee on cessation: set up a 
national quit line, develop a media campaign to encourage cessation, include 
cessation benefits in all federally funded insurance plans, create a research 
infrastructure to improve cessation rates, develop a clinician training agenda, 
and create a fund to increase cessation activities through a new $2 per pack 
cigarette excise tax. Both the federal and state governments can increase 
cessation by adopting policies such as the higher cigarette tax and laws 
prohibiting smoking in workplaces and public places.
CONCLUSIONS: Public policy efforts should assume greater social responsibility 
for smoking cessation, including more aggressive leadership at the state and 
federal levels, as well as through advocacy, public health, and clinician 
organizations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2008.00536.x
PMCID: PMC2690372
PMID: 19120982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Eur J Cancer. 2009 Apr;45(6):1006-16. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.11.028. Epub
2008  Dec 31.

The cancer survival gap between elderly and middle-aged patients in Europe is 
widening.

Quaglia A(1), Tavilla A, Shack L, Brenner H, Janssen-Heijnen M, Allemani C, 
Colonna M, Grande E, Grosclaude P, Vercelli M; EUROCARE Working Group.

Collaborators: Oberaigner W, Hackl M, Van Eycken E, Verstreken M, Holub J, 
Jurickova L, Storm HH, Engholm G, Hakulinen T, Belot A, Hédelin G, Velten M, 
Tron I, Le Gall E, Launoy G, Guizard AV, Faivre J, Bouvier AM, Carli PM, 
Maynadié M, Danzon A, Buemi A, Tretarre B, Lacour B, Desandes E, Colonna M, 
Molinié F, Bara S, Schvartz C, Ganry O, Grosclaude P, Brenner H, Kaatsch P, 
Ziegler H, Tryggvadottir L, Comber H, Berrino F, Allemani C, Baili P, 
Ciampichini R, Ciccolallo L, Gatta G, Micheli A, Sant M, Sowe S, Zigon G, 
Tagliabue G, Contiero P, Bellù F, Giacomin A, Ferretti S, Dal Maso DS, De 
Dottori M, De Paoli A, Zanier L, Vercelli M, Orengo MA, Casella C, Quaglia A, 
Pannelli F, Federico M, Rashid I, Cirilli C, Fusco M, Traina A, De Lisi V, 
Bozzani F, Magnani C, Pastore G, Tumino R, La Rosa MG, Spata E, Sigona A, 
Mangone L, Falcini F, Foca F, Giorgetti S, Senatore G, Iannelli A, Budroni M, 
Zanetti R, Patriarca S, Rosso S, Piffer S, Franchini S, Paci E, Crocetti E, La 
Rosa F, Stracci F, Cassetti T, Zambon P, Guzzinati S, Caldora M, Capocaccia R, 
Carrani E, De Angelis R, Francisci S, Grande E, Inghelmann R, Lenz H, Martina L, 
Roazzi P, Santaquilani M, Simonetti A, Tavilla A, Verdecchia A, Dalmas M, 
Langmark F, Bray F, Johannesen TB, Rachtan J, Góźdź S, Siudowska U, Mezyk R, 
Bielska-Lasota M, Zwierko M, Pinheiro PS, Primic-Zakelj M, Mateos A, Izarzugaza 
I, Torrella-Ramos A, Zurriaga O, Marcos-Gragera R, Vilardell ML, Izquierdo A, 
Martinez-Garcia C, Sánchez MJ, Navarro C, Chirlaque MD, Peris-Bonet R, Ardanaz 
E, Moreno C, Galceran J, Klint A, Talbäck M, Jundt G, Usel M, Frick H, Ess SM, 
Bordoni A, Luthi JC, Konzelmann I, Probst N, Lutz JM, Pury P, Visser O, Otter R, 
Schaapveld M, Coebergh JW, Janssen-Heijnen ML, van der Heijden L, Greenberg DC, 
Coleman MP, Woods L, Moran T, Forman D, Cooper N, Roche M, Verne J, Møller H, 
Meechan D, Poole J, Lawrence G, Stiller C, Gavin A, Black RJ, Brewster DH, 
Steward JA.

Author information:
(1)Liguria Cancer Registry, National Cancer Research Institute, Genoa 16132, 
Italy. alberto.quaglia@istge.it

The present study is aimed to compare survival and prognostic changes over time 
between elderly (70-84 years) and middle-aged cancer patients (55-69 years). We 
considered seven cancer sites (stomach, colon, breast, cervix and corpus uteri, 
ovary and prostate) and all cancers combined (but excluding prostate and 
non-melanoma skin cancers). Five-year relative survival was estimated for 
cohorts of patients diagnosed in 1988-1999 in a pool of 51 European populations 
covered by cancer registries. Furthermore, we applied the period-analysis method 
to more recent incidence data from 32 cancer registries to provide 1- and 5-year 
relative survival estimates for the period of follow-up 2000-2002. A significant 
survival improvement was observed from 1988 to 1999 for all cancers combined and 
for every cancer site, except cervical cancer. However, survival increased at a 
slower rate in the elderly, so that the gap between younger and older patients 
widened, particularly for prostate cancer in men and for all considered cancers 
except cervical cancer in women. For breast and prostate cancers, the increasing 
gap was likely attributable to a larger use of, respectively, mammographic 
screening and PSA test in middle-aged with respect to the elderly. In the period 
analysis of the most recent data, relative survival was much higher in 
middle-aged patients than in the elderly. The differences were higher for breast 
and gynaecological cancers, and for prostate cancer. Most of this age gap was 
due to a very large difference in survival after the 1st year following the 
diagnosis. Differences were much smaller for conditional 5-year relative 
survival among patients who had already survived the first year. The increase of 
survival in elderly men is encouraging but the lesser improvement in women and, 
in particular, the widening gap for breast cancer suggest that many barriers 
still delay access to care and that enhanced prevention and clinical management 
remain major issues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.11.028
PMID: 19121578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2009 Mar;21(2):111-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2008.11.012. Epub 2009 Jan 4.

Breast radiotherapy: considerations in older patients.

Kunkler IH(1), Williams LJ, King CC, Jack W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK. 
I.Kunkler@ed.ac.uk

With an ageing population, the number of older women with breast cancer eligible 
for adjuvant irradiation after breast conserving surgery and mastectomy is 
rising. There is a dearth of level 1 data on the effect of adjuvant irradiation 
on local control, quality of life and survival. In large part this reflects the 
exclusion of patients over the age of 70 years from randomised trials. The 
prevention of local recurrence may reduce the risks of dissemination. However, 
older women with early breast cancer and a life expectancy of less than 5 years 
are unlikely to derive a survival benefit from adjuvant radiotherapy. Rates of 
access of older patients to adjuvant irradiation are lower than for younger 
patients. Physician and patient bias and co-morbidities are contributory 
factors. There are also competing risks of mortality from co-morbidities, 
particularly in women over the age of 80 years. Postoperative radiotherapy after 
breast conserving surgery does not seem to compromise overall quality of life of 
older patients. Although the absolute reduction in local recurrence from 
adjuvant radiotherapy is modest in lower risk older patients after breast 
conserving surgery and adjuvant systemic therapy, there has to date been no 
group of fitter old patients defined from whom radiotherapy can be reasonably 
omitted. Guidelines for postmastectomy radiotherapy should not differ from 
younger patients. Adequately powered randomised trials are needed to assess the 
effect of adjuvant irradiation in older patients on outcomes after breast 
conserving surgery and mastectomy to provide a more robust basis for 
evidence-based radiotherapy practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2008.11.012
PMID: 19121926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Arch Suicide Res. 2009;13(1):87-99. doi: 10.1080/13811110802572197.

Policy-appropriate measurement of suicide: headcount vs. potential years of life 
lost, Australia, 1907-2005.

Doessel DP(1), Williams RF, Whiteford H.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, The Park-Centre for Mental 
Health, Brisbane, Australia.

We reconsider conventional suicide measurement. First, a headcount of suicide is 
examined relative to some other causes of death (circulatory diseases, cancer, 
and motor vehicle accidents). We then construct a time-series data set of an 
alternative measure of suicide, the potential years of life lost (PYLL) for 
males and females. Suicide PYLLs average 4.57% of all male PYLLs and 2.44% of 
female PYLLs for 1907-2005. The comparable "count" percentages are 1.85 and 
0.65, respectively. These differences are widening through time. In 2005, 
suicide represented 3.25% of all male deaths and 0.90% of female deaths using 
the count measure and, using PYLLs, 11.0% and 4.96%, respectively. The two 
measures produce quite different indications of suicide.

DOI: 10.1080/13811110802572197
PMID: 19123112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Ther Adv Cardiovasc Dis. 2008 Jun;2(3):147-55. doi:
10.1177/1753944708090572.

Hypertension, a health economics perspective.

Alcocer L(1), Cueto L.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Nactional Autónoma de México, Cardiology Division, Hospital 
General de México, Mexico. hospitalgeneral@hotmail.com

The economic aspects of hypertension are critical to modern medicine. The 
medical, economic, and human costs of untreated and inadequately controlled 
hypertension are enormous. Hypertension is distributed unequally and with 
iniquity in different countries and regions of the world. Treatment of 
hypertension requires an investment over many years to prolong disease-free 
quality years of life. The high prevalence and high cost of the disease impacts 
on the microeconomics and macroeconomics of countries and regions. The criteria 
used for inclusion in clinical guidelines for hypertension impact on the cost 
and cost/utility of diagnosis or treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/1753944708090572
PMID: 19124418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2009 Jan;163(1):6-11. doi: 
10.1001/archpediatrics.2008.513.

Diagnosis of neonatal sepsis using universal primer polymerase chain reaction 
before and after starting antibiotic drug therapy.

Dutta S(1), Narang A, Chakraborty A, Ray P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Sector 12, Chandigarh 160012, India. sourabhdutta@yahoo.co.in

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):145-6.
    J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):146-7.
    Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 2009 Jul;163(7):675-6; author reply 676.

OBJECTIVE: To study universal primer 16S rRNA gene polymerase chain reaction 
(PCR) for diagnosis of blood culture-positive neonatal sepsis before and after 
starting antibiotic drug therapy.
DESIGN: Prospective study of diagnostic tests.
SETTING: Level III neonatal intensive care unit. Patients Neonates with a fresh 
episode of clinically suspected sepsis were enrolled; those with major 
malformations, life expectancy less than 12 hours, or contaminated blood 
cultures were excluded.
INTERVENTIONS: Before starting antibiotic drug therapy, PCR (0 hour), blood 
culture, and sepsis screening (complete blood cell counts, micro-erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate, and C-reactive protein level) were performed. The PCR was 
repeated 12, 24, and 48 hours after starting antibiotic drug therapy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes were the sensitivity and specificity 
of 0-hour PCR for diagnosing blood culture-positive sepsis, and the secondary 
outcome was the proportion of 0-hour PCR-positive patients who remained positive 
after antibiotic drug therapy.
RESULTS: Of 306 patients evaluated, 242 were included (mean [SD] gestation, 32.2 
[3.1] weeks; and mean [SD] birth weight, 1529.2 [597.2] g). Blood culture was 
positive in 52 patients and 0-hour PCR in 57. The sensitivity, specificity, 
positive and negative predictive values, and positive and negative likelihood 
ratios of PCR were 96.2%, 96.3%, 87.7%, 98.8%, 26.1, and 0.04, respectively. Two 
patients were blood culture positive but 0-hour PCR negative, whereas 7 were 
0-hour PCR positive but blood culture negative. Of the 0-hour PCR-positive 
patients, 7 remained positive at 12 hours and none at 24 and 48 hours after 
starting antibiotic drug therapy. In 0-hour PCR-positive patients, no predictors 
of positive 12-hour PCR were identified.
CONCLUSION: Universal primer PCR can accurately diagnose neonatal sepsis before 
but not after antibiotic drugs are given.

DOI: 10.1001/archpediatrics.2008.513
PMID: 19124696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Health Aff (Millwood). 2009 Jan-Feb;28(1):14. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.28.1.14.

The scope of the problem.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.28.1.14
PMID: 19124847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Haemophilia. 2009 Jan;15 Suppl 1:2-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01946.x.

Haemophilia care then, now and in the future.

Oldenburg J(1), Dolan G, Lemm G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Haematology and Transfusion Medicine, University 
Clinic Bonn, Bonn, Germany. johannes.oldenburg@ukb.uni-bonn.de

Epidemiological data show the benefits of dramatically improved haemophilia care 
in all life-stages. There are improved administration techniques and dosing 
regimens, a shift from on-demand treatment to prophylaxis, successful treatment 
protocols for immune tolerance induction in patients with inhibitors and 
enhanced approaches to overall patient management. Improvements also include the 
introduction of virus inactivation methods for plasma derived clotting factor 
concentrates and the development of recombinant factor VIII therapy, which 
practically eliminated the risk of infectious disease transmission. Recombinant 
factor concentrates are recommended as treatment of choice by several guidelines 
today. All these developments have resulted in increased health-related quality 
of life and life expectancy in haemophilia patients, who are transitioning from 
childhood to adulthood with healthy joints and an overall healthy status today. 
Because of increased life expectancy, these patients are expected to experience 
age-related clinical problems that were not previously observed in this 
population. With respect to this, the spectrum of haemophilia care will be 
extended to diseases of older ages with the need of including further 
disciplines in comprehensive haemophilia care programmes. Despite these 
advances, the short half-life of factor VIII, requiring re-administration every 
2 or 3 days and the development of inhibitors remains a challenge. Bayer's 
research and development currently focuses on the optimization of recombinant 
coagulation factors to address these challenges. Haemophilia care has 
experienced significant improvements within the past decades. Novel technologies 
and continued clinical research have facilitated the development of treatment 
regimen that resulted in dramatic increases in the life expectancy and quality 
of life of haemophilia patients. To set the scene for the following papers 
dealing with haemophilia care from paediatrics to geriatrics, developments 
behind these improvements and some aspects of future research will be presented 
in this paper.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01946.x
PMID: 19125934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Haemophilia. 2009 Jan;15 Suppl 1:20-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01949.x.

Challenges and controversies in haemophilia care in adulthood.

Dolan G(1), Hermans C, Klamroth R, Madhok R, Schutgens RE, Spengler U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Nottingham University Hospitals, Nottingham, UK. 
gerry.dolan@nottingham.ac.uk

Overall life expectancy and quality of life among persons with haemophilia have 
increased in recent years, primarily because of the advances in factor 
replacement therapy and better treatment of infectious diseases. Older 
haemophilic patients now face aging co-morbidities that are common in the 
general male population, such as cardiovascular or metabolic diseases, prostate 
hypertrophy and hepatic, prostate and other cancers. The prevalence of 
cardiovascular disease and incidence of vascular events among older haemophilic 
patients can be expected to increase and haemophilic patients may become prone 
to some cardiovascular risk factors, warranting preventative measures. The 
treatment of long-term complications of hepatitis C virus infection such as 
liver cirrhosis and hepatic cancer can be expected to be required in a large 
portion of the older haemophilia population for some years to come. Appropriate 
antiviral treatment and close monitoring for possible disease advancement will 
constitute an important part of routine medical care, and special considerations 
may be appropriate in conjunction with invasive procedures, chemo- or 
radiotherapy. At the moment, hard data on which to base the management of these 
conditions are largely lacking, but can be expected to increase dramatically in 
the coming decades. In the meantime, the ageing population of haemophilia 
patients should be offered the same comprehensive health care offered to the 
general population, which may require a restructuring of health care delivery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01949.x
PMID: 19125937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Am J Epidemiol. 2009 Mar 1;169(5):562-71. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwn370. Epub 2009
Jan  6.

Cost-effectiveness of acupuncture in women and men with allergic rhinitis: a 
randomized controlled study in usual care.

Witt CM(1), Reinhold T, Jena S, Brinkhaus B, Willich SN.

Author information:
(1)Social Medicine, Epidemiology, and Health Economics, Charité University 
Medical Center, Berlin, Germany. claudia.witt@charite.de

To assess quality of life and cost-effectiveness of additional acupuncture 
treatment for allergic rhinitis, patients were randomly allocated to 2 groups; 
both received usual care, but one group received an additional 10 acupuncture 
sessions. Quality of life (according to the SF-36 Health Survey), and direct and 
indirect costs, were assessed at baseline and after 3 months, and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of acupuncture treatment was calculated. 
This German study (December 2000-June 2004) involved 981 patients (64% women, 
mean age 40.9 years (standard deviation, 11.2); 36% men, mean age 43.2 years 
(standard deviation, 13.0)). At 3 months, quality of life was higher in the 
acupuncture group than in the control group (mean Physical Component Score 51.99 
(standard error (SE), 0.33) vs. 48.25 (SE, 0.33), P < 0.001; mean Mental 
Component Score 48.55 (SE, 0.42) vs. 45.35 (SE, 0.42), respectively, P < 0.001). 
Overall costs in the acupuncture group were significantly higher than those in 
the control group (Euro (euro; 1 euro = US $1.27) 763, 95% confidence interval: 
683, 844 vs. 332 euro, 95% confidence interval: 252, 412; mean difference 432 
euro, 95% confidence interval: 318, 545). The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was 17,377 euro per quality-adjusted life year (women, 10,155 euro; men, 
44,871 euro) and was robust in sensitivity analyses. Acupuncture, supplementary 
to routine care, was beneficial and, according to international benchmarks, 
cost-effective. However, because of the study design, it remains unclear whether 
the effects are acupuncture specific.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwn370
PMID: 19126587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2009 Jan 1;34(1):69-73. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181913f19.

Outcome of treatment for spinal metastases using scoring system for preoperative 
evaluation of prognosis.

Tokuhashi Y(1), Ajiro Y, Umezawa N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Nihon University School of Medicine, 30-1 
Oyaguchi-kamimachi, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan. ytoku@med.nihon-u.ac.jp

STUDY DESIGN: Prospective study.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate our treatment outcome for spinal metastases using our 
treatment strategy based on prognostic scoring system.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: In the treatment of spinal metastases, life 
expectancy is most important, and our scoring system for metastatic spine tumor 
prognosis has been useful for such prognostic evaluation.
METHODS: Conservative treatment or palliative surgery was indicated in patients 
with a predicted prognosis of less than 6 months or in those with multiple 
vertebral metastases, whereas excisional surgery was performed in patients with 
a predicated prognosis of 1 year or more, or with a predicted prognosis of 6 
months or more, and with metastasis in a single vertebra. One hundred 
eighty-three patients were prospectively treated according to this principle 
using our prognostic scoring system, and the outcome was evaluated.
RESULTS: The consistency rate between the predicted prognosis from the criteria 
of the scoring system and the actual survival period was high in patients within 
each score range (0-8, 9-11, or 12-15), 87.9% in the 183 patients. Only the 
palliative surgery group (n = 55) showed a significant improvement of the 
Barthel index between before and after treatment (P < 0.01). The mean maximum 
Barthel index after treatment in any modality ran parallel to the total scores 
of our scoring system.
CONCLUSION: The prognostic criteria using our scoring system were useful for the 
pretreatment evaluation of prognosis irrespective of the treatment modality. In 
any treatment, the survival period of the patients affected the functional 
prognosis; therefore, it may be appropriate and realistic to select treatment 
methods by giving first priority to the life expectancy of patients.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181913f19
PMID: 19127163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Anal Soc. 2000;35(156):583-604.

[Epidemiological transition, urban infrastructures, and development: the city of 
Porto].

[Article in Portuguese]

Maia JJ.

PMID: 19127690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Fen Zi Xi Bao Sheng Wu Xue Bao. 2008 Oct;41(5):359-66.

[Expression of galanin and galanin receptors in neurogenesis regions of adult 
mouse brain and effect of galanin on the neural stem cell's differentiation].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma J(1), Shan L, Yu LL, Yuan CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Life Science Institute, East China Normal 
University, Shanghai 200062, China.

The neuropeptid galanin is widely expressed in the central nervous system and 
has a diverse range of physiological effects including food intaking, 
arousal/sleep, nociception and reproduction. In this study, expression of 
galanin and galanin receptors (GalR1 and GalR2) mRNA were identified not only in 
the neurogenisis regions including subventricular zone (SVZ), rostral migratory 
stream (RMS) and dentate gyrus (DG) of adult mice but also in the SVZ-derived 
neural stem cell (NSC) culture. Here, we also showed that the addition of 
galanin and GalR2-specific agonist Gal2-11 to wild-type or GALKO NSCs under 
differentiation condition significantly promote the neuritogenesis and increase 
the length of neurites on the betaIII-tubulin positive cells. This effect could 
be reduced by treatment of the galanin antagonist M35. These results indicate 
that galanin and its receptors might regulate neurite extension in 
differentiating neural stem cells and even participate in the development of the 
nervous system.

PMID: 19127771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Int J Public Health. 2008;53(3):150-9. doi: 10.1007/s00038-008-7032-2.

Restructuring public health in Slovenia between 1985 and 2006.

Albreht T(1), Klazinga NS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health of the Republic of Slovenia, Ljubljana, Slovenia. 
tit.albreht@ivz-rs.si

Comment in
    Int J Public Health. 2008;53(3):121-2.

OBJECTIVE: This paper explores the developments in the public health 
infrastructure in Slovenia in the context of the sociopolitical and legislative 
changes in health care over the last 20 years. It assesses the responsiveness of 
the public health institutes in Slovenia to the various plans on public health 
developed by health policy makers over time
METHODS: After an in-depth and externally validated search for key documents, we 
analysed the legislation, policy documents, research reports, theses, and other 
health policy papers related to the public health infrastructure in Slovenia. 
Findings were validated through consulting 3 external experts on public health 
in Slovenia.
RESULTS: In the period discussed only few new services were added and health 
promotion was developed as an institutional field. Passivity in the past caused 
a lack of decisions on some traditional services in a changed economic 
environment. Moving from a passive supporter of the former infrastructure to an 
active promoter of the reform sets health policy as the main architect of the 
new public health building.
CONCLUSION: Slovenia's "house" of public health was amended and refurbished, but 
a thorough reconstruction has not taken place. In order to face the future 
challenges in public health, the infrastructure will require increased 
efficiency, professional workforce development and better responsiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-008-7032-2
PMID: 19127888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2008 Jun;37(3):411-6.

Donor-site morbidity following radial forearm free tissue transfer in head and 
neck surgery.

Sardesai MG(1), Fung K, Yoo JH, Bakker H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Head and Neck Oncology and Reconstructive Surgery, Department of 
Otolaryngology, London Health Sciences Centre, London, Ontario.

OBJECTIVE: To comprehensively evaluate long-term quantitative and qualitative 
donor-site morbidity following radial forearm free tissue harvest.
DESIGN: A single-centre retrospective cohort study with internal controls was 
undertaken.
METHODS: Quantitative measurements of range of motion (ROM) of the forearm, 
wrist, and digits were performed. Grip and pinch strength and hand dexterity 
were also evaluated. Qualitative assessment was performed using the Michigan 
Hand Outcomes Questionnaire (MHQ), a validated quality of life instrument.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Quantitative primary outcome measures were (1) wrist 
flexion and extension, (2 forearm pronation and supination, and (3) hand 
dexterity. The qualitative primary outcome measure was overall MHQ score.
RESULTS: The operated side demonstrated decreased hand dexterity (p = .008), 
with no change in wrist and forearm ROM. An increase in ROM of the little finger 
was found (p = .002). The MHQ demonstrated a perceived decrease in function (p = 
.031), an increase in pain (p = .045), and no difference in appearance (p = 
.486).
CONCLUSIONS: The radial forearm free flap results in measurable quantitative 
changes in hand function and limited changes in patient perception. Donor-site 
appearance does not seem to be an important factor.

PMID: 19128647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. BMJ. 2009 Jan 6;338:a3110. doi: 10.1136/bmj.a3110.

Lung cancer deaths from indoor radon and the cost effectiveness and potential of 
policies to reduce them.

Gray A(1), Read S, McGale P, Darby S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF. alastair.gray@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2009;338:a3128.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the number of deaths from lung cancer related to radon 
in the home and to explore the cost effectiveness of alternative policies to 
control indoor radon and their potential to reduce lung cancer mortality.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: United Kingdom.
DATA SOURCES: Epidemiological data on risks from indoor radon and from smoking, 
vital statistics on deaths from lung cancer, survey information on effectiveness 
and costs of radon prevention and remediation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Estimated number of deaths from lung cancer related to 
indoor radon, lifetime risks of death from lung cancer before and after various 
potential interventions to control radon, the cost per quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained from different policies for control of radon, and the 
potential of those policies to reduce lung cancer mortality.
RESULTS: The mean radon concentration in UK homes is 21 becquerels per cubic 
metre (Bq/m(3)). Each year around 1100 deaths from lung cancer (3.3% of all 
deaths from lung cancer) are related to radon in the home. Over 85% of these 
arise from radon concentrations below 100 Bq/m(3) and most are caused jointly by 
radon and active smoking. Current policy requiring basic measures to prevent 
radon in new homes in selected areas is highly cost effective, and such measures 
would remain cost effective if extended to the entire UK, with a cost per QALY 
gained of pound11,400 ( euro12 200; $16,913). Current policy identifying and 
remediating existing homes with high radon levels is, however, neither cost 
effective (cost per QALY gained pound36,800) nor effective in reducing lung 
cancer mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Policies requiring basic preventive measures against radon in all 
new homes throughout the UK would be cost effective and could complement 
existing policies to reduce smoking. Policies involving remedial work on 
existing homes with high radon levels cannot prevent most radon related deaths, 
as these are caused by moderate exposure in many homes. These conclusions are 
likely to apply to most developed countries, many with higher mean radon 
concentrations than the UK.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.a3110
PMCID: PMC2769068
PMID: 19129153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


919. N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 8;360(2):187-8; author reply 189. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc082047.

Defibrillators in heart failure and quality of life.

Matlock DD.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2008 Sep 4;359(10):999-1008.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc082047
PMID: 19129534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Arch Sex Behav. 2010 Aug;39(4):990-7. doi: 10.1007/s10508-008-9460-8. Epub
2009  Jan 7.

Sex differences in mental rotation and line angle judgments are positively 
associated with gender equality and economic development across 53 nations.

Lippa RA(1), Collaer ML, Peters M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, California State University, Fullerton, Fullerton, 
CA 92834-6846, USA. rlippa@fullerton.edu

Mental rotation and line angle judgment performance were assessed in more than 
90,000 women and 111,000 men from 53 nations. In all nations, men's mean 
performance exceeded women's on these two visuospatial tasks. Gender equality 
(as assessed by United Nations indices) and economic development (as assessed by 
per capita income and life expectancy) were significantly associated, across 
nations, with larger sex differences, contrary to the predictions of social role 
theory. For both men and women, across nations, gender equality and economic 
development were significantly associated with better performance on the two 
visuospatial tasks. However, these associations were stronger for the mental 
rotation task than for the line angle judgment task, and they were stronger for 
men than for women. Results were discussed in terms of evolutionary, social 
role, and stereotype threat theories of sex differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-008-9460-8
PMID: 19130205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2009 Sep;117(2):305-17. doi:
10.1007/s10549-008-0294-9.  Epub 2009 Jan 8.

Cost-utility analysis for advanced breast cancer therapy in Germany: results of 
the fulvestrant sequencing model.

Lux MP(1), Hartmann M, Jackisch C, Raab G, Schneeweiss A, Possinger K, Oyee J, 
Harbeck N.

Author information:
(1)Universitäts-Brustzentrum Franken, Frauenklinik, Universitätsklinikum 
Erlangen, Universitätsstrasse 21-23, 91054, Erlangen, Germany, 
Michael.lux@uk-erlangen.de.

Therapy decisions in advanced breast cancer (ABC) increasingly require 
assessment not only of treatment efficacy but also of cost-effectiveness. To 
this end, we performed a cost-utility analysis by comparing treatment sequences 
including/omitting fulvestrant in a hypothetical population of hormone 
receptor-positive (HR+) postmenopausal women with ABC. The analysis was 
performed from the German health care perspective. Using a first-order 
sequential Markov model, expected costs and utilities were calculated over a 
time horizon of 10 years for cohorts of patients with HR+ ABC, previously 
treated for at least 5 years using adjuvant endocrine therapies. Utilities were 
primarily quantified in terms of quality adjusted life years (QALY). "Base-case" 
estimates of state transition rates, resource utilization, and other model 
parameters were derived from published evidence and expert assessment. The 
impacts of uncertainties in all key model parameters were evaluated by 
sensitivity analysis. Costs and benefits were discounted at 3% annually. 
Including second-line fulvestrant in the treatment sequence led to greater 
estimated health gains (0.021 QALY) and cost savings of 564 euros ($745, 380 
pounds) per patient, i.e. the fulvestrant-containing sequence was "dominant". 
The prediction of a cost savings was robust with respect to variations in all 
key parameters. The probability of acceptable cost-effectiveness for the 
fulvestrant sequence was 72% at a willingness to pay (WTP) of 30,000 euros/QALY 
($39,621/QALY, 20,198 pounds/QALY); the probability was even higher at lower WTP 
and substantially exceeded 50% for any realistic WTP. In a representative 
population of women with HR+ advanced breast cancer, inclusion of fulvestrant in 
the treatment sequence provides a cost-effective alternative from the German 
health care perspective. A high probability of cost-effectiveness is maintained 
under variations in all key parameters. The results reflect a tendency for 
patients receiving fulvestrant at an early stage to maintain high quality of 
life for a longer interval.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-008-0294-9
PMID: 19130218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Harv Heart Lett. 2008 Aug;18(12):2.

Balancing hope and reality in heart failure.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 19130661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Int J Cardiol. 2009 Apr 17;133(3):293-306. doi:
10.1016/j.ijcard.2008.11.113.  Epub 2009 Jan 7.

HIV-associated vascular diseases: structural and functional changes, clinical 
implications.

Monsuez JJ(1), Charniot JC, Escaut L, Teicher E, Wyplosz B, Couzigou C, Vignat 
N, Vittecoq D.

Author information:
(1)AP-HP, Hôpital René Muret, Policlinique médicale, Université Paris, Sevran, 
France. jean-jacques.monsuez@rmb.aphp.fr

After more than two decades of AIDS epidemic, the spectrum of HIV-associated 
vascular diseases has mainly evolved from infectious and inflammatory 
vasculitides to premature atherosclerosis, its related contributing conditions 
(metabolic syndrome, dyslipidemia, insulin resistance syndrome) and 
complications (acute coronary and cerebrovascular syndromes). Today, as the AIDS 
epidemic further progresses worldwide and as the life expectancy of HIV-infected 
patients treated with effective antiviral regimens has dramatically increased, 
more than 10% of patients experience cardiovascular manifestations. The complex 
interplay between viral infection, inflammatory and cytokines pathways, protease 
inhibitors-induced hyperlipidemia and direct effects on endothelial cells has 
not, by far, been integrated in a single comprehensive pathogenesis network. 
However, recognition of its main components has resulted in a broader 
appreciation of cardiovascular risk and risk factors in HIV-infected/treated 
patients. Cardiovascular prevention is required in more than one half of 
HIV-infected/treated patients to achieve a reliable effectiveness of modern 
antiretroviral therapy. As the prognosis of HIV patients improves continuously, 
this rate is also likely to increase in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2008.11.113
PMID: 19131130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Diabetes Care. 2009 Apr;32(4):600-2. doi: 10.2337/dc08-1718. Epub 2009 Jan
8.

Incremental value of the pancreas allograft to the survival of simultaneous 
pancreas-kidney transplant recipients.

Salvalaggio PR(1), Dzebisashvili N, Pinsky B, Schnitzler MA, Burroughs TE, Graff 
R, Axelrod DA, Brennan DC, Lentine KL.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, Saint Louis University School of Medicine, St. 
Louis, Missouri, USA. psalvala@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the incremental survival benefit of the pancreas 
allograft in simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplant recipients.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Data from the national transplant database from 
2000 to 2007 were analyzed. SPK recipients who had functioning allografts to 
1-year post transplant (n = 3,304) were compared with those who had failure of 
the renal (n = 233) or pancreatic (n = 112) graft. The main outcome was a 
projection of 10 life-years of patient survival beyond the first transplant 
anniversary.
RESULTS: Recipients with function of both organs accrued 9.4 life-years 
following transplantation. Projected survival in patients with kidney failure 
was reduced to 2.5 life-years. Pancreas failure reduced predicted survival to 8 
life-years. Renal allograft failure impacts life expectancy significantly 
(adjusted hazard ratio [aHR] 12.13). However, pancreas allograft failure was 
also associated with reduced survival (aHR 2.62).
CONCLUSIONS: Although the majority of the survival benefit of SPK transplant is 
due to the renal transplant, pancreas allograft function does contribute to 
patient survival.

DOI: 10.2337/dc08-1718
PMCID: PMC2660461
PMID: 19131460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2009 Jan 15;6(1):13-9. doi: 10.1513/pats.200807-072GO.

General overview of lung transplantation and review of organ allocation.

Orens JB(1), Garrity ER Jr.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, Maryland, USA. jorens@jhmi.edu

Lung transplantation is an established treatment option for patients with a wide 
variety of end-stage lung diseases. For patients with end-stage lung disease, 
lung transplant can prolong life substantially; however, the survival statistics 
for lung transplants still pale compared with other solid organ transplants. 
Acute cellular rejection (ACR) is common after lung transplantation occurring in 
up to 90 percent of patients. Chronic allograft rejection, manifest as 
bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS), remains the "Achilles heel" to the 
long-term success of lung transplantation. Unfortunately, BOS is common after 
lung transplantation, occurring in a majority of patients by 5 years after 
transplant. Candidates for lung transplantation should have near-end-stage lung 
disease with a limited life expectancy. Allocation of organs today is based upon 
need and survivability of the operation, and there is a high likelihood of 
improvement in quality of life. Details of the advances in this fascinating 
field are included in the several articles in this issue.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.200807-072GO
PMID: 19131526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2008 Dec;18(12):1953-7.

Construction of recombinant Lactobacillus casei strains using splicing by 
overlap extension.

Jeong DW(1), Lee JH, Lee HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, and 2Research Institute for 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National University, Seoul 151-921, Korea.

Recombinant Lactobacillus strains have been constructed using gene splicing by 
overlap extension (SOE). Primers were designed of which one end of an amplified 
product contained complementary sequences for an end of other amplified 
fragment. For efficient matching, we used an asymmetric PCR step that was 
effective at generating an excess of strands that would anneal in the final PCR. 
CP12, a recombinant fragment consisting of the integrase gene and attachment 
site of the bacteriophage A2, was constructed and inserted into the genome of 
