Motivational concordance: an important mechanism in self-help therapeutic 
rituals involving inert (placebo) substances.

Hyland ME(1), Whalley B.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Plymouth, Plymouth, UK. 
mhyland@plymouth.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Psychosom Res. 2008 Nov;65(5):415-6.

We tested the contribution of two mechanisms, response expectancy and 
motivational concordance, to reported psychological benefit from a popular, 
biologically inactive, self-help, complementary therapy (a placebo). Flower 
essences were taken by 251 people for self-selected symptoms and were randomized 
to receive three different kinds of information. When the flower essence was 
presented as a spiritual therapy, then baseline spirituality (beta=.35, P=.01) 
and expectancy (beta=.25, P=.03) independently predicted outcome. When flower 
essences were presented as an affirmation (i.e., nonspiritual) therapy, then 
spirituality negatively (beta=-.27, P=.03) and expectancy (beta=.33, P=.01) 
predicted outcome. For both groups, expectancy predicted outcome after 
controlling for spirituality and compliance, but did not after controlling for 
ease of task completion. Expectancy failed to predict outcome in the nonenhanced 
ritual group. The results suggest that motivational concordance is an important 
therapeutic mechanism for real-life placebos.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2008.02.006
PMID: 18940369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2008 Nov;191(5):1308-19. doi: 10.2214/AJR.07.3861.

Staging MR lymphangiography of the axilla for early breast cancer: 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Pandharipande PV(1), Harisinghani MG, Ozanne EM, Specht MC, Hur C, Lee JM, 
Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, 101 Merrimac St., 10th Fl., Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Comment in
    AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2008 Nov;191(5):1320-2.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of MR 
lymphangiography-based strategies with that of sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy 
alone in the axillary staging of early breast cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov Model was developed to 
estimate quality-adjusted life expectancy and lifetime costs among 61-year-old 
women with clinically node-negative early breast cancer. Three axillary staging 
strategies were compared: MR lymphangiography alone, combined MR 
lymphangiography-SLN biopsy, and SLN biopsy alone. The model incorporated 
treatment decisions, outcome, and costs consequent to axillary staging results. 
An incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to compare strategies. 
The effect of changes in key parameters on results was addressed in sensitivity 
analysis.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, combined MR lymphangiography-SLN biopsy was 
associated with the highest quality-adjusted life expectancy (13.970 years) and 
cost ($63,582), followed by SLN biopsy alone (13.958 years, $62,462) and MR 
lymphangiography alone (13.957 years, $61,605). MR lymphangiography-SLN biopsy 
and SLN biopsy both were associated with higher life expectancy and cost 
relative to those of MR lymphangiography. MR lymphangiography-SLN biopsy, 
however, was associated with greater overall life expectancy and greater added 
life expectancy per dollar than was SLN biopsy. SLN biopsy alone therefore was 
not considered cost-effective, but MR lymphangiography and MR 
lymphangiography-SLN biopsy remained competing choices. Preference of MR 
lymphangiography strategies was most dependent on the sensitivity of MR 
lymphangiography and SLN biopsy and on the quality-of-life consequences of SLN 
biopsy and axillary lymph node dissection, but otherwise was stable across most 
parameter ranges tested.
CONCLUSION: From a cost-effectiveness perspective, MR lymphangiography 
strategies for axillary staging of early breast cancer are preferred over SLN 
biopsy alone. The sensitivity of MR lymphangiography is a critical determinant 
of the cost-effectiveness of MR lymphangiography strategies and merits further 
investigation in the care of patients with early breast cancer.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.07.3861
PMID: 18941062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. CA Cancer J Clin. 2008 Nov-Dec;58(6):320-1. doi: 10.3322/CA.2008.0018. Epub
2008  Oct 21.

Task force weighs in on prostate cancer screening.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.3322/CA.2008.0018
PMID: 18941123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2008 Nov;17(6):545-54. doi: 10.1097/CEJ.0b013e3282f75ea1.

HIV, human papillomavirus, and cervical neoplasia and cancer in the era of 
highly active antiretroviral therapy.

De Vuyst H(1), Lillo F, Broutet N, Smith JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Ghent University, Belgium. 
devuysth@iarc.fr

The objective of this study was to review the literature on the epidemiological 
association between human papillomavirus (HPV), HIV, and cervical neoplasia, and 
the impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) on this association. 
MEDLINE was searched using the terms 'human papillomavirus', 'HPV', 'HIV', 
'cervix', 'neoplasm', and 'antiretroviral' to identify articles published before 
December 2006. HIV-infection was strongly associated with a higher prevalence, 
incidence, and persistence of HPV infection and correlated with prevalence, 
incidence, persistence, and progression of squamous intraepithelial lesions. The 
association between HIV and invasive cervical carcinoma has been more difficult 
to establish, but is now fully recognized. HAART seems to have little, if any, 
beneficial effect on the natural history of intraepithelial lesions in 
HIV-positive women. Despite this fact, HAART, does increase the life expectancy 
of HIV-positive women. Therefore, it remains important to closely monitor 
HPV-related disease in women with HIV who are receiving HAART, particularly in 
regions of the world where cervical screening is not available routinely.

DOI: 10.1097/CEJ.0b013e3282f75ea1
PMID: 18941376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Nat Clin Pract Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Dec;5(12):697-706. doi: 
10.1038/ncpgasthep1281. Epub 2008 Oct 21.

Celiac disease in the elderly.

Johnson MW(1), Ellis HJ, Asante MA, Ciclitira PJ.

Author information:
(1)Royal Surrey Hospital, London, UK.

Celiac disease is a common condition that is thought to affect 1 in 200 people 
throughout Europe and America, with prevalence rates reaching 1:100 in Ireland. 
Improvements in the sensitivity and specificity of serological testing for 
celiac disease over the past 15 years have resulted in a larger number of 
diagnoses being made. Up to 34% of patients with newly diagnosed celiac disease 
are older than 60 years of age. The symptomatic presentation of celiac disease 
in elderly patients can be subtle, leading to a considerable delay in diagnosis 
and potential accumulation of associated secondary complications. Given that 
celiac disease is associated with significant morbidity and reduced life 
expectancy, physicians need to be aware of this condition and its occurrence in 
the current increasingly elderly population. Compliance with a strict 
gluten-free diet is as easily achieved in elderly patients as in younger 
patients, and has been reported to reduce the risks of cancer and lymphoma 
associated with celiac disease. This Review highlights age-related differences 
in the clinical presentation and investigation of patients with suspected celiac 
disease.

DOI: 10.1038/ncpgasthep1281
PMID: 18941431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Tex Heart Inst J. 2008;35(3):321-2.

Prolonged survival in 2 nonagenarians with heart failure and severe aortic 
stenosis.

Lui CY(1), Alexander N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of Arizona Health 
Sciences Center, Tucson, Arizona 85724, USA. cylui@utmb.edu

The prevalence of severe aortic stenosis is 6% in persons 85 to 86 years of age 
according to a Finnish population-based report. In the United States, the 
population over 80 years old is projected to rise from the current 7 million to 
25 million by the year 2050. Thus, aortic stenosis in aging adults, and the 
management questions it poses, will be increasingly common. We report herein the 
cases of 2 nonagenarian patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis who far 
outlived the natural history of this disease. We suspect that we are seeing a 
change in the prognosis of senile aortic stenosis as a result of advances in the 
geriatric care and management of advanced heart failure. Furthermore, the 
unusual longevity of these patients was made possible by the remarkable holistic 
care given by a dedicated, altruistic caregiver who had training in psychology, 
theology, and nursing.

PMCID: PMC2565531
PMID: 18941592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Phytopathology. 2005 Jun;95(6):632-9. doi: 10.1094/PHYTO-95-0632.

Small-scale fungicide spray heterogeneity and the coexistence of resistant and 
sensitive pathogen strains.

Parnell S, Gilligan CA, van den Bosch F.

ABSTRACT Empirical evidence indicates that fungicide-resistant and sensitive 
strains can coexist for prolonged periods. Coexistence has important practical 
implications, for example, for the posttreatment recovery of sensitivity and 
consequently the life expectancy of fungicide products. Despite this, the 
factors influencing coexistence remain relatively unexplored. Ecological studies 
have shown that environmental heterogeneity can facilitate the coexistence of 
different species and subspecific groups. Here we use a simple differential 
equation model and show that fungicide spray heterogeneity per se is not 
sufficient for coexistence but that the outcome depends crucially on the 
competitive relationship between resistant and sensitive strains. The model 
incorporates the competition between resistant and sensitive pathogen strains 
for a limited supply of susceptible host tissue on a crop which has received an 
incomplete coverage of fungicide. We use a combination of invasibility analysis 
and model simulations to explore the conditions under which coexistence can 
occur. We further show that the maximum density of healthy host tissue 
isrealized when resistant and sensitive pathogen strains coexist. A set of key 
influencing parameters are identified and analyzed, and the consequences of the 
results for disease and resistance management are discussed.

DOI: 10.1094/PHYTO-95-0632
PMID: 18943779


521. Lancet. 2008 Dec 6;372(9654):1988-96. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61558-5.
Epub  2008 Oct 20.

Global public health: a scorecard.

Beaglehole R(1), Bonita R.

Author information:
(1)University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

Global health is attracting an unprecedented level of interest. In this paper, 
we summarise recent trends and identify the unfinished and new agendas in global 
public health. We propose a global public health scorecard as a simple way to 
assess progress and suggest actions by public health practitioners and their 
organisations for improving the effectiveness of public health. Although we find 
many recent positive developments in global health, the potential for global 
cooperation and progress is still largely untapped. Compared with other 
components of development, health improvement should easily foster global 
cooperation; strong advocacy and political will are keys to continuing progress. 
We view global public health as a barometer of more general development. Our 
responses to the current health challenges are at the forefront of the global 
struggle for survival.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61558-5
PMID: 18945485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Soc Sci Med. 2008 Dec;67(11):1717-26. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.09.017.
Epub  2008 Oct 20.

The relationship between alcohol consumption and self-reported health status 
using the EQ5D: evidence from rural Australia.

Petrie D(1), Doran C, Shakeshaft A, Sanson-Fisher R.

Author information:
(1)Economic Studies, University of Dundee, Scotland, United Kingdom. 
d.j.petrie@dundee.ac.uk

Alcohol misuse represents one of the leading causes of preventable death, 
illness and injury in Australia. Extensive research exists estimating the effect 
of risky alcohol use on mortality, but little research quantifies the impact of 
risky alcohol consumption on morbidity. Such estimates are required to more 
precisely measure the benefit of interventions aimed at reducing risky alcohol 
use. Ordered probit and tobit models are used in this research to analyse the 
impact of risky drinking on self-reported health status using questionnaire data 
from an age and gender stratified sample drawn from 20 rural communities in New 
South Wales which are part of a large randomised controlled trial of community 
based alcohol interventions. It is found that risky alcohol use is associated 
with lower self-reported health; however, the average effect is small apart for 
those drinking at very-high risk. The effect of alcohol on morbidity, derived 
from the current analyses, is lower than that commonly used in current economics 
analyses. If this is accurate for geographical regions other than rural 
Australia, then from a policy viewpoint, these economic analyses may tend to 
overemphasise interventions which are morbidity reducing, such as taxation, and 
place undue focus on alcohol as a risk factor and consequently adversely impact 
resource allocation decisions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.09.017
PMID: 18945533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Public Health (Oxf). 2009 Mar;31(1):147-53. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdn089.
Epub  2008 Oct 22.

Deprivation and self-reported health: are there 'Scottish effects' in England 
and Wales?

Whynes DK(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. 
david.whynes@nottingham.ac.uk

Comment on
    J Public Health (Oxf). 2005 Jun;27(2):199-204.

BACKGROUND: Although the association between poor health and deprivation is 
well-founded, a 'Scottish effect' has been observed, whereby the level of health 
appears even poorer than Scotland's higher level of deprivation should warrant. 
We consider whether 'Scottish effects' also occur within the regions of England 
and Wales.
METHOD: Using ward-level data from the national census, we regress healthy life 
expectancies relative to total life expectancies on Carstairs deprivation 
scores, households' average disposable incomes, geo-spatial characteristics and 
regional dummy variables.
RESULTS: Higher incomes and lower Carstairs scores are each associated with 
longer proportions of lives expected to be spent in good health or without 
long-standing illness. Relative to the London region, the coefficients on the 
regional dummies are uniformly negative and mostly significant.
CONCLUSIONS: There exist differences in relative health expectancies between the 
regions of England and Wales, which are not fully explained by the differences 
in socio-economic circumstances. Conventional deprivation measures tend to 
understate the poorer health performances of the more deprived regions (Wales 
and the north of England), and the understatement increases with deprivation. 
The exception to the rule is London, where health expectancies are superior to 
those which deprivation leads us to expect.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdn089
PMID: 18946154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Mymensingh Med J. 2008 Jul;17(2 Suppl):S107-10.

Pilimiction.

Bhuiyan ZH(1), Akhter N, Islam MF, Khan SA, Tawhid MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Bangladesh Medical College, House No. 33/35, Road No. 
14/A, Dhanmondi Residential Area, Dhaka-1209, Bangladesh. zahidhb_1961@ 
yahoo.com

Per urethral hair growth or passage of hair in the urine is a rare urological 
problem. It is pathognomonic sign of urinary bladder dermoid. Primary bladder 
dermoid is very rare problem. It could be managed endoscopically when it is 
limited to detrusor muscle. Secondary dermoid in the urinary bladder is not 
uncommon among the female specially during their reproductive life. It is mostly 
ovarian origin. Ovarian dermoid may grow and invade the urinary bladder wall to 
discharge its content in the urine. Cystoscopic evaluation followed by 
laparotomy and excision of ovarian dermoid along its extension to the urinary 
bladder is a rational approach. However if expertise is available it may be 
managed laparoscopically. Our patient has benign indolent coarse of pilimiction 
for last 9 years. Except US scans we did not do MRI or CT scan for financial 
constrain. Keeping an open mind we did cyst evaluation. Attempt of endoscopic 
resection seems that the dermoid has invaded bladder wall from out side. We did 
laparotomy in the same sitting. Lt. ovary was almost buried between the leaf of 
broad ligament and contain a dermoid cyst invading bladder wall to discharge its 
contents. So we confirm our diagnosis as secondary bladder dermoids as a cause 
of pilimiction & excise the whole specimen keeping its safety margin. 
Histopathologically it appears benign mature cystic teratoma.

PMID: 18946442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. PLoS One. 2008;3(10):e3513. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003513. Epub 2008 Oct
23.

Olfactory interference during inhibitory backward pairing in honey bees.

Dacher M(1), Smith BH.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ, USA. 
matthieu.dacher@free.fr

BACKGROUND: Restrained worker honey bees are a valuable model for studying the 
behavioral and neural bases of olfactory plasticity. The proboscis extension 
response (PER; the proboscis is the mouthpart of honey bees) is released in 
response to sucrose stimulation. If sucrose stimulation is preceded one or a few 
times by an odor (forward pairing), the bee will form a memory for this 
association, and subsequent presentations of the odor alone are sufficient to 
elicit the PER. However, backward pairing between the two stimuli (sucrose, then 
odor) has not been studied to any great extent in bees, although the vertebrate 
literature indicates that it elicits a form of inhibitory plasticity.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: If hungry bees are fed with sucrose, they will 
release a long lasting PER; however, this PER can be interrupted if an odor is 
presented 15 seconds (but not 7 or 30 seconds) after the sucrose (backward 
pairing). We refer to this previously unreported process as olfactory 
interference. Bees receiving this 15 second backward pairing show reduced 
performance after a subsequent single forward pairing (excitatory conditioning) 
trial. Analysis of the results supported a relationship between olfactory 
interference and a form of backward pairing-induced inhibitory learning/memory. 
Injecting the drug cimetidine into the deutocerebrum impaired olfactory 
interference.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Olfactory interference depends on the associative link 
between odor and PER, rather than between odor and sucrose. Furthermore, pairing 
an odor with sucrose can lead either to association of this odor to PER or to 
the inhibition of PER by this odor. Olfactory interference may provide insight 
into processes that gate how excitatory and inhibitory memories for odor-PER 
associations are formed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003513
PMCID: PMC2568944
PMID: 18946512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


526. Br J Nutr. 2009 May;101(10):1534-40. doi: 10.1017/S0007114508084079. Epub
2008  Oct 24.

Low serum zinc concentrations predict mortality in patients referred to coronary 
angiography.

Pilz S(1), Dobnig H, Winklhofer-Roob BM, Renner W, Seelhorst U, Wellnitz B, 
Boehm BO, März W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Social and Preventive Medicine, Mannheim Medical 
Faculty, University of Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany. stefan.pilz@chello.at

Zinc deficiency is common among the elderly and has been associated with 
oxidative stress, immune dysfunction and CVD. We examined whether low zinc 
concentrations are associated with total, cardiovascular and non-cardiovascular 
mortality. Serum zinc concentrations were measured in 3316 patients from the 
Ludwigshafen Risk and Cardiovascular Health study, who were routinely referred 
to coronary angiography at a single tertiary care centre in Southwest Germany. 
After a median follow-up period of 7.75 years, 769 patients had died, including 
484 deaths due to cardiovascular and 261 due to non-cardiovascular causes. After 
adjustments for cardiovascular risk factors and other possible confounders, the 
hazard ratios in the first when compared with the fourth zinc quartile, and per 
quartile decrease were 1.44 (95 % CI 1.13, 1.83; P = 0.001) and 1.15 (95 % CI 
1.07, 1.24; P < 0.001) for total mortality, 2.20 (95 % CI 1.42, 3.42; P < 0.001) 
and 1.32 (95 % CI 1.16, 1.50; P < 0.001) for non-cardiovascular mortality and 
1.24 (95 % CI 0.92, 1.66; P = 0.162) and 1.10 (95 % CI 1.01, 1.21; P = 0.038) 
for cardiovascular mortality. Furthermore, serum zinc concentrations correlated 
negatively with age and markers of inflammation and positively with 
antioxidants. The present results suggest that zinc deficiency may contribute to 
a reduced life expectancy in patients scheduled for coronary angiography.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114508084079
PMID: 18947439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Curr Med Res Opin. 2008 Nov;24(11):3275-85. doi: 10.1185/03007990802507547.
Epub  2008 Oct 22.

Cost-effectiveness of atypical antipsychotics for the management of 
schizophrenia in the UK.

Davies A(1), Vardeva K, Loze JY, L'italien GJ, Sennfalt K, Baardewijk Mv.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes, Oxford, UK. andy.davies@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of atypical antipsychotic 
treatment sequences for the management of stable schizophrenia in the UK.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov model was developed to assess the cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained from 12 alternative treatment sequences 
each containing two of four atypical antipsychotics (aripiprazole, olanzapine, 
quetiapine and risperidone), followed by clozapine. The main model parameters 
were populated with data from the Clinical Antipsychotic Trials of Intervention 
Effectiveness (CATIE) study and a recent trial comparing aripiprazole with 
olanzapine. Patients enter the model with stable schizophrenia and may relapse, 
discontinue or continue and experience adverse events (AEs), or develop 
diabetes. Population mortality was adjusted for schizophrenia and diabetes. 
Utility decrements applied to stable schizophrenia, relapse, diabetes and 
treatment-related AEs were taken from a direct UK utility elicitation study. 
Resource use and unit costs were taken from published sources. A time horizon of 
10 years was adopted. Results are based on 10,000 probabilistic iterations of 
the model.
RESULTS: Aripiprazole followed by risperidone produced the greatest number of 
QALYs, an additional 0.03 compared with risperidone followed by olanzapine, at 
an incremental cost of £257 (incremental cost/QALY: £9,440). Aripiprazole 
followed by risperidone had the greatest probability among evaluated sequences 
of being cost-effective at a threshold of >£10,000/QALY. All other strategies 
were dominated by at least one of these strategies. The impact of lower pricing 
for risperidone (based on generic availability) did not impact results.
CONCLUSIONS: Modelling the cost-effectiveness of different treatment sequences 
for stable schizophrenia is appropriate given that patients rarely remain on one 
treatment for long periods. The treatment sequence aripiprazole followed by 
risperidone was the most cost-effective option for patients with stable 
schizophrenia in the UK.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990802507547
PMID: 18947458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Med Decis Making. 2009 Jan-Feb;29(1):33-50. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08324955.
Epub  2008 Oct 23.

Cost-effectiveness of rotavirus vaccination: exploring caregiver(s) and "no 
medical care'' disease impact in Belgium.

Bilcke J(1), Van Damme P, Beutels P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics & Modelling Infectious Diseases, Centre for the 
Evaluation of Vaccination, Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute, University of 
Antwerp, Belgium. Joke.Bilcke@ua.ac.be

AIM: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of universal childhood rotavirus 
vaccination in Belgium, taking into account the impact of caregiver burden and 
the burden of sick children for whom no medical care is sought ("no medical 
care'' ).
METHODS: A cohort of newborns is modeled in relation to costs and health 
outcomes for rotavirus disease, distinguishing episodes leading to 
consultations, hospitalizations, and deaths from no medical care episodes. Fully 
funded universal vaccination is compared with no vaccination as well as with the 
current situation in Belgium, whereby the 2-dose Rotarix or the 3-dose RotaTeq 
vaccine can be bought at market prices, which are partially reimbursed.
RESULTS: Compared with no vaccination, fully funded universal rotavirus 
vaccination would cost 51,030 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained with 
Rotarix and 65,767 with RotaTeq (for society, 7572 and 30,227 per QALY, 
respectively). However, there is considerable uncertainty due to some analytical 
choices: the proportion of simulations with an acceptable incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (given a willingness to pay 50,000 for an additional 
QALY), increases from 2%/0.6% (Rotarix/RotaTeq) to 86%/59% when considering no 
medical care, and including 2 caregivers to estimate QALY loss instead of zero. 
Uncertainty is greater still under the societal than under the health care payer 
perspective.
CONCLUSION: For the Belgian health care payer, at current vaccine prices, 
universal childhood rotavirus vaccination is unlikely to be judged 
cost-effective versus no vaccination but would be a more efficient and equitable 
choice than continuing with current practice.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08324955
PMID: 18948433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Prog Neurol Surg. 2009;22:142-153. doi: 10.1159/000163397.

Metastatic brain tumors: lung cancer.

Serizawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Gamma Knife House, Chiba Cardiovascular Center, Ichihara, and Tokyo Gamma 
Unit Center, Tsukiji Neurological Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To present the results of gamma knife surgery (GKS) for brain 
metastases from lung cancer, without whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT), at 
Chiba Cardiovascular Center.
METHODS: Four hundred and forty-three consecutive patients satisfying the 
following 5 criteria were analyzed: (1) no prior WBRT; (2) < or =25 lesions; (3) 
< or =4 tumors with a diameter of 20 mm or more; (4) no surgically inaccessible 
large (> or =35 mm) tumors, and (5) life expectancy exceeding 3 months. Large 
tumors were totally removed and all smaller lesions were treated with GKS. New 
lesions detected with follow-up magnetic resonance imaging were appropriately 
re-treated with GKS. Overall survival (OS), neurological survival (NS), 
qualitative survival (QS) and new lesion-free survival (NLFS) curves were 
calculated and the prognostic values of covariates were obtained.
RESULTS: In total, 805 separate sessions were required to treat 4,626 lesions. 
The lung cancer histologies were adenocarcinoma in 294 patients, squamous cell 
in 52, small cell in 56, large cell in 9, and others/undetermined in 32. The 
median OS period was 8.9 months. On multivariate analysis, significant 
prognostic factors for OS were extracranial disease (risk factor: active), KPS 
score (< 70) and gender (male). NS and QS at 1 year were 86.9 and 80.1%, 
respectively. The only significant poor prognostic factor for NS was 
carcinomatous meningitis. A low Karnofsky performance status (KPS) score, 
numerous (> 10) brain lesions and carcinomatous meningitis were significant 
factors influencing QS. NLFS at 6 months was 70.0%.
CONCLUSION: In terms of NS and QS, GKS alone for metastatic brain tumors from 
lung cancer provides excellent palliation for selected patients without 
carcinomatous meningitis.

DOI: 10.1159/000163397
PMID: 18948726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Trop Biomed. 2008 Aug;25(2):117-25.

Population analysis of Aedes albopictus (Skuse) (Diptera:Culicidae) under 
uncontrolled laboratory conditions.

Nur Aida H(1), Abu Hassan A, Nurita AT, Che Salmah MR, Norasmah B.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 11800 Minden, 
Penang, Malaysia.

A semi laboratory experiment using 3 cohorts of Aedes albopictus adults was 
performed to obtain age-specific mortality and fecundity information and to 
derive statistical estimates of some population growth parameters. Life 
expectancy was calculated for both males and females. The following population 
parameters were estimated: intrinsic rate of increase (rm= 0.21), net 
reproductive (replacement) rate (Ro= 68.70), age at mean cohort reproduction 
(To=10.55 days), birth rate (B=0.23), death rate (D=0.02) and generation time 
(G=20.14 days). The high rm/B (0.91) and B/D (11.50) ratios indicated the high 
colonizing ability of Ae. albopictus in nature.

PMID: 18948882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2009 Jun;70(3):235-55. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.09.004. Epub 2008 Oct 25.

Management of complications of androgen deprivation therapy in the older man.

Mohile SG(1), Mustian K, Bylow K, Hall W, Dale W.

Author information:
(1)James Wilmot Cancer Center, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14642, 
USA. supriya_mohile@urmc.rochester.edu

Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy in older men. With the aging of 
the population, the number of older men with prostate cancer will grow rapidly. 
Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is the mainstay of treatment for men with 
systemic disease and is increasingly utilized as primary therapy or in 
combination with other therapies for localized disease. Side effects of therapy 
are multifold and include hot flashes, osteoporosis, and adverse psychological 
and metabolic effects. Recent research has illustrated that ADT can negatively 
impact the functional, cognitive, and physical performance of older men. 
Patients with prostate cancer, despite recurrence of the disease, have a long 
life expectancy and may be subjected to the side effects of ADT for many years. 
This review highlights the complications of ADT and approaches to management. We 
also provide recommendations for assessment and management of ADT complications 
among the most vulnerable and frail older male patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2008.09.004
PMCID: PMC3074615
PMID: 18952456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Child Neurol. 2008 Oct;23(10):1103-21. doi: 10.1177/0883073808321767.

Tumors of the central nervous system: clinical aspects, molecular mechanisms, 
unanswered questions, and future research directions.

Babcock MA(1), Kostova FV, Guha A, Packer RJ, Pollack IF, Maria BL.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South 
Carolina 29425, USA.

Central nervous system tumors are the most common solid tumors in children. Many 
histological subtypes and biological variants exist. The 2007 Neurobiology of 
Disease in Children Symposium, held in conjunction with the 36th annual meeting 
of the Child Neurology Society, aimed to define current knowledge in the field 
and to develop specific aims for future clinical, translational, and fundamental 
science. Because of advances in structural and metabolic imaging, surgical 
technique, and combination therapies, the life expectancy of children with some 
of the most common tumors, such as cerebellar astrocytomas and medulloblastomas, 
has improved. Other common tumor types, including diffuse pontine gliomas and 
malignant embryonal tumors, still have a dismal prognosis. As novel therapies 
are identified for pediatric central nervous system tumors, long-term survival 
may be associated with considerable disability. A cooperative effort is crucial 
to early diagnosis and to translating basic research findings into safe, 
effective new treatments.

DOI: 10.1177/0883073808321767
PMCID: PMC3674821
PMID: 18952577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Palliat Med. 2009 Mar;23(2):171-8. doi: 10.1177/0269216308098794. Epub 2008
Oct  24.

Fatigue dimensions in patients with advanced cancer in relation to time of 
survival and quality of life.

Hagelin CL(1), Wengström Y, Ahsberg E, Fürst CJ.

Author information:
(1)Research & Development unit, Stockholms Sjukhem Foundation, Stockholm, 
Sweden. carina.lundh@ki.se

To understand the relation between fatigue and patients emotional situation at 
the end of life, this cross-sectional study aimed to explore the association 
between multidimensional aspects of fatigue, emotional functioning and quality 
of life (QoL) in patients with advanced cancer at the end of life. Patients with 
advanced cancer answered fatigue related measurements (Borg Category Ratio-10 
scale, Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory-20, Swedish Occupational Fatigue 
Inventory and the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality of Life Questionnaire Core-30), when admitted for specialised palliative 
care. A total of 228 patients with a median length of survival of 63 days were 
included. In relation to time of survival, fatigue increased closer to death, in 
both global and multidimensional aspects, as well as the patient's experience of 
being sleepy. Marital status was found to affect the experience of fatigue in 
both global and multidimensional ratings of fatigue. The association between the 
experience of fatigue and feelings of being tense, worried, irritable or 
depressed and rated QoL decreased and was not evident closer to death. Fatigue 
in all dimensions increased, as patients got closer to death. The association 
between fatigue and both QoL and negative emotions faded away during the last 
days and weeks of life.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216308098794
PMID: 18952749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Nat Biotechnol. 2008 Nov;26(11):1301-8. doi: 10.1038/nbt.1506. Epub 2008 Oct
26.

Enrichment of tomato fruit with health-promoting anthocyanins by expression of 
select transcription factors.

Butelli E(1), Titta L, Giorgio M, Mock HP, Matros A, Peterek S, Schijlen EG, 
Hall RD, Bovy AG, Luo J, Martin C.

Author information:
(1)John Innes Centre, Norwich Research Park, Colney, Norwich NR4 7UH, UK.

Dietary consumption of anthocyanins, a class of pigments produced by higher 
plants, has been associated with protection against a broad range of human 
diseases. However, anthocyanin levels in the most commonly eaten fruits and 
vegetables may be inadequate to confer optimal benefits. When we expressed two 
transcription factors from snapdragon in tomato, the fruit of the plants 
accumulated anthocyanins at levels substantially higher than previously reported 
for efforts to engineer anthocyanin accumulation in tomato and at concentrations 
comparable to the anthocyanin levels found in blackberries and blueberries. 
Expression of the two transgenes enhanced the hydrophilic antioxidant capacity 
of tomato fruit threefold and resulted in fruit with intense purple coloration 
in both peel and flesh. In a pilot test, cancer-susceptible Trp53(-/-) mice fed 
a diet supplemented with the high-anthocyanin tomatoes showed a significant 
extension of life span.

DOI: 10.1038/nbt.1506
PMID: 18953354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Oct 4;152(40):2163-4.

[Male-female differences in health and healthcare are largely determined by 
social factors].

[Article in Dutch]

Stronks K(1), Agyemang CO, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Academisch Medisch Centrum/Universiteit van Amsterdam, afd. Sociale 
Geneeskunde, Meibergdreef 15, 1105 AZ Amsterdam. k.stronks@amc.uva.nl

Women are generally considered the 'weaker sex'. In relation to health issues, 
it is not as simple as that. One might even argue that, in this context, men are 
the weaker sex. Life expectancy, for example, is lower in men than in women due 
to the fact that men suffer more from chronic conditions and have higher 
mortality risks. Part of these differences in health can be attributed to 
biological factors, but social factors seem to play an even more important role. 
The health gap between men and women might evolve over time and differ between 
situations. This is illustrated by the decreasing difference in life expectancy 
between men and women, and by the relatively adverse cardiovascular risk profile 
of women in immigrant groups compared with the host populations. Within 
healthcare, differences between men and women are also partly due to social 
determinants. Examples include the underrepresentation of women in health 
research as well as in guidelines committees, thereby affecting the production 
and implementation of medical evidence.

PMID: 18953777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Ross Fiziol Zh Im I M Sechenova. 2008 Sep;94(9):1092-109.

[Role of the growth hormone-insulin-like growth factor-1-insulin system 
signaling in aging and longevity: evolutional aspect].

[Article in Russian]

Anisimov VN.

Growth hormone (GH)/ insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1)/ insulin signaling 
molecules linked to longevity include DAF-2 and insulin-receptor and their 
homologues in mammals, and to inactivation of corresponding genes followed by 
increased life span in nematodes, fruit flies, and mice. It is possible that the 
life-prolonging effect of calorie restriction is due to decreasing IGF-1 levels. 
A search of pharmacological modulators of life-span-extending mutations in the 
GH/IGF-1/insulin signaling pathway and mimetic effects of caloric restriction is 
a priority directions in the regulation of longevity. Some literature and our 
own observations suggest that antidiabetic drugs could be promising candidates 
for both life span extension and prevention of cancer.

PMID: 18953996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Am J Med. 2008 Nov;121(11):974-81. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2008.05.042.

Preventive health care among older women: missed opportunities and poor 
targeting.

Schonberg MA(1), Leveille SG, Marcantonio ER.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA. 
mschonbe@bidmc.harvard.edu

Comment in
    Am J Med. 2009 Jun;122(6):e13; author reply e15.

BACKGROUND: Experts recommend that clinicians target mammography and colon 
cancer screening to individuals with at least 5 years life expectancy. 
Generally, immunizations and exercise counseling are recommended for all women 
aged > or =65 years, while Pap smears are generally not encouraged for these 
women.
METHODS: We used the 2005 National Health Interview Survey to examine receipt of 
several preventive health measures simultaneously among community dwelling US 
women aged > or =65 years by age and health status. We used functional status, 
significant diseases, and perceived health to categorize women into those most 
likely to be in above-average, average, or below-average health status. We used 
age and health status to estimate life expectancy.
RESULTS: Of 4683 participants, 25.8% were > or =80 years; 81.8% were 
non-Hispanic white; 21% were in above-average and 20% were in below-average 
health status. Receipt of mammography and colon cancer screening decreased with 
age and was not associated with health status for women aged > or =80 years. 
Nearly half (49%) of women aged > or =80 years in below-average health received 
mammography screening, while 19% of women aged 65-79 years in above-average 
health did not report receiving mammography. Nearly half of women aged 65-79 
years (49%) in above-average health did not report receiving colon cancer 
screening. Pap smear screening was common among older women. Few (34%) reported 
receiving exercise counseling. Many did not report receiving pneumococcal (43%) 
or flu vaccinations (40%).
CONCLUSIONS: In our comprehensive review of preventive health measures for older 
women, we found evidence to suggest a need to improve delivery and targeting of 
preventive health services.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2008.05.042
PMCID: PMC2587333
PMID: 18954844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Ann Endocrinol (Paris). 2008 Sep;69 Suppl 1:S44-52. doi: 
10.1016/S0003-4266(08)73968-4.

[News for adrenal insufficiency].

[Article in French]

Nunes ML(1), Tabarin A.

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie, CHU de Bordeaux, Hôpital Haut Lévêque, avenue de 
Magellan, 33604 Pessac, France. marie-laure.nunes@chu-bordeaux.fr

The congress of the Endocrine Society 2008 approached the diagnostic, etiologic, 
prognostic and therapeutic novelties of adrenal insufficiency (AI). Diagnosis of 
AI often requires serum cortisol measurement during dynamic tests. Salivary 
cortisol measurement was reported to have an equivalent diagnostic performance 
to serum cortisol and that is even better when CBG levels are altered. 
Iatrogenic AI is much more frequent than Addison's disease. Two studies have 
shown that patients with inhaled corticosteroid and opioid treatments should be 
tested for AI. A Norwegian study reported an increased mortality in the subgroup 
of young men that presented Addison's disease before the age of 40. Plasma 
cortisol concentration in patients with current glucocorticoid replacement 
therapy differs notably from those observed in physiological condition. This 
imperfect replacement may be responsible for adverse physical condition and 
impaired quality of life. Two formulations of delayed hydrocortisone tablets 
with different pharmacokinetics from usual hydrocortisone (DuoCort and 
Chronocort) are in development. The first study is promising and shows that 
these formulations better mimick the body's natural cortisol release. Its use in 
the treatment of AI in patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia has also 
been tested.

DOI: 10.1016/S0003-4266(08)73968-4
PMID: 18954859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Int J Drug Policy. 2009 May;20(3):251-60. doi: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2008.08.004.
 Epub 2008 Oct 26.

The mutual extraction industry: drug use and the normative structure of social 
capital in the Russian far north.

Pilkington H(1), Sharifullina E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Warwick, Coventry CV47AL, United 
Kingdom. h.pilkington@warwick.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The article contributes to the literature on the role of social 
networks and social capital in young people's drug use. It considers the 
structural and cultural dimensions of the 'risk environment' of post-Soviet 
Russia, the micro risk-environment of a de-industrializing city in the far north 
of the country and the kind of social capital that circulates in young people's 
social networks there. Its focus is thus on social capital at the micro-level, 
the 'bridging' networks of peer friendship groups and the norms that govern 
them.
METHOD: The research is based on a small ethnographic study of the friendship 
groups and social networks of young people in the city of Vorkuta in 2006-2007. 
It draws on data from 32 respondents aged 17-27 in the form of 17 
semi-structured audio and video interviews and field diaries. Respondents were 
selected from friendship groups in which drug use was a regular and symbolically 
significant practice.
RESULTS: The risk environment of the Russian far north is characterised by major 
de-industrialization, poor health indicators, low life expectancy and limited 
educational and employment opportunities. It is also marked by a 'work hard, 
play hard' cultural ethos inherited from the Soviet period when risk-laden 
manual labour was well-rewarded materially and symbolically. However, young 
people today often rely on informal economic practices to generate the resource 
needed to fulfil their expectations. This is evident from the social networks 
among respondents which were found to be focused around a daily routine of 
generating and spending income, central to which is the purchase, sale and use 
of drugs. These practices are governed by norms that often invert those normally 
ascribed to social networks: reciprocity is replaced by mutual exploitation and 
trust by cheating.
CONCLUSIONS: Social networks are central to young people's management of the 
risk environment associated with post-Soviet economic transformation. However, 
such networks are culturally as well as structurally determined and may be sites 
not only of cooperation, support and trust but also of mutual exploitation, 
deceit and distrust. This does not imply these regions are devoid of social 
capital. Rather it suggests that the notion of social capital as a natural 
by-product of a self-regulating economy and its institutions needs to be 
reconsidered in the context of local configurations of capital and social 
relations as well as their cultural and normative context. This reconsideration 
should include further reflection on whether the kinds of social networks 
described might be better understood not as motors for the generation of social 
capital but as sites of its 'mutual extraction'.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugpo.2008.08.004
PMID: 18954967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Mar;44(3):228-35. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.10.002. Epub
2008  Oct 12.

Conditional inhibition of autophagy genes in adult Drosophila impairs immunity 
without compromising longevity.

Ren C(1), Finkel SE, Tower J.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Computational Biology Program, Department of Biological 
Sciences, University of Southern California, University Park, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-2910, USA.

Immune function declines with age in Drosophila and humans, and autophagy is 
implicated in immune function. In addition, autophagy genes are required for 
life span extension caused by reduced insulin/IGF1-like signaling and dietary 
restriction in Caenorhabditiselegans. To test if the autophagy pathway might be 
limiting for immunity and/or life span in adult Drosophila, the Geneswitch 
system was used to cause conditional inactivation of the autophagy genes Atg5, 
Atg7 and Atg12 by RNAi. Conditional inhibition of Atg genes in adult flies 
reduced lysotracker staining of adult tissues, and reduced resistance to 
injected Escherichia coli, as evidenced by increased bacterial titers and 
reduced fly survival. However, survival of uninjected flies was unaffected by 
Atg gene inactivation. The data indicate that Atg gene activity is required for 
normal immune function in adult flies, and suggest that neither autophagy nor 
immune function are limiting for adult life span under typical laboratory 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.10.002
PMCID: PMC2664319
PMID: 18955126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2008 Nov;24(11):749-56. doi:
10.1097/PEC.0b013e31818c2665.

Effect of cervical spine immobilization technique on pediatric advanced airway 
management: a high-fidelity infant simulation model.

Nishisaki A(1), Scrattish L, Boulet J, Kalsi M, Maltese M, Castner T, Donoghue 
A, Hales R, Tyler L, Brust P, Helfaer M, Nadkarni V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, The Children's 
Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. nishisaki@email.chop.edu

OBJECTIVE: Current guidelines recommend cervical spine immobilization during 
orotracheal intubation when traumatic injury is suspected in infants. We 
evaluated the effect of cervical spine immobilization techniques on orotracheal 
intubation performance with a high-fidelity infant simulator.
METHODS: A randomized control study with repeated measurement. Nonanesthesia 
pediatric practitioners certified for intubation performed 6 intubations with 3 
different cervical spine immobilization techniques (no physical protection, 
manual in-line immobilization, and cervical collar: C-collar). Time to 
accomplish key actions, cervical extension angle, and observed intubation 
associated events such as mainstem intubation, esophageal intubation with or 
without immediate recognition were recorded.
RESULTS: Twenty-six practitioners performed 156 successful orotracheal 
intubation. Time to intubation from end of mask assist ventilation was 29.0 +/- 
12.2 seconds in no physical protection, 33.0 +/- 17.4 seconds in C-collar, and 
33.0 +/- 17.1 seconds in manual in-line immobilization (P = 0.39). Maximal 
cervical extension angle in no physical protection (2.39 +/- 2.56 degrees ) and 
C-collar (2.65 +/- 1.79 degrees ) were significantly greater compared with 0.85 
+/- 1.05 degrees in manual in-line immobilization (P < 0.0001). The number of 
intubation attempts and intubation associated events were not different among 3 
techniques. Laryngeal visualization measured by Cormack-LehaneScale was more 
difficult in C-collar compared with other 2 techniques (P< 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In this high-fidelity infant simulator model, cervical spine 
immobilization technique affected cervical extension angle and laryngeal 
visualization. Tracheal intubation associated events occurred in 33% of 
intubation attempts but were not different by technique. Time to achieve 
tracheal intubation, number of intubation attempts needed to succeed, and 
intubation-associated events were not affected by immobilization techniques. 
These results support Advanced Trauma Life Support recommendations to perform 
manual in-line immobilization in infants.

DOI: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e31818c2665
PMID: 18955912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. BMC Evol Biol. 2008 Oct 28;8:297. doi: 10.1186/1471-2148-8-297.

A major QTL affects temperature sensitive adult lethality and inbreeding 
depression in life span in Drosophila melanogaster.

Vermeulen CJ(1), Bijlsma R, Loeschcke V.

Author information:
(1)Ecology and Genetics, Department of Biological Sciences, University of 
Aarhus, Aarhus C, Denmark. corneel.vermeulen@biology.au.dk

BACKGROUND: The study of inbreeding depression has major relevance for many 
disciplines, including conservation genetics and evolutionary biology. Still, 
the molecular genetic basis of this phenomenon remains poorly characterised, as 
knowledge on the mechanistic causes of inbreeding depression and the molecular 
properties of genes that give rise to or modulate its deleterious effects is 
lacking. These questions warrant the detailed study of genetic loci giving rise 
to inbreeding depression. However, the complex and polygenic nature of general 
inbreeding depression makes this a daunting task. Study of inbreeding effects in 
specific traits, such as age-specific mortality and life span, provide a good 
starting point, as a limited set of genes is expected to be involved.
RESULTS: Here we report on a QTL mapping study on inbreeding related and 
temperature sensitive lethality in male Drosophila melanogaster. The inbreeding 
effect was expressed at moderately high temperature, and manifested itself as 
severe premature mortality in males, but not in females. We used a North 
Carolina crossing design 3 to estimate average dominance ratio and heritability. 
We found the genetic basis of the lethal effect to be relatively simple, being 
