CONCLUSIONS: RFCA is a relatively safe and efficacious procedure for the 
therapeutic treatment of AF and typical atrial flutter. There is some randomised 
evidence to suggest that RFCA is superior to AADs in patients with 
drug-refractory paroxysmal AF in terms of freedom from arrhythmia at 12 months. 
RFCA appears to be cost-effective if the observed quality of life benefits are 
assumed to continue over a patient's lifetime. However, there remain 
uncertainties around longer-term effects of the intervention and the extent to 
which published effectiveness findings can be generalised to 'typical' UK 
practice. All catheter ablation procedures for the treatment of AF or atrial 
flutter undertaken in the UK should be recorded prospectively and centrally and 
measures to increase compliance in recording RFCA procedures may be needed. This 
would be of particular value in establishing the long-term benefits of RFCA and 
the true incidence and impact of any complications. Collection of appropriate 
quality of life data within any such registry would also be of value to future 
clinical and cost-effectiveness research in this area. Any planned multicentre 
RCTs comparing RFCA against best medical therapy for the treatment of AF and/or 
atrial flutter should be conducted among 'non-pioneering' centres using the 
techniques and equipment typically employed in UK practice and should measure 
relevant outcomes.

DOI: 10.3310/hta12340
PMID: 19036232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Injury. 2008 Dec;39(12):1309-18. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2008.09.001. Epub
2008  Nov 25.

What's new in the management of proximal femoral fractures?

Nikolaou VS, Papathanasopoulos A, Giannoudis PV.

The incidence of proximal femoral fractures has increased significantly in 
recent years, and is expected to continue to rise with increasing life 
expectancy. However, the optimal method of treatment of these fractures is still 
debated. This article summarises current evidence concerning the most 
controversial issues in the treatment of intracapsular and extracapsular 
proximal femoral fractures. Despite initial enthusiasm, many new treatment 
options have been proved inferior to older, traditional methods, and physicians 
should be cautious when it comes to managing these fractures. It seems that 
meticulous surgical technique and implant selection according to fracture 
pattern and the characteristics of the individual patient offer the best route 
to optimal final outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2008.09.001
PMID: 19036361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Child Abuse Negl. 2008 Nov;32(11):1072-9. doi: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2007.12.011.

Recovery coaches and substance exposed births: an experiment in child welfare.

Ryan JP(1), Choi S, Hong JS, Hernandez P, Larrison CR.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 
61801, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Substance exposed infants present a major challenge to child welfare 
and public health systems. Prenatal substance exposure and continued substance 
abuse in the home are associated with a wide range of adverse social, emotional, 
and developmental outcomes. The objective of the current study is to evaluate 
the use of recovery coaches in child welfare.
METHODS: The current study is longitudinal and utilizes an experimental design. 
The sample includes 931 substance abusing women enrolled in a Title IV-E Waiver 
Demonstration, 261 in the control group, and 670 in the experimental group. 
Women in the experimental group received traditional services plus the services 
of a recovery coach. Administrative records are used to indicate substance 
exposure at birth.
RESULTS: Of the 931 women enrolled in the waiver demonstration, 21% of the 
control group and 15% of the experimental group were associated with a 
subsequent substantiated allegation indicating substance exposure at birth. Cox 
proportional hazards modeling indicates that women in the experimental group 
were significantly less likely to be associated with a new substance exposed 
birth.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of recovery coaches in child welfare significantly 
decreases the risk of substance exposure at birth. Integrated and comprehensive 
approaches are necessary for addressing the complex and co-occurring needs of 
families involved with child protection.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chiabu.2007.12.011
PMID: 19036450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Lung Cancer. 2009 Jun;64(3):358-66. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2008.10.002. Epub
 2008 Nov 25.

Improved survival from lung cancer in British Columbia compared to Scotland-are 
different treatment rates the whole story?

Erridge SC(1), Murray B, Williams L, Brewster D, Black R, Price A, Murray N, 
Sheehan F.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Cancer Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, United Kingdom; 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. serridge@staffmail.ed.ac.uk

To explore possible causes of the poor survival of Scottish lung cancer 
patients, a retrospective registry-based audit was conducted comparing 
demography, treatment and survival of 3833 Scottish patients and 2073 from 
British Columbia (BC). Patients from Scotland were older, had a lower rate of 
pathological confirmation (74% vs 89%, p<0.001), but more squamous (51% vs 31%, 
p<0.001) or small cell (SCLC) (18% vs 15%, p=0.005) cancers. Fewer Scottish 
patients received any treatment (57% vs 66%, p<0.001) or treatment aimed at cure 
(14% vs 26%, p<0.001). Survival was lower in Scotland (median 3.6 months vs 7.3 
months; 5% vs 10% 5-year overall survival, p<0.001), irrespective of treatment 
intent (potentially curative treatment median survival 20.9 months vs 34.0 
months, 5-year overall survival 29% vs 34%, p<0.001; palliative treatment 5.0 
months vs 6.3 months (p<0.001) and no treatment 1.4 months vs 2.5 months 
(p<0.001)). With treatment intent included in a multivariate analysis, the 
hazard ratio for death for lung cancer patients in Scotland compared to British 
Columbia was 1.5. Relative survival was higher in BC (38% at 1 year and 12% at 5 
years vs 22% and 6%, p<0.001), indicating that life expectancy differences 
between the two countries was not the explanation. Reduced levels of treatment 
could only partially explain survival differences and other unknown factors 
related to lifestyle differences such as diet and smoking, co-morbid diseases, 
population genetics or cancer biology, may be important and warrant further 
exploration.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2008.10.002
PMID: 19036470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jan;68(2):235-42. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.031.
Epub  2008 Nov 25.

Explaining health differences between men and women in later life: a cross-city 
comparison in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Zunzunegui MV(1), Alvarado BE, Béland F, Vissandjee B.

Author information:
(1)Médecine sociale et preventive, Universite de Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
maria.victoria.zunzunegui@umontreal.ca

This paper describes differences in health and functional status among older men 
and women and attempts to anchor the explanations for these differences within a 
lifecourse perspective. Seven health outcomes for men and women 60 years and 
older from seven Latin American and Caribbean cities are examined, using data 
from the 2000 SABE survey (Salud, Bienestar y Envejecimiento-n=10,587). 
Age-adjusted as well as city- and sex-specific prevalence was estimated for poor 
self-rated health, comorbidity, mobility limitations, cognitive impairment, 
depressive symptoms and disability in basic and instrumental activities of daily 
living. Logistic regressions were fitted to determine if the differences between 
men and women in each outcome could be explained by differential exposures in 
childhood (hunger, poverty), adulthood (education, occupation) and old age 
(income) and/or by differential vulnerability of men and women to these 
exposures. Sao Paulo, Santiago and Mexico, cities in countries with a high level 
of income inequalities, presented the highest prevalence of disability, 
functional limitations and poor physical health for both women and men. Women 
showed poorer health outcomes as compared with men for all health indicators and 
in all cities. Controlling for lifecourse exposures in childhood, adulthood and 
old age did not attenuate these differences. Women's unadjusted and adjusted 
odds of reporting poor self-rated health, cognitive impairment and basic 
activities of daily living disability were approximately 50% higher than for 
men, twice as high for number of comorbidities, depressive symptoms and 
instrumental activities of daily living disability, and almost three times as 
high for mobility limitations. Higher vulnerability to lifecourse exposures in 
women as compared with men was not found, meaning that lifecourse exposures have 
similar odds of poor health outcomes for men and women. A more integrated 
understanding of how sex and gender act together to influence health and 
function in old age needs consideration of additional biological and social 
factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.031
PMID: 19036488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2009 Dec;62(12):1627-35. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjps.2008.07.046. Epub 2008 Nov 25.

Objective evidence for the use of polylactic acid implants in HIV-associated 
facial lipoatrophy using three-dimensional surface laser scanning and 
psychological assessment.

Ong J(1), Clarke A, White P, Johnson MA, Withey S, Butler PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, The Royal Free Hospital 
Hampstead NHS Trust, Pond Street, London NW3 2QG, UK. juling_ong@hotmail.com

The advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has dramatically 
improved the life expectancy of people infected with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV). Although patients often have excellent disease control with these 
combinations of antiretrovirals, they are at risk for the multiple toxicities 
associated with these drugs. Facial lipoatrophy is a particularly distressing 
complication of some HAART regimes. This disfigurement can lead to significant 
psychosocial stress, resulting in decreased treatment compliance. Polylactic 
acid (PLA) facial implants provide a potential method of restoring a normal 
appearance. One hundred consecutive patients had a course of PLA facial 
implants. All patients were assessed clinically and had photographs, facial 
surface laser scans and completed psychological questionnaires throughout the 
course of treatment. After a mean of 4.85 treatments per patient, there were 
improvements in all measures. The mean clinical scores improved from a 
moderate-severe grade to none-mild grade after treatment. Three-dimensional (3D) 
laser surface scans showed a volume increase of 2.81 cc over the treated area of 
the cheek. There were significant improvements in all of the psychological 
measures. This study shows clear objective evidence of the psychological and 
physical benefit of PLA implants in HIV-associated facial lipodystrophy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2008.07.046
PMID: 19036657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2010 Jan;63(1):87-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjps.2008.08.067. Epub 2008 Nov 26.

Cost-utility of breast reduction surgery--a prospective study.

Tykkä E(1), Räsänen P, Tukiainen E, Asko-Seljavaara S, Heikkilä A, Sintonen H, 
Roine RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, 
Helsinki, Finland. erika.tykka@hus.fi

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-utility of routine breast-reduction surgery in the 
setting of a large university hospital.
METHODS: In the framework of a large trial exploring the feasibility of routine 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) assessment, 80 patients (mean age: 45 
years) entering the Department of Plastic Surgery for operative breast reduction 
filled in the 15-dimension (15D) HRQoL survey before and 6 months after surgery. 
Data on hospital costs were obtained from the hospital records.
RESULTS: Mean (+/-SD) HRQoL score (on a 0-1 scale) increased as a result of 
surgery from the preoperative 0.916+/-0.075 to 0.939+/-0.076 (p<0.001) 6 months 
after surgery, corresponding to a mean (+/-SD) gain of 0.930+/-2.117 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Of the 15 health dimensions, discomfort and 
symptoms showed the greatest improvement (p<0.001). A statistically significant 
improvement was also seen on the dimensions of breathing, sleeping and distress. 
Mean hospital cost of treatment was 3383 euro+/-1744, and the cost per QALY was 
3638 euro. Using 5% discounting for QALYs, the cost per QALY increased to 8973 
euro.
CONCLUSION: Breast-reduction surgery improved HRQoL in a statistically 
significant manner and at a reasonable cost, as the cost per QALY was in the 
same range as that observed in our material, for example, for hip-replacement 
surgery.

Copyright (c) 2008 British Association of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic 
Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2008.08.067
PMID: 19036658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Bull Cancer. 2008 Nov;95(11):1053-62. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2008.0737.

[The European countries confronting cancer: a set of indicators assessing public 
health status].

[Article in French]

Borella L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut national du cancer, 28, avenue Hoche, 94320 Thiais, France. 
laurent.borella@wanadoo.fr

CONTEXT: We now know that efficient public policies for cancer control need to 
be global and take into account each and all the factors involved: economics and 
level of development, style of life and risk factors, access to screening, 
effectiveness of the care-providing system. A very simple scorecard is proposed, 
based on publicized public health indicators, which allows a comparison between 
European countries.
METHODOLOGY: We extracted 49 indicators from public databases and literature 
concerning 22 European countries. We made correlation calculations in order to 
identify relevant indicators from which a global score was extracted. Using a 
hierarchical clustering method we were then able to identify subsets of 
homogeneous countries.
RESULTS: A 7 indicator scorecard was drawn up: national gross product, 
scientific production, smoking rate, breast screening participating rate, all 
cancer mortality rate (male population), 5 years relative survival for 
colorectal cancer and life expectancy at birth. A global score shows: 1) the 
better positioned countries: Switzerland, Sweden, Finland and France; 2) the 
countries where cancer control is less effective: Estonia, Hungary, Poland and 
Slovakia. Three subsets of countries with a fairly similar profile were 
identified: a high level of means and results group; a high level of means but a 
medium level of results group; and a low level of means and results group.
CONCLUSION: This work emphasizes dramatically heterogeneous situations between 
countries. A follow-up, using a reduced but regularly updated set of public 
health indicators, would help induce an active European policy for cancer 
control.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2008.0737
PMID: 19036677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Surg Innov. 2008 Dec;15(4):266-70. doi: 10.1177/1553350608324931.

Portal vein thrombosis after laparoscopic splenectomy: the size of the risk.

Targarona EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Service of General and Digestive Surgery, Hospital de Sant Pau, Autonomous 
University of Barcelona, Spain. Etargarona@santpau.es

Portal vein thrombosis (PVT) after splenectomy is a potentially life-threatening 
complication. Clinical symptoms may be insidious, and progression can lead to 
intestinal infarction and portal hypertension. Interest in PVT has increased as 
a high incidence has been found in the laparoscopic setting. The higher 
incidence of PVT found in recent prospective studies of laparoscopically 
operated patients compared with retrospective reports from the 1990s suggests 
that PVT may have been underreported. Clinical outcome depends on the extension 
of the thrombus and the underlying disease. Main risk factors may be 
myeloproliferative diseases requiring splenectomy and splenomegaly, but PVT may 
occur after splenectomy for any clinical indication. The extent to which 
laparoscopy is responsible for PVT remains unclear. Laparoscopic surgeons should 
be aware of the risk of PVT, and it should be suspected in cases with an 
atypical outcome after laparoscopic splenectomy. Once diagnosed, prompt 
anticoagulation therapy may resolve the thrombotic event.

DOI: 10.1177/1553350608324931
PMID: 19036731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Am J Epidemiol. 2009 Feb 15;169(4):455-61. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwn342. Epub
2008  Nov 26.

Is relative mortality of type 2 diabetes mellitus decreasing?

Gulliford MC(1), Charlton J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, Division of Health and Social Care 
Research, King's College London, Capital House, 42 Weston Street, London SE1 
3QD, United Kingdom. martin.gulliford@kcl.ac.uk

There is concern that the increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes may diminish 
improving trends in life expectancy. This study aimed to determine whether the 
mortality of type 2 diabetes, relative to mortality in the general population, 
is remaining constant. The study included a cohort of 48,556 subjects with type 
2 diabetes first diagnosed between 1996 and 2006, drawn from 197 family 
practices in the United Kingdom General Practice Research Database. There were 
6,630 deaths observed. Expected mortality was estimated from United Kingdom life 
tables. Relative mortality was modeled using Poisson regression. In men with 
diabetes, from 1996 to 2006, the age-standardized all-cause mortality rate 
decreased by 0.82/1,000 per year (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.36, 1.27) and 
by 0.49 (95% CI: 0.29, 0.68) in women with diabetes. After adjustment for age, 
sex, and diabetes duration, there was a consistent decrease in relative 
mortality during the period of study. Relative mortality for subjects diagnosed 
in 1996 was 13% (95% CI: 2, 25) higher than that in 2001; for subjects diagnosed 
in 2006, relative mortality was 26% (95% CI: 8, 40) lower than that in 2001. 
Relative mortality of type 2 diabetes appears to be decreasing in men and women 
in the United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwn342
PMID: 19037005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Obstet Gynecol. 2008 Dec;112(6):1214-1220. doi:
10.1097/AOG.0b013e31818c1766.

Probability of hysterectomy after endometrial ablation.

Longinotti MK(1), Jacobson GF, Hung YY, Learman LA.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Division of Research, 
Kaiser Permanente Northern California, San Francisco, California; and Department 
of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Bloomington, Indiana.

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2009 Apr;113(4):952-3; author reply 953.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate risk factors for hysterectomy after endometrial 
ablation.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort analysis of data from Kaiser Permanente 
Northern California members, aged 25-60 years undergoing endometrial ablation 
from 1999 to 2004 and collected through 2007. Risk factors assessed included 
age, presence of leiomyomas, setting of procedure (inpatient or outpatient), and 
type of endometrial ablation procedure (first generation, radio frequency, 
hydrothermal, or thermal balloon). Univariable and survival analyses were 
performed to identify risk factors and estimate probability of hysterectomy.
RESULTS: From 1999 to 2004, 3,681 women underwent endometrial ablation at 30 
Kaiser Permanente Northern California facilities. Hysterectomy was subsequently 
performed in 774 women (21%), whereas 143 women (3.9%) had uterine-conserving 
procedures. Age was a significant predictor of hysterectomy (P<.001). Cox 
regression analysis found that compared with women aged older than 45 years, 
women aged 45 years or younger were 2.1 times more likely to have hysterectomy 
(95% confidence interval 1.8-2.4). Hysterectomy risk increased with each 
decreasing stratum of age and exceeded 40% in women aged 40 years or younger. 
Overall, type of endometrial ablation procedure, setting of endometrial ablation 
procedure, and presence of leiomyomas were not predictors of hysterectomy. In 
analysis of individual procedure types, concomitant myomectomy was associated 
with a decreased risk of hysterectomy for patients receiving first-generation 
endometrial ablation (P=.002), and outpatient location for hydrothermal 
endometrial ablation increased hysterectomy risk (P<.001).
CONCLUSION: Age is more important than type of procedure or presence of 
leiomyomas in predicting subsequent hysterectomy after endometrial ablation. 
Women undergoing endometrial ablation at younger than 40 years of age are at 
elevated risk of hysterectomy, and rather than plateauing within several years 
of endometrial ablation, hysterectomy risk continues to increase through 8 years 
of follow-up.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: II.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0b013e31818c1766
PMID: 19037028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Menopause Int. 2008 Dec;14(4):155-62. doi: 10.1258/mi.2008.008028.

Surgery for obesity in older women.

Miller ME(1), Kral JG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, 450 Clarkson Avenue, 
Box 40, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA. jkral@downstate.edu

The global epidemic of obesity continues to grow, with over 1.7 billion people 
worldwide classified as obese (body mass index; BMI > or = 30 kg/m2). Of special 
concern is the population of older women, since women are more obese than men 
and gain weight early during menopause. Obesity with co-morbidities is the 
leading threat to women's health and longevity. Specific female co-morbidities, 
such as reproductive failure, urinary stress incontinence and disproportionate 
prevalence of serious diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease and 
cardiopulmonary failure in addition to breast cancer and gynaecologic 
malignancies, reduce the fitness benefits grandmothers provide to the species by 
ensuring reproductive success of their children and health and survival of 
grandchildren. In fact, female life-expectancy is decreasing in industrialized 
nations. Non-surgical treatment for obesity itself is ineffective; currently 
there is not enough evidence to recommend weight loss medications for routine 
use in the elderly and calorie-burning exercise is problematic. Conversely, 
antiobesity surgery has been shown to be both effective and safe in the older 
adult population in studies that predominantly enrol women. Although the risks 
and benefits of antiobesity surgery performed in high-volume dedicated centres 
must be carefully weighed for each individual patient, the strong evidence for 
its safety and efficacy in reducing obesity-related co-morbidities and improving 
quality of life, with the potential to increase healthy life-expectancy, makes 
antiobesity surgery a viable treatment option for older obese women.

DOI: 10.1258/mi.2008.008028
PMID: 19037064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Jan;85(1):103-7. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2008.211. Epub
2008  Nov 26.

Rational prescribing for patients with a reduced life expectancy.

Holmes HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine, Ambulatory Treatment, and Emergency 
Care, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas, USA. 
hholmes@mdanderson.org

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2008.211
PMID: 19037198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Vet Dermatol. 2008 Dec;19(6):358-67. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3164.2008.00709.x.
Epub  2008 Nov 14.

The mouse hairy ears mutation exhibits an extended growth (anagen) phase in hair 
follicles and altered Hoxc gene expression in the ears.

Mentzer SE(1), Sundberg JP, Awgulewitsch A, Chao HH, Carpenter DA, Zhang WD, 
Rinchik EM, You Y.

Author information:
(1)Mammalian Genetics and Genomics Group, Life Sciences Division, Oak Ridge 
National Laboratory, PO Box 2008, Bethel Valley Road, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-6445, 
USA.

The mouse In(15)2Rl (hairy ears, Eh) mutation is a paracentric inversion of the 
distal half of chromosome 15 (Chr 15). Heterozygous Eh/+ mice display misshaped 
and hairy ears that have more and longer hair than the ears of their wild-type 
littermates. We mapped, cloned and sequenced both inversion breakpoints. No 
protein-coding transcript was disrupted by either breakpoint. The proximal 
breakpoint is located between syntrophin basic 1 (Sntb1) and hyaluronan synthase 
2 (Has2), and the distal breakpoint maps between homeobox C4 (Hoxc4) and 
single-strand selective monofunctional uracil DNA glycosylase (Smug1), near the 
middle and the telomere ends of Chr 15, respectively. The inversion spans ~47 
megabases. Our genetic analysis suggests that the hairy-ear phenotype is caused 
by the proximal breakpoint of the inversion-bearing Chr 15. Quantitative RNA 
analysis by real-time polymerase chain reaction for the genes flanking the 
breakpoint indicated no changes in expression levels except for some homeobox C 
(Hoxc) genes whose expression was elevated in developing and mature skin of the 
ears but not of other body regions. The increased hair length on the ears of 
Eh/+ mice was due to an extension of the anagen stage in the hair cycle, as 
determined by histological analysis. Our data indicate that the Eh phenotype 
arises from mis-expression of Hoxc genes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3164.2008.00709.x
PMCID: PMC3061202
PMID: 19037915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest – None declared


713. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jan;68(2):210-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.025.
Epub  2008 Nov 27.

Access to healthcare services makes a difference in healthy longevity among 
older Chinese adults.

Gu D(1), Zhang Z, Zeng Y.

Author information:
(1)Portland State University, Nohad A. Toulan School of Urban Studies and 
Planning, Portland, OR 97207, USA. gudanan@yahoo.com

The positive impact of access to healthcare on health and survival among older 
adults is well-documented in Western societies. However, whether the pattern 
still holds in developing countries where healthcare coverage is more limited is 
largely unknown. China, a developing country with the largest population in the 
world, has been transforming its antiquated healthcare system during the past 
few decades in response to rapid population aging. Yet, in recent years the lack 
of access to healthcare has been identified as the top concern by most citizens 
in China. We used the Chinese Longitudinal Healthy Longevity Survey and the 
community-level data sources from the National Bureau of Statistics of China to 
examine the impact of current as well as childhood access to healthcare services 
on subsequent three-year survival and healthy survival at old ages from 2002 to 
2005 under a multilevel context. Healthy survival was measured by a cumulative 
deficit index calculated from thirty-nine variables pertaining to various 
dimensions of health. Our analyses showed that access to healthcare at present 
and during childhood improved the odds of subsequent three-year survivorship by 
13-19% and 10%, respectively, controlling for various confounders. But the 
effect of access to healthcare at present was no longer statistically 
significant once baseline health status in 2002 was controlled for. Access to 
healthcare at present increased odds of healthy survival by 22-68%, while access 
to healthcare in childhood increased odds of healthy survival by 18%. All 
patterns held true for both men and women, for urban and rural areas, across 
ages, as well as across socioeconomic statuses. Our findings suggested that 
positive inputs such as access to healthcare services over the life course make 
a substantial difference in healthy longevity, which has implications for the 
establishment of the universal healthcare system.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.025
PMCID: PMC3693546
PMID: 19038485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Emerg Med. 2010 May;38(4):490-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2008.05.013. Epub
 2008 Nov 26.

Ultrasound diagnosis of type a aortic dissection.

Perkins AM(1), Liteplo A, Noble VE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: An aortic dissection is a life-threatening process that must be 
diagnosed and treated expeditiously. Imaging modalities used for diagnosis in 
the emergency department include computed tomography, magnetic resonance 
imaging, and trans-esophageal echocardiography. There are significant 
limitations to these studies, including patient contraindications (intravenous 
contrast dye allergies, renal insufficiency, metal-containing implants, 
hemodynamic instability) and the length of time required for study completion 
and interpretation by a radiologist or cardiologist.
OBJECTIVES: A case is presented that demonstrates how emergency physicians can 
use trans-thoracic and abdominal bedside ultrasound to diagnose a type A aortic 
dissection.
CASE REPORT: A 72-year-old woman presented with chest pain radiating to her neck 
and back that was concerning for aortic dissection. This was subsequently 
confirmed and further classified as a type A dissection by bedside emergency 
physician-performed ultrasound. The images showed a clear intimal flap in the 
abdominal aorta, a dilatated aortic root, and extension of the intimal flap into 
the left common carotid artery. With prompt diagnosis, the patient was able to 
have emergent surgical consultation, confirmatory imaging, and intervention 
before further complication occurred.
CONCLUSION: This case provides an example of how emergency trans-thoracic and 
abdominal ultrasound can be used to promptly diagnose a type A aortic dissection 
and expedite further consultation and prompt management.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2008.05.013
PMID: 19038520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Eur J Cancer. 2009 Jan;45(1):127-38. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.09.015. Epub
2008  Nov 27.

Cost-effectiveness of opportunistic versus organised mammography screening in 
Switzerland.

de Gelder R(1), Bulliard JL, de Wolf C, Fracheboud J, Draisma G, Schopper D, de 
Koning HJ.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, Department of Public Health, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
r.degelder@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Various centralised mammography screening programmes have shown to 
reduce breast cancer mortality at reasonable costs. However, mammography 
screening is not necessarily cost-effective in every situation. Opportunistic 
screening, the predominant screening modality in several European countries, may 
under certain circumstances be a cost-effective alternative. In this study, we 
compared the cost-effectiveness of both screening modalities in Switzerland.
METHODS: Using micro-simulation modelling, we predicted the effects and costs of 
biennial mammography screening for 50-69 years old women between 1999 and 2020, 
in the Swiss female population aged 30-70 in 1999. A sensitivity analysis on the 
test sensitivity of opportunistic screening was performed.
RESULTS: Organised mammography screening with an 80% participation rate yielded 
a breast cancer mortality reduction of 13%. Twenty years after the start of 
screening, the predicted annual breast cancer mortality was 25% lower than in a 
situation without screening. The 3% discounted cost-effectiveness ratio of 
organised mammography screening was euro11,512 per life year gained. 
Opportunistic screening with a similar participation rate was comparably 
effective, but at twice the costs: euro22,671-24,707 per life year gained. This 
was mainly related to the high costs of opportunistic mammography and frequent 
use of imaging diagnostics in combination with an opportunistic mammogram.
CONCLUSION: Although data on the performance of opportunistic screening are 
limited, both opportunistic and organised mammography screening seem effective 
in reducing breast cancer mortality in Switzerland. However, for opportunistic 
screening to become equally cost-effective as organised screening, costs and use 
of additional diagnostics should be reduced.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.09.015
PMID: 19038540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Surv Ophthalmol. 2008 Nov;53 Suppl1(SUPPL1):S11-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.survophthal.2008.08.005.

Diagnostic tools for calculation of glaucoma risk.

Mansberger SL(1), Medeiros FA, Gordon M.

Author information:
(1)Devers Eye Institute, Legacy Health System, Portland, Oregon 97210, USA. 
smansberger@deverseye.org

Risk calculators may simplify the management of ocular hypertension and glaucoma 
patients and provide evidence-based treatment. Risk calculators are not new to 
medicine. Medical providers use risk calculators to guide decision-making for 
the risk of a chromosomal abnormality in neonates, osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women, and cardiovascular disease in adults. This article 
describes the current knowledge of risk calculators in ophthalmology. Clinicians 
should recognize that the current risk calculators do not include critical 
information guiding treatment such as life expectancy and patient's willingness 
to commit to years of eye drops. Overall, eye-care providers should consider the 
results of a risk calculator as supplemental information when treating an ocular 
hypertension or glaucoma patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.survophthal.2008.08.005
PMCID: PMC5993711
PMID: 19038619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Public Health Genomics. 2009;12(2):67-72. doi: 10.1159/000156115. Epub 2008
Sep  14.

The cost effectiveness of screening newborns for congenital adrenal hyperplasia.

Yoo BK(1), Grosse SD.

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester, School of Medicine and Dentistry, Department of 
Community and Preventive Medicine, Division of Health Services Research and 
Policy, Rochester, NY 14642, USA. Byung-Kwang_Yoo@urmc.rochester.edu

Erratum in
    Public Health Genomics. 2018;21(1-2):100.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of newborn screening for congenital 
adrenal hyperplasia (CAH) in the U.S. newborn population.
METHODS: We constructed a decision model to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of CAH screening compared to a strategy of no 
screening. Two types of cost effectiveness analyses (CEA) were conducted to 
measure ICER as net cost per life year (LY): (1) traditional CEA with 
sensitivity and scenario analyses, and (2) probabilistic CEA.
RESULTS: ICERs for (1) base-case analysis in traditional CEA and (2) 
probabilistic CEA were USD 292,000 and USD 255,700 per LY saved in 2005 USD, 
respectively. ICERs were particularly sensitive to assumptions regarding the 
mortality rate for the salt wasting type of CAH, in a range from 2 to 9%. The 
ICERs for best-case and worst-case scenarios were USD 30,900 and USD 2.9 million 
per LY saved, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Using common benchmarks for cost effectiveness, our results 
indicate that CAH screening would be unlikely to be considered cost effective 
unless assumptions favorable to screening were adopted, although it could meet 
economic criteria used to assess U.S. regulatory policies. A limitation is that 
the analysis excludes outcomes such as correct assignment of gender and quality 
of life.

Copyright 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000156115
PMCID: PMC6706242
PMID: 19039250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Can J Public Health. 2007 Nov-Dec;98(6):500-5. doi: 10.1007/BF03405447.

Mortality, cause of death and life expectancy of Chinese Canadians in Alberta.

Quan H(1), Wang FL, Schopflocher D, De Coster C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, 
Canada. hquan@ucalgary.ca

OBJECTIVE: To describe mortality, cause of death and life expectancy among 
Chinese (both immigrant and Canadian-born) and other Canadians in the Province 
of Alberta.
METHODS: A Chinese surname list was applied to the Alberta Health Insurance Plan 
and Vital Statistics Birth registry databases to define the Chinese population, 
and to the Vital Statistics Death registry to determine deaths among Chinese in 
Alberta from 1995 to 2003. Age- and sex-specific mortality, cause of death and 
life expectancy were calculated.
RESULTS: Of nearly 3 million Alberta residents, about 4% were Chinese in 2003. 
The age-adjusted mortality for Chinese was 4.2 per 1000 and for non-Chinese 6.2 
per 1000 population. Infant mortality was lower for Chinese (4.9/1000 live 
births) than non-Chinese (6.2/1000 live births). Life expectancy at birth was 
6.3 years longer for Chinese males compared to non-Chinese males (83.3 versus 
77.0), and 5.4 years longer for Chinese females compared to non-Chinese females 
(87.9 versus 82.5). Cancer, heart disease and stroke were the leading causes of 
death for both Chinese and non-Chinese Albertans.
CONCLUSIONS: The Chinese ethnic population of Alberta had lower mortality and 
longer life expectancy than remaining Albertans, suggesting that the Chinese 
population has better health status than other Albertans. Reasons for the health 
gap between Chinese and non-Chinese populations should be further explored.

OBJECTIF: Décrire la mortalité, les causes de mortalité et l’espérance de vie 
chez les personnes d’origine chinoise (immigrants et Canadiens de naissance) et 
les autres Canadiens vivant en Alberta.
MÉTHODE: Pour définir la population d’origine chinoise, nous avons cherché une 
liste de noms de famille chinois dans les bases de données du régime 
d’assurance-santé et du registre des naissances de l’Alberta. Pour calculer la 
mortalité dans la population d’origine chinoise en Alberta entre 1995 et 2003, 
nous avons consulté le registre provincial des décès. La mortalité, les causes 
de mortalité et l’espérance de vie ont été calculées par âge et par sexe.
RÉSULTATS: Sur les près de 3 millions de résidents de l’Alberta, environ 4 % 
étaient d’origine chinoise en 2003. Le taux de mortalité rajusté selon l’âge 
chez les personnes d’origine chinoise était de 4,2 p. 1 000, et pour les 
non-Chinois, de 6,2 p. 1 000. La mortalité infantile était plus faible dans la 
population d’origine chinoise (4,9 p. 1 000 naissances vivantes) que dans la 
population non-chinoise (6,2 p. 1 000 naissances vivantes). L’espérance de vie à 
la naissance était plus longue de 6,3 ans chez les hommes d’origine chinoise que 
chez les hommes d’autres origines (83,3 ans c. 77 ans), et elle était plus 
longue de 5,4 ans chez les femmes d’origine chinoise que chez les femmes 
d’autres origines (87,9 ans c. 82,5 ans). Pour les personnes d’origine chinoise 
comme pour tous les Albertains, les principales causes de mortalité étaient le 
cancer, les maladies coronariennes et les AVC.
CONCLUSION: Les personnes d’origine chinoise en Alberta ont un taux de mortalité 
plus faible et une espérance de vie plus longue que les autres Albertains, ce 
qui donne à penser que l’état de santé de la population chinoise est meilleur 
que celui des autres Albertains. Les raisons de cet écart de santé entre les 
populations d’origine chinoise et non chinoise mériteraient d’être étudiées.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405447
PMCID: PMC6975892
PMID: 19039891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Harefuah. 2008 Oct;147(10):825-32, 836.

[Summary of the Israeli Endocrine Society's consensus statement on the 
diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of well-differentiated thyroid cancer].

[Article in Hebrew]

Arbelle JE(1), Shalom SI, Benbassat C, Dickstein G, Glasser B, Liel Y.

Author information:
(1)Maccabi Healthcare Services, Southern Region. Arbelle_j@mac.org.il

Well differentiated epithelial cell thyroid cancer is not classified amongst the 
most aggressive diseases. Notwithstanding, it can potentially both impair 
quality of life and affect life expectancy. Appropriate treatment has been shown 
to be crucial in obtaining optimal outcomes on the course of the disease. 
Successful treatment rests upon strict adherence to confirmed principles of 
diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. The aim of the position paper is to present 
the Israeli medical community with a set of commonly accepted principles for the 
diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of patients with well differentiated 
epithelial thyroid cancer and in addition to highlight areas of legitimate 
differences in approach where those differences occur. We have attempted to 
provide a link between the various medical disciplines involved in care of these 
patients: family physicians, surgeons, nuclear medicine specialists, 
oncologists, pathologists, radiologists and endocrinologists; and have attempted 
to decrease to a minimum areas of uncertainty and to offer a common approach for 
the best possible care of thyroid cancer patients in Israel. In addition, we 
find it our duty to point out those areas and resources which, in our opinion, 
need to be upgraded in Israel and even included in the Israeli official "health 
basket".

PMID: 19039917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Value Health. 2009 Jan-Feb;12(1):10-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00398.x.  Epub 2008 Jul 15.

Cost-effectiveness of treatments reducing coronary heart disease mortality in 
Ireland, 2000 to 2010.

Bennett K(1), Kabir Z, Barry M, Tilson L, Fidan D, Shelley E, Capewell S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Trinity Centre for Health 
Sciences, St James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. bennettk@tcd.ie

OBJECTIVE: Coronary heart disease (CHD) is associated with a large burden of 
disease in Ireland and is responsible for more than 6000 deaths annually. This 
study examined the cost-effectiveness of specific CHD treatments in Ireland.
METHODS: Irish epidemiological data on patient numbers and median survival in 
specific groups, plus the uptake, effectiveness, and costs of specific 
interventions, all stratified by age and sex, were incorporated into a 
previously validated CHD mortality model, the IMPACT model. This model 
calculates the number of life-years gained (LYGs) by specific cardiology 
interventions to generate incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) per LYG 
for each intervention.
RESULTS: In 2000, medical and surgical treatments together prevented or 
postponed approximately 1885 CHD deaths in patients aged 25 to 84 years, and 
thus generated approximately 14,505 extra life-years (minimum 7270, maximum 
22,475). In general, all the cardiac interventions investigated were highly 
cost-effective in the Irish setting. Aspirin, beta-blockers, ACE inhibitors, 
spironolactone, and warfarin for specific conditions were the most 
cost-effective interventions (< euro 3000/LYG), followed by the statins for 
secondary prevention (< euro 6500/LYG). Revascularization for chronic angina and 
primary angioplasty for myocardial infarction, although still cost-effective, 
had the highest ICER (between euro 12,000 and euro 20,000/LYG).
CONCLUSIONS: Using a comprehensive standardized methodology, cost-effectiveness 
ratios in this study clearly favored simple medical treatments for myocardial 
infarction, secondary prevention, angina, and heart failure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00398.x
PMID: 19040564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. BMC Med. 2008 Nov 28;6:36. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-6-36.

The cost-effectiveness of increasing alcohol taxes: a modelling study.

van den Berg M(1), van Baal PH, Tariq L, Schuit AJ, de Wit GA, Hoogenveen RT.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health Forecasting, National Institute of Public Health and 
the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. matthijs.van.den.berg@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: Excessive alcohol use increases risks of chronic diseases such as 
coronary heart disease and several types of cancer, with associated losses of 
quality of life and life-years. Alcohol taxes can be considered as a public 
health instrument as they are known to be able to decrease alcohol consumption. 
In this paper, we estimate the cost-effectiveness of an alcohol tax increase for 
the entire Dutch population from a health-care perspective focusing on health 
benefits and health-care costs in alcohol users.
METHODS: The chronic disease model of the National Institute for Public Health 
and the Environment was used to extrapolate from decreased alcohol consumption 
due to tax increases to effects on health-care costs, life-years gained and 
quality-adjusted life-years gained, A Dutch scenario in which tax increases for 
beer are planned, and a Swedish scenario representing one of the highest alcohol 
taxes in Europe, were compared with current practice in the Netherlands. To 
estimate cost-effectiveness ratios, yearly differences in model outcomes between 
intervention and current practice scenarios were discounted and added over the 
time horizon of 100 years to find net present values for incremental life-years 
gained, quality-adjusted life-years gained, and health-care costs.
RESULTS: In the Swedish scenario, many more quality-adjusted life-years were 
gained than in the Dutch scenario, but both scenarios had almost equal 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios: 5100 euros per quality-adjusted life-year 
and 5300 euros per quality-adjusted life-year, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Focusing on health-care costs and health consequences for drinkers, 
an alcohol tax increase is a cost-effective policy instrument.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-6-36
PMCID: PMC2637894
PMID: 19040717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2009 Feb 5;299(1):79-88. doi:
10.1016/j.mce.2008.10.044.  Epub 2008 Nov 11.

Hungry for life: How the arcuate nucleus and neuropeptide Y may play a critical 
role in mediating the benefits of calorie restriction.

Minor RK(1), Chang JW, de Cabo R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Gerontology, Intramural Research Program, National 
Institute on Aging, National Institutes of Health, 5600 Nathan Shock Drive, 
Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Laboratory studies consistently demonstrate extended lifespan in animals on 
calorie restriction (CR), where total caloric intake is reduced by 10-40% but 
adequate nutrition is otherwise maintained. CR has been further shown to delay 
the onset and severity of chronic diseases associated with aging such as cancer, 
and to extend the functional health span of important faculties like cognition. 
Less understood are the underlying mechanisms through which CR might act to 
induce such alterations. One theory postulates that CR's beneficial effects are 
intimately tied to the neuroendocrine response to low energy availability, of 
which the arcuate nucleus in the hypothalamus plays a pivotal role. Neuropeptide 
Y (NPY), a neurotransmitter in the front line of the arcuate response to low 
energy availability, is the primary hunger signal affected by CR and therefore 
may be a critical mechanism for lifespan extension.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2008.10.044
PMCID: PMC2668104
PMID: 19041366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Prog Urol. 2008 Dec;18(13):1031-7. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2008.09.051. Epub
2008  Nov 8.

[Surgery of locally advanced prostate cancer].

[Article in French]

Soulié M(1), Thoulouzan M, Péneau M, Richaud P, Ravery V; les membres du 
sous-comité Prostate du CCAFU.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, d'andrologie et de transplantation rénale, CHU de 
Rangueil, 1, avenue Jean-Poulhès, 31059 Toulouse cedex 4, France. 
soulie.m@chu-toulouse.fr

Among the different options recommended for locally advanced prostate cancer 
(LAPC), radical prostatectomy (RP) is a relatively infrequent option because its 
role is still controversial. The results of clinical trials combining an 
external radiotherapy to a long-term androgen deprivation sustain the principle 
of a multidisciplinary management of LAPC. Impact of surgery on the risk of 
progression and local recurrence is important in selected patients with low 
grade and small tumoral volume. Clinical and histological data associated to the 
MRI assessment remain essential and enhance the preoperative multidisciplinary 
decision. Oncological results from recent series show 10-year and 15-year 
specific survival rates around 85 and 75%, respectively. Moreover, approximately 
20 to 30% of patients initially presented with cT3 tumours have finally an 
organ-confined disease on pathological examination. Morbidity of the procedure 
is similar to RP for organ-confined tumours despite more erectile dysfunction 
due to non-sparing RP in most of cases. An enlarged RP with an extended pelvic 
lymphadenectomy can be considered as a viable alternative to radiotherapy and 
hormonal therapy in patients with long life expectancy presenting cT3 tumour 
with a high risk of local progression and a low risk of metastatic disease. 
Comparative and combined treatments including RP have to be prospectively 
investigated in clinical trials in terms of oncological outcome and quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.purol.2008.09.051
PMID: 19041806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Soc Work Health Care. 2008;47(4):479-501. doi: 10.1080/00981380802255215.

Oncology social workers' perceptions of barriers to discussing fertility 
preservation with cancer patients.

King L(1), Quinn GP, Vadaparampil ST, Miree CA, Wilson C, Clayton H, Zebrack B.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Behavior, Moffitt Cancer Center, USA. 
Lindsey.King@moffitt.org

Infertility is a common result of cancer treatment; however, opportunities exist 
that allow patients to preserve their fertility prior to treatment. Evidence 
suggests health care providers, including social workers, do not consistently 
discuss this topic with patients. This study used a qualitative, cross-sectional 
design using a focus group and in-depth interviews to explore knowledge, 
attitudes, barriers, and behaviors related to social workers' discussion of 
fertility preservation with cancer patients. Factors that influence the 
discussion of fertility preservation among social workers include: (1) Knowledge 
(e.g., Fertility Preservation Resources); (2) Attitudes (e.g., Cost, Perceived 
Role, Comfort Level, Fertility Preservation Discussion Difficulty/Priority); (3) 
Barriers (e.g., Cost, Urgency to start Treatment/Time, Patient Factors, 
Physician Attitudes/Beliefs); (4) Behaviors; and (5) Suggestions. Results show 
social workers are not typically discussing fertility preservation methods with 
patients; however, they may be in an ideal position to facilitate the 
conversation between the physician and the patient. There is a strong need to 
develop educational interventions aimed at oncology social workers, to help 
facilitate discussions with patients.

DOI: 10.1080/00981380802255215
PMID: 19042497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Gerontol Geriatr Educ. 2008;29(3):239-47. doi: 10.1080/02701960802359474.

In their own words: using narratives to teach gerontology.

Shenk D(1), Davis B, Murray L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of North Carolina Charlotte, 
Charlotte, NC 28223-0001, USA. dshenk@uncc.edu

In narrative constructed in conversations, older adults often present "small 
stories". These narrative fragments provide extensive information about their 
experiences, values, and aspects of their lives that can be used to help 
learners understand key concepts about aging and the life course. The authors 
provide an overview of approaches including exercises and activities keyed to a 
corpus of oral narratives, targeting graduate and undergraduate students.

DOI: 10.1080/02701960802359474
PMID: 19042503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Gerontol Soc Work. 2008;51(3/4):260-283. doi: 10.1080/01634370802039544.

Hardiness, Successful Aging, and HIV: Implications for Social Work.

Vance DE, Struzick TC, Masten J.

<p>With dramatic developments in the treatment of HIV/AIDS, life expectancy is 
increasing, resulting in more middle-aged and older adults living with this 
disease. Little is known about the problems, and especially the strengths, of 
those living and aging with HIV. Hardiness is used in the gerontological 
literature to describe and explain how people age successfully, despite 
traumatic life events and chronic diseases. Similarly, the concept of hardiness 
may be used to guide clinicians, researchers, and clients on how to age 
successfully with HIV. This article provides a review of hardiness in aging and 
HIV, and emphasizes its importance in facilitating successful aging with this 
disease. Conceptual and methodological concerns in studying hardiness and 
