operated patients with pulmonary breast cancer metastases and discuss the 
different indications for metastasectomy.
METHODS: From January 1998 to December 2007 we retrospectively analysed 47 
patients with histologically proven pulmonary metastases from breast cancer. The 
mean age of the 47 female patients was 56.2 years, the median disease-free 
interval (DFI) was 3.66 (0-25.8) years and the median follow-up was 20.6 months 
(3.2-110).
RESULTS: The grading of the metastases was higher than the primary tumour in 12 
of 45 (26.7%) and lower in 6 of 45 (13.3%) patients. R0, R1 and R2 resections 
were achieved in 27, 6 and 14 cases. The oestrogen receptor status of the 
metastases differed from the primary tumour in 11 out of 39 (28.2%) tested 
cases. Her2-neu receptor status differed in 4 out of 16 tested patients. The 
histological reports described a tumour spread around the metastasis in lymph or 
blood vessels in at least one resection specimen in 25 out of 47 (53.2%) 
patients. The rate of major complications was 5.8%. The overall survival from 
the first pulmonary metastasectomy was 32 months with a 5-year survival of 36%. 
The main prognostic factor was the oestrogen receptor status with a 5-year 
survival for receptor positive patients of 76% and 12.1% for receptor negative 
ones (p=0.002). A similar survival difference was found for the status of 
Her2-neu receptor (p=0.037). No prognostic influence could be demonstrated for 
age, number of metastases, initial tumour stage, complete versus incomplete 
resection, lymphatic spread, lymph node or parietal pleural involvement.
CONCLUSION: The gain in life expectancy in breast cancer patients with pulmonary 
metastases is based on chemotherapy and antihormone treatment. Tissue of the 
lung metastasis is needed to adjust medical therapy to oestrogen and Her2-neu 
expression and to reliably rule out primary lung cancer. In case of proved 
pulmonary metastases, the level of evidence for a curative approach is low but 
some patients might benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2008.07.063
PMID: 18824371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2008 Dec;15(4):1127-33. doi: 10.1677/ERC-08-0049. Epub
2008  Sep 29.

Metastases but not cardiovascular mortality reduces life expectancy following 
surgical resection of apparently benign pheochromocytoma.

Timmers HJ(1), Brouwers FM, Hermus AR, Sweep FC, Verhofstad AA, Verbeek AL, 
Pacak K, Lenders JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology (741), Radboud University Nijmegen Medical 
Centre, PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. h.timmers@endo.umcn.nl

The treatment of choice for non-metastatic pheochromocytoma is surgical 
resection. Its goals are to abolish catecholamine hypersecretion, normalize 
blood pressure, and prevent further tumor growth or progression to metastatic 
disease. Data on long-term mortality and morbidity after pheochromocytoma 
surgery are limited. We here report a retrospective study on the long-term 
outcome after surgery for apparently benign pheochromocytoma at the Radboud 
University Nijmegen Medical Centre. Data on clinical presentation, treatment, 
post-surgical blood pressure and recurrence, metastasis and death were collected 
of 69 consecutive patients (January 1966-December 2000; follow-up: until death 
or January 2006). Survival was compared with survival of a matched reference 
population. Two patients died of surgical complications. All ten patients with 
metastatic disease (including three diagnosed at first surgery) died. At 
follow-up, 40 patients were alive and recurrence free and three patients were 
lost to follow up. Two patients experienced a benign recurrence. Mean+/-s.d. 
follow-up was 10.2+/-7.5 (median 9, range 1-38) years. Kaplan-Meier estimates 
for 5- and 10-year survival since surgery were 85.8% (95% CI: 77.2-94.4%) and 
74.2% (95% CI: 62.0-86.4%) for patients versus 95.5 and 89.4% in the reference 
population (P<0.05). Sixty-four percent of all patients with hypertension prior 
to surgery showed a significant decrease in blood pressure, but remained 
hypertensive after surgery. In conclusion, compared with the general population 
patients have a reduced life expectancy following pheochromocytoma surgery, due 
to their risk of developing metastatic disease. Only one-third becomes 
normotensive without antihypertensive medication. Therefore, lifelong follow-up 
is warranted.

DOI: 10.1677/ERC-08-0049
PMID: 18824558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Int J STD AIDS. 2008 Oct;19(10):668-75. doi: 10.1258/ijsa.2008.008077.

Cost-effectiveness estimates for antenatal HIV testing in the Netherlands.

Rozenbaum MH(1), Verweel G, Folkerts DK, Dronkers F, van den Hoek JA, Hartwig 
NG, de Groot R, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

This paper provides an estimation of the lifetime health-care cost of 
HIV-infected children and an update of the cost-effectiveness of universal 
HIV-screening of pregnant women in Amsterdam (The Netherlands). During 
2003-2005, we collected data concerning the prevalence of newly diagnosed 
HIV-infected pregnant women in Amsterdam. Also, data on resource utilization and 
HAART regimen for HIV-infected children was gathered from a national registry. 
Using Kaplan-Meier survival analysis, we estimated the life-expectancy of a 
vertically HIV-infected child at 19 years, with the corresponding lifetime 
health-care costs of 179,974 Euros. HIV-screening of pregnant women could 
prevent 2.4 HIV transmissions annually in Amsterdam, based on an estimated 
prevalence of nine yet undiagnosed HIV-positive pregnant women per 10,000 
pregnancies. We show that universal HIV screening during pregnancy generates 
significant net cost savings and health benefits in most situations. Universal 
antenatal HIV screening is justified in Amsterdam from a health-economic point 
of view.

DOI: 10.1258/ijsa.2008.008077
PMID: 18824618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Ann Surg Oncol. 2009 Apr;16(4):929-40. doi: 10.1245/s10434-008-0164-z. Epub
2008  Sep 30.

The cost-effectiveness of sentinel node biopsy in patients with intermediate 
thickness primary cutaneous melanoma.

Morton RL(1), Howard K, Thompson JF.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Melanoma Unit, Discipline of Surgery, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia. rachaelm@health.usyd.edu.au

Comment in
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2009 Oct;16(10):2961; author reply 2962-3.
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2010 Feb;17(2):660-2; author reply 663-4.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
wide excision (WEX) + sentinel node biopsy (SNB) compared with WEX only in 
patients with primary melanomas >/=1 mm in thickness.
METHODS: A Markov model was populated with probabilities of disease progression 
and survival from the published literature. Costs were obtained from 
diagnostic-related group weightings and health outcomes were measured in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Base case analyses suggested that, over a 20-year timeframe, the mean 
total cost per patient receiving WEX only was AU $23,182 with 10.45 life years 
(LY) and 9.90 QALYs. The mean cost per patient for WEX + SNB was AU $24,045 with 
10.77 LY and 10.34 QALYs. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio for WEX + SNB 
was AU $2,770 per LY and AU $1,983 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: WEX + SNB appears to offer an improvement in health outcomes (in 
both LYs and QALYs) with only a slight increase in cost.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-008-0164-z
PMID: 18825458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Ann Surg Oncol. 2008 Dec;15(12):3335-41. doi: 10.1245/s10434-008-0162-1.
Epub  2008 Sep 30.

Predicting life expectancy and symptom relief following surgery for advanced 
malignancy.

Smith DD(1), McCahill LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, CA 
91010, USA. dsmith02@coh.org

BACKGROUND: We prospectively evaluated surgeons' ability to predict outcomes of 
life expectancy and symptom relief following major surgery for patients with 
advanced malignancies.
METHODS: Fifty-seven patients with advanced malignancies were evaluated 
regarding major symptoms requiring a surgical intervention and followed until 
death or last contact. The patients' surgeons answered questions preoperatively 
and postoperatively, relating to issues such as estimated survival time and 
likelihood of symptom relief following surgery. We compared these estimates with 
patients' clinical outcomes and responses to a symptom questionnaire completed 
just prior to surgery, and 2 weeks, 6 weeks, and 3 months following surgery.
RESULTS: Surgeons' preoperative estimates of patient survival agreed with 
survival outcomes. Preoperatively, surgeons accurately identified cases where a 
patient was expected to live less than 1 year without surgery (P < 0.0001) and 
with surgery (P = 0.0342). Surgeons' preoperative estimates of the success of 
symptom improvement following surgery did not correlate in general with 
patients' self-assessments (P = 0.6454). Specifically, surgeons underestimated 
their success in symptom resolution. However, there were statistically 
significant differences between patients who were judged by surgeons 
postoperatively to have mild or no palliation compared with those with excellent 
(P = 0.0372) and good (P = 0.0203) palliation.
CONCLUSION: Preoperatively, surgeons accurately estimated patients' survival 
time with surgery. Surgeons' postoperative estimates of success of symptom 
relief agreed with patients' self-assessments. Preoperatively, surgeons tended 
to underestimate their patients' symptom relief. Surgeons may wish to consider 
other criteria than their predictions for symptom relief in deciding whether a 
patient is a candidate for palliative surgery.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-008-0162-1
PMID: 18825459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Clin Rheumatol. 2009 Feb;28(2):207-11. doi: 10.1007/s10067-008-1019-5. Epub
2008  Sep 30.

Variables related to utility in patients with ankylosing spondylitis.

Ariza-Ariza R(1), Hernández-Cruz B, López-Antequera G, Navarro-Sarabia F.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Service, Hospital Universitário Virgen Macarena, Avda Dr 
Fedriani, 3, 41009 Seville, Spain. rafariza@telefonica.net

The objective of this study was to identify variables associated to the utility 
of the health states in patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS). A 
cross-sectional study was performed in a tertiary care centre. AS patients (New 
York modified criteria) were included. Demographic and disease-related variables 
were collected. The social tariffs of the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) were used to obtain 
utility values. Univariate and multivariate regression analyses were used in 
order to identify variables associated with utility. Seventy patients, 52 male 
(74.3%), with age (mean +/- SD) 43.7 +/- 9.1 years and disease duration 10.8 +/- 
8.1 years, were included. The mean utility was 0.5625 +/- 0.3364. In the 
univariate analysis, patient global assessment, Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis 
Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) and Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index 
(BASFI) had a good correlation with the EQ-5D values (Pearson's product moment 
correlation coefficient r > 0.6) whereas physician global assessment, patient 
pain assessment, and cervical rotation had a moderate correlation with the EQ-5D 
(0.6 > r > 0.4). Patients with significant comorbidity had lower utility values 
(0.3563 +/- 0.068) than those without it (0.6796 +/- 0.041, p = 0.0001). In the 
multivariate analysis, BASFI and BASDAI kept an independent association with 
utility and they explained a 62% of the variance of the utility values. In this 
study, physical function and disease activity, two outcomes with good 
responsiveness to the treatment, were the main determinants of the utility of 
the health states in AS patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-008-1019-5
PMID: 18825472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Health Serv J. 2008 Jul 31;Suppl:12-3.

Technology. The fortune teller.

Cowper A.

PMID: 18825833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Lik Sprava. 2008 Jan-Feb;(1-2):3-30.

[Fifth revolution in medicine: on the role of infections in pathogenesis of 
aging and chronic diseases].

[Article in Russian]

Alibek K, Grechanyĭ L, Klimenko T, Pashkova A.

The XXth century is marked by the substantial increase in human life expectancy. 
Historically, main reasons for that are four achievements of medicine: (1) 
improvements in common hygiene, such as waste disposal and water purification 
which led to the significant reduction of communicable diseases; (2) common 
recognition of Pasteur's Germ Theory followed by improvements in occupational 
and personal hygiene as well as introduction of antiseptic and aseptic measures; 
(3) decrease in childhood mortality due to the discovery and widespread 
application of vaccination; and (4) the discovery and clinical application of 
antibiotics. An epidemiological transition took place, i.e. the shift from 
communicable infectious diseases, as a main cause of morbidity and mortality, to 
chronic degenerative diseases, mainly considered non-infectious. Experimental 
evidence has been accumulated on a significant number of microorganisms, 
including viruses (such as a group of herpes viruses, hepatitis viruses, etc.), 
bacteria (Chlamydia, Helicobacter, periodontal pathogens, etc.), fungi and 
parasites, as an underlying reason for many of diseases, such as 
atherosclerosis, various cancers, type 1 and 2 diabetes, neurodegenerative and 
some psychiatric diseases, osteoporosis, autoimmune diseases and others. On the 
other hand, most of these diseases have been traditionally associated with age, 
together with other "age-related" disorders, such as immune system suppression, 
thymus involution, pathologic calcification, etc. Taken together, these facts 
suggest that aging, among others, has infectious origins, and that burden of 
infections may lead to enhanced senescence and premature death. In fact, 
infections may serve as a trigger of senescence, presumably via the mechanisms 
of chronic oxidative stress, low-grade inflammation, telomere shortening, and 
autoimmune processes due to the molecular mimicry. We believe that next step in 
human longevity increase can be possible by common appreciation of the role of 
infections as the main trigger of age-related diseases and disorders, and by 
efforts to cure and/or eradicate these infections.

PMID: 18825837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Gerontol Soc Work. 2008;51(1-2):53-76. doi: 10.1080/01634370801967554.

Palliative healthcare: cost reduction and quality enhancement using end-of-life 
survey methodology.

Falls CE(1).

Author information:
(1)cfalls@sbcglobal.net

American medical institutions throughout the 20th century prescribed high 
customer satisfaction, but when it came to death, largely ignored it. An 
accelerated accumulation of esoteric medical information and the application of 
this knowledge to affect new cures and longer lives instilled an unquestioning 
reverence for the medical community among the patient population. Diminishing 
marginal gains in life expectancy, escalating costs related to life sustaining 
technologies, and a psychographic shift in the dominant consumer base have 
challenged this traditional reverence. Armed with unprecedented access to 
medical information, a more knowledgeable and assertive patient population has 
emerged in the 21st century to institute its own standards of what constitutes 
quality health care. In terms of end of life care, this has meant recognition 
that the emotional needs of the dying have been largely underserved by the 
current American medical model. Patients and their families are no longer 
willing to accept the traditional medical perspective of death as failure and 
have numerous international palliative care models that serve as benchmarks of 
success when it comes to quality of dying. When cure is a possibility, Americans 
will pursue it at all costs, but when it is not a possibility, they want honest 
communication and the opportunity to say good-bye to their loved ones. In the 
context of these emergent needs, life review is offered as a solution. The value 
proposition targets not only dying patients and their families, but also society 
as a whole.

DOI: 10.1080/01634370801967554
PMID: 18826068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Scand J Psychol. 2008 Dec;49(6):583-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1467-9450.2008.00683.x.  Epub 2008 Sep 22.

The effects of cystic fibrosis on couples: marital satisfaction, emotions, and 
coping strategies.

Delelis G(1), Christophe V, Leroy S, Vanneste J, Wallaert B.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lille, France. gerald.delelis@univ-lille3.fr

An earlier diagnosis and better overall multidisciplinary care enable people 
suffering from Cystic Fibrosis (CF) to have a life expectancy of 40. 
Consequently, new populations and questions about the development of the life of 
couples have arisen. This study by questionnaires takes a first look at marital 
adjustment, anxiety, depression, and emotion focused, social support focused, 
and problem focused coping strategies in 16 CF patients and their partners. As a 
whole, the couples' marital adjustment level was good; it was higher for men who 
were patients than men who were partners, and vice versa for women. Anxiety was 
high for at least one partner in 10 of the couples; depression, for at least one 
partner in seven of them. The participants seem to use coping strategies to a 
lesser extent than the general population. The results are discussed in terms of 
how the quality of life as a couple with one partner suffering from CF is 
affected by the proper mutual adjustment of the partners.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9450.2008.00683.x
PMID: 18826421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Anticancer Drugs. 2008 Nov;19(10):991-8. doi: 10.1097/CAD.0b013e328313e172.

Interest of liposomal doxorubicin as a radiosensitizer in malignant glioma 
xenografts.

Labussière M(1), Aarnink A, Pinel S, Taillandier L, Escanyé JM, Barberi-Heyob M, 
Bernier-Chastagner V, Plénat F, Chastagner P.

Author information:
(1)EA 4001 Radiopotentialisation: de la préclinique à la clinique, Faculté de 
Médecine, Nancy Université, 9 avenue de la Forêt de Haye-BP 184, 
Vandoeuvre-les-Nancy, Nancy, France.

Malignant glioma patients have a life expectancy reduced to about 15 months 
despite aggressive surgery, radiotherapy (RT), and chemotherapy. Doxorubicin has 
shown a marked cytotoxic effect against malignant glioma cells in vitro. The 
brain exposure to this drug is, however, hindered by the blood-brain barrier. 
Encapsulation of doxorubicin in liposomal carriers has been shown to reduce 
toxicities and to improve brain tumors exposure to doxorubicin. In this study, 
we evaluated the radiosensitizing properties of a nonpegylated liposomal 
doxorubicin (Myocet, MYO) on two subcutaneous (U87 and TCG4) and one 
intracranial (U87) malignant glioma models xenografted on nude mice. Doxorubicin 
biodistribution was assessed by a high-performance liquid chromatography method. 
Antitumor efficacy was investigated by tumor volume measurements and mice 
survival determination. We showed that (i) encapsulation of doxorubicin ensured 
a preferential deposition of doxorubicin in tumoral tissue in comparison with 
free doxorubicin; (ii) doxorubicin accumulated in both subcutaneous and 
intracranial tumors during repeated injections of MYO and this accumulation was 
linked to the potentiation of RT efficacy on two subcutaneous models; (iii) MYO 
was unable to improve the antitumoral efficacy of RT on an intracranial glioma 
model. Finally, this study emphasizes the importance of performing preclinical 
studies on models closer as possible of human tumors and localization to be more 
predictive of therapeutic effects observed in humans.

DOI: 10.1097/CAD.0b013e328313e172
PMID: 18827564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2008 Nov;11(6):686-92. doi: 
10.1097/MCO.0b013e328313968f.

Caloric restriction and brain function.

Gillette-Guyonnet S(1), Vellas B.

Author information:
(1)Gérontopôle Toulouse, France. gillette.s@chu-toulouse.fr

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In addition to extending lifespan, animal research shows that 
specific diets benefit brain functioning. Indeed, it has been proven that 
caloric restriction prevents age-related neuronal damage. What are those 
mechanisms involved in the effects of caloric restriction on brain functioning? 
Could caloric restriction be proposed in the future to prevent or treat 
neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease? Is there a future for 
caloric restriction interventions in adults?
RECENT FINDINGS: Hypotheses linking caloric restriction to cognitive capability 
include anti-inflammatory mechanisms, reduction of neural oxidative stress, 
promotion of synaptic plasticity, induction of various stress and 
neurotrophic/neuroprotective factors. Caloric restriction may also prevent 
beta-amyloid neuropathology in Alzheimer transgenic models. Finally, both 
exercise and caloric restriction enhance neurogenesis via different mechanisms 
suggesting that their combination may decrease the risk of neurodegenerative 
disease.
SUMMARY: It is now well established that caloric restriction could be used to 
promote successful brain aging. Data from randomized controlled trials in humans 
are limited. No positive effect on cognitive impairment was found probably due 
to methodological limitations. The long-term effects of caloric restriction in 
adults must be clarified before engaging in such preventive strategy. Additional 
animal studies must be conducted in the future to test the effects of 
'multidomain' interventions (caloric restriction plus regular exercise) on 
age-related cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e328313968f
PMID: 18827571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2008 Oct 1;33(21):E798-801. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181808c9a.

Spinal neurocutaneous melanosis without cutaneous nevi.

Asanuma K(1), Kasai Y, Takegami K, Ito H, Yoshikawa T, Uchida A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mie University Graduate School of Medicine, 
Tsu City, Mie, Japan. kasanum@gmail.com

STUDY DESIGN: A case report of spinal neurocutaneous melanosis without cutaneous 
nevi.
OBJECTIVE: To show a case and review the epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment 
of neurocutaneous melanosis without cutaneous nevi.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Neurocutaneous melanosis is a rare congenital 
syndrome consisting of benign or malignant melanocytic tumors of the central 
nervous system and cutaneous nevi. Symptomatic neurocutaneous melanosis has 
extremely poor prognosis, even in the absence of malignancy. Because 
leptomeningeal lesions of the neurocutaneous melanosis usually undergo malignant 
transformation, the life expectancy of almost all patients with malignant 
transformation is <1 year. In general, patients are treated with palliative 
therapy, such as shunt placement to reduce intracranial pressure or tumor 
resection to reduce compression of the brain or spine.
METHODS: A 29-year-old man presented with marked hypesthesia and spastic gait. 
No skin abnormalities were evident. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the 
spine revealed intradural tumor at the T5 level. Computed tomography myelography 
showed intradural extramedullary tumor. Because symptoms progressed, he 
underwent surgery to decompress the spinal cord. After the pigmented dura was 
opened, a pigmented tumor was resected.
RESULTS: Histologically, the pigmented tumor represented low grade. The 
pigmented dura and bone comprised melanin-bearing cells without tumor cells. 
Meningeal melanocytoma with leptomeningeal melanosis in the absence of cutaneous 
nevi was diagnosed. Neurologic symptoms recovered immediately after surgery. No 
evidence of local recurrence has been seen after 3 years.
CONCLUSION: This patient displayed spinal meningeal melanocytoma and 
leptomeningeal melanosis without cutaneous nevi. The diagnosis in this case was 
speculated to represent a forme fruste of neurocutaneous melanosis.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181808c9a
PMID: 18827686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2008 Oct 1;33(21):2341-6. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181878733.

Changes in physical function after palliative surgery for metastatic spinal 
tumor: association of the revised Tokuhashi score with neurologic recovery.

Yamashita T(1), Aota Y, Kushida K, Murayama H, Hiruma T, Takeyama M, Iwamura Y, 
Saito T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Yokohama City University, Yokohama, Japan. 
takaccf@aol.com

STUDY DESIGN: A retrospective study of patients undergoing palliative surgery 
for metastatic spinal tumors.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate short-term functional recovery and duration of 
improvement after palliative surgery, to correlate these outcomes with the 
revised Tokuhashi score, and to examine the relationship between function and 
neurologic deterioration.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The revised Tokuhashi score is a scoring system used 
to predict life expectancy for patients with metastatic spinal tumors. The 
relationship between the revised Tokuhashi score and physical functional 
improvement after palliative surgery has not been examined previously.
METHODS: The clinical charts of 86 patients were reviewed. The Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status (ECOG-PS) was used to assess 
physical function. Each score was documented before surgery and at every month 
after surgery. The duration of ECOG-PS improvement, defined as the period 
between surgery and deterioration to the preoperative ECOG-PS grade, was 
correlated with the revised Tokuhashi score.
RESULTS: The ECOG-PS grade improved in 44 (51.1%) patients at 1 month 
postoperative. When ECOG-PS improvement was found after surgery, it persisted 
above the preoperative level for an average of 9.3 months. At 1 month 
postoperative, patients scoring 0 to 8 on the total revised Tokuhashi score had 
significantly lower ECOG-PS improvement (26 of 55 patients) when compared to 
patients with higher scores (18 of 27 patients, P < 0.05). In 44 patients with 
ECOG-PS improvement, the existence of major internal organ metastases 
significantly shortened the duration of improvement (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Palliative surgery benefited half of the patients with metastatic 
spinal tumor, with a greater probability of benefit found in persons with a 
higher total revised Tokuhashi score (score 9-15) and/or primary cancers with 
longer survival times.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181878733
PMID: 18827700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. AIDS Read. 2008 Sep;18(9):480-2, 486-9.

Challenge of coadministering antiretroviral therapy and oral anticoagulants in 
HIV-positive patients.

Goldstein KM(1), Gluckman S, Mounzer K.

Author information:
(1)Jonathan Lax Treatment Center, Philadelphia FIGHT, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

With an improved life expectancy, HIV-positive patients now face interactions 
between antiretroviral therapy and medications for chronic medical problems. One 
example is thromboembolism and its treatment with oral anticoagulants. To date, 
there have been 9 case reports documenting drug interactions between oral 
anticoagulants and antiretroviral agents. We conducted a retrospective case 
series to better understand the challenges of anticoagulation management in 
HIV-positive patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. Of the 9 cases 
evaluated, the median percentage of international normalized ratio (INR) 
measurements of blood clotting time within the therapeutic range was 28.6%. Of 
those INRs outside the therapeutic range, 50.5% were subtherapeutic and 21.2% 
were supratherapeutic. A heightened awareness of the potential difficulty in 
achieving adequate anticoagulation in patients on antiretroviral regimens is 
warranted.

PMID: 18828233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. N C Med J. 2008 Jul-Aug;69(4):275-82.

Towards a more comprehensive understanding of cancer burden in North Carolina: 
priorities for intervention.

Carpenter WR(1), Beskow LM, Blocker DE, Forlenza MJ, Kim AE, Pevzner ES, Rose 
JM, Tran AN, Webber KH, Knight K, O'Malley MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, USA. bill.carpenter@unc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To apply 4 measures of population burden in examining cancer burden 
in North Carolina and to identify priorities for intervention.
METHODS: Four measures were used: incidence, mortality, prevalence, and years of 
potential life lost (YPLL). The North Carolina Central Cancer Registry provided 
summary data on incidence and mortality and record-level data that were examined 
using SEER*Stat software to calculate prevalence. North Carolina vital 
statistics (mortality) data and life expectancy estimates stratified by age, 
race, and sex were used to calculate YPLL. Each cancer site was ranked according 
to burden for each of the 4 individual burden measures and summarized into an 
overall rank. Burden was examined overall and by sex and race.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Four cancers--lung/bronchus, female breast, prostate, and 
colon/rectum--accounted for approximately 57% of the total cancer incidence, 
prevalence, mortality, and YPLL in North Carolina. Patterns of burden in gender 
and race subgroups were similar, although non-whites often had higher mortality 
rates than did whites despite similar incidence rates. An estimated 207,583 
people were living with cancer in 2004 Breast and prostate cancer accounted for 
42% of these survivors. Lung/bronchus cancer was the most severe cancer, 
accounting for more deaths and years of life lost than any other 5 cancers 
combined.
CONCLUSIONS: Each of the 4 measures provides unique insight and guidance for 
cancer coordination and control efforts. Lung/bronchus, female breast, prostate, 
and colon/rectum cancers accounted for the majority of North Carolina's cancer 
burden and should be priorities for intervention.

PMCID: PMC2743945
PMID: 18828316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Neurosci. 2008 Oct 1;28(40):9898-909. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1385-08.2008.

Bidirectional regulation of the cAMP response element binding protein encodes 
spatial map alignment in prism-adapting barn owls.

Nichols GS(1), DeBello WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior, Center for Neuroscience, 
University of California, Davis, Davis, California 95618, USA.

The barn owl midbrain contains mutually aligned maps of auditory and visual 
space. Throughout life, map alignment is maintained through the actions of an 
instructive signal that encodes the magnitude of auditory-visual mismatch. The 
intracellular signaling pathways activated by this signal are unknown. Here we 
tested the hypothesis that CREB (cAMP response element-binding protein) provides 
a cell-specific readout of instructive information. Owls were fitted with 
prismatic or control spectacles and provided rich auditory-visual experience: 
hunting live mice. CREB activation was analyzed within 30 min of hunting using 
phosphorylation state-specific CREB (pCREB) and CREB antibodies, confocal 
imaging, and immunofluorescence measurements at individual cell nuclei. In 
control owls or prism-adapted owls, which experience small instructive signals, 
the frequency distributions of pCREB/CREB values obtained for cell nuclei within 
the external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICX) were unimodal. In 
contrast, in owls adapting to prisms or readapting to normal conditions, the 
distributions were bimodal: certain cells had received a signal that positively 
regulated CREB and, by extension, transcription of CREB-dependent genes, whereas 
others received a signal that negatively regulated it. These changes were 
restricted to the subregion of the inferior colliculus that received optically 
displaced input, the rostral ICX, and were not evident in the caudal ICX or 
central nucleus. Finally, the topographic pattern of CREB regulation was patchy, 
not continuous, as expected from the actions of a topographically precise signal 
encoding discrete events. These results support a model in which the magnitude 
of CREB activation within individual cells provides a readout of the instructive 
signal that guides plasticity and learning.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1385-08.2008
PMCID: PMC3513381
PMID: 18829948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2008 Oct;15(5):503-8. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e3282f21640.

Screen detection and the WHO stepwise approach to the prevalence and risk 
factors of arterial hypertension in Kinshasa.

Longo-Mbenza B(1), Ngoma DV, Nahimana D, Mayuku DM, Fuele SM, Ekwanzala F, Beya 
C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Kinshasa, Kinshasa, Democratic Republic 
of Congo. longombenza@yahoo.fr

BACKGROUND: The trend of hypertension and other risk factors of cardiovascular 
disease is changing because of epidemiological, demographic and nutritional 
transitions in sub-Saharan Africa.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to determine the prevalence and risk 
factors of arterial hypertension in the Kinshasa region, Democratic Republic of 
Congo (DRC).
DESIGN AND METHODS: Data were collected from random sample cross-sectional 
surveys of adult black Africans from Kinshasa, with the help of a structured 
questionnaire, physical examinations and blood samples, using the World Health 
Organisation (WHO) stepwise approach. Sex, age, place of residence (urban versus 
rural), psychosocial risk factors (socioeconomic status, stress), overweight 
status (BMI: 25-29.9 kg/m), general obesity (BMI: >or=30 kg/m), abdominal 
obesity (waist circumference: >or=94 cm) and diabetes mellitus were considered 
to be the potential risk factors for screen-detected hypertension.
RESULTS: The weighted prevalences of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, overweight 
status, general obesity and abdominal obesity were 15.2, 140.2, 13.5, 4.8 and 
7.5%, respectively. Blood pressure and the proportion of participants with 
hypertension increased with age and BMI group in the population, for both men 
and women. Age, rural residence, low socioeconomic status, high socioeconomic 
status, general obesity and abdominal obesity were the risk factors for 
hypertension. Women aged 55 years and above had higher levels of blood pressure 
and hypertension than men.
CONCLUSION: Absolute levels of hypertension, all types of obesity and diabetes 
mellitus are high risk factors in the army camps and semiurban extension cities; 
general obesity and abdominal obesity are the risk factors for detectable 
hypertension. Effective control of general obesity and abdominal obesity and 
psychosocial strategies that target both semirural and urban areas of the 
Kinshasa region have the potential to prevent much premature cardiovascular 
disease.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e3282f21640
PMID: 18830083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2008 Oct;15(5):521-5. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e3283041523.

Lipid-lowering treatment for all could substantially reduce the burden of 
macrovascular complications of diabetes patients in the Netherlands.

Jacobs-van der Bruggen MA(1), Engelfriet PM, Hoogenveen RT, van Baal PH, Struijs 
JN, Verschuren WM, Smit HA, Baan CA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, the Netherlands. 
Monique.Jacobs@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: We aimed to quantify the potential health benefits of increased use 
of lipid-lowering treatment (LLT), according to current guidelines, for the 
Dutch diabetes population.
DESIGN: Simulation study.
METHODS: We compared the long-term health outcomes for a scenario in which all 
diabetes patients received LLT to those in a 'current practice' scenario, in 
which 28% received LLT. The model reflected the Dutch diabetes population 40-80 
years of age, in 2003. Sensitivity analyses were performed, using more 
conservative assumptions.
RESULTS: Over the lifetime, LLT for all diabetes patients reduced the expected 
cumulative incidences of coronary heart disease (CHD) and stroke by, 
respectively, 6 and 9%. Average life expectancy of Dutch diabetes patients would 
increase by 0.33 years, ranging from 0.14 years for patients aged 70-79 years, 
to 0.84 years for patients aged 40-49 years at the start of the simulation. 
Life-long treatment for patients aged 50-59 contributed most to the life years 
gained (55,000 out of 146,000). With reduced effectiveness of LLT and fewer 
patients starting LLT, the cumulative incidences of both CHD and stroke would 
decrease by approximately 2%. The number needed to treat to prevent one incident 
case of cardiovascular disease over lifetime was 20 for CHD and 44 for stroke.
CONCLUSION: This simulation study shows that increased use of LLT can 
substantially reduce the expected future burden of CHD and stroke in the Dutch 
diabetes population.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e3283041523
PMID: 18830084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Sex Transm Dis. 2008 Nov;35(11 Suppl):S66-75. doi:
10.1097/OLQ.0b013e31818b64ac.

The program cost and cost-effectiveness of screening men for Chlamydia to 
prevent pelvic inflammatory disease in women.

Gift TL(1), Gaydos CA, Kent CK, Marrazzo JM, Rietmeijer CA, Schillinger JA, 
Dunne EF.

Author information:
(1)Division of STD Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. tgift@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Because men transmit Chlamydia trachomatis to women, screening men 
to prevent pelvic inflammatory disease in women may be a viable strategy. 
However, the cost-effectiveness of this approach requires careful assessment.
METHODS: Data from a demonstration project and longitudinal study that examined 
screening men for chlamydia were applied to a compartment-based transmission 
model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of screening men for chlamydia compared 
with alternative interventions, including expanded screening of women and 
combining disease investigation specialist-provided partner notification with 
screening. Cases of pelvic inflammatory disease and quality-adjusted life years 
lost were the primary outcome measures. A male screening program that screened 
1% of men in the population annually was modeled.
RESULTS: A program targeting high-risk men for screening (those with a larger 
number of partners in the previous year than the general population and a higher 
chlamydia prevalence) was cost saving compared with using equivalent program 
dollars to expand screening of lower-risk women. Combining partner notification 
with male screening was more effective than screening men alone. In sensitivity 
analyses, the male program was not always cost saving but averaged $10,520 per 
quality-adjusted life year saved over expanded screening of women.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening men can be a cost-effective alternative to screening 
women, but the men screened must have a relatively high prevalence compared with 
the women to whom screening would be expanded (under baseline assumptions, the 
prevalence in screened men was 86% higher than that of screened women). These 
modeling results suggest that programs targeting venues that have access to 
high-risk men can be effective tools in chlamydia prevention.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e31818b64ac
PMID: 18830137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Newsweek. 2008 Sep 29;152(13):48, 50.

The way to save millions of lives is to prevent smoking.

Bloomberg MR.

PMID: 18831120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Int J Immunopathol Pharmacol. 2008 Jul-Sep;21(3):631-42. doi: 
10.1177/039463200802100317.

Improvement in relative survival of patients with vasculitis: study of 101 cases 
compared to the general population.

Stratta P(1), Marcuccio C, Campo A, Sandri L, Messuerott A, Colla L, Rosso S, 
Mazzucco G, Mariani L, Ciccone G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Nephrology and 
Transplantation & International Research Center Autoimmune Diseases, Amedeo 
Avogadro University, Maggiore Hospital, Novara, Italy. strattanefro@hotmail.com

Immunosuppressive treatment has changed the prognosis of renal vasculitis over 
time, but improvement in prognosis is difficult to analyze in different 
historical periods, and can be better demonstrated by comparison with life 
expectancy of sex- and age-matched people. Long-term survival of 101 patients 
diagnosed with systemic vasculitis at our center from 1975 to 2002 was 
retrospectively evaluated in comparison with that of the Region's age- and 
sex-matched population. Patient and kidney survival significantly increased over 
time. Multivariate analyses showed that risks of patient and renal death 
decreased by 10% and 7%, respectively, at each year of follow-up, and increased 
by 6.3% and 5.2% for each year of age. Relative survival significantly improved 
over time, approaching that of the general population for cases diagnosed after 
1993, mainly in women < 60 years (from 0.671 at 5-years in the first period to 
0.916 in the last period), while 5-year-relative-survival was still 0.530 and 
0.682 in men and women greater than 60 years, respectively. Poisson-based 
multinomial analyses confirmed the significant risk of the first periods of 
diagnosis and of dialysis in worsening of the relative survival of patients 
compared to that of the general population. Life expectancy in patients with 
renal vasculitis has improved over time, paralleling a significant increase in 
steroid pulse/cyclophosphamide association therapy and an earlier diagnosis due 
to the introduction of the ANCA test. Relative survival has considerably 
improved, and now approaches that expected in the general population for women, 
but not for men.

DOI: 10.1177/039463200802100317
PMID: 18831931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2008 Oct;216(2):187-94. doi: 10.1620/tjem.216.187.

Lower mortality in male physicians of Chinese medicine than male population in 
Taiwan.

Liu SH(1), Wu CS, Lin YL, Hsiao YC, Yang CY, Sung FC, Li CY, Wu TN.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, National Yang 
Ming University, Taichung, Taiwan.

Studies on the physicians' health have paid less attention on the Chinese 
medicine than on the western medicine professionals. Like western medicine 
professionals, Chinese medicine physicians' health condition is critical to the 
quality of care and patients' safety. They also cared a large number of patients 
in many Asia societies. However, no data have been reported regarding the health 
problems associated with Chinese medicine physicians. The aim of this study was 
to examine the mortality patterns of a cohort consisting of 6109 male physicians 
of Chinese medicine who were followed from 1991 through 2003 in Taiwan. The 
analyses of female subjects were not included due to small sample size. We 
calculated the overall and cause-specific standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) 
and life expectancy of the study cohort using the death rates of some 11 
millions of Taiwanese male population as reference. We found out that physicians 
of Chinese medicine experienced significantly lower death rate of mortality from 
all causes (SMR = 0.63, 95% > CI: 0.57, 0.69), from malignant neoplasms (SMR = 
0.69, 95% CI: 0.57, 0.82) and from cerebrovascular disease (SMR = 0.53, 95% CI: 
0.38, 0.72). Additionally, they have longer life expectancy (ranged from 3 years 
to approximately 15 years). Our study is crucial to evaluate potential health 
risks associated with Chinese medicine physicians. Although this study did not 
reveal elevated death rate among Chinese medicine physicians, researchers and 
policy makers should not overlook other heath problems that Chinese medicine 
physicians might have experienced.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.216.187
PMID: 18832801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Rev Saude Publica. 2008 Oct;42(5):938-45. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102008000500021.

[Prevalence of falls in institutionalized elderly in Rio Grande, Southern 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Gonçalves LG(1), Vieira ST, Siqueira FV, Hallal PC.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Ciência da Vida e da Saúde, Universidade Católica de Pelotas, 
Pelotas, RS, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: The increase of life expectancy in developing countries has been a 
source of concern about quality of life and well-being of elderly people, 
especially regarding falls. The objective of the study was to assess the 
prevalence of falls in institutionalized elderly and to describe factors 
associated.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study carried out in the city of Rio Grande (Southern 
Brazil). A total of 180 elderly (65 years old or more), living in institutions 
were included in the study. The elderly were interviewed and a pre-tested 
instrument with questions on falls was administered. In addition to a bivariate 
analysis (Wald), Poisson's regression analysis was conducted and prevalence 
ratios and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) adjusted for confounders were 
estimated.
RESULTS: The prevalence of falls among institutionalized elderly was 38.3%. 
Falls were most frequently seen at the home premises (62.3%) and mostly in the 
bedroom (23%). In the adjusted analysis, falls remained associated to white 
color skin, separated and divorced elderly, depression, and higher continuous 
use of medications.
CONCLUSIONS: The study showed that the prevalence of falls among 
institutionalized elderly is high and that they can be disabling to this 
population. Although some of the associated factors are preventable, accidental 
falls still occur in settings that should be safe, such as the elderly's 
bedroom.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102008000500021
PMID: 18833392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Health Econ. 2009 Mar;18(3):355-62. doi: 10.1002/hec.1370.

Aging diseases--do they prevent preventive health care from saving costs?

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Köln, Germany. afschin.gandjour@uk-koeln.de

The potential of preventive health-care services to save costs is intensely 
debated. On the one hand, a longer life span increases the probability that new 
and costly diseases occur. On the other hand, a higher life expectancy postpones 
the expensive last year of life (LYOL), which becomes cheaper with age. Using US 
expenditure data on survivors and decedents the paper shows that prevention in 
the general population causes expenditures for additional diseases that are 
larger than the savings from postponing the LYOL. This result may also hold for 
prevention in diseased individuals.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1370
PMID: 18833543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Compr Ther. 2008 Summer;34(2):100-4.

A brief history of scientific geriatric cardiology.

Wehrmacher WH(1), Ahmed A.

Author information:
(1)Loyola University at Chicago, Stritch School of Medicine, Maywood, Illinois 
60153, USA. wwehrma@lumc.edu

Comprehensive therapists need awareness of the long period of neglect of the 
elderly cardiac patient, its improvement in the last third of a century, and a 
look to the future.

PMID: 18833786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Oct 6;8:205. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-205.

A cost effectiveness study of integrated care in health services delivery: a 
diabetes program in Australia.

McRae IS(1), Butler JR, Sibthorpe BM, Ruscoe W, Snow J, Rubiano D, Gardner KL.

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for Economic Research on Health, The Australian National 
University, Canberra, Australia. ian.s.mcrae@anu.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Type 2 diabetes is rapidly growing as a proportion of the disease 
burden in Australia as elsewhere. This study addresses the cost effectiveness of 
an integrated approach to assisting general practitioners (GPs) with diabetes 
management. This approach uses a centralized database of clinical data of an 
Australian Division of General Practice (a network of GPs) to co-ordinate care 
according to national guidelines.
METHODS: Long term outcomes for patients in the program were derived using 
clinical parameters after 5 years of program participation, and the United 
Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes Model, to project outcomes 
for 40 years from the time of diagnosis and from 5 years post-diagnosis. Cost 
information was obtained from a range of sources. While program costs are 
directly available, and costs of complications can be estimated from the UKPDS 
model, other costs are estimated by comparing costs in the Division with average 
costs across the state or the nation. The outcome and cost measures are used 
derive incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: The clinical data show that the program is effective in the short term, 
with improvement or no statistical difference in most clinical measures over 5 
years. Average HbA1c levels increased by less than expected over the 5 year 
period. While the program is estimated to generate treatment cost savings, 
overall net costs are positive. However, the program led to projected 
improvements in expected life years and Quality Adjusted Life Expectancy (QALE), 
with incremental cost effectiveness ratios of $A8,106 per life-year saved and 
$A9,730 per year of QALE gained.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of an established model of diabetes progression and 
generally available data has provided an opportunity to establish robust methods 
of testing the cost effectiveness of a program for which a formal control group 
was not available. Based on this methodology, integrated health care delivery 
provided by a network of GPs improved health outcomes of type 2 diabetics with 
acceptable cost effectiveness, which suggests that similar outcomes may be 
obtained elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-205
PMCID: PMC2577097
PMID: 18834551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Trop Pediatr. 2008 Oct;54(5):287-90. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fmn088.

India's progress towards achieving the targets set in the millennium development 
goals.

Elizabeth KE.

Erratum in
    J Trop Pediatr. 2009 Feb;55(1):70.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fmn088
PMID: 18836198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Sep 20;152(38):2099-100; author reply 2100.

[Practice guideline 'Prostate cancer: diagnosis and treatment'].

[Article in Dutch]

Giard RW.

Comment on
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Aug 9;152(32):1771-5.

PMID: 18837188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Cancer Radiother. 2008 Nov;12(6-7):541-7. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2008.09.002.
 Epub 2008 Oct 5.

[Is geriatric assessment adapted to radiotherapy?].

[Article in French]

Falandry C(1), Tarkouki K, Mornex F, Bonnefoy M, Freyer G.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon, 69003 Lyon, France. claire.falandry@chu-lyon.fr

Cancer in the elderly represents a major public health topic and its importance 
will increase in the future because of increased life expectancy and ageing. 
Cancer prognosis is worse due to late diagnosis, frequent comorbidities and 
treatment often considered as suboptimal. Reference treatments were primarily 
validated for younger or selected elderly patients and experimental data 
collected on most vulnerable are rare. Oncogeriatrics development for 15 years 
