L, Berg CL; Adult-to-Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation Cohort Study 
Group.

Collaborators: Emond JC, Brown RS Jr, Odeh-Ramadan R, Heese S, Abecassis MM, 
Blei A, Al-Saden P, Shaked A, Olthoff KM, Kaminski M, Shaw M, Trotter JF, Kam I, 
Garcia C, Busuttil RW, Saab S, Mooney J, Freise CE, Terrault NA, MacLeod D, 
Merion RM, Lok AS, Ojo AO, Gillespie BW, Hill-Callahan M, Howell T, Tong L, 
Shearon TH, Wisniewski KA, Lowe M, Hayashi PH, Nielsen CA, Berg CL, Pruett TL, 
Davis J, Fisher RA, Shiffman ML, Fenick E, Ashworth A, Everhart JE, Seeff LB, 
Robuck PR, Hoofnagle JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Virginia, Charlottesville, VA, USA. 
patrick_northup@virginia.edu

Using outcomes data from the Adult-to-Adult Living Donor Liver Transplantation 
Cohort Study, we performed a cost-effectiveness analysis exploring the costs and 
benefits of living donor liver transplantation (LDLT). A multistage Markov 
decision analysis model was developed with treatment, including medical 
management only (strategy 1), waiting list with possible deceased donor liver 
transplantation (DDLT; strategy 2), and waiting list with possible LDLT or DDLT 
(strategy 3) over 10 years. Decompensated cirrhosis with medical management 
offered survival of 2.0 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) while costing an 
average of $65,068, waiting list with possible DDLT offered 4.4-QALY survival 
and a mean cost of $151,613, and waiting list with possible DDLT or LDLT offered 
4.9-QALY survival and a mean cost of $208,149. Strategy 2 had an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $35,976 over strategy 1, whereas strategy 3 
produced an ICER of $106,788 over strategy 2. On average, strategy 3 cost 
$47,693 more per QALY than strategy 1. Both DDLT and LDLT were cost-effective 
compared to medical management of cirrhosis over our 10-year study period. The 
addition of LDLT to a standard waiting list DDLT program is effective at 
improving recipient survival and preventing waiting list deaths but at a greater 
cost.

(c) 2009 AASLD.

DOI: 10.1002/lt.21671
PMCID: PMC3222562
PMID: 19177435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Haemophilia. 2009 Jan;15(1):101-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01895.x.

Cardiac surgery in patients with haemophilia.

Tang M(1), Wierup P, Terp K, Ingerslev J, SÃ¸rensen B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Aarhus University Hospital, Skejby, 
Denmark.

Today the populations of haemophilia patients in many countries have a higher 
life expectancy than previously known, and age-related disorders such as 
arterial disease are expected to become more prevalent, calling for surgical 
intervention. Cardiac surgery constitutes a major haemostatic challenge because 
of sternotomy, the need of total heparinization, extracorporal circulation, mild 
hypothermia and cardiac arrest. To evaluate our current experience and results 
with cardiac surgery in patients with haemophilia the present case series report 
on six patients with haemophilia A (Severe = 1, Moderate = 1, Mild = 4) 
undergoing cardiac surgery (coronary artery bypass grafting; CABG = 2, aortic 
valve replacement = 1, CABG + aortic valve replacement = 2, ventricular 
resection + mitral valve reconstruction = 1). The present paper provides 
detailed information on the haemostatic treatment regimens adopted (factor 
concentrate dosages, timing and duration) and postoperative thromboprophylaxis 
(dosing and duration of low molecular weight heparin). Moreover, we present data 
on concomitant disorders (hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, atrial 
fibrillation and diabetes), left ventricle ejection fraction (30-60%), type of 
anaesthesia, total amount of heparin (34 500-53 500 IU) and duration of 
extracorporeal circulation (80-115 min). Clinical outcomes included: 
re-operation because of bleeding (none), transfusion requirements, peri- and 
postoperative blood loss and complications and postoperative development of 
inhibitors (none). Clinical outcomes were compared with a control group of 
patients (n = 5993) without haemophilia and we found no difference in 
postoperative morbidity. Adopting meticulously supervised haemostatic treatment 
regimens, we have successfully performed major cardiac surgery in patients with 
haemophilia A. The clinical outcome as well as the severity and incidence of 
postoperative complications were similar to patients without haemophilia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01895.x
PMID: 19177627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Indian J Dermatol Venereol Leprol. 2008 Nov-Dec;74(6):700. doi: 
10.4103/0378-6323.45141.

Life quality assessment among patients with vitiligo: comparison of married and 
single patients in Iran.

Dolatshahi M(1), Ghazi P, Feizy V, Hemami MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Vitiligo is known to affect the quality of social and 
personal life in some countries. This study aims to assess the quality of life 
(QOL) in vitiligo sufferers among the Iranian population and to evaluate its 
relation with different variables.
METHODS: One hundred vitiligo patients answered a questionnaire based on the 
Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI).
RESULTS: The mean DLQI score was 8.16. There were statistically significant 
relationships between DLQI scores and marital status, skin phototype, and 
disease extension independently.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that vitiligo has a major impact on the QOL of 
patients in Iran. Hence dermatologists should pay attention to the psychological 
effects of this cosmetic disease and try to decrease its extension and 
disfiguring effects by various treatments.

DOI: 10.4103/0378-6323.45141
PMID: 19177700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2009;9(1):45-58. doi:
10.2165/00129784-200909010-00005.

Extended dalteparin prophylaxis for venous thromboembolic events: cost-utility 
analysis in patients undergoing major orthopedic surgery.

Dranitsaris G(1), Stumpo C, Smith R, Bartle W.

Author information:
(1)Augmentium Pharma Consulting, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. goerge@augmentium.com

BACKGROUND: Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE) are 
manifestations of venous thromboembolic events (VTEs). Patients undergoing major 
surgical procedures such as total hip replacement (THR), total knee replacement 
(TKR), and hip fracture surgery (HFS) are at an elevated risk for VTEs. The 
American College of Chest Physicians' (ACCP) guidelines recommend that such 
patients receive thromboprophylaxis for at least 10 days. In patients undergoing 
THR or HFS, extended prophylaxis for up to 28-35 days is the recommended 
approach for those at high risk of thromboembolic events. The NAFT (North 
American Fragmin Trial) compared the prophylactic efficacy of dalteparin with 
that of warfarin during the in-hospital period, and with that of placebo during 
the period of hospital discharge until day 35 postsurgery, in patients who 
underwent total hip arthroplasty. During both the in-hospital and the 
postdischarge time periods, dalteparin significantly reduced the occurrence of 
DVT. Given the clinical relevance of these results, the low specificity of the 
ACCP recommendations regarding optimal prophylaxis duration, and the importance 
of optimizing the efficiency of DVT prophylaxis in the practice setting, a 
cost-utility analysis was conducted comparing dalteparin 10-day and 35-day 
(extended) with a warfarin 10-day protocol, in patients undergoing major 
orthopedic surgeries such as THR, TKR, or HFS.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A three-arm decision model was developed using the 
prevalence of symptomatic DVT from NAFT publications, epidemiologic studies, and 
published meta-analyses. Healthcare resource use was abstracted from a survey of 
clinicians and from the economic literature. Utility estimates were obtained by 
interviewing a sample of 24 people from the general public using the time 
trade-off technique. The clinical, economic and utility data were then used to 
estimate the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained with dalteparin 
for 10 or 35 days relative to 10 days of warfarin.
STUDY PERSPECTIVE: Canadian provincial healthcare system.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES AND RESULTS: The cost per QALY gained with 10 days of 
dalteparin was below $Can1000 for all the surgeries evaluated (all costs are 
reported in 2007 Canadian dollars [$Can1 = $US1, as of December 2007]). In the 
case of extended prophylaxis, the incremental cost per QALY gained with 35 days 
of dalteparin over warfarin was $Can40 100, $Can46 500, and $Can31 200 for 
patients undergoing THR, TKR, and HFS, respectively. Reducing the duration of 
prophylaxis from 35 to 28 days generated ratios that were below $Can35 000 for 
all three surgeries evaluated.
CONCLUSION: Ten days of dalteparin following major orthopedic surgery is a 
clinically and economically attractive alternative to warfarin for DVT 
prophylaxis. In the case of the 35-day dalteparin protocol, the results also 
indicated acceptable economic value to a publicly funded healthcare system, 
particularly in the settings of HFS and THR. In addition, reducing the duration 
of prophylaxis to 28 days postsurgery would be associated with a more favorable 
return on public healthcare expenditures.

DOI: 10.2165/00129784-200909010-00005
PMID: 19178131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. J Hand Surg Am. 2009 Feb;34(2):292-300. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2008.11.005.

Anatomically neutral silicone small joint arthroplasty for osteoarthritis.

Namdari S(1), Weiss AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Alpert Medical School, Brown University, Rhode 
Island Hospital, Providence, RI, USA.

PURPOSE: Surgical treatment of osteoarthritis at the metacarpophalangeal (MCP) 
and proximal interphalangeal (PIP) joints includes arthrodesis and, more 
recently, arthroplasty. Silicone joint arthroplasty has been shown to relieve 
pain and restore function in damaged joints. The purpose of this study was to 
assess outcomes in patients who had MCP or PIP arthroplasty for osteoarthritis 
using the NeuFlex implant (DePuy, Warsaw, IN), a silicone implant with an 
anatomically neutral design.
METHODS: A total of 13 MCP and 16 PIP joint replacements in 19 patients were 
performed with a mean follow-up period of 4 years (range, 1-8 years). Failed 
conservative management of osteoarthritis was the indication for surgery in all 
cases. There were 10 men and 9 women. The average age at the time of surgery was 
66 years. Outcomes were assessed by questionnaire evaluation, physical 
examination, and radiographs.
RESULTS: The mean flexion arc of motion was 65 degrees and 61 degrees , and the 
mean extension lag was 3 degrees and 0 degrees in the MCP and PIP groups, 
respectively. Pain relief was rated excellent or good in 84 percent. The overall 
patient satisfaction was 90 percent. The Michigan Hand Outcomes Questionnaire 
(MHQ) score at follow-up was 88 in the MCP group and 87 in the PIP group. There 
was 1 implant fracture in the PIP group.
CONCLUSIONS: At mean 4-year follow-up evaluation, we report high rates of pain 
relief and patient satisfaction, a low rate of implant fracture, and highly 
satisfactory range of motion values compared to other implant designs. We show 
that treatment of MCP and PIP osteoarthritis with an anatomically neutral 
implant can provide reliable, long-term pain relief and maintenance of function.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic IV.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2008.11.005
PMID: 19181230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Health Educ Res. 2009 Aug;24(4):634-45. doi: 10.1093/her/cyn064. Epub 2009
Jan  30.

Health behavior interests of adolescents with unhealthy diet and exercise: 
implications for weight management.

Thunfors P(1), Collins BN, Hanlon AL.

Author information:
(1)Child Behavioral Health, Baystate Medical Center, 3300 Main Street, 4th 
Floor, Springfield, MA 01199, USA. peter.thunfors@bhs.org

This study sought to determine individual factors that may influence 
adolescents' interests in various health behaviors and, by extension, their 
potential interest in programs that promote healthy lifestyles and reduce 
obesity. The sample consisted of 737 rural Pennsylvania (United States) middle 
and high school students not involved in either healthy exercise or dietary 
behaviors (a target group for health-promoting interventions). Participants 
completed a self-report measure of their general health functioning, including 
their interests in sports programs, outdoor recreation programs, weightlifting, 
weight loss and healthy eating/cooking. Nurses measured body mass indices 
(BMIs). The vast majority of the sample endorsed self-efficacy in healthy eating 
and physical activity, and this self-efficacy was associated with interest in a 
healthy diet and outdoor recreation. Interest in healthy activities was 
consistently higher among 7th graders (age mean = 12.6 years) than 11th graders 
(age mean = 16.3 years). Females were more interested in weight loss and healthy 
eating/cooking, whereas males were more interested in weightlifting. Higher BMI 
only predicted interest in weight loss. These results indicate that adolescent 
health interests vary on the basis of their gender, grade level, BMI and 
self-efficacy. These trends are potentially important to consider when seeking 
to match intervention programs to adolescent interests.

DOI: 10.1093/her/cyn064
PMID: 19181908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Stroke. 2009 Mar;40(3):915-21. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.526905. Epub 2009
Jan  29.

Estimating the long-term costs of ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke for Australia: 
new evidence derived from the North East Melbourne Stroke Incidence Study 
(NEMESIS).

Cadilhac DA(1), Carter R, Thrift AG, Dewey HM.

Author information:
(1)National Stroke Research Institute, Victoria, Australia. 
dcadilhac@nsri.org.au

Erratum in
    Stroke. 2013 Oct;44(10):e140.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke is associated with considerable societal costs. 
Cost-of-illness studies have been undertaken to estimate lifetime costs; most 
incorporating data up to 12 months after stroke. Costs of stroke, incorporating 
data collected up to 12 months, have previously been reported from the North 
East Melbourne Stroke Incidence Study (NEMESIS). NEMESIS now has patient-level 
resource use data for 5 years. We aimed to recalculate the long-term resource 
utilization of first-ever stroke patients and compare these to previous 
estimates obtained using data collected to 12 months.
METHODS: Population structure, life expectancy, and unit prices within the 
original cost-of-illness models were updated from 1997 to 2004. New Australian 
stroke survival and recurrence data up to 10 years were incorporated, as well as 
cross-sectional resource utilization data at 3, 4, and 5 years from NEMESIS. To 
enable comparisons, 1997 costs were inflated to 2004 prices and discounting was 
standardized.
RESULTS: In 2004, 27 291 ischemic stroke (IS) and 4291 intracerebral hemorrhagic 
stroke (ICH) first-ever events were estimated. Average annual resource use after 
12 months was AU$6022 for IS and AU$3977 for ICH. This is greater than the 1997 
estimates for IS (AU$4848) and less than those for ICH (previously AU$10 692). 
The recalculated average lifetime costs per first-ever case differed for IS 
(AU$57 106 versus AU$52 855 [1997]), but differed more for ICH (AU$49 995 versus 
AU$92 308 [1997]).
CONCLUSIONS: Basing lifetime cost estimates on short-term data overestimated the 
costs for ICH and underestimated those for IS. Patterns of resource use varied 
by stroke subtype and, overall, the societal cost impact was large.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.526905
PMID: 19182091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Health Serv Manage Res. 2009 Feb;22(1):8-16. doi: 10.1258/hsmr.2008.008014.

What do we know? Limitations of the two methods most commonly used to estimate 
the length of the prospective wait.

Armstrong PW(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Bioscience, University of East London, Romford Road, 
Stratford, London, UK. P.W.Armstrong@UEL.ac.uk

Health service researchers, policy analysts and other commentators have 
overlooked the limitations of existing approaches to the estimation of waiting 
times. If urgent cases are given priority, there are no instances when 
census-based data can supply accurate estimates of the length of the prospective 
wait. But there are three occasions when event-based data supply accurate 
estimates of the prospective wait of those who chose to enrol and we can predict 
the direction of error when the relevant conditions are violated if we know 
whether the list was open or closed, and whether it grew in size or shrank. 
Without this additional information, we cannot determine whether the changes we 
observe over time or the differences we see between one list and the next are 
spurious or not. The period life-table provides a timely and bias-free 
alternative to the existing cross-sectional approaches for a modest increase in 
the complexity of calculation.

DOI: 10.1258/hsmr.2008.008014
PMID: 19182093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Jan;64(1):125-31. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gln003. Epub 2009 Jan 31.

Education differences in life expectancy with cognitive impairment.

Matthews FE(1), Jagger C, Miller LL, Brayne C; MRC CFAS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Cambridge, UK. fiona.matthews@mrc-bsu.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Low education has an impact on life expectancy and level of 
cognition, but little is known on its effect on life expectancy with cognitive 
impairment.
METHODS: The Medical Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study (MRC 
CFAS) collected population-based longitudinal data on people aged 65 years and 
older including measures of education and cognitive impairment, using the 
Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), for five geographically diverse areas 
around England and Wales interviewed between 1991 and 2003. Transitions between 
health states were calculated using Markov chain methods. Life expectancy in 
different states of cognitive function as measured by MMSE were further explored 
for different education groups. The effect of fixed and educationally based cut 
points for cognitive impairment are investigated.
RESULTS: Life expectancy spent with cognitive impairment is fairly constant with 
increasing age at around 1.4 years in men and 2.5 years in women, though this 
reflects a large increase in the proportion of life spent with cognitive 
impairment. The differences seen between education groups for the proportion of 
total life with cognitive impairment (men 13% and women 22% of life lived for 
low education vs men 7% and women 12% in high education group) disappear when 
education-adjusted cut points are used (10% in men and 17% in women at age 65 
for all education groups).
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that there is a substantial amount of life 
expectancy with cognitive impairment in both men and women. The impairment 
burden is just as great for those with high education as the lowest educated 
group.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gln003
PMCID: PMC2691183
PMID: 19182231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Clin Calcium. 2009 Feb;19(2):198-204.

[Management of phosphate in chronic kidney disease--Chemistry and history of 
phosphate binder].

[Article in Japanese]

Koiwa F(1), Sato Y.

Author information:
(1)Showa University Fujigaoka Hospital, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Division of Nephrology.

In 1960s and 1970s when hemodialysis therapy was started in Japan, calcium 
carbonate was used as a phosphate binder and as the purpose of calcium 
supplement. Aluminum preparations were widely used in Japan, Europe and United 
states since the end of 1970s, when these drugs were reported as a strong 
phosphate binder. After that, some adverse effects such as encephalopathy and 
bone lesions attributed to Aluminum administration have become serious problems 
in dialysis patients. As a result, Aluminum administration was prohibited in 
1992 in Japan. Oral vitamin D pulse therapy was developed in 1990s as a 
treatment for secondary hyperparathyroidism in Japan, hypercalcemia have been 
occurred easily by combination use of vitamin D preparations and calcium 
carbonate. Since the 2000s, various complications, such as ectopic 
calcifications, cardiovascular diseases, and reduced life expectancy, which are 
associated with hypercalcemia and hyperphosphatemia have been clarified. 
Therefore, sevelamer hydrochrolide, that is non calcium phosphate binder, became 
available from 2003. Moreover, Lanthanum carbonate, that is another type of non 
calcium phosphate binder, was effective in Europe and United States, and also 
developing in Japan. However, there are not any phosphate binders which solved 
all clinical problems such as phosphate adsorptive power, digestive symptoms, 
and organ accumulation.

PMID: 19182359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Mymensingh Med J. 2009 Jan;18(1):36-41.

What is known to us about renal function of our retired peoples?

Khan HU(1), Latif SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Mymensingh Medical College, Mymensingh, Bangladesh. 
hafiz2008bd@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Bangladesh is one of the twenty countries in the world with the 
largest elderly populations, and by 2025, along with four other Asian countries, 
will account for 44% of world's total elderly population. This rapidly 
increasing population is a new and important group in terms of social and health 
policy in the country. As retired geriatric population is increasing day by day 
and there is a striking increase in their life expectancy and a decrease kidney 
function recognized as risk factor for morbidity and mortality in the elderly so 
evaluation of the renal function of retired persons are essential.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the renal function of retired geriatric population by 
estimation of creatinine clearance by Cockcroft-Gault formula.
DESIGN: This was a cross-sectional study.
PARTICIPANT: Retired persons aged 57 years and above without known hypertension, 
diabetes, renal diseases as study group and healthy adult aged 18-55 years as 
control group were included in this study. All were obtained from different 
areas of greater Mymensingh districts.
INTERVENTION: Under strict aseptic precaution, venous blood was collected and 
serum creatinine of all were measured by deproteinization method and then 
calculation of creatinine clearance was done by using Cock-croft Gault formula.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Serum Creatinine, Creatinine clearance.
RESULT: Significant decrease of creatinine clearance was found in the study 
group (57 years and above) in comparison to control group (p<0.001). There is 
progressive decrease of creatinine clearance values by age.
LIMITATION: Calculation of Creatinine clearance by Cock-croft formula is not 
unambiguous and still not accepted unanimously globally. The other tests of 
renal function were not done.
CONCLUSION: Though the mean creatinine clearance values were significantly 
decreased in 57 years and above which was progressively decreased by age, yet 
values were within normal physiological limits. So the retired geriatric 
population has good renal function in our setting.

PMID: 19182747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Conserv Biol. 2009 Jun;23(3):719-28. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.01136.x.
Epub  2008 Dec 16.

Interactive effects of harvest and deer herbivory on the population dynamics of 
American ginseng.

Farrington SJ(1), Muzika RM, Drees D, Knight TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forestry, University of Missouri-Columbia, Columbia, MO 65211, 
USA. susan.farrington@mdc.mo.gov

Few demographic models for any species consider the role of multiple, 
interacting ecological threats. Many forest herbs are heavily browsed by 
white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) and a number of these are also 
harvested for the medicinal, floral, or horticultural trades. Previous studies 
of the viability of American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) have separately 
examined the effects of harvesting and deer herbivory. We followed individually 
marked ginseng plants in 6 populations for 8 years and documented deer browse 
levels, conducted helicopter surveys to estimate the deer herd size, and 
documented 2 ginseng harvests. We used this long-term data set to develop a 
stochastic demographic model that quantified the separate and interactive role 
of these threats to ginseng viability. Although harvesting and deer herbivory 
negatively affected ginseng population growth, their effects were not additive. 
Deer herbivory negatively affected population growth in the absence but not in 
the presence of harvesting. Life table response experiments revealed that in the 
presence of harvesting, deer herbivory had some positive effects on vital rates 
because browsed plants were less apparent to harvesters. Ginseng populations 
that were harvested responsibly (i.e., planting seeds from harvested 
individuals) had higher growth rates than those that were harvested 
irresponsibly. We concluded that both deer populations and harvesting must be 
managed to ensure sustainable populations of American ginseng. Our findings 
underscore the importance of long-term monitoring to assess threats to viability 
and the need for a broad ecological understanding of the complexity of ecosystem 
management.

Â©2008 Society for Conservation Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.01136.x
PMID: 19183206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Allergy. 2009 Mar;64(3):431-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2008.01855.x. Epub
2009  Jan 29.

An economic evaluation of NIOX MINO airway inflammation monitor in the United 
Kingdom.

Price D(1), Berg J, Lindgren P.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice and Primary Care, University of Aberdeen, 
Foresterhill Health Centre, Aberdeen, UK.

BACKGROUND: Fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FENO), a marker of eosinophilic 
airway inflammation, is easily measured by noninvasive means. The objective of 
this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of FENO measurement using a 
hand-held monitor (NIOX MINO), at a reimbursement price of 23 pound sterling, 
for asthma diagnosis and management in the UK.
METHODS: We constructed two decision trees to compare FENO measurement with 
standard diagnostic testing and guideline recommendations for management. For 
asthma diagnosis, we compared FENO measurement with lung function and 
reversibility testing, bronchial provocation and sputum eosinophil count. For 
asthma management, we evaluated the impact on asthma control, including inhaled 
corticosteroid use, exacerbations and hospitalizations, of monitoring with FENO 
measurement vs symptoms and lung function as in standard care. Resource use and 
health outcomes were evaluated over a 1-year time frame. Direct costs were 
calculated from a UK health-care payer perspective (2005 pound sterling).
RESULTS: An asthma diagnosis using FENO measurement cost 43 pound sterling less 
per patient as compared with standard diagnostic tests. Asthma management using 
FENO measurement instead of lung function testing resulted in annual 
cost-savings of 341 pound sterling and 0.06 quality-adjusted life-years gained 
for patients with mild to severe asthma and cost-savings of 554 pound sterling 
and 0.004 quality-adjusted life-years gained for those with moderate to severe 
asthma.
CONCLUSIONS: Asthma diagnosis based on FENO measurement with NIOX MINO alone is 
less costly and more accurate than standard diagnostic methods. Asthma 
management based on FENO measurement is less costly than asthma management based 
on standard guidelines and provides similar health benefits.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2008.01855.x
PMID: 19183419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. BMC Public Health. 2009 Jan 30;9:42. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-42.

Burden of disease due to cancer in Spain.

FernÃ¡ndez de Larrea-Baz N(1), Alvarez-MartÃ­n E, Morant-Ginestar C, 
GÃ¨nova-Maleras R, Gil A, PÃ©rez-GÃ³mez B, LÃ³pez-Abente G.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Assessment Unit, LaÃ­n Entralgo Agency, Madrid Regional 
Health Council, Madrid, Spain. nerea.fernandez@salud.madrid.org

BACKGROUND: Burden of disease is a joint measure of mortality and morbidity 
which makes it easier to compare health problems in which these two components 
enjoy different degrees of relative importance. The objective of this study is 
ascertaining the burden of disease due to cancer in Spain via the calculation of 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
METHODS: DALYs are the sum of years of life lost due to premature mortality and 
years lost due to disability. World Health Organization methodology and the 
following sources of data were used: the Mortality Register and Princeton Model 
Life Table for Years of life lost due to premature mortality and population, 
incidence estimates (Spanish tumour registries and fitting of generalized linear 
mixed models), duration (from data of survival in Spain from the EUROCARE-3 
study and fitting of Weibull distribution function) and disability (weights 
published in the literature) for Years lost due to disability.
RESULTS: There were 828,997 DALYs due to cancer (20.5 DALYs/1,000 population), 
61% in men. Of the total, 51% corresponded to lung, colorectal, breast, stomach 
and prostate cancers. Mortality (84% of DALYs) predominated over disability. 
Subjects aged under 20 years accounted for 1.6% and those aged over 70 years 
accounted for 30.1% of DALYs.
CONCLUSION: Lung, colorectal and breast cancers are responsible for the highest 
number of DALYs in Spain. Even if the burden of disease due to cancer is 
predominantly caused by mortality, some cancers have a significant weight of 
disability. Information on 2000 burden of disease due to cancer can be useful to 
assess how it has evolved over time and the impact of medical advances on it in 
terms of mortality and disability.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-42
PMCID: PMC2642814
PMID: 19183440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Stat Med. 2009 Apr 15;28(8):1238-54. doi: 10.1002/sim.3539.

Composite measures for hospital quality using quality-adjusted life years.

Timbie JW(1), Shahian DM, Newhouse JP, Rosenthal MB, Normand SL.

Author information:
(1)HSR&D Center for Clinical Management Research, VA Ann Arbor Healthcare 
System, 2215 Fuller Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, USA. justinti@med.umich.edu

Developing clinically meaningful summary measures of health-care quality is key 
to inferring quality of care. Current summary measures use a number of different 
approaches to weight their individual measures but rarely use weights based on 
clinical 'importance'. Such an approach would help to focus quality improvement 
efforts on areas likely to have the largest impact on health outcomes. Using 
coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery as a case study, we weight and 
combine 11 process, complication, and survival measures to summarize differences 
in quality-adjusted life expectancy 1 year following surgery for a sample of 
hospitals. We use a fully Bayesian analysis to estimate 1-year survival outcomes 
using a hierarchical exponential survival model. We then estimate the expected 
utility of the year following surgery for each patient using complication 
probabilities fitted from hierarchical models and utility values from the 
literature. We estimate quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for each hospital as 
the utility-weighted average 1-year survival probability and then estimate 
'incremental QALYs' by taking the difference in QALYs for each hospital relative 
to a comparison group that reflects the average performance of all hospitals in 
the state. We illustrate our framework by estimating incremental QALYs for 14 
hospitals performing CABG surgery in Massachusetts in 2003 and find that a 
composite measure based on QALYs can change the classification of quality 
outliers relative to conventional mortality measures.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3539
PMID: 19184974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Methods Enzymol. 2008;451:621-38. doi: 10.1016/S0076-6879(08)03234-5.

Autophagy in ticks.

Umemiya-Shirafuji R(1), Matsuo T, Fujisaki K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Emerging Infectious Diseases, Department of Frontier Veterinary 
Medicine, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan.

The generation time of ticks is estimated at several years and most ticks spend 
more than 95% of their life off the host. They seem to have a unique strategy to 
endure the off-host state for a long period. We focused on autophagy that is 
induced by starvation and is essential for extension of the life span in model 
organisms. Autophagy may occur in ticks that can survive extended periods of 
starvation. Although little research has been done on autophagy in ticks, 
recently, we showed the existence of an ATG gene homolog, HlATG12, in the 3-host 
tick Haemaphysalis longicornis. We have also examined the expression patterns of 
HlATG12, from nymphal to adult stages of this tick and revealed the localization 
of the HlAtg12, protein within midgut epithelial cells of unfed adult ticks. 
However, autophagy in ticks is a new field, so methods for monitoring this 
phenomenon in ticks are still to be established. This chapter discusses 
protocols for the detection of HlATG12, gene/HlAtg12, protein and the 
observation of the midgut epithelial cells using an electron microscope during 
the nonfeeding period of H. longicornis ticks. These methods can be adapted and 
modified for the study autophagy in other hard ticks.

DOI: 10.1016/S0076-6879(08)03234-5
PMID: 19185742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Lancet. 2009 Jan 31;373(9661):423-31. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60137-9.

Principles for allocation of scarce medical interventions.

Persad G(1), Wertheimer A, Emanuel EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioethics, The Clinical Center, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Apr 25;373(9673):1424-5; author reply 1425-6.
    Lancet. 2009 Apr 25;373(9673):1425; author reply 1425-6.

Allocation of very scarce medical interventions such as organs and vaccines is a 
persistent ethical challenge. We evaluate eight simple allocation principles 
that can be classified into four categories: treating people equally, favouring 
the worst-off, maximising total benefits, and promoting and rewarding social 
usefulness. No single principle is sufficient to incorporate all morally 
relevant considerations and therefore individual principles must be combined 
into multiprinciple allocation systems. We evaluate three systems: the United 
Network for Organ Sharing points systems, quality-adjusted life-years, and 
disability-adjusted life-years. We recommend an alternative system-the complete 
lives system-which prioritises younger people who have not yet lived a complete 
life, and also incorporates prognosis, save the most lives, lottery, and 
instrumental value principles.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60137-9
PMID: 19186274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Endourol. 2009 Feb;23(2):275-8. doi: 10.1089/end.2008.0432.

Laparoscopic cystoprostatectomy for radiation-induced hemorrhagic cystitis.

Fergany AF(1), Moussa AS, Gill IS.

Author information:
(1)Glickman Urological and Kidney Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 
44195, USA. fergana@ccf.org

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Hemorrhagic cystitis after radiotherapy is a relatively 
rare event, usually occurring several years after radiation treatment. It can be 
relentlessly progressive, and treatment options are usually suboptimal. No 
management strategy is fully successful, and a stepwise progression in treatment 
intensity is often necessary with cystectomy and urinary diversion being the 
final management option.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Laparoscopic cystoprostatectomy with minilaparotomy ileal 
conduit urinary diversion was successfully performed in three patients with 
severe refractory hemorrhagic cystitis secondary to radiation treatment for 
prostate cancer. More conservative management had failed in all three patients 
with continued severe and life-threatening bleeding.
RESULTS: No intraoperative complications were encountered in spite of the 
obliteration of tissue planes after radiation treatment. Mean operative time was 
4 hours and 45 minutes, including the urinary diversion. Blood loss ranged from 
50 to 200 mL. Postoperative recovery was uneventful with the exception of 
prolonged ileus in one patient, which resolved conservatively.
CONCLUSION: Radiation treatment for prostate cancer is not an absolute 
contraindication for laparoscopic cystoprostatectomy, which can still be safely 
performed in some of these patients. Extension of this experience to patients 
with malignant disease remains to be evaluated.

DOI: 10.1089/end.2008.0432
PMID: 19187011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Risk Anal. 2009 Jun;29(6):885-99. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2009.01197.x. Epub
 2009 Jan 30.

Predicting future excess events in risk assessment.

Furukawa K(1), Cologne JB, Shimizu Y, Ross NP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Radiation Effects Research Foundation, Japan. 
furukawa@rerf.or.jp

Risk characterization in a study population relies on cases of disease or death 
that are causally related to the exposure under study. The number of such cases, 
so-called "excess" cases, is not just an indicator of the impact of the risk 
factor in the study population, but also an important determinant of statistical 
power for assessing aspects of risk such as age-time trends and susceptible 
subgroups. In determining how large a population to study and/or how long to 
follow a study population to accumulate sufficient excess cases, it is necessary 
to predict future risk. In this study, focusing on models involving excess risk 
with possible effect modification, we describe a method for predicting the 
expected magnitude of numbers of excess cases and assess the uncertainty in 
those predictions. We do this by extending Bayesian APC models for rate 
projection to include exposure-related excess risk with possible effect 
modification by, e.g., age at exposure and attained age. The method is 
illustrated using the follow-up study of Japanese Atomic-Bomb Survivors, one of 
the primary bases for determining long-term health effects of radiation exposure 
and assessment of risk for radiation protection purposes. Using models selected 
by a predictive-performance measure obtained on test data reserved for 
cross-validation, we project excess counts due to radiation exposure and 
lifetime risk measures (risk of exposure-induced deaths (REID) and loss of life 
expectancy (LLE)) associated with cancer and noncancer disease deaths in the 
A-Bomb survivor cohort.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2009.01197.x
PMID: 19187483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. BMC Public Health. 2009 Feb 2;9:47. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-47.

Mortality profiles in a country facing epidemiological transition: an analysis 
of registered data.

Huicho L(1), Trelles M, Gonzales F, Mendoza W, Miranda J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos, Lima, 
Peru. lhuicho@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Sub-national analyses of causes of death and time-trends help to 
define public health policy priorities. They are particularly important in 
countries undergoing epidemiological transition like Peru. There are no studies 
exploring Peruvian national and regional characteristics of such epidemiological 
transition. We aimed to describe Peru's national and regional mortality profiles 
between 1996 and 2000.
METHODS: Registered mortality data for the study period were corrected for 
under-registration following standardized methods. Main causes of death by age 
group and by geographical region were determined. Departmental mortality 
profiles were constructed to evaluate mortality transition, using 1996 data as 
baseline. Annual cumulative slopes for the period 1996-2000 were estimated for 
each department and region.
RESULTS: For the study period non-communicable diseases explained more than half 
of all causes of death, communicable diseases more than one third, and injuries 
10.8% of all deaths. Lima accounted for 32% of total population and 20% of total 
deaths. The Andean region, with 38% of Peru's population, accounted for half of 
all country deaths. Departmental mortality predominance shifted from 
communicable diseases in 1996 towards non-communicable diseases and injuries in 
2000. Maternal and perinatal conditions, and nutritional deficiencies and 
nutritional anaemia declined markedly in all departments and regions. Infectious 
diseases decreased in all regions except Lima. In all regions acute respiratory 
infections are a leading cause of death, but their proportion ranged from 9.3% 
in Lima and Callao to 15.3% in the Andean region. Tuberculosis and injuries 
ranked high in Lima and the Andean region.
CONCLUSION: Peruvian mortality shows a double burden of communicable and 
non-communicable, with increasing importance of non-communicable diseases and 
injuries. This challenges national and sub-national health system performance 
and policy making.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-47
PMCID: PMC2640471
PMID: 19187553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Acta Med Port. 2008 Sep-Oct;21(5):475-82. Epub 2009 Jan 16.

[Neurocognitive dysfunction after valve surgery].

[Article in Portuguese]

Teixeira-Sousa V(1), Costa C, Costa A, Grangeia R, Reis C, Coelho R.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Psiquiatria, Hospital de SÃ£o JoÃ£o, Porto.

Erratum in
    Acta Med Port. 2008 Nov-Dec;21(6):610.

Neurocognitive dysfunction is, nowadays, reported as one of the most frequent 
complications of cardiac surgery, with documented potential to have a negative 
impact on quality of life. Notwithstanding, the cognitive evaluation is almost 
exclusively restricted to research contexts, being depreciated in clinical 
settings. Cognitive functioning changes have mostly been investigated in 
patients submitted to coronary artery bypass grafting, with data reporting to 
valvular surgery still being extremely rare. In spite of the dramatic reduction 
of rheumatic valvular pathology in developed countries, the burden of 
degenerative diseases owed to prolonged life expectancy keep the valvular heart 
diseases as a major Public Health problem. Beyond the intraoperative damage, 
which [corrected] is believed to occur in both surgeries, in valvular surgery 
the deficits might turn out to be the result of cumulative lesions caused by 
microemboli originating from prosthetic cardiac valves. Etiology of cerebral 
injury related to cardiac surgery is not completely elucidated, probably 
representing a complex interaction between cerebral microemboli, global cerebral 
hypoperfusion, inflammation and genetic susceptibility. The exact identification 
of the involved mechanisms is still a great challenge. The available data 
concerning cognitive performance after valvular surgery point out that this 
intervention appears to be more harmful towards cognition than the coronary 
artery bypass grafting, even when considering biological valve replacement. 
Thus, the type of valve prosthesis appears not to be the prevailing factor in 
cognitive complains maintenance, with age and type of valvular intervention 
being the most influent factors on long-term prognosis. A notable variability 
between results of different studies may arise from diverse investigational 
methodologies and from factors related with difficulties inherent to the 
cognitive assessment, such as the diverse methods used for evaluation and the 
presence of a remarkable number of confounding factors. Investigation on 
valvular surgery neurocognitive effects is still in a very incipient period, 
being crucial to accurately establish the exact influence of the specific 
variables of this particular patient's group, such as the type of surgery and 
valve prosthesis. Furthermore, the clarification of the pathophysiological 
mechanisms subjacent to neurocognitive dysfunction might represent an important 
step to look for potential preventive or therapeutic strategies that could 
ameliorate brain function after cardiac surgery.

PMID: 19187690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. J Health Econ. 2009 Mar;28(2):427-43. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.12.007.
Epub  2008 Dec 25.

Rich and healthy-better than poor and sick? An empirical analysis of income, 
health, and the duration of the pension benefit spell.

Hupfeld S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Konstanz, Box D136, 78457 Konstanz, 
Germany. stefan.hupfeld@gmx.de

I analyze the relationship between duration of the pension benefit spell and 
pension benefit claims from the German public pension system, with a special 
emphasis on differential results with respect to health. This relationship is 
crucial for a potential structural pattern of redistribution between different 
income and health groups, induced by the public pension system. Evidence for 
such redistribution from poor to rich is present for most of the specifications 
in my analysis. The most adequate specification is partially linear, does 
therefore not impose any parametrical restrictions between duration and benefit 
claims, and allows for potential endogeneity. The relationship I extract is 
clearly positive. I also find that redistribution from low-income individuals to 
individuals with high income is more pronounced the worse the health status is, 
despite longer benefit spells for pensioners in ill-health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.12.007
PMID: 19187987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Sports Med Phys Fitness. 2009 Mar;49(1):85-90.

Supervised exercise versus non-supervised exercise for reducing weight in obese 
adults.

NicolaÃ¯ SP(1), Kruidenier LM, Leffers P, Hardeman R, Hidding A, Teijink JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Atrium medical centre Parkstad, Heerlen, The 
Netherlands.

AIM: The prevalence of obesity is rising. Because obesity is positively 
associated with many health related risks and negatively associated with life 
expectancy this is a threat to public health. Physical exercise is a well known 
method to lose fat mass. Due to shame of their appearance, bad general condition 
and social isolation, starting and continuing physical exercise tends to be 
problematic for obese adults. A supervised training program could be useful to 
overcome such negative factors. In this study we hypothesized that offering a 
supervised exercise program for obese adults would lead to greater benefits in 
body fat and total body mass reduction than a non-specific oral advice to 
increase their physical activity.
METHODS: Thirty-four participants were randomised to a supervised exercise 
program group (N.=17) and a control group (N.=17). Fifteen candidates in the 
intervention group and 12 in the control group appeared for baseline 
measurements and bought an all inclusive sports pass to a health club for Euro 
10, per month. The control group just received the oral advice to increase their 
physical activity at their convenience. The supervised exercise group received 
biweekly exercise sessions of 2 hours with an estimated energy expenditure of 2 
500 kJ per hour. Both groups received no dietary advice.
RESULTS: After 4 months the overall decrease in body mass in the intervention 
group was 8.0 kg (SD 6.2) and the decrease in body fat was 6.2 kg (SD 4.5). The 
control group lost 2.8 kg overall (SD 4.2) and the decrease in body fat was 1.7 
kg (SD 3.1). Correction for differences between groups in gender and age by 
multiple linear regression analysis showed significantly greater loss of total 
body mass (P = 0.001) and fat mass (P =0.002) in the intervention group compared 
with the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Stimulation of physical activity alone seems to result in a slight 
short term body mass and fat mass reduction in obese adults who are eager to 
lose weight. Supervised exercise under supervision of a qualified fitness 
instructor leads to a larger decrease.

PMID: 19188900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Apr;24(4):475-81. doi: 10.1007/s11606-009-0912-1. Epub
 2009 Feb 3.

The contribution of cancer incidence, stage at diagnosis and survival to racial 
differences in years of life expectancy.

Wong MD(1), Ettner SL, Boscardin WJ, Shapiro MF.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Health Services Research, David 
Geffen School of Medicine at the University of California, Los Angeles, CA 
90024, USA. mitchellwong@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: African Americans have higher cancer mortality rates than whites. 
Understanding the relative contribution of cancer incidence, stage at diagnosis 
and survival after diagnosis to the racial gap in life expectancy has important 
implications for directing future health disparity interventions toward cancer 
prevention, screening and treatment.
OBJECTIVE: We estimated the degree to which higher cancer mortality among 
African Americans is due to higher incidence rates, later stage at diagnosis or 
worse survival after diagnosis.
DESIGN: Stochastic model of cancer incidence and survival after diagnosis.
PATIENTS: Surveillance and Epidemiology End Result cancer registry and National 
Health Interview Survey data.
MEASUREMENTS: Life expectancy if African Americans had the same cancer 
incidence, stage and survival after diagnosis as white adults.
RESULTS: African-American men and women live 1.47 and 0.91 fewer years, 
respectively, than whites as the result of all cancers combined. Among men, 
racial differences in cancer incidence, stage at diagnosis and survival after 
diagnosis account for 1.12 (95% CI: 0.52 to 1.36), 0.17 (95% CI: -0.03 to 0.33) 
and 0.21 (95% CI: 0.05 to 0.34) years of the racial gap in life expectancy, 
respectively. Among women, incidence, stage and survival after diagnosis account 
for 0.41 (95% CI: -0.29 to 0.60), 0.26 (95% CI: -0.06 to 0.40) and 0.31 (95% CI: 
0.05 to 0.40) years, respectively. Differences in stage had a smaller impact on 
the life expectancy gap compared with the impact of incidence. Differences in 
cancer survival after diagnosis had a significant impact for only two 
cancers-breast (0.14 years; 95% CI: 0.05 to 0.16) and prostate (0.05 years; 95% 
CI 0.01 to 0.09).
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to breast and colorectal cancer screening, national 
efforts to reduce disparities in life expectancy should also target cancer 
prevention, perhaps through smoking cessation, and differences in survival after 
diagnosis among persons with breast and prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-009-0912-1
PMCID: PMC2659154
PMID: 19189193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Fish Physiol Biochem. 2009 Mar;35(1):29-42. doi: 10.1007/s10695-008-9217-2.
Epub  2008 Apr 16.

Fishes of southern South America: a story driven by temperature.

Cussac VE(1), FernÃ¡ndez DA, GÃ³mez SE, LÃ³pez HL.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones en Biodiversidad y Medio Ambiente, Universidad 
Nacional del Comahue-CONICET, Bariloche, RÃ­o Negro, Argentina. 
vcussac@crub.uncoma.edu.ar

The latitudinal extension of southern South America imposes a thermal gradient 
that affects the structure of marine and freshwater fish assemblages and the 
biology of the species through direct exposure to the temperature gradients or 
by means of a web of historical and ecological relationships. We have reviewed 
biological and ecological data of marine and freshwater fishes from the southern 
Neotropics, including Patagonia, and report several examples of dependence on 
temperature, from glacial times to today's climate change. We were able to 
identify historic and present effects on the diversity of fish assemblages, 
isolation, southern limits for the distribution of species, and morphological 
variation among populations. There is a wide range of characteristics that 
exemplify an adaptation to low temperatures, including biochemical 
peculiarities, physiological adjustments, and alternative life history patterns, 
and these appear in both freshwater and marine, and native and exotic fishes. 
The consequences of stable temperature regimes in both the ocean and thermal 
streams deserve special mention as these shape specialists under conditions of 
low selective pressure. At present, habitat use and interactions among species 
are being subject to changes as consequences of water temperature, and some of 
these are already evident in the northern and southern hemispheres.

DOI: 10.1007/s10695-008-9217-2
PMID: 19189234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2009 Jul;24(7):739-47. doi: 10.1002/gps.2190.

Prediction of survival in Alzheimer's disease--the LASER-AD longitudinal study.

Paradise M(1), Walker Z, Cooper C, Blizard R, Regan C, Katona C, Livingston G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health Sciences, University College London, UK. 
mattparadise7@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with variable but shortened 
life expectancy. Knowing expected survival time may empower people with AD and 
their families, but clinicians currently have limited predictive information. 
Our objective was to identify determinants of survival in a cohort of people 
with mild to moderate AD and test these on a separate validation cohort.
METHODS: We followed a representative cohort of 158 people for 42 months and 
