due mainly to a single recessive QTL on the left arm of chromosome 2. This locus 
colocalised with a QTL that conditioned variation in female life span, acting as 
an overdominant locus for this trait. Male life span was additionally affected 
by variation at the X-chromosome.
CONCLUSION: This demonstrates that analysis of large conditional lethal effects 
is a viable strategy for delineating genes which are sensitive to inbreeding 
depression.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2148-8-297
PMCID: PMC2625367
PMID: 18957085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Hypertens Res. 2008 Jul;31(7):1373-83. doi: 10.1291/hypres.31.1373.

Cost-utility analysis of antihypertensive combination therapy in Japan by a 
Monte Carlo simulation model.

Saito I(1), Kobayashi M, Matsushita Y, Mori A, Kawasugi K, Saruta T.

Author information:
(1)Health Center, Keio University, 35 Shinanomachi, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 160-0016, 
Japan. saito@hc.cc.keio.ac.jp

The objective of the present study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of 
lifetime antihypertensive therapy with angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB) 
monotherapy, calcium channel blocker (CCB) monotherapy, or ARB plus CCB 
(ARB+CCB) combination therapy in Japan. Based on the results of large-scale 
clinical trials and epidemiological data, we constructed a Markov model for 
patients with essential hypertension. Our Markov model comprised coronary heart 
disease (CHD), stroke, and progression of diabetic nephropathy submodels. Based 
on this model, analysis of the prognosis of each patient was repeatedly 
conducted by Monte Carlo simulation. The three treatment strategies were 
compared in hypothetical 55-year-old patients with systolic blood pressure (SBP) 
of 160 mmHg in the absence and presence of comorbid diabetes. Olmesartan 
medoxomil 20 mg/d was the ARB and azelnidipine 16 mg/d the CCB in our model. 
On-treatment SBP was assumed to be 125, 140, and 140 mmHg in the ARB+CCB, ARB 
alone, and CCB alone groups, respectively. Costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) were discounted by 3%/year. The ARB+CCB group was the most 
cost-effective both in male and female patients with or without diabetes. In 
conclusion, ARB plus CCB combination therapy may be a more cost-effective 
lifetime antihypertensive strategy than monotherapy with either agent alone.

DOI: 10.1291/hypres.31.1373
PMID: 18957808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2008 Oct;34(5):776-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0756.2008.00796.x.

Prognostic factors in endometrial carcinoma.

Uharcek P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty Hospital Nitra, Slovakia. 
uharcek@gmx.net

Endometrial carcinoma is the most common malignancy of the female genital tract 
in industrialized countries, and occurs predominantly after the menopause. 
Although most endometrial carcinomas are detected at low stage, there is still a 
significant mortality from the disease. In postmenopausal women, prolonged life 
expectancy, changes in reproductive behavior and prevalence of overweight and 
obesity, as well as hormone replacement therapy use, may partially account for 
the observed increases of incidence rates in some countries. In order to improve 
treatment and follow-up of endometrial carcinoma patients, the importance of 
various prognostic factors has been extensively studied. The identification of 
high-risk groups would make it possible to avoid unnecessary adjuvant treatment 
among patients with a good prognosis. Over the past few decades, several studies 
have demonstrated the prognostic importance of different parameters including 
lymph node status, histological type of carcinoma (serous carcinoma and clear 
cell carcinomas are poor prognostic types), histological grade, stage of 
disease, depth of myometrial invasion, lymphovascular space involvement and 
cervical involvement. Other factors currently being investigated are estrogen 
and progesterone receptor status, p53 status, flow cytometric analysis for 
ploidy and S-phase fraction, and oncogenes such as HER-2/neu (c-erbB-2).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0756.2008.00796.x
PMID: 18958927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Fed Regist. 2008 Aug 22;73(164):49593-603.

Irradiation in the production, processing and handling of food. Final rule.

Food and Drug Administration, HHS.

The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is amending the food additive regulations 
to provide for the safe use of ionizing radiation for control of food-borne 
pathogens, and extension of shelf-life, in fresh iceberg lettuce and fresh 
spinach (hereinafter referred to in this document as "iceberg lettuce and 
spinach") at a dose up to 4.0 kilo Gray (kGy). This action is in partial 
response to a petition filed by The National Food Processors Association on 
behalf of The Food Irradiation Coalition.

PMID: 18958941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Artif Organs. 2008 Nov;32(11):891-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2008.00647.x.

Economic evaluation of coronary artery bypass grafting surgery with and without 
cardiopulmonary bypass: cost-effectiveness and quality-adjusted life years in a 
randomized controlled trial.

Al-Ruzzeh S(1), Epstein D, George S, Bustami M, Wray J, Ilsley C, Sculpher M, 
Amrani M.

Author information:
(1)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College of Science, Technology 
and Medicine, Harefield Hospital, Middlesex, UK. sharifalruzzeh@yahoo.co.uk

The objective of this study is to evaluate the costs and health benefits of 
coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery with and without cardiopulmonary 
bypass (CPB). Randomized controlled clinical trial is used as the design. The 
setting is in a single tertiary cardiothoracic center in Middlesex, UK. 
Participants were 168 patients (27 females) requiring primary isolated CABG 
surgery. Patients were randomized to have the procedure performed by a single 
surgeon either with CPB (n = 84) or by an off-pump coronary artery bypass 
(OPCAB) surgery (n = 84). Health-related quality of life was assessed at 
baseline, 6 weeks, and 6 months using the World Health Organization 
Quality-of-Life (WHOQOL-100) questionnaire. Mean total costs of patient 
management by either technique were calculated using different available key 
sources. A utility measure, derived from WHOQOL-100, was used to calculate 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained in each group, on basis of which a 
cost-effectiveness analysis was performed. The mean total costs of an OPCAB 
patient was 5859 pounds , whereas for a CPB patient it was 7431 pounds with a 
mean difference of 1572 pounds (standard error [SE] 674 pounds ; P = 0.02). 
Three patients died in the CPB group and two in the OPCAB group during the 
6-month follow-up period. Mean QALYs over 6 months was 0.379 in the OPCAB group 
and 0.362 in the CPB group, but the difference was not significant (mean 
difference 0.017; SE 0.016; P = 0.305). OPCAB surgery offered patients in this 
randomized trial similar health benefits to CPB over a 6-month period, but at a 
significantly less cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1525-1594.2008.00647.x
PMID: 18959683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2009 Jun 1;74(2):440-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2008.08.015. Epub 2008 Oct 27.

Partial-breast irradiation versus whole-breast irradiation for early-stage 
breast cancer: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Sher DJ(1), Wittenberg E, Suh WW, Taghian AG, Punglia RS.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Boston, MA, USA.

PURPOSE: Accelerated partial-breast irradiation (PBI) is a new treatment 
paradigm for patients with early-stage breast cancer. Although PBI may lead to 
greater local recurrence rates, it may be cost-effective because of better 
tolerability and lower cost. We aim to determine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of PBI compared with whole-breast radiation therapy (WBRT) 
for estrogen receptor-positive postmenopausal women treated for early-stage 
breast cancer.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: We developed a Markov model to describe health states in 
the 15 years after radiotherapy for early-stage breast cancer. External beam 
(EB) and MammoSite (MS) PBI were considered and assumed to be equally effective, 
but carried different costs. Patients received tamoxifen, but not chemotherapy. 
Utilities, recurrence risks, and costs were adapted from the literature; the 
baseline utility for no disease after radiotherapy was set at 0.92. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to model uncertainty in the 
PBI hazard ratio, recurrence pattern, and patient utilities. Costs (in 2004 US 
dollars) and quality-adjusted life-years were discounted at 3%/y.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for WBRT compared with EB-PBI 
was $630,000/quality-adjusted life-year; WBRT strongly dominated MS-PBI. One-way 
sensitivity analysis found that results were sensitive to PBI hazard ratio, 
recurrence pattern, baseline recurrence risk, and no evidence of disease PBI 
utility values. Probabilistic sensitivity showed that EB-PBI was the most 
cost-effective technique over a wide range of assumptions and societal 
willingness-to-pay values.
CONCLUSIONS: EB-PBI was the most cost-effective strategy for postmenopausal 
women with early-stage breast cancer. Unless the quality of life after MS-PBI 
proves to be superior, it is unlikely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2008.08.015
PMCID: PMC2695677
PMID: 18963542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement: No author has 
any conflict of interest with this manuscript.


548. Talanta. 2005 Jun 15;66(5):1158-67. doi: 10.1016/j.talanta.2005.01.019.

Monitoring of pigmented surfaces in accelerated ageing process by ATR-FT-IR 
spectroscopy and multivariate control charts.

Marengo E(1), Liparota MC, Robotti E, Bobba M, Gennaro MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environment and Life Sciences, University of Eastern Piedmont, 
Via Bellini 25/G, 15100 Alessandria, Italy.

This work is an extension of a method for monitoring the conservation state of 
pigmented surfaces presented in a previous paper. A cotton canvas painted with 
an organic pigment (Alizarin) was exposed to UV light in order to evaluate the 
effects of the applied treatment on the surface of the sample. The conservation 
state of the pigmented surface was monitored with ATR-FT-IR spectroscopy and 
multivariate control charts. The IR spectra were analysed by principal component 
analysis (PCA) and the relevant principal components (PCs) were used for 
constructing multivariate Shewhart, cumulative sums (CUSUM) and simultaneous 
scores monitoring and residuals tracking (SMART) control charts. These tools 
were successfully applied for the identification of the presence of relevant 
modifications occurring on the surface of the sample. Finally, with the aim to 
more deeply investigate what happened to the sample surface during the UV 
exposure, a PCA of the residuals matrix of degradation analyses only, not 
present in the previous paper, was performed. This analysis produced interesting 
results concerning the identification of the processes taking place on the 
irradiated surface.

DOI: 10.1016/j.talanta.2005.01.019
PMID: 18970104


549. Hum Mol Genet. 2009 Jan 15;18(2):289-303. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddn356. Epub 2008
Oct  29.

Convergent extension movements and ciliary function are mediated by ofd1, a 
zebrafish orthologue of the human oral-facial-digital type 1 syndrome gene.

Ferrante MI(1), Romio L, Castro S, Collins JE, Goulding DA, Stemple DL, Woolf 
AS, Wilson SW.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, Cambridge CB10 
1SA, UK.

In humans, OFD1 is mutated in oral-facial-digital type I syndrome leading to 
prenatal death in hemizygous males and dysmorphic faces and brain malformations, 
with polycystic kidneys presenting later in life in heterozygous females. To 
elucidate the function of Ofd1, we have studied its function during zebrafish 
embryonic development. In wild-type embryos, ofd1 mRNA is widely expressed and 
Ofd1-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion localizes to the centrosome/basal 
body. Disrupting Ofd1 using antisense morpholinos (MOs) led to bent body axes, 
hydrocephalus and oedema. Laterality was randomized in the brain, heart and 
viscera, likely a consequence of shorter cilia with disrupted axonemes and 
perturbed intravesicular fluid flow in Kupffer's vesicle. Embryos injected with 
ofd1 MOs also displayed convergent extension (CE) defects, which were enhanced 
by loss of Slb/Wnt11 or Tri/Vangl2, two proteins functioning in a non-canonical 
Wnt/Planar Cell Polarity (PCP) pathway. Pronephric glomerular midline fusion was 
compromised in vangl2 and ofd1 loss of function embryos and we suggest this 
anomaly may be a novel CE defect. Thus, Ofd1 is required for ciliary motility 
and function in zebrafish, supporting data showing that Ofd1 is essential for 
primary cilia function in mice. In addition, our data show that Ofd1 is 
important for CE during gastrulation, consistent with data linking primary cilia 
and non-canonical Wnt/PCP signalling.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddn356
PMCID: PMC2638777
PMID: 18971206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Medicina (Kaunas). 2008;44(9):713-22.

Inequalities in life expectancy by education and socioeconomic transition in 
Lithuania.

Kalediene R(1), Starkuviene S, Petrauskiene J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management, Kaunas University of Medicine, Kaunas, 
Lithuania. kaleda@kaunas.omnitel.net

OBJECTIVE: To present changes in life expectancy of males and females by the 
level of educational achievement and describe different aspects of inequalities 
in life expectancy over the decade of socioeconomic transition in Lithuania.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This analysis is based on routine mortality statistics and 
census data for 1989 and 2001 for the entire country. The study included the 
population more than 25 years of age.
RESULTS: Increasing inequalities in life expectancy by education have occurred 
due to increasing life expectancy amongst persons with higher educational 
achievements, and conversely, a declining life expectancy in groups with low 
levels of education. Cardiovascular diseases were responsible for the greatest 
number of years lost in life expectancy by all educational categories both in 
males and females. The numbers of years lost due to cardiovascular diseases 
decreased in majority of educational categories, particularly in lower secondary 
educational group. The increase in the years of life expectancy lost was 
observed due to external causes of death, the higher education being associated 
with the lower numbers of years lost, especially in females. The greatest impact 
on the difference in life expectancy between males with university and primary 
education was caused by external causes both in 1989 and 2001, while the major 
contribution to the educational differences in life expectancy of females was 
made by cardiovascular diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Favorable forecast of declining health inequalities by education in 
Lithuania can hardly be expected in the nearest future. Collective efforts and 
constructive actions should address the health problems of the least privileged 
groups in terms of education, as well as promotional efforts directed at young 
people to complete their education and guarantee of equal opportunities for 
education.

PMID: 18971610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Minerva Pediatr. 2008 Dec;60(6):1445-50.

Instability and dislocation of the hip in Down syndrome: report of two cases and 
proposition of a diagnostic protocol.

Bettuzzi C(1), Magnani M, Lampasi M, Donzelli O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Orthopedics and Traumatology, Rizzoli Orthopedic 
Institute, Bologna, Italy.

The authors report two cases of children with Down syndrome presenting with 
different patterns of instability of the hip. A 4-year-old girl with delay in 
the acquisition of walking presented with a painless ''habitual dislocation''. 
An 11-year-old girl presented with ''subluxation'' of the hip, painful after 
long walks. Surgical treatment combining soft tissues and bone procedures 
(including reduction and plastic of the redundant capsule in both cases, 
differently associated with femoral varus and derotational osteotomy using 
Scaglietti screws and pelvic osteotomy according to Zanoli-Pemberton) provided 
excellent radiographic (improvement in radiographic indices) and functional (the 
first patient began walking without falls; pain disappeared in the second 
patient) result. With increasing life expectancy of patients with trisomy 21, 
the incidence of painful arthritis of the hip in adulthood is also rising, 
contributing to progressive loss of walking ability. Early diagnosis and correct 
treatment of young patients presenting with hip instability are mandatory to 
reduce this disabling pathologic condition. The authors review the literature 
about natural history and possible treatments of hip instability and 
dislocation, and propose a diagnostic protocol to use in the case of children 
with Down syndrome.

PMID: 18971905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Health Econ. 2012 Dec;21(12):1477-95; discussion 1496-1501. doi: 
10.1002/hec.1415. Epub 2008 Oct 28.

A second look at pharmaceutical spending as determinants of health outcomes in 
Canada.

Emmanuel Guindon G(1), Contoyannis P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ont., Canada. guindoge@mcmaster.ca

Comment on
    Health Econ. 2005 Feb;14(2):107-16.

Per capita spending on pharmaceutical products has increased substantially in 
recent decades in Canada. Recent Canadian research by Crémieux et al. concludes 
that there is a strong statistical relationship between pharmaceutical spending 
and health outcomes (Health Econ. 2005a; 14: 117, Health Econ. 2005b; 14(2): 
107-116). This paper takes a second look at pharmaceutical spending as 
determinants of health outcomes in Canada. In doing so, it examines the 
robustness of the findings of Crémieux et al. by considering the appropriateness 
of the data used and statistical approach utilized. Particular attention is 
given to the potential for non-stationarity and spurious regression, issues 
related to unit heterogeneity and the choice of estimators. In contrast with 
earlier findings, on the whole, no discernable relationship between spending on 
private or public pharmaceutical products and infant mortality or life 
expectancy at 65 is observed.

Copyright © 2008 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1415
PMID: 18972325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2008 Nov;43(11):1107-1116. doi: 10.1002/ppul.20911.

Reproductive and sexual health in boys with cystic fibrosis: what do parents 
know and say?

Frayman KB(1)(2)(3), Cerritelli B(1), Wilson J(3), Sawyer SM(1)(2)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Adolescent Health, Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, 
Australia.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, 
Australia.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Medicine, Alfred Hospital, Nursing and 
Health Sciences, Monash University, Victoria, Australia.
(4)Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.
(5)Department of Paediatrics, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Improved life expectancy in cystic fibrosis (CF) alters the 
significance of developmentally relevant aspects such as sexual and reproductive 
health (SRH). Men with CF report parents are an important source of information 
about infertility, but parent perspectives remain unknown. The aim of this study 
was to systematically explore parents' knowledge, attitudes and behaviors 
regarding the SRH education of their sons.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eligible participants were parents of boys with CF aged at 
least 6 years who completed a 61-item written questionnaire that was developed 
to measure parent knowledge and education about CF-specific aspects of SRH, and 
parent attitudes and behaviors about the CF-specific sexuality education of 
their sons.
RESULTS: Eighty-four mothers (82%) and 64 fathers (70%) completed the 
questionnaire. All but one knew of probable infertility, being primarily 
informed at the time of diagnosis. Since then, 19% of parents reported 
subsequent discussions of SRH with their son's CF specialist, mostly initiated 
by parents. Adolescence was considered the most appropriate time for the initial 
education of boys. Sixty percent of parents worried how their sons would react. 
Ninety-five percent of parents said that they (alone or together with the CF 
specialist) should first inform their sons of probable infertility. Only 30% of 
parents were satisfied with their current knowledge.
CONCLUSION: These parents are well informed about male infertility in CF. 
However, they have had little opportunity for subsequent discussion of SRH with 
health professionals since their son's diagnosis. As boys mature, subsequent SRH 
discussions by health professionals with parents are indicated.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.20911
PMID: 18972412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Yonsei Med J. 2008 Oct 31;49(5):719-24. doi: 10.3349/ymj.2008.49.5.719.

Degeneration of acetabular articular cartilage to bipolar hemiarthroplasty.

Moon KH(1), Kang JS, Lee TJ, Lee SH, Choi SW, Won MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Inha University Hospital, Incheon, Korea. 
moon@inha.ac.kr

PURPOSE: This study examined the rate of degeneration of acetabular cartilage by 
the bipolar head according to time, and also which clinical factors are related 
to the degeneration of acetabular cartilage.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Among 192 patients (226 hip joints) who received bipolar 
hemiarthroplasty from August 1996 to August 2002, 61 patients (65 hip joints) 
were enrolled in this study, who were followed up for more than 2 years and 
showed no signs of dislocation, infection, or functional problems. A modified 
form of a computer assisted vector wear analysis program was used to measure the 
rate of degeneration of the acetabular cartilage. The factors that appeared to 
affect the rate of acetabular degeneration in the two groups was evaluated.
RESULTS: The average linear degenerative change in the acetabular cartilage and 
the volumetric degenerative change were 0.23 +/- 0.107mm/year and 114 +/- 
47.2mm3/year, respectively. The result showed significant differences in 
activity and HHS between the 2 groups. The HHS showed a reverse relationship 
with the linear degeneration and volumetric degeneration, and the activity 
showed a correlation with the linear and volumetric degeneration.
CONCLUSION: The acetabular cartilage degenerates faster as the patient' activity 
increases, and slower with a higher HHS. When surgeons perform hip joint 
arthroplasty, it is strongly recommended that the life expectancy and the level 
of activity should be considered when deciding between a hemiarthroplasty and 
total hip arthroplasty.

DOI: 10.3349/ymj.2008.49.5.719
PMCID: PMC2615364
PMID: 18972591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2008 Aug 5;57(1):1-36.

U.S. decennial life tables for 1999-2001, United States life tables.

Arias E(1), Curtin LR, Wei R, Anderson RN.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National Center for Health 
Statistics, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, MD 20782, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents period life tables for the United States based 
on age-specific death rates for the period 1999-2001. These tables are the most 
recent in a 100-year series of decennial life tables for the United States.
METHODS: This report presents complete life tables by age, race (white and 
black), and sex. Also presented are standard errors of the probability of dying 
and life expectancy. The data used to prepare these life tables are population 
estimates based on the 2000 decennial census, deaths occurring in the United 
States to U.S. residents in the 3 years 1999-2001, counts of U.S. resident 
births in the years 1997-2001, and population and death counts from the Medicare 
program for years 1999-2001.
RESULTS: In 1999-2001, life expectancy at birth was 76.83 years for the total 
U.S. population, representing an increase of 27.59 years from a life expectancy 
of 49.24 years in 1900. Between 1900 and 2000, life expectancy increased by 
40.08 years for black females (from 35.04 to 75.12), by 35.54 years for black 
males (from 32.54 to 68.08), by 28.89 years for white females (from 51.08 to 
79.97), and by 26.51 years for white males (from 48.23 to 74.74).

PMID: 18972722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Child Welfare. 2008;87(2):169-88.

Children ever in care: an examination of cumulative disproportionality.

Magruder J(1), Shaw TV.

Author information:
(1)Center for Social Services Research, School of Social Welfare, University of 
California, Berkeley, California 94720-7400, USA.

Most studies of ethnic disproportionality in child welfare examine data in one 
of two ways: a point in time approach or an entry cohort approach. While each 
provides insight into disproportionality, neither gives a full picture of the 
differences among ethnic groups in the experience of the child welfare system 
over time. This study uses longitudinal administrative child welfare data to 
examine ethnic disproportionality in involvement with the child welfare system 
during the first seven years of life at three levels of contact: (1) initial 
referrals, (2) substantiated referrals, and (3) first entries. Findings suggest 
the experience of African American families, and probably Native American 
families, with the child welfare system is much different from other families.

PMID: 18972937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Child Welfare. 2008;87(2):189-202.

The benefits of life table analysis for describing disproportionality.

Crampton D(1), Coulton CJ.

Author information:
(1)Mandel School of Applied Social Sciences, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, Ohio 44106-7164, USA.

This article reviews how life table analysis can improve on cross-sectional 
analysis of disproportionality by comparing African American and Caucasian 
children's risk of being investigated for child maltreatment or being placed in 
foster care before their 10th birthday. We then highlight the application of 
life table results in advocacy. Newspaper commentaries and presentations for 
community groups using these results raised awareness with policymakers and in 
turn helped to increase funding and programming that addresses 
disproportionality. Life table results point to the role of age and geography in 
understanding why disproportionality occurs. We conclude by describing how one 
community is using these results to develop interventions and reform strategies 
based on addressing these age and geography factors.

PMID: 18972938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Nov 4;105(44):16860-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0808927105. Epub 2008 Oct 30.

The effects of 3 environmental risks on mortality disparities across Mexican 
communities.

Stevens GA(1), Dias RH, Ezzati M.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization, CH-1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

The disparities in the burden of ill health caused by environmental risks should 
be an important consideration beyond their aggregate population effects. We used 
comparative risk assessment methods to calculate the mortality effects of unsafe 
water and sanitation, indoor air pollution from household solid fuel use, and 
ambient urban particulate matter pollution in Mexico. We also estimated the 
disparities in mortality caused by each risk factor, across municipios 
(counties) of residence and by municipio socioeconomic status (SES). Data 
sources for the analysis were the national census, population-representative 
health surveys, and air quality monitoring for risk factor exposure; systematic 
reviews and meta-analyses of epidemiological studies for risk factor effects; 
and vital statistics for disease-specific mortality. During 2001-2005, unsafe 
water and sanitation, household solid fuel use, and urban particulate matter 
pollution were responsible for 3,000, 3,600, and 7,600 annual deaths, 
respectively. Annual child mortality rates would decrease by 0.2, 0.1, and 0.1 
per 1,000 children, and life expectancy would increase by 1.0, 1.2, and 2.4 
months, respectively, in the absence of these environmental exposures. Together, 
these risk factors caused 10.6% of child deaths in the lowest-SES communities 
(0.9 deaths per 1,000 children), but only 4.0% in communities in the highest-SES 
ones (0.1 per 1,000). In the 50 most-affected municipios, these 3 exposures were 
responsible for 3.2 deaths per 1,000 children and a 10-month loss of life 
expectancy. The large disparities in the mortality effects of these 3 
environmental risks should form the basis of interventions and environmental 
monitoring programs.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0808927105
PMCID: PMC2579343
PMID: 18974224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


559. RNA. 2008 Dec;14(12):2478-88. doi: 10.1261/rna.1252608. Epub 2008 Oct 30.

Evidence of a novel RNA secondary structure in the coding region of HIV-1 pol 
gene.

Wang Q(1), Barr I, Guo F, Lee C.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Biology Institute, University of California at Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, California 90095, USA.

RNA secondary structures play several important roles in the human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) life cycle. To assess whether RNA secondary 
structure might affect the function of the HIV protease and reverse 
transcriptase genes, which are the main targets of anti-HIV drugs, we applied a 
series of different computational approaches to detect RNA secondary structures, 
including thermodynamic RNA folding predictions, synonymous variability 
analysis, and covariance analysis. Each method independently revealed strong 
evidence of a novel RNA secondary structure at the junction of the protease and 
reverse transcriptase genes, consisting of a 107-nucleotide region containing 
three stems, A, B, and C. First, RNA folding calculations by mfold and RNAfold 
both predicted the secondary structure with high confidence. Moreover, the same 
structure was predicted in a diverse set of reference sequences in HIV-1 group 
M, indicating that it is conserved across this group. Second, the predicted 
base-pairing regions displayed markedly reduced synonymous variation 
(approximately threefold lower than average) in a data set of 20,000 HIV-1 
subtype B sequences from clinical samples. Third, independent analysis of 
covariation between synonymous mutations in this data set identified 10 
covariant mutation pairs forming two diagonals that corresponded exactly to the 
sites predicted to base-pair in stems A and B. Finally, this structure was 
validated experimentally using selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation and primer 
extension (SHAPE). Discovery of this novel secondary structure suggests many 
directions for further functional investigation.

DOI: 10.1261/rna.1252608
PMCID: PMC2590956
PMID: 18974280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Neurol India. 2008 Jul-Sep;56(3):236-47. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.43441.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Yiu EM(1), Kornberg AJ.

Author information:
(1)Children's Neuroscience Centre, Royal Children's Hospital Melbourne, 
Australia.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), an X-linked disorder, is the most common 
muscular dystrophy in children, presenting in early childhood and characterized 
by proximal muscle weakness and calf hypertrophy in affected boys. Patients 
usually become wheelchair-bound by the age of 12 years, and die of 
cardiorespiratory complications in their late teens to early twenties. Advances 
in the management of DMD, including treatment with corticosteroids and the use 
of intermittent positive pressure ventilation have provided improvements in 
function, ambulation, quality of life and life expectancy, although novel 
therapies still aim to provide a cure for this devastating disorder. The 
clinical features, investigations, and management of DMD are reviewed, as well 
as the latest in some of the novel therapies.

DOI: 10.4103/0028-3886.43441
PMID: 18974549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Osteoporos Int. 2009 Jul;20(7):1131-40. doi: 10.1007/s00198-008-0779-8. Epub
 2008 Oct 31.

Remaining lifetime and absolute 10-year probabilities of osteoporotic fracture 
in Swiss men and women.

Lippuner K(1), Johansson H, Kanis JA, Rizzoli R.

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosis Policlinic, Inselspital, Bern University Hospital and University 
of Bern, Bern, Switzerland. kurt.lippuner@insel.ch

SUMMARY: Remaining lifetime and absolute 10-year probabilities for osteoporotic 
fractures were determined by gender, age, and BMD values. Remaining lifetime 
probability at age 50 years was 20.2% in men and 51.3% in women and increased 
with advancing age and decreasing BMD. The study validates the elements required 
to populate a Swiss-specific FRAX model.
INTRODUCTION: Switzerland belongs to high-risk countries for osteoporosis. Based 
on demographic projections, burden will still increase. We assessed remaining 
lifetime and absolute 10-year probabilities for osteoporotic fractures by 
gender, age and BMD in order to populate FRAX algorithm for Switzerland.
METHODS: Osteoporotic fracture incidence was determined from national 
epidemiological data for hospitalised fractured patients from the Swiss Federal 
Office of Statistics in 2000 and results of a prospective Swiss cohort with 
almost 5,000 fractured patients in 2006. Validated BMD-associated fracture risk 
was used together with national death incidence and risk tables to determine 
remaining lifetime and absolute 10-year fracture probabilities for hip and major 
osteoporotic (hip, spine, distal radius, proximal humerus) fractures.
RESULTS: Major osteoporotic fractures incidence was 773 and 2,078 per 100,000 
men and women aged 50 and older. Corresponding remaining lifetime probabilities 
at age 50 were 20.2% and 51.3%. Hospitalisation for clinical spine, distal 
radius, and proximal humerus fractures reached 25%, 30% and 50%, respectively. 
Absolute 10-year probability of osteoporotic fracture increased with advancing 
age and decreasing BMD and was higher in women than in men.
CONCLUSION: This study validates the elements required to populate a 
Swiss-specific FRAX model, a country at highest risk for osteoporotic fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-008-0779-8
PMID: 18974918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Arch Pharm Res. 1997 Apr;20(2):128-37. doi: 10.1007/BF02973999.

Immunological studies on the antitumor components of the basidiocarps ofAgrocybe 
cylindracea.

Kim BK(1), Hyun JW, Yoon JM, Choi EC.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Seoul National University, Kwanak-ku, 151-742, Seoul, 
Korea.

The effects of cylindan, a polysaccharide isolated from the basidiocarps 
ofAgrocybe cylindracea, on murine sarcoma 180 tumor and murine immune cells were 
examined after intraperitoneal administration. Cylindan exhibited a marked life 
extension effect in mice against ascite forms of sarcoma 180 and Lewis lung 
carcinoma at a dose of 50 mg/kg/day, although it did not show any direct 
cytotoxicity against sarcoma 180, X5563, and MM46 murine tumor cells. Cylindan 
increased numbers of bone marrow stem cells as well as peritoneal exudate cells 
in flow cytometry using monoclonal antibodies. The tumor bearing mice group 
apparently showed the increase of macrophages and cytotoxic T lymphocytes in 
mouse spleen cells during the early stage of tumor growth. But during the later 
stage, the control group decreased immune cells and cylindan restored the 
decreased immune cells in the tumor bearing mice to the normal level. In 
non-specific immune response, cylindan stimulated the bacterial phagocytosis and 
acid phosphatase production in macrophages. It also activated components of the 
alternative complement pathway and natural killer activity against YAC-1 
lymphoma. In humoral immunity, cylindan had a mitogenic effect against 
splenocytes and increased the number of plasma cells as token of stimulation of 
the differentiation of B lymphocytes. In cellular immunity, cylindan restored 
the depressed response of delayed type hypersensitivity in the tumor bearing 
mice to 60% of the normal level and increased the interleukin-2 (IL-2) 
responsiveness in the IL-2 dependent CTLL-2 cells. These results suggest that 
cylindan did not show direct cytotoxic effects on tumor cells but restored the 
decreased immune response of the tumor bearing mice.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02973999
PMID: 18975190


563. Arthritis Rheum. 2008 Nov;58(11):3299-308. doi: 10.1002/art.24034.

Pharmacokinetics of oral methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Dalrymple JM(1), Stamp LK, O'Donnell JL, Chapman PT, Zhang M, Barclay ML.

Author information:
(1)University of Otago, Christchurch, New Zealand.

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheum. 2008 Nov;58(11):3279-82.

OBJECTIVE: There is evidence supporting a therapeutic range for methotrexate 
polyglutamate (MTXGlu) concentrations in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA). Knowledge of the pharmacokinetics of MTXGlu1-5 is required for optimal 
timing of blood sampling. The aim of this study was to determine the time to 
steady state and the half-life of accumulation of red blood cell (RBC) MTXGlu1-5 
in patients with RA commencing oral MTX, and the time for RBC MTXGlu1-5 to 
become undetectable and the half-life of elimination of RBC MTXGlu1-5 in 
patients ceasing treatment with oral MTX.
METHODS: Ten patients beginning treatment and 10 patients stopping treatment 
with low-dose oral MTX were recruited. Blood samples were initially collected 
weekly, with gradual extension to monthly collection over the study period. RBC 
MTXGlu1-5 concentrations were assayed by high-performance liquid chromatography. 
Results were analyzed using a first-order exponential method.
RESULTS: The median times to reach steady state in RBCs (defined as 90% of the 
maximum concentration) were 6.2, 10.6, 41.2, 149, and 139.8 weeks, respectively, 
for MTXGlu1, MTXGlu2, MTXGlu3, MTXGlu4, and MTXGlu5. The median half-life of 
accumulation for RBC MTXGlu1-5 ranged from 1.9 weeks to 45.2 weeks. The median 
times for MTXGlus to become undetectable in RBCs were 4.5, 5.5, 10, 6, and 4 
weeks, respectively, for MTXGlu1, MTXGlu2, MTXGlu3, MTXGlu4, and MTXGlu5. The 
median half-life of elimination for RBC MTXGlu1-5 ranged from 1.2 weeks to 4.3 
weeks.
CONCLUSION: There is wide interpatient variability of RBC MTXGlu1-5 accumulation 
and elimination in adults with RA. These data also suggest that after a dose 
change, >6 months are required for RBC MTXGlu1-5 to reach steady state. Such 
delays in achieving steady state suggest that more rapid dose escalation or 
subcutaneous administration from the outset should be considered.

DOI: 10.1002/art.24034
PMID: 18975321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Arthritis Rheum. 2008 Nov 15;59(11):1665-9. doi: 10.1002/art.24196.

Isometric rate of force development, maximum voluntary contraction, and balance 
in women with and without joint hypermobility.

Mebes C(1), Amstutz A, Luder G, Ziswiler HR, Stettler M, Villiger PM, Radlinger 
L.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Bern, Bern, Switzerland. christine.mebes@insel.ch

OBJECTIVE: To determine differences between hypermobile subjects and controls in 
terms of maximum strength, rate of force development, and balance.
METHODS: We recruited 13 subjects with hypermobility and 18 controls. Rate of 
force development and maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) during single leg knee 
extension of the right knee were measured isometrically for each subject. 
Balance was tested twice on a force plate with 15-second single-leg stands on 
the right leg. Rate of force development (N/second) and MVC (N) were extracted 
from the force-time curve as maximal rate of force development (= limit 
Deltaforce/Deltatime) and the absolute maximal value, respectively.
RESULTS: The hypermobile subjects showed a significantly higher value for rate 
of force development (15.2% higher; P = 0.038, P = 0.453, epsilon = 0.693) and 
rate of force development related to body weight (16.4% higher; P = 0.018, P = 
0.601, epsilon = 0.834) than the controls. The groups did not differ 
significantly in MVC (P = 0.767, P = 0.136, epsilon = 0.065), and MVC related to 
body weight varied randomly between the groups (P = 0.921, P = 0.050, epsilon = 
0.000). In balance testing, the mediolateral sway of the hypermobile subjects 
showed significantly higher values (11.6% higher; P = 0.034, P = 0.050, epsilon 
= 0.000) than that of controls, but there was no significant difference (4.9% 
difference; P = 0.953, P = 0.050, epsilon = 0.000) in anteroposterior sway 
between the 2 groups.
CONCLUSION: Hypermobile women without acute symptoms or limitations in 
activities of daily life have a higher rate of force development in the knee 
extensors and a higher mediolateral sway than controls with normal joint 
mobility.

DOI: 10.1002/art.24196
PMID: 18975361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Health Serv J. 2008 Oct 16:17.

Data briefing. Widening gap in life expectancy.

Gordon D(1), Gibbs D.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Observatory Division, NHS Health Scotland.

PMID: 18975434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Health Econ. 2009 Jan;28(1):155-68. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.09.003.
Epub  2008 Sep 18.

Does compulsory education lower mortality?

Albouy V(1), Lequien L.

Author information:
(1)INSEE-DGTPE, Timbre G210, 15 Boulevard Gabriel Peri, BP 100, 92 244 Malakoff 
Cedex, France. valerie.albouy@insee.fr

Recent studies have claimed to show a significant causal impact of education on 
health status. Their empirical strategy usually relied on changes in compulsory 
schooling laws. Using a French longitudinal dataset, we focus on the effect of 
school leaving age on mortality at later ages. The two identifying shocks are 
the Zay and Berthoin reforms, which respectively raised the minimum school 
leaving age to 14 and 16 years. We implement a non-parametric regression 
discontinuity design, comparing cohorts born immediately before or after the 
reforms, and a parametric two-stage approach using information from a larger 
part of our sample. None of these approaches reveals a significant causality of 
education on health. Despite the fact that these reforms increased education 
levels, and that subsequent declines in mortality are observed, none of these 
declines appears to be significant. We conclude with a discussion on possible 
limitations of these two reforms as identifying devices.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2008.09.003
PMID: 18976824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Int J Surg. 2009 Feb;7(1):7-11. doi: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2008.09.001. Epub 2008
Oct  7.

Diagnosis and management strategy for cystic neoplasm of the pancreas.

Lai EC(1), Lau WY.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of Wales 
Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.

OBJECTIVE: This article aimed to propose a management strategy for cystic 
neoplasm of the pancreas based on the available evidence in the medical 
literature.
METHODS: A Medline search was undertaken to identify articles from 1988 to 2008 
using the keywords 'pancreatic cyst', 'pancreatic neoplasms', and 'cystic 
neoplasm of pancreas'. Additional papers were identified by a manual search of 
the references from the key articles.
COMMENTS: The optimal management of cystic neoplasms of pancreas remains 
controversial and should be individualized based on the balance between the risk 
and benefit. Multiple factors such as patient's comorbidity, performance status, 
life expectancy, and surgical risk, should be weighed against the malignant 
potential of the cyst.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijsu.2008.09.001
PMID: 18977189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Mech Ageing Dev. 2008 Dec;129(12):693-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.09.016.
Epub  2008 Oct 10.

Does senescence give rise to disease?

Carnes BA(1), Staats DO, Sonntag WE.

Author information:
(1)Reynolds Department of Geriatric Medicine, The University of Oklahoma Health 
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, USA. Bruce-Carnes@ouhsc.edu

The distinctions between senescence and disease are blurred in the literature of 
evolutionary biology, biodemography, biogerontology and medicine. Theories of 
senescence that have emerged over the past several decades are based on the 
concepts that organisms are a byproduct of imperfect structural designs built 
with imperfect materials and maintained by imperfect processes. Senescence is a 
complex mixture of processes rather than a monolithic process. Senescence and 
disease have overlapping biological consequences. Senescence gives rise to 
disease, but disease does not give rise to senescence. Current data indicate 
that treatment of disease can delay the age of death but there are no convincing 
data that these interventions alter senescence. An understanding of these basic 
tenets suggests that there are biological limits to duration of life and the 
life expectancy of populations and reveal biological domains where the 
development of interventions and/or treatments may modulate senescence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2008.09.016
PMCID: PMC3045748
PMID: 18977242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Mutat Res. 2009 Mar 31;674(1-2):62-72. doi: 10.1016/j.mrgentox.2008.09.016.
Epub  2008 Oct 11.

Inhalation of environmental stressors & chronic inflammation: autoimmunity and 
neurodegeneration.

Gomez-Mejiba SE(1), Zhai Z, Akram H, Pye QN, Hensley K, Kurien BT, Scofield RH, 
Ramirez DC.

Author information:
(1)Free Radical Biology and Aging Research Program, MS-21, 825 NE 13th Street, 
Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation, Oklahoma City, OK 73104, United States.

Human life expectancy and welfare has decreased because of the increase in 
environmental stressors in the air. An environmental stressor is a natural or 
human-made component present in our environment that upon reaching an organic 
system produces a coordinated response. This response usually involves a 
modification of the metabolism and physiology of the system. Inhaled 
environmental stressors damage the airways and lung parenchyma, producing 
irritation, recruitment of inflammatory cells, and oxidative modification of 
biomolecules. Oxidatively modified biomolecules, their degradation products, and 
adducts with other biomolecules can reach the systemic circulation, and when 
found in higher concentrations than normal they are considered to be biomarkers 
of systemic oxidative stress and inflammation. We classify them as metabolic 
stressors because they are not inert compounds; indeed, they amplify the 
inflammatory response by inducing inflammation in the lung and other organs. 
Thus the lung is not only the target for environmental stressors, but it is also 
the source of a number of metabolic stressors that can induce and worsen 
pre-existing chronic inflammation. Metabolic stressors produced in the lung have 
a number of effects in tissues other than the lung, such as the brain, and they 
can also abrogate the mechanisms of immunotolerance. In this review, we discuss 
recent published evidence that suggests that inflammation in the lung is an 
important connection between air pollution and chronic inflammatory diseases 
such as autoimmunity and neurodegeneration, and we highlight the critical role 
of metabolic stressors produced in the lung. The understanding of this 
relationship between inhaled environmental pollutants and systemic inflammation 
will help us to: (1) understand the molecular mechanism of 
environment-associated diseases, and (2) find new biomarkers that will help us 
prevent the exposure of susceptible individuals and/or design novel therapies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrgentox.2008.09.016
PMCID: PMC2676865
PMID: 18977456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Complexity. 2007;13(1):14-50. doi: 10.1002/cplx.20180.

Life, Information, Entropy, and Time: Vehicles for Semantic Inheritance.

Crofts AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, 419 Roger Adams Laboratory, 600 S. Mathews 
Avenue, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, IL 61801; E-mail: 
a-crofts@life.uiuc.edu.

Attempts to understand how information content can be included in an accounting 
of the energy flux of the biosphere have led to the conclusion that, in 
information transmission, one component, the semantic content, or "the meaning 
of the message," adds no thermodynamic burden over and above costs arising from 
coding, transmission and translation. In biology, semantic content has two major 
roles. For all life forms, the message of the genotype encoded in DNA specifies 
the phenotype, and hence the organism that is tested against the real world 
through the mechanisms of Darwinian evolution. For human beings, communication 
through language and similar abstractions provides an additional 
supra-phenotypic vehicle for semantic inheritance, which supports the cultural 
heritages around which civilizations revolve. The following three postulates 
provide the basis for discussion of a number of themes that demonstrate some 
important consequences. (i) Information transmission through either pathway has 
thermodynamic components associated with data storage and transmission. (ii) The 
semantic content adds no additional thermodynamic cost. (iii) For all semantic 
exchange, meaning is accessible only through translation and interpretation, and 
has a value only in context. (1) For both pathways of semantic inheritance, 
translational and copying machineries are imperfect. As a consequence both 
pathways are subject to mutation and to evolutionary pressure by selection. 
Recognition of semantic content as a common component allows an understanding of 
the relationship between genes and memes, and a reformulation of Universal 
Darwinism. (2) The emergent properties of life are dependent on a processing of 
semantic content. The translational steps allow amplification in complexity 
through combinatorial possibilities in space and time. Amplification depends on 
the increased potential for complexity opened by 3D interaction specificity of 
proteins, and on the selection of useful variants by evolution. The initial 
interpretational steps include protein synthesis, molecular recognition, and 
catalytic potential that facilitate structural and functional roles. 
Combinatorial possibilities are extended through interactions of increasing 
complexity in the temporal dimension. (3) All living things show a behavior that 
indicates awareness of time, or chronognosis. The ∼4 billion years of biological 
evolution have given rise to forms with increasing sophistication in sensory 
adaptation. This has been linked to the development of an increasing 
chronognostic range, and an associated increase in combinatorial complexity. (4) 
Development of a modern human phenotype and the ability to communicate through 
language, led to the development of archival storage, and invention of the basic 
skills, institutions and mechanisms that allowed the evolution of modern 
civilizations. Combinatorial amplification at the supra-phenotypical level arose 
from the invention of syntax, grammar, numbers, and the subsequent developments 
of abstraction in writing, algorithms, etc. The translational machineries of the 
human mind, the "mutation" of ideas therein, and the "conversations" of our 
social intercourse, have allowed a limited set of symbolic descriptors to evolve 
into an exponentially expanding semantic heritage. (5) The three postulates 
above open interesting epistemological questions. An understanding of topics 
such dualism, the élan vital, the status of hypothesis in science, memetics, the 
