HTA, Huispost 133 EBH, Postbus 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen. b.kiemeney@ebh.umcn.nl

Erratum in
    Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2008 Nov 1;152(44):2436.

OBJECTIVE: Calculation of valid and detailed risks of cancer from, and up to, 
specific ages for inhabitants of the Netherlands.
DESIGN: Secondary analyses of cancer incidence and mortality rates.
METHOD: Gender and age-specific incidence rates of 56 different types of cancer 
were obtained from the Netherlands Cancer Registry. Gender and age-specific 
mortality rates were obtained from Statistics Netherlands. Using survival 
charts, risks of cancer were calculated from all ages and up to all ages, in 
steps of 5 years. The US National Cancer Institute's software programme DevCan 
was used for analyses.
RESULTS: One out of every 2.3 newborn males (43.9%) and one out of every 2.6 
newborn females (38.1%) in the Netherlands will develop cancer sometime during 
their life. The risk of developing cancer before the age of 80 is 35.9% for 
newborn males and 30.2% for newborn females. Women run the greatest risk of 
developing breast cancer (almost 13%). 50-year-old women have a risk of almost 
3% of being diagnosed with breast cancer before the age of 60. Men have the 
greatest risk of a diagnosis of prostate cancer (almost 10%). The risk for a 
50-year-old man of being diagnosed with prostate cancer within the subsequent 10 
years however is less than 1%.
CONCLUSION: Detailed rates of risks of cancer are useful for policy issues such 
as decisions to implement screening programmes, for public education, and for 
patient counselling, as in the field of clinical genetics. The routinely 
reported risks for newborns developing cancer before the age of 75 lack the 
necessary detail for such use.

PMID: 19009811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Can J Public Health. 2008 Sep-Oct;99(5):383-6. doi: 10.1007/BF03405246.

Estimating the number needed to vaccinate to prevent herpes zoster-related 
disease, health care resource use and mortality.

Brisson M(1).

Author information:
(1)Départemente de médecine sociale et préventive, Université Laval, Québec, QC. 
marc.brisson@uresp.ulaval.ca

BACKGROUND: A clinical trial has shown that a live-attenuated varicella-zoster 
virus vaccine is effective against herpes zoster (HZ) and post-herpetic 
neuralgia (PHN). The aim of the study was to estimate the number needed to 
vaccinate (NNV) to prevent HZ-related outcomes.
METHODS: A cohort model of HZ associated disease, health care resource use and 
mortality was developed. Canadian population-based data were used to estimate 
age-specific incidence, hospitalization, quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) lost 
and mortality. NNV was calculated as the number of individuals needed to be 
vaccinated to prevent a specific HZ-related outcome during their lifetime. 
Different ages at vaccination were examined and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis was performed.
RESULTS: For 65 year olds, the NNV (HZ vaccine efficacy=63%, PHN vaccine 
efficacy=67%, no waning) to prevent a case of HZ, a case of PHN, a HZ death, a 
life-year lost and a QALY lost is estimated to be 11 (90% Crl: 10-13), 43 (90% 
Crl: 33-53), 23,319 (90% Crl: 15,312-33,139), 3762 (90% Crl: 1650-4629) and 165 
(90% Crl: 105-197), respectively. Results were most sensitive to the duration of 
vaccine protection and the age at vaccination.
DISCUSSION: The predicted NNV to prevent HZ and PHN are low even though vaccine 
efficacy is between 50-70%, which reflects the high incidence of these diseases 
among older adults. Results clearly show that the main benefit of HZ vaccination 
is prevention of morbidity caused by pain (as measured by QALYs lost) rather 
than mortality.

CONTEXTE: Un essai clinique a montré qu’un vaccin vivant atténué contre le virus 
varicelle-zona est efficace contre l’herpès zoster (zona) et l’algie 
post-zostérienne. Nous avons cherché à estimer le nombre de personnes qu’il 
faudrait vacciner (NPV) pour prévenir divers problèmes liés au zona.
MÉTHODE: Nous avons élaboré un modèle de cohorte pour la morbidité, 
l’utilisation des ressources en soins de santé et la mortalité associées au 
zona. Des données basés sur la population canadienne ont servi à estimer 
l’incidence selon l’âge, les hospitalisations, les années de vie perdues 
pondérées par la qualité, ainsi que la mortalité. Le NPV désigne le nombre de 
personnes à vacciner pour prévenir la manifestation d’un problème lié au zona au 
cours de la vie. Nous avons étudié des sujets d’âge différent lors de la 
vaccination et effectué une analyse de sensibilité probabiliste.
RÉSULTATS: Chez les sujets de 65 ans, nous avons estimé que le NPV (efficacité 
du vaccin contre le zona=63 %, efficacité du vaccin contre l’algie 
post-zostérienne=67 %, sans baisse de l’immunité) s’établirait à 11 pour 
prévenir un cas de zona (intervalle de crédibilité [ICr] à 90 %, 10-13), à 43 
pour prévenir un cas d’algie post-zostérienne (ICr à 90 %, 33-53), à 23 319 pour 
prévenir un décès attribuable au zona (ICr à 90 %, 15 312–33 139), à 3 762 pour 
prévenir une année de vie perdue (ICr à 90 %, 1 650–4 629), et à 165 pour 
prévenir une année de vie perdue pondérée par la qualité (ICr à 90 %, 105-197). 
Ces résultats étaient particulièrement sensibles à la durée de la protection 
vaccinale et à l’âge du sujet lors de la vaccination.
DISCUSSION: Même si le vaccin n’est efficace que dans une proportion de 50 à 70 
%, il faudrait vacciner relativement peu de sujets pour prévenir le zona et 
l’algie post-zostérienne, un résultat qui s’explique par la forte incidence de 
ces deux maladies chez les personnes âgées. Il est clair que le principal 
avantage du vaccin contre le zona est de prévenir la morbidité causée par la 
douleur (mesurée en années de vie perdues pondérées par la qualité) plutôt que 
la mortalité.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405246
PMCID: PMC6976184
PMID: 19009921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. J Law Med. 2008 Oct;16(2):263-78.

Preimplantation genetic diagnosis for susceptibility conditions: a new frontier 
or a logical extension?

Snelling J(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Law, University of Otago. jeanne.snelling@stonebow.otago.ac.nz

A susceptibility or "lower penetrance" condition is a condition to which a 
person may be predisposed by virtue of a particular gene mutation they carry 
within their genetic code. Genetic testing for susceptibility to late-onset 
conditions, an increasingly available phenomenon, has recently been associated 
with preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD). Performing PGD for conditions that 
occur later in life and that may be preventable or, if not, may be treatable, or 
that may never even develop, is highly contentious. It constitutes a significant 
departure from traditional PGD, going beyond testing for serious heritable 
disorders that are apparent at birth or in very early childhood or late-onset 
diseases that are certain to manifest themselves. It is likely that, as 
technology advances, there will be a growing demand for PGD to detect these 
types of conditions. This article considers the issues raised by susceptibility 
testing. It questions whether embryonic testing for late-onset susceptibility 
conditions is more appropriately a matter for regulatory restraint or 
reproductive liberty.

PMID: 19010004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2009 Feb 5;299(1):58-63. doi:
10.1016/j.mce.2008.10.018.  Epub 2008 Nov 1.

Dietary activators of Sirt1.

Allard JS(1), Perez E, Zou S, de Cabo R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Gerontology, National Institute on Aging, 6200 
Seaforth Street, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) is a non-genetic manipulation that reliably results in 
extended lifespan of several species ranging from yeast to dogs. The lifespan 
extension effect of CR has been strongly associated with an increased level and 
activation of the silent information regulator 2 (Sir2) histone deacetylase and 
its mammalian ortholog Sirt1. This association led to the search for potential 
Sirt1-activating, life-extending molecules. This review briefly outlines the 
experimental findings on resveratrol and other dietary activators of Sirt1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2008.10.018
PMCID: PMC2727669
PMID: 19010386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Lancet. 2008 Dec 20;372(9656):2124-31. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61594-9.
Epub  2008 Nov 17.

Inequalities in healthy life years in the 25 countries of the European Union in 
2005: a cross-national meta-regression analysis.

Jagger C(1), Gillies C, Moscone F, Cambois E, Van Oyen H, Nusselder W, Robine 
JM; EHLEIS team.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. 
cxj@le.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2009 Dec 20;372(9656):2114.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2008 Dec 20;372(9656):2090-2.
    Lancet. 2009 Mar 7;373(9666):808; author reply 808-9.

BACKGROUND: Although life expectancy in the European Union (EU) is increasing, 
whether most of these extra years are spent in good health is unclear. This 
information would be crucial to both contain health-care costs and increase 
labour-force participation for older people. We investigated inequalities in 
life expectancies and healthy life years (HLYs) at 50 years of age for the 25 
countries in the EU in 2005 and the potential for increasing the proportion of 
older people in the labour force.
METHODS: We calculated life expectancies and HLYs at 50 years of age by sex and 
country by the Sullivan method, which was applied to Eurostat life tables and 
age-specific prevalence of activity limitation from the 2005 statistics of 
living and income conditions survey. We investigated differences between 
countries through meta-regression techniques, with structural and sustainable 
indicators for every country.
FINDINGS: In 2005, an average 50-year-old man in the 25 EU countries could 
expect to live until 67.3 years free of activity limitation, and a woman to 68.1 
years. HLYs at 50 years for both men and women varied more between countries 
than did life expectancy (HLY range for men: from 9.1 years in Estonia to 23.6 
years in Denmark; for women: from 10.4 years in Estonia to 24.1 years in 
Denmark). Gross domestic product and expenditure on elderly care were both 
positively associated with HLYs at 50 years in men and women (p<0.039 for both 
indicators and sexes); however, in men alone, long-term unemployment was 
negatively associated (p=0.023) and life-long learning positively associated 
(p=0.021) with HLYs at 50 years of age.
INTERPRETATION: Substantial inequalities in HLYs at 50 years exist within EU 
countries. Our findings suggest that, without major improvements in population 
health, the target of increasing participation of older people into the labour 
force will be difficult to meet in all 25 EU countries.
FUNDING: EU Public Health Programme.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(08)61594-9
PMID: 19010526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Eur J Endocrinol. 2009 Feb;160(2):233-7. doi: 10.1530/EJE-08-0550. Epub 2008
Nov  14.

Normal overall mortality rate in Addison's disease, but young patients are at 
risk of premature death.

Erichsen MM(1), Løvås K, Fougner KJ, Svartberg J, Hauge ER, Bollerslev J, Berg 
JP, Mella B, Husebye ES.

Author information:
(1)Section for Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, Haukeland University 
Hospital, N-5021 Bergen, Norway. mmer@helse-bergen.no

CONTEXT: Primary adrenal insufficiency (Addison's disease) is a rare autoimmune 
disease. Until recently, life expectancy in Addison's disease patients was 
considered normal.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the mortality rate in Addison's disease patients.
DESIGN AND METHODS: i) Patients registered with Addison's disease in Norway 
during 1943-2005 were identified through search in hospital diagnosis 
registries. Scrutiny of the medical records provided diagnostic accuracy and age 
at diagnosis. ii) The patients who had died were identified from the National 
Directory of Residents. iii) Background mortality data were obtained from 
Statistics Norway, and standard mortality rate (SMR) calculated. iv) Death 
diagnoses were obtained from the Norwegian Death Cause Registry.
RESULTS: Totally 811 patients with Addison's disease were identified, of whom 
147 were deceased. Overall SMR was 1.15 (95% confidence intervals (CI) 
0.96-1.35), similar in females (1.18 (0.92-1.44)) and males (1.10 (0.80-1.39)). 
Patients diagnosed before the age of 40 had significantly elevated SMR at 1.50 
(95% CI 1.09-2.01), most pronounced in males (2.03 (1.19-2.86)). Acute adrenal 
failure was a major cause of death; infection and sudden death were more common 
than in the general population. The mean ages at death for females (75.7 years) 
and males (64.8 years) were 3.2 and 11.2 years less than the estimated life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Addison's disease is still a potentially lethal condition, with 
excess mortality in acute adrenal failure, infection, and sudden death in 
patients diagnosed at young age. Otherwise, the prognosis is excellent for 
patients with Addison's disease.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-08-0550
PMID: 19011006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2009 Jul;44(7):569-78. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-008-0463-5. Epub 2008 Nov 13.

Putting the 'Q' in depression QALYs: a comparison of utility measurement using 
EQ-5D and SF-6D health related quality of life measures.

Mann R(1), Gilbody S, Richards D.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Health Sciences, University of York, York, YO10 5DD, UK. 
rcm504@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Generic health preference measures that capture quality of life 
improvements in depression are important for economic analysis of new 
technologies.
AIM: To compare two widely used preference measures, the EQ-5D and SF-6D, in 
terms of their dimensions and health utility values.
METHOD: EQ-5D and SF-6D data collected from 114 patients with depression, who 
participated in a cluster, randomised controlled trial to evaluate a 
collaborative care intervention in UK, primary care practices. Utilities were 
examined across the whole sample and by level of depression severity using the 
PHQ-9.
RESULTS: Depression was associated with disutility at baseline. At 3 month 
follow-up mean utility increased 0.147 for EQ-5D and 0.082 for SF-6D. Health 
gains were observed in patients in remission from depression and those with the 
mildest level of depression severity.
CONCLUSIONS: Both generic preference measures were sensitive to health gains in 
depression within a relatively short follow-up period; larger health gain was 
observed for the EQ-5D.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-008-0463-5
PMID: 19011721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2008 Oct;20(5):460-8. doi: 10.1080/09540260802397560.

Pharmacotherapy for schizophrenic inpatients in East Asia--changes and 
challenges.

Shinfuku N(1), Tan CH.

Author information:
(1)Seinan Gakuin University, Fukuoka, Japan. shinfuku@seinan-gu.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: (1) to review characteristics of prescription patterns of 
antipsychotic medication in China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Singapore and 
Taiwan, (2) to examine the changes of prescriptions brought about by the 
introduction of second generation psychotropic drugs (SGA) in East Asia, (3) to 
analyse factors contributing to the characteristic use of antipsychotics, and 
(4) to suggest ways and means to improve the prescription practice of 
antipsychotics in East Asia.
METHODS: Authors of this study collaborated with psychiatrists in East Asia to 
undertake an international survey reviewing prescription patterns of 
psychotropic medications in East Asia. The REAP (Research on Asian psychotropic 
prescription patterns) study reviewed the prescription of a large number of 
schizophrenic inpatients in China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan 
in 2001 and 2004 using a unified research protocol and questionnaire.
RESULTS: Prescription patterns of antipsychotic drugs differ greatly country by 
country and have recently experienced rapid changes. Our survey shows second 
generation antipsychotics are frequently used in East Asia. The introduction of 
SGA resulted in the combined use of first generation psychotropic drugs (FGA) 
and SGA in East Asia. These changing prescription patterns have created many 
challenges for psychiatrists in East Asia.

DOI: 10.1080/09540260802397560
PMID: 19012132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Rheumatol. 2009 Jan;36(1):16-26. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.080257.

Cost-effectiveness of sequential therapy with tumor necrosis factor antagonists 
in early rheumatoid arthritis.

Davies A(1), Cifaldi MA, Segurado OG, Weisman MH.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, London, UK. andy.davies@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the comparative lifetime cost-effectiveness of sequenced 
therapy with tumor necrosis factor (TNF) antagonists as the initial therapeutic 
intervention for patients with early rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: Because patients with RA switch regimens many times throughout the 
course of disease, sequenced therapeutic interventions were modeled, continuing 
until the last effective agent failed or death occurred. The model used 
published clinical outcomes from short-term, randomized controlled trials. 
Direct treatment costs and costs of lost productivity were modeled for each of 5 
alternative treatment sequences. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios are 
expressed as quality-adjusted lifeyears (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Treatment sequences that included TNF antagonists produced a greater 
number of QALY than conventional disease modifying antirheumatic drug regimens 
alone. The cost-effectiveness of sequenced therapy initiated with adalimumab 
plus methotrexate (MTX) extendedly dominated both infliximab-plus-MTX-initiated 
and etanercept sequences. The cost of adalimumab plus MTX per QALY was US 
$47,157 excluding productivity losses, and $19,663 including productivity 
losses. A supplementary sequence that incorporated adalimumab-plus-MTX-initiated 
first-line therapy followed by another TNF antagonist as second-line therapy was 
modeled; this sequence resulted in additional QALY gained and extendedly 
dominated all single-TNF strategies.
CONCLUSION: Of the 3 single-TNF antagonist sequences, the 
adalimumab-plus-MTX-initiated sequence was cost-effective in producing the 
greatest number of QALY. Multiple TNF strategies, such as the supplementary 
sequence modeled in this analysis, may be cost-effective in producing even 
greater health gain.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.080257
PMID: 19012363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Neurosci Methods. 2009 Feb 15;177(1):183-93. doi: 
10.1016/j.jneumeth.2008.10.015. Epub 2008 Oct 21.

A simple, inexpensive and easily reproducible model of spinal cord injury in 
mice: morphological and functional assessment.

Marques SA(1), Garcez VF, Del Bel EA, Martinez AM.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas, Centro de Ciências da Saúde, Universidade 
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

Spinal cord injury (SCI) causes motor and sensory deficits that impair 
functional performance, and significantly impacts life expectancy and quality. 
Animal models provide a good opportunity to test therapeutic strategies in vivo. 
C57BL/6 mice were subjected to laminectomy at T9 and compression with a vascular 
clip (30g force, 1min). Two groups were analyzed: injured group (SCI, n=33) and 
laminectomy only (Sham, n=15). Locomotor behavior (Basso mouse scale-BMS and 
global mobility) was assessed weekly. Morphological analyses were performed by 
LM and EM. The Sham group did not show any morphofunctional alteration. All SCI 
animals showed flaccid paralysis 24h after injury, with subsequent improvement. 
The BMS score of the SCI group improved until the intermediate phase 
(2.037+/-1.198); the Sham animals maintained the highest BMS score 
(8.981+/-0.056), p<0.001 during the entire time. The locomotor speed was slower 
in the SCI animals (5.581+/-0.871) than in the Sham animals (15.80+/-1.166), 
p<0.001. Morphological analysis of the SCI group showed, in the acute phase, 
edema, hemorrhage, multiple cavities, fiber degeneration, cell death and 
demyelination. In the chronic phase we observed glial scarring, neuron death, 
and remyelination of spared axons by oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells. In 
conclusion, we established a simple, reliable, and inexpensive clip compression 
model in mice, with functional and morphological reproducibility and good 
validity. The availability of producing reliable injuries with appropriate 
outcome measures represents great potential for studies involving cellular 
mechanisms of primary injury and repair after traumatic SCI.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneumeth.2008.10.015
PMID: 19013194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Cell. 2008 Nov 14;135(4):609-22. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2008.09.034.

Telomerase reverse transcriptase delays aging in cancer-resistant mice.

Tomás-Loba A(1), Flores I, Fernández-Marcos PJ, Cayuela ML, Maraver A, Tejera A, 
Borrás C, Matheu A, Klatt P, Flores JM, Viña J, Serrano M, Blasco MA.

Author information:
(1)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National 
Cancer Centre CNIO, Madrid, Spain.

Telomerase confers limitless proliferative potential to most human cells through 
its ability to elongate telomeres, the natural ends of chromosomes, which 
otherwise would undergo progressive attrition and eventually compromise cell 
viability. However, the role of telomerase in organismal aging has remained 
unaddressed, in part because of the cancer-promoting activity of telomerase. To 
circumvent this problem, we have constitutively expressed telomerase reverse 
transcriptase (TERT), one of the components of telomerase, in mice engineered to 
be cancer resistant by means of enhanced expression of the tumor suppressors 
p53, p16, and p19ARF. In this context, TERT overexpression improves the fitness 
of epithelial barriers, particularly the skin and the intestine, and produces a 
systemic delay in aging accompanied by extension of the median life span. These 
results demonstrate that constitutive expression of Tert provides antiaging 
activity in the context of a mammalian organism.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2008.09.034
PMID: 19013273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Metabolism. 2008 Dec;57(12):1685-90. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2008.07.024.

Effects of growth hormone treatment on arginine to asymmetric dimethylarginine 
ratio and endothelial function in patients with growth hormone deficiency.

Setola E(1), Monti LD, Lanzi R, Lucotti P, Losa M, Gatti E, Galluccio E, Oldani 
M, Fermo I, Giovannelli M, Bosi E, Piatti P.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Department, Cardio-Diabetes Trials Unit, Scientific 
Institute San Raffaele, 20132 Milan, Italy.

Patients with growth hormone deficiency (GHD) are known to have reduced life 
expectancy due to increased cardiovascular and cerebrovascular events. An 
increase in asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) levels previously found in GHD 
patients could promote premature atherosclerosis. The aim of this study was to 
determine whether 6-month growth hormone (GH) replacement therapy was able to 
decrease ADMA levels and ameliorate endothelial dysfunction. Thirty-one GHD 
patients were studied before and after 6 months of GH (4 microg/[kg d], daily) 
replacement therapy. Reduced pretreatment levels of serum insulin-like growth 
factor (IGF) 1 were normalized during GH treatment (88.2 +/- 62.5 to 191.7 +/- 
80.3 ng/mL, P < .0001). After 6 months of GH replacement, plasma cyclic 
guanosine monophosphate levels significantly increased (2.14 +/- 0.52 to 3.54 
+/- 1.2 ng/mL, P < .0001), serum ADMA levels were significantly decreased (0.65 
+/- 0.1 vs 0.59 +/- 0.11 mumol/L, P < .05), and arganine (Arg) to ADMA ratio was 
significantly higher (155 +/- 53 vs 193 +/- 61, P < .01). No changes were 
observed for plasma nitric oxide end products (nitrite and nitrate) levels after 
GH treatment (21.9 +/- 14.9 vs 24.1 +/- 19.0 mumol/L, not significant). Basal 
forearm blood flow remained unchanged, whereas reactive hyperemia increased from 
7.30 +/- 5.31 mL/100 mL forearm per minute before GH therapy to 13.18 +/- 7.30 
mL/100 mL forearm per minute after 6 months of therapy (P < .001). There was a 
positive correlation between IGF-1 and cyclic guanosine monophosphate (r = 0.73, 
P < .0001), IGF-1 and reactive hyperemia (r = 0.63, P < .0001), and IGF-1 and 
Arg/ADMA ratio (r = 0.44, P < .01). Conversely, a negative correlation was found 
between IGF-1 and ADMA levels (r = -0.41, P < .02). At the end of the study 
period, fat-free mass, plasma glucose, and hemoglobin A(1c) levels significantly 
increased, even if they were still in the reference range, suggesting moderate 
alteration of glucose metabolism. In conclusion, in GHD patients, GH replacement 
contributes to decreased, to some extent, cardiovascular risk, reducing ADMA 
levels and improving Arg/ADMA ratio and endothelial dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.metabol.2008.07.024
PMID: 19013291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Actas Urol Esp. 2008 Sep;32(8):833-42. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(08)73943-3.

[Paediatric varicocele embolization dosimetric study].

[Article in Spanish]

Calama Santiago JA(1), Penedo Cobos JM, Molina López MY, González Ruiz C, García 
Mollá R, Sierra Díaz F.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Dosimetría y Radioprotección, Hospital General Universitario 
Gregorio Marañón, Madrid. juan_calama@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: Varicocele is a benign condition, often 
asymptomatic, that appears among young men with a normal life expectancy. The 
endovascular embolization is a minimally invasive therapeutic procedure 
indicated for varicocele treatment, although there are safe surgical 
alternatives. It is essential to know the radiological risk associated with the 
procedure. The aim of this work is to determine local dose levels in paediatric 
varicocele embolization, in order to minimize and to estimate the radiological 
risk.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In the retrospective study, 15 cases were analyzed, all of 
which were paediatric patients (10-18 years). The screening time and the 
dose-area product were known, as provided by the X-ray equipment. In the 
prospective study, dose optimization techniques were implemented, and in 
addition, radiographic films were used in order to verify the radiated zone and 
termoluminiscense dosimeters in order to evaluate gonad dose and maximum skin 
dose for 10 paediatric patients (10-16 years).
RESULTS: In the retrospective group, the average effective dose was 8.8 mSv. The 
total average risk of a fatal cancer induction in any location was 0.16%, and 
0.0007% for hereditary effects. The maximum skin dose was 250 mGy, which is far 
from the threshold for deterministic effects (2 Gy). In the prospective group, 
dose and radiological risk decreased by more than 70%.
CONCLUSIONS: Hereditary effects were very low in contrast to the fatal cancer 
risk estimation. According to the results we can discard deterministic effects, 
unless complications appear in the procedure. Radiation exposure must be 
optimized. It is necessary that medical staff know the radiological risks 
associated with the intervention, and inform the patients about them.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(08)73943-3
PMID: 19013983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2008 Sep-Oct;23(5):911-8.

A long-term retrospective study of two different implant surfaces placed after 
reconstruction of the severely resorbed maxilla using Le Fort I osteotomy and 
interpositional bone grafting.

Marchetti C(1), Pieri F, Corinaldesi G, Degidi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, School of Dentistry, University 
of Bologna, Italy. claudio.marchetti@unibo.it

PURPOSE: In this retrospective study, the long-term survival and success rates 
of implants with 2 different surfaces placed in extremely atrophic maxillae 
augmented with Le Fort I osteotomy and interpositional bone grafts were 
assessed.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In 12 consecutive patients (7 female, 5 male; average 
age, 55 years; age range, 47 to 63 years), the resorbed maxilla was 
reconstructed using Le Fort I osteotomy in combination with interpositional 
iliac bone grafts. After 5 to 6 months, machined or titanium plasma-sprayed 
implants were inserted. The patients were followed clinically and 
radiographically for 6 to 12 years (mean 102 +/- 24.42 months) after prosthetic 
loading. Implant outcome in terms of survival and success using Albrektsson's 
criteria was analyzed.
RESULTS: In all cases, the bone-grafting procedures allowed implant placement. 
Of the 104 implants placed (53 machined and 51 titanium plasma-sprayed), 11 
failed, resulting in an overall cumulative survival rate of 89.4%. When the 
success rate was calculated using the defined criteria, the cumulative success 
rate was 67.3%. The respective survival and success rates were 86.8% and 66.0% 
for the machined implants and 92.2% and 68.7% for the titanium plasma-sprayed 
implants. The mean marginal bone resorption was 2.91 +/- 0.77 mm (range, 0.6 to 
4.9 mm) around machined implants and 2.72 +/- 0.84 mm (range, 0.7 to 5.3 mm) 
around titanium plasma-sprayed implants. No significant differences in survival, 
success rate, or marginal bone resorption were found between the 2 implant 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Le Fort I osteotomy combined with bone grafts and delayed implant 
placement gave predictable long-term results. There was a distinct relationship 
between implant survival and the long-term success rate. The implant surface had 
no significant effect on the survival, success rate, or marginal bone 
resorption.

PMID: 19014162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(12):1019-35. doi:
10.2165/0019053-200826120-00005.

Management and prevention of diabetic foot ulcers and infections: a health 
economic review.

Chow I(1), Lemos EV, Einarson TR.

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Diabetic foot ulcers and infections are common and incur substantial economic 
burden for society, patients and families. We performed a comprehensive review, 
on a number of databases, of health economic evaluations of a variety of 
different prevention, diagnostic and treatment strategies in the area of 
diabetic foot ulcers and infections. We included English-language, 
peer-reviewed, cost-effectiveness, cost-minimization, cost-utility and 
cost-benefit studies that evaluated a treatment modality against placebo or 
comparator (i.e. drug, standard of care), regardless of year. Differences were 
settled through consensus. The search resulted in 1885 potential citations, of 
which 20 studies were retained for analysis (3 cost minimization, 13 cost 
effectiveness and 4 cost utility). Quality scores of studies ranged from 70.8% 
(fair) to 87.5% (good); mean = 78.4% +/- 5.33%.In diagnosing osteomyelitis in 
patients with diabetic foot infection, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed 
82% sensitivity and 80% specificity. MRI cost less than 3-phase bone scanning + 
Indium (In)-111/Gallium (Ga)-67; however, when compared with prolonged 
antibacterials, MRI cost $US120 (year 1993 value) more without additional 
quality-adjusted life-expectancy. Prevention strategies improved life expectancy 
and QALYs and reduced foot ulcer rates and amputations.Ampicillin/sulbactam and 
imipenem/cilastatin were both 80% successful in treating diabetic foot 
infections but the latter cost $US2924 more (year 1994 value). Linezolid cure 
rates were higher (97.7%) than vancomycin (86.0%) and cost $US873 less (year 
2004 value). Ertapenem costs were significantly lower than 
piperacillin/tazobactam ($US356 vs $US503, respectively; year 2005 values). 
Becaplermin plus good wound care may be cost effective in specific populations. 
Bioengineered living-skin equivalents increased ulcer-free months and ulcers 
healed, but costs varied between countries. Promogran produced more ulcer-free 
months than wound care alone (3.75 vs 3.41 months, respectively). Treatment with 
cadexomer iodine resulted in higher rates of healed ulcer (29% vs 11%) and lower 
weekly treatment costs (Swedish krona [SEK]903 vs SEK1421; year 1993 values) 
than standard care. Filgrastim decreased hospital stays, time to resolution and 
costs (36% lower) compared with usual care. Adjunctive hyperbaric oxygen 
produced an incremental cost per QALY at year 1 of $US27 310 and $US2255 at year 
12 (year 2001 values).Overall, preventive strategies were shown to be cost 
effective and potentially cost saving. Various antibacterial regimens are cost 
effective but empiric choices should be based on local resistance patterns. MRI 
was cost effective compared with three-phase bone scanning + In-111/Ga-67 but 
not against prolonged antibacterial therapy. Other innovations (becaplermin, 
bioengineered living-skin equivalents, filgrastim, cadexomer iodine ointment, 
hyperbaric oxygen, Promogran may be cost effective in this population but more 
studies are needed to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.2165/0019053-200826120-00005
PMID: 19014203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(12):1045-64. doi:
10.2165/0019053-200826120-00007.

A cost-utility comparison of four first-line medications in painful diabetic 
neuropathy.

O'Connor AB(1), Noyes K, Holloway RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Rochester School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 14642, USA. 
alec_oconnor@urmc.rochester.edu

BACKGROUND: Painful diabetic neuropathy is common and adversely affects 
patients' quality of life and function. Several treatment options exist, but 
their relative efficacy and value are unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative efficacy, costs and cost effectiveness of 
the first-line treatment options for painful diabetic neuropathy.
METHODS: Published and unpublished clinical trial and cross-sectional data were 
incorporated into a decision analytic model to estimate the net health and cost 
consequences of treatment for painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy over 
3-month (base case), 1-month and 6-month timeframes. Efficacy was measured in 
QALYs, and costs were measured in $US, year 2006 values, using a US third-party 
payer perspective. The patients included in the model were outpatients with 
moderate to severe pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy and no 
contraindications to treatment with tricyclic antidepressants. Four medications 
were compared: desipramine 100 mg/day, gabapentin 2400 mg/day, pregabalin 300 
mg/day and duloxetine 60 mg/day.
RESULTS: Desipramine and duloxetine were both more effective and less expensive 
than gabapentin and pregabalin in the base-case analysis and through a wide 
range of sensitivity analyses. Duloxetine offered borderline value compared with 
desipramine in the base case ($US47,700 per QALY), but not when incorporating 
baseline-observation-carried-forward analyses of the clinical trial data 
($US867,000 per QALY). The results were also sensitive to the probability of 
obtaining pain relief with duloxetine.
CONCLUSIONS: Desipramine (100 mg/day) and duloxetine (60 mg/day) appear to be 
more cost effective than gabapentin or pregabalin for treating painful diabetic 
neuropathy. The estimated value of duloxetine relative to desipramine depends on 
the assumptions made in the statistical analyses of clinical trial data.

DOI: 10.2165/0019053-200826120-00007
PMID: 19014205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. BMC Cancer. 2008 Nov 12;8:331. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-8-331.

Competing risks to breast cancer mortality in Catalonia.

Vilaprinyo E(1), Gispert R, Martínez-Alonso M, Carles M, Pla R, Espinàs JA, Rué 
M.

Author information:
(1)Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Bellvitge, IDIBELL, Hospitalet de 
Llobregat Catalonia, Spain. evilaprinyo@cmb.udl.cat

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer mortality has experienced important changes over the 
last century. Breast cancer occurs in the presence of other competing risks 
which can influence breast cancer incidence and mortality trends. The aim of the 
present work is: 1) to assess the impact of breast cancer deaths among mortality 
from all causes in Catalonia (Spain), by age and birth cohort and 2) to estimate 
the risk of death from other causes than breast cancer, one of the inputs needed 
to model breast cancer mortality reduction due to screening or therapeutic 
interventions.
METHODS: The multi-decrement life table methodology was used. First, all-cause 
mortality probabilities were obtained by age and cohort. Then mortality 
probability for breast cancer was subtracted from the all-cause mortality 
probabilities to obtain cohort life tables for causes other than breast cancer. 
These life tables, on one hand, provide an estimate of the risk of dying from 
competing risks, and on the other hand, permit to assess the impact of breast 
cancer deaths on all-cause mortality using the ratio of the probability of death 
for causes other than breast cancer by the all-cause probability of death.
RESULTS: There was an increasing impact of breast cancer on mortality in the 
first part of the 20th century, with a peak for cohorts born in 1945-54 in the 
40-49 age groups (for which approximately 24% of mortality was due to breast 
cancer). Even though for cohorts born after 1955 there was only information for 
women under 50, it is also important to note that the impact of breast cancer on 
all-cause mortality decreased for those cohorts.
CONCLUSION: We have quantified the effect of removing breast cancer mortality in 
different age groups and birth cohorts. Our results are consistent with US 
findings. We also have obtained an estimate of the risk of dying from 
competing-causes mortality, which will be used in the assessment of the effect 
of mammography screening on breast cancer mortality in Catalonia.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-8-331
PMCID: PMC2636833
PMID: 19014473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Med Decis Making. 2008 Nov-Dec;28(6):819-28. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08318463.
Epub  2008 Nov 17.

Quality-adjusted life years lost from nonfatal motor vehicle accident injuries.

Nyman JA(1), Barleen NA, Kirdruang P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455-0392, USA. nyman001@umn.edu

BACKGROUND: A number of studies have estimated the quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) lost from nonfatal motor vehicle accident injuries, but these estimates 
have a number of limitations.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study is to estimate the QALYs lost from the typical 
motor vehicle accident injury based on 1) data obtained through a standard 
preference elicitation procedure, 2) both permanent and nonpermanent injuries, 
and 3) a more realistic baseline quality-of-life level from which to determine 
the QALY decrement. This study also intends to demonstrate the advantages of 
using self-reported health status as the basis for determining a change in 
QALYs.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Ordered probit equations were estimated to determine the change 
in self-reported health status associated with 3 categories of injuries. These 
results were next converted to their marginal effects and weighted by the 
quality-of-life estimates for self-reported health status found in Nyman and 
others (2007). The quality-of-life decrements for the 3 categories of injury 
were then converted to QALY decrements by applying estimates of the duration of 
that injury type.
SUBJECTS: The data came from 8 years of the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey 
(MEPS), from 1997 to 2004.
MEASURES: Self-reported health status categories were excellent, very good, 
good, fair, or poor.
RESULTS: The reference case decrement for an average motor vehicle accident 
injury is 0.0612 QALYs or 0.0360 QALYs, if discounted at 3%.
CONCLUSIONS: Quality-of-life weights for self-reported health status can be used 
to exploit the data in large national surveys.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08318463
PMID: 19015290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. CMAJ. 2008 Nov 18;179(11):1143-51. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.080808.

The cost-effectiveness of Vancouver's supervised injection facility.

Bayoumi AM(1), Zaric GS.

Author information:
(1)The Centre for Research on Inner City Health, The Keenan Research Centre in 
the Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ont. 
ahmed.bayoumi@utoronto.ca

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2008 Nov 18;179(11):1105-6.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of Canada's only supervised injection 
facility has not been rigorously evaluated. We estimated the impact of the 
facility on survival, rates of HIV and hepatitis C virus infection, referral to 
methadone maintenance treatment and associated costs.
METHODS: We simulated the population of Vancouver, British Columbia, including 
injection drug users and persons infected with HIV and hepatitis C virus. The 
model used a time horizon of 10 years and the perspective of the health care 
system. We compared the situation of the supervised injection facility with one 
that had no facility but that had other interventions, such as needle-exchange 
programs. The effects considered were decreased needle sharing, increased use of 
safe injection practices and increased referral to methadone maintenance 
treatment. Outcomes included life-years gained, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios discounted at 5% per year.
RESULTS: Focusing on the base assumption of decreased needle sharing as the only 
effect of the supervised injection facility, we found that the facility was 
associated with an incremental net savings of almost $14 million and 920 
life-years gained over 10 years. When we also considered the health effect of 
increased use of safe injection practices, the incremental net savings increased 
to more than $20 million and the number of life-years gained to 1070. Further 
increases were estimated when we considered all 3 health benefits: the 
incremental net savings was more than $18 million and the number of life-years 
gained 1175. Results were sensitive to assumptions related to injection 
frequency, the risk of HIV transmission through needle sharing, the frequency of 
safe injection practices among users of the facility, the costs of HIV-related 
care and of operating the facility, and the proportion of users who inject in 
the facility.
INTERPRETATION: Vancouver's supervised injection site is associated with 
improved health and cost savings, even with conservative estimates of efficacy.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.080808
PMCID: PMC2582765
PMID: 19015565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Strahlenther Onkol. 2008 Sep;184(9):465-72. doi: 10.1007/s00066-008-1808-4.
Epub  2008 Sep 19.

Total and single doses influence the effectiveness of radiotherapy in palliative 
treatment of plasmacytoma.

Stölting T(1), Knauerhase H, Klautke G, Kundt G, Fietkau R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany.

PURPOSE: In a retrospective analysis of radiotherapy of plasmacytomas, the 
effectiveness and the prognostic factors in regard to pain reduction and 
recalcification were evaluated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 138 patients (70 women, 68 men; 15-86 years, median 61 
years) were irradiated at 272 target volumes (TVs) from January 1970 to December 
2003.
RESULTS: In 192/225 TVs (85.3%), there was a pain reduction. The recalcification 
rate was 44.7% (51/114 TVs). Significant parameters for pain relief in the 
multivariate analysis were completeness of therapy (odds ratio [OR] 87.8; p < 
0.001 vs. interruption), patients < 60 years (OR 23.0; p < 0.001 vs. >/= 70 
years), and a single dose of 2 Gy (OR 11.0; p = 0.027 vs. 4-15.0 Gy). 
Significant parameters for recalcification in the multivariate analysis were 
concurrent chemotherapy (OR 12.3; p < 0.001 vs. no chemotherapy), no fractures 
in the TV (OR 5.9; p < 0.004 vs. fracture), and a dose of 40-< 50 Gy (OR 21.9; p 
= 0.035 vs. < 30 Gy) or >/= 50 Gy (OR 26.4; p = 0.033 vs. < 30 Gy)
CONCLUSION: Radiotherapy is a very effective palliative treatment. Patients with 
a reduced general condition, with multiple bone lesions and a poor prognosis 
profit from short-term schemes (e.g., 1 x 8 Gy to 10 x 3 Gy). Patients in good 
general condition with a life expectancy of > 1 year and an osteolysis at risk 
of fracture, should be treated with doses up to 40-50 Gy (20-25 x 2 Gy), in 
order to achieve the best possible recalcification and pain relief.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-008-1808-4
PMID: 19016025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Scand J Gastroenterol. 2009;44(2):248-51. doi: 10.1080/00365520802530820.

Malignant gastric outlet obstruction managed by endoscopic stenting: a 
prospective single-centre study.

Havemann MC(1), Adamsen S, Wøjdemann M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Gastroenterology, HPB-Unit, Copenhagen University 
Hospital Herlev, Herlev, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Endoscopic stenting for malignant gastric outlet obstruction was 
chosen as the primary strategy by which to palliate this complication, which is 
dominated by weight loss and anorexia. Advanced upper gastrointestinal tract 
cancers present late and life expectancy is limited. Only smaller multicentre 
studies point to endoscopic stenting as superior to surgery in terms of clinical 
outcome and cost.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-five consecutive patients with gastric outlet 
obstruction as a result of advanced upper GI-tract malignancy were enrolled in 
accordance with the intention-to-treat principle. All patients were offered 
endoscopic stenting. Oral intake before and after stenting was assessed using 
the gastric outlet obstruction score system (GOOSS). Various lengths of duodenal 
Hanaro self-expanding nitinol stents were delivered through a therapeutic 
endoscope. Outcome criteria were successful deployment, clinical effect, length 
of stay in hospital, survival, need for re-intervention and complications.
RESULTS: Forty-one patients (91%) were successfully stented. The mean 
pre-procedure GOOSS improved significantly from 0.39 (95% CI 0.22-0.56) to 2.29 
(95% CI 2.01-2.58) after stenting (p<0.0001). Twenty-six patients (63%) improved 
GOOSS at least one point, whereas 5 patients (12%) did not change GOOSS at all. 
Mean length of hospital stay was 13 days (95% CI 9-17 days). Mean survival was 
121 days (95% CI 62-181 days). Two patients (4%; numbers 6 and 19) sustained 
perforation without fatalities. Three patients (7%) had stent migration. 
Procedure-related mortality was zero.
CONCLUSIONS: Palliative stenting for advanced malignant upper GI-tract tumours 
at a tertiary Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Unit is a safe, feasible and effective 
alternative to surgical bypass with a short hospital stay and prompt improvement 
of food intake.

DOI: 10.1080/00365520802530820
PMID: 19016077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2008 Nov 19;97(23):1231-41. doi: 
10.1024/1661-8157.97.23.1231.

[Lumbar spinal stenosis--claudicatio spinalis. Pathophysiology, clinical aspects 
and treatment].

[Article in German]

Cadosch D(1), Gautschi OP, Fournier JY, Hildebrandt G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, Royal Perth Hospital and School 
of Anatomy, University of Western Australia, Perth.

The lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) is defined as a narrowing of the spinal canal 
together with neuronal and vascular structures via circumjacent bone and soft 
tissue. In patients aged over 65 years, the LSS is among the most frequent 
causes of lumbago, either with or without sciatica. The prevalence will continue 
to augment because of the increased life expectancy. The leading symptom is 
neurogenic claudicatio with lumbogluteal or sciatic pain, which occurs while 
walking and leads to a limitation of the walking distance. Its typical 
constellation of symptoms including subjective leg weakness is leading to the 
tentative diagnosis. Nowadays, the imaging technique of choice for the diagnosis 
is magnetic resonance imaging. A conservative treatment is initially sufficient 
in most cases. The indication for surgery is given, if the pain and limitation 
of walking distance are not tolerable any more. Additional fusion should be 
taken into account, when degenerative spondylolisthesis or other 
pathomorphological alterations result in an instability. Conservative and 
surgical therapeutic goals imply pain relief, amelioration of the physical 
functionality, mobility and general quality of life.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157.97.23.1231
PMID: 19016422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2008 Nov;56(11):2100-6. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.01964.x.

Physician recommendations for mammography in women aged 70 and older.

Kapp JM(1), Lemaster JW, Zweig SC, Mehr DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of Missouri, 
Columbia, Missouri, USA. kappj@health.missouri.edu

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the percentage of U.S. women aged 70 and older who 
reported a recent mammography recommendation and to identify whether factors 
suggesting limited life expectancy, such as comorbidities, are associated with a 
lower probability of a reported recommendation.
DESIGN: A national, population-based, cross-sectional survey.
SETTING: United States.
PARTICIPANTS: There were 1,782 screen-eligible women 70 and older who responded 
to the National Health Interview Survey in 2005 and met eligibility criteria, 
including reporting at least one doctor visit in the previous 12 months. 
Weighted, these women represented almost 9.3 million women nationally.
MEASUREMENTS: Multiple logistic regression was used to examine the relationship 
between demographic, comorbidity, and health services utilization variables on 
self-reported physician recommendation for a mammogram.
RESULTS: More than half (58.9%) of the sample reported a recent mammography 
recommendation (63.0% of those aged 70 to 79 and 51.5% of those aged 80 and 
older). The strongest multivariable association suggested that women who 
reported a recent clinical breast examination (CBE) had 5.9 times greater odds 
of reporting a mammography recommendation than women who reported never having a 
CBE.
CONCLUSION: This study failed to find negative associations between factors 
suggesting limited life expectancy and a recent mammography recommendation. 
Instead, findings revealed a strong positive association between a recent CBE 
and mammography recommendation. Findings may suggest that recent clinical 
interactions weigh more heavily on a decision to recommend mammography to older, 
screen-eligible women than considerations for the woman's overall long-term 
health or may reflect a greater perceived or actual recall of physician 
recommendations from women with a recent CBE.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2008.01964.x
PMID: 19016943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Age Ageing. 2009 Jan;38(1):47-51. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afn239. Epub 2008 Nov
18.

Lifetime according to health status among the oldest olds in Denmark.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Petersen I, Jeune B, Christensen K.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Øster 
Farimagsgade 5 A, DK-1399, Copenhagen, Denmark. hbh@niph.dk

BACKGROUND: policy makers face increasing demands for care of the aged and 
therefore need more information about the health status of very old people. The 
purpose of this study was to quantify the average lifetime according to health 
status among the oldest olds in Denmark.
METHODS: the 2,258 participants (63% of all survivors) in the 1905 Danish cohort 
survey were interviewed in 1998 and re-assessed in 2000, 2003 and 2005. Lifetime 
according to self-rated health status, physical independence and being 
cognitively intact was estimated. Physical independence was defined as the 
ability to get up from a chair or bed, walk around the house and go to the 
toilet, and being cognitively intact was defined as having a Mini-Mental State 
Examination score >22.
RESULTS: the average lifetime between ages 92 and 100 was 2.7 years for men and 
3.3 years for women, of which almost half was in self-rated good health. The 
lifetime in physical independence was 2.0 years for men and 2.4 years for women, 
and both men and women spent an average of 1.1 years in a state of physical 
independence without cognitive impairment.
CONCLUSION: even at ages 92-93, a substantial proportion of the remaining 
lifetime is spent in reasonably good health.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afn239
PMCID: PMC2720779
PMID: 19017677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Am Podiatr Med Assoc. 2008 Nov-Dec;98(6):489-93. doi: 10.7547/0980489.

Mortality rates and diabetic foot ulcers: is it time to communicate mortality 
risk to patients with diabetic foot ulceration?

Robbins JM(1), Strauss G, Aron D, Long J, Kuba J, Kaplan Y.

Author information:
(1)Louis Stokes Cleveland Veterans' Affairs Medical Center, Cleveland, OH 44106, 
USA. Jeffrey.Robbins@med.va.gov

Five-year mortality rates after new-onset diabetic ulceration have been reported 
between 43% and 55% and up to 74% for patients with lower-extremity amputation. 
These rates are higher than those for several types of cancer including 
prostate, breast, colon, and Hodgkin's disease. These alarmingly high 5-year 
mortality rates should be addressed more aggressively by patients and providers 
alike. Cardiovascular diseases represent the major causal factor, and early 
