Lactobacillus casei ATCC 393, yielding Lb. casei ATCC 393::XCP12. Another 
recombinant Lb. casei strain was constructed, where the egfp gene was a part of 
the construction. The EGFP produced from Lb. casei ATCC 393::XCEGFP14 was 
detected by Western blot hybridization. This simple and widely applicable 
approach has significant advantages over standard recombinant DNA techniques for 
Lactobacillus species.

PMID: 19131699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Health Phys. 2009 Feb;96(2):175-85. doi: 10.1097/01.HP.0000334556.38419.49.

Lung fibrosis and lung cancer incidence in beagle dogs that inhaled 238PuO2 or 
239PuO2.

Wilson D(1).

Author information:
(1)wilsonda@musc.edu

Determination of radiation protection guidelines for persons working with 
plutonium has been complicated by limited human data on the biological behavior 
and subsequent health effects from internally deposited plutonium. One solution 
has been the use of animal models to predict likely health effects in humans. To 
compare the relationships between plutonium inhalation and lung fibrosis and 
lung cancer, data from life-span studies of beagle dogs given a single exposure 
to either plutonium-238 dioxide (238PuO2) or plutonium-239 dioxide(239PuO2) were 
analyzed. Estimates of the cumulative hazard of lung fibrosis and lung cancer 
after exposure to either were generated. The hazard of lung fibrosis was not 
consistent with a linear no-threshold model, although the magnitude of the 
threshold differed by radionuclide. In dogs given 239PuO2,the best model of lung 
fibrosis incorporated a linear dose response function; a linear-quadratic 
dose-response function fit the data better in dogs given 238PuO2. At any given 
cumulative dose, the lung fibrosis hazard was greater for dogs given 238PuO2. In 
dogs given 238PuO2, with or without covariates, aquadratic dose-response 
function for lung cancer hazard fit better than a linear no-threshold model. In 
dogs given 239PuO2, models of lung cancer with the dose-response function as the 
sole predictor variable were consistent with a linear no-threshold model; 
however, a quadratic dose-response function with a cell-killing term fit better. 
These findings have implications for radiation protection because, while lung 
cancer hazard was dependent on cumulative dose, regardless of isotope, the lung 
fibrosis hazard depended on both cumulative dose and isotope.

DOI: 10.1097/01.HP.0000334556.38419.49
PMID: 19131739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Hamostaseologie. 2008 Dec;28(5):335-47.

[Congenital coagulopathies and coagulation factor inhibitors].

[Article in German]

Oldenburg J(1), Barthels M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Experimentelle Hämatologie und Transfusionsmedizin des 
Universitätsklinikums Bonn. johannes.oldenburg@ukb.uni-bonn.de

An overview is given on the clinical picture and therapy of the haemophilias A 
and B as an example for congenital coagulopathies. The survey deals with the 
special problems of today's "treated haemophilia" and its recommendations on 
diagnosis and treatment regimens. A special focus is put on the pathogenesis of 
the haemophilic joint arthropathy, that is affecting most haemophiliacs earlier 
or later during life. Safe plasma derived and recombinant clotting factor 
concentrates allow an efficient on-demand and also a prophylactic treatment for 
the prevention of bleeding sequelae. As a consequence life quality and life 
expectancy of today born haemophiliacs have nearly normalised. The problems of 
haemophilia with inhibitors and future therapeutic options are discussed. The 
development of inhibitors at start of therapy with factor VIII concentrates 
represent the nowadays most serious complication of haemophilia treatment. The 
only way to a long lasting eradication of the inhibitor ist the induction of 
immune tolerance that can be achieved by various protocols. A successful immune 
tolerance therapy (ITT) is the precondition for a regular prophylactic treatment 
regime. The Guidelines of the Federal Chamber of Physicians, the German 
recommendations for ITT and the consensus recommendations of an international 
working group provide an important lead for the conduction of immune tolerance 
therapy.

PMID: 19132164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2008 Oct;24(4):295-6.

Violence and health in the Americas: projections to 2030.

Brown DW.

PMID: 19133179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Otolaryngol Clin North Am. 2009 Feb;42(1):1-13, vii. doi: 
10.1016/j.otc.2008.09.003.

Principles and core competencies of surgical palliative care: an overview.

Dunn GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care, Hamot Medical Center, 201 State Street, Erie, PA 16550, USA. 
gpdunn1@earthlink.net

The concept of palliation is as old as surgery itself, perhaps so old that it 
has been taken for granted rather than conceptualized as a primary framework for 
surgical care. The experience and success of the hospice movement in the United 
States and abroad was followed by the extension of its basic concepts to the 
much larger population of patients with advanced, but not necessarily terminal, 
illness. This collective experience has provided the necessary background and 
stimulus for developing a specific set of principles and competencies applicable 
to surgical palliative care. Surgical palliative care is the treatment of 
suffering and the promotion of quality of life for seriously or terminally ill 
patients under surgical care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otc.2008.09.003
PMID: 19134486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2009 Jan;28(1):32-8. doi:
10.1016/j.healun.2008.10.006.  Epub 2008 Dec 12.

Cost utility evaluation of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation as a bridge to 
transplant for children with end-stage heart failure due to dilated 
cardiomyopathy.

Brown KL(1), Wray J, Wood TL, Mc Mahon AM, Burch M, Cairns J.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Unit, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Sick Children, London, United 
Kingdom. brownk@gosh.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and cardiac 
transplantation are recognized to be expensive.
METHODS: We performed a cost utility evaluation with a decision model approach, 
including 75 children with dilated cardiomyopathy. A cohort of patients with end 
stage heart failure who were offered ECMO bridging was compared with a similar 
cohort offered only conventional intensive care. Outcome was measured in cost 
per quality adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 4.39 years (interquartile range, 1.83-5.74 years), 
during which 50 children underwent transplantation, 16 had a period of recovery, 
and 25 died. ECMO bridging was highly effective (hazard ratio, 0.181; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.067-0.489; p = 0.001) but exceeded conventional criteria 
for cost-effectiveness. The reference incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was pound65,645 per QALY and pound54,284 per life-year gained. Average 
life expectancy rose from 6.78 to 9.79 years and costs from pound146,398 to 
pound309,599 per patient with ECMO bridging. The ICER was sensitive to ECMO 
cost, the long-term transplant survival rate, and quality of life in transplant 
recipients.
CONCLUSIONS: ECMO bridging is effective but expensive. The eligible target 
population is small, nationally, positively influencing affordability. We 
strongly support our national policy of mechanical bridge to transplant for 
suitable children in end stage heart failure. Cost effectiveness could be 
optimized by: 1) increased availability of organ donors, 2) reduction in 
mechanical support costs possibly by alternate devices and 3) inclusion of 
patients most likely to benefit.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2008.10.006
PMID: 19134528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Invertebr Pathol. 2009 Mar;100(3):185-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2008.12.001.
Epub  2008 Dec 24.

Energetic stress in the honeybee Apis mellifera from Nosema ceranae infection.

Mayack C(1), Naug D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO 80523, 
USA.

Parasites are dependent on their hosts for energy to reproduce and can exert a 
significant nutritional stress on them. Energetic demand placed on the host is 
especially high in cases where the parasite-host complex is less co-evolved. The 
higher virulence of the newly discovered honeybee pathogen, Nosema ceranae, 
which causes a higher mortality in its new host Apis mellifera, might be based 
on a similar mechanism. Using Proboscis Extension Response and feeding 
experiments, we show that bees infected with N. ceranae have a higher hunger 
level that leads to a lower survival. Significantly, we also demonstrate that 
the survival of infected bees fed ad libitum is not different from that of 
uninfected bees. These results demonstrate that energetic stress is the probable 
cause of the shortened life span observed in infected bees. We argue that 
energetic stress can lead to the precocious and risky foraging observed in 
Nosema infected bees and discuss its relevance to colony collapse syndrome. The 
significance of energetic stress as a general mechanism by which infectious 
diseases influence host behavior and physiology is discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2008.12.001
PMID: 19135448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Control Release. 2009 Apr 2;135(1):44-50. doi:
10.1016/j.jconrel.2008.12.004.  Epub 2008 Dec 24.

Binding of proteins to PEGylated liposomes and improvement of G-CSF efficacy in 
mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells.

Yatuv R(1), Carmel-Goren L, Dayan I, Robinson M, Baru M.

Author information:
(1)Omri Laboratories Ltd., Weizmann Science Park, Nes-Ziona, Rehovot, Israel.

We have previously shown that formulation of coagulation factor VIII and 
activated factor VII with PEGylated liposomes (PEGLip) results in an extension 
of circulation time and an increase in hemostatic efficacy. Here we identified 
additional proteins that associate with PEGLip, including granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). Surface plasmon resonance analyses indicated 
that G-CSF bound noncovalently but with high affinity and specificity to PEGLip. 
A pharmacokinetic study in mice demonstrated that PEGLip formulation of G-CSF 
extended its circulation time and resulted in higher G-CSF levels several hours 
after both subcutaneous and intravenous injection. PEGLip-formulated G-CSF had a 
significantly improved efficacy in the mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells 
(HSC) from the bone marrow to the peripheral blood. The results suggest that 
PEGLip-formulated G-CSF may function as an effective and safe tool for the 
mobilization of HSC prior to bone marrow transplantation. We also identified an 
amino acid sequence present in proteins that associate with PEGLip but absent 
from those that do not. A peptide based on this consensus sequence bound PEGLip. 
The results suggest that PEGLip formulation may serve as a platform for the 
delivery of additional short-half-life proteins/peptides having the relevant 
consensus sequence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2008.12.004
PMID: 19135487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Oncol Nurs Forum. 2009 Jan;36(1):E31-8. doi: 10.1188/09.ONF.E31-E38.

Spiritual needs of Taiwan's older patients with terminal cancer.

Shih FJ(1), Lin HR, Gau ML, Chen CH, Hsiao SM, Shih SN, Sheu SJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical and Community Health Nursing, Department and Institute 
of Nursing, National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: To explore the core constitutive patterns from the 
perspective of the older patient with terminal cancer, the major foci of 
spiritual needs, and professional actions that manifest tangibly as spiritual 
care.
DESIGN: Hermeneutic inquiry.
SETTING: Two leading teaching hospitals in Taiwan.
SAMPLE: 35 older patients with terminal cancer with a life expectancy of three 
months.
METHODS: Participatory observation and in-depth interviews were the major data 
collection strategies. Hermeneutic inquiry was used to disclose, document, and 
interpret participants' lived experiences.
MAIN RESEARCH VARIABLES: The perceptions of older Taiwanese patients with 
terminal cancer and their particular healthcare needs across various transition 
stages.
FINDINGS: Two constitutive patterns, "caring for the mortal body" and 
"transcending the worldly being," each with three themes and a related 
transformational process emerged from the data analysis. Two foci of spiritual 
needs were discovering patients' concerns about their dying bodies and their 
worldly being and facilitating the transcendence of the spiritual being from the 
physical realm.
CONCLUSIONS: Caring for older Taiwanese patients with terminal cancer and 
helping them transcend the fear of the unknown when they give up worldly being 
can produce insights into patients' primary concerns, perceptions, and spiritual 
needs to help them achieve a "good" death.
IMPLICATIONS FOR NURSING: The knowledge gained in this study and the six major 
spiritual care actions identified may empower oncology nurse educators to 
develop culturally valid spiritual care courses. Research-based guidance for 
nurse clinicians who are taking care of older Taiwanese patients with terminal 
cancer will be provided.

DOI: 10.1188/09.ONF.E31-E38
PMID: 19136329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Genes Dev. 2009 Jan 1;23(1):12-7. doi: 10.1101/gad.1723409.

Systemic regulation of starvation response in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Kang C(1), Avery L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA. Chanhee.Kang@UTSouthwestern.edu

When the supply of environmental nutrients is limited, multicellular animals can 
make both physiological and behavioral changes so as to cope with nutrient 
starvation. Although physiological and behavioral effects of starvation are well 
known, the mechanisms by which animals sense starvation systemically remain 
elusive. Furthermore, what constituent of food is sensed and how it modulates 
starvation response is still poorly understood. In this study, we use a 
starvation-hypersensitive mutant to identify molecules and mechanisms that 
modulate starvation signaling. We found that specific amino acids could suppress 
the starvation-induced death of gpb-2 mutants, and that MGL-1 and MGL-2, 
Caenorhabditis elegans homologs of metabotropic glutamate receptors, were 
involved. MGL-1 and MGL-2 acted in AIY and AIB neurons, respectively. Treatment 
with leucine suppressed starvation-induced stress resistance and life span 
extension in wild-type worms, and mutation of mgl-1 and mgl-2 abolished these 
effects of leucine. Taken together, our results suggest that metabotropic 
glutamate receptor homologs in AIY and AIB neuron may modulate a systemic 
starvation response, and that C. elegans senses specific amino acids as an 
anti-hunger signal.

DOI: 10.1101/gad.1723409
PMCID: PMC2632168
PMID: 19136622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Plant Cell. 2009 Jan;21(1):72-89. doi: 10.1105/tpc.108.063503. Epub 2009 Jan
9.

The Arabidopsis MYB5 transcription factor regulates mucilage synthesis, seed 
coat development, and trichome morphogenesis.

Li SF(1), Milliken ON, Pham H, Seyit R, Napoli R, Preston J, Koltunow AM, Parish 
RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, School of Life Sciences, La Trobe University, Bundoora, 
Victoria 3086, Australia.

The Arabidopsis thaliana MYB5 gene is expressed in trichomes and seeds, 
including the seed coat. Constitutive expression of MYB5 resulted in the 
formation of more small trichomes and ectopic trichomes and a reduction in total 
leaf trichome numbers and branching. A myb5 mutant displayed minimal changes in 
trichome morphology, while a myb23 mutant produced increased numbers of small 
trichomes and two-branched trichomes. A myb5 myb23 double mutant developed more 
small rosette trichomes and two-branched trichomes than the single mutants. 
These results indicate that MYB5 and MYB23 regulate trichome extension and 
branching. The seed coat epidermal cells of myb5 and myb5 myb23 were irregular 
in shape, developed flattened columellae, and produced less mucilage than those 
of the wild type. Among the downregulated genes identified in the myb5 seeds 
using microarray analysis were ABE1 and ABE4 (alpha/beta fold hydrolase/esterase 
genes), MYBL2, and GLABRA2. The same genes were also downregulated in 
transparent testa glabra1 (ttg1) seeds, suggesting that MYB5 collaborates with 
TTG1 in seed coat development. These genes were upregulated in leaves and roots 
by ectopically expressed MYB5. The MYBL2, ABE1, and ABE4 promoters were active 
in seeds, including seed coats, and the latter two also in trichomes. Models of 
the MYB5 regulatory networks involved in seed coat and trichome development are 
presented.

DOI: 10.1105/tpc.108.063503
PMCID: PMC2648076
PMID: 19136646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Ecology. 2008 Dec;89(12):3317-26. doi: 10.1890/07-1044.1.

Cross-generational effects of habitat and density on life history in red deer.

McLoughlin PD(1), Coulson T, Clutton-Brock T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Saskatchewan, 112 Science Place, 
Saskatoon, Saskatchewan S7N 5E2, Canada. philip.mcloughlin@usask.ca

We used long-term data on movements, survival, and reproduction of female red 
deer (Cervus elaphus Linnaeus) of the Isle of Rum, Scotland (1970-2001), to 
explain variation in life history (age at maturity) from a hind's access to 
habitat resources and exposure to local density, and cross-generational 
(maternal) effects on observed relationships. We described each hind's use of 
resources relative to availability in the study area from an individual-based 
resource selection function (RSF); we defined local density as the total number 
of hinds aged > or = 1 year within the subpopulation cluster to which an 
individual belonged. The likelihood of a hind producing her first calf in the 
period from birth to the end of the summer in which she turned age 3 was 
positively related to relative use of Agrostis/Festuca grasslands and other 
low-elevation communities, and inversely related to a hind's mean annual local 
density. However, when we considered both a daughter's RSF and exposure to local 
density and her mother's RSF and exposure to local density, maternal data alone 
most parsimoniously explained variation in age at maturity of daughters. Mothers 
were able to lower age at maturity in their daughters in two, non-mutually 
exclusive ways. First, birth mass of daughters was inversely related to age at 
maturity, and mothers that used relatively less uplands (Calluna-dominated heath 
and heather moorland) and occupied areas of lower density produced larger 
offspring. Second, mothers could establish a home range that enabled daughters 
to mature in areas with access to high quality Agrostis/Festuca grasslands at 
low density. Lifetime reproductive success was inversely associated with a 
hind's age at maturity via extension of the reproductive life span. Longevity 
did not change in association with age at maturity. Patterns in how animals use 
available habitat resources may depend on that of previous generations, 
especially at larger scales of resource selection.

DOI: 10.1890/07-1044.1
PMID: 19137939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Arch Intern Med. 2009 Jan 12;169(1):25-31. doi: 10.1001/archinte.169.1.25.

Osteoporosis case manager for patients with hip fractures: results of a 
cost-effectiveness analysis conducted alongside a randomized trial.

Majumdar SR(1), Lier DA, Beaupre LA, Hanley DA, Maksymowych WP, Juby AG, Bell 
NR, Morrish DW.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Department of Medicine, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2B7, Canada. me2.majumdar@ualberta.ca

BACKGROUND: In a randomized trial of patients with hip fractures, we previously 
demonstrated that a hospital-based case manager could increase rates of 
appropriate osteoporosis treatment to 51% compared with 22% for usual care (P < 
.001). Alongside that trial, we conducted an economic analysis.
METHODS: Patients with hip fractures were randomized to usual care (n = 110) or 
a case manager (n = 110) and followed up for 1 year. Time-motion studies were 
used to determine intervention costs. From a third-party health care payer 
perspective and over the patient's remaining lifetime, a Markov 
decision-analytic model was constructed to determine cost-effectiveness of the 
intervention compared with usual care. Costs and benefits were discounted at 3% 
and expressed in 2006 Canadian dollars.
RESULTS: The intervention cost CaD $56 per patient. Compared with usual care, 
the intervention strategy was dominant: for every 100 patients case managed, 6 
fractures (4 hip fractures) were prevented, 4 quality-adjusted life-years were 
gained, and CaD $260 000 was saved by the health care system. Irrespective of 
the number of patients case managed, the intervention reached a break-even 
threshold within 2 years. The intervention dominated usual care over the entire 
spectrum of 1-way sensitivity analyses and was cost-saving in 82% of 
probabilistic model simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with usual care, we found that using a case manager for 
patients with hip fractures increased rates of appropriate osteoporosis 
treatment. The intervention dominated usual care, and the analysis suggests that 
systems implementing an intervention similar to ours should expect to see a 
reduction in fractures, gains in life expectancy, and substantial cost savings.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00175175.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.169.1.25
PMID: 19139320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Eur J Haematol. 2009 May;82(5):381-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2009.01218.x.
 Epub 2009 Jan 9.

Cardiac related death in thalassaemia major: time trend and risk factors in a 
large Greek Unit.

Chouliaras G(1), Yiannoutsos CT, Berdoukas V, Ladis V.

Author information:
(1)Thalassaemia Unit, First Department of Paediatrics, Aghia Sophia Children's 
Hospital, Athens, Greece. georgehouliaras@msn.com

BACKGROUND: Cardiac complications are the leading cause of death in thalassaemic 
patients (TM) worldwide. Improved management protocols including new chelators 
and imaging have reduced cardiac-related deaths but also require more advanced 
analytical methods to reflect temporal fluctuations in mortality risk.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate time patterns of risk of cardiac death in TM patients 
according to birth cohort, gender and degree of haemosiderosis and to apply new 
flexible methods of analysis that may allow assessment of trends in risks as 
affected by innovations in management.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Cardiac-free survival and time trend of the risk of 
cardiac-related death were assessed in 648 transfusion-depended thalassaemic 
patients (48.3% females) managed in a single unit located in Athens, Greece. 
Patients were classified according to birth cohort (prior or after 1/1/1975) and 
according to the severity of haemosiderosis (mild, moderate and severe) as 
estimated by the mean ferritin levels during the last 5 yr of follow-up.
RESULTS: The median time of observation was 27.8 yr and 84 cardiac deaths were 
recorded. A parametric analysis predicted a non-monotonous time pattern for the 
cardiac risk with an initial increasing phase until the fourth decade of life 
followed by a drop off in deaths. Women have 23% longer life expectancy than men 
(P = 0.010) while patients born after 1975 die of heart complications at an 
older age compared to those born prior to 1975 (time ratio = 1.34, P = 0.003). 
Patients with mild and moderate haemosiderosis lived 89% (P < 0.001) and 43% (P 
< 0.001) longer, respectively, compared with patients with severe 
haemosiderosis.
CONCLUSIONS: These results on risk of death in thalassaemia, accord with 
expectations. This type of analysis will be useful in the future when the 
expected impact of cardiac MRI with appropriate tailoring of chelation therapy 
using all current and future options will modify the pattern of risk of cardiac 
death observed to date.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0609.2009.01218.x
PMID: 19141117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Haemophilia. 2008 Nov;14(6):1240-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01898.x.

Platelet function defects.

Simon D(1), Kunicki T, Nugent D.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital of Orange County, Orange, CA 92868, USA.

Inherited defects of platelet function are a heterogeneous group of disorders 
that can result in bleeding symptoms ranging from mild bruising to severe 
mucocutaneous haemorrhage. These defects may be classified according to their 
effect on the various steps of platelet microthrombi formation including 
initiation, extension and cohesion, or based on their particular structural or 
functional deficiency. Platelet membrane receptor deficiencies result in the 
rare, but well-characterized syndromes of defective clot initiation, such as 
Bernard-Soulier Syndrome. Platelet storage pool defects are the most common 
disorders affecting the extension phase of clot formation. Glanzmann 
thrombasthenia, with absent or dysfunctional alpha IIb beta 3 receptor is the 
prototypical defect of the cohesion/aggregation phase of microthrombi formation. 
Many of these disorders share common treatments although some therapies will 
have greater efficacy for one patient than another and should be individualized 
so as to provide optimal control of symptoms. Currently much effort is being put 
into methods to more rapidly and accurately diagnose patients with platelet 
disorders and to initiate appropriate therapy and prevent life threatening 
bleeding.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01898.x
PMID: 19141164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. BMJ. 2009 Jan 13;338:b67. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b67.

NICE and the challenge of cancer drugs.

Raftery J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Southampton, Southampton SO16 7PX. j.p.raftery@soton.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b67
PMID: 19141502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Age Ageing. 2009 Jan;38(1):1. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afn283.

Age and Ageing. Editor's view.

Francis RM.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afn283
PMID: 19141504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Scand J Public Health. 2009 Jan;37(1):64-74. doi: 10.1177/1403494808098917.

"Effectiveness'' in Finnish healthcare studies.

Konu A(1), Rissanen P, Ihantola M, Sund R.

Author information:
(1)Tampere School of Public Health, University of Tampere, Finland. 
anne.konu@uta.fi

AIMS: Evaluation of effectiveness is connected with prevailing paradigms, and 
the breadth and perspective applied therein exhibit differences. Effectiveness 
refers to the extent to which a given intervention or service produces health 
outcomes in individuals to whom it is offered. The aim of this paper is to 
clarify the concept of effectiveness evaluation in health care and present the 
ways in which Finnish healthcare studies use the concept of effectiveness.
METHODS: Through a systematic review of Finnish scientific journals in the 
healthcare research field, 25 original studies, 35 review articles, and 20 
discussion papers were acquired. The inclusion criterion was that the word 
;;effectiveness'' was presented in the title or abstract.
RESULTS: In this study the effects of actions were evaluated through the process 
(outputs) or through the outcomes (harms and benefits). The word 
;;effectiveness'' is widely used in healthcare research in Finland; mostly in 
studies of orthopaedics, health services research, physiotherapy, 
rehabilitation, and psychiatry, yet the concept was explicitly defined in only 
three papers. Most studies used both process and outcome measures. The outcome 
indicators were usually disease-specific. Papers presenting only process outputs 
clearly showed a health service producer's perspective. Health-related quality 
of life as an outcome indicator was rarely used.
CONCLUSIONS: In Finnish healthcare studies, the concept of effectiveness was 
rarely defined and effectiveness measures were often vague or even nonexistent. 
The meaning of the term had to be interpreted from the study methodology, 
measures, and indicators.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494808098917
PMID: 19141556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Glycobiology. 2009 May;19(5):462-71. doi: 10.1093/glycob/cwn155. Epub 2009
Jan  13.

Structural elucidation of the novel core oligosaccharide from LPS of 
Burkholderia cepacia serogroup O4.

Masoud H(1), Perry MB, Brisson JR, Uhrin D, Li J, Richards JC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biological Sciences, National Research Council of Canada, 
Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0R6, Canada.

Lipopolysaccharide (LPS) is an important virulence factor of Burkholderia 
cepacia, an opportunistic bacterial pathogen that causes life-threatening 
disease in cystic fibrosis patients and immunocompromised individuals. B. 
cepacia LPS comprises an O-specific polysaccharide covalently linked to a core 
oligosaccharide (OS) which in turn is attached to a lipid A moiety. The complete 
structure of the LPS core oligosaccharide from B. cepacia serotype O4 was 
investigated by detailed NMR and mass spectrometry (MS) methods. High- (HMW) and 
low-molecular-weight (LMW) OSs were obtained by deacylation, dephosphorylation, 
and reducing-end reduction of the LPS. Glycan and NMR analyses established that 
both OSs contain a common inner-core structure consisting of D-glucose, 
L-glycero-D-manno-heptose, D-glycero-D-manno-heptose, 3-deoxy-D-manno-octulsonic 
acid, and D-glycero-D-talo-2-octulosonic acid. The structure of the LMW OS 
differed from that of the HMW OS in that it lacks a tetra-rhamnosyl GlcNAc OS 
extension. These structural conclusions were confirmed by tandem MS analyses of 
the two OS fractions as well as an OS fraction obtained by alkaline deacylation 
of the LPS. The location of a phosphoethanolamine substituent in the core region 
was determined by ESI-MS and methylation analysis of O-deacylated LPS and core 
OS samples. A polyclonal antibody to B. cepacia serotype O4 core OS was 
cross-reactive with several other serotypes indicating common structural 
features.

DOI: 10.1093/glycob/cwn155
PMID: 19141607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Nutr. 2009 Mar;139(3):533-9. doi: 10.3945/jn.108.100313. Epub 2009 Jan 13.

Life span extension in mice by food restriction depends on an energy imbalance.

Sohal RS(1), Ferguson M, Sohal BH, Forster MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA. sohal@usc.edu

In this study, our main objective was to determine whether energy restriction 
(ER) affects the rate of oxygen consumption of mice transiently or lastingly and 
whether metabolic rate plays a role in the ER-related extension of life span. We 
compared rates of resting oxygen consumption between C57BL/6 mice, whose life 
span is prolonged by ER, and the DBA/2 mice where it is not, at 6 and 23 mo of 
age, following 40% ER for 2 and 19 mo, respectively. Mice of the 2 strains that 
consumed food ad libitum (AL) had a similar body mass at the age of 4 mo and 
consumed similar amounts of food throughout the experiment; however, the body 
weight subsequently significantly increased (20%) in the C57BL/6 mice but did 
not increase significantly in the DBA/2 mice. The resting rate of oxygen 
consumption was normalized as per g body weight, lean body mass, organ weight, 
and per mouse. The resting rate of oxygen consumption at 6 mo was significantly 
higher in AL DBA/2 mice than the AL C57BL/6 mice for all of the criteria except 
organ weight. A similar difference in AL mice of the 2 strains was present at 23 
mo when resting oxygen consumption was normalized to body weight. Resting oxygen 
consumption was lowered by ER in both age groups of each strain according to all 
4 criteria used for normalization, except body weight in the C57BL/6 mice. The 
effect of ER on resting oxygen consumption was thus neither transient nor age or 
strain dependent. Our results suggest that ER-induced extension of life span 
occurs in the mouse genotype in which there is a positive imbalance between 
energy intake and energy expenditure.

DOI: 10.3945/jn.108.100313
PMCID: PMC2646218
PMID: 19141702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Aust Fam Physician. 2008 Dec;37(12):982, 1001.

Closing the indigenous health gap.

Anderson IP(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health and Society, Melbourne School of Population Health, 
University of Melbourne, Victoria.

On 24 March 2008, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd, the leader of the Federal 
Opposition, and health sector leaders signed a pledge to close the indigenous 
health gap by 2030 and the equity gap in health service provision by 2018. This 
is a big challenge - Indigenous Australians have a life expectancy 17 years less 
than non-Indigenous Australians and a burden of disease 2.5 times higher.

PMID: 19142268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Childs Nerv Syst. 2009 Mar;25(3):273-9. doi: 10.1007/s00381-008-0790-6. Epub
 2009 Jan 14.

Growth hormone treatment and risk of recurrence or progression of brain tumors 
in children: a review.

Bogarin R(1), Steinbok P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Costa Rica's Children's Hospital, San José, Costa 
Rica.

INTRODUCTION: Brain tumors are one of the most common types of solid neoplasm in 
children. As life expectancy of these patients has increased with new and 
improved therapies, the morbidities associated with the treatments and the tumor 
itself have become more important.
DISCUSSION: One of the most common morbidities is growth hormone deficiency, and 
since recombinant growth hormone (GH) became available, its use has increased 
exponentially. There is concern that in the population of children with brain 
tumors, GH treatment might increase the risk of tumor recurrence or progression 
or the appearance of a second neoplasm. In the light of this ongoing concern, 
the current literature has been reviewed to provide an update on the risk of 
tumor recurrence, tumor progression, or new intracranial tumor formation when GH 
is used to treat GH deficiency in children, who have had or have intracranial 
tumors.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of this review, the authors conclude that the use of GH 
in patients with brain tumor is safe. GH therapy is not associated with an 
increased risk of central nervous system tumor progression or recurrence, 
leukemia (de novo or relapse), or extracranial non-leukemic neoplasms.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-008-0790-6
PMID: 19142625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2009 Jan;134(3):92-4. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1105897.
Epub  2009 Jan 13.

["European Guidance 2008" for the diagnosis and management of postmenopausal 
osteoporosis--what is new and clinically relevant?].

[Article in German]

Bartl R(1); European Society for Clinical and Economic Aspects of Osteoporosis 
and Osteoarthritis.

Author information:
(1)Leiter des Bayerischen Osteoporosezentrums der Universität 
München-Grosshadern, 81366 München. Reiner.Bartl@med.uni-muenchen.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1105897
PMID: 19142840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Int J Clin Pract. 2008 Nov;62(11):1723-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01886.x.

Prognostic factors in the diagnostic work-up of cancer patients in an internal 
medicine department: does age matter?

Domingo E(1), Suriñach JM, Murillo J, Duran M, Suriñach J, Baselga J, de Sevilla 
TF.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine Department, Hospital Vall d'Hebrón, Barcelona, Spain. 
31438edb@comb.es

INTRODUCTION: Increasing life expectancy in the general population has led to a 
rise in the incidence of cancer and new challenges with regard to the diagnosis, 
therapy and prognosis of this disease.
AIM: To assess prognostic factors in the initial work-up of patients ultimately 
diagnosed with cancer in an Internal Medicine Service, particularly those 
related with age.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A prospective study was undertaken with 224 patients 
ultimately diagnosed with cancer, as confirmed by histological or cytological 
study. The neoplasms included respiratory, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, 
metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown origin, gynaecological, hepatobiliary and 
others. Before reaching the diagnosis, the following factors were investigated 
in all patients: functional status [Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS)], 
comorbidity (Charlson scale), body mass index (BMI), serum cholesterol and 
albumin concentrations, cognitive level (Mini-mental test), quality of life 
(Short Form 36 questionnaire), and extension of the disease according to 
established criteria. Survival at 1 year was analysed. Statistical analyses were 
done with spss 11.0 for Windows, using a forward stepwise (likelihood ratio) 
method to construct the model and a Cox multivariate model for the survival 
analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 224 patients, 167 men (74.5%) and 57 women (25.5%), with a 
mean age of 66.1 +/- 12.3 years were studied. KPS was >or= 70 in 84% and 
comorbidity was zero or one in 74%. BMI was 24.25 +/- 4.3, cholesterol 180.7 +/- 
4.3, albumin 3.32 +/- 0.5 and Mini-mental score 25.4 +/- 3.7. Metastasis was 
seen in 131 patients (58.5%) and local disease in 93 cases (41.5%). One-year 
survival was 38.8% (87 patients) with a mean of 203.8 +/- 143 days. In the Cox 
analysis, the independent predictive factors for survival were KPS [hazard ratio 
(HR) = 0.951; 95% CI = 0.930-0.974; p < 0.01], metastatic dissemination (HR = 
2.422; 95% CI = 1.643-3.571; p < 0.01), physical quality of life (HR = 0.978; 
95% CI = 0.962-0.995; p < 0.01) and albumin (HR = 0.653; 95% CI = 0.455-0.936; p 
< 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: In the initial work-up of patients ultimately diagnosed with cancer 
in an Internal Medicine Service, functional status, dissemination, the physical 
component in the quality of life scale and serum albumin levels were independent 
prognostic factors for survival. Age was not an independent prognostic factor 
and should not be used as a basis for adopting diagnostic or therapeutic 
decisions in these patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2008.01886.x
PMID: 19143858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Intern Med J. 2008 Oct;38(10):751-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2008.01736.x.

Outcomes and predicting response in anaemic chemotherapy patients treated with 
epoetin alfa. A multicentre, 4-month, open-label study in Australia and New 
Zealand.

Bell D(1), Grimes D, Gurney H, Dalley D, Blackwell T, Fox R, Jeffery M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Oncology, Royal North Shore Hospital, Sydney, St 
Leonards, NSW 2065, Australia. dbell@med.usyd.edu.au

Comment in
    Intern Med J. 2008 Oct;38(10):749-50.

BACKGROUND: The aim of the study was to evaluate the effectiveness, safety, and 
clinical outcomes of erythropoietin therapy in the treatment of anaemic cancer 
subjects receiving chemotherapy and to examine hypochromic red blood cell 
measurement as an indicator of functional iron sufficiency and as a predictor of 
responsiveness or non-responsiveness to erythropoietin therapy.
METHODS: Patients who had a non-myeloid malignancy, had Hb < or = 11.0 g/dL, had 
a life expectancy of more than 6 months, were 18 years or older, were receiving 
chemotherapy and would continue to be treated for at least 2 months were given 
s.c. epoetin alfa three times a week.
RESULTS: Haemoglobin levels increased significantly at all time periods compared 
with baseline and the number of transfusions received decreased significantly at 
all time periods compared with baseline. Quality of life as measured by 
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Anaemia showed significant increases at 
months 2 and 4 and there were significant improvements in the fatigue subscale 
at both time points (P < 0.05). Significant improvements at end-point were 
observed for the physical, emotional and functional well-being, and additional 
concern subscales (all P < 0.05). Haematocrit and reticulocytes increased 
significantly at end-point compared with at baseline (haematocrit 33.4 vs 28.3%, 
P < 0.001; reticulocytes 105.8 vs 78.6 x 10(9)/dL, P = 0.005). The percentage of 
hypochromic red blood cells did not show predictive value for response to 
treatment status.
CONCLUSION: Epoetin alfa improved haemoglobin levels and quality of life in 
anaemic cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1445-5994.2008.01736.x
PMID: 19143877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Oncologist. 2009 Jan;14(1):70-6. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2008-0191. Epub
2009  Jan 14.

Sorafenib in unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma from mild to advanced stage 
liver cirrhosis.

Pinter M(1), Sieghart W, Graziadei I, Vogel W, Maieron A, Königsberg R, 
Weissmann A, Kornek G, Plank C, Peck-Radosavljevic M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, AKH & Medizinische Universität Wien, Wien, 
Austria.

Comment in
    Oncologist. 2009 Jan;14(1):67-9.

BACKGROUND: Few data are available on the safety and efficacy of sorafenib in 
patients with multifocal hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and advanced liver 
cirrhosis.
METHODS: Between May 2006 and December 2007, we treated 59 patients (Child-Pugh 
class A/B/C, 26/23/10) with unresectable HCC with sorafenib (daily target dose, 
400 mg twice daily). Data were collected retrospectively. Survival curves were 
calculated via the Kaplan-Meier method.
RESULTS: One patient (Child-Pugh class B) had a partial response, 14 patients 
(Child-Pugh class A/B/C, 5/7/2) had stable disease, and 32 patients (Child-Pugh 
class A/B/C, 15/11/6) had progressive disease; 12 patients were not evaluable 
because they had no follow-up radiologic evaluation. In the intention-to-treat 
group, the median time to progression and overall survival (OS) time were 2.8 
months (range, 1.4-6.5 months) and 6.5 months (range, 0.4-17.4 months), 
respectively. Well-preserved liver function and lower Barcelona Clinic Liver 
Cancer stage were associated with a longer OS time on univariate analysis. There 
were four severe gastrointestinal bleedings (grade 4-5; Child-Pugh class B/C, 
2/2). Most drug-related side effects were low grade and manageable irrespective 
of liver function.
CONCLUSIONS: Sorafenib is effective and safe in patients with multifocal HCC and 
Child-Pugh class A cirrhosis. Survival in Child-Pugh class B patients is 
significantly less than in Child-Pugh class A patients, warranting a prospective 
randomized trial with a placebo group. Child-Pugh class C patients have a 
limited life expectancy despite sorafenib treatment because of their severe 
underlying disease and derive little benefit from sorafenib treatment.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2008-0191
PMID: 19144684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Lijec Vjesn. 2008 Nov-Dec;130(11-12):273-5.

[Comment on Croatian National Consensus on Diagnosis and Treatment of Obesity].

[Article in Croatian]

Jelcić J(1), Baretić M, Korsić M.

Author information:
(1)Zavod za endokrinologiju Klinike za unutarnje bolesti, KBC Zagreb. 
jozo.jelcic@zg.htnet.hr

Obesity is a chronic endocrine-metabolic disease with a multifactorial etiology 
and a polygenetic basis, whose complex patophysiologic mechanism causes numerous 
complications. Fat tissue is a gland which "communicates" intensively with the 
whole organism. It secretes adipokines which have an endocrine, paracrine and 
autocrine function. In obesity, adipokine synthesis, secretion into the blood 
and effect on the target tissues and organs is impaired, leading to development 
of complications in all organic systems. Pandemic levels of obesity and 
overweight are such that both in developed and developing countries only a small 
part of the population has normal body weight. In Croatia every fifth adult is 
obese, and overall 2/3 of men and little more than 1/2 of women have body weight 
greater than normal. Mortality rises with BMI >25 kg/m2 and in obese persons it 
is 1.5-2 times greater, while in persons with morbid obesity (BMI >40 kg/m2) the 
life expectancy is 5-15 years shorter. Treatment of obesity is a long-term 
endeavor and requires the participation of physicians of various specialties. 
The Croatian Obesity Society held the 3d Croatian Congress on Obesity with 
international participation in Opatija from 4-6 April. The main topics of 
discussion were obesity epidemiology and diagnostics, patophysiologic 
mechanisms, complications, mortality and disease treatment. The National 
Programe for Countering the Obesity Epidemic was presented. At the end of the 
Congress the 3d National Consensus on Diagnostics and Treatment of Obesity was 
adopted. It incorporated some changes compared to the previous 2006 Consensus. 
The new obesity treatment guidelines take individual needs and capabilities more 
into account, with the aim of increasing the success of the treatment.

PMID: 19146182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Int Nurs Rev. 2008 Dec;55(4):378. doi: 10.1111/j.1466-7657.2008.00693.x.

Health and wellbeing: the larger picture.

Benton D(1).

Author information:
(1)International Council of Nurses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1466-7657.2008.00693.x
PMID: 19146546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Eur J Cancer. 2009 May;45(8):1397-406. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.12.016. Epub
 2009 Jan 13.

Bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel for HER-2 negative metastatic breast 
cancer: an economic evaluation.

Dedes KJ(1), Matter-Walstra K, Schwenkglenks M, Pestalozzi BC, Fink D, Brauchli 
P, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, University Hospital of Zurich, Frauenklinkstrasse, 
8091 Zurich, Switzerland.

The addition of bevacizumab to weekly paclitaxel as primary chemotherapy for 
HER-2 negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC) prolongs progression-free survival 
without a substantial increase of toxicity. A Markov cohort simulation was used 
to follow the clinical course of typical patients with MBC. Information on 
response rates and major adverse effects was derived, and transition 
probabilities were estimated, based on the results of the E2100 clinical trial. 
Direct costs were assessed from the perspective of the Swiss health system. The 
addition of bevacizumab to weekly paclitaxel is estimated to cost an additional 
40,369euro and to yield a gain of 0.22 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 189,427euro/QALY gained. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the willingness-to-pay threshold 
of 60,000euro was never reached. The addition of bevacizumab to paclitaxel in 
MBC patients is expensive given the clinical benefit in terms of QALYs gained.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2008.12.016
PMID: 19147344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Med Decis Making. 2009 May-Jun;29(3):325-33. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08327494.
Epub  2009 Jan 15.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of disease management in systolic heart failure.

Miller G(1), Randolph S, Forkner E, Smith B, Galbreath AD.

Author information:
(1)Altarum Institute, Ann Arbor, MI 48113-4001, USA. george.miller@altarum.org

BACKGROUND: Although congestive heart failure (CHF) is a primary target for 
disease management programs, previous studies have generated mixed results 
regarding the effectiveness and cost savings of disease management when applied 
to CHF.
OBJECTIVE: We estimated the long-term impact of systolic heart failure disease 
management from the results of an 18-month clinical trial.
METHODS: We used data generated from the trial (starting population 
distributions, resource utilization, mortality rates, and transition 
probabilities) in a Markov model to project results of continuing the disease 
management program for the patients' lifetimes. Outputs included distribution of 
illness severity, mortality, resource consumption, and the cost of resources 
consumed. Both cost and effectiveness were discounted at a rate of 3% per year. 
Cost-effectiveness was computed as cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained.
RESULTS: Model results were validated against trial data and indicated that, 
over their lifetimes, patients experienced a lifespan extension of 51 days. 
Combined discounted lifetime program and medical costs were $4850 higher in the 
disease management group than the control group, but the program had a favorable 
long-term discounted cost-effectiveness of $43,650/QALY. These results are 
robust to assumptions regarding mortality rates, the impact of aging on the cost 
of care, the discount rate, utility values, and the targeted population.
CONCLUSIONS: Estimation of the clinical benefits and financial burden of disease 
management can be enhanced by model-based analyses to project costs and 
effectiveness. Our results suggest that disease management of heart failure 
patients can be cost-effective over the long term.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08327494
PMID: 19147835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Gerontology. 2009;55(3):241-9. doi: 10.1159/000193996. Epub 2009 Jan 16.

Pitfalls in the diagnosis and therapy of infections in elderly patients--a 
mini-review.

Bellmann-Weiler R(1), Weiss G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Clinical Immunology and Infectious 
Diseases, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria. 
guenter.weiss@i-med.ac.at

Extended life expectancy is paralleled by an increasing number of patients older 
than 65 years suffering from severe infections. Infections in this group of 
patients are generally more severe and associated with an increased risk of 
death. This is related to several factors which are discussed in this review. 
Specifically, immunosenescence and an atypical presentation of 
infection-associated symptoms with a subsequent delay of diagnosis and 
initiation of antimicrobial treatment are cornerstones in this dilemma. In 
addition, comorbidities and comedications, a changing spectrum of pathogens with 
a higher percentage of multiresistant pathogens, and more importantly, an 
altered pharmacokinetics of antimicrobial drugs are further contributing factors 
to the adverse outcome of infections in elderly subjects. Infections in the 
elderly demand special attention in terms of diagnosis and treatment. As the 
mortality rates are high, special emphasis must be put on preventive measures 
including effective vaccination strategies and establishment of hygiene 
standards to prevent transmission of multiresistant pathogens among elderly 
patients, both in health care centers and nursing homes.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.
