METHODS: Age-standardised rates of all-cause mortality, as well as for nine of 
the leading causes of death among males and females, were calculated for 
District Health Boards (DHBs) for the periods 1980-1982, 1985-1987, 1990-1992, 
1995-1997, and 1999-2001. Geographical inequalities in health were evaluated 
using the DHB-level cause-specific Rate Ratio (RR; age standardised rates 
1999-2001:1980-1982), and the Relative Index of Inequality (RII).
RESULTS: Between 1980 and 2001, all-cause mortality rates fell for both males 
and females. However, age-standardised rates have risen for chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus, and cancer. The overall reductions in 
mortality rates have not been uniform across all regions as the all-cause 
mortality RR for each DHB ranged from 0.98 to 0.69 for males and 1.10 to 0.69 
for females. The RRs for cause-specific mortality are more varied with large 
decreases and increases in mortality attributable to specific causes in some 
DHBs. There has also been a sharp rise in geographical inequalities in health 
measured using the RII, and this trend is consistent for most types of 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Although overall mortality rates decreased over the 1980s and 
1990s, this trend has not been consistent for all causes of mortality or in all 
regions of the country resulting in higher geographical inequalities in 
all-cause and most types of mortality.

PMID: 18797480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2008 Jul;52(5):861-71. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-27302008000500019.

[Growth hormone deficiency in adulthood: how to diagnose and when to treat?].

[Article in Portuguese]

Jallad RS(1), Bronstein MD.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Neuroendocrinologia, Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

Adult growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) is a well-established clinical entity 
with heterogeneous characteristics, in which the main causes are 
hypothalamus-pituitary tumors and/or their treatment. The diagnosis of ADGH 
should be considered in patients with a prior history of childhood-onset GH 
deficiency or a history of organic hypothalamus-pituitary disease. In these 
patients diagnosis is performed biochemically by provocative tests of GH 
secretion, once the measurement of the biological markers for GH action:IGF-l 
and IGFBP-3 levels, can be in the normal range in an important percentage of 
AGHD patients. The current treatment using an initial low dose of hrGH followed 
by individualised dose titration adjusted according to serum IGF-1 levels, leads 
to similar beneficial effects with less incidence of side effects, improved 
tolerance to treatment and a lower stable GH dose as compared to hrGH 
replacement therapy based on body weight or body surface area. As some patients 
might not profit from hrGH therapy, the potential beneficial effects of hrGH 
replacement therapy should be analyzed on individualized basis. Alternative 
available therapies with similar efficacy should be taken into consideration. 
Physical activity may improve body compostion, cardiovascular perfomance and 
well being in ADGH subjects not submitted to hrGH treatment. An important target 
of hrGH replacement therapy is its impact on quality of life, leading to social 
and professional improvement. Epidemiological evidence points to a decreasing 
life expectancy in ADGH patients but data regarding the impact of hrGH 
replacement on life expectancy are still lacking.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-27302008000500019
PMID: 18797594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Bull World Health Organ. 2008 Aug;86(8):646-7. doi: 10.2471/blt.07.050435.

The burden of surgical conditions and access to surgical care in low- and 
middle-income countries.

Ozgediz D(1), Jamison D, Cherian M, McQueen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery and Global Health Sciences, University of California, 
San Francisco, CA, United States of America.

Comment in
    Bull World Health Organ. 2008 Dec;86(12):A.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.07.050435
PMCID: PMC2649455
PMID: 18797625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2008 May-Jun;26(3 Suppl 49):S131-4.

Aortic involvement in ankylosing spondylitis.

Palazzi C(1), D' Angelo S, Lubrano E, Olivieri I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Villa Pini Clinic, Chieti, Italy.

Patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) may develop cardiovascular 
manifestations ranging from asymptomatic forms to life threatening conditions. 
The most important cardiovascular manifestation of AS is aortitis, which 
frequently involves the aortic root and the ascending aorta leading to valvular 
insufficiency. The extension of the subaortic fibrotic process into the 
interventricular septum may cause conduction abnormalities that represent the 
second common cardiovascular manifestations occurring in AS patients. More 
rarely, an involvement of coronary arteries and of thoracic and abdominal aorta 
could be present. Rheumatologists managing AS patients should carefully 
consider, both in late and in early phases of the disease, the occurrence of an 
aortic involvement in order to promptly administer adequate treatment.

PMID: 18799070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2008 Aug;30(8):592-7. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0b013e31817541a8.

Assessment of bone mineral density and markers of bone turnover in children 
under long-term oral anticoagulant therapy.

Avgeri M(1), Papadopoulou A, Platokouki H, Douros K, Rammos S, Nicolaidou P, 
Aronis S.

Author information:
(1)Haemophilia Centre-Haemostasis Unit, Aghia Sophia Children's Hospital, Thivon 
and Levadias, Greece. m-avgeri@ath.forthnet.gr

Oral anticoagulants antagonize vitamin K action and potentially impair the 
carboxylation of osteocalcin, a protein essential for normal bone matrix 
formation. In the present study, bone mineral density (BMD) and bone turnover 
markers were evaluated in 23 children under long-term oral anticoagulant 
therapy. BMD of the lumbar spine was assessed (Dual Energy x-ray Absorptiometry) 
and reported as z score. Osteoblast [bone alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin 
(Gla-Oc), amino-terminal procollagen 1 extension peptide] and osteoclast 
(urinary calcium and deoxypyridinoline, serum cross-linked C telopeptide) 
activity markers were measured. Vitamin D {[25(OH) D], parathormone, calcium, 
phosphorus, magnesium} and vitamin K status [factors II, VII, IX, X, protein C, 
protein S, undercarboxylated osteocalcin (Glu-Oc)] were determined. The above 
parameters were also evaluated in 25 healthy controls. Patients presented with 
higher levels in Glu-Oc, parathormone, and bone resorption markers, lower levels 
in bone formation markers and 25(OH) D, whereas 52% of them showed signs of 
osteopenia (-1>BMD z score>-2.5). Statistical analysis demonstrated that 
anticoagulant therapy was an independent predictor of alterations in Glu-Oc, 
Gla-Oc, bone alkaline phosphatase, amino-terminal procollagen 1 extension 
peptide, and serum cross-linked C telopeptide levels. It seems that long-term 
use of coumarin derivatives may cause osteopenia in children with the risk of 
developing osteoporosis later in life.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0b013e31817541a8
PMID: 18799935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2008 Oct;15(5):608-15. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e328304fec1.

Community or patient preferences for cost-effectiveness of cardiac 
rehabilitation: does it matter?

Oldridge N(1), Furlong W, Perkins A, Feeny D, Torrance GW.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 
Wisconsin, Comprehensive Cardiovascular Care Group and Aurora St Luke's and 
Aurora Sinai, Milwaukee, WI 53217, USA. neilb@uwm.edu

BACKGROUND: Few healthcare economic evaluations, and none in cardiac 
rehabilitation, report results based on both community and patient preferences 
for health outcomes. We published the results of a randomized trial of cardiac 
rehabilitation after myocardial infarction in 1994 in which preferences were 
measured using both perspectives but only patient preferences were reported. 
This secondary analysis uses both types of preference measurements.
METHODS: We collected community Quality of Well-Being (QWB) and patient Time 
Trade-off (TTO) preference scores from 188 patients (rehabilitation, n=93; usual 
care, n=95) on entry into the trial, at 2 months (end of the intervention) and 
again at 4, 8, and 12 months. Mean preference scores over the 12-month follow-up 
study period, estimates of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained per 
patient, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios [costs inflated to 2006 US 
dollars] and probabilities of the cost-effectiveness of rehabilitation for costs 
per QALY up to USD100,000 are reported.
RESULTS: Mean QWB preference scores were lower (P<0.01) than the corresponding 
mean TTO preference scores at each assessment point. The 12-month changes in 
mean QWB and TTO preference scores were large and positive (P<0.001) with 
rehabilitation patients gaining a mean of 0.011 (95% confidence interval, -0.030 
to +0.052) more QWB-derived QALYs, and 0.040 (-0.026, 0.107) more TTO-derived 
QALYs, per patient than usual care patients. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio for QWB-derived QALYs was estimated at $60 270/QALY (about euro50 
600/QALY) and at $16 580/QALY (about euro13 900/QALY) with TTO-derived QALYs. 
With a willingness to spend $100 000/QALY, the probability of rehabilitation 
being cost-effective is 0.58 for QWB-derived QALYs and 0.83 for TTO-derived 
QALYs.
CONCLUSION: This secondary analysis of data from a randomized trial indicates 
that cardiac rehabilitation is cost-effective from a community perspective and 
highly cost-effective from the perspective of patients.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e328304fec1
PMID: 18800005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Eur J Health Econ. 2009 Jul;10(3):255-65. doi: 10.1007/s10198-008-0126-1.
Epub  2008 Sep 18.

Cost-effectiveness of intensive atorvastatin therapy in secondary cardiovascular 
prevention in the United Kingdom, Spain, and Germany, based on the Treating to 
New Targets study.

Taylor DC(1), Pandya A, Thompson D, Chu P, Graff J, Shepherd J, Wenger N, Greten 
H, Carmena R, Drummond M, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, 10 Cabot Road, Suite 304, Medford, MA 02155, USA. 
douglas.taylor@i3innovus.com

The Treating to New Targets (TNT) clinical trial found that intensive 80 mg 
atorvastatin (A80) treatment reduced cardiovascular events by 22% when compared 
to 10 mg atorvastatin (A10) treatment. We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
intensive A80 vs A10 treatment in the United Kingdom (UK), Spain, and Germany. A 
lifetime Markov model was developed to predict cardiovascular disease-related 
events, costs, survival, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). 
Treatment-specific event probabilities were estimated from the TNT clinical 
trial. Post-event survival, health-related quality of life, and country-specific 
medical-care costs were estimated using published sources. Intensive treatment 
with A80 increased both the per-patient QALYs and corresponding costs of care, 
when compared to the A10 treatment, in all three countries. The incremental cost 
per QALY gained was <euro> 9,500, <euro> 21,000, and <euro> 15,000 in the UK, 
Spain, and Germany, respectively. Intensive A80 treatment is estimated to be 
cost-effective when compared to A10 treatment in secondary cardiovascular 
prevention.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-008-0126-1
PMID: 18800232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Rev Neurol. 2008 Sep 16-30;47(6):310-4.

[Stereotactic biopsy versus spectroscopy in cases of gliomas with a high degree 
of malignancy. A review of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Gonzalez-Bonet LG(1).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Hospital General Universitario de Valencia, 
Valencia, Spain. gonzalez_luibon@gva.es

INTRODUCTION: High-grade malignant gliomas have a high mortality. Stereotactic 
biopsy is the gold standard technique to obtain diagnostic information about 
this kind of tumours but it can be dangerous. New technologies as the magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy (MRS) are an alternative option.
AIM: We suggest the possibility of replacing stereotactic biopsy for new imaging 
technologies in patients with high-grade malignant gliomas and a very limited 
life expectancy due to tumoral irresectability, among other factors. We 
systematically analyze the literature checking the diagnostic accuracy and 
complications of stereotactic biopsy as well as of new technologies like the 
MRS.
DEVELOPMENT: The average morbidity of stereotactic biopsy is 3.2% and the 
average mortality is 0.83%. The percentage of cases with a diagnosis (diagnostic 
yield) is 96%, but accuracy of that diagnosis is 79%. As regards MRS, 
sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative 
predictive value (NPV) for identifying high-grade gliomas are 89.8, 88.2, 95.3 
and 79.7%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Stereotactic biopsy presents a quite high morbi-mortality with a 
real accuracy diagnostic of 75.8% after considering the diagnostic yield. With 
regard to MRS, there are very few studies about accuracy diagnostic but, 
however; there are many about sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV, being these 
last values very high. In spite of that, we cannot conclude that stereotactic 
biopsy can be substituted for the MRS because there are not enough studies to 
support this conclusion.

PMID: 18803159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2008 Oct;9(15):2673-81. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.9.15.2673.

Pharmacoeconomics of entecavir treatment for chronic hepatitis B.

You JH(1), Chan FW.

Author information:
(1)The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Centre for Pharmacoeconomics Research, 
School of Pharmacy, Faculty of Medicine, Shatin, NT, Hong Kong. 
joyceyou@cuhk.edu.hk

BACKGROUND: Entecavir is a new antiviral agent for chronic hepatitis B virus 
(HBV) infection with potent HBV suppression and a low rate of viral resistance.
OBJECTIVE: To review published studies on the pharmacoeconomics of entecavir for 
treatment of chronic HBV.
METHODS: A literature search on Medline and Embase over the period of 1998 - 
2008 was performed in April 2008 using keywords 'entecavir' and 'cost'.
RESULTS/CONCLUSION: Four studies comparing the cost effectiveness of entecavir 
with lamivudine and/or adefovir for treatment with chronic HBV infection using 
either decision tree or Markov modeling were reviewed. All four studies showed 
that entecavir was cost-effective in the treatment of chronic HBV with the 
incremental cost per QALY (quality-adjusted life-year) gained below the commonly 
accepted benchmark. The results are mainly due to the lower complication rates 
and better quality of life of patients using entecavir which can offset the 
higher acquisition cost of the drug. Patient characteristics, comparing agents 
and model assumptions were different among the four studies and they should be 
taken into account when applying the results to real life situations.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.9.15.2673
PMID: 18803453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Clin Ther. 2008 Aug;30(8):1508-23. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.08.002.

Estimating the health benefits and costs associated with ezetimibe 
coadministered with statin therapy compared with higher dose statin monotherapy 
in patients with established cardiovascular disease: results of a Markov model 
for UK costs using data registries.

Ara R(1), Pandor A, Tumur I, Paisley S, Duenas A, Williams R, Wilkinson A, 
Durrington P, Chilcott J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom. r.m.ara@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Ezetimibe has been reported to improve lipid control in patients 
with established cardiovascular disease (CVD).
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the potential long-term impact 
on health status of prescribing ezetimibe in combination with statin therapy in 
patients with established CVD and evaluate its cost-effectiveness in a health 
economic model.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to compare ezetimibe and statin combination 
therapy with statin monotherapy. A published relationship linking changes in 
low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and cardiovascular events was used to 
estimate the cardiovascular events avoided through lipid-lowering therapies. The 
model was populated using results of extensive literature searches and a 
meta-analysis of clinical evidence. An adjustment was applied to model 
second-line lipid-lowering benefits. Conservative assumptions were used to 
extend the patient pathway beyond the clinical evidence. The analysis took the 
perspective of the UK Department of Health; therefore, only direct costs were 
included. Costs were calculated as year-2006 British pounds.
RESULTS: For a cohort of 1,000 hypothetical male patients aged 55 years, 
ezetimibe coadministered with current statin therapy was estimated to prevent a 
mean of 43 nonfatal myocardial infarctions, 7 nonfatal strokes, and 26 
cardiovascular deaths over a lifetime, compared with doubling the current statin 
dose. The events avoided would provide a mean of 134 additional quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs). With a mean incremental cost of pound 3,693,000, the 
lifetime discounted cost per QALY gained would be pound 27,475 (95% CI, pound 
27,331- pound 27,620) and would rise to pound 32,000 for men aged 75 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that, in some instances, ezetimibe 
coadministration may be cost-effective compared with statin monotherapy, but 
there are several limitations with this model. The economic effects of ezetimibe 
must be revisited when long-term effectiveness and safety data become available.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2008.08.002
PMID: 18803993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Arch Oral Biol. 2009 Jan;54(1):26-31. doi:
10.1016/j.archoralbio.2008.07.012.  Epub 2008 Sep 20.

Orofacial dysfunction in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Botteron S(1), Verdebout CM, Jeannet PY, Kiliaridis S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics, University of Geneva, Switzerland. 
sebastien.botteron@medecine.unige.ch

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) affects orofacial function. Our aim was to 
evaluate certain characteristics of orofacial function in DMD and relate 
possible deteriorations to the age of the patients and to the diminished 
internal structure quality of the masseter muscle. Bite force and finger force 
were measured in 16 DMD patients (6-20 years old) and 16 age matched controls. 
The thickness and internal structure quality of the masseter muscle were 
evaluated ultrasonographically. We found reduced mouth opening but no signs of 
masticatory muscle tenderness. Bite force values were lower for DMD patients. 
Masseter thickness showed no significant differences between the two groups, but 
poorer internal muscle structure quality characterised the elder, non-walking 
DMD patients explaining their low bite force values. In conclusion, the masseter 
muscle follows the general progress of the disease. Orofacial function in DMD 
patients is becoming ever more important as their life expectancy increases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archoralbio.2008.07.012
PMID: 18805518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Orv Hetil. 2008 Sep 14;149(37):1731-6. doi: 10.1556/OH.2008.28423.

[A change of attitude in lipidology, achievement of target levels. What comes 
next?].

[Article in Hungarian]

Márk L(1), Dani G, Kiss Z, Katona A.

Author information:
(1)Békés Megyei Képviselo-testület Pándy Kálmán Kórháza II. Belgyógyászati 
Osztály--Kardiológia, Gyula, Semmelweis u. 1. 5700. mark@pandy.hu

One of the greatest challenges of cardiovascular prevention is to minimize the 
risk of cardiovascular events through the achievement of target lipid levels. 
Its importance is suggested by the comprehensive meta-analyses of large scale 
clinical trials and the therapeutic guidelines determining everyday clinical 
practice. The attainment of target levels is often emphasized, nevertheless, 
there is a gap between theory and practice. The authors compare the goal 
attainment rate based on Hungarian medical literature and their own data, and 
analyze the possibilities of further improvement. The CEL Program evaluated the 
achievement rate of target total cholesterol levels in more than 10 000 patients 
of general practitioners in 2004, 2005 and 2006, and the ratio increased from 
12% to 30% within 3 years. According to the results of the Hungarian REALITY 
study the rate of patients achieving the target total cholesterol levels was 21% 
in 2004, and it increased to 27% during a 3-year period. To this very low 
improving rate also belongs the fact that in 2007, when only one fourth of 
patients were on target levels, 87% of general practitioners and 56% of 
specialists reconciled themselves to it and did not propose any modification in 
the therapy of patients not achieving the target levels. The surveys conducted 
at the department of internal medicine with cardiological profile of the county 
hospital in Gyula proved a considerable increase in the last 7 years in the 
administration of drugs improving the life expectancy of cardiovascular patients 
(aspirin, beta-blockers, ACE-inhibitors and statins) due to the widespread 
application of clinical guidelines and the special attention; nowadays the 
administration rate is above 90% in all four groups. Nevertheless, the rate of 
patients achieving the LDL-cholesterol goals was 37% in the high risk and 18% in 
the very high risk groups in December 2007 and January 2008. The fact that in 
the latter group only 21% of patients received combination therapy indicates 
that improving this ratio may be the next step. A greater emphasis should be 
placed on the achievement of target levels and regular revision of applied 
medical therapy, particularly in the high and very high risk patients as these 
groups can benefit the most from it.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2008.28423
PMID: 18805756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2008 Oct;13 Suppl 3:31-7. doi: 
10.1258/jhsrp.2008.008024.

Investigating Choice Experiments for Preferences of Older People (ICEPOP): 
evaluative spaces in health economics.

Coast J(1), Flynn T, Sutton E, Al-Janabi H, Vosper J, Lavender S, Louviere J, 
Peters T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
j.coast@bham.ac.uk

This paper deals with three concerns about the evaluative framework that is 
currently dominant within health economics. These concerns are: that the 
evaluative framework is concerned entirely with health; that the evaluative 
framework has an individualistic focus on patients alone; and that the methods 
used to estimate 'health' within the current evaluative framework could be 
improved both in terms of the generation of descriptive systems and in using 
valuation methods that rely less on people's ability to express their 
preferences on a cardinal scale. In exploring these issues the Investigating 
Choice Experiments for Preferences of Older People (ICEPOP) programme has 
explicitly focused on both the topic of older people and the methods of discrete 
choice experiments. A capability index has been developed and attributes for an 
economic measure of end-of-life care are currently being generated, providing 
the possibility of extending the evaluative framework beyond health alone. A 
measure of carer's experience and a framework for extending measurement in 
end-of-life care to loved ones are both also in development, thus extending the 
evaluative framework beyond the patient alone. Rigorous qualitative methods 
employing an iterative approach have been developed for use in constructing 
attributes, and best-worst scaling has been utilized to reduce task complexity 
and provide insights into heterogeneity. There are a number of avenues for 
further research in all these areas, but in particular there is need for greater 
attention to be paid to the theory underlying the evaluative framework within 
health economics.

DOI: 10.1258/jhsrp.2008.008024
PMID: 18806190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2008 Oct;13 Suppl 3:70-5. doi: 
10.1258/jhsrp.2008.008015.

Measuring and valuing mental health for use in economic evaluation.

Brazier J(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK. j.e.brazier@shef.ac.uk

This article presents research undertaken as part of a wider programme of work 
concerned with measuring and health and wellbeing for economic evaluation. The 
focus is on developing quality adjusted life years (QALYs) in mental health, but 
the issues are common across all areas of health care. The article begins by 
reviewing the issues of what should be valued (health or broader notions of 
wellbeing), how mental health and wellbeing should be described, how mental 
health states should be valued and who should do the valuing. The article 
presents four pieces of work. The first is a re-analysis of the ONS Psychiatric 
Morbidity 2000 Survey to provide evidence on the relevance of generic measures 
across different mental health disorders. It found that common mental health 
problems, such as anxiety and depression, had a significant impact on the 
generic preference-based measure of health in the SF-6D, but psychosis and 
personality disorders did not. The article then presents two studies using the 
ratings of people experiencing the states of health. Both studies found that 
people experiencing different health states gave mental health greater weight 
than physical health compared to members of the general public trying to imagine 
the health states. Finally, the article presents a study developing a 
condition-specific preference-based measure for calculating QALYs from an 
existing measure of mental health, the CORE-OM, using modern psychometric 
methods to construct health states amenable to valuation. It also considers a 
proposal to develop an entirely new QALY measure in mental health.

DOI: 10.1258/jhsrp.2008.008015
PMID: 18806195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2008 Sep;11(3):127-33.

Cost-effectiveness of group psychotherapy for depression in Uganda.

Siskind D(1), Baingana F, Kim J.

Author information:
(1)Program in Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 718 Huntington Ave, 2nd Floor, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. dsiskind@post.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Low and middle-income countries are increasingly acknowledging the 
potential health and economic benefits associated with treatment of depression. 
To aid countries in making resource-allocation decisions, there is a need for 
cost-effectiveness analysis of treatments for depression in developing 
countries. Although there are a limited number of studies from developing 
countries that report data on treatment efficacy and costs, these data can be 
leveraged to tailor mathematical models that are used to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of depression treatments in specific settings.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: Using data from depression studies in the published 
literature, as well as two studies in Uganda, we developed a decision-analytic 
model to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of group psychotherapy in the setting 
of Uganda.
METHODS: We developed a Markov cohort model of depression and evaluated the 
health benefits and costs associated with group psychotherapy with and without 
booster sessions for recurrent depressive episodes. We synthesized published 
data on the epidemiology of depression, treatment efficacy, and costs to 
parameterize our model, and used data from developing countries where available. 
Outcomes included quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALY), lifetime costs, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER). Costs were expressed in 
international dollars (I$) to facilitate comparisons across settings and 
studies.
RESULTS: In Uganda, group psychotherapy without booster sessions decreased 
average number of depressive episodes by 6.2%, compared to no intervention; with 
booster sessions, reduction in number of episodes increased to 15.8%. Although 
group psychotherapy alone was less costly than psychotherapy with booster 
sessions, the ICER was higher, and therefore, group psychotherapy without 
booster sessions was dominated. The ICER associated with psychotherapy with 
booster sessions was I$ 1,150 per QALY, compared to no intervention. Although 
higher than previously published cost-effectiveness estimates of treatments for 
depression, HIV and cardiovascular disease in the developing world, the ICER of 
psychotherapy with booster sessions falls below Uganda's per-capita GDP, a 
suggested threshold for cost-effectiveness. The results were most sensitive to 
cost of the booster sessions and health state utility for depression.
DISCUSSION: Our results suggest that group psychotherapy treatment with booster 
sessions for recurrent depressive episodes may be cost-effective in developing 
countries such as Uganda. These findings can assist in a global campaign for 
developing countries to provide and upscale appropriate depression treatment 
programs. However, there are only a limited number of studies on treatments for 
depression in the developing world with small numbers of enrolled subjects; most 
inputs to our Markov model relied on data from developed countries. Cultural, 
political, economic, and social differences between countries may limit the 
generalizability of our findings.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION AND USE: This study suggests a promising 
role for group psychotherapy in treating depression. Integration of this service 
into primary care may result in cost-effective treatment for depression.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: In developing countries with limited health 
care budgets, group psychotherapy can be a cost-effective treatment option for 
patients with depression.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: There are a limited number of clinical 
studies evaluating efficacy and costs of treatments for depression in developing 
countries. Research on depression in such settings can further assist in 
providing accurate and country-contextualized estimates of cost-effectiveness.

PMID: 18806302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2008;158(17-18):481-8. doi: 10.1007/s10354-008-0546-7.

[Trans-cultural geriatrics: an incipient challenge].

[Article in German]

Lapin A(1).

Author information:
(1)Sozialmedizinisches Zentrum Sophienspital der Stadt Wien, Wien, Osterreich. 
alexander.lapin.@wienkav.at

Besides extended life expectancy, the globalization, increased mobility and 
migration are additionally influencing the structural change of the society. 
Thereafter, the problem of multiculturalism, as known within the school system, 
will soon also become relevant in the geriatrics. Thus, being in a foreign 
country as an elderly person can aggravate the common geriatric problem of 
isolation. Because of better communication, compliance as well as better quality 
of life, one should strive for empathy between physician and patient. This 
requires the physician's sensibility for individual aspects of the patient's 
history, as well as knowledge, or at least a readiness for learning more about 
other cultures, religions and traditions. Specifically, fundamental aspects of 
Islam, Eastern Christianity, Judaism and Far-East religious and cultural 
understanding are presented.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-008-0546-7
PMID: 18807238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2008 Jun;19(6):1343-8.

[Acute toxicity of DDT and its effects on life table demography of Moina 
macrocopa].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu XB(1), Xi YL, Wang JX, Hu K.

Author information:
(1)Provincial Key Laboratory of Biotic Environment & Ecological Safety, College 
of Life Science, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 241000, Anhui, China. 
liuxiaobo1226@yahoo.com.cn

The 48 h LC50 of DDT to Moina macrocopa was determined by acute toxicity test, 
and the effects of different concentrations (1, 8, 16, 24, 32 and 40 microg x 
L(-1)) of DDT on the life table demography of M. macrocopa was studied by life 
table demography. The results showed that the 48 h LC50 of DDT to M. macrocopa 
was 324 microg x L(-1). 1-40 microg x L(-1) of DDT had no significant effects on 
the life expectancy at birth, generation time, net reproductive rate, and gross 
productive rate of M. macrocopa (P > 0.05), but significantly affected the 
intrinsic rate of population increase (rm) (P < 0.05). The rm of M. macrocopa 
increased markedly at 8, 16 and 40 microg x L(-1) of DDT, compared with the 
blank control, indicating that when the life table demography of M. macrocopa 
was used to monitor the ecological effects of sublethal concentrations of DDT, 
rm could be a sensitive indicator.

PMID: 18808030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Drugs Aging. 2008;25(10):861-70. doi: 10.2165/00002512-200825100-00005.

Continuity and adherence to long-term drug treatment by geriatric patients after 
hospital discharge: a prospective cohort study.

Mansur N(1), Weiss A, Hoffman A, Gruenewald T, Beloosesky Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Campus, Sackler 
School of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Petach Tikvah, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy is associated with an increased prevalence 
of chronic diseases and drug consumption. Changes often occur in the medication 
regimen after hospitalization. The extent and nature of these changes and the 
adherence of elderly patients have not yet been fully investigated.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the extent and reasons for modifications to the 
medication regimens of elderly patients and their adherence to treatment during 
the first month following hospital discharge.
METHODS: This was a prospective cohort study of 198 patients aged>or=65 years in 
the Acute Geriatric Ward, Beilinson Hospital, Rabin Medical Center, Israel. 
Clinical, demographic and medication regimen data were recorded for all patients 
at an interview conducted prior to discharge. After 1 month, the patient, 
caregiver or general practitioner (GP) were interviewed regarding the extent and 
reasons for modifications to the medication regimen and adherence to treatment.
RESULTS: At 1-month post-discharge, on average, 36.7% of patient medications had 
been modified compared with the discharge prescription. No modification was 
found in 16% of patients. During the observation month, 62% of prescribed 
long-term medications were taken without modification as recommended at 
discharge and during follow-up, 50% of all changes were characterized by the 
addition of a drug or an increase in dosage, and 26%, 16% and 8% consisted of 
cancelling, omission or switching within the same medication type, respectively. 
Seventy percent of medication regimen changes were based on specialists' 
recommendations or secondary to a change in the patients' medical state, and 
13%, 8%, 3% and 6% were as a result of poor adherence, adverse effects, 
administrative restrictions and other reasons, respectively. There was no 
correlation between medication regimen change and age, gender, physical 
function, cognitive function and length of hospital stay. Patients discharged 
home experienced less regimen modification than those discharged elsewhere 
(p=0.02). Patients who visited their GP only once experienced less regimen 
modification (p=0.03). Regression analysis showed that the only factors 
affecting medication regimen changes were GP visits and chronic diseases 
(p<0.01, R2=0.09). The overall mean adherence among 145 home-dwelling patients 
was 96.7%. Twenty-seven percent and 6% were under- and over-adherent, 
respectively, to at least one drug; under-adherence was more widespread than 
over-adherence. No correlation was found between the overall mean adherence and 
other clinical parameters or regimen change. However, non-adherence to at least 
one drug was associated with more medication regimen changes (p=0.001), was more 
common in patients discharged with prescriptions for seven or more drug types 
per day (p=0.01) and was associated with failing to visit the patient's GP 1 
month after discharge (p=0.02).
CONCLUSION: The majority of elderly patients experienced modifications in their 
medication regimen during the first month following hospital discharge. Thirty 
percent of patients were non-adherent to at least one drug. To improve adherence 
to a hospital medication regimen, patients should be encouraged to visit their 
GP and the number of long-term drugs should be reduced.

DOI: 10.2165/00002512-200825100-00005
PMID: 18808210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. BMC Palliat Care. 2008 Sep 23;7:16. doi: 10.1186/1472-684X-7-16.

Prevalence of distressing symptoms in hospitalised patients on medical wards: A 
cross-sectional study.

Sigurdardottir KR(1), Haugen DF.

Author information:
(1)Sunniva Clinic for Palliative Medicine, Haraldsplass Deaconal Hospital, 
N-5008 Bergen, Norway. katrin.sigurdardottir@haraldsplass.no

BACKGROUND: Many patients with advanced, serious, non-malignant disease belong 
to the population generally seen on medical wards. However, little research has 
been carried out on palliative care needs in this group. The aims of this study 
were to estimate the prevalence of distressing symptoms in patients hospitalised 
in a Department of Internal Medicine, estimate how many of these patients might 
be regarded as palliative, and describe their main symptoms.
METHODS: Cross-sectional (point prevalence) study. All patients hospitalised in 
the Departments of Internal Medicine, Pulmonary Medicine, and Cardiology were 
asked to do a symptom assessment by use of the Edmonton Symptom Assessment 
System (ESAS). Patients were defined as "palliative" if they had an advanced, 
serious, chronic disease with limited life expectancy and symptom relief as the 
main goal of treatment.
RESULTS: 222 patients were registered in all. ESAS was completed for 160 
patients. 79 (35.6%) were defined as palliative and 43 of them completed ESAS. 
The patients in the palliative group were older than the rest, and reported more 
dyspnea (70%) and a greater lack of wellbeing (70%). Other symptoms reported by 
this group were dry mouth (58%), fatigue (56%), depression (41%), anxiety (37%), 
pain at rest (30%), and pain on movement (42%).
CONCLUSION: More than one third of the patients in a Department of Internal 
Medicine were defined as palliative, and the majority of the patients in this 
palliative group reported severe symptoms. There is a need for skills in symptom 
control on medical wards.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-684X-7-16
PMCID: PMC2561004
PMID: 18808724


352. J Cell Biol. 2008 Sep 22;182(6):1073-82. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200710188.

Ryk cooperates with Frizzled 7 to promote Wnt11-mediated endocytosis and is 
essential for Xenopus laevis convergent extension movements.

Kim GH(1), Her JH, Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Division of Molecular and Life Sciences, Pohang 
University of Science and Technology, Hyoja Dong, Pohang, Kyungbuk 790-784, 
Republic of Korea.

The single-pass transmembrane protein Ryk (atypical receptor related tyrosine 
kinase) functions as a Wnt receptor. However, Ryk's correlation with 
Wnt/Frizzled (Fz) signaling is poorly understood. Here, we report that Ryk 
regulates Xenopus laevis convergent extension (CE) movements via the 
beta-arrestin 2 (betaarr2)-dependent endocytic process triggered by noncanonical 
Wnt signaling. During X. laevis gastrulation, betaarr2-mediated endocytosis of 
Fz7 and dishevelled (Dvl/Dsh) actually occurs in the dorsal marginal zone 
tissues, which actively participate in noncanonical Wnt signaling. Noncanonical 
Wnt11/Fz7-mediated endocytosis of Dsh requires the cell-membrane protein Ryk. 
Ryk interacts with both Wnt11 and betaarr2, cooperates with Fz7 to mediate 
Wnt11-stimulated endocytosis of Dsh, and signals the noncanonical Wnt pathway in 
CE movements. Conversely, depletion of Ryk and Wnt11 prevents Dsh endocytosis in 
dorsal marginal zone tissues. Our study suggests that Ryk functions as an 
essential regulator for noncanonical Wnt/Fz-mediated endocytosis in the 
regulation of X. laevis CE movements.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200710188
PMCID: PMC2542470
PMID: 18809723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Sep 22;168(17):1881-9. doi:
10.1001/archinte.168.17.1881.

Trade-offs in cervical cancer prevention: balancing benefits and risks.

Stout NK(1), Goldhaber-Fiebert JD, Ortendahl JD, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Program in Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 718 Huntington Ave, Second Floor, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. natasha_stout@hms.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: New screening and vaccination technologies will provide women with 
more options for cervical cancer prevention. Because the risk of cervical cancer 
diminishes with effective routine screening, women may wish to consider 
additional attributes, such as the likelihood of false-positive results and 
diagnostic procedures for mild abnormalities likely to resolve without 
intervention in their screening choices.
METHODS: We used an empirically calibrated simulation model of cervical cancer 
in the United States to assess the benefits and potential risks associated with 
prevention strategies differing by primary screening test, triage test for 
abnormal results (cytologic testing, human papillomavirus [HPV] DNA test), and 
screening frequency. Outcomes included colposcopy referrals, cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) types 1 and 2 or 3, lifetime cancer risk, and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Across strategies, colposcopy referrals and diagnostic workups varied 
3-fold, although diagnostic rates of CIN 2 or 3 were similar and 95% of positive 
screening test results were for mild abnormalities likely to resolve on their 
own. For a representative group of a thousand 20-year-old women undergoing 
triennial screening for 10 years, we expect 1038 colposcopy referrals (7 CIN 2 
or 3 diagnoses) from combined cytologic and HPV DNA testing and fewer than 200 
referrals (6-7 CIN 2 or 3 diagnoses) for strategies that use triage testing. 
Similarly, for a thousand 40-year-old women, combined cytologic and HPV DNA 
testing led to 489 referrals (9 CIN 2 or 3), whereas alternative strategies 
resulted in fewer than 150 referrals (7-8 CIN 2 or 3). Using cytologic testing 
followed by triage testing in younger women minimizes both diagnostic workups 
and positive HPV test results, whereas in older women diagnostic workups are 
minimized with HPV DNA testing followed by cytologic triage testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinically relevant information highlighting trade-offs among 
cervical cancer prevention strategies allows for inclusion of personal 
preferences into women's decision making about screening and provides additional 
dimensions to the construction of clinical guidelines.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.17.1881
PMCID: PMC2746633
PMID: 18809815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Sep 22;168(17):1910-8. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2008.1.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV monitoring strategies in resource-limited settings: a 
southern African analysis.

Bendavid E(1), Young SD, Katzenstein DA, Bayoumi AM, Sanders GD, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Policy and the Center for Primary Care and Outcomes 
Research, School of Medicine, Stanford University, 117 Encina Commons, Stanford, 
CA 94305, USA. ebd@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2009 May 11;169(9):904; author reply 904-5.

BACKGROUND: Although the number of infected persons receiving highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in low- and middle-income countries has increased 
dramatically, optimal disease management is not well defined.
METHODS: We developed a model to compare the costs and benefits of 3 types of 
human immunodeficiency virus monitoring strategies: symptom-based strategies, 
CD4-based strategies, and CD4 counts plus viral load strategies for starting, 
switching, and stopping HAART. We used clinical and cost data from southern 
Africa and performed a cost-effectiveness analysis. All assumptions were tested 
in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Compared with the symptom-based approaches, monitoring CD4 counts every 
6 months and starting treatment at a threshold of 200/muL was associated with a 
gain in life expectancy of 6.5 months (61.9 months vs 68.4 months) and a 
discounted lifetime cost savings of US $464 per person (US $4069 vs US $3605, 
discounted 2007 dollars). The CD4-based strategies in which treatment was 
started at the higher threshold of 350/microL provided an additional gain in 
life expectancy of 5.3 months at a cost-effectiveness of US $107 per life-year 
gained compared with a threshold of 200/microL. Monitoring viral load with CD4 
was more expensive than monitoring CD4 counts alone, added 2.0 months of life, 
and had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of US $5414 per life-year gained 
relative to monitoring of CD4 counts. In sensitivity analyses, the cost savings 
from CD4 count monitoring compared with the symptom-based approaches was 
sensitive to cost of inpatient care, and the cost-effectiveness of viral load 
monitoring was influenced by the per test costs and rates of virologic failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of CD4 monitoring and early initiation of HAART in southern 
Africa provides large health benefits relative to symptom-based approaches for 
HAART management. In southern African countries with relatively high costs of 
hospitalization, CD4 monitoring would likely reduce total health care 
expenditures. The cost-effectiveness of viral load monitoring depends on test 
prices and rates of virologic failure.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2008.1
PMCID: PMC2894578
PMID: 18809819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Urologe A. 2008 Nov;47(11):1447-52. doi: 10.1007/s00120-008-1725-2.

[Value of cystoprostatectomy in locally advanced prostate carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Zantl N(1), Gschwend JE.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Klinik und Poliklinik,Klinikum rechts der Isar, Technische 
Universität, Ismaninger Strasse 22, 81675, München, Deutschland. niko@zantl.net

Patients suffering from locally advanced prostate carcinoma are often stressed 
by debilitating local symptoms limiting their quality of life. At the same time 
life expectancy often exceeds several years, whereas urologists and oncologists 
tend to underestimate their patients' life expectancy. Cystoprostatectomy for 
locally advanced prostate carcinoma is a reasonable therapeutic option 
concerning frequency and kind of imminent complications and possibly alleviates 
or completely eliminates local symptoms in 80% or more. According to the 
literature cancer-specific 10-year survival rates are 38% or median 
cancer-specific survival lies between 24 and 31 months. The role of neoadjuvant 
or adjuvant hormonal therapy, chemotherapy, or radiotherapy has not yet been 
defined. Mostly after cystoprostatectomy due to locally advanced prostate 
carcinoma an ileal conduit is formed for urinary diversion, but also orthotopic 
neobladders or continent pouches are used. Incontinence rates for orthotopic 
neobladders may reach 50% and more. In synopsis cystoprostatectomy may be a 
viable therapeutic option for patients suffering from locally advanced prostate 
carcinoma. It surely is important that the indication for surgery is based on an 
individual decision.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-008-1725-2
PMID: 18810382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Diabetologia. 2008 Dec;51(12):2179-86. doi: 10.1007/s00125-008-1150-5. Epub
2008  Sep 23.

Lifetime risk and projected population prevalence of diabetes.

Magliano DJ(1), Shaw JE, Shortreed SM, Nusselder WJ, Liew D, Barr EL, Zimmet PZ, 
Peeters A.

Author information:
(1)Baker IDI Heart and Diabetes Research Institute, 250 Kooyong Road, Caulfield, 
VIC, 3162, Australia. dianna.magliano@bakeridi.edu.au

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: With incidence rates for diabetes increasing rapidly worldwide, 
estimates of the magnitude of the impact on population health are required. We 
aimed to estimate the lifetime risk of diabetes, the number of years lived free 
of, and the number of years lived with diabetes for the Australian adult 
population from the year 2000, and to project prevalence of diabetes to the year 
2025.
METHODS: Multi-state life-tables were constructed to simulate the progress of a 
cohort of 25-year-old Australians. National mortality rates were combined with 
incidence rates of diabetes and the RR of mortality in people with diabetes 
derived from the Australian Diabetes, Obesity and Lifestyle study (a national, 
population-based study of 11,247 adults aged >or=25 years).
RESULTS: If the rates of mortality and diabetes incidence observed over the 
period 2000-2005 continue, 38.0% (95% uncertainty interval 36.6-38.9) of 
25-year-olds would be expected to develop diabetes at some time throughout their 
life. On average, a 25-year-old Australian will live a further 56 years, 48 of 
these free of diabetes. On average, a 45-year-old person with diabetes can 
expect to live 6 years less than a person free of diabetes. The prevalence of 
diabetes is projected to rise from 7.6% in 2000 to 11.4% by 2025.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: If we maintain current diabetes incidence rates, 
more than a third of individuals will develop diabetes within their lifetime and 
in Australia there will an additional 1 million cases of diabetes by the year 
2025.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-008-1150-5
PMID: 18810385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Support Care Cancer. 2008 Dec;16(12):1419-24. doi:
10.1007/s00520-008-0504-3.  Epub 2008 Sep 23.

Treatment adherence and patients' acceptance of home infusions with adenosine 
5'-triphosphate (ATP) in palliative home care.

Beijer S(1), Wijckmans NE, van Rossum E, Spreeuwenberg C, Winkens RA, Ars L, 
Dagnelie PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, NUTRIM, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 
MD, Maastricht, The Netherlands. sandra.beijer@epid.unimaas.nl

GOALS OF WORK: In preterminal cancer patients, provision of palliative care in 
the patients' own environment is preferred. The aim of the present study was to 
evaluate patients' and caregivers' treatment adherence and patients' acceptance 
of home infusions with adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Preterminal cancer patients (life expectancy <6 months) 
with mixed tumor types were eligible for the study. Patients received a maximum 
of eight weekly intravenous 8-10 h ATP infusions. Evaluation of treatment 
adherence was based on registration of protocol deviations and patients' 
acceptance by structured interviews with patients.
MAIN RESULTS: Fifty-one patients received a total of 266 intravenous ATP 
infusions. The infusion protocol was well executed: mean duration approximately 
8.30 h, stepwise achievement of the maximum infusion rate within 30 min in 65% 
of the infusions, and almost no delay in weekly administration. All except one 
patient were not burdened by the administration of the infusions at home and 
none of them had felt afraid. The majority of patients found the advantages of 
the ATP infusions outweighing the disadvantages. However, an important 
bottleneck in the administration of ATP infusions at home was difficulty in 
establishing venous access.
CONCLUSION: ATP infusions at home are well accepted by patients. Difficulties in 
establishing venous access might be reduced by composing specialized home 
infusion teams working both at the day care center and at home or by adopting an 
alternative route of venous access.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-008-0504-3
PMID: 18810506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Clin Rheumatol. 2009 Feb;28(2):173-7. doi: 10.1007/s10067-008-1008-8. Epub
2008  Sep 23.

High prevalence of low bone density in young Iranian healthy individuals.

Salehi I(1), Khazaeli S, Najafizadeh SR, Ashraf H, Malekpour M.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Research Center, Amir Alam Hospital, Tehran University of 
Medical Sciences, No. 4, 6th Alley, Ghaem-magham St., Tehran, Iran. 
salehiabari@sina.tums.ac.ir

With the increasing life expectancy, osteoporosis is becoming a major worldwide 
health problem, more particularly in the Middle East region. Bone mineral 
density (BMD) of the hip, lumbar spine, and forearm was measured by dual X-ray 
absorptiometry (Lunar) in 2085 (25% men, 75% women) healthy Iranian subjects 
aged 20-88 yr. The prevalence of osteoporosis and osteopenia in at least one 
measured site in subjects aged 50 yr and older were 36.1% and 43.9% in women, 
and 24.5% and 70.8% in men, respectively. Among subjects younger than 50 yr, 
49.6% of women and 59.6% of men had low bone mass, respectively. In addition, 
more than one third of subjects showed discordance between different sites of 
measurement. The high incidence of low bone density in young ages requires our 
proper attention and planning for prevention. Measurement of BMD in all three 
sites seems necessary and clinicians should look for possible causes of 
discordance between different sites of measurement and develop an appropriate 
strategy approaching to these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-008-1008-8
PMID: 18810571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


