successful aging are addressed. Potential interventions and clinical 
implications for social work are posited for augmenting qualities of hardiness 
in people aging with HIV.</p>

DOI: 10.1080/01634370802039544
PMID: 19042651


727. J Pain Palliat Care Pharmacother. 2008;22(2):167-70. doi: 
10.1080/15360280801992231.

Managing pain in the older person.

O'Mahony S(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiff University, Academic Centre, Llandough Hospital, Penarth, UK.

DOI: 10.1080/15360280801992231
PMID: 19042841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Biogerontology. 2009 Oct;10(5):565-78. doi: 10.1007/s10522-008-9199-6. Epub
2008  Nov 29.

Quercetin mediated lifespan extension in Caenorhabditis elegans is modulated by 
age-1, daf-2, sek-1 and unc-43.

Pietsch K(1), Saul N, Menzel R, Stürzenbaum SR, Steinberg CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Germany. 
kpietsch@gmx.de

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans responds to flavonoid-rich diets with 
improved health and longevity. The precise mechanism(s) responsible for this 
remains to be identified, but is believed to be linked to the highly 
antioxidative properties of flavonoids. This study provides a dissection of 
lifespan modulation by the flavonoid quercetin. In detail, quercetin was shown 
not to act as a simple antimicrobial agent or exclusively via radical scavenging 
capacities. Likewise, lifespan extension had no effect on reproduction and body 
length. Furthermore, neither a caloric restriction mimetic nor a sirtuin 
(sir-2.1) dependence was identified as a likely mode of action. However, four 
genes were pinpointed to be required for the quercetin derived lifespan 
extension, namely age-1, daf-2, unc-43 and sek-1. The latter two have, to date, 
not been linked to quercetin-mediated lifespan extension.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-008-9199-6
PMID: 19043800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Qual Life Res. 2009 Feb;18(1):109-14. doi: 10.1007/s11136-008-9417-3. Epub
2008  Nov 29.

A conceptual framework for patient-provider communication: a tool in the PRO 
research tool box.

Feldman-Stewart D(1), Brundage MD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Care and Epidemiology, Queen's University Cancer Research 
Institute, Level 2, 10 Stuart St., Kingston, ON, K7L 3N6, Canada. 
deb.feldman-stewart@krcc.on.ca

PURPOSE: To demonstrate how a previously described conceptual framework of 
physician-patient communication can inform the application of existing theory 
and the extension of new theory regarding the impact of patient-reported 
outcomes (PROs) in clinical practice.
METHOD: We used a communication framework to guide interpretation of empirical 
results relating to three situations: Collecting PROs from individual patients, 
providing individual patient's PROs to his/her physician, and providing PROs 
from clinical trials to individual patients.
RESULTS: For each of the selected situations, results of empirical studies of 
PROs are discussed in terms of the elements of the communication framework. 
These influences are developed into testable hypotheses regarding the impact of 
PROs and alternative hypotheses explaining empirical research results. We 
further illustrate how the conceptual framework can be knitted to other theories 
of communication to enhance understanding of the use of PROs in clinical 
practice.
CONCLUSION: Guidance of a conceptual framework of communication can enhance 
understanding of PRO study results and lead to testable hypotheses about how to 
further improve the clinical use of PROs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-008-9417-3
PMID: 19043804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. J Gerontol Soc Work. 2008;51(3-4):260-83.

Hardiness, successful aging, and HIV: implications for social work.

Vance DE(1), Struzick TC, Masten J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Nursing Research, School of Nursing, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham, 1701 University Boulevard, Suite G010B, 35294-1210, USA. 
devance@uab.edu

With dramatic developments in the treatment of HIV/ AIDS, life expectancy is 
increasing, resulting in more middle-aged and older adults living with this 
disease. Little is known about the problems, and especially the strengths, of 
those living and aging with HIV. Hardiness is used in the gerontological 
literature to describe and explain how people age successfully, despite 
traumatic life events and chronic diseases. Similarly, the concept of hardiness 
may be used to guide clinicians, researchers, and clients on how to age 
successfully with HIV. This article provides a review of hardiness in aging and 
HIV, and emphasizes its importance in facilitating successful aging with this 
disease. Conceptual and methodological concerns in studying hardiness and 
successful aging are addressed. Potential interventions and clinical 
implications for social work are posited for augmenting qualities of hardiness 
in people aging with HIV.

PMID: 19043903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. IET Syst Biol. 2008 Nov;2(6):397-410. doi: 10.1049/iet-syb:20070065.

Control, responses and modularity of cellular regulatory networks: a control 
analysis perspective.

Bruggeman FJ(1), Snoep JL, Westerhoff HV.

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit, Molecular Cell Physiology, Faculty of Earth and Life 
sciences, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. frank.bruggeman@sysbio.nl

Cells adapt to changes in environmental conditions through the concerted action 
of signalling, gene expression and metabolic subsystems. The authors will 
discuss a theoretical framework addressing such integrated systems. This 
'hierarchical analysis' was first developed as an extension to a metabolic 
control analysis. It builds on the phenomenon that often the communication 
between signalling, gene expression and metabolic subsystems is almost 
exclusively via regulatory interactions and not via mass flow interactions. This 
allows for the treatment of the said subsystems as 'levels' in a hierarchical 
view of the organisation of the molecular reaction network of cells. Such a 
hierarchical approach has as a major advantage that levels can be analysed 
conceptually in isolation of each other (from a local intra-level perspective) 
and at a later stage integrated via their interactions (from a global 
inter-level perspective). Hereby, it allows for a modular approach with variable 
scope. A number of different approaches have been developed for the analysis of 
hierarchical systems, for example hierarchical control analysis and modular 
response analysis. The authors, here, review these methods and illustrate the 
strength of these types of analyses using a core model of a system with gene 
expression, metabolic and signal transduction levels.

DOI: 10.1049/iet-syb:20070065
PMID: 19045835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Can J Urol. 2008 Dec;15(6):4381-7.

Androgen deprivation therapy for advanced prostate cancer: why does it fail and 
can its effects be prolonged?

Singer EA(1), Golijanin DJ, Messing EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Rochester Medical Center, Rochester, New 
York USA.

Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) has been the cornerstone of treatment for 
advanced prostate cancer for over 65 years. Although there can be worrisome side 
effects, data will be presented that for men with metastatic prostate cancer, 
immediate ADT can reduce the likelihood of developing the rare but catastrophic 
sequellae of metastatic disease, although it is unlikely to prolong survival 
compared with waiting for symptoms before initiating ADT. Additionally, for 
patients with extremely high risk prostate cancer that is not distantly 
metastatic (e.g. have a life expectancy from prostate cancer less than 10 years 
with all other available treatments except immediate ADT) and, whose life 
expectancy from non-prostate cancer diseases is excellent during this period, 
early ADT both alone and in conjunction with definitive local treatment prolongs 
survival. Moreover, ADT seems to be most effective when the cancer volume is 
low. However, eventually most men receiving ADT experience disease progression. 
The biological mechanisms explaining how prostate cancer escapes from ADT's 
control include: 1) Alterations in the androgen receptor (AR) and in the AR 
co-factors (which modify the responsiveness of the AR to androgens) allow 
molecules and medications which are not normally AR agonists to act as agonists. 
2) The human prostate gland, and particularly prostate cancer, may be able to 
synthesize androgens from both cholesterol and adrenal androgens. This may occur 
because prostate cancer tissue has higher concentrations of androgens than does 
the serum in patients receiving ADT. Thus, castrated men may not be starving 
their prostate cancers of androgens. 3) The AR in prostatic stroma far more 
strongly stimulates both malignant and benign prostatic epithelial growth than 
the epithelial AR does. Indeed, the epithelial AR, particularly in advanced 
prostate cancer, may have anti-proliferative and anti-tumor progression 
properties. That is, the AR in the prostatic epithelial cells, particularly 
malignant ones, may act as a tumor suppressor. Thus, by inhibiting the 
epithelial AR, its protective effects may be abrogated. The controversial nature 
of these concepts, as well as the clinical and experimental data which support 
and question them, will be presented. Additionally, strategies for addressing 
each of these escape mechanisms, which may be able to prolong responsiveness to 
ADT, will be discussed.

PMID: 19046491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2009 Feb;21(1):6-7. doi:
10.1016/j.clon.2008.10.013.  Epub 2008 Nov 28.

Why co-payment is a cop-out for us all.

Glynne-Jones R, Beaumont I.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2008.10.013
PMID: 19046860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Cancer Res. 2008 Dec 1;68(23):9954-63. doi: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-08-0224.

HPV-16 E7 reveals a link between DNA replication stress, fanconi anemia D2 
protein, and alternative lengthening of telomere-associated promyelocytic 
leukemia bodies.

Spardy N(1), Duensing A, Hoskins EE, Wells SI, Duensing S.

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics Graduate Program, and Department of 
Pathology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, 
USA.

Expression of the high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV-16) E7 oncoprotein extends 
the life span of primary human keratinocytes and partially restores telomere 
length in the absence of telomerase. The molecular basis of this activity is 
incompletely understood. Here, we show that HPV-16 E7 induces an increased 
formation of alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT)-associated promyelocytic 
leukemia bodies (APBs) in early passage primary human keratinocytes as well as 
HPV-negative tumor cells. This activity was found to require sequences of HPV-16 
E7 involved in degradation of the retinoblastoma tumor suppressor protein as 
well as regions in the COOH terminus. HPV-16 E7-induced APBs contained ssDNA and 
several proteins that are involved in the response to DNA replication stress, 
most notably the Fanconi anemia D2 protein (FANCD2) as well as BRCA2 and MUS81. 
In line with these results, we found that FANCD2-containing APBs form in an 
ATR-dependent manner in HPV-16 E7-expressing cells. To directly show a role of 
FANCD2 in ALT, we provide evidence that knockdown of FANCD2 rapidly causes 
telomere dysfunction in cells that rely on ALT to maintain telomeres. Taken 
together, our results suggest a novel link between replication stress and 
recombination-based telomere maintenance that may play a role in HPV-16 
E7-mediated extension of host cell life span and immortalization.

DOI: 10.1158/0008-5472.CAN-08-0224
PMCID: PMC2597390
PMID: 19047177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2008 Dec;90(12):2579-86. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.G.00995.

Knee range of motion during the first two years after use of posterior 
cruciate-stabilizing or posterior cruciate-retaining total knee prostheses. A 
randomized clinical trial.

Chaudhary R(1), Beaupré LA, Johnston DW.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Capital Health, 1F1.52 WMC, 8440-112 Street, Edmonton, 
AB T6G 2B7, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The impact of posterior cruciate ligament-substituting and posterior 
cruciate ligament-retaining devices on the range of motion of the knee following 
primary total knee arthroplasty is unclear. The primary objective of our study 
was to compare the range of motion of the knee over the first two postoperative 
years between subjects who had received the ligament-substituting design and 
those who had received the ligament-retaining design. Secondarily, pain, 
function, and health-related quality of life were compared between the two 
groups.
METHODS: We undertook a prospective randomized study of 100 patients with 
noninflammatory osteoarthritis who were undergoing primary total knee 
arthroplasty. Patients were randomized at the time of surgery to receive one of 
the two study prosthesis designs. They were evaluated preoperatively, at the 
time of hospital discharge, at three months postoperatively, and at up to two 
years postoperatively by a physical therapist who was blinded to the group 
allocation. Active knee flexion and extension, measured with a goniometer, were 
the primary outcome measures. Self-reported pain, function, and health-related 
quality of life were measured with the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities 
Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and the RAND 36-Item Health Survey (RAND-36). 
Complications and revision rates were determined through hospital record review 
and at each patient evaluation.
RESULTS: Eighty percent (seventy-eight) of the ninety-eight available patients 
returned for the final assessment. At two years postoperatively, the mean 
difference between the groups with regard to knee flexion was 0.03 degrees (95% 
confidence interval, -5.9 degrees to 6.0 degrees ) and the mean difference in 
knee extension was 1.0 degrees (95% confidence interval, -0.36 degrees to 2.4 
degrees ). Ninety-one (93%) of the ninety-eight available patients completed 
questionnaires at the time of the final assessment. The two treatment groups had 
similar pain, function, and quality-of-life scores and complication rates. One 
subject in the cruciate-retaining group required revision, secondary to a deep 
joint infection, and one subject in the cruciate-substituting group required 
manipulation to address poor knee flexion.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the two treatment groups had a similar range of motion of 
the knee over the initial two-year postoperative time period. A satisfactory 
range of motion was achieved by three months postoperatively and was maintained 
at the final assessment.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.G.00995
PMID: 19047702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Med Decis Making. 2009 Mar-Apr;29(2):239-46. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08327114.
Epub  2008 Dec 1.

Development of a clinical prediction model to calculate patient life expectancy: 
the measure of actuarial life expectancy (MALE).

Clarke MG(1), Kennedy KP, MacDonagh RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery & Urology, Taunton & Somerset Hospital, 
Musgrove Park, Taunton, UK. mgclarkey@doctors.org.uk

OBJECTIVES: To develop a clinical prediction model enabling the calculation of 
an individual patient's life expectancy (LE) and survival probability based on 
age, sex, and comorbidity for use in the joint decision-making process regarding 
medical treatment.
METHODS: A computer software program was developed with a team of 3 clinicians, 
2 professional actuaries, and 2 professional computer programmers. This 
incorporated statistical spreadsheet and database access design methods. Data 
sources included life insurance industry actuarial rating factor tables (public 
and private domain), Government Actuary Department UK life tables, professional 
actuarial sources, and evidence-based medical literature. The main outcome 
measures were numerical and graphical display of comorbidity-adjusted LE; 5-, 
10-, and 15-year survival probability; in addition to generic UK population LE.
RESULTS: Nineteen medical conditions, which impacted significantly on LE in 
actuarial terms and were commonly encountered in clinical practice, were 
incorporated in the final model. Numerical and graphical representations of 
statistical predictions of LE and survival probability were successfully 
generated for patients with either no comorbidity or a combination of the 19 
medical conditions included. Validation and testing, including actuarial peer 
review, confirmed consistency with the data sources utilized.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence-based actuarial data utilized in this computer program 
design represent a valuable resource for use in the clinical decision-making 
process, where an accurate objective assessment of patient LE can so often make 
the difference between patients being offered or denied medical and surgical 
treatment. Ongoing development to incorporate additional comorbidities and 
enable Web-based access will enhance its use further.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08327114
PMID: 19047762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Neuroimmunomodulation. 2008;15(4-6):351-64. doi: 10.1159/000156477. Epub
2008  Nov 26.

Can the immune system still be efficient in the elderly? An immunological and 
immunoendocrine therapeutic perspective.

Pfister G(1), Savino W.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory on Thymus Research, Oswaldo Cruz Institute, Oswaldo Cruz 
Foundation, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. pfister@fiocruz.br

The continuous global increase in life expectancy represents a central challenge 
for our society and impacts public social security systems, families and 
individuals. One of the most striking changes that occur during normal human 
aging is immunosenescence, a progressive and overall diminution of immune 
functions that affect all cells and organs of the innate and adaptive immune 
system. As a hallmark of human aging, the progressive involution of the thymus 
leads to a disturbed balance and function of naïve, memory and effector T cells, 
thus promoting a latent pro-inflammatory status in the elderly. Together with 
chronic infections such as cytomegalovirus, that accumulate during life, this 
situation manifests in clinically relevant implications such as poor overall 
immune responses, decreased ability to control infectious disease and diminished 
response to vaccinations. Interestingly, this process parallels changes in the 
hormonal balance of aging subjects. In this review, we summarize recently 
published intriguing results from a very active and growing field of biomedical 
research and discuss some clinical consequences as well as possible ways of 
immune- and/or hormone-based interventions to delay or reverse immunosenescence.

Copyright 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000156477
PMID: 19047811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Osteoporos Int. 2009 Jul;20(7):1117-29. doi: 10.1007/s00198-008-0781-1. Epub
 2008 Dec 2.

The health and economic consequences of osteopenia- and 
osteoporosis-attributable hip fractures in Germany: estimation for 2002 and 
projection until 2050.

Konnopka A(1), Jerusel N, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. 
alexander.konnopka@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

SUMMARY: The health and economic burden of osteopenia- and 
osteoporosis-attributable hip fractures (OHF) in Germany was estimated for 2002 
and projected until 2050. We found 108,341 OHF resulting in 2,998 million Euros 
cost, which will more than double by the year 2050, calling for improvement and 
development of prevention strategies for OHF.
INTRODUCTION: This study aimed to estimate the health impact and the societal 
costs of OHF in Germany in the year 2002 and to extrapolate these estimates to 
the years 2020 and 2050.
METHODS: We estimated OHF-attributable deaths, years of potential life lost 
(YPLL) and quality-adjusted life years lost (QALYs) using attributable 
fractions. Direct costs for acute treatment, rehabilitation, nursing care, 
non-medical costs and indirect costs for sickness absence, early retirement and 
mortality were estimated. All estimates were extrapolated to 2020 and 2050 using 
an estimation of future population composition and life expectancy.
RESULTS: We found 108,341 OHF resulting in 3,485 deaths, 22,724 YPLL, 114,058 
QALYs, 2,736 millions of Euros direct cost and 262 millions of Euros indirect 
costs. Projection to 2020 showed corresponding increases of 44%, 62%, 56%, 49%, 
47% and 33%, whereas the projection to 2050 resulted in changes of 128%, 215%, 
196%, 152%, 138% and 90%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: OHF have considerable impact on health and direct costs in the 
elderly. Both may strongly increase in future decades due to demographic 
changes, calling for improvement and development of effective strategies for 
preventing and dealing with OHF.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-008-0781-1
PMID: 19048180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Handb Exp Pharmacol. 2009;(189):347-74. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-79086-0_13.

Socio-economic impact of antiviral intervention.

Flessa S(1), Marschall P.

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Allgemeine Betriebswirtschaftslehre und Gesundheitsmanagement, 
Ernst-Moritz-Arndt-Universitat Greifswald, Friedrich-Loeffler-Strasse 70 17487 
Greifswald, Germany. steffen.flessa@uni-greifswald.de

In this paper we present a meta-analysis of the Cost-of-Illness of HIV/AIDS and 
the socio-economic impact of antiretroviral therapy. We distinguish between 
provider costs, direct household costs, and indirect costs. There is a growing 
number of publications on provider costs in different countries, but the 
methodology and the degree of precision between these papers make it difficult 
to give a good estimate of the current provider costs of treating HIV/AIDS 
cases. There seems to be a declining interest in health economic analysis of 
HIV/AIDS, and usually data is rather obsolete at the date of publication. In 
addition, we know hardly anything about household costs not covered by health 
insurances (e.g., transport to the provider, special diet). There are more 
studies on indirect costs, but even these studies are difficult to compare due 
to methodological differences. Even under these conditions we can state that in 
highly developed countries HAART is cost-effective. Because of an increase of 
life expectancy, the life-time provider costs increase under this drug regime. 
But, on the contrary, the indirect costs strongly decrease. In particular for 
employed and young HIV/AIDS cases in the USA and in Europe, HAART is an 
investment that pays back. In countries and in compartments of the population 
(e.g., unemployed, pensioners) where the loss of labor can be neglected, the 
positive effects of HAART on the indirect costs do not necessarily justify its 
costs. The cost-effectiveness analysis of antiviral therapy has to be seen under 
the precondition that no long-term effects, such as drug resistance, occur. 
Future analysis might show that we strongly underestimated the long-term costs 
of HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-540-79086-0_13
PMID: 19048207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Pflege. 2008 Dec;21(6):435-51. doi: 10.1024/1012-5302.21.6.435.

[Swiss research agenda for gerontological nursing].

[Article in German]

Imhof L(1), Naef R, Mahrer-Imhof R.

Author information:
(1)Zürcher Hochschule für Angewandte Wissenschaften, Institut für Pflege. 
lorenz.imhof@zhaw.ch

In Switzerland life expectancy is currently 84 years in women and 79 years in 
men. By 2030 the number of people over 80 will increase by 83% to 625 000. The 
need of nursing care in this population is expected to double. In order to 
ensure high quality care, scientific knowledge generated by nursing research is, 
therefore, pivotal. Within the framework of a national project, a nursing 
research agenda has been formulated based on a literature review, expert panels, 
a national survey, and a consensus conference; seven priorities for clinical 
nursing research for the years 2007-2017 have been developed. In the field of 
gerontological nursing twenty-one research priorities have been identified. They 
include among others interventions to support independent living and autonomy at 
home or the impact of new technology on nursing care of the elderly. Support for 
caregivers and the health of caregivers of patients with dementia have to be 
addressed as well as interventions for specific challenges in the elderly such 
as fall prevention, delirium, malnutrition, and depression. Pivotal questions in 
nursing research are concerned with the continuity of nursing care that exceeds 
institutional and professional boundaries. Moreover, it is recommended that 
research projects address the impact of political decisions on nursing care and 
provide knowledge to improve quality in nursing homes and community health care. 
With this article the first research agenda for gerontological nursing is 
presented, that is based on the seven priorities of the Swiss Research Agenda 
for Nursing-SRAN and in turn can be used as a basis for strategic discussion, 
action plans, and research projects.

DOI: 10.1024/1012-5302.21.6.435
PMID: 19048520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. G Ital Nefrol. 2008 Nov-Dec;25(6):619-24.

[Vascular access in elderly: AVF versus CVC].

[Article in Italian]

Forneris G(1).

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Ospedale Giovanni Bosco, Piazza del 
Donatore di Sangue 3, Turin, Italy. giacomo.forneris@tiscali.it

The characteristics of patients on dialysis have changed significantly in the 
last years. Aging and comorbidity are the most important aspects of this change. 
Vascular access problems are frequent in elderly people and contribute to the 
increased morbidity and mortality. Arteriovenous fistula (AVF) remains the 
preferred method but may be difficult or unadvisable in older patients because 
of a short life expectancy, poor vasculature or poor cardiac function. In fact, 
increasing use of CVC has been reported in recent studies. Psychological and 
quality of life-related aspects should also be taken into account when 
scheduling vascular access in older patients: from this point of view CVC may be 
a good alternative to an aggressive surgical policy. Decreasing CVC-related 
complications is feasible through the consistent application of basic rules; the 
center effect may be relevant in this context. However, the use of CVC remains a 
kind of double-edged sword: even in older people preferring it over AVF is 
justified only if good results can be guaranteed. The final choice will have to 
be based on a multidisciplinary approach and careful assessment of resources.

PMID: 19048554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. G Ital Nefrol. 2008 Nov-Dec;25(6):642-7.

[Health and growth: a brief review of the literature].

[Article in Italian]

Gitto L(1), Navarra P.

Author information:
(1)Dipartamento Economia, Statistica, Matematica e Sociologia Pareto, Università 
degli Studi, Piazza Pugliatti 1, Messina.

Improving health around the world is an important social objective, which 
provides direct payoffs in terms of longer and better lives. There is also a 
large consensus that improving health can have equally large indirect payoffs 
through accelerating economic development. The role that health conditions play 
in affecting growth is mainly analyzed via two channels: the direct labour 
productivity effect and the indirect incentive effect. The labour productivity 
hypothesis asserts that individuals who are healthier have higher returns to 
labour input. This is well tested in the empirical literature with mixed 
conclusions. The incentive effect is borne of the theoretical literature, and 
individuals who are healthier and have a greater life expectancy will have the 
incentive to invest in education as the time horizon over which returns can be 
earned is extended. Education is the driver of economic growth, and thus health 
plays an indirect role. Other minor channels have developed in the literature 
through which health affect economic development. However, although 
cross-country empirical works show a strong correlation between measures of 
health (for example, life expectancy) and economic growth, a causal effect of 
health and disease on economic development has not been established in the 
literature. A recent study challenges the view that different health conditions 
explain cross-country income differences. This study suggests that an 
improvement in mortality rate due to more effective public health measures and 
the introduction of new chemicals and drugs starting in the 1940s determines an 
increase in the population size which in turn reduces income per capita and 
economic growth.

PMID: 19048560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Acta Clin Belg. 2008 Jul-Aug;63(4):256-61. doi: 10.1179/acb.2008.047.

Age at death from different diseases: the flemish experience during the period 
2000-2004.

Kesteloot H(1), Decramer M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Epidemiology, SMG, Kapucijnenvoer 35, 3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
hugo.kesteloot@med.kuleuven.ac.be

BACKGROUND: The age at death from different diseases is a good indicator of 
their relative importance at the population level.
METHODS: Use was made of the mortality data provided by the Flemish Community of 
Belgium on all deaths, WHO ICD-10 coded, for the period 2000-2004.
RESULTS: The mean age at death increases with time for nearly all diseases and 
for both sexes. This increase is highly significant for all-cause mortality. 
Deaths due to accidents and suicide cause the greatest loss of life expectancy 
for the individuals concerned. From the disease groups liver cirrhosis, lung and 
breast cancer have the greatest impact on life expectancy. Women die at higher 
ages than men for all diseases except lung cancer. They have a highly 
significantly greater loss of life expectancy due to lung cancer than men. The 
mean age at death during the period considered increases markedly for breast 
cancer (p< 0.0001). This suggests an increased efficiency of both treatment and 
prevention of breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Studying the mean age at death from different pathologies is an 
efficient and rapid way to evaluate the relative importance of different 
diseases and the changes in the health situation in a given population. 
Mortality continues to decline in Flanders.

DOI: 10.1179/acb.2008.047
PMID: 19048704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Nov;86(5):1592-7. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2008.07.022.

Costs associated with ventricular assist device use in children.

Mahle WT(1), Ianucci G, Vincent RN, Kanter KR.

Author information:
(1)Sibley Heart Center Cardiology, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta, Emory 
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, Georgia 30322-1062, USA. 
wmahle@emory.edu

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Nov;86(5):1597-8.

BACKGROUND: Ventricular assist devices (VADs) allow children with severe heart 
failure to be bridged to successful heart transplantation. Ventricular assist 
devices are being used with increasing frequency in the pediatric population, 
and newer devices allow even young infants to be supported. Ventricular assist 
device implantation and maintenance, however, is quite expensive, and the 
cost-effectiveness of VAD use in adults has been questioned. To date, an 
economic analysis of VAD support in children has not been undertaken.
METHODS: We used Pediatric Health Information System, an administrative database 
of the Child Health Corporation of America (a consortium of Children's Hospitals 
in North America), to determine the outcomes and costs related to VAD use in 
children. Data on patients younger than 18 years of age from 2002 to 2007 were 
reviewed. Hospital charges were converted to costs based on cost-to-charge 
ratios. Projected survival for subjects who were successfully bridged to heart 
transplant was derived from published data. The model assumed that if a VAD 
strategy were not used, the majority of subjects would have required 
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support as a bridge to transplantation. 
Cost-utility was expressed as cost per quality-adjusted life years saved. All 
future costs and benefits were discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: There were 145 children who underwent VAD implantation at 19 centers in 
North America. The median age at admission was 8.5 years; the range was newborn 
to 17.7 years. The median duration of VAD support was 43 days (range, 1 to 465 
days). Ninety-four patients (65%) survived to heart transplantation. Thirty-nine 
(27%) patients died during hospitalization. There were 12 patients (8%) who had 
VAD explantation and survival to hospital discharge. The mean hospital cost was 
$624,798. When compared with a strategy of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
support, the calculated cost-utility for VAD as a bridge to transplantation was 
$119,937 per quality-adjusted life year saved. When key assumptions were 
changed, the cost-utility varied from $88,304 to $282,320 per quality-adjusted 
life year saved.
CONCLUSIONS: Ventricular assist devices allow an effective bridge to heart 
transplantation in children. Under base-case assumptions, the cost-effectiveness 
ratios exceed the threshold of $100,000 per quality-adjusted life year saved. 
The cost-utility of this strategy, however, is comparable to a number of other 
life-saving technologies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2008.07.022
PMID: 19049755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Nov;86(5):1597-8. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2008.08.023.

Invited commentary.

Oliver WC Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
oliver.william@mayo.edu

Comment on
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2008 Nov;86(5):1592-7.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2008.08.023
PMID: 19049756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. JAMA. 2008 Dec 3;300(21):2497-505. doi: 10.1001/jama.2008.771.

Epilepsy surgery for pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy: a decision 
analysis.

Choi H(1), Sell RL, Lenert L, Muennig P, Goodman RR, Gilliam FG, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA. 
hc323@columbia.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2008 Dec 3;300(21):2548-50.
    Arch Neurol. 2009 Dec;66(12):1554-6.

CONTEXT: Patients with pharmacoresistant epilepsy have increased mortality 
compared with the general population, but patients with pharmacoresistant 
temporal lobe epilepsy who meet criteria for surgery and who become seizure-free 
after anterior temporal lobe resection have reduced excess mortality vs those 
with persistent seizures.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the potential survival benefit of anterior temporal lobe 
resection for patients with pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy vs 
continued medical management.
DESIGN: Monte Carlo simulation model that incorporates possible surgical 
complications and seizure status, with 10,000 runs. The model was populated with 
health-related quality-of-life data obtained directly from patients and data 
from the medical literature. Insufficient data were available to assess 
gamma-knife radiosurgery or vagal nerve stimulation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: Compared with medical management, anterior temporal lobe resection for 
a 35-year-old patient with an epileptogenic zone identified in the anterior 
temporal lobe would increase survival by 5.0 years (95% CI, 2.1-9.2) with 
surgery preferred in 100% of the simulations. Anterior temporal lobe resection 
would increase quality-adjusted life expectancy by 7.5 quality-adjusted 
life-years (95%, CI, -0.8 to 17.4) with surgery preferred in 96.5% of the 
simulations, primarily due to increased years spent without disabling seizures, 
thereby reducing seizure-related excess mortality and improving quality of life. 
The results were robust to sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: The decision analysis model suggests that on average anterior 
temporal lobe resection should provide substantial gains in life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for surgically eligible patients with 
pharmacoresistant temporal lobe epilepsy compared with medical management.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2008.771
PMID: 19050193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2008 Dec;122(6):1780-1789. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0b013e31818a9b25.

Aesthetic labia minora and clitoral hood reduction using extended central wedge 
resection.

Alter GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Beverly Hills, Calif. From the Division of Plastic Surgery, University of 
California, Los Angeles.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2009 Jul;124(1):337; author reply 337-8.
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Mar;125(3):1046-7; author reply 1047-8.

BACKGROUND: The central wedge excision to reduce the labia minora was reported 
in 1998. The purpose of this article is to present recent modifications and 
results of this technique.
METHODS: A central wedge or V is removed from the most protuberant portion of 
each labium minus. The outer portion of the V excision is usually curved lateral 
and anterior to excise redundant lateral labium and excess lateral clitoral 
hood. Postoperative examinations were performed when possible. Two separate 
mailings of questionnaires were sent, and follow-up phone calls were made to 
nonresponders.
RESULTS: A total of 407 patients had labia reductions from January 1, 2005, to 
December 31, 2006. All but 14 (3 percent) were bilateral. Ages ranged from 13 to 
63 years (average, 32.4 years). Almost all patients had some lateral clitoral 
hood excisions with the extension of the lateral hockey-stick design. 
Postoperative examinations at least 2 weeks after surgery were performed on 123 
patients. The total number of patients undergoing reoperation was 12 of 407 (2.9 
percent). Patients responding to the questionnaire (166 of 407) were pleased 
with the surgery by an average score of 9.2 of 10 (where 10 = most pleased). 
Improvement in self-esteem (93 percent), sex life (71 percent), and discomfort 
(95 percent) was reported with a low significant complication rate (4 percent); 
163 of the respondents (98 percent) would undergo the surgery again.
CONCLUSION: Central wedge reduction with lateral clitoral hood reduction is a 
safe, effective procedure with few complications and high patient satisfaction.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e31818a9b25
PMID: 19050531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Asian J Androl. 2009 Jan;11(1):131-7. doi: 10.1038/aja.2008.35. Epub 2008
Dec  15.

Correlations between age, Charlson score and outcome in clinical unilateral T3a 
prostate cancer.

Hsu CY(1), Joniau S, Oyen R, Roskams T, Van Poppel H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospitals KULeuven, Leuven, Belgium.

According to the European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines, a life 
expectancy of > 10 years is considered an important factor in the treatment of 
prostate cancer. The Charlson score is used to predict mortality based on 
comorbidities. The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship 
between age, Charlson score and outcome in patients with cT3a prostate cancer. 
Between 1987 and 2004, 200 patients, who were with clinical T3a prostate cancer 
and who underwent radical prostatectomy (RP), were previously detected by 
digital rectal examination (DRE). Patients were categorized into two age groups 
(< 65 and >or= 65 years old). Patients were also divided into two groups 
according to Charlson score ( = 0 and >or= 1). Both age and Charlson score were 
analyzed regarding their predictive power of patients' outcomes. The mean 
follow-up period was 70.6 months, and the mean age of patients was 63.3 years. 
In all, 106 patients were < 65 years old and 94 patients were >or= 65 years old. 
Age was a significant predictor of overall survival (OS). A Charlson score of 0 
was found in 110 patients, and of >or= 1 in 90 patients. Charlson score was not 
a significant predictor of biochemical progression-free survival (BPFS), 
clinical progression-free survival (CPFS) or OS. Cox multivariate analysis 
showed that margin status was a significant independent factor in BPFS, and 
cancer volume was a significant independent factor in CPFS. Charlson score does 
not influence the outcome in patients with clinical locally advanced prostate 
cancer. Age may influence OS. RP can be performed in motivated healthy older 
patients. However, the patients need to be counseled regarding possible 
surgery-related side effects, such as urinary incontinence and erectile 
dysfunction, which are age- and comorbidity-dependent.

DOI: 10.1038/aja.2008.35
PMCID: PMC3735214
PMID: 19050679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Skeletal Radiol. 2009 Mar;38(3):281-5. doi: 10.1007/s00256-008-0620-7. Epub
2008  Dec 3.

Percutaneous osteoplasty for painful sternal lesion from multiple myeloma.

Zhou B(1), Wu CG, Li MH, Gu YF, Cheng YD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Shanghai 6th People's 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, No. 600, Yi Shan Road, Shanghai 200233, 
China. zbing8888@163.com

Percutaneous osteoplasty (POP) as a technical extension of percutaneous 
vertebroplasty has been used as a treatment for osteolytic lesions in 
weight-bearing bones besides the vertebrae, and has demonstrated beneficial 
outcomes in terms of pain relief and functional improvement. However, its 
efficacy in non-weight-bearing bones is not well known. Herein, we present the 
case of a patient with an osteolytic lesion from multiple myeloma in the 
sternum, a non-weight-bearing bone, who obtained sustained pain relief and 
improvement of life quality after POP. These data suggest that POP may be an 
alternative treatment for osteolytic lesions in non-weight-bearing bones.

DOI: 10.1007/s00256-008-0620-7
PMID: 19050871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2008 Dec;55(6):101-6.

[A nursing experience of holistic care on total suffering of a patient with 
terminal illness].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang WP(1), Lai WS, Chao CS.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, National Cheng-Kung University, ROC.

The purpose of this article was to describe a nursing experience using holistic 
care to relieve total suffering resulting from complex interactions amongst 
physical, psychological, social and spiritual aspects in a patient with terminal 
illness. Each aspect of problems was identified by means of direct participant 
care, observation, empathetic communication and holistic assessment. Such 
included: (1) physical aspect: distress caused by pain, nausea, vomiting and 
poor intake, infection and hypercalcaemia; (2) psychosocial aspect: caregiver's 
overwhelming burdens and financial concerns; (3) spiritual aspect: yearn for 
being with a higher-being and receiving unconditional love, pursuit of the 
meaning of suffering, proceed to the next stage to develop a unique care plan 
and nursing intervention program. Nursing goals were set up based on the 
patient's "life expectancy" represented by the hope for a painless and peaceful 
death. The author helped to provide unique, holistic and continued care for the 
purpose of humanity. The main nursing interventions included active control of 
symptoms, encouraging the expression of emotional distress, caring and emotional 
resonance with caregiver's overwhelming burdens, reconciling with a higher being 
through art therapy, pursuit of the meaning of suffering and sharing the 
darkness. This nursing experience of holistic care may be shared with other 
healthcare professionals and has been recorded as a positive response to the 
following quote from Dame Cicely Saunders: "The way care is given can reach the 
most hidden places and give space for unexpected development."

PMID: 19051181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Clin Psychol. 2009 Jan;65(1):36-52. doi: 10.1002/jclp.20550.

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of cognitive therapy, rational emotive 
behavioral therapy, and fluoxetine (Prozac) in treating depression: a randomized 
clinical trial.

Sava FA(1), Yates BT, Lupu V, Szentagotai A, David D.

Author information:
(1)Babes-Bolyai University, Cluj-Napoca, Romania.

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of cognitive therapy (CT), rational emotive 
behavioral therapy (REBT), and fluoxetine (Prozac) for major depressive disorder 
(MDD) were compared in a randomized clinical trial with a Romanian sample of 170 
clients. Each intervention was offered for 14 weeks, plus three booster 
sessions. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scores were obtained prior to 
intervention, 7 and 14 weeks following the start of intervention, and 6 months 
following completion of intervention. CT, REBT, and fluoxetine did not differ 
significantly in changes in the BDI, depression-free days (DFDs), or 
Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). Average BDI scores decreased from 31.1 
before treatment to 9.7 six months following completion of treatment. Due to 
lower costs, both psychotherapies were more cost-effective, and had better 
cost-utility, than pharmacotherapy: median $26.44/DFD gained/month for CT and 
$23.77/DFD gained/month for REBT versus $34.93/DFD gained/month for 
pharmacotherapy, median $/QALYs=$1,638, $1,734, and $2,287 for CT, REBT, and 
fluoxetine (Prozac), respectively.

(c) 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jclp.20550
PMID: 19051275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. N Engl J Med. 2008 Nov 27;359(22):2390-1; author reply 2391.

Extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis.

Cheruvu M, Bhadriraju S.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2008 Aug 7;359(6):563-74.

PMID: 19051373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Kulak Burun Bogaz Ihtis Derg. 2008 Jul-Aug;18(4):263-7.

[Treatment modalities of nasopharyngeal angiofibroma].

[Article in Turkish]

Korcum AF(1), Ağirdir BV, Aksu G, Güney K, Dinç O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Medicine Faculty of Akdeniz University, 
Antalya, Turkey. aylinfk07@yahoo.com.

Nasopharyngeal angiofibroma is a rare, benign vascular tumor originating from 
the sphenopalatine foramen. It primarily affects adolescent males. Due to its 
propensity to locally destructive growth, the tumor may lead to fatal epistaxis, 
intracranial extension, and life-threatening complications such as 
intraoperative hemorrhage. Many treatment modalities have been used for the 
management of nasopharyngeal angiofibroma, but surgery and external beam 
radiation therapy have proved to be the only effective treatment modalities with 
acceptable morbidity. While endoscopic surgery provides successful results for 
early stage tumors, recent technological advances in radiotherapy offer 
significant advantages in advanced and recurrent tumors.

PMID: 19052499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Nature. 2009 Jan 8;457(7226):210-4. doi: 10.1038/nature07536. Epub 2008 Dec
3.

Caenorhabditis elegans dauers need LKB1/AMPK to ration lipid reserves and ensure 
long-term survival.

Narbonne P(1), Roy R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, McGill University, Montréal, Québec H3A 1B1, Canada.

Many organisms can enter a dormant state or diapause to survive harsh 
environmental conditions for extended durations. When Caenorhabditis elegans 
larvae enter dauer they arrest feeding but remain active and motile, yet become 
stress-resistant, extremely long-lived and non-ageing. Entry into dauer is 
associated with a reduction in insulin-like signalling, the accumulation of 
nutritive resources and a concomitant global change in metabolism, yet the 
precise molecular and physiological processes that enable long-term survival in 
the absence of caloric intake remain largely unknown. We show here that C. 
elegans larvae that lack LKB1/AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase) signalling 
enter dauer normally, but then rapidly consume their stored energy and 
prematurely expire following vital organ failure. We found that this signalling 
pathway acts in adipose-like tissues to downregulate triglyceride hydrolysis so 
that these lipid reserves are rationed to last the entire duration of the 
arrest. Indeed, the downregulation of adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL-1) 
activity suppresses both the rapid depletion of stored lipids and reduced life 
span of AMPK mutant dauers, while AMPK directly phosphorylates ATGL-1. Finally, 
we show that the slow release of energy during dauer is critical for appropriate 
long-term osmoregulation, which fails as triglyceride resources become depleted. 
These mechanisms may be essential for survival through diapause, hibernation, or 
long-term fasting in diverse organisms and may also underlie AMPK-dependent life 
span extension.

DOI: 10.1038/nature07536
PMID: 19052547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. PLoS One. 2008;3(12):e3866. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003866. Epub 2008 Dec
4.

Large differences in aging phenotype between strains of the short-lived annual 
fish Nothobranchius furzeri.

Terzibasi E(1), Valenzano DR, Benedetti M, Roncaglia P, Cattaneo A, Domenici L, 
Cellerino A.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Neuroscienze del CNR, Pisa, Italy.

BACKGROUND: A laboratory inbred strain of the annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri 
shows exceptionally short life expectancy and accelerated expression of age 
markers. In this study, we analyze new wild-derived lines of this short-lived 
species.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We characterized captive survival and 
age-related traits in F1 and F2 offspring of wild-caught N. furzeri. 
Wild-derived N. furzeri lines showed expression of lipofuscin and 
neurodegeneration at age 21 weeks. Median lifespan in the laboratory varied from 
to 20 to 23 weeks and maximum lifespan from 25 to 32 weeks. These data 
demonstrate that rapid age-dependent decline and short lifespan are natural 
characteristics of this species. The N. furzeri distribution range overlaps with 
gradients in altitude and aridity. Fish from more arid habitats are expected to 
experience a shorter survival window in the wild. We tested whether captive 
lines stemming from semi-arid and sub-humid habitats differ in longevity and 
expression of age-related traits. We detected a clear difference in 
age-dependent cognitive decline and a slight difference in lifespan (16% for 
median, 15% for maximum lifespan) between these lines. Finally, we observed 
shorter lifespan and accelerated expression of age-related markers in the inbred 
