
DOI: 10.1016/j.crvi.2008.09.002
PMID: 19027701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Mutat Res. 2009 Feb 10;661(1-2):35-40. doi: 10.1016/j.mrfmmm.2008.10.017.
Epub  2008 Nov 5.

Micronuclei and chromosomal aberrations, important markers of ageing: possible 
association with XPC and XPD polymorphisms.

Kazimírová A(1), Barancoková M, Dzupinková Z, Wsólová L, Dusinská M.

Author information:
(1)Research Base of the Slovak Medical University, Limbová 14, 833 01 
Bratislava, Slovak Republic. alena.kazimirova@szu.sk

Life expectancy in central-Eastern European countries is more than 10 years 
lower compared with Northern or Western countries which could be the result of 
complex factors including genetics, nutrition and life style. We conducted a 
molecular epidemiological study with the aim of investigating links between DNA 
instability, genetic polymorphisms in nucleotide excision repair genes and 
ageing. Two groups-151 young people (78 women and 73 men) aged 20-25, and 140 
elderly subjects (101 women and 39 men), aged 65-70 have been investigated. 
Results show elevated levels of micronuclei and chromosome aberrations in 
elderly compared with young groups (P<0.001); women had more micronuclei than 
men (P<0.001). Micronucleus frequencies were influenced by age (P<0.001). In the 
group of elderly people those who were homozygous with C/C or A/A in XPC IVS11 
had more aberrant cells compared with C/A heterozygotes (P=0.04). When the 
dependent variable was break per cell, elderly people A/A homozygous in XPC 
IVS11 had more breaks per cell compared with C/A heterozygous or C/C homozygous 
subjects (P=0.03). Significantly the most chromatid breaks were found in elderly 
people both Lys/Lys homozygous in the XPD Lys751Gln genotype and C/C or A/A 
homozygous in the XPC IVS11 genotype (P<0.05). A General Linear Model analysis 
shows a statistically significant effect of interactions between age, sex and 
genotype XPC IVS11 (P=0.001) and age, sex and genotype XPCin9 (P=0.007) on 
number of chromatid breaks. When we divided people into two subgroups (without 
mutant allele and with one or two mutant alleles) we found a significantly 
higher number of chromosome exchanges in people with one or two variant 
polymorphism XPCin9 (P=0.04), XPC IVS11 (P=0.004) or XPCex15 (P=0.001). Level of 
cells with micronuclei was influenced by polymorphisms XPD Lys751Gln (P=0.03). 
However, we did not find any relationship between XPA polymorphism and studied 
cytogenetic biomarkers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mrfmmm.2008.10.017
PMID: 19027756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Early Hum Dev. 2009 Apr;85(4):263-6. doi: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2008.11.001.
Epub  2008 Nov 22.

Decreased expression of the righting reflex and locomotor movements in 
breech-presenting newborns in the first days of life.

Sekulić S(1), Zarkov M, Slankamenac P, Bozić K, Vejnović T, Novakov-Mikić A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Novi Sad, Clinical Center of 
Vojvodina, Serbia. turija@EUnet.yu

AIM: To investigate differences between the infants born in occipital and breech 
presentation relative to the passive and active motility.
METHOD: A prospective study was conducted in the period from 2006 to 2007 at the 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in Novi Sad. Subjects were 50 
breech-presenting and 87 occipital-presenting term newborns delivered by 
elective cesarean section following a regular course of pregnancy, without 
fetal, newborn, and the pregnant female disease. Outcome measures were popliteal 
angle; extension of the hip-joint; ventral flexion and dorsal extension in the 
axis; spontaneous displacement; crawling reflex; righting reaction in vertical 
and sitting positions; righting reaction in horizontal suspension, the automatic 
walking investigated on the second and fourth day of life.
RESULTS: Except for righting reaction in horizontal suspension, the newborns 
from breech presentation had a significantly lower score for all investigated 
parameters of active movements at the first and second examination. There was no 
difference between occipital and breech-group relative to the ventral flexion 
and dorsal extension in the axis. The popliteal angle was significantly 
increased, whereas the extension in the hip joint was significantly decreased in 
the breech group.
CONCLUSIONS: Investigations showed a significantly decreased expression of 
active movements in the breech group, which cannot be explained only by postural 
deformities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.earlhumdev.2008.11.001
PMID: 19028029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2008 Oct;22(5):671-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2008.06.001.

Epidemiology of osteoporosis.

Holroyd C(1), Cooper C, Dennison E.

Author information:
(1)MRC Epidemiology Resource Centre, University of Southampton, Southampton 
General Hospital, Southampton, UK.

Osteoporosis represents a major public health problem through its association 
with fragility fractures. All osteoporotic fractures increase patient morbidity; 
however, fractures of the hip and vertebrae are also linked with significant 
mortality. The public health burden of osteoporotic fracture is likely to rise 
in future generations, due in part to an increase in life expectancy. 
Understanding the epidemiology of this disease is therefore essential in trying 
to develop strategies to help reduce this load. This chapter will review the 
epidemiology of osteoporosis, including the relationship between low bone mass 
and fracture. It will review the epidemiology of fractures, concentrating on the 
sites where the majority of age-related fractures occur. Finally it will discuss 
new developments in the assessment of fracture risk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2008.06.001
PMID: 19028351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2008 Oct;22(5):765-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2008.07.002.

Osteoporosis and osteoporotic fracture occurrence and prevention in the elderly: 
a geriatric perspective.

Boonen S(1), Dejaeger E, Vanderschueren D, Venken K, Bogaerts A, Verschueren S, 
Milisen K.

Author information:
(1)Leuven University Centre for Metabolic Bone Disease and Division of Geriatric 
Medicine, UZ Leuven campus Gasthuisberg, Herestraat 49, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
steven.boonen@uz.kuleuven.be

Age is a major determinant of osteoporosis, but the elderly are rarely assessed 
and often remain untreated for this condition. Falls, co-morbidities and 
co-medications compound the risk of fracture in senile osteoporosis. The 
prevalence of osteoporosis is expected to increase with increasing life 
expectancy, and the associated fractures - particularly hip fractures - will 
lead to significant demands on health resources. Treatment of senile 
osteoporosis can include pharmacological and non-pharmacological intervention. 
Calcium and vitamin D dietary supplementation is a relatively low-cost way of 
reducing the risk of fracture. Pharmacological interventions with risedronate, 
zoledronic acid, or teriparatide have been shown to reduce vertebral fracture 
risk in osteoporosis patients over the age of 75. Zoledronic acid has been shown 
to reduce fracture risk in frail patients with recent hip fracture. In the 
oldest old (patients over 80), strontium ranelate is the first agent with 
documented anti-fracture efficacy for both non-vertebral and vertebral fracture 
and documented sustained efficacy over 5 years. Falls prevention is an essential 
component of any strategy for decreasing fracture risk in old age. Currently, 
senile osteoporosis is under-diagnosed and under-treated, but age should not be 
a barrier to intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2008.07.002
PMID: 19028356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jan;68(2):228-34. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.026.
Epub  2008 Nov 24.

Guardians of health: the dimensions of elder caregiving among women in a Mexico 
City neighborhood.

Mendez-Luck CA(1), Kennedy DP, Wallace SP.

Author information:
(1)UCLA School of Public Health, Los Angeles, CA, USA. camendez@ucla.edu

Little is known about the family care of older adults in Mexico and the role of 
women in this process. To begin to fill this knowledge gap, this paper describes 
how a small sample of low-income women in one Mexico City neighborhood 
conceptualized the caregiver role and identified the forms of assistance they 
gave to their older relatives on a daily basis. A grounded theory approach was 
used to collect and analyze the data. Forty-one semi-structured qualitative 
interviews were conducted with female caregivers. The age of participants was 
between 19 and 83 years, and care recipients between 56 and 92 years. The 
relationship of caregiver to care recipient was wife, daughter, daughter-in-law, 
grand-daughter, sibling, and other relative. The mean length of time providing 
care was 5 years. Most participants were not employed outside the home, and the 
median monthly household income was 2000 pesos. We found that caregiving was a 
life-changing event, with 27 of 41 participants viewing themselves as guardians. 
Caregivers' emphasis was on care recipients' emotional needs in order to provide 
"the most precious gift" of "time and attention." Two forms of assistance were 
'keeping company' and 'watching out' as safeguards against poor health or 
further decline in health. These findings increase the cultural understanding of 
caregiving in Mexico. Further research is needed to test the caregiving concepts 
identified in this study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2008.10.026
PMCID: PMC2917379
PMID: 19028415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Age Ageing. 2009 Jan;38(1):8-10. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afn251. Epub 2008 Nov
22.

Drug use and ageing: older people do take drugs!

Beynon CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Public Health, Liverpool John Moores University, Castle House, 
North Street, Liverpool, L3 2AY, UK. c.m.beynon@ljmu.ac.uk

While usually perceived as behaviour of the young, use of illicit drugs by 
people aged 50 and over is increasing in Europe and the USA. This increase 
largely reflects the ageing of general populations, and people who use drugs 
continuing to do so as they age. For those people dependent upon drugs [usually 
users of opiates (heroin) and stimulants (cocaine, crack cocaine and 
amphetamine)], the last 30 years has seen the advent of effective treatment and 
harm minimisation initiatives and, coupled with general advances in medicine, 
has increased the life expectancy of these drug users. Drug use by older people 
presents unique problems; biological systems and processes alter naturally 
across the life course and the effect of concurrent drug use on some of these 
systems is not well understood. The natural progression of certain diseases 
means that symptoms only manifest in older age and the lives of older drug users 
are likely to be characterised by considerable levels of morbidity. Further work 
is needed on the epidemiology of drug use by older people--a group of people who 
currently represent a hidden and vulnerable population.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afn251
PMID: 19029104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. PLoS One. 2008;3(11):e3802. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003802. Epub 2008 Nov
25.

Shortest-path network analysis is a useful approach toward identifying genetic 
determinants of longevity.

Managbanag JR(1), Witten TM, Bonchev D, Fox LA, Tsuchiya M, Kennedy BK, 
Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Biological Complexity, Virginia Commonwealth 
University, Richmond, Virginia, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Identification of genes that modulate longevity is a major focus of 
aging-related research and an area of intense public interest. In addition to 
facilitating an improved understanding of the basic mechanisms of aging, such 
genes represent potential targets for therapeutic intervention in multiple 
age-associated diseases, including cancer, heart disease, diabetes, and 
neurodegenerative disorders. To date, however, targeted efforts at identifying 
longevity-associated genes have been limited by a lack of predictive power, and 
useful algorithms for candidate gene-identification have also been lacking.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We have utilized a shortest-path network 
analysis to identify novel genes that modulate longevity in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae. Based on a set of previously reported genes associated with 
increased life span, we applied a shortest-path network algorithm to a 
pre-existing protein-protein interaction dataset in order to construct a 
shortest-path longevity network. To validate this network, the replicative aging 
potential of 88 single-gene deletion strains corresponding to predicted 
components of the shortest-path longevity network was determined. Here we report 
that the single-gene deletion strains identified by our shortest-path longevity 
analysis are significantly enriched for mutations conferring either increased or 
decreased replicative life span, relative to a randomly selected set of 564 
single-gene deletion strains or to the current data set available for the entire 
haploid deletion collection. Further, we report the identification of previously 
unknown longevity genes, several of which function in a conserved longevity 
pathway believed to mediate life span extension in response to dietary 
restriction.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: This work demonstrates that shortest-path network 
analysis is a useful approach toward identifying genetic determinants of 
longevity and represents the first application of network analysis of aging to 
be extensively validated in a biological system. The novel longevity genes 
identified in this study are likely to yield further insight into the molecular 
mechanisms of aging and age-associated disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0003802
PMCID: PMC2583956
PMID: 19030232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: MK and BK have a patent 
pending on the high-throughput method for analysis of replicative life span in 
yeast used in this study and previously described in published literature.


683. Biogerontology. 2009 Oct;10(5):549-64. doi: 10.1007/s10522-008-9197-8. Epub
2008  Nov 23.

Age-related transcriptional changes in gene expression in different organs of 
mice support the metabolic stability theory of aging.

Brink TC(1), Demetrius L, Lehrach H, Adjaye J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vertebrate Genomics, Max Planck Institute for Molecular 
Genetics, Berlin, Germany.

Individual differences in the rate of aging are determined by the efficiency 
with which an organism transforms resources into metabolic energy thus 
maintaining the homeostatic condition of its cells and tissues. This observation 
has been integrated with analytical studies of the metabolic process to derive 
the following principle: The metabolic stability of regulatory networks, that is 
the ability of cells to maintain stable concentrations of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) and other critical metabolites is the prime determinant of life 
span. The metabolic stability of a regulatory network is determined by the 
diversity of the metabolic pathways or the degree of connectivity of genes in 
the network. These properties can be empirically evaluated in terms of 
transcriptional changes in gene expression. We use microarrays to investigate 
the age-dependence of transcriptional changes of genes in the insulin signaling, 
oxidative phosphorylation and glutathione metabolism pathways in mice. Our 
studies delineate age and tissue specific patterns of transcriptional changes 
which are consistent with the metabolic stability-longevity principle. This 
study, in addition, rejects the free radical hypothesis which postulates that 
the production rate of ROS, and not its stability, determines life span.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-008-9197-8
PMCID: PMC2730443
PMID: 19031007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Allergy. 2008 Dec;63(12):1624-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2008.01743.x.

Cost-effectiveness of specific immunotherapy with Grazax in allergic rhinitis 
co-existing with asthma.

Nasser S(1), Vestenbaek U, Beriot-Mathiot A, Poulsen PB.

Author information:
(1)Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: In the United Kingdom, approximately 10.8 million people suffer from 
asthma, placing an economic burden on the society of more than 2 billion pounds 
sterling per year. For allergic asthma, treatment options consist of allergen 
avoidance, symptomatic treatment and allergen-specific immunotherapy (SIT). Only 
SIT addresses the underlying cause of the disease, reducing symptoms and 
offering the potential for long-term improvement. Grazax--the first tablet-based 
SIT--is indicated for the treatment of patients with grass pollen-induced 
rhinoconjunctivitis, including those with co-existing asthma.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of Grazax in patients with 
rhinoconjunctivitis and co-existing asthma.
METHODS: A prospective pharmacoeconomic analysis was carried out as part of a 
multinational clinical trial assessing the efficacy of Grazax (n = 79) compared 
with placebo (n = 72). Both groups had access to symptomatic medication; thus 
the placebo group represented current standard care. Pooled data on health 
resource use, productivity loss because of absence from work and quality of life 
(Quality Adjusted Life Years, QALYs) were collected in the trial. Reduced 
productivity at work was estimated from the literature. A societal perspective 
was adopted with a 9-year time horizon. The NHS price of Grazax of 2.25 pounds 
sterling per tablet was used.
RESULTS: The QALY gain was significantly higher for patients treated with Grazax 
than the placebo group receiving symptomatic medication alone (0.197 discounted 
QALYs gained 9 years into the future - equal to an extra 72 days of perfect 
health over 9 years). The levels of resource use and productivity loss were 
higher for the placebo group. As a result, the cost per QALY gained with Grazax 
was 4319 pounds sterling , which is highly cost-effective. Price sensitivity 
analyses demonstrated that Grazax remained cost-effective up to a tablet price 
of 5.07 pounds sterling .
CONCLUSION: SIT with Grazax is a cost-effective strategy compared with standard 
management of patients with rhinoconjunctivitis and co-existing asthma.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2008.01743.x
PMID: 19032235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2008 Nov 25;3:32. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-32.

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (Gorlin syndrome).

Lo Muzio L(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze Chirurgiche, Facoltà di Medicina e Chirurgia, 
Università degli Studi di Foggia, Foggia, Italy. llomuzio@tin.it

Nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome (NBCCS), also known as Gorlin syndrome, is 
a hereditary condition characterized by a wide range of developmental 
abnormalities and a predisposition to neoplasms. The estimated prevalence varies 
from 1/57,000 to 1/256,000, with a male-to-female ratio of 1:1. Main clinical 
manifestations include multiple basal cell carcinomas (BCCs), odontogenic 
keratocysts of the jaws, hyperkeratosis of palms and soles, skeletal 
abnormalities, intracranial ectopic calcifications, and facial dysmorphism 
(macrocephaly, cleft lip/palate and severe eye anomalies). Intellectual deficit 
is present in up to 5% of cases. BCCs (varying clinically from flesh-colored 
papules to ulcerating plaques and in diameter from 1 to 10 mm) are most commonly 
located on the face, back and chest. The number of BBCs varies from a few to 
several thousand. Recurrent jaw cysts occur in 90% of patients. Skeletal 
abnormalities (affecting the shape of the ribs, vertebral column bones, and the 
skull) are frequent. Ocular, genitourinary and cardiovascular disorders may 
occur. About 5-10% of NBCCS patients develop the brain malignancy 
medulloblastoma, which may be a potential cause of early death. NBCCS is caused 
by mutations in the PTCH1 gene and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait 
with complete penetrance and variable expressivity. Clinical diagnosis relies on 
specific criteria. Gene mutation analysis confirms the diagnosis. Genetic 
counseling is mandatory. Antenatal diagnosis is feasible by means of ultrasound 
scans and analysis of DNA extracted from fetal cells (obtained by amniocentesis 
or chorionic villus sampling). Main differential diagnoses include Bazex 
syndrome, trichoepithelioma papulosum multiplex and Torre's syndrome 
(Muir-Torre's syndrome). Management requires a multidisciplinary approach. 
Keratocysts are treated by surgical removal. Surgery for BBCs is indicated when 
the number of lesions is limited; other treatments include laser ablation, 
photodynamic therapy and topical chemotherapy. Radiotherapy should be avoided. 
Vitamin A analogs may play a preventive role against development of new BCCs. 
Life expectancy in NBCCS is not significantly altered but morbidity from 
complications can be substantial. Regular follow-up by a multi-specialist team 
(dermatologist, neurologist and odontologist) should be offered. Patients with 
NBCCS should strictly avoid an excessive sun exposure.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-3-32
PMCID: PMC2607262
PMID: 19032739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Int J Epidemiol. 2009 Feb;38(1):110-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyn231. Epub 2008
Nov  25.

Association of body size and muscle strength with incidence of coronary heart 
disease and cerebrovascular diseases: a population-based cohort study of one 
million Swedish men.

Silventoinen K(1), Magnusson PK, Tynelius P, Batty GD, Rasmussen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Helsinki, Finland.

Comment in
    Clin J Sport Med. 2010 Mar;20(2):131.

BACKGROUND: Muscle strength and body size may be associated with coronary heart 
disease (CHD) and stroke risk. However, perhaps because of a low number of 
cases, existing evidence is inconsistent.
METHODS: Height, weight, systolic (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP), 
elbow flexion, hand grip and knee extension strength were measured in young 
adulthood in 1 145 467 Swedish men born between 1951 and 1976. Information on 
own and parental social position was derived from censuses. During the 
register-based follow-up until the end of 2006, 12 323 CHD and 8865 stroke cases 
emerged, including 1431 intracerebral haemorrhage, 1316 subarachoid haemorrhage 
and 2944 intracerebral infarction cases. Hazard ratios (HR) per 1 SD in the 
exposures of interest were computed using Cox proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: Body mass index (BMI, kg/m(2)) showed increased risk with CHD and 
intracerebral infarction, whereas for intracerebral and subarachoid haemorrhage 
both under- and overweight was associated with increased risk. Height was 
inversely associated with CHD and all types of stroke. After adjustment for 
height, BMI, SBP, DBP and social position, all strength indicators were 
inversely associated with disease risk. For CHD and intracerebral infarction, 
grip strength showed the strongest association (HR = 0.89 and 0.91, 
respectively) whereas for intracerebral and subarachoid haemorrhage, knee 
extension strength was the best predictor (HR = 0.88 and 0.92, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Body size and muscle strength in young adulthood are important 
predictors of risk of CHD and stroke in later life. In addition to adiposity, 
underweight needs attention since it may predispose to cerebrovascular 
complications.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyn231
PMID: 19033357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. J Head Trauma Rehabil. 2008 Nov-Dec;23(6):394-400. doi: 
10.1097/01.HTR.0000341435.52004.ac.

Prevalence of long-term disability from traumatic brain injury in the civilian 
population of the United States, 2005.

Zaloshnja E(1), Miller T, Langlois JA, Selassie AW.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, Calverton, MD 20705, USA. 
zaloshnja@pire.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of long-term disability associated with 
traumatic brain injury (TBI) in the civilian population of the United States.
METHODS: We first estimated how many people experienced long-term disability 
from TBI each year in the past 70 years. Then, accounting for the increased 
mortality among TBI survivors, we estimated their life expectancy and calculated 
how many were expected to be alive in 2005.
RESULTS: An estimated 1.1% of the US civilian population or 3.17 million people 
(95% CI: 3.02-3.32 million) were living with a long-term disability from TBI at 
the beginning of 2005. Under less conservative assumptions about TBI's impact on 
lifespan, this estimate is 3.32 million (95% CI: 3.16-3.48 million).
CONCLUSION: Substantial long-term disability occurs among the US civilians 
hospitalized with a TBI.

DOI: 10.1097/01.HTR.0000341435.52004.ac
PMID: 19033832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Br J Cancer. 2008 Dec 16;99(12):1991-2000. doi: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604788. Epub
 2008 Nov 25.

Population screening for colorectal cancer: the implications of an ageing 
population.

Macafee DA(1), Waller M, Whynes DK, Moss S, Scholefield JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle-upon, Tyne NE1 
4LP, UK. dmacafee@doctors.org.uk

Population screening for colorectal cancer (CRC) has recently commenced in the 
United Kingdom supported by the evidence of a number of randomised trials and 
pilot studies. Certain factors are known to influence screening 
cost-effectiveness (e.g. compliance), but it remains unclear whether an ageing 
population (i.e. demographic change) might also have an effect. The aim of this 
study was to simulate a population-based screening setting using a Markov model 
and assess the effect of increasing life expectancy on CRC screening 
cost-effectiveness. A Markov model was constructed that aimed, using a cohort 
simulation, to estimate the cost-effectiveness of CRC screening in an England 
and Wales population for two timescales: 2003 (early cohort) and 2033 (late 
cohort). Four model outcomes were calculated; screened and non-screened cohorts 
in 2003 and 2033. The screened cohort of men and women aged 60 years were 
offered biennial unhydrated faecal occult blood testing until the age of 69 
years. Life expectancy was assumed to increase by 2.5 years per decade. There 
were 407 552 fewer people entering the model in the 2033 model due to a lower 
birth cohort, and population screening saw 30 345 fewer CRC-related deaths over 
the 50 years of the model. Screening the 2033 cohort cost pound 96 million with 
cost savings of pound 43 million in terms of detection and treatment and pound 
28 million in palliative care costs. After 30 years of follow-up, the cost per 
life year saved was pound 1544. An identical screening programme in an early 
cohort (2003) saw a cost per life year saved of pound 1651. Population screening 
for CRC is costly but enables cost savings in certain areas and a considerable 
reduction in mortality from CRC. This Markov simulation suggests that the 
cost-effectiveness of population screening for CRC in the United Kingdom may 
actually be improved by rising life expectancies.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bjc.6604788
PMCID: PMC2607219
PMID: 19034277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Biomedica. 2008 Sep;28(3):414-22.

[A comparison of the causes of adult mortality and its effects on 
life-expectancy across the regions of Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

López E(1), Arce P.

Author information:
(1)Grupo Sociedad y Salud, Subdirección de Investigación, Instituto Nacional de 
Salud, Bogotá, D.C, Colombia. elopez@ins.gov.co

INTRODUCTION: When determining some populations state of health, an 
understanding of the causes of mortality is essential.
OBJECTIVES: Changes in mortality due to causes was established to determine 
their contribution to the life-expectancy by gender and region of the Colombian 
population aged 15 to 74, between 1985 and 1999, by gender and region.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a descriptive, retrospective study; the sources 
of information were records of deaths from 1983 to 2001 and population 
projections according to Departamento Administrativo Nacional de Estadística. 
The age selected as a sample population was 15 to 74. Changes in mortality were 
measured by using Eduardo Arriagas methodology, which is based on calculating 
temporary life-expectancy, absolute and relative change indices, and how changes 
in mortality due to cause of death contribute to life-expectancy.
RESULTS: The main cause of reduced temporary life-expectancy in both genders was 
the increase in deaths by suicide, homicide and other violent causes (the 
reduction was greater for men than women in all regions studied). The greatest 
positive contribution to longevity was by the reduction in circulatory system 
diseases and accidents.
CONCLUSIONS: A minimal gain in temporary life-expectancy was achieved as the 
positive affect of reduced mortality due to natural causes. This gain was 
annulled by the negative contributions of increased mortality due to suicide, 
homicide and other violent avoidable acts.

PMID: 19034364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Naturwissenschaften. 2009 Jan;96(1):165-71. doi: 10.1007/s00114-008-0471-z.
Epub  2008 Nov 26.

Summer dormancy in edible dormice (Glis glis) without energetic constraints.

Bieber C(1), Ruf T.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Wildlife Ecology, University of Veterinary Medicine 
Vienna, Savoyenstrasse 1, 1160, Vienna, Austria. claudia.bieber@vu-wien.ac.at

Average longevity in free-living edible dormice (Glis glis) can reach 9 years, 
which is extremely high for a small rodent. This remarkable life span has been 
related to a peculiar life history strategy and the rarity of reproductive bouts 
in these seed eaters. Most females (96%) reproduce only once or twice in their 
lifetime, predominantly during years of mast seeding of, e.g., beech, but entire 
populations can skip reproduction in years of low seed availability. 
Surprisingly, in non-reproductive years, large fractions of populations 
apparently vanished and were never captured above ground. Therefore, we 
determined the duration of above-ground activity, and body temperature profiles 
in a subset of animals, of dormice under semi-natural conditions in outdoor 
enclosures. We found that non-reproductive dormice returned to dormancy in 
underground burrows throughout summer after active seasons as short as <2 weeks. 
Thus, animals spent up to >10 months per year in dormancy. This exceeds dormancy 
duration of any other mammal under natural conditions. Summer dormancy was not 
caused by energy constraints, as it occurred in animals in good condition, fed 
ad libitum and without climatic stress. We suggest that almost year-round torpor 
has evolved as a strategy to escape birds of prey, the major predators of this 
arboreal mammal. This unique predator-avoidance strategy clearly helps in 
explaining the unusually high longevity of dormice.

DOI: 10.1007/s00114-008-0471-z
PMID: 19034404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2008 Dec;133 Suppl 7:S225-46. doi:
10.1055/s-0028-1100954.  Epub 2008 Nov 25.

[Procedures and methods of benefit assessments for medicines in Germany].

[Article in German]

Bekkering GE(1), Kleijnen J.

Author information:
(1)BeSyRe Bekkering Systematic Reviews, Geel, Belgium.

Comment in
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2009 Feb;134(7):317-9; author reply 320.
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2009 Feb;134(7):319-20; author reply 320.

The Federal Joint Committee (FJC; Gemeinsamer Bundesausschuss, G-BA) defines the 
health-care elements that are to be reimbursed by sickness funds. To define a 
directive, the FJC can commission benefit assessments, which provide an overview 
of the scientific evidence regarding the efficacy and benefits of an 
intervention. This paper describes the operational implementation of the legal 
requirements with regard to the benefit assessments of medicines. Such benefit 
assessments are sometimes referred to as "isolated benefit assessments," to 
distinguish them from benefit assessments as part of a full economic evaluation. 
The FJC has the freedom to commission these assessments from any agency; 
however, to date the majority have commissioned the Institute for Quality and 
Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG). Nevertheless, the content of this paper 
applies integrally to any institute commissioned for such assessments. In this 
report, "the institute"' is used when the text refers to any of these 
institutes. The legal framework for benefit assessments is laid out in the 
German Social Code Book version V (http://www. sozialgesetzbuch.de), Sects. 35b 
( section sign 1), 139a ( section sign 4-6) and Sect. 139b ( section sign 3). It 
is specified that: The institute must guarantee high transparency. The institute 
must provide appropriate participation of relevant parties for the 
commission-related development of assessments, and opportunity for comment on 
all important segments of the assessment procedure. The institute has to report 
on the progress and results of the work at regular intervals. The institute is 
held to giving the commission to external experts. Based on the legal framework, 
the institute must guarantee a high procedural transparency. Transparency of the 
whole process should be achieved, which is evidenced by clear reporting of 
procedures and criteria in all phases undertaken in the benefit assessment. The 
most important means of enhancing transparency are: 1. To implement a scoping 
process to support the development of the research question. 2. To separate the 
work of the external experts performing the evidence assessment from that of the 
institute formulating recommendations. Therefore, the preliminary report as 
produced by external experts needs to be public, and published separately from 
any subsequent amendments or (draft-)reports made by the institute, which 
includes the institute's recommendations. 3. To implement open peer review by 
publishing both the comments of the reviewers and their names. Based on the 
legal framework, the institute must provide for adequate participation of 
relevant parties. These include organisations representing the interests of 
patients; experts of medical, pharmaceutical and health economic science and 
practice; the professional organisations of pharmacists and pharmaceutical 
companies; and experts on alternative therapies. Patients and health care 
professionals bring in new insights with respect to research priorities, 
treatment and outcomes. The relevant parties should be identified and contacted 
whenever the global scope of the assessment has been drafted. Subsequently, the 
relevant parties should be involved in defining the research question, 
developing the protocol and commenting on the preliminary report. To implement 
the involvement of relevant parties in defining the research question a scoping 
process is suggested. For the other phases, written comments followed by an oral 
discussion should be used. Finally, the relevant parties should have the right 
to appeal the final decision on judicial grounds. None of these steps mean that 
the institute would lose any part of its scientific independence. From the 
relevant sections of the legal framework with respect to the assessment methods, 
it can be concluded that: 1. The institute must ensure that the assessment is 
made in accordance with internationally recognised standards of evidence-based 
medicine (EBM). 2. The assessment is conducted in comparison with other 
medicines and treatment forms under consideration of the additional therapeutic 
benefit for the patients. 3. The minimum criteria for assessing patient benefit 
are improvements in the state of health, shortening the duration of illness, 
extension of the duration of life, reduction of side effects and improvements in 
quality of life. EBM refers to the application of the best available evidence to 
answer a research question, which can inform questions about the care of 
patients. The optimal design, even for effectiveness questions, is not always 
the randomised, controlled trial (RCT) but depends on the research question and 
the outcomes of interest. To increase transparency for each question, the levels 
of evidence examined should be made explicit. There is no empirical evidence to 
support the use of cutoff points with respect to the number of studies before 
making recommendations. To get the best available evidence for the research 
question(s), all relevant evidence should be considered for each question, and 
the best available evidence should be used to answer the question. Separate 
levels of evidence may have to be used for each outcome. There are many ways in 
which bias can be introduced in systematic reviews. Some types of bias can be 
prevented, other types can only be reported and, for some, the influence of the 
bias can be investigated. Reviews must show that potential sources of bias have 
been dealt with adequately. Methods used by other agencies that perform benefit 
assessments are useful to interpret the term 'international standards' to which 
the institute must comply. The National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) is a good example in this respect. NICE shows that it is 
possible to have transparent procedures for benefit assessments but that this 
requires detailed documentation. NICE has implemented an open procedure with 
respect to the comments of reviewers, which makes the procedure transparent. 
Although the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) in 
Germany invites comments on their protocol and preliminary report by posting 
them on their website, and comments are made public, the individual comments are 
not evaluated openly, and therefore it remains uncertain whether or not they 
lead to changes in the reports. The participation of relevant parties in the 
assessment process as implemented by NICE guarantees a process that is 
transparent to all relevant parties. Transparency of the whole process is 
assured by clear reporting of procedures and criteria in all phases undertaken 
in the benefit assessment. In a scoping process, a draft scope is commented on 
first in writing and subsequently in the form of a scoping workshop. In this 
way, all relevant aspects can be heard and included in the final scope. The 
protocol is then developed, followed by evidence assessment. The methods used 
should be completely reported to show readers that the assessment has been 
performed with scientific rigour and that bias has been prevented where 
possible. All relevant parties should have the opportunity to comment on the 
draft protocol and the draft preliminary report. Each comment should be 
evaluated as to whether or not it will lead to changes, and both the comments 
and the evaluation should be made public to ensure transparency of this process. 
The same procedure should be used for the peer-review phase. Based on the final 
report of the evidence assessment, the institute forms recommendations and the 
FJC appraises the evidence. During the writing of the final report, a separation 
between the evidence assessment and the evidence appraisal phase should be 
implemented. Ideally, this separation should be legally enforced to prevent any 
confusion about conflict of interests. Such a process guarantees a feasible 
combination of the legal requirements for transparency and involvement of 
relevant parties with international standards of EBM to ensure that the benefit 
assessments of medicines in Germany are performed according to the highest 
standards.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1100954
PMID: 19034813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Chembiochem. 2008 Dec 15;9(18):2989-96. doi: 10.1002/cbic.200800430.

Total synthesis of desB30 insulin analogues by biomimetic folding of 
single-chain precursors.

Tofteng AP(1), Jensen KJ, Schäffer L, Hoeg-Jensen T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark.

Insulin is a peptide hormone consisting of 51 amino acids in two chains with 
three disulfide bridges. Human insulin and various analogues are used for the 
treatment of diabetes and are produced recombinantly at ton scale. Herein, we 
report the chemical synthesis of insulin by the step-wise, Fmoc-based, 
solid-phase synthesis of single-chain precursors with solubilising extensions, 
which under redox conditions, spontaneously fold with the correct pairing of the 
three disulfide bridges. The folded, single-chain, insulin precursors can be 
transformed into bioactive two-chain desB30 insulin by the simultaneous removal 
of the solubilising extension (4-5 residues) and the chain-bridging C-peptide 
(3-5 residues) by employing Achromobacter lyticus protease--a process well-known 
from the yeast-based recombinant production of insulin. The overall yields of 
synthetic insulins were as much as 6 %, and the synthetic process was 
straightforward and not labour intensive.

DOI: 10.1002/cbic.200800430
PMID: 19035371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Int J Cancer. 2009 Feb 15;124(4):970-8. doi: 10.1002/ijc.24000.

HPV16/18 vaccination to prevent cervical cancer in The Netherlands: model-based 
cost-effectiveness.

Coupé VM(1), van Ginkel J, de Melker HE, Snijders PJ, Meijer CJ, Berkhof J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. v.coupe@vumc.nl

We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of HPV16/18 vaccination for girls aged 12 
years in The Netherlands in addition to cervical cancer screening. For this 
purpose, we developed a simulation model that describes the relation between 
each of the high-risk human papillomavirus (hrHPV) types and cervical disease, 
allowing the occurrence of multiple type-specific infections. Model parameters 
were derived from Dutch cohort studies, including a large population-based 
screening trial, and from the national cervical cancer registry. The model 
satisfactorily reproduced Dutch data on HPV infection and the presence of 
cervical lesions. For our base-case scenario in which 85% of the girls aged 12 
years were vaccinated against types 16/18 (95% efficacy, lifelong protection), 
the model predicted a decrease of 60% in the number of cervical cancer cases and 
cervical cancer deaths indicating that substantial health benefits can be 
achieved. Health savings were robust against changes in the vaccine efficacy 
(varied from 85% to 98%) but savings showed a substantial reduction when the 
efficacy started waning 10 years after vaccination. The discounted costs per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) were euro 19,500/QALY (range euro 11,000 to 
euro 25,000/QALY) and lied near the cost-effectiveness threshold of euro 
20,000/QALY used in The Netherlands. The simulations further showed that 
vaccination cannot replace screening because vaccination without screening was 
less effective than screening in preventing cancer in women over 40 years of 
age. In conclusion, our model results support the implementation of HPV16/18 
vaccination in young women in addition to cervical cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.24000
PMID: 19035448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2009 Mar;11(3):401-6. doi: 10.1089/ars.2008.2381.

Jay and Jeanie Schottenstein prize in cardiovascular science: predicting 
cardiovascular illnesses for the 21(st) century, and the unpredictable..

Goldschmidt-Clermont PJ.

Changes in our society such as the increasing cost of retirement and age 
redistribution toward a larger elderly population will require humans to remain 
highly functional until an advanced age. As a consequence, chronic illnesses 
that are primarily responsible for reducing functionality and life expectancy 
will require improved prevention and therapeutic strategies. In a global way, 
cardiovascular disease and cancer represent the most challenging disorders to 
maintaining the functional integrity of our fellow humans. A new theory has been 
derived from recent progress in our understanding of atherosclerosis as a key 
mechanism for cardiovascular disease and of cancer. Instructively, this theory 
provides a bridge at the stem cell level, linking most chronic disorders.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2008.2381
PMCID: PMC2933575
PMID: 19035844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. BJOG. 2008 Dec;115(13):1676-87. doi: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2008.01935.x.

The long-term cost-effectiveness of fetal monitoring during labour: a comparison 
of cardiotocography complemented with ST analysis versus cardiotocography alone.

Heintz E(1), Brodtkorb TH, Nelson N, Levin LA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Technology Assessment (CMT), Linköping University, 
Linköping, Sweden. emelie.heintz@liu.se

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the use of cardiotocography (CTG) 
complemented with fetal electrocardiography and ST analysis compared with the 
use of CTG alone in term deliveries when a decision has been made to use fetal 
monitoring with a scalp electrode.
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis based on a probabilistic decision model 
incorporating relevant strategies and lifelong outcomes.
SETTING: Maternity wards in Sweden.
POPULATION: Women with term fetuses after a clinical decision had been made to 
apply a fetal scalp electrode for internal CTG.
METHODS: A decision model was used to compare the costs and effects of two 
different treatment strategies. Baseline estimates were derived from the 
literature. Discounted costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
simulated over a lifetime horizon using a probabilistic model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: QALYs, incremental costs, and cost per QALY gained 
expressed as incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: The analysis found an incremental effect of 0.005 QALYs for ST analysis 
compared with CTG; the ST analysis strategy was also moreover associated with a 
euro56 decrease in costs, thus dominating the CTG strategy. The probability that 
ST analysis is cost-effective in comparison with CTG is high, irrespective of 
the willingness-to-pay value for a QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with CTG alone, ST analysis is cost-effective when used in 
term high-risk deliveries in which there is a need for internal fetal 
monitoring.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1471-0528.2008.01935.x
PMCID: PMC2659360
PMID: 19035942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. BMC Public Health. 2008 Nov 27;8:394. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-394.

The future impact of population growth and aging on coronary heart disease in 
China: projections from the Coronary Heart Disease Policy Model-China.

Moran A(1), Zhao D, Gu D, Coxson P, Chen CS, Cheng J, Liu J, He J, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, 
New York, USA. aem35@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: China will experience an overall growth and aging of its adult 
population in coming decades. We used a computer model to forecast the future 
impact of these demographic changes on coronary heart disease (CHD) in China.
METHODS: The CHD Policy Model is a validated state-transition, computer 
simulation of CHD on a national scale. China-specific CHD risk factor, 
incidence, case-fatality, and prevalence data were incorporated, and a CHD 
prediction model was generated from a Chinese cohort study and calibrated to 
age-specific Chinese mortality rates. Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) due 
to CHD were calculated using standard methods. The projected population of China 
aged 35-84 years was entered, and CHD events, deaths, and DALYs were simulated 
over 2000-2029. CHD risk factors other than age and case-fatality were held at 
year 2000 levels. Sensitivity analyses tested uncertainty regarding CHD 
mortality coding, the proportion of total deaths attributable to CHD, and 
case-fatality.
RESULTS: We predicted 7.8 million excess CHD events (a 69% increase) and 3.4 
million excess CHD deaths (a 64% increase) in the decade 2020-2029 compared with 
2000-2009. For 2030, we predicted 71% of almost one million annual CHD deaths 
will occur in persons >or=65 years old, while 67% of the growing annual burden 
of CHD death and disability will weigh on adults <65 years old. Substituting 
alternate CHD mortality assumptions led to 17-20% more predicted CHD deaths over 
2000-2029, though the pattern of increases in CHD events and deaths over time 
remained.
CONCLUSION: We forecast that absolute numbers of CHD events and deaths will 
increase dramatically in China over 2010-2029, due to a growing and aging 
population alone. Recent data suggest CHD risk factor levels are increasing, so 
our projections may underestimate the extent of the potential CHD epidemic in 
China.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-8-394
PMCID: PMC2631484
PMID: 19036167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Environ Entomol. 2008 Oct;37(5):1063-8. doi: 
10.1603/0046-225x(2008)37[1063:spolta]2.0.co;2.

Supercooling points of Lysiphlebus testaceipes and its host Schizaphis graminum.

Jones DB(1), Giles KL, Elliott NC.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois Extension, Mount Vernon Center, Mount Vernon, IL 
62864, USA. jonesd@uiuc.edu

Supercooling points (SCPs) were measured for various life stages of male and 
female Lysiphlebus testaceipes (Cresson) parasitoids, along with mummies and its 
aphid host, Schizaphis graminum (Rondani). Some parasitoids were acclimated (4 h 
at 10 degrees C before cooling down to the SCP) to determine whether this could 
significantly lower the SCP. Acclimation did not improve SCPs for L. 
testaceipes. An inverse relationship between age of the adult parasitoid and its 
SCP was detected. Nonacclimated male and female parasitoids older than 12 h 
after emergence spontaneously froze at the warmest mean temperatures (-20.32 +/- 
1.32 and -22.55 +/- 0.62 degrees C [SE], respectively). Younger female adult 
parasitoids (<6 h after emergence) and mummies had mean SCPs less than -26 
degrees C. The SCP for the greenbug host was slightly warmer at -25.98 +/- 0.10 
degrees C. Knowledge of SCPs for L. testaceipes and its host S. graminum help 
provide insights about their ability to successfully function throughout the 
winter in the southern Great Plains.

DOI: 10.1603/0046-225x(2008)37[1063:spolta]2.0.co;2
PMID: 19036182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. J Biol Regul Homeost Agents. 2008 Oct-Dec;22(4):217-24.

Immunity, autoimmunity and autoimmune diseases in older people.

Rosato E, Salsano F.

Immunosenescence is defined as all the changes occurring in the immune system in 
the aged. Recent studies suggest that in older patients the immune system 
undergoes a functional remodelling. Two contrasting phenomena coexist in 
immunosenescence: the decreasing of immune response and the autoantibody 
production. Possible consequences are an increase of autoimmune phenomenon, 
neoplasia incidence, and predisposition to infections. The study of autoimmune 
manifestations in the elderly population should be considered as a priority for 
future medical research because of the increase in life expectancy, especially 
in developed countries. This review analyzes the clinical expression of systemic 
autoimmune diseases in older patients.

PMID: 19036223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Health Technol Assess. 2008 Nov;12(34):iii-iv, xi-xiii, 1-198. doi: 
10.3310/hta12340.

Curative catheter ablation in atrial fibrillation and typical atrial flutter: 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Rodgers M(1), McKenna C, Palmer S, Chambers D, Van Hout S, Golder S, Pepper C, 
Todd D, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the safety, clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of radio frequency catheter ablation (RCFA) for the curative 
treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) and typical atrial flutter.
DATA SOURCES: For the systematic reviews of clinical studies 25 bibliographic 
databases and internet sources were searched in July 2006, with subsequent 
update searches for controlled trials conducted in April 2007. For the review of 
cost-effectiveness a broad range of studies was considered, including economic 
evaluations conducted alongside trials, modelling studies and analyses of 
administrative databases.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic reviews of clinical studies and economic evaluations 
of catheter ablation for AF and typical atrial flutter were conducted. The 
quality of the included studies was assessed using standard methods. A decision 
model was developed to evaluate a strategy of RFCA compared with long-term 
antiarrhythmic drug (AAD) treatment alone in adults with paroxysmal AF. This was 
used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of RFCA in terms of cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) under a range of assumptions. Decision 
uncertainty associated with this analysis was presented and used to inform 
future research priorities using the value of information analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 4858 studies were retrieved for the review of clinical 
effectiveness. Of these, eight controlled studies and 53 case series of AF were 
included. Two controlled studies and 23 case series of typical atrial flutter 
were included. For atrial fibrillation, freedom from arrhythmia at 12 months in 
case series ranged from 28% to 85.3% with a weighted mean of 76%. Three RCTs 
suggested that RFCA is more effective than long-term AAD therapy in patients 
with drug-refractory paroxysmal AF. Single RCTs also suggested superiority of 
RFCA over electrical cardioversion followed by long-term AAD therapy and of RFCA 
plus AAD therapy over AAD maintenance therapy alone in drug-refractory patients. 
The available RCTs provided insufficient evidence to determine the effectiveness 
of RFCA beyond 12 months or in patients with persistent or permanent AF. Adverse 
events and complications were generally rare. Mortality rates were low in both 
RCTs and case series. Cardiac tamponade and pulmonary vein stenosis were the 
most frequently recorded complications. For atrial flutter, freedom from 
arrhythmia at 12 months in case series ranged from 85% to 92% with a weighted 
mean of 88%. Neither of the atrial flutter RCTs reported freedom from arrhythmia 
at 12 months. One RCT found a statistically significant benefit favouring 
ablation over AADs in terms of freedom from arrhythmia at a mean follow-up of 22 
months. A second RCT reported a more modest effect favouring ablation in terms 
of freedom from atrial flutter at follow-up in older patients (mean age 78 
years) after their first episode of flutter. In the atrial flutter case series, 
mortality was rare and the most frequent complications were atrioventricular 
block and haematomas. Complications in the RCTs were similar, except for those 
events likely to have been caused by AAD therapy (e.g. thyroid dysfunction). The 
review of cost-effectiveness evidence found one relevant study, which from a UK 
NHS perspective had a number of important limitations. The base-case analysis in 
the decision model demonstrated that if the quality of life benefits of RFCA are 
maintained over the remaining lifetime of the patient then the 
cost-effectiveness of RFCA appears clear. These findings were robust over a wide 
range of alternative assumptions, being between 7763 and 7910 pounds per 
additional QALY with very little uncertainty. If the quality of life benefits of 
RFCA are assumed to be maintained for no more than 5 years, cost-effectiveness 
of RFCA is dependent on a number of factors. Estimates of cost-effectiveness 
that explored the influence of these factors ranged from 23,000 to 38,000 pounds 
per QALY.
