made it possible to consider two fundamental aspects, which are the geriatric 
evaluation, from the most simple to the complete one, and the development of 
specific trials. In addition, a strong institutional policy allowed promotion, 
on the French national territory, of regional experiments thanks to Pilot Units 
of Oncogeriatrics Coordination (UPCOG). The question of the interest of a 
geriatric evaluation in radiotherapy is related mainly to the difficulties of 
tolerance and observance of this treatment, but also with its effectiveness and 
this review explores the main curative, adjuvant and palliative indications as 
well as research perspectives.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2008.09.002
PMID: 18838284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Rev Prat. 2008 Sep 30;58(14):1565-70.

[Coronary artery disease in patient 80 years and older].

[Article in French]

Hanon O(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de gériatrie, hôpital Broca, université de Paris-Descartes 5, 
75013 Paris, France. olivier.hanon@brc.aphp.fr

The prevalence of coronary artery disease increases with age. Its clinical 
presentation is even less typical and its prognosis even more severe that it 
occurs in frail subjects with several co-morbidities. These atypical symptoms 
are often associated with a delayed diagnosis and therapy. The presence of 
comorbidities requires a comprehensive geriatric assessment to detect the 
existence of "frailty". Evidence based medicine available for coronary artery 
disease is based on studies that involve very few subjects over 80 years and 
recommendations are extrapolated from data based on evidence obtained in younger 
populations. Basically the strategy of treatments of coronary artery disease in 
octogenarians remains identical to the youngest subject. However, 
epidemiological studies indicate an under-prescription of recommended drugs 
whereas this older population is likely to derive the greatest benefit because 
of its elevated cardiovascular risk. Cautions for use of cardio-vascular 
therapies are necessary in octogenarian people because of comorbidities and 
pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic changes related to aging. Globally, the 
therapeutic strategy of coronary artery disease should be based not on the age 
but on an individual analysis that takes into account the severity of coronary 
artery disease, the existence of comorbidities, the iatrogenic risk, the 
expectancy and the quality of life of the patient.

PMID: 18839685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Organ Ethic. 2008 Fall-Winter;4(2):97-108.

The public funding of expensive cancer therapies: synthesizing the 
"3Es"--evidence, economics, and ethics.

Kirby J(1), Somers E, Simpson C, McPhee J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioethics at Dalhousie University, Nova Scotia, Canada. 
jeffrey.kirby@dal.ca

The cost of new cancer therapies and drugs has risen sharply and somewhat 
alarmingly in the last five years. In those developed countries where healthcare 
systems are (primarily) publicly funded, this has caused legitimate concern 
among government administrators and politicians who must make decisions 
regarding funding. In the Canadian context, provincial Departments of Health are 
mandated to provide comprehensive healthcare services to all citizens out of a 
"fixed pot" of financial resources, which is determined annually as part of the 
provincial government's overall budget process. In recent years there has been 
increasing recognition among healthcare decision makers that the approval of 
funding for multiple new expensive cancer treatments is creating an "opportunity 
cost" for meeting the other legitimate healthcare needs of provincial citizens. 
In response to this reality, the Department of Health of the Canadian province 
of Nova Scotia created a Cancer Systemic Therapy Policy Committee (CSTPC) in 
2005. The mandate of this committee is to make recommendations to the Nova 
Scotia Deputy Minister of Health regarding the public funding of new cancer 
therapies. In collaboration with consultants from the Dalhousie University 
Department of Bioethics, the committee developed a comprehensive and inclusive 
decision-making framework to promote and facilitate decision making that is 
explicitly informed by evidence, economics, and ethics--the "3Es"--in reaching 
and making recommendations.

PMID: 18839752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Cases J. 2008 Oct 7;1(1):226. doi: 10.1186/1757-1626-1-226.

Recurrent airway obstructions in a patient with benign tracheal stenosis and a 
silicone airway stent: a case report.

Sriram K(1), Robinson P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Medicine, Royal Adelaide Hospital, Adelaide, South 
Australia 5000, Australia. bajeekrishna@gmail.com.

Airway stents (silicone and metal stents) are used to treat patients with benign 
tracheal stenosis, who are symptomatic and in whom tracheal surgical 
reconstruction has failed or is not appropriate. However airway stents are often 
associated with complications such as migration, granuloma formation and mucous 
hypersecretion, which cause significant morbidity, especially in patients with 
benign tracheal stenosis and relatively normal life expectancy. We report a 
patient who had frequent critical airway obstructions over 8 years due to 
granuloma and mucus hypersecretion in a silicone airway stent. The problem was 
resolved when the silicone stent was removed and replaced with a covered self 
expanding metal stent.

DOI: 10.1186/1757-1626-1-226
PMCID: PMC2572608
PMID: 18840299


422. J Physiol Sci. 2008 Oct;58(5):323-32. doi: 10.2170/physiolsci.RP011107. Epub
 2008 Oct 9.

Ultrasonographic measurement of tendon displacement caused by active force 
generation in the psoas major muscle.

Matsubayashi T(1), Kubo J, Matsuo A, Kobayashi K, Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, Japan. cc57729@mail.ecc.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to examine the validity of using ultrasonography 
for detecting the force generated by the psoas major muscle, a muscle positioned 
in the deep trunk. We measured the displacement of central tendon on B-mode 
ultrasound images of two different longitudinal sections of the muscle during 
passive hip flexion-extension and isometric hip flexion at varied hip angles. In 
both tasks, the values of tendon displacement obtained independently from each 
section coincided well, indicating that tendon displacement took place along a 
straight trajectory, i.e., close to the nodal line between two scanned planes. 
It was strongly correlated with both the hip angle (R(2) = 0.98) and the 
hip-flexion torque (R(2) = 0.83). In the second set of experiment, we measured 
the tendon displacement during dynamic movements with the combination of 
ultrasonography and VICON-based motion analysis. From the tendon displacement 
during dynamic thigh lifting and walking, the force generated by the muscle 
could be estimated by extracting the force-related component. These results 
indicate that ultrasonography of the psoas major muscle can measure the 
displacement of its central tendon accompanied with either length change of the 
muscle or the elongation of tendon. Although much attention has to be paid to 
the limitations of this methodology, ultrasonography may be useful for detecting 
the force generation of the muscle during a variety of dynamic movements.

DOI: 10.2170/physiolsci.RP011107
PMID: 18840323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2008 Sep;63(9):895-906. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/63.9.895.

How long will my mouse live? Machine learning approaches for prediction of mouse 
life span.

Swindell WR(1), Harper JM, Miller RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-2200, USA. wswindel@umich.edu

Prediction of individual life span based on characteristics evaluated at 
middle-age represents a challenging objective for aging research. In this study, 
we used machine learning algorithms to construct models that predict life span 
in a stock of genetically heterogeneous mice. Life-span prediction accuracy of 
22 algorithms was evaluated using a cross-validation approach, in which models 
were trained and tested with distinct subsets of data. Using a combination of 
body weight and T-cell subset measures evaluated before 2 years of age, we show 
that the life-span quartile to which an individual mouse belongs can be 
predicted with an accuracy of 35.3% (+/-0.10%). This result provides a new 
benchmark for the development of life-span-predictive models, but improvement 
can be expected through identification of new predictor variables and 
development of computational approaches. Future work in this direction can 
provide tools for aging research and will shed light on associations between 
phenotypic traits and longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/63.9.895
PMCID: PMC2693389
PMID: 18840793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. J Transcult Nurs. 2009 Jan;20(1):93-104. doi: 10.1177/1043659608325841.

The impact of migration on the health of voluntary migrants in western 
societies.

Lassetter JH(1), Callister LC.

Author information:
(1)Brigham Young University.

The authors reviewed literature on the health of voluntary migrants to Western 
societies and factors affecting their health. Health indicators include 
mortality rates and life expectancy, birth outcomes, risk of illness, patterns 
of deteriorating health, cardiovascular disease, body mass index, hypertension, 
and depression. Multiple factors explain variability, including length of 
residence and acculturation, disease exposure, life style and living conditions, 
risky behaviors, healthy habits, social support networks, cultural and 
linguistic barriers, experiences with racism, and levels of awareness of 
cultural health practices among health care providers. Evidence exists for 
superior health among many migrants to Western countries relative to native-born 
persons, but the differential disappears over time. Migration is a dynamic, 
extended process with effects occurring years after physical relocation. 
Systemic change is required, including health policies that ensure equity for 
migrants, culturally appropriate health promotion, and routine assessment of 
migration history, cultural health practices, and disease exposure.

DOI: 10.1177/1043659608325841
PMID: 18840884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2009 Mar;24(3):926-33. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfn542.
Epub  2008 Oct 7.

Characteristics and survival of young adults who started renal replacement 
therapy during childhood.

Kramer A(1), Stel VS, Tizard J, Verrina E, Rönnholm K, Pálsson R, Maxwell H, 
Jager KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Informatics, ERA-EDTA Registry, Academic Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. a.kramer@amc.uva.nl

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the group of children on renal replacement 
therapy (RRT) who reach the age of 18 years and are transferred from paediatric 
to adult nephrology services. The aim of this study was to describe patient 
demographics, primary renal diseases, treatment history and determine the risk 
factors for mortality of these young adults who started RRT in childhood.
METHODS: We included 1777 young adults who had started RRT during childhood and 
turned 18 between 1985 and 2004 from nine European renal registries submitting 
data to the ERA-EDTA Registry. The chi-square test was used to test differences 
between patient groups and Cox regression analysis to examine patient survival.
RESULTS: Young adults who began RRT during childhood increased the total number 
of adult patients starting RRT by 1.5% per annum. The annual number of children 
on RRT turning 18, per million persons (Pmarp) reaching the age of 18 years, 
increased between 1985 and 2004 from 71 to 116. Over time, there was an increase 
in the percentage of young adults who started RRT at a very young age, a greater 
number of children with hypoplasia/dysplasia and cystic kidneys and more young 
adults who started RRT with peritoneal dialysis or pre-emptive transplantation. 
The unadjusted 5-year patient survival from the 18th birthday was 95.1% (95% CI 
93.9-96.0). The average life expectancy was 63 years for young adults with a 
functioning graft and 38 years for those remaining on dialysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The number Pmarp of young adults on RRT has increased over time. 
Their characteristics and treatment history changed. Their survival prospects 
are good; however, transplant recipients have an expected remaining lifetime 
that is at least twice as high as for young adults on dialysis.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfn542
PMID: 18840894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Hong Kong Med J. 2008 Oct;14(5):416-7.

Is the Hospital Authority's drug formulary equitable and efficient?

Lau EW(1), Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing 
Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, Pokfulam, Hong Kong. 
elaine_lau54@hotmail.com

PMID: 18840919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Curr Opin Oncol. 2008 Nov;20(6):627-33. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e3283136770.

Current controversies in extended adjuvant endocrine therapy for early breast 
cancer.

Snoj N(1), Paridaens R, Cufer T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Oncology, Zaloska, Ljubljana, Slovenia.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Hormone receptor positive breast cancer is responsible for 
the majority of breast cancer deaths. The risk for disease recurrence that is 
lower in the first 5 years after primary treatment than for hormone receptor 
negative breast cancer remains relatively high even after 15 years. Late 
recurrences can be prevented or at least further delayed with extended endocrine 
therapy. Its optimal duration and treatment tailoring is discussed in the 
present review.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recently, the results of Adjuvant Tamoxifen, Longer Against 
Shorter and adjuvant Tamoxifen--To offer more, two very large adjuvant trials 
exploring the benefit of extending tamoxifen treatment beyond 5 years, were 
reported, adding controversy to what was believed to be the optimal duration of 
adjuvant tamoxifen. Aromatase inhibitors have proven to have disease-free 
survival advantage when used after 5 years of tamoxifen with a delay of up to 
2.8 years. Further data on sequencing endocrine agents are eagerly awaited.
SUMMARY: In summary, at least further 4 years of aromatase inhibitor treatment 
after the first 5 years of adjuvant tamoxifen is recommended in postmenopausal 
endocrine responsive early breast cancer, nowadays. The value of extended 
tamoxifen therapy is still controversial, though it might be of interest 
especially in premenopausal patients. Tailoring treatment according to risk of 
disease recurrence, patient life expectancy, comorbidity, risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease or osteoporosis and compliance is necessary.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e3283136770
PMID: 18841043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Can J Cardiol. 2008 Oct;24(10):781-5. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(08)70684-6.

[Isolated coronary surgery in the octogenarian. Immediate results and analysis 
of long-term survival rate and quality of life].

[Article in French]

Bach V(1), Tramaille S, Chavanon O, Durand M, Noirclerc M, Vesin C, Porcu P, 
Hacini R, Vanzetto G, Machecourt J.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Cardiaque, Boulevard de Chantourne, Grenoble, France. 
vbach@chu-grenoble.fr

BACKGROUND: There are almost three million octogenarians living in France, many 
of whom present with a coronaropathy. Moreover, it appears that life expectancy 
at 80 years of age is still important.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results of coronary surgery among these patients.
METHODS: Eighty-eight consecutive octogenarians who had an isolated coronary 
artery bypass surgery between 1996 and 2002 were compared with 165 patients 60 
to 70 years of age; the two groups had been paired according to the main risk 
factors. Patients were contacted by telephone and then received a 
quality-of-life-related questionnaire.
RESULTS: Operative mortality was 2.3% in the octogenarian versus 1.2% in the 60- 
to 70-year-old group (P not significant). There was more low cardiac output 
syndrome, postoperative acute renal failure and transfusion in octogenarians. 
Long-term survival (average duration of follow-up was 3.8 years) was higher in 
the 60- to 70-year-old group: 89.7% versus 77.9% (P=0.025). Four independent 
risk factors of long-term increased mortality were found: age, diabetes, history 
of stroke and postoperative blood transfusion. Finally, the long-term survival 
in the octogenarians who had this surgery was higher than in the octogenarians 
of the general French population to a significant degree, with a quality of life 
considered to be satisfactory.
CONCLUSION: For selected octogenarians, an isolated coronary surgery can be 
proposed, with short- and long-term results comparable with those of a younger 
population.

HISTORIQUE : Près de trois millions d’octogénaires vivent en France, et ils sont 
nombreux à présenter une coronaropathie. Par ailleurs, l’espérance de vie à 80 
ans semble encore importante.
OBJECTIF : Évaluer les résultats d’une chirurgie coronaire chez ces patients.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Nous avons comparé 88 patients octogénaires consécutifs ayant 
subi un pontage aortocoronarien isolé entre 1996 et 2002 à 165 patients de 60 à 
70 ans. Les deux groupes ont été appariés selon les principaux facteurs de 
risque. Nous avons pris contact avec les patients par téléphone et leur avons 
fait parvenir un questionnaire sur la qualité de vie.
RÉSULTATS : La mortalité opératoire s’élevait à 2,3 % chez les octogénaires, par 
rapport à 1,2 % chez les 60 à 70 ans (P non significatif). Il y avait plus de 
bas débit, d’insuffisance rénale aiguë postopératoire et de transfusion chez les 
octogénaires. La survie à long terme (durée moyenne du suivi de 3,8 ans) était 
plus élevée chez les 60 à 70 ans : 89,7 % par rapport à 77,9 % (P=0,025). Nous 
avons constaté quatre facteurs de risque indépendants d’augmentation de la 
mortalité à long terme; âge, diabète, antécédents d’accident vasculaire cérébral 
et de transfusion sanguine postopératoire. Enfin, la survie à long terme des 
octogénaires opérés était significativement plus élevée que celle des 
octogénaires de la population générale de France, et leur qualité de vie était 
considérée comme satisfaisante.
CONCLUSION : Pour des octogénaires sélectionnés, on peut proposer une chirurgie 
coronaire isolée, et les résultats à court et à long terme seront comparables à 
ceux d’une population plus jeune.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(08)70684-6
PMCID: PMC2643159
PMID: 18841258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Bull Math Biol. 2008 Nov;70(8):2126-76. doi: 10.1007/s11538-008-9338-x. Epub
 2008 Oct 8.

A multi-type HPV transmission model.

Elbasha EH(1), Dasbach EJ, Insinga RP.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, UG1C-60, PO Box 1000, North Wales, PA 
19454-1099, USA. elamin_elbasha@merck.com

A prophylactic quadrivalent (types 6/11/16/18) vaccine against oncogenic and 
warts-causing genital Human papillomavirus (HPV) types was approved by the US 
Food and Drug Administration in 2006. This paper presents a nonlinear, 
deterministic, age-structured, mathematical model of the transmission dynamics 
of HPV and disease occurrence in a US population stratified by gender and sexual 
activity group. The model can assess both the epidemiologic consequences and 
cost effectiveness of alternative vaccination strategies in a setting of 
organized cervical cancer screening in the United States. Inputs for the model 
were obtained from public data sources, published literature, and analyses of 
clinical trial data. The results suggest that a prophylactic quadrivalent HPV 
vaccine can: (i) substantially reduce the incidence of disease, (ii) increase 
survival among females, (iii) improve quality of life for both males and 
females, (iv) be cost-effective when administered to females age 12-24 years, 
and (v) be cost-effective when implemented as a strategy that combines 
vaccination of both females and males before age 12 vaccination with a 12 to 24 
years of age catch-up vaccination program.

DOI: 10.1007/s11538-008-9338-x
PMID: 18841421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Healthc Exec. 2008 Sep-Oct;23(5):suppl 1-4 following 104.

Key industry facts: 2008.

ACHE's Division of Research.

PMID: 18841628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. BMC Health Serv Res. 2008 Oct 9;8:209. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-209.

Costs and quality of life for prehabilitation and early rehabilitation after 
surgery of the lumbar spine.

Nielsen PR(1), Andreasen J, Asmussen M, Tønnesen H.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Head and Orthopaedics, Department of Anaesthesiology, 
Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Denmark. rotboell@rh.dk

During the recent years improved operation techniques and administrative 
procedures have been developed for early rehabilitation. At the same time 
preoperative lifestyle intervention (prehabilitation) has revealed a large 
potential for additional risk reduction. The aim was to assess the quality of 
life and to estimate the cost-effectiveness of standard care versus an 
integrated programme including prehabilitation and early rehabilitation.
METHODS: The analyses were based on the results from 60 patients undergoing 
lumbar fusion for degenerative lumbar disease; 28 patients were randomised to 
the integrated programme and 32 to the standard care programme. Data on cost and 
health related quality of life was collected preoperatively, during 
hospitalisation and postoperatively. The cost was estimated from multiplication 
of the resource consumption and price per unit.
RESULTS: Overall there was no difference in health related quality of life 
scores. The patients from the integrated programme obtained their postoperative 
milestones sooner, returned to work and soaked less primary care after 
discharge. The integrated programme was 1,625 euros (direct costs 494 euros + 
indirect costs 1,131 euros) less costly per patient compared to the standard 
care programme.
CONCLUSION: The integrated programme of prehabilitation and early rehabilitation 
in spine surgery is more cost-effective compared to standard care programme 
alone.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-8-209
PMCID: PMC2586633
PMID: 18842157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Ann Oncol. 2009 Feb;20(2):278-85. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdn634. Epub 2008 Oct
7.

Economic evaluation of taxane-based first-line chemotherapy in the treatment of 
patients with metastatic breast cancer in Greece: an analysis alongside a 
multicenter, randomized phase III clinical trial.

Maniadakis N(1), Dafni U, Fragoulakis V, Grimani I, Galani E, Fragkoulidi A, 
Fountzilas G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Piraeus, Greece. 
nikos.maniadakis@psimitis.gr

BACKGROUND: An economic evaluation was undertaken alongside a randomized phase 
III trial comparing three regimens for metastatic breast cancer (MBC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Trial resource utilization and unit price data were 
combined to evaluate the cost of chemotherapy, concomitant medications, 
hospitalizations, diagnostic and laboratory tests. Treatment cost was combined 
with survival to estimate the incremental cost per life year saved. 
Quality-of-life data were used to estimate cost per quality-adjusted life year 
saved. Sensitivity analysis was used to compute results for various subgroups 
and for discounting cost and effects.
RESULTS: The combination of gemcitabine (Gemzar, Eli Lilly, Indianapolis, USA) 
with docetaxel (Taxotere, Aventis Pharma, Dagenham, UK) (GDoc) is the least 
costly but least effective treatment. The combination of paclitaxel (Taxol) with 
carboplatin (Paraplatin, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, USA) is associated 
with higher cost and effectiveness compared with GDoc, while weekly paclitaxel 
(Pw), associated with the highest cost, is the most effective option. The 
incremental cost per life year saved of Pw versus GDoc was 3660 Euros (95% 
uncertainty interval dominance-9261). This result remained fairly constant in 
sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The corresponding economic evaluation indicates that Pw represents 
an attractive treatment option for patients with MBC from an economic 
perspective in the context of the Greek National Health Service.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdn634
PMID: 18842612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Nature. 2008 Oct 9;455(7214):739-40. doi: 10.1038/455739a.

Gerontology: Healthy old age.

Kirkwood TB.

DOI: 10.1038/455739a
PMID: 18843351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Oct 8;(4):CD006112. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD006112.pub2.

Inspiratory muscle training for cystic fibrosis.

Houston BW(1), Mills N, Solis-Moya A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health & Social Care, University of Teesside, Victoria Road, 
Middlesbrough, Cleveland, UK, TS1 3BA. brian.houston@tees.ac.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013;11:CD006112.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis is the most common life-limiting genetic condition 
in Caucasians and the life-expectancy of those newly diagnosed is increasing. 
Inspiratory muscle training may be a way of improving the lung function and 
quality of life of people with cystic fibrosis. Hence there is a need to 
establish whether this intervention is beneficial.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effect of inspiratory muscle training on 
health-related quality of life, pulmonary function and exercise tolerance.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Trials register comprising of references identified from comprehensive 
electronic database searches and handsearches of relevant journals and abstract 
books of conference proceedings.Date of most recent search: April 2008.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised or quasi-randomised clinical controlled trials 
comparing different inspiratory muscle training regimens with each other or a 
control in people with cystic fibrosis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three review authors independently applied the 
inclusion and exclusion criteria to publications and assessed the quality of the 
included studies.
MAIN RESULTS: Seven studies were identified. Of these six studies with 140 
participants met the review inclusion criteria. There was wide variation in the 
quality of the included studies. Data were not published in sufficient detail or 
with sufficiently similar outcome measures in these studies to perform 
meta-analyses.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We have not found any evidence to suggest that this 
treatment is either beneficial or not. We would advise that practitioners 
evaluate on a case-by-case basis whether or not to employ this therapy. We 
recommend that future studies make more use of health-related quality of life 
and exercise tolerance measures; and that there is an agreement upon a single 
standard measure of classifying the clinical status of the participants.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD006112.pub2
PMID: 18843703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2008 Oct 8;(4):CD007492. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007492.

Organising health care services for persons with an intellectual disability.

Balogh R(1), Ouellette-Kuntz H, Bourne L, Lunsky Y, Colantonio A.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Department of Rehabilitation Science, University of Toronto, 160-500 
University Ave, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5G 1V7. Robert.balogh@utoronto.ca

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016;4:CD007492.

BACKGROUND: When compared to the general population, persons with an 
intellectual disability have lower life expectancy, higher morbidity, higher 
rates of unmet health needs, and more difficulty finding and getting health 
care. Organisational interventions are used to reconfigure the structure or 
delivery of health care services and may prove useful to decrease the noted 
disparities.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effects of organisational interventions for the mental 
and physical health problems of persons with an intellectual disability.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of 
Care Group specialised register (no year restriction), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, 
other databases from January 1990 to April 2006 reference lists of included 
studies, and we consulted experts in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials, controlled clinical trials, 
controlled before and after studies and interrupted time series of 
organisational interventions aimed at improving care of mental and physical 
health problems of adult persons with an intellectual disability.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently extracted data 
and assessed study quality. Missing data were requested from authors of included 
studies.
MAIN RESULTS: Eight studies met the selection criteria: six were randomised 
controlled trials, one was a controlled before and after study, and one was an 
interrupted time series. In general the studies were of acceptable 
methodological quality. The included studies investigated interventions dealing 
with the mental health problems of persons with an intellectual disability, none 
focused on physical health problems. Three of the studies identified effective 
organisational interventions and five showed no evidence of effect. Only two 
studies were similar enough to analyse using a meta-analysis. In the pooled 
analyses 25 participants received assertive community treatment and 25 received 
standard community treatment. Results from measures of function, caregiver 
burden and quality of life were non-significant.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There are currently no well designed studies focusing on 
organising the health services of persons with an intellectual disability and 
concurrent physical problems. There are very few studies of organisational 
interventions targeting mental health needs and the results of those that were 
found need corroboration. There is an urgent need for high quality health 
services research to identify optimal health services for persons with an 
intellectual disability and concurrent physical problem.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007492
PMID: 18843752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Prog Cardiovasc Nurs. 2008 Spring;23(2):91-2. doi: 
10.1111/j.1751-7117.2008.07924.x.

Cardiovascular nursing in the Netherlands.

Galema-Boers A(1), Lenzen M, Scholte op Reimer W.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Department of Internal Medicine, Vascular Metabolic 
Illness Unit, Room Number D416, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.galema-boers@erasmusmc.nl

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-7117.2008.07924.x
PMID: 18843832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2008 Apr;29(4):396-400.

[Study on the use of model life tables methodology in birth defect's life 
expectancy estimation: the case of Down's syndrome].

[Article in Chinese]

Ji Y(1), Chen G, Zheng XY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Population Research, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

Using Brass-Logit model and life tables for general population and Down's 
syndrome patients in U.S.A and life tables for general population in China, we 
estimated the life table of Down's syndrome patients in China. Through comparing 
with data from other countries, we suggested that Brass-Logit Model Life Table 
could be adopted were minimum data of birth defects survival was available and 
systematic data was handy in another areas.

PMID: 18844002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Breast Cancer Res. 2008;10(5):R83. doi: 10.1186/bcr2152. Epub 2008 Oct 9.

Recurrence dynamics does not depend on the recurrence site.

Demicheli R(1), Biganzoli E, Boracchi P, Greco M, Retsky MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Fondazione Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a 
Carattere Scientifico Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Milano, Italy. 
demicheli@istitutotumori.mi.it

Comment in
    Breast Cancer Res. 2008;10(6):114.

INTRODUCTION: The dynamics of breast cancer recurrence and death, indicating a 
bimodal hazard rate pattern, has been confirmed in various databases. A few 
explanations have been suggested to help interpret this finding, assuming that 
each peak is generated by clustering of similar recurrences and different peaks 
result from distinct categories of recurrence.
METHODS: The recurrence dynamics was analysed in a series of 1526 patients 
undergoing conservative surgery at the National Cancer Institute of Milan, 
Italy, for whom the site of first recurrence was recorded. The study was focused 
on the first clinically relevant event occurring during the follow up (ie, local 
recurrence, distant metastasis, contralateral breast cancer, second primary 
tumour), the dynamics of which was studied by estimating the specific hazard 
rate.
RESULTS: The hazard rate for any recurrence (including both local and distant 
disease relapses) displayed a bimodal pattern with a first surge peaking at 
about 24 months and a second peak at almost 60 months. The same pattern was 
observed when the whole recurrence risk was split into the risk of local 
recurrence and the risk of distant metastasis. However, the hazard rate curves 
for both contralateral breast tumours and second primary tumours revealed a 
uniform course at an almost constant level. When patients with distant 
metastases were grouped by site of recurrence (soft tissue, bone, lung or liver 
or central nervous system), the corresponding hazard rate curves displayed the 
typical bimodal pattern with a first peak at about 24 months and a later peak at 
about 60 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The bimodal dynamics for early stage breast cancer recurrence is 
again confirmed, providing support to the proposed tumour-dormancy-based model. 
The recurrence dynamics does not depend on the site of metastasis indicating 
that the timing of recurrences is generated by factors influencing the 
metastatic development regardless of the seeded organ. This finding supports the 
view that the disease course after surgical removal of the primary tumour 
follows a common pathway with well-defined steps and that the recurrence risk 
pattern results from inherent features of the metastasis development process, 
which are apparently attributable to tumour cells.

DOI: 10.1186/bcr2152
PMCID: PMC2614518
PMID: 18844974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Patient Educ Couns. 2008 Dec;73(3):407-12. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2008.07.054.
Epub  2008 Oct 8.

Evidence Based Medicine and Shared Decision Making: the challenge of getting 
both evidence and preferences into health care.

Barratt A(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia. 
alexb@health.usyd.edu.au

Evidence Based Medicine (EBM) and Shared Medical Decision Making (SDM) are 
changing the nature of health care decisions. It is broadly accepted that health 
care decisions require the integration of research evidence and individual 
preferences. These approaches are justified on both efficacy grounds (that 
evidence based practice and Shared Decision Making should lead to better health 
outcomes and may lead to a more cost-effective use of health care resources) and 
ethical grounds (patients' autonomy should be respected in health care). 
However, despite endorsement by physicians and consumers of these approaches, 
implementation remains limited in practice, particularly outside academic and 
tertiary health care centres. There are practical problems of implementation, 
which include training, access to research, and development of and access to 
tools to display evidence and support decision making. There may also be 
philosophical difficulties, and some have even suggested that the two approaches 
(evidence based practice and Shared Decision Making) are fundamentally 
incompatible. This paper look at the achievements of EBM and SDM so far, the 
potential tensions between them, and how things might progress in the future.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2008.07.054
PMID: 18845414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Am J Prev Med. 2008 Dec;35(6):572-7. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2008.07.008. Epub
 2008 Oct 8.

Economic evaluation of a neural tube defect recurrence-prevention program.

Grosse SD(1), Ouyang L, Collins JS, Green D, Dean JH, Stevenson RE.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, CDC, 
Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. sgrosse@cdc.gov

Comment in
    Am J Prev Med. 2008 Dec;35(6):606-7.

BACKGROUND: Women with a pregnancy affected by a neural tube defect (NTD) are 
encouraged to take folic acid prior to a subsequent pregnancy, but it is unknown 
whether organized attempts to identify and counsel such women to prevent 
recurrent NTDs are cost effective.
METHODS: Data from the South Carolina recurrence-prevention program for October 
2001-September 2002 were analyzed between October 2002 and December 2003 to 
calculate costs. Cost-effectiveness modeling of the program during 1992-2006 was 
conducted during 2007. Results were calculated for three scenarios based on 
recurrence risk, supplement use, and the effectiveness of folic acid in 
preventing recurrences. For each scenario, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
were calculated separately using prevented NTD-affected live births; prevented 
NTD-affected births (including fetal deaths); and all prevented NTD-affected 
pregnancies.
RESULTS: The prevention program cost approximately $155,000 per year in 2003 
dollars to protect 35 pregnancies and prevent approximately one NTD. The direct 
costs associated with an NTD depend on type and outcome, but are approximately 
$560,000 in 2003 dollars for a live birth with spina bifida. The base-case 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $39,600 per QALY gained from avoided NTD-affected 
live births and stillbirths, and $14,700 per QALY gained from the avoidance of 
all NTD-affected pregnancies. The baseline NTD recurrence risk and the use of 
folic acid supplements by women who are at high risk for an NTD-affected 
pregnancy were influential parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: The South Carolina NTD recurrence-prevention program appears 
comparable in cost effectiveness to other preventive services. Other states 
might consider including NTD recurrence prevention in birth defect-prevention 
programs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2008.07.008
PMID: 18845415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2008 Oct 9;128(19):2202-5.

[Cervical dystonia--diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Norwegian]

Skogseid IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Nevrologisk avdeling, Nevroklinikken, Rikshospitalet, 0027 Oslo. 
inger.marie.skogseid@rikshospitalet.no

BACKGROUND: Cervical dystonia is a focal dystonia of the neck muscles, leading 
to involuntary head movement, abnormal postures and pain. As effective treatment 
is available, all doctors should be able to recognize this potentially disabling 
disorder.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The manuscript is based on literature retrieved from 
searches in Medline databases, and the author's own clinical experience and 
research.
RESULTS AND INTERPRETATION: Diagnosis is based on identification of typical 
symptoms and signs. Cervical dystonia is most often primary, with unknown cause, 
but can also be secondary to other neurological disease. Dystonic movements are 
typically spasmodic and repeated in a stereotype pattern. From onset they are 
often mild and intermittent, but become constant with progression. Turning of 
the head (torticollis) is most frequent, but lateroflexion (latero-), extension 
(retro-) and flexion (anterocollis) of the neck are also seen. The range of 
voluntary neck movement is often reduced. Botulinum toxin injected into the 
affected neck muscles has proven to be efficient and safe, and is the treatment 
of choice. Studies show that the majority of patients have a good efficacy and 
health-related quality of life also in the long-term. The minority of patients 
with unsatisfactory treatment response should be evaluated for pallidal deep 
brain stimulation.

PMID: 18846145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Chir Narzadow Ruchu Ortop Pol. 2008 May-Jun;73(3):207-12, 171-6.

Minimally invasive approaches in total hip replacement.

[Article in English, Polish]

Wojciechowski P(1), Kusz D, Kopeć K, Borowski M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Medical University of Silesia in 
Katowice.

Hip Osteoarthritis has always been a challenge for the orthopaedic community 
and, in the present age of increasing life expectancy and quality, it has become 
one of the most common causes for orthopaedic surgery. Nowadays, the development 
of THR focuses on refining the surgical technique, especially on minimising 
operative tissue injury. Convencional approaches in THR surgery preserve main 
vessels and nerves and provide excellent visualisation of the operative field 
but at the expense of muscle attachments and ligaments which are inevitably 
injured. The authors of MIS concept underline the idea of minimising injury 
inflicted on the muscle-tendon unit. There are a lot of evidence that the MIS 
procedures allow for early rehabilitation, shorter in-hospital stay and hasten 
full functional recovery. They are also associated with decreased perioperative 
blood loss, reduced postoperative pain and decreased risk of infections.

PMID: 18847028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Expert Opin Biol Ther. 2008 Nov;8(11):1675-90. doi:
10.1517/14712598.8.11.1675.

Stem cell mobilisation for myocardial repair.

Brunner S(1), Engelmann MG, Franz WM.

Author information:
(1)Ludwig-Maximilians-University, Klinikum Grosshadern, Medical Department I, 
Marchioninistr. 15, 81377, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The idea that autologous bone marrow derived stem cells (BMCs) can 
transdifferentiate into cardiomyocytes or vascular cells has been challenged in 
several scientific reports.
OBJECTIVE/METHODS: This review summarises conditions for stem cell mobilisation, 
their use for therapeutic approaches to prevent ischaemic cardiomyopathy after 
acute myocardial infarction and current clinical trials. Mechanisms for 
mobilisation and homing of BMCs are discussed.
RESULTS/CONCLUSIONS: The improvement in cardiac function after migration of 
autologous BMCs to the heart can be explained by their paracrine effects, 
inducing angiogenesis and preventing ischaemic myocardium from apoptosis. These 
effects may explain why the number of circulating BMCs is directly correlated 
with cardiovascular risk and life expectancy. Exercise and hormones are 
physiological stimuli for the mobilisation of BMCs, whereas cardiovascular risk 
factors severely reduce their number and functions. Current cardiovascular 
medications increase the amounts of autologous BMCs.

DOI: 10.1517/14712598.8.11.1675
PMID: 18847304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Nefrologia. 2008;28 Suppl 5:53-7.

[Phosphorus (P) chelant in dialysis: efficacy and cost. Peritoneal dialysis 
solutions].

[Article in Spanish]

Montenegro J(1).

Author information:
(1)Jefe del Servicio de Nefrologia, Hostpial de Galdakao, Vizcaya, Spain.

Sevelamer use has a high prevalence, and half of patients are treated with this 
noncalcium binder. Two randomized studies appeared in 2007 that compared the 
efficacy of sevelamer over calcium salts. In the more statistically potent of 
the two studies, no differences were found in mortality between the sevelamer 
and calcium groups, except for a benefit in favor of sevelamer in patients older 
than 65 years. In the other less statistically potent study, lower mortality was 
observed in the sevelamer group. Both studies have various deficiencies and a 
timely meta-analysis of the two studies appearing that same year concluded that 
there was no significant evidence demonstrating a superior efficacy of sevelamer 
over calcium salts. Therefore, generalized extension of its use as a first-line 
binder is not recommended. However, its use can be assessed in specific clinical 
situations. With regard to the cost-benefit ratio, as there is no evidence that 
greater clinical benefits are obtained with sevelamer than with calcium salts, 
prudence and moderation in its use are needed because of the high cost/benefit 
ratio demonstrated. Otherwise, we will contribute to increasing the already very 
high treatment cost in these patients, with one of the highest costs per life 
year gained in medicine. The cost/benefit ratio of sevelamer remains 
unattractive from an economic point of view, even if dialysis and transplant are 
excluded in these patients.

PMID: 18847421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Chir Main. 2008 Dec;27 Suppl 1:S62-70. doi: 10.1016/j.main.2008.07.025. Epub
 2008 Aug 22.

[Surgical management of the Blauth 1 to 3A thumb hypoplasia].

[Article in French]

Guéro S(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut français de chirurgie de la main, 5, rue du Dôme, 75116 Paris, 
France. sguero@ifcm.org

Thumb hypoplasia is a sequence of congenital abnormalities, from minor 
hypoplastic thumb with a preserved function to complete thumb aplasia. We only 
discuss in this chapter on the management of the thumb hypoplasia type 1 to 3A 
according to the modified Blauth's classification. Their common feature is the 
conservative treatment, in opposition with severe hypoplastic thumbs usually 
treated by index pollicisation. Whatever is the degree of hypoplasia, patients 
should be carefully examined for bilaterality, other anomalies and syndrome. 
Surgical treatment, when indicated, requires systematically widening of the 
first web space, stabilization of the metacarpophalangeal joint and restoration 
of opposition and extension. Reconstruction of the infant thumb should be 
started in the first year of life. Functional result depends on the degree of 
hypoplasia and differs dramatically whether if the thumb hypoplasia is isolated 
or associated with a radial club hand.

DOI: 10.1016/j.main.2008.07.025
PMID: 18848495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2008 Jul-Aug;101(7-8):485-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.acvd.2008.05.007. Epub 2008 Aug 20.

Cardiovascular abnormalities in Turner's syndrome: what prevention?

Dulac Y(1), Pienkowski C, Abadir S, Tauber M, Acar P.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric cardiology unit, Childrens' Hospital, CHU Toulouse, 330 avenue de 
Grande-Bretagne, Toulouse cedex 9, France. dulac.y@chu-toulouse.fr

Cardiovascular complications in Turner's syndrome are the most common cause of 
excess early mortality, with a life expectancy that may be reduced by more than 
10 years. Congenital cardiac abnormalities are described in approximately one 
third of patients. These abnormalities are mostly left heart obstructions, the 
most common of which are bicuspid aortic valve (16%) and coarctation of the 
aorta (11%). Dilatations of the ascending aorta are often described and may 
occur in isolation from any heart disease, suggesting a vasculopathy specific to 
the syndrome, probably predisposed to by extracardiac risk factors such as 
oestrogen deficiency, diabetes, dysplidaemia and overweight. The most feared 
complication is aortic dissection with around a 100 cases, described at average 
age of approximately 35-years-old. This is believed to complicate 2% of induced 
pregnancies. Hypertension (HBP) usually essential, affects up to 50% of patients 
with Turner's syndrome. This is an important risk factor for cardiovascular 
complications and justifies aggressive treatment. On the other hand, 
retrospective studies have not demonstrated adverse cardiological effects due to 
growth hormone treatments. Patients with Turner's syndrome merit regular 
cardiology follow-up from childhood onwards, particularly if they have treated 
heart disease. The merits of preventative treatments for aortic dilatation have 
not been demonstrated in Turner's syndrome and justify prospective trials.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acvd.2008.05.007
PMID: 18848691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Brain Cogn. 2008 Dec;68(3):309-26. doi: 10.1016/j.bandc.2008.08.020. Epub
2008  Oct 10.

Cognitive processes involved in smooth pursuit eye movements.

Barnes GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, Moffat Building, 
Sackville St., Manchester M60 1QD, United Kingdom. G.R.Barnes@manchester.ac.uk

Ocular pursuit movements allow moving objects to be tracked with a combination 
of smooth movements and saccades. The principal objective is to maintain smooth 
eye velocity close to object velocity, thus minimising retinal image motion and 
maintaining acuity. Saccadic movements serve to realign the image if it falls 
outside the fovea, the area of highest acuity. Pursuit movements are often 
portrayed as voluntary but their basis lies in processes that sense retinal 
motion and can induce eye movements without active participation. The factor 
distinguishing pursuit from such reflexive movements is the ability to select 
and track a single object when presented with multiple stimuli. The selective 
process requires attention, which appears to raise the gain for the selected 
object and/or suppress that associated with other stimuli, the resulting 
competition often reducing pursuit velocity. Although pursuit is essentially a 
feedback process, delays in motion processing create problems of stability and 
speed of response. This is countered by predictive processes, probably operating 
through internal efference copy (extra-retinal) mechanisms using short-term 
memory to store velocity and timing information from prior stimulation. In 
response to constant velocity motion, the initial response is visually driven, 
but extra-retinal mechanisms rapidly take over and sustain pursuit. The same 
extra-retinal mechanisms may also be responsible for generating anticipatory 
smooth pursuit movements when past experience creates expectancy of impending 
object motion. Similar, but more complex, processes appear to operate during 
periodic pursuit, where partial trajectory information is stored and released in 
anticipation of expected future motion, thus minimising phase errors associated 
with motion processing delays.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bandc.2008.08.020
PMID: 18848744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2008 Dec;6(12):1418-24. doi: 
