nature of consciousness, the role of semantic processing in the survival of 
societies, and Popper's three worlds, require recognition of an insubstantial 
component. By recognizing a necessary linkage between semantic content and a 
physical machinery, we can bring these perennial problems into the framework of 
a realistic philosophy. It is suggested, following Popper, that the âˆ¼4 billion 
years of evolution of the biosphere represents an exploration of the nature of 
reality at the physicochemical level, which, together with the conscious 
extension of this exploration through science and culture, provides a firm 
epistemological underpinning for such a philosophy.

DOI: 10.1002/cplx.20180
PMCID: PMC2577055
PMID: 18978960


571. Biotechnol Lett. 2009 Mar;31(3):321-8. doi: 10.1007/s10529-008-9869-0. Epub
2008  Nov 2.

The treatment of hemophilia A: from protein replacement to AAV-mediated gene 
therapy.

Youjin S(1), Jun Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The Second Hospital of Shantou University Medical 
College, 515041, Shantou, China. shenyoujin@yahoo.com.cn

Factor VIII (FVIII) is an essential component in blood coagulation, a deficiency 
of which causes the serious bleeding disorder hemophilia A. Recently, with the 
development of purification level and recombinant techniques, protein 
replacement treatment to hemophiliacs is relatively safe and can prolong their 
life expectancy. However, because of the possibility of unknown contaminants in 
plasma-derived FVIII and recombinant FVIII, and high cost for hemophiliacs to 
use these products, gene therapy for hemophilia A is an attractive alternative 
to protein replacement therapy. Thus far, the adeno-associated virus (AAV) is a 
promising vector for gene therapy. Further improvement of the virus for clinical 
application depends on better understanding of the molecular structure and fate 
of the vector genome. It is likely that hemophilia will be the first genetic 
disease to be cured by somatic cell gene therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-008-9869-0
PMID: 18979215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Disabil Rehabil. 2009;31(9):701-11. doi: 10.1080/09638280802305945.

Stroke and active life expectancy among older adults in Beijing, China.

Fang XH(1), Zimmer Z, Kaneda T, Tang Z, Xiang MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, [corrected] Beijing, China.

Erratum in
    Disabil Rehabil. 2009;31(26):2223.

PURPOSE: Increasing stroke prevalence, population ageing and economic change in 
China necessitate a better understanding of the impact of stroke. This study 
examines the impact of stroke on disability and trends over time.
METHOD: Data are from longitudinal surveys conducted in the Beijing municipality 
from 1992 to 1997 and 2000 to 2004. Multi-state life tables constructed from 
hazard models are used to estimate life expectancy (LE) and active life 
expectancy (ALE). The active state is defined using six functional tasks and 
mortality is determined using interviewer follow-ups.
RESULTS: LE and ALE are higher among those without stroke. Population-based 
estimates for the cohort observed beginning in 1992 indicate LE at age 55 of 
about 17 for those who have had a stroke and about 21 for others, whereas years 
of active life are about 14 and 19, respectively. Disability status at baseline 
is important for determining ALE. For those active, LE and ALE patterns are 
similar regardless of stroke status. For those inactive, the stroke group lives 
almost their entire lives inactive. Stroke reduces years of life by 20-40%, but 
active life by up to 90%.
CONCLUSION: Trends in ALE among those with stroke suggest possible influences of 
rapid development, concomitant improvement in health care and an increased focus 
on disease management.

DOI: 10.1080/09638280802305945
PMID: 18979275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Am J Hematol. 2008 Dec;83(12):896-900. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21305.

Life expectancy in Gaucher disease type 1.

Weinreb NJ(1), Deegan P, Kacena KA, Mistry P, Pastores GM, Velentgas P, vom Dahl 
S.

Author information:
(1)University Research Foundation for Lysosomal Storage Diseases, Northwest 
Oncology Hematology Associates PA, 8170 Royal Palm Boulevard, Coral Springs, 
Florida 33065, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Hematol. 2008 Dec;83(12):887-9.

We estimated life expectancy at birth for Gaucher disease type 1 (GD1) patients 
by comparing survival data from GD1 patients enrolled in ICGG Gaucher Registry 
to the U.S. population using standard life table methods. 2,876 GD1 patients had 
102 reported deaths in 13,509 person-years of follow-up. Estimated life 
expectancy at birth was 68 y, compared with 77 y in reference population; 
splenectomized patients, 64 y; nonsplenectomized, 72 y. Causes of death for 
63/102 patients were malignancy (17/63), cardiovascular (11/63), and 
cerebrovascular (8/63). Estimated life expectancy at birth for GD1 patients was 
approximately 9 y less than reference population. Malignancies did not 
contribute to shortened life expectancy.

Copyright 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21305
PMCID: PMC3743399
PMID: 18980271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Cancer. 2008 Nov 15;113(10 Suppl):2936-45. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23761.

Years of potential life lost and productivity costs because of cancer mortality 
and for specific cancer sites where human papillomavirus may be a risk factor 
for carcinogenesis-United States, 2003.

Ekwueme DU(1), Chesson HW, Zhang KB, Balamurugan A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30341, USA. dce3@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Although years of potential life lost (YPLL) and mortality-related 
productivity costs comprise a substantial portion of the burden of cancers where 
human papillomavirus (HPV) may be a risk factor for carcinogenesis (called 
HPV-associated cancers in this report), estimates of these costs are limited. 
The authors estimated the mortality-related burden (in terms of YPLL and 
productivity costs) of HPV-associated cancers (without regard to the percentage 
of each of these cancers that could be attributed to HPV) and all malignant 
cancers in the United States in 2003.
METHODS: The authors used 2003 national mortality data and US life tables to 
estimate YPLL for HPV-associated cancers and all malignant cancers. YPLL was 
estimated by using the life expectancy method. The human capital approach was 
used to estimate the value of the expected future lifetime productivity losses 
caused by premature deaths from HPV-associated cancers and all malignant 
cancers. Indirect mortality costs were estimated as the product of the number of 
deaths and the expected value of individuals' future earnings, including an 
imputed value of housekeeping services.
RESULTS: In 2003, HPV-associated cancers accounted for 181,026 YPLL, which 
represented 2.4% of the estimated 7.5 million YPLL attributable to all malignant 
cancers in the United States. The average number of YPLL was 21.8 per 
HPV-associated cancer death and 16.3 per death from overall malignant cancers. 
Overall, HPV-associated cancers had the largest relative contribution to YPLL in 
women ages 30 to 34 years. The lifetime productivity cost from mortality in 2003 
was $3.7 billion for HPV-associated cancer mortality and $133.5 billion for 
overall malignant cancer mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: HPV-associated cancers impose a considerable burden in terms of 
premature deaths and productivity losses.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23761
PMID: 18980277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Palliat Med. 2008 Oct;11(8):1130-4. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0033.

Physicians' expectations of benefit from tube feeding.

Hanson LC(1), Garrett JM, Lewis C, Phifer N, Jackman A, Carey TS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
NC 27599-7550, USA. lhanson@med.unc.edu

OBJECTIVE: Tube feeding is increasingly common, despite evidence for limited 
medical benefits. We interviewed treating physicians to describe their 
expectation of benefit for patients receiving a new feeding tube, and to 
determine whether expected benefits vary by patient characteristics.
METHODS: We recruited treating physicians and surrogate decision-makers for 288 
hospitalized patients in a prospective study of new feeding tube decisions. In 
structured interviews, physicians provided information on patients' diagnosis 
and whether they expected any of eight potential medical benefits for a specific 
patient; surrogates provided information about the patients' function, race, 
age, prior residence, and ability to eat by mouth.
RESULTS: We completed interviews with 173 physicians about tube feeding for 280 
patients (response rate, 97%). Patients commonly had acute stroke (30%), 
neurodegenerative disease (16%), or head and neck cancer (22%); 70% were 
somewhat or severely malnourished. In half or more cases, physicians expected 
benefits of improved nutrition (93%), hydration (60%), prolonged life (58%), 
ease providing medication (55%), and less aspiration risk (49%). Physicians 
endorsed more expected benefits for patients with stroke or those completely 
unable to eat by mouth (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Treating physicians expected multiple medical benefits for a diverse 
population of patients receiving feeding tubes. Physicians may be unaware of 
evidence, or expect more optimistic outcomes for their specific patient 
population. Further education and decision support may improve evidence-based 
decision-making about feeding tubes.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0033
PMCID: PMC2982717
PMID: 18980454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. J Palliat Med. 2008 Oct;11(8):1142-50. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0032.

Predicting emergency room visits and hospitalizations among hospice patients 
with cardiac disease.

Schonwetter RS(1), Clark LD, Leedy SA, Quinn MJ, Azer M, Kim S.

Author information:
(1)LifePath Hospice and Palliative Care, Inc., Temple Terrace, Florida 33637, 
USA. schonwer@lifepath-hospice.org

BACKGROUND: One goal of quality palliative care in hospice is to limit emergency 
room visits and/or hospitalizations (ERVH).
PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to determine predisposing factors that 
contribute to ERVH and devise a model to predict the probability of hospice 
cardiac disease patients having ERVH after hospice admission.
METHODS: The study was a retrospective chart review of hospice cardiac patients 
comparing those with ERVH (n = 65) and those who died in their homes (n = 80). 
Data reduction strategy included bivariate tests and model-building analyses 
using logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Some factors were associated with decreased odds of having ERVH: older 
patients (odds ratio [OR] = 0.94; p = 0.001), increased nursing visits (OR = 
0.79; p = 0.001) and chaplain visits (OR = 0.48; p = 0.040), patients' 
medication compliance (OR = 0.27; p = 0.029), patients treated with morphine 
sulfate (OR = 0.15; p = 0.001), patients with caregiver(s) (OR = 0.09; p = 
0.012), patients with hospice emergency kits (OR = 0.33; p = 0.004), interaction 
of the latter two variables (OR = 0.26; p = 0.001), patients with 
do-not-resuscitate orders (OR = 0.29; p = 0.001), Caucasian patients (OR = 0.22; 
p = 0.001), and the interaction of the latter two variables (OR = 0.22; p = 
0.001). Other factors were associated with increased odds of having ERVH: 
patients with diabetes (OR = 2.64; p = 0.009), peripheral vascular disease (OR = 
5.30; p = 0.003), hyperlipidemia (OR = 4.52; p = 0.013), chronic pulmonary 
disease/asthma (OR = 2.83; p = 0.003) as comorbidities; palpitations (OR = 6.61; 
p = 0.010), and chest pain (OR = 3.78; p = 0.006). The best fitting forecasting 
model had six independent variables decreasing and two increasing the odds of 
having ERVH. The final model chosen was: Z = 7.817 + 2.929 (peripheral vascular 
disease) + 1.513 (diabetes mellitus) - 3.306 (Caucasian) - 1.824 (caregiver 
presence x hospice emergency kit at home) - 0.212 (frequency of nursing visits) 
- 3.275 (on morphine) - 4.422 (medication compliance).
CONCLUSION: The forecasting model predicted the probability of ERVH correctly in 
87.7% of the patients. The model is simple to use to predict hospice cardiac 
patients having ERVH. Future studies should validate this model. Interventions 
should utilize these factors and be evaluated to determine their ability to 
decrease ERVH in hospice cardiac patients.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0032
PMID: 18980456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Neurology. 2008 Nov 4;71(19):1489-95. doi:
10.1212/01.wnl.0000334278.11022.42.

Survival in Alzheimer disease: a multiethnic, population-based study of incident 
cases.

Helzner EP(1), Scarmeas N, Cosentino S, Tang MX, Schupf N, Stern Y.

Author information:
(1)Gertrude H Sergievsky Center, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, 
NY 10032, USA.

Erratum in
    Neurology. 2009 Mar 3;72(9):861.

OBJECTIVE: To describe factors associated with survival in Alzheimer disease 
(AD) in a multiethnic, population-based longitudinal study.
METHODS: AD cases were identified in the Washington Heights Inwood Columbia 
Aging Project, a longitudinal, community-based study of cognitive aging in 
Northern Manhattan. The sample comprised 323 participants who were initially 
dementia-free but developed AD during study follow-up (incident cases). 
Participants were followed for an average of 4.1 (up to 12.6) years. Possible 
factors associated with shorter lifespan were assessed using Cox proportional 
hazards models with attained age as the time to event (time from birth to death 
or last follow-up). In subanalyses, median postdiagnosis survival durations were 
estimated using postdiagnosis study follow-up as the timescale.
RESULTS: The mortality rate was 10.7 per 100 person-years. Mortality rates were 
highest [corrected] among those diagnosed at older ages, and among non-Hispanic 
whites compared to [corrected] Hispanic [corrected] The median lifespan of the 
entire sample was 92.2 years (95% CI: 90.3, 94.1). In a multivariable-adjusted 
Cox model, history of diabetes and history of hypertension were independently 
associated with a shorter lifespan. No differences in lifespan were seen by 
race/ethnicity after multivariable adjustment. The median postdiagnosis survival 
duration was 3.7 years among non-Hispanic whites, 4.8 years among African 
Americans, and 7.6 years among Hispanics.
CONCLUSION: Factors influencing survival in Alzheimer disease include 
race/ethnicity and comorbid diabetes and hypertension.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0000334278.11022.42
PMCID: PMC2843528
PMID: 18981370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Int J Obes (Lond). 2008 Dec;32(12):1752-63. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2008.189. Epub
2008  Nov 4.

Cost-effectiveness of pharmacological anti-obesity treatments: a systematic 
review.

Neovius M(1), Narbro K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Centre for Pharmacoepidemiology, Karolinska 
Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. martin.neovius@ki.se

AIM: To review economic evaluations of weight loss drugs and compare reported 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
METHODS: A literature search was conducted for cost-effectiveness (CEAs) and 
cost-utility analyses (CUAs) of sibutramine, orlistat and rimonabant.
RESULTS: Fourteen unique articles were identified (11 CUAs and 3 CEAs; 9 
orlistat, 4 sibutramine and 1 rimonabant). All used diet and exercise as 
comparator, whereas none included indirect costs. Time horizons varied from 
treatment period only (1-4 years) to 80 years (median 7.5 years). Longer studies 
modeled effects on diabetes, micro- and macrovascular complications, coronary 
heart disease and death. Of the CUAs, the median ICER was 16,000 euro(2007)/QALY 
(quality-adjusted life-year; range 10,000-88,000), with the worst 
cost-effectiveness when recommended stop rules for non-responding patients were 
not applied. All studies but three were funded by the manufacturing company, and 
the median ICER was considerably higher for independent than for sponsored 
analyses (62,000 euro vs 15,000 euro/QALY). However, two of the three 
independent CUAs did not use recommended stop rules, as compared with one of 
eight manufacturer-sponsored analyses. The results were most sensitive to 
assumptions regarding weight loss sustainability and utility per kilogram lost. 
Side effects and dropout because of reasons other than lack of efficacy were 
generally not incorporated.
CONCLUSION: Published economic evaluations indicate that orlistat, sibutramine 
and rimonabant are within the range of what is generally regarded as 
cost-effective. Uncertainty remains about weight loss sustainability, utility 
gain associated with weight loss and extrapolations from transient weight loss 
to long-term health benefits. Modeling of head-to-head comparisons and attrition 
is needed, as are analyses conducted independently of manufacturing companies.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2008.189
PMID: 18982009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Clin Interv Aging. 2008;3(3):399-411. doi: 10.2147/cia.s832.

Primary prevention of venous thromboembolism in elderly medical patients.

Lacut K(1), Le Gal G, Mottier D.

Author information:
(1)GETBO EA 3878, CHU de Brest, Department of Internal Medicine and Chest 
Diseases, HÃ´pital Cavale Blanche, Brest, France. karine.lacut@chu-brest.fr

Primary prophylaxis with the use of an effective and safe intervention appears 
the best approach of venous thromboembolism (VTE) management in medical elderly 
patients, the most affected by VTE. With increasing life expectancy, prevention 
of VTE, particularly in elderly patients, will arise as a major public health 
problem. Few well designed clinical trials evaluating thromboprophylaxis in 
medical settings were conducted in the specific population of geriatric 
patients. However, among the several pharmacological treatments evaluated, low 
molecular weight heparins enoxaparin 40 mg daily or dalteparin 5000 IU daily 
appeared effective and safe in the prevention of VTE in elderly patients. 
Despite available data, and recommendations for VTE prevention in medical 
patients, thromboprophylaxis is underused or misused in practice. Heterogeneity 
of clinical studies, selected populations, concern about bleeding, and lack of a 
clear clinical benefit are some of the reasons that could explain the gap 
between theory and practice. In this review, after a brief report of 
epidemiologic data and specificities of VTE in elderly patients, the authors 
discuss the available results of VTE primary prevention trials for elderly 
medical patients, the limitations of these data, and the challenges to improve 
the practice and to reduce the incidence of this frequent but preventable 
disease.

DOI: 10.2147/cia.s832
PMCID: PMC2682373
PMID: 18982911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Expert Opin Drug Saf. 2008 Nov;7(6):647-62. doi: 10.1517/14740330802501211.

A systems biology based integrative framework to enhance the predictivity of in 
vitro methods for drug-induced liver injury.

Subramanian K(1), Raghavan S, Rajan Bhat A, Das S, Bajpai Dikshit J, Kumar R, 
Narasimha MK, Nalini R, Radhakrishnan R, Raghunathan S.

Author information:
(1)Strand Life Sciences Pvt Ltd, 237 C V Raman Avenue, RMV Extension, 
Sadashivnagar, 560080, Bangalore, India. kas@strandls.com

BACKGROUND: Liver injury is the most common cause of postmarketing withdrawal of 
drugs. Traditional animal toxicity testing methods have proved to be imperfect 
tools for predicting toxicity observed in the clinic.
OBJECTIVE: Predictive methods that integrate data and insights from several in 
vitro methods to provide a deeper understanding of the impact of a drug on the 
liver are the need of the hour.
METHOD: A systems approach based on mathematical modelling using the kinetics of 
biochemical pathways involved in liver homeostasis coupled with in vitro 
measurements to quantify drug-induced perturbations is described here.
CONCLUSIONS: Integrating in silico and in vitro methods provides a powerful 
platform that allows reasonably accurate and mechanistic-level prediction of 
drug-induced liver injury. The method demonstrates that several physiological 
situations can be accurately modelled as can the effect of perturbations induced 
by drugs. It can also be used along with high-throughput 'omic' data to generate 
testable hypotheses leading to informed decision-making.

DOI: 10.1517/14740330802501211
PMID: 18983213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Thromb Haemost. 2009 Feb;7(2):247-54. doi:
10.1111/j.1538-7836.2008.03201.x.  Epub 2008 Oct 18.

Cardiovascular disease in patients with hemophilia.

Tuinenburg A(1), Mauser-Bunschoten EP, Verhaar MC, Biesma DH, Schutgens RE.

Author information:
(1)Van Creveldkliniek/Department of Haematology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, The Netherlands. a.tuinenburg-2@umcutrecht.nl

Mortality due to ischemic heart disease in hemophilia patients is lower as 
compared to the general male population. Differences in the prevalence of 
cardiovascular risk factors cannot explain this finding. The hypocoagulable 
state of hemophilia patients might have a protective effect on thrombus 
formation, which precipitates infarction. It remains unclear whether the 
deficiency of coagulation factor VIII or IX exerts a protective effect on the 
development of atherosclerosis. Despite the relative protection against 
cardiovascular events, the incidence of ischemic cardiovascular disease in 
hemophilia patients is increasing, because life expectancy of these patients now 
approaches that of the general population. This review focuses on what is 
currently known about cardiovascular risk factors, atherosclerosis, arterial 
thrombosis and ischemic cardiovascular disease in hemophilia patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2008.03201.x
PMID: 18983484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Gastrointest Endosc. 2008 Nov;68(5):937-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2008.02.047.

Models: do they answer the question?

Saini SD, Rubenstein JH.

Comment on
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2008 Nov;68(5):920-36.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2008.02.047
PMID: 18984101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. J Ir Dent Assoc. 2008 Oct-Nov;54(5):215-7.

Renal disease and chronic renal failure in dental practice.

Fitzpatrick JJ(1), Wilson MH, McArdle NS, Stassen LF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Dublin Dental Hospital, Lincoln 
Place, Dublin 2. johnjfitzpatrick@gmail.com

Patients with renal diseases are increasingly common in dental practice. This is 
due to advances in medicine, and the increasing life expectancy of western 
populations. Chronic renal failure is a serious condition that general dental 
practitioners may see in their practice. This article discusses the functions of 
the kidney, and the causes and medical management of chronic renal failure, as 
well as considerations in the dental management of these patients. Common 
complications such as infection and bleeding are discussed. General 
recommendations are made, based on current evidence with respect to prescribing 
of medications.

PMID: 18986093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Aging Cell. 2009 Feb;8(1):2-17. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00441.x.

MSH2 deficiency abolishes the anticancer and pro-aging activity of short 
telomeres.

Martinez P(1), Siegl-Cachedenier I, Flores JM, Blasco MA.

Author information:
(1)Spanish National Cancer Centre, Madrid, Spain.

Mutations in the mismatch repair (MMR) pathway occur in human colorectal cancers 
with microsatellite instability. Mounting evidence suggests that cell-cycle 
arrest in response to a number of cellular stresses, including telomere 
shortening, is a potent anticancer barrier. The telomerase-deficient mouse model 
illustrates the anticancer effect of cell-cycle arrest provoked by short 
telomeres. Here, we describe a role for the MMR protein, MSH2, in signaling 
cell-cycle arrest in a p21/p53-dependent manner in response to short telomeres 
in the context of telomerasedeficient mice. In particular, progressively shorter 
telomeres at successive generations of MSH2(-/-) Terc(-/--) mice did not 
suppress cancer in these mice, indicating that MSH2 deficiency abolishes the 
tumor suppressor activity of short telomeres. Interestingly, MSH2 deficiency 
prevented degenerative pathologies in the gastrointestinal tract of MSH2(-/-) 
Terc(-/-) mice concomitant with a rescue of proliferative defects. The 
abolishment of the anticancer and pro-aging effects of short telomeres provoked 
by MSH2 abrogation was independent of changes in telomere length. These results 
highlight a role for MSH2 in the organismal response to dysfunctional telomeres, 
which in turn may be important in the pathobiology of human cancers bearing 
mutations in the MMR pathway.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2008.00441.x
PMID: 18986375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. N Engl J Med. 2008 Nov 6;359(19):1977-81. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp0806862.

Saying no isn't NICE - the travails of Britain's National Institute for Health 
and Clinical Excellence.

Steinbrook R(1).

Author information:
(1)rsteinbrook@attglobal.net

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp0806862
PMID: 18987366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Eur J Health Econ. 2008 Nov;9 Suppl 1:5-29. doi: 10.1007/s10198-008-0122-5.

Procedures and methods of benefit assessments for medicines in Germany.

Bekkering GE(1), Kleijnen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium. 
Trudy.Bekkering@med.kuleuven.be

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2008 Nov;9 Suppl 1:1-3.

The Federal Joint Committee (FJC; Gemeinsamer Bundesausschuss, G-BA) defines the 
health-care elements that are to be reimbursed by sickness funds. To define a 
directive, the FJC can commission benefit assessments, which provide an overview 
of the scientific evidence regarding the efficacy and benefits of an 
intervention. This paper describes the operational implementation of the legal 
requirements with regard to the benefit assessments of medicines. Such benefit 
assessments are sometimes referred to as "isolated benefit assessments," to 
distinguish them from benefit assessments as part of a full economic 
evaluation.The FJC has the freedom to commission these assessments from any 
agency; however, to date the majority have commissioned the Institute for 
Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG). Nevertheless, the content of this 
paper applies integrally to any institute commissioned for such assessments. In 
this report, 'the institute' is used when the text refers to any of these 
institutes.The legal framework for benefit assessments is laid out in the German 
Social Code Book version V ( http://www.sozialgesetzbuch.de ), Sects. 35b ( 
section 1), 139a ( section 4-6) and Sect. 139b ( section 3). It is specified 
that: The institute must guarantee high transparency. The institute must provide 
appropriate participation of relevant parties for the commission-related 
development of assessments, and opportunity for comment on all important 
segments of the assessment procedure. The institute has to report on the 
progress and results of the work at regular intervals. The institute is held to 
giving the commission to external experts. Based on the legal framework, the 
institute must guarantee a high procedural transparency. Transparency of the 
whole process should be achieved, which is evidenced by clear reporting of 
procedures and criteria in all phases undertaken in the benefit assessment. The 
most important means of enhancing transparency are: 1. To implement a scoping 
process to support the development of the research question. 2. To separate the 
work of the external experts performing the evidence assessment from that of the 
institute formulating recommendations. Therefore, the preliminary report as 
produced by external experts needs to be public, and published separately from 
any subsequent amendments or (draft-)reports made by the institute, which 
includes the institute's recommendations. 3. To implement open peer review by 
publishing both the comments of the reviewers and their names. Based on the 
legal framework, the institute must provide for adequate participation of 
relevant parties. These include organisations representing the interests of 
patients; experts of medical, pharmaceutical and health economic science and 
practice; the professional organisations of pharmacists and pharmaceutical 
companies; and experts on alternative therapies. Patients and health care 
professionals bring in new insights with respect to research priorities, 
treatment and outcomes.The relevant parties should be identified and contacted 
whenever the global scope of the assessment has been drafted. Subsequently, the 
relevant parties should be involved in defining the research question, 
developing the protocol and commenting on the preliminary report. To implement 
the involvement of relevant parties in defining the research question a scoping 
process is suggested. For the other phases, written comments followed by an oral 
discussion should be used. Finally, the relevant parties should have the right 
to appeal the final decision on judicial grounds. None of these steps mean that 
the institute would lose any part of its scientific independence.From the 
relevant sections of the legal framework with respect to the assessment methods, 
it can be concluded that: 1. The institute must ensure that the assessment is 
made in accordance with internationally recognised standards of evidence-based 
medicine (EBM). 2. The assessment is conducted in comparison with other 
medicines and treatment forms under consideration of the additional therapeutic 
benefit for the patients. 3. The minimum criteria for assessing patient benefit 
are improvements in the state of health, shortening the duration of illness, 
extension of the duration of life, reduction of side effects and improvements in 
quality of life. EBM refers to the application of the best available evidence to 
answer a research question, which can inform questions about the care of 
patients. The optimal design, even for effectiveness questions, is not always 
the randomised, controlled trial (RCT) but depends on the research question and 
the outcomes of interest. To increase transparency for each question, the levels 
of evidence examined should be made explicit. There is no empirical evidence to 
support the use of cutoff points with respect to the number of studies before 
making recommendations. To get the best available evidence for the research 
question(s), all relevant evidence should be considered for each question, and 
the best available evidence should be used to answer the question. Separate 
levels of evidence may have to be used for each outcome.There are many ways in 
which bias can be introduced in systematic reviews. Some types of bias can be 
prevented, other types can only be reported and, for some, the influence of the 
bias can be investigated. Reviews must show that potential sources of bias have 
been dealt with adequately.Methods used by other agencies that perform benefit 
assessments are useful to interpret the term 'international standards' to which 
the institute must comply. The National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) is a good example in this respect. NICE shows that it is 
possible to have transparent procedures for benefit assessments but that this 
requires detailed documentation. NICE has implemented an open procedure with 
respect to the comments of reviewers, which makes the procedure transparent. 
Although the Institute for Quality and Efficiency in Health Care (IQWiG) in 
Germany invites comments on their protocol and preliminary report by posting 
them on their website, and comments are made public, the individual comments are 
not evaluated openly, and therefore it remains uncertain whether or not they 
lead to changes in the reports. The participation of relevant parties in the 
assessment process as implemented by NICE guarantees a process that is 
transparent to all relevant parties.Transparency of the whole process is assured 
by clear reporting of procedures and criteria in all phases undertaken in the 
benefit assessment. In a scoping process, a draft scope is commented on first in 
writing and subsequently in the form of a scoping workshop. In this way, all 
relevant aspects can be heard and included in the final scope. The protocol is 
then developed, followed by evidence assessment. The methods used should be 
completely reported to show readers that the assessment has been performed with 
scientific rigour and that bias has been prevented where possible. All relevant 
parties should have the opportunity to comment on the draft protocol and the 
draft preliminary report. Each comment should be evaluated as to whether or not 
it will lead to changes, and both the comments and the evaluation should be made 
public to ensure transparency of this process. The same procedure should be used 
for the peer-review phase. Based on the final report of the evidence assessment, 
the institute forms recommendations and the FJC appraises the evidence.During 
the writing of the final report, a separation between the evidence assessment 
and the evidence-appraisal phase should be implemented. Ideally, this separation 
should be legally enforced to prevent any confusion about conflict of 
interests.Such a process guarantees a feasible combination of the legal 
requirements for transparency and involvement of relevant parties with 
international standards of EBM to ensure that the benefit assessments of 
medicines in Germany are performed according to the highest standards.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-008-0122-5
PMID: 18987905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2008 Nov;133(46):2393-402; quiz 2403-6. doi: 
10.1055/s-0028-1100931. Epub 2008 Nov 4.

[Cardiac surgery in the elderly: perioperative care and operative strategies].

[Article in German]

Albert A(1), Ujvari Z, Mauser M, Ennker J.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung fÃ¼r Herzchirurgie, Herzzentrum Lahr/Baden. 
alexander.albert@heart-lahr.com

Erratum in
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2008 Dec;133(51-52):2701.

Caused by the age-dependent prevalence of cardiac diseases, the number of 
cardiac surgical interventions to geriatric patients is increasing. High life 
quality and life expectancy can be reached by cardiac operations. The advantage 
of cardiac surgical interventions is the decade's long positive effect. 
Accordingly also elderly benefit from complete revascularisation and from aortic 
valve replacement with biological prosthesis, which rarely degenerate in old 
age. A weak point is the surgical trauma, which can be reduced by less-invasive 
methods, such as OPCAB with aortic non-touch-technique, resulting in less than 1 
% stroke. The indications for heart operations will be based on age-independent 
evidence-based guidelines. The decision for surgery is influenced by the 
expectation of the risk. This is defined by the co-morbidities and to lesser 
extent by the age per se. The operation risk can be calculated by risk-scores 
and hospital-specific data. The patient's expectations from the operation and 
his ability to overcome the accompanying stress must be thoroughly assessed. The 
operation must take place electively and at the right time. A good nutritional 
status and preoperative optimization of the organ functions are decisive for the 
prognosis. The blood-sugar-level must be optimized; thyroid function, (hidden) 
infections, anaemia and depression must be excluded or treated. The required 
screening tests should have been done already by the family doctor. The elderly 
are postoperatively susceptible to complications; especially low cardiac output, 
renal failure, respiratory insufficiency and stroke. Subsequently they need more 
intensive care.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1100931
PMID: 18988132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Cancer. 2008 Dec 15;113(12):3440-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.23962.

Adopting helical CT screening for lung cancer: potential health consequences 
during a 15-year period.

McMahon PM(1), Kong CY, Weinstein MC, Tramontano AC, Cipriano LE, Johnson BE, 
Weeks JC, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA, USA. 
pamela@mgh-ita.org

BACKGROUND: Simulation modeling can synthesize data from single-arm studies of 
lung cancer screening and tumor registries to investigate computed tomography 
(CT) screening. This study estimated changes in lung cancer outcomes through 
2005, had chest CT screening been introduced in 1990.
METHODS: Hypothetical individuals with smoking histories representative of 6 US 
cohorts (white males and females aged 50, 60, and 70 years in 1990) were 
simulated in the Lung Cancer Policy Model, a comprehensive patient-level 
simulation model of lung cancer development, screening, and treatment. A no 
screening scenario corresponded to observed outcomes. We simulated 3 screening 
scenarios in current or former smokers with > or =20 pack-years as follows: 
1-time screen in 1990; and annual, and twice-annually screenings beginning in 
1990 and ending in 2005. Main outcomes were days of life between 1990 and 2005 
and life expectancy in 1990 (estimated by simulating life histories past 2005).
RESULTS: All screening scenarios yielded reductions (compared with no screening) 
in lung cancer-specific mortality by 2005, with larger reductions predicted for 
more frequent screening. Compared with no screening, annual screening of 
ever-smokers with at least 20 pack-years of cigarette exposure provided 
ever-smokers with an additional 11 to 33 days of life by 2005, or an additional 
3-10 weeks of (undiscounted) life expectancy. In sensitivity analyses, the 
largest effects on gains from annual screening were due to reductions in 
screening adherence and increased smoking cessation.
CONCLUSIONS: The adoption of CT screening, had it been available in 1990, might 
have resulted in a modest gain in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.23962
PMCID: PMC2782879
PMID: 18988293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Nucleic Acids Res. 2008 Dec;36(22):7110-23. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkn827. Epub
2008  Nov 6.

Structural and functional characterization of the LldR from Corynebacterium 
glutamicum: a transcriptional repressor involved in L-lactate and sugar 
utilization.

Gao YG(1), Suzuki H, Itou H, Zhou Y, Tanaka Y, Wachi M, Watanabe N, Tanaka I, 
Yao M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Advanced Life Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan.

LldR (CGL2915) from Corynebacterium glutamicum is a transcription factor 
belonging to the GntR family, which is typically involved in the regulation of 
oxidized substrates associated with amino acid metabolism. In the present study, 
the crystal structure of LldR was determined at 2.05-A resolution. The structure 
consists of N- and C-domains similar to those of FadR, but with distinct domain 
orientations. LldR and FadR dimers achieve similar structures by domain 
swapping, which was first observed in dimeric assembly of transcription factors. 
A structural feature of Zn(2+) binding in the regulatory domain was also 
observed, as a difference from the FadR subfamily. DNA microarray and DNase I 
footprint analyses suggested that LldR acts as a repressor regulating 
cgl2917-lldD and cgl1934-fruK-ptsF operons, which are indispensable for 
l-lactate and fructose/sucrose utilization, respectively. Furthermore, the 
stoichiometries and affinities of LldR and DNAs were determined by isothermal 
titration calorimetry measurements. The transcriptional start site and 
repression of LldR on the cgl2917-lldD operon were analysed by primer extension 
assay. Mutation experiments showed that residues Lys4, Arg32, Arg42 and Gly63 
are crucial for DNA binding. The location of the putative ligand binding cavity 
and the regulatory mechanism of LldR on its affinity for DNA were proposed.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkn827
PMCID: PMC2602784
PMID: 18988622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2008 Jul-Sep;9(3):479-86.

An indirect study of cancer survival in the context of developing countries.

Dhar M(1), Lahiri S, Takiar R, Ashok NC, Murthy NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, JSS Medical College, Mysore, India. 
murali_dhar_1966@yahoo.com

With classical approaches, survival refers to the life of a person after 
diagnosis of disease, and survival studies deal with measurement of the same to 
evaluate overall performance of a group of patients in terms of quality and 
quantity of life after diagnosis/treatment. There are numerous difficulties in 
the conduct of a population-based survival study in the context of developing 
countries, including India. Loss to follow-up is a typical problem encountered, 
causing biased estimates. In view of this difficulty with the classical 
approach, the objective of this study was to propose an indirect methodology for 
the study of survival. The proposed methodology is based on life table 
techniques and uses current data on incidence and mortality from the disease. It 
involves the estimation of person years free of disease (PYFD), person years 
with disease (PYWD), person years of life lost (PYLL) and average duration of 
disease (ADD) and their comparison over a time period. Empirical application was 
carried out for mouth and lung cancers in males and cancers of breast and cervix 
in females as well as for all sites combined together in each sex. Cancer 
incidence and mortality data by age and sex for the years 1989, 1993, 1997 and 
2001 were obtained from published reports of Mumbai Cancer Registry, India. All 
causes of deaths for these years were obtained from Mumbai Municipal 
Corporation. Three life tables were constructed by applying various attrition 
factors: (a) risk of death from all causes; (b) risk of incidence and that of 
death from other causes; and (c) risk of death from other causes only. The 
expectation of life from the second life table gave PYFD. PYWD and PYLL were 
calculated by suitable subtractions among three expectations of life. ADD was 
calculated by dividing person years lived with disease by number developing the 
disease. It was noted that during 1993-2001, PYFD for all sites increased from 
59.4 to 62.1 and from 63.8 to 66 years in males and females respectively. PYLL 
was about 0.8 year in males and 1 year in females. Similarly, PYWD was 0.6 and 1 
year in males and females. ADD for all sites varied from 4 to 4.7 years in both 
sexes. It was about 6 years for mouth cancers and 2 years for lung cancers in 
males and 4-5 years for breast and cervical cancers in females. Validation of 
the ADD was carried out by comparison with published data for calculating median 
duration of disease. Given the difficulties in conduct of classical survival 
studies, the proposed method may provide a useful tool for having a regular 
audit of prognostic factors in the community.

PMID: 18990024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Aust New Zealand Health Policy. 2008 Nov 6;5:23. doi:
10.1186/1743-8462-5-23.

By invitation only - the case for breast cancer screening reminders for women 
over 69 years.

Saunders C(1), Robotin M, Crossing S.

Author information:
(1)The Cancer Council NSW, Woolloomooloo NSW, Australia. carlas@netspace.net.au.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in women in 
Australia. Early detection provides the best chance of reducing mortality and 
morbidity from the disease. Mammographic screening is a population health 
strategy for the early detection of breast cancer in Australia. Recruitment 
strategies such as regular advertising and biannual screening invitations are 
exclusively targeted at women aged 50 - 69 years. Even though they can 
participate, women 70 years or over are not invited or actively encouraged to 
undertake screening. Research has found that a routine letter of invitation 
increases the number of women participating in breast cancer screening.
METHODS: Cancer data analysis and a literature and policy review was conducted 
to assess age specific breast cancer mortality rates and the legitimacy of 
rationale used to limit invitations for breast cancer screening to women younger 
than 70 years.
RESULTS: The proportion of women over 69 years participating in the BreastScreen 
program is significantly less than rate of screening in the target age range 
(50-69 years). Evidence and data indicate that common justifications for 
limiting screening reminders to the target age range including life expectancy, 
comorbidities, effectiveness, treatment and cost are, for many women, 
unreasonable.
CONCLUSION: There is now sufficient data to support a change in the targeted 
upper age range for breast cancer screening to improve the existing suboptimal 
surveillance in women aged over 69 years.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-8462-5-23
PMCID: PMC2612671
PMID: 18990199


592. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2009 Feb;103(2):173-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.trstmh.2008.09.015. Epub 2008 Nov 5.

Low-cost interventions accelerate epidemiological transition in Upper East 
Ghana.

Meij JJ(1), de Craen AJ, Agana J, Plug D, Westendorp RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology, Leiden University Medical Centre, C-2-R, P.O. Box 
9600, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands. j.j.meij@lumc.nl

Before the 1950s effective medical interventions were not available and 
epidemiological transition in developing countries was mostly initiated by the 
introduction of mains water, sewage systems and personal hygiene. Nowadays, 
effective medical interventions such as vaccination programmes, medication and 
vitamin supplements might aid a swift transition. We recorded mortality among a 
research population of 18850 in Garu-Tempane district of Ghana from 2002 to 
2005. We calculated the expected mortality based on the population structure in 
2002 and compared the life expectancy of the region with other countries 
depending on their gross domestic product (GDP). Mortality in the age group 0-9 
years was 8.1 per 1000 person-years and in the age group 10-19 years it was 4.1 
per 1000 person-years. Cumulative survival probability up to age 20 years 
amounted to 89% and was far higher than expected. Observed and expected 
mortality in old age were similar. The life expectancy at birth was 59 years and 
much higher than the region's per capita annual income of US$100 would predict. 
We conclude that the population is in epidemiological transition. It shows that 
an epidemiological transition can be accelerated with low-cost interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trstmh.2008.09.015
PMID: 18990415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Thyroid. 2008 Dec;18(12):1277-84. doi: 10.1089/thy.2008.0066.

Embolization therapy of bone metastases from epithelial thyroid carcinoma: 
effect on symptoms and serum thyroglobulin.

De Vries MM(1), Persoon AC, Jager PL, Gravendeel J, Plukker JT, Sluiter WJ, 
Links TP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Selective embolization therapy (SET) has been employed to treat a 
number of malignant tumors, but experience with its use in metastatic epithelial 
thyroid carcinoma (ETC) is limited. Here we report our experience with the 
effect of SET on symptoms and serum thyroglobulin (Tg) in patients with bone 
metastases from ETC.
METHODS: This was a retrospective study of 13 patients with bone metastases from 
ETC who underwent 65 embolizations for bone metastases in 43 sessions. In the 
treated patients, symptoms considered related to bone metastases were compared 
before and about 4-7 weeks after the embolization session. Embolization sessions 
were excluded for analysis if concomitant therapy had taken place within 4-7 
weeks before and/or after the session. Serum Tg concentrations were employed as 
an index of tumor debulking by SET. We attempted to estimate the influence of 
SET on survival time in patients with disseminated ETC who did, and an 
historical control group of patients with disseminated ETC who did not receive 
SET.
RESULTS: After exclusion of 12 (of which 3 sessions failed) out of 43 sessions, 
clinical symptoms, such as pain, and neurological symptoms decreased after 17, 
increased after 6, and did not change after 8 procedures. In 43 sessions, 20 of 
which were excluded (including the 3 sessions that failed), serum Tg decreased 
after 14 and increased after 9. The median standardized survival time of the 
group that received embolization was not significantly different to that of the 
group that did not receive embolization.
CONCLUSIONS: Embolization therapy does not appear to improve life expectancy, 
but in selected patients can achieve palliation of pain, prevent neurological 
damage, reduce tumor burden, and give devascularization of the tumor before 
surgery.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2008.0066
PMID: 18991486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Recent Pat Cardiovasc Drug Discov. 2008 Nov;3(3):156-64. doi: 
10.2174/157489008786263989.

A review of Sirt1 and Sirt1 modulators in cardiovascular and metabolic diseases.

Pillarisetti S(1).

Author information:
(1)Reddy US Therapeutics, Inc., Dr Reddy Laboratories, Norcross, GA 30071, USA. 
ram@reddyus.com

Sirt1 (member of the sirtuin family) is a nicotinamide adenosine dinucleotide 
(NAD)-dependent deacetylase that removes acetyl groups from various proteins. A 
wide variety of proteins are Sirt1 substrates; the list includes many 
transcription factors and cofactors. Deacetylation of these factors may lead to 
activation or inactivation of the factor, thus impacting downstream gene 
expression. In addition to direct deacetylation, Sirt1 can modulate protein 
activity by other mechanisms. Although initial research focused on sirtuin's 
role in life span extension especially in lower organisms more recent studies 
show that Sirt1 activity can impact a wide array of proteins implicated in 
cardiovascular (CV) and metabolic diseases. Several patents have been published 
in the last 5 years describing the application of sirtuin compounds in the 
treatment of metabolic diseases. This review will focus on those 
Sirt1-modifiable proteins that have an impact on CV and metabolic diseases. 
Pharmacological agents that activate Sirt1 and thus impact the disease process 
will also be reviewed.

DOI: 10.2174/157489008786263989
PMID: 18991791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2008 Nov;89(11):2185-94. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2008.04.012.

Physical function and properties of quadriceps femoris muscle in men with knee 
osteoarthritis.

Liikavainio T(1), Lyytinen T, TyrvÃ¤inen E, SipilÃ¤ S, Arokoski JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical and Rehabilitation Medicine, Kuopio University 
Hospital, Kuopio, Finland; Kolari Health Centre, Kolari, Finland. 
liikavai@hytti.uku.fi

OBJECTIVES: To examine the objective physical function of the lower extremities, 
to measure the properties of quadriceps femoris muscle (QFM), and to assess 
subjective disabilities in men with knee osteoarthritis (OA) and to compare the 
results with those obtained from age- and sex-matched control subjects.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Rehabilitation clinic in a university hospital.
PARTICIPANTS: Male volunteers (n=54) (age range, 50-69y) with knee OA and 
randomly selected healthy, age- and sex-matched control subjects (n=53).
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Physical function evaluated with a test battery including 
the QFM composition measurement, the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities 
Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), and the RAND 36-Item Short-Form Health Survey, 
version 1.0.
RESULTS: Knee OA patients had 13% to 26% poorer (P range, .050-.001) physical 
function and muscle strength compared with the controls. There were also 
significant differences in QFM composition. WOMAC (P range, .050-.001) and 
muscle strength (P<.001) associated with physical function tests, but subjective 
pain correlated with neither physical function nor muscle strength in knee OA 
patients. The radiographic knee OA grade did not have any significant effect on 
physical function, but passive knee motion, knee extension strength, and WOMAC 
were related to the severity of the disease (P<.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The patients with knee OA exhibited impaired physical function and 
muscle strength and QFM composition compared with healthy controls. The severity 
of radiographic knee OA clearly had adverse effects on functional ability at the 
later stages of the disease. The results highlight the effect of QFM strength on 
physical function as well as the importance of patient's subjective and 
objective physical function when deciding on knee OA treatment policy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2008.04.012
PMID: 18996249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Health Aff (Millwood). 2008 Nov-Dec;27(6):1560-5. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.27.6.1560.

The consequence of secret prices: the politics of physician preference items.

Lerner JC(1), Fox DM, Nelson T, Reiss JB.

Author information:
