10.1016/j.cgh.2008.08.005. Epub 2008 Aug 19.

Cost effectiveness of alternative surveillance strategies for hepatocellular 
carcinoma in patients with cirrhosis.

Andersson KL(1), Salomon JA, Goldie SJ, Chung RT.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA. kandersson@partners.org

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The increasing incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in 
the United States has significant health and economic consequences. Ultrasound 
(US) surveillance is recommended for patients with cirrhosis because of their 
high risk of HCC and improving treatment outcomes for small tumors. We assessed 
the costs, clinical benefits, and cost effectiveness of US surveillance and 
alternative strategies for HCC in cirrhosis using a computer-based state 
transition model with parameters derived from available literature.
METHODS: Our model compared a policy of no surveillance with 6 surveillance 
strategies in cirrhotic patients ages 50 years and older in the United States: 
(1) annual US, (2) semiannual US, (3) semiannual US with alpha-fetoprotein, (4) 
annual computed tomography (CT), (5) semiannual CT, and (6) annual magnetic 
resonance imaging. The number of screening tests needed to detect one small HCC, 
cost per treated HCC, lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life expectancy, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated.
RESULTS: Semiannual US surveillance for HCC in cirrhosis increased 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 8.6 months on average, but extended it 
nearly 3.5 years in patients with small treated tumors. Semiannual US 
surveillance had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $30,700 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, and was more cost effective than the 
alternative surveillance strategies using a threshold of $50,000 per QALY 
gained. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for the combined 
alpha-fetoprotein/US and annual CT strategies exceeded $50,000/QALY unless the 
sensitivity and specificity of US decreased to less than 65% and 60%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Semiannual US surveillance for HCC in cirrhotic patients improves 
clinical outcomes at a reasonable cost.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2008.08.005
PMCID: PMC4340842
PMID: 18848905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: No author has a conflict 
of interest to disclose.


449. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2009 Mar-Apr;5(2):160-4. doi:
10.1016/j.soard.2008.07.013.  Epub 2008 Aug 5.

Obesity surgery and malignancy: our experience after 1500 cases.

Gagn√© DJ(1), Papasavas PK, Maalouf M, Urbandt JE, Caushaj PF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Western Pennsylvania Hospital, Temple University 
Medical School Clinical Campus, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15224, USA. 
dgagne@wpahs.org

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a risk factor for cancer and is associated with increased 
mortality from a number of malignancies. We describe our experience with 
bariatric surgery patients with a history of malignancy and review the safety 
and outcomes of bariatric surgery in patients with a history of cancer.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of prospectively collected data 
from all patients diagnosed with a malignancy before, during, or after bariatric 
surgery. Data on weight loss, co-morbidities, and recurrence were collected.
RESULTS: From July 1999 to February 2008, 1566 patients underwent bariatric 
surgery. Of these 1566 patients, 36 (2.3%) had a history of malignancy before 
they underwent bariatric evaluation and surgery, 4 (0.26%) were diagnosed with a 
malignancy during their preoperative evaluation, 2 of whom subsequently 
underwent bariatric surgery, and 2 had intraoperative findings suspicious for 
malignancy; bariatric surgery was completed in both cases. The evaluation 
revealed renal cell carcinoma and low-grade lymphoma, respectively. No 
procedures were aborted because of a suspicion of malignancy. Postoperatively, 
16 patients (0.9%) were diagnosed with cancer, 3 of whom had a history of 
malignancy: 1 with metastatic renal cell, 1 with recurrent melanoma, and 1, who 
had had prostate cancer, with bladder cancer.
CONCLUSION: A history of malignancy does not appear to be a contraindication for 
bariatric surgery as long as the life expectancy is reasonable. Screening for 
bariatric surgery might reveal the malignancy. Bariatric surgery does not seem 
to have a negative effect on the treatment of malignancies that are discovered 
in the postoperative period.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2008.07.013
PMID: 18849199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Vet Rec. 2008 Oct 11;163(15):457-8. doi: 10.1136/vr.163.15.457.

Right censored data ('cohort bias') in veterinary life span studies.

Urfer SR(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Animal Housing and Welfare, Vetsuisse Facility, University of 
Berne, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1136/vr.163.15.457
PMID: 18849580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Br Dent J. 2008 Oct 11;205(7):359-71. doi: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2008.850.

Access to special care dentistry, part 8. Special care dentistry services: 
seamless care for people in their middle years - part 2.

Lewis D(1), Fiske J, Dougall A.

Author information:
(1)Dorset Healthcare NHS Foundation Trsut, Dental Department, Canford Health 
Centre, Poole, Dorset.

This article about special care dentistry in the middle years considers people 
who have Down's syndrome and cerebral palsy and those who have cardiac and 
respiratory disease. The increased life expectancy of people with Down's 
syndrome, currently 50-60 years, is reflected in the changing population profile 
and needs of these individuals. The preventive and dental treatment of most 
people with Down's syndrome and cerebral palsy can be met in general dental 
practice. However, those people with profound disability, anxiety or learning 
disability may require either a shared approach to care or referral for 
specialist care. Cardiac and respiratory disease occur commonly in the general 
population both in middle and older age groups and the dental team will meet 
increasing numbers of people with these conditions. The procedures and drugs 
used in dentistry can aggravate heart disease and it is important that the 
dental team are aware of the common cardiac conditions and their management, as 
well as how to best manage the oral care of this group. Also, they have a role 
to play in the provision of oral health advice, smoking cessation and dietary 
advice. This is particularly important as poor oral hygiene has been linked to 
respiratory pathogen colonisation and dental plaque may act as a reservoir for 
aspiration pneumonia in susceptible individuals.

DOI: 10.1038/sj.bdj.2008.850
PMID: 18849933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Dev Genes Evol. 2008 Oct;218(10):511-24. doi: 10.1007/s00427-008-0239-7.
Epub  2008 Oct 11.

Early development, pattern, and reorganization of the planula nervous system in 
Aurelia (Cnidaria, Scyphozoa).

Nakanishi N(1), Yuan D, Jacobs DK, Hartenstein V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 
90095-1606, USA.

We examined the development of the nervous system in Aurelia (Cnidaria, 
Scyphozoa) from the early planula to the polyp stage using confocal and 
transmission electron microscopy. Fluorescently labeled anti-FMRFamide, 
antitaurine, and antityrosinated tubulin antibodies were used to visualize the 
nervous system. The first detectable FMRFamide-like immunoreactivity occurs in a 
narrow circumferential belt toward the anterior/aboral end of the ectoderm in 
the early planula. As the planula matures, the FMRFamide-immunoreactive cells 
send horizontal processes (i.e., neurites) basally along the longitudinal axis. 
Neurites extend both anteriorly/aborally and posteriorly/orally, but the 
preference is for anterior neurite extension, and neurites converge to form a 
plexus at the aboral/anterior end at the base of the ectoderm. In the mature 
planula, a subset of cells in the apical organ at the anterior/aboral pole 
begins to show FMRFamide-like and taurine-like immunoreactivity, suggesting a 
sensory function of the apical organ. During metamorphosis, FMRFamide-like 
immunoreactivity diminishes in the ectoderm but begins to occur in the 
degenerating primary endoderm, indicating that degenerating 
FMRFamide-immunoreactive neurons are taken up by the primary endoderm. 
FMRFamide-like expression reappears in the ectoderm of the oral disc and the 
tentacle anlagen of the growing polyp, indicating metamorphosis-associated 
restructuring of the nervous system. These observations are discussed in the 
context of metazoan nervous system evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s00427-008-0239-7
PMID: 18850237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(11):937-49. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200826110-00006.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of currently approved treatments for 
HBeAg-positive chronic hepatitis B.

Spackman DE(1), Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA.

BACKGROUND: A variety of pharmaceuticals are currently approved for the 
treatment of hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-positive chronic hepatitis B (CHB), 
but their relative economic value is unclear. The goal of this analysis was to 
compare the cost effectiveness of adefovir, entecavir, lamivudine, pegylated 
interferon and telbivudine.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-utility analysis from a US payer perspective over a 
lifetime time horizon using a Markov model, in a hypothetical population with 
HBeAg-positive CHB and a mean age of 35 years. Disease progression 
probabilities, costs and quality-of-life data were derived from the literature. 
We assumed a treatment duration of 4 years, with the use of combination therapy 
for drug resistance. Nonresponders to pegylated interferon were assumed to 
receive entecavir in years 3-4. Sensitivity analyses, including probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, were conducted to evaluate uncertainty in the results. All 
costs were valued in $US, year 2008 values. Costs and outcomes were discounted 
at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: The 10-year cumulative incidence of cirrhosis for no treatment was 
26.1%, and ranged from 19.7% to 23.8% with treatment; undiscounted life-years 
were 36.2 for no treatment, or ranged from 36.82 to 37.54 with treatment. 
Initiation with entecavir (18.70 QALYs) and pegylated interferon (18.64 QALYs) 
provided the largest treatment benefits overall, followed by telbivudine (18.55 
QALYs). The probabilities of the interventions being cost effective at a 
threshold of USD 50,000 per QALY were 57%, 37% and 2% for initiation with 
entecavir, pegylated interferon and telbivudine, respectively. The results were 
dependent on baseline seroconversion rate and the effect of viral suppression on 
cirrhosis risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Initiation of treatments for HBeAg-positive CHB with a favourable 
combination of seroconversion, viral suppression and resistance profile appear 
to offer the greatest clinical and economic value.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826110-00006
PMID: 18850763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Pharmacoeconomics. 2008;26(11):951-67. doi:
10.2165/00019053-200826110-00007.

Economic impact and long-term graft outcomes of mycophenolate mofetil dosage 
modifications following gastrointestinal complications in renal transplant 
recipients.

Machnicki G(1), Ricci JF, Brennan DC, Schnitzler MA.

Author information:
(1)Novartis Pharmaceuticals, East Hanover, New Jersey, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Gastrointestinal (GI) complications are common following renal 
transplantation. Discontinuing or reducing the dosage of mycophenolate mofetil 
can improve GI tolerability but adversely affect graft outcomes. This analysis 
was undertaken to assess the 3-year economic and clinical impact of 
mycophenolate mofetil dosage modifications or discontinuation following 
post-transplant GI events compared with no dosage modification.
METHODS: Adult renal transplant recipients with a Medicare-covered mycophenolate 
mofetil prescription at the time of GI complication between 1995 and 2000 were 
drawn from the US Renal Data System (USRDS). The 3-year graft survival rates 
after first diagnosis of a GI complication were obtained in four cohorts of 
patients according to mycophenolate mofetil administration within 6 months of 
initial GI diagnosis: (i) no dosage change in mycophenolate mofetil (NC); (ii) 
one or more episodes of mycophenolate mofetil dosage reduction <50% of the 
initial dosage, lasting >30 days (DR <50%); (iii) one or more episodes of 
mycophenolate mofetil dosage reduction >or=50% of the initial dosage, lasting 
>30 days (DR >or=50%); and (iv) one or more episodes of mycophenolate mofetil 
discontinuation >30 days (DC).Two multivariate models were used to estimate the 
association between DR and DC and graft survival <6 months after GI diagnosis 
and 6-36 months after diagnosis. In each cohort, Medicare costs for maintaining 
a patient with stable function were calculated using regression and were 
augmented with cost of graft failure, resumed maintenance dialysis and death 
post-graft loss using Medicare data supplied by the USRDS. Survival and cost 
outcomes were integrated in a 3-year Markov model with 6-month cycles. The 
perspective was that of Medicare, and costs and outcomes were discounted by 3% 
per annum.
RESULTS: Adult patients (n = 3589) with a mycophenolate mofetil prescription at 
time of diagnosis of GI event were identified: NC = 2230 (62.1%); DR <50% = 247 
(6.9%); DR >or=50% = 348 (9.7%); and DC = 764 (21.3%). In the first 6 months 
after GI diagnosis, DC was associated with increased risk of graft failure 
(hazard ratio [HR] 3.20; 95% CI 1.71, 5.99; p < 0.0001). During the period 6-36 
months after GI diagnosis, the HR for graft loss was higher for the DR >or=50% 
group (HR 1.32; 95% CI 1.02, 1.70; p < 0.05) and DC group (HR 1.35; 95% CI 1.09, 
1.69; p < 0.01) relative to the NC group.Expected 3-year cumulative Medicare 
costs per patient were USD 68,495 for the NC and DR <50% groups, USD 70,886 for 
the DR >or=50% group, USD 79,015 for the DC group and USD 70,967 overall. 
Respective QALYs were 2.32, 2.30, 2.27 and 2.31. In sensitivity analysis, 
reducing the rate of DR and DC by 25% would have lowered expected costs by USD 
2.2 million in the study population and increased QALYs by 11.2. Monte Carlo 
simulation indicated a 93% probability that such reduction in the relative risk 
of mycophenolate mofetil DR/DC was cost saving or cost neutral.
CONCLUSION: Dosage reduction or discontinuation of mycophenolate mofetil in the 
first 6 months after diagnosis of GI complications is associated with 
significantly increased risk of graft failure and increased healthcare costs in 
adult renal transplant recipients.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200826110-00007
PMID: 18850764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Surg Orthop Adv. 2008 Fall;17(3):200-3.

Advances in orthopaedic outcomes research.

Novak EJ(1), Vail TP, Bozic KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA 94143-0728, USA.

As the field of orthopaedic surgery continues to expand in terms of indications 
and technologies, there has been increasing emphasis placed on validated 
patient-derived outcome measures in clinical orthopaedic research. As concerns 
mount regarding rising health care costs, declining quality, and variability in 
clinical practice patterns, outcome measures become important tools in assessing 
quality. Furthermore, outcome measures can be utilized to justify the clinical 
benefits of existing and new diagnostic modalities and surgical interventions. 
This review provides a brief overview of traditional outcomes approaches in 
orthopaedics followed by a discussion of the current trend toward 
patient-centered outcomes research and its role in the emerging field of 
cost-effectiveness analysis in orthopaedics.

PMID: 18851807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Cancer Imaging. 2008 Oct 4;8 Spec No A(Spec Iss A):S6-9. doi: 
10.1102/1470-7330.2008.9002.

Breast cancer screening in high risk women.

Gilbert FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiology Department, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. 
f.j.gilbert@abdn.ac.uk

Women who are at a significantly raised risk of developing breast cancer should 
be assessed by a medical geneticist to confirm their history, counselled as to 
appropriate management and offered breast screening. Currently mammography with 
magnetic resonance imaging is considered the optimal method of early detection 
of breast cancer in these women. While there is no evidence of mortality benefit 
there is evidence from surrogate markers that this intervention is worthwhile 
and cost effective. National recommendations have been produced by the National 
Institute of Clinical Excellence in the UK and also by the American Cancer 
Society.

DOI: 10.1102/1470-7330.2008.9002
PMCID: PMC2582500
PMID: 18852075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1946-7. doi:
10.1001/archinte.168.18.1946.

Live fast, die young, leave a good-looking corpse.

Burns DM.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1950-60.
    Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1961-7.
    Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1968-74.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.18.1946
PMID: 18852393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1948-9. doi:
10.1001/archinte.168.18.1948.

Weighing benefits for older runners.

Mackey RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Pittsburgh Graduate School of 
Public Health, A531 Crabtree Hall, 130 DeSoto St, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. 
mackey@edc.pitt.edu

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2008 Aug 11;168(15):1638-46.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.18.1948
PMID: 18852394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1968-74. doi:
10.1001/archinte.168.18.1968.

The effect of smoking in midlife on health-related quality of life in old age: a 
26-year prospective study.

Strandberg AY(1), Strandberg TE, Pitk√§l√§ K, Salomaa VV, Tilvis RS, Miettinen TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Geriatric Clinic, University of Helsinki, PL 340, 
00029 Helsinki, Finland. strandberg@kolumbus.fi

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2008 Oct 13;168(18):1946-7.

BACKGROUND: Smoking shortens life expectancy by 7 to 10 years. However, it is 
unclear whether the enhanced longevity of nonsmokers produces increased 
disability and decreased quality of life during these extra final years. This 
study evaluates the long-term effect of smoking in midlife on health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) in old age.
METHODS: Prospective cohort study with a 26-year follow-up of 1658 white men 
(born 1919-1934) of similar socioeconomic status who were participating in the 
Helsinki Businessmen Study. All men were healthy at baseline in 1974, when 
cardiovascular risk factors and smoking habits were assessed. The participants 
were reevaluated with the use of mailed questionnaires in 2000; HRQoL was 
measured with the use of the RAND 36-Item Health Survey (similar to the Medical 
Outcomes Study Short-Form Health Survey) and related to the baseline smoking 
status. Total mortality through 2000 was determined from Finnish national 
registers.
RESULTS: Participants who had never smoked (n = 614) lived a mean of 10 years 
longer than heavy smokers (>20 cigarettes daily; n = 188). Among survivors in 
2000 (n = 1131), the never-smokers had the highest (ie, best) scores on all RAND 
36-Item Health Survey scales. The differences were greatest between 
never-smokers and heavy smokers, ranging from 4 points on the scale of social 
functioning to 14 points on the physical functioning scale. The physical 
component summary score showed a graded deterioration of HRQoL with an 
increasing number of cigarettes smoked daily (P = .01).
CONCLUSIONS: During the 26-year follow-up of this socioeconomically homogeneous 
male cohort, HRQoL deteriorated with an increase in daily cigarettes smoked in a 
dose-dependent manner. Never-smokers lived longer than heavy smokers, and their 
extra years were of better quality.

DOI: 10.1001/archinte.168.18.1968
PMID: 18852397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2008 Oct 21;105(42):16207-11. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0805485105. Epub 2008 Oct 13.

An amino acid polymorphism in the couch potato gene forms the basis for climatic 
adaptation in Drosophila melanogaster.

Schmidt PS(1), Zhu CT, Das J, Batavia M, Yang L, Eanes WF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, 
USA. schmidtp@sas.upenn.edu

Diapause is the classic adaptation to seasonality in arthropods, and its 
expression can result in extreme lifespan extension as well as enhanced 
resistance to environmental challenges. Little is known about the underlying 
evolutionary genetic architecture of diapause in any organism. Drosophila 
melanogaster exhibits a reproductive diapause that is variable within and among 
populations; the incidence of diapause increases with more temperate climates 
and has significant pleiotropic effects on a number of life history traits. 
Using quantitative trait mapping, we identified the RNA-binding protein encoding 
gene couch potato (cpo) as a major genetic locus determining diapause phenotype 
in D. melanogaster and independently confirmed this ability to impact diapause 
expression through genetic complementation mapping. By sequencing this gene in 
samples from natural populations we demonstrated through linkage association 
that variation for the diapause phenotype is caused by a single Lys/Ile 
substitution in one of the six cpo transcripts. Complementation analyses 
confirmed that the identified amino acid variants are functionally distinct with 
respect to diapause expression, and the polymorphism also shows geographic 
variation that closely mirrors the known latitudinal cline in diapause 
incidence. Our results suggest that a naturally occurring amino acid 
polymorphism results in the variable expression of a diapause syndrome that is 
associated with the seasonal persistence of this model organism in temperate 
habitats.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0805485105
PMCID: PMC2570987
PMID: 18852464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


461. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2008 Aug;20(4):280-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03324857.

Diabetes and osteoporosis.

Saller A(1), Maggi S, Romanato G, Tonin P, Crepaldi G.

Author information:
(1)Aging Section, CNR Institute of Neuroscience, 35128 Padova, Italy. 
alois.saller@unipd.it

Care of patients with diabetes should include assessment of bone health. The 
extension of the average life expectancy of people with diabetes, which has 
accompanied improvements in medical care, has also increased the significance of 
osteoporosis. In addition to the usual causes of osteoporosis associated with 
aging, bone health is also compromised by diabetes. Studies on bone involvement 
in patients with diabetes mellitus have generated conflicting results, largely 
because of the pathogenetic complexity of the condition. It is now clear that 
patients with type 1 diabetes have lower bone mineral density (BMD) and a higher 
risk of fractures. Evidence is emerging that patients with type 2 diabetes who 
have complications are also at increased risk of certain types of osteoporotic 
fractures, despite having a higher BMD when compared to patients with type 1 
diabetes. Although many factors, including number and type of falls, visual 
impairment, neuropathy, and reduced muscle strength, influence the probability 
of fractures, the most significant factor seems to be the strength of the bone 
itself. Thus, sarcopenia, a reduction in muscle mass and muscle strength, is 
considered one of the main determinants of bone fragility. The aim of this 
review is to examine the occurrence of osteoporosis in type 1 and type 2 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324857
PMID: 18852539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Prostate Cancer Prostatic Dis. 2009;12(2):124-9. doi: 10.1038/pcan.2008.53.
Epub  2008 Oct 14.

Salvage HIFU for recurrent prostate cancer after radiotherapy.

Chalasani V(1), Martinez CH, Lim D, Chin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, 
Canada.

Recurrent disease following primary radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer 
is a common problem, occurring in up to 46% of patients. For these patients, 
therapeutic options include salvage prostatectomy, salvage cryotherapy, salvage 
high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU), hormonal therapy or observation. This 
review will focus on the emerging evidence for salvage HIFU. There are no 
randomized or prospective studies in this area. Efficacy results of 17-57% have 
been reported from retrospective case series, with reported toxicity including 
rectal fistula in 0-16%, and incontinence in 10-50%. The ideal patient, while 
yet to be clearly defined, should have preradiotherapy low or intermediate risk 
disease. Salvage HIFU appears most appropriate for those patients with 
histologically proven local recurrence only, with a life expectancy of at least 
5 years and with some medical comorbidities rendering them not ideal for salvage 
prostatectomy.

DOI: 10.1038/pcan.2008.53
PMID: 18852702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Health Serv J. 2008 Sep 25:24-6.

Holding back the years.

Dent E.

The number of people with HIV is growing by 10 per cent a year. "Clinical 
inertia" may be delaying much-needed change to HIV/AIDS services, but experts 
are divided over whether they should be shifted into the community. Patients 
want services that are designed to fit around their lives.

PMID: 18853503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Exp Gerontol. 2008 Dec;43(12):1061-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.09.011. Epub
 2008 Sep 27.

Characterization of survival and phenotype throughout the life span in UCP2/UCP3 
genetically altered mice.

McDonald RB(1), Walker KM, Warman DB, Griffey SM, Warden CH, Ramsey JJ, Horwitz 
BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, One Shields Avenue, University of California, Davis, 
CA 95616, USA. rbmcdonald@ucdavis.edu

In the present investigation we describe the life span characteristics and 
phenotypic traits of ad libitum-fed mice that overexpress UCP2/3 (Positive-TG), 
their non-overexpressing littermates (Negative-TG), mice that do not expression 
UCP2 (UCP2KO) or UCP3 (UCP3KO), and wild-type C57BL/6J mice (WT-Control). We 
also included a group of C57BL/6J mice calorie-restricted to 70% of ad 
libitum-fed mice in order to test partially the hypothesis that UCPs contribute 
to the life extension properties of CR. Mean survival was slightly, but 
significantly, greater in Positive-TG, than that observed in Negative-TG or 
WT-Control; mean life span did not significantly differ from that of the UCP3KO 
mice. Maximal life span did not differ among the ad libitum-fed groups. Genotype 
did not significantly affect body weight, food intake, or the type of pathology 
at time of death. Calorie restriction increased significantly mean and maximal 
life span, and the expression of UCP2 and UCP3. The lack of difference in 
maximal life spans among the Positive-TG, Negative-TG, and UCP3KO suggests that 
UCP3 does not significantly affect longevity in mice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2008.09.011
PMID: 18854208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2009 Feb;24(2):512-8. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfn560. Epub
 2008 Oct 14.

Intermittent versus continuous renal replacement therapy for acute kidney injury 
patients admitted to the intensive care unit: results of a randomized clinical 
trial.

Lins RL(1), Elseviers MM, Van der Niepen P, Hoste E, Malbrain ML, Damas P, 
Devriendt J; SHARF investigators.

Collaborators: Van der Niepen P, Verbeelen D, Hubloue I, Daelemans R, Malbrain 
M, Leijs J, Lins RL, Hoste E, Lameire R, Van Biesen W, Damas P, Dubois B, 
Krzesinski JM, Devriendt J, Dratwa M, Wens R, Van Looy L, Malbrain M, De Jongh 
R, Van Roost G, Denis B, Weyers P, Zeghiche F, Buyst L, De Keyser T, De Neve JW, 
Lins V, Mellaerts T, Van Bastelaere S, Van Berendonckx A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, ZNA Stuivenberg, Antwerpen, 
Belgium. Robert.Lins@scarlet.be

BACKGROUND: There is uncertainty on the effect of different dialysis modalities 
for the treatment of patients with acute kidney injury (AKI), admitted to the 
intensive care unit (ICU). This controlled clinical trial performed in the 
framework of the multicentre SHARF 4 study (Stuivenberg Hospital Acute Renal 
Failure) aimed to investigate the outcome in patients with AKI, stratified 
according to severity of disease and randomized to different treatment options.
METHODS: This was a multicentre prospective randomized controlled trial with 
stratification according to severity of disease expressed by the SHARF score. 
ICU patients were eligible for inclusion when serum creatinine was >2 mg/dL, and 
RRT was initiated. The selected patients were randomized to intermittent (IRRT) 
or continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT).
RESULTS: A total of 316 AKI patients were randomly assigned to IRRT (n = 144) or 
CRRT (n = 172). The mean age was 66 (range 18-96); 59% were male. 
Intention-to-treat analysis revealed a mortality of 62.5% in IRRT compared to 
58.1% in CRRT (P = 0.430). No difference between IRRT and CRRT could be observed 
in the duration of ICU stay or hospital stay. In survivors, renal recovery at 
hospital discharge was comparable between both groups. Multivariate analysis, 
including the SHARF score, APACHE II and SOFA scores for correction of disease 
severity, showed no difference in mortality between both treatment modalities. 
This result was confirmed in pre-specified subgroup analysis (elderly, patients 
with sepsis, heart failure, ventilation) and after exclusion of possible 
confounders (early mortality, delayed ICU admission).
CONCLUSIONS: Modality of RRT, either CRRT or IRRT, had no impact on the outcome 
in ICU patients with AKI. Both modalities need to be considered as complementary 
in the treatment of AKI (Clinical Trial: SHARF 4, NCT00322933, 
http://ClinicalTrials.gov).

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfn560
PMID: 18854418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2008 Nov;62(11):1002-10. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2007.067702.

Twelve worlds: a geo-demographic comparison of global inequalities in mortality.

Day P(1), Pearce J, Dorling D.

Author information:
(1)GeoHealth Laboratory, Department of Geography, University of Canterbury, 
Private Bag 4800, Christchurch, New Zealand. peter.day@canterbury.ac.nz

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to identify clusters of nations grouped by 
health outcomes in order to provide sensible groupings for international 
comparisons. The utility of this approach is demonstrated by comparing life 
expectancy and a range of health system indicators within and between each 
cluster.
METHODS: Age- and sex-specific mortality data for 190 member states were 
extracted from the Burden of Disease Estimates statistics produced by the World 
Health Organization. A hierarchical cluster method was used to identify 
groupings of countries that are homogeneous in terms of mortality rates.
RESULTS: 12 clusters of countries were identified. The average life expectancy 
of each cluster ranged from 81.5 years (cluster 1) to 37.7 years (cluster 12). 
The two highest ranked clusters were dominated by Western European countries, 
Australia, Japan and Canada. Cluster 3 included the UK and USA. The four 
clusters with the lowest life expectancies were characterised by different 
configurations of African countries. Health system indicators for workforce, 
hospital beds, access to medicines and measles vaccination corresponded well 
with a clear association with cluster life expectancy. On a per capita basis, 
worldwide health spending was concentrated within the three highest life 
expectancy clusters, especially cluster 3 containing the USA.
CONCLUSIONS: Considerable inequalities in life expectancy and healthcare are 
made clearer when viewed across clusters of countries grouped by health 
outcomes. This geo-demographic taxonomy of global mortality has advantages over 
traditional more ad hoc systems for comparing global health inequalities and for 
deciding which countries appear to have the most comparable health outcomes.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2007.067702
PMID: 18854506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Ann Rheum Dis. 2008 Nov;67(11):1650-1. doi: 10.1136/ard.2007.085951.

Life-table analysis of etanercept with or without methotrexate in patients with 
psoriatic arthritis.

Spadaro A, Ceccarelli F, Scrivo R, Valesini G.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2007.085951
PMID: 18854519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2008 Dec;38(6):535-47. doi:
10.1007/s11084-008-9149-y.  Epub 2008 Oct 15.

Astrobiological phase transition: towards resolution of Fermi's paradox.

Cirkoviƒá MM(1), Vukotiƒá B.

Author information:
(1)Astronomical Observatory of Belgrade, Volgina 7, 11160, Belgrade, Serbia. 
mcirkovic@aob.bg.ac.yu

Can astrophysics explain Fermi's paradox or the "Great Silence" problem? If 
available, such explanation would be advantageous over most of those suggested 
in literature which rely on unverifiable cultural and/or sociological 
assumptions. We suggest, instead, a general astrobiological paradigm which might 
offer a physical and empirically testable paradox resolution. Based on the idea 
of James Annis, we develop a model of an astrobiological phase transition of the 
Milky Way, based on the concept of the global regulation mechanism(s). The 
dominant regulation mechanisms, arguably, are gamma-ray bursts, whose properties 
and cosmological evolution are becoming well-understood. Secular evolution of 
regulation mechanisms leads to the brief epoch of phase transition: from an 
essentially dead place, with pockets of low-complexity life restricted to 
planetary surfaces, it will, on a short (Fermi-Hart) timescale, become filled 
with high-complexity life. An observation selection effect explains why we are 
not, in spite of the very small prior probability, to be surprised at being 
located in that brief phase of disequilibrium. In addition, we show that, 
although the phase-transition model may explain the "Great Silence", it is not 
supportive of the "contact pessimist" position. To the contrary, the 
phase-transition model offers a rational motivation for continuation and 
extension of our present-day Search for ExtraTerrestrial Intelligence (SETI) 
endeavours. Some of the unequivocal and testable predictions of our model 
include the decrease of extinction risk in the history of terrestrial life, the 
absence of any traces of Galactic societies significantly older than human 
society, complete lack of any extragalactic intelligent signals or phenomena, 
and the presence of ubiquitous low-complexity life in the Milky Way.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-008-9149-y
PMID: 18855114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Health Econ. 2009 Aug;18(8):933-50. doi: 10.1002/hec.1416.

Modelling the monetary value of a QALY: a new approach based on UK data.

Mason H(1), Jones-Lee M, Donaldson C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK. Helen.mason@ncl.ac.uk

Debate about the monetary value of a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) has 
existed in the health economics literature for some time. More recently, concern 
about such a value has arisen in UK health policy. This paper reports on an 
attempt to 'model' a willingness-to-pay-based value of a QALY from the existing 
value of preventing a statistical fatality (VPF) currently used in UK public 
sector decision making. Two methods of deriving the value of a QALY from the 
existing UK VPF are outlined: one conventional and one new. The advantages and 
disadvantages of each of the approaches are discussed as well as the 
implications of the results for policy and health economic evaluation 
methodology.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1416
PMID: 18855880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Conn Health Bull. 1948 Jul;62(7):175-9.

A brief discussion of Connecticut life tables.

HAENSZEL WM.

PMID: 18874633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Urol. 1948 Aug;60(2):264-71. doi: 10.1016/S0022-5347(17)69231-0.

Life expectancy in carcinoma of prostate; a 5 year survey of 88 cases.

BEATTY RP.

DOI: 10.1016/S0022-5347(17)69231-0
PMID: 18874892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. J Lab Clin Med. 1948 Sep;33(9):1123-32.

The effect of choline, methionine, and low fat diet on the life expectancy of 
patients with cirrhosis of the liver.

WADE L, NEUDORFF L, et al.

PMID: 18880911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Pa Med J. 1948 Jan;51(4):419-22.

Life expectancy in cancer of the prostate.

BEATTY RP.

PMID: 18899348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Proc Inst Med Chic. 1948 Feb 15;17(2):41.

Life expectancy after radical removal of cancer of the large bowel based on 
pathological considerations.

DAVID VC.

PMID: 18899415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. J Am Med Assoc. 1948 Feb 7;136(6):417.

LIFE expectancy at high altitudes.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 18902761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Biometrics. 1947 Sep;3(3):129-36.

Time-specific life table contrasted with observed survivorship.

MERRELL M.

PMID: 18903633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. South Med Surg. 1948 Apr;110(4):103-5.

Contributions of urology to life expectancy.

McDONALD HP.

PMID: 18914971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Q Rev Biol. 1947 Dec;22(4):283-314. doi: 10.1086/395888.

Life tables for natural populations of animals.

DEEVEY ES Jr.

DOI: 10.1086/395888
PMID: 18921802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Rejuvenation Res. 2008 Oct;11(5):965-9. doi: 10.1089/rej.2008.0749.

The normative dimensions of extending the human lifespan by age-related 
biomedical innovations.

Ehni HJ(1), Marckmann G.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ethics and History of Medicine, University of Tuebingen, 
Tuebingen, Germany. hans-joerg.ehni@uni-tuebingen.de

The current normative debate on age-related biomedical innovations and the 
extension of the human lifespan has important shortcomings. Mainly, the 
complexity of the different normative dimensions relevant for ethical and/or 
juridicial norms is not fully developed and the normative quality of 
teleological and deontological arguments is not properly distinguished. This 
article addresses some of these shortcomings and develops the outline of a more 
comprehensive normative framework covering all relevant dimensions. Such a frame 
necessarily has to include conceptions of a good life on the individual and 
societal levels. Furthermore, as a third dimension, a model for the access to 
and the just distribution of age-related biomedical innovations and technologies 
extending the human lifespan will be developed. It is argued that such a model 
has to include the different levels of the general philosophical theories of 
distributive justice, including social rights and theories of just health care. 
Furthermore, it has to show how these theories can be applied to the problem 
area of aging and extending the human lifespan.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2008.0749
PMID: 18922049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Radiol Clin North Am. 2008 Jul;46(4):735-54, vi. doi:
10.1016/j.rcl.2008.04.010.

Imaging of metabolic bone diseases.

Guglielmi G(1), Muscarella S, Leone A, Peh WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Foggia, Viale L. Pinto 1, 71100 
Foggia, Italy. g.guglielmi@unifg.it

Osteoporosis is a serious public health problem. The incidence of osteoporotic 
fractures increases with age. As life expectancy increases, social costs 
associated with osteoporotic fractures will multiply exponentially. The early 
diagnosis of osteoporosis, thanks to evermore precise devices, becomes, 
therefore, fundamental to prevent complications of disease and unnecessary 
suffering.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rcl.2008.04.010
PMID: 18922290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Vet Parasitol. 2008 Dec 10;158(3):177-82. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2008.09.005.
 Epub 2008 Sep 7.

Feline heartworm (Dirofilaria immitis) infection: a statistical elaboration of 
the duration of the infection and life expectancy in asymptomatic cats.

Genchi C(1), Venco L, Ferrari N, Mortarino M, Genchi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Pathology (DIPAV), Universit√† degli Studi di Milano, via 
Celoria 10, Milano, Italy. claudio.genchi@unimi.it

A study was conducted to assess the duration and the outcome (self-cure or 
death) of feline heartworm infection and the life expectancy of infected cats. 
To be included in the study, cats had to be positive for heartworm antibody (Ab) 
and heartworm antigen (Ag) and had to demonstrate the presence of worms by 
echocardiography. Self-cure was defined as (1) negative for heartworm Ag and (2) 
no further visualization of worms by echocardiography. Of the 1962 eligible 
cats, 364 (18.5%) were positive for heartworm Ag and 131 were positive for 
heartworm Ag and for echocardiography diagnosis (prevalence 6.7%). None of the 
cats was microfilaremic. Of 43 asymptomatic cats included into the follow-up 
study with owners' consent, 34 (79%) self-cured and nine (21%) died. Eleven 
(26%) cats remained asymptomatic and self cured within 21-48 months, 23 (53%) 
showed symptoms but self-cured within 18-49 months, 6 (14%) died within 8-41 
months of follow-up and 3 (7%) suddenly died after 38-40 months, which was 
related to heartworm infection. The probability for death or sudden death 
increased significantly with age at diagnosis, but no difference was detected by 
gender, survival time after diagnosis, or the presence or absence of symptoms. 
The presence/absence of symptoms showed significant interaction with the age at 
diagnosis (i.e., symptomatic cats showed increasing duration of heartworm 
infection along with age at diagnosis compared to that for asymptomatic cats. 
Heartworm-infected cats survived significantly longer than heartworm-negative 
cats affected by hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, chronic renal failure, or 
neoplastic diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2008.09.005
PMID: 18922638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Int J Infect Dis. 2009 Mar;13(2):121-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2008.07.003.
Epub  2008 Oct 15.

Life histories of pathogen populations.

Perlman RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, The University of Chicago, 5841 S. Maryland Ave., 
MC 5058, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. addresses: r-perlman@uchicago.edu

The populations of pathogens in individual hosts have many of the 
characteristics of multicellular organisms, or individuals. These populations go 
through a life cycle within a host and they reproduce by founding daughter 
populations in new hosts. Natural selection shapes the life history 
characteristics of pathogen populations--life expectancy, trade-offs in the 
allocation of resources between growth, survival, and fecundity, and aging--in 
ways that maximize the reproductive fitness of the pathogens. In turn, these 
life history characteristics shape the natural histories of infectious diseases. 
Transmissibility and virulence may be thought of as properties of pathogen 
populations rather than as properties of the constituent microorganisms within 
these populations. The poor correlation of virulence with pathogen fitness is a 
major obstacle to the development of a theory of virulence. Consideration of the 
life histories of pathogen populations complements the traditional 
epidemiological focus on host populations and provides a valuable perspective 
for understanding human infectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2008.07.003
PMID: 18922717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Diabetes Metab. 2008 Dec;34(6 Pt 1):568-73. doi:
10.1016/j.diabet.2008.05.010.  Epub 2008 Oct 14.

No relationship between mean plasma glucose and glycated haemoglobin in patients 
with cystic fibrosis-related diabetes.

Godbout A(1), Hammana I, Potvin S, Mainville D, Rakel A, Berthiaume Y, Chiasson 
JL, Coderre L, Rabasa-Lhoret R.

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Division, Department of Medicine, centre hospitalier de 
l'universit√© de Montr√©al, Montr√©al, Qu√©bec, Canada.

AIM: Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) prevalence has increased 
dramatically with the improved life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF). Glycated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) is an important tool for monitoring blood 
glucose control but, unlike in type 1 and type 2 diabetes, a correlation between 
HbA(1c), fructosamine and mean plasma glucose has not been clearly established 
in CF. This study aimed to examine the relationship between mean plasma glucose 
and HbA(1c) or fructosamine in stable patients with CFRD.
METHODS: Fifteen type 1 diabetes and 13 CFRD patients (HbA(1c)<9.0%; no 
anaemia), matched for age and body mass index (BMI), provided 72 capillary blood 
glucose profiles taken 3days/month for three months. At the end of this time, 
HbA(1c) and fructosamine were measured. Mean plasma glucose was estimated using 
the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial (DCCT) conversion formula, and 
linear regressions carried out to establish its relationship with HbA(1c) and 
fructosamine.
RESULTS: In type 1 diabetes patients, mean plasma glucose correlated 
significantly with HbA(1c) (r=0.68; P=0.005). In CFRD patients, no correlation 
was found between mean plasma glucose and HbA(1c) (r=0.24; P=0.460). Also, no 
association was found between mean plasma glucose, representing the month before 
blood sampling, and fructosamine in either group.
CONCLUSION: Unlike in type 1 diabetes, HbA(1c) did not correlate with mean 
plasma glucose in CFRD subjects. Thus, having a normal HbA(1c) may not be 
sufficient to indicate a low risk of diabetes complications in CFRD. Further 
studies are required to explain such a discrepancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabet.2008.05.010
PMID: 18922724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Am J Public Health. 2008 Dec;98(12):2173-80. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2007.127134.
Epub  2008 Oct 15.

Measuring the value of public health systems: the disconnect between health 
economists and public health practitioners.

Neumann PJ(1), Jacobson PD, Palmer JA.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA 02111, USA. 
pneumann@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 2009 May;99(5):775-6; author reply 776.

We investigated ways of defining and measuring the value of services provided by 
governmental public health systems. Our data sources included literature 
syntheses and qualitative interviews of public health professionals. Our 
examination of the health economic literature revealed growing attempts to 
measure value of public health services explicitly, but few studies have 
addressed systems or infrastructure. Interview responses demonstrated no 
consensus on metrics and no connection to the academic literature. Key 
challenges for practitioners include developing rigorous, data-driven methods 
and skilled staff; being politically willing to base allocation decisions on 
economic evaluation; and developing metrics to capture "intangibles" (e.g., 
social justice and reassurance value). Academic researchers evaluating the 
