ischaemic heart disease; (4) HIV/AIDS; and (5) the remaining causes of death. 
Age-standardised death rates (ASDRs) were constructed for each race and sex 
group using vital statistics and census data from 1980-2005. Absolute rate 
differences and the proportionate contribution of each cause of death group to 
all-cause black-white mortality disparities are calculated based on the ASDRs. 
Negative binomial regression was used to model relative risks of death.
RESULTS: In 2005, medical care amenable mortality was the largest source of 
absolute black-white mortality disparity, contributing 30% of the black-white 
difference in all-cause mortality among men and 42% among women; mortality 
subject to policy/behaviour interventions contributed 20% of the black-white 
difference for men and 4% for women. Although absolute black-white differences 
for most conditions diminished over time, relative disparities as measured by 
rate ratios showed little change, except for HIV/AIDS for which relative risks 
increased substantially for black men and women.
CONCLUSIONS: There is considerable potential for narrowing of the black-white 
difference in AM, especially from causes amenable to medical care and (for men) 
policy/behaviour interventions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2008.081141
PMID: 19364760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Apr;127(4):423-9. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.40.

Translating uveal melanoma cytogenetics into clinical care.

Damato B(1), Coupland SE.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Ocular Oncology Centre, St. Paul's Eye Clinic, Royal Liverpool 
University Hospital, Liverpool, England. bertil@damato.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: To report our experience in translating uveal melanoma cytogenetics 
to routine clinical practice.
METHODS: In 1998, we confirmed that monosomy 3 in uveal melanomas correlates 
with mortality. In 1999, we started offering all patients treated by enucleation 
or local resection the possibility of monosomy 3 testing, using fluorescence in 
situ hybridization. In 2006, we started analyzing tumors with multiplex 
ligation-dependent probe amplification, which provided more information from 
smaller samples. In 2007, we extended this service to patients undergoing 
radiotherapy or phototherapy.
RESULTS: Initial expectations regarding the sensitivity and specificity of 
monosomy 3 tests in predicting metastatic death were found to be overoptimistic. 
Cytogenetic classification of uveal melanomas into "lethal" and "nonlethal" 
types was insufficient for estimating risk of metastasis. Prognostication also 
required consideration of (1) clinical tumor stage; (2) histologic grading of 
malignancy; and (3) influence of age and sex on life expectancy. We developed a 
neural network for such multivariate analysis. Metastatic deaths occurred 
without monosomy 3, possibly because small deletions were missed or because of 
tumor heterogeneity.
CONCLUSION: Genomic typing of uveal melanomas proved more complex than we had 
anticipated but enabled us to reassure patients with a good prognosis while 
targeting systemic screening at high-risk cases.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.40
PMID: 19365018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Neurology. 2009 Apr 14;72(15):1337-44. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181a0fd80.

Health-related quality-of-life improvements in CIDP with immune globulin IV 10%: 
the ICE Study.

Merkies IS(1), Bril V, Dalakas MC, Deng C, Donofrio P, Hanna K, Hartung HP, 
Hughes RA, Latov N, van Doorn PA; ICE Study Group.

Collaborators: Barroso F, Nogués M, Rivero A, Marchesoni C, Pardal AM, Reisin R, 
Dubrovsky A, Villa A, Chapman K, Gibson G, Adamova B, Bednarik J, Vohanka S, 
Ehler E, Haas J, Munch C, Artamonov I, Drory V, Groozman G, Buchman A, Chapman 
J, Uncini A, Benedetti L, Ghiglione E, Mancardi G, Narciso E, Schenone A, Comi 
G, Dacci P, Del Carro U, Fazio R, Malaguti MC, Riva N, Ruiz-Sandoval JL, Fryze 
W, Szczudlik A, Banach M, Selmaj K, Bogucki A, Zielinska M, Stelmasiak Z, 
Bartosik-Psujek H, Belniak E, Chyrchel U, Kaminski M, Kostera-Pruszczyk A, 
Kwiecinski H, Apostolski S, Basta I, Divac V, Trikic R, Oh S, Caress J, Cho S, 
Patwa H, Tsao B, Thomas F, Trivedi J, Wolfe G.

Author information:
(1)Spaarne Hospital Hoofddorp, Spaarnepoort 1, 2134 TM Hoofddorp, The 
Netherlands. imerkies@spaarneziekenhuis.nl

BACKGROUND: Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy trials 
have demonstrated the efficacy of IV immunoglobulin vs placebo. However, these 
trails have not addressed the long-term impact on health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL).
METHODS: One hundred seventeen patients in a randomized, double-blind, 
response-conditional crossover trial received immune globulin IV, 10% 
caprylate/chromatography purified (IGIV-C [Gamunex(R)]), or placebo every 3 
weeks for up to 24 weeks in the first period (FP). Participants whose 
inflammatory neuropathy cause and treatment disability score did not improve by 
>/=1 point received alternate treatment in a 24-week crossover period (CP). In 
either period, participants who improved and completed treatment were eligible 
to be randomly reassigned to a blinded 24-week extension phase (EP). HRQoL 
analyses were conducted using the Short Form-36(R) (SF-36) and the Rotterdam 
Handicap Scale (RHS).
RESULTS: In the FP, greater improvements in both SF-36 physical and mental 
component scores were observed with IGIV-C vs placebo, with a significant 
improvement in the physical component score (difference 4.4 points; 95% 
confidence interval [CI] 0.7-8.0). Improvements in all SF-36 domains favored 
IGIV-C vs placebo, with physical functioning, role-physical, social functioning, 
and mental health reaching significance. Participants receiving IGIV-C 
experienced a larger improvement in RHS vs those receiving placebo (difference 
3.4 points; 95% CI 1.4-5.5; p = 0.001). In the CP, similar general trends were 
observed. In the EP, mean SF-36 improvements were generally improved or 
maintained in participants who continued IGIV-C therapy; however, worsening was 
observed in participants re-randomized to placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term therapy with immune globulin IV, 10% 
caprylate/chromatography purified, improves and maintains health-related quality 
of life in chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181a0fd80
PMID: 19365055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Mar 18;5(195):630-4.

[Treatment specificity of age-related sexual dysfunction].

[Article in French]

Rollini C(1), Meyer P.

Author information:
(1)Consultation de gynécologie psychosomatique et sexologie, Service de 
psychiatrie de liaison et d'intervention de crise, HUG, 1205 Genève. 
christian.rollini@hcuge.ch

Despite an increase in life expectancy and ever growing demands for treatment 
aimed at age-related sexual dysfunction, it remains underdiagnosed among the 
elderly because of lack of information. Proper evaluation is critical because 
treatment is available and such a dysfunction often acts as a signal for an 
underlying pathology. This paper intends to clarify treatment specificity. 
Hormonal deficiencies, such as Symptomatic Late-Onset Hypogonadism (SLOH) should 
be treated using an interdisciplinary approach. For women, hormonal deficiency 
is not the unique cause of sexual dysfunction. Psychosocial factors also play an 
important role. Sexual dysfunction should be considered as an indicator of 
general health. Screening for hormonal deficiency should be systematic.

PMID: 19365913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Curr Med Res Opin. 2009 May;25(5):1273-84. doi: 10.1185/03007990902869169.

Cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir compared to NPH insulin for type 1 and 
type 2 diabetes mellitus in the Canadian payer setting: modeling analysis.

Tunis SL(1), Minshall ME, Conner C, McCormick JI, Kapor J, Yale JF, Groleau D.

Author information:
(1)IMS Consulting Services, Falls Church, VA 22046, USA. stunis@us.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to quantify the long-term cost-effectiveness 
of insulin detemir (Levemir) versus intermediate-acting neutral protamine 
Hagedorn (NPH) insulin for the treatment of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in Canada, and to assess the sensitivity of 
results to dis-utilities for hypoglycemic events. dagger Levemir is a trade name 
of Novo Nordisk, Princeton, NJ, USA RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The web-based 
IMS-CORE diabetes model has a menu-driven interface programmed in hypertext 
markup language (HTML). It was used to project lifetime (60 years for T1DM and 
35 years for T2DM) clinical and economic outcomes for patients on detemir vs. 
NPH. Cohort characteristics, utilities, and costs were derived from published 
literature. For T1DM, clinical trial data for HbA(1c) improvement (detemir 
-0.94% +/- 1.07; NPH -0.82% +/- 1.01) from baseline, and rates of hypoglycemic 
events (major events: 0.20 vs. 0.80 per patient-year for detemir vs. NPH, 
respectively) were modeled. For T2DM, observational study data for HbA(1c) 
improvement (detemir -0.18%) from baseline, and reductions in hypoglycemic 
events (major events: 0.0995 vs. 1.33 per patient-year for detemir vs. NPH, 
respectively) were modeled. Base-case hypoglycemia dis-utilities were -0.0118 
for major and -0.0035 for minor events. Sensitivity analyses were conducted on 
discount rate and hypoglycemia dis-utility.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes included costs of treatment/management and costs (and 
incidence) of diabetes-related complications. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were calculated from differences in total costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Average total costs for T1DM were $CAN 83 622 +/- 4585 for detemir and 
$CAN 72 016 +/- 4593 for NPH. QALYs increased by 0.475 years with detemir, with 
an ICER of $CAN 24 389/QALY. Average direct costs for T2DM were $CAN 74 919 +/- 
6391 (detemir) and $CAN 69 230 +/- 6840 (NPH). QALYs increased by 0.305 years. 
The ICER was $CAN 18 677. Although detemir was associated with slightly lower 
costs for most complications, results were driven by the differences in rates 
and costs for hypoglycemic events, and their assumed dis-utility. Study 
limitations include the use of single trials for clinical assumptions and the 
lack of analyses for patient risk sub-groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Findings provide evidence for the cost-effectiveness of detemir vs. 
NPH in treating T1 and T2DM in Canada, and support the key role of assumptions 
regarding the impact of hypoglycemic events. Additional work is needed to 
determine the extent to which results are robust for different sub-groups of 
patients and for variation in assumptions around HbA(1c) improvements and 
hypoglycemic event rates.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990902869169
PMID: 19366302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):161-70. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309090217.

Cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination in Belgium: do not forget 
about cervical cancer screening.

Thiry N(1), De Laet C, Hulstaert F, Neyt M, Huybrechts M, Cleemput I.

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE), Administratief Centrum Kruidtuin, 
Doorbuilding, 10th Floor, Kruidtuinlaan 55, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. 
nancy.thiry@kce.fgov.be

OBJECTIVES: The cost-effectiveness of adding a human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccination program in 12-year-old females to the recommended cervical cancer 
screening in Belgium is examined. Moreover, the health and economic consequences 
of a potential decline in screening uptake after initiation of a HPV vaccination 
program are investigated.
METHODS: A static Markov model is developed to estimate the direct effect of 
vaccination on precancerous lesions and cervical cancers.
RESULTS: Vaccination is estimated to avoid 20 percent of the cervical cancers 
occurring in a 12-year-old girls' cohort and to cost 32,665 euro per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained (95 percent credibility interval [CrI]: 
17,447 euro to 68,078 euro), assuming a booster injection after 10 years, a 
limited duration of protection and discounting costs and effects at 3 percent 
and 1.5 percent, respectively. Assuming lifelong protection, HPV vaccination is 
estimated to cost 14,382 euro (95 percent CrI: 9,238 euro to 25,644 euro) per 
QALY gained, while avoiding 50 percent of the cervical cancer cases. In the 
base-case, a 10 percent reduction in screening compliance after vaccination 
obliterates the effect of vaccination on cervical cancer cases avoided, whereas 
further declines in the level of screening compliance even turned out to be 
detrimental for the cohort's health, inducing a mean loss in QALYs and life-year 
gained compared with the situation prevaccination.
CONCLUSIONS: An HPV vaccination program should only be considered if the level 
of screening after vaccination can be maintained.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309090217
PMID: 19366497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):190-5. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309090242.

Economic evaluation of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug strategies in 
rheumatoid arthritis.

Inotai A(1), Mészáros A.

Author information:
(1)University Pharmacy Department of Pharmacy Administration, Semmelweis 
University, Hogyes Endre. 7-9, Budapest, 1092, Hungary. 
inotai.andras@freemail.hu

OBJECTIVES: Although disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) are the 
first choice drugs in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, many patients still 
take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) as well. These drugs may 
cause serious gastric adverse events with continuous usage. Cyclooxygenase-2 
(COX2) inhibitors were supposed to have a gastrointestinal (GI) friendly side 
effect profile. The aim of the study is to compare three therapeutic strategies: 
conventional NSAIDs, NSAID in combination with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), 
and the selective COX2 inhibitor therapy (celecoxib).
METHODS: A decision tree model was developed, for 1 year, to simulate cohorts 
within the three arms (NSAIDs, NSAID + PPI, celecoxib). The efficacy of the 
different active agents of NSAIDs in therapeutically relevant doses was assumed 
to be the same, consequently differences can be seen in the side effect profile 
of the drugs. Medical costs, the costs of the side effects (GI, cardiovascular 
[CV] events), and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated to gain an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Evaluations were made from a third 
party payer's perspective. We performed one-way deterministic sensitivity 
analyses; the results were displayed in tornado diagrams.
RESULTS: Our model indicates that NSAID + PPI offers extra health gain for extra 
costs compared with conventional NSAIDs (ICER:14,287 euro/QALY), while it 
dominates celecoxib because of celecoxib's higher costs and lower effectiveness. 
According to the sensitivity analyses, QALYs had the highest influence on ICER.
CONCLUSIONS: Although COX2 inhibitors have elevated GI efficacy compared with 
NSAIDs, celecoxib seems to be an adequate choice only for a limited group of 
patients with specific conditions because of the significantly higher price and 
CV risk profile.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309090242
PMID: 19366498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Mol Ther. 2009 Jul;17(7):1155-63. doi: 10.1038/mt.2009.65. Epub 2009 Apr 14.

Short-term correction of arginase deficiency in a neonatal murine model with a 
helper-dependent adenoviral vector.

Gau CL(1), Rosenblatt RA, Cerullo V, Lay FD, Dow AC, Livesay J, Brunetti-Pierri 
N, Lee B, Cederbaum SD, Grody WW, Lipshutz GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los 
Angeles, California, USA.

Neonatal gene therapy has the potential to ameliorate abnormalities before 
disease onset. Our gene knockout of arginase I (AI) deficiency is characterized 
by increasing hyperammonemia, neurological deterioration, and early death. We 
constructed a helper-dependent adenoviral vector (HDV) carrying AI and examined 
for correction of this defect. Neonates were administered 5 x 10(9) viral 
particles/g and analyzed for survival, arginase activity, and ammonia and amino 
acids levels. The life expectancy of arg(-/-) mice increased to 27 days while 
controls died at 14 days with hyperammonemia and in extremis. Death correlated 
with a decrease in viral DNA/RNA per cell as liver mass increased. Arginase 
assays demonstrated that vector-injected hepatocytes had ~20% activity of 
heterozygotes at 2 weeks of age. Hepatic arginine and ornithine in treated mice 
were similar to those of saline-injected heterozygotes at 2 weeks, whereas 
ammonia was normal. By 26 days, arginase activity in the treated arg(-/-) livers 
declined to <10%, and arginine and ornithine increased. Ammonia levels began 
increasing by day 25, suggesting the cause of death to be similar to that of 
uninjected arg(-/-) mice, albeit at a later time. These studies demonstrate that 
the AI deficient newborn mouse can be temporarily corrected and rescued using a 
HDV.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2009.65
PMCID: PMC2835205
PMID: 19367256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Eur J Hum Genet. 2009 Nov;17(11):1515-9. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2009.54. Epub
2009  Apr 15.

Human longevity and 11p15.5: a study in 1321 centenarians.

Lescai F(1), Blanché H, Nebel A, Beekman M, Sahbatou M, Flachsbart F, Slagboom 
E, Schreiber S, Sorbi S, Passarino G, Franceschi C.

Author information:
(1)Centro Interdipartimentale 'L.Galvani' per Studi Integrati di Bioinformatica, 
Biofisica e Biocomplessità - Alma Mater Studiorum Università di Bologna, Italy. 
francesco.lescai@unibo.it

The 11p15.5 chromosomal region (2.8 Mb) is of particular interest as it encloses 
five genes (HRAS1, SIRT3, TH, INS and IGF2), the variability of which was found 
to be associated with life extension by association studies. Mostly important, 
the above genes are homologous of genes that modulate lifespan in model 
organisms. We scanned the area in four European sample groups for a total of 
1321 centenarians and 1140 younger subjects, who shared with centenarians 
ethnicity and geographical origin, with a set of 239 SNPs. No significant 
results (P<0.05) have been found on the earlier associated loci (ie, TH, IGF2, 
INS and HRAS1), and this study could not confirm the earlier findings on each of 
those genes. A meta-analysis was carried out on the SIRT3 SNP data; a total 
number of 2461 samples were included, but no positive association was found 
except for one SNP having a significant effect (rs939915). The same 
meta-analysis approach has been applied to the other 229 markers, and six SNPs 
have been found significant for the frequent genotype (rs4073591, 
DEAF1-rs4073590, KRTAP5-6-rs11040489, rs4930001, TSPAN32-rs800140 and 
rs16928120). This experience, although unable to confirm the earlier findings of 
the literature, highlights all the common difficulties of such studies in human 
longevity. Despite the rather negative findings presented here, the results 
derived from unprecedented studies involving such a large number of centenarians 
should be disseminated, thus contributing to set up adequate strategies to 
disentangle complex and likely heterogeneous phenotypes.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2009.54
PMCID: PMC2986679
PMID: 19367319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Health Econ. 2009 May;28(3):570-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.02.008.
Epub  2009 Mar 14.

Eliciting people's preferences for the distribution of health: A procedure for a 
more precise estimation of distributional weights.

Maestad O(1), Norheim OF.

Author information:
(1)Chr. Michelsen Institute, Bergen, Norway. ottar.mestad@cmi.no

In order to incorporate distributional concerns into cost-effectiveness 
analysis, it would be useful to elicit distributional weights that express 
people's valuation of marginal health gains at various levels of health. 
Distributional preferences are commonly elicited either through a person trade 
off (PTO) or a gain trade off (GTO) technique. An inherent problem of the GTO is 
that it is based on the valuation of non-marginal health gains. In practice, 
many contributions using the PTO also focus on non-marginal health gains. This 
paper demonstrates that the failure to distinguish appropriately between 
marginal and non-marginal health gains may lead to seriously misleading 
estimates of distributional weights. Moreover, the paper proposes a methodology 
for utilising information obtained through non-marginal analysis more 
efficiently in order to obtain more reliable estimates of distributional 
weights. The methodology was successfully applied in an empirical study of age 
weights.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.02.008
PMID: 19368983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Minerva Stomatol. 2009 Apr;58(4):157-80.

Surgical therapy of oral cancer.

[Article in English, Italian]

Biglioli F(1).

Author information:
(1)Maxillofacial Surgery Unit, S. Paolo University Hospital, Milan, Italy. 
federico.biglioli@unimi.it

Treatment of squamous cell carcinoma, 90% of oral cancers, is unimodal (surgery 
vs. radiotherapy) for small tumors, multimodal (surgery and radiotherapy or 
chemoradiotherapy) for big ones. If a patient undergoes surgical treatment for 
an oral cancer, this implies two equally important phases: the resection of the 
tumor and reconstruction of the operated region. The sole eradication of the 
tumor, though extremely important, cannot be considered the single goal of the 
treatment. Indeed, negative functional and esthetic outcomes of surgery, 
affecting negatively the quality of life of the patient must be avoided as much 
as possible. In order to achieve this result, it is fundamental to utilize 
surgical accesses that allow the safe and complete removal of the lesion, 
minimizing at the same time esthetic and functional impact. It is also necessary 
to reconstruct the amputated region to the best of actual possibilities. Modern 
surgery aims to restitutio ad integrum of operated regions. That is particularly 
important in tumor surgery of the maxillo-facial area, where mutilations may 
worsen patients' quality of life. All these concepts apply, excluding only rare 
exceptions, also in advanced cases, cases with poor prognosis, patients with 
suboptimal general conditions, older people independently to the residual life 
expectancy. On the contrary, if prognosis is unfavorable and life expectancy 
brief, residual time should be as livable as possible. Reconstructive 
microsurgery, widely spread during the last 20 years, led to the full 
implementation of this concept and to the accomplishment of surgical operations 
once not even conceivable.

PMID: 19369922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. PLoS One. 2009;4(4):e5242. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005242. Epub 2009 Apr
16.

Short-term calorie restriction in male mice feminizes gene expression and alters 
key regulators of conserved aging regulatory pathways.

Estep PW 3rd(1), Warner JB, Bulyk ML.

Author information:
(1)Longenity Inc, Lincoln, MA, USA. pestep@post.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Calorie restriction (CR) is the only intervention known to extend 
lifespan in a wide range of organisms, including mammals. However, the 
mechanisms by which it regulates mammalian aging remain largely unknown, and the 
involvement of the TOR and sirtuin pathways (which regulate aging in simpler 
organisms) remain controversial. Additionally, females of most mammals appear to 
live longer than males within species; and, although it remains unclear whether 
this holds true for mice, the relationship between sex-biased and CR-induced 
gene expression remains largely unexplored.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We generated microarray gene expression data 
from livers of male mice fed high calorie or CR diets, and we find that CR 
significantly changes the expression of over 3,000 genes, many between 10- and 
50-fold. We compare our data to the GenAge database of known aging-related genes 
and to prior microarray expression data of genes expressed differently between 
male and female mice. CR generally feminizes gene expression and many of the 
most significantly changed individual genes are involved in aging, hormone 
signaling, and p53-associated regulation of the cell cycle and apoptosis. Among 
the genes showing the largest and most statistically significant CR-induced 
expression differences are Ddit4, a key regulator of the TOR pathway, and Nnmt, 
a regulator of lifespan linked to the sirtuin pathway. Using western analysis we 
confirmed post-translational inhibition of the TOR pathway.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that CR induces widespread gene expression changes 
and acts through highly evolutionarily conserved pathways, from microorganisms 
to mammals, and that its life-extension effects might arise partly from a shift 
toward a gene expression profile more typical of females.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005242
PMCID: PMC2667255
PMID: 19370158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The corresponding author, 
Dr. Preston Estep, is the former CEO and Chief Scientific Officer of Longenity 
Inc., and we declare Dr. Estep's affiliation as a potential competing interest.


520. Cancer Causes Control. 2009 Sep;20(7):1029-37. doi:
10.1007/s10552-009-9337-8.  Epub 2009 Apr 17.

Bisphenol A may reduce the efficacy of androgen deprivation therapy in prostate 
cancer.

Hess-Wilson JK.

Individuals diagnosed with specific diseases may represent subpopulations with 
heightened sensitivity to environmental compounds. This may be due to their 
disease-mediated molecular milieu and/or the interference of environmental 
compounds with pharmaceutical drug targets. Prostate cancer represents a 
significant clinical challenge in the United States. If the disease becomes 
advanced, standard therapies are ineffective, leading to high rate of patient 
morbidity and mortality. Understanding the complex reasons for therapeutic 
resistance is critical for improving the life expectancy for patients with this 
cancer. Recently, it has been identified that common somatically derived genetic 
mutations that arise following the selective pressure of standard prostate 
cancer treatments may facilitate sensitivity to environmental contaminants. 
These somatic mutations within the androgen receptor allow the estrogen mimic, 
bisphenol A (BPA), to bind and activate the receptor, resulting in increased 
proliferation and tumor growth in the presence of the traditional therapy 
regimen for prostate cancer. In an in vivo xenograft model of prostate cancer, 
low level exposure of BPA was sufficient to reduce the efficacy of treatment. 
Herein, the possible effect of BPA on prostate cancer treatment and disease 
management for humans is explored as an example of environmental endocrine 
disruptor exposure reducing the efficacy of disease management. These data lend 
support to the hypothesis that environmental exposure to select compounds may 
interfere with specific therapeutic regimens.

DOI: 10.1007/s10552-009-9337-8
PMID: 19370395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Biogerontology. 2010 Feb;11(1):31-43. doi: 10.1007/s10522-009-9225-3. Epub
2009  Apr 16.

Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide extends the lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans 
mediated by sir-2.1 and daf-16.

Hashimoto T(1), Horikawa M, Nomura T, Sakamoto K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
1-1-1 Tennoudai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.

It is well understood that sir2 (sirtuin), an NAD-dependent deacetylase, is 
essential for the extension of lifespan under caloric restriction. However, the 
mechanism underlying activation of sir2 is unclear. Life extension through 
caloric restriction requires the sir2 ortholog sir-2.1 in nematodes but occurs 
independently of the forkhead-type transcription factor DAF-16. We aimed here to 
elucidate the correlation between life extension in nematodes and NAD-dependent 
activation of sirtuin by analyzing the relationship between NAD and DAF-16. 
Lifespan was extended when Caenorhabditis elegans were bred using medium 
containing NAD. An RNA interference experiment revealed that life extension by 
NAD was sir-2.1 dependent. However, life extension by NAD did not occur in 
daf-16-RNAi nematodes, suggesting that NAD-dependent longevity requires daf-16. 
This result suggested that different signaling pathways are involved in life 
extension resulting from caloric restriction and from NAD addition. Expression 
of sod-3, a target gene of daf-16, and increased oxidative-stress resistance and 
adiposity were observed in response to NAD addition, indicating that NAD 
activated daf-16 in each phenotype. These results suggest that NAD affected 
lifespan through the activation of SIR-2.1 and DAF-16 along a signaling pathway, 
namely insulin-like signalling pathway (at least parts of it), different from 
that associated with caloric restriction.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-009-9225-3
PMID: 19370397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Strahlenther Onkol. 2009 Apr;185(4):235-40. doi: 10.1007/s00066-009-1753-x.
Epub  2009 Apr 16.

Hypofractionated stereotactic reirradiation of recurrent glioblastomas : a 
beneficial treatment option after high-dose radiotherapy?

Fokas E(1), Wacker U, Gross MW, Henzel M, Encheva E, Engenhart-Cabillic R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Giessen and Marburg, 
Germany. fokas@med.uni-marburg.de

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Recurrent malignant gliomas have a very poor prognosis. 
This trial aimed to evaluate the benefits of reirradiation in case of recurrent 
glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) using hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy 
(hFSRT) after primary high-dose percutaneous irradiation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1998 and 2008, 53 patients with recurrent GBM were 
treated by hFSRT based on CT and MR imaging. At the time of recurrence, a median 
total dose of 30 Gy (20-60 Gy) was delivered in median fractions of 3 Gy/day 
(2-5Gy).
RESULTS: The reirradiation was well tolerated (no acute or late toxicity > grade 
2), despite the relatively large median tumor volume (35.01 ml). Karnofsky 
Performance Score was the strongest predictor for survival after reirradiation 
(p = 0.0159). Tumor volume (p = 0.4690), patient age (p = 0.4301), second 
operation (p = 0.6930), and chemotherapy (p = 0.1466) at the time of 
reirradiation did not affect survival. After hFSRT, the median survival was 9 
months, and the 1-year progression-free survival (PFS) amounted to 22%.The 
median overall survival from initial diagnosis was 27 months. 1-year survival 
from first diagnosis was 83%, 2-year survival 45%. The median time to 
progression from the end of initial irradiation to recurrence was 12 months. 
1-year PFS before reirradiation was 40%.
CONCLUSION: hFSRT as a secondary treatment of recurrent GBM is a feasible and 
effective treatment option. Only minor side effects were observed with prolonged 
life expectancy of 9 months.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-009-1753-x
PMID: 19370426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. World J Gastroenterol. 2009 Apr 21;15(15):1910-3. doi: 10.3748/wjg.15.1910.

Imatinib mesylate neoadjuvant treatment for rectal malignant gastrointestinal 
stromal tumor.

Hou YY(1), Zhou Y, Lu SH, Qi WD, Xu C, Hou J, Tan YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.

Surgical treatments including radical resection and local excision remain the 
main treatment for primary rectal gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs). 
However, since patients with high-grade rectal GISTs have a higher risk of tumor 
recurrence and a shorter life expectancy, neoadjuvant treatment is necessary. In 
this case report, the efficacy of imatinib mesylate (IM) as a neoadjuvant 
therapy was assessed in an old man with malignant rectal GIST. The patient 
received IM preoperative treatment for a short period of one and a half months; 
at the end of the IM treatment, computed tomography scanning showed a markedly 
reduced tumor size and cystic changes of the tissue. At that time, a function 
sphincter-sparing surgery was performed. The histological examination of the 
resected specimen detected no tumor cells, but residual blood vessels and 
scattered inflammatory lymphocytes. After surgery, the patient has been followed 
up without additional IM treatment and remained disease-free for 57 mo. This 
case indicates that IM neoadjuvant therapy can dramatically improve the 
prognosis of rectal malignant GIST.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.15.1910
PMCID: PMC2670424
PMID: 19370794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2009 Feb;9(1):29-32. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.9.1.29.

Mycophenolate mofetil dosage modifications following gastrointestinal 
complications in renal transplant patients.

Salifu MO(1), Jindal RM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, SUNY-Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY, USA.

Evaluation of: Machnicki G, Ricci JF, Brennan DC, Schnitzler MA. Economic impact 
and long-term graft outcomes of mycophenolate mofetil dosage modifications 
following gastrointestinal complications in renal transplant recipients. 
Pharmacoeconomics 26(11), 951-967 (2008). This commentary discusses findings 
from an observational study designed to determine the 3-year clinical and 
economic impact of dose reduction or discontinuation of mycophenolate mofetil 
after the first gastrointestinal complication in patients after kidney 
transplantation. The authors used data from the US Renal Data System to 
demonstrate that dosage reduction or discontinuation of mycophenolate mofetil in 
the first 6 months after diagnosis of gastrointestinal complications is 
associated with a significantly increased risk of graft failure and increased 
healthcare costs in adult renal transplant recipients. This article highlights 
the clinical significance as well as some of the shortcomings of the authors' 
findings. The introduction of mycophenolate mofetil has clearly improved renal 
transplant outcomes; however, there is a need for well-planned studies examining 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of mycophenolate mofetil and strategies 
for reducing gastrointestinal side effects.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.9.1.29
PMID: 19371175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. BMC Public Health. 2009 Apr 16;9:106. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-106.

The relationship of adverse childhood experiences to a history of premature 
death of family members.

Anda RF(1), Dong M, Brown DW, Felitti VJ, Giles WH, Perry GS, Valerie EJ, Dube 
SR.

Author information:
(1)ACE Study Group, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health 
Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. 
rfa1@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: To assess the association between adverse childhood experiences 
(ACEs), including childhood abuse and neglect, and serious household 
dysfunction, and premature death of a family member. Because ACEs increase the 
risk for many of the leading causes of death in adults and tend to be familial 
and intergenerational, we hypothesized that persons who report having more ACEs 
would be more likely to have family members at risk of premature death.
METHODS: We used data from 17,337 adult health plan members who completed a 
survey about 10 types of ACEs and whether a family member died before age 65. 
The prevalence of family member premature death and its association with ACEs 
were assessed.
RESULTS: Family members of respondents who experienced any type of ACEs were 
more likely to have elevated prevalence for premature death relative to those of 
respondents without such experience (p < 0.01). The highest risk occurred among 
those who reported having been physically neglected and living with substance 
abusing or criminal family members during childhood. A powerful graded 
relationship between the number of ACEs and premature mortality in the family 
was observed for all age groups, and comparison between groups reporting 0 ACE 
and >or= 4 ACEs yielded an OR of 1.8 (95%CI, 1.6-2.0).
CONCLUSION: Adverse childhood experiences may be an indicator of a chaotic 
family environment that results in an increased risk of premature death among 
family members.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-106
PMCID: PMC2674602
PMID: 19371414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2009 Apr 17;7:33. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-7-33.

Can we derive an 'exchange rate' between descriptive and preference-based 
outcome measures for stroke? Results from the transfer to utility (TTU) 
technique.

Mortimer D(1), Segal L, Sturm J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Building 75, The Strip, 
Clayton 3800, Australia. duncan.mortimer@buseco.monash.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Stroke-specific outcome measures and descriptive measures of 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) are unsuitable for informing 
decision-makers of the broader consequences of increasing or decreasing funding 
for stroke interventions. The quality-adjusted life year (QALY) provides a 
common metric for comparing interventions over multiple dimensions of HRQoL and 
mortality differentials. There are, however, many circumstances when--because of 
timing, lack of foresight or cost considerations--only stroke-specific or 
descriptive measures of health status are available and some indirect means of 
obtaining QALY-weights becomes necessary. In such circumstances, the use of 
regression-based transformations or mappings can circumvent the failure to 
elicit QALY-weights by allowing predicted weights to proxy for observed weights. 
This regression-based approach has been dubbed 'Transfer to Utility' (TTU) 
regression. The purpose of the present study is to demonstrate the feasibility 
and value of TTU regression in stroke by deriving transformations or mappings 
from stroke-specific and generic but descriptive measures of health status to a 
generic preference-based measure of HRQoL in a sample of Australians with a 
diagnosis of acute stroke. Findings will quantify the additional error 
associated with the use of condition-specific to generic transformations in 
stroke.
METHODS: We used TTU regression to derive empirical transformations from three 
commonly used descriptive measures of health status for stroke (NIHSS, Barthel 
and SF-36) to a preference-based measure (AQoL) suitable for attaching 
QALY-weights to stroke disease states; based on 2570 observations drawn from a 
sample of 859 patients with stroke.
RESULTS: Transformations from the SF-36 to the AQoL explained up to 71.5% of 
variation in observed AQoL scores. Differences between mean predicted and mean 
observed AQoL scores from the 'severity-specific' item- and subscale-based SF-36 
algorithms and from the 'moderate to severe' index- and item-based Barthel 
algorithm were neither clinically nor statistically significant when 'low 
severity' SF-36 transformations were used to predict AQoL scores for patients in 
the NIHSS = 0 and NIHSS = 1-5 subgroups and when 'moderate to severe severity' 
transformations were used to predict AQoL scores for patients in the NIHSS > or 
= 6 subgroup. In contrast, the difference between mean predicted and mean 
observed AQoL scores from the NIHSS algorithms and from the 'low severity' 
Barthel algorithms reached levels that could mask minimally important 
differences on the AQoL scale.
CONCLUSION: While our NIHSS to AQoL transformations proved unsuitable for most 
applications, our findings demonstrate that stroke-relevant outcome measures 
such as the SF-36 and Barthel Index can be adequately transformed to 
preference-based measures for the purposes of economic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-7-33
PMCID: PMC2680400
PMID: 19371444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Curr Urol Rep. 2009 May;10(3):199-205. doi: 10.1007/s11934-009-0034-7.

Salvage therapy for prostate cancer recurrence after radiation therapy.

Cox JM(1), Busby JE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL 
35294, USA.

Radiotherapy has been successful in treating localized prostate cancer; however, 
a subset of patients will experience disease recurrence. Determination of the 
recurrence location must be made using pretreatment and posttreatment clinical 
variables, imaging, and postradiotherapy biopsy. Patients presumed to have 
local-only recurrence, optimal clinical risk factors, and an extended life 
expectancy may be considered for salvage local treatment. Current options 
include salvage surgery, cryoablation, and brachytherapy. Although they are 
associated with higher morbidity than primary therapy, salvage treatments can be 
effective and can still provide patients with a good oncologic and functional 
outcome. As these modalities continue to improve and patient selection is 
optimized, better results will evolve.

DOI: 10.1007/s11934-009-0034-7
PMID: 19371477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. BMJ. 2009 Apr 16;338:b1288. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b1288.

Surgical treatments for men with benign prostatic enlargement: cost 
effectiveness study.

Armstrong N(1), Vale L, Deverill M, Nabi G, McClinton S, N'Dow J, Pickard R; BPE 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Coutts A, Fraser C, Grant A, Lourenco T, MacLennan G, Mowatt G, 
Wong S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE2 4AA.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2009 Oct;56(4):741-2.

OBJECTIVE: To determine which surgical treatment for lower urinary tract 
symptoms suggestive of benign prostate enlargement is cost effective.
DESIGN: Care pathways describing credible treatment strategies were decided by 
consensus. Cost-utility analysis used Markov modelling and Monte Carlo 
simulation.
DATA SOURCES: Clinical effectiveness data came from a systematic review and an 
individual level dataset. Utility values came from previous economic 
evaluations. Costs were calculated from National Health Service (NHS) and 
commercial sources.
METHODS: The Markov model included parameters with associated measures of 
uncertainty describing health states between which individuals might move at 
three monthly intervals over 10 years. Successive annual cohorts of 25,000 men 
were entered into the model and the probability that treatment strategies were 
cost effective was assessed with Monte Carlo simulation with 10,000 iterations.
RESULTS: A treatment strategy of initial diathermy vaporisation of the prostate 
followed by endoscopic holmium laser enucleation of the prostate in case of 
failure to benefit or subsequent relapse had an 85% probability of being cost 
effective at a willingness to pay value of pound20,000 (euro21,595, 
$28,686)/quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Other strategies with 
diathermy vaporisation as the initial treatment were generally cheaper and more 
effective than the current standard of transurethral resection repeated once if 
necessary. The use of potassium titanyl phosphate laser vaporisation incurred 
higher costs and was less effective than transurethral resection, and strategies 
involving initial minimally invasive treatment with microwave thermotherapy were 
not cost effective. Findings were unchanged by wide ranging sensitivity 
analyses.
CONCLUSION: The outcome of this economic model should be interpreted cautiously 
because of the limitations of the data used. The finding that initial 
vaporisation followed by holmium laser enucleation for failure or relapse might 
be advantageous both to men with lower urinary tract symptoms and to healthcare 
providers requires confirmation in a good quality prospective clinical trial 
before any change in current practice. Potassium titanyl phosphate laser 
vaporisation was unlikely to be cost effective in our model, which argues 
against its unrestricted use until further evidence of effectiveness and cost 
reduction is obtained.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b1288
PMCID: PMC2669854
PMID: 19372131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


529. J Nucl Med. 2009 May;50(5):765-73. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.108.057372. Epub 2009
Apr  16.

Transplantation of embryonic fibroblasts treated with platelet-rich plasma 
induces osteogenesis in SAMP8 mice monitored by molecular imaging.

Lo WC(1), Chiou JF, Gelovani JG, Cheong ML, Lee CM, Liu HY, Wu CH, Wang MF, Lin 
CT, Deng WP.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Clinical Medicine, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

The aim of this study was to develop a cell-based bone-regeneration approach 
evaluated by molecular imaging and immunohistochemistry.
METHODS: Genetically modified NIH3T3 embryonic fibroblasts carrying enhanced 
green fluorescent protein (NIH3T3-G) were predifferentiated into osteoblastlike 
cells using platelet-rich plasma (PRP) medium, followed by intraosseous 
transplantation into ovariectomized senescence-accelerated mouse prone substrain 
8 (OVX-SAMP8 mice).
RESULTS: PRP-conditioned NIH3T3-G (PRP/NIH3T3-G) engraftment prevented the 
development of osteoporosis. Molecular imaging and immunohistochemistry 
demonstrated the migration of NIH3T3-G cells from the implantation site 
throughout the skeleton. In situ analyses revealed coexpression of osteopontin 
and green fluorescent protein in the newly formed bone tissue, demonstrating 
that the transplant restored the bone trabecular architecture and mineral 
density in treated OVX-SAMP8 mice. Interestingly, the life span of OVX-SAMP8 
mice receiving PRP/NIH3T3-G transplantation was significantly prolonged and 
similar to that of the congenic senescence-resistant strain of mice.
CONCLUSION: This unique and yet simple approach could potentially be applied to 
the treatment of senile postmenopausal osteoporosis and perhaps inborn genetic 
syndromes associated with accelerated aging, such as Hutchinson-Gilford progeria 
syndrome, and for the prolongation of life expectancy in general.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.108.057372
PMID: 19372470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. IEEE Trans Pattern Anal Mach Intell. 2009 Jun;31(6):1140-6. doi: 
10.1109/TPAMI.2009.31.

Geometry-based ensembles: toward a structural characterization of the 
classification boundary.

Pujol O(1), Masip D.

Author information:
(1)Departament de Matemàtica Aplicada i Anàlisi, Universitat de Barcelona, 
Edifici Històric, Gran Via de les Corts Catalanes 585, 08007 Barcelona, Spain. 
oriol_pujol@ub.edu

This paper introduces a novel binary discriminative learning technique based on 
the approximation of the nonlinear decision boundary by a piecewise linear 
smooth additive model. The decision border is geometrically defined by means of 
the characterizing boundary points-points that belong to the optimal boundary 
under a certain notion of robustness. Based on these points, a set of locally 
robust linear classifiers is defined and assembled by means of a Tikhonov 
regularized optimization procedure in an additive model to create a final 
lambda-smooth decision rule. As a result, a very simple and robust classifier 
with a strong geometrical meaning and nonlinear behavior is obtained. The 
simplicity of the method allows its extension to cope with some of today's 
machine learning challenges, such as online learning, large-scale learning or 
parallelization, with linear computational complexity. We validate our approach 
on the UCI database, comparing with several state-of-the-art classification 
techniques. Finally, we apply our technique in online and large-scale scenarios 
and in six real-life computer vision and pattern recognition problems: gender 
recognition based on face images, intravascular ultrasound tissue 
classification, speed traffic sign detection, Chagas' disease myocardial damage 
severity detection, old musical scores clef classification, and action 
recognition using 3D accelerometer data from a wearable device. The results are 
promising and this paper opens a line of research that deserves further 
attention.

DOI: 10.1109/TPAMI.2009.31
PMID: 19372616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2009 Apr 16;129(8):772. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.09.0158.

[Economic crisis and health].

[Article in Norwegian]

Waaler HT.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.09.0158
PMID: 19373313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Langenbecks Arch Surg. 2009 Jul;394(4):699-704. doi:
10.1007/s00423-009-0481-0.  Epub 2009 Apr 17.

Hepatic infestation of Echinococcus multilocularis with extension to regional 
lymph nodes.

Buttenschoen K(1), Kern P, Reuter S, Barth TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of General Surgery, University of Alberta, 
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. klaus.buttenschoen@capitalhealth.ca

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to prove lymph node infestation by 
Echinococcus multilocularis and provide evidence for systematic lymph node 
dissection in curative resections for alveolar echinococcosis (AE).
BACKGROUND: Human AE is a life threatening parasitic condition, usually caused 
by an intrahepatic infiltrative and destructive growth of the larvae E. 
multilocularis. WHO guidelines provide radical hepatic resection for curative 
treatment. However, the current norms do not consider dissection of regional 
lymph nodes. No report to date has visualized concurrent lymph node infestation.
METHODS: Radical excision of infested liver including regional lymph nodes with 
subsequent histological examination was carried out in a patient suffering from 
AE. The literature was reviewed and a revised state-of-the-art treatment of AE 
deduced.
RESULTS: Upon inspection the liver displayed macroscopic features of AE, in 
contrast to the regional lymph nodes which appeared unsuspicious. Further 
histological analysis confirmed regional lymph node infestation of E. 
multilocularis.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first publication on histological evidence of E. 
multilocularis in regional hepatic lymph nodes, and thus, demonstrating 
dissemination from the liver. Since AE can spread through lymphatic drainage, 
even without causing macroscopic conspicuity, resection should not be resumed to 
the liver tissue only, but rather to consider the routine removal of regional 
lymph nodes as well. Omission of lymph node dissection can leave behind 
parasitic tissue and surgical procedures erroneously judged as curative.

DOI: 10.1007/s00423-009-0481-0
PMID: 19373487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2009 May;18(3):252-7. doi: 
10.1097/mnh.0b013e328326f3ac.

Incidence, management, and outcomes of end-stage renal disease in the elderly.

Kurella Tamura M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, 
California 94304, USA. mktamura@stanford.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The elderly constitute a substantial and growing fraction of 
the end-stage renal disease (ESRD) population. We review recent studies on ESRD 
incidence, management, and outcomes in the elderly.
RECENT FINDINGS: Rates of treated ESRD among the elderly (>80 years) have risen 
by more than 50% in the last decade. In studies with a large number of elderly 
patients, median survival after dialysis initiation is modest, and although a 
majority have reasonable life expectancy, a substantial minority of elderly 
patients experience very high early mortality rates after dialysis initiation. 
Quality of life results are mixed--compared with younger ESRD patients or 
non-ESRD elderly, mental well being is similar and physical well being is 
reduced in elderly patients with ESRD. In several studies, elderly patients with 
ESRD initiating peritoneal dialysis had higher mortality rates than elderly 
patients with ESRD initiating hemodialysis. Strategies such as nondialytic 
management of ESRD or dietary protein restriction and delayed dialysis 
initiation may be alternatives for elderly patients wishing to avoid dialysis 
initiation, but further studies are needed to determine the patients best suited 
for these approaches. Quality improvement initiatives in geriatric ESRD care 
have been successfully implemented in some centers and may ultimately improve 
care for elderly patients with ESRD.
SUMMARY: These findings should help to clarify some of the risks and benefits of 
dialysis in the elderly and may be useful in dialysis decision-making and 
management.

DOI: 10.1097/mnh.0b013e328326f3ac
PMCID: PMC2738843
PMID: 19374012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Prog Retin Eye Res. 2009 May;28(3):178-86. doi: 
10.1016/j.preteyeres.2009.04.001. Epub 2009 Apr 15.

Visual acuity: information theory, retinal image structure and resolution 
thresholds.

Westheimer G(1).
