Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Division of 
Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) improves health and extends life span in a variety of 
species. Despite many downstream molecules and physiological systems having been 
identified as being regulated by CR, the mechanism by which CR extends life span 
remains unclear. The Drosophila gene Indy (for I'm not dead yet), involved in 
the transport and storage of Krebs cycle intermediates in tissues important in 
fly metabolism, was proposed to regulate life span via an effect on metabolism 
that could overlap with CR. In this study, we report that CR down regulates Indy 
mRNA expression, and that CR and the level of Indy expression interact to affect 
longevity. Optimal life span extension is seen when Indy expression is decreased 
between 25 and 75% of normal. Indy long-lived flies show several phenotypes that 
are shared by long-lived CR flies, including decreased insulin-like signaling, 
lipid storage, weight gain, and resistance to starvation as well as an increase 
in spontaneous physical activity. We conclude that Indy and CR interact to 
affect longevity and that a decrease in Indy may induce a CR-like status that 
confers life span extension.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0904115106
PMCID: PMC2685744
PMID: 19470468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


767. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Sep;94(9):3408-13. doi: 10.1210/jc.2009-0495.
Epub  2009 May 26.

Determinants of medical care for young women with Turner syndrome.

Devernay M(1), Ecosse E, Coste J, Carel JC.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Endocrinology and Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche 
Médicale, Unité 690, Hôpital Robert Debré, 48 boulevard Sérurier, 75019 Paris, 
France.

Comment in
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Sep;94(9):3185-7.

CONTEXT: Turner syndrome is associated with reduced life expectancy. Lifelong 
follow-up is strongly recommended, but follow-up during the transition between 
pediatric and adult care has been little evaluated.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate the medical follow-up of a 
population-based cohort of young adult patients.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: A questionnaire study was conducted with a 
national cohort of 568 women, aged 22.6 +/- 2.6 yr (range, 18.3-31.2), a mean of 
6 yr after stopping GH treatment (StaTur cohort).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: We assessed the proportion of patients with adequate 
follow-up at seven medical assessments over 4 yr and its determinants.
RESULTS: Most participants were followed by gynecologists or general 
practitioners. Medical assessments were performed in 16% (audiometry) to 68% 
(lipid level determinations) of participants, with little consistency in 
individual patients. Only 20 of 568 patients (3.5%) underwent all assessments in 
the 4-yr period. Multivariate analysis identified the type of physician as the 
only factor consistently associated with follow-up, which was more adequate with 
endocrinologists than with other physicians. Other variables associated with at 
least one adequate follow-up assessment were paternal socioeconomic class, 
education level, number of Turner syndrome disease components, size of the 
medical center following the patient in childhood, and physical health 
dimensions of Short Form 36 questionnaire.
CONCLUSIONS: By contrast with the intensive medical follow-up in childhood, 
follow-up was grossly inadequate during the transition phase. During this phase, 
patients should be sent to physicians specializing in Turner syndrome and 
particular attention should be paid to patients with lower levels of education 
and from families of low socioeconomic status.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2009-0495
PMID: 19470625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Circulation. 2009 Jun 9;119(22):2894-903. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.839274. Epub 2009 May 26.

Tadalafil therapy for pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Galiè N(1), Brundage BH, Ghofrani HA, Oudiz RJ, Simonneau G, Safdar Z, Shapiro 
S, White RJ, Chan M, Beardsworth A, Frumkin L, Barst RJ; Pulmonary Arterial 
Hypertension and Response to Tadalafil (PHIRST) Study Group.

Collaborators: Galie N, Safdar Z, Shapiro S, White RJ, Barst RJ, Berman 
Rosenzweig E, Girgis R, Grimminger F, Seeger W, Feldman J, Simonneau G, Klinger 
J, Cottin V, Granton J, Nakanishi N, Stahler G, Mehta S, Coghlan G, Ostrow D, 
Badesch D, Behr J, Bruch L, Farber H, Lawrence C, Markin C, Minai O, Saydain G, 
Widmer M, Degano B, Fazio S, Gomberg-Maitland M, Langleben D, Meyer J, 
Michaelson J, Michelakis E, Naeije R, Peacock A, Rayburn B, Chakinala M, De 
Marco T, Fedele F, Frantz R, Gomez-Sanchez MA, Helmersen D, Hernandez P, 
Hurewitz A, Waxman A, Baratz D, Campana C, Hachulla E, Hill N, Knoper S, Kusano 
K, Mathier M, Murali S, Ogawa S, Pepke-Zaba J, Barbera J, Oudiz RJ, Bshouty Z, 
Camanga D, Colvin-Adams M, Delcroix M, Ewert R, Gossage J, Grimminger F, 
Matsubara H, Miera O, Mizoguchi M, Pfeifer M, Reynaud-Gaubert M, Watanabe H, 
Zwicke D, Corris P, Elliott G, Endo H, Fairman P, Gaine S, Kiely D, Kihara Y, 
Kuraishi H, Morales-Martin P, Suzuki J, Takeda Y, Zieldalski T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, University of Bologna, Via Massarenti 9, 40138 
Bologna, Italy. nazzareno.galie@unibo.it

Erratum in
    Circulation. 2011 Sep 6;124(10):e279. Dosage error in article text.

BACKGROUND: Treatment options for pulmonary arterial hypertension target the 
prostacyclin, endothelin, or nitric oxide pathways. Tadalafil, a 
phosphodiesterase type-5 inhibitor, increases cGMP, the final mediator in the 
nitric oxide pathway.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In this 16-week, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 
405 patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (idiopathic or associated), 
either treatment-naive or on background therapy with the endothelin receptor 
antagonist bosentan, were randomized to placebo or tadalafil 2.5, 10, 20, or 40 
mg orally once daily. The primary end point was the change from baseline to week 
16 in the distance walked in 6 minutes. Changes in World Health Organization 
functional class, clinical worsening, and health-related quality of life were 
also assessed. Patients completing the 16-week study could enter a long-term 
extension study. Tadalafil increased the distance walked in 6 minutes in a 
dose-dependent manner; only the 40-mg dose met the prespecified level of 
statistical significance (P<0.01). Overall, the mean placebo-corrected treatment 
effect was 33 m (95% confidence interval, 15 to 50 m). In the bosentan-naive 
group, the treatment effect was 44 m (95% confidence interval, 20 to 69 m) 
compared with 23 m (95% confidence interval, -2 to 48 m) in patients on 
background bosentan therapy. Tadalafil 40 mg improved the time to clinical 
worsening (P=0.041), incidence of clinical worsening (68% relative risk 
reduction; P=0.038), and health-related quality of life. The changes in World 
Health Organization functional class were not statistically significant. The 
most common treatment-related adverse events reported with tadalafil were 
headache, myalgia, and flushing.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, tadalafil 40 mg 
was well tolerated and improved exercise capacity and quality of life measures 
and reduced clinical worsening.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.839274
PMID: 19470885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. J Gynecol Oncol. 2009 Mar;20(1):8-10. doi: 10.3802/jgo.2009.20.1.8. Epub
2009  Mar 31.

Gynecological cancer in Indonesia.

Aziz MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology, Department of Obsterics and Gynecology, University of 
Indonesia, Jakarta, Indonesia.

To overview the status of gynecologic cancer in Indonesia. Information regarding 
Indonesia obtained from World Bank Report and Statistical Yearbook of Indonesia 
2007, epidemiological data obtained from Histopathological Data of Cancer in 
Indonesia 2002, Department of Health-Registry Body of Indonesian Specialist of 
Pathology Association-Indonesian Cancer Society; Various Hospitals in big Cities 
in Indonesia. Indonesia is an Archipelago with a total area of 1,922,570.00 
km(2), the population is 222,192,000 (2006), the fourth world rank. Female is 
49.86% with life expectancy 69 years. Gross National Product per Capita is 
690.00 USD. Histopathological report in 2002 revealed that cervical cancer, 
ovarian cancer and uterine cancer were the most frequent cancer among female, 
which were the first (2,532 cases), the third (829 cases) and the eighth (316 
cases) rank respectively. The peak age for cervical, uterine and ovarian cancer 
was 45-54 years. HPV 16, 18 were found in 82% of invasive cervical. Data from 
various academic hospitals in 2007 showed that cervical cancer is the most 
common malignancy followed by ovary, uterus, vulva and vagina. Five-year 
survival rate of stage I, II, III, IV cervical cancer were 50%, 40%, 20%, and 0% 
respectively. Overall five-year survival rate of carcinoma of the ovary was 
54.8%. If sub-classified by stage, five-year survival rate are 94.3%, 75.0%, 
31%, and 11.7% for stage I, II, III, and IV respectively. Five-year disease-free 
survival rate of endometrial cancer was 71.9%. Indonesia is the biggest 
Archipelago with a dense population but the income per capita still low (poor 
country). The most common gynecologic cancer is cervical cancer, followed by 
ovarian and uterine cancer. These cancers are included in top ten cancers in 
Indonesia. HPV 16, 18 were the most cause of cervical cancer. The five-year 
survival rates are comparable with world report.

DOI: 10.3802/jgo.2009.20.1.8
PMCID: PMC2676491
PMID: 19471661


770. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2005 Feb;55(1):59-71. doi:
10.1590/s0034-70942005000100007.

[The validity of the electrocardiogram accomplishment in the elderly surgical 
patient preoperative evaluation.].

[Article in Portuguese]

Souza FS(1), Pedro JR, Vieira JE, Segurado AV, Botelho MP, Mathias LA.

Author information:
(1)Serviço de Anestesiologia, Irmandade Santa Casa de Misericórdia de São Paulo.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Because of medical progress, life expectancy has been 
prolonged and the elderly population submitted to surgical procedures has been 
growing. Besides age-related cardiovascular changes, the prevalence of diseases, 
such as systemic hypertension, affect cardiovascular reserve and increase 
morbidity, mortality and perioperative outcomes. Electrocardiogram is useful in 
diagnosing previous myocardial infarction and arrhythmias. In the preoperative 
evaluation of these patients, ECG usefulness is a controversial subject. This 
study aimed at retrospectively evaluating the validity of preoperative ECG in 
elderly patients.
METHODS: Retropective analysis of 481 patient records over 60 years old, 
submitted to different surgical procedures. Data were collected for description 
of the studied group; evaluation of most frequent electrocardiography 
abnormalities; comparative analysis between patients with normal and abnormal 
ECG related to age, ASA physical status, presence of cardiac disease intra and 
postoperative complications. Patients without cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
physical status ASA I were separately analyzed.
RESULTS: There were 481 patients, 287 of them with preoperative ECG and from 
those, 88,8% had abnormalities, being the most frequent ventricular 
repolarization changes.There was not influence of the parameters on the 
frequency of abnormal ECG. The abnormalitees of the ECG, especially those 
secondary to ischemia were related with intraoperative complications in all 
study groups.
CONCLUSIONS: This study has shown that electrocardiogram is a valid routine for 
preoperative evaluation of elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-70942005000100007
PMID: 19471809


771. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2009 Oct;129(10):1391-9. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-009-0901-1. Epub 2009 May 27.

Comparison of kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty in the treatment of fresh vertebral 
compression fractures.

Schofer MD(1), Efe T, Timmesfeld N, Kortmann HR, Quante M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University Hospital Marburg, Baldingerstrasse, 
35043 Marburg, Germany. schofer@med.uni-marburg.de

INTRODUCTION: As life expectancy in the population rises, osteoporotic fractures 
are seen most frequently in the proximal femur and the vertebral column. In 
balloon kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty, we have two minimally invasive treatment 
procedures available. Although they have both been controversially discussed in 
studies, they have seldom been directly compared.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 2002 and 2004, patients with fresh thoracic or 
lumbar single-segment vertebral compression fractures not involving neurological 
deficits were treated by balloon kyphoplasty (n = 30) or vertebroplasty(n = 30) 
using PMMA cement, and the results of the two interventions were compared in a 
prospective, nonrandomised cohort study. Surgery was indicated when patients had 
painful, dislocated fractures of type A1 and type A3 according to Magerl's 
classification. The outcome of treatment was assessed with special reference to 
the angle of kyphosis, back pain (VAS), health-related quality of life (SF-36) 
and complications.
RESULTS: At the time of the follow-up examination, significant improvement in 
the angle of kyphosis was found to have been achieved both by kyphoplasty and by 
vertebroplasty (P < 0.001 and P = 0.002, respectively). Comparison showed that 
correction of the angle was significantly (P < 0.001) better in the kyphoplasty 
group. Both surgical procedures led to significant (P < 0.001) attenuation of 
the patients' pain; no difference was observed between the groups in the degree 
of pain relief achieved. There was no demonstrable correlation in either group 
between the preoperative pain experienced by the patients and the degree of 
dislocation of their fractures. In both study groups, the quality of life was in 
keeping with that of a reference group matched for age and sex. Cement leakage 
was observed in 7% of patients after kyphoplasty and in 33% of patients after 
vertebroplasty (P = 0.021). Adjacent-level fractures were checked for, but 
occurred in only one patient in the vertebroplasty group.
CONCLUSION: The two surgical procedures were both followed by significant pain 
relief, and the quality of life was similar regardless of the procedure used. 
Balloon kyphoplasty led to an ongoing reduction of freshly fractured vertebrae 
and was followed by a lower rate of cement leakage.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-009-0901-1
PMID: 19471946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Tunis Med. 2008 Oct;86(10):895-8.

[Epidemiologic study of cutaneous cancers in aged persons].

[Article in French]

Khaled A(1), Ben Mbarek L, Zeglaoui F, Ezzine N, Fazaa B, Kamoun MR.

Author information:
(1)Service de Dermatologie, Hôpital Charles Nicolle de Tunis.

BACKGROUND: The aging of the population in the developed world is an accepted 
fact. Consequently, the number of aged patients with cutaneous cancer will 
increase in coming years.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to determine the nature of skin cancer occurring in 
elderly patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively assessed all patients of 65 years of age and over, 
with histologically documented skin cancer, in the department of Dermatology of 
Charles Nicolle hospital of Tunis between 2000 and 2005. We studied sex, age and 
the type of tumours.
RESULTS: 246 patients aged 65 years and over and presenting cutaneous cancers 
were collected. They represented 57.34% of all cutaneous cancers. The average 
age was 73 years with a majority (91.46%) between 70 and 85 years. Sex-ratio M/F 
was 1.82. Basal cell carcinoma (BCC) represented 68.2% of all cutaneous cancers 
in aged persons and 53.84% of all BCC independently of age. Squamous cell 
carcinoma (SCC) represented 23.5% of all cutaneous cancers in aged persons and 
67.44% of all SCC independently of age. Eight cases (3.25%) of melanomas in aged 
persons were collected, representing 61.53% of the 13 cases of melanoma during 
these 5 previous years, independently of age.
CONCLUSION: More than half of the collected cutaneous cancers during these 5 
previous years have occurred in aged persons with a majority between the ages of 
70 and 85 years. This is explained by a higher life expectancy in Tunisia. 
Through this study we conclude that the geriatric patient is at a high risk of 
developing cutaneous neoplasms especially carcinomas.

PMID: 19472808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Haemophilia. 2009 Jul;15(4):952-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02020.x.
Epub  2009 Apr 7.

Treatment of ischaemic heart disease in haemophilia patients: an institutional 
guideline.

Schutgens RE(1), Tuinenburg A, Roosendaal G, Guyomi SH, Mauser-Bunschoten EP.

Author information:
(1)Van Creveldkliniek/Department of Haematology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Heidelberglaan 100, PO Box 85500, Utrecht 3508 GA, The Netherlands. 
r.schutgens@umcutrecht.nl

Since the introduction of clotting factor concentrates, life expectancy of 
haemophilia patients is increasing and now approaches that of the general male 
population. Increasingly, haemophilia patients are confronted with age-related 
co-morbidity, including ischaemic cardiovascular disease. Treatment of stable 
angina pectoris and the acute coronary syndrome with antithrombotic therapy and 
percutaneous coronary intervention in haemophilia patients is feasible, but 
requires a tight co-operation between all specialists involved. As 
evidence-based guidelines are lacking, we developed a protocol on how we will 
treat haemophilia patients with ischaemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02020.x
PMID: 19473421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2009 Mar-Apr;27(2):237-45.

Validity of the SF-6D index in Brazilian patients with rheumatoid arthritis.

Gonçalves Campolina A(1), Bruscato Bortoluzzo A, Bosi Ferraz M, Mesquita 
Ciconelli R.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Division, School of Medicine, Federal University of São Paulo, 
Brazil. alecampolina@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the construct validity of the SF-6D among a sample of 
Brazilian patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
METHODS: This was a validation and cross-cultural adaptation study. Preference 
evaluation instruments were applied: SF-6D, EQ-5D, VAS, TTO and SG. Clinical and 
sociodemographic parameters were obtained. Descriptive statistics, correlation 
coefficients and ANOVA were used to analyze the results.
RESULTS: 200 patients were evaluated, among whom the non-completion rates were 
0.5% for VAS, 1.5% for TTO and 6.5% for SG. The preferences derived from the 
SF-6D presented the strongest correlations with EQ-5D and HAQ, followed by VAS, 
TTO and SG, in decreasing order. The correlations with clinical and 
sociodemographic parameters were, in most cases, small. The preferences obtained 
with the SF-6D could discriminate patients with different HAQ levels.
CONCLUSION: The SF-6D is a valid method for measuring preferences in patients 
with rheumatoid arthritis in a Brazilian context.

PMID: 19473563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Int J Cardiol. 2010 Nov 5;145(1):78-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2009.05.016.
Epub  2009 May 26.

Screening for ventriculo-aortic functional disturbances in patients with 
apparently successful repaired coarctation of aorta.

Lam YY, Henein MY.

Comment on
    Int J Cardiol. 2009 Mar 20;133(1):95-101.

Patients with apparently successful repair for coarctation of aorta have reduced 
life expectancy irrespective of the occurrence of recoarctation, biscupid aortic 
valvular complications or systemic hypertension. The increasingly recognized 
ventriculo-aortic functional disturbances (subendocardial ischemia and central 
aortic stiffness) that persist after operation may contribute to the known 
significant cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Echocardiography and cardiac 
magnetic resonance imaging allow earlier identification of these high-risk 
features in patients may thus guide towards optimum therapy.

Copyright © 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2009.05.016
PMID: 19473715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. J Cyst Fibros. 2009 Jul;8(4):288-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jcf.2009.05.002. Epub
2009  May 26.

Hepatocellular carcinoma complicating cystic fibrosis related liver disease.

O'Donnell DH(1), Ryan R, Hayes B, Fennelly D, Gibney RG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, St Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin 4, Ireland. 
davidhodonnell@hotmail.com

Early diagnosis and treatment of the respiratory and gastrointestinal 
complications of cystic fibrosis (CF) have led to improved survival with many 
patients living beyond the fourth decade. Along with this increased life 
expectancy is the risk of further disease associated with the chronic 
manifestations of their condition. We report a patient with documented CF 
related liver disease for which he was under routine surveillance that presented 
with histologically proven hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). It is important that 
physicians are aware of this association as increased vigilance may lead to 
earlier diagnosis and perhaps, a better outcome.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcf.2009.05.002
PMID: 19473889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Proc Biol Sci. 2009 Aug 22;276(1669):2963-9. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2009.0500.
Epub  2009 May 27.

Bet-hedging as an evolutionary game: the trade-off between egg size and number.

Olofsson H(1), Ripa J, Jonzén N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology, Section of Theoretical Ecology, Ecology Building, Lund 
University, 223 62, Lund, Sweden.

Comment in
    Proc Biol Sci. 2010 Apr 22;277(1685):1149-51.

Bet-hedging theory addresses how individuals should optimize fitness in varying 
and unpredictable environments by sacrificing mean fitness to decrease variation 
in fitness. So far, three main bet-hedging strategies have been described: 
conservative bet-hedging (play it safe), diversified bet-hedging (don't put all 
eggs in one basket) and adaptive coin flipping (choose a strategy at random from 
a fixed distribution). Within this context, we analyse the trade-off between 
many small eggs (or seeds) and few large, given an unpredictable environment. 
Our model is an extension of previous models and allows for any combination of 
the bet-hedging strategies mentioned above. In our individual-based model 
(accounting for both ecological and evolutionary forces), the optimal 
bet-hedging strategy is a combination of conservative and diversified 
bet-hedging and adaptive coin flipping, which means a variation in egg size both 
within clutches and between years. Hence, we show how phenotypic variation 
within a population, often assumed to be due to non-adaptive variation, instead 
can be the result of females having this mixed strategy. Our results provide a 
new perspective on bet-hedging and stress the importance of extreme events in 
life history evolution.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2009.0500
PMCID: PMC2817213
PMID: 19474039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Radiology. 2009 Jun;251(3):637-49. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2513080636.

The appropriateness of imaging: a comprehensive conceptual framework.

Sistrom CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of Florida, PO Box 100374, Gainesville, 
FL 32610, USA. sistrc@radiology.ufl.edu

This review seeks to clarify and explicate an elusive concept: the 
appropriateness of diagnostic imaging. To ensure a common basis for discussion, 
several key components are articulated and defined. These include the diagnostic 
imaging procedure (DIP) itself, the subject (a patient), and the setting (a 
clinical scenario) in which the DIP is being considered. A review of the 
literature shows that appropriateness is a logical extension of empiric 
research, which has revealed substantial variation in the type and intensity of 
health services delivered to otherwise similar populations and communities in 
the United States. Against this background, the appropriate rate of a service in 
a population is transformed into appropriateness for an individual patient, 
which, when defined in terms of expected net health outcome, provides a 
conceptual link with the denominator of cost-effectiveness analysis. The 
complementary roles of clinical trials, technology assessment, decision-analytic 
modeling, and consensus methods in estimating appropriateness are compared and 
contrasted.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2513080636
PMID: 19474372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Prof Case Manag. 2009 May-Jun;14(3):121-32; quiz 133-4. doi: 
10.1097/NCM.0b013e3181a774c3.

Building collaborative partnerships in critical care: the RN case manager/social 
work dyad in critical care.

Carr DD(1).

Author information:
(1)Jacobi Medical Center, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. dana.deravincarr@nbhn.net

PURPOSE/OBJECTIVES: More than 5 million patients are admitted annually to 
intensive care units (ICUs) in the United States. As the life expectancy of the 
population continues to lengthen, we should expect to see a proportionate 
increase in the burden of acute and chronic illness as well as a rise in the 
demand for critical care services. The case management dyad team of nurse case 
manager and social worker enhances and supports the critical care team through 
the implementation of collaborative interventions that focus upon the (1) 
minimization of inpatient transitions, (2) reduction of cost by decreasing the 
length of stay, (3) promotion of patient and family satisfaction through efforts 
of advocacy, and (4) enhanced discharge planning.
PRIMARY PRACTICE SETTING(S): Hospital ICUs.
FINDINGS/CONCLUSIONS: In the critical care setting the professional partnership 
of the RN case manager/masters in social worker (RN/MSW) dyad is a core 
component in the linkage of the ICU support system and it enhances the 
functioning of the ICU multidisciplinary team. The efforts of the dyad team are 
congruent with the goals of patient care, with the desires of the family, and 
with the mission of the organization. Shared goals and a shared commitment to 
professional practice provide the essential building blocks of the dyad 
relationship. The dyad structure presents an opportunity for RN case managers 
and social workers to integrate their strengths and skills in a collaborative 
patient-centered effort.
IMPLICATIONS FOR CASE MANAGEMENT PRACTICE: The RN/MSW dyad structure as a model 
for case management practice promotes continuity of care and strengthens 
professional relationships. The case manager and the social worker have many 
shared responsibilities; therefore, a partnership that promotes continuous 
collaboration and communication is essential to the achievement of successful 
patient care outcomes. The professional partnership that evolves, as depicted by 
the RN/MSW dyad structure, enhances the organizations' mission to deliver 
quality patient-centered care.

DOI: 10.1097/NCM.0b013e3181a774c3
PMID: 19474637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2002 Apr;52(2):217-22.

Preanesthetic clinical problems of morbidly obese patients submitted to 
bariatric surgery: comparison with non-obese patiens.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

de Oliveira Filho GR(1), Nicolodi TH, Garcia JH, Nicolodi MA, Goldschmidt R, Dal 
Mago AJ.

Author information:
(1)Hospitais de Caridade e Governador Celso Ramos, CET/SBA Integrado de 
Anestesiologia da SES-SC, Florianópolis, SC. grof@th.com.br

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Morbid obesity is associated to clinical problems 
responsible for decreased life expectancy. Morbidly obese patients are 
candidates to gastric bypass and pose new challenges to the anesthesiologist. 
This study compared the prevalence of clinical problems among morbidly obese 
patients submitted to bariatric surgery to non-obese patients submitted to other 
elective surgical procedures.
METHODS: Electronic records of 2986 patients were retrospectively studied. 
Patients were divided in two groups; 1: patients with morbid obesity submitted 
to bariatric surgeries; and group 2: non obese patients (body mass index less 
than 30 kg m(-2)), submitted to other elective surgical procedures. Groups were 
matched according to age, gender and ASA physical status. Preanesthetic problems 
common to group 1 were investigated in group 2, and prevalence was compared. 
Odds ratios and 95% confidence limits were calculated.
RESULTS: Clinical problems identified in groups 1 and 2 and their respective 
prevalence were: gastroesophageal reflux (16.67% and 0.48%), systemic 
hypertension (50% and 3.06%), type II diabetes mellitus (6.25% and 0.31%), 
hypothyroidism (6.25% and 0.31%), bronchial asthma (10.42% and 1.43%) and 
restrictive lung disease (10.42% and 0.03%). Incidences were significantly 
higher in group 1. Additionally, the following problems were found in group 1, 
but not in group 2: epilepsy (2.08%), nonalcoholic fatty liver (12.5%), gall 
bladder stones (6.25%), dyslipemia (20.83%) and hypopytuitarism (2.08%).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of clinical problems was significantly higher in 
morbidly obese patients as compared to their non-obese counterparts.

PMID: 19475216781. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2003 Apr;53(2):237-47.

[Diastolic dysfunction: its importance to anesthesiologists.].

[Article in Portuguese]

Cruvinel MG(1), Castro CH.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Mater Dei, Belo Horizonte, MG.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Until recently, heart failure was primarily viewed as 
an event affecting heart contractility. However recently, after the recognition 
that several patients with classic signs and symptoms of heart failure had 
normal systolic function, left ventricular diastolic function is receiving major 
attention. The increase in populations life expectancy, surgical and anesthetic 
techniques improvements of the high prevalence of risk factors are increasing 
the number of patients with diastolic failure or dysfunction being referred to 
surgery and anesthesia. This article aims at reviewing diastolic dysfunction 
definition, causes, prevalence, diagnosis, management and anesthetic 
implications.
CONTENTS: Left ventricular diastolic function and its importance to 
anesthesiologists are described.
CONCLUSIONS: There are no proven benefits of an anesthetic technique over the 
others. Primary anesthetic goals are to maintain normal volume status and 
sinusoidal rhythm, in addition to preventing tachycardia, arterial hypertension 
and ventricular ischemia. Beta-blockers are the drugs more frequently used to 
meet these goals.

PMID: 19475276


782. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2003 Sep;53(5):646-53.

Incidence of cardiac surgery in octogenarian patients: retrospective study.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Machado LB(1), Chiaroni S, Vasconcelos Filho PO, Auler Júnior JO, Carmona MJ.

Author information:
(1)CET/SBA do Hospital das Clínicas da Universidade de São Paulo (HC-FMUSP), São 
Paulo, SP.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Increased life expectancy makes increasingly older 
patients to be submitted to cardiac surgeries. This study aimed at evaluating 
the incidence of octogenarian patients submitted to cardiac surgeries in the 
Heart Institute, Hospital das Clínicas, FMUSP, in the last 16 years.
METHODS: The number of myocardial revascularization (MR) and valvar surgeries 
(VS) was analyzed for the period 1986 to 2001 and, within each group, the number 
of surgeries in octogenarian patients. Data were descriptively analyzed.
RESULTS: Data have shown a progressive increase in the number of octogenarian 
patients submitted to cardiac surgeries. Myocardial revascularization surgeries 
have increased from 0.13% in 1986 to 3.5% in 2001. Valvar surgeries have 
increased from 0% in 1986 to 1.44% in 2001, with the highest rate of 3.02% in 
1999.
CONCLUSIONS: The understanding of pathophysiology and senility, and the advances 
in surgical trauma handling are allowing cardiac surgery resources to be 
expanded to elderly patients. Anesthetic technique should be carefully chosen, 
as well as hydration, ventilatory assistance and postoperative analgesia, to 
provide decreased morbidity and mortality in this higher surgical risk group.

PMID: 19475319


783. Glob Health Promot. 2009;Suppl 1:45-7. doi: 10.1177/1757975909103750.

The Brazilian Commission on Social Determinants of Health: next steps.

Gomes Temporão J(1).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health of the Federative Republic of Brazil.

DOI: 10.1177/1757975909103750
PMID: 19477832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Glob Health Promot. 2009;Suppl 1:52-3. doi: 10.1177/1757975909103752.

The experiences of the Islamic Republic of Iran on tackling health inequities.

Kamran Bagheri Lankanari.

DOI: 10.1177/1757975909103752
PMID: 19477834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2009;27(6):513-8. doi: 10.1159/000221832. Epub
2009  May 29.

Genetic variation of CYP19 (aromatase) gene influences age at onset of 
Alzheimer's disease in women.

Corbo RM(1), Gambina G, Ulizzi L, Moretto G, Scacchi R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Molecular Biology, University La Sapienza, 
IT-00185 Rome, Italy. rosamaria.corbo@uniroma1.it

BACKGROUND/AIMS: There is evidence for a higher prevalence of Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) in women, but whether this is due to their longer life expectancy 
or to biological gender-specific risk factors is unclear. One likely 
contributing factor is the reduced estrogen neuroprotective action following 
menopause. In this context, an AD risk gene could be CYP19, encoding aromatase, 
an enzyme involved in estrogen biosynthesis.
METHODS: We analyzed the role of 3 CYP19 single-nucleotide polymorphisms 
(rs12907866, rs17601241, rs4646) in AD development and their possible influence 
on quantitative traits reflecting disease severity (age at onset and cognitive 
decline) in 319 patients and 110 controls.
RESULTS: No association was observed between the CYP19 single-nucleotide 
polymorphisms and AD risk. Yet CYP19 genetic variation did seem to contribute to 
AD development in women as the rs4646 genotypes carrying the T allele were 
associated with an earlier onset age (p = 0.01) independently of a similar 
effect determined by the APOE e*4 allele (p = 0.005). Also, being present only 
in parous women (p = 0.01), the effect of rs4646 genotypes on onset age appeared 
to depend on past fertility.
CONCLUSION: Together with gender-specific factors such as parity, genes 
controlling estrogen metabolism may play a relevant role in AD susceptibility in 
women.

DOI: 10.1159/000221832
PMID: 19478482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. PLoS One. 2009 May 27;4(5):e5696. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005696.

Cost-effectiveness of an opportunistic screening programme and brief 
intervention for excessive alcohol use in primary care.

Tariq L(1), van den Berg M, Hoogenveen RT, van Baal PH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research, National Institute of 
Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
luqman.tariq@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: Effective prevention of excessive alcohol use has the potential to 
reduce the public burden of disease considerably. We investigated the 
cost-effectiveness of Screening and Brief Intervention (SBI) for excessive 
alcohol use in primary care in the Netherlands, which is targeted at early 
detection and treatment of 'at-risk' drinkers.
METHODOLOGY AND RESULTS: We compared a SBI scenario (opportunistic screening and 
brief intervention for 'at-risk' drinkers) in general practices with the current 
practice scenario (no SBI) in The Netherlands. We used the RIVM Chronic Disease 
Model (CDM) to extrapolate from decreased alcohol consumption to effects on 
health care costs and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) gained. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was employed to study the effect of uncertainty in the 
model parameters. In total, 56,000 QALYs were gained at an additional cost of 
298,000,000 euros due to providing alcohol SBI in the target population, 
resulting in a cost-effectiveness ratio of 5,400 euros per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Prevention of excessive alcohol use by implementing SBI for 
excessive alcohol use in primary care settings appears to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005696
PMCID: PMC2682644
PMID: 19479081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


787. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2009 Jul;71(3):159-72. doi: 10.1002/arch.20313.

The effect of calorie restriction on growth and development in silkworm, Bombyx 
mori.

Li Y(1), Chen K, Yao Q, Li J, Wang Y, Liu H, Zhang C, Huang G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang 212013, P.R. China.

Caloric restriction (CR) is known to extend the life span in different species 
from yeast to mammals. In this report, a simple organism silkworm (Bombyx mori) 
was used to study the effect of moderate CR on the growth and development 
processes of insects. Here we show that an extension of life span upon moderate 
CR was observed in the silkworm. The total protein level in the 5th instar 
larvae hemolymph appeared to decline significantly under CR. SDS-PAGE analysis 
showed that the influence of CR was sex-dependent. The CR effects on female 
animals were much more significant than on the males. The MALDI-TOF MS study 
identified 16 proteins that expressed differentially among six groups of the 
male or female larvae fed at different time frequencies. Four of them, storage 
protein 1 (SP1), arylphorin (SP2), imaginal disk growth factor (IDGF), and 
30-kDa lipoprotein, showed significant differences. It was demonstrated that 
these four proteins were up-regulated when the larvae were over-fed and 
down-regulated when the larvae were less-fed.

(c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.20313
PMID: 19479736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Rom J Intern Med. 2008;46(4):285-93.

Photodynamic therapy--indications and limits in malignant tumors treatment.

Filip AG(1), Clichici S, Daicoviciu D, Olteanu D, Mureşan A, Dreve S.

Author information:
(1)Physiology Department, Iuliu Haţieganu University of Medicine and Pharmacy, 
Cluj-Napoca, Romania. adrianafilip33@yahoo.com

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a very promising technique used for the treatment 
of a variety of solid neoplasms, based on the formation of singlet oxygen 
induced by a photosensitizer after irradiation with visible light. The mechanism 
of interaction of the photosensitizers and light is discussed, along with the 
effects produced in the target tissue. PDT has been approved in many countries 
for the treatment of lung, esophageal, bladder, skin and head and neck cancers. 
The antitumor effects of this treatment result from the combination of direct 
tumor cell photodamage, destruction of tumor vasculature and activation of an 
immune response. The present status of clinical PDT is discussed along with the 
newer photosensitizers being used and their clinical roles. Despite the 
promising results from earlier clinical trials of PDT considerable additional 
work is needed to bring this new modality of treatment into modern clinical 
practice.

PMID: 19480294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2009 Jun;62(6):670-6. doi: 10.1016/s1885-5857(09)72231-5.

Cardiometabolic disease in latin america: the role of fetal programming in 
response to maternal malnutrition.

[Article in English, Spanish]

López-Jaramillo P(1).

Author information:
(1)Dirección de Investigaciones de la Fundación Cardiovascular de Colombia y de 
la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad de Santander UDES, Bucaramanga, 
Colombia. joselopez@fcv.org

Latin America is experiencing an epidemic of cardiovascular disease and type-2 
diabetes mellitus. The rise in life-expectancy and increasingly rapid 
urbanization have resulted in a greater prevalence of overweight, obesity and 
metabolic syndrome. In Latin America, there is a high level of susceptibility to 
the development of insulin resistance and low-grade inflammation at relatively 
low levels of abdominal obesity. This susceptibility is associated with the 
adaptive response of the fetus to deficient fetal nutrition, which results in a 
loss of anatomical structures such as nephrons, cardiomyocytes and pancreatic 
beta cells. These adaptations may prove detrimental if food becomes abundant 
again after birth. In Latin America, the high prevalence of maternal and fetal 
malnutrition could mean that the resulting fetal adaptations may contribute to 
an increased risk of cardiometabolic disease. The socioeconomic differences that 
exist between developed and underdeveloped countries may be reflected in 
different biological adaptations, which could invalidate the diagnostic criteria 
and preventive and therapeutic approaches that have been recommended on the 
basis of research carried out in populations with different characteristics. 
Clinical studies are needed to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions 
recommended for preventing and aiding recovery from cardiometabolic disease in 
Latin America.

DOI: 10.1016/s1885-5857(09)72231-5
PMID: 19480763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Vaccine. 2009 May 29;27 Suppl 1:A54-61. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.02.052.

Anti-HPV vaccination: a review of recent economic data for Italy.

Mennini FS(1), Costa S, Favato G, Picardo M.

Author information:
(1)CEIS Sanità (Centre for Health Economics and Management - CHEM), Faculty of 
Economics, University of Rome, Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy. f.mennini@uniroma2.it

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2009 Aug 20;27(38):5171.

The total cost of HPV-related diseases accounts for euro 200-250 million of 
which euro 210 million is absorbed by the prevention and treatment of 
precancerous lesions and cervical cancer. Although both available HPV vaccines 
are below the threshold value for economic convenience (euro 9,569 and euro 
26,361 per QALY-gained for the quadrivalent and bivalent vaccines, 
respectively), at this point in time long-term economic models developed for 
Italy seem to indicate the quadrivalent vaccine as the most cost-effective 
option. Recent publications by official bodies, including the World Health 
Organization and the Supervisory Authority for Public Contracts in Italy, 
recommend that the decision-making process be based on both the quality of goods 
and services as well as the best achievable price.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.02.052
PMID: 19480963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2009 Jul 1;74(3):966-73. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.02.063.

Local control of lung derived tumors by diffusing alpha-emitting atoms released 
from intratumoral wires loaded with radium-224.

Cooks T(1), Schmidt M, Bittan H, Lazarov E, Arazi L, Kelson I, Keisari Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology, Sackler Faculty of 
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

PURPOSE: Diffusing alpha-emitters radiation therapy (DART) is a new form of 
brachytherapy enabling the treatment of solid tumors with alpha radiation. The 
present study examines the antitumoral effects resulting from the release of 
alpha emitting radioisotopes into solid lung carcinoma (LL2, A427, and 
NCI-H520).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: An in vitro setup tested the dose-dependent killing of 
tumor cells exposed to alpha particles. In in vivo studies, radioactive wires 
(0.3 mm diameter, 5 mm long) with (224)Ra activities in the range of 21-38 kBq 
were inserted into LL/2 tumors in C57BL/6 mice and into human-derived A427 or 
NCI-H520 tumors in athymic mice. The efficacy of the short-lived daughters of 
(224)Ra to produce tumor growth retardation and prolong life was assessed, and 
the spread of radioisotopes inside tumors was measured using autoradiography.
RESULTS: The insertion of a single DART wire into the center of 6- to 7-mm 
tumors had a pronounced retardation effect on tumor growth, leading to a 
significant inhibition of 49% (LL2) and 93% (A427) in tumor development and 
prolongations of 48% (LL2) in life expectancy. In the human model, more than 80% 
of the treated tumors disappeared or shrunk. Autoradiographic analysis of the 
treated sectioned tissue revealed the intratumoral distribution of the 
radioisotopes, and histological analysis showed corresponding areas of necrosis. 
In vitro experiments demonstrated a dose-dependent killing of tumors cells 
exposed to alpha particles.
CONCLUSIONS: Short-lived diffusing alpha-emitters produced tumor growth 
retardation and increased survival in mice bearing lung tumor implants. These 
results justify further investigations with improved dose distributions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.02.063
PMID: 19480976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 May-Jun;50(3):e9-e12. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.04.009. Epub 2009 May 28.

Forensic geriatric deaths in Adana, Turkey.

Hilal A(1), Akçan R, Eren A, Turhan A, Arslan M.

Author information:
(1)Cukurova University School of Medicine, Department of Forensic Medicine, 
Balcali 01330, Adana, Turkey. ahilal@cu.edu.tr

The World Health Organization describes geriatric age group as the population 
aged 65 years or older. Parallel with the development of medical and 
technological areas, the life expectancy gets longer and geriatric population 
has been dramatically increasing. In this respect, geriatric deaths are 
frequently encountered due to increasing risk factors and pathophysiological 
changes in aging process. The records of the Forensic Medicine Institution Adana 
Group Authority Morgue Specialty Office were used. Death certificates and 
autopsy records of 9007 cases autopsied between the years of 1998 and 2007 were 
examined retrospectively. Seven hundred and twenty-six geriatric age (>or=65 
years) deaths were taken in the scope of the study. All of the cases were 
analyzed with regard to age, sex, cause of death, incident place, and the place 
and origin of death. Geriatric deaths comprised 8.1% (726 cases) of all the 
medico-legal autopsy cases (9007) during these ten years. Of all geriatric 
deaths, 73.8% (536) were male while 26.2% (190) were female. Ages of cases were 
between 65 and 96 years, and the mean age was 72.3. Majority (310 cases, 42.7%) 
of deaths were by natural causes, while this was followed by accidental deaths 
with 227 cases (31.4%). This study was aimed to discuss the general features of 
geriatric deaths accepted as forensic cases, in the light of the literature.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.04.009
PMID: 19481273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. J Hand Surg Am. 2009 Jul-Aug;34(6):983-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.03.005.
Epub  2009 May 28.

A primer on use of decision analysis methodology in hand surgery.

Chen NC(1), Shauver MJ, Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The University of Michigan Health System, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48109-5340, USA.

Decision analysis is a method of probabilistic reasoning and decision-making 
under conditions of uncertainty. These methods are being used increasingly in 
hand surgery and medicine in general. It is important for hand surgeons to 
understand these techniques and how to interpret the results from these studies. 
Performing a decision analysis involves (1) defining a specific question, (2) 
creating a model to frame the question, (3) assigning value to outcomes in the 
model, (4) assigning probabilities to chance events in the model, (5) 
identifying the best strategy within the model, (6) sensitivity analysis, and 
(7) model refinement. It is important to recognize the limitations inherent in 
decision analysis but also to understand its value in overcoming clinical 
uncertainty by employing a practical technique of modeling choices and outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.03.005
PMID: 19481363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2009 Sep;201(3):263.e1-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2009.03.017.  Epub 2009 May 30.

Oral contraceptive effectiveness according to body mass index, weight, age, and 
other factors.

Dinger JC(1), Cronin M, Möhner S, Schellschmidt I, Minh TD, Westhoff C.

Author information:
(1)ZEG-Center for Epidemiology and Health Research, Berlin, Germany. 
dinger@zeg-berlin.de

Comment in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2009 Sep;201(3):e1-4.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess the use-effectiveness of oral 
contraceptives (OCs) in Europe according to body mass index (BMI), weight, age, 
and other factors.
STUDY DESIGN: In a planned secondary analysis, we used data from the European 
Active Surveillance Study on Oral Contraceptives, which was a prospective active 
cohort surveillance study of 59,510 OC users, to assess the effectiveness of OCs 
overall and by BMI, weight, age, duration of use, ethinylestradiol dose, regimen 
type, starting/switching status, and parity. Self-reported unplanned pregnancies 
during OC use were confirmed by interview.
RESULTS: An analysis of OC effectiveness (112,659 women-years of exposure and 
545 unplanned pregnancies) found little variation in effectiveness by 
BMI/weight. Failure rates decreased after 30 years of age and with an increasing 
duration of use.
CONCLUSION: OC users in Europe reported high contraceptive effectiveness with 
"typical use." Failure rates decreased with age and duration of use. BMI and 
weight had little, if any, influence on effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2009.03.017
PMID: 19481720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 May-Jun;50(3):295-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.04.014. Epub 2009 May 29.

Health economic effect of donepezil treatment for CDR 0.5 converters to 
Alzheimer's disease as shown by the Markov model.

Kasuya M(1), Meguro K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Behavioral Neurology, Tohoku University Graduate 
School of Medicine, 2-1, Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, 980-8575 Sendai, Japan.
