Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München, Institute of Ecological Chemistry, 85764, 
Neuherberg, Germany. bernhard.michalke@helmholtz-muenchen.de

Comment in
    J Environ Monit. 2009 May;11(5):937-8.

Improved living conditions have led to a steady increase in the life expectancy 
of humans in most countries. However, this is accompanied by an increased 
probability of suffering from neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's 
disease or Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, the therapeutic possibilities for 
curing these diseases are very limited up to now. Many studies indicate that a 
variety of environmental factors contribute to the initiation and promotion of 
neurodegenerative diseases. For example, the role of metal exposure and 
disturbance of metal homeostasis in the brain is discussed in this respect. 
However, most studies focus on the neurological and toxicological aspects but 
not on a detailed characterisation of the species of the involved metals. 
Therefore, this review summarizes the neurotoxic effects of selected metals on 
humans and focuses on contributions from trace element speciation analysis with 
relevance to neuroscientific research. In spite of the advance in 
instrumentation and methodology of speciation analysis there are few 
applications for matrices like cerebrospinal fluid which is due to limited 
access to these samples and analytical challenges caused by matrix 
interferences, low concentrations and limited stability of many trace element 
species of interest. The most relevant neurotoxic metals aluminium, lead, 
manganese and mercury are reviewed in detail while further metals like cadmium, 
arsenic, bismuth and tin are briefly discussed. Current results indicate that 
knowledge on trace element speciation can contribute to a better understanding 
of the transport of metals across the neural barriers and potentially of their 
role in diseased human brains.

DOI: 10.1039/b817817h
PMID: 19436852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Internist (Berl). 2009 May;50(5):561-71. doi: 10.1007/s00108-008-2271-0.

[Lung transplantation. Indications, long-term results and special impact of 
follow-up care].

[Article in German]

Dierich M(1), Fuehner T, Welte T, Simon A, Gottlieb J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Pneumologie , Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, Hannover. 
Dierich.Martin@mh-hannover.de

Lung transplantation has been established as an appropriate ultimate treatment 
strategy in end-stage lung disease, when all conventional therapeutic options 
have been exhausted. A successful transplantation should result in an improved 
quality of life as well as an increase in life-expectancy for certain diseases 
(cystic fibrosis, pulmonary fibrosis and pulmonary hypertension). There is still 
a critical need regarding the number of available donor organs. Presently, one 
out of six patients dies on the waiting list. In order to identify suitable 
candidates for transplantation a number of criteria require consideration. These 
include the exact etiology of the pulmonary or cardiac disease, but also patient 
age, physical mobility, nutritional and muscular status as well as a 
comprehensive assessment to exclude significant extra-pulmonary co-morbidities. 
Complications arising after transplantation occur because of general 
perioperative risks, but also as a result of specific issues such as acute or 
chronic graft rejection, airway stenoses, infections of the newly 
immunosuppressed patient as well as a complete spectrum of secondary 
extra-pulmonary conditions. Comprehensive follow-up care in lung transplantation 
patients remains a vital issue. Analyses have shown a relevant improvement in 
long-term outcome, when follow-up care is delivered in cooperation with an 
established large volume transplant centre.

Die Lungentransplantation ist bei weit fortgeschrittenen Lungenerkrankungen nach 
Ausschöpfung aller Therapiemöglichkeiten eine Therapieoption, welche die 
Lebensqualität und – bei bestimmten Indikationen (zystische Fibrose, 
Lungenfibrose, pulmonal arterielle Hypertonie) – Lebenserwartung verbessert. Die 
Anzahl verfügbarer Spenderorgane ist so gering, dass jeder 6. Patient auf der 
Warteliste verstirbt. Bei der Auswahl geeigneter Kandidaten sind neben der 
ursächlichen Lungen- oder Herz-Lungenerkrankung, das Alter, vorhandene 
Mobilität, Ernährungs- und Muskelstatus und extrapulmonale Begleiterkrankungen 
entscheidende Kriterien. Postoperative Komplikationen können durch die Operation 
bedingt, durch eine Transplantatabstoßung (akut oder chronisch), 
Atemwegskomplikationen, Infektionen und extrapulmonale Folgeerkrankungen 
auftreten. Die Nachsorge erfolgt immer in Kooperation mit dem 
Transplantationszentrum und hat in großen Zentren zu einer spürbaren 
Verbesserung der Langzeitergebnisse geführt.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-008-2271-0
PMCID: PMC7095941
PMID: 19436963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Jul;24(7):816-21. doi: 10.1007/s11606-009-1006-9.
Epub  2009 May 13.

Physicians' decisions about continuing or stopping colon cancer screening in the 
elderly: a qualitative study.

Lewis CL(1), Griffith J, Pignone MP, Golin C.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology, University 
of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. Carmen_Lewis@med.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Experts suggest an individualized approach to colon cancer screening 
to take into account variation in older adults' life expectancies and potential 
to benefit from screening. However, little is known about how physicians make 
decisions about colon cancer screening in adults age 75 and older.
OBJECTIVE: To understand whether physicians employ individualized decision 
making for colon cancer screening in older adults, and, if so, to determine the 
individual factors they believed were important to consider in making such 
decisions.
DESIGN: Qualitative research using focus groups and individual interviews
PARTICIPANTS: Fifteen primary care physicians practicing in community settings 
participated in three focus groups and two interviews.
APPROACH: We used two clinical vignettes of 78-year-old women in fair and poor 
health states to stimulate discussions about clinical decision making for CRC 
screening in older adults.
RESULTS: Physicians considered a wide range of factors, including clinical 
factors, such as age, life expectancy, co-morbidities, and functional status, as 
well as individual factors, such as personality, previous screening behavior, 
family support, and the relationship with the patient. Physicians reported 
difficulty with these decisions because of their complexity and because they 
involve life expectancy estimates. Their approach and discussion with patients 
seemed to be dependent on the degree of certainty they perceived regarding their 
clinical assessment as to whether the patient had the potential to benefit from 
screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Colorectal cancer screening decision making is complex. Physicians 
reported using a range of clinical and individual factors to decide about 
colorectal cancer screening in older adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-009-1006-9
PMCID: PMC2695516
PMID: 19437080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Aug;30(3):265-74. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2009.04033.x. Epub 2009 May 5.

Cost-effectiveness of biological therapy for Crohn's disease: Markov cohort 
analyses incorporating United Kingdom patient-level cost data.

Bodger K(1), Kikuchi T, Hughes D.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Division, School of Clinical Sciences, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: Anti-TNF-alpha agents for Crohn's disease (CD) have good clinical 
efficacy but high acquisition cost compared to rival drugs.
AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of infliximab and adalimumab for Crohn's 
disease from the perspective of the UK NHS, incorporating recent trial and 
observational data.
METHODS: Lifetime Markov analyses constructed to simulate quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and costs. CD was represented by four health-states 
representing: Full response, partial response, nonresponse, surgery and death. 
The course of CD under standard care was based on the Olmsted county cohort. 
Systematic review identified ACCENT I (infliximab) and CHARM (adalimumab) as 
sources for efficacy data. We modelled an intention-to-treat strategy for 
biologics including surgical rates based on observational data, cost estimates 
from our UK dataset and utilities from an algorithm converting CDAI to EQ-5D 
utilities.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) compared to standard 
care for 1-year of treatment with infliximab or adalimumab were 19,050 pounds 
and 7190 pounds per QALY gained, respectively. Lifetime therapy was dominated by 
standard care. Analyses over shorter time horizons, matched to treatment 
duration, resulted in unfavourable ICERs.
CONCLUSION: The model suggests acceptable ICERs for biological agents when 
considering a lifetime horizon with periods of up to 4 years continuous therapy. 
As with all economic evaluations, the results may not be generalizable beyond 
the perspective of analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2009.04033.x
PMID: 19438428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Can Fam Physician. 2009 May;55(5):512-3.

The bridge-builders.

Germa F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, 
Canada.

PMCID: PMC2682314
PMID: 19439710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Urol Int. 2009;82(3):296-300. doi: 10.1159/000209361. Epub 2009 May 11.

A lower risk of dying from urological cancer in Down syndrome: clue for cancer 
protecting genes on chromosome 21.

Satgé D(1), Sasco AJ, Day S, Culine S.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Anatomie Pathologique, Centre Hospitalier, Tulle, France. 
daniel.satge@ch-tulle.fr

OBJECTIVE: It was the aim of this study to evaluate the risk of dying from 
bladder and kidney cancer in persons with Down syndrome (DS), as compared with 
the general population.
METHODS: Using data of the French national mortality statistics (INSERM) during 
a 21-year period, 1979-1999, we compared the observed number of deaths from 
renal and bladder cancer in DS subjects with the expected number of deaths from 
these cancers. The expected number of deaths was calculated taking into account 
the prevalence of DS at birth and the life expectancy of persons with DS, 
assuming the risk was identical to the one of the general population.
RESULTS: A significant 6-fold decreased risk of dying from urological cancer was 
found in persons with DS, with 5 cases observed, while 30 were expected. The 
relative risk of dying was 0.27 for bladder cancer (p = 0.0017) and 0.06 for 
kidney cancer (p < 0.0001). Other mortality studies provided similar values.
CONCLUSIONS: Children and adults with DS have a decreased risk of dying from 
urological neoplasms. Genes on chromosome 21 could play a protective role 
against urological cancer.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000209361
PMID: 19440017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. J Clin Psychopharmacol. 2009 Jun;29(3):206-9. doi:
10.1097/JCP.0b013e3181a48e12.

Aripiprazole for the treatment of schizophrenia with co-occurring social 
anxiety: an open-label cross-taper study.

Stern RG(1), Petti TA, Bopp K, Tobia A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, UMDNJ-RWJ Medical School, Cedar Grove, NJ 07009, 
USA. rgsternmd@comcast.net

OBJECTIVES: Co-occurring social anxiety in patients with schizophrenia is common 
and often severe. Pharmacologic agents with serotonin receptor 1A agonist 
properties such as aripiprazole are believed to be effective anxiolytic drugs. 
This open-label study tested the hypothesis that a switchover to aripiprazole 
would reduce the severity of social anxiety in patients, who have schizophrenia 
with co-occurring social anxiety, treated with neuroleptic medications.
STUDY DESIGN: Eligible consenting outpatients meeting the criteria from the 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, for 
schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder with co-occurring social anxiety 
symptoms completed baseline assessments, after which their neuroleptic 
medication was gradually cross-titrated over to a maximum of 30 mg of 
aripiprazole orally per day. Patients who completed the 2-month short-term study 
had the option to continue for 10 more months in the extension phase of the 
study. Complete baseline assessments were performed after 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, and 12 
months. The study hypothesized that a switchover to aripiprazole would 
significantly improve social anxiety symptoms and quality of life ratings in the 
short term and that treatment continuation would help maintain and strengthen 
those effects, as assessed on the Liebowitz Social Anxiety and Sheehan 
Disability scales and on preselected specific global items of the Lehman Quality 
of Life Interview.
RESULTS: Sixteen patients were enrolled in the short-term study, and 10 of them 
entered the extension phase study. Last observation carried forward analysis 
showed significant improvements from baseline to the end of month 2 and from 
baseline to the end of month 12 in social anxiety scores (Liebowitz Social 
Anxiety Scale total, avoidance, and anxiety), social disability scores (Sheehan 
Disability Scale total, work, social life, and family), and in the Lehman 
Quality of Life Interview overall function, average life in general, and 
emotional well-being scores and psychosis (Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale 
total) scores.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that the switchover to aripiprazole 
effectively improved social anxiety, psychosis, and quality of life in patients 
with schizophrenia who were treated with neuroleptic medications. These 
improvements occurred within the first 8 weeks of treatment and persisted when 
treatment was continued for up to 1 year. Further studies are warranted to 
replicate these findings in controlled trials.

DOI: 10.1097/JCP.0b013e3181a48e12
PMID: 19440071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Pediatr Phys Ther. 2009 Summer;21(2):201-4. doi:
10.1097/PEP.0b013e3181a347ab.

Evaluation of short-term intensive orthotic garment use in children who have 
cerebral palsy.

Flanagan A(1), Krzak J, Peer M, Johnson P, Urban M.

Author information:
(1)Rehab Services Department, Shriners Hospitals for Children-Chicago, 2211 N. 
Oak Park Avenue, Chicago, IL 60707, USA. aflanagan@shrinenet.org

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effectiveness of an orthotic undergarment on gait, 
balance, and life skills of children who have diplegic cerebral palsy (CP).
METHODS: Five subjects (ages 7-13 years) with CP at Gross Motor Function 
Classification Scale level I wore a TheraTog undergarment for 12 weeks. Data 
collection included Vicon Motion Analysis, Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor 
Proficiency, and Canadian Occupational Performance Measure at baseline; in and 
out of the garment after 12 weeks of wear; 2 months and 4 months after garment 
wear.
RESULTS: Kinematic data indicated increased peak hip extension and correction of 
anterior pelvic tilt in stance during wear time. Composite gross motor scores on 
the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency and Canadian Occupational 
Performance Measure scores improved significantly at the end of wear time.
CONCLUSION: When worn for a 12-week time frame, an individualized orthotic 
garment can improve gait and functional skills in some children with CP.

DOI: 10.1097/PEP.0b013e3181a347ab
PMID: 19440130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. J Nematol. 2008 Sep;40(3):167-78.

Basic Demography of Caenorhabditis remanei Cultured under Standard Laboratory 
Conditions.

Diaz SA(1), Lindström J, Haydon DT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Environmental and Evolutionary Biology, Faculty of Biomedical and 
Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, G12 8QQ, UK.

Species of the Caenorhabditis genus have been used as model systems in genetics 
and molecular research for more than 30 years. Despite this, basic information 
about their demography, in the wild and in the lab, has remained unknown until 
very recently. Here, we provide for the first time a closely quantified 
life-cycle of the gonochoristic nematode C. remanei. Using C. elegans protocols, 
modified for an outcrossing nematode, we estimated the basic demography for 
individuals of two strains (JU724 and MY12-G) which were recently isolated from 
the wild. We used a half-sib breeding design to estimate the phenotypic variance 
of traits of related (within line) and unrelated individuals (between lines) of 
the two strains cultured in a common environment in the lab. Comparisons between 
these strains showed that JU724 was characterized by significantly lower overall 
lifetime fecundity and by differences in age-specific fecundity relative to 
MY12-G, but there were no differences in their life expectancy and reproductive 
lifespan. We found high phenotypic variance among all traits. The variance 
within lines was relatively high compared to the low variation between lines. We 
suggest this could be the result of high gene flow in these wild-type strains. 
Finally, comparisons between species suggest that, despite the differences in 
reproductive strategies (i.e., sex ratios, lifetime fecundity), C. remanei has 
developmental time similar to the hermaphroditic N2 strain of C. elegans.

PMCID: PMC2664667
PMID: 19440256


685. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2009 Mar;6(3):1235-53. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph6031235. Epub 2009 Mar 20.

How the mid-Victorians worked, ate and died.

Clayton P(1), Rowbotham J.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Oxford Brookes University, UK. 
paulrclayton@gmail.com

Analysis of the mid-Victorian period in the U.K. reveals that life expectancy at 
age 5 was as good or better than exists today, and the incidence of degenerative 
disease was 10% of ours. Their levels of physical activity and hence calorific 
intakes were approximately twice ours. They had relatively little access to 
alcohol and tobacco; and due to their correspondingly high intake of fruits, 
whole grains, oily fish and vegetables, they consumed levels of micro- and 
phytonutrients at approximately ten times the levels considered normal today. 
This paper relates the nutritional status of the mid-Victorians to their freedom 
from degenerative disease; and extrapolates recommendations for the 
cost-effective improvement of public health today.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph6031235
PMCID: PMC2672390
PMID: 19440443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Behav Healthc. 2009 Mar;29(3):38-9.

Emphasizing holistic care.

Davis K(1).

Author information:
(1)Thresholds Institute, Chicago, USA. kdavis@thresholds.org

PMID: 19441208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Apr 15;5(199):808-11.

[Towards the Swiss systemic lupus erythematosus cohort study (SSCS)].

[Article in French]

Chizzolini C(1), Cohen CD, Eisenberger U, Hauser T, Hunziker T, Leimgruber A, 
Pechula M, Ribi C, Stoll T, Trendelenburg M; Groupe de travail de la SSCS.

Author information:
(1)Département de médecine, HUG, Genève. carlo.chizzolini@unige.ch

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a rare disease mainly affecting women of 
childbearing age. It is characterized by a very large spectrum of clinical 
manifestations accompanied by prototypic abnormalities of the immune system. 
While recent advances in therapeutic approaches have taken place, SLE still has 
a profound impact on the quality of life and life expectancy of affected 
persons. The Swiss cohort for longitudinally studying SLE named SSCS responds to 
the necessity of better understanding the history of the disease, the mechanisms 
involved in its pathogenesis, to identify and apply new therapeutic and 
prevention strategies, as well as to analyze the impact that SLE has at the 
social and personal levels in Switzerland. SSCS is a tool to be used by all 
researchers interested to provide answers to the many open questions in SLE.

PMID: 19441745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Apr 15;5(199):849.

[Vulnerability and health: why a new rubric?].

[Article in French]

Bodenmann P(1), Wolff H, Madrid C.

Author information:
(1)Unité des populations vulnérables, PMU, 1011 Lausanne. 
patrick.bodenmann@hospvd.ch

PMID: 19441752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. OMICS. 2009 Jun;13(3):239-51. doi: 10.1089/omi.2008.0080.

Modeling and managing experimental data using FuGE.

Jones AR(1), Lister AL, Hermida L, Wilkinson P, Eisenacher M, Belhajjame K, 
Gibson F, Lord P, Pocock M, Rosenfelder H, Santoyo-Lopez J, Wipat A, Paton NW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preclinical Veterinary Science, Faculty of Veterinary Science, 
University of Liverpool, Liverpool, United Kingdom. Andrew.Jones@liv.ac.uk

The Functional Genomics Experiment data model (FuGE) has been developed to 
increase the consistency and efficiency of experimental data modeling in the 
life sciences, and it has been adopted by a number of high-profile 
standardization organizations. FuGE can be used: (1) directly, whereby generic 
modeling constructs are used to represent concepts from specific experimental 
activities; or (2) as a framework within which method-specific models can be 
developed. FuGE is both rich and flexible, providing a considerable number of 
modeling constructs, which can be used in a range of different ways. However, 
such richness and flexibility also mean that modelers and application developers 
have choices to make when applying FuGE in a given context. This paper captures 
emerging best practice in the use of FuGE in the light of the experience of 
several groups by: (1) proposing guidelines for the use and extension of the 
FuGE data model; (2) presenting design patterns that reflect recurring 
requirements in experimental data modeling; and (3) describing a community 
software tool kit (STK) that supports application development using FuGE. We 
anticipate that these guidelines will encourage consistent usage of FuGE, and as 
such, will contribute to the development of convergent data standards in omics 
research.

DOI: 10.1089/omi.2008.0080
PMID: 19441879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Surg Oncol. 2009 Sep;18(3):255-67. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2009.03.006. Epub
2009  May 12.

Non-surgical treatment of localised prostate cancer.

Moule RN(1), Hoskin PJ.

Author information:
(1)Mount Vernon Hospital, Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Northwood, Middlesex HA9 
2RN, UK.

The non-surgical treatment of localised prostate cancer depends on a number of 
factors including: PSA, stage, Gleason score, age, fitness for treatment and 
life expectancy, and is individualised depending on risk. Patients who present 
with early localised (stage T1 or T2) tumours with low risk features (PSA <10 
ng/ml, Gleason score 3+4 or below) and who have a life expectancy of more than 
10 years may consider radiotherapy or active surveillance. Permanent 
brachytherapy seed implantation is suitable for low risk patients who have 
minimal lower urinary tract symptoms, with equivalent results to external beam 
radiotherapy Conformal high-dose external beam radiotherapy is effective for 
patients with high risk disease, and consideration should be given to the use of 
neoadjuvant and adjuvant anti-androgens. Prophylactic pelvic nodal irradiation 
is indicated for patients with high risk of lymph node disease, followed by a 
boost to the prostate using either a smaller external beam volume, or 
brachytherapy. The definitive treatment depends on both clinical parameters such 
as the clinical staging, prognostic risk, and the likelihood of acute and late 
toxicity and the patient's personal choice based on their life style.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2009.03.006
PMID: 19442516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Public Health. 2009 May;123(5):351-7. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2009.03.006. Epub
2009  May 14.

Analysis using life tables of the major causes of death and the differences 
between country of birth groups in New South Wales, Australia.

Weerasinghe DP(1), Parr NJ, Yusuf F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Level 3, Campus Centre, Prince of Wales 
Hospital, Barker Street, Randwick, NSW 2031, Australia. 
aminda.weerasinghe@sesiahs.health.nsw.gov.au

OBJECTIVES: This study used life table methods to evaluate the potential effects 
of reduction in major disease mortality on life expectancy in New South Wales 
(NSW), and the differences in cause-specific mortality between country of birth 
groups. The total and partial elimination of major causes of death were examined 
to identify the high-risk groups for community-level health planning.
STUDY DESIGN: Life tables were used to combine the mortality rates of the NSW 
population at different ages into a single statistical model.
METHODS: Using abridged, multiple decrement and cause-elimination life tables 
with the mortality data for NSW in 2000-2002, broader disease groups were 
examined. Multiple decrement tables were generated by country of birth. The 
effect of the partial elimination of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) was also 
studied.
RESULTS: This study found that Pacific-born men and women who reach their 30th 
birthday and eventually die from IHD are expected to live, on average, 10.8 and 
5.8 years less, respectively, than average men and women in NSW. If IHD is 
eliminated as a cause of death, 7.5 years for males and 6.7 years for females 
would be added to life expectancy at birth.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy at birth is likely to be further increased by 
reducing deaths caused by diseases of the cardiovascular system, particularly 
among people aged over 65 years, by reducing malignant neoplasm deaths among 
those aged below 65 years, and by reducing deaths due to accidents, injury and 
poisoning, mainly among men aged 15-29 years. Further gains in life expectancy 
could be achieved with community-level educational programmes on lifestyle 
management and disease prevention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2009.03.006
PMID: 19443003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Transfus Clin Biol. 2009 May;16(2):209-13. doi:
10.1016/j.tracli.2009.03.004.  Epub 2009 May 13.

[The contraindications in blood donation. Impact of the decree of January 12, 
2009].

[Article in French]

Danic B(1), Bigey F.

Author information:
(1)Etablissement Français du Sang Bretagne, 35016 Rennes cedex, France. 
bruno.danic@efs.sante.fr

The ministerial decree of 12 January 2009 fixing the criteria for the selection 
of blood donors establishes the list of contraindications for blood donation 
according to the appendix to the European directive 2004/33/EC. This text 
regroups the preexisting guidelines and reinforces their regulatory status, 
which illustrates the importance attributed to the selection of donors within 
the dispositions ensuring transfusion safety. It introduces more flexibility 
with respect to the preexisting criteria taking into account the improvement in 
life expectancy and the continual increase in transfusion requirements. Thus, 
the rules for donation authorize up to 24 donations annually and one may give 
whole blood up to six times per year for men and four times for women, up to the 
age of 70, the risk of anaemia now being well controlled. The medical rules are 
more flexible in the areas of haemochromatosis, allergies and autoimmune 
diseases and for the collection of plasma for fractionation. Some expected 
changes were not approved in certain cases due to the preeminence of the 
corresponding criteria in the European directive, like for cured cancers, in 
other cases in view of an analysis of the available epidemiological data or 
potential risks like for sexual relations between men and the risks linked to 
prions or emerging agents (transfusion antecedents). These selection criteria 
will be revised every year, which should permit their adaptation to the current 
state of knowledge, although the extent of the revisions will be limited by the 
updating of the European text on which they are based.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tracli.2009.03.004
PMID: 19443250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Heart. 2009 Oct;95(20):1648-52. doi: 10.1136/hrt.2007.138420. Epub 2009 May
13.

The case for fetal cardiac intervention.

Gardiner HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Developmental Biology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Imperial College, Queen Charlotte's and Chelsea Hospital, Du Cane Road, London 
W120HS, UK. helena.gardiner@imperial.ac.uk

Surgery for congenital heart disease is now often performed in the first months 
of life because mortality is higher and myocardial damage more serious in 
unoperated children or those undergoing delayed surgery. Fetal cardiac 
intervention may prove a logical extension and has been proposed for fetuses 
with critical semilunar valve stenosis or atresia. Early ventricular 
decompression may halt disease progression, alter the natural history and 
improve postnatal outcomes either by preserving a two-ventricle circulation or 
by improving the outlook for single-ventricle candidates because of a healthier 
myocardium and pulmonary bed. Without intervention, fetuses with a closed 
interatrial septum may develop circulatory failure resulting in hydrops and 
intrauterine death, whereas in utero balloon atrial septostomy may stabilise the 
situation and increase duration of pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1136/hrt.2007.138420
PMID: 19443473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. J Nucl Med. 2009 Jun;50(6):849-53. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.108.058586. Epub 2009
May  14.

Physiologic thymic uptake of 18F-FDG in children and young adults: a PET/CT 
evaluation of incidence, patterns, and relationship to treatment.

Jerushalmi J(1), Frenkel A, Bar-Shalom R, Khoury J, Israel O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Western Galilee Hospital, Nahariya, Israel. 
Jacqueline.Jerushalmi@naharia.health.gov.il

(18)F-FDG uptake in the thymus, mainly related to hyperplasia after 
chemotherapy, has been described. Thymic uptake can challenge the accurate 
assessment of cancer patients by (18)F-FDG imaging. The present study defines 
the incidence, patterns, and intensity of thymic (18)F-FDG uptake in 
relationship to age and time after treatment in a large cohort of patients.
METHODS: A total of 559 consecutive (18)F-FDG PET/CT studies in 160 patients (86 
men, 74 women; age, 3-40 y) performed at baseline, during treatment, at the end 
of treatment, and during follow-up were retrospectively reviewed. PET/CT studies 
were assessed for the presence or absence (T+ or T-, respectively), pattern, and 
intensity (SUVmax) of increased (18)F-FDG uptake in the anterior mediastinum, 
localized by the CT component to the thymus. The overall incidence of (18)F-FDG 
avidity in the thymus in relationship to the patient's age and time after 
treatment administration were statistically evaluated.
RESULTS: There were 137 of 559 T+ studies (25%), with equal sex distribution. T+ 
studies were found in significantly younger patients (20.6 +/- 9.3 y vs. 27.4 
+/- 8.4 y, P < 0.001). Most T+ patients (60%) showed an inverted V pattern of 
thymic uptake, with additional unilateral mediastinal extension in 24% and focal 
midline uptake in 16% of studies. T+ studies were encountered in 80% of patients 
younger than 10 y, compared with 8% of patients in the 31- to 40-y age group. 
There were 17% T+ studies at baseline, 6% during treatment, 8% at the end of 
treatment, and 27%-40% during follow-up. The average SUVmax of thymic (18)F-FDG 
uptake was 3.73 +/- 1.22.
CONCLUSION: Thymic (18)F-FDG uptake was found in 28% of the present study 
population, more frequently after treatment. T+ patients were significantly 
younger. Thymic uptake was found in 73% of untreated patients up to the age of 
13 y and in 8% of patients in the fourth decade of life. Knowledge of this age- 
and treatment-related incidence of physiologic thymic (18)F-FDG avidity can 
reduce the number of potential pitfalls in reporting PET/CT studies in cancer 
patients.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.108.058586
PMID: 19443604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Eye (Lond). 2010 Feb;24(2):276-83. doi: 10.1038/eye.2009.112. Epub 2009 May
15.

Second-eye cataract surgery in elderly women: a cost-utility analysis conducted 
alongside a randomized controlled trial.

Sach TH(1), Foss AJ, Gregson RM, Zaman A, Osborn F, Masud T, Harwood RH.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of East Anglia, Norwich, 
UK. T.Sach@uea.ac.uk

AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of second-eye 
cataract surgery for older women with minimal visual dysfunction in the eye to 
be operated on from a Health and Personal Social Services perspective, compared 
to waiting list controls who had already undergone first-eye cataract surgery.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was undertaken alongside a randomized 
controlled trial of second-eye cataract surgery in secondary care ophthalmology 
clinics. A total of 239 women over 70 years old with one unoperated cataract 
were randomized to cataract surgery (expedited, approximately 4 weeks) or 
control (routine surgery, 12 months wait). Outcomes were measured in terms of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), with health-related quality of life 
estimated using the EuroQol EQ-5D.
RESULTS: The operated group had costs which were, on average, pound646 more than 
the control group (95% confidence interval, pound16-1276, P<0.04) and had a mean 
QALY gain of 0.015 (95% confidence interval, -0.039 to 0.068, P=0.59) per 
patient over 1 year. Therefore, the incremental cost-utility ratio was 
pound44,263 over the 1-year trial period. In an analysis modelling costs and 
benefits over patients' expected lifetime, the incremental cost per QALY was 
pound17,299, under conservative assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Second-eye cataract surgery is not likely to be cost-effective in 
the short term for those with mild visual dysfunction pre-operation. In the long 
term, second-eye cataract surgery appears to be cost-effective unless carer 
costs are included.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2009.112
PMID: 19444295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Cancer Gene Ther. 2009 Nov;16(11):841-7. doi: 10.1038/cgt.2009.32. Epub 2009
May  15.

Combination of human tumor necrosis factor-alpha (hTNF-alpha) gene delivery with 
gemcitabine is effective in models of pancreatic cancer.

Murugesan SR(1), King CR, Osborn R, Fairweather WR, O'Reilly EM, Thornton MO, 
Wei LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Research, GenVec Inc, Gaithersburg, MD 20878, USA.

Pancreatic adenocarcinoma is an aggressive and highly lethal malignancy. 
Currently, gemcitabine is commonly used in patients with pancreatic cancer. 
However, the life expectancy of pancreatic cancer patients remains poor. We 
explored the possibility of increased anti-tumor activity by combining human 
tumor necrosis factor-alpha (hTNF-alpha) with current front-line therapy. Human 
TNF-alpha displays potent anti-tumor activity, but its use is limited by the 
toxicity of systemic administration. We developed a gene delivery approach using 
intratumoral injections of an adenoviral vector expressing hTNF-alpha, 
AdEgr.TNF.11D (TNFerade), to increase local concentrations of hTNF-alpha within 
the tumor, thereby maximizing local anti-tumor activity and yet minimizing the 
systemic toxicities. An ongoing phase III clinical trial is testing the efficacy 
of AdEgr.TNF.11D-injected intratumorally and combining with chemotherapy in 
locally advanced pancreatic cancer. In this study, we show that treatment with 
AdEgr.TNF.11D and gemcitabine results in a high level of hTNF-alpha expression 
in human pancreatic cancer cell lines. The combined treatment was well 
tolerated, highly active and produced marked delays in the growth of human 
pancreatic xenograft tumors relative to either agent alone. Our results strongly 
suggest that combination of AdEgr.TNF.11D and gemcitabine may be a potentially 
useful therapeutic approach for the improved treatment of pancreatic cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/cgt.2009.32
PMID: 19444305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Recenti Prog Med. 2009 Jan;100(1):1-3.

[The thyroid papillary microcarcinoma, a frequent scenario with a not well known 
biological behaviour].

[Article in Italian]

Trimboli P(1).

Author information:
(1)Servizio di Endocrinologia e Diabetologia, Ospedale Israelitico, Roma. 
pierpaolo.trimboli@gmail.com

The advent of high resolution ultrasonography resulted in the increased 
detection of small thyroid nodules and, consequently, in the diagnosis of 
thyroid microcarcinoma (mPTC). This agrees with the reduced mortality rate from 
thyroid cancer recently recorded in several European countries. Contrary to the 
hypothesis that thyroid cancer progression should be due to the progressive 
accumulation with time of molecular alterations, in different reports mPTC age 
was significantly higher than other thyroid cancers. Recently, a report 
suggested that "papillary microtumor" sounds the more appropriate for a low 
aggressive lesion. This term could reduce the large use of overtreatment, 
unchanging the patient's expected life.

PMID: 19445273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2008 Oct;192(7):1339-47.

[Sickle cell disease in France in 2008. Achievements and challenges].

[Article in French]

Bégué P(1).

Author information:
(1)L'Académie nationale de médecine.

Much progress has been made in the past two decades in the diagnosis and 
management of sickle-cell disease. Clinical, pathophysiological and therapeutic 
studies have given rise to national procedures for all patients. Life expectancy 
has improved dramatically in industrialized countries, and the number of 
sickle-cell patients reaching adulthood is growing. Neonatal diagnosis began in 
France in 1995 and is crucial for early prevention. Crisis management and 
long-term surveillance both require dedicated drepanocytosis centers for 
children and for adults.

PMID: 19445360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2008 Oct;192(7):1395-409; discussion 1409-11.

[New issues in adult sickle sell disease].

[Article in French]

Girot R(1), Stankovic K, Lionnet F.

Author information:
(1)Centre de la drépanocytose, Hôpital Tenon, 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris.

Over the past 20 years, early medical treatment has significantly increased the 
life expectancy of children with sickle cell disease. More than 90% of patients 
now reach the age of 20, and the median life expectancy of sickle cell patients 
is at least 50 years in countries with advanced healthcare systems. The increase 
in the number of adults with homozygous sickle cell disease is accompanied by 
increasingly frequent chronic osteoarticular, renal, cardiorespiratory, ocular, 
cutaneous and cerebral complications. Pregnancy is a high-risk situation for the 
mother and child The efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea and long-term blood 
transfusions in adults with sickle cell disease are currently under 
investigation.

PMID: 19445365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Clin Ther. 2009 Apr;31(4):862-79. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.04.015.

Model-based simulation to explore the cost-effectiveness of following practice 
guidelines for triglyceride and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol control 
among patients with diabetes mellitus and mixed dyslipidemia.

Sorensen SV(1), Frick KD, Wade A, Simko R, Burge R.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Bethesda, Maryland 20814, USA. 
sonja.sorensen@unitedbiosource.com

BACKGROUND: The National Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel III 
guidelines recommend maintaining lipid levels within particular targets to 
reduce the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) events.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this simulation study was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of following guideline-recommended care compared with current 
practice or usual care for patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and mixed 
dyslipidemia (ie, high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol [LDL-C] and 
triglyceride [TG] levels).
METHODS: A simulation model using a US health care payer perspective was 
designed to predict changes in lipid levels (LDL-C, TG, high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol, and total cholesterol) and long-term CHD risk. Data about patients 
with DM and uncontrolled TG and/or LDL-C were taken from an electronic medical 
records database to develop the description of current care (eg, statin, 
fibrate, or no medication) and cholesterol levels. Patients with uncontrolled 
lipid levels who were not following guideline recommendations were assumed to be 
receiving combination treatment (ie, coadministration of statin and fibrate) or 
monotherapy for the uncontrolled lipids under guideline care. Results from a 
previous study were used to project incremental benefits of combination 
treatment compared with monotherapy. CHD events were predicted based on risk 
equations. A 20-year model of direct costs and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) was created.
RESULTS: Among patients switched to guideline therapy, the model predicted 72% 
achieved 2 lipid targets and 44% achieved 3 lipid targets in 1 year. Over 20 
years, in a modeled sample of 1000 patients, 176 myocardial infarction and 
angina events would be avoided by following guideline care. Total present value 
of costs for drug treatment and medical care for CHD events would be $33,626 per 
patient for guideline treatment versus $25,264 per patient for current care. The 
discounted QALY gain would be 0.18 per patient for an incremental cost per QALY 
of $50,315.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this model simulation suggest that for patients with 
DM and mixed dyslipidemia, following treatment guidelines rather than current 
practice (including combination therapy rather than monotherapy) would result in 
more patients achieving lipid targets, fewer CHD events, and more QALYs gained 
at a reasonable cost (less than $109,000) per QALY.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.04.015
PMID: 19446159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Vaccine. 2009 May 21;27(24):3159-64. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.03.059.
Epub  2009 Apr 9.

Age, revaccination, and tolerance effects on pneumococcal vaccination strategies 
in the elderly: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Smith KJ(1), Zimmerman RK, Nowalk MP, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. smithkj2@upmc.edu

Optimal pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccination (PPV) policy is unknown for 
cohorts aged > or =65 years. Using a Markov model, we estimated the 
cost-effectiveness of single- and multiple-dose PPV strategies in 65-, 75-, and 
80-year-old cohorts. PPV at age 65 cost $26,100 per QALY (quality adjusted life 
years) gained. Vaccination at ages 75 and 80 cost $71,300-75,800 per QALY; 
revaccination strategies cost more. When prior vaccination and loss of vaccine 
effectiveness due to tolerance are assumed, cost-effectiveness ratios increase 
substantially. Single-dose PPV is worth considering in patients aged 65-80 from 
clinical and economic standpoints. Revaccination strategies for the elderly are 
less cost-effective, particularly when prior vaccination and vaccine tolerance 
are considered.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.03.059
PMID: 19446186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Trends Plant Sci. 2009 Jun;14(6):318-27. doi: 10.1016/j.tplants.2009.03.008.
 Epub 2009 May 14.

Uncovering hidden treasures in pollen tube growth mechanics.

Zonia L(1), Munnik T.

Author information:
(1)Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, Plant Physiology Section, University 
of Amsterdam, Kruislaan 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
l.e.zonia@uva.nl

The long-standing model of tip growth in pollen tubes considers that exocytosis 
and growth occur at the apex and that the pool of very small vesicles in the 
apical dome contains secretory (exocytic) vesicles. However, recent work on 
vesicle trafficking dynamics in tobacco pollen tubes shows that exocytosis 
occurs in the subapical region. Taking these and other new results into account, 
we set out to resolve specific problems that are endemic in current models and 
present a two-part ACE (apical cap extension)-H (hydrodynamics) growth model. 
The ACE model involves delivery and recycling of materials required for new cell 
synthesis and the H model involves mechanisms that integrate and regulate key 
cellular pathways and drive cell elongation during growth.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tplants.2009.03.008
PMID: 19446491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Vaccine. 2009 Jul 16;27(33):4520-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.05.006. Epub
 2009 May 27.

Cost-effectiveness of infant vaccination with RIX4414 (Rotarix) in the UK.

Martin A(1), Batty A, Roberts JA, Standaert B.

Author information:
(1)GlaxoSmithKline Ltd., Stockley Park, Middlesex, UK.

This study estimated the cost-effectiveness of infant rotavirus vaccination with 
Rotarix in the UK, taking into account community rotavirus infections that do 
not present to the healthcare system. A Markov model compared the costs and 
outcomes of vaccination versus no vaccination in a hypothetical birth cohort of 
children followed over a lifetime, from a societal perspective and the 
perspective of the National Health Service (NHS). The model estimated costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lost due to death, hospitalisation, general 
practitioner (GP) consultation, emergency attendance and calls to NHS Direct for 
rotavirus infection in children aged <5 years. Time lost from work and parents' 
travel costs were also included in the societal perspective. The base case 
cost-effectiveness ratio for vaccination compared with no vaccination was 
pound23,298/QALY from the NHS perspective and pound11,459 from the societal 
perspective. In sensitivity analysis, the most important parameters were 
hospitalisation cost and number of GP consultations. Addition of Rotarix to the 
paediatric vaccination schedule would be a cost-effective policy option in the 
UK at the threshold range ( pound20,000-30,000/QALY) currently adopted by the 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.05.006
PMID: 19446594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Lancet. 2009 May 16;373(9676):1660. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60923-5.

Obama's health universalism.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60923-5
PMID: 19447240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2009 Sep;111(7):591-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.clineuro.2009.03.009. Epub 2009 May 17.

Radiation-induced gliomas following radiotherapy for craniopharyngiomas: a case 
report and review of the literature.

Enchev Y(1), Ferdinandov D, Kounin G, Encheva E, Bussarsky V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Medical University-Sofia, Sofia, Bulgaria. 
dr.y.enchev@gmail.com

The aim of this study was to collect, describe and analyze the radiation-induced 
gliomas in craniopharyngioma patients reported in the literature up to date. 
Review of the relevant literature was performed. One personal illustrative case 
was added. Reports of 15 patients, including the presented illustrative case, 
were evaluated. The average age of the patients at the time of irradiation was 
12.5 years. All patients underwent conventional fractionated radiotherapy with 
mean total radiation dose of 55Gy and an average latency period of 10.8 years. 
Glioma localization varied with the highest frequency of the temporal lobe 
involvement. All but one patient had high-grade gliomas on the histological 
exam. Although exceptionally rare, the radiation-induced gliomas in 
craniopharyngioma patients are potentially possible, long-term complications 
with devastating consequences in typically younger patients with long 
life-expectancy. The radiation-induced iatrogenic injury on one hand should 
provoke the research and elaboration of safer and at least, equally efficient 
alternative treatment modalities and on the other hand ought to prompt the 
investigation of the patients' risk factors predisposing the oncogenesis after 
irradiation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2009.03.009
PMID: 19447544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2009 Sep 1;52(1):106-13. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181a4f9c4.

Expanding antiretroviral options in resource-limited settings--a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Bendavid E(1), Wood R, Katzenstein DA, Bayoumi AM, Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Center for Health Policy and Center for Primary Care 
and Outcomes Research, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305, USA. 
ebd@stanford.edu

BACKGROUND: Current World Health Organization (WHO) guidelines for treatment of 
HIV in resource-limited settings call for 2 antiretroviral regimens. The 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of increasing the number of antiretroviral 
regimens is unknown.
METHODS: Using a simulation model, we compared the survival and costs of current 
WHO regimens with two 3-regimen strategies: an initial regimen of 3 nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors followed by the WHO regimens and the WHO 
regimens followed by a regimen with a second-generation boosted protease 
inhibitor (2bPI). We evaluated monitoring with CD4 counts only and with both CD4 
counts and viral load. We used cost and effectiveness data from Cape Town and 
tested all assumptions in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Over the lifetime of the cohort, 25.6% of individuals failed both WHO 
regimens by virologic criteria. However, when patients were monitored using CD4 
counts alone, only 6.5% were prescribed additional highly active antiretroviral 
