Author information:
(1)Unilever Corporate Research, Colworth Park, Sharnbrook, Bedfordshire, UK. 
O.H.Franco@warwick.ac.uk

Ageing is often associated with the aged and the diseased, nevertheless ageing 
is a process that starts in-uterus and is characterised by a progressive 
functional loss but not necessarily by the presence of disease and poor quality 
of life. How to meander through life without crossing the confines of major 
chronic disease and cognitive and physical impairment remains one of the most 
relevant challenges for science and humankind. Delimiting that 'immaculate' 
trajectory - that we dub as the 'Healthy Ageing Phenotype' - and exploring 
solutions to help the population to stay or return to this trajectory should 
constitute the core focus of scientific research. Nevertheless, current efforts 
on ageing research are mainly focused on developing animal models to disentangle 
the human ageing process, and on age-related disorders often providing merely 
palliative solutions. Therefore, to identify alternative perspectives in ageing 
research, Unilever and the Medical Research Council (MRC) UK convened a Spark 
workshop entitled 'The Healthy Ageing Phenotype'. In this meeting, international 
specialists from complementary areas related to ageing research, gathered to 
find clear attributes and definitions of the 'Healthy Ageing Phenotype', to 
identify potential mechanisms and interventions to improve healthy life 
expectancy of the population; and to highlight areas within ageing research that 
should be prioritised in the future. General agreement was reached in 
recognising ageing research as a disaggregated field with little communication 
between basic, epidemiological and clinical areas of research and limited 
translation to society. A more holistic, multi-disciplinary approach emanating 
from a better understanding of healthy ageing trajectories and centred along 
human biological resilience, its maintenance and the reversibility from early 
deviations into pathological trajectories, is urgently required. Future research 
should concentrate on understanding the mechanisms that permit individuals to 
maintain optimal health when facing pathological hazards and on developing and 
assessing potential interventions that could aid to re-establish resilience when 
lost or guarantee its integrity if present. Furthermore it is fundamental that 
scientific findings are translated incessantly into clear messages delivered to 
governmental institutions, the industry and society in general.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.02.006
PMID: 19282116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2009 Jan 21;11(3):463-75. doi: 10.1039/b814315c. Epub
2008  Nov 17.

Quantum-mechanical wavepacket propagation in a sparse, adaptive basis of 
interpolating Gaussians with collocation.

Sielk J(1), von Horsten HF, Krüger F, Schneider R, Hartke B.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Physikalische Chemie, Christian-Albrechts-Universität, 
Olshausenstrasse 40, 24098, Kiel, Germany.

We present an extension of our earlier work on adaptive quantum wavepacket 
dynamics [B. Hartke, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys., 2006, 8, 3627]. In this 
dynamically pruned basis representation the wavepacket is only stored at places 
where it has non-negligible contributions. Here we enhance the former 1D 
proof-of-principle implementation to higher dimensions and optimize it by a new 
basis set, interpolating Gaussians with collocation. As a further improvement 
the Tnum approach from Lauvergnat and Nauts [J. Chem. Phys., 2002, 116, 8560] 
was implemented, which in combination with our adaptive representation offers 
the possibility of calculating the whole Hamiltonian on-the-fly. For a 
two-dimensional artificial benchmark and a three-dimensional real-life test 
case, we show that a sparse matrix implementation of this approach saves memory 
compared to traditional basis representations and comes even close to the 
efficiency of the fast Fourier transform method. Thus we arrive at a quantum 
wavepacket dynamics implementation featuring several important black-box 
characteristics: it can treat arbitrary systems without code changes, it 
calculates the kinetic and potential part of the Hamiltonian on-the-fly, and it 
employs a basis that is automatically optimized for the ongoing wavepacket 
dynamics.

DOI: 10.1039/b814315c
PMID: 19283263


321. J Urban Health. 2009 Jul;86(4):551-61. doi: 10.1007/s11524-009-9344-9. Epub
2009  Mar 13.

Health-related quality of life, quality-adjusted life years, and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy in new york city from 1995 to 2006.

Lubetkin EI(1), Jia H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, Sophie Davis School of 
Biomedical Education at The City College of New York, 160 Convent Avenue, H404B, 
New York, NY 10031, USA. lubetkin@med.cuny.edu

We applied our previously developed estimation equation to predict EQ-5D index 
scores from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Healthy Days 
measures for the New York City (NYC) adult population from 1995 to 2006 and 
compared these trends over time with the US general population. Such scores 
enabled us to examine the burden of disease attributable to smoking and 
overweight/obesity at both the local and national levels. We employed the 
estimation equation to the 1993-2007 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System 
(BRFSS) data to obtain EQ-5D index scores for all survey respondents based on 
their age, self-rated health status, and overall number of unhealthy days. With 
the combination of mortality data, we calculated trends of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), life expectancy (LE), and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) 
as well as the percent of QALYs and QALE lost contributed by smoking and 
overweight/obesity. Mean EQ-5D index scores for NYC adults decreased from 0.874 
to 0.852 but, more recently, have increased to 0.869. The LE of an 18-year-old 
living in NYC increased 4.7 years and QALE increased 2.6 years. The contribution 
of smoking to the proportion of QALYs lost decreased from 6.7% to 3.5%, while 
the contribution of overweight/obesity to the proportion of QALYs lost increased 
from 4.5% to 16.9%. The proportion of QALEs lost due to smoking decreased from 
5.5% to 4.5%, while the proportion of QALEs lost due to overweight/obesity 
increased from 3.5% to 11.8%. Because the Healthy Days measures have been 
included in the BRFSS since 1993, translating Healthy Days Measures to a 
preference-based measure is a useful method for longitudinal tracking of 
population health at the local, state, and national level.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-009-9344-9
PMCID: PMC2704267
PMID: 19283489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. J Palliat Med. 2009 Jan;12(1):45-52. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0183.

Investigating critically ill patients' and families' perceptions of likelihood 
of survival.

Ford D(1), Zapka JG, Gebregziabher M, Hennessy W, Yang C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, 
South Carolina 29425, USA. fordd@musc.edu

OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the perception of chance for survival among 
critically ill patients and surrogates and compared those perceptions to actual 
survival and to clinical estimates of illness severity. Secondary aims explored 
whether select demographic, clinical, or personal measures were associated with 
different perceptions of chance for survival.
DESIGN: Prospective, sequential, observational, survey-based study. Primary 
measures were perception of chance for survival as compared to actual survival 
and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II (APACHE II) scores.
SETTING: Tertiary care, academic medical intensive care unit (MICU).
PATIENTS: Subjects were English-speaking adult MICU patients with a MICU 
length-of-stay greater than three days or their surrogates (n = 100).
RESULTS: Respondents tended to be more optimistic regarding chance for survival 
than supported by actual survival (p = 0.07) or APACHE II tertile (p = 0.34). 
Secondary analyses found African American race, faith, or religion impacting 
health decision-making, and higher health status reports were associated with 
more optimistic perceptions of chance for survival.
CONCLUSION: Patient/surrogate perceptions of chance for survival were not 
associated with either actual MICU survival or illness severity (APACHE II) 
highlighting an opportunity to better inform critically ill patients and 
families regarding prognosis. Clinician recognition of patients' and families' 
backgrounds and values might set the stage for such discussions.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0183
PMID: 19284262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. J Palliat Med. 2009 Jan;12(1):83-7. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0164.

Can I stop the warfarin? A review of the risks and benefits of discontinuing 
anticoagulation.

Spiess JL(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospice of the Western Reserve, Cleveland, Ohio 44119, USA. 
JSpiess@hospicewr.org

Long-term anticoagulant therapy with warfarin is part of standard therapy for 
several disorders commonly present in patients seen in hospice and palliative 
care programs. Yet warfarin is also the drug most implicated in adverse drug 
reactions and its risks rise with increasing age and comorbidity. Clinicians 
caring for patients with multiple comorbidities or a limited life expectancy 
often are faced with the decision as to whether anticoagulation should be 
continued. Published guidelines for the use of warfarin in venous 
thromboembolism and nonvalvular atrial fibrillation are based on studies in 
which such patients were underrepresented or excluded. Our review of the 
randomized trials on which these guidelines are based shows that the annual risk 
of recurrent venous thromboembolism after stopping warfarin is 2%-10%. No 
similar evidence is available for patients with atrial fibrillation, but the 
published CHADS(2) index uses multiple factors to estimate stroke risk. The risk 
of bleeding complications with warfarin is most closely linked to degree of 
anticoagulation. Nutritional compromise and changes in drug therapy increase 
this risk and require that any patient remaining on warfarin must undergo 
frequent monitoring of anticoagulant effect.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2008.0164
PMID: 19284268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Inorg Chem. 2009 Apr 20;48(8):3511-3. doi: 10.1021/ic900113e.

A tetranuclear Cu(II)-based 2D aggregate with an unprecedented tetradentate 
mu(4)-N1,N3,N7,N9-adeninate nucleobase.

Yang EC(1), Zhao HK, Feng Y, Zhao XJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Chemistry and Life Science, Tianjin Key Laboratory of Structure 
and Performance for Functional Molecule, Tianjin Normal University, Tianjin 
300387, People's Republic of China.

A unique tetranuclear Cu(II)-based 2D aggregate containing 26-membered Cu(II)ade 
macrocycles, [Cu(4)(DMF)(6)(mu(4)-ade)(2)(mu(2)-Cl)(2)Cl(4)](n) (1; Hade = 
adenine, DMF = N,N-dimethylformamide), was isolated by the reaction of CuCl(2) 
and Hade in a mixed DMF-methanol medium and structurally characterized by X-ray 
crystallography, elemental analysis, Fourier transform infrared, fluorescence 
spectroscopy, and thermogravimetry-differential thermal analysis techniques. 
Unexpectedly, the adeninate in 1 represents an unprecedented tetradentate 
mu(4)-N1,N3,N7,N9-bridging mode, which significantly contributes to both the 
aggregate of four Cu(II) cores within the subunit and the extension of the 2D 
covalent framework. Additionally, 1 displays the intense Hade-based fluorescence 
emission in solution at room temperature.

DOI: 10.1021/ic900113e
PMID: 19284760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Best Pract Res Clin Haematol. 2009 Mar;22(1):25-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.beha.2008.12.003.

Lessons from VTE registries: the RIETE experience.

Monreal M(1), Trujillo-Santos J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital Universitari Germans Trias i Pujol, 
Badalona, Spain.

Patients with venous thromboembolism (VTE) and active cancer are often excluded 
from clinical trials of anticoagulant therapy because of short life expectancy, 
inability or unwillingness to attend for regular laboratory monitoring during 
vitamin K antagonist therapy, or contraindications to therapy. As such, 
treatment regimens based on the results from clinical trials might not be 
suitable for many VTE patients with cancer. 'Registro Informatizado de la 
Enfermedad TromboEmbólica' (RIETE) was initiated in March 2001 to prospectively 
record the current clinical management of patients with symptomatic, objectively 
confirmed, acute VTE in Spanish hospitals. This chapter will summarize the most 
important findings published to date regarding the association between VTE and 
cancer.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beha.2008.12.003
PMID: 19285270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Mol Biol. 2009 May 1;388(2):271-82. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.02.066. Epub
2009  Mar 12.

Structural rearrangements in the active site of the Thermus thermophilus 16S 
rRNA methyltransferase KsgA in a binary complex with 5'-methylthioadenosine.

Demirci H(1), Belardinelli R, Seri E, Gregory ST, Gualerzi C, Dahlberg AE, Jogl 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Brown 
University, Box G-L235, Providence, RI 02912, USA.

Posttranscriptional modification of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) occurs in all kingdoms 
of life. The S-adenosyl-L-methionine-dependent methyltransferase KsgA introduces 
the most highly conserved rRNA modification, the dimethylation of A1518 and 
A1519 of 16S rRNA. Loss of this dimethylation confers resistance to the 
antibiotic kasugamycin. Here, we report biochemical studies and high-resolution 
crystal structures of KsgA from Thermus thermophilus. Methylation of 30S 
ribosomal subunits by T. thermophilus KsgA is more efficient at low 
concentrations of magnesium ions, suggesting that partially unfolded RNA is the 
preferred substrate. The overall structure is similar to that of other 
methyltransferases but contains an additional alpha-helix in a novel N-terminal 
extension. Comparison of the apoenzyme with complex structures with 
5'-methylthioadenosine or adenosine bound in the cofactor-binding site reveals 
novel features when compared with related enzymes. Several mobile loop regions 
that restrict access to the cofactor-binding site are observed. In addition, the 
orientation of residues in the substrate-binding site indicates that 
conformational changes are required for binding two adjacent residues of the 
substrate rRNA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.02.066
PMCID: PMC2679894
PMID: 19285505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):823-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.12.056.
Epub  2009 Mar 14.

The cost-effectiveness of routine office-based identification and subsequent 
medical treatment of primary open-angle glaucoma in the United States.

Rein DB(1), Wittenborn JS, Lee PP, Wirth KE, Sorensen SW, Hoerger TJ, Saaddine 
JB.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. drein@rti.org

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):821-2.
    Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):1016.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness of routine glaucoma 
assessment and treatment under current eye care visit and treatment patterns and 
different levels of treatment effectiveness (from randomized trials).
DESIGN: We compared the costs and benefits of routine glaucoma assessment and 
treatment compared with no treatment using conservative and optimistic 
assumptions regarding treatment efficacy and including and excluding 
prediagnostic assessment costs.
PARTICIPANTS AND CONTROLS: Computer simulation of 20 million people followed 
from age 50 years to death or age 100 years.
METHODS: With the use of a computer model, we simulated glaucoma incidence, 
natural progression, diagnosis, and treatment. We defined glaucoma incidence 
conservatively as a mean deviation of -4 decibels (dB) on visual field testing 
in either eye for all diagnoses to be both clinically meaningful and 
unambiguous. We simulated the annual probability of subsequent progression and 
the quantity of visual field lost when progression occurred.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual field loss, ophthalmologic and nursing home costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), cost per QALY gained, and cost per year of 
sight gained. Costs and QALYs were discounted to 2005 values using a 3% rate.
RESULTS: Compared with no treatment and when including diagnostic assessment 
costs, the incremental cost-effectiveness of routine assessment and treatment 
was $46,000 per QALY gained, assuming conservative treatment efficacy, and 
$28,000 per QALY gained, assuming optimistic treatment efficacy. Compared with 
no treatment and when excluding diagnostic assessment costs, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of routine assessment and treatment was $20,000 per QALY 
gained, assuming conservative treatment efficacy, and $11,000 per QALY gained, 
assuming optimistic treatment efficacy. The cost-effectiveness was most 
sensitive to the treatment costs and the value of QALY losses assigned to visual 
field losses.
CONCLUSIONS: Glaucoma treatment was highly cost-effective when the costs of 
diagnostic assessments were excluded or when we assumed optimistic treatment 
efficacy. The cost was reasonable and in line with other health interventions 
even when diagnostic assessment costs were included and assuming conservative 
efficacy.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial 
interest in any materials discussed in this article.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.12.056
PMID: 19285730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Clin Psychol Rev. 2009 Jun;29(4):317-27. doi: 10.1016/j.cpr.2009.02.006.
Epub  2009 Mar 4.

Inaccurate perception of asthma symptoms: a cognitive-affective framework and 
implications for asthma treatment.

Janssens T(1), Verleden G, De Peuter S, Van Diest I, Van den Bergh O.

Author information:
(1)Research group on Health Psychology, Department of Psychology, University of 
Leuven, Belgium.

Inaccurate perception of respiratory symptoms is often found in asthma patients. 
Typically, patients who inaccurately perceive asthma symptoms are divided into 
underperceivers and overperceivers. In this paper we point out that this 
division is problematic. We argue that little evidence exists for a trait-like 
stability of under- and overperception and that accuracy of respiratory symptom 
perception is highly variable within persons and strongly influenced by 
contextual information. Particularly, expectancy and affective cues appear to 
have a powerful influence on symptom accuracy. Based on these findings and 
incorporating recent work on associative learning, attention and mental 
representations in anxiety and symptom perception, we propose a 
cognitive-affective model of symptom perception in asthma. The model can act as 
a framework to understand both normal perception as well as under- and 
overperception of asthma symptoms and can guide the development of 
affect-related interventions to improve perceptual accuracy, asthma control and 
quality of life in asthma patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpr.2009.02.006
PMID: 19285771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Urol. 2009 May;181(5):2018-25; discussion 2025-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.juro.2009.01.021. Epub 2009 Mar 14.

Prostate cancer screening and treatment in the transplant population: current 
status and recommendations.

Breyer BN(1), Whitson JM, Freise CE, Meng MV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Surgery, Division of Transplant Surgery, Helen 
Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of California, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, USA.

PURPOSE: We reviewed the current status of and recommendations for prostate 
cancer screening and treatment in the solid organ transplant population.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed a MEDLINE search to identify published data 
regarding prostate cancer screening, risk, treatment and outcomes in the solid 
organ transplant population. The literature was reviewed and summarized.
RESULTS: Most data regarding outcomes of prostate cancer treatment in the 
transplant population are limited to case reports and small series, and 
primarily involve renal insufficiency. It does not appear that the development 
or natural history of prostate cancer is significantly affected by organ failure 
or subsequent transplantation. Thus, prostate specific antigen testing and 
screening protocols can be extrapolated from the general population. However, 
the balance of comorbid diseases and estimated limitations in life expectancy 
must be carefully considered, and emphasis should be placed on risk assessment. 
Prostatectomy appears to be feasible with outcomes comparable to those in the 
non-transplant population, while data regarding the use of radiation therapy are 
limited.
CONCLUSIONS: The expansion of organ transplant criteria, including older donors 
and recipients, combined with improved allograft survival has enhanced the 
relevance of prostate cancer screening and treatment in this group. Greater 
awareness of the issues surrounding prostate cancer incidence, detection and 
natural history should promote improved data collection, screening and treatment 
of prostate cancer in the transplant population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2009.01.021
PMID: 19286214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Soc Sci Med. 2009 May;68(9):1583-90. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.02.020.
Epub  2009 Mar 13.

Do conditions in early life affect old-age mortality directly and indirectly? 
Evidence from 19th-century rural Sweden.

Bengtsson T(1), Broström G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Economic Demography, and Department of Economic History, Lund 
University, School of Economic and Management, Scheelevägen 15B, SE-223 63, 
Lund, Sweden. tommy.bengtsson@ekh.lu.se

Previous research has shown that the disease load experienced during the birth 
year, measured as the infant mortality rate, had a significant influence on 
old-age mortality in nineteenth-century rural Sweden. We know that children born 
in years with very high rates of infant mortality, due to outbreaks of smallpox 
or whooping cough, and who still survived to adulthood and married, faced a life 
length several years shorter than others. We do not know, however, whether this 
is a direct effect, caused by permanent physical damage leading to fatal 
outcomes later in life, or an indirect effect, via its influence on accumulation 
of wealth and obtained socio-economic status. The Scanian Demographic Database, 
with information on five rural parishes in southern Sweden between 1813 and 
1894, contains the data needed to distinguish between the two mechanisms. First, 
the effects of conditions in childhood on obtained socio-economic status as an 
adult are analyzed, then the effects of both early-life conditions and 
socio-economic status at various stages of life on old-age mortality. By 
including random effects, we take into account possible dependencies in the data 
due to kinship and marriage. We find that a high disease load during the first 
year of life had a strong negative impact on a person's ability to acquire 
wealth, never before shown for a historical setting. This means that it is 
indeed possible that the effects of disease load in the first year of life 
indirectly affect mortality in old age through obtained socio-economic status. 
We find, however, no effects of obtained socio-economic status on old-age 
mortality. While the result is interesting per se, constituting a debatable 
issue, it means that the argument that early-life conditions indirectly affect 
old-age mortality is not supported. Instead, we find support for the conclusion 
that the effect of the disease load in early-life is direct or, in other words, 
that physiological damage from severe infections at the start of life leads to 
higher mortality at older ages. Taking random effects at family level into 
account did not alter this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.02.020
PMID: 19286293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. RETRACTED ARTICLE

J Appl Physiol (1985). 2009 May;106(5):1712-9. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.91571.2008. Epub 2009 Mar 12.

Endurance exercise is protective for mice with mitochondrial myopathy.

Wenz T(1), Diaz F, Hernandez D, Moraes CT.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Neurology, Miller School of Medicine, Univ. of Miami, 1095 NW 14th 
Terrace, Miami, FL 33136, USA.

Retraction in
    J Appl Physiol (1985). 2016 Dec 1;121(6):1381.

Defects in the mitochondrial ATP-generating system are one of the most commonly 
inherited neurological disorders, but they remain without treatment. We have 
recently shown that modulation of the peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor-gamma coactivator-1alpha (PGC-1alpha) level in skeletal muscle of a 
mitochondrial myopathy mouse model offers a therapeutic approach. Here we 
analyzed if endurance exercise, which is known to be associated with an 
increased PGC-1alpha level in muscle, offers the same beneficial effect. We 
subjected male and female mice that develop a severe mitochondrial myopathy due 
to a cytochrome-c oxidase deficiency at 3 mo of age to endurance exercise 
training and monitored phenotypical and metabolic changes. Sedentary myopathy 
and wild-type mice were used as controls. Exercise increased PGC-1alpha in 
muscle, resulting in increased mitochondrial biogenesis, and successfully 
stimulated residual respiratory capacity in muscle tissue. As a consequence, ATP 
levels were increased in exercised mice compared with sedentary myopathy 
animals, which resulted in a delayed onset of the myopathy and a prolonged 
lifespan of the exercised mice. As an added benefit, endurance exercise induced 
antioxidant enzymes. The overall protective effect of endurance exercise delayed 
the onset of the mitochondrial myopathy and increased life expectancy in the 
mouse model. Thus stimulating residual oxidative phosphorylation function in the 
affected muscle by inducing mitochondrial biogenesis through endurance exercise 
might offer a valuable therapeutic intervention for mitochondrial myopathy 
patients.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.91571.2008
PMCID: PMC4073970
PMID: 19286571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Stroke. 2009 May;40(5):1710-20. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.540138. Epub 2009
Mar  12.

Cost-effectiveness of patient selection using penumbral-based MRI for 
intravenous thrombolysis.

Earnshaw SR(1), Jackson D, Farkouh R, Schwamm L.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, NC 27709, USA. searnshaw@rti.org

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Better selection of patients for intravenous recombinant 
tissue plasminogen activator (IV tPA) treatment may improve clinical outcomes. 
We examined the cost-effectiveness of adding penumbral-based MRI to usual 
computed tomography (CT)-based methods to identify patients for IV tPA 
treatment.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model estimated the lifetime costs and outcomes 
associated with penumbral-based MRI selection in a patient population similar to 
that enrolled in the IV tPA clinical trials. Inputs were obtained from published 
literature, clinical trial data, claims databases, and expert opinion. Outcomes 
included cost per life-year saved and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 3% annually. Sensitivity analyses 
were conducted.
RESULTS: The addition of penumbral-based MRI selection increased total cost by 
$103 over the patient's remaining lifetime. Penumbral-based MRI selection 
resulted in favorable outcomes (modified Rankin Scale <or=1) more often than 
CT-based selection (36.66% versus 35.06%) with an incremental cost per life year 
of $1840 and an incremental cost per QALY of $1004. Multivariate sensitivity 
analysis predicted cost-effectiveness (<or=$50,000 per QALY) in 99.7% of 
simulation runs.
CONCLUSIONS: Selecting ischemic stroke patients for IV tPA treatment using 
penumbral-based MRI after routine CT may increase overall acute care costs, but 
the benefit is large enough to make this highly cost-effective. This economic 
analysis lends further support to the consideration of a paradigm shift in acute 
stroke evaluation.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.540138
PMID: 19286581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2009 Sep;29(9):1304-9. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.108.178699. Epub 2009 Mar 12.

Decision analysis supports the paradigm that indiscriminate supplementation of 
vitamin E does more harm than good.

Dotan Y(1), Pinchuk I, Lichtenberg D, Leshno M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology and Pharmacology, Tel Aviv University, Sackler 
Faculty of Medicine, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: For many years, the prevailing concept was that LDL oxidation plays a 
central role in atherogenesis. As a consequence, supplementation of 
antioxidants, particularly vitamin E, became very popular. Unfortunately, 
however, the major randomized clinical trials have yielded disappointing results 
on the effects of vitamin E on both mortality and morbidity. Moreover, recent 
meta-analyses have concluded that vitamin E supplementation increases mortality. 
This conclusion has raised much criticism, most of it relating to three issues: 
(1) the choice of clinical trials to be included in the meta-analyses; (2) the 
end point of these meta-analyses (only mortality); and (3) the heterogeneity of 
the analyzed clinical trials with respect to both population and treatment. Our 
goal was to bring this controversy to an end by using a Markov-model approach, 
which is free of most of the limitations involved in using meta-analyses.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a Markov model to compare the vitamin E 
supplemented virtual cohorts with nonsupplemented cohorts derived from published 
randomized clinical trials that were included in at least one of the major 
meta-analyses. The difference between the virtual supplemented and 
nonsupplemented cohorts is given in terms of a composite end point denoted 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The vitamin E supplemented virtual cohort had 
0.30 QALY (95%CI 0.21 to 0.39) less than the nontreated virtual cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrates that in terms of QALY, indiscriminate 
supplementation of high doses of vitamin E is not beneficial in preventing CVD. 
Selective supplementation of vitamin E to individuals under oxidative stress 
requires further investigation.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.108.178699
PMID: 19286632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Hum Mol Genet. 2009 Jun 1;18(11):1976-89. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddp121. Epub 2009
Mar  13.

Attenuated muscle regeneration is a key factor in dysferlin-deficient muscular 
dystrophy.

Chiu YH(1), Hornsey MA, Klinge L, Jørgensen LH, Laval SH, Charlton R, Barresi R, 
Straub V, Lochmüller H, Bushby K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Genetics, Newcastle University, International Centre for 
Life, Central Parkway, Newcastle-Upon-Tyne NE1 3BZ, UK.

Skeletal muscle requires an efficient and active membrane repair system to 
overcome the rigours of frequent contraction. Dysferlin is a component of that 
system and absence of dysferlin causes muscular dystrophy (dysferlinopathy) 
characterized by adult onset muscle weakness, high serum creatine kinase levels 
and a prominent inflammatory infiltrate. We have observed that dysferlinopathy 
patient biopsies show an excess of immature fibres and therefore investigated 
the role of dysferlin in muscle regeneration. Using notexin-induced muscle 
damage, we have shown that regeneration is attenuated in a mouse model of 
dysferlinopathy, with delayed removal of necrotic fibres, an extended 
inflammatory phase and delayed functional recovery. Satellite cell activation 
and myoblast fusion appear normal, but there is a reduction in early neutrophil 
recruitment in regenerating and also needle wounded muscle in 
dysferlin-deficient mice. Primary mouse dysferlinopathy myoblast cultures show 
reduced cytokine release upon stimulation, indicating that the secretion of 
chemotactic molecules is impaired. We suggest an extension to the muscle 
membrane repair model, where in addition to fusing patch repair vesicles with 
the sarcolemma dysferlin is also involved in the release of chemotactic agents. 
Reduced neutrophil recruitment results in incomplete cycles of regeneration in 
dysferlinopathy which combines with the membrane repair deficit to ultimately 
trigger dystrophic pathology. This study reveals a novel pathomechanism 
affecting muscle regeneration and maintenance in dysferlinopathy and highlights 
enhancement of the neutrophil response as a potential therapeutic avenue in 
these disorders.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddp121
PMCID: PMC2678929
PMID: 19286669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2009 Mar;25(3):181-3. doi: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e31819a8a05.

Retropharyngeal abscess with mediastinal extension in an infant--still existing?

Bakshi R(1), Grover G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, PGIMER, 
Chandigarh, India.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of the present case report was to note that despite 
the low incidence of retropharyngeal abscess in the present antibiotic era, 
children, especially infants, can develop this condition. If early diagnosis is 
missed, the abscess may extend into the mediastinum and can be life threatening.
METHODS: Case reports of mediastinal abscess in the past literature along with 
the current case.
RESULTS: The present case was successfully managed by surgical drainage of the 
abscess via transcervical route along with intravenous antibiotic therapy, and 
the recovery was uneventful.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the incidence of retropharyngeal abscess has declined with 
the widespread use of antibiotics, the presenting symptom can be overlooked in a 
pediatric population, especially infants, and can extend along the fascial 
planes to the mediastinum when the recovery becomes difficult. The present 
report is an effort to draw attention to this life-threatening complication of 
retropharyngeal abscess, emphasize the role of early diagnosis, and prompt 
surgical management.

DOI: 10.1097/PEC.0b013e31819a8a05
PMID: 19287276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Glob Public Health. 2008;3 Suppl 1:58-74. doi: 10.1080/17441690801902619.

Sex, gender, and vulnerability.

Snow RC(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Population Studies Center, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2029, USA. rcsnow@umich.edu

This paper is concerned with how sex chromosomes and gendered experience 
differentially contribute to health outcomes, and how gender effects provide an 
under-explored avenue for health intervention. Research on gender and health is 
currently undermined by conflation of sex and gender in much of the 
epidemiologic and clinical literature. This precludes any meaningful reflection 
on the extent to which our genetic blueprint, versus gendered socialization, 
contributes to the specific health vulnerabilities of males or females. Drawing 
on the 2002 global disability adjusted life years (DALYs) for males and females, 
this paper looks at health outcomes that differentially affect males and 
females, and distinguishes between vulnerabilities linked to the XX or XY 
genotype, vulnerabilities due to gendered life experience, and vulnerabilities 
about which we understand relatively little. The paper highlights the dynamic 
and changeable nature of gendered health vulnerabilities. Given that 
gender-based risks are, in principle, amenable to social change, they offer 
untapped potential for health interventions.

DOI: 10.1080/17441690801902619
PMID: 19288343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Kardiol Pol. 2009 Feb;67(2):149-56; discussion 157-8.

Percutaneous extraction of endocardial leads--a single centre experience in 120 
patients.

[Article in English, Polish]

Kutarski A(1), Małecka B, Ruciński P, Zabek A.

Author information:
(1)Oddział Kliniczny Elektrokardiologii, Krakowski Szpital Specjalistyczny im. 
Jana Pawła II, ul. Pradnicka 80, 31-202 Kraków. andrzej_j_z@poczta.onet.pl

BACKGROUND: The expanding number of patients treated with pacing, especially 
resynchronisation therapy and pacing system upgrades as well as leads remaining 
inactive, and prolonged life expectancy are the causes of an increase of the 
number of electrodes in pacemaker patients. The growing problem with endocardial 
lead infections and excess leads has made percutaneous lead removal technology 
widespread as it is less invasive than cardiosurgery.
AIM: We present our experience in percutaneous lead removal in a single 
reference centre in Poland.
METHODS: During 2.5 years, 236 leads in 120 patients were removed. The criterion 
for inclusion in the present analysis was the age of the oldest lead: > 12 
months in pacemaker patients and > 6 months in patients with implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD). All patients admitted to the hospital for 
lead removal underwent a percutaneous procedure. The age of the patients ranged 
from 18 to 87 (mean 65.7) years. The leads were removed using the Lead 
Extraction System (Cook) with the rotational cutting force only, notlaser or RF 
energy.
RESULTS: Indications for lead removal were: local (pocket) infection (47%), 
endocarditis (27%) and lead excess (26%). Seventy six percent of patients had at 
least two pacemaker/ICD-related procedures whereas 24% had only one implantation 
procedure in the past. The median time from the preceding procedure was 12 
months. In 38 patients there were 60 inactive electrodes. The majority of 
patients had two (62%) or three (19%) leads, followed by 12% with one lead and 
7% of patients with more than three leads. In 27.5% of patients leads from the 
coronary sinus were removed. The complication rate was 4%.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous lead removal procedures are performed in Poland for 
class I and II indications according to NASPE classification. In many cases 
patients had multiple leads, including in the coronary sinus. The majority of 
patients had two or more interventions in the past.

PMID: 19288377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Nurs Leadersh (Tor Ont). 2009;22(1):51-2. doi: 10.12927/cjnl.2009.20611.

We are called upon to lead.

Ferguson-Paré M(1).

Author information:
(1)Professional Affairs and Chief Nurse Executive, University Health Network, 
Toronto, ON, Canada.

Comment on
    Nurs Leadersh (Tor Ont). 2009;22(1):24-50.

The paper "Global Nurse Migration: Its Impact on Developing Countries and 
Prospects for the Future" by Khaliq, Broyles and Mwachofi explores the global 
nurse migration experience in developed and developing countries. Nurses choose 
to migrate from developing countries in response to economic and political 
instability, and poor salaries and working conditions in their home countries. 
These factors also interfere with the home countries' capacity to deliver 
education for health professions and to provide adequate support for a 
healthcare system. The paper clearly outlines the catastrophic outcomes of nurse 
migration for developing countries where inadequate numbers of trained and 
experienced nurses remain to support education and administration. Many 
well-documented references in the paper report overburdening of the remaining 
workforce, reduced access to care, increased risk of patient mortality, 
increased maternal, infant and under-five-year mortality rates, reduced life 
expectancy, increased incidence of communicable diseases and reduced 
immunization, all resulting from shortages of health professionals, leading to 
increased nursing workload and burnout.

DOI: 10.12927/cjnl.2009.20611
PMID: 19289911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2009;3(3):e396. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000396. Epub
2009  Mar 17.

What will happen if we do nothing to control trachoma: health expectancies for 
blinding trachoma in southern Sudan.

Ngondi JM(1), Matthews FE, Reacher MH, King J, Brayne C, Gouda H, Emerson PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. jn250@cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Uncontrolled trachoma is a leading cause of blindness. Current 
global trachoma burden summary measures are presented as disability adjusted 
life years but have limitations due to inconsistent methods and inadequate 
population-based data on trachomatous low vision and blindness. We aimed to 
describe more completely the burden of blinding trachoma in Southern Sudan using 
health expectancies.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Age and gender specific trachomatous trichiasis 
(TT) prevalence was estimated from 11 districts in Southern Sudan. The 
distribution of visual acuity (VA) in persons with TT was recorded in one 
district. Sudan life tables, TT prevalence, and VA were used to calculate 
Trichiasis Free Life Expectancy (TTFLE) and Trichiasis Life Expectancy (TTLE) 
using the Sullivan method. TTLE was broken down by VA to derive TTLE with normal 
vision, TTLE with low vision, and TTLE with blindness. Total life expectancy at 
birth in 2001 was 54.2 years for males and 58.1 for females. From our Sullivan 
models, trichiasis life expectancy at the age of 5 years was estimated to be 7.0 
(95% confidence interval [CI] = 6.2-7.8) years (12% [95% CI = 11-14] of 
remaining life) for males and 10.9 (95% CI = 9.9-11.9 ) years (18% [95% CI = 
16-20] of remaining life) for females. Trichiasis life expectancy with low 
vision or blindness was 5.1 (95% CI = 3.9-6.4) years (9% [95% CI = 7-11] of 
remaining life) and 7.6 (95% CI = 6.0-9.1) years (12% [95% CI = 10-15] of 
remaining life) for males and females, respectively. Women were predicted to 
live longer and spend a greater proportion of their lives with disabling 
trichiasis, low vision, and blindness compared to men.
CONCLUSIONS: The study shows the future burden associated with doing nothing to 
control trachoma in Southern Sudan, that is, a substantial proportion of 
remaining life expectancy spent with trichiasis and low vision or blindness for 
both men and women, with a disproportionate burden falling on women.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000396
PMCID: PMC2652411
PMID: 19290039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


340. Support Care Cancer. 2009 Aug;17(8):1133-5. doi: 10.1007/s00520-009-0607-5.
Epub  2009 Mar 17.

Cancer-associated hypercalcemia: validation of a bedside prognostic score.

Penel N(1), Dewas S, Hoffman A, Adenis A.

Author information:
(1)Département de Cancérologie Générale, Centre Oscar Lambret, 3, Rue F 
Combemale, 5902 Lille, France. n-penel@o-lambret.fr

INTRODUCTION: Until now, there was no validated and reliable tool to estimate 
life expectancy among patients with cancer-associated hypercalcemia (CAH). This 
study aimed to validate a prognostic score previously published.
METHODS: We studied a new cohort of 252 patients with CAH. Our prognostic score 
based on the four poor-prognosis factors (liver metastasis, squamous cell 
carcinoma, hypoalbuminemia, and calcemia >2.83 mmol) was implemented to this 
cohort. The accuracy of this score for the prediction of 90-day mortality was 
estimated with area under the curve of the receiver operator curve (AUC-ROC).
RESULTS: Among this validation cohort, patients with score = 0 experienced a 
median overall survival of 797 days; whereas, patients with score >/=1 (at least 
one poor-prognosis factor) had median overall survival of 49 days (p < 0.0001). 
The AUC-ROC for the prediction of 90-day mortality were 0.88 (0.76-0.86) and 
0.67 (0.61-0.74) in the development cohort and in the validation cohort, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: We have validated a reliable bedside prognostic score for CAH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-009-0607-5
PMID: 19290550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2009 May;48(5):572-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-765X.2009.02573.x. Epub 2009 Mar 9.

Inactivation of Vibrio parahaemolyticus in pure culture, whole live and half 
shell oysters (Crassostrea virginica) by X-ray.

Mahmoud BS(1), Burrage DD.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Seafood Processing Laboratory, Coastal Research & Extension 
Center, Mississippi State University, Pascagoula, MS 39567, USA. 
bm547@msstate.edu

AIMS: To study the inactivation effect of different doses of X-ray on Vibrio 
parahaemolyticus in pure culture, inoculated whole live and half shell oysters 
and to evaluate the efficacy of X-ray doses on reduction of inherent microflora 
on oysters.
METHODS AND RESULTS: X-ray was produced using RS 2400 generator system (Rad 
Source Technologies Inc.). Pure culture of V. parahaemolyticus, inoculated half 
and whole shell oysters with V. parahaemolyticus were treated with 0.0, 0.1, 
0.5, 0.75, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 3.0 and 5.0 kGy X-ray. Surviving bacteria in the pure 
culture and inoculated oysters, before and after treatment, were enumerated 
using overlay plating (in TSA then TCBS) and most probable number (MPN) methods. 
A greater than 6.0 log reduction of V. parahaemolyticus was observed with 0.75, 
2.0 and 5.0 kGy X-ray for pure culture, half shell and whole shell oysters, 
respectively. Treatment with 0.75, 2.0 and 5.0 kGy X-ray reduced the MPN to <3 
for pure culture, half and whole shell oysters, respectively. Treatment with 1.0 
kGy X-ray significantly (P < 0.05) reduced the inherent micro-organisms on whole 
shell oysters from 4.7 +/- 0.1 to less than the detectable limit (<1.0 log CFU 
g(-1)).
CONCLUSIONS: X-ray (1-5 kGy) significantly (P < 0.05) reduced V. 
parahaemolyticus and inherent microflora on oysters to less than detectable 
limit (<1.0 log CFU g(-1)).
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Treatment with X-ray could control 
pathogenic bacteria and extend the shelf life of oysters.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-765X.2009.02573.x
PMID: 19291215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Eur J Epidemiol. 2009;24(4):157-9. doi: 10.1007/s10654-009-9324-0. Epub 2009
Mar  17.

Medical demography and epidemiology: dizygotic twins.

Bonneux LG(1).

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute, NIDI, P.O. Box 11650, 
2502 AR, Den Haag, The Netherlands. bonneux@nidi.nl

Demography is the statistical study of populations, epidemiology of health of 
populations. Fascinating challenges for future research, shared by epidemiology 
and demography, are to be found in the human life course, how the life course is 
transmitted over generations, how the healthy life is shaped by dynamics within 
the life course and how the life course is affected by the social and economic 
environment. The life course begins when two future parents meet. Then social 
disadvantage or privilege is beginning and diverse rates of ageing are being 
fixed. Health in utero and at young age will co-determine health at middle and 
old age, among others mediated by a greater intelligence and a better education. 
Particularly better education compresses cognitive disability at the end of 
life, building cognitive reserves that increase brain plasticity and enhance 
resistance to damage. While with extended life spans may come extended life 
spans with disability, the twin demography and epidemiology may show how to 
lighten the burden of senescence at the end of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-009-9324-0
PMID: 19291415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Pneumologie. 2009 Jun;63(6):314-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1119701. Epub 2009
Mar  16.

[Telemonitoring of arm ergometric training in COPD patients. A pilot study].

[Article in German]

Rühle KH(1), Bloch M, Franke KJ, Nilius G.

Author information:
(1)HELIOS-Klinik Hagen-Ambrock, Universität Witten/Herdecke. 
Klinik-Ambrock.Pneumo@t-online.de

INTRODUCTION: Regular moderate physical activity in COPD reduces morbidity and 
improves life expectancy. Many programmes often fail after rehabilitation 
because regular training at home, possibly caused by a lack of motivation, is 
not maintained, the performance parameters then decline to the prerehabilitation 
levels. For cost reasons, a simple procedure is required to measure the training 
times in the home environment with a daily transmission of telemetric data so 
that, in the case of decline, advice and assistance can be provided.
QUESTIONS: How long is the actual daily training time monitored by telemetry of 
COPD patients if a target of 20 minutes per day is prescribed by the doctor? Is 
there a correlation between physical activity at home and the training period?
METHOD: We used a device for training the upper extremities with a GSM data 
transmission module for the transfer of the training times. The physical 
activity before an exacerbation of COPD and the willingness to modify the 
training behaviour were determined by questionnaires. 13 patients with COPD (age 
69 +/- 9 years, FEV1 48.6 +/- 23.9 %) were investigated prospectively for 6 days 
under stationary conditions.
RESULTS: The mean training period (target 20 min/day) was 16.1 +/- 11.7 min/day. 
The frequency of physical activity per week correlated with the daily ergometry 
training period in the clinic (r = 0.59).
CONCLUSION: Training supervised by telemonitoring represents a useful way to 
objectively obtain training times. Ergometric training in combination with 
online transmission (telemetric monitoring) and regular phone calls could be an 
inexpensive method to increase physical activity.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1119701
PMID: 19291617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2006 Jan-Mar;110(1):66-72.

[Multidisciplinary approach in pyomyositis early diagnosis].

[Article in Romanian]

Puşchiţă M(1), Ciobanu G, Amza O.

Author information:
(1)Universitatea de Vest "V. Goldiş" Arad, Facultatea de Medicină, Clinica de 
Medicină internă şi Cardiologie.

Pyomyositis is a disease characterized by primary bacterial infection of the 
skeletal muscles of lower limbs and thorax. It is a very rare disease (100 cases 
in USA in the last 20 years) but with an increasing occurrence especially among 
patients with AIDS in an advanced stage or in association with other pathologic 
conditions like diabetes mellitus, cancer, connective tissue diseases or 
hematological disorders, long usage of corticosteroid drugs. We are hereby 
showing the case of a 46-year-old female who presented difficult problems of 
differential diagnosis until final diagnosis was established. Her life was saved 
due to an exemplary interdisciplinary collaboration and by using an extremely 
useful imaging method for musculoskeletal pathology--IRM. The IRM protocol: 
coronal and axial T2 weighted SE, coronal and axial T1 weighted SE, axial and 
coronal T2 weighted + Fat Sat was comprehensive and conclusive. The imaging 
diagnosis established the presence and extension of the muscle abscess, leading 
to an efficient drainage. After the surgery, the repeated IRM confirmed the 
drainage efficiency. Unlike the French literature which claims that the muscle 
abscesses are secondary to a primary center, in this case, and in accordance 
with Anglo-Saxon literature, the muscle abscess was primary, in absence of any 
other center of infection.

PMID: 19292081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. BMJ. 2009 Mar 17;338:b1082. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b1082.

Study authors respond to editorial. Nurse delivered endoscopy.

Williams J, Richardson G, Bloor K.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2009;338:a3049.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b1082
PMID: 19293218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Brain. 2009 May;132(Pt 5):1346-54. doi: 10.1093/brain/awp031. Epub 2009 Mar
17.

Clinical field-strength MRI of amyloid plaques induced by low-level cholesterol 
feeding in rabbits.
