group, at an increased cost of about pound56 (euro59, $78) per patient. This 
yields an incremental cost effectiveness ratio of pound3660 (euro3876, $5097) 
per QALY. Though there is uncertainty around these results, doctors are probably 
more cost effective than nurses for plausible values of a QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Though upper gastrointestinal endoscopies and flexible 
sigmoidoscopies carried out by doctors cost slightly more than those by nurses 
and improved health outcomes only slightly, our analysis favours endoscopies by 
doctors. For plausible values of decision makers' willingness to pay for an 
extra QALY, endoscopy delivered by nurses is unlikely to be cost effective 
compared with endoscopy delivered by doctors.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: International standard RCT 82765705.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b270
PMCID: PMC2643438
PMID: 19208715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


120. Int Immunol. 2009 Apr;21(4):339-48. doi: 10.1093/intimm/dxp002. Epub 2009
Feb  10.

Transgenic Bcl-3 slows T cell proliferation.

Bassetti MF(1), White J, Kappler JW, Marrack P.

Author information:
(1)Integrated Department of Immunology, University of Colorado Denver Health 
Sciences Center, Denver, CO 80206, USA.

Immunological adjuvants, such as bacterial LPS, increase the mRNA levels of the 
IkB-related NF-kappaB transcriptional transactivator, Bcl-3, in activated T 
cells. Adjuvants also increase the life expectancy of activated T cells, as does 
over-expression of Bcl-3, suggesting that Bcl-3 is part of the pathway whereby 
adjuvants affect T cell lifespans. However, previous reports, confirmed here, 
show that adjuvants also increase the life expectancies of Bcl-3-deficient T 
cells, making Bcl-3's role and effects in adjuvant-induced survival uncertain. 
To investigate the functions of Bcl-3 further, here we confirm the 
adjuvant-induced expression of Bcl-3 mRNA and show Bcl-3 induction at the 
protein level. Bcl-3 was expressed in mice via a transgene driven by the human 
CD2 promoter. Like other protective events, over-expression of Bcl-3 slows T 
cell activation very early in T cell responses to antigen, both in vitro and in 
vivo. This property was intrinsic to the T cells over-expressing the Bcl-3 and 
did not require Bcl-3 expression by other cells such as antigen-presenting 
cells.

DOI: 10.1093/intimm/dxp002
PMCID: PMC2660861
PMID: 19208752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Minerva Endocrinol. 2009 Mar;34(1):81-7.

Therapeutic strategy of papillary microcarcinoma of the thyroid gland: a nuclear 
medicine perspective.

Riemann B(1), Schober O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine University Hospital Münster, Münster, Germany. 
riemann.burkhard@uni-muenster.de

According to the literature, the prevalence of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma 
(PTMC) is increasing. To date, PMTC account for up to 30% of all differentiated 
thyroid cancers. Patients with PTMC have an excellent prognosis with a normal 
life expectancy. Because of the differential definitions of the PTMC, the 
therapeutic approaches of the national Scien-tific Societies have not been 
standardized. The therapeutic algorithms have to be adjusted with regard to 
thyroid surgery, radioiodine ablation and thyrotropin-suppressive therapy as 
well as follow-up. Recently, the Therapy Committee of the European Society of 
Nuclear Medicine (EANM) has recommended a risk-adapted therapy and follow-up. 
Risk factors which require a more aggressive therapeutic approach are 
multifocality, thyroid capsule infiltration, evidence of locoregional or distant 
metastasis and unfavourable histology. It was the aim of this review to evaluate 
the current therapeutic concepts in patients with PTMC from a nuclear medicine 
perspective.

PMID: 19209130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2008;102(7):415-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2008.08.014.

First the facts, then the values? Implicit normativity in evidence-based 
decision aids for shared decision-making.

Molewijk B(1), Stiggelbout AM, Otten W, Dupuis HM, Kievit J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, The 
Netherlands. b.molewijk@hes.unimaas.nl

This paper focuses on the ethics of constructing and using a specific 
evidence-based decision aid that aims to contribute to clinical shared 
decision-making processes. Results of this integrated empirical ethics study 
demonstrate how both the production and presentation of scientific information 
in an evidence-based decision-support contain implicit presuppositions and 
values, which pre-structure the moral environment of the shared decision-making 
process. As a consequence, the evidence-based decision support did not only 
support the decision-making process; it also transformed it in a morally 
significant way. This phenomenon undermines the assumption within much of the 
literature on patient autonomy and shared decision-making implying that 
information disclosure is a conditional requirement before patient autonomy and 
shared decision-making even starts. The central point of this paper is that 
decision aids and evidence-based medicine are not value-free and that patient 
autonomy and shared decision-making are already influenced during the production 
and presentation of scientific information. Consequences for both the 
development of decision-aids and the practice of shared decision-making are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2008.08.014
PMID: 19209568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Rev Prat. 2008 Dec 31;58(20):2265-71.

[Anesthetic management of patients with muscular disease?].

[Article in French]

Akrout N(1), Polito A, Annane D, Orlikowski D.

Author information:
(1)Service de réanimation, centre de référence des maladies neuromusculaires, 
CIC-IT 805 (Inserm), hôpital Raymond-Poincard, AP-HP, Université de Versailles 
SOY (PRES UniverSud), 92380 Garches Cedex, France.

The past two decades has been characterized by important advances in symptomatic 
care to the muscular patient. In particular, the development of home mechanical 
ventilation was associated by a substantial improvement in life expectancy. The 
presence of a muscular disease is less frequently a contra-indication of surgery 
and subsequently the issue of anesthetizing these patients has become a routine 
question. A growing number of muscular disorders have been subjected to specific 
guidelines for anesthetic procedures.

PMID: 19209658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Przegl Epidemiol. 2008;62(4):811-20.

[Healthy life years (HLY) comprehensive indicator of health 
situation--recommended by European Union].

[Article in Polish]

Gromulska L(1), Wysocki MJ, Goryński P.

Author information:
(1)Zakład Promocji Zdrowia i Szkolenia Podyplomowego, Narodowy Instytut Zdrowia 
Publicznego PZH, Warszawa.

This article presents Healthy Life Years (HLY) indicator of functional health 
status, its application in the field of public health research and monitoring, 
method of calculation, idea of its construction and relation of HLY to other 
health status indicators e.g. life expectancy, quality adjusted life years. 
Current data on HLY in the EU member states are also presented. HLY indicator is 
one of structural indicators, recommended by European Council to deliver 
information on the progress of implementation of the Lisbon Strategy 
resolutions, which main principle is development of knowledge-based economy 
characterised by growth, social cohesion and respect for environment. HLY shifts 
the focus from quantity of years of life to its quality, full-productivity 
health of the population, thus conveying information not only on health status 
but also referring to the fields--other than medicine or social sciences--such 
as: finances, economy, politics, development.

PMID: 19209744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Mar 15;48(6):822-6. doi: 10.1086/596768.

Do benefits of earlier antiretroviral treatment initiation outweigh harms for 
individuals at risk for poor adherence?

Braithwaite RS(1), Roberts MS, Goetz MB, Gibert CL, Rodriguez-Barradas MC, 
Nucifora K, Justice AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of General Internal Medicine, Yale 
University, Veterans Affairs Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, 
Connecticut, USA. ronald.braithwaite@va.gov

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Mar 15;48(6):827-8.

Clinicians may defer antiretroviral treatment for patients with suboptimal 
adherence. We used a validated computer simulation of HIV disease progression to 
compare alternative treatment thresholds for patients with suboptimal adherence. 
Earlier treatment increased life expectancy across a wide adherence range 
(50%-100% of doses taken). Delaying treatment for patients with suboptimal 
adherence may not always be appropriate.

DOI: 10.1086/596768
PMCID: PMC3032571
PMID: 19210173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. M.S.R. has 
received an unrestricted research grant from and consults for Archimedes. M.B.G. 
has received an honorarium and consultancy fees from Monogram Biosciences. 
R.S.B. is a methodological consultant for United BioSource. All other authors: 
no conflicts.


126. Retrovirology. 2009 Feb 11;6:13. doi: 10.1186/1742-4690-6-13.

Destabilization of the TAR hairpin leads to extension of the polyA hairpin and 
inhibition of HIV-1 polyadenylation.

Vrolijk MM(1), Harwig A, Berkhout B, Das AT.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Virology, Department of Medical Microbiology, 
Center for Infection and Immunity Amsterdam (CINIMA), Academic Medical Center, 
University of Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 15, 1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.m.vrolijk@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Two hairpin structures that are present at both the 5' and 3' end of 
the HIV-1 RNA genome have important functions in the viral life cycle. The TAR 
hairpin binds the viral Tat protein and is essential for Tat-mediated activation 
of transcription. The adjacent polyA hairpin encompasses the polyadenylation 
signal AAUAAA and is important for the regulation of polyadenylation. 
Specifically, this RNA structure represses polyadenylation at the 5' side, and 
enhancer elements on the 3' side overcome this suppression. We recently 
described that the replication of an HIV-1 variant that does not need TAR for 
transcription was severely impaired by destabilization of the TAR hairpin, even 
though a complete TAR deletion was acceptable.
RESULTS: In this study, we show that the TAR-destabilizing mutations result in 
reduced 3' polyadenylation of the viral transcripts due to an extension of the 
adjacent polyA hairpin. Thus, although the TAR hairpin is not directly involved 
in polyadenylation, mutations in TAR can affect this process.
CONCLUSION: The stability of the HIV-1 TAR hairpin structure is important for 
the proper folding of the viral RNA transcripts. This study illustrates how 
mutations that are designed to study the function of a specific RNA structure 
can change the structural presentation of other RNA domains and thus affect 
viral replication in an indirect way.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4690-6-13
PMCID: PMC2645353
PMID: 19210761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Public Health Nutr. 2009 Mar;12(3):439. doi: 10.1017/S1368980008004734.

We are too tall.

Samaras TT.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980008004734
PMID: 19210803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2008 Nov-Dec;26(6):1059-66.

Cost-effectiveness of infliximab in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in 
clinical practice.

Virkki LM(1), Konttinen YT, Peltomaa R, Suontama K, Saario R, Immonen K, Jäntti 
J, Tuomiranta T, Nykänen P, Hämeenkorpi R, Heikkilä S, Isomäki P, Nordström D.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki University, Finland.

OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of infliximab therapy in Finnish 
RA patients in a real-life clinical setting and identified factors influencing 
it, using the national register of biological treatment (ROB-FIN).
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was performed, derived from EQ-5D, and related 
to HAQ score and disease activity using multiple regression. QALYs were 
calculated based on these utilities, using patient-level data up to the last 
control registered. Cost-effectiveness analyses included costs per ACR50 
responder, and costs per low DAS28 score (<3.2) achieved, in combination with a 
clinically significant improvement (>1.2). The costs considered were direct 
medical costs of infliximab and cost of intravenous infusion. Patient-level 
costs were calculated based on dose and dosage frequency, and were related to 
the difference in QALYs resulting from infliximab therapy.
RESULTS: The 297 patients had been treated with infliximab for an average of 21 
months. The HAQ score and patient's global assessment improved significantly on 
infliximab therapy. More than two-thirds of the patients achieved a clinically 
important improvement in HAQ. A QALY gain occurred in 76%. 35% of these had an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of < or =40,000 Euro/QALY gained, the 
median cost being 51,884 Euro. The cost per QALY gained was significantly lower 
for patients achieving an ACR50 response at 3, 12 and 24 months.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with infliximab and aiming at ACR50 response appears 
cost-effective, remembering the restrictions of an observational study set up. 
Current Care guidelines, which require sufficient disease control when deciding 
on continuing biological therapy, get support from these findings.

PMID: 19210870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Am J Prev Med. 2009 May;36(5):385-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.01.020. Epub
 2009 Feb 11.

Cost-utility analysis of the National truth campaign to prevent youth smoking.

Holtgrave DR(1), Wunderink KA, Vallone DM, Healton CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health, Behavior, and Society, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School 
of Public Health, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. 
dholtgrave@jhsph.edu

BACKGROUND: In 2005, the American Journal of Public Health published an article 
that indicated that 22% of the overall decline in youth smoking that occurred 
between 1999 and 2002 was directly attributable to the truth social marketing 
campaign launched in 2000. A remaining key question about the truth campaign is 
whether the economic investment in the program can be justified by the public 
health outcomes; that question is examined here.
METHODS: Standard methods of cost and cost-utility analysis were employed in 
accordance with the U.S. Panel on Cost-Effectiveness in Health and Medicine; a 
societal perspective was employed.
RESULTS: During 2000-2002, expenditures totaled just over $324 million to 
develop, deliver, evaluate, and litigate the truth campaign. The base-case 
cost-utility analysis result indicates that the campaign was cost saving; it is 
estimated that the campaign recouped its costs and that just under $1.9 billion 
in medical costs was averted for society. Sensitivity analysis indicated that 
the basic determination of cost effectiveness for this campaign is robust to 
substantial variation in input parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that the truth campaign not only markedly 
improved the public's health but did so in an economically efficient manner.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.01.020
PMID: 19211214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Implant Dent. 2009 Feb;18(1):67-74. doi: 10.1097/ID.0b013e31818c591d.

Clinical effectiveness of International Team for Oral Implantology dental 
implant treatment in Taiwan: a seven-year longitudinal study.

Tseng CC(1), Pang IC, Wen MJ, Huang KC, Chang JC.

Author information:
(1)Dental Department, Chi Mei Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: International Team for Oral Implantology (ITI) dental implant has 
been clinically tested for the most parts of the world, especially in Europe and 
America, and has not been conducted on Asian population. The purpose of this 
study was to evaluate the cumulative survival and success rates over 7 years of 
ITI dental implants.
MATERIALS: The ITI dental implant system has been used in the Dental Department 
of Chi Mei Medical Center since August of 1997. At the end of 2005, 717 
solid-screw implants had been placed and loaded at least 6 months in 316 
patients. The patient population included 145 males and 171 females, with a mean 
age of 43.18 +/- 11.60 years. The follow-up interval was from 6 months after the 
prosthesis was completed to 7 years. The success criteria of dental implant 
survival was based on Buser et al, Clin Oral Implants Res. 1990;1:33-40.
RESULTS: Most implants (486, 67.8%) were placed in the mandible and 231 (32.2%) 
were placed in the maxilla. Two implants were removed before prostheses 
fabrication because of postsurgical infections. One implant was removed due to a 
periapical infection of an adjacent natural tooth. The life table analysis of 
survival rate and success rate were 99.58% and 96.13%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: This 7-year clinical effectiveness study demonstrated this dental 
implant system gave a clinical reliable result in a Taiwanese population.

DOI: 10.1097/ID.0b013e31818c591d
PMID: 19212239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Am J Med Sci. 2009 Feb;337(2):109-15. doi: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e31818128b5.

Prognostic utility of anemia and pro-B-type natriuretic peptide in patients with 
nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy and normal renal function.

Tigen K(1), Karaahmet T, Cevik C, Gurel E, Mutlu B, Basaran Y.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Kosuyolu Heart and Research Hospital, Istanbul, 
Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy frequently coexists with anemia 
and high plasma NT proBNP levels. However, the prognostic impact of these 
features on the disease course is uncertain, especially in patients with normal 
renal function.
METHODS: Forty-seven patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy with sinus 
rhythm and normal renal function were prospectively followed for a mean 25+/-18 
months period. Clinical end points were death (sudden cardiac death and deaths 
because of worsening heart failure) and cardiac transplantation. Prognostic 
impact of NT proBNP levels, anemia, echocardiographic and clinical parameters on 
the clinical end points was evaluated with Kaplan-Meier survival analysis. 
Cut-off values of hemoglobin and plasma NT proBNP levels for predicting end 
points were determined by receiver operating curve analysis.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients (59.6%) suffered clinical end points. The 
patients who suffered clinical end points were anemic (P=0.002), had lower 
systolic (P<0.003) and diastolic (P<0.0001) blood pressures, and higher NYHA 
functional classes (P=0.005), lower left ventricle ejection fractions (P=0.003), 
higher E/A ratios (P=0.001), shorter E-wave deceleration times (P=0.001), 
isovolumetric relaxation times (P=0.05) and pulmonary acceleration times 
(P=0.004), and higher plasma NT proBNP levels (P<0.0001). Anemic patients had 
more clinical end points (P=0.002). In univariate analysis the prognostic 
predictors of life expectancy were log NT proBNP, anemia, NYHA functional class, 
systolic blood pressure, left ventricle ejection fraction, and E-wave 
deceleration time. However, multivariate analysis revealed only plasma NT proBNP 
as independent predictor of clinical end points.
CONCLUSION: Tracking plasma NT proBNP levels is a useful strategy during routine 
follow-ups of patients with nonischemic dilated cardiomyopathy. Its predictive 
value for prognosis needs more evaluation in larger controlled studies. In 
addition, the importance of anemia in those patients needs more study.

DOI: 10.1097/MAJ.0b013e31818128b5
PMID: 19214026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Eur Spine J. 2009 May;18(5):663-71. doi: 10.1007/s00586-009-0892-1. Epub
2009  Feb 12.

Minimum 2-year outcome of cervical laminoplasty with deep extensor 
muscle-preserving approach: impact on cervical spine function and quality of 
life.

Kotani Y(1), Abumi K, Ito M, Sudo H, Takahata M, Ohshima S, Hojo Y, Minami A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Hokkaido University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Kita-15, Nishi-7, Kitaku, Sapporo, 060-8638, Japan. 
y-kotani@med.hokudai.ac.jp

In this retrospective cohort study, two surgical methods of conventional 
open-door laminoplasty and deep extensor muscle-preserving laminoplasty were 
allocated for the treatment of cervical myelopathy, and were specifically 
compared in terms of axial pain, cervical spine function, and quality of life 
(QOL) with a minimum follow-up period of 2 years. Eighty-four patients were 
divided into two groups and received either a conventional open-door 
laminoplasty (CL group) or laminoplasty using a deep extensor muscle-preserving 
approach (MP group). The latter approach was performed by preserving multifidus 
and semispinalis cervicis attachments followed by open-door laminoplasty and 
re-suture of the bisected spinous processes at each decompression level. The 
average follow-up period was 38 months (25-53 months). The preoperative and 
follow-up evaluations included the original Japanese Orthopaedic Association 
(JOA) score, the new tentative JOA score including cervical spine function and 
QOL, and the visual analogue scale (VAS) of axial pain. Radiological analyses 
included cervical lordosis and flexion-extension range of motion (flex-ext ROM) 
(C2-7), and deep extensor muscle areas on MR axial images. The JOA recovery 
rates were statistically equivalent between two groups. The MP group 
demonstrated a statistically superior cervical spine function (84% vs 63%) and 
QOL (61% vs 45%) when compared to the CL group at final follow-up (P < 0.05). 
The average VAS scores at final follow-up were 2.3 and 4.9 in MP and CL groups 
(P < 0.05). The cervical lordosis and flex-ext ROM were statistically 
equivalent. The percent deep muscle area on MRI demonstrated a significant 
atrophy in CL group compared to that in MP group (56% vs 88%; P < 0.01). 
Laminoplasty employing the deep extensor muscle-preserving approach appeared to 
be effective in reducing the axial pain and deep muscle atrophy as well as 
improving cervical spine function and QOL when compared to conventional 
open-door laminoplasty.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-009-0892-1
PMCID: PMC3234000
PMID: 19214599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Orthop Sci. 2009 Jan;14(1):1-2. doi: 10.1007/s00776-008-1302-y. Epub 2009
Feb  13.

Locomotive syndrome: disability-free life expectancy and locomotive organ health 
in a "super-aged" society.

Nakamura K.

DOI: 10.1007/s00776-008-1302-y
PMCID: PMC2779388
PMID: 19214680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2008;102(6):367-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2008.07.022.

[Target dimensions of psychosomatic-psychotherapeutic care].

[Article in German]

Tress W(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinisches Institut und Klinik für Psychosomatische Medizin und 
Psychotherapie, Universitätsklinikum Düsseldorf. tress@uni-duesseldorf.de

In 1965, the effectiveness of psychoanalytic therapy was demonstrated, which was 
then included in the reimbursement schemes of the statutory health insurance. In 
1987, epidemiologic evidence was provided for the high prevalence of 
psychosomatic diseases, often associated with a high risk load. Later a phase 
model described the effects of psychotherapy by the successive levels of 
remoralisation, symptom and functional improvement. On the basis of health 
insurance data Felliti (2002) provided plausible evidence for the psychosocial 
aetiology of most chronic somatic diseases. These data correspond to a 
dramatically reduced life expectancy. Thus, a causal bio-psycho-social chain 
exists between adverse childhood events (ACE), unspecific bodily tensions, 
dysfunctional health-related coping behavioural strategies (risk load), serious 
chronic diseases and premature death. In summary, psychosomatic medicine and 
psychotherapy is a field of health care with a variety of target dimensions 
which can be brought together in an appropriate model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2008.07.022
PMID: 19216239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Health Econ Policy Law. 2009 Apr;4(Pt 2):247-54; discussion 261-3. doi: 
10.1017/S1744133109004927. Epub 2009 Feb 16.

Is the incorporation of equity considerations into economic evaluation really so 
simple? A comment on Cookson, Drummond and Weatherly.

Richardson J(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Australia. 
jeff.richardson@buseco.monash.edu.au

Comment on
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2009 Apr;4(Pt 2):231-45.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133109004927
PMID: 19216833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Health Econ Policy Law. 2009 Apr;4(Pt 2):231-45. doi:
10.1017/S1744133109004903.  Epub 2009 Feb 16.

Explicit incorporation of equity considerations into economic evaluation of 
public health interventions.

Cookson R(1), Drummond M, Weatherly H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Policy and Social Work, and Centre for Health Economics, 
University of York, York, UK.

Comment in
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2009 Apr;4(Pt 2):255-60; discussion 261-3.
    Health Econ Policy Law. 2009 Apr;4(Pt 2):247-54; discussion 261-3.

Health equity is one of the main avowed objectives of public health policy 
across the world. Yet economic evaluations in public health (like those in 
health care more generally) continue to focus on maximizing health gain. Health 
equity considerations are rarely mentioned. Health economists rely on the 
quasi-egalitarian value judgment that 'a QALY is a QALY'--that is QALYs are 
equally weighted and the same health outcome is worth the same no matter how it 
is achieved or to whom it accrues. This value judgment is questionable in many 
important circumstances in public health. For example, policy-makers may place 
rather little value on health outcomes achieved by infringing individual 
liberties or by discriminating on the basis of age, sex, or race. Furthermore, 
there is evidence that a majority of the general public wish to give greater 
weight to health gains accruing to children, the severely ill, and, to a lesser 
extent, the socio-economically disadvantaged. This paper outlines four 
approaches to explicit incorporation of equity considerations into economic 
evaluation in public health: (i) review of background information on equity, 
(ii) health inequality impact assessment, (iii) analysis of the opportunity cost 
of equity, and (iv) equity weighting of health outcomes. The first three 
approaches can readily be applied using standard methods of health technology 
assessment, where suitable data are available; whereas approaches for generating 
equity weights remain experimental. The potential benefits of considering equity 
are likely to be largest in cases involving: (a) interventions that target 
disadvantaged individuals or communities and are also relatively 
cost-ineffective and (b) interventions to encourage lifestyle change, which may 
be relatively ineffective among 'hard-to-reach' disadvantaged groups and hence 
may require re-design to avoid increasing health inequalities.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133109004903
PMID: 19216834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Ann Epidemiol. 2009 Mar;19(3):212-9. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2008.11.005.

U.S. burden of disease--past, present and future.

McKenna MT(1), Zohrabian A.

Author information:
(1)Office on Smoking and Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
USA. mtm1@cdc.gov

PURPOSE: To review the history and challenges of "burden of disease" studies, 
how these are dependent on robust epidemiologic data as well as complex 
conceptual constructions, and to identify the public health policy issues these 
studies can most usefully inform.
METHODS: The emergence of the concept of the "burden of disease" in the public 
health literature is reviewed, with a focus on the results of an analysis of 
data from the United States that used the methodology presented in the Global 
Burden of Disease Study.
RESULTS: The systematic analysis of public health mortality data to identify 
major health problems was conducted by Graunt in 16th-century London. He found 
that many of the predominant sources of mortality were not the focus of public 
attention. Today, despite refinements in epidemiologic measurement methods 
designed to capture the impact of non-fatal health conditions, there are similar 
incongruities between the major public health problems and expenditures on 
prevention interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Controversies surrounding the interpretation of "burden of disease" 
studies are not new. Particularly in developed countries, these studies appear 
more useful for setting research priorities rather than allocating resources to 
support prevention efforts. Such investigations are not possible without ongoing 
support for systematic collection and analysis of descriptive epidemiologic 
data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2008.11.005
PMID: 19217005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Presse Med. 2009 Mar;38(3):471-84. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.12.020. Epub 2009
Feb  12.

[Ventilatory support at home: indications of oxygen therapy and non invasive 
ventilation].

[Article in French]

Muir JF(1), Lamia B, Molano C, Cuvelier A.

Author information:
(1)Service de Pneumologie et Unité de Soins Intensifs Respiratoires, CHU de 
Rouen, Rouen Cedex, France. Jean-Francois.Muir@chu-rouen.fr

The main indication of LTO is COPD with chronic respiratory failure, where it 
improves life expectancy. By extension, LTO may be proposed to other etiologies 
of CRF with chronic documented hypoxemia. Daily duration is at least 15H per 
day. Non invasive ventilation (NIV) represents facial or nasal ventilation. 
Consensus indications of NIV are restrictive pulmonary diseases (chest wall and 
/or parenchmal sequelae, neuromuscular diseases, or obesity hypoventilation 
syndrome) Real role of NIV in log-term management of COPD remains controversial.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.12.020
PMID: 19217250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. J Bacteriol. 2009 Apr;191(8):2783-94. doi: 10.1128/JB.01802-08. Epub 2009
Feb  13.

Borrelia burgdorferi bba74 is expressed exclusively during tick feeding and is 
regulated by both arthropod- and mammalian host-specific signals.

Mulay VB(1), Caimano MJ, Iyer R, Dunham-Ems S, Liveris D, Petzke MM, Schwartz I, 
Radolf JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Connecticut Health Center, 263 
Farmington Avenue, Farmington, CT 06030-3715, USA.

Although BBA74 initially was described as a 28-kDa virulence-associated 
outer-membrane-spanning protein with porin-like function, subsequent studies 
revealed that it is periplasmic and downregulated in mammalian host-adapted 
spirochetes. To further elucidate the role of this protein in the Borrelia 
burgdorferi tick-mammal cycle, we conducted a thorough examination of its 
expression profile in comparison with the profiles of three well-characterized, 
differentially expressed borrelial genes (ospA, ospC, and ospE) and their 
proteins. In vitro, transcripts for bba74 were expressed at 23 degrees C and 
further enhanced by a temperature shift (37 degrees C), whereas BBA74 protein 
diminished at elevated temperatures; in contrast, neither transcript nor protein 
was expressed by spirochetes grown in dialysis membrane chambers (DMCs). Primer 
extension of wild-type B. burgdorferi grown in vitro, in conjunction with 
expression analysis of DMC-cultivated wild-type and rpoS mutant spirochetes, 
revealed that, like ospA, bba74 is transcribed by sigma(70) and is subject to 
RpoS-mediated repression within the mammalian host. A series of experiments 
utilizing wild-type and rpoS mutant spirochetes was conducted to determine the 
transcriptional and translational profiles of bba74 during the tick-mouse cycle. 
Results from these studies revealed (i) that bba74 is transcribed by sigma(70) 
exclusively during the larval and nymphal blood meals and (ii) that 
transcription of bba74 is bracketed by RpoS-independent and -dependent forms of 
repression that are induced by arthropod- and mammalian host-specific signals, 
respectively. Although loss of BBA74 does not impair the ability of B. 
burgdorferi to complete its infectious life cycle, the temporal 
compartmentalization of this gene's transcription suggests that BBA74 
facilitates fitness of the spirochete within a narrow window of its tick phase. 
A reexamination of the paradigm for reciprocal regulation of ospA and ospC, 
performed herein, revealed that the heterogeneous expression of OspA and OspC 
displayed by spirochete populations during the nymphal blood meal results from 
the intricate sequence of transcriptional and translational changes that ensue 
as B. burgdorferi transitions between its arthropod vector and mammalian host.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.01802-08
PMCID: PMC2668432
PMID: 19218390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Feb;25(2):239-50. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2009000200002.

[Cost-utility analysis as a mechanism for allocation of health care resources: a 
review of the debate].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pinho MM(1), Veiga PA.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Econômicas e da Empresa, Universidade Lusíada, Porto, 
Portugal. michaelapinho@hotmail.com

Priority setting in health care involves choosing between alternative health 
care programs and/or patients or groups of patients who will receive care. 
Traditionally, health economists have proposed maximizing the additional health 
gain measured in QALYs as a way of setting priorities and maximizing social 
welfare. This requires that the social value from health improvements be a 
product of gains in years of life, quality of life, and number of people 
treated. The results of a literature review suggest that potential health gain 
is not a single relevant determinant of value, nor is the rule of maximizing 
this gain sufficient. The social value of a health gain appears not to be linear 
in terms of mortality and morbidity, or neutral vis-à-vis people's 
characteristics or the ultimate distribution of health in society. In parallel 
with the review of the debate on the role and limitation of QALYs for 
prioritizing health care resources, the article attempts to justify the 
controversy over some empirical results, particularly in relation to the 
construction and expression of social preferences.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009000200002
PMID: 19219231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Feb;25(2):321-7. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2009000200010.

[Mortality for oral cancer and socioeconomic status in Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Borges DM(1), Sena MF, Ferreira MA, Roncalli AG.

Author information:
(1)Especialização em Saúde Coletiva, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Norte, Natal, Brasil.

Chronic non-communicable diseases represent a major public health problem, 
requiring more effective investigation and control by government agencies. The 
aim of this study was to correlate the mortality rate for oral cancer in 
Brazilian State capitals from 1998 to 2002 with socioeconomic factors collected 
in the 2000 census, using an ecological study design. Data were obtained from 
the Mortality Information System from 1998 to 2002. Social factors were taken 
from the Brazilian Human Development Atlases. After data collection, statistical 
analysis was performed using Pearson's correlation index. The findings included 
positive and significant correlations among the socioeconomic indicators 
(Municipal Human Development Index-- MHDI, MHDI-income, MHDI-education, 
MHDI-life expectancy, and per capita income), and negative and significant 
correlations with the socioeconomic indicators Gini Index and infant mortality. 
Despite the study's limitations and probable underreporting in less developed 
State capitals, the study found significant statistic correlations between the 
selected socioeconomic indicators and the oral cancer mortality rate.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009000200010
PMID: 19219239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Braz J Infect Dis. 2008 Oct;12(5):368-73. doi:
10.1590/s1413-86702008000500005.

Cost-effectiveness of entecavir versus lamivudine for the suppression of viral 
replication in chronic hepatitis B patients in Brazil.

Costa AM(1), L 'italien G, Nita ME, Araujo ES.

Author information:
(1)Global Development and Medical Affairs da Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil. anna-maria.costa@bms.com

Hepatitis B virus infection is an important public-health issue. Chronic 
patients have a higher risk of death due to complications, which increases 
health-care expenses in. Cost-effectiveness analysis of entecavir (ETV) versus 
lamivudine (LVD) for treatment of chronic hepatitis B, in e antigen 
(AgHBe)-positive and negative patients, based on two phase 3, controlled and 
randomized studies. A decision analysis model was developed, using the following 
endpoints: cost per patient with undetectable viral load and cost per quality 
life year (QALY) gained. Risks for complications (compensated or decompensated 
cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma) were based on the cohort study REVEAL, 
published in 2006. The REVEAL parameters were applied to the results of the 
viral load levels obtained from the clinical assay data. The complication costs 
were based on a study of the disease cost conducted in Brazil, in 2005. The cost 
data were obtained predominantly from Sistema Unico de Saúde [SUS - Brazilian 
public health system] payment tables and drug price lists. The utility data were 
obtained from literature and life expectancy information was based on IBGE data. 
The analysis perspective was that of SUS. A discount rate of 3% per year was 
used. For the horizon of time of 10 years, the ETV had an incremental cost of 
approximately two million Brazilian Reais (R$) compared to LVD. Reducing the 
number of complications, ETV treatment reduced costs by around 3 million, 
reducing final costs by 1 million, for AgHBe-positive patients. ETV also reduced 
the incremental cost per QALY gained. ETV was found to be the most 
cost-effective alternative for AgHBe-positive and negative patients.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-86702008000500005
PMID: 19219274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Adv Ther. 2009 Feb;26(2):185-93. doi: 10.1007/s12325-008-0141-8. Epub 2009
Feb  14.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of lopinavir/ritonavir and atazanavir+ritonavir 
regimens in the CASTLE study.

Simpson KN(1), Rajagopalan R, Dietz B.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, 151 B Rutledge Avenue, Room 409, 
Charleston, South Carolina 29425, USA. simpsonk@musc.edu

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of the study was to conduct a cost-effectiveness 
analysis and budget impact analysis comparing lopinavir with ritonavir (LPV/r) 
and atazanavir plus ritonavir (ATV+RTV) for antiretroviral-naïve patients with a 
baseline CD4+ T-cell distribution and total cholesterol (TC) profile as reported 
in the CASTLE study.
METHODS: This decision analysis study used a previously published Markov model 
of HIV disease, incorporating coronary heart disease (CHD) events to compare the 
short- and long-term budget impacts and CHD consequences expected for the two 
regimens.
RESULTS: Patients were assumed to have a baseline CHD risk of 4.6% (based on 
demographic data) and it was also assumed that 50% of the population in the 
CASTLE study were smokers. The CHD risk differences (based on percent of 
patients with TC >240 mg/dL) in favor of ATV+RTV resulted in an average 
improvement in life expectancy of 0.031 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (11 
days), and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $1,409,734/QALY. Use of 
the LPV/r regimen saved $24,518 and $36,651 at 5 and 10 years, respectively, 
with lifetime cost savings estimated at $38,490. A sensitivity analysis using a 
cohort of all smokers on antihypertensive medication estimated an average 
improvement in life expectancy of 31 quality-adjusted days in favor of ATV+RTV, 
and a cost-effectiveness ratio of $520,861/QALY: a ratio that is still above the 
acceptable limit within the US.
CONCLUSION: The use of an LPV/r-based regimen in antiretroviral-naïve patients 
with a baseline CHD risk similar to patients in the CASTLE study appears to be a 
more cost-effective use of resources compared with an ATV+RTV-based regimen. The 
very small added CHD risk predicted by LPV/r treatment is more than offset by 
the substantial short- and long-term cost savings expected with the use of LPV/r 
in antiretroviral-naïve individuals with average to moderately elevated CHD 
risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-008-0141-8
PMID: 19219410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Sociol Health Illn. 2009 May;31(4):554-68. doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9566.2008.01151.x.

'Futureless persons': shifting life expectancies and the vicissitudes of 
progressive illness.

Gibson BE(1), Zitzelsberger H, McKeever P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of Toronto, 160-500 University 
Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. barbara.gibson@utoronto.ca

Medical technological advances can have profound effects on people's lives by 
extending the life course and creating uncertain futures. This is the case for a 
number of persons with 'diseases of childhood' who can now survive well into 
adulthood with technological support. This paper draws on a Canadian qualitative 
study of young men with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD)which examined the 
effects of a shifting life expectancy on personal identities. Engaging with 
Pierre Bourdieu's central concept of habitus, we discuss the temporal dimensions 
of social exclusion and marginalised identities. Participants' narrative 
accounts revealed how their dispositions were orientated to a shortened lifespan 
that exerted damaging effects regardless of actual lifespan. Compounding their 
material, social and symbolic isolation was a temporal isolation whereby the men 
had lived every day anticipating that it could be their last for as much as a 
decade. The findings suggest a need to re-orient medical and social discourses 
to serve and include adults with DMD and other conditions previously limited to 
childhood in their communities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-9566.2008.01151.x
PMID: 19220805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. FEBS J. 2009 Mar;276(6):1750-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.06910.x. Epub
 2009 Feb 13.

Engineering thermal stability of L-asparaginase by in vitro directed evolution.

Kotzia GA(1), Labrou NE.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Enzyme Technology, Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, 
Agricultural University of Athens, Athens, Greece.

L-asparaginase (EC 3.5.1.1, L-ASNase) catalyses the hydrolysis of l-Asn, 
producing L-Asp and ammonia. This enzyme is an anti-neoplastic agent; it is used 
extensively in the chemotherapy of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. In this study, 
we describe the use of in vitro directed evolution to create a new enzyme 
variant with improved thermal stability. A library of enzyme variants was 
created by a staggered extension process using the genes that code for the 
L-ASNases from Erwinia chrysanthemi and Erwinia carotovora. The amino acid 
sequences of the parental L-ASNases show 77% identity, but their 
half-inactivation temperature (T(m)) differs by 10 degrees C. A thermostable 
variant of the E. chrysamthemi enzyme was identified that contained a single 
point mutation (Asp133Val). The T(m) of this variant was 55.8 degrees C, whereas 
the wild-type enzyme has a T(m) of 46.4 degrees C. At 50 degrees C, the 
half-life values for the wild-type and mutant enzymes were 2.7 and 159.7 h, 
respectively. Analysis of the electrostatic potential of the wild-type enzyme 
showed that Asp133 is located at a neutral region on the enzyme surface and 
makes a significant and unfavourable electrostatic contribution to overall 
stability. Site-saturation mutagenesis at position 133 was used to further 
analyse the contribution of this position on thermostability. Screening of a 
library of random Asp133 mutants confirmed that this position is indeed involved 
in thermostability and showed that the Asp133Leu mutation confers optimal 
thermostability.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.06910.x
PMID: 19220855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Jun;19(3):254-9. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp005. Epub
2009  Feb 12.

Potential impact and cost-effectiveness analysis of rotavirus vaccination of 
children in Israel.

Chodick G(1), Waisbourd-Zinman O, Shalev V, Kokia E, Rabinovich M, Ashkenazi S.

Author information:
(1)Medical Informatics, Maccabi Healthcare Services, 27 Ha'Mered Street, 
Tel-Aviv, Israel. hodik_g@mac.org.il

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus is a common cause of acute gastroenteritis in children 
under 5 years of age. Two effective vaccines against rotavirus gastroenteritis 
were recently licensed in many countries throughout the world. The study aimed 
to investigate the cost effectiveness of vaccinating an Israeli birth cohort of 
143 500 children.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness analysis was determined using a decision 
analytical model, based on evidence-based estimates of the medical burden of 
rotavirus gastroenteritis in Israel.
RESULTS: According to our model, a routine rotavirus immunization program using 
Rotarix and RotaTeq would prevent 17,801 and 13,288 office visits and 645 and 
535 hospitalizations every year, respectively. When direct healthcare costs and 
societal costs are taken into account, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
per gained QALY for Rotarix and RotaTeq are $10,995 and $30,674, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Rotavirus vaccination can be considered a cost-effective 
intervention in Israel, depending on the precise vaccine price.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp005
PMID: 19221026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Ann Intern Med. 2009 Feb 17;150(4):243-54. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-150-4-200902170-00005.

Comparing impact and cost-effectiveness of primary prevention strategies for 
lipid-lowering.

Pletcher MJ(1), Lazar L, Bibbins-Domingo K, Moran A, Rodondi N, Coxson P, 
Lightwood J, Williams L, Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94107, 
USA. mpletcher@epi.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Feb 17;150(4):274-5.
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Jul 21;151(2):142; author reply 142.

BACKGROUND: Lipid-lowering therapy is costly but effective at reducing coronary 
heart disease (CHD) risk.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness and public health impact of Adult 
Treatment Panel III (ATP III) guidelines and compare with a range of risk- and 
age-based alternative strategies.
DESIGN: The CHD Policy Model, a Markov-type cost-effectiveness model.
DATA SOURCES: National surveys (1999 to 2004), vital statistics (2000), the 
Framingham Heart Study (1948 to 2000), other published data, and a direct survey 
of statin costs (2008).
TARGET POPULATION: U.S. population age 35 to 85 years.
TIME HORIZON: 2010 to 2040.
PERSPECTIVE: Health care system.
INTERVENTION: Lowering of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol with HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors (statins).
OUTCOME MEASURE: Incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Full adherence to ATP III primary prevention 
guidelines would require starting (9.7 million) or intensifying (1.4 million) 
statin therapy for 11.1 million adults and would prevent 20,000 myocardial 
infarctions and 10,000 CHD deaths per year at an annual net cost of $3.6 billion 
($42,000/QALY) if low-intensity statins cost $2.11 per pill. The ATP III 
guidelines would be preferred over alternative strategies if society is willing 
to pay $50,000/QALY and statins cost $1.54 to $2.21 per pill. At higher statin 
costs, ATP III is not cost-effective; at lower costs, more liberal 
statin-prescribing strategies would be preferred; and at costs less than $0.10 
per pill, treating all persons with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels 
greater than 3.4 mmol/L (>130 mg/dL) would yield net cost savings.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results are sensitive to the assumptions that 
LDL cholesterol becomes less important as a risk factor with increasing age and 
that little disutility results from taking a pill every day.
LIMITATION: Randomized trial evidence for statin effectiveness is not available 
for all subgroups.
CONCLUSION: The ATP III guidelines are relatively cost-effective and would have 
a large public health impact if implemented fully in the United States. 
Alternate strategies may be preferred, however, depending on the cost of statins 
and how much society is willing to pay for better health outcomes.
FUNDING: Flight Attendants' Medical Research Institute and the Swanson Family 
Fund. The Framingham Heart Study and Framingham Offspring Study are conducted 
and supported by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-150-4-200902170-00005
PMID: 19221376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. PLoS One. 2009;4(2):e4492. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004492. Epub 2009 Feb
16.

Heterozygous mutation of Opa1 in Drosophila shortens lifespan mediated through 
increased reactive oxygen species production.

Tang S(1), Le PK, Tse S, Wallace DC, Huang T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Human Genetics, Department of Pediatrics, University of 
California Irvine, Irvine, California, United States of America.

Optic atrophy 1 (OPA1) is a dynamin-like GTPase located in the inner 
mitochondrial membrane and mutations in OPA1 are associated with autosomal 
dominant optic atrophy (DOA). OPA1 plays important roles in mitochondrial 
fusion, cristae remodeling and apoptosis. Our previous study showed that dOpa1 
mutation caused elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and resulted 
in damage and death of the cone and pigment cells in Drosophila eyes. Since 
ROS-induced oxidative damage to the cells is one of the primary causes of aging, 
in this study, we examined the effects of heterozygous dOpa1 mutation on the 
lifespan. We found that heterozygous dOpa1 mutation caused shortened lifespan, 
increased susceptibility to oxidative stress and elevated production of ROS in 
