larval therapy cost, on average, pound96.70 (euro109.61; $140.57) more per 
participant per year (95% confidence interval - pound491.9 to pound685.8) than 
treatment with hydrogel. Participants treated with larval therapy healed, on 
average, 2.42 days before those in the hydrogel arm (95% confidence interval 
-0.95 to 31.91 days) and had a slightly better health related quality of life, 
as the annual difference in QALYs was 0.011 (95% confidence interval -0.067 to 
0.071). However, none of these differences was statistically significant. The 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio for the base case analysis was estimated at 
pound8826 per QALY gained and pound40 per ulcer-free day. Considerable 
uncertainty surrounds the outcome estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: Debridement of sloughy or necrotic leg ulcers with larval therapy 
is likely to produce similar health benefits and have similar costs to treatment 
with hydrogel.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN55114812 and National 
Research Register N0484123692.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b825
PMCID: PMC2659856
PMID: 19304578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


373. Palliat Med. 2009 Jul;23(5):410-7. doi: 10.1177/0269216309104074. Epub 2009
Mar  20.

Deciding about continuous deep sedation: physicians' perspectives: a focus group 
study.

Rietjens JA(1), Buiting HM, Pasman HR, van der Maas PJ, van Delden JJ, van der 
Heide A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
j.rietjens@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Palliat Med. 2010 Jan;24(1):100-1.

Although guidelines restrict the use of continuous deep sedation to patients 
with refractory physical symptoms and a short life-expectancy, its use is not 
always restricted to these conditions. A focus group study of physicians was 
conducted to gain more insight in the arguments for and against the use of 
continuous deep sedation in several clinical situations. Arguments in favour of 
continuous deep sedation for patients with a longer life-expectancy were that 
the overall clinical situation is more relevant than life-expectancy alone, and 
that patients' wishes should be followed. Continuous deep sedation for patients 
with predominantly emotional/existential suffering was considered appropriate 
when physicians empathize with the suffering. Further, some physicians indicated 
that they may consider the use of sedation in the context of a euthanasia 
request. Arguments were that the option of continuous deep sedation is a better 
alternative; it may comfort some patients when their thoughts about potential 
future suffering become unbearable. Further, some considered continuous deep 
sedation as less burdening or a bother to perform. We conclude that physicians' 
decision-making about continuous deep sedation is characterized by balancing the 
interests of patients with their own feelings. Accordingly, the reasons for its 
use are not unambiguous and need further debate.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216309104074
PMID: 19304807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Cell Cycle. 2009 Apr 15;8(8):1256-70. doi: 10.4161/cc.8.8.8287. Epub 2009
Apr  23.

A molecular mechanism of chronological aging in yeast.

Burtner CR(1), Murakami CJ, Kennedy BK, Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, 1959 NE Pacific Street, 
Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Cycle. 2009 Jul 15;8(14):2300-2.

The molecular mechanisms that cause organismal aging are a topic of intense 
scrutiny and debate. Dietary restriction extends the life span of many 
organisms, including yeast, and efforts are underway to understand the 
biochemical and genetic pathways that regulate this life span extension in model 
organisms. Here we describe the mechanism by which dietary restriction extends 
yeast chronological life span, defined as the length of time stationary yeast 
cells remain viable in a quiescent state. We find that aging under standard 
culture conditions is the result of a cell-extrinsic component that is linked to 
the pH of the culture medium. We identify acetic acid as a cell-extrinsic 
mediator of cell death during chronological aging, and demonstrate that dietary 
restriction, growth in a non-fermentable carbon source, or transferring cells to 
water increases chronological life span by reducing or eliminating extracellular 
acetic acid. Other life span extending environmental and genetic interventions, 
such as growth in high osmolarity media, deletion of SCH9 or RAS2, increase 
cellular resistance to acetic acid. We conclude that acetic acid induced 
mortality is the primary mechanism of chronological aging in yeast under 
standard conditions.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.8.8.8287
PMCID: PMC2746416
PMID: 19305133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2009 Jun;16(3):371-6. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e328329497a.

The cost-effectiveness of implementing a new guideline for cardiovascular risk 
management in primary care in the Netherlands.

Kok L(1), Engelfriet P, Jacobs-van der Bruggen MA, Hoogenveen RT, Boshuizen HC, 
Verschuren MW.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: A new Dutch guideline for cardiovascular disease management 
substantially extends the number of individuals for whom treatment with statins 
and/or antihypertensive agents is recommended. We estimated the 
cost-effectiveness of implementing the new guideline at the national level.
METHODS: First, the number of currently untreated individuals who would become 
eligible for cholesterol-lowering or antihypertensive treatment under the new 
guideline was estimated using data from a recent population study. 
Cost-effectiveness of treating this group of patients was then assessed using a 
mathematical model.
RESULTS: Implementing the guideline in the age category 30-69 years would lead 
to an additional 465,000 individuals requiring treatment. Over a period of 20 
years, the cumulative incidence of acute myocardial infarction in the whole 
population would drop by 3.0%, that of stroke by 3.9%, and all-cause mortality 
would drop by 0.9%. The lifetime cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated to be 
15,000 Euro per quality-adjusted life year gained. In the age categories 70-79 
years and 80 years or above, an additional 600,000 and 450,000 persons, 
respectively, would need to be treated, resulting in corresponding reductions in 
cumulative incidences of 14 and 18% (acute myocardial infarction), 17 and 22% 
(stroke), and 1.2 and 0.6% (all-cause mortality) with cost-effectiveness ratios 
of 20,800 and 32,300 Euro, respectively, per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: Complete implementation of the new guideline would lead to a 
considerable increase in the number of individuals requiring treatment. This 
would be cost-effective up to the age of 70 years.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e328329497a
PMID: 19305351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. J Econ Perspect. 2008 Fall;22(4):27-50. doi: 10.1257/jep.22.4.27.

Is American health care uniquely inefficient?

Garber AM(1), Skinner J.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, and Center for Health Policy 
and Center for Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California, and National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, USA. garber@stanford.edu

DOI: 10.1257/jep.22.4.27
PMCID: PMC2659297
PMID: 19305645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Contin Chang. 2000;15(2):235-67. doi: 10.1017/s0268416099003537.

Childhood mortality in Central Spain, 1790-1960: changes in the course of 
demographic modernization.

Ramiro Farinas D, Sanz Gimeno A.

DOI: 10.1017/s0268416099003537
PMID: 19306525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2009 Apr;18(2):241-56, viii. doi: 
10.1016/j.soc.2008.12.002.

Percutaneous approach to the diagnosis and treatment of biliary tract 
malignancies.

Garcia MJ(1), Epstein DS, Dignazio MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Interventional Radiology, Christiana Care Health System, 4755 
Ogletown-Stanton Road, Suite 1E10, Newark, DE 19718, USA. 
magarcia@christianacare.org

The role of percutaneous, transhepatic management of biliary tract malignancies 
is to provide diagnostic and palliative care for improving patient quality of 
life. To treat and manage biliary tract malignancies successfully, particularly 
in patients who have inoperable disease, percutaneous interventions, such as 
biliary decompression and catheter-directed liver therapies, must be available. 
Although most vascular interventions do not yet commonly produce significant 
increased survivability in patients who have biliary tract malignancies, 
continued advances in percutaneous technologies suggest that future benefits in 
life expectancy may be achieved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soc.2008.12.002
PMID: 19306810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Anal Biochem. 2009 Jun 1;389(1):27-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2009.03.023. Epub
2009  Mar 21.

Correlations between in vitro potency of polyethylene glycol-protein conjugates 
and their chromatographic behavior.

Caserman S(1), Kusterle M, Kunstelj M, MilunoviÄ‡ T, Schiefermeier M, Jevsevar S, 
Porekar VG.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Chemistry, SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

Pegylation is the most widely used and accepted methodology for half-life 
extension of biopharmaceutical drugs that also improves physicochemical and 
biological characteristics of proteins considerably. Most of the positive 
pharmacological effects of pegylated proteins are believed to be related to an 
increased hydrodynamic volume and molecular size. To explore the size impact of 
polyethylene glycol (PEG) on in vitro potency, a series of well-defined 
conjugates of interferon alpha-2b (IFN) were prepared with PEGs of different 
lengths and shapes specifically attached to the N-terminal amino group of the 
protein. Specificity of the attachment was confirmed by peptide mapping and mass 
spectroscopy. When potency values determined by reporter gene assay were 
correlated with methods for molecular weight and size characterization, such as 
size exclusion chromatography and dynamic light scattering, rough parallels were 
found. Unexpectedly, the retention times on cation exchange chromatography 
showed much higher correlation with experimentally determined in vitro potency. 
It appears that in a series of N-terminally pegylated IFNs, their in vitro 
potency could be predicted from the retention times on the cation exchange 
chromatography columns, probably because both methods reflect not only the 
influence of molecular size but also the impact of protein masking exerted by 
attached PEG moiety.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2009.03.023
PMID: 19306838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Vasc Surg. 2009 May;49(5):1162-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2008.12.007.

True abdominal aortic aneurysm in Marfan syndrome.

Takayama T(1), Miyata T, Nagawa H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Graduate School of 
Medicine, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: True abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in patients with Marfan 
syndrome is relatively rare because most aortic aneurysms in this disease are 
dissecting aneurysms in the thoracic area. Therefore, its clinical 
characteristics and long-term outcome are still unclear.
METHODS: We examined six patients (3 men, 3 women) with Marfan syndrome who had 
a true AAA. These patients underwent surgical treatment from 1972 to 2004, and 
we investigated the clinical and histologic findings.
RESULTS: The patients were a median age of 45 years (range, 23-73 years) at the 
time of operation. The median maximum AAA diameter was 76 mm (range, 30-140 mm). 
Two AAAs ruptured, one of which had twice undergone stent graft insertion before 
open repair. There was one anastomotic aneurysm and three aortic dissections 
with additional repair. Marfan-related cardiac complications, all found 
perioperatively or postoperatively, comprised three patients with annuloaortic 
ectasia and four with aortic regurgitation. Three patients died, including one 
death during the operation. Only slight mural thrombus was seen at nonruptured 
AAAs, and each surgical specimen of aneurysmal wall demonstrated significant 
cystic medial necrosis in the tunica media.
CONCLUSIONS: True AAAs in Marfan syndrome seemed to have several specific 
features, such as the tendency to occur in relatively young patients, lack of 
mural thrombus, and susceptibility to dissection and rupture, and the patients 
have poor life expectancy. Therefore, careful follow-up, keeping these features 
in mind, is important to treat Marfan syndrome patients with a true AAA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2008.12.007
PMID: 19307079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Appl Radiat Isot. 2009 Jul-Aug;67(7-8):1307-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.apradiso.2009.02.028. Epub 2009 Feb 20.

A step function model to evaluate the real monetary value of man-sievert with 
real GDP.

Na SH(1), Kim SG.

Author information:
(1)Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety, 19 Guseong-dong, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 
305-338, Republic of Korea. shna@kins.re.kr

For use in a cost-benefit analysis to establish optimum levels of radiation 
protection in Korea under the ALARA principle, we introduce a discrete step 
function model to evaluate man-sievert monetary value in the real economic 
value. The model formula, which is unique and country-specific, is composed of 
real GDP, the nominal risk coefficient for cancer and hereditary effects, the 
aversion factor against radiation exposure, and average life expectancy. Unlike 
previous researches on alpha-value assessment, we show different alpha values in 
the real term, differentiated with respect to the range of individual doses, 
which would be more realistic and informative for application to the radiation 
protection practices. GDP deflators of economy can reflect the society's 
situations. Finally, we suggest that the Korean model can be generalized simply 
to other countries without normalizing any country-specific factors.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apradiso.2009.02.028
PMID: 19307131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Age Ageing. 2009 Jul;38(4):380-5. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afp035. Epub 2009 Mar
22.

Effect of parental age at birth on the accumulation of deficits, frailty and 
survival in older adults.

Hubbard RE(1), Andrew MK, Rockwood K.

Author information:
(1)Dalhousie University and QEII Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
Canada. Ruth.Hubbard@cdha.nshealth.ca

INTRODUCTION: parental age at conception may affect life expectancy. Adult 
daughters of older fathers seem to live shorter lives and, in one study, being 
born to a mother aged <25 was an important predictor of exceptional longevity. 
The effect of parental age on fitness/frailty in late life is unknown. We aimed 
to investigate the relationships between parental age and frailty and longevity 
in older adults.
METHODS: in the Canadian Study of Health and Aging (CSHA), data was collected on 
individuals aged >or=65 using a Self-Assessed Risk Factor Questionnaire and 
screening interview. In this secondary analysis, 5112 participants had complete 
data for parental age, frailty status and 10-year survival. Parental age was 
divided into three groups, with cut-offs at 25 and 45 for fathers and at 25 and 
40 for mothers. Frailty was defined by an index of deficits. Survival was 
analysed using Kaplan-Meier curves and Cox regression with analyses adjusted for 
subject's age, sex and age of the other parent.
RESULTS: mean maternal age at subject's birth was 29.2y (SD 6.8) and mean 
paternal age 33.3y (SD 7.8). There was no effect of maternal or paternal age on 
survival for either sons or daughters. Similarly, there was no association 
between parental age and subject frailty in old age.
CONCLUSION: we did not identify an association between parental age and frailty 
or longevity in older adult participants in the CSHA.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afp035
PMID: 19307228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. J Gen Intern Med. 2009 May;24(5):678-82. doi: 10.1007/s11606-009-0954-4.
Epub  2009 Mar 24.

Do new drugs increase life expectancy? A critique of a Manhattan Institute 
paper.

Baker D(1), Fugh-Berman A.

Author information:
(1)Center for Economic and Policy Research, Washington, DC 20009, USA.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Dec;24(12):1356; author reply 1357.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2001 Sep-Oct;20(5):241-51.

A recent study published by the Manhattan Institute, "Why Has Longevity 
Increased More in Some States than in Others? The Role of Medical Innovation and 
Other Factors," purported to show that the more rapid adoption of new drugs has 
substantial benefits in the form of increased life expectancy, higher 
productivity and lower non-drug health care expenditures. This study has been 
cited as evidence supporting the more rapid acceptance of new drugs in Medicaid, 
Medicare, and other public programs and has helped to shape public debate on the 
value of new drugs. This analysis questions the key conclusions of the study. It 
points out that the key statistical regressions appear to be misspecified, since 
they show anomalies such as a negative correlation between income growth and 
life expectancy and find no relationship between education and productivity 
growth. Methodological flaws addressed include lack of adjustment for infant 
mortality rates; inadequate proxy measures of health status; lack of adjustment 
for ages of individuals and other sociodemographic factors; inherent problems 
with the definition of drug age, or 'vintage;' and the failure to consider 
reverse causation as an obvious explanation for several findings. The Manhattan 
Institute study does not provide reliable evidence for favoring adoption of 
newer drugs in either public or private health care programs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-009-0954-4
PMCID: PMC2669876
PMID: 19308335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2009 Mar 23;4:11. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-11.

Sheldon-Hall syndrome.

Toydemir RM(1), Bamshad MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Genetics, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. rtoydemi@genetics.utah.edu

Sheldon-Hall syndrome (SHS) is a rare multiple congenital contracture syndrome 
characterized by contractures of the distal joints of the limbs, triangular 
face, downslanting palpebral fissures, small mouth, and high arched palate. 
Epidemiological data for the prevalence of SHS are not available, but less than 
100 cases have been reported in the literature. Other common clinical features 
of SHS include prominent nasolabial folds, high arched palate, attached 
earlobes, mild cervical webbing, short stature, severe camptodactyly, ulnar 
deviation, and vertical talus and/or talipes equinovarus. Typically, the 
contractures are most severe at birth and non-progressive. SHS is inherited in 
an autosomal dominant pattern but about half the cases are sporadic. Mutations 
in either MYH3, TNNI2, or TNNT3 have been found in about 50% of cases. These 
genes encode proteins of the contractile apparatus of fast twitch skeletal 
muscle fibers. The diagnosis of SHS is based on clinical criteria. Mutation 
analysis is useful to distinguish SHS from arthrogryposis syndromes with similar 
features (e.g. distal arthrogryposis 1 and Freeman-Sheldon syndrome). Prenatal 
diagnosis by ultrasonography is feasible at 18-24 weeks of gestation. If the 
family history is positive and the mutation is known in the family, prenatal 
molecular genetic diagnosis is possible. There is no specific therapy for SHS. 
However, patients benefit from early intervention with occupational and physical 
therapy, serial casting, and/or surgery. Life expectancy and cognitive abilities 
are normal.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-11
PMCID: PMC2663550
PMID: 19309503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Public Health Rep. 1987 Jul;102(4 Suppl):62.

Introductory remarks.

Williams TF.

This important topic, aging, is really a woman's issue as things now stand. 
Someday, it is to be hoped, it will be more a man's issue as well, but that is 
one of the research challenges.Few features of the human aging process have such 
enormous personal, economic, social, and cultural consequences as the sex 
differential in lengevity. Life expectancy at birth for women has increased far 
more rapidly than for men.By the time a person reaches the age of 85, there are 
approximately five women for every two men. Many other statistics support and 
illustrate dramatically the importance of gender differences in aging and the 
challenge of trying to understand why they exist: It is important also to 
understand the differences in disability.In a recent issue of the Journal of the 
American Geriatrics Society William Hazzard looked at the biological basis for 
the sexual differential in longevity His review is extremely thorough and 
thought-provoking. Dr. Hazzard recently left the geriatric unit at Johns Hopkins 
School of Medicine to become Chairman of Medicine at Bowman Gray School of 
Medicine in Winston-Salem, NC.The discussions that follow will examine many 
aspects of this important subject.

PMCID: PMC1478017
PMID: 19313202


386. Acta Clin Belg. 2009 Jan-Feb;64(1):23-34. doi: 10.1179/acb.2009.006.

Metabolic syndrome in the elderly: an overview of the evidence.

Denys K(1), Cankurtaran M, Janssens W, Petrovic M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 185, 9000 
Ghent, Belgium.

We reviewed the literature concerning the prevalence and correlates of metabolic 
syndrome (MetS) in older adults and assessed the impact of MetS with regard to 
life expectancy and comorbidity in the elderly (aged 65 years and over). Using 
the PubMed database and the Cochrane Library, we found 16 eligible studies, of 
which 8 were prospective cohort studies, 7 cross-sectional studies, and 1 a 
case-control study. The World Health Organisation (WHO) and National Cholesterol 
Education Program (NCEP) are the most popular definitions to describe MetS 
experienced by the elderly. The prevalence of metabolic syndrome in an elderly 
population varied from 11% to 43% (median 21%) according to the WHO, and 23% to 
55 % (median 31%) according to NCEP. Obesity and hypertension are the most 
prevalent individual components. MetS in an elderly population is a proven risk 
factor for cardiovascular (CV) morbidity, especially stroke and coronary heart 
disease (CHD), and mortality. Preventing and treating MetS would be useful in 
preventing disability and promoting normal aging. Results from the different 
studies of elderly population-based cohorts provide support for earlier 
investigations in middle-aged populations to prevent MetS components. In 
conclusion, it is possible to say that the results from the different elderly 
study populations link the presence of the MetS with the development of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and functional disability, and further underscore 
the importance of recognising and treating its individual components, 
particularly high blood pressure.

DOI: 10.1179/acb.2009.006
PMID: 19317238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Insur Med. 2008;40(3-4):170-8.

Smoking habit and mortality: a meta-analysis.

Shavelle RM(1), Paculdo DR, Strauss DJ, Kush SJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, USA. 
Shavelle@LifeExpectancy.org

Comment in
    J Insur Med. 2008;40(3-4):165-9.

Cigarette smoking leads to excess mortality risk. Although it is well known that 
the risk increases with the number of pack-years of smoking--that is, how much a 
person smokes, or "habit"--there is apparently no published studies that 
organize and synthesize the evidence on this topic. This paper provides a 
meta-analysis of the latest published findings relating to cigarette smoking 
habit and excess mortality. A combined estimate of the relative risk (RR) of 
death for smokers, stratified by habit (light, medium, or heavy smoking), 
compared with non-smokers is provided.

PMID: 19317324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Regen Med. 2009 Mar;4(2):251-63. doi: 10.2217/17460751.4.2.251.

Manufacturing neurons from human embryonic stem cells: biological and regulatory 
aspects to develop a safe cellular product for stroke cell therapy.

Daadi MM(1), Steinberg GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery and Stanford Stroke Center, MSLS P309, 1201 Welch 
Road, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305-5487, USA. 
mdaadi@stanford.edu

Demographic trends, particularly those related to longer life expectancy, 
suggest that the demand for tissue and organ transplants will further increase 
since many disorders result from degeneration, injury or organ failure. The most 
urgent problem in transplantation medicine is the shortage or lack of suitable 
donor organs and tissue, leading to ethical and societal problems such as organ 
trafficking. The discovery of stem cells in the inner cell mass of developing 
embryos and in adult tissue has revolutionized the medical field by introducing 
new therapeutic dimensions to consider for previously untreatable diseases and 
injuries. The unlimited self-renewal ability and pluripotent capacity to become 
any cell type of the organism make human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) a 
compelling source of cells to study tissue histogenesis and to apply in a wide 
array of tissue engineering, cell transplantation therapy and drug discovery 
applications. In this article, we will focus on hESCs and address the derivation 
of therapeutic neural stem cell lines from hESCs, as well as the biological and 
regulatory aspects to developing a safe cellular product for stroke cell 
therapy.

DOI: 10.2217/17460751.4.2.251
PMCID: PMC4337782
PMID: 19317644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Ann Pharmacother. 2009 Apr;43(4):721-5. doi: 10.1345/aph.1L532. Epub 2009
Mar  24.

Efficacy and safety of modafinil in the treatment of cancer-related fatigue.

Cooper MR(1), Bird HM, Steinberg M.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences, Worcester, Manchester, 
NH 03101, USA. maryann.cooper@mcphs.edu

OBJECTIVE: To review the efficacy and safety of modafinil in the treatment of 
cancer-related fatigue (CRF). DATA SOUCES: Literature was accessed via MEDLINE 
(1950-week 3, November 2008), International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, and Google 
Scholar using the terms modafinil, cancer, and fatigue. Reference citations from 
articles identified were reviewed.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All English-language publications 
identified were analyzed for significance. Studies relevant to the objective 
were used, including 2 prospective open-label studies, one randomized 
double-blind, dose-controlled trial with an open-label extension, and one Phase 
3 randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind trial.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Fatigue is a nearly universal adverse effect of cancer and its 
treatment that is unrelated to physical exertion, is not relieved by sleep or 
rest, and negatively affects quality of life. Modafinil is a central nervous 
system stimulant with minimal toxicity and a low propensity for abuse. Clinical 
data demonstrate that modafinil significantly reduces fatigue in patients who 
have received cancer treatment or are currently undergoing chemotherapy. 
Additional benefits include improvement in cognitive function, mood, general 
activity, walking ability, normal work ability, relations with other people, and 
enjoyment of life. Limitations of the available data include open-label design 
in 3 of the 4 studies; the absence of numerical results of fatigue assessments 
in the abstract of 1 trial, preventing the determination of clinical 
significance; and the full inclusion/exclusion criteria, which were not included 
in the published abstracts. These limitations leave readers without a clear 
picture of the study populations. Finally, different patient populations at 
different points in treatment with varying durations of therapy were used, which 
makes extrapolation of data to the general population challenging.
CONCLUSIONS: Further randomized placebo-controlled trials are necessary to amass 
evidence for the effective and safe use of modafinil for CRF; however, if 
traditional therapies have failed or are intolerable, modafinil can be 
considered a treatment option.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1L532
PMID: 19318599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Chest. 2009 Jul;136(1):79-88. doi: 10.1378/chest.08-2123. Epub 2009 Mar 24.

Cost-effectiveness of implementing low-tidal volume ventilation in patients with 
acute lung injury.

Cooke CR(1), Kahn JM(2), Watkins TR(3), Hudson LD(3), Rubenfeld GD(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Harborview Medical Center, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA. Electronic address: 
crcooke@u.washington.edu.
(2)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy & Critical Care, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA.
(3)Division of Pulmonary & Critical Care Medicine, Harborview Medical Center, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA.
(4)Interdepartmental Division of Critical Care, Sunnybrook Health Sciences 
Centre, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Division of Pulmonary & 
Critical Care Medicine, Harborview Medical Center, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA.

BACKGROUND: Despite widespread guidelines recommending the use of 
lung-protective ventilation (LPV) in patients with acute lung injury (ALI), many 
patients do not receive this lifesaving therapy. We sought to estimate the 
incremental clinical and economic outcomes associated with LPV and determined 
the maximum cost of a hypothetical intervention to improve adherence with LPV 
that remained cost-effective.
METHODS: Adopting a societal perspective, we developed a theoretical decision 
model to determine the cost-effectiveness of LPV compared to non-LPV care. Model 
inputs were derived from the literature and a large population-based cohort of 
patients with ALI. Cost-effectiveness was determined as the cost per life saved 
and the cost per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: Application of LPV resulted in an increase in QALYs gained by 15% (4.21 
years for non-LPV vs 4.83 years for LPV), and an increase in lifetime costs of 
$7,233 per patient with ALI ($99,588 for non-LPV vs $106,821 for LPV). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for LPV were $22,566 per life saved at 
hospital discharge and $11,690 per QALY gained. The maximum, cost-effective, per 
patient investment in a hypothetical program to improve LPV adherence from 50 to 
90% was $9,482. Results were robust to a wide range of economic and patient 
parameter assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Even a costly intervention to improve adherence with low-tidal 
volume ventilation in patients with ALI reduces death and is cost-effective by 
current societal standards.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.08-2123
PMCID: PMC2716714
PMID: 19318673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have reported to the ACCP that no 
significant conflicts of interest exist with any companies/organizations whose 
products or services may be discussed in this article.


391. Rev Mal Respir. 2009 Feb;26(2):153-65. doi: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)71593-1.

[Thoracic hyperinflation and COPD. Beyond respiratory mechanics and dyspnea].

[Article in French]

Maury G(1), Marchand E.

Author information:
(1)UniversitÃ© catholique de Louvain, Service de Pneumologie, Cliniques 
Universitaires de Mont-Godinne, Yvoir, Belgium.

INTRODUCTION: The interactions between thoracic hyperinflation and respiratory 
mechanics, as well as their importance in the development of dyspnoea, are now 
well understood. We discuss here other aspects of thoracic hyperinflation that 
are relevant in the context of COPD.
BACKGROUND: Both clinical examination and imaging have a limited role in the 
detection of thoracic hyperinflation for which respiratory function tests remain 
the gold standard. Imaging, however, has led us to a better understanding of how 
the chest wall accommodates for hyperinflation, which mainly affects the 
diaphragm, particularly its vertical portion. More recently the adverse effects 
of hyperinflation on both pulmonary and systemic haemodynamics and life 
expectancy have been highlighted.
VIEWPOINTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Thoracic hyperinflation affecting patients with COPD 
has important consequences that extend far beyond the framework of respiratory 
mechanics. In the future the importance of hyperinflation as a determinant of 
the prognosis should be confirmed and the most relevant parameter, in this 
context, defined. The potential links between thoracic hyperinflation and 
systemic inflammation should also be clarified.

DOI: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)71593-1
PMID: 19319111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Health Stat Q. 2009 Spring;(41):28-41. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2009.6.

An investigation into the impact of question change on estimates of general 
health status and healthy life expectancy.

Smith M(1), White C.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This article investigates the likely effects of incorporating the European Union 
Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) general health question 
upon Office for National Statistics (ONS) estimates of general health and 
healthy life expectancy (HLE). The analysis indicates that while these estimates 
will undergo revision following the integration of the EU-SILC general health 
question, for the most part the underlying trend remains unaffected. 
Incorporation of the EU-SILC question in the reporting of UK health statistics 
will improve comparability with other EU member states, and provide a stronger 
indicator of functional health status. ONS will adopt the EU-SILC general health 
question exclusively from the reporting period 2006-08. However, to further 
clarify the implications of this transition, ONS will present two estimates of 
HLE based on the original and EU-SILC general health questions for the period 
2005-07. This article has important implications for setting targets and 
monitoring progress in Public Sector Agreement Indicators for fitness for work 
beyond the state pension age and healthy ageing.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2009.6
PMID: 19320251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Public Health Rep. 2009 Mar-Apr;124(2):197-202. doi:
10.1177/003335490912400206.

Disability and disability-adjusted life years: not the same.

Grosse SD(1), Lollar DJ, Campbell VA, Chamie M.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. sgrosse@cdc.gov

DOI: 10.1177/003335490912400206
PMCID: PMC2646475
PMID: 19320360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Public Health Rep. 2009 Mar-Apr;124(2):304-16. doi:
10.1177/003335490912400219.

Monitoring progress toward CDC's health protection goals: health outcome 
measures by life stage.

Roy K(1), Haddix AC, Ikeda RM, Curry CW, Truman BI, Thacker SB.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Director, Office of Workforce and Career Development, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Rd. NE, MS-E94, Atlanta, GA 
30333, USA. kjr3@cdc.gov

OBJECTIVES: From 2004 through 2005, as part of a major strategic planning 
process called the Futures Initiative, the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention (CDC) developed a set of Health Protection Goals to make the best use 
of agency resources to achieve health impact. These goals were framed in terms 
of people, places, preparedness, and global health. This article presents a 
goals framework and a set of health outcome measures with historical trends and 
forecasts to track progress toward the Healthy People goals by life stage 
(Infants and Toddlers, Children, Adolescents, Adults, and Older Adults and 
Seniors).
METHODS: Measurable key health outcomes were chosen for each life stage to 
capture the multidimensional aspects of health, including mortality, morbidity, 
perceived health, and lifestyle factors. Analytic methods involved identifying 
nationally representative data sources, reviewing 20-year trends generally 
ranging from 1984 through 2005, and using time-series techniques to forecast 
measures by life stage until 2015.
RESULTS: Improvements in measures of mortality and morbidity were noted among 
all life stages during the study period except Adults, who reported continued 
declining trends in perceived health status. Although certain behavioral 
indicators (e.g., prevalence of nonsmokers) revealed steady improvements among 
Adolescents, Adults, and Older Adults and Seniors, prevalence of the healthy 
weight indicator was declining steadily among Children and Adolescents and 
dramatically among Adults and Older Adults and Seniors.
CONCLUSION: The health indicators for the Healthy People goals established a 
baseline assessment of population health, which will be monitored on an ongoing 
basis to measure progress in maximizing health and achieving one component of 
CDC's Health Protection Goals.

DOI: 10.1177/003335490912400219
PMCID: PMC2646487
PMID: 19320373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Acc Chem Res. 2009 May 19;42(5):599-607. doi: 10.1021/ar8001969.

How drug photodegradation studies led to the promise of new therapies and some 
fundamental carbanion reaction dynamics along the way.

Cosa G(1), Lukeman M, Scaiano JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, McGill University, 801 Sherbrooke Street West, 
Montreal, Quebec H3A 2K6, Canada. gonzalo.cosa@mcgill.ca

The photodegradation of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), a class 
of medications that includes aspirin and ibuprofen, has generated considerable 
interest since the 1990s, largely because of the phototoxic and photoallergic 
effects that frequently accompany their therapeutic use. Among NSAIDs, 
ketoprofen, which contains a benzophenone chromophore, has been extensively 
studied, reflecting both its notorious adverse effects and the fascination that 
photochemists have with benzophenone. The photochemistry of ketoprofen involves 
the intermediacy of an easily detectable carbanion with a remarkable lifetime of 
200 ns in water; its life expectancy can in fact be extended to minutes under 
carefully controlled anhydrous conditions. Over the past decade, we have used 
some key properties of the ketoprofen carbanion to conduct mechanistic studies 
on carbanions under various conditions. In particular, its ease of 
photogeneration provides the temporal control required for kinetic studies, 
which, combined with its long lifetime and readily detectable visible 
absorption, have enabled extensive laser flash photolysis work. These studies 
have led to an intimate understanding of the reaction dynamics for carbanions in 
solution, including the determination of absolute rate constants for 
protonation, S(N)2, and elimination reactions. Together they provide excellent 
exemplars of reactivity patterns that today are part of all introductory 
curricula in organic chemistry and illustrate the fundamentals of nucleophilic 
substitution paradigms. More recently, we have begun to exploit the 
photochemistry of ketoprofenate and have developed the ketoprofenate photocage, 
a valuable tool for the photocontrolled cleavage of protecting groups and 
concomitant drug release. The photorelease has been illustrated with ibuprofen, 
among many other molecules. These photocages have been further improved with the 
use of the xanthone chromophore; the goal is the release of antiviral agents 
taking advantage of the improved UVA absorption of xanthone (xanthonate 
photocages). In this Account, we survey our work of the past few years on the 
photochemistry of ketoprofen and related chromophores. Beginning with studies on 
the phototoxicity of ketoprofen, we have made the journey to new prodrug 
candidates, unraveling mechanistic elements of aroyl-substituted benzyl 
carbanions along the way.

DOI: 10.1021/ar8001969
PMID: 19320473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Am J Clin Nutr. 2009 May;89(5):1607S-1612S. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.2009.26736K.
Epub  2009 Mar 25.

Vegetarian diets: what do we know of their effects on common chronic diseases?

Fraser GE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Loma Linda University, Loma 
Linda, CA, USA. gfraser@llu.edu

Erratum in
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2009 Jul;90(1):248.

A number of studies have evaluated the health of vegetarians. Others have 
studied the health effects of foods that are preferred or avoided by 
vegetarians. The purpose of this review is to look critically at the evidence on 
the health effects of vegetarian diets and to seek possible explanations where 
results appear to conflict. There is convincing evidence that vegetarians have 
lower rates of coronary heart disease, largely explained by low LDL cholesterol, 
probable lower rates of hypertension and diabetes mellitus, and lower prevalence 
of obesity. Overall, their cancer rates appear to be moderately lower than 
others living in the same communities, and life expectancy appears to be 
greater. However, results for specific cancers are much less convincing and 
require more study. There is evidence that risk of colorectal cancer is lower in 
vegetarians and in those who eat less meat; however, results from British 
vegetarians presently disagree, and this needs explanation. It is probable that 
using the label "vegetarian" as a dietary category is too broad and that our 
understanding will be served well by dividing vegetarians into more descriptive 
subtypes. Although vegetarian diets are healthful and are associated with lower 
risk of several chronic diseases, different types of vegetarians may not 
experience the same effects on health.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.2009.26736K
PMCID: PMC2677008
PMID: 19321569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. N Z Med J. 2009 Mar 13;122(1291):28-38.

Lack of coordination between health policy and medical education: a contributing 
factor to the resignation of specialist trainees in Fiji?

Oman KM(1), Usher K, Moulds R.

Author information:
(1)James Cook University School of Medicine, Townsville, Queensland, Australia. 
kimberly.oman@jcu.edu.au

AIM: Specialist training was established in Fiji in 1998. This study explored 
whether health policy, and in particular mismatches between existing policy and 
the new realities of local specialist training, contributed to decisions by many 
trainees to ultimately leave the public sectors, often to migrate.
METHOD: Data was collected on the whereabouts of all specialist trainees. 
Semi-structured interviews were carried out with 36 of 66 Fiji trainees in order 
to explore reasons for continuing or not completing training, as well as the 
reasons behind subsequent career choices.
RESULTS: Overall, 54.5% of doctors remained in the public sectors or were 
temporarily overseas. Completion of specialist training was particularly 
associated with improved retention. Policies that contributed to frustration and 
sometimes resignations included a lack of transparency in the selection of 
doctors to enter training pathways, and unreliable career progression following 
completion of training. Doctors who left training before completion mentioned 
family stresses, which were exacerbated by delayed age at entry into training 
and a lack of certainty in regards to the timing of improved working conditions 
through career advancement.
CONCLUSION: Policy adjustments to expedite entry into training, as well as to 
establish predictable career progression as a reward for training may increase 
training completions and overall retention.

PMID: 19322253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2010 Jan;119(1):177-84. doi:
10.1007/s10549-009-0373-6.  Epub 2009 Mar 26.

Breast cancer-related preferences among women with and without BRCA mutations.

Grann VR(1), Patel P, Bharthuar A, Jacobson JS, Warner E, Anderson K, Warner E, 
Tsai WY, Hill KA, Neugut AI, Hershman D.

Author information:
(1)Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center, Department of Medicine, and 
Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health, College of Physicians and Surgeons, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. vrg2@columbia.edu

Preference ratings are used to quantify quality of life in analyses used for 
health care policy making. Subjects indicated how many years of their life 
expectancy they would trade to avoid BRCA mutations, breast/ovarian cancer, and 
five preventive measures including prophylactic surgery, annual mammograms, and 
annual magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Among 243 respondents, both the 83 
women with mutations and the 160 controls rated mammography highest (most 
favorably), MRI next highest, having a child with a mutation lowest, and ovarian 
cancer next lowest. Controls rated prophylactic surgery higher than cancer (P < 
0.01), but women with mutations did not. In logistic regression, controls were 
twice as willing as women with mutations to trade time except for screening 
modalities; younger, lower-income, and non-white women were more willing to 
trade time than older, higher-income, and white women. Our findings support the 
use of average-risk individuals' time trade-off preference ratings for health 
care policy development.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-009-0373-6
PMID: 19322653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Drugs. 2009;69(4):461-76. doi: 10.2165/00003495-200969040-00006.

Sapropterin: a review of its use in the treatment of primary 
hyperphenylalaninaemia.

Sanford M(1), Keating GM.

Author information:
(1)Wolters Kluwer Health | Adis, North Shore, Auckland, New Zealand. 
demail@adis.co.nz

Sapropterin dihydrochloride (Kuvan), hereafter referred to as sapropterin, is a 
synthetic formulation of the active 6R-isomer of tetrahydrobiopterin, a 
naturally occurring cofactor for phenylalanine hydroxylase. In the EU, 
sapropterin is approved for the treatment of hyperphenylalaninaemia in patients 
>or=4 years of age with tetrahydrobiopterin-responsive phenylketonuria (PKU) and 
in adults and children with tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency who have been shown 
to be responsive to such treatment. In the US, it is approved to reduce blood 
phenylalanine levels in patients with hyperphenylalaninaemia due to 
tetrahydrobiopterin-responsive PKU. Oral sapropterin effectively lowers blood 
phenylalanine levels in a proportion of patients with PKU; to date, there are no 
published efficacy trials of the specific sapropterin formulation under review 
in patients with tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency. Sapropterin was well tolerated 
in patients with PKU, although longer-term tolerability data are required. 
Sapropterin is the first non-dietary treatment for patients with PKU that has 
been shown in randomized, double-blind trials to be effective in lowering blood 
phenylalanine levels. Thus, sapropterin provides a promising treatment option 
for patients with PKU who are tetrahydrobiopterin-responsive. PHARMACOLOGICAL 
PROPERTIES: The mechanism of action of sapropterin in lowering blood 
phenylalanine levels in patients with PKU has not been fully elucidated, but 
appears to be related, in part, to its effect in augmenting and stabilizing 
mutant phenylalanine hydroxylases, resulting in increased clearance of 
phenylalanine from the body. In tetrahydrobiopterin deficiency, its mechanism of 
action is presumed to be secondary to replacement of endogenous 
tetrahydrobiopterin. In healthy adults, orally-administered sapropterin is 
absorbed into the bloodstream, reaching maximum concentrations in 3-4 hours. It 
has a mean elimination half-life of approximately 4 hours in healthy adults and, 
based on a population pharmacokinetic study, 6.7 hours in patients with 
tetrahydrobiopterin-responsive PKU. Age, from 9 to 49 years, had no effect on 
key pharmacokinetic parameters. THERAPEUTIC EFFICACY: In an 8-day screening 
study in patients aged >or=8 years with PKU, approximately 20% of patients 
responded to sapropterin 10 mg/kg/day (i.e. were tetrahydrobiopterin 
responsive). Tetrahydrobiopterin-responsive patients from this study were 
entered into a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in which they 
received sapropterin 10 mg/kg/day or placebo. At the end of 6 weeks of 
treatment, sapropterin recipients experienced a significant 28% decrease from 
baseline in mean blood phenylalanine level, while there was no significant 
change in placebo recipients. The difference in mean blood phenylalanine level 
between sapropterin and placebo groups was statistically significant at -245 
micromol/L. In an extension of this trial, significantly greater reductions in 
blood phenylalanine levels were observed with sapropterin dosages of 10 and 20 
mg/kg/day than with sapropterin 5 mg/kg/day (each dose administered for 2 
weeks), indicating a dose dependent effect. During 12 weeks of treatment with 
the sapropterin dosage individualized to the patient according to the earlier 
response to sapropterin 5, 10 or 20 mg/kg/day, reductions in plasma 
phenylalanine were observed in all dosage groups. In a randomized, double-blind 
trial in children aged 4-12 years with tetrahydrobiopterin-responsive PKU, 
patients treated with sapropterin 20 mg/kg/day had reduced blood phenylalanine 
levels after 3 weeks of treatment. Over the full 10-week trial, sapropterin and 
placebo recipients experienced a significantly increased tolerance to dietary 
phenylalanine (20.9 mg/kg/day in sapropterin and 2.9 mg/kg/day in placebo 
recipients).
TOLERABILITY: Sapropterin was well tolerated in patients with PKU. In clinical 
trials in patients with PKU, the following adverse events were identified: 
headache, rhinorrhoea (both at a frequency of >or=10%), pharyngolaryngeal pain, 
nasal congestion, cough, diarrhoea, vomiting, abdominal pain and 
hypophenylalaninaemia (all at a frequency of >or=1% to <10%). There were no 
serious adverse events that were thought to be related to sapropterin treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/00003495-200969040-00006
PMID: 19323589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Bull Entomol Res. 2010 Feb;100(1):87-97. doi: 10.1017/S0007485309006804.
Epub  2009 Mar 27.

Comparative life tables of leek moth, Acrolepiopsis assectella (Zeller) 
(Lepidoptera: Acrolepiidae), in its native range.

Jenner WH(1), Kuhlmann U, Mason PG, Cappuccino N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel By Drive, Ottawa, 
ON, K1S 5B6, Canada. w.jenner@cabi.org

Leek moth, Acrolepiopsis assectella (Zeller) (Lepidoptera: Acrolepiidae), is an 
invasive alien species in eastern Canada, the larvae of which mine the green 
tissues of Allium spp. This study was designed to construct and analyse life 
tables for leek moth within its native range. Stage-specific mortality rates 
were estimated for the third leek moth generation at three sites in Switzerland 
