identified independent determinants of shorter survival. From these we 
constructed the Survival in Alzheimer's Model (SAM), and tested this on a 
validation cohort.
RESULTS: Baseline constructional apraxia, age and gait apraxia independently 
predicted shorter survival: about half of those scoring 2 on the SAM survived > 
or =3.5 years compared to 85% of those scoring 0.
CONCLUSIONS: The SAM is a potentially useful tool for clinicians who previously 
had very limited specific and quantitative prognostic information to tell AD 
patients and carers. This model predicted survival from age, constructional and 
gait apraxia. This may be because constructional and gait apraxia are relatively 
free from educational or cultural bias and thus are better indicators of severe 
neuropathology than global cognitive tests. Alternatively, they may increase 
falls or immobility, or represent disease sub-types with worse prognoses. 
Oncology services are able to inform patients and their families about 5-year 
survival rates. This step towards such provision in AD is new and of potential 
importance to patients and their carers.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.2190
PMID: 19189277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 May-Jun;21(3):357-64. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20879.

Why men have shorter lives than women: effects of resource availability, 
infectious disease, and senescence.

Møller AP(1), Fincher CL, Thornhill R.

Author information:
(1)CNRS, UMR 7103, Laboratoire de Parasitologie Evolutive, Université Pierre et 
Marie Curie, Paris Cedex 05, France. amoller@snv.jussieu.fr

Senescence arises from age-specific deterioration of the soma as a consequence 
of optimization of life history, and such effects of senescence should appear 
when comparing species that differ in intensity of sexual selection, as well as 
when comparing, within a species, the two sexes that often differ in intensity 
of sexual selection. However, any extrinsic cause of mortality that reduces life 
expectancy will reduce the possibility of detecting sex-specific differences in 
senescence. We investigated geographical variation in human sex differences in 
longevity across 121 countries to test whether differences in sexual competition 
for limiting resources, reflecting intensity of sexual selection, affected sex 
differences in longevity. Men on average lived 5 years shorter than women. High 
rates of childhood morbidity and mortality reduced the sex difference in 
longevity, while increased overall longevity increased the sex difference in 
longevity. Increased resource availability estimated from gross domestic product 
per capita reduced the sex difference in longevity, accounting for 10% of the 
variance, while there was no additional effect of income inequality as reflected 
by the Gini coefficient. In a separate analysis of sex differences in longevity 
among the states of the US, there was a strong effect of the Gini coefficient on 
sex difference in longevity, with the negative effect on male longevity being 
stronger than that on female longevity. In contrast, there was only a marginal 
effect of average household income. Thus, there was evidence of increased 
competition for resources contributing to increased sex differences in longevity 
within a single nation.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20879
PMID: 19189415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2009 Apr;39(4):201-16. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyn159. Epub 2009
Feb  3.

Preferences of cancer patients regarding communication of bad news: a systematic 
literature review.

Fujimori M(1), Uchitomi Y.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Innovative Oncology, National Cancer Center Hospital 
East, Kashiwa, Chiba, Japan.

Most physicians regard the communication of bad news to be a difficult issue in 
clinical oncology practice. The optimal manner of communicating bad news to 
patients so that physicians can create maximal understanding in patients and 
facilitate their psychological adjustment is unknown. A systematic review of the 
literature was conducted to clarify available knowledge on patient preferences 
regarding the communication of bad news and associated factors. A comprehensive 
computer search of databases (MEDLINE and PsychINFO) and a manual search 
identified 24 studies. The above issue has been discussed mainly in Western 
countries. Most studies used different measures to obtain information on patient 
preferences and have provided mostly descriptive evidence. The findings in this 
review suggest that patient preferences with regard to the communication of bad 
news by physicians consist of four components: setting, manner of communicating 
bad news, what and how much information is provided and emotional support, and 
that patients' preferences are associated with demographic factors. Younger 
patients, female patients and more highly educated patients consistently 
expressed a desire to receive as much detailed information as possible and to 
receive emotional support. Asian patients were shown to prefer that relatives be 
present when receiving bad news more than Westerners do and to prefer to discuss 
their life expectancy less than Westerners. Physicians need to recognize these 
preferences to help patients understand.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyn159
PMID: 19190099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2008 Dec;41(6):447-52. doi: 10.1007/s00391-008-0020-6.
Epub  2008 Oct 30.

How to prevent perioperative delirium in the elderly?

Gurlit S(1), Möllmann M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Anesthesia and Intensive Care Perioperative Geriatric Team, St. 
Franziskus-Hospital Muenster, Hohenzollernring 72, 48145, Muenster, Germany. 
Simone.gurlit@sfh-muenster.de

Due to increasing life expectancy, the number of elderly patients needing 
surgical care is increasing. Improvements in surgical techniques and anesthetic 
procedures offer the opportunity of surgical intervention even in frail 
patients. Delirium on admission to the hospital or in the perioperative setting 
is a common and often serious complication. Cognitive impairment is regarded as 
the main risk factor for delirium; unfortunately, under routine clinical 
conditions, these deficits often remain undetected. Postoperative delirium is 
associated with increased morbidity and mortality, as well as increased length 
of hospitalization, resulting in increased suffering and costs. The aim of the 
intervention presented here was to prevent delirium in a general hospital 
without a geriatric specialty department. Geriatric nurses became part of the 
team in the perioperative setting, giving psychological support and being a 
continuous companion to the patient and his/her proxies. Co-operation between 
all professions involved throughout hospitalization of the patient was 
emphasized. The low incidence of delirium in elderly surgical patients resulting 
from our efforts indicate that - for this setting in a general hospital - the 
strategy was effective for the prevention of delirium. Nowadays, geriatric 
nurses are an essential part of the perioperative team and delirium has lost 
much of its imminence.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-008-0020-6
PMID: 19190867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2009 Jan-Feb;16(1):22-30. doi:
10.1080/09286580802521309.

United States cost-effectiveness study of two dry eye ophthalmic lubricants.

Wlodarczyk J(1), Fairchild C.

Author information:
(1)John Wlodarczyk Consulting Services, New Lambton, NSW, Australia. 
john@JWCS.com.au

PURPOSE: Dry eye is thought to be the most common ocular problem in the United 
States. However, it is only recently that it has been recognized as a disease 
with significant economic burden and impact on quality of life. This article 
presents an economic model of cost-effectiveness of two ophthalmic lubricants 
commonly used in the treatment of dry eye-Systane and Refresh Tears.
METHOD: We conducted a meta-analysis, pooling the results of two clinical trials 
of patients with dry eye treated with Systane and Refresh Tears which presented 
response rates for improvements in ocular dryness, the key symptom of dry eye. 
An economic model was used to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) for Systane versus Refresh Tears over a 12 month treatment period.
RESULTS: Systane is significantly more effective than Refresh Tears at improving 
symptoms of "dryness" (75% vs 41%). Systane costs on average $57.79 per year 
more than Refresh Tears. Assigning a quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain of 
0.03 to responders results in an incremental cost per QALY gain of $5,837.
CONCLUSION: Both Refresh Tears and Systane are effective and cost-effective 
interventions. Systane costs more than Refresh Tears, however clinical trial 
evidence shows it to be more effective. The ICER for Systane versus Refresh 
Tears is well below the generally accepted $50,000 per QALY threshold.

DOI: 10.1080/09286580802521309
PMID: 19191178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Value Health. 2009 Jun;12(4):459-65. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00494.x.
Epub  2009 Jan 14.

An economic evaluation of valsartan for post-MI patients in the UK who are not 
suitable for treatment with ACE inhibitors.

Taylor M(1), Scuffham PA, Chaplin S, Papo NL.

Author information:
(1)University of York, York Health Economics Consortium, York, UK. 
mt25@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The overall objective of this study was to estimate the costs and 
outcomes associated with treatment with valsartan for post-myocardial infarction 
(post-MI) patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction, heart failure, or 
both, who are not suitable for treatment with angiotensin-converting enzyme 
(ACE) inhibitors, compared to placebo.
METHODS: A Markov model, using data drawn from the Valsartan in Acute Myocardial 
Infarction (VALIANT) trial and other trials, was developed to predict the future 
health pathways, resource use, and costs for patients who have recently 
experienced an MI. Patients received either valsartan (mean dose 247 mg) or 
placebo. Cost data were drawn from national databases and published literature, 
although health outcome utility weights were derived from existing studies. 
Patient outcomes were modeled for 10 years, and incremental cost-effective 
ratios were calculated for valsartan compared with placebo.
RESULTS: Over a period of 10 years, a cohort of 1000 patients treated with 
valsartan experienced 147 fewer cardiovascular deaths, 37 fewer nonfatal MIs, 
and 95 fewer cases of heart failure than a cohort who received placebo. The 
incremental cost of valsartan, compared with placebo, was 2680 pound per 
patient, although the incremental effectiveness of valsartan was 0.5021 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained per patient. Therefore, the 
incremental cost per QALY for treatment with valsartan was 5338 pound. When 
analysis was undertaken using life-years rather than QALYs, the cost per 
life-year gained was 4672 pound.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients who are not suitable for treatment with ACE 
inhibitors, valsartan is a viable and cost-effective treatment for their 
management after an MI.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00494.x
PMID: 19192258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Reprod Biomed Online. 2009 Feb;18(2):282-9. doi:
10.1016/s1472-6483(10)60267-2.

Outcome after multidisciplinary CO2 laser laparoscopic excision of deep 
infiltrating colorectal endometriosis.

Meuleman C(1), D'Hoore A, Van Cleynenbreugel B, Beks N, D'Hooghe T.

Author information:
(1)Leuven University Fertility Centre, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University Hospital Leuven, Belgium.

The aim of this retrospective cohort study was to evaluate clinical outcome 
after multidisciplinary laparoscopic excision of deep endometriosis. Patients (n 
= 56) were asked to complete questionnaires regarding quality of life (QOL), 
pain, fertility and sexuality to compare their status before and after surgery, 
and their medical files were analysed. Statistical analysis was performed with 
life table analysis, paired Wilcoxon and McNemar tests. Gynaecological pain, QOL 
and sexual activity improved significantly (P < 0.001; P < 0.0001 to P = 0.008 
and P < 0.0001 to P = 0.0003 respectively) during a median follow-up 29 months 
after surgery. Post operative complications occurred in 11% but were directly 
related to surgery in only 5%. The cumulative recurrence rate of endometriosis 
was 2 and 7% at 1 and 4 years after surgery respectively. Cumulative pregnancy 
rate was 31 and 70% at 1 and 4 years after surgery respectively. In conclusion, 
multidisciplinary CO(2) laser laparoscopic excision of deep endometriosis with 
colorectal extension improves pain, QOL and sexuality with high fertility and 
low complication and recurrence rates.

DOI: 10.1016/s1472-6483(10)60267-2
PMID: 19192351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Qld Nurse. 2008 Dec;27(6):12.

Meet Queensland health's indigenous nursing advisor.

Best O.

Amid the recent focus of state and federal governments on Indigenous health, it 
seems increasing Indigenous nurse and midwifery numbers will play a significant 
part in addressing the life expectancy gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
Australians. Earlier this year Queensland Health established a full-time 
Indigenous Nursing Advisor position to implement strategies to boost the number 
of Indigenous nurses and midwives and support them in their role. TQN caught up 
with Odette Best, who commenced full-time in the role in January this year.

PMID: 19192523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Curr Med Res Opin. 2009 Feb;25(2):401-11. doi: 10.1185/03007990802636817.

Cost-effectiveness of pegfilgrastim versus 6-day filgrastim primary prophylaxis 
in patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma receiving CHOP-21 in United States.

Lyman G(1), Lalla A, Barron R, Dubois RW.

Author information:
(1)Duke University School of Medicine and the Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Prophylaxis with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) 
reduces the risk of febrile neutropenia (FN) in patients receiving 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. Randomized clinical trials have shown that 
pegfilgrastim, a 2nd-generation G-CSF, is at least as effective as the 
1st-generation G-CSF filgrastim. In the meta-analysis of trials pegfilgrastim 
performed better than filgrastim with respect to FN risk. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness of primary prophylaxis (starting in cycle 1 and continuing in 
subsequent cycles of chemotherapy) with pegfilgrastim versus filgrastim used for 
6 days (as is often used in clinical practice) was estimated in patients with 
aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy 
in the United States.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed from a health insurer's 
perspective with a life-time study horizon. The model considered direct medical 
costs and outcomes related to reduced FN and potential survival benefits due to 
reduced FN-related mortality. Inputs for the model were obtained from the 
medical literature. Sensitivity analyses were conducted across plausible ranges 
in parameter values.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness (ICER) of pegfilgrastim versus 6-day 
filgrastim primary prophylaxis was $2167/FN episode avoided. Adding survival 
benefit from avoiding FN mortality yielded an ICER of $5532/LY gained or 
$6190/QALY gained. When the potential benefit of optimized chemotherapy was 
included, the ICER was $1494/LY gained or $1677/QALY gained. The most 
influential factors included cost of pegfilgrastim, relative risk of FN between 
pegfilgrastim and filgrastim, FN case-fatality rate, cost of filgrastim and 
baseline FN risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Pegfilgrastim is cost-effective in primary prophylaxis of FN 
compared to 6 days per cycle of filgrastim, in patients with NHL receiving 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy (e.g., cyclophosphamide + doxorubicin + 
vincristine + prednisolone [CHOP-21]) chemotherapy. Study limitations included 
lack of direct evidence linking G-CSF use with a reduction in FN-related 
mortality and limited data that show a relationship between relative dose 
intensity (RDI) and cancer-specific patient survival.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990802636817
PMID: 19192985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Mar 15;48(6):806-15. doi: 10.1086/597095.

HIV preexposure prophylaxis in the United States: impact on lifetime infection 
risk, clinical outcomes, and cost-effectiveness.

Paltiel AD(1), Freedberg KA, Scott CA, Schackman BR, Losina E, Wang B, Seage GR 
3rd, Sloan CE, Sax PE, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut 06520-8034, USA. david.paltiel@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: The combination of tenofovir and emtricitabine shows promise as HIV 
preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP). We sought to forecast clinical, epidemiologic, 
and economic outcomes of PrEP, taking into account uncertainties regarding 
efficacy, the risks of developing drug resistance and toxicity, behavioral 
disinhibition, and drug costs.
METHODS: We adapted a computer simulation of HIV acquisition, detection, and 
care to model PrEP among men who have sex with men and are at high risk of HIV 
infection (i.e., 1.6% mean annual incidence of HIV infection) in the United 
States. Base-case assumptions included 50% PrEP efficacy and monthly 
tenofovir-emtricitabine costs of $753. We used sensitivity analyses to examine 
the stability of results and to identify critical input parameters.
RESULTS: In a cohort with a mean age of 34 years, PrEP reduced lifetime HIV 
infection risk from 44% to 25% and increased mean life expectancy from 39.9 to 
40.7 years (21.7 to 22.2 discounted quality-adjusted life-years). Discounted 
mean lifetime treatment costs increased from $81,100 to $232,700 per person, 
indicating an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $298,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. Markedly larger reductions in lifetime 
infection risk (from 44% to 6%) were observed with the assumption of greater 
(90%) PrEP efficacy. More-favorable incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were 
obtained by targeting younger populations with a higher incidence of infection 
and by improvements in the efficacy and cost of PrEP.
CONCLUSIONS: PrEP could substantially reduce the incidence of HIV transmission 
in populations at high risk of HIV infection in the United States. Although it 
is unlikely to confer sufficient benefits to justify the current costs of 
tenofovir-emtricitabine, price reductions and/or increases in efficacy could 
make PrEP a cost-effective option in younger populations or populations at 
higher risk of infection. Given recent disappointments in HIV infection 
prevention and vaccine development, additional study of PrEP-based HIV 
prevention is warranted.

DOI: 10.1086/597095
PMCID: PMC2876329
PMID: 19193111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest With the 
exception of Dr. Sax, none of the authors report any association that might pose 
a conflict of interest (e.g., pharmaceutical stock ownership, consultancy, 
advisory board membership, relevant patents, or research funding). Dr. Sax 
serves as a Consultant to Abbott, BMS, Gilead, GSK, Merck, and Tibotec. He 
receives honoraria for teaching from Abbott, BMS, Gilead, Merck, Tibotec. He 
receives grant support from Merck.


77. Ann Pharmacother. 2009 Feb;43(2):296-303. doi: 10.1345/aph.1L504. Epub 2009
Feb  3.

Cost-effectiveness of trastuzumab as adjuvant therapy for early breast cancer: a 
systematic review.

Chan AL(1), Leung HW, Lu CL, Lin SJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.

Erratum in
    Ann Pharmacother. 2009 Mar;43(3):551.

OBJECTIVE: To identify published, original, cost-effectiveness analyses 
presenting cost/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) ratios for trastuzumab used as 
an adjuvant treatment for HER2-positive early breast cancer and to evaluate the 
quality of reporting the favorable cost-effectiveness ratios.
DATA SOURCES: The terms trastuzumab adjuvant therapy, cost-effectiveness, 
quality-adjusted, QALY, and early breast cancer were searched in MEDLINE, 
PubMed, Embase, and CancerLit, as well as in Cochrane economic evaluation and 
reference lists from 1998 to June 2008. Only English-language publications were 
eligible.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: All published studies examining 
cost-effectiveness outcomes on the basis of modeling or clinical trials were 
included. Cost-effectiveness analysis that measured health effects in units 
other than QALY, life year gained, neoadjuvant data, reviews, and comments were 
excluded. Each study was assessed independently by 2 trained reviewers.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Thirteen of the 239 articles identified met the inclusion 
criteria, with 23 cost-effectiveness ratios pertaining to treatment of early 
breast cancer. These ratios ranged from $5020/QALY to $134,610/QALY. Most 
studies reported favorable cost-effectiveness values (ie, below $50,000/QALY). 
About 84.6% were conducted using a Markov model based on data from clinical 
trials and 15.3% were analyzed by other economic or cost models; 84.6% reported 
sensitivity analysis, 11 studies (84.6%) clearly described a justification of 
selecting study design, and only 15.3% noted study limitations. All studies 
mentioned their perspective; 92.3% did not show the funding source. Methods of 
reporting costs, effectiveness, and time-horizons for disease states varied 
significantly. Nine (69.2%) studies used a discount rate of 3%, 3 studies used a 
discount rate of 5%, and 1 study used 3.5%. The mean quality of the studies was 
4.43.
CONCLUSIONS: Most studies presenting the frequently proposed threshold of QALY 
suggest that trastuzumab may be cost-effective for treatment of early breast 
cancer in a 1-year treatment regimen.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1L504
PMID: 19193576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Clin Vaccine Immunol. 2009 Apr;16(4):479-83. doi: 10.1128/CVI.00312-08. Epub 
2009 Feb 4.

Whole-cell pertussis vaccine induces low antibody levels in human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected children living in sub-Saharan Africa.

Tejiokem MC(1), Njamkepo E, Gouandjika I, Rousset D, Béniguel L, Bilong C, Tene 
G, Penda I, Ngongueu C, Gody JC, Guiso N, Baril L.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire d'Epidémiologie et de Santé Publique, Douala, Cameroon.

The WHO recommendations for the immunization of children infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) differ slightly from the guidelines for uninfected 
children. The introduction of antiretroviral therapy for HIV-infected infants 
should considerably prolong their life expectancy. The question of the response 
to the whole-cell pertussis (wP) vaccine should now be addressed, particularly 
in countries in which pertussis remains endemic. To evaluate the persistence of 
antibodies to the wP vaccine in HIV-infected and uninfected children who had 
previously received this vaccine in routine clinical practice, we conducted a 
cross-sectional study of children aged 18 to 36 months, born to HIV-infected 
mothers and living in Cameroon or the Central African Republic. We tested blood 
samples for antibodies to the wP vaccine and for antibodies to diphtheria and 
tetanus toxoids (D and T, respectively) in the context of the use of a combined 
DTwP vaccine. We enrolled 50 HIV-infected children and 78 uninfected, 
HIV-exposed children in the study. A lower proportion of HIV-infected children 
than uninfected children had antibodies against the antigens tested for all 
valences of the DTwP vaccine. Agglutinin levels were substantially lower in 
HIV-infected than in HIV-exposed but uninfected children (30.0% versus 55.1%, 
respectively; P = 0.005). We also observed a high risk of low antibody levels in 
response to the DTwP vaccine in HIV-infected children with severe 
immunodeficiency (CD4 T-cell level, <25%). The concentrations of antibodies 
induced by the DTwP vaccine were lower in HIV-infected children than in 
uninfected children. This study supports the need for a booster dose of the DTwP 
vaccine in order to maintain high antibody levels in HIV-infected children.

DOI: 10.1128/CVI.00312-08
PMCID: PMC2668289
PMID: 19193831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Am J Clin Oncol. 2009 Feb;32(1):49-55. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31817c6a4d.

A Markov model assessing the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of FOLFOX 
compared with FOLFIRI for the initial treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer.

Tumeh JW(1), Shenoy PJ, Moore SG, Kauh J, Flowers C.

Author information:
(1)Winship Cancer Institute, School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of FOLFOX compared 
with FOLFIRI for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.
METHOD: We developed a Markov decision model using a hypothetical cohort of 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer to compare beginning chemotherapy 
with FOLFOX or FOLFIRI. Probabilities of toxicities, including neutropenia, 
diarrhea, and neuropathy, were based on published literature for FOLFOX and 
FOLFIRI. Costs for physician and hospital services unadjusted for geographic 
location were estimated using Centers for Medicare and Medicaid services 
reimbursement data. Drug costs were estimated using Medicare B reimbursement and 
the Federal Supply Schedule. Health outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs). Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed to address uncertainty in the model parameters.
RESULTS: The FOLFOX strategy provided 1.003 QALYs at a cost of $29,865, whereas 
FOLFIRI provided 0.921 QALYs at a cost of $24,551. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for FOLFOX treatment was $65,170/QALY. In 10,000 
probabilistic Monte Carlo simulations, FOLFOX was cost-effective in 48.59% of 
trials using a $50,000/QALY threshold. The most influential variables in 
univariate sensitivity analysis were the expected years of survival associated 
with each chemotherapy regimen.
CONCLUSIONS: FOLFOX and FOLFIRI are similar in terms of costs and benefits. The 
slight QALY benefits associated with FOLFOX are within the range of 
$100,000/QALY, an accepted threshold in oncology.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31817c6a4d
PMID: 19194125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Med Care. 2009 Mar;47(3):295-301. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181893f8e.

Annual expenditures for nursing home care: private and public payer price 
growth, 1977 to 2004.

Stewart KA(1), Grabowski DC, Lakdawalla DN.

Author information:
(1)Mathematica Policy Research, Inc, Washington, DC 20024, USA. 
kstewart@mathematica-mpr.com

BACKGROUND: Long-term nursing home care is primarily funded by out-of-pocket 
payments and public Medicaid programs. Few studies have explored price growth in 
nursing home care, particularly trends in the real cost of a year spent in a 
nursing home.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate changes in private and public prices for annual nursing 
home care from 1977 to 2004, and to compare nursing home price growth to overall 
price growth and growth in the price of medical care.
RESEARCH DESIGN: We estimated annual private prices for nursing home care 
between 1977 and 2004 using data from the National Nursing Home Survey. We 
compared private nursing home price growth to public prices obtained from 
surveys of state Medicaid offices, and evaluated the Bureau of Labor Statistics 
Consumer Price Indexes to compare prices for nursing homes, medical care, and 
general goods and services over time.
RESULTS: Annual private pay nursing homes prices grew by 7.5% annually from 
$8645 in 1977 to $60,249 in 2004. Medicaid prices grew by 6.7% annually from 
$9491 in 1979 to $48,056 in 2004. Annual price growth for private pay nursing 
home care outpaced medical care and other goods and services (7.5% vs. 6.6% and 
4.4%, respectively) between 1977 and 2004.
CONCLUSIONS: The recent rapid growth in nursing home prices is likely to 
persist, because of an aging population and greater disability among the 
near-elderly. The result will place increasing financial pressure on Medicaid 
programs. Better data on nursing prices are critical for policy-makers and 
researchers.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181893f8e
PMCID: PMC2763425
PMID: 19194339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Rev Med Chil. 2008 Oct;136(10):1281-7. Epub 2009 Jan 15.

[Pilot study: tobacco-attributable direct costs in two hospitals in Santiago, 
Chile].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez-Gutiérrez MS(1), Vanegas L J, Reveco U S, Valenzuela R R, Arteaga H O.

Author information:
(1)División de Políticas y Gestión en Salud, Escuela de Salud Pública, Facultad 
de Medicina, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile. msmartin@med.uchile.cl

BACKGROUND: Tobacco is the fourth cause of the global burden of disease, 
accounting for 79.9 million loss of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in 
2001. In 2002, tobacco-attributable mortality in Chile represented 17% of total 
mortality.
AIM: To estimate the direct cost of tobacco in Ischemic Heart Disease, Chronic 
Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Lung Cancer, explore patients' disposition to 
answer a health related expenses questionnaire, validate the instruments used 
and determine an adequate sample size for an upcoming study.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Socio-demographic and health care related variables were 
investigated among patients attending two public hospitals for ischemic heart 
disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer, in a 
cross-sectional study. Costs were estimated using the national public health 
insurance price list and market prices. Tobacco-attributable fraction was then 
applied to calculate the tobacco-attributable cost of each disease.
RESULTS: The instruments used were validated. The group of lung cancer patients 
was smaller due to increased mortality prior to interview. Lung cancer generated 
the largest total and attributable direct costs. The costs in patients with 
ischemic heart disease were significantly lower
CONCLUSIONS: There were some difficulties in the application of the 
questionnaire to register medication use. The sample size needed in a larger 
study was calculated for each of the three diseases. We recommend that a 
definitive study addresses tobacco-attributable direct costs related to chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease.

PMID: 19194624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Prenat Diagn. 2009 Apr;29(4):412-9. doi: 10.1002/pd.2199.

Postnatal management and outcome for neural tube defects including spina bifida 
and encephalocoeles.

Thompson DN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS 
Trust, Great Ormond Street, London WC1N 3JH, UK. thompd@gosh.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Prenat Diagn. 2009 Oct;29(10):1006.

The incidence of neural tube defects (NTDs) has declined in recent decades, 
however myelomeningocele and encephalocele still represent one of the commoner 
prenatally diagnosed congenital malformations. Improved perinatal and post natal 
care mean that the mortality associated with these conditions has also fallen. 
Advances in the multidisciplinary management of children with myelomeningocele 
have led to significant improvements in functional outcome for many with this 
condition. However, there remains a substantial population of patients born with 
NTDs whose life expectancy is substantially reduced and who suffer significant 
cognitive and physical disability remaining wholly or partially dependant on the 
care of others into adult life. This article aims to outline the contemporary 
early management of these conditions and examine the prospects for functional 
outcome where possible, attempting to show how early anatomical features of 
these conditions can help predict where, along the wide spectrum of outcome, a 
given individual may lie.

DOI: 10.1002/pd.2199
PMID: 19194999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2008 Oct;9(10 Suppl 1):56S-62S.

[Cardiological emergency network in Lombardy].

[Article in Italian]

Marzegalli M(1), Fontana G, Sesana G, Grieco N, Lombardi F, Elena C, Ieva F, 
Paganoni AM.

Author information:
(1)U.O. di Cardiologia, A.O. San Carlo, Milano. 
Marzegalli.Maurizio@sancarlo.mi.it

AIMS: To achieve a reduction of time to reperfusion through the organization of 
an interhospital network and the involvement of the Regional Health Authority.
METHODS: Four major endpoints were identified: institutional governance action, 
clinical management of acute ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI), 
priority actions for cardiac arrest and early defibrillation, actions to avoid 
the delay related to decision-making, and logistic factors. Since 2001 in the 
urban area of Milan a network has been operating among 23 coronary care units, 
the 118 Dispatch Center (national free number for medical emergencies) and the 
Health Country Government Agency named Group for Prehospital Cardiac Emergency. 
In order to monitor the network activity and time to treatment and clinical 
outcomes a periodic monthly survey, called MOMI (One Month Monitoring Myocardial 
Infarction), was undertaken and repeated twice yearly. Data were evaluated 
according to hospital admission modality.
RESULTS: Global times are: symptom onset to first medical contact 116 min 
(interquartile range [IQR] 189), time to first ECG 7 min (IQR 12), 
door-to-balloon time 77 min (IQR 81.7). Non-parametric test showed that the 
modality of hospital admittance was the most critical determinant of 
door-to-balloon time. The shortest one (49.5 min) was that of patients 
transported by means of advanced rescue units with 12-lead ECG teletransmission 
and activation of a fast track directly to the cath lab.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data show how in a complex urban area the organization of an 
interhospital network and the availability of ECG teletransmission are effective 
in reducing time to reperfusion, in the treatment of major arrhythmias and in 
pre-alert of coronary care units and cath labs in case of confirmed STEMI. This 
experience also stimulated an improvement in technological equipment of rescue 
units with extension of 12-lead teletransmission to basic life support units. 
Through the Health Country Government Agency and the Scientific Societies we 
carry on with our job to create a regional network for cardiac emergency 
involving all the hospitals.

PMID: 19195308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2008 Jun;26 Suppl 8:38-44. doi:
10.1157/13126271.

[Are all analogue combinations equal?].

[Article in Spanish]

Miralles Alvarez C(1).

Author information:
(1)Consulta de VIH. Unidad de Enfermedades Infecciosas. CHU. Xeral-Cíes. 
Complejo Hospitalario Universitario de Vigo. Vigo. Pontevedra. España. 
med000946@saludalia.com.

The huge improvement in the therapeutic arsenal for HIV infection has led to HIV 
becoming a chronic disease. Like us, our patients are aging and their life 
expectancy is close to that of the general population. Consequently, we need 
safe, easily administered drugs with interactions that can be controlled and the 
least possible impact on highly prevalent comorbidities such as atherosclerosis 
or coinfection with hepatotropic viruses. Drugs should fit the patient's 
lifestyle without affecting quality of life and, above all, be free of effects 
leading to stigma, such as lipoatrophy, a major concern for most recently 
diagnosed patients. The choice of the two nucleoside analogue reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors used at the start of antiretroviral therapy should be 
based on careful evaluation of the abundant data accumulated on all these 
determining factors which are heralding a new era in the control of HIV 
infection. Thus, in this scenario, thymidine analogues have been relegated to 
alternative use. Fixeddose combinations of tenofovir and emtricitabine (TDF/FTC) 
or abacavir and lamivudine (ABC/3TC) are the backbone of choice when initiating 
antiretroviral therapy. Direct comparative data are still scarce but suggest 
similar virological efficacy, with highly preliminary data suggesting some 
disadvantages associated with the use of ABC/3TC. After excluding patients at 
risk of hypersensitivity to ABC, both combinations are well tolerated, but 
TDF/FTC is associated with a better lipid profile. Recent data from the Data 
Collection on Adverse Events of Anti-HIV drugs (DAD) study show an unexpected 
association of ABC with increased cardiovascular risk and thus more detailed 
studies are required.

DOI: 10.1157/13126271
PMID: 19195437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Cancer Treat Rev. 2009 Jun;35(4):374-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.01.001. Epub
 2009 Feb 4.

Hemophilia and cancer: a new challenge for hemophilia centers.

Franchini M(1), Lippi G, Montagnana M, Targher G, Zaffanello M, Salvagno GL, 
Rivolta GF, Perna CD, Tagliaferri A.

Author information:
(1)Immunohematology and Transfusion Center - Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University Hospital of Parma, Parma, Italy. 
massimo.franchini@azosp.vr.it

The improved life expectancy of hemophilia patients due to the advances in 
hemophilia care and factor replacement therapy has permitted to hemophiliacs to 
reach an older age. As a consequence, age-related diseases, such as 
cardiovascular disorders and cancer, have been increasingly recognized in such 
patients. In particular, the management of cancer in people with inherited 
hemorrhagic disorders represents a new challenge for physicians working in 
hemophilia centers. The few published literature data document that there is a 
close relationship between hemophilia and neoplasia. Indeed, the congenital 
bleeding tendency may influence the cancer in different ways, by interfering 
with its clinical presentation, diagnosis and treatment. These aspects, along 
with the epidemiology of cancer in hemophiliacs will be discussed in this 
review.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.01.001
PMID: 19195788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Arthroplasty. 2010 Feb;25(2):191-6. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2008.12.009. Epub
2009  Feb 4.

The cost-effectiveness of routine follow-up after primary total hip 
arthroplasty.

Bolz KM(1), Crawford RW, Donnelly B, Whitehouse SL, Graves N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of 
Technology, Brisbane, Australia.

Routine postsurgery assessment of primary total hip arthroplasty (THA) is 
recommended in many countries. Whether the benefits of this activity are 
justified by the costs is not known. We used a decision-analytic Markov model to 
compare the costs and health outcomes of 3 different follow-up strategies after 
primary THA. If there is no routine follow-up of patients for 7 years after 
primary THA, there would be cost savings between AU$6.5 and $11.9 million and 
gains of between 1.8 and 8.8 quality-adjusted life years. Policy makers should 
investigate less resource-intensive alternatives to common routine postsurgical 
assessment.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2008.12.009
PMID: 19195830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Med Eng Phys. 2009 Jul;31(6):642-9. doi: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2008.12.004.
Epub  2009 Feb 4.

Dependency of disc degeneration on shear and tensile strains between annular 
fiber layers for complex loads.

Schmidt H(1), Heuer F, Wilke HJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Orthopaedic Research and Biomechanics, Director Prof. Lutz 
Claes, University of Ulm, Helmholtzstrasse 14, 89081 Ulm, Germany.

BACKGROUND: One of the first signs of disc degeneration is the formation of 
circumferential tears within the annulus fibrosus. It is assumed that high shear 
and tensile strains between the lamellae mainly cause the initiation of these 
failures. However, it is not known which load application and which degree of 
disc degeneration could lead to the highest strains and therefore, might induce 
the formation of tears. Therefore, the aim of this finite element (FE) study 
was, to find load combinations that would yield highest shear and tensile 
strains in differently degenerated discs.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A three-dimensional FE-model of a motion segment L4-5 was 
utilized in different degrees of disc degeneration (healthy, mild, moderate, and 
severe). The degenerated models consider the reduction of disc height, endplate 
curvatures, the osteophyte formation, the increase of nucleus compressibility, 
and the decrease of fiber and ligament stiffness. An axial compression load of 
500 N together with moments of 7.5 Nm in single and combined load directions 
were simulated.
RESULTS: High strains for the healthy and degenerated discs were predicted for 
load combinations, particularly for the combination of lateral bending plus 
flexion or extension. The maximum strains were located in the postero-lateral 
region of the disc. In comparison to the healthy disc, the maximum strains 
increased slightly for the mildly and moderately degenerated disc. Strains 
decreased strongly for the severely degenerated disc. With progressive 
degeneration, the size of the region of maximum strains diminished and the 
location transferred from the inner annulus to the adjacent bony endplates.
CONCLUSIONS: The results could be a possible explanation for the initiation of 
circumferential tears. The mildly degenerated disc model, which represents early 
stages of life, suggests that circumferential tears could primarily occur at 
these stages, especially for the load combinations of lateral bending plus axial 
rotation and lateral bending plus flexion.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medengphy.2008.12.004
PMID: 19196536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Feb;64(2):286-92. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gln010. Epub 2009 Feb 4.

Poverty and biological risk: the earlier "aging" of the poor.

Crimmins EM(1), Kim JK, Seeman TE.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, 3715 McClintock Ave., Los Angeles, CA 90089-0191, 
USA. crimmin@usc.edu

BACKGROUND: We examined age differences in levels of biological risk factors in 
the U.S. population by poverty status. It is not clear how socioeconomic status 
differentials in biological risk change with age because of mortality.
METHODS: We used two nationally representative samples (National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey [NHANES] III, 1988-1994, and NHANES, 1999-2004) 
with data for more than 12,000 people aged 20 and older in each data set to 
examine biological risk for persons in families with incomes below and close to 
poverty level and those with higher income. We examined how mortality and life 
expectancy in the earlier sample are related to poverty status and biological 
risk. We examined life table survivorship to clarify how mortality 
differentially removes those who are poor and those with high biological risk 
from the population.
RESULTS: Differences in biological risk by poverty status are larger before old 
age and become insignificant at older ages. Life expectancy at age 20 differs 
markedly by biological risk and poverty status.
CONCLUSIONS: Population differentials in health at older ages result from a 
lifetime of differences. Socioeconomic differences in health in old age 
disappear because of health and mortality differentials at earlier ages. Poorer 
people "age" earlier and this affects the age pattern of social differentials.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gln010
PMCID: PMC2655037
PMID: 19196637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Jun;19(3):245-53. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp001. Epub 
2009 Feb 5.

Long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening for hepatitis C 
virus infection.

Sroczynski G(1), Esteban E, Conrads-Frank A, Schwarzer R, Mühlberger N, Wright 
D, Zeuzem S, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Information Systems and Health Technology 
Assessment, UMIT-University of Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and 
Technology, Hall i.T., Austria.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is an emerging problem in public 
health. In most countries, the majority of HCV infected people are yet 
undiagnosed. Early detection and treatment may result in better health outcomes 
and save costs by preventing future advanced liver disease. The evidence for 
long-term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of HCV screening was 
systematically reviewed.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search on long-term 
health-economic effects of HCV screening and included Health Technology 
Assessment (HTA) reports, systematic reviews, long-term clinical trials, full 
health economic and decision-analytic modelling studies with a sufficiently long 
time horizon and patient-relevant long-term outcomes such as life-years gained 
(LYG) or quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained. Economic results were 
converted to 2005 Euros.
RESULTS: Seven studies were included. Target population, HCV prevalence, study 
perspective, discount rate, screening and antiviral treatment mode varied. The 
incremental effectiveness of HCV screening and early treatment compared to no 
screening and standard care varied from 0.0004 to 0.066 LYG, and from 0.0001 to 
0.072 QALY. Incremental cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratios of HCV 
screening vs. no screening were 3900-243,700 euro/LYG and 18,300-1,151,000 
euro/QALY. HCV screening seems to be cost-effective in populations with high HCV 
prevalence, but not in low HCV prevalence populations.
CONCLUSIONS: HCV screening and early treatment have the potential to improve 
average life-expectancy, but should focus on populations with elevated HCV 
prevalence to be cost-effective. Further research on the long-term 
health-economic impact of HCV screening when combined with appropriate 
monitoring strategies in different European health care systems is needed.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp001
PMID: 19196737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Eur J Heart Fail. 2009 Apr;11(4):406-12. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfp007. Epub
2009  Feb 5.

A comparative study of the palliative care needs of heart failure and cancer 
patients.

O'Leary N(1), Murphy NF, O'Loughlin C, Tiernan E, McDonald K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Medicine, St Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin, 
Ireland. normaoleary@hotmail.com

AIMS: Studies suggest that patients with advanced heart failure (HF) have unmet 
palliative care (PC) needs. However, many of these studies have been 
retrospective or based on patients receiving poorly coordinated ad hoc care. We 
aimed to demonstrate whether the PC needs of patients with advanced HF receiving 
specialist multidisciplinary coordinated care are similar to cancer patients 
deemed to have specialist PC needs; thereby justifying the extension of 
specialist PC services to HF patients.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This was a cross-sectional comparative cohort study of 50 
HF patients and 50 cancer patients, using quantitative and qualitative methods. 
Both patient cohorts were statistically indistinguishable in terms of symptom 
burden, emotional wellbeing, and quality-of-life scores. HF patients had good 
access to community and social support. HF patients particularly valued the 
close supervision, medication monitoring, ease of access to service, telephone 
support, and key worker provided at the HF unit. A small subset of patients had 
unmet PC needs. A palliative transition point is described.
CONCLUSION: HF patients should not be excluded from specialist PC services. 
However, the majority of their needs can be met at a HF unit. Recognition of the 
palliative transition point may be key to ensuring that end-of-life issues are 
addressed. The palliative transition point needs further evaluation.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hfp007
PMID: 19196753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Bull World Health Organ. 2009 Jan;87(1):20-9. doi: 10.2471/blt.07.045138.

Noncommunicable disease mortality and life expectancy in immigrants to Israel 
from the former Soviet Union: country of origin compared with host country.

Ott JJ(1), Paltiel AM, Becher H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Hygiene, University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. 
joerdis.ott@urz.uni-heidelberg.de

OBJECTIVE: To assess the influence of country of origin effects and of 
adjustment and selection processes by comparing noncommunicable disease 
mortality and life expectancy among migrants to Israel from the former Soviet 
Union (FSU) with noncommunicable disease mortality and life expectancy among 
Israelis and the population of the Russian Federation.
METHODS: Data from 926,870 FSU-immigrants who migrated to Israel between 1990 
and 2003 (study cohort) were analysed. Life expectancy was calculated for the 
study cohort, all Israelis, and the population of the Russian Federation. 
Age-standardized death rates were calculated for grouped causes of death. FSU 
immigrants were additionally compared with other Israelis and with inhabitants 
of the Russian Federation using cause-specific standardized mortality ratios 
(SMRs).
FINDINGS: Life expectancy at age 15 years in 2000-2003 was 61.0 years for male 
and 67.0 years for female FSU immigrants to Israel. Age-standardized death rates 
for FSU immigrants in Israel were similar to those of other Israelis and much 
lower than those of inhabitants of the Russian Federation. Relative to Israelis, 
the study cohort had a higher SMR for neoplasms, and particularly for stomach 
cancer. Mortality from brain cancer was higher when immigrants were compared to 
the Russian Federation (SMR: 1.71, 95% confidence interval, CI: 1.50-1.94 for 
males; SMR: 1.77, 95% CI: 1.56-2.02 for females), whereas mortality from stomach 
cancer was lower among immigrants relative to the Russian Federation (SMR: 0.43, 
95% CI: 0.40-0.47 for males; SMR: 0.56, 95% CI: 0.52-0.61 for females). 
Mortality from external causes was lower among immigrants relative to the 
population of the Russian Federation (SMR: 0.20, 95% CI: 0.19-0.21 for males; 
SMR: 0.35, 95% CI: 0.33-0.37 for females) but significantly higher relative to 
other Israelis (SMR: 1.41, 95% CI: 1.35-1.47 for males; SMR: 1.08, 95% CI: 
1.02-1.15).
CONCLUSION: Noncommunicable disease mortality among FSU immigrants to Israel is 
lower than in the population of the Russian Federation. Mortality rates in FSU 
immigrants, particularly from circulatory diseases, have rapidly adjusted and 
have become similar to those of the destination country. However, immigrants 
from the FSU have considerably higher mortality than other Israelis from 
external causes and some noncommunicable diseases such as cancer. Mortality 
rates in these diaspora migrants show a mixed picture of rapid assimilation 
together with persistent country of origin effects, as well as the effects of 
adjustment hardships.

OBJECTIF: Evaluer l’influence du pays d’origine et des processus d’adaptation et 
de sélection en comparant la mortalité par maladies non transmissibles et 
l’espérance de vie chez les immigrés en Israël issus de l’ex-Union soviétique 
avec ces mêmes variables chez les Israéliens et les habitants de la Fédération 
de Russie.
MÉTHODES: Des données concernant 926 870 personnes émigrées de l’ex-Union 
soviétique en Israël entre 1990 et 2003 (étude de cohorte) ont été analysées. 
L’espérance de vie a été calculée pour la cohorte étudiée, l’ensemble des 
Israéliens et la population de la Fédération de Russie. Les taux de mortalité 
standardisés selon l’âge ont été déterminés par groupes de causes de décès. Les 
immigrés provenant de l’ex-Union soviétique ont en outre été comparés avec 
d’autres Israéliens et avec les habitants de la Fédération de Russie au moyen 
des taux de mortalité standardisés (TMS) selon la cause.
RÉSULTATS: Sur la période 2000-2003, l’espérance de vie à 15 ans pour les 
immigrés provenant de l’ex-Union soviétique était de 61,0 ans pour les hommes et 
de 67,0 ans pour les femmes. Les taux de mortalité standardisés selon l’âge pour 
ces immigrés étaient similaires à ceux des autres Israéliens et nettement 
inférieurs à ceux des habitants de la Fédération de Russie. Par rapport aux 
Israéliens, les membres de la cohorte étudiée présentaient un TMS plus élevé 
pour les néoplasmes, en particulier pour le cancer de l’estomac. La mortalité 
par cancer du cerveau était plus forte chez les immigrés que chez les habitants 
de la Fédération de Russie (TMS : 1,71 ; intervalle de confiance à 95%, IC : 
1,50-1,94 pour les hommes ; TMS : 1,77, IC à 95% : 1,56-2,02 pour les femmes), 
alors que les termes de cette comparaison s’inversaient pour le cancer de 
l’estomac (TMS : 0,43, IC à 95% : 0,40-0,47 pour les hommes ; TMS : 0,56, IC à 
95% : 0,52-0,61 pour les femmes). La mortalité par cause externe était plus 
faible parmi les immigrés que dans la population de la Fédération de Russie (TMS 
: 0,20 ; IC à 95% : 0,19-0,21 pour les hommes ; TMS : 0,35 ; IC à 95% : 
0,33-0,37 pour les femmes), mais significativement plus forte que parmi les 
autres Israéliens (TMS : 1,41, IC à 95% : 1,35-1,47 pour les hommes ; TMS : 
1,08, IC à 95% : 1,02-1,15 pour les femmes).
CONCLUSION: La mortalité par maladies non transmissibles des immigrés en Israël 
provenant de l’ex-Union soviétique est inférieure à celle des habitants de la 
Fédération de Russie. Les taux de mortalité chez ces immigrés, notamment par 
maladie circulatoire, se sont rapidement ajustés et sont devenus similaires à 
ceux du pays d’accueil. Cependant, les immigrés conservent des taux de mortalité 
par cause externe et pour certaines maladies non transmissibles, telles que le 
cancer, considérablement plus élevés que ceux des autres Israéliens. Les taux de 
mortalité parmi cette diaspora reflètent un mélange d’assimilation rapide et de 
persistance des effets du pays d’origine, ainsi que les effets des difficultés 
d’adaptation.
