

482. PLoS One. 2009;4(4):e5080. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005080. Epub 2009 Apr
8.

Personal and societal health quality lost to tuberculosis.

Miller TL(1), McNabb SJ, Hilsenrath P, Pasipanodya J, Weis SE.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of North Texas Health Science Center at 
Fort Worth, Ft Worth, Texas, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: In developed countries, tuberculosis is considered a disease with 
little loss of Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). Tuberculosis treatment is 
predominantly ambulatory and death from tuberculosis is rare. Research has shown 
that there are chronic pulmonary sequelae in a majority of patients who have 
completed treatment for pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB). This and other health 
effects of tuberculosis have not been considered in QALY calculations. 
Consequently both the burden of tuberculosis on the individual and the value of 
tuberculosis prevention to society are underestimated. We estimated QALYs lost 
to pulmonary TB patients from all known sources, and estimated health loss to 
prevalent TB disease.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We calculated values for health during illness 
and treatment, pulmonary impairment after tuberculosis (PIAT), death rates, 
years-of-life-lost to death, and normal population health. We then compared the 
lifetime expected QALYs for a cohort of tuberculosis patients with that expected 
for comparison populations with latent tuberculosis infection and without 
tuberculosis infection. Persons with culture-confirmed tuberculosis accrued 
fewer lifetime QALYs than those without tuberculosis. Acute tuberculosis 
morbidity cost 0.046 QALYs (4% of total) per individual. Chronic morbidity 
accounted for an average of 0.96 QALYs (78% of total). Mortality accounted for 
0.22 QALYs lost (18% of total). The net benefit to society of averting one case 
of PTB was about 1.4 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Tuberculosis, a preventable disease, results in QALYs 
lost owing to illness, impairment, and death. The majority of QALYs lost from 
tuberculosis resulted from impairment after microbiologic cure. Successful TB 
prevention efforts yield more health quality than previously thought and should 
be given high priority by health policy makers. (Refer to Abstracto S1 for 
Spanish language abstract).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0005080
PMCID: PMC2660416
PMID: 19352424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


483. J Gastroenterol. 2009;44(6):535-43. doi: 10.1007/s00535-009-0029-7. Epub
2009  Apr 8.

Sargramostim in patients with Crohn's disease: results of a phase 1-2 study.

Takazoe M(1), Matsui T, Motoya S, Matsumoto T, Hibi T, Watanabe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Social Insurance Central General Hospital, 
Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: We aimed to assess the tolerability, pharmacokinetics, safety, and 
efficacy of sargramostim in Japanese patients with active Crohn's disease (CD).
METHODS: Patients with moderately to severely active CD were enrolled. Step 1 
was an open-label, phase 1 study of 2 microg/kg per day sargramostim 
administered subcutaneously (SC) for 4 weeks, with an optional 8-week extension 
with 6 microg/kg per day. Step 2 was an open-label, phase 1-2 study of the 
tolerability and pharmacokinetics of SC sargramostim 6 microg/kg per day over 4 
weeks and of 8-week efficacy and safety. Efficacy variables were the proportion 
of patients achieving a clinical response [> or =100-point decrease from 
baseline in the CD activity index (CDAI)] and the proportion achieving clinical 
remission (CDAI < or = 150 points).
RESULTS: Six patients participated in Step 1; five in Step 2. Serum 
concentrations of sargramostim peaked within 1 h of administration; mean 
terminal half-life was 2 h. Maximal serum concentrations increased with the 
dose. Mean accumulation ratios were 0.998 in Step 1 and 0.673 in Step 2. One of 
the six patients in the Step-1 extension and none of the five in Step 2 achieved 
a clinical response. Clinical remission was reported in one patient in each 
step. A notable decrease in median CDAI scores was observed in the extension and 
Step 2. In responders, improvement tended to be maintained through the 30-day 
follow-up. Drug-related adverse events included injection-site reaction, 
pyrexia, back pain, and bone pain.
CONCLUSION: The systemic exposure of sargramostim increased dose-dependently. No 
accumulation in systemic exposure was associated with the repeated once-daily 
administration. SC sargramostim at 6 microg/kg per day improved median CDAI 
scores. A minority of patients experienced clinical remission or clinical 
response.

DOI: 10.1007/s00535-009-0029-7
PMID: 19352588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Parasitol Res. 2009 Aug;105(2):555-61. doi: 10.1007/s00436-009-1428-7. Epub
2009  Apr 8.

Effects of host outcrossing on the interaction between an aquatic snail and its 
locally adapted parasite.

Sandland GJ(1), Wethington AR, Foster AV, Minchella DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse, La Crosse, WI, 
54601, USA. sandland.greg@uwlax.edu

In this study, we investigated the interaction between host outcrossing and 
infection in the Biomphalaria glabrata-Schistosoma mansoni system. Snails 
collected from three susceptible isofemale lines were mated with either siblings 
or snails recently derived from a field site in Brazil. Resulting inbred and 
outcrossed progeny were then exposed to S. mansoni larvae and monitored for a 
10-week period. Interestingly, all snails exhibited equal susceptibility whether 
they were the result of inbreeding or outcrossing. However, further examination 
of both host and parasite life-history traits uncovered significant differences 
between the groups. In uninfected snails, outcrossed progeny tended to exhibit 
greater fitness relative to inbred progeny. When snails were parasitized, these 
differences were magnified in certain life-history traits, particularly host 
reproduction and survival. As an extension of the work, we also investigated 
virulence within this host-parasite system. Estimates of parasite reproduction 
and host size were combined to generate a novel "exploitation index," and these 
indices were regressed with host survivorship. As predicted, there was a 
significant and negative correlation between the variables, but this was 
restricted to a single snail line. Results from this study demonstrate that 
infection outcomes (as measured by prevalence) may not differ between inbred and 
outcrossed hosts. However, outcrossing may enhance snail fitness through 
life-history trait expression.

DOI: 10.1007/s00436-009-1428-7
PMID: 19352708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2009 Apr;134(15):p14. doi: 10.1055/s-0028-1124067.
Epub  2009 Apr 7.

[Is quality of life measurable?].

[Article in German]

Weiss J.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0028-1124067
PMID: 19353507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Rev Med Brux. 2009 Jan-Feb;30(1):11-22.

[Is long-term use of clopidogrel cost-effective in high-risk atherothrombotic 
patients?].

[Article in French]

Annemans L(1), De Wever A.

Author information:
(1)Département d'Economie de la Santé, Universiteit Gent. 
lieven.annemans@ugent.be

The objective of the analysis is to estimate the long-term costs and effects of 
clopidogrel versus aspirin in the secondary prevention of ischemic events in 
patients with a history of more than one atherothrombotic event in Belgium. The 
following high-risk subpopulations within the CAPRIE trial were analysed: 
patients with a history of myocardial infarction (MI) or ischemic stroke (IS) 
prior to the event qualifying for enrolment and patients with prior multiple 
vascular territory involvement. A Markov model that combined clinical, 
epidemiological and cost data was used. The base case scenario was based on a 
treatment duration of 5 years reflecting the long-term use of clopidogrel. A 
lifelong time horizon was taken, by applying life expectancy data based on the 
Saskatchewan database. Belgian cost estimates were derived from publicly 
available sources and literature. Long-term clopidogrel treatment compared to 
aspirin in patients with a history of MI or IS prior to the event qualifying for 
enrolment is associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
ranging between 2.730 Euro per life year gained (LYG) for the first year of 
treatment and 8.000 Euro/LYG for a treatment duration of 5 years. In patients 
with prior multiple vascular territory involvement the ICER of clopidogrel 
compared to aspirin lays between 3.110 Euro and 5.750 Euro/LYG for the 
respective treatment durations. Use of clopidogrel for the prevention of 
subsequent cardiovascular events in patients with a history of more than one 
ischemic event is associated with favourable ICERs, independently of the 
presumed treatment duration. Sensitivity analyses varying life expectancy, 
efficacy of clopidogrel, costs of events and cost of adverse events and discount 
rates demonstrated the robustness of the results.

PMID: 19353938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Epidemiol Prev. 2008 Nov-Dec;32(6):301-6.

[Temporal changes in life expectancy by gender and socioeconomic position, Rome 
1991-2005 ].

[Article in Italian]

Badaloni C(1), Cesaroni G, Forastiere F, Perucci CA.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di epidemiologia, ASL RME, via di Santa Costanza 53, 00198 Roma. 
badaloni@asplazio.it

OBJECTIVE: this study evaluates changes in life expectancy at birth and at 65 
years of residents in Rome between 1991 and 2005 by gender and socioeconomic 
position (SEP).
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: epidemiologic study based on mortality data 
from the Regional Registry of Causes of Death (ReNCaM). We analysed 365,714 
deaths occurred among residents in Rome from 1991 to 2005.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: we estimated the life expectancy at birth and at 65 
years, measured by the mortality tables by gender for five triennial observation 
periods from 1991 to 2005. We attributed a small area socioeconomic position 
index to each subject, computed for census block, based on data of 2001 census 
of population.
RESULTS: life expectancy at birth and at 65 years between 1991 and 2005 has been 
increasing for all SEP, especially in males (2.5 years at birth, 1.3 at 65 
years) but also in females (1 year at birth, less than 6 months at 65 years). 
There was a gap between upper and lower SEP (3.5 years in males and 1.5 years in 
females) and the gap has been slightly increasing in males.
CONCLUSION: the life expectancy at birth in Rome, between 1991 and 2005, 
improved overall, especially in males, reducing the gender gap. However, there 
were strong socioeconomic differences, especially in males among whom the gap is 
slightly widening.

PMID: 19353964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Care Manag J. 2009;10(1):28-31. doi: 10.1891/1521-0987.10.1.28.

Maintaining medical independence in advanced age.

Barber A(1).

Author information:
(1)Saint Vincent's Hospital, Department of Community Medicine, New York, NY 
10003, USA. barber@pol.net

Juneteenth Day celebrates June 19, 1865, when Major General Granger landed in 
Texas with news that the Civil War had ended and that slaves were now free 
(History of Juneteenth, n.d.). Similarly, this article brings you news that 
patients are free to make their own medical decisions. American law now 
guarantees the right of all patients to make their own such decisions. Thus, 
this article introduces the concept of medical policy statements, a new way for 
patients to give instructions to medical professionals.

DOI: 10.1891/1521-0987.10.1.28
PMID: 19353985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(3):263-4. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200927030-00008.

Methods of economic evaluation for the German statutory healthcare system.

Caro JJ.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(1):1-4.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200927030-00008
PMID: 19354345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Am J Manag Care. 2009 Apr;15(4):226-32.

Cost-effectiveness of salmeterol, fluticasone, and combination therapy for COPD.

Oba Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary, Critical Care and Environmental Medicine, University 
of Missouri-Columbia, One Hospital Dr, Health Science Center MA419A, Columbia, 
MO 65212, USA. obay@health.missouri.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the incremental cost-effectiveness of inhaled medication 
use in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model was constructed to estimate the incremental 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained of the alternative treatment arms 
used in the Towards a Revolution in COPD Health (TORCH) study (ie, 
salmeterol-fluticasone propionate combination [SFC], salmeterol, fluticasone, 
and placebo).
METHODS: The cycle length for the model was set to 3 months, and the maximum 
time horizon was set to 3 years. The cost-effective analysis was conducted from 
a third-party payer's perspective in the US healthcare system. Future costs and 
effects were discounted at 3%. Multiple 1-way sensitivity analyses and a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis using Monte Carlo simulation were performed 
to handle uncertainty.
RESULTS: The most cost-effective strategies are placebo (as-needed short-acting 
bronchodilator use with no maintenance therapy) when willingness to pay (WTP) is 
less than $52,800/QALY gained and SFC when WTP exceeds that threshold. When no 
maintenance therapy is not an acceptable option, the most cost-effective 
strategies are treatment with salmeterol when WTP is less than $49,500/QALY 
gained and treatment with SFC when WTP exceeds that threshold. The base-case 
analysis showed that incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of salmeterol, 
fluticasone, and SFC relative to placebo were $56,519, $62,833, and $52,046/QALY 
gained, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The most cost-effective strategy in moderate-to-severe COPD depends 
on how much society is willing to pay to achieve health improvements. When 
treatment with as-needed short-acting bronchodilator use does not provide 
adequate control, salmeterol or SFC would be the drug of choice depending on 
WTP.

PMID: 19355795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Curr Neurovasc Res. 2009 Feb;6(1):20-31. doi: 10.2174/156720209787466064.

The forkhead transcription factor FOXO3a controls microglial inflammatory 
activation and eventual apoptotic injury through caspase 3.

Shang YC(1), Chong ZZ, Hou J, Maiese K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cellular and Molecular Cerebral Ischemia, Wayne State University 
School of Medicine, Detroit, Michigan 48201, USA.

Memory loss and cognitive failure are increasingly being identified as potential 
risks with the recognized increase in life expectancy of the general population. 
As a result, the development of novel therapeutic strategies for disorders such 
as Alzheimer's disease have garnered increased attention. The etiologies that 
can lead to Alzheimer's disease are extremely varied, but a number of 
therapeutic options are directed against amyloid-beta peptide and inflammatory 
cell regulation to prevent or halt progressive cognitive loss. In particular, 
inflammatory microglial cells may have disparate functions that in some 
scenarios lead to disability through the removal of functional neurovascular 
cells and in other circumstances foster tissue repair. Given the significance 
microglial cells hold for neurodegenerative disorders, we therefore examined the 
function that amyloid (Abeta(1-42)) has upon the microglial cell line EOC 2 and 
identified a novel role for the forkhead transcription factor FoxO3a and caspase 
3. Here we show that Abeta(1-42) leads to progressive injury and apoptotic cell 
loss in microglial cells that involves both early phosphatidylserine (PS) 
externalization and late genomic DNA fragmentation over a 24 hour course. Prior 
to these injury programs, Abeta(1-42) results in the activation and 
proliferation of microglia as demonstrated by increased proliferating cell 
nuclear antigen (PCNA) expression and bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) uptake. Both 
apoptotic injury as well as the prior activation and proliferation of microglial 
cells relies upon the presence of FoxO3a, since specific gene silencing of 
FoxO3a promotes microglial cell protection and prevents the early activation and 
proliferation of these cells. Furthermore, Abeta(1-42) exposure maintained 
FoxO3a in an unphosphorylated "active" state and facilitated the cellular 
trafficking of FoxO3a from the cytoplasm to the cell nucleus to potentially lead 
to "pro-apoptotic" programs by this transcription factor. One apoptotic program 
in particular appears to involve the activation of caspase 3, since loss of 
FoxO3a through gene silencing prevents the induction of caspase 3 activity by 
Abeta(1-42).

DOI: 10.2174/156720209787466064
PMCID: PMC2668140
PMID: 19355923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Aug;19(4):424-7. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp042. Epub
2009  Apr 8.

Projection of the number of patients with tuberculosis in the Netherlands in 
2030.

van Leth F(1), Kalisvaart NA, Erkens CG, Borgdoff MW.

Author information:
(1)KNCV Tuberculosis Foundation, 2514 JD Den Haag, The Hague, The Netherlands. 
vanlethf@kncvtbc.nl

BACKGROUND: The incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in The Netherlands has been 
declining for many years. For the purpose of planning future TB-control 
activities we estimated the number of TB patients in The Netherlands up to 2030.
METHODS: Statistical modelling for 5-year age groups up to 2030 distinguishing 
among Dutch TB patients infected by a Dutch source (survival model), non-Dutch 
patients (projection of the proportion of culture-positive patients among first 
generation immigrants) and Dutch patients infected by a non-Dutch source (fixed 
relation with the number of non-Dutch patients).
RESULTS: The number of TB patients is expected to decline to 877 in 2030. After 
2010 declines may slow due to an increase in non-Dutch TB patients. This 
increase cancels out the decrease of Dutch TB patients infected by a Dutch 
source. In 2030, 85% of all TB patients are expected to be non-Dutch. In the 
four largest counties and the rest of The Netherlands, this will be 89 and 76%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The decrease in TB incidence observed over many years may stall from 
2010 onwards because of an estimated increase in non-Dutch TB patients. Given 
their disproportionate burden, future TB-control activities should prioritize 
the health of first-generation immigrants. Enhanced TB control in the countries 
of origin and new diagnostic tests to identify those at high risk of developing 
active TB could help in reducing further the TB incidence in the Netherlands. 
Future TB-control efforts must be organized in a flexible way to be able to 
incorporate changing epidemiological situations.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp042
PMID: 19357241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2009 May;20(5):1132-9. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2008080870. Epub
2009  Apr 8.

Agalsidase alfa and kidney dysfunction in Fabry disease.

West M(1), Nicholls K, Mehta A, Clarke JT, Steiner R, Beck M, Barshop BA, Rhead 
W, Mensah R, Ries M, Schiffmann R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, 5090 
ACC QE II Health Sciences Centre, 5820 University Avenue, Halifax, NS, Canada 
B3H 1V8. mlwest@dal.ca

In male patients with Fabry disease, an X-linked disorder of glycosphingolipid 
metabolism caused by deficient activity of the lysosomal enzyme 
alpha-galactosidase A, kidney dysfunction becomes apparent by the third decade 
of life and invariably progresses to ESRD without treatment. Here, we summarize 
the effects of agalsidase alfa on kidney function from three prospective, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trials and their open-label extension studies 
involving 108 adult male patients. The mean baseline GFR among 54 
nonhyperfiltrating patients (measured GFR <135 ml/min per 1.73 m(2)) treated 
with placebo was 85.4 +/- 29.6 ml/min per 1.73 m(2); during 6 mo of placebo, the 
mean annualized rate of change in GFR was -7.0 +/- 32.9 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). 
Among 85 nonhyperfiltrating patients treated with agalsidase alfa, the 
annualized rate of change was -2.9 +/- 8.7 ml/min per 1.73 m(2). Treatment with 
agalsidase alfa did not affect proteinuria. Multivariate analysis revealed that 
GFR and proteinuria category (< 1 or > or = 1 g/d) at baseline significantly 
predicted the rate of decline of GFR during treatment. This summary represents 
the largest group of male patients who had Fabry disease and for whom the 
effects of enzyme replacement therapy on kidney function have been studied. 
These data suggest that agalsidase alfa may stabilize kidney function in these 
patients.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2008080870
PMCID: PMC2678048
PMID: 19357250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Curr Opin Urol. 2009 May;19(3):309-14. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328329a303.

Management of localized prostate cancer in men over 65 years.

Cooperberg MR(1), Konety BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of California, San Francisco, CA 
94143-1695, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: With the pervasive use of prostate-specific antigen-based 
screening, many men in the US are now diagnosed with prostate cancer in their 
50s or earlier. However, the majority of tumors are still detected among men 
over 65-years-old. The appropriate management of localized disease among these 
older men is controversial.
RECENT FINDINGS: The US Preventive Services Task Force recently strengthened its 
recommendation against screening men over 75 years old. To date, however, 
screening among older patients remains common, and does not adequately reflect 
patient life expectancy. Older men are more likely to be diagnosed with 
higher-risk tumors, but are less likely to receive curative local therapy, and 
are more likely to be managed with primary androgen deprivation therapy. Careful 
active surveillance is an increasingly viable option for selected older men with 
low-risk tumors; focal therapy and low-intensity medical therapy may be emerging 
alternatives in the near future.
SUMMARY: Decisions regarding both screening and treatment should consider 
patient comorbidity, life expectancy, and treatment preferences rather than 
chronologic age. Treatment also must be tailored to the level of tumor risk. 
Increased use of active surveillance, together with diet and lifestyle 
intervention, is appropriate for many older men with lower-risk tumors. 
Conversely, those with high-risk disease should not be denied the opportunity 
for curative local therapy on the basis of age alone.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328329a303
PMID: 19357512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Eur J Epidemiol. 2009;24(6):281-8. doi: 10.1007/s10654-009-9338-7. Epub 2009
Apr  9.

Association of a diabetes risk score with risk of myocardial infarction, stroke, 
specific types of cancer, and mortality: a prospective study in the European 
Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC)-Potsdam cohort.

Heidemann C(1), Boeing H, Pischon T, Nöthlings U, Joost HG, Schulze MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-6, Nuthetal, Germany.

To evaluate the impact of a recently developed, non-invasive risk score 
predictive for type 2 diabetes on the incidence and mortality of cardiovascular 
diseases and specific types of cancer. A total of 23,455 participants from the 
population-based European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition 
(EPIC)-Potsdam study aged 35-65 years and free of diabetes and major chronic 
diseases at baseline (1994-1998) were followed through 2006 for incident 
myocardial infarction, stroke, types of cancer, and death. Risk score points 
were assigned to each participant based on age, waist circumference, height, 
physical activity, history of hypertension, smoking, alcohol consumption, and 
intake of red meat, whole-grain bread, and coffee. Hazard ratios (HRs) were 
estimated by Cox regression models. In age- and sex-adjusted analyses, 
participants with a high risk score (5-year probability to develop diabetes > or 
= 10%) had significantly higher risks of myocardial infarction (HR 2.7, 95% CI 
1.5-5.0) and stroke (1.9, 1.0-3.6), but not of colon, breast or prostate cancer 
incidence, than those with a low score (5-year probability < 1%). In addition, 
participants with a high risk score had considerably higher risks of 
cardiovascular (HR 4.6, 95% CI 2.3-9.4), cancer (1.7, 1.1-2.7), and total 
mortality (2.4, 1.8-3.4), the latter being equivalent to a difference in life 
expectancy of 13 years. These data indicate that a risk score predictive for 
type 2 diabetes is also related to elevated risks of myocardial infarction, 
stroke, and premature death in apparently healthy individuals and emphasize the 
need for early intervention in high-risk individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-009-9338-7
PMID: 19357973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Z Orthop Unfall. 2009 Mar-Apr;147(2):158-65. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1185527.
Epub  2009 Apr 8.

[Eight-year results of the femoral neck prosthesis ESKA-CUT].

[Article in German]

Ishaque BA(1), Donle E, Gils J, Wienbeck S, Basad E, Stürz H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Orthopädie und Orthopädische Chirurgie, Uni-Klinikum Giessen und 
Marburg, Standort Giessen. bernd.ishaque@ortho.med.uni-giessen.de

AIM: With the help of a clinical and radiological follow-up evaluation 8 years 
after implantation of the femoral neck prosthesis CUT (ESKA Implants, Lübeck 
Germany), the question of whether this metaphyseal anchoring implant is 
recommendable in young patients will be answered.
METHOD: Between 2000 and 2001 82 CUT-prosthesis procedures were performed in 79 
patients (38 female, 41 male patients; average age 51.3 years) and evaluated 
prospectively. The clinical investigation was carried out according to the 
criteria of the Harris Hip and Merle d'Aubigné scores. Radiological 
periprosthetic bone changes were registered and a measurement of the CCD angle 
and femoral offset was performed. The survival rate was calculated according to 
both the Kaplan-Meier and the life-table analyses.
RESULTS: During the 12-month follow-up examination the HHS (48.4 preop.) as well 
as the Merle d'Aubigné score (10 preop.) increased significantly to an average 
value of 85.1 and 15.8, respectively (p < 0.000). Cumulative survival with 
replacement of the prosthesis as an end point at 8 years was 49.6 %. Due to 25 
aseptic loosenings, three periprosthetic infections and three cases of 
persisting thigh pains, 31 replacements of the femoral neck prosthesis became 
necessary up to June 2008. The implantation of the CUT prosthesis led to a 
significant valgisation (p < 0.001) of 17.4 degrees degrees with a consecutive 
reduction of the femoral offset of 5 mm. Radiologically periprosthetic 
progressive radiolucencies, hypertrophic cortical bone changes as well as 
atrophy of the calcar femoris were often evaluated and interpretated as a sign 
of a stress shielding and migration process.
CONCLUSION: The analysis of the eight-year follow-up of 82 CUT prostheses shows 
that the implant does not fulfil our expectations of a femoral neck prosthesis, 
in spite of the possibility of a less invasive and bone-saving implantation 
technique. In view of unacceptable survival rates, valgisation changes of the 
joint geometry and critical changing procedures, from our point of view the 
femoral neck prosthesis CUT does not represent a recommendable alternative 
implant in young, active patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1185527
PMID: 19358069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2009 Jun;117(6):241-50. doi: 
10.1055/s-0029-1192044. Epub 2009 Apr 8.

Adipose tissue dysfunction in obesity.

Blüher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. 
bluma@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

The incidence of obesity has increased dramatically during recent decades. 
Obesity will cause a decline in life expectancy for the first time in recent 
history due to numerous co-morbid disorders. Adipocyte and adipose tissue 
dysfunction belong to the primary defects in obesity and may link obesity to 
several health problems including increased risk of insulin resistance, type 2 
diabetes, fatty liver disease, hypertension, dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, 
dementia, airway disease and some cancers. However, not all obese individuals 
develop obesity related metabolic or cardiovascular disorders potentially due to 
a preserved normal adipose tissue architecture and function. The majority of 
patients with obesity have an impaired adipose tissue function caused by the 
interaction of genetic and environmental factors which lead to adipocyte 
hypertrophy, hypoxia, a variety of stresses and inflammatory processes within 
adipose tissue. Ectopic fat accumulation including visceral obesity may be 
considered as a consequence of adipose tissue dysfunction, which is further 
characterized by changes in the cellular composition, increased lipid storage 
and impaired insulin sensitivity in adipocytes, and secretion of a 
proinflammatory, atherogenic, and diabetogenic adipokine pattern. This review 
focuses on the discussion of mechanisms causing or maintaining impaired adipose 
tissue function in obesity and potentially linking obesity to its associated 
disorders. A model is proposed how different pathogenic factors and mechanisms 
may cause dysfunction of adipose tissue.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1192044
PMID: 19358089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Ther Umsch. 2009 Apr;66(4):223-9. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.66.4.223.

[Coronary artery disease - definitions and epidemiology].

[Article in German]

Schoenenberger AW(1), Erne P.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrische Abklärungsstation, Universitätsklinik für Allgemeine Innere 
Medizin, Inselspital, Bern.

Over the past two centuries, coronary artery disease has emerged as an important 
cause of morbidity and death in industrialized nations. Increased life 
expectancy and changed habits (regarding nutrition, physical activity, and 
smoking) have contributed to this dramatic epidemiologic shift. During the last 
50 years, a decline in the coronary artery disease mortality rate was observed 
due to therapeutic advances and prevention measures targeted at people with 
coronary artery disease and those potentially at risk for it. This article 
highlights important epidemiologic data and some definitions in the context of 
coronary artery disease are presented.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.66.4.223
PMID: 19358133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Hum Resour Health. 2009 Apr 9;7:31. doi: 10.1186/1478-4491-7-31.

Community health workers for ART in sub-Saharan Africa: learning from 
experience--capitalizing on new opportunities.

Hermann K(1), Van Damme W, Pariyo GW, Schouten E, Assefa Y, Cirera A, Massavon 
W.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Department of Public Health, Antwerp, 
Belgium. khermann@itg.be

Low-income countries with high HIV/AIDS burdens in sub-Saharan Africa must deal 
with severe shortages of qualified human resources for health. This situation 
has triggered the renewed interest in community health workers, as they may play 
an important role in scaling-up antiretroviral treatment for HIV/AIDS by taking 
over a number of tasks from the professional health workers. Currently, a wide 
variety of community health workers are active in many antiretroviral treatment 
delivery sites. This article investigates whether present community health 
worker programmes for antiretroviral treatment are taking into account the 
lessons learnt from past experiences with community health worker programmes in 
primary health care and to what extent they are seizing the new antiretroviral 
treatment-specific opportunities. Based on a desk review of multi-purpose 
community health worker programmes for primary health care and of recent 
experiences with antiretroviral treatment-related community health workers, we 
developed an analytic framework of 10 criteria: eight conditions for successful 
large-scale antiretroviral treatment-related community health worker programmes 
and two antiretroviral treatment-specific opportunities. Our appraisal of six 
community health worker programmes, which we identified during field work in 
Ethiopia, Malawi and Uganda in 2007, shows that while some lessons from the past 
have been learnt, others are not being sufficiently considered and 
antiretroviral treatment-specific opportunities are not being sufficiently 
seized.In particular, all programmes have learnt the lesson that without 
adequate remuneration, community health workers cannot be retained in the long 
term. Yet we contend that the apparently insufficient attention to issues such 
as quality supervision and continuous training will lead to decreasing quality 
of the programmes over time. The life experience of people living with HIV/AIDS 
is still a relatively neglected asset, even though it may give antiretroviral 
treatment-related community health worker programmes better chances of success 
than their predecessors and may be crucially important for adherence and 
retention in large-scale antiretroviral treatment programmes. Community health 
workers as a community-based extension of health services are essential for 
antiretroviral treatment scale-up and comprehensive primary health care. The 
renewed attention to community health workers is thus very welcome, but the 
scale-up of community health worker programmes runs a high risk of neglecting 
the necessary quality criteria if it is not aligned with broader health systems 
strengthening. To achieve universal access to antiretroviral treatment, this is 
of paramount importance and should receive urgent attention.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-4491-7-31
PMCID: PMC2672918
PMID: 19358701


500. Rev Neurol (Paris). 2009 Aug-Sep;165(8-9):617-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurol.2009.03.001. Epub 2009 Apr 8.

[What has changed for stroke at the beginning of the 21st century].

[Article in French]

Bejot Y(1), Gentil A, Biotti D, Rouaud O, Fromont A, Couvreur G, Benatru I, 
Osseby GV, Moreau T, Giroud M.

Author information:
(1)Inserm - InVS, centre hospitalier universitaire de Dijon, université de 
Bourgogne, France.

INTRODUCTION: Striking developments in stroke epidemiology, initially based on 
the results of the Framingham study, have greatly improved our 
neuroepidemiological knowledge of the disease.
STATE OF ART: The development of stroke registries has made it possible to 
evaluate the descriptive epidemiology of stroke and its evolution. With the 
increasing use of CT-scan, MRI, and either cardiac or vascular imaging, the 
diagnosis of stroke and its subtypes has been made easier. Over the last 20 
years, a decrease in the incidence and mortality of stroke has been observed in 
Western countries. In contrast, in Dijon, which has the only population-based 
stroke registry in France, stable incidence rates have been reported. However, 
over the same period, age at stroke onset has risen by five years in men and 
eight years in women, which is probably related to both population aging and 
improvements in primary prevention and general health. The reported decrease in 
case-fatality rates suggests better acute management of stroke patients, and 
explains in part the increase in the prevalence of stroke. In addition, the 
assessment of vascular risk factors has demonstrated that high blood pressure 
remains the principal risk factor for both ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, and 
that antihypertensive treatment is able to reduce stroke incidence.
PERSPECTIVES: Epidemiology studies could make it possible to measure the impact 
of new therapeutic strategies applied in both primary and secondary prevention.
CONCLUSION: Prevention, diagnosis, and acute treatment of stroke have 
considerably improved, but cerebrovascular diseases together with myocardial 
infarction remain the leading cause of death. Despite the absence of a rise in 
the incidence of stroke, its prevalence has increased. This is due to the 
decrease in case-fatality rates. As a consequence, there is an urgent need to 
organize health networks around stroke. Moreover, the rise in stroke-free life 
expectancy is a positive finding that reflects improvements in prevention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurol.2009.03.001
PMID: 19359025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2009 Jul;9(1):61-5. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2008.196402. Epub 2009 Apr 9.

Mid-term results of thoracic endovascular aortic repair in surgical high-risk 
patients.

Mosquera VX(1), Herrera JM, Marini M, Estevez F, Cao I, Gulías D, Valle JV, 
Cuenca JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Juan Canalejo Hospital, La Coruña, 
Spain. vxmr@canalejo.org

Between May 2001 and June 2008, the outcome and morphological changes in 
thoracic aortic lesions of 20 surgical high-risk patients who underwent TEVAR 
were evaluated. Aortic lesions included 8 (40%) type B dissections, 5 (25%) 
atherosclerotic aneurysms, 4 (20%) penetrating ulcers and 3 (15%) traumatic 
aortic ruptures. All patients were classified as American Society of 
Anaesthesiologists class IV and obtained high scores in both the logistic 
European System for Cardiac Operative Risk Evaluation, median of 14.5% (range 
8.1-65.7%), and the STS Parsonet 95 scoring system, median of 14 (range 10-52). 
Endovascular stent-graft deployment was technically successful in all cases. No 
surgical conversion occurred. Early mortality was observed in two patients. 
Clinical and imaging follow-up was available in all patients at a median time of 
28 months (range 4-89 months). Overall actuarial survival was 90% at one and 
five years and 60% at seven years. Mean diameter of the descending aorta 
decreased from 51.1+/-13 mm to 45.3+/-8 mm (P=0.032). Mean reduction in 
dimension of aneurysms was 10.7+/-8 mm. Endovascular thoracic aorta repair will 
probably benefit more patients with multiple comorbidities that limit their life 
expectancy than patients with a lower profile.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2008.196402
PMID: 19359283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Europace. 2009 Jun;11(6):716-26. doi: 10.1093/europace/eup068. Epub 2009 Apr
9.

Lifetime cost-effectiveness of prophylactic implantation of a cardioverter 
defibrillator in patients with reduced left ventricular systolic function: 
results of Markov modelling in a European population.

Cowie MR(1), Marshall D, Drummond M, Ferko N, Maschio M, Ekman M, de Roy L, 
Heidbuchel H, Verboven Y, Braunschweig F, Linde C, Boriani G.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Cardiology, National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College, 
Dovehouse Street, London SW3 6LY, UK. m.cowie@imperial.ac.uk

Comment in
    Europace. 2009 Jun;11(6):689-91.
    Europace. 2009 Dec;11(12):1571-3.
    Europace. 2009 Dec;11(12):1721.

AIMS: Current European guidelines recommend prophylactic implantation of 
cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) in patients with a reduced left ventricular 
ejection fraction (LVEF) who are not in NYHA class IV and have reasonable life 
expectancy. Cost and benefit implications of this recommendation have not been 
reported from a European perspective.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Markov modelling estimated lifetime costs and effects [life 
years (LY) and quality-adjusted LY (QALY) gained] of prophylactic ICD 
implantation vs. conventional treatment, among patients with a reduced LVEF. 
Efficacy was estimated from a meta-analysis of mortality rates in the six 
primary prevention trials with inclusion criteria matching ACC/AHA/ESC Class I 
or IIa recommendations. Direct medical costs were estimated using Belgian 
national references. Costs and effects were discounted at 3 and 1.5% per annum, 
respectively. Probabilistic sensitivity and scenario analyses estimated the 
uncertainty around the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. An ICD implantation 
increased the lifetime direct costs by euro 46,413. Estimated mean LY/QALY 
gained were 1.88/1.57, respectively. Probabilistic analysis estimated mean 
lifetime cost per QALY gained as euro 31,717 (95% CI: euro 19,760-euro 61,316). 
Cost-effectiveness was influenced most by ICD efficacy, time to replacement, 
utility, and patient age at implantation.
CONCLUSION: In a European healthcare setting, prophylactic ICD implantation may 
be cost-effective if current guidelines for patients with a reduced LVEF are 
followed.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eup068
PMID: 19359333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Regul Pept. 2009 Aug 7;156(1-3):9-12. doi: 10.1016/j.regpep.2009.04.004.
Epub  2009 Apr 9.

GLP-1: broadening the incretin concept to involve gut motility.

Hellström PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Unit of Gastroenterology, Karolinska Institutet, 
Karolinska University Hospital, Solna, Stockholm, Sweden. Per.Hellstrom@ki.se

The incretin effect of the gut peptide hormone glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
is a combined result of inhibition of gastric emptying and stimulation of 
insulin secretion via an incretin mechanism. The temporal pattern of these 
events implicate that gastric emptying is primarily delayed, while later in the 
digestive process insulin is released for nutrient disposal. Since the 
inhibitory effect of GLP-1 on gastric motility is very outspoken, we considered 
it of value to study its effects on gut motility. Animal experimentation in the 
rat clearly showed that not only gastric emptying, but also small bowel motility 
with the migrating myoelectric complex was profoundly inhibited by GLP-1 at low 
doses. Similar effects were seen with analogues of the peptide. Extending the 
studies to man supported our earliest data indicating that the migrating motor 
complex of the small intestine was affected, and even more noticeable, the 
summarized motility index inhibited. Further extension of our studies to 
patients with irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) displayed similar results. This 
encouraged us to embark on a clinical pain-relief multi-centre study in IBS 
patients using a GLP-1 analogue, ROSE-010, with longer half-life than the native 
peptide. The outcome of the IBS study proved ROSE-010 to be superior to placebo 
with a pain-relief response rate of 24% for ROSE-010 compared to 12% for 
placebo. Taken together, the GLP-1 analogue ROSE-010 is believed to cause 
relaxation of the gut and can thereby relieve an acute pain attack of IBS, even 
though its precise mechanism is yet to be defined.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regpep.2009.04.004
PMID: 19362109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Immunobiology. 2009;214(5):367-76. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2008.10.001. Epub
2008  Dec 3.

The variation in cytoplasmic distribution of mouse peritoneal macrophage during 
phagocytosis modulated by mangiferin, an immunomodulator.

De A(1), Chattopadhyay S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science and Biotechnology, Jadavpur University, Kolkata 
700032, India.

The peritoneal MPhi in the immunological defense removes foreign particles, 
pathogenic or otherwise, by phagocytosis, and shows movement in search of the 
target. The macrophage (MPhi) appears in various shapes and sizes, spherical, 
flattened spindle-shaped, amoeboid, polygonal and with very long extension. On 
activation, the MPhi shows changes in cell shape, cytokinesis and development of 
intercellular contacts. A dynamic redistribution of cytoskeleton with 
cytoplasmic spread and/or extensions occurs with immunomodulators, like 
Mangiferin (1,3,6,7-tetrahydroxyxanthone-C(2)-beta-D-glucoside). The MPhi 
isolated from the peritoneal fluid of BALB/c mice pretreated with mangiferin and 
saline control, on challenge, shows redistribution of cytoplasm with variable 
morphology. Using the image analyses technique for pattern recognition of 
individual shapes of MPhi leads to the observation of clustering of cells in the 
coverslip culture. The stimulation in phagocytosis due to mangiferin, shows 
cytoplasmic spread, long extensions and intercellular contacts. The individual 
variations in the cytoplasmic redistribution are due to changes in the balance 
between the cellular surface area and the long extensions where the shape and 
nature of the phagocytic particle and the type of MPhi are determinants.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2008.10.001
PMID: 19362682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Blood. 2009 Jun 4;113(23):5727-36. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-02-205237. Epub
2009  Apr 10.

Systemic mastocytosis in 342 consecutive adults: survival studies and prognostic 
factors.

Lim KH(1), Tefferi A, Lasho TL, Finke C, Patnaik M, Butterfield JH, McClure RF, 
Li CY, Pardanani A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Clinical phenotype in systemic mastocytosis (SM) is markedly variable, which 
complicates prognostication and decision making regarding the choice and timing 
of therapy. In a retrospective study of 342 consecutive adult patients with SM 
seen at the Mayo Clinic between 1976 and 2007, disease subdesignation according 
to the World Health Organization (WHO) proposal was indolent (ISM) in 159 (46%), 
with associated clonal hematologic non-mast cell lineage disease (SM-AHNMD) in 
138 (40%), aggressive (ASM) in 41 (12%), and mast cell leukemia in 4 (1%). 
KITD816V was detected in bone marrow-derived DNA by allele-specific polymerase 
chain reaction (PCR) in 68% of 165 patients evaluated (ISM, 78%; ASM, 82%; 
SM-AHNMD, 60%; P = .03); JAK2V617F was detected in 4%, all in SM-AHNMD. Compared 
with those with nonindolent SM, life expectancy in ISM was superior and not 
significantly different from that of the age- and sex-matched US population. In 
addition, multivariable analysis identified advanced age, weight loss, anemia, 
thrombocytopenia, hypoalbuminemia, and excess bone marrow blasts as independent 
adverse prognostic factors for survival. The current study validates the 
prognostic relevance of the WHO subclassification of SM and provides additional 
information of value in terms of both risk stratification and interpretation of 
clinical presentation and laboratory results.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-02-205237
PMID: 19363219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Tex Dent J. 2008 Winter;Suppl:1-56.

Building better oral health: a dental home for all Texans.

Texas Dental Association.

Poor oral health affects more than just the mouth. It can seriously compromise a 
person's general health, quality of life and life expectancy. Oral diseases can 
and do lead to systemic problems--damaging other parts of the body and resulting 
in the need for expensive emergency department visits, hospital stays and 
medications. The consequences of poor oral health, however, go far beyond 
damaging medical effects. Oral disease can also wreak economic havoc--keeping 
children out of school and adults home from work--not to mention lower 
productivity of workers in pain. Untreated oral diseases can also drive up 
health care costs in general. The good news is that with proper oral health 
care, both at home and in professional settings, many of the negative 
consequences associated with poor oral health can be prevented. The State of 
Texas has a unique and unprecedented opportunity to significantly increase 
access to oral health care for all Texans. Complying with the Frew agreement is 
a key priority. However, there are additional ways that Texas policymakers can 
improve the oral health of the state. In an effort to begin a constructive 
dialogue about improving the oral health of all Texans, the Texas Dental 
Association (TDA) with grant funding from the American Dental Association (ADA) 
commissioned an independent third-party report on the issue of access to oral 
health care in Texas modeled after the 2000 groundbreaking surgeon general's 
report, Oral Health in America. The TDA assembled a team of five nationally 
recognized dentists from both academia and private practice to oversee the 
project. The dentists (hereafter called the editorial review board or ERB) were 
asked to identify the state's most pressing issues, needs and challenges 
associated with improving the oral health of all Texans, with a special focus on 
the state's most vulnerable. The ERB looked carefully at the economic, medical 
and social consequences of untreated oral disease in Texas. It reviewed the 
current systems of oral health care delivery and payment throughout the state. 
The team also studied the oral health status of Texans in general and analyzed 
the oral health disparities that exist in the state. Finally, the ERB made 
specific and practical policy recommendations to expand access to oral health 
care in Texas, including: 1) Identifying a "dental home" for every Texan. 2) 
Strengthening the Texas Department of State Health Services (DSHS) Oral Health 
Program (OHP). 3) Creating new programs to encourage general dentists and 
specialists to practice in underserved areas and to treat underserved 
populations. 4) Developing a comprehensive oral health public awareness and 
education campaign. 5) Expanding access to oral health services for older 
Texans. As the face of Texas continues to change, the state must put in place a 
new, more aggressive strategy to improve access to oral health care. This 
challenge must be approached as a shared responsibility--among dentists, allied 
health professionals, primary care providers, policymakers, community-based 
organizations, parents and schools. The job is too big--and too important--for 
any one group to try to tackle alone. The time to act is now.

PMID: 19363885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Eur J Neurol. 2009 Mar;16(3):353-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2008.02434.x.

Measuring function in advanced ALS: validation of ALSFRS-EX extension items.

Wicks P(1), Massagli MP, Wolf C, Heywood J.

Author information:
(1)PatientsLikeMe Inc, Research & Development, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA. 
pwicks@patientslikeme.com

Erratum in
    Eur J Neurol. 2009 May;16(5):650.
    Eur J Neurol. 2012 Sep;19(9):e91.

BACKGROUND: With the aid of assistive technology, some patients with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) are able to live for several years past the lowest 
measurable level of function on the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional 
Rating Scale - Revised (ALSFRS-R), a widely used end-point in ALS assessment. 
There is a research need to monitor patient function at the end of life, 
particularly in the face of severe impairment or 'locked in syndrome'.
METHODS: We used an online community for people with ALS (PALS) (PatientsLikeMe) 
to construct and pilot a number of new items to add to the ALSFRS-R scale to 
improve its sensitivity at lower levels of physical function in patients with 
advanced ALS.
RESULTS: Ten new scale items were generated by a survey of PALS with advanced 
disease. These were added to the existing ALSFRS-R and data were received from 
326 PALS at baseline with 169 PALS (52%) completing a 1-week test-retest and 218 
PALS (67%) completing a 3-month retest [corrected].
CONCLUSIONS: Three new items were selected which conformed to the existing 
factor structure of the ALFRS-R. These relate to the ability to use fingers to 
manipulate devices, ability to show emotional expression in the face, and 
ability to get around inside the home. Real-world validation is the next step to 
assess the utility of the ALFRS-EX.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2008.02434.x
PMID: 19364363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2009 Sep;63(9):715-21. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2008.081141. Epub 2009 Apr 12.

Black-white differences in avoidable mortality in the USA, 1980-2005.

Macinko J(1), Elo IT.

Author information:
(1)New York University, Department of Nutrition, Food Studies, and Public 
Health, New York, NY 10012, USA. james.macinko@nyu.edu

BACKGROUND: Avoidable Mortality (AM) describes causes of death that should not 
occur in the presence of high-quality and timely medical treatment and from 
causes that can be influenced at least in part by public policy/behaviour. This 
study analyses black-white disparities in AM.
METHODS: Mortality under age 65 was analysed from: (1) conditions amenable to 
medical care; (2) those sensitive to public policy and/or behaviour change; (3) 
