The prevalence of CP in eastern Denmark was approximately 1.7 per 1000. 
Information on productivity and the use of health care was retrieved from 
registers. The lifetime cost of CP was about 860,000 euro for men and about 
800,000 euro for women. The largest component was social care costs, 
particularly during childhood. A sensitivity analysis found that alterations in 
social care costs had a small effect, whereas lowering the discount rate from 5 
to 3 per cent markedly increased total lifetime costs. Discounting decreases the 
value of costs in the future compared with the present. The high social care 
costs and productivity costs associated with CP point to a potential gain from 
labour market interventions that benefit individuals with CP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2008.03190.x
PMID: 19416329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Cost Eff Resour Alloc. 2009 May 5;7:9. doi: 10.1186/1478-7547-7-9.

Cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone in type 2 diabetes patients with a history of 
macrovascular disease: a German perspective.

Scherbaum WA(1), Goodall G, Erny-Albrecht KM, Massi-Benedetti M, Erdmann E, 
Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to project health-economic outcomes 
relevant to the German setting for the addition of pioglitazone to existing 
treatment regimens in patients with type 2 diabetes, evidence of macrovascular 
disease and at high risk of cardiovascular events.
METHODS: Event rates corresponding to macrovascular outcomes from the 
Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events (PROactive) 
study of pioglitazone were used with a modified version of the CORE Diabetes 
Model to simulate outcomes over a 35-year time horizon. Direct medical costs 
were accounted from a healthcare payer perspective in year 2005 values. Germany 
specific costs were applied for patient treatment, hospitalization and 
management. Both costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 5.0% per annum.
RESULTS: Over patient lifetimes pioglitazone treatment improved undiscounted 
life expectancy by 0.406 years and improved quality-adjusted life expectancy by 
0.120 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared to placebo. Direct medical 
costs (treatment plus complication costs) were marginally higher for 
pioglitazone treatment and calculation of the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) produced a value of euro13,294 per QALY gained with the 
pioglitazone regimen versus placebo. Acceptability curve analysis showed that 
there was a 78.2% likelihood that pioglitazone would be considered 
cost-effective in Germany, using a "good value for money" threshold of 
euro50,000 per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses showed that the results were 
most sensitive to changes in the simulation time horizon. After adjustment for 
the potential stabilization of pancreatic beta-cell function with pioglitazone 
treatment, the ICER was euro6,667 per QALY gained for pioglitazone versus 
placebo.
CONCLUSION: The findings of this modelling analysis indicated that, for patients 
with a history of macrovascular disease, addition of pioglitazone to existing 
therapy reduces the long-term cumulative incidence of diabetes-complications at 
a cost that would be considered to represent good value for money in the German 
setting.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7547-7-9
PMCID: PMC2688482
PMID: 19416529


622. Ugeskr Laeger. 2009 Apr 6;171(15):1293-7.

[Transcatheter replacement of the aortic valve--a novel treatment modality for 
high-risk patients].

[Article in Danish]

Olsen LK(1), Engstrøm T, Wachtell K, Kristensen T, Hassager C, Ihlemann N, 
Møller JE, Andersen LW, Olsen PS, Søndergaard L.

Author information:
(1)Kardiologisk Klinik B 2014, Rigshospitalet, DK-2100 København Ø.

Aortic stenosis is the most common valve disease and in line with the rising 
life expectancy, the population of patients with this disease is expected to 
rise in years to come. About one third of the patients evaluated for 
conventional surgical replacement of the aortic valve are dismissed due to high 
risk of complication as a result of age and occurrence of comorbidity. For this 
group of inoperable patients, a new treatment can be offered in the form of 
transcatheter replacement of the aortic valve. This article describes the method 
and the current experiences.

PMID: 19416622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Can J Aging. 2008 Winter;27(4):385-97. doi: 10.3138/cja.27.4.385.

The changing well-being of older adult registered Indians: an analysis using the 
Registered Indian Human Development Index.

Cooke M(1), Guimond E, McWhirter J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Waterloo, 200 University Avenue West, 
Waterloo, Ontario N2L 3G1, Canada. cooke@uwaterloo.ca

The demographic aging of the Registered Indian population suggests that the 
social, economic, and health conditions of older Registered Indians will be 
increasingly important for communities and policymakers. We have adapted the 
United Nations Development Program's Human Development Index using data from the 
Census of Canada and the Indian Register to measure whether improvements seen in 
the knowledge, standard of living, and health of the Registered Indian 
population between 1981 and 2001 are also observed among Registered Indians of 
older ages. The absolute levels of well-being of older Registered Indians were 
found to have improved, but gaps with other older Canadians had widened, 
particularly in terms of income and male life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3138/cja.27.4.385
PMID: 19416799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Biol Chem. 2009 Jun 19;284(25):17110-17119. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.004010.
Epub  2009 May 5.

Assimilation of endogenous nicotinamide riboside is essential for calorie 
restriction-mediated life span extension in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Lu SP(1), Kato M(1), Lin SJ(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, 
California 95616.
(2)From the Department of Microbiology, University of California, Davis, 
California 95616. Electronic address: slin@ucdavis.edu.

NAD(+) (nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide) is an essential cofactor involved in 
various biological processes including calorie restriction-mediated life span 
extension. Administration of nicotinamide riboside (NmR) has been shown to 
ameliorate deficiencies related to aberrant NAD(+) metabolism in both yeast and 
mammalian cells. However, the biological role of endogenous NmR remains unclear. 
Here we demonstrate that salvaging endogenous NmR is an integral part of NAD(+) 
metabolism. A balanced NmR salvage cycle is essential for calorie 
restriction-induced life span extension and stress resistance in yeast. Our 
results also suggest that partitioning of the pyridine nucleotide flux between 
the classical salvage cycle and the NmR salvage branch might be modulated by the 
NAD(+)-dependent Sir2 deacetylase. Furthermore, two novel deamidation steps 
leading to nicotinic acid mononucleotide and nicotinic acid riboside production 
are also uncovered that further underscore the complexity and flexibility of 
NAD(+) metabolism. In addition, utilization of extracellular nicotinamide 
mononucleotide requires prior conversion to NmR mediated by a periplasmic 
phosphatase Pho5. Conversion to NmR may thus represent a strategy for the 
transport and assimilation of large nonpermeable NAD(+) precursors. Together, 
our studies provide a molecular basis for how NAD(+) homeostasis factors confer 
metabolic flexibility.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.004010
PMCID: PMC2719349
PMID: 19416965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Am J Hum Biol. 2009 Jul-Aug;21(4):541-7. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20953.

Women's fertility and mortality in late mid life: A comparison of three 
contemporary populations.

Grundy E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Studies, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, United Kingdom. emily.grundy@lshtm.ac.uk

Evolutionary theory suggests a trade-off between reproduction and somatic 
maintenance implying a negative relationship between parity and longevity, at 
least in natural fertility populations. In populations in which fertility 
control is usual, there are also a number of mechanisms that may link 
reproductive careers and later mortality, but evidence of associations between 
women's fertility patterns and their later life health has been judged 
inconclusive due to varying controls for socio-economic characteristics and 
marital status. Here, we build on three recent studies that followed a common 
framework to investigate associations between women's parity and timing of first 
and last birth with mortality in late middle age in three contemporary developed 
counties, Norway, England and Wales, and the USA. Data were drawn from whole 
population registers (Norway); a large census-based record linkage study 
(England and Wales), and a nationally representative survey linked to death 
records (USA). Results show that teenage childbirth was associated with higher 
mortality risks in late middle age in all three countries. Risks of death were 
significantly raised among nulliparous women in Norway and England and Wales, 
and also raised (although not significantly so) for childless US women. However, 
although higher parity was associated with a slight mortality disadvantage in 
England and Wales and the USA, the reverse seemed the case in Norway. These 
finding suggest that in populations in which fertility control is usual, 
contextual factors influencing the relative costs and benefits of childbearing 
may influence associations between fertility histories and later mortality.

2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20953
PMID: 19418527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Actas Urol Esp. 2009 Feb;33(2):113-26. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(09)74110-5.

[EAU guidelines on prostate cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Heidenreich A(1), Aus G, Bolla M, Joniau S, Matveev VB, Schmid HP, Zattoni F; 
European Association of Urology.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Hospital Universitario de Colonia, Colonia, Alemania. 
axel.heidenreich@uk-koeln.de

Comment in
    Actas Urol Esp. 2009 Feb;33(2):109.

OBJECTIVES: To present a summary of the 2007 version of the European Association 
of Urology (EAU) guidelines on prostate cancer (PCa).
METHODS: A literature review of the new data emerging from 2004 to 2007 was 
performed by the working panel. The guidelines have been updated, and the level 
of evidence/grade of recommendation was added to the text based on a systematic 
review of the literature, which included a search of online databases and 
bibliographic reviews.
RESULTS: A full version is available at the EAU Office or at www.uroweb.org. 
Systemic prostate biopsy under ultrasound guidance is the preferred diagnostic 
method. Active treatment is mostly recommended for patients with localized 
disease and a long life expectancy, with radical prostatectomy being shown to be 
superior to watchful waiting in a prospective randomized trial. Nerve-sparing 
radical prostatectomy represents the approach of choice in organ-confined 
disease; neoadjuvant androgen deprivation demonstrates no improvement of outcome 
variables. Radiation therapy should be performed with at least 72 and 78 Gy in 
low-risk and intermediate- to high-risk PCa, respectively. Monotherapeutic 
androgen deprivation is the standard of care in metastatic PCa; intermittent 
androgen deprivation might be an alternative treatment option for selected 
patients. Follow-up is largely based on prostate-specific antigen and a 
disease-specific history with imaging only indicated when symptoms occur. 
Cytotoxic therapy with docetaxel has emerged as the reference treatment for 
metastatic hormone-refractory PCa.
CONCLUSIONS: The knowledge in the field of PCa is rapidly changing. These EAU 
guidelines on PCa summarize the most recent findings and put them into clinical 
practice.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(09)74110-5
PMID: 19418833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Acta Vet Scand. 2009 May 6;51(1):21. doi: 10.1186/1751-0147-51-21.

Inbreeding and fertility in Irish Wolfhounds in Sweden: 1976 to 2007.

Urfer SR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington Medicine Pathology, 1959 NE Pacific Street, Mailbox 
357470, Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. urfer@gmx.ch

BACKGROUND: Given that no influence of inbreeding on life expectancy could be 
demonstrated in Irish Wolfhounds in a previous study, it was decided to test the 
influence of inbreeding and other parameters on fertility in this breed.
METHODS: The study was based on all Irish Wolfhound litters registered in Sweden 
between 1976 and 2007 (n = 822 litters) as provided by the Swedish Kennel Club 
(SKK) and combined with a pedigree database going back to 1862. Analyses were 
performed using linear regression in a Generalised Linear Model and other tests 
in the SAS system.
RESULTS: Mean number of pups per litter was 6.01 +/- 2.65, with a maximum of 13. 
There were no significant differences in either the number of litters or the 
number of pups between years of birth. Males were used for breeding at a 
significantly earlier age than females. Mean number of litters per parent was 
2.96 +/- 3.14 for males and 1.59 +/- 0.87 for females. No influence of Wright's 
inbreeding coefficients over 5, 10, 20 and 30 generations and/or Meuwissen's 
inbreeding coefficients on litter size was detected. In the Generalised Linear 
Model, highly significant, but weak (coefficient of determination (R2) = 0.0341) 
influences were found for maternal age at mating as well as maternal inbreeding 
measured by Wright's inbreeding coefficient over 30 generations and Meuwissen's 
inbreeding coefficient. Paternal inbreeding coefficients over 5, 10, 20 and 30 
generations and calculated after Meuwissen, as well as maternal inbreeding 
coefficients over 5, 10 and 20 generations did not have significant effects on 
litter size.
CONCLUSION: The low coefficient of determination (R2) value of the Generalised 
Linear Model indicates that inbreeding does not have a strong influence on 
fertility in Irish Wolfhounds, which is consistent with earlier results and the 
breed's genetic history. These results likely reflect the aforementioned genetic 
history and should not be extrapolated to other breeds without prior 
breed-specific research.

DOI: 10.1186/1751-0147-51-21
PMCID: PMC2694810
PMID: 19419574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2009 Oct;12(9):1233-48. doi: 
10.1017/S1461145709000352. Epub 2009 May 7.

Remission in schizophrenia: 196-week, double-blind treatment with ziprasidone 
vs. haloperidol.

Potkin SG(1), Weiden PJ, Loebel AD, Warrington LE, Watsky EJ, Siu CO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, University of California, 
Irvine, CA, USA. sgpotkin@uci.edu

To compare the remission rate and its time-course over 196 wk of double-blind 
treatment with an atypical antipsychotic, ziprasidone (80-160 mg/d given b.i.d., 
or 80-120 mg/d given q.d.), or a conventional antipsychotic, haloperidol (5-20 
mg/d). Outcome assessments included attainment of remission (Andreasen criteria) 
by longitudinal analysis. Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) scores, 
Global Assessment of Functioning Scale (GAF) scores, and quality-of-life (QLS) 
were also assessed in the initial 40-wk study phase (n=599) and the 3-yr 
extension study (n=186). Discontinuation rates in the initial 40-wk core and 
follow-up extension studies were comparable between groups: 64% and 65% for the 
80-160 mg/d ziprasidone group, 65% and 58% for the 80-120 mg/d ziprasidone 
group, and 60% and 66% for the 5-20 mg/d haloperidol group, respectively. Mean 
change scores from baseline to LOCF endpoint (week 40 or early termination) for 
PANSS negative and GAF (primary efficacy variables) were not statistically 
significantly different between ziprasidone and haloperidol. During the 3-yr 
extension study, ziprasidone-treated subjects (80-160 mg/d) were more likely to 
achieve remission (51%) than haloperidol-treated (40%) subjects (p=0.04), while 
there was a favourable trend associated with 80-120 mg/d ziprasidone (48%). 
Compared to the haloperidol group, subjects assigned to the 80-160 mg/d 
ziprasidone group showed a gradual and persistent improvement in remission 
(p=0.006) and quality-of-life (p=0.004) in the longitudinal analyses. 
Significant differences in the trajectory of PANSS total and GAF scores 
favouring the 80-160 mg/d ziprasidone group were also observed. In this 
long-term, double-blind study, ziprasidone treatment was more likely to result 
in remission than haloperidol treatment, and was associated with greater 
improvement in quality-of-life.

DOI: 10.1017/S1461145709000352
PMID: 19419595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Gait Posture. 2009 Jul;30(1):110-4. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2009.04.002.
Epub  2009 May 5.

Muscles limiting the sit-to-stand movement: an experimental simulation of muscle 
weakness.

Van der Heijden MM(1), Meijer K, Willems PJ, Savelberg HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Movement Science, Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life 
Sciences, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, NL-6200MD, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

Adapted strategies in rising from a chair occur with muscle weakness. To assess 
whether muscle weakness caused the strategy change, an experimental simulation 
was performed that allowed to investigate separately effects of reduced muscle 
capacity and of strategy change on movement dynamics. It was hypothesized that a 
sit-to-stand (STS) strategy change spares muscles that become overloaded when 
muscle weakness develops. Ten healthy females participated; seven of them 
completed all tests. Muscle weakness causes an increased load-over-capacity 
ratio. In the present study, this ratio was increased by providing participants 
with a waist-coat containing 45% of their body mass. Participants performed 
sit-to-stand manoeuvres with and without added mass; moreover they were 
instructed to perform two different strategies, the moment-transfer-strategy and 
the stabilization-strategy. During these STS-tasks sagital 2D-video analysis 
were made and ground reaction forces (GRF) were measured. Joint moments and 
powers for ankle, knee and hip joint were calculated. The preferred strategy 
under the normal condition was the moment-transfer strategy. Increasing the load 
without adapting the strategy resulted in significantly higher (13%) knee-joint 
extension moments. Allowing a strategy shift in the loaded condition spared the 
knee-joint extensors (-6%) and transferred effort to hip-joint extensors (57%) 
and plantar flexor (67%) muscles. These results suggest that the capacity of 
knee-joint extensors limits the STS-performance when muscle weakness occurs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2009.04.002
PMID: 19419871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. N Engl J Med. 2009 May 7;360(19):2032-3; author reply 2033-4. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc090375.

Air pollution and life expectancy.

Bubb MR.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 22;360(4):376-86.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc090375
PMID: 19420377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Nanotechnology. 2009 Apr 8;20(14):145708. doi:
10.1088/0957-4484/20/14/145708.  Epub 2009 Mar 18.

Nanoindentation measurement of Young's modulus for compliant layers on stiffer 
substrates including the effect of Poisson's ratios.

Clifford CA(1), Seah MP.

Author information:
(1)Quality of Life Division, National Physical Laboratory, Hampton Road, 
Teddington, Middlesex TW11 0LW, UK. charles.clifford@npl.co.uk

Finite element analysis (FEA) is used to investigate the effect of the Poisson's 
ratios of both the overlayer and the substrate on the nanoindentation of an 
elastic two-phase system where the elastic overlayer is more compliant than the 
underlying elastic substrate. A rigid spherical indenter is used as a probe. It 
is found that nanoindentation results may be expressed analytically using a 
simple extension of the previously described equation (Clifford and Seah 2006 
Nanotechnology 17 5283). This simple function describes the reduced modulus 
value measured using Oliver and Pharr's method (1992 J. Mater. Res. 7 1564) for 
any modulus values or Poisson's ratio values of the overlayer and substrate, 
overlayer thickness or indenter tip radius. This equation and the FEA behind it 
are tested using experimental published data for the nanoindentation of a 
silicon dioxide layer on silicon.

DOI: 10.1088/0957-4484/20/14/145708
PMID: 19420538


632. Virchows Arch. 2009 Jun;454(6):703-13. doi: 10.1007/s00428-009-0775-1. Epub
2009  May 7.

Extraconal orbital tumors in children--a spectrum.

Viswanathan S(1), George S, Ramadwar M, Shet T, Arora B, Laskar S, Qureshi S, 
Medhi S, Muckaden MA, Kurkure PA, Kane SV, Banavali S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel, Mumbai, 400012, 
India. vishyvidya@hotmail.com

Orbital masses in children are uncommon but extremely challenging problems for 
clinicians and pathologists due to their critical location and availability of 
limited diagnostic material. We analyzed 47 specimens comprising biopsies, 
excision specimens, and FNAC of extraconal pediatric orbital masses (excluding 
retinoblastoma) accessioned in the pathology department over 5 years in a 
tertiary referral cancer center. Immunohistochemistry (IHC-74%) and molecular 
methods (one case) were done where necessary. The chief presenting symptom was 
proptosis in 55.3% patients and radiologically 53.8% malignant tumors showed 
extraorbital extension. A diagnostic algorithm was formulated to assess which 
cases needed pathology evaluation. Malignant round cell tumors (76.6%), chiefly 
embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (51%), benign spindle cell neoplasms, and infectious 
lesions (tuberculosis, fungal infections), were seen. Of the malignant tumors, 
those confined to the orbit achieved good treatment response and had an 
event-free follow-up while those with extraorbital spread had poor outcome. 
Pediatric orbital masses range from completely treatable infectious lesions, 
surgically resectable benign neoplasms to aggressive malignancies requiring 
chemotherapy and radiotherapy. Pathologists play a key role in distinguishing 
these on small biopsy material and expediating accurate treatment thus saving 
the vision or life of a patient.

DOI: 10.1007/s00428-009-0775-1
PMID: 19421774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Biogerontology. 2010 Feb;11(1):67-73. doi: 10.1007/s10522-009-9229-z. Epub
2009  May 7.

The frequency of Klotho KL-VS polymorphism in a large Italian population, from 
young subjects to centenarians, suggests the presence of specific time windows 
for its effect.

Invidia L(1), Salvioli S, Altilia S, Pierini M, Panourgia MP, Monti D, De Rango 
F, Passarino G, Franceschi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Pathology, University of Bologna, via S. Giacomo 
12, Bologna, Italy.

In mice a defect of Klotho gene expression results in multiple aging-like 
phenotypes including short lifespan, osteoporosis and atherosclerosis, while its 
over-expression suppresses aging and extends lifespan. Contrasting data have 
been reported as far as the importance of the functional variant of Klotho 
termed "KL-VS" on human longevity, depending on the average age of the old 
subjects that were compared with young controls. We therefore performed a study 
on a large Italian population sample including people from very young to very 
old age (centenarians). A total of 1,089 (669 women and 420 men) unrelated 
individuals from 19 to 109 years, born and residing in northern and central 
Italy, were subdivided into three age classes defined on the basis of the 
survival curve constructed using Italian demographic mortality data, and 
genotyped for the KL-VS allele. We found a significant increase of the 
heterozygous Klotho genotype in the class of elderly people compared to young 
controls. On the contrary, no difference was present between centenarians and 
young controls. Such a non monotonic trajectory is evident only when a large, 
comprehensive age range is investigated, and is compatible with the hypothesis 
that this KL-VS heterozygous genotype is favorable for survival in old people, 
its beneficial effect decreasing thereafter, and becoming no more evident at the 
extreme ages. Such unusual age-related changes in the Klotho KL-VS genotype 
frequency is compatible with the hypothesis that alleles and genotypes involved 
in aging and longevity may exert their biological effect at specific time 
windows.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-009-9229-z
PMID: 19421891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Qual Life Res. 2009 Jun;18(5):657-65. doi: 10.1007/s11136-009-9484-0. Epub
2009  May 7.

Alternative approaches to derive disability weights in injuries: do they make a 
difference?

Haagsma JA(1), Polinder S, van Beeck EF, Mulder S, Bonsel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Policy and Management, Erasmus Medical Center, Erasmus 
University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. juanita.haagsma@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: In burden of disease studies, several approaches are used to assess 
disability weights, a scaling factor necessary to compute years lived with 
disability (YLD). The aim of this study was to quantify disability weights for 
injury consequences with two competing approaches, (a) standard QALY/DALY model 
(SQM) which derives disability weights from patient survey data and (b) the 
annual profile model (APM) which derives weights for the same patient data 
valued by a panel.
METHODS: Disability weights were assessed using (a) EQ-5D data from a postal 
survey among 8,564 injury patients 2(1/2), 5, and 9 months after attending the 
Emergency Department, and (b) preferences of 143 laymen elicited with the time 
trade-off method.
RESULTS: Compared with APM, SQM disability weights were consistently higher. YLD 
calculated with SQM disability weights was more than three times higher compared 
with YLD calculated with APM disability weights, for mild injuries with short 
duration, this increase was six fold.
CONCLUSIONS: The APM seems the preferred method in burden of injury studies that 
includes mild conditions with a rapid course, since the SQM approach might 
overestimate the impact of the latter. The APM, however, might underestimate the 
impact of injury consequences, especially in case of severe injuries.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-009-9484-0
PMID: 19421894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Presse Med. 2010 Feb;39(2):216-30. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.10.028. Epub 2009
May  7.

[Alveolar echinococcosis: from an incurable rural disease to a controlled urban 
infection].

[Article in French]

Vuitton DA(1), Bresson-Hadni S, Giraudoux P, Bartholomot B, Laplante JJ, 
Delabrousse E, Blagosklonov O, Mantion G.

Author information:
(1)Centre collaborateur de l'OMS pour la prévention et le traitement des 
échinococcoses humaines, Université de Franche-Comté et CHU de Besançon ; 
F-25030 Besançon, France. dominique.vuitton@univ-fcomte.fr

Human alveolar echinococcosis is a parasitic zoonosis with intermediate (rodents 
and small lagomorphs) and final (carnivores) hosts. The latter can transmit the 
parasite to humans, by their feces, which are contaminated by the oncospheres of 
Echinococcus multilocularis, the larvae of which develop in the liver like a 
slow cancer. Political, socioeconomic, and ecological factors can affect the 
intermediate and final hosts and thus influence the long-term emergence and 
stability of endemic areas. The past 20 years have been marked by: Epidemiologic 
changes: discovery of an endemic area in China, the largest in the world; 
extension of the European endemic range to the east and north; extension of the 
French endemic range to the west and south; and the settlement of contaminated 
foxes in urban centers, which will modify the populations at risk over time. 
Progress in diagnosis: initial use of liver ultrasound to screen for 
asymptomatic disease; value of magnetic resonance imaging to confirm diagnosis 
and assess extension of disease before beginning treatment; mastery of 
immunological and genetic diagnosis; and the introduction of positron emission 
tomography combined with computed tomography to assess the functional activity 
of the lesions and monitor treatment. Consensus has defined the main directions 
of a multidisciplinary treatment approach: radical liver resection when 
possible; avoidance of palliative surgical procedures; use of interventional 
radiology or endoscopy to treat biliary and vascular complications, whenever 
possible; consideration of liver transplantation only when all other treatment 
possibilities have been exhausted; and treatment of all patients, without 
exception, by albendazole for at least two years after radical surgery and long 
term (at least several years) in other cases. In France, survival and quality of 
life have improved very substantially, due to earlier diagnosis, clinical 
classification of cases, and rigorous follow-up as part of the FrancEchino 
network. Better understanding of the immunological and immunogenetic mechanisms 
that underlie the course of disease may open up the possibility of 
immunomodulation that could replace or round out the current treatments. These 
are far from satisfactory, in view of the constraints of prolonged, most often 
life-long treatment by benzimidazoles and their side effects.

Copyright 2009. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.10.028
PMID: 19423275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. J Chemother. 2009 Apr;21(2):188-92. doi: 10.1179/joc.2009.21.2.188.

The costs of treatment of early and chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in 
cystic fibrosis patients.

Braccini G(1), Festini F, Boni V, Neri AS, Galici V, Campana S, Zavataro L, 
Trevisan F, Braggion C, Taccetti G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Florence, Italy.

The aim of cystic fibrosis (CF) care is to improve both the life expectancy and 
quality of life of patients. However, rising costs and limited resources of 
health services must be taken into account. There are many different antibiotic 
strategies for therapy of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in CF patients. In 
this 5-year retrospective study we found that the cost of treatment of initial 
infection is considerably lower than the cost of treating chronic P. aeruginosa 
infections. The percentage distribution of costs of antibiotic treatment in 
relationship to the administration route was considerably different between 
outpatients and inpatients. We observed an increase in antibiotic costs with the 
age of the patient and the decrease in FEV(1)values. The implementation of early 
eradication treatment, in addition to decreasing the prevalence of patients 
chronically infected by P. aeruginosa, might also bring about a notable decrease 
in costs.

DOI: 10.1179/joc.2009.21.2.188
PMID: 19423472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Hum Mol Genet. 2009 Aug 1;18(15):2813-24. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddp217. Epub 2009
May  7.

PDK1 signaling in oocytes controls reproductive aging and lifespan by 
manipulating the survival of primordial follicles.

Reddy P(1), Adhikari D, Zheng W, Liang S, Hämäläinen T, Tohonen V, Ogawa W, Noda 
T, Volarevic S, Huhtaniemi I, Liu K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Umeå University SE-901 87, 
Umeå, Sweden.

The molecular mechanisms that control reproductive aging and menopausal age in 
females are poorly understood. Here, we provide genetic evidence that 
3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase-1 (PDK1) signaling in oocytes 
preserves reproductive lifespan by maintaining the survival of ovarian 
primordial follicles. In mice lacking the PDK1-encoding gene Pdk1 in oocytes, 
the majority of primordial follicles are depleted around the onset of sexual 
maturity, causing premature ovarian failure (POF) during early adulthood. We 
further showed that suppressed PDK1-Akt-p70 S6 kinase 1 (S6K1)-ribosomal protein 
S6 (rpS6) signaling in oocytes appears to be responsible for the loss of 
primordial follicles, and mice lacking the Rps6 gene in oocytes show POF similar 
to that in Pdk1-deficient mice. In combination with our earlier finding that 
phosphatase and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 (PTEN) in oocytes 
suppresses follicular activation, we have now pinpointed the molecular network 
involving phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase (PI3K)/PTEN-PDK1 signaling in oocytes 
that controls the survival, loss and activation of primordial follicles, which 
together determine reproductive aging and the length of reproductive life in 
females. Underactivation or overactivation of this signaling pathway in oocytes 
is shown to cause pathological conditions in the ovary, including POF and 
infertility.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddp217
PMID: 19423553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. PLoS Genet. 2009 May;5(5):e1000467. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000467. Epub
2009  May 8.

Tor1/Sch9-regulated carbon source substitution is as effective as calorie 
restriction in life span extension.

Wei M(1), Fabrizio P, Madia F, Hu J, Ge H, Li LM, Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA.

The effect of calorie restriction (CR) on life span extension, demonstrated in 
organisms ranging from yeast to mice, may involve the down-regulation of 
pathways, including Tor, Akt, and Ras. Here, we present data suggesting that 
yeast Tor1 and Sch9 (a homolog of the mammalian kinases Akt and S6K) is a 
central component of a network that controls a common set of genes implicated in 
a metabolic switch from the TCA cycle and respiration to glycolysis and glycerol 
biosynthesis. During chronological survival, mutants lacking SCH9 depleted 
extracellular ethanol and reduced stored lipids, but synthesized and released 
glycerol. Deletion of the glycerol biosynthesis genes GPD1, GPD2, or RHR2, among 
the most up-regulated in long-lived sch9Delta, tor1Delta, and ras2Delta mutants, 
was sufficient to reverse chronological life span extension in sch9Delta 
mutants, suggesting that glycerol production, in addition to the regulation of 
stress resistance systems, optimizes life span extension. Glycerol, unlike 
glucose or ethanol, did not adversely affect the life span extension induced by 
calorie restriction or starvation, suggesting that carbon source substitution 
may represent an alternative to calorie restriction as a strategy to delay 
aging.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000467
PMCID: PMC2669710
PMID: 19424415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


639. PLoS Pathog. 2009 May;5(5):e1000419. doi: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1000419. Epub
 2009 May 8.

Unique structure and stability of HmuY, a novel heme-binding protein of 
Porphyromonas gingivalis.

Wójtowicz H(1), Guevara T, Tallant C, Olczak M, Sroka A, Potempa J, Solà M, 
Olczak T, Gomis-Rüth FX.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biotechnology, University of Wroclaw, 
Wroclaw, Poland.

Infection, survival, and proliferation of pathogenic bacteria in humans depend 
on their capacity to impair host responses and acquire nutrients in a hostile 
environment. Among such nutrients is heme, a co-factor for oxygen storage, 
electron transport, photosynthesis, and redox biochemistry, which is 
indispensable for life. Porphyromonas gingivalis is the major human bacterial 
pathogen responsible for severe periodontitis. It recruits heme through HmuY, 
which sequesters heme from host carriers and delivers it to its cognate 
outer-membrane transporter, the TonB-dependent receptor HmuR. Here we report 
that heme binding does not significantly affect the secondary structure of HmuY. 
The crystal structure of heme-bound HmuY reveals a new all-beta fold mimicking a 
right hand. The thumb and fingers pinch heme iron through two apical histidine 
residues, giving rise to highly symmetric octahedral iron co-ordination. The 
tetrameric quaternary arrangement of the protein found in the crystal structure 
is consistent with experiments in solution. It shows that thumbs and fingertips, 
and, by extension, the bound heme groups, are shielded from competing 
heme-binding proteins from the host. This may also facilitate heme transport to 
HmuR for internalization. HmuY, both in its apo- and in its heme-bound forms, is 
resistant to proteolytic digestion by trypsin and the major secreted proteases 
of P. gingivalis, gingipains K and R. It is also stable against thermal and 
chemical denaturation. In conclusion, these studies reveal novel molecular 
properties of HmuY that are consistent with its role as a putative virulence 
factor during bacterial infection.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.ppat.1000419
PMCID: PMC2671838
PMID: 19424422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


640. Vertex. 2008 Nov-Dec;19(82):338-47.

[Metabolic syndrome induced by antipsychotic drugs. The problem of obesity].

[Article in Spanish]

Jufe GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Emergencias Psiquiátricas T. de Alvear. Primera Cátedra de 
Farmacología de la Facultad de Medicina de la Universidad de Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. gsjufe@gmail.com

Schizophrenic patients have a life expectancy 20% shorter than general 
population, mainly due to cardiovascular disease. Several risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease are modifiable, and some, like blood glucose and lipids, 
and weight, can be worsened by antipsychotic drugs, mainly second generation 
ones. This article reviews the concept of metabolic syndrome and its 
relationship with schizophrenia and antipsychotic drugs. It also reviews the 
relationship between obesity, abdominal fat and schizophrenia, and the influence 
that second generation antipsychotics may have on weight. Antipsychotics are 
differentiated according to their liability of inducing weight gain, possible 
physiopathological mechanisms for weight gain are mentioned, and main 
pharmacological treatments to revert or prevent this situation are discussed. 
Some parameters for the periodic monitoring of the constitutive elements of 
metabolic syndrome to be used by psychiatrist in patients taking second 
generation antipsychotics are suggested.

PMID: 19424516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Age (Dordr). 2007 Mar;29(1):29-39. doi: 10.1007/s11357-006-9018-4. Epub 2006
Nov  25.

Lifespan modification by glucose and methionine in Drosophila melanogaster fed a 
chemically defined diet.

Troen AM(1), French EE, Roberts JF, Selhub J, Ordovas JM, Parnell LD, Lai CQ.

Author information:
(1)Vitamin Metabolism and Aging Laboratory, Jean Mayer USDA Human Nutrition 
Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, 711 Washington Street, Boston, MA 
02111, USA. aron.troen@tufts.edu

Erratum in
    Age (Dordr). 2010 Mar;32(1):123.

Experimentally restricting dietary calories, while maintaining adequate dietary 
nutrient content, extends lifespan in phylogenetically diverse species; thus 
suggesting the existence of conserved pathways which can modify lifespan in 
response to energy intake. However, in some cases the impact on longevity may 
depend on the quality of the energy source. In Drosophila, restriction of 
dietary yeast yields considerable lifespan extension whereas isocaloric 
restriction of dietary sugar yields only modest extension, indicating that other 
diet-responsive pathways can modify lifespan in this species. In rodents, 
restricting intake of a single amino acid - methionine - extends lifespan. Here 
we show that dietary methionine can modify lifespan in adult female, non-virgin 
Oregon-R strain Drosophila fed a chemically defined media. Compared to a diet 
containing 0.135% methionine and 15% glucose, high dietary methionine (0.405%) 
shortened maximum lifespan by 2.33% from 86 to 84 days and mean lifespan by 
9.55% from 71.7 to 64.9 days. Further restriction of methionine to 0.045% did 
not extend maximum lifespan and shortened mean lifespan by 1.95% from 71.1 to 
70.3 days. Restricting glucose from 15% to 5% while holding methionine at a 
concentration of 0.135%, modestly extended maximum lifespan by 5.8% from 86 to 
91 days, without extending mean lifespan. All these diet-induced changes were 
highly significant (log-rank p < 0.0001). Notably, all four diets resulted in 
considerably longer life spans than those typically reported for flies fed 
conventional yeast and sugar based diets. Such defined diets can be used to 
identify lifespan-modifying pathways and specific gene-nutrient interactions in 
Drosophila.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-006-9018-4
PMCID: PMC2267680
PMID: 19424828


642. Age (Dordr). 2007 Dec;29(4):133-89. doi: 10.1007/s11357-007-9038-8. Epub
2007  Sep 18.

A model of aging as accumulated damage matches observed mortality patterns and 
predicts the life-extending effects of prospective interventions.

Phoenix C(1), de Grey AD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Responsible Nanotechnology, 213 Eastern Parkway, Suite 11, 
Brooklyn, NY 11238, USA.

The relative insensitivity of lifespan to environmental factors constitutes 
compelling evidence that the physiological decline associated with aging derives 
primarily from the accumulation of intrinsic molecular and cellular side-effects 
of metabolism. Here we model that accumulation starting from a biologically 
based interpretation of the way in which those side-effects interact. We first 
validate this model by showing that it very accurately reproduces the 
distribution of ages at death seen in typical populations that are well 
protected from age-independent causes of death. We then exploit the mechanistic 
basis of this model to explore the impact on lifespans of interventions that 
combat aging, with an emphasis on interventions that repair (rather than merely 
retard) the direct molecular or cellular consequences of metabolism and thus 
prevent them from accumulating to pathogenic levels. Our results strengthen the 
case that an indefinite extension of healthy and total life expectancy can be 
achieved by a plausible rate of progress in the development of such therapies, 
once a threshold level of efficacy of those therapies has been reached.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-007-9038-8
PMCID: PMC2267031
PMID: 19424837


643. Age (Dordr). 2008 Mar;30(1):43-52. doi: 10.1007/s11357-008-9046-3. Epub 2008
Feb  16.

Genetic analysis of hyl-1, the C. elegans homolog of LAG1/LASS1.

Tedesco P(1), Jiang J, Wang J, Jazwinski SM, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO 80309, USA. tedesco@colorado.edu

Yeast LAG1 was one of the first longevity genes found. Subsequent analysis 
showed that it encodes a component of ceramide synthase. Homologs of LAG1 have 
been identified in all eukaryotes examined for their presence, and multiple 
homologs are the norm. In human and mouse, the LAG1 counterpart is called LASS1. 
The involvement of this gene in determining yeast replicative life span led us 
to ask whether longevity effects could be found in C. elegans. Extended 
longevity was seen when we used RNAi to decrease expression of the worm homolog 
of LAG1, termed hyl-1, for Homolog of Yeast Longevity gene. In contrast, neither 
deletion of the gene nor overexpression resulted in life extension. There was no 
evidence that hyl-1 interacts with the insulin/IGF-1 like signaling pathway to 
specify longevity or dauer formation, nor were effects on stress resistance 
detected. Gene expression of hyl-1 homologs was altered in the deletion mutant 
and by RNAi, showing distinct evidence for compensation at the transcript level. 
These regulatory changes may explain the subtle phenotypic effects found under 
the conditions studied here.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-008-9046-3
PMCID: PMC2274941
PMID: 19424872


644. Health Econ. 2010 Jun;19(6):644-55. doi: 10.1002/hec.1499.

Analysing risk attitudes to time.

Oliver A(1), Cookson R.

Author information:
(1)LSE Health and Social Care, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
London, UK. a.j.oliver@lse.ac.uk

The assumption of risk neutrality over discounted life years underlies the 
standard QALY model of individual preferences over health outcomes, and is thus 
implicitly assumed by NICE and other health technology advisory bodies 
worldwide. The primary objective of this article is to report a study to test 
the assumption in a convenience sample of 30 respondents with use of the 
probability equivalence version of the standard gamble. The results indicate 
considerable risk aversion over life years, and therefore call into question the 
standard assumption of risk neutrality in practical cost-utility analyses (CUA). 
A secondary objective is to observe whether risk aversion can be reduced through 
the use of the lottery equivalents method, under the hypothesis that the 
gambling effect can be lessened with this instrument. In a separate convenience 
sample of 40 respondents, however, the observed level of risk aversion was at 
least that seen in the standard gamble. Further research is warranted to 
ascertain whether risk aversion over discounted life years is a generalisable 
concern.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1499
PMID: 19424992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Antiviral Res. 2009 May;82(2):A84-98. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2009.01.005.

Alkoxyalkyl prodrugs of acyclic nucleoside phosphonates enhance oral antiviral 
activity and reduce toxicity: current state of the art.

Hostetler KY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Disease, University of 
California, San Diego, La Jolla, CA 92093-0676, USA. khostetler@ucsd.edu

Although the acyclic nucleoside phosphonates cidofovir, adefovir and tenofovir 
are approved for treating human cytomegalovirus, hepatitis B and HIV infections, 
respectively, their utility is limited by low oral bioavailability, renal 
toxicity and poor cell penetration. Research over the past decade has shown that 
these undesirable features can be eliminated by esterifying the compounds with 
an alkoxyalkyl group, in effect disguising them as lysophospholipids. In this 
modified form, the drugs are readily taken up in the gastrointestinal tract and 
have a prolonged circulation time in plasma. The active metabolite also has a 
long half life within cells, permitting infrequent dosing. Because these 
modified drugs are not recognized by the transport mechanisms that cause the 
accumulation of acyclic nucleoside phosphonates in renal tubular cells, they 
lack nephrotoxicity. Alkoxyalkyl esterification also markedly increases the in 
vitro antiviral activity of acyclic nucleoside phosphonates by improving their 
delivery into cells. For example, an alkoxyalkyl ester of cyclic-cidofovir, a 
less soluble compound, retains anti-CMV activity for 3 months following a single 
intravitreal injection. Two of these novel compounds, 
hexadecyloxypropyl-cidofovir (CMX001) and hexadecyloxypropyl-tenofovir (CMX157) 
are now in clinical development. This article focuses on the hexadecyloxypropyl 
and octadecyloxyethyl esters of cidofovir and (S)-HPMPA, describing their 
synthesis and the evaluation of their in vitro and in vivo activity against a 
range of orthopoxviruses, herpesviruses, adenoviruses and other double-stranded 
DNA viruses. The extension to other nucleoside phosphonate antivirals is 
highlighted, demonstrating that this novel approach can markedly improve the 
medicinal properties of these drugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2009.01.005
PMCID: PMC2768545
PMID: 19425198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2009 May;20(3):188-94. doi:
10.1097/icu.0b013e328329cd59.

Comparative effectiveness: its role in the healthcare system.

Brown MM(1), Luo B, Brown HC, Brown GC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, PA, USA. lissa1011@gmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To describe comparative effectiveness and assess its role in 
crafting new healthcare policy.
RECENT FINDINGS: Senate Bill S.3408 would establish a nongovernment-affiliated 
Healthcare Comparative Effectiveness Research Institute that would work with 
healthcare experts and stakeholders in healthcare to prioritize interventions 
and services to be studied. A value-based medicine system of standardized 
comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness data using utilities would 
allow physicians to assess the total value (improvement in quality of life 
and/or length of life) conferred by interventions.
SUMMARY: Standardized comparativeness and cost-effectiveness data will give 
physicians an information system to identify the interventions that confer the 
greatest value to patients, and thus deliver higher quality care than possible 
with evidence-based data alone while allowing the most cost-effective care.

DOI: 10.1097/icu.0b013e328329cd59
PMID: 19425205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. N Engl J Med. 2009 May 7;360(19):2033; author reply 2033-4.

Air pollution and life expectancy.

Lipfert FW.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Jan 22;360(4):376-86.

PMID: 19425240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Percept Mot Skills. 2009 Feb;108(1):149-60. doi: 10.2466/PMS.108.1.149-160.

First names and longevity.

Pinzur L(1), Smith G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Pomona College, Claremont, CA 91711, USA.

A statistical association has been reported between people's initials and their 
life expectancy. Several researchers have also reported that people with 
uncommon first names are perceived to be less intelligent, attractive, and 
likable than are people with more popular names. To assess whether such 
statements reflect social stigmatization that may affect the life expectancy of 
people with unpopular names, the California Department of Health Services 
mortality database for the years 1960 through 2004 for 6.7 million white, 
non-Hispanic decedents was used to compare the average age at death for 
decedents with the most popular and least popular first names. These data show 
no relation of the popularity of a first name with life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2466/PMS.108.1.149-160
PMID: 19425457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Neurosurg. 2009 Nov;111(5):970-7. doi: 10.3171/2009.4.JNS08568.

Benefit of carotid endarterectomy for symptomatic and asymptomatic severe 
carotid artery stenosis: a Markov model based on data from randomized controlled 
