sophisticated medical devices and therapies which are closely adapted to the 
needs of the elderly. The notion "Wealth is health" is valid indeed and so is 
"Health is wealth". Wellness, not just sickness, will determine the lifestyle of 
coming elderly generations.

PMID: 19259035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Support Care Cancer. 2009 Jun;17(6):627-44. doi: 10.1007/s00520-009-0601-y.
Epub  2009 Mar 4.

Clinician-patient communication: a systematic review.

Rodin G(1), Mackay JA, Zimmermann C, Mayer C, Howell D, Katz M, Sussman J, 
Brouwers M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosocial Oncology and Palliative Care, Princess Margaret 
Hospital, University Health Network, 610 University Avenue, Toronto, ON M5G 2M9, 
Canada. Gary.Rodin@uhn.on.ca

GOAL OF WORK: The goal of this work was to identify methods of clinician-patient 
cancer-related communication that may impact patient outcomes associated with 
distress at critical points in the course of cancer care.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic review of practice guidelines, systematic 
reviews, or randomized trials on this topic was conducted. Guidelines for 
quality was evaluated using the Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and 
Evaluation Instrument, and the contributive value for recommendations was 
assessed. Systematic reviews and randomized trials were also evaluated for 
methodological rigor.
RESULTS: Four existing guidelines, eight systematic reviews and nine randomized 
trials were identified. Two of the guidelines were of high quality, and all 
systematic reviews reported clear search criteria and support for their 
conclusions; the randomized trials were of modest or low quality. For all 
situations and disease stages, guidelines consistently identified open, honest, 
and timely communication as important; specifically, there was evidence for a 
reduction in anxiety when discussions of life expectancy and prognosis were 
included in consultations. Techniques to increase patient participation in 
decision-making were associated with greater satisfaction but did not 
necessarily decrease distress. Few studies took cultural and religious diversity 
into account.
CONCLUSIONS: There is little definitive evidence supporting the superiority of 
one specific method for communicating information compared to another. Evidence 
regarding the benefit of decision aids or other strategies to facilitate better 
communication is inconsistent. Since patients vary in their communication 
preferences and desire for active participation in decision making, there is a 
need to individualize communication style.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-009-0601-y
PMID: 19259706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Assist Inferm Ric. 2008 Oct-Dec;27(4):221-5.

[Health and health system. A privileged indicator].

[Article in Italian]

Tognoni G(1).

Author information:
(1)Consorzio Mario Negri Sud, Laboratorio di Epidemiologia di Cittadinanza.

PMID: 19260372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Harefuah. 2008 Dec;147(12):1004-9, 1027.

[Health care inequalities in Israel--the responsibility of the family 
physician].

[Article in Hebrew]

Elhayany A(1), Parienty M.

Author information:
(1)Meir Medical Center, Kfar Saba. elasher@clalit.org.il

The National Health Insurance Law, which went into effect on January 1, 1995, 
requires the healthcare system to provide equitable, high quality health 
services to all residents of Israel. This study evaluated several health 
measures including life expectancy, infant mortality, chronic illness, oral 
health, mental health, health behaviors, and access to basic health services, 
and correlated them with demographic indicators such as religion, nationality, 
education, socio-economic status, cultural background, and place of residence. 
Individual co-payments for medical services included in the national health 
package have increased over the years since the National Health Law was enacted, 
and this has had a significant impact on the lower-income segments of the 
population. Today, the public sector contributes about two-thirds of the 
national health care expenses, while the proportion of private funding has been 
steadily climbing, and is now approximately one-third of the total national 
healthcare costs. This trend toward increasing costs for the private sector is 
expected to have a mounting negative impact on the equitable distribution of 
healthcare services. As it becomes increasingly difficult for the private 
individual to meet the required co-payments, his/her access to medical care 
will, of necessity, diminish. This phenomenon is evident in the increasing 
number of study participants who have chosen to forego healthcare services due 
to economic difficulties. As such, it is incumbent upon Social Service providers 
such as the Departments of Education and Welfare to play a more active role in 
decreasing the gaps. However, their responsibility does not in any way diminish 
the accountability of the healthcare providers from the Ministry of Health and 
the national HMOs, to the solo practitioner, to each contribute their own time 
and effort in the struggle to decrease the inequities in the provision of 
healthcare services that currently exist among different segments of the 
population.

PMID: 19260601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am J Transplant. 2009 Mar;9(3):578-85. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2008.02540.x.

Kidney transplantation in previous heart or lung recipients.

Lonze BE(1), Warren DS, Stewart ZA, Dagher NN, Singer AL, Shah AS, Montgomery 
RA, Segev DL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplant Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.

Outcomes after heart and lung transplants have improved, and many recipients 
survive long enough to develop secondary renal failure, yet remain healthy 
enough to undergo kidney transplantation. We used national data reported to 
United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) to evaluate outcomes of 568 kidney after 
heart (KAH) and 210 kidney after lung (KAL) transplants performed between 1995 
and 2008. Median time to kidney transplant was 100.3 months after heart, and 
90.2 months after lung transplant. Renal failure was attributed to calcineurin 
inhibitor toxicity in most patients. Outcomes were compared with primary kidney 
recipients using matched controls (MC) to account for donor, recipient and graft 
characteristics. Although 5-year renal graft survival was lower than primary 
kidney recipients (61% KAH vs. 73.8% MC, p < 0.001; 62.6% KAL vs. 82.9% MC, p < 
0.001), death-censored graft survival was comparable (84.9% KAH vs. 88.2% MC, p 
= 0.1; 87.6% KAL vs. 91.8% MC, p = 0.6). Furthermore, renal transplantation 
reduced the risk of death compared with dialysis by 43% for KAH and 54% for KAL 
recipients. Our findings that renal grafts function well and provide survival 
benefit in KAH and KAL recipients, but are limited in longevity by the general 
life expectancy of these recipients, might help inform clinical decision-making 
and allocation in this population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2008.02540.x
PMID: 19260837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Gac Sanit. 2009 Jul-Aug;23(4):287-94. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2008.07.002.
Epub  2009 Mar 3.

Estimating the health and economic benefits associated with reducing air 
pollution in the Barcelona metropolitan area (Spain).

Pérez L(1), Sunyer J, Künzli N.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recerca en Epidemiologia Ambiental, Institut Municipal 
d'Investigació Mèdica, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de Epidemiología 
y Salud Pública, Barcelona, Spain. lperez@creal.cat

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the health and economic benefits that would result from 
two scenarios of improved air quality in 57 municipalities of the metropolitan 
area of Barcelona.
METHODS: We used attributable fractions and life tables to quantify the benefits 
for selected health outcomes, based on published concentration-response 
functions and economic unit values. The mean weighted concentration of PM(10) 
for the study population was estimated through concentration surface maps 
developed by the local government.
RESULTS: The annual mean health benefits of reducing the mean PM(10) exposure 
estimated for the population in the study area (50microg/m(3)) to the annual 
mean value recommended by the World Health Organization (20microg/m(3)) were 
estimated to be 3,500 fewer deaths (representing an average increase in life 
expectancy of 14 months), 1,800 fewer hospitalizations for cardio-respiratory 
diseases, 5,100 fewer cases of chronic bronchitis among adults, 31,100 fewer 
cases of acute bronchitis among children, and 54,000 fewer asthma attacks among 
children and adults. The mean total monetary benefits were estimated to be 6,400 
million euros per year. Reducing PM(10) to comply with the current European 
Union regulatory annual mean level (40microg/m(3)) would yield approximately one 
third of these benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that reducing air pollution in the metropolitan 
area of Barcelona would result in substantial health and economic benefits. The 
benefits are probably underestimated due to the assumptions made in this study. 
Assessment of the health impact of local air pollution is a useful tool in 
public health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2008.07.002
PMID: 19261357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Crisis. 2009;30(1):6-12. doi: 10.1027/0227-5910.30.1.6.

A reassessment of suicide measurement.

Doessel DP(1), Williams RF, Whiteford H.

Author information:
(1)Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research and School of Population Health, 
The University of Queensland, The Park - Centre for Mental Health, Queensland, 
Australia. darrel_doessel@qcmhr.uq.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Concern with suicide measurement is a positive, albeit relatively 
recent, development. A concern with "the social loss from suicide" requires 
careful attention to appropriately measuring the phenomenon. This paper applies 
two different methods of measuring suicide data: the conventional 
age-standardized suicide (count) rate; and the alternative rate, the potential 
years of life lost (PYLL) rate.
AIMS: The purpose of applying these two measures is to place suicide in 
Queensland in a historical and comparative (relative to other causes of death) 
perspective.
METHODS: Both measures are applied to suicide data for Queensland since 1920. 
These measures are applied also to two "largish" causes of death and two 
"smaller" causes of death, i.e., circulatory diseases, cancers, motor vehicle 
accidents, suicide.
RESULTS: The two measures generate quite different pictures of suicide in 
Queensland: Using the PYLL measure, suicide is a quantitatively larger issue 
than is indicated by the count measure.
CONCLUSIONS: The PYLL measure is the more appropriate measure for evaluation 
exercise of public health prevention strategies. This is because the PYLL 
measure is weighted by years of life lost and, thus, it incorporates more 
information than the count measure which implicitly weights each death with a 
somewhat partial value, viz. unity.

DOI: 10.1027/0227-5910.30.1.6
PMID: 19261562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2009 Feb;15(1):23-30.

Is prompt surgical treatment of an abdominal aortic aneurysm justified for 
someone in their eighties?

Tochii M(1), Ogino H, Matsuda H, Minatoya K, Sasaki H, Kitamura S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, National Cardiovascular Center, Suita, 
Osaka, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to review the early and long-term results 
and quality of life after abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) surgery in 
octogenarians to justify our prompt surgical intervention.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We reviewed the consecutive 444 patients who underwent 
graft replacement of AAA in our center from October 1997 to September 2002. The 
median age of the patients was 72.3. An elective operation was carried out in 
401 cases (90.3%) and an emergency operation in 43 cases (9.7%). We evaluated 
the early and long-term results of AAA surgical treatment, including the quality 
of life after hospital discharge.
RESULTS: There were 12 hospital deaths (2.7%) in the early outcomes, 11 of which 
(25.6%) were during emergency operations, and only one patient (0.2%) died among 
the elective cases (p <.0001). In the early results, the emergency operation (p 
= 0.0001) was the only risk factor in the early deaths investigated by the 
multivariate logistic regression; patients aged 80 years and over did not 
constitute a risk factor. There were 36 late deaths, but none related to AAA 
surgical treatment. The strongest predictors for late mortality included 
patients aged 80 years and over (p = 0.027), male gender (p = 0.048), chronic 
renal failure with preoperative serum creatinine level equal to or greater than 
1.5 mg/dl (p = 0.043), a history of atherosclerotic obliterans (p = 0.009), and 
an emergency operation (p <.001) investigated by the Cox hazard multivariate 
logistic regression. Among the survivors, 86.1% of the patients aged 80 years 
and over were able to maintain their previous lifestyles with the independent 
activities of everyday life.
CONCLUSIONS: AAA surgical treatment in octogenarians had comparable results with 
younger patients, in either elective or emergency settings. The extension of 
indications for AAA elective surgery in octogenarians might lead to a lower rate 
of emergency settings and subsequently to better early and late surgical 
outcomes.

PMID: 19262446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Biomed Environ Sci. 2008 Dec;21(6):467-73. doi:
10.1016/S0895-3988(09)60004-0.

Phenotypic and behavioral defects induced by iron exposure can be transferred to 
progeny in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Hu YO(1), Wang Y, Ye BP, Wang DY.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Developmental Genes and Human Disease of Ministry of 
Education, Department of Genetics and Developmental Biology Southeast 
University, Nanjing 210009, Jiangsu, China.

OBJECTIVE: Previous work has showed that excess iron accumulation is harmful to 
reproduction and even promotes death; however, whether the multiple biological 
toxicity of iron (Fe) exposure could be transferred to progeny remains unknown. 
The present study used Caenorhabditis elegans to analyze the multiple toxicities 
of iron exposure and their possible transferable properties.
METHODS: Three concentrations of iron sulfate solution (2.5 micromol/L, 75 
micromol/L, and 200 micromol/L) were used. The endpoints of lifespan, body size, 
generation time, brood size, head thrash and body bend frequencies, and 
chemotaxis plasticity were selected to investigate Fe toxicity and its effect on 
progeny in Caenorhabditis elegans.
RESULTS: The Fe toxicity could cause multiple biological defects in a 
dose-dependent manner by affecting different endpoints in nematodes. Most of the 
multiple biological defects and behavior toxicities could be transferred from 
Fe-exposed Caenorhabditis elegans to their progeny. Compared to the parents, no 
recovery phenotypes were observed for some of the defects in the progeny, such 
as body bend frequency and life span. We further summarized the defects caused 
by Fe exposure into 2 groups according to their transferable properties.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that Fe exposure could cause multiple biological 
defects, and most of these severe defects could be transferred from Fe exposed 
nematodes to their progeny.

DOI: 10.1016/S0895-3988(09)60004-0
PMID: 19263801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Can J Public Health. 2009 Jan-Feb;100(1):9-13. doi: 10.1007/BF03405484.

Canada's global position in life expectancy: a longitudinal comparison with the 
healthiest countries in the world.

Fang R(1), Millar JS.

Author information:
(1)Population & Public Health, British Columbia Provincial Health Services 
Authority, 700-1380 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC V6Z 2H3. rfang@phsa.ca

OBJECTIVE: To assess the global position of Canadian life expectancy and to 
determine the areas of greatest negative impact on life expectancy.
METHODS: Using retrospective data on life expectancy at birth (LE(0) and 
age-standardized mortality rates, Canada was compared with 13 other countries 
with the longest LE(0). Linear regression models were used to produce trends and 
projections of LE(0) until 2010.
RESULTS: Canadian women and men currently rank 8th and 5th, respectively, in 
LE(0) among the 14 nations. Canada has one of the smallest annual LE(0) 
improvement rates among the countries studied. Canadian women progressed 
significantly slower than nine countries and Canadian men progressed slower than 
five. Women are improving at only half the rate of men due to narrowing gaps in 
most mortality risks--mostly for cardiovascular diseases, lung cancer and 
injury. These trends lowered projected LE(0) ranks of Canadians, especially for 
women, for 2010.
CONCLUSION: LE(0) of Canadians is slipping relative to most of the other 13 
countries, and more so for women than men. This phenomenon is explained by 
historically higher mortality rates from ischemic heart disease, cancer and 
respiratory system disease for all Canadians, coupled with recently lower 
improvement rates in most mortality risks for Canadian women and in cancers and 
diabetes for Canadian men. Improving the health and wellness of Canadians, 
particularly women, demands a priority focus on enhanced chronic disease 
detection and management as well as strategies to reduce obesity and tobacco use 
by addressing the determinants of these behavioural risk factors.

OBJECTIF: Évaluer l’espérance de vie des Canadiens dans une perspective mondiale 
et déterminer les aspects ayant le plus d’effets nuisibles sur l’espérance de 
vie.
MÉTHODE: À l’aide de données rétrospectives sur l’espérance de vie à la 
naissance (EV0) et de taux de mortalité normalisés selon l’âge, nous avons 
comparé le Canada aux 13 autres pays où l’EV0 est la plus longue. Des modèles de 
régression linéaire ont été utilisés pour produire des tendances et des 
projections de l’EV0 jusqu’en 2010.
RÉSULTATS: Les Canadiens, femmes et hommes, occupent actuellement le 8e et le 5e 
rang, respectivement, pour l’EV0 parmi les 14 pays à l’étude. Le Canada a l’un 
des plus faibles taux annuels d’amélioration de l’EV0 de tous les pays étudiés. 
La progression du taux des femmes au Canada a été plus lente que dans neuf 
autres pays, et celle du taux des hommes, plus lente que dans cinq autres pays. 
Le taux des femmes ne s’améliore que dans une proportion correspondant à la 
moitié du taux des hommes en raison du rétrécissement des écarts entre les sexes 
pour la plupart des risques de mortalité (principalement les maladies 
cardiovasculaires, le cancer du poumon et les traumatismes). Ces tendances 
atténuent les projections du rang que devraient occuper les Canadiens pour l’EV0 
en 2010, surtout pour les femmes.
CONCLUSION: L’EV0 des Canadiens évolue plus lentement que dans la plupart des 13 
autres pays, et plus encore pour les femmes que pour les hommes. Ce phénomène 
s’explique par les taux de mortalité attribuables aux cardiopathies ischémiques, 
au cancer et aux maladies du système respiratoire, qui ont jusqu’à maintenant 
été supérieurs chez tous les Canadiens, ainsi que par les taux d’amélioration 
plus faibles, récemment, de la plupart des risques de mortalité (pour les 
femmes) et des risques de cancer et de diabète (pour les hommes) au Canada. Pour 
améliorer la santé et le bien-être des Canadiens, particulièrement les femmes, 
il faut en priorité améliorer la détection et la prise en charge des maladies 
chroniques et élaborer des stratégies de réduction de l’obésité et du tabagisme 
axées sur les déterminants de ces facteurs de risque comportementaux.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405484
PMCID: PMC6973785
PMID: 19263968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Presse Med. 2009 Apr;38(4):614-20. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.11.016. Epub 2009
Mar  4.

[Hypertension in the elderly: particularities and precautions].

[Article in French]

Hanon O(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Paris-Descartes 5, Département de gériatrie, Hôpital Broca, 
F-75013 Paris, France. olivier.hanon@wanadoo.fr

Hypertension is very common and inadequately controlled among the elderly. The 
HYVET study showed that antihypertensive therapy significantly reduces total 
mortality and cardiovascular events in people aged 80 years and older. The 
therapeutic goal for patients aged from 60 to 80 years is systolic blood 
pressure (SBP) less than 140 mmHg and a diastolic blood pressure (DBP) less than 
90 mmHg, without orthostatic hypotension. For patients older than 80 years, the 
aim is keep SBP < 150 mmHg. This goal also depends on comorbidities, iatrogenic 
risk, and life expectancy. The choice of treatment must be adapted to the 
patient's clinical situation, taking into account any cardiovascular diseases, 
organ damage, and comorbidities. All of the principal antihypertensive drugs can 
be used in the elderly, with a preference for thiazide diuretics or calcium 
channel blockers for those with systolic hypertension. Generally, no more than 
three antihypertensive drugs should be prescribed for octogenarians (including a 
thiazide diuretic). Particular attention must be paid to the renal risk 
(estimated by glomerular filtration rate), especially for nephrotoxic and 
multiple drugs. Blood levels of potassium, sodium, and creatinine must be 
monitored in patients receiving diuretics or renin angiotensin system blockers, 
particularly during acute events (e.g., fever, infection, dehydration, and 
diarrhea). Cognitive function should be assessed in patients with hypertension 
older than 80 years, with the MMSE (Mini-Mental-State-Examination) to assess the 
risk of poor adherence, in view of the increased risk of dementia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2008.11.016
PMID: 19264441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Heart Lung Circ. 2009 Apr;18(2):96-100. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2009.01.005. Epub
 2009 Mar 4.

Bridging the survival gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians: 
priorities for the road ahead.

Brown A(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Indigenous Vascular and Diabetes Research, Baker IDI Heart and 
Diabetes Institute, 4/19 Hartley Street, Alice Springs, NT 0870, Australia. 
alex.brown@bakeridi.edu.au

The life-expectancy gap between Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australians 
remains one of contemporary Australia's most enduring health divides. The 
reduction of observed health outcome disparity between population groups based 
on measures of socioeconomic status, geography, or ethnicity stands as a key 
target of coordinated societal and health system reform. CVD remains the 
principal cause of death among all Australian population groups, including 
Aboriginal males and females, and is the primary contributor to the 17-year 
life-expectancy gap between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians. This 
paper discusses the challenges inherent, from the perspective of broader policy 
frameworks and health system reform, to reducing disparity between population 
groups within Australia, and outlines the opportunities for change that could 
contribute benefit to Aboriginal and mainstream Australians in regards to 
reducing the burden of CVD and related conditions. Further, through mapping 
adverse outcomes to acute cardiac events it seeks to discuss several key targets 
for reform that may serve to reduce health disparity between Aboriginal and 
non-Aboriginal Australians.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2009.01.005
PMID: 19264549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Med Decis Making. 2009 May-Jun;29(3):291-303. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08327398.
 Epub 2009 Mar 4.

Estimating preference-based health utilities index mark 3 utility scores for 
childhood conditions in England and Scotland.

Petrou S(1), Kupek E.

Author information:
(1)National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford, Headington, 
Oxford, England. stavros.petrou@npeu.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2010 Jan-Feb;30(1):143.

BACKGROUND: A common feature of studies that have compiled lists or catalogues 
of preference-based health-related quality-of-life weights for inclusion within 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) is their focus upon adult populations.More 
generally, utility measurement in or on behalf of children has been constrained 
by a number of methodological concerns.
OBJECTIVE: To augment previous catalogues of preference-based health-related 
quality-of-life weights by estimating preference-based Health Utilities Index 
Mark 3 (HUI3) multiattribute utility scores associated with a wide range of 
childhood conditions.
METHODS: Data for 2236 children from the "Disability Survey 2000: Survey of 
Young People With a Disability and Sport" formed the basis of this 
investigation. Ordinary least squares (OLS), Tobit, and censored least absolute 
deviations(CLAD) regression methods were used to estimate adjusted marginal 
disutilities for each condition from 2 thresholds: 1) a threshold of 1.0 
representing perfect health and 2) a normative childhood utility threshold.
RESULTS: Prespecified statistical tests indicated a preference for the OLS 
regression model over the Tobit and CLAD models. The unadjusted mean, median, 
25th percentile and 75th percentile HUI3 multiattribute utility scores and 
adjusted marginal disutilities are presented for 43 conditions. Notably, based 
on the OLS estimator, the adjusted marginal disutilities for hydrocephalus; 
learning and physical disabilities; other syndromes and associations; 
meningitis, encephalitis, and other infections of the central nervous system; 
and microcephaly were estimated at -0.889 (95% confidence interval [CI]: -0.727, 
-1.000), -0.858 (95% CI: -0.727, -0.989), -0.838 (95% CI: -0.668, -1.000), 
-0.826(95% CI: -0.677, -0.975), and -0.820 (95% CI: -0.670, -0.970), 
respectively, when a perfect health threshold was applied, and -0.814 (95% CI: 
-0.656, -0.979), -0.783 (95%CI: -0.656, -0.918), -0.763 (95% CI: -0.597, 
-0.937), -0.751 (95% CI: -0.606, -0.904), and -0.745 (95% CI: -0.598, -0.899), 
respectively, when a normative childhood utility threshold was applied.
CONCLUSION: Our estimates and their associated distributions can be used for the 
purposes of QALY estimation by analysts conducting economic evaluations within 
the childhood context.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08327398
PMID: 19264726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Int Psychogeriatr. 2009 Apr;21(2):265-6, discussion 266-7. doi: 
10.1017/S1041610209008436. Epub 2009 Mar 6.

Top cited papers in International Psychogeriatrics: 2. Quality adjusted life 
years in older adults with depressive symptoms and chronic medical disorders.

Unützer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor and Vice-Chair of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of 
Washington, U.S.A. unutzer@u.washington.edu

Comment on
    Int Psychogeriatr. 2000 Mar;12(1):15-33.

DOI: 10.1017/S1041610209008436
PMID: 19265572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Health Econ. 2010 Feb;19(2):154-72. doi: 10.1002/hec.1457.

A social cost-benefit criterion for evaluating Voluntary Counseling and Testing 
with an application to Tanzania.

Brent RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Fordham University, Bronx, NY 10458, USA. 
brent@fordham.edu

RATIONALE: There are many interventions for HIV/AIDS that require that people 
know their status and hence require a HIV test. Testing that is driven by a 
desire to prevent the spread of the disease often has an indirect effect on 
others. These external effects need to be identified, quantified and included as 
part of the benefits and costs of testing. Pioneering analyses of HIV testing by 
Philipson and Posner have introduced the economic calculus of individual 
expected benefits and costs of activities into an understanding of the HIV 
epidemic. What is required for social evaluations is an extension of the 
analysis to ensure that external effects are included.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this paper is two-fold. First we seek to formulate 
cost-benefit criteria that incorporate fully the external effects in the 
evaluation of Voluntary Counseling and Testing (VCT). We achieve this by 
recasting the individual calculus of benefits and costs to a couple setting. We 
can then compare an individual's cost-benefit analysis of being tested with 
social criteria that look at outcomes from a couple's perspective for both 
separate and dual/joint testing. Second we aim to apply our social criteria to 
VCT programs as they currently operate in Tanzania and how these programs might 
operate in the future when they are scaled up to relate to the general 
population.
METHODOLOGY: We develop social criteria for evaluating separate and dual VCT 
using a couple's perspective with and without altruism. Therefore, the welfare 
function is based on two individual expected utility functions viewed as a 
couple, either married or regular partners. The benefits are the averted lives 
lost whenever discordant couples are revealed. The costs of VCT are the benefits 
of unprotected sex that the couple foregoes and the costs of the testing and 
counseling. The cost-benefit criteria are applied to VCT programs in Tanzania. 
The four main ingredients estimated are: the foregone benefit of unprotected sex 
(measured by the compensated wage differentials charged by commercial sex 
workers); the probability of infection; the cost of an infection (measured by 
both the value of a statistical life and the human capital approaches) and the 
cost of a single test (which includes behavior-modifying counseling).
CONCLUSIONS: We find separate testing in existing VCT programs to be only 
marginally worthwhile. However, in scaled-up programs the benefit-cost ratio is 
over three. Dual testing is always more beneficial than separate testing. 
However, this advantage is reduced in scaled-up programs. VCT should be greatly 
expanded throughout Tanzania as future returns would be even higher for both 
separate and joint counseling and HIV testing.

Copyright (c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1457
PMID: 19266590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. World J Gastroenterol. 2009 Mar 7;15(9):1035-41. doi: 10.3748/wjg.15.1035.

Update on autoimmune hepatitis.

Teufel A, Galle PR, Kanzler S.

Autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) is a necroinflammatory liver disease of unknown 
etiology that occurs in children and adults of all ages. Characteristics are its 
autoimmune features, hyperglobulinemia (IgG), and the presence of circulating 
autoantibodies, as well as a response to immunosuppressant drugs. Current 
treatment consists of prednisone and azathioprine and in most patients this 
disease has become very treatable. Over the past 2 years, a couple of new 
insights into the genetic aspects, clinical course and treatment of AIH have 
been reported, which will be the focus of this review. In particular, we 
concentrate on genome-wide microsatellite analysis, a novel mouse model of AIH, 
the evaluation of a large AIH cohort for overlap syndromes, suggested novel 
criteria for the diagnosis of AIH, and the latest studies on treatment of AIH 
with budenoside and mycophenolate mofetil.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.15.1035
PMCID: PMC2655176
PMID: 19266594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Natl Med J India. 2008 Jul-Aug;21(4):204-5.

Health inequalities in Scotland.

Kohli HS.

PMID: 19267045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Jan 28;5(188):284.

[Alzheimer and antipsychotics: prudence!].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jynau@orange.fr

PMID: 19267060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Mol Cell Biochem. 2009 Aug;328(1-2):101-7. doi: 10.1007/s11010-009-0079-4.
Epub  2009 Mar 8.

The alternative splice variant of DAPK-1, s-DAPK-1, induces 
proteasome-independent DAPK-1 destabilization.

Lin Y(1), Stevens C, Harrison B, Pathuri S, Amin E, Hupp TR.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, University of Edinburgh, UK.

Death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK-1) is a Ca(2+)/CaM-regulated kinase 
involved in multiple cellular signalling pathways that trigger cell survival, 
apoptosis, and autophagy. An alternatively spliced product expressed from the 
dapk1 locus, named s-DAPK-1, does not contain the kinase domain but has part of 
the DAPK-1 ankyrin-repeat and a novel polypeptide tail extension which is 
processed proteolytically in vivo. Cleavage of this polypeptide tail from 
s-DAPK-1 can regulate the ability of the protein to mimic one of the biological 
functions of DAPK-1 in promoting membrane blebbing. The full-length DAPK-1 
protein is a relatively long-lived protein whose half-life is regulated by 
stress-activated signals from TNFR1 or HSP90 that can promote DAPK-1 protein 
degradation. Transfection of s-DAPK-1 into cells can also have a direct effect 
on DAPK-1 protein itself by promoting DAPK-1 de-stabilization. This effect does 
not require the novel polypeptide tail-extension of s-DAPK-1, as the core 
ankyrin-repeat containing region of s-DAPK-1 is sufficient to promote DAPK-1 
protein de-stabilization. Conversely, the minimal domain on full-length DAPK-1 
that responds to the effect of s-DAPK-1 is not the ankyrin-repeat domain but the 
core kinase domain of DAPK-1. The de-stabilization of DAPK-1 by s-DAPK-1 is not 
dependent upon the proteasome. However, s-DAPK-1 itself is a very short-lived 
protein which is regulated by a proteasomal-dependent pathway. Together, these 
data identify a novel function of s-DAPK-1 in controlling the half-life of 
DAPK-1 protein itself and indicate that the degradation of each gene product is 
controlled by two distinct degradation pathways.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-009-0079-4
PMID: 19267229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2009 Mar 7;4:9. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-9.

Jacobsen syndrome.

Mattina T(1), Perrotta CS, Grossfeld P.

Author information:
(1)Genetica Medica, Department of Pediatrics, University of Catania, Catania, 
Italy. mattina@unict.it

Jacobsen syndrome is a MCA/MR contiguous gene syndrome caused by partial 
deletion of the long arm of chromosome 11. To date, over 200 cases have been 
reported. The prevalence has been estimated at 1/100,000 births, with a 
female/male ratio 2:1. The most common clinical features include pre- and 
postnatal physical growth retardation, psychomotor retardation, and 
characteristic facial dysmorphism (skull deformities, hypertelorism, ptosis, 
coloboma, downslanting palpebral fissures, epicanthal folds, broad nasal bridge, 
short nose, v-shaped mouth, small ears, low set posteriorly rotated ears). 
Abnormal platelet function, thrombocytopenia or pancytopenia are usually present 
at birth. Patients commonly have malformations of the heart, kidney, 
gastrointestinal tract, genitalia, central nervous system and skeleton. Ocular, 
hearing, immunological and hormonal problems may be also present. The deletion 
size ranges from approximately 7 to 20 Mb, with the proximal breakpoint within 
or telomeric to subband 11q23.3 and the deletion extending usually to the 
telomere. The deletion is de novo in 85% of reported cases, and in 15% of cases 
it results from an unbalanced segregation of a familial balanced translocation 
or from other chromosome rearrangements. In a minority of cases the breakpoint 
is at the FRA11B fragile site. Diagnosis is based on clinical findings 
(intellectual deficit, facial dysmorphic features and thrombocytopenia) and 
confirmed by cytogenetics analysis. Differential diagnoses include Turner and 
Noonan syndromes, and acquired thrombocytopenia due to sepsis. Prenatal 
diagnosis of 11q deletion is possible by amniocentesis or chorionic villus 
sampling and cytogenetic analysis. Management is multi-disciplinary and requires 
evaluation by general pediatrician, pediatric cardiologist, neurologist, 
ophthalmologist. Auditory tests, blood tests, endocrine and immunological 
assessment and follow-up should be offered to all patients. Cardiac 
malformations can be very severe and require heart surgery in the neonatal 
period. Newborns with Jacobsen syndrome may have difficulties in feeding and 
tube feeding may be necessary. Special attention should be devoted due to 
hematological problems. About 20% of children die during the first two years of 
life, most commonly related to complications from congenital heart disease, and 
less commonly from bleeding. For patients who survive the neonatal period and 
infancy, the life expectancy remains unknown.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-9
PMCID: PMC2670819
PMID: 19267933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2009 Jan-Feb;60(1):32-7.

[Epidemiological study of emergency services at a tertiary care center].

[Article in Spanish]

Hijano R(1), Hernández A, Martínez-Arias A, Homs I, Navarrete ML.

Author information:
(1)Fundació Hospital Asil, Granollers, Barcelona, España. rafa.hijano@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: The number of patients attended in emergency rooms 
has gone up considerably in recent years. Immigration and an increase in 
life-expectancy have probably influenced this increase. A lot of patients come 
looking for immediate attention in order to avoid long waiting lists for 
specialist care at primary health-care facilities. The main objective is to know 
what pathologies in ear, nose and throat require urgent medical assistance.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This is a retrospective descriptive study of 8,872 
patients seen in a year. The variables analyzed were age, gender, day of the 
week, time of arrival, final result). In addition, a category distribution was 
made, depending on the pathology suffered: otological, rhinological, pharyngeal, 
laryngeal, cervical and others.
RESULTS: The daily mean was about 25 patients per day. There were no differences 
in distribution by gender. Monday was the day of the week when more patients 
were seen. Otological pathologies represented the most frequent reason for 
attending (32 %), followed by pharyngeal emergencies. However, epistaxis (9.2 %) 
was the most common entity. The final outcome for about 85 % of the patients was 
discharge to home on the same day.
CONCLUSIONS: The rising demand for emergency attention in hospitals must be 
meticulously analyzed because it might become even worse, taking epidemiological 
trends into account. Different foci and new policies regarding emergency centres 
should be proposed.

PMID: 19268127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Encephale. 2009 Jan;35 Suppl 1:S41-4. doi: 10.1016/S0013-7006(09)75531-9.

[Schizophrenia and the elderly patient].

[Article in French]

Limosin F(1).

Author information:
(1)CHU de Reims. flimosin@chu-reims.fr

Despite premature mortality of still approximately twice that in the general 
population, the increase in mean lifespan of people suffering from schizophrenia 
and the specific clinical and management features of this disorder raise 
questions in our practice and present us with a dual challenge. Firstly we need 
to better characterise these elderly patients by conducting specific rigorous 
studies, epidemiological, clinical, pharmacological and cognitive. In parallel 
it would seem essential to precisely quantify the current specialist care 
offered in receiving, assessing and managing these patients in order to be able 
to develop the most appropriate alternative structures and best meet this true 
public health challenge.

DOI: 10.1016/S0013-7006(09)75531-9
PMID: 19268167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. J Neurol Sci. 2009 Aug 15;283(1-2):9-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2009.02.006.
Epub  2009 Mar 5.

Evaluation of aging vs dementia by means of neurosonology.

Demarin V(1), Kes VB, Morović S, Zavoreo I.

Author information:
(1)Department of neurology, University Hospital, Sestre milosrdnice, Zagreb, 
Croatia. vida.demarin@zg.t-com.hr

Aging is often associated with some cognitive impairment. Greater population 
life expectancy is one explanation for increased incidence of cognitive 
impairment cases. Large number of people with cognitive impairment and dementia 
is becoming one of the most important medical and social problems worldwide. 
Therefore, prevention of Alzheimer disease is becoming an imperative. Dementia 
includes a heterogeneous group of disorders, the most common being Alzheimer 
dementia (AD) and vascular dementia (VD). Most cardiovascular risk factors, such 
as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, hypercholsterolemia, atrial fibrillation, 
and smoking are not exclusively risk factors for VD, but also for AD. 
Intracranial hemodynamics of the aging brain can be assessed by Transcranial 
Doppler Sonography (TCD), functional TCD with various functional tests, and TCD 
detection of cerebral emboli. Extracranial circulation can be assessed by means 
of color Doppler flow imaging (CDFI). New neurosonology techniques and 
possibilities provide information necessary to closer determine the relation 
between cognitive deterioration and vascular risk factors, so that the evolution 
towards dementia could be prevented or at least postponed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2009.02.006
PMID: 19268305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Exp Gerontol. 2009 May;44(5):307-15. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.02.012. Epub
2009  Mar 4.

Bivalve models of aging and the determination of molluscan lifespans.

Abele D(1), Brey T, Philipp E.

Author information:
(1)Alfred-Wegener-Institute for Polar and Marine Research, Am Handelshafen 12, 
27570 Bremerhaven, Germany. Doris.abele@awi.de

Bivalves are newly discovered models of natural aging. This invertebrate group 
includes species with the longest metazoan lifespan approaching 400 y, as well 
as species of swimming and sessile lifestyles that live just for 1 y. Bivalves 
from natural populations can be aged by shell growth bands formed at regular 
intervals of time. This enables the study of abiotic and biotic environment 
factors (temperature, salinity, predator and physical disturbance) on senescence 
and fitness in natural populations, and distinguishes the impact of extrinsic 
effectors from intrinsic (genetic) determinants of animal aging. Extreme 
longevity of some bivalve models may help to analyze general metabolic 
strategies thought to be life prolonging, like the transient depression of 
metabolism, which forms part of natural behaviour in these species. Thus, 
seasonal food shortage experienced by benthic filter feeding bivalves in polar 
and temperate seas may mimic caloric restriction in vertebrates. Incidence of 
malignant neoplasms in bivalves needs to be investigated, to determine the 
implication of late acting mutations for bivalve longevity. Finally, bivalves 
are applicable models for testing the implication of heterozygosity of multiple 
genes for physiological tolerance, adaptability (heterozygote superiority), and 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.02.012
PMID: 19268513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Mol Biol. 2009 Apr 24;388(1):168-79. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.02.062. Epub
2009  Mar 4.

Fibrillin microfibrils: a key role for the interbead region in elasticity.

Wang MC(1), Lu Y, Baldock C.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell-Matrix Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 
9PT, UK.

Fibrillin microfibrils have essential roles in elastic fiber formation and 
elastic tissue homeostasis, as well as transforming growth factor-beta 
sequestration. A role for fibrillin microfibrils in tissue elasticity has been 
implied by their ability to increase periodicity from 56 to 150 nm. In this 
study, we found that microfibril periodicity and structure are dependent on the 
ionic strength of the buffer and Ca(2+) concentration; we then used these 
properties of the microfibril to trap conformation intermediates. Transmission 
electron microscopy imaging of microfibrils with a range of periodicities 
between 56 and 154 nm revealed a gross conformational change in the interbead 
region that accommodates the length change. At periodicities below 85 nm, four 
thin filaments are visualized in the interbead region, but at periodicities 
greater than 85 nm, two thick filaments are seen. The diameter of the bead 
remains almost constant at all periodicities, but there is a decrease in 
stain-exclusion above 85 nm periodicity, which is likely to correspond to a 
decrease in bead mass. Additionally, we identified eight molecules in 
cross-section through a microfibril, allowing us to understand microfibril 
organization in three dimensions. In conclusion, when microfibrils extend, there 
is a large molecular rearrangement within the interbead region, and this 
highlights a possible role for Ca(2+) in stabilizing the microfibril 
architecture and moderating extension in vivo.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.02.062
PMID: 19268673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Lancet. 2009 Mar 7;373(9666):808; author reply 808-9. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60477-3.

EU target of increasing participation of older workers is not realistic.

De Ceukelaire W, Engelbeen T.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2008 Dec 20;372(9656):2124-31.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60477-3
PMID: 19269513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Int J Nurs Stud. 2009 Aug;46(8):1054-60. doi:
10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2009.02.003.  Epub 2009 Mar 9.

The influence of coronary artery bypass graft harvest site on women's pain, 
functional status, and health services utilization throughout the first 
post-operative year: a longitudinal study.

Routledge FS(1), Tsuyuki RT, Hervas-Malo M, LeBlanc P, McFetridge-Durdle JA, 
King KM.

Author information:
(1)Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Coronary artery bypass graft surgery is a commonly performed 
procedure aimed at managing coronary symptoms and prolonging life. Researchers 
have typically examined morbidity and mortality outcomes of predominantly male 
populations. Less is known about the influence of graft harvest site on recovery 
outcomes such as surgery-related pain, functional status, and health services 
utilization, especially in women.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to examine the relationships between coronary artery bypass 
graft harvest site (saphenous vein, internal mammary arteries or both) and 
surgery-related pain, functional status, health services use at 6 weeks, 12 
weeks and 12 months post-operatively.
DESIGN: Longitudinal extension survey following participation in a clinical 
trial.
SETTING: Ten Canadian centres.
PARTICIPANTS: Women (222) who participated in the Women's Recovery from 
Sternotomy Trial, underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery with or without 
heart valve surgery, and completed the 12-month follow-up interview.
METHODS: Harvest site data were collected by health record audit at the time of 
hospital discharge. Surgery-related pain, functional status, pain medication use 
and health services use data were collected by standardized interview over the 
telephone at 6 weeks, 12 weeks and 12 months post-operatively. Surgery-related 
pain and functional status were measured using the short Health Assessment 
Questionnaire. Health services use was measured by questionnaire and recorded as 
reported by the participants.
RESULTS: Surgery-related pain, functional disability and health services use 
decreased over the first post-operative year. Participants who had left internal 
mammary artery grafts were more likely to have surgery-related pain (Adjusted 
Odds Ratio (AOR)=2.79; 95% Confidence Interval (CI) 1.40-5.70) and use pain 
medication (AOR=4.32; 95% CI 1.44-12.91) than those who had saphenous vein 
grafts. Conversely, participants who had saphenous vein grafts reported 
significantly more functional disability (AOR=2.63; 95% CI 1.16-6.25) over 12 
months post-surgery than those with left internal mammary artery grafts. 
Participants who had pain over the course of follow-up were more likely to visit 
their family physician or nurse practitioner (p=0.017), visit another type of 
provider (i.e., naturopath or chiropractor, p=0.004), or use any health care 
service (p<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Following coronary artery bypass graft surgery, women who had left 
internal mammary artery grafts reported more pain and health services use while 
those who had saphenous vein grafts were more functionally disabled. Women who 
reported surgery-related pain also used more health services.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2009.02.003
PMID: 19269633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Heart Lung Circ. 2009 Apr;18(2):101-3. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2009.01.006. Epub
2009  Mar 9.

The role of the CSANZ in 'closing the gap': an Indigenous cardiologists 
perspective.

Burchill LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Melbourne, Department of Medicine, Austin Health, 300 
Waterdale Road, Heidelberg Heights 3081, Australia. 
l.burchill@pgrad.unimelb.edu.au

The definition of Indigenous health as a human rights issue has signaled a major 
change in ideology, which has the potential to unite governments, health 
organisations and the Indigenous community to achieve improved health outcomes 
for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (ATSI) people. Whilst much of the 
debate will focus on specific policies, programs and interventions, the greatest 
challenge lies in bridging the divide between mainstream and Indigenous 
definitions of health, wellbeing and identity. This article provides an 
Indigenous perspective on the role that the Cardiac Society of Australia and New 
Zealand might play in bridging this divide so that we can 'close the gap' in 
life expectancy for ATSI people.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2009.01.006
PMID: 19269894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Apr;19(2):189-92. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp020. Epub
 2009 Mar 5.

Years of life lost due to cancer in a cohort study in Japan.

Pham TM(1), Fujino Y, Ide R, Tokui N, Kubo T, Mizoue T, Ogimoto I, Matsuda S, 
Yoshimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, School of Medicine, 
University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, Japan. 
ptrminh@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: We estimated the burden of cancer using mortality and years of life 
lost according to life tables in a cohort study in Japan.
METHODS: A cohort of 13,270 subjects established in the late 1980s in Japan was 
followed annually for the vital status of all subjects until 2003. For subjects 
who died, the underlying cause of death was ascertained from the death 
certificate. Crude mortality rate from cancer per 100,000 person-years was 
calculated, and years of life lost (YLL) as well as the average years of life 
lost (AYLL) were computed using the 1995 life tables in Japan.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, we recorded a total 839 cancer deaths (517 
men and 322 women), representing 35.5% of deaths from all causes. Overall crude 
cancer mortality was 654.9 per 100 000 person-years in men and 312.6 in women. 
Total YLL due to cancer was 7035.3 years in men and 5627.0 years in women. 
Overall AYLL due to all cancers was 13.6 years less than life expectancy in men 
and 17.5 years in women.
CONCLUSION: These results showed that cancer was the leading cause of death in 
