patients with two or more high risk factors. Despite these differences, the CE 
and CU of DES remained high (e.g., $419,000 per QALY gained in the most 
favorable patient risk subgroup). In sensitivity analysis, the difference in 
cost between DES and BMS had an impact on the CE and CU results. For example, at 
a price differential of $500, the CU of DES was $20,000/QALY for one patient 
subgroup and DES was dominant (i.e., less costly and more effective) in another.
CONCLUSIONS: At current prices, the CE/CU of DES compared with BMS is high even 
in patient high risk subgroups. As the relative price of DES decrease, the value 
for money attractiveness of DES increases, especially for selected high risk 
patients.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309090254
PMID: 19331710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):222-31. doi: 
10.1017/S026646230909028X. Epub 2009 Mar 31.

Can calcium chemoprevention of adenoma recurrence substitute or serve as an 
adjunct for colonoscopic surveillance?

Shaukat A(1), Parekh M, Lipscomb J, Ladabaum U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of 
Minnesota, 406 Harvard Street SE, MMC 36, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA. 
shaukat@umn.edu

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the potential 
cost-effectiveness of calcium chemoprevention post-polypectomy as a substitute 
or adjunct for surveillance.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model of post-polypectomy adenoma recurrence 
and colorectal cancer (CRC) development, calibrated to data from prospective 
chemoprevention trials of fiber, calcium, antioxidants, and aspirin. We modeled 
four scenarios for 50-year-old patients immediately after polypectomy: (i) 
natural history with no further intervention; (ii) elemental calcium 1,200 
mg/day from age 50-80; (iii) surveillance colonoscopy from age 50-80 every 5 
years, or 3 years for large adenoma; (iv) calcium + surveillance. Patients were 
followed up until age 100 or death.
RESULTS: Calcium was cost-effective compared to natural history 
($49,900/life-year gained). However, surveillance was significantly more 
effective than calcium (18.729 versus 18.654 life-years/patient; 76 percent 
versus 14 percent reduction in CRC incidence) at an incremental cost of 
$15,900/life-year gained. Calcium + surveillance yielded a very small benefit 
(0.0003 incremental life-years/patient) compared with surveillance alone, at a 
substantial incremental cost of $3,090,000/life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: Post-polypectomy calcium chemoprevention is unlikely to be a 
reasonable substitute for surveillance. It may be cost-effective in patients 
unwilling or unable to undergo surveillance.

DOI: 10.1017/S026646230909028X
PMCID: PMC2972652
PMID: 19331713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Mar;13(17):iii, ix-x, 1-154. doi:
10.3310/hta13170.

Spinal cord stimulation for chronic pain of neuropathic or ischaemic origin: 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Simpson EL(1), Duenas A, Holmes MW, Papaioannou D, Chilcott J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, The University of Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: This report addressed the question 'What is the clinical and 
cost-effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) in the management of chronic 
neuropathic or ischaemic pain?'
DATA SOURCES: Thirteen electronic databases [including MEDLINE (1950-2007), 
EMBASE (1980-2007) and the Cochrane Library (1991-2007)] were searched from 
inception; relevant journals were hand-searched; and appropriate websites for 
specific conditions causing chronic neuropathic/ischaemic pain were browsed. 
Literature searches were conducted from August 2007 to September 2007.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the literature sought clinical and 
cost-effectiveness data for SCS in adults with chronic neuropathic or ischaemic 
pain with inadequate response to medical or surgical treatment other than SCS. 
Economic analyses were performed to model the cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility of SCS in patients with neuropathic or ischaemic pain.
RESULTS: From approximately 6000 citations identified, 11 randomised controlled 
trials (RCTs) were included in the clinical effectiveness review: three of 
neuropathic pain and eight of ischaemic pain. Trials were available for the 
neuropathic conditions failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS) and complex regional 
pain syndrome (CRPS) type I, and they suggested that SCS was more effective than 
conventional medical management (CMM) or reoperation in reducing pain. The 
ischaemic pain trials had small sample sizes, meaning that most may not have 
been adequately powered to detect clinically meaningful differences. Trial 
evidence failed to demonstrate that pain relief in critical limb ischaemia (CLI) 
was better for SCS than for CMM; however, it suggested that SCS was effective in 
delaying refractory angina pain onset during exercise at short-term follow-up, 
although not more so than coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) for those 
patients eligible for that surgery. The results for the neuropathic pain model 
suggested that the cost-effectiveness estimates for SCS in patients with FBSS 
who had inadequate responses to medical or surgical treatment were below 20,000 
pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. In patients with CRPS who 
had had an inadequate response to medical treatment the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 25,095 pounds per QALY gained. When the SCS 
device costs varied from 5000 pounds to 15,000 pounds, the ICERs ranged from 
2563 pounds per QALY to 22,356 pounds per QALY for FBSS when compared with CMM 
and from 2283 pounds per QALY to 19,624 pounds per QALY for FBSS compared with 
reoperation. For CRPS the ICERs ranged from 9374 pounds per QALY to 66,646 
pounds per QALY. If device longevity (1 to 14 years) and device average price 
(5000 pounds to 15,000 pounds) were varied simultaneously, ICERs were below or 
very close to 30,000 pounds per QALY when device longevity was 3 years and below 
or very close to 20,000 pounds per QALY when device longevity was 4 years. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed varying the costs of CMM, device longevity 
and average device cost, showing that ICERs for CRPS were higher. In the 
ischaemic model, it was difficult to determine whether SCS represented value for 
money when there was insufficient evidence to demonstrate its comparative 
efficacy. The threshold analysis suggested that the most favourable economic 
profiles for treatment with SCS were when compared to CABG in patients eligible 
for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI), and in patients eligible for CABG 
and PCI. In these two cases, SCS dominated (it cost less and accrued more 
survival benefits) over CABG.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence suggested that SCS was effective in reducing the 
chronic neuropathic pain of FBSS and CRPS type I. For ischaemic pain, there may 
need to be selection criteria developed for CLI, and SCS may have clinical 
benefit for refractory angina short-term. Further trials of other types of 
neuropathic pain or subgroups of ischaemic pain, may be useful.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13170
PMID: 19331797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Int J Epidemiol. 2009 Dec;38(6):1711-22. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyp156. Epub 2009
Mar  30.

Changing trends in indigenous inequalities in mortality: lessons from New 
Zealand.

Tobias M(1), Blakely T, Matheson D, Rasanathan K, Atkinson J.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Physician, Health and Disability Intelligence, Ministry of 
Health, Wellington, New Zealand. martin_tobias@moh.govt.nz

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2009 Dec;38(6):1722-4.

BACKGROUND: We describe trends from 1951 to 2006 in inequalities in mortality 
between the indigenous (Māori) and non-indigenous (non-Māori, mainly 
European-descended) populations of New Zealand. We relate these trends to the 
historical context in which they occurred, including major structural adjustment 
of the economy from the mid 1980s to the mid 1990s, followed by a retreat from 
neoliberal social and economic policies from the late 1990s onwards. This was 
accompanied by economic recovery and the introduction of health reforms, 
including a reorientation of the health system towards primary health care.
METHODS: Abridged period lifetables for Māori and non-Māori from 1951 to 2006 
were constructed using standard demographic methods. Absolute [standardized rate 
difference (SRD)] and relative [standardized rate ratio (SRR)] mortality 
inequalities for Māori compared with European/Other ethnic groups (aged 1-74 
years) were measured using the New Zealand Census-Mortality Study (an ongoing 
data linkage study that links mortality to census records) from 1981-84 to 
2001-04. The SRDs were decomposed into their contributions from major causes of 
death. Poisson regression modelling was used to estimate the extent of 
socio-economic mediation of the ethnic mortality inequality over time.
RESULTS: Life expectancy gaps and relative inequalities in mortality rates (aged 
1-74 years) widened and then narrowed again, in tandem with the trends in social 
inequalities (allowing for a short lag). Among females, the contribution of 
cardiovascular disease to absolute mortality inequalities steadily decreased, 
but was partly offset by an increasing contribution from cancer. Among males, 
the contribution of CVD increased from the early 1980s to the 1990s, then 
decreased again. The extent of socio-economic mediation of the ethnic mortality 
inequality peaked in 1991-94, again more notably among males.
CONCLUSION: Our results are consistent with a causal association between 
changing economic inequalities and changing health inequalities between ethnic 
groups. However, causality cannot be established from a historical analysis 
alone. Three lessons nevertheless emerge from the New Zealand experience: the 
lag between changes in ethnic social inequality and ethnic health inequality may 
be short (<5 years); both changes in the distribution of the social determinants 
of health and an appropriate health system response may be required to address 
ethnic health inequalities; and timely monitoring of ethnic health inequalities, 
based on high-quality ethnicity data, may help to sustain political commitment 
to pro-equity health and social policies.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyp156
PMID: 19332501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Biol Chem. 2009 May 22;284(21):14068-78. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M900370200. Epub
 2009 Mar 30.

The protease-associated domain and C-terminal extension are required for zymogen 
processing, sorting within the secretory pathway, and activity of tomato 
subtilase 3 (SlSBT3).

Cedzich A(1), Huttenlocher F, Kuhn BM, Pfannstiel J, Gabler L, Stintzi A, 
Schaller A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Physiology and Biotechnology, Life Science Center, and 
Institute of Physiology, Department of Biosensorics, University of Hohenheim, 
D-70593 Stuttgart, Germany.

A transgenic plant cell suspension culture was established as a versatile and 
efficient expression system for the subtilase SlSBT3 from tomato. The 
recombinant protease was purified to homogeneity from culture supernatants by 
fractionated ammonium sulfate precipitation, batch adsorption to cation exchange 
material, and anion exchange chromatography. Purified SlSBT3 was identified as a 
79-kDa glycoprotein with both complex and paucimannosidic type glycan chains at 
Asn(177), Asn(203), Asn(376), Asn(697), and Asn(745). SlSBT3 was found to be a 
very stable enzyme, being fully active at 60 degrees C and showing highest 
activity at alkaline conditions with a maximum between pH 7.5 and 8.0. Substrate 
specificity of SlSBT3 was analyzed in detail, revealing a preference for Gln and 
Lys in the P(1) and P(2) positions of oligopeptide substrates, respectively. 
Similar to bacterial, yeast, and mammalian subtilases, SlSBT3 is synthesized as 
a preproenzyme, and processing of the prodomain in the endoplasmic reticulum is 
a prerequisite for passage through the secretory pathway. SlSBT3 S538A and S538C 
active site mutants accumulated intracellularly as unprocessed zymogens, 
indicating that prodomain cleavage occurs autocatalytically. The wild-type 
SlSBT3 protein failed to cleave the prodomain of the S538A mutant in trans, 
demonstrating that zymogen maturation is an intramolecular process. 
Distinguishing features of plant as compared with mammalian subtilases include 
the insertion of a large protease-associated domain between the His and Ser 
residues of the catalytic triad and the C-terminal extension to the catalytic 
domain. Both features were found to be required for SlSBT3 activity and, 
consequently, for prodomain processing and secretion.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M900370200
PMCID: PMC2682855
PMID: 19332543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Clin Oncol. 2009 May 1;27(13):2111-3. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.21.0534. Epub
2009  Mar 30.

Efficacy does not necessarily translate to cost effectiveness: a case study in 
the challenges associated with 21st-century cancer drug pricing.

Hillner BE, Smith TJ.

Comment on
    J Clin Oncol. 2009 May 1;27(13):2185-91.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2008.21.0534
PMID: 19332715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. J Clin Oncol. 2009 May 1;27(13):2185-91. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.19.6352. Epub
 2009 Mar 30.

Cost effectiveness of ixabepilone plus capecitabine for metastatic breast cancer 
progressing after anthracycline and taxane treatment.

Reed SD(1), Li Y, Anstrom KJ, Schulman KA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical and Genetic Economics and Outcomes Research and 
Assessment Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, PO Box 17969, Durham, NC 
27715, USA. shelby.reed@duke.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2009 May 1;27(13):2111-3.

PURPOSE: Using data from a recent randomized trial, we evaluated the cost 
effectiveness of ixabepilone plus capecitabine versus capecitabine alone in 
patients with predominantly metastatic breast cancer considered to be 
taxane-resistant and previously treated with or resistant to an anthracycline.
METHODS: We developed a stochastic decision-analytic model to represent data 
collected in the trial on medical resource use, health-related quality of life, 
and clinical outcomes. Estimates of overall survival were conditional on level 
of tumor response. We assigned monthly costs and utility weights according to 
periods defined by the duration of study treatment, time from discontinuation of 
the study drug until disease progression, and from progression until death and 
were specific to the level of response and receipt of subsequent therapy. 
Medical resources were valued in 2008 US dollars. We performed Monte Carlo 
simulations and sensitivity analyses to evaluate model uncertainty.
RESULTS: Overall survival was significantly associated with level of tumor 
response (P < .001). Total costs were estimated at $60,900 for patients 
receiving ixabepilone plus capecitabine and $30,000 for patients receiving 
capecitabine alone. The estimated gain in life expectancy with ixabepilone was 
1.96 months (95% CI, 1.36 to 2.64 months); the estimated gain in 
quality-adjusted survival was 1.06 months (95% CI, 0.09 to 2.03 months). The 
resulting incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $359,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (95% CI, $183,000 to $4,030,000). In sensitivity analyses, the results 
were robust to changes in numerous inputs and assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Addition of ixabepilone to capecitabine adds approximately $31,000 
to overall medical costs and affords approximately 1 additional month of 
quality-adjusted survival.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2008.19.6352
PMID: 19332722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Am J Med Qual. 2009 May-Jun;24(3):241-9. doi: 10.1177/1062860609332509. Epub
 2009 Mar 30.

Effect of smoking cessation advice on cardiovascular disease.

Eddy DM(1), Peskin B, Shcheprov A, Pawlson G, Shih S, Schaaf D.

Author information:
(1)Archimedes, Inc, San Francisco, California, USA. author@archimedesmodel.com

Performance measures and guidelines encourage physicians to advise smokers to 
quit. The effect of these efforts on the morbidity, mortality, and cost of 
cardiovascular disease is not known. This article analyzes the effects of 
offering smoking cessation advice in the US population. The Archimedes model is 
used to simulate several clinical trials in which basic advice and medication 
advice are offered and to calculate the rates of myocardial infarctions, 
congestive heart disease deaths, strokes, life years, quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), costs, and cost/ QALY. The simulated population is a 
representative sample of the US population drawn from the Third National Health 
and Nutrition Survey conducted just before the performance measures and 
guidelines were introduced. The results show that offering basic advice and 
medication advice can prevent about 13% and 19% of myocardial infarctions and 
strokes, respectively. The 30-year cost/QALY is approximately $3000 less than 
the base-case assumptions and less than $10 000 under pessimistic assumptions.

DOI: 10.1177/1062860609332509
PMID: 19332865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2009;3(3):e406. doi: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000406. Epub
2009  Mar 31.

The disease burden of Taenia solium cysticercosis in Cameroon.

Praet N(1), Speybroeck N, Manzanedo R, Berkvens D, Nsame Nforninwe D, Zoli A, 
Quet F, Preux PM, Carabin H, Geerts S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, Belgium. npraet@itg.be

BACKGROUND: Taenia solium cysticercosis is an important zoonosis in many 
developing countries. Human neurocysticercosis is recognised as an important 
cause of epilepsy in regions where the parasite occurs. However, it is largely 
underreported and there is a lack of data about the disease burden. Because a 
body of information on human and porcine cysticercosis in Cameroon is becoming 
available, the present study was undertaken to calculate the impact of this 
neglected zoonosis.
METHODS: Both the cost and Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) estimations were 
applied. All necessary parameters were collected and imported in R software. 
Different distributions were used according to the type of information available 
for each of the parameters.
FINDINGS: Based on a prevalence of epilepsy of 3.6%, the number of people with 
neurocysticercosis-associated epilepsy was estimated at 50,326 (95% CR 
37,299-65,924), representing 1.0% of the local population, whereas the number of 
pigs diagnosed with cysticercosis was estimated at 15,961 (95% CR 
12,320-20,044), which corresponds to 5.6% of the local pig population. The total 
annual costs due to T. solium cysticercosis in West Cameroon were estimated at 
10,255,202 Euro (95% CR 6,889,048-14,754,044), of which 4.7% were due to losses 
in pig husbandry and 95.3% to direct and indirect losses caused by human 
cysticercosis. The monetary burden per case of cysticercosis amounts to 194 Euro 
(95% CR 147-253). The average number of DALYs lost was 9.0 per thousand persons 
per year (95% CR 2.8-20.4).
INTERPRETATION: This study provides an estimation of the costs due to T. solium 
cysticercosis using country-specific parameters and including the human as well 
as the animal burden of the zoonotic disease. A comparison with a study in South 
Africa indicates that the cost of inactivity, influenced by salaries, plays a 
predominant role in the monetary burden of T. solium cysticercosis. Therefore, 
knowing the salary levels and the prevalence of the disease might allow a rapid 
indication of the total cost of T. solium cysticercosis in a country. 
Ascertaining this finding with additional studies in cysticercosis-endemic 
countries could eventually allow the estimation of the global disease burden of 
cysticercosis. The estimated number of DALYs lost due to the disease was higher 
than estimates already available for some other neglected tropical diseases. The 
total estimated cost and number of DALYs lost probably underestimate the real 
values because the estimations have been based on epilepsy as the only symptom 
of cysticercosis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000406
PMCID: PMC2656639
PMID: 19333365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


435. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2010 Jan;45(1):39-46. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-009-0039-z. Epub 2009 Mar 31.

Adjustment disorders after severe life-events in four postconflict settings.

Dobricki M(1), Komproe IH, de Jong JT, Maercker A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychopathology and Clinical Intervention, University of 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The present study explores whether severe life-events are associated 
with adjustment disorders (AD) by reanalyzing the data of a multisite 
epidemiological survey (de Jong et al. in Lancet 361:2128-2130, 2003). AD were 
diagnosed according to the new stress-response-model of AD (Maercker et al. in 
Psychopathology 40(3):135-146, 2007).
METHOD: Data from 3048 persons from four different refugee settings in Ethiopia, 
Algeria, Gaza, and Cambodia were reanalyzed. Life events were assessed by an 
adapted version of the Life Events and Social History Interview (Mollica et al. 
in Am J Psychiatry 144:1567-1572, 1987). The current study focuses on 
non-directly life threatening events related to AD (e.g. loss of property) in 
contrast to life-threatening events related to Posttraumatic Stress Disorders 
(PTSD). AD Symptom measures were obtained from available psychopathology 
assessments: composite international diagnostic interview (WHO in CIDI, Geneva, 
1997) and structured interview for disorders of extreme stress (Pelcovitz et al. 
J Trauma Stress 10:3-16, 1997).
RESULTS: The majority of the subjects had experienced one or more AD-related 
life event. Most common AD-related life events varied across the four sites with 
bad shelter conditions most prevalent in Ethiopia (100%) and Gaza (32%), forced 
social isolation in Algeria (61%), and lack of food in Cambodia (41%). 
Prevalences of AD diagnoses ranged from 6% (Ethiopia) to 40% (Algeria). The 
highest rates of comorbidity were between AD and PTSD, followed by anxiety 
disorders.
CONCLUSION: The present study shows that the new concept of AD can be of use for 
psychiatric epidemiology, e.g., in migration contexts. The high-comorbidity 
rates could indicate that AD and PTSD are parts of a stress response spectrum.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-009-0039-z
PMID: 19333528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2009 Oct;395(3):611-8. doi: 10.1007/s00216-009-2753-5.
Epub  2009 Mar 31.

Electrical generators driving microhollow and dielectric barrier discharges 
applied for analytical chemistry.

Heming R(1), Michels A, Olenici SB, Tombrink S, Franzke J.

Author information:
(1)ISAS Institute for Analytical Sciences-Miniaturisation, Bunsen-Kirchhoff-Str. 
11, 44139, Dortmund, Germany. heming@isas.de

Scaling down the size of plasma discharges would reduce the amount of gases, 
liquids, and consumables required, which in turn would decrease the operating 
costs. Nevertheless, the application of a specialized plasma generator for 
microhollow cathode discharges (MHCD) and dielectric barrier discharges are 
driven with commercially available power sources. Those generators are bulky and 
expensive and their overall efficiency is poor. This work develops and explains 
several circuit topologies and design hints to excite MHCD and dielectric 
barrier discharge (DBD) plasmas with respect to its system with as low as 
possible input power in a very efficient way. Benefits in sensitivity and life 
expectancy are shown. The generator for the MHCD needs voltages up to 7 V and 
consumes up to 5 W. The DBD generator has an input power of 3 W and produces a 
fast rising output pulse up to 9 kV, which has a time duration of 2 micros. 
These low-power circuits offer the operation with batteries.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-009-2753-5
PMID: 19333583


437. J Eval Clin Pract. 2009 Apr;15(2):299-306. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2753.2008.01000.x.

Model-based cost-effectiveness analysis of interventions aimed at preventing 
medication error at hospital admission (medicines reconciliation).

Karnon J(1), Campbell F, Czoski-Murray C.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au

RATIONALE: Medication errors can lead to preventable adverse drug events (pADEs) 
that have significant cost and health implications. Errors often occur at care 
interfaces, and various interventions have been devised to reduce medication 
errors at the point of admission to hospital. The aim of this study is to assess 
the incremental costs and effects [measured as quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs)] of a range of such interventions for which evidence of effectiveness 
exists.
METHODS: A previously published medication errors model was adapted to describe 
the pathway of errors occurring at admission through to the occurrence of pADEs. 
The baseline model was populated using literature-based values, and then 
calibrated to observed outputs. Evidence of effects was derived from a 
systematic review of interventions aimed at preventing medication error at 
hospital admission.
RESULTS: All five interventions, for which evidence of effectiveness was 
identified, are estimated to be extremely cost-effective when compared with the 
baseline scenario. Pharmacist-led reconciliation intervention has the highest 
expected net benefits, and a probability of being cost-effective of over 60% by 
a QALY value of pound10 000.
CONCLUSIONS: The medication errors model provides reasonably strong evidence 
that some form of intervention to improve medicines reconciliation is a 
cost-effective use of NHS resources. The variation in the reported effectiveness 
of the few identified studies of medication error interventions illustrates the 
need for extreme attention to detail in the development of interventions, but 
also in their evaluation and may justify the primary evaluation of more than one 
specification of included interventions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2753.2008.01000.x
PMID: 19335488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2008 Dec;4(6):1157-64.

Gemcitabine and taxanes in metastatic breast cancer: a systematic review.

Gudena V(1), Montero AJ, Glück S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Braman Family Breast Cancer Institute, 
UMSylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami, Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.

Incremental advances over the last two decades in the treatment of stage IV 
metastatic breast cancer (MBC) have resulted in significantly prolonging the 
average life expectancy. In 2008, the estimated 5-year relative survival rate 
for MBC is 27% which compares favorably to rates in stage IV lung (3%) and 
pancreatic cancers (1%). Despite these advances, MBC remains an incurable 
disease, often associated with many symptoms and a decreased quality of life 
(QoL). Therefore, therapy goals in the treatment of MBC include prolonging both 
progression-free survival and overall survival rates, while at the same time 
improving QoL by palliation of symptoms. Therefore, systemic chemotherapy 
ideally should not induce unnecessary toxicities. Once chemotherapy is 
indicated, a number of drugs and regimens are available but only a few offer 
both palliation of symptoms (responses to therapy) and overall survival benefit. 
The addition of novel biologic compounds to chemotherapy has been shown in phase 
III trials to improve all the above mentioned clinical outcomes in MBC. This 
review will discuss data supporting the use of gemcitabine/taxane combinations 
in the treatment of MBC.

PMCID: PMC2643097
PMID: 19337423


439. Can Vet J. 2009 Jan;50(1):13-6.

Veterinary medical ethics.

Rollin BE.

Comment in
    Can Vet J. 2009 May;50(5):450.

PMCID: PMC2603649
PMID: 19337611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Adv Ther. 2009 Mar;26(3):295-312. doi: 10.1007/s12325-009-0016-7. Epub 2009
Apr  3.

Optimal treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and excessive sleepiness.

Rosenberg R(1), Doghramji P.

Author information:
(1)Atlanta School of Sleep Medicine and Technology, 1100 Johnson Ferry Road, 
Suite 580, Atlanta, GA, 30342, USA. russell.rosenberg@atlantasleep.com

INTRODUCTION: Collapsibility of the upper airway in obstructive sleep apnea 
(OSA) causes repeated arousals from sleep, decreased oxygen saturation of the 
blood, and excessive sleepiness (ES). Patients with OSA are at increased risk of 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease, and experience occupational and 
vehicular accidents more frequently than the general population. Furthermore, 
the life expectancy of patients with untreated OSA is significantly reduced.
METHODS: A MEDLINE search of articles published between 2003 and 2008 was 
conducted using the search terms: obstructive sleep apnea [ti/ab] AND treatment; 
obstructive sleep apnoea [ti/ab] AND treatment; and excessive sleepiness [ti/ab] 
AND treatment. Searches were limited to articles in English; clinical trials; 
meta-analyses; practice guidelines; randomized, controlled trials; and reviews.
RESULTS: Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the reference-standard 
treatment for patients with OSA. CPAP addresses the symptoms of OSA and reduces 
the risk of heart disease and depression associated with this sleep disorder. 
However, the efficacy of CPAP is contingent on patient adherence, and >or=4 
hours of therapy per night are required for patients with OSA to experience 
significant clinical benefits. However, reports of nonadherence to CPAP therapy 
range from 29% to 83%. Other therapies are available for patients who refuse or 
cannot adhere to CPAP treatment, including dental devices and surgery, but these 
treatments are generally considered to be less efficacious. A significant number 
of patients continue to experience residual ES despite CPAP treatment. 
Pharmacologic therapies, eg, modafinil and armodafinil, may be of use in 
patients with OSA to improve tolerance with CPAP or to address residual ES.
CONCLUSION: There are a variety of treatments available for patients with OSA. 
Successful treatment involves encouraging patient compliance with CPAP or oral 
appliances. Primary-care physicians play a crucial role in recognizing this 
disorder and ensuring the best possible outcome through support and education.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-009-0016-7
PMID: 19337706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Heart Vessels. 2009 Mar;24(2):108-15. doi: 10.1007/s00380-008-1095-0. Epub
2009  Apr 1.

Radial artery achieves better flowmetric results than saphenous vein in the 
elderly.

Santarpino G(1), Onorati F, Scalas C, De Gori M, Cristodoro L, Zofrea S, 
Renzulli A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Unit, Magna Graecia University of Catanzaro, Catanzaro, 
Italy.

Due to the limited life expectancy and the supposed higher morbidity with 
complete arterial grafting, extensive arterial graft in the elderly is still 
questioned. It was the aim of this study to evaluate transit time flow and 
clinical, biochemical and echocardiographic results of elderly patients 
undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with either saphenous vein 
(SV) or radial artery (RA) employed as the second conduit of choice. The present 
study evaluates clinical and flowmetric results of a prospective series of 
elderly patients (>or=70 years old) undergoing RA CABG (75 patients, Group A) or 
SV CABG (163 patients, Group B) during isolated myocardial revascularization, 
performed either off-pump (OPCABG) and on-pump during the last 5 years at a 
single academic institution (between January 2003 and December 2007). Transit 
time flowmetric (TTF) maximum and mean flow, pulsatility index (P.I.), and graft 
flow reserve (GFR) were compared. Hospital outcome was analyzed. Clinical data 
were compared between the two groups and one-year follow-up was completed. The 
two groups showed comparable preoperative and intraoperative variables. When TTF 
analysis was considered, patients undergoing RA grafting demonstrated a 
significantly higher maximum (systolic) and mean flow compared to SV grafting, 
either in circumflex, diagonal, and right coronary territory. Pulsatility index 
was significantly lower in the RA group in circumflex, diagonal, and right 
coronary grafts. Furthermore, when GFR was calculated significantly higher 
values were found in RA conduits in the circumflex, diagonal, and right coronary 
grafts. Comparable troponin I leakage was detected between the two groups. 
Postoperative variables addressing hospital outcome were similar in the two 
groups. When echocardiographic data were analyzed, no differences were recorded 
in postoperative recovery of left ventricular ejection fraction and wall motion 
score index. One-year follow-up showed better freedom from acute cardiovascular 
events in the RA group (P = 0.04). Our data show that despite comparable 
clinical, biochemical, and echocardiographic results in elderly patients 
undergoing RA or SV grafting, better flowmetric results - in terms of GFR, mean 
flow, and pulsatility index - can be detected in arterial conduits.

DOI: 10.1007/s00380-008-1095-0
PMID: 19337794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Dig Dis Sci. 2010 Mar;55(3):847-51. doi: 10.1007/s10620-009-0784-6. Epub
2009  Apr 1.

ERCP in the very elderly: outcomes among patients older than eighty.

Lukens FJ(1), Howell DA, Upender S, Sheth SG, Jafri SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology & Nutrition, UT Houston Medical 
School, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Frank.J.Lukens@uth.tmc.edu

Life expectancy is rising, which is increasing the demand for endoscopic 
retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) in the elderly. Little data, 
particularly on complex procedures, has been reported. In this study, we compare 
the differences in the success and complications in ERCP between patients older 
and younger than 80 years old. We used a large endoscopic database reviewing the 
ERCPs performed and 30-day complications addressing age, degree of difficulty of 
procedures, and complications. A total of 2,606 patients underwent 3,924 ERCPs. 
Six hundred and twenty-eight were octogenarians undergoing 728 procedures. Mean 
age was 83.5 years in the octogenarian group and 59.0 years in the younger 
group. The endoscopic success rate was lower in octogenarians (96.9 vs. 98.3%, P 
= 0.004). Overall, complication rates between both groups was significantly less 
in older compared to younger patients (1.64 vs. 3.50%, P = 0.006). Complication 
and failure rates were higher as procedure complexity increased in all patients. 
ERCP in the elderly carries a high degree of success with low complication 
rates. Elderly patients carry similar risks of bleeding and perforation and a 
lower risk of pancreatitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-009-0784-6
PMID: 19337836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Ann Demogr Hist (Paris). 1999;(2):63-96. doi: 10.3406/adh.2000.2168.

Swedish towns during industrialization.

Edvinsson S, Nilsson H.

DOI: 10.3406/adh.2000.2168
PMID: 19338110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Aesthet Surg J. 2006 Jan-Feb;26(1S):S35-40. doi: 10.1016/j.asj.2005.08.002.

HIV-related lipodystrophy and facial lipoatrophy: the role of Restylane SubQ in 
reversing facial wasting.

Strand A, Wolters M.

HIV-associated lipodystrophy syndrome affects approximately 50% of HIV-positive 
patients, particularly those receiving antiretroviral therapy based on 
nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors and protease inhibitors. Growing 
evidence suggests that certain antiretroviral drugs may precipitate or 
exacerbate lipoatrophy and associated metabolic abnormalities, and this is an 
important consideration when selecting appropriate treatment regimens. However, 
because of problems of cross-resistance among antiretroviral drug classes and 
other treatment-related toxicities, it is likely that, at some stage, the 
HIV-infected patient will have to take drugs that confer a risk of development 
of lipodystrophy syndrome. Combination therapy for HIV, known as highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART), has dramatically altered the prognosis for the 
HIV-infected individual. With optimal use of HAART, which includes regular 
monitoring of viral load, viral resistance, and compliance with medication, HIV 
infection has changed from being a fatal disease to a lifelong infection. 
However, HAART-related lipodystrophy syndrome, and especially facial 
lipoatrophy, is of great concern for patients and physicians involved in HIV 
care. For the patient, facial lipoatrophy is a major stigma that affects 
self-esteem and social interaction, and in some cases, it is a cause of 
noncompliance with HAART. Accordingly, many treatment-experienced HIV patients 
are requesting, and being treated with, various dermal fillers for cosmetic 
correction of facial lipoatrophy. Prior to the introduction of HAART, when life 
expectancy for the HIV-infected individual was severely limited, permanent 
fillers were widely used for this purpose. Because these products remain in situ 
indefinitely and the facial soft tissues change over time, the permanent fillers 
are no longer a satisfactory treatment option. Now that HIV infection has been 
transformed into a chronic but not necessarily life-threatening disease, there 
is an urgent need for a safe, biodegradable, and biocompatible alternative 
dermal filler for treating HIV-associated facial lipoatrophy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.asj.2005.08.002
PMID: 19338975


445. Int J Food Microbiol. 2009 May 31;131(2-3):272-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2009.03.004. Epub 2009 Mar 14.

Changes in microbial flora of Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas) during 
refrigerated storage and its shelf-life extension by chitosan.

Cao R(1), Xue CH, Liu Q.

Author information:
(1)College of Food Science and Engineering, Ocean university of China, Qingdao, 
Shandong Province 266003, PR China.

Changes in microbial flora of Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas) during storage 
at 5+/-1 degrees C were analyzed and the antimicrobial activity of chitosan was 
studied to identify its potential in shelf-life extension. The dominant 
microorganisms were found to be Pseudomonas (22%) and Vibrionaceae (20%) in raw 
oysters. During storage, proportion of Pseudomonas increased significantly and 
reached 73% at the end of storage, while Vibrionaceae preserved a level of 
approximate 20%. Wide-spectrum antibacterial property of chitosan against the 
bacteria isolated from oysters was discovered, and chitosan concentration of 5.0 
g/L was eventually determined for application in oyster preservation. Based on 
microbiological analysis, biochemical indices determination and sensory 
evaluation, shelf-life of oysters stored at 5+/-1 degrees C was determined. Data 
showed that chitosan treatment extended the shelf-life of oysters from 8-9 days 
to 14-15 days.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2009.03.004
PMID: 19339074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Dent Educ. 2009 Apr;73(4):437-44.

Dental students treating patients living with HIV/AIDS: the influence of 
attitudes and HIV knowledge.

Seacat JD(1), Litt MD, Daniels AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Western New England College, 1215 Wilbraham Rd., 
Springfield, MA 01119, USA. js289636@wnec.edu

As life expectancy for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) increases, these 
individuals will have greater need for competent and compassionate oral health 
care. Unfortunately, PLWHA face many significant barriers to receiving adequate 
oral health care, due in part to the fear of being stigmatized or discriminated 
against by dental care providers (DCPs). Although many studies have documented 
accounts of prejudice and discrimination toward PLWHA in the dental health care 
setting, few have developed theoretical explanations as to why these attitudes 
and behaviors persist or how they can be effectively ameliorated. The goal of 
the current study was to utilize Weiner's Attribution-Helping model to explain 
how a patient's perceived responsibility for contracting HIV might impact DCPs' 
attitudes and behavioral responses toward PLWHA. Existing research has 
demonstrated that DCPs' level of HIV-related knowledge impacts their treatment 
attitudes and behaviors toward PLWHA, but it remains unclear whether the effects 
of HIV-related knowledge may be masked by the personal attitudes (i.e., 
perceived patient responsibility for contracting HIV) that DCPs maintain. One 
hundred and eighteen dental students were recruited from a New England dental 
program. All participants read one of three brief patient vignettes in which the 
mode by which an individual contracted HIV was manipulated. Dental students then 
completed a survey assessing 1) perceptions of the patient's responsibility for 
contracting HIV; 2) knowledge of HIV; and 3) treatment attitudes. Results 
indicated that both knowledge of HIV and attributions of patient responsibility 
for illness were predictive of negative attitudes toward treatment.

PMID: 19339430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2009 Apr;91(4):761-72. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.G.01472.

Cost-effectiveness of accelerated perioperative care and rehabilitation after 
total hip and knee arthroplasty.

Larsen K(1), Hansen TB, Thomsen PB, Christiansen T, Søballe K.

Author information:
(1)Orthopedic Research Unit, Orthopedic Department, Regional Hospital Holstebro, 
Laegaardvej, 7500 Holstebro, Denmark. fekl2004@msn.com

BACKGROUND: Accelerated perioperative rehabilitation protocols following total 
hip and knee arthroplasties are currently being implemented worldwide, but the 
cost-effectiveness of these protocols from a societal perspective is not known. 
We compared the cost-effectiveness of an accelerated perioperative care and 
rehabilitation protocol with that of a more standard protocol for patients 
treated with total hip and knee arthroplasty.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness study was undertaken as a study piggybacked on a 
randomized clinical trial comparing early outcomes of an accelerated and 
intensive postoperative rehabilitation regimen with those of a more standard 
rehabilitation protocol. We assessed eighty-seven patients (forty-two who 
received the standard protocol and forty-five who received the accelerated 
protocol) for a total of twelve months. Costs from the time of the patient's 
visit immediately before the operation to one year postoperatively were 
calculated with use of activity-based costing analysis. Postoperative 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were calculated from validated patient 
diaries and questionnaires at fifteen time points. The primary objective was to 
determine whether one intervention was dominant over the other during a 
twelve-month period or, if neither was dominant, to determine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: The result of the randomized clinical trial showed the accelerated 
intervention to be effective, with a reduction in the length of the hospital 
stay and a gain in health-related quality of life at the three-month follow-up 
time point. The cost-effectiveness study showed the accelerated protocol to be 
significantly less expensive than the standard protocol (p=0.036), with an 
average reduction in cost of 18,880 Danish kroner (95% confidence interval, 1899 
to 38,152) (approximately US $4000). Patients treated with the accelerated 
protocol following hip arthroplasty had an additional average gain of 0.08 QALY 
(95% confidence interval, 0.02 to 0.15) compared with the patients who received 
the standard protocol (p=0.006); this led to a 98% dominance of the accelerated 
protocol over the standard protocol. No significant or clinically relevant 
difference in the numbers of QALYs associated with the two protocols was 
observed for the patients treated with knee arthroplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: An accelerated perioperative care and rehabilitation protocol can 
be both cost-saving and clinically more effective after total hip arthroplasty, 
whereas it can be cost-saving with no observed significant difference in effect, 
from a societal perspective, after knee arthroplasty.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.G.01472
PMID: 19339559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2009 Jan;4(1):1-2. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32831c508a.

Living longer with HIV: what does it mean for cancer risk?

Grulich AE(1).

Author information:
(1)HIV Epidemiology and Prevention Program, National Centre in HIV Epidemiology 
and Clinical Research, University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. 
agrulich@nchecr.unsw.edu.au

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32831c508a
PMID: 19339933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2009 Jan;4(1):27-34. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32831a7259.

Evolving spectrum and incidence of non-AIDS-defining malignancies.

Pantanowitz L(1), Dezube BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Baystate Medical Center, Tufts University School of 
Medicine, Springfield, MA, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Non-AIDS defining cancer (NADC) has emerged as an important 
cause of morbidity and mortality in the HIV-infected population. Insight into 
the incidence, spectrum, risk factors, management, and outcome of these cancers 
has continued to emerge. The recent literature on this topic is reviewed.
RECENT FINDINGS: Several recent studies have explored the shifting spectrum of 
NADC in both developed and underdeveloped regions of the world. Investigators 
have shown only a minor difference in the geographic spectrum of NADC. Although 
several NADC have continued to occur at rates significantly higher than 
expected, a noticeable decline was observed in other cancers despite 
antiretroviral therapy. Factors other than HIV and immunosuppression proved to 
be important in the risk, treatment response, and outcome of these neoplasms. 
Studies dealing with the management of several NADC were published, including 
the role of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
SUMMARY: An increased overall relative risk of developing NADC continues to be 
reported in the HIV-infected population worldwide. The development of NADC 
appears to be multifactorial. Although control of HIV viremia has proven to be 
beneficial, the impact of HAART on NADC incidence rates and survival is not 
uniform. Further effort is needed to resolve the direct and indirect effects of 
HIV on NADC in order to guide effective prevention and treatment strategies of 
these malignancies.

DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e32831a7259
PMCID: PMC2746853
PMID: 19339937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. J Perinatol. 2009 Aug;29(8):543-7. doi: 10.1038/jp.2009.39. Epub 2009 Apr 2.

Selective laser photocoagulation versus serial amniodrainage for the treatment 
of twin-twin transfusion syndrome: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Odibo AO(1), Caughey AB, Grobman W, Stamilio DM, Ville Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, 
Washington University Medical Center, St Louis, MO 63110, USA. 
odiboa@wudosis.wustl.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of selective laser photocoagulation 
(SLP) with serial amniodrainage (AD) in the treatment of twin-to-twin 
transfusion syndrome (TTTS).
STUDY DESIGN: Using decision-analysis modeling, we compared the 
cost-effectiveness of using laser photocoagulation with AD for the treatment of 
TTTS. The analysis was carried out from a societal perspective using a 
theoretical cohort of 1000 women with TTTS. Costs included the costs of 
procedures, perinatal complications from TTTS and of resources used for raising 
a child with cerebral palsy (CP) following TTTS. One-way, multiway and 
probabilistic (Monte Carlo) sensitivity analyses were carried out for all model 
variables. The main outcome measures were: cost per quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained from treating TTTS.
RESULT: On the basis of the available data, the decision model favors SLP as the 
most cost-effective treatment option compared with AD. Using the theoretical 
cohort, laser photocoagulation will result in an overall perinatal survival of 
59.3% compared with 51.5% for AD. The frequency of children with CP after laser 
would be 8.5% compared with 15.4% after AD. Sensitivity analyses showed the 
model to be robust over a wide range of values for the variables, except when 
the overall survival associated with AD is >62%. Above that survival rate, AD 
was the more cost-effective therapy.
CONCLUSION: Under a wide range of circumstances, the most cost-effective therapy 
for TTTS is SLP.

DOI: 10.1038/jp.2009.39
PMID: 19339984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Eur J Health Econ. 2009 Oct;10(4):429-36. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0150-9.
Epub  2009 Apr 2.

The lack of theoretical support for using person trade-offs in QALY-type models.

Østerdal LP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Copenhagen, Studiestraede 6, 1455 
Copenhagen K, Denmark. lars.p.osterdal@econ.ku.dk

Considerable support for the use of person trade-off methods to assess the 
quality-adjustment factor in quality-adjusted life years (QALY) models has been 
expressed in the literature. The WHO has occasionally used similar methods to 
assess the disability weights for calculation of disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs). This paper discusses the theoretical support for the use of person 
trade-offs in QALY-type measurement of (changes in) population health. It argues 
that measures of this type based on such quality-adjustment factors almost 
always violate the Pareto principle, and so lack normative justification.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0150-9
PMID: 19340469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Cerebellum. 2009 Sep;8(3):175-83. doi: 10.1007/s12311-009-0101-0. Epub 2009
Apr  2.

The robotic mouse: understanding the role of AF4, a cofactor of transcriptional 
elongation and chromatin remodelling, in purkinje cell function.

Bitoun E(1), Davies KE.

Author information:
(1)MRC Functional Genomics Unit, Department of Physiology, Anatomy and Genetics, 
University of Oxford, Oxford OX1 3QX, UK.

Neurological disorders represent a large share of the disease burden worldwide, 
and the incidence of age-related forms will continue to rise with life 
expectancy. Gene targeting has been and will remain a valuable approach to the 
generation of clinically relevant mouse models from which to elucidate the 
underlying molecular basis. However, as the aetiology of the majority of these 
conditions is still unknown, a reverse approach based on large-scale random 
chemical mutagenesis is now being used in an attempt to identify new genes and 
associated signalling pathways that control neuronal cell death and survival. 
Here, we review the characterisation of a novel model of autosomal dominant 
cerebellar ataxia which shows general growth retardation and develops 
adult-onset region-specific Purkinje cell loss as well as cataracts and defects 
in early T-cell maturation. We have previously established that the mutated 
protein Af4, which is a member of the AF4/LAF4/FMR2 (ALF) family of 
transcription cofactors frequently translocated in childhood leukaemia, 
undergoes slower proteasomal turnover through the ubiquitin pathway and 
abnormally accumulates in Purkinje cells of the cerebellum. We have also shown 
that Af4 functions as part of a large multiprotein complex that stimulates RNA 
polymerase II elongation and mediates chromatin remodelling during 
transcription. With the forthcoming identification of the gene targets that 
trigger Purkinje cell death in the robotic cerebellum, and the functional 
conservation among the ALF proteins, the robotic mouse promises to deliver 
important insights into the pathogenesis of human ataxia, but also of mental 
retardation to which FMR2 and LAF4 have been linked.

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-009-0101-0
PMID: 19340490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. J Addict Dis. 2009;28(2):137-44. doi: 10.1080/10550880902772456.

The cost effectiveness of naltrexone added to cognitive-behavioral therapy in 
the treatment of alcohol dependence.

Walters D(1), Connor JP, Feeney GF, Young RM.

Author information:
(1)Alcohol and Drug Assessment Unit, Princess Alexandra Hospital, Queensland, 
Australia.

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the comparative cost of treating 
alcohol dependence with either cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) alone or CBT 
combined with naltrexone (CBT+naltrexone). Two hundred ninety-eight outpatients 
dependent on alcohol who were consecutively treated for alcohol dependence 
participated in this study. One hundred seven (36%) patients received adjunctive 
pharmacotherapy (CBT+naltrexone). The Drug Abuse Treatment Cost Analysis Program 
was used to estimate treatment costs. Adjunctive pharmacotherapy 
(CBT+naltrexone) introduced an additional treatment cost and was 54% more 
expensive than CBT alone. When treatment abstinence rates (36.1% CBT; 62.6% 
CBT+naltrexone) were applied to cost effectiveness ratios, CBT+naltrexone 
demonstrated an advantage over CBT alone. There were no differences between 
groups on a preference-based health measure (SF-6D). In this treatment center, 
to achieve 100 abstainers over a 12-week program, 280 patients require CBT 
compared with 160 CBT+naltrexone. The dominant choice was CBT+naltrexone based 
on modest economic advantages and significant efficiencies in the numbers needed 
to treat.
