
Ronald JA(1), Chen Y, Bernas L, Kitzler HH, Rogers KA, Hegele RA, Rutt BK.

Author information:
(1)Robarts Research Institute, University of Western Ontario, 100 Perth Drive, 
1st Floor, London, ON, Canada N6A 5K8. jronald@imaging.robarts.ca

Two significant barriers have limited the development of effective treatment of 
Alzheimer's disease. First, for many cases the aetiology is unknown and likely 
multi-factorial. Among these factors, hypercholesterolemia is a known risk 
predictor and has been linked to the formation of beta-amyloid plaques, a 
pathological hallmark this disease. Second, standardized diagnostic tools are 
unable to definitively diagnose this disease prior to death; hence new 
diagnostic tools are urgently needed. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) using 
high field-strength scanners has shown promise for direct visualization of 
beta-amyloid plaques, allowing in vivo longitudinal tracking of disease 
progression in mouse models. Here, we present a new rabbit model for studying 
the relationship between cholesterol and Alzheimer's disease development and new 
tools for direct visualization of beta-amyloid plaques using clinical 
field-strength MRI. New Zealand white rabbits were fed either a low-level 
(0.125-0.25% w/w) cholesterol diet (n = 5) or normal chow (n = 4) for 27 months. 
High-resolution (66 x 66 x 100 microm(3); scan time = 96 min) ex vivo MRI of 
brains was performed using a 3-Tesla (T) MR scanner interfaced with customized 
gradient and radiofrequency coils. Beta-amyloid-42 immunostaining and Prussian 
blue iron staining were performed on brain sections and MR and histological 
images were manually registered. MRI revealed distinct signal voids throughout 
the brains of cholesterol-fed rabbits, whereas minimal voids were seen in 
control rabbit brains. These voids corresponded directly to small clusters of 
extracellular beta-amyloid-positive plaques, which were consistently identified 
as iron-loaded (the presumed source of MR contrast). Plaques were typically 
located in the hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, striatum, hypothalamus and 
thalamus. Quantitative analysis of the number of histologically positive 
beta-amyloid plaques (P < 0.0001) and MR-positive signal voids (P < 0.05) found 
in cholesterol-fed and control rabbit brains corroborated our qualitative 
observations. In conclusion, long-term, low-level cholesterol feeding was 
sufficient to promote the formation of extracellular beta-amyloid plaque 
formation in rabbits, supporting the integral role of cholesterol in the 
aetiology of Alzheimer's disease. We also present the first evidence that MRI is 
capable of detecting iron-associated beta-amyloid plaques in a rabbit model of 
Alzheimer's disease and have advanced the sensitivity of MRI for plaque 
detection to a new level, allowing clinical field-strength scanners to be 
employed. We believe extension of these technologies to an in vivo setting in 
rabbits is feasible and that our results support future work exploring the role 
of MRI as a leading imaging tool for this debilitating and life-threatening 
disease.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awp031
PMCID: PMC2677794
PMID: 19293239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Can Urol Assoc J. 2009 Feb;3(1):7-8. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.1005.

Assessing life expectancy: our continuing challenge.

Aprikian A(1).

Author information:
(1)Interim Editor-in-Chief CUAJ.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.1005
PMCID: PMC2645891
PMID: 19293966


348. Can Urol Assoc J. 2009 Feb;3(1):13-21.

Survival after radical prostatectomy and radiotherapy for prostate cancer: a 
population-based study.

Jeldres C(1), Suardi N, Perrotte P, Capitanio U, Walz J, Hutterer GC, Saad F, 
Valiquette L, Graefen M, Widmer H, Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montréal Health 
Centre (CHUM), Montréal, Que., and the.

OBJECTIVE: Based on the natural history of localized prostate cancer, the life 
expectancy (LE) of men treated with either radical prostatectomy (RP) or 
definitive external-beam radiotherapy (EBRT) should exceed 10 years. To test 
this hypothesis, we examined overall survival rates after RP or EBRT in a 
contemporary population-based cohort.
METHODS: Within a population-based cohort we assessed crude survival in 17 570 
men diagnosed with prostate cancer who were either treated with RP (n = 9678) or 
definitive EBRT (n = 7892) between 1989 and 2000. Age and Charlson Comorbidity 
Index (CCI) score at treatment represented covariates. In order to control for 
prostate cancer-related mortality, we repeated analyses for 9131 men who did not 
receive any secondary treatment for prostate cancer.
RESULTS: In the entire cohort, the actuarial 10-year survival probability after 
RP was 75.3%, versus 36.7% after EBRT (p < 0.001). In those who did not receive 
any secondary treatment, the actuarial 10-year survival probability after RP was 
81.1%, versus 30.4% after EBRT (p < 0.001). In multivariate Cox regression 
models, EBRT was associated with a 2.8-fold (p < 0.001) and 3.9-fold (p < 0.001) 
higher risk of mortality in the entire cohort and in the cohort without 
secondary treatment, respectively. Increased CCI score and increased age were 
also associated with a higher risk of mortality (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Some men treated with EBRT and, to a lesser extent, those treated 
with RP may have insufficient LE to warrant therapy with curative intent. More 
stringent selection criteria are necessary to avoid overtreatment.

OBJECTIF: Si on se fie à l’évolution naturelle du cancer localisé de la 
prostate, l’espérance de survie après une prostatectomie radicale (PR) ou une 
radiothérapie externe (RE) définitive devrait être supérieure à 10 ans. Pour 
vérifier cette hypothèse, nous avons examiné les taux de survie globaux après 
ces deux types d’interventions dans une cohorte représentative récente.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: Dans une cohorte représentative, nous avons évalué le taux brut de 
survie chez 17 570 hommes atteints d’un cancer de la prostate ayant subi une PR 
(n = 9678) ou une RE définitive (n = 7892) entre 1989 et 2000. L’âge et l’Indice 
de comorbidités de Charlson (ICC) en cours de traitement étaient les covariables 
examinées. Afin de mesurer la mortalité attribuable au cancer de la prostate, 
les analyses ont été répétées chez 9131 hommes n’ayant reçu aucun traitement 
secondaire pour leur cancer.
RÉSULTATS: La probabilité actuarielle de survie après 10 ans était de 75,3 % 
pour la PR contre 36,7 % pour la RE définitive (p < 0,001) dans la cohorte 
entière et de 81,1 % pour la PR contre 30,4 % pour la RE définitive (p < 0,001) 
chez les patients n’ayant reçu aucun traitement secondaire. Dans des modèles de 
régression multivariable de Cox, la RE a été associée à un risque 2,8 fois (p < 
0,001) et 3,9 fois (p < 0,001) plus élevé de mortalité dans la cohorte entière 
et dans la cohorte n’ayant reçu aucun traitement secondaire, respectivement. On 
a aussi établi un lien entre un risque plus élevé de mortalité d’une part, et un 
ICC plus élevé et un âge plus avancé d’autre part (p < 0,001).
CONCLUSION: L’espérance de survie de certains hommes traités par RE et, dans une 
moindre mesure, de certains hommes traités par PR pourrait être trop faible pour 
justifier un traitement à but curatif. Des critères de sélection plus rigoureux 
sont donc requis afin d’éviter tout traitement excessif.

PMCID: PMC2645889
PMID: 19293970


349. Nervenarzt. 2009 Apr;80(4):459-63. doi: 10.1007/s00115-009-2685-5.

[Orolingual angioedema under systemic thrombolysis with rt-PA: an underestimated 
side effect].

[Article in German]

Ottomeyer C(1), Sick C, Hennerici MG, Szabo K.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universitätsklinikum Mannheim, 
Universität Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany. 
c.ottomeyer@neuro.ma.uni-heidelberg.de

BACKGROUND: Orolingual angioedema (OA) is an unappreciated complication of acute 
stroke treatment with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA). It has 
been described in 2% of patients receiving thrombolysis, and it seems that 
patients taking angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors are especially at risk. 
Even though the presentation is generally unilateral and limited to lips and 
tongue, an extension of edema to the oropharynx may lead to life-threatening 
upper airway obstruction.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: In a retrospective analysis of clinical data of 407 
patients treated with systemic rt-PA thrombolysis between January 2006 and 
October 2008 in our department, we describe the occurrence and clinical 
presentation of OA.
RESULTS: Nine of 407 patients (2.2%) showed clinical signs of OA. Typical 
presentations of OA are illustrated in case reports describing two of these 
patients and are completed by an overview of the current literature.
DISCUSSION: Besides prophylactic inspection of the oral cavity during and after 
thrombolysis, therapeutic options in case of OA include early intravenous 
antihistaminergic therapy and protective intubation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-009-2685-5
PMID: 19294360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Health Econ. 2009 Apr;18 Suppl 1:S55-75. doi: 10.1002/hec.1461.

Measuring health inequality with realization of potential life years (RePLY).

Tang KK(1), Petrie D, Rao DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Queensland QLD 
4072, Australia. kk.tang@uq.edu.au

This paper proposes a new method to measure health inequalities that are caused 
by conditions amenable to policy intervention. The method is built on a 
technique that can separate avoidable and unavoidable mortality risks, using 
world mortality data compiled by the World Health Organization for the year 
2000. The new method is applied to data from 191 countries. It is found that 
controlling for unavoidable mortality risks leads to a lower estimate of health 
inequality than otherwise, especially for developed countries. Furthermore, 
although countries with a higher life expectancy at birth tend to have lower 
health inequality, there are significant variations in health inequalities 
across countries with the same life expectancy. The results therefore support 
the WHO's plea for using health inequality as a distinct parameter from the 
average level of health in assessing the performance of health systems.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1461
PMID: 19294636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Health Econ. 2009 Apr;18 Suppl 1:S37-54. doi: 10.1002/hec.1460.

Life expectancy and welfare in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Soares RR(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Economia, Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro, Rua Marquês 
de São Vicente 225, 22451-900 Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil. soares@econ.puc-rio.br

This paper analyses the recent evolution of life expectancy in Latin American 
and Caribbean countries, and evaluates how much it has contributed to the 
overall improvements in welfare. We argue that increases in life expectancy 
between 1960 and 2000, which were largely independent of income, represented 
gains in welfare comparable to the ones derived from income growth. For 
countries in the region, estimates of welfare improvements accounting for health 
increase the numbers obtained from income alone by 40% on average. The available 
evidence suggests that improvements in public health infrastructure - such as 
provision of treated water and sewerage services - and large-scale immunization 
programs may have been the key factors behind the mortality reductions observed 
in the period.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1460
PMID: 19294637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Health Econ. 2009 Apr;18 Suppl 1:S1-12. doi: 10.1002/hec.1456.

Health inequality and deprivation.

McGillivray M(1), Dutta I, Markova N.

Author information:
(1)Australian Agency for International Development, Canberra, Australia. 
mark.mcgillivray@ausaid.gov.au

This paper looks at health inequality and deprivation, with a particular focus 
on developing countries. It is specifically concerned with relationships between 
health and income, especially the extent to which inequality and deprivation in 
the former is driven by changes in the latter. The paper reports increasing 
disparity in child mortality among country groups since the mid-1970s. It also 
reports decreased inequality in life expectancy among countries from the early 
1960s until the late 1980s and increased inequality thereafter. Similar patterns 
in life expectancy deprivation are reported. The paper finds that this is partly 
due to a changing behavioural relationship between life expectancy and income 
per capita among countries with low achievement in the former variable. The 
paper also introduces and provides an overview of the papers that follow in this 
Supplement.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1456
PMID: 19294639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2009 Mar;36(3):417-24.

[The effectiveness of S-1 based sequential chemotherapy as second-line treatment 
for advanced/recurrent gastric cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Sugimoto N(1), Narahara H, Sakai D, Yamamoto S, Fumoto S, Yagi T, Imamura F, 
Iishi H, Tatsuta M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Clinical Oncology, Osaka Medical Center for Cancer and 
Cardiovascular Diseases.

BACKGROUND: We conducted this study to evaluate the efficacy of S-1 combination 
chemotherapy as second-line treatment for advanced/recurrent gastric cancer that 
was resistant to S-1 based chemotherapy as first-line treatment.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We evaluated patients included in phase II.III clinical 
trials, that is SPIRITS trial(S-1 vs CDDP +S-1), GC0301/TOP-002(S-1 vs 
CPT-11+S-1), OGSG0002(S-1+CPT-11)and OGSG0105(S-1+paclitaxel). Eligibility 
criteria at first-line included; pathologically proven gastric cancer, adequate 
bone marrow, hepatic, and renal functions, PS 0-2, no prior therapy, life 
expectancy estimated > or =12 weeks, age 20-75 years and written informed 
consent. Endpoints were as follows; )PFS in first-line and second-line, )Time to 
Second Progression(TSP), 3) OS.
RESULTS: Sixty-six patients were evaluable in this study. We classified these 
patients into 4 groups according to the protocol. A)S-1 alone in first-line and 
S-1 combination in second-line(n=7), B)S-1 alone in first-line and other drugs 
in second-line(n=13), C)S-1 combination in first-line and another S-1 
combination in second-line(n=33), D) S-1 combination in first-line and other 
drugs in second-line(n=13). We compared S-1 combination group(A+C)to other drugs 
group(B+D)in second-line. In first-line, PFS was 157.5 days in group(A+C)and 130 
days in group(B +D)(p=0.2749). In second-line, PFS, TSP and OS were as follows; 
72.5, 256.5, 473 days in group(A+C)and 56, 201.5, 398.5 days(PFS; p=0.0806, TSP: 
p=0.0718, OS: p=0.0204)in group(B+D), respectively. With regards to adverse 
events, group(A+C)in first-line showed higher frequency in grade 3/4 
leukopenia(10%), febrile neutropenia(5%)and grade 3 diarrhea(10%)than 
group(B+D). In second-line, group(B+D)showed grade 3/4 leukopenia (12%)and 
neutropenia(8%)than group(A+C). There were no treatment-related deaths.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that S-1 combination chemotherapy is 
efficient as second-line for advanced/recurrent gastric cancer that got 
resistant to S-1 based chemotherapy as first-line.

PMID: 19295265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Orthopade. 2009 Apr;38(4):324, 326-8, 330-4. doi: 10.1007/s00132-008-1376-4.

[Surgical treatment of pathologic fractures of the humerus and femur].

[Article in German]

Gruber G(1), Zacherl M, Leithner A, Giessauf C, Glehr M, Clar H, Windhager R.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Orthopädie und orthopädische Chirurgie, Medizinische 
Universität, Graz, Osterreich.

The life expectancy of patients with malignant tumours and the incidence of 
osseous metastases have increased over the last decades. Operations for skeletal 
metastases of the extremities represent the most frequent surgery in orthopaedic 
oncology. The purpose of this study was to evaluate and compare the different 
operative treatment options for patients with pathologic fractures of the 
humerus and femur in terms of complications, postoperative recovery, and 
survival.From 2000 to 2005, 109 patients were surgically treated for pathologic 
fractures of the humerus (n=19) or femur (n=90). The study group consisted of 60 
women and 43 men, with a mean age of 67 years (13-88). Breast carcinoma (36%) 
was the most common primary tumour, followed by kidney (17%) and bronchial (16%) 
carcinoma. Of all patients, 75 (73%) had numerous skeletal metastases, and 38 
(37%) had visceral metastases.Wide or marginal resection was performed in seven 
fractures of the humerus and 14 fractures of the femur; intralesional resection 
was done in seven humeral and 73 femoral fractures; and stabilisation alone was 
done in five fractures of the humerus and three fractures of the femur. The 
median survival time for all patients was 6 months (0-102). The survival rate at 
1 year was 25% (25% for both humeral and femoral fractures), 15% at 2 years (17% 
for humeral and 15% for femoral fractures), and 8% at 3 years (16% for humeral 
and 7% for femoral fractures). The overall complication rate was 11%, and 
revision surgeries were performed in seven patients (6.4%). The majority of 
patients (n=65; 60%), especially those with fractures close to the articular 
joint, were successfully treated with endoprosthetic replacement. Patients with 
fractures stabilised by intramedullary nails had shorter operating times, a 
shorter hospital stay, and fewer complications than patients treated with 
plating systems. Therefore, we recommend intralesional resection of the 
metastasis and stabilisation with intramedullary devices, supported by bone 
cement, as the treatment of choice for pathologic fractures of the diaphysis and 
metaphysis of the humerus and femur. Wide resection should be reserved for 
selected cases, such as solitary bone metastasis of kidney carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-008-1376-4
PMID: 19296079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Muscle Nerve. 2009 Apr;39(4):548-52. doi: 10.1002/mus.21260.

Long-term dietary administration of valproic acid does not affect, while 
retinoic acid decreases, the lifespan of G93A mice, a model for amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.

Crochemore C(1), Virgili M, Bonamassa B, Canistro D, Pena-Altamira E, Paolini M, 
Contestabile A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Bologna, Via Selmi 3, 40126 Bologna, 
Italy.

Mice bearing the mutated gene for Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (G93A) are a good 
model for human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). They develop progressive 
limb paralysis paralleled by loss of motor neurons of the cervical and lumbar 
spinal cord, which starts at 3-3.5 months of age and ends with death at 4-5 
months. Several treatments have been attempted to delay clinical symptoms and to 
extend lifespan, and some have had modest beneficial effects. One such 
treatment, based on long-term administration of valproic acid (VPA), resulted in 
controversial results. We report here that, while dietary supplementation with 
high VPA dosage slows down motor neuron death, as assessed by measurement of a 
specific marker for cholinergic neurons in the spinal cord, it has no 
significant effect on lifespan. Recently, the hypothesis has been put forward 
that a deficiency of retinoic acid (RA) and its signaling may have a role in 
ALS. We report that long-term dietary supplementation with RA has no effect on 
the decrease of the cholinergic marker in the spinal cord, but it significantly 
shortens lifespan of G93A mice.

DOI: 10.1002/mus.21260
PMID: 19296491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Med J Aust. 2009 Mar 2;190(5):242-3. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2009.tb02383.x.

Could the Baby Bonus be a bonus for babies?

de Costa CM(1), Wenitong M.

Author information:
(1)James Cook University School of Medicine, Cairns, QLD, Australia. 
caroline.decosta@jcu.edu.au

Closing the gap in life expectancy between Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
Australians needs to start in the womb. Rates of perinatal mortality, preterm 
birth and low birthweight are two to three times greater among the babies of 
Indigenous women than among those of non-Indigenous women; low birthweight 
predisposes infants to greater risks of chronic illness in later life. 
Indigenous women in Australia tend to present for antenatal care later in 
pregnancy than do non-Indigenous women. There are many barriers for Indigenous 
women seeking to access antenatal care - geographical, social, cultural, 
financial and in some cases a lack of service provision. Many of these problems 
are being addressed within the public health system and by Indigenous 
community-controlled health services. However, more needs to be done. While 
antenatal care cannot solve all medical and social problems, commencing such 
care as early as possible in pregnancy has the potential to improve maternal 
health and hence pregnancy outcomes. Changes in the way the government Baby 
Bonus is paid to new mothers could act as an incentive not only to service 
providers but also to women themselves to initiate antenatal care in the first 
trimester of pregnancy. Such a system has been well established for many years 
in France. Any changes to the Baby Bonus scheme should provide incentives and 
not be punitive in nature.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2009.tb02383.x
PMID: 19296786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Urol. 2009 May;181(5):2181-6. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2009.01.037. Epub 2009
Mar  17.

Cost-effectiveness of botulinum toxin a versus anticholinergic medications for 
idiopathic urge incontinence.

Wu JM(1), Siddiqui NY, Amundsen CL, Myers ER, Havrilesky LJ, Visco AG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina 27710, USA. Jennifer.wu@duke.edu

PURPOSE: We assessed the cost-effectiveness of botulinum toxin A injection 
compared to anticholinergic medications for the treatment of idiopathic urge 
incontinence.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model was developed to compare 
the costs in 2008 U. S. dollars and effectiveness in quality adjusted life-years 
of botulinum toxin A injection and anticholinergic medications. The analysis was 
conducted from a societal perspective with a 2-year time frame using 3-month 
cycles. The primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
defined as the difference in cost (botulinum toxin A cost--anticholinergic cost) 
divided by the difference in effectiveness (botulinum toxin A quality adjusted 
life-years--anticholinergic quality adjusted life-years).
RESULTS: While the botulinum strategy was more expensive ($4,392 vs $2,563) it 
was also more effective (1.63 vs 1.50 quality adjusted life-years) compared to 
the anticholinergic regimen. The calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
was $14,377 per quality adjusted life-year, meaning that botulinum toxin A cost 
$14,377 per quality adjusted life-year gained. A strategy is often considered 
cost-effective when the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is less than 
$50,000 per quality adjusted life-year. Given this definition botulinum toxin A 
is cost-effective compared to anticholinergics. To determine if there are 
situations in which anticholinergics would become cost-effective we performed 
sensitivity analyses. Anticholinergics become cost-effective if compliance 
exceeds 75% (33% in the base case) and if the botulinum toxin A procedure cost 
exceeds $3,875 ($1,690 in the base case). For the remainder of the sensitivity 
analyses botulinum toxin A remained cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Botulinum toxin A injection was cost-effective compared to 
anticholinergic medications for the treatment of refractory urge incontinence. 
Anticholinergics become cost-effective if patients are highly compliant with 
medications or if the botulinum procedure costs increase substantially.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2009.01.037
PMID: 19296983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Miss State Med Assoc. 2008 Mar;49(3):88-9.

Premature death.

O'Dell M.

PMID: 19297904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Milbank Q. 2009 Mar;87(1):49-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2009.00547.x.

Reducing obesity: motivating action while not blaming the victim.

Adler NE(1), Stewart J.

Author information:
(1)University of California-San Francisco, 3333 California Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94143-0848, USA. nancy.adler@ucsf.edu

CONTEXT: The rise in obesity in the United States may slow or even reverse the 
long-term trend of increasing life expectancy. Like many risk factors for 
disease, obesity results from behavior and shows a social gradient. Especially 
among women, obesity is more common among lower-income individuals, those with 
less education, and some ethnic/racial minorities.
METHODS: This article examines the underlying assumptions and implications for 
policy and the interventions of the two predominant models used to explain the 
causes of obesity and also suggests a synthesis that avoids "blaming the victim" 
while acknowledging the role of individuals' health behaviors in weight 
maintenance.
FINDINGS: (1) The medical model focuses primarily on treatment, addressing 
individuals' personal behaviors as the cause of their obesity. An underlying 
assumption is that as independent agents, individuals make informed choices. 
Interventions are providing information and motivating individuals to modify 
their behaviors. (2) The public health model concentrates more on prevention and 
sees the roots of obesity in an obesogenic environment awash in influences that 
lead individuals to engage in health-damaging behaviors. Interventions are 
modifying environmental forces through social policies. (3) There is a tension 
between empowering individuals to manage their weight through diet and exercise 
and blaming them for failure to do so. Patterns of obesity by race/ethnicity and 
socioeconomic status highlight this tension. (4) Environments differ in their 
health-promoting resources; for example, poorer communities have fewer 
supermarkets, more fast-food outlets, and fewer accessible and safe recreational 
opportunities.
CONCLUSIONS: A social justice perspective facilitates a synthesis of both 
models. This article proposes the concept of "behavioral justice" to convey the 
principle that individuals are responsible for engaging in health-promoting 
behaviors but should be held accountable only when they have adequate resources 
to do so. This perspective maintains both individuals' control and 
accountability for behaviors and society's responsibility to provide 
health-promoting environments.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2009.00547.x
PMCID: PMC2879178
PMID: 19298415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Popul Health Metr. 2009 Mar 19;7:4. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-7-4.

Calculation of health expectancies with administrative data for North 
Rhine-Westphalia, a Federal State of Germany, 1999-2005.

Pinheiro P(1), Krämer A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Medicine, School of Public Health, University of 
Bielefeld, Universitätsstr, 25, 33615 Bielefeld, Germany. 
alexander.kraemer@uni-bielefeld.de.

OBJECTIVES: The main objectives of this study were to prove the feasibility of 
health expectancy analyses with regional administrative health statistics and to 
explore the utility of the calculated health expectancies in describing the 
health state of the population living in North Rhine-Westphalia, a Federal State 
of Germany.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Administrative population and mortality data as well as 
health data on disability and long-term care provided by public services were 
used to calculate: a) the life expectancy and b) the health expectancies 
Severe-Disability-Free Life Expectancy (SDFLE) and Long-Term-Care-Free Life 
Expectancy (LTCFLE) from 1999 to 2005. Calculations were done using the Sullivan 
method.
RESULTS: SDFLE at birth was 69.9 years (males 66.2 and females 73.2 years) in 
1999 and it increased to 71.7 years (males 68.6 and females 74.7 years) in 2005. 
The proportion of the SDFLE on the total life expectancy at birth was 89.8% 
(males 88.6 and females 90.8%) in 1999 and 90.7% (males 89.8 and females 91.4%) 
in 2005.LTCFLE at birth was 75.3 years (males 73.1 and females 77.5 years) in 
1999 and it increased to 76.6 years (males 74.7 and females 78.6 years) in 2005. 
The proportion of the LTCFLE on the total life expectancy at birth was 96.8% 
(males 97.8 and females 96.1%) in 1999 and 96.8% (males 97.8 and females 96.2%) 
in 2005.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Both health expectancies indicate an improvement in 
the quantity as well as in the quality of healthy life for the population living 
in North Rhine Westphalia and therefore suggest a compression of morbidity from 
1999 to 2005. The findings however have several limitations in their 
sensitivity, since we applied dichotomous valuations to the health states. In 
addition, the results are restricted to comparisons over time because the 
morbidity concepts do not allow for comparisons with populations other than the 
German one. Refined calculations with other summary measures of population 
health and with health data on other morbidity concepts are therefore 
reasonable.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-7-4
PMCID: PMC2662786
PMID: 19298666361. Neurology. 2009 Jul 28;73(4):258-65. doi: 10.1212/01.wnl.0b013e3181a2a4ea.
Epub  2009 Mar 18.

Cost-effectiveness of preventive treatment of intracranial aneurysms: new data 
and uncertainties.

Greving JP(1), Rinkel GJ, Buskens E, Algra A.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Stratenum 6.131, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
J.P.Greving@umcutrecht.nl

Comment in
    Neurology. 2009 Jul 28;73(4):254-5.

BACKGROUND: Previous modeling studies on treatment of unruptured intracranial 
aneurysms largely disregarded detailed data on treatment risks and omitted 
several factors that could influence cost-effectiveness. We performed a 
cost-effectiveness analysis of surgical and endovascular treatment of unruptured 
aneurysms for different rupture rates and life expectancies, and assessed the 
influence of excess mortality risks in these persons, de novo development of 
aneurysms, and utility of awareness of having an untreated aneurysm, and also 
identified important factors for which data are lacking.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to compare surgical, endovascular, and no 
treatment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms. Inputs for the model were taken 
mainly from meta-analyses. Direct medical costs were derived from Dutch cost 
studies and expressed in 2005 Euros. We performed sensitivity analyses to 
evaluate model robustness.
RESULTS: For 50-year-old patients, treatment of unruptured aneurysms is 
cost-effective for all rupture rate scenarios between 0.3% and 3.5%/year. In 
70-year-old patients, treatment is not cost-effective in men with rupture rates 
< or =1%/year and women with rupture rates < or =0.5%/year. With lower utility 
of awareness of an untreated aneurysm, the cost-effectiveness of treatment 
strongly increased. The effect of excess mortality risks on the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios was modest. The risk of formation of new aneurysms had 
no relevant impact.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients' life expectancy, risk of rupture, and utility of 
awareness of an untreated aneurysm mainly define cost-effectiveness. However, 
important uncertainties remain on the rupture risk according to size and 
location of the aneurysm and on the utility of awareness of untreated aneurysm. 
More data on these factors are needed to define and individualize 
cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.1212/01.wnl.0b013e3181a2a4ea
PMID: 19299311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Mult Scler. 2009 May;15(5):580-6. doi: 10.1177/1352458508100034. Epub 2009
Mar  19.

Brain activation in multiple sclerosis: a BOLD fMRI study of the effects of 
fatiguing hand exercise.

White AT(1), Lee JN, Light AR, Light KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise & Sport Science and Brain Institute, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA. Andrea.white@hsc.utah.edu

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) patients experience fatigue as a chronic 
symptom that decreases quality of life. Commonly, fatigue in MS patients is 
manifested as decreased motor function during or after physical activity and is 
associated with changes in brain metabolism.
OBJECTIVE: To determine brain activation patterns in MS patients and healthy 
controls during a simple motor task before and after fatiguing hand-grip 
exercise.
METHODS: Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) scans were conducted on 10 
MS patients and 13 healthy controls during 4-finger flexion and extension in 
rested and fatigued states.
RESULTS: Before the fatigue protocol, MS patients had greater activation in the 
contralateral primary motor cortex, insula, and cingulate gyrus than controls. 
Following fatiguing exercise, controls showed increased activation of precentral 
gyrus and insula while patients did not show any activation increases and 
actually decreased activity to the insula.
CONCLUSION: Results indicate that before fatiguing exercise, MS patients 
marshaled more brain activation compared to controls, which may represent 
functionally adaptive changes in response to demyelination. This increased 
activation may suggest that patients require more effort to perform even simple 
motor tasks, possibly because peripheral or central signals for fatigue are 
chronically enhanced. When fatigued further by muscle contraction, brain 
activation cannot be further increased.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458508100034
PMID: 19299441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2009 Oct;39(5):439-57. doi:
10.1007/s11084-009-9163-8.  Epub 2009 Mar 17.

Evaluation of coupled perturbed and density functional methods of computing the 
parity-violating energy difference between enantiomers.

MacDermott AJ(1), Hyde GO, Cohen AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, School of Science, Computing and Engineering, 
University of Houston-Clear Lake, 2700 Bay Area Boulevard, Houston, TX 
77058-1098, USA. macdermott@uhcl.edu

Erratum in
    Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2009 Dec;39(6):599.

We present new coupled-perturbed Hartree-Fock (CPHF) and density functional 
theory (DFT) computations of the parity-violating energy difference (PVED) 
between enantiomers for H(2)O(2) and H(2)S(2). Our DFT PVED computations are the 
first for H(2)S(2) and the first with the new HCTH and OLYP functionals. Like 
other "second generation" PVED computations, our results are an order of 
magnitude larger than the original "first generation" uncoupled-perturbed 
Hartree-Fock computations of Mason and Tranter. We offer an explanation for the 
dramatically larger size in terms of cancellation of contributions of opposing 
signs, which also explains the basis set sensitivity of the PVED, and its 
conformational hypersensitivity (addressed in the following paper). This paper 
also serves as a review of the different types of "second generation" PVED 
computations: we set our work in context, comparing our results with those of 
four other groups, and noting the good agreement between results obtained by 
very different methods. DFT PVEDs tend to be somewhat inflated compared to the 
CPHF values, but this is not a problem when only sign and order of magnitude are 
required. Our results with the new OLYP functional are less inflated than those 
with other functionals, and OLYP is also more efficient computationally. We 
therefore conclude that DFT computation offers a promising approach for low-cost 
extension to larger biosystems, especially polymers. The following two papers 
extend to terrestrial and extra-terrestrial amino acids respectively, and later 
work will extend to polymers.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-009-9163-8
PMID: 19301142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Laryngoscope. 2009 Jun;119(6):1180-3. doi: 10.1002/lary.20182.

Cochlear implant surgery in patients more than seventy-nine years old.

Eshraghi AA(1), Rodriguez M, Balkany TJ, Telischi FF, Angeli S, Hodges AV, Adil 
E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, Florida 33136, USA. aeshraghi@med.miami.edu

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: To evaluate the surgical complications, auditory 
performance, and hearing handicap following cochlear implantation in patients 
greater than 79 years of age.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective trial, tertiary referral center.
METHODS: The study group was comprised of 21 patients implanted after 79 years 
of age from 1996 through 2006 with follow-ups past their 8th decade. Pre-op 
evaluation consisted of pure-tone audiometry and speech discrimination scores 
(Hearing in Noise Test and City University of New York sentence test). The 
results of these tests were compared to similar tests taken post-op. A validated 
hearing handicap questionnaire was used to evaluate the outcome.
RESULTS: There were no permanent medical or surgical complications. However, two 
patients developed exacerbations of previous comorbid conditions (i.e., urinary 
retention and acute delirium). Implanted patients experienced a significant 
improvement in audiologic performance, post-op pure tone average, and post-op 
speech scores (P < .001). A majority of them were able to use the phone and 
reported that the cochlear implant was of great benefit to them. The post-op 
hearing handicap inventory for the elderly demonstrated a significant decrease 
of hearing handicap scores.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to focus on a patient group this advanced 
in age. With increasing life expectancy, we should begin to stratify risk versus 
benefit of cochlear implantation in this age group. Cochlear implantation 
improved audiologic performance and the quality of life in patients older than 
79 years old. There were no permanent medical or surgical complications. Chronic 
pain and temporary vertigo were the most common complications reported in this 
elderly group. Laryngoscope, 2009.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.20182
PMID: 19301411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Soc Work Public Health. 2008;23(6):75-98. doi: 10.1080/19371910802059635.

Cost-utility analysis of high- vs. low-intensity home- and community-based 
service interventions.

Smith CA(1), Frick KD.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Maryland, Baltimore, USA. 
charles.smith@montgomerycountymd.gov

Home- and community-based services (HCBS) have been advocated as a mechanism to 
delay institutionalization and reduce health care costs for the growing senior 
population. Studies of costs to date have found little evidence of cost savings 
from HCBS. However, HCBS can be thought to have two main benefits: delaying 
institutionalization and improving quality of life. Since cost and quality of 
life can be considered simultaneously in a cost-effectiveness analysis, an 
exploratory study was conducted to examine the relative cost-effectiveness of a 
high-dosage (i.e., high-intensity) HCBS intervention (i.e., 1915c Medicaid 
waiver) compared to a lower-dosage HCBS intervention (i.e., in-home aide 
service) using quality-adjusted life years as the measure of effectiveness. 
Findings indicated that high-dosage HCBS is not a cost-effective alternative. 
The low-dosage alternative allows for greater equity through provision of 
service to a larger pool of individuals in need.

DOI: 10.1080/19371910802059635
PMID: 19301545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. BJU Int. 2009 Apr;103(7):864-70. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.08206.x.

Prostate cancer: a serious disease suitable for prevention.

Fitzpatrick JM(1), Schulman C, Zlotta AR, Schröder FH.

Author information:
(1)Mater Misericordiae Hospital and University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland. 
jfitzpatrick@mater.ie

Prostate cancer is among the most common causes of death from cancer in men, and 
accounts for 10% of all new male cancers worldwide. The diagnosis and treatment 
of prostate cancer place a substantial physical and emotional burden on patients 
and their families, and have considerable financial implications for healthcare 
providers and society. Given that the risk of prostate cancer continues to 
increase with age, the burden of the disease is likely to increase in line with 
population life-expectancy. Reducing the risk of prostate cancer has gained 
increasing coverage in recent years, with proof of principle shown in the 
Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial with the type 2 5alpha-reductase (5AR) 
inhibitor, finasteride. The long latency period, high disease prevalence, and 
significant associated morbidity and mortality make prostate cancer a suitable 
target for a risk-reduction approach. Several agents are under investigation for 
reducing the risk of prostate cancer, including selenium/vitamin E and selective 
oestrogen receptors modulators (e.g. toremifene). In addition, the Reduction by 
Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer Events trial, involving >8000 men, is evaluating 
the effect of the dual 5AR inhibitor, dutasteride, on the risk of developing 
prostate cancer. A successful risk-reduction strategy might decrease the 
incidence of the disease, as well as the anxiety, cost and morbidity associated 
with its diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2008.08206.x
PMID: 19302133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Aging Cell. 2009 Apr;8(2):88-99. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00455.x.

Effects of dietary restriction on mortality and age-related phenotypes in the 
short-lived fish Nothobranchius furzeri.

Terzibasi E(1), Lefrançois C, Domenici P, Hartmann N, Graf M, Cellerino A.

Author information:
(1)Biology of Aging, Fritz Lipmann Institute for Age Research, Leibniz 
Institute, Jena 07745 Germany.

The short-lived annual fish Nothobranchius furzeri shows extremely short captive 
life span and accelerated expression of age markers, making it an interesting 
model system to investigate the effects of experimental manipulations on 
longevity and age-related pathologies. Here, we tested the effects of dietary 
restriction (DR) on mortality and age-related markers in N. furzeri. DR was 
induced by every other day feeding and the treatment was performed both in an 
inbred laboratory line and a longer-lived wild-derived line. In the inbred 
laboratory line, DR reduced age-related risk and prolonged maximum life span. In 
the wild-derived line, DR induced early mortality, did not reduce general 
age-related risk and caused a small but significant extension of maximum life 
span. Analysis of age-dependent mortality revealed that DR reduced demographic 
rate of aging, but increased baseline mortality in the wild-derived strain. In 
both inbred- and wild-derived lines, DR prevented the expression of the age 
markers lipofuscin in the liver and Fluoro-Jade B (neurodegeneration) in the 
brain. DR also improved performance in a learning test based on conditioning 
(active avoidance in a shuttle box). Finally, DR induced a paradoxical 
up-regulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein in the brain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00455.x
PMID: 19302373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Biochimie. 2009 Jun;91(6):804-9. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2009.03.004. Epub
2009  Mar 18.

The essential role of lipids in Alzheimer's disease.

Florent-Béchard S(1), Desbène C, Garcia P, Allouche A, Youssef I, Escanyé MC, 
Koziel V, Hanse M, Malaplate-Armand C, Stenger C, Kriem B, Yen-Potin FT, Olivier 
JL, Pillot T, Oster T.

Author information:
(1)Lipidomix, ENSAIA - INPL, Nancy-Université, France.

In the absence of efficient diagnostic and therapeutic tools, Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) is a major public health concern due to longer life expectancy in 
the Western countries. Although the precise cause of AD is still unknown, 
soluble beta-amyloid (Abeta) oligomers are considered the proximate effectors of 
the synaptic injury and neuronal death occurring in the early stages of AD. 
Abeta oligomers may directly interact with the synaptic membrane, leading to 
impairment of synaptic functions and subsequent signalling pathways triggering 
neurodegeneration. Therefore, membrane structure and lipid status should be 
considered determinant factors in Abeta-oligomer-induced synaptic and cell 
injuries, and therefore AD progression. Numerous epidemiological studies have 
highlighted close relationships between AD incidence and dietary patterns. Among 
the nutritional factors involved, lipids significantly influence AD 
pathogenesis. It is likely that maintenance of adequate membrane lipid content 
could prevent the production of Abeta peptide as well as its deleterious effects 
upon its interaction with synaptic membrane, thereby protecting neurons from 
Abeta-induced neurodegeneration. As major constituents of neuronal lipids, n-3 
polyunsaturated fatty acids are of particular interest in the prevention of AD 
valuable diet ingredients whose neuroprotective properties could be essential 
for designing preventive nutrition-based strategies. In this review, we discuss 
the functional relevance of neuronal membrane features with respect to 
susceptibility to Abeta oligomers and AD pathogenesis, as well as the 
prospective capacities of lipids to prevent or to delay the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2009.03.004
PMID: 19303044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Hepatol. 2009 May;50(5):990-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2008.12.022. Epub 2009
Feb  15.

Antiviral therapy for hepatitis B-related liver cancer prevention is more 
cost-effective than cancer screening.

Robotin MC(1), Kansil M, Howard K, George J, Tipper S, Dore GJ, Levy M, Penman 
AG.

Author information:
(1)The Cancer Council NSW, Research Strategy and Scientific Development Unit, 
153 Dowling St, Woolloomooloo, NSW 2011, Sydney, Australia. monicar@nswcc.org.au

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2009 May;50(5):854-6.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: In Australia, Asian-born populations are 6-12 times more likely 
to develop hepatocellular cancer (HCC) than Australian-born individuals. We 
therefore, modelled the consequences of different management strategies for 
chronic hepatitis B (CHB) in Asian-born adults aged > or = 35 years.
METHODS: A Markov model compared (1) enhanced surveillance for HCC alone (HCC 
surveillance), or (2) enhanced HCC surveillance coupled with CHB treatment (HCC 
prevention) to the current practice, of low CHB treatment uptake. Patients were 
stratified and managed according to risk categories, based upon hepatitis B 
virus (HBV) viral load and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels. We measured 
costs, health outcomes [cases of HCC and deaths averted, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained] and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: HCC surveillance would cost on average AU$8479 per person, compared to 
AU$2632 with current clinical practice and result in a gain of 0.014 QALYs 
(AU$401,516/QALY gained). A HCC prevention strategy would cost on average 
AU$14,600 per person, result in 0.923 QALYs gained (AU$12,956/QALY gained), 
reduce cases of cirrhosis by 52%, HCC diagnoses by 47% and CHB-related deaths by 
56%, compared to current practice.
CONCLUSIONS: HCC prevention appears to be a cost-effective public health 
strategy in at-risk populations in Australia and is preferable to HCC 
surveillance as a cancer control strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2008.12.022
PMID: 19303657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Cell. 2009 Mar 20;136(6):1073-84. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2009.01.033.

Protein acetylation microarray reveals that NuA4 controls key metabolic target 
regulating gluconeogenesis.

Lin YY(1), Lu JY, Zhang J, Walter W, Dang W, Wan J, Tao SC, Qian J, Zhao Y, 
Boeke JD, Berger SL, Zhu H.

Author information:
(1)High Throughput Biology Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.

Histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs) conduct many 
critical functions through nonhistone substrates in metazoans, but only 
chromatin-associated nonhistone substrates are known in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae. Using yeast proteome microarrays, we identified and validated many 
nonchromatin substrates of the essential nucleosome acetyltransferase of H4 
(NuA4) complex. Among these, acetylation sites (Lys19 and 514) of 
phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (Pck1p) were determined by tandem mass 
spectrometry. Acetylation at Lys514 was crucial for enzymatic activity and the 
ability of yeast cells to grow on nonfermentable carbon sources. Furthermore, 
Sir2p deacetylated Pck1p both in vitro and in vivo. Loss of Pck1p activity 
blocked the extension of yeast chronological life span caused by water 
starvation. In human hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) cells, human Pck1 
acetylation and glucose production were dependent on TIP60, the human homolog of 
ESA1. Our findings demonstrate a regulatory function for the NuA4 complex in 
glucose metabolism and life span by acetylating a critical metabolic enzyme.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2009.01.033
PMCID: PMC2696288
PMID: 19303850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Bone. 2009 Jul;45 Suppl 1:S39-42. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2009.03.655. Epub 2009
Mar  19.

Recent progress in understanding dialysis-related amyloidosis.

Yamamoto S(1), Kazama JJ, Narita I, Naiki H, Gejyo F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Nephrology and Rheumatology, Niigata University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Science, Niigata, 951-8510, Japan.

Dialysis-Related Amyloidosis (DRA) is a general amyloidosis, which is 
specifically found in CKD stage 5 patients. DRA causes various osteoarticular 
lesions in dialysis patients, and therefore it is not practical to regard this 
condition separately from chronic kidney disease-mineral and bone disorder 
(CKD-MBD), at least from the viewpoint of daily clinical practice. However, it 
is still controversial whether this disease condition should be included in 
CKD-MBD. Recently, a better understanding of the pathogenesis of DRA has been 
obtained by examination of beta(2)-microglobulin-related amyloid fibril 
formation, extension, and depolymerization in vitro. Apoliprotein E, 
proteoglycans, and glycosaminoglycans stabilize the amyloid fibrils. In 
addition, some lysophospholipids and non-esterified fatty acids accelerate 
amyloid fibril formation and extension under physiological conditions in vitro. 
Those molecules may enhance the amyloid deposition in vivo. The frequency and 
severity of osteoarticular disorders that may be associated with DRA accelerate 
with the duration of dialysis therapy. We have shown that patients undergoing 
dialysis therapy for 30 years or more survive with serious complications from 
osteoarticular disorders. DRA is one of the most harmful osteoarticular 
complications with regard to the maintenance of daily activities and quality of 
life in patients undergoing long-term dialysis therapy, in addition to the 
classical complications of CKD-MBD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2009.03.655
PMID: 19303954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. BMJ. 2009 Mar 19;338:b825. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b825.

Cost effectiveness analysis of larval therapy for leg ulcers.

Soares MO(1), Iglesias CP, Bland JM, Cullum N, Dumville JC, Nelson EA, Torgerson 
DJ, Worthy G; VenUS II team.

Collaborators: Mason S, Campbell M, Cheater F, Abrams K, Briggs M, Davies A, 
Adderley U, Ashton J, Bennett G, Brown AM, Collins S, Cross B, Douglas V, Ellis 
A, Graham C, Hodgson C, Hancock G, Homer-Vanniasinkam S, Jones J, Kimpton N, 
McCaughan D, McGinnis E, Miles J, Morton V, O'Meara S, Oswald A, Petherick E, 
Potter A, Raynor P, Russell L, Stevens J, Stubbs N, Vowden K, Vowden P, Walker 
M, Walton S, Wadsworth V, Watson MW, Witherow A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York YO10 5DD, UK. 
ms602@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of larval therapy compared with 
hydrogel in the management of leg ulcers.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness and cost utility analyses carried out alongside a 
pragmatic multicentre, randomised, open trial with equal randomisation. 
Population Intention to treat population comprising 267 patients with a venous 
or mixed venous and arterial ulcers with at least 25% coverage of slough or 
necrotic tissue.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomly allocated to debridement with bagged 
larvae, loose larvae, or hydrogel.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The time horizon was 12 months and costs were estimated 
from the UK National Health Service perspective. Cost effectiveness outcomes are 
expressed in terms of incremental costs per ulcer-free day (cost effectiveness 
analysis) and incremental costs per quality adjusted life years (cost utility 
analysis).
RESULTS: The larvae arms were pooled for the main analysis. Treatment with 
