
DOI: 10.1080/10550880902772456
PMID: 19340676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2008;(4):1-2.

Lessons for health care from behavioral economics.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 19340980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2008;(4):3-4.

Forecasting health care costs.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 19340983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Acta Chir Belg. 2009 Jan-Feb;109(1):75-80. doi:
10.1080/00015458.2009.11680376.

Effect of time on risk of perforation in acute appendicitis.

Papaziogas B(1), Tsiaousis P, Koutelidakis I, Giakoustidis A, Atmatzidis S, 
Atmatzidis K.

Author information:
(1)2nd Surgical Clinic, Aristotle's University of Thessaloniki Medical School, 
"G. Gennimatas" General Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece. papaziog@med.auth.gr

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study was to quantify the role of time between 
symptom onset and surgery on the changing risk of perforation, and to evaluate 
the possible factors leading to delay to the operation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The files of 169 patients who underwent appendectomy in 
our clinic over a two-year period (May 2004-June 2006) were reviewed. The 
relative risk of perforation was calculated according to the "time-table" 
method. Time was divided into intervals, initially of 12 hours and, later on, of 
24 hours.
RESULTS: 18 patients were found to have perforated appendicitis. The time from 
symptom-onset to first examination ("symptom onset to presentation" time, "SOP" 
time) was longer for patients with perforation than for those without (p = 
0.047). On the other hand, the time from initial examination in the emergency 
department to the operating room ("ER to OR" time) was shorter for patients with 
perforation than for those without (p = 0.027). Overall time from symptom onset 
to operating room, showed no statistical difference between patients with 
rupture and those without. The risk of perforation was negligible within the 
first twelve hours of untreated symptoms, but then increased to 8% within the 
first twenty-four hours. It then decreased to approximately 1.3% to 2% during 36 
to 48 hours, and subsequently rose again to approximately 6% (7.6% to 5.8%) for 
each ensuing 24-hour period. In multivariate analysis, neither the "SOP" nor the 
"ER to OR" time remained significant contributors to the probability of an 
individual to suffer from appendiceal perforation.
CONCLUSION: When time matters and the risk of adverse outcomes can be reduced, 
we should change our current approach to care. Surgeons should be mindful of 
delaying surgery beyond 24 hours of symptom onset in patients with assumed 
appendicitis.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2009.11680376
PMID: 19341201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Am J Transplant. 2009 Apr;9(4 Pt 2):970-81. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02571.x.

Survival benefit-based deceased-donor liver allocation.

Schaubel DE(1), Guidinger MK, Biggins SW, Kalbfleisch JD, Pomfret EA, Sharma P, 
Merion RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA. 
deschau@umich.edu

Currently, patients awaiting deceased-donor liver transplantation are 
prioritized by medical urgency. Specifically, wait-listed chronic liver failure 
patients are sequenced in decreasing order of Model for End-stage Liver Disease 
(MELD) score. To maximize lifetime gained through liver transplantation, 
posttransplant survival should be considered in prioritizing liver waiting list 
candidates. We evaluate a survival benefit based system for allocating 
deceased-donor livers to chronic liver failure patients. Under the proposed 
system, at the time of offer, the transplant survival benefit score would be 
computed for each patient active on the waiting list. The proposed score is 
based on the difference in 5-year mean lifetime (with vs. without a liver 
transplant) and accounts for patient and donor characteristics. The rank 
correlation between benefit score and MELD score is 0.67. There is great overlap 
in the distribution of benefit scores across MELD categories, since waiting list 
mortality is significantly affected by several factors. Simulation results 
indicate that over 2000 life-years would be saved per year if benefit-based 
allocation was implemented. The shortage of donor livers increases the need to 
maximize the life-saving capacity of procured livers. Allocation of 
deceased-donor livers to chronic liver failure patients would be improved by 
prioritizing patients by transplant survival benefit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02571.x
PMCID: PMC2895923
PMID: 19341419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. J Vasc Surg. 2009 Apr;49(4):845-9; discussion 849-50. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2008.10.073.

Duplex ultrasound as the sole long-term surveillance method post-endovascular 
aneurysm repair: a safe alternative for stable aneurysms.

Chaer RA(1), Gushchin A, Rhee R, Marone L, Cho JS, Leers S, Makaroun MS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Long-term surveillance with computed tomography (CT) after 
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) increases both cost and risk. The purpose of 
this study was to evaluate the safety of an alternative follow-up modality with 
color flow duplex ultrasound scanning (CDU) as the sole method of imaging.
METHODS: In 2003, we initiated a new follow-up (FU) schedule with yearly CDU as 
the sole imaging method for selected patients. Indications included a residual 
sac of less than 4 cm, expanded later to stable sac size for more than 2 years. 
A stable type II endoleak was not a contraindication. CT scans were obtained 
selectively-based on suspicious findings of a new endoleak or enlarging sac on 
CDU. The records of all patients with at least 1 year FU under this schedule 
were reviewed.
RESULTS: One hundred eighty-four patients were followed with CDU only for 1 to 4 
years for a mean of 24 +/- 13 months. The new schedule was initiated at a mean 
of 34 +/- 24 months after EVAR (range 1-112 months). Twenty-three patients had 
previous endoleaks that had resolved spontaneously or had been treated. During 
CDU FU, three new endoleaks were detected, one with sac enlargement. All 
prompted CT evaluation: one type II endoleak with stable sac size could not be 
identified on CT 3 months later, and two distal type I endoleaks that required 
limb extension. All three had a prior Ancure endograft. No ruptures or graft 
occlusions were noted. One abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) related death 
followed graft explantation for infection. There were two additional deaths from 
malignancy and two from cardiac causes. After the FU switch, freedom from 
endoleaks was 96%, and from secondary interventions 95% at 48 months by life 
table method. Mean AAA diameter at baseline was 54 +/- 8 mm and decreased to 40 
+/- 11 mm before the switch to CDU only FU. At last FU mean aneurysm diameter 
was 39 +/- 11 mm. When the current switch criteria were applied to a consecutive 
series of 200 EVAR patients, 97% would have been eligible for CDU only 
surveillance by 3 years postoperatively.
CONCLUSIONS: CDU only surveillance post-EVAR is safe and can be initiated early 
after treatment in patients with shrinking or stable aneurysms. This policy 
should result in cost savings advantage and avoid the complications associated 
with CT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2008.10.073
PMID: 19341877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Clin Trials. 2009 Apr;6(2):109-18. doi: 10.1177/1740774509102563.

Selection criteria and generalizability within the counterfactual framework: 
explaining the paradox of antidepressant-induced suicidality?

Weisberg HI(1), Hayden VC, Pontes VP.

Author information:
(1)Correlation Research Inc., 61 Pheasant Landing Rd., Needham, MA 02492, United 
States. hweisberg@correlation.com

Comment in
    Clin Trials. 2009 Apr;6(2):136-40.
    Clin Trials. 2010 Apr;7(2):109-17; discussion 118-120.

BACKGROUND: Although the superior internal validity of the randomized clinical 
trial (RCT) is invaluable to establish causality, generalizability is far from 
guaranteed. In particular, strict selection criteria intended to maximize 
treatment efficacy and safety can impair external validity. This problem is 
widely acknowledged in principle but sometimes ignored in practice, with 
considerable consequences for treatment options.
PURPOSE: We demonstrate how selection of patients for an RCT can bias the 
results when the treatment effect varies across individuals. Indeed, not only 
the magnitude, but even the direction of the causal effect found in an RCT can 
differ from the causal effect in the target population.
METHODS: A counterfactual model is developed to represent the selection process 
explicitly. This simple extension of the standard counterfactual model is used 
to explore the implications of restrictive exclusion criteria intended to 
eliminate high-risk individuals. The counterintuitive findings of a recent FDA 
meta-analysis of suicidality in pediatric populations treated with 
antidepressant medications are interpreted in the light of this counterfactual 
model.
RESULTS: When the causal effect of an intervention can vary across individuals, 
the potential for selection bias (in the sense of a threat to external validity) 
can be serious. In particular, we demonstrate that the stricter the 
inclusion/exclusion criteria the greater the potential inflation of relative 
risk. A critical factor in determining bias is the extent to which individuals 
with differing types of causal effects can be distinguished prior to sampling. 
Furthermore, we propose methods that can sometimes be useful to identify the 
existence of bias in an actual study. When applied to the FDA meta-analysis of 
pediatric suicidality in RCTs of modern antidepressant medications, these 
methods suggest that the elevated risk observed may be an artifact of selection 
bias.
LIMITATIONS: Real-life scenarios are generally more complex than the 
counterfactual model presented here. Future modeling efforts are needed to 
refine and extend our approach.
CONCLUSIONS: When variation of treatment effects across individuals is 
plausible, lack of generalizability should be a serious concern. Therefore, 
external validity of RCTs needs to be carefully considered in the design of an 
RCT and the interpretation of its results, especially when the study can 
influence regulatory decisions about drug safety. RCTs should not automatically 
be considered definitive, especially when their results conflict with those of 
observational studies. Whenever possible, empirical evidence of bias resulting 
from sample selection should be obtained and taken into account.

DOI: 10.1177/1740774509102563
PMID: 19342462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2009;159(5-6):160-8. doi: 10.1007/s10354-008-0548-5.

[Economic evaluation in health care].

[Article in German]

Zechmeister I(1), Radlberger P.

Author information:
(1)Ludwig Boltzmann Institut für HTA, Wien, Austria. 
Ingrid.zechmeister@hta.lbg.ac.at

Economic evaluation of healthcare programmes helps us to assure the efficient 
use of healthcare resources. Cost-minimisation analysis, cost-effectiveness 
analysis, cost-utility analysis and cost-benefit analysis are the most commonly 
applied evaluation types. They differ in how they measure outcomes of healthcare 
interventions. Several guidelines for conducting economic evaluations exist. 
Furthermore, checklists have been developed for systematic critical appraisal of 
economic evaluations. Even though economic evaluations increase the transparency 
of resource allocation decisions and make decision criteria more explicit, they 
do not replace public discussions on the availability of overall resources for 
the public health care system.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-008-0548-5
PMID: 19343294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Curr Opin HIV AIDS. 2009 Jan;4(1):35-41. doi: 10.1097/coh.0b013e328319bcd1.

What types of cancers are associated with immune suppression in HIV? Lessons 
from solid organ transplant recipients.

Vajdic CM(1), van Leeuwen MT.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Centre, Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New 
South Wales, Level 1 SouthWing Edmund Blacket Building, Prince of Wales 
Hospital, Randwick, NSW 2031, Australia. claire.vajdic@unsw.edu.au

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To examine recently published evidence of cancer risk after 
solid organ transplantation to gain insight into cancers that are associated 
with immune suppression in HIV.
RECENT FINDINGS: Data from several population-based studies comparing cancer 
risk in recipients of solid organ transplants with that in the general 
population have demonstrated increased risk for a broad range of cancers, 
predominantly those with a known or suspected infectious cause. This increase in 
risk is independent of cohort aging and probably independent of established 
behavioral and other risk factors for cancer. Epidemiological risk factor data 
are limited but appear to indicate a relationship with severity and duration of 
immune suppression. A recent meta-analysis indicates a striking similarity in 
the pattern of cancer occurrence in transplant recipients and people with 
HIV/AIDS.
SUMMARY: The similarity of the increased risk of cancer in these two 
immunosuppressed populations, who differ with respect to their underlying 
conditions and lifestyles, is compelling evidence that these cancers are 
associated with immune deficiency. The mechanisms are not fully understood but 
appear to be related to impaired immune surveillance. These data challenge the 
classification of only a narrow range of cancers as associated with immune 
suppression in people with HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1097/coh.0b013e328319bcd1
PMID: 19343829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Vascular. 2008 Nov-Dec;16(6):310-5. doi: 10.2310/6670.2008.00080.

Use of extraperitoneal iliac artery endarterectomy in the endovascular era.

Metcalfe MJ(1), Natarajan R, Selvakumar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Lister Hospital, Stevenage, Herfordshire, UK. 
mmetcalfe@doctors.org.uk

Although iliac artery (IA) endarterectomy has largely been replaced by bypass 
and endovascular options, open endarterectomy continues to play an important 
role in selected patterns of occlusive disease. The objective of this report is 
to present a contemporary clinical series of patients having undergone IA 
endarterectomy. Specifically, we define patterns of disease amenable to open 
endarterectomy and provide an updated technical note of this procedure. A 
retrospective study on 23 patients with IA occlusions unsuitable for radiologic 
intervention (TransAtlantic Inter-Societal Consensus [TASC] C and D lesions) 
underwent extraperitoneal IA endarterectomy. Twenty-five primary IA 
endarterectomies were performed. Of these, five required more extensive 
endarterectomy, three of the distal aorta and two of the contralateral IA. 
Sixteen of the 25 endarterectomies required common femoral artery endarterectomy 
and 6 required iliofemoral bypass. The average follow-up was 26 months. 
Procedure-related mortality occurred in one patient (4.3%). Within 4 months, one 
patient underwent an aortofemoral bypass and two patients required major 
amputation. Primary patency rates were 96% at 3 months and 88% at 1, 2, and 3 
years. This series shows that in selected patterns of aortoiliac occlusive 
disease, endarterectomy remains an important alternative to consider.

DOI: 10.2310/6670.2008.00080
PMID: 19344587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Ophthalmology. 2009 Apr;116(4):710-6, 716.e1-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.12.065.

For which glaucoma suspects is it appropriate to initiate treatment?

Appropriateness of Treating Glaucoma Suspects RAND Study Group.

Collaborators: Cheng EM, Giaconi JA, Coleman AL, Lee BL, Weinreb RN, Newberry 
SJ, Suttorp MJ, Schonlau M, Fingeret M, Gupta N, Hitchings RA, Jampel HD, Lewis 
TL, Miglior S, Mills RP, Pfeiffer N, Topouzis F, Samuelson TW.

OBJECTIVE: Because uncertainty exists about which glaucoma suspects should be 
treated, this study sought to identify the glaucoma suspects who an expert panel 
could agree would be appropriate or inappropriate to treat.
DESIGN: The RAND/UCLA appropriateness method, a well-established procedure to 
synthesize the scientific literature with expert opinion to resolve uncertainty 
on a health topic.
PARTICIPANTS: Eleven-member panel composed of recognized international leaders 
in the field of glaucoma.
METHODS: Based on a systematic review of the literature on potentially important 
factors to consider when deciding to initiate treatment, more than 1000 
scenarios of glaucoma suspects initially were created. The panel formally rated 
the appropriateness of initiating treatment for glaucoma suspects through a 
2-round modified Delphi method, a technique that preserves the confidentiality 
of individual panelists'ratings but allows panelists to compare their own 
ratings with those of the entire panel.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Final ratings for scenarios were categorized as 
appropriate, uncertain, or inappropriate to treat according to typical 
prespecified statistical criteria previously used in projects using the 
RAND/UCLA appropriateness method. Tools were developed to help clinicians to 
approximate the panel ratings of glaucoma suspects.
RESULTS: The panel chose age, life expectancy, intraocular pressure (IOP), 
central corneal thickness, cup-to-disc ratio, disc size, and family history as 
the variables to consider when deciding whether to treat glaucoma suspects. 
Permutations of these variables created 1800 unique scenarios. The panel rated 
587 (33%) scenarios as appropriate, 585 (33%) as uncertain, and 628 (35%) as 
inappropriate for treatment initiation. Analysis of variance determined that IOP 
had greater impact than any other variable on panel ratings. A point system was 
created with 96% sensitivity and 93% specificity for predicting panel ratings of 
appropriateness for a glaucoma suspect.
CONCLUSIONS: An expert panel can reach agreement on the appropriateness and 
inappropriateness of treatment for glaucoma suspects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.12.065
PMCID: PMC2722433
PMID: 19344823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2009 Mar;12(1):27-31.

A comparison of SF-6D and EQ-5D utility scores in a study of patients with 
schizophrenia.

McCrone P(1), Patel A, Knapp M, Schene A, Koeter M, Amaddeo F, Ruggeri M, 
Giessler A, Puschner B, Thornicroft G.

Author information:
(1)Health Services and Population Research Department, Institute of Psychiatry, 
King's College London, De Crespigny Park, London SE5 8AF, UK. 
p.mccrone@iop.kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Economic evaluations of healthcare interventions increasingly 
measure outcomes using quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The SF-6D and the 
EQ-5D are alternative ways of generating utility scores for use in QALY 
estimations, but it is unclear which is most sensitive to change in psychiatric 
symptom severity. There are also limited data on the sensitivity of these 
measures to changes in existing clinical indicators in long-term mental health 
conditions like schizophrenia.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: To: (i) assess the relationship between SF-6D and EQ-5D 
utility scores for patients with schizophrenia at two points in time, (ii) 
assess the relationship in the change scores of these two measures, (iii) 
measure the sensitivity of these measures to changes in an established measure 
of symptomatology.
METHODS: Patients with schizophrenia were recruited and the SF-36 and EQ-5D were 
administered at baseline and one-year follow-up and utility scores were computed 
and compared. Standardized response mean (SMR) scores were calculated for the 
SF-6D and EQ-5D and compared for patients who improved or deteriorated by at 
least 25% on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale.
RESULTS: EQ-5D ratings were available for 394 patients at baseline, 368 at 
follow-up and 358 at both time points. The respective figures for the SF-6D were 
383, 367 and 345. Mean utility scores were very similar at baseline (EQ-5D 0.68, 
SF-6D 0.67) and follow-up (EQ-5D 0.71, SF-6D 0.68). Median scores were markedly 
higher for the EQ-5D (0.76 v 0.66 at baseline, 0.80 v 0.68 at follow-up). The 
SF-6D scores followed a normal distribution whilst the EQ-5D scores were 
negatively skewed with a clustering at 1.00. There were few differences in 
sensitivity to change between the EQ-5D and SF-6D.
DISCUSSION: From an analytical perspective the SF-6D has advantages over the 
EQ-5D due to its normal distribution and lack of ceiling effect. However, both 
measures produce similar mean utility scores. Overall the SF-6D appears more 
suitable as a measure of utility in this patient group.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICIES: Decisions made on the basis of 
cost-effectiveness results need to consider the method by which QALYs have been 
calculated.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: Further comparisons of the EQ-5D and SF-6D 
are required.

PMID: 19346564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Nestle Nutr Workshop Ser Pediatr Program. 2009;63:135-46; discussion 147-50,
 259-68. doi: 10.1159/000209978.

Adiposity and comorbidities: favorable impact of caloric restriction.

Ravussin E(1), Redman LM.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Baton Rouge, LA, USA.

The focus here is on research involving long-term calorie restriction (CR) to 
prevent or delay the incidence of the metabolic syndrome with age. The current 
societal environment is marked by overabundant accessibility of food coupled 
with a strong trend to reduced physical activity, both leading to the 
development of a constellation of disorders including central obesity, insulin 
resistance, dyslipidemia and hypertension (metabolic syndrome). Prolonged CR has 
been shown to extend median and maximal lifespan in a variety of lower species 
(yeast, worms, fish, rats, and mice). Mechanisms of this lifespan extension by 
CR are not fully elucidated, but possibly involve alterations in energy 
metabolism, oxidative damage, insulin sensitivity, and functional changes in 
neuroendocrine systems. Ongoing studies of CR in humans now makes it possible to 
identify changes in 'biomarkers of aging' to unravel some of the mechanisms of 
its anti-aging phenomenon. Analyses from controlled human trials involving 
long-term CR will allow investigators to link observed alterations from body 
composition down to changes in molecular pathways and gene expression, with 
their possible effects on the metabolic syndrome and aging.

Copyright (c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000209978
PMID: 19346773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Nat Rev Neurol. 2009 Apr;5(4):222-34. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2009.26.

Diagnosis and treatment of Friedreich ataxia: a European perspective.

Schulz JB(1), Boesch S, Bürk K, Dürr A, Giunti P, Mariotti C, Pousset F, Schöls 
L, Vankan P, Pandolfo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital, RWTH Aachen, Pauwelsstrasse 30, 
Aachen, Germany. jschulz@ukaachen.de

Friedreich ataxia is the most frequent hereditary ataxia, with an estimated 
prevalence of 3-4 cases per 100,000 individuals. This autosomal-recessive 
neurodegenerative disease is characterized by progressive gait and limb ataxia, 
dysarthria, lower-limb areflexia, decreased vibration sense, muscular weakness 
in the legs, and a positive extensor plantar response. Non-neurological signs 
include hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and diabetes mellitus. Symptom onset 
typically occurs around puberty, and life expectancy is 40-50 years. Friedreich 
ataxia is usually caused by a large GAA-triplet-repeat expansion within the 
first intron of the frataxin (FXN) gene. FXN mutations cause deficiencies of the 
iron-sulfur cluster-containing subunits of the mitochondrial electron transport 
complexes I, II, and III, and of the iron-sulfur protein aconitase. 
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been addressed in several open-label, 
non-placebo-controlled trials, which indicated that treatment with idebenone 
might ameliorate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy; a well-designed phase II trial 
suggested concentration-dependent functional improvements in 
non-wheelchair-bound children and adolescents. Other current experimental 
approaches address iron-mediated toxicity, or aim to increase FXN expression 
through the use of erythropoietin and histone deacetylase inhibitors. This 
Review provides guidelines, from a European perspective, for the diagnosis of 
Friedreich ataxia, differential diagnosis of ataxias and genetic counseling, and 
treatment of neurological and non-neurological symptoms.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2009.26
PMID: 19347027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Rev Saude Publica. 2009 Jun;43(3):405-12. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102009000300003.  Epub 2009 Apr 3.

Race/skin color differentials in potential years of life lost due to external 
causes.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Araújo EM(1), Costa Mda C, Hogan VK, Mota EL, Araújo TM, Oliveira NF.

Author information:
(1)Núcleo de Epidemiologia, Universidade Estadual de Feira de Santana, Feira de 
Santana, BA, Brasil. ednakam@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Deaths by external causes represent one of the most important 
challenges for public health and are the second cause of death in Brazil. The 
aim of this study was to analyze differentials in mortality by external causes 
according to race/skin color.
METHODS: A descriptive study was carried out in Salvador, Northeastern Brazil, 
using 9,626 cases of deaths by external causes between 1998 and 2003. Data were 
obtained from the Forensic Medicine Institute and from Instituto Brasileiro de 
Geografia e Estatística (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics). The 
indicator 'potential years of life lost' was utilized to identify the existence 
of differences among age groups, sex groups and race/skin color groups.
RESULTS: Deaths by external causes provoked the loss of 339,220 potential years 
of life, of which 210,000 were due to homicides. Nonwhite individuals died at 
earlier ages and lost 12.2 times as much potential years of life due to deaths 
by homicidies than white individuals. Although the nonwhite (black and mixed) 
population was three times larger than the white population, its number of 
potential years of life lost was 30 times higher. The population of blacks was 
11.4 % smaller than the white population, but its loss of potential years of 
life was almost three times higher. Even after the adjustment for age, the 
differences observed in the indicator potential years of life lost/100,000 
inhabitants and in the ratios between strata according to race/skin color were 
maintained.
CONCLUSIONS: The results showed differentials in mortality by external causes 
according to race/skin color in Salvador. The nonwhite population had greater 
loss of potential years of life, higher average number of years not lived and, 
on average, they died at an earlier age due to homicides, traffic accidents an 
all other external causes.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102009000300003
PMID: 19347173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Haemophilia. 2009 Mar;15(2):509-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01934.x.

Comparison of biomechanical gait parameters of young children with haemophilia 
and those of age-matched peers.

Stephensen D(1), Drechsler W, Winter M, Scott O.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Bioscience, University of East London, London, UK.

Quality of life for children with haemophilia has improved since the 
introduction of prophylaxis. The frequency of joint haemorrhages has reduced, 
but the consequences of reduced bleeding on the biomechanical parameters of 
walking are not well understood. This study explored the differences in sagittal 
plane biomechanics of walking between a control group (Group 1) of normal 
age-matched children and children with haemophilia (Group 2) with a target ankle 
joint. A motion capture system and two force platforms were used to collect 
sagittal plane kinematic, kinetic and temporal-spatial data during walking of 14 
age-matched normal children and 14 children with haemophilia aged 7-13 years. 
Group differences in maximum and minimum flexion/extension angles and moments of 
the hip, knee and ankle joints, ground reaction forces and temporal-spatial gait 
cycle parameters were analysed using one-way anova. Significant changes (P < 
0.05) in kinematic and kinetic parameters but not temporal-spatial parameters 
were found in children with haemophilia; greater flexion angles and external 
moments of force at the knee, greater ankle plantarflexion external moments and 
lower hip flexion external moments. These results suggest that early 
biomechanical changes are present in young haemophilic children with a history 
of a target ankle joint and imply that lower limb joint function is more 
impaired than current clinical evaluations indicate. Protocols and quantitative 
data on the biomechanical gait pattern of children with haemophilia reported in 
this study provide a baseline to evaluate lower limb joint function and clinical 
progression.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2008.01934.x
PMID: 19347991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Director. 2007 Winter;15(1):18-20.

Hospice care across the continuum.

Petersen S(1).

Author information:
(1)ALC-Extendicare, Inc., USA.

PMID: 19348052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Eur Heart J. 2009 Apr;30(7):746-7.

Cardiovascular disease in Australia and New Zealand: early origins, ethnic 
disparities, opportunities.

MacDonald I.

PMID: 19348066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Mar;1158:114-24. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2008.03751.x.

Network inference by combining biologically motivated regulatory constraints 
with penalized regression.

Parisi F(1), Koeppl H, Naef F.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, 
Switzerland.

Reconstructing biomolecular networks from time series mRNA or protein abundance 
measurements is a central challenge in computational systems biology. The 
regulatory processes behind cellular responses are coupled and nonlinear, 
leading to rich dynamical behavior. One class of reconstruction algorithms uses 
regression and penalized regression to impose sparseness on the solution, as 
requested biologically. Motivated by the five-gene challenge in the Dialogue for 
Reverse Engineering Assessments and Methods 2 (DREAM2) contest, we extend and 
test penalized regression schemes both on data from simulations and real qPCR 
measurements. The methods showing best performance are the Adaptive Ridge (AR) 
regression and a new extension thereof, in which we impose a biological 
constraint to the reconstructed network. Specifically, we request from the 
solutions that the outgoing links have the same regulatory sign, which is a 
reasonable approximation for most prokaryotic transcriptional networks. In other 
words, a given regulator must be either an activator or a repressor but not 
both. The constraints can be implemented with quadratic programming, and we show 
that this improves the reconstruction performance significantly. While linear 
models are not sufficiently general to encompass most complex behaviors, they 
offer powerful tools for network reconstruction, particularly for systems 
operating near a steady state. In particular, the optimization problems are well 
behaved and methodologies allow finding global optima efficiently. Adding 
constraints reflecting biological circuit designs is one of the most important 
aspects of network inference. We propose one such constraint, namely the 
consistency in the signs of outgoing links, which will facilitate the inference 
of transcriptional regulatory networks.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2008.03751.x
PMID: 19348637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg Pediatr Card Surg Annu. 2009:54-8. doi: 
10.1053/j.pcsu.2009.02.001.

Tetralogy of Fallot repair: the Right Ventricle Infundibulum Sparing (RVIS) 
strategy.

Morales DL(1), Zafar F, Fraser CD Jr.

Author information:
(1)Michael E. DeBakey Department of Surgery, Division of Congenital Heart 
Surgery, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, USA. 
dlmorale@texaschildrenshospital.org

Despite the excellent operative survival for tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) repair, 
well-documented long-term complications and reduced life expectancy remain 
challenges for these patients and their clinicians. In an attempt to change the 
natural history of repaired TOF, we at Texas Children's Hospital (Houston, TX) 
have developed a management strategy not focused on age, but rather focused on 
preserving the right ventricular (RV) infundibulum. The RV infundibulum sparing 
(RVIS) repair of TOF consists of a transatrial and transpulmonary approach to 
close the ventricular septal defect and resect RV infundibular muscle coupled 
with a mini (< 5 mm) transannular patch or no ventricular incision. This 
strategy is applied with the ambition of decreasing the well-documented, 
long-term complications of TOF repair with large right ventriculotomies such as 
RV dilation, arrhythmias, need for pulmonary valve replacement, and RV failure. 
The RVIS strategy is an attempt based on our current knowledge and experience to 
optimize the time of repair so that we can not only maximize the early operative 
results but the long-term effects of this approach as these children mature into 
adolescents and adults. We have uniformly applied the RVIS strategy since 1995, 
which includes over 320 isolated TOF patients. We are currently reviewing this 
cohort in hopes that it will strengthen our beliefs and known results as well as 
give us more insight into whether the RVIS strategy can change the natural 
history of repaired TOF.

DOI: 10.1053/j.pcsu.2009.02.001
PMID: 19349014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc Surg Pediatr Card Surg Annu. 2009:122-9. doi: 
10.1053/j.pcsu.2009.01.013.

Management of the aortic root in adult patients with conotruncal anomalies.

Dearani JA(1), Burkhart HM, Stulak JM, Sundt TM, Schaff HV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA. 
dearani.joseph@mayo.edu

Conotruncal anomalies such as tetralogy of Fallot, double outlet right 
ventricle, truncus arteriosus, and transposition of the great arteries are a 
group of congenital heart defects with abnormalities of the outflow tracts and 
great vessels. It is common for the ascending aorta and aortic root to be 
significantly dilated following initial repair of the conotruncal anomaly, and 
little information is available on the management of this increasing problem. 
Although there are few case reports of aortic dissection and rupture in the 
literature, it appears to be rare in the setting of a conotruncal anomaly and 
may be related to the absence of hypertension and smoking in many of these 
patients. The timing of operation with regard to the size of the aortic root is 
difficult. In the absence of a family history of aortic dissection or aneurysm, 
or documented rapid growth of the ascending aorta, we proceed with replacement 
of the ascending aorta when the size is > or = 55 mm. When the size of the 
ascending aorta is 5.0-5.5, treatment is individualized depending on the 
associated anomalies that need to be addressed, patient comorbidities, and life 
expectancy. In this group of patients we consider a simple reduction ascending 
aortoplasty. We generally proceed with root replacement and coronary 
reimplantation when there is effacement of the sinotubular junction, or when 
there is severe dilatation of the aortic root with an intact sinotubular 
junction. If the ascending aorta is > or = 55 mm with an intact sinotubular 
junction and the sinuses are < or = 4 cm, then we use a supracoronary tube 
graft.

DOI: 10.1053/j.pcsu.2009.01.013
PMID: 19349026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2010 Jan;73(1):92-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.02.003.

Hormone therapy in elderly breast cancer patients with comorbidities.

Crivellari D(1), Spazzapan S, Puglisi F, Fratino L, Scalone S, Veronesi A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology C, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico National 
Cancer Institute, Aviano 33081, Italy.

Life-expectancy and comorbid conditions must be considered in the process of 
treatment decision-making for elderly patients affected by breast cancer both in 
the adjuvant and metastatic settings. Moreover, the choice of adjuvant treatment 
in all age groups is based on two main points: endocrine responsiveness and risk 
of relapse without setting an upper age limit. The hormonal therapeutic 
armamentarium of the medical oncologist is now open to different options that 
may best be tailored to different clinical situations, particularly in elderly 
women.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.02.003
PMID: 19349190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. J Prev Med Public Health. 2009 Mar;42(2):123-9. doi: 
10.3961/jpmph.2009.42.2.123.

[The association between public social expenditure and suicides: evidence from 
OECD countries].

[Article in Korean]

Park Y(1), Kim MH, Kown S, Shin YJ.

Author information:
(1)Seoul National University Graduate School of Public Health, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to examine the association between public social 
expenditure (PSE) and suicides in the 27 countries of the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) from 1980 to 2003.
METHODS: The age-standardized suicide rates and their annual change (%) were 
obtained from the OECD Health Data 2007. As a measure of social protection, the 
PSE (% GDP) was used. The covariates included the annual divorce rate (/100,000 
population), fertility rate (number of children/woman aged 15 to 49 years), GDP 
per capita (US$PPP), male unemployment rate (%), life expectancy (years) and 
alcohol consumption (liter/capita) for each country, which were all obtained 
from the OECD Health Data 2007 and the OECD Social Indicators 2006. Using 
hierarchical linear models that included these covariates, the effects of PSE on 
suicides (Model 1) and the annual percent change (Model 2) were examined (Model 
3). Also, sub-sample analyses were done for six countries that experienced 
political/economic transition.
RESULTS: We could not find significant effects of PSE on suicides (Model 1), but 
we observed significantly negative effects on the annual percent change for men 
and women (Model 2). Such findings were replicated in the sub-sample analysis, 
and moreover, the effect size was much larger (Model 3).
CONCLUSIONS: Our finding suggests that social welfare protection can be a 
pivotal factor for suicide epidemiology, and especially in countries 
experiencing a social crisis or transition.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2009.42.2.123
PMID: 19349742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Osteoporos Int. 2010 Jan;21(1):157-65. doi: 10.1007/s00198-009-0924-z. Epub
2009  Apr 7.

Cost-utility of long-term strontium ranelate treatment for postmenopausal 
osteoporotic women.

Hiligsmann M(1), Bruyère O, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Epidemiology and Health Economics, University of 
Liège, Liège, Belgium. m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

The results of this study suggested that long-term treatment with strontium 
ranelate over 5 years is cost-effective compared to no treatment for 
postmenopausal osteoporotic women.
INTRODUCTION: This study aims to estimate the cost-effectiveness of long-term 
strontium ranelate treatment for postmenopausal osteoporotic women.
METHODS: A validated Markov microsimulation model with a Belgian healthcare cost 
perspective was used to assess the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of 
strontium ranelate compared to no treatment, on a basis of calcium/vit D 
supplementation if needed. Analyses were performed for women aged 70, 75, and 80 
years either with a bone mineral density T-score <or= -2.5 SD or with prevalent 
vertebral fractures. The relative risk of fracture during therapy was derived 
from the Treatment of Peripheral Osteoporosis Study trial over 5 years of 
treatment. Parameter uncertainty was evaluated using both univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Strontium ranelate was cost-saving at the age of 80 years in both 
populations. For women with a T-score <or= -2.5 SD, the costs per QALY gained of 
strontium ranelate were respectively euro 15,096 euro and 6,913 euro at 70 and 
75 years of age while these values were 23,426 euro and 9,698 euro for women 
with prevalent vertebral fractures. Sensitivity analyses showed that the results 
were robust over a wide range of assumptions.
CONCLUSION: This study suggested that, compared to no treatment, long-term 
strontium ranelate treatment is cost-effective for postmenopausal osteoporotic 
women.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-009-0924-z
PMID: 19350339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Biogerontology. 2010 Feb;11(1):17-30. doi: 10.1007/s10522-009-9223-5. Epub
2009  Apr 7.

Ageing in nematodes: do antioxidants extend lifespan in Caenorhabditis elegans?

Pun PB(1), Gruber J, Tang SY, Schaffer S, Ong RL, Fong S, Ng LF, Cheah I, 
Halliwell B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Ageing/Neurobiology Programme, Centre for Life 
Sciences, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore, Singapore. u0402652@alumni.nus.edu.sg

Antioxidants are often investigated as a promising strategy for extending 
lifespan. Accordingly, there is significant interest in novel antioxidant 
compounds derived from natural sources such as plant extracts. However, because 
lifespan studies are laborious and expensive to conduct, candidate compounds are 
frequently selected based simply on their in vitro antioxidant efficacy, with 
the implicit assumption that in vitro antioxidants are also in vivo 
antioxidants, and that in vivo antioxidants will decrease functionally relevant 
oxidative damage and thereby extend lifespan. We investigated the validity of 
these assumptions in the model organism, Caenorhabditis elegans. Nematodes were 
exposed to 6 plant extracts, selected out of a total of 34 based on a simple in 
vitro antioxidant assay. We found no correlation between in vitro and in vivo 
antioxidant capacities. Antioxidant efficacies were also not predictive of 
lifespan benefits. Further studies into those extracts that produced significant 
lifespan extension indicated that a direct antioxidant effect is unlikely to be 
the main factor responsible for the modulation of nematode lifespan.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-009-9223-5
PMID: 19350411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2008 Fall;54(2):200-13. doi: 
10.1080/19485565.2008.9989142.

IQ and the health of states.

Kanazawa S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Management, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
United Kingdom. S.Kanazawa@lse.ac.uk

Epidemiologists contend that income inequality reduces the health and life 
expectancy of the whole population, but this argument does not make sense within 
its own evolutionary framework. Recent evolutionary psychological theory 
suggests that the human brain, adapted to the ancestral environment, has 
difficulty comprehending and dealing with entities and situations that did not 
exist in the ancestral environment, and that general intelligence evolved as a 
domain-specific adaptation to solve evolutionarily novel problems. Since most 
dangers to health in the contemporary society are evolutionarily novel, it 
follows that more intelligent individuals are better able to recognize and deal 
with such dangers and live longer. Consistent with the theory, and replicating 
an earlier study of cross-national data, income inequality has no effect on the 
health and longevity of the population across the American states, when the 
racial composition (percent black) is controlled, but the average intelligence 
of the population (state IQ) has a significant effect. The data presented here 
and in the earlier study challenge the conclusion that income inequality reduces 
the health of the population.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2008.9989142
PMID: 19350755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Mol Diagn Ther. 2009;13(1):31-47. doi: 10.1007/BF03256313.

Cost effectiveness of risk-prediction tools in selecting patients for immediate 
post-prostatectomy treatment.

Zubek VB(1), Konski A.

Author information:
(1)Aureon Laboratories, Inc., Yonkers, New York 10701, USA. 
valentina.bayer@aureon.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Ideally, tests that predict the risk of cancer 
recurrence should be capable of guiding treatment decisions that are both 
therapeutically effective and cost effective. This paper evaluates the cost 
effectiveness of two tools that identify patients at high risk for biochemical 
(prostate-specific antigen) recurrence of prostate cancer after prostatectomy, 
the hypothesis being that accurate classification of high-risk patients will 
allow more appropriate use of secondary (adjuvant/salvage) treatment and may 
improve on current clinical practice. These risk-prediction tools are the Kattan 
postoperative nomogram, which uses clinicopathologic features, and the Prostate 
Px test, which employs additional morphometric and immunofluorescence features 
of the prostate specimen to predict risk of biochemical recurrence. These tools 
were trained on patients treated at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center 
(996 patients for the nomogram, 342 patients for the Prostate Px test).
METHODS: The cost effectiveness of the Prostate Px test, the Kattan 
postoperative nomogram, and current clinical practice were compared using a 
decision analytic model. The modeled treatment for low-risk patients was 
watchful waiting. The modeled treatments for high-risk patients were local 
radiation, hormonal therapy, and watchful waiting. Costs, utilities, and 
transition probabilities were obtained from the literature. Costs and effects 
were discounted at 3% per year. The time span modeled was 10 years after 
prostatectomy. Monte Carlo simulation was performed to estimate cost and 
effectiveness; sensitivity analysis was performed to examine the impact of 
uncertainty in the parameter values.
RESULTS: The expected quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for the Prostate Px 
test, nomogram, and current practice were 8.11, 7.39, and 6.47, respectively. 
The expected costs were $US17 549, $US14 162, and $US14 104, respectively. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the Prostate Px was $US4704/QALY 
compared with the nomogram, and $US2100/QALY compared with current practice. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the nomogram was $US63/QALY compared 
with current practice. These ratios are well below the common willingness-to-pay 
limit of $US50 000/QALY. Expected effectiveness was highest for the Prostate Px 
test, followed by the nomogram. Expected cost was slightly higher for Prostate 
Px than for either alternative; nevertheless, the Prostate Px was cost effective 
compared with both the nomogram and current practice. The nomogram was cost 
effective compared with current practice. The acceptable cost effectiveness of 
the Prostate Px test and the nomogram compared with current practice were not 
sensitive to changes in the values used to inform the model within clinically 
plausible ranges. The superior performance of both Prostate Px test and nomogram 
over current practice resulted from identifying high-risk patients likely to 
benefit from adjuvant treatment, while sparing the low-risk patients the added 
cost and toxicity of treatment.
CONCLUSION: Incorporation of risk-prediction tools in the initial management of 
patients after prostatectomy resulted in increased QALYs at an acceptable 
increase in cost relative to current practice.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256313
PMID: 19351214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Blood. 2009 Jun 18;113(25):6288-95. doi: 10.1182/blood-2008-12-115253. Epub
2009  Apr 7.

Recent advances in understanding the pathophysiology of Wiskott-Aldrich 
syndrome.

Bosticardo M(1), Marangoni F, Aiuti A, Villa A, Grazia Roncarolo M.

Author information:
(1)San Raffaele Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy, Milan, Italy.

Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is a severe X-linked immunodeficiency caused by 
mutations in the gene encoding for WASP, a key regulator of signaling and 
cytoskeletal reorganization in hematopoietic cells. Mutations in WASP result in 
a wide spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from the relatively mild 
X-linked thrombocytopenia to the classic full-blown WAS phenotype characterized 
by thrombocytopenia, immunodeficiency, eczema, and high susceptibility to 
developing tumors and autoimmune manifestations. The life expectancy of patients 
affected by severe WAS is reduced, unless they are successfully cured by bone 
marrow transplantation from related identical or matched unrelated donors. 
Because many patients lack a compatible bone marrow donor, the administration of 
WAS gene-corrected autologous hematopoietic stem cells could represent an 
alternative therapeutic approach. In the present review, we focus on recent 
progress in understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms contributing to 
the pathophysiology of WAS. Although molecular and cellular studies have 
extensively analyzed the mechanisms leading to defects in T, B, and dendritic 
cells, the basis of autoimmunity and thrombocytopenia still remains poorly 
understood. A full understanding of these mechanisms is still needed to further 
implement new therapeutic strategies for this peculiar immunodeficiency.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2008-12-115253
PMID: 19351959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Am J Gastroenterol. 2009 May;104(5):1147-58. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2009.31. Epub
2009  Apr 7.

Predicting mortality risk in patients with compensated HCV-induced cirrhosis: a 
long-term prospective study.

Bruno S(1), Zuin M, Crosignani A, Rossi S, Zadra F, Roffi L, Borzio M, Redaelli 
A, Chiesa A, Silini EM, Almasio PL, Maisonneuve P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, AO Fatebenefratelli e Oftalmico, Milan, 
Italy. savino.bruno@fbf.milano.it

OBJECTIVES: The identification of prognostic factors associated with mortality 
is crucial in any clinical setting.
METHODS: We enrolled in a prospective study 352 patients with compensated 
hepatitis C virus (HCV)-induced cirrhosis, consecutively observed between 1989 
and 1992. At entry, patients underwent upper endoscopy to detect esophageal 
varices, and were then surveilled by serial clinical and ultrasonographic 
examination. The model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) score was calculated 
with information collected at enrollment. Baseline predictors and intercurrent 
events associated with mortality were assessed using the Cox regression model.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 14.4 years, 194 subjects received a single 
course of interferon monotherapy, 131 patients developed decompensation 
(ascites, bleeding, hepatic encephalopathy), 109 patients had hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC), 9 had liver transplant, and 158 died. Esophageal varices were 
associated with development of decompensation (hazard ratio (HR), 2.09; 95% 
confidence interval (CI), 1.33-3.30) and liver-related death (HR, 2.27; 95% CI, 
1.41-3.66). A MELD score of > 10 predicted overall mortality (HR, 2.15; 95% CI, 
1.50-3.09). Overall survival of patients with MELD < or = 10 was 80% at 10 
years. HCC occurrence increased the risk of decompensation fivefold (HR, 5.52; 
95% CI, 3.77-8.09). Hepatic and overall mortality hazard ratios were 8.62 (95% 
CI, 5.57-13.3) and 3.80 (95% CI, 2.67-5.42), respectively, for patients who 
developed HCC, and 16.9 (95% CI, 9.97-28.6) and 7.08 (95% CI, 4.88-10.2) for 
those who experienced decompensation.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with compensated HCV-induced cirrhosis, the presence of 
esophageal varices at baseline predicted decompensation and mortality. The 
development of HCC during follow-up strongly hastens the occurrence of 
decompensation, which is the main determinant of death. Patients with a MELD 
score < or = 10 at study entry had a prolonged life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2009.31
PMID: 19352340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
