
Author information:
(1)Division of Neurobiology, 144 Life Sciences Addition, University of 
California, Berkeley, CA 94720-3200, USA. gwestheimer@berkeley.edu

The traditional view of the resolving power of the eye as based on the Rayleigh 
Criterion needs extension in view of insight gained from information theory. As 
first pointed out by Toraldo di Francia, the image of a double line is subtly 
different from that of a single line even when there is no central dip. Given an 
image, the uncertainty concerning the generating object can be expressed 
numerically in bits. With the available data on the optical performance and 
anatomical structure of the normal human eye, details of the distribution of 
light and of receptor activation have been characterized for foveal two-line 
resolution. They allow a comparison with the actual performance of the human 
observer and some conclusions concerning the strategy employed in resolution 
decisions as well as a more comprehensive analysis of the processes involved in 
the measurement of visual acuity. The discussion is extended to the case of 
laser-illuminated targets where the difference between image formation in 
coherent and incoherent light becomes relevant.

DOI: 10.1016/j.preteyeres.2009.04.001
PMID: 19374953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Nephrol Ther. 2009 Nov;5(6):576-91. doi: 10.1016/j.nephro.2009.02.007. Epub
2009  Apr 16.

[Kidney diseases in HIV-infected patients].

[Article in French]

Tourret J(1), Tostivint I, Deray G, Isnard-Bagnis C.

Author information:
(1)Service de néphrologie, groupe hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, 75013 Paris, 
France. jtourret@yahoo.com

HIV infection has become a global disease, both in geographic terms, since it 
has spread worldwide, and at the individual level since it affects every organ 
of the human body. Antiretroviral treatments, in countries where they are easily 
available, have modified HIV infection into a systemic chronic disease, the life 
expectancy of which is yet to be determined precisely. Treatments have 
dramatically changed the pattern of the disease and clinicians now have to face 
a number of new challenges. Kidneys, like all the other organs, can be involved 
in a great number of diseases in HIV-infected patients. We have voluntarily 
chosen to present "kidney diseases in HIV-infected patients" in their wider 
meaning, with a discussion of renal diseases that are directly caused by the 
virus, nephropathies due to frequent viral co-infections in HIV-infected 
patients such as HCV and HBV, nephropathies induced by anti-HIV, HBV and HCV 
therapies. Physicians in charge of HIV-infected patients should be aware of the 
key role they have to play in the screening for kidney abnormalities. This 
participates not only in improving patients' kidney prognosis but also their 
long-term general outcome. Renal screening strategies must refer to simple 
routine laboratory tests. Enclosed at the end of this article are a few 
suggestions for the renal management of situations that frequently occur in HIV 
infected patients (kidney dysfunction screening, serum creatinine increase and 
discovery of a proteinuria).

DOI: 10.1016/j.nephro.2009.02.007
PMID: 19375399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Mol Cell Cardiol. 2009 Jul;47(1):133-41. doi: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2009.04.007.
 Epub 2009 Apr 17.

Overexpression of the transcription factor Hand1 causes predisposition towards 
arrhythmia in mice.

Breckenridge RA(1), Zuberi Z, Gomes J, Orford R, Dupays L, Felkin LE, Clark JE, 
Magee AI, Ehler E, Birks EJ, Barton PJ, Tinker A, Mohun TJ.

Author information:
(1)MRC National Institute for Medical Research, Mill Hill, London NW7 1AA, UK. 
rbrecke@nimr.mrc.ac.uk

Elevated levels of the cardiac transcription factor Hand1 have been reported in 
several adult cardiac diseases but it is unclear whether this change is itself 
maladaptive with respect to heart function. To test this possibility, we have 
developed a novel, inducible transgenic system, and used it to overexpress Hand1 
in adult mouse hearts. Overexpression of Hand1 in the adult mouse heart leads to 
mild cardiac hypertrophy and a reduction in life expectancy. Treated mice show 
no significant fibrosis, myocyte disarray or congestive heart failure, but have 
a greatly reduced threshold for induced ventricular tachycardia, indicating a 
predisposition to cardiac arrhythmia. Within 48 h, they show a significant loss 
of connexin43 protein from cardiac intercalated discs, with increased 
intercalated disc beta-catenin expression at protein and RNA levels. These 
changes are sustained during prolonged Hand1 overexpression. We propose that 
cardiac overexpression of Hand1 offers a useful mouse model of arrhythmogenesis 
and elevated HAND1 may provide one of the molecular links between the failing 
heart and arrhythmia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yjmcc.2009.04.007
PMID: 19376125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Lancet. 2009 Apr 18;373(9672):1338. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60770-4.

Negative and positive effects of trade on health.

Bovet P(1), Paccaud F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and 
University Hospital Center, rue de Bugnon 17, 1005 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 Feb 7;373(9662):502-7.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60770-4
PMID: 19376447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Chest. 2009 Sep;136(3):849-858. doi: 10.1378/chest.09-0334. Epub 2009 Apr
17.

Embolization for pulmonary arteriovenous malformation in hereditary hemorrhagic 
telangiectasia: a decision analysis.

Gupta S(1), Faughnan ME(2), Bayoumi AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Division 
of Respirology, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; Li Ka Shing 
Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. Electronic 
address: guptas@smh.toronto.on.ca.
(2)Departments of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Division 
of Respirology, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; Li Ka Shing 
Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)Departments of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; Health 
Policy, Management, and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Department of Medicine, the Centre for Research on Inner City Health, Keenan 
Research Centre, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; Li Ka Shing 
Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada; Division of 
General Internal Medicine, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Although experts recommend presymptomatic coil embolotherapy for 
patients with hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) who have pulmonary 
arteriovenous malformations (PAVMs), this approach has not been studied 
prospectively and is not applied universally. We used decision analysis to 
evaluate the optimal treatment strategy for HHT patients with asymptomatic 
PAVMs.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the following three strategies: 
no embolotherapy; embolotherapy only in the event of a PAVM complication; and 
immediate embolotherapy. Our model incorporated PAVM complications, 
embolotherapy effectiveness and complications, and the possibility of PAVM 
growth or reperfusion of successfully embolized PAVMs. The base case was a 
40-year-old man with HHT and an asymptomatic PAVM with a 3-mm feeding artery. We 
modeled the natural history of HHT and the clinical course of embolotherapy 
based on review of the medical literature. We incorporated quality-of-life 
weights derived from the direct assessment of patient preferences (n = 45) and a 
literature review.
RESULTS: No embolotherapy, embolotherapy only in the event of a PAVM 
complication, and immediate embolotherapy were associated with expected survival 
times of 37.2, 37.6, and 39.0 years, respectively. After adjusting for quality 
of life, the corresponding estimates were 32.6, 34.1, and 37.2 quality-adjusted 
life-years. The outcome of the model was robust to changing model parameters 
within plausible ranges.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with HHT and a PAVM with a feeding artery of >or= 3 mm 
have improved life expectancy and quality-adjusted survival with immediate 
embolotherapy. Embolotherapy should be the standard of care in such 
circumstances.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.09-0334
PMID: 19376841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Iran J Kidney Dis. 2008 Oct;2(4):183-92.

Burden of chronic kidney disease in Iran: a screening program is of essential 
need.

Nafar M(1), Mousavi SM, Mahdavi-Mazdeh M, Pour-Reza-Gholi F, Firoozan A, 
Einollahi B, Lessan-Pezeshki ML, Asbaghi-Namini S, Farrokhi F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Shahid Labbafinejad 
Medical Center & Urology and Nephrology Research Center, Shaheed Beheshti 
Medical University, Tehran, Iran. nafar@sbmu.ac.ir

INTRODUCTION: The latent nature of chronic kidney disease (CKD) in primary 
stages precludes early diagnosis. This necessitates plans such as screening, but 
we should first introduce CKD as a public health problem. This study was 
designed to define the burden of CKD in Iran.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We calculated disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
according to the World Health Organization's practical guidelines for national 
burden of disease studies. The sum of years of life lost and years lived with 
disability were estimated for CKD stages 1 to 4 and end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) based on the national registry data and the published reports about CKD 
in Iran in 2004.
RESULTS: Over 700 000 people were estimated to have CKD in Iran in 2004 and 61 
000 new cases of CKD were anticipated. The prevalence rate of CKD was estimated 
to be 1083 and its incidence rate was 173.5 per 100 000 population. Chronic 
kidney disease was responsible for 1 145 654 DALYs. The highest DALYs for stages 
1 to 4 of CKD were due to unknown etiology, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension 
(382 000 years, 347 400 years, and 311 800 years, respectively). The DALY for 
ESRD and CKD stages 1 to 4 were 21 490 years and 1 124 164 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study provides an estimate of the burden of CKD in 
Iran. As CKD can be controlled by practical cost-effective plans, we strongly 
recommend the information given by this study be considered for future action 
plans.

PMID: 19377235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2008 Dec;10 Suppl:3-14. doi: 
10.1590/s0124-00642008000600002.

Epidemiological estimators' power of rating inequality in health in high-income 
OECD countries, 1998-2002.

Eslava-Schmalbach J(1), Alfonso H, Gaitán H, Agudelo C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Institute, National University of Colombia. 
jheslavas@unal.edu.co

OBJECTIVE: Examining the power (ability) of classical epidemiological estimators 
to rate inequality in health in univariate and composite ways.
METHODS: Ecological study. Ratio, excess risk, attributable risk (AR) and 
relative difference were the estimators used for showing disparities; all of 
them were weighted by population size. Kappa concordance coefficient was used 
between weighted estimators and weighted Gini coefficients for each health 
outcome used. Cumulative variance at first factor in principal component 
analysis was used for determining the estimators' suitability for use in a 
composite index. 24 high-income OECD (Organisation for Economical Cooperation 
and Development) countries' data for 1998-2002 were included. Such data was 
obtained from OECD health data for 2004 (3rd edition). Data concerning child 
mortality and gross domestic product (GDP) was obtained from World Development 
Indicators for 2005 on CD-ROM.The main outcomes compared amongst countries were: 
maternal mortality, child mortality, infant mortality, low birth-weight, 
life-expectancy, measles' immunisation and DTP immunisation.
RESULTS: Ratio and AR ranked maternal mortality as being the condition having 
the most disparity; risk excess ranked vaccination programmes and relative 
difference ranked low birth-weight as being the worst conditions. There was 
concordance in the ranking of inequities amongst ratio, AR and Gini coefficients 
(p<0.05). Cumulative variance in the first factor was higher for ratio and AR 
when they were used for constructing a composite index.
CONCLUSIONS: Ratio and AR were better than risk excess and relative difference 
for measuring disparities in health and constructing composite inequity in 
health indexes.

DOI: 10.1590/s0124-00642008000600002
PMID: 19377723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2009 Apr;16(2):138-43. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e328325d7dc.

From 4S to IDEAL: the health economics of the statin trials.

Lindgren P(1), Jönsson B.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. peter.lindgren@i3innovus.com

The introduction of statins led to much interest in their health economic 
aspects as they were initially perceived as efficacious but potentially 
expensive. Consequently, abundant literature exists examining the cost 
effectiveness of various statins, with analyses estimating the costs of 
preventing a single cardiovascular event using trial-based data, as well as 
long-term modelling studies using standardized outcomes such as cost per 
life-years gained or cost per quality-adjusted life-years. Economic evaluations 
based on clinical trials with hard endpoints indicate that the improved care 
associated with statin therapy came at a reasonable price in most risk groups. 
Variations between study results can largely be explained by differences in drug 
prices and absolute risk in the studied populations. This holds true for both 
within-trial analyses and modelling studies. The introduction of generic statins 
has led to sharp price reductions. Consequently, statin use today would be 
associated with greater cost savings in the indications that were first studied 
in clinical trials. New therapies entering the field must now compare favourably 
with statin therapy, whereas earlier a comparison versus placebo would have been 
sufficient to demonstrate cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e328325d7dc
PMID: 19378393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Rev Bras Anestesiol. 2008 Jul-Aug;58(4):330-41. doi: 
10.1590/s0034-70942008000400002.

Evaluation of hemodynamic variations during anesthetic induction in treated 
hypertensive patients.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

da Silva Neto WV(1), Azevedo GS, Coelho FO, Netto EM, Ladeia AM.

Author information:
(1)Escola Bahiana de Medicina e Saúde Pública da Fundção Bahiana para o 
Desenvolvimento das Ciências, Salvador, BA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Due to the high prevalence of hypertension, the 
increase in life expectancy, and improvement of diagnostic methods and surgical 
techniques, this comorbidity will be increasingly more common in surgical 
patients. The objective of this study was to evaluate the behavior of the 
hemodynamic variables during anesthetic induction in treated hypertensive 
patients.
METHODS: This is an observational study on the behavior of hemodynamic 
parameters (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, and heart rate) 
during the anesthetic induction of hypertensive and normotensive patients 
scheduled for elective surgeries under general anesthesia, at four moments: 
preparation (MP), drug (MD), laryngoscopy/intubation (ML), and 5 minutes after 
laryngoscopy/intubation (ML5).
RESULTS: The sample was composed of 128 patients divided into two groups: 
hypertensive (GH) and normotensive (GN). Diastolic blood pressure was reduced at 
MD in both groups, with a smaller percentage reduction in GH (18.3 +/- 14.0% 
versus 23.0 +/- 11.4%, p = 0.04). There was an increase in SBP and DBP at ML in 
both groups, with smaller percentage reductions in GH (8.2 +/- 16.3% versus 18.2 
+/- 21.2%, p < 0.01; 8.6 +/- 20.2% versus 25.0 +/- 27.9%, p < 0.01, respectively 
for DBP and SBP). As for ML5, HR, SBP and DBP did not show significant 
differences between both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Hypertensive patients under treatment and with controlled blood 
pressure levels demonstrated greater hemodynamic stability during anesthetic 
induction.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-70942008000400002
PMID: 19378581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Biosecur Bioterror. 2009 Mar;7(1):101-7. doi: 10.1089/bsp.2009.0011.

Maximizing state and local medical countermeasure stockpile investments through 
the Shelf-Life Extension Program.

Courtney B(1), Easton J, Inglesby TV, SooHoo C.

Author information:
(1)Center for Biosecurity of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21202, USA. bcourtney@upmc-biosecurity.org

DOI: 10.1089/bsp.2009.0011
PMID: 19379109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Hand Clin. 2009 May;25(2):277-91. doi: 10.1016/j.hcl.2008.12.007.

Congenital differences about the elbow.

Kozin SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA, USA. 
skozin@shrinenet.org

The elbow is frequently affected by congenital differences that limit 
flexion-extension and supination-pronation. The limitation can occur in utero or 
develop over time. Delayed causes usually gradually disrupt the anatomy and 
function of the paired bone forearm. Accurate diagnosis is based on a careful 
examination and perusal of radiographs. Certain diagnoses can be helped by 
surgery and will result in improved limb usage and function. In contrast, other 
diagnoses are recalcitrant to modern operative techniques but will benefit from 
occupational therapy and adaptive equipment to enhance independence and 
activities essential to daily life. This article discusses diagnosis and 
treatment of synostosis, arthrogryposis, pterygium, multiple hereditary 
exostosis, and the unsalvageable forearm.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hcl.2008.12.007
PMID: 19380066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Curr Opin Gastroenterol. 2009 May;25(3):272-8. doi: 
10.1097/MOG.0b013e3283298865.

Hepatobiliary disease in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Moyer K(1), Balistreri W.

Author information:
(1)Liver Care Center, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, 
Ohio 45229-3039, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review explores the recent advances in knowledge 
regarding hepatobiliary disease in patients with cystic fibrosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Hepatobiliary abnormalities associated with cystic fibrosis are 
varied in nature and range from defects attributable to the underlying genetic 
defect to those related to systemic disease and malnutrition. Novel research 
into the underlying pathogenesis of cystic fibrosis liver disease and the 
primary role of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator in biliary 
secretory epithelium is presented. This work has been fostered by the 
development of new animal models of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance 
regulator dysfunction. Of the wide range of hepatobiliary complications 
associated with cystic fibrosis the most clinically relevant problem is 
progression of focal biliary cirrhosis to multilobular cirrhosis with its 
attendant complications of portal hypertension and potentially end-stage liver 
disease. However, recent studies suggest that liver transplantation may not 
improve survival in patients with cystic fibrosis and significant portal 
hypertension.
SUMMARY: Hepatobiliary disease is a common finding in patients with cystic 
fibrosis; the pathogenesis is multifactorial in nature. As new therapeutic 
strategies emerge, life expectancy will continue to increase as will the impact 
of liver disease on quality of life and survival of patients with cystic 
fibrosis. This review will discuss novel insights into pathogenesis as well as 
diagnostic and management options.

DOI: 10.1097/MOG.0b013e3283298865
PMID: 19381084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. G Ital Nefrol. 2009 Mar-Apr;26(2):148-53.

[Graft or CVC? A prosthetic graft is the better choice].

[Article in Italian]

Cifarelli M(1).

Author information:
(1)Unità Operativa di Chirurgia Vascolare, Presidio Ospedaliero A. Perrino, 
Brindisi. marcifar@gmail.it

Comment in
    G Ital Nefrol. 2009 Mar-Apr;26(2):154-7.
    G Ital Nefrol. 2009 Mar-Apr;26(2):158-60.

For more than 30 years, research and industry have attempted to introduce into 
clinical practice solutions and products that could remedy the impossibility to 
use native veins. Vascular grafts of various types have been created that would 
approach the ideal characteristics as closely as possible with low antigenic 
power, high resistance to infections, low risk of thrombosis, and easy 
pierceability but high resistance to puncturing. For this purpose various 
materials, either totally synthetic such as PTFE, biological homologous or 
heterologous, or biosynthetic with mixed components have been created. In 
addition, different configurations to improve the hemodynamic outline of 
synthetic grafts have been studied: grafts of varying caliber, conical or 
equipped with cuffs, and various systems of wall reinforcement to increase the 
resistance to punctures. But each of these types favors one aspect over another: 
biological grafts show better compliance with the native vein but offer less 
resistance to punctures and ectatic processes; synthetic grafts, instead, tend 
to be more vulnerable to intimal hyperplasia at the venous anastomosis, which is 
the Achilles' heel of grafts. In recent years, the use of tunneled central 
venous catheters (CVCs) has grown exponentially. This has offered a new, 
important solution to the vascular access problem, but the extensive use of CVCs 
is not always justified. In comparison with grafts, CVCs have various 
disadvantages including insertion-related complications, possible 
malfunctioning, risk of infections and thrombosis, but above all a high risk of 
steno-occlusion of central veins. Also in this field, research and industry are 
offering more and more reliable and secure products. More resistant, flexible, 
tolerable and less thrombogenic materials are being used and various 
configurations which would offer the best performance with the least 
insertion-related risks have been introduced: double-lumen CVCs with input and 
output staggered in oval and circular sections, separate-lumen CVCs, split CVCs, 
and so on. Also the radiological and ultrasound techniques of insertion have 
improved, thereby reducing risks and disadvantages. The choice of graft system 
or CVC is often determined not by clinical factors but by the preference or 
experience of the operator, the presence of a vascular surgeon, or a 
radiological staff experienced in vascular accesses. The probability of 
steno-occlusion of central veins, which may occur as early as 2 weeks after the 
procedure, could affect any other ''traditional'' vascular access in the 
corresponding limb owing to the high risk of arm edema. In the surgical timing, 
the preparation of a graft access should therefore precede the placement of a 
CVC. The refinement of endovascular procedures has allowed to increase the 
secondary patency considerably, permitting excellent survival of graft accesses. 
Statistical studies performed on large samples of patients have reported a 
marked increase in the mortality connected to CVC access, not only as a result 
of infection. There are, however, according to my surgical experience, some 
conditions in which the use of the CVC is a priority, namely in patients with 
severe cardiopathy and reduced ejection fraction in whom volume overload caused 
by a graft access increases the risk of cardiac failure; in pediatric patients 
weighing less than 20 kg, in whom a graft vascular access could cause notable, 
even insuperable, difficulties of construction and management, as well as 
negative psychological implications for the small patient; in very elderly 
patients in poor clinical condition with a short life expectancy or suffering 
from cancer, in whom a CVC could be used also for the infusion of 
chemotherapeutic drugs; and in patients with peripheral arteriopathy in whom the 
alternative is a graft in a lower limb, because of the high risk of ischemia.

PMID: 19382069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. G Ital Nefrol. 2009 Mar-Apr;26(2):215-24.

[Peritoneal dialysis in cirrhotic patients].

[Article in Italian]

De Vecchi AF(1).

Author information:
(1)U.O. Nefrologia e Dialisi, IRCCS Fondazione Ospedale Maggiore, Mangiagalli e 
Regina Elena, Milano. deveccpd@policlinico.mi.it

Renal failure and the need for dialysis worsen the prognosis of patients with 
combined liver and kidney disease. The choice of an appropriate dialysis 
technique should improve the life expectancy of these patients. Hypotension, 
impaired defence against infections, electrolyte and acid-base imbalance, severe 
protein and caloric malnutrition, hyperammonemia, hyperbilirubinemia, and 
inadequate response to diuretics present a number of clinical problems in 
patients with liver insufficiency. Liver failure is therefore considered an 
important risk factor for any type of dialysis. Theoretically, both hemodialysis 
and peritoneal dialysis may cause specific problems in these patients. 
Hemodialysis has an increased cost/benefit ratio in cirrhotic patients. The 
administration of heparin during dialysis might worsen blood coagulation, 
ascites is not controlled by hemodialysis, and frequent paracentesis may be 
necessary. The efficiency of hemodialysis in removing certain toxic substances 
accumulating in liver failure is still unclear. Peritoneal dialysis does not 
require anticoagulation, helps maintain residual renal function, allows 
continuous removal of a fixed amount of ascitic fluid, does not cause acute 
hemodynamic changes, clears some of the toxic metabolites accumulated by liver 
failure, and is less expensive. Finally, peritoneal dialysis is associated with 
continuous absorption of glucose through the mesenteric capillaries into the 
mesenteric and liver blood flow, thus improving caloric malnutrition. During the 
first months of peritoneal dialysis, cirrhotic patients lose about 10 g of 
protein in the peritoneal dialysate but this loss tends to decrease with time. 
All the available data seem to indicate that in cirrhotic patients on peritoneal 
dialysis the majority of complications are consequent upon liver disease, which 
is also the most important cause of death. The outcome of peritoneal dialysis is 
not affected by cirrhosis and is similar to that observed in noncirrhotic 
patients. All the evidence reported in the literature seems to indicate that in 
cirrhotic patients peritoneal dialysis is an adequate treatment of uremia.

PMID: 19382077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Health Econ. 2010 Apr;19(4):422-37. doi: 10.1002/hec.1481.

International survey on willingness-to-pay (WTP) for one additional QALY gained: 
what is the threshold of cost effectiveness?

Shiroiwa T(1), Sung YK, Fukuda T, Lang HC, Bae SC, Tsutani K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Drug Policy and Management, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, The University of Tokyo, 7-3-1, Hongo, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo, Japan. 
t.shiroiwa@gmail.com

Although the threshold of cost effectiveness of medical interventions is thought 
to be 20 000- 30 000 UK pounds in the UK, and $50 000-$100 000 in the US, it is 
well known that these values are unjustified, due to lack of explicit scientific 
evidence. We measured willingness-to-pay (WTP) for one additional 
quality-adjusted life-year gained to determine the threshold of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio. Our study used the Internet to compare WTP for the 
additional year of survival in a perfect status of health in Japan, the Republic 
of Korea (ROK), Taiwan, Australia, the UK, and the US. The research utilized a 
double-bound dichotomous choice, and analysis by the nonparametric Turnbull 
method. WTP values were JPY 5 million (Japan), KWN 68 million (ROK), NT$ 2.1 
million (Taiwan), 23 000 UK pounds (UK), AU$ 64 000 (Australia), and US$ 62 000 
(US). The discount rates of outcome were estimated at 6.8% (Japan), 3.7% (ROK), 
1.6% (Taiwan), 2.8% (UK), 1.9% (Australia), and 3.2% (US). Based on the current 
study, we suggest new classification of cost-effectiveness plane and methodology 
for decision making.

Copyright (c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1481
PMID: 19382128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Lancet. 2009 Apr 18;373(9672):1326-7. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(09)60756-x.

The drug price is right--or is it?

Siva N.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(09)60756-x
PMID: 19382291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2008;6(4):189-97. doi: 10.1007/BF03256133.

A pharmacoeconomic analysis of compliance gains on antipsychotic medications.

Damen J(1), Thuresson PO, Heeg B, Lothgren M.

Author information:
(1)PharMerit BV, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Compliance among patients with schizophrenia is typically poor. 
Consequently, treatments that are equally efficacious under trial-based 
conditions but face different compliance rates in clinical practice (e.g. due to 
adverse-effect profile, ease of use, reputation) may have differences in 
effectiveness not observed during trials. This study analyses the impact of 
differences in compliance with atypical antipsychotics using a pharmacoeconomic 
discrete-event simulation (DES) model, adapted to the Swedish treatment setting.
METHODS: An existing 5-year DES model was adapted to reflect a Swedish setting; 
the analysis was conducted from a third-party payer perspective, with only 
direct costs included. The two treatment arms were identical except for 
percentage of compliant patients. Non-compliant patients experienced shorter 
time between relapses and had inferior symptom control than their compliant 
counterparts. The difference in compliance rates was varied from 0% to 15%, and 
incremental costs and effects were recorded and analysed.
RESULTS: With a 5%, 10% and 15% difference in compliance rate, incremental 
effects increased to 0.021, 0.037 and 0.062, respectively, while generating cost 
savings of Swedish kronor (SEK)31 500, SEK62 000 and SEK104 500, respectively 
(SEK9.25 = 1, Euro year 2007 values). Hence, each percentage point of compliance 
gain is predicted to roughly result in a cost saving of SEK6000 and a QALY gain 
of 0.004. On average, the model predicts that, with a 15% increase in 
compliance, 0.5 relapses are prevented, the average Positive And Negative 
Syndrome Scale (PANSS) score decreases by 3.3 points and patients spend 22 fewer 
days in hospital over 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The DES model predicts that increases in compliance may lead to 
considerable cost savings and health improvements. Therefore, when determining 
the cost effectiveness of a new antipsychotic, efficacy rates from clinical 
trials should not be taken at face value, but should be interpreted in tandem 
with expectations concerning compliance, in light of product characteristics 
such as adverse effects. These results further suggest that efforts to improve 
compliance among patients with schizophrenia are expected to prove cost 
effective if compliance gains and the resulting health improvements and cost 
savings are in balance with the additional costs.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256133
PMID: 19382819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2008;6(4):231-46. doi: 10.1007/BF03256136.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of entecavir versus lamivudine in the first-line 
treatment of Australian patients with chronic hepatitis B.

Arnold E(1), Yuan Y, Iloeje U, Cook G.

Author information:
(1)Bristol-Myers Squibb Australia, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 
elizabeth.arnold@bms.com

BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) virus infection is a major global 
healthcare problem. The recent introduction of entecavir in Australia for the 
treatment of CHB patients in the naive treatment setting has triggered 
significant optimism with regards to improved clinical outcomes for CHB 
patients.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate, from an Australian healthcare perspective, the cost 
effectiveness of entecavir 0.5 mg/day versus lamivudine 100 mg/day in the 
treatment of CHB patients naive to nucleos(t)ide therapy.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis to project the clinical and economic outcomes 
associated with CHB disease and treatment was conducted by developing two 
decision-tree models specific to hepatitis B e antigen-positive (HBeAg+ve) and 
HBeAg-ve CHB patient subsets. This analysis was constructed using the Australian 
payer perspective of direct costs and outcomes, with indirect medical costs and 
lost productivity not being included. The study population comprised a 
hypothetical cohort of 1000 antiviral treatment-naive CHB patients who received 
either entecavir 0.5 mg/day or lamivudine 100 mg/day at model entry. The 
population of patients used in this analysis was representative of those 
patients likely to receive initial antiviral therapy in clinical practice in 
Australia. The long-term cost effectiveness of entecavir compared with 
lamivudine in the first-line treatment of CHB patients was expressed as an 
incremental cost per life-year gained (LYG) or QALY gained.
RESULTS: Results revealed that the availability of entecavir 0.5 mg/day as part 
of the Australian hepatologist's treatment armamentarium should result in 
significantly lower future rates of compensated cirrhosis (CC), decompensated 
cirrhosis (DC), and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) events (i.e. 54 fewer cases 
of CC, seven fewer cases of DC, and 20 fewer cases of HCC over the model's 
timeframe for HBeAg+ve CHB patients, and 69 fewer cases of CC, eight fewer cases 
of DC and 25 fewer cases of HCC over the model's timeframe for HBeAg-ve CHB 
patients). Compared with lamivudine 100 mg/day, entecavir 0.5 mg/day generated 
an estimated incremental cost per LYG of Australian dollars ($A, year 2006 
values) 5046 and an estimated incremental cost per QALY of $A5952 in the 
HBeAg+ve CHB patient population, an estimated incremental cost per LYG of $A7063 
and an estimated incremental cost per QALY of $A8003 in the HBeAg-ve CHB patient 
population, and an overall estimated incremental cost per LYG of $A5853 and an 
estimated incremental cost per QALY of $A6772 in the general CHB population.
CONCLUSION: The availability of entecavir in Australian clinical practice should 
make long-term suppression of hepatitis B virus replication increasingly 
attainable, resulting in fewer CHB sequelae, at an acceptable financial cost.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256136
PMID: 19382822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. BMC Fam Pract. 2009 Apr 21;10:24. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-10-24.

Reasons of general practitioners for not prescribing lipid-lowering medication 
to patients with diabetes: a qualitative study.

AB E(1), Denig P, van Vliet T, Dekker JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. liesbeth.ab@planet.nl

BACKGROUND: Lipid-lowering medication remains underused, even in high-risk 
populations. The objective of this study was to determine factors underlying 
general practitioners' decisions not to prescribe such drugs to patients with 
type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: A qualitative study with semi-structured interviews using real cases 
was conducted to explore reasons for not prescribing lipid-lowering medication 
after a guideline was distributed that recommended the use of statins in most 
patients with type 2 diabetes. Seven interviews were conducted with general 
practitioners (GPs) in The Netherlands, and analysed using an analytic inductive 
approach.
RESULTS: Reasons for not-prescribing could be divided into patient and 
physician-attributed factors. According to the GPs, some patients do not 
follow-up on agreed medication and others object to taking lipid-lowering 
medication, partly for legitimate reasons such as expected or perceived side 
effects. Furthermore, the GPs themselves perceived reservations for prescribing 
lipid-lowering medication in patients with short life expectancy, expected 
compliance problems or near goal lipid levels. GPs sometimes postponed the start 
of treatment because of other priorities. Finally, barriers were seen in the 
GPs' practice organisation, and at the primary-secondary care interface.
CONCLUSION: Some of the barriers mentioned by GPs seem to be valid reasons, 
showing that guideline non-adherence can be quite rational. On the other hand, 
treatment quality could improve by addressing issues, such as lack of knowledge 
or motivation of both the patient and the GP. More structured management in 
general practice may also lead to better treatment.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-10-24
PMCID: PMC2676243
PMID: 19383116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Mult Scler. 2009 Jun;15(6):741-51. doi: 10.1177/1352458509102771. Epub 2009
Apr  21.

The long-term cost of multiple sclerosis in France and potential changes with 
disease-modifying interventions.

Kobelt G(1), Texier-Richard B, Lindgren P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
gisela.kobelt@he-europe.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term costs and quality of life (QoL) with and 
without disease-modifying treatments (DMTs) of patients with multiple sclerosis 
(MS).
METHODS: Data on resource consumption, productivity losses, QoL (utility), and 
fatigue were collected from 1355 patients registered with a patient association 
and descriptive analyses was performed.A Markov model was developed to estimate 
costs and utility over 20 years using the survey data. Disease progression 
without DMTs was taken from an epidemiological cohort in France (EDMUS cohort, 
LYON). Progression under DMTs was estimated from the Stockholm MS registry. 
Results are presented as cost per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), from the 
societal perspective, in EUR2007, discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: Mean Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) was 4.4 and mean total 
annual costs per patient were EUR44,400, of which 47% were productivity losses 
and 11% informal care. Public payers cover an estimated 48% of costs. Mean 
utility was 0.52, and the loss compared with the normal population was estimated 
at 0.28. Costs and utility ranged from EUR16,000 and 0.79 at EDSS 1 to EUR76,000 
and 0.11 at EDSS 8-9.Over 20 years, costs were estimated at EUR429,000 and QALYs 
at 8.96 for patients without DMTs and at EUR433,207 and 9.24 QALYs if all 
patients were starting treated with DMTs at EDSS 1-3.
CONCLUSION: Although the data for this analysis come from different sources, the 
results indicate that the cost increase with DMTs is moderate.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458509102771
PMID: 19383645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Z Rheumatol. 2009 May;68(3):228-33. doi: 10.1007/s00393-008-0395-1.

[Mesenchymal stem cells in arthritis].

[Article in German]

David JP(1), Zwerina J, Schett G.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik 3, Rheumatologie und Immunologie, Universitätsklinikum 
Erlangen, Krankenhausstr. 12, 91054, Erlangen, Deutschland. 
jean-pierre.david@uk-erlangen.de

While one of the major achievements of the 20th century was prolonging life 
expectancy in developed countries, the main challenge of the 21st century is to 
improve the quality of life of the aging population. Aging is associated with a 
progressive reduction of organ system function. Therefore, regenerative medicine 
will be one of the major developing fields of medicine. This new medical field 
does not only apply to aging but also to all degenerative diseases, such as 
arthritis and degenerative joint disease, which lead to progressive degeneration 
of mesenchymal tissues such as bone and cartilage. The discovery of pluripotent 
mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) offers a promising alternative to surgery for 
non-invasive regenerative therapies of mesenchymal tissues. This review focuses 
on the characterization and potential application of MSCs in the regeneration of 
damaged joints.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-008-0395-1
PMID: 19384551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Exp Gerontol. 2009 May;44(5):316-27. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.02.001.

Expression of human uncoupling protein-3 in Drosophila insulin-producing cells 
increases insulin-like peptide (DILP) levels and shortens lifespan.

Humphrey DM(1), Toivonen JM, Giannakou M, Partridge L, Brand MD.

Author information:
(1)MRC Dunn Human Nutrition Unit, Wellcome Trust/MRC Building, Hills Road, 
Cambridge CB2 0XY, UK. dickon.humphrey@iop.kcl.ac.uk

Uncoupling proteins (UCPs) can dissipate mitochondrial protonmotive force by 
increasing the proton conductance of the inner membrane and through this effect 
could decrease ROS production, ameliorate oxidative stress and extend lifespan. 
We investigated whether ubiquitous, pan-neuronal or neurosecretory cell-specific 
expression of human UCP3 (hUCP3) in adult Drosophila melanogaster affected 
lifespan. Low, ubiquitous expression of hUCP3 at levels found in rodent skeletal 
muscle mitochondria did not affect proton conductance in mitochondria isolated 
from whole flies, but high pan-neuronal expression of hUCP3 increased the proton 
conductance of mitochondria isolated from fly heads. Expression of hUCP3 at 
moderate levels in adult neurons led to a marginal lifespan-extension in males. 
However, high expression of hUCP3 in neuronal tissue shortened lifespan. The 
life-shortening effect was replicated when hUCP3 was expressed specifically in 
median neurosecretory cells (mNSC), which express three of the Drosophila 
insulin-like peptides (DILPs). Expression of hUCP3 in the mNSC did not alter 
expression of dilp2, dilp3 or dilp5 mRNA, but led to increased amounts of DILP2 
in fly heads. These data suggest that lowering mitochondrial coupling by high 
expression of hUCP3 alters mNSC function in a way that appears to increase 
DILP-levels in fly heads and lead to a concomitant decrease in lifespan.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.02.001
PMCID: PMC2698063
PMID: 19385039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Clin Pharmacokinet. 2009;48(3):199-209. doi:
10.2165/00003088-200948030-00006.

Effect of the cytochrome P450 2C19 inhibitor omeprazole on the pharmacokinetics 
and safety profile of bortezomib in patients with advanced solid tumours, 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or multiple myeloma.

Quinn DI(1), Nemunaitis J, Fuloria J, Britten CD, Gabrail N, Yee L, Acharya M, 
Chan K, Cohen N, Dudov A.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA. 
diquinn@usc.edu

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Bortezomib, an antineoplastic for the treatment of 
relapsed multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma, undergoes metabolism through 
oxidative deboronation by cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes, primarily CYP3A4 and 
CYP2C19. Omeprazole, a proton-pump inhibitor, is primarily metabolized by and 
demonstrates high affinity for CYP2C19. This study investigated whether 
coadministration of omeprazole affected the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics 
and safety profile of bortezomib in patients with advanced cancer. The 
variability of bortezomib pharmacokinetics with CYP enzyme polymorphism was also 
investigated.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This open-label, crossover, pharmacokinetic drug-drug 
interaction study was conducted at seven institutions in the US and Europe 
between January 2005 and August 2006. Patients who had advanced solid tumours, 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or multiple myeloma, were aged >/=18 years, weighed >/=50 
kg and had a life expectancy of >/=3 months were eligible. Patients received 
bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 on days 1, 4, 8 and 11 for two 21-day cycles, plus 
omeprazole 40 mg in the morning of days 6-10 and in the evening of day 8 in 
either cycle 1 (sequence 1) or cycle 2 (sequence 2). On day 21 of cycle 2, 
patients benefiting from therapy could continue to receive bortezomib for six 
additional cycles. Blood samples for pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic evaluation 
were collected prior to and at various timepoints after bortezomib 
administration on day 8 of cycles 1 and 2. Blood samples for pharmacogenomics 
were also collected. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated by 
noncompartmental analysis of plasma concentration-time data for bortezomib 
administration on day 8 of cycles 1 and 2, using WinNonlin version 4.0.1.a 
software. The pharmacodynamic profile was assessed using a whole-blood 20S 
proteasome inhibition assay.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven patients (median age 64 years) were enrolled, 12 in 
sequence 1 and 15 in sequence 2, including eight and nine 
pharmacokinetic-evaluable patients, respectively. Bortezomib pharmacokinetic 
parameters were similar when bortezomib was administered alone or with 
omeprazole (maximum plasma concentration 120 vs 123 ng/mL; area under the plasma 
concentration-time curve from 0 to 72 hours 129 vs 135 ng . h/mL). The 
pharmacodynamic parameters were also similar (maximum effect 85.8% vs 93.7%; 
area under the percent inhibition-time curve over 72 hours 4052 vs 3910 % x h); 
the differences were not statistically significant. Pharmacogenomic analysis 
revealed no meaningful relationships between CYP enzyme polymorphisms and 
pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic parameters. Toxicities were generally similar 
between patients in sequence 1 and sequence 2, and between cycle 1 and cycle 2 
in both treatment sequences. Among 26 evaluable patients, 13 (50%) were assessed 
as benefiting from bortezomib at the end of cycle 2 and continued to receive 
treatment.
CONCLUSION: No impact on the pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and safety 
profile of bortezomib was seen with coadministration of omeprazole. Concomitant 
administration of bortezomib and omeprazole is unlikely to cause clinically 
significant drug-drug interactions and is unlikely to have an impact on the 
efficacy or safety of bortezomib.

DOI: 10.2165/00003088-200948030-00006
PMID: 19385713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2010 Jan 1;76(1):187-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.01.035.

Physician expectations of treatment outcomes for patients with brain metastases 
referred for whole brain radiotherapy.

Barnes EA(1), Chow E, Tsao MN, Bradley NM, Doyle M, Li K, Lam K, Danjoux C.

Author information:
(1)Rapid Response Radiotherapy Program, Department of Radiation Oncology, Odette 
Cancer Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada. toni.barnes@sunnybrook.ca

PURPOSE: Patients with advanced cancer are referred to our Rapid Response 
Radiotherapy Program for quick access to palliative radiotherapy. The primary 
objective of this prospective study was to determine the physician expectations 
of the treatment outcomes for patients with brain metastases referred for whole 
brain radiotherapy (WBRT). The secondary objectives were to determine the 
factors influencing the expectations and to examine the accuracy of the 
physician-estimated patient survival.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients were identified during a 17-month period. The 
referring physicians were sent a survey by facsimile to be completed and 
returned before the patient consultation. Information was sought on the 
patient's disease status, the physician's expectations of WBRT, the estimated 
patient survival and performance status, and physician demographic data.
RESULTS: A total of 137 surveys were sent out, and the overall response rate was 
57.7%. The median patient age was 66 years (range, 35-87), 78.5% had multiple 
brain metastases, 42.3% had a controlled primary tumor, and 62.3% had 
extracranial disease. WBRT was thought to stabilize neurologic symptoms, improve 
quality of life, and allow for a Decadron (dexamethasone) taper by > or =94.9% 
of the referring physicians; 87.0% thought WBRT would improve performance 
status; 77.9% thought it would improve neurologic symptoms; and 40.8% thought it 
would improve survival. The referring physicians estimated patient survival as a 
median of 6.0 months; however, the actual survival was a median of 2.5 months, 
for a median individual difference of 1.9 months (p < .0001).
CONCLUSION: Physicians referring patients with brain metastases for 
consideration of WBRT are often overly optimistic when estimating the clinical 
benefit of the treatment and overestimate patient survival. These findings 
highlight the need for education and additional research in this field.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.01.035
PMID: 19386437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Eur J Radiol. 2010 Jul;75(1):110-3. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2009.03.041. Epub
2009  Apr 22.

True pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms: a decision analysis.

Takao H(1), Nojo T, Ohtomo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Showa General Hospital, 2-450 Tenjincho, Kodaira, 
Tokyo, Japan. takaoh-tky@umin.ac.jp

PURPOSE: True pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms are rare. No definitive study 
evaluating the natural history of these lesions or their preferred method of 
treatment has been published. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 
outcome of preventive treatment of unruptured pancreaticoduodenal artery 
aneurysms using a Markov model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With the use of a Markov model, we performed a decision 
analysis to evaluate the outcome of preventive treatment of unruptured 
pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms. The risk of rupture and the mortality of 
preventive treatment are unknown. Therefore, we performed sensitivity analysis 
using these parameters. Effectiveness was measured in life expectancy.
RESULTS: For 80-year-old patients, preventive treatment was dominated by no 
treatment if mortality rates of preventive treatment were greater than 1.4%, 
greater than 2.6%, greater than 3.8%, and greater than 4.8% at annual rupture 
rates of 1%, 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively. For 50-year-old patients, preventive 
treatment was dominated by no treatment if mortality rates of preventive 
treatment were greater than 3.3%, greater than 5.9%, greater than 8.0%, and 
greater than 9.7% at annual rupture rates of 1%, 2%, 3%, and 4%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The effectiveness of preventive treatment of unruptured 
pancreaticoduodenal artery aneurysms depends on the aneurysm rupture rate, 
mortality rate of preventive treatment, and patient age. Taking into account the 
effects of these parameters is important in making treatment decisions.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2009.03.041
PMID: 19386457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Curr Opin Ophthalmol. 2009 May;20(3):147-50. doi:
10.1097/ICU.0b013e32832adf0c.

Comparative effectiveness.

Brown GC(1), Brown MM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Flourtown, PA 19031, USA. 
gbrown@valuebasedmedicine.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To familiarize the clinician with the concept of comparative 
effectiveness.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent data support the concept that utility analysis is the 
quality-of-life instrument best able to perform comparative effectiveness 
analyses. The use of time tradeoff utilities for comparative effectiveness 
analyses in interventions across diverse specialties of medicine can be 
undertaken with both excellent reliability and superior construct validity.
SUMMARY: Physicians should familiarize themselves with quality-of-life 
instruments that can be used to assess the comparative effectiveness of 
healthcare interventions. Rather than delegating comparative effectiveness to 
others, physicians must become involved in creating and implementing comparative 
effectiveness standards. Physician involvement is crucial for the best interests 
of patients, as physicians most intimately understand the complexities and 
nuances associated with healthcare interventions.

DOI: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32832adf0c
PMID: 19387344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Jun;24(6):695-701. doi: 10.1007/s11606-009-0952-6.
Epub  2009 Apr 23.

Racial and ethnic differences in preferences for end-of-life treatment.

Barnato AE(1), Anthony DL, Skinner J, Gallagher PM, Fisher ES.

Author information:
(1)Center for Research on Health Care, University of Pittsburgh, 200 Meyran 
Avenue, Suite 200, Pittsburgh, PA, 15312, USA. aeb2@pitt.edu

BACKGROUND: Studies using local samples suggest that racial minorities 
anticipate a greater preference for life-sustaining treatment when faced with a 
terminal illness. These studies are limited by size, representation, and 
insufficient exploration of sociocultural covariables.
OBJECTIVE: To explore racial and ethnic differences in concerns and preferences 
for medical treatment at the end of life in a national sample, adjusting for 
sociocultural covariables.
DESIGN: Dual-language (English/Spanish), mixed-mode (telephone/mail) survey.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 2,847 of 4,610 eligible community-dwelling Medicare 
beneficiaries age 65 or older on July 1, 2003 (62% response).
MEASUREMENTS: Demographics, education, financial strain, health status, social 
networks, perceptions of health-care access, quality, and the effectiveness of 
mechanical ventilation (MV), and concerns and preferences for medical care in 
the event the respondent had a serious illness and less than 1 year to live.
