
OBJETIVO: Evaluar la influencia del país de origen y de los procesos de 
adaptación y selección comparando la mortalidad por enfermedades no 
transmisibles y la esperanza de vida entre los migrantes a Israel de la antigua 
Unión Soviética (AUS) y la mortalidad por enfermedades no transmisibles y la 
esperanza de vida entre los israelíes y en la población de la Federación de 
Rusia.
MÉTODOS: Se analizaron los datos correspondientes a 926 870 personas de la AUS 
que migraron a Israel entre 1990 y 2003 (cohorte de estudio). Se calculó la 
esperanza de vida de la cohorte de estudio, todos israelíes, y de la población 
de la Federación de Rusia. Se calcularon también las tasas de mortalidad 
normalizadas por edad para grupos de causas de mortalidad. Además, los 
inmigrantes de la AUS fueron comparados con otros israelíes y con los habitantes 
de la Federación de Rusia utilizando las razones de mortalidad normalizadas 
(RMN) por causas específicas.
RESULTADOS: La esperanza de vida a los 15 años en 2000–2003 era de 61,0 años 
para los hombres y 67,0 años para las mujeres entre los inmigrantes de Israel 
procedentes de la AUS. Las tasas de mortalidad normalizadas por edad para los 
inmigrantes de Israel procedentes de la AUS fueron similares a las de otros 
israelíes y mucho más bajas que las de la población de la Federación de Rusia. 
En comparación con los israelíes, la cohorte de estudio presentaba una RMN mayor 
para las neoplasias, en particular para el cáncer de estómago. La mortalidad por 
cáncer cerebral fue mayor entre los inmigrantes que en la Federación de Rusia 
(RMN: 1,71, intervalo de confianza, IC, del 95%: 1,50–1,94 para los hombres; 
RMN: 1,77, IC95%: 1,56–2,02 para las mujeres), mientras que la mortalidad por 
cáncer de estómago entre los inmigrantes fue menor que la de la población de la 
Federación de Rusia (RMN: 0,43, IC95%: 0,40–0,47 para los varones; RMN: 0,56, 
IC95%: 0,52–0,61 para las mujeres). La mortalidad por causas externas entre los 
inmigrantes fue menor que en la población de la Federación de Rusia (RMN: 0,20, 
IC95%: 0,19–0,21 para los hombres; RMN: 0,35, IC95%: 0,33–0,37 para las mujeres) 
pero significativamente mayor que entre los otros israelíes (RMN: 1,41, IC95%: 
1,35–1,47 para los hombres; RMN: 1,08, IC95%: 1,02–1,15 para las mujeres).
CONCLUSIÓN: La mortalidad por enfermedades no transmisibles entre los 
inmigrantes de Israel procedentes de la AUS es más baja que en la población de 
la Federación de Rusia. Las tasas de mortalidad entre esos inmigrantes, en 
particular por problemas del aparato circulatorio, han evolucionado rápidamente 
hasta hacerse similares a las del país de destino. Sin embargo, los inmigrantes 
de la AUS presentan una mortalidad considerablemente mayor que la de otros 
israelíes por causas externas y por algunas enfermedades no transmisibles como 
el cáncer. Las tasas de mortalidad entre esos migrantes de la diáspora muestran 
un panorama desigual de asimilación rápida y efectos persistentes del país de 
origen, así como los efectos de las dificultades asociadas a la adaptación.

الغرض: استەدفت الدراسة تقييم تأثير البلد الأصلي وتأثير عمليات التكيُّف 
والاختيار، بالمقارنة بين معدل الوفيات الناجمة عن الأمراض غير السارية ومأمول 
الحياة لدى المەاجرين إلى إسرائيل من الاتحاد السوفيتي السابق، مع مثيلتەا لدى 
الإسرائيليِّـين ولدى سكان الاتحاد الروسي.
الطريقة: تم تحليل البيانات المأخوذة من 870 926 من المەاجرين من الاتحاد السوفيتي 
السابق إلى إسرائيل في المدة من 1990 إلى 2003 (مجموعة الدراسة). وتم حساب مأمول 
الحياة لمجموعة الدراسة، ولجميع الإسرائيليِّـين، ولسكان الاتحاد الروسي. وتم أيضاً 
حساب معدلات الوفيات بحسب العمر لمجموعة مصنفة من أسباب الوفاة. كما أُجريت مقارنة 
بين المەاجرين من الاتحاد السوفيتي السابق وبين غيرەم من الإسرائيليِّـين وسكان 
الاتحاد الروسي، وذلك باستخدام نسب الوفيات بحسب أسباب معينة.
النتائج: بلغ مأمول الحياة لدى المەاجرين من الاتحاد السوفيتي السابق إلى إسرائيل 
عند عمر 15 عاماً، في المدة 2000 – 2003، نحو 61 عاماً للذكور و67 عاماً للإناث. 
وكانت معدلات الوفيات بحسب العمر لدى المەاجرين من الاتحاد السوفيتي السابق إلى 
إسرائيل مماثلة للمعدلات لدى سائر الإسرائيليِّـين، وأقل كثيراً من مثيلتەا لدى 
سكان الاتحاد الروسي. وبالنسبة إلى الإسرائيليِّـين، لوحظ ارتفاع نسبة الوفيات 
الناجمة عن الأورام لدى مجموعة الدراسة، ولاسيَّما سرطان المعدة. كما لوحظ ارتفاع 
معدل الوفيات الناجمة عن سرطان الدماغ عند المقارنة بين المەاجرين وبين سكان 
الاتحاد الروسي (نسبة الوفيات بحسب سبب معين: 1.71، عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 1.50 إلى 
1.94 للذكور؛ وبلغت ەذە النسبة 1.77، عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 1.56 إلى 2.02 للإناث)، في 
حين كانت الوفيات الناجمة عن سرطان المعدة أقل لدى المەاجرين بالمقارنة مع سكان 
الاتحاد الروسي (نسبة الوفيات بحسب سبب معين: 0.43) عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 0.40 إلى 
0.47 للذكور؛ وبلغت ەذە النسبة 0.56، عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 0.52 إلى 0.61 للإناث). 
وكانت الوفيات الناجمة عن أسباب خارجية أقل لدى المەاجرين بالمقارنة مع سكان 
الاتحاد الروسي (نسبة الوفيات بحسب سبب معين 0.20، عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 0.19 إلى 
0.21 للذكور؛ وبلغت ەذە النسبة 0.35 عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 0.33 إلى 0.37 للإناث)، 
ولكث كانت ەذە النسبة عالية بشكل يعتد بە بالمقارنة مع سائر الإسرائيليِّـين (نسبة 
الوفيات بحسب سبب معين 1.41، عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 1.35 على 1.47 للذكور؛ وبلغت 1.08 
عند فاصلة ثقة 95%: 1.02 إلى 1.15 للإناث).
الاستنتاج: تشير النتائج إلى أن الوفيات الناجمة عن الأمراض غير السارية لدى 
المەاجرين من الاتحاد السوفيتي السابق تعدَّلت سريعاً وأصبحت مماثلة لتلك الموجودة 
في بلد المقصد. ومع ذلك، يُلاحظ أن معدل الوفيات الناجمة عن أسباب خارجية وعن بعض 
الأمراض غير السارية، مثل السرطان، أعلى كثيراً لدى المەاجرين من الاتحاد السوفيتي 
السابق بالمقارنة مع سائر الإسرائيليِّـين. كما بينت معدلات الوفيات لدى ەؤلاء 
المەاجرين المشتتين وجود صورة مختلطة من الاندماج السريع مع تأثيرات مستديمة للبلد 
الأصلي، إضافةً إلى التأثيرات الناجمة عن صعوبة التكيُّف.

DOI: 10.2471/blt.07.045138
PMCID: PMC2649602
PMID: 19197401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. J Aging Soc Policy. 2009 Jan-Mar;21(1):75-93. doi: 10.1080/08959420802529986.

Commentary: the emergence and application of active aging in Europe.

Walker A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociological Studies, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
United Kingdom. a.c.walker@sheffield.ac.uk

Active aging is established as the leading global policy strategy in response to 
population aging. In practice, however, the term active aging serves as a 
convenient shelter for a wide range of policy discourses and initiatives 
concerning demographic change. The twin purposes of this article are, first, to 
examine its European origins and how it has been applied in the world's oldest 
region. This policy analysis illustrates the contrast between the primarily 
European discourse on active aging, which emphasizes health, participation, and 
well-being, and the U.S. discourse that prioritizes productivity. The 
application of active aging in Europe has, nonetheless, been predominantly in 
the productivist mold. The examination of the emergence of this key policy 
concept in Europe is contextualized by an outline of the changing politics of 
aging in this region. The second purpose of the article is to set out a new, 
comprehensive strategy on active aging that is intended to realize the full 
potential of the concept. Understanding of the need for this broad vision of 
active aging is facilitated by the historical policy review.

DOI: 10.1080/08959420802529986
PMID: 19197609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Soc Work Health Care. 2009;48(1):76-89. doi: 10.1080/00981380802451160.

Factors associated with obesity and coronary heart disease in people with 
intellectual disabilities.

Sohler N(1), Lubetkin E, Levy J, Soghomonian C, Rimmerman A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Social Medicine, Sophie Davis School of 
Biomedical Education, City College of New York, New York, New York 10031, USA. 
nsohler@ccny.cuny.edu

Advances in health care for people with intellectual disabilities (ID) that have 
resulted in increased longevity also force health care providers, researchers, 
and policymakers to question the adequacy of chronic disease management for the 
growing number of middle aged and elderly persons in this population. We report 
on sociodemographic and clinical factors associated with obesity, hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, and diabetes mellitus in an ethnically/racially diverse 
sample of people with ID in New York City. Administrative and chart review data 
were collected from a community-based specialty medical practice for people with 
intellectual disabilities. Adult subjects were included if they had an 
intellectual disability, lived in the community either independently or with 
relatives, received all of their planned, outpatient health care services though 
this practice, and had a primary care visit within the study period. One hundred 
twenty-six (43.0%) persons were obese, 58 (19.9%) had hypertension, 77 (26.5%) 
had hypercholesterolemia, and 13 (4.5%) had diabetes mellitus. Age, gender, and 
BMI (for the latter three conditions) were the most consistent risk factors. 
Intellectual functioning and behavioral problems were not associated with 
greater odds of these conditions. This study provides crucial information for 
improving community-based primary care for people with intellectual 
disabilities. Specifically, these findings highlight the importance of 
constructing innovative strategies to mitigate chronic disease risk factors in 
this population that involve community-based case management service providers 
who can help adults with ID and their families adopt needed lifestyle and 
behavior changes.

DOI: 10.1080/00981380802451160
PMID: 19197767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2008 Nov;48(11):966-9. doi:
10.5692/clinicalneurol.48.966.

[Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with the SOD1 mutations].

[Article in Japanese]

Aoki M(1), Warita H, Itoyama Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, Tohoku 
University Hospital ALS Center.

Mutations in Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) have been linked to some familial 
cases of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In familial ALS kinders with 
mutations in the SOD1 gene, the age of onset of weakness varies greatly but the 
duration of illness appears to be characteristic to each mutation. For example, 
in patients with the L84V mutation, the average life expectancy is less than 1.5 
year after the onset of symptoms, whereas patients harboring the H46R mutation 
have an average life expectancy of 18 years after the disease onset. In view of 
the evidence supporting the idea that familial ALS variants of SOD1 enzymes 
acquire toxic properties, the variations in the duration of illness in the 
different kinders might arise because each mutation imparts different degrees of 
toxicity to the mutant protein. We developed rats that express a human SOD1 
transgene with two different ALS-associated mutations (G93A and H46R) develop 
striking motor neuron degeneration and paralysis. The larger size of this rat 
model as compared with the ALS mice will facilitate studies involving 
manipulations of spinal fluid (implantation of intrathecal catheters for chronic 
therapeutic studies; CSF sampling) and spinal cord (e.g., direct administration 
of viral- and cell-mediated therapies). Hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) is one of 
the most potent survival-promoting factors for motor neurons. To examine its 
both protective effect on motor neurons and therapeutic potential, we 
administered human recombinant HGF (hrHGF) by continuous intrathecal delivery to 
G93A transgenic (Tg) rats at onset of paralysis for 4 weeks. Intrathecal 
administration of hrHGF attenuates motor neuron degeneration and prolonged the 
duration of the disease by 63%. Our results indicated the therapeutic efficacy 
of continuous intrathecal administration of hrHGF in Tg rats. The results should 
prompt further clinical trials in ALS using continuous intrathecal 
administration of hrHGF.

DOI: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.48.966
PMID: 19198133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Diabetologia. 2009 Apr;52(4):559-67. doi: 10.1007/s00125-009-1275-1.

How to survive diabetes.

Gale EA.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-009-1275-1
PMID: 19198799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Biogerontology. 2009 Dec;10(6):671-5. doi: 10.1007/s10522-009-9214-6.

Solar activity during gestation does not affect human lifespan: evidence from 
national data.

Helle S(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Ecology, Department of Biology, University of Turku, 20014 Turku, 
Finland. sayrhe@utu.fi

Human lifespan has been reported to relate to solar activity during prenatal 
development. The likely key mechanism behind this association is increased 
mutagenic ultraviolet (UVB) radiation during high solar activity that damages 
DNA. Here, the aim was to replicate the findings of those previous few studies 
that have suggested a reduced lifespan of individuals born during the years of 
high solar activity, measured as the sunspot numbers. We used data on annual 
cohort life expectancy at birth of both women and men born between 1751 and 
1915, obtained from ten nations located mainly in Europe. These data, however, 
provided no evidence that human life expectancy at birth was related to solar 
activity during gestation among the countries studied.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-009-9214-6
PMID: 19199108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2009 Aug 1;74(2):295-7. doi: 10.1002/ccd.21944.

Performing a myocardial biopsy in a cardiac transplant patient with a persistent 
left superior vena cava.

Rogers K(1), Bader F, Gilbert E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University of Utah Health Sciences, Salt Lake City, 
Utah, USA.

The life expectancy of patients with congenital heart disease is increasing. 
Thus, as the prevalence of adults with congenital heart disease increases, 
invasive cardiologists will have more exposure to these patients and will 
benefit from expertise in the anatomy of congenital heart defects. We present a 
case of performing right heart catheterization and myocardial biopsy in a 
cardiac transplant patient with a history of multiple congenital defects 
including a persistent left superior vena cava.

(c) 2008 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ccd.21944
PMID: 19199364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Artif Life. 2009 Spring;15(2):131-60. doi: 10.1162/artl.2009.15.2.15200.

Heterochrony and artificial embryogeny: a method for analyzing artificial 
embryogenies based on developmental dynamics.

Matos A(1), Suzuki R, Arita T.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Information Science, Nagoya University, Nagoya, Japan. 
amatos@alife.human.nagoya-u.ac.jp

Artificial embryogenies are an extension to evolutionary algorithms, in which 
genotypes specify a process to grow phenotypes. This approach has become rather 
popular recently, with new kinds of embryogenies being increasingly reported in 
the literature. Nevertheless, it is still difficult to analyze and compare the 
available embryogenies, especially if they are based on very different 
paradigms. We propose a method to analyze embryogenies based on growth dynamics, 
and how evolution is able to change them (heterochrony). We define several 
quantitative measures that allow us to establish the variation in growth 
dynamics that an embryogeny can create, the degree of change in growth dynamics 
caused by mutations, and the degree to which an embryogeny allows mutations to 
change the growth of a genotype, but without changing the final phenotype 
reached. These measures are based on an heterochrony framework, due to Alberch, 
Gould, Oster, & Wake (1979 Size and shape in ontogeny and phylogeny, 
Paleobiology, 5(3), 296-317) that is used in real biological organisms. The 
measures are general enough to be applied to any embryogeny, and can be easily 
computed from simple experiments. We further illustrate how to compute these 
measures by applying them to two simple embryogenies. These embryogenies exhibit 
rather different growth dynamics, and both allow for mutations that changed 
growth without affecting the final phenotype.

DOI: 10.1162/artl.2009.15.2.15200
PMID: 19199381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2009 Feb;7(2):226-36. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2009.0016.

Geriatric assessment in older patients with breast cancer.

Klepin H(1), Mohile S, Hurria A.

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, USA.

Most cases of breast cancer are diagnosed in older adults. Older women have an 
increased risk for breast cancer-specific mortality and are at higher risk for 
treatment-associated morbidity than younger women. However, they are also less 
likely to be offered preventive care or adjuvant therapy for this disease. Major 
gaps in evidence exist regarding the optimal evaluation and treatment of older 
women with breast cancer because of significant underrepresentation in clinical 
trials. Chronologic age alone is an inadequate predictor of treatment tolerance 
and benefit in this heterogeneous population. Multiple issues uniquely 
associated with aging impact cancer care, including functional impairment, 
comorbidity, social support, cognitive function, psychological state, and 
financial stress. Applying geriatric principles and assessment to this older 
adult population would inform decision making by providing estimates of life 
expectancy and identifying individuals most vulnerable to morbidity. Ongoing 
research is seeking to identify which assessment tools can best predict outcomes 
in this population, and thus guide experts in tailoring treatments to maximize 
benefits in older adults with breast cancer.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2009.0016
PMCID: PMC4397965
PMID: 19200420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Radiother Oncol. 2009 Apr;91(1):4-15; discussion 1-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.radonc.2008.12.016. Epub 2009 Feb 5.

Can we reduce the incidence of second primary malignancies occurring after 
radiotherapy? A critical review.

Tubiana M(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. maurice.tubiana@univ-paris5.fr

Second primary malignancies (SPMs) occurring after oncological treatment have 
become a major concern during the past decade. Their incidence has long been 
underestimated because most patients had a short life expectancy after treatment 
or their follow-up was shorter than 15 years. With major improvement of 
long-term survival, longer follow-up, cancer registries and end-result programs, 
it was found that the cumulative incidence of SPM could be as high as 20% of 
patients treated by radiotherapy. This cumulative proportion varies with several 
factors, which ought to be studied more accurately. The delay between 
irradiation and solid tumor emergence is seldom shorter than 10 years and can be 
as long as half a century. Thus, inclusion in a cohort of patients with a short 
follow-up leads to an underestimation of the proportion of SPM caused by 
treatment, unless actuarial cumulative incidence is computed. The incidence 
varies with the tissue and organs, the age of the patient at treatment, 
hereditary factors, but also, and probably mainly, with dose distribution, size 
of the irradiated volume, dose, and dose-rate. An effort toward a reduction in 
their incidence is mandatory. Preliminary data suggest that SPMs are mainly 
observed in tissues having absorbed doses above 2 Gy (fractionated irradiation) 
and that their incidence increases with the dose. However, in children thyroid 
and breast cancers are observed following doses as low as 100 mGy, and in adults 
lung cancers have been reported for doses of 500 mGy, possibly due to 
interaction with tobacco. The dose distribution and the dose per fraction have a 
major impact. However, the preliminary data regarding these factors need 
confirmation. Dose-rates appear to be another important factor. Some data 
suggest that certain patients, who could be identified, have a high 
susceptibility to radiocancer induction. Efforts should be made to base SPM 
reduction on solid data and not on speculation or models built on debatable 
hypotheses regarding the dose-carcinogenic effect relationship. In parallel, 
radiation therapy philosophy must evolve, and the aim of treatment should be to 
deliver the minimal effective radiation therapy rather than the maximal 
tolerable dose.

DOI: 10.1016/j.radonc.2008.12.016
PMID: 19201045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Pain. 2009 Mar;142(1-2):101-7. doi: 10.1016/j.pain.2008.12.009. Epub 2009
Feb 6.

The effect of attentional re-training and threat expectancy in response to acute 
pain.

McGowan N(1), Sharpe L, Refshauge K, Nicholas MK.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Psychology Unit, School of Psychology, University of Sydney, A17, 
Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

This study aimed to investigate the efficacy of implicit attention re-training 
(AR) on pain ratings, threshold and tolerance during the cold-pressor task and 
to determine whether the effectiveness of AR was affected by threat expectancy. 
One hundred and four undergraduate psychology students were randomly assigned to 
receive either threat-alleviating or threat-inducing information about the task. 
Participants were then re-randomized to receive an AR that either trained them 
to implicitly attend to neutral and ignore pain-related stimuli (neutral 
training) or to attend towards pain-related stimuli (pain training). Hence, the 
present study had a 2 (threat expectancy: high vs low) x 2 (AR: pain vs neutral) 
design. Manipulation checks confirmed that the threat manipulation was effective 
in increasing threat expectancy and the training paradigm shifted attentional 
biases in predicted directions. Results showed that, relative to neutral 
re-training, those in the pain re-training group reported higher levels of pain 
30s into the cold pressor task and registered pain more quickly. There was no 
difference in tolerance between the groups, nor pain at tolerance. This was the 
same pattern of results found for the threat induction. For initial pain 
ratings, there was an interaction that closely approached significance 
(p=0.053). These results show that AR affects individual's perceptions of and 
their responses to pain during an experimental task in a similar way to 
increasing the threat expectancy of the task. Future research should trial AR in 
real-life settings to determine whether these results can be generalized.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pain.2008.12.009
PMID: 19201093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Arch Pediatr. 2009 Mar;16(3):235-42. doi: 10.1016/j.arcped.2008.12.021. Epub
 2009 Feb 6.

[Transition from pediatric to adult care: experience of a cystic fibrosis care 
center].

[Article in French]

Malbrunot-Wagner AC(1), Bonnemains C, Troussier F, Darviot E, Chiffoleau M, 
Person C, Urban T, Giniès JL.

Author information:
(1)Département de pédiatrie, CHU d'Angers, 4, rue Larrey, 49933 Angers cedex 9, 
France.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Even though patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) are 
continuously improving their life expectancy, guidelines for transition to adult 
services have not been clearly determined yet. The aim of this study was to 
analyze the management of this transition in the CF care center of Angers, 
France.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: From their medical files, we analyzed the transfer of 22 
patients with CF from pediatric to adult care. The perceptions of patients and 
caregivers regarding this transition were evaluated using anonymous 
questionnaires.
RESULTS: The initial objective was to transfer patients around 18 years of age, 
offering them 3 or 4 joint consultations with a pediatrician and adult lung 
specialist. The median age of transfer was 22 years and the median duration of 
the transition period was 9 months. Half of the patients had only 1 joint 
transfer consultation during transition. The patient reaching the age of 18 and 
maturity were the most common criteria mentioned for transfer. All highlighted 
problems leaving the pediatric team they had grown attached to and its familiar 
environment. Caregivers described the transfer as a success, whereas half of the 
patients were dissatisfied with it, with both patients and caregivers indicating 
that the transition was too short without enough joint consultations.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that this period is a major life event for the 
patient with CF. The transition process must be organized with the patient and 
independent behaviors should be encouraged. Adult and pediatric teams need to 
cooperate. Based on this experience and former medical data, we suggest a 
transition program for patients with CF.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcped.2008.12.021
PMID: 19201172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Public Health. 2009 Feb;123(2):199-201. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.12.016.
Epub  2009 Feb 7.

The consistency of self-rated health in comparative perspective.

Babones SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Sydney, NSW, Australia. salvatore.babones@usyd.edu.au

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2008.12.016
PMID: 19201431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2009 Jun;45(2):275-80. Epub 2009 Jan 6.

Action plan of the Professional Practice Committee-UEMS Physical and 
Rehabilitation Medicine Section: description and development of our field of 
competence.

Gutenbrunner A(1), Delarque A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, 
Germany. gutenbrunner.christoph@mh-hannover.de

PMID: 19202530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2008;30(1):43-52.

Molecular genetics: increasing the resolving power of genetic analysis.

Falk R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and The Program for the History and Philosophy of 
Science, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, 91904 Jerusalem, Israel.

Contrary to Mendel, who introduced hybridization as a methodology for the study 
of selected discrete traits, de Vries conceived of organisms to be composed of 
discrete traits. This introduced into genetic research the dialectics of 
reductive analysis of genes as instrumental variables versus that of genes as 
the material atoms of heredity. The latter conception gained support with the 
analysis of mutations and eventually with high resolution analysis at the 
genetic and biochemical levels, as achieved in fungi and later in bacteria and 
their viruses. Attempts to reduce "classical" genetics to "molecular" genetics 
turned out to be futile. However, this did not necessarily imply that these were 
two distinct theoretical approaches. On the contrary, it is argued that 
molecular genetics is an extension of phenomenological deduction, rather than 
being induction from molecular (DNA) causes to effects. Although conceptually 
systems direct development, methodologically individual inputs must be studied.

PMID: 19203010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Novartis Found Symp. 2008;292:99-109; discussion 109-12, 122-9, 202-3. doi: 
10.1002/9780470697405.ch8.

Current and past prevention and intervention trials in type 1 diabetes.

Staeva T(1).

Author information:
(1)Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation International, 1200 Wall Street, New 
York, NY 10005, USA.

Halting the autoimmune attack on beta cells by redirecting or dampening the 
immune system remains one of the foremost therapeutic goals in type 1 diabetes 
(T1D). Progress in the field has been slow due to important ethical 
considerations. Namely, side effects from excessive immunosuppression cannot be 
tolerated because of the reasonable life expectancy with insulin substitution 
therapy. Nevertheless, we have now learned a significant amount from past 
prevention and intervention trials, which allows us to plan and design better 
interventions and preventions for the future. This article will summarize the 
existing experience and explain the prioritization of future approaches based on 
JDRF's analysis including novel combination therapies for T1D.

DOI: 10.1002/9780470697405.ch8
PMID: 19203095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jan;13(8):iii, ix-xi, 1-50. doi:
10.3310/hta13080.

The use of surrogate outcomes in model-based cost-effectiveness analyses: a 
survey of UK Health Technology Assessment reports.

Taylor RS(1), Elston J.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), Peninsula Medical School, 
Universities of Exeter and Plymouth, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To explore the use of surrogate outcomes in Health Technology 
Assessment (HTA) and provide a basis for guidance for their future use, 
validation and reporting. This report focuses on the role of surrogate outcomes 
in cost-effectiveness models (CEMs) within UK HTA Programme reports.
DATA SOURCES: Reports published in the UK HTA Programme monograph series in 2005 
and 2006 formed the sampling frame for this study.
REVIEW METHODS: Reports were selected on the basis that they addressed a 
treatment effectiveness/efficacy question, that they included a CEM and that the 
CEM was primarily based on a surrogate outcome. Reports addressing diagnostic, 
screening, aetiology, prognostic and methodological questions were excluded. 
Information was extracted from included reports by two reviewers using a 
standardised proforma. Surrogate outcomes were assessed according to two 
published validation frameworks [Journal of the American Medical Association 
(JAMA) criteria and Outcomes Measures in Rheumatology Clinical Trials (OMERACT) 
scoring schema]. A narrative synthesis of findings is presented in the form of 
tabular summaries and illustrative qualitative quotations.
RESULTS: A total of 35 UK HTA reports published in 2005 and 2006 addressed an 
effectiveness/efficacy question and contained a CEM. Of these, four were found 
to have based their CEM on a surrogate outcome. All four reports sourced 
treatment-related changes in surrogate outcomes through a systematic review of 
the literature; however, there was some variability in the consistency and 
transparency by which these reports provided evidence of the validation for the 
surrogate-final outcome relationship. Only one of the reports undertook a 
systematic review to specifically seek the evidence base for the association 
between surrogate and final outcomes. Furthermore, this was the only report to 
provide level 1 surrogate-final outcome validation evidence, i.e. RCT data 
showing a strong association between the change in surrogate outcome (BPAR) and 
the change in final outcome (graft survival) at an individual patient level. 
This report met the JAMA criteria for acceptable evidence of a surrogate. Two 
reports provided level 2 evidence, i.e. observational study data showing the 
relationship between the surrogate and final outcome, and one report provided 
level 3 evidence, i.e. a review of disease natural history. None of the four 
reports achieved a sufficient score on the OMERACT schema to be judged to have 
acceptable evidence of a surrogate outcome by its authors.
CONCLUSIONS: In this survey of UK HTA reports about 10% of the CEMs therein were 
explicitly based on surrogate outcomes. The strength of evidence for the 
surrogate-final outcome relationship, transparency of quantification and 
exploration of uncertainty of this relationship were found to vary considerably. 
Recommendations are made for the use of surrogate outcomes in future HTA 
reports.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13080
PMID: 19203465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. BMJ. 2009 Feb 9;338:b499. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b499.

NICE recommends kidney cancer drug it previously rejected on cost grounds.

Mayor S.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b499
PMID: 19204038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Feb;127(2):146-52. doi:
10.1001/archophthalmol.2008.608.

Value-based medicine, comparative effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness analysis 
of topical cyclosporine for the treatment of dry eye syndrome.

Brown MM(1), Brown GC, Brown HC, Peet J, Roth Z.

Author information:
(1)Center for Value-Based Medicine, Box 335, Flourtown, PA 19031, USA. 
gbrown@valuebasedmedicine.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
(cost-utility) of a 0.05% emulsion of topical cyclosporine (Restasis; Allergan 
Inc, Irvine, California) for the treatment of moderate to severe dry eye 
syndrome that is unresponsive to conventional therapy.
METHODS: Data from 2 multicenter, randomized, clinical trials and Food and Drug 
Administration files for topical cyclosporine, 0.05%, emulsion were used in 
Center for Value-Based Medicine analyses. Analyses included value-based medicine 
as a comparative effectiveness analysis and average cost-utility analysis using 
societal and third-party insurer cost perspectives.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcome measures of comparative effectiveness were 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gain and percentage of improvement in quality 
of life, and for cost-effectiveness were cost-utility ratio (CUR) using dollars 
per QALY.
RESULTS: Topical cyclosporine, 0.05%, confers a value gain (comparative 
effectiveness) of 0.0319 QALY per year compared with topical lubricant therapy, 
a 4.3% improvement in quality of life for the average patient with moderate to 
severe dry eye syndrome that is unresponsive to conventional lubricant therapy. 
The societal perspective incremental CUR for cyclosporine over vehicle therapy 
is $34,953 per QALY and the societal perspective average CUR is $11,199 per 
QALY. The third-party-insurer incremental CUR is $37,179 per QALY, while the 
third-party-insurer perspective average CUR is $34,343 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Topical cyclosporine emulsion, 0.05%, confers considerable patient 
value and is a cost-effective therapy for moderate to severe dry eye syndrome 
that is unresponsive to conventional therapy.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2008.608
PMID: 19204231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Thorac Oncol. 2009 Apr;4(4):499-504. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e318195e23a.

Cost-effectiveness of a smoking cessation program implemented at the time of 
surgery for lung cancer.

Slatore CG(1), Au DH, Hollingworth W.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA. cslatore@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Many patients are active smokers at the time of a diagnosis of 
surgically resectable lung cancer. Perioperative smoking cessation is associated 
with improved survival, but the cost-effectiveness of a smoking cessation 
program initiated immediately before surgery is unknown.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic Markov model to evaluate the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of a formal smoking cessation program. The 
parameter estimates were taken from the available literature. The model included 
the cost and effectiveness of the smoking cessation program, cost and incidence 
of perioperative complications, postoperative mortality, and utility measured in 
quality adjusted life years (QALY). Dollars per QALY and life year were 
calculated and one-way sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The cost/QALY and cost/life year were $16,415 and $45,629 at 1 year 
after surgery and $2609 and $2703 at 5 years, respectively. Most sensitivity 
analyses showed the 1 year postsurgery cost/QALY estimates were less than 
$50,000, and all were less than $12,000 at 5 years. Cost-effectiveness estimates 
were most sensitive to the frequency of perioperative complications and the 
estimated short-term utility estimates.
CONCLUSION: A smoking cessation program initiated before surgical lung resection 
is cost-effective at both 1 and 5 years postsurgery. Providers should encourage 
patients who are still smoking to engage in formal smoking cessation programs.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e318195e23a
PMID: 19204575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Stat Med. 2009 Mar 30;28(7):1054-66. doi: 10.1002/sim.3529.

Regression analysis of mean quality-adjusted survival time based on 
pseudo-observations.

Tunes-da-Silva G(1), Klein JP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Estatística do Instituto de Matemática e Estatística, 
Universidade de São Paulo, Brazil. tunes@ime.usp.br

Regression models for the mean quality-adjusted survival time are specified from 
hazard functions of transitions between two states and the mean quality-adjusted 
survival time may be a complex function of covariates. We discuss a regression 
model for the mean quality-adjusted survival (QAS) time based on 
pseudo-observations, which has the advantage of directly modeling the effect of 
covariates in the QAS time. Both Monte Carlo simulations and a real data set are 
studied.

Copyright (c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3529
PMCID: PMC2715957
PMID: 19205073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Ir Med J. 2008 Nov-Dec;101(10):305-7.

Survival of patients discharged to long term care.

Cunningham CJ(1), Walsh JB, Coakley D, Walsh C, Connolly C, Murphy M, Murphy C.

Author information:
(1)MedEL Directorate and Mercer's Institute for Research in Ageing, St James's 
Hospital, James's St, Dublin. CCunningham@STJAMES.IE

Data on the life expectancy of elderly people in long term care facilities will 
be important for effective service planning and monitoring quality of care. To 
date there are no such data from an Irish perspective. A random sample of 
patients discharged to long term care between Jan 1st 1997 and December 31st 
2003 from a single Dublin hospital was studied. Death by January 1st 2005 was 
ascertained through the register of births deaths and marriage. Median survival 
was calculated and factors associated with mortality were determined in a 
logistic regression. Mean (sd) age was 82 (11) years and 61 (29%) were female. 
Median survival was 30.3 (95%CI 22.4-45.0) months (mean Irish life expectancy at 
this age is about 78 months). Three factors were independently associated with 
death by 2 years: age (Odds ratio 1.11 [95%CI 1.05-1.17, F ratio 15.1, p=0.0001] 
per year), male gender (Odds ratio 1.52 [95%CI 1.05-3.68, F ratio 5.2, p=0.024]) 
and discharge to continuing care (Odds ratio 1.96 [1.05-3.68, F ratio 4.4, 
p=0.037]). These results (which are the first such Irish data) show that 
patients discharged to long term care are a frail group with a reduced life 
expectancy. Encouragingly survival for this cohort (25% at 1 year) was similar 
to that seen in other countries. Data on nursing home survival will allow more 
accurate planning of long term residential services and help monitor quality of 
care.

PMID: 19205140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Ophthalmic Surg Lasers Imaging. 2009 Jan-Feb;40(1):50-3. doi: 
10.3928/15428877-20090101-18.

Secondary open-angle glaucoma and central retinal vein occlusion in a patient 
with primary pulmonary hypertension.

Senthil S(1), Kaur B, Jalali S, Garudadri C.

Author information:
(1)L. V Prasad Eye Institute, L. V Prasad Marg, Road No: 2, Banjara Hills, 
500034 Hyderabad, India.

A 22-year-old man with primary pulmonary hypertension presented with dilated 
episcleral veins and increased intraocular pressures. His increased intraocular 
pressure was resistant to therapy with topical and systemic anti-glaucoma 
medications. He developed serous macular detachment in one eye that resolved 
spontaneously. He later presented with central retinal vein occlusion in the 
same eye, which responded to intravitreal bevacizumab. Ocular manifestations of 
primary pulmonary hypertension develop as a result of reduced venous outflow due 
to increased venous pressures. Management of ocular complications in patients 
with systemic disease resulting in short life expectancy remains a challenge.

DOI: 10.3928/15428877-20090101-18
PMID: 19205497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Invest New Drugs. 2010 Feb;28(1):76-82. doi: 10.1007/s10637-009-9224-x. Epub
 2009 Feb 10.

Development and validation of a model that predicts early death among cancer 
patients participating in phase I clinical trials investigating cytotoxics.

Penel N(1), Delord JP, Bonneterre ME, Bachelot T, Ray-Coquard I, Blay JY, Pascal 
LB, Borel C, Filleron T, Adenis A, Bonneterre J.

Author information:
(1)Département de Cancérologie Générale, Centre Oscar Lambret, 3, Rue F 
Combemale, Lille, France. n-penel@o-lambret.fr

OBJECTIVE: Selecting patients for phase 1 studies remains challenging. Given the 
lack of clear and reliable guidance for the estimation of life expectancy, we 
retrospectively assessed predictive factors of early death (within 90 days 
following inclusion) among these patients.
METHODS: Two hundred fifty-seven consecutive cancer patients enrolled in phase I 
studies investigating cytotoxics at Oscar Lambret Cancer Center and Institut 
Claudius Regaud were included in the development database. Univariate and 
multivariate analyses (logistic regression model) were undertaken to determine 
the prognostic factors. A probability tree described the rate of early death in 
the different prognostic subgroups. This prognostic model was then evaluated on 
a second independent cohort of 128 patients treated at Léon Bérard Cancer 
Center.
RESULTS: The median overall survival was 8.4 months in the dataset population, 
and the rate of early death was 15%. In multivariate analysis, the two 
prognostic factors for early death were albumin <38 g/l (OR = 5.21) and 
lymphocytes <700/mm(3) (OR = 3.88). According to these two parameters, three 
prognostic subgroups were defined with early death rates of, respectively, 8/121 
(6%), 19/119 (16%) and 13/17 (76%). In the validation dataset, the rates of 
early death according to three prognostic groups were 13/68 (19%), 20/57 (35%) 
and 3/3 (100%), respectively.
CONCLUSION: We do not recommend the enrolment of patients with albumin level 
below 38g/l and lymphocytes count below 700/mm(3), in phase 1 trial 
investigating cytotoxics. Our model is helpful to discriminate "patients with 
reasonable life expectancy" as defined in most phase 1 protocols.

DOI: 10.1007/s10637-009-9224-x
PMID: 19205623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Stat Med. 2009 Apr 30;28(9):1369-85. doi: 10.1002/sim.3547.

Bayesian multivariate disease mapping and ecological regression with errors in 
covariates: Bayesian estimation of DALYs and 'preventable' DALYs.

Macnab YC(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Population and Public Health, Division of Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. 
ymacnab@interchange.ubc.ca

This paper presents Bayesian multivariate disease mapping and ecological 
regression models that take into account errors in covariates. Bayesian 
hierarchical formulations of multivariate disease models and covariate 
measurement models, with related methods of estimation and inference, are 
developed as an integral part of a Bayesian disability adjusted life years 
(DALYs) methodology for the analysis of multivariate disease or injury data and 
associated ecological risk factors and for small area DALYs estimation, 
inference, and mapping. The methodology facilitates the estimation of 
multivariate small area disease and injury rates and associated risk effects, 
evaluation of DALYs and 'preventable' DALYs, and identification of regions to 
which disease or injury prevention resources may be directed to reduce DALYs. 
The methodology interfaces and intersects the Bayesian disease mapping 
methodology and the global burden of disease framework such that the impact of 
disease, injury, and risk factors on population health may be evaluated to 
inform community health, health needs, and priority considerations for disease 
and injury prevention. A burden of injury study on road traffic accidents in 
local health areas in British Columbia, Canada, is presented as an illustrative 
example.

John Wiley & Sons, Ltd

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3547
PMID: 19206088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. HIV Med. 2009 Apr;10(4):199-208. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2008.00670.x. Epub
 2009 Jan 22.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV nonoccupational post-exposure prophylaxis in 
Australia.

Guinot D(1), Ho MT, Poynten IM, McAllister J, Pierce A, Pell C, Grulich AE.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of HIV 
nonoccupational post-exposure prophylaxis (NPEP) in Australia.
METHODS: A retrospective cost analysis of a population-based observational 
cohort of 1601 participants eligible for NPEP in Australia between 1998 and 2004 
was carried out. We modelled NPEP treatment costs and combined them with 
effectiveness outcomes to calculate the cost per seroconversion avoided. We 
estimated the cost-utility of the programme, and sensitivity and threshold 
analysis was performed on key variables.
RESULTS: The average NPEP cost per patient was A$1616, of which A$848 (52%) was 
for drugs, A$331 (21%) for consultations, A$225 (14%) for pathology and A$212 
(13%) for other costs. The cost per seroconversion avoided in the cohort was A$1 
647,476 in our base case analysis, and A$512,410 when transmission rates were 
set at their maximal values. The cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was 
between A$40,673 and A$176,772, depending on the risks of HIV transmission 
assumed.
CONCLUSIONS: In our base case, NPEP was not a cost-effective intervention 
compared with the widely accepted Australian threshold of A$50,000 per QALY. It 
was only cost-effective after receptive unprotected anal intercourse exposure to 
an HIV-positive source. Although NPEP was a relatively well-targeted 
intervention in Australia, its cost-effectiveness could be improved by further 
targeting high-risk exposures.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1293.2008.00670.x
PMID: 19207598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Nephrology (Carlton). 2009 Feb;14(1):123-32. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1797.2008.01073.x.

The cost-effectiveness of increasing kidney transplantation and home-based 
dialysis.

Howard K(1), Salkeld G, White S, McDonald S, Chadban S, Craig JC, Cass A.

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney, Australia. kirstenh@health.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Renal replacement therapy (RRT) consumes sizable proportions of 
health budgets internationally, but there is considerable variability in choice 
of RRT modality among and within countries with major implications for health 
outcomes and costs. We aimed to quantify these implications for increasing 
kidney transplantation and improving the rate of home-based dialysis.
METHODS: A multiple cohort Markov model was used to assess costs and health 
outcomes of RRT for new end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) patients in Australia 
for 2005-2010, using a health-care funder perspective. Patient characteristics 
and current practice patterns were based on the ANZDATA Registry. Two proposed 
changes were modelled: (i) increasing kidney transplants by between 10% and 50% 
by 2010; and (ii) increasing home haemodialysis (HD) and peritoneal dialysis 
(PD) to the highest rates observed among Australian centres. We assessed costs 
(Australian dollars), survival and quality-adjusted survival, and 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The number of new ESKD patients in 2010 was estimated to be 2700, with 
annual RRT costs of about $A700 million; cumulative costs (2005-2010) were $A5 
billion. Increasing transplants by 10-50% saves between $A5.8 and $A26.2 
million, and increases quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) by 130-658 QALYs. 
Switching new patients from hospital HD to (i) home HD saves $A46.6 million by 
2010; or (ii) PD saves $A122.1 million.
CONCLUSIONS: These clinical practice changes reduce costs, improve patient 
quality of life and, in the case of transplantation, increase survival. Planning 
for RRT services should incorporate efforts to maximize rates of transplantation 
and to encourage home-based over hospital-based dialysis to optimize 
cost-effectiveness in RRT service delivery.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1797.2008.01073.x
PMID: 19207859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Hepatobiliary Pancreat Dis Int. 2009 Feb;8(1):79-84.

Pancreatic head carcinoma: clinical analysis of 189 cases.

Hua YP(1), Liang LJ, Peng BG, Li SQ, Huang JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, First Affiliated Hospital, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510080, China.

BACKGROUND: Pancreatic cancer is a lethal disease with an increasing incidence. 
We retrospectively reviewed the clinical data on diagnosis and treatment of 
pancreatic head carcinoma, and analyzed the factors affecting prognosis of the 
disease.
METHODS: The data of 189 patients with pancreatic head carcinoma treated from 
September 1, 1995 to August 31, 2005 were reviewed retrospectively. Ninety-four 
patients treated from September 1, 2000 to August 31, 2005 were followed up in 
April 2008. The median survival time (MST) and 1- to 5- year cumulative survival 
rates of the patients were calculated by the life table method and the 
Kaplan-Meier method. Cox regression was used to screen out significant risk 
factors.
RESULTS: 96.9% of the patients were more than 40 years old, and the male/female 
ratio was 1.63. The detection rate of transabdominal ultrasonography (US), 
computed tomography (CT), endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), and serum tumor 
marker CA19-9 were 82.0%, 93.1%, 94.7% and 79.8%, respectively. The MST of 
patients with pancreatic head carcinoma was 360+/-60 days. The 1- to 5-year 
cumulative survival rates were 50.0%, 19.2%, 12.1%, 9.4% and 4.7%, respectively. 
However, patients with unresectable tumor survived for a shorter time (183+/-18 
days). Their 1- to 2-year cumulative survival rates were 28.3% and 0.0%. Cox 
regression analysis showed that in pancreatic head carcinoma, the independent 
predictors for prognosis included tumor size, invasion of the superior 
mesenteric vessel, and radical resection. The MST of patients with pancreatic 
head carcinoma after radical resection was 510 days, significantly longer than 
that of patients undergoing non-specific treatment and palliative therapy (225 
days). In addition, patients with slight jaundice survived for the longest time 
(533+/-51 days), compared with patients with severe jaundice (236+/-43 days) and 
without jaundice (392+/-109 days).
CONCLUSIONS: Pancreatic head carcinoma is easily misdiagnosed, and is usually 
found to be advanced when tumor size is too large (above 4 cm in diameter) with 
local spread or metastatic disease. In these cases, surgical resection is 
usually not feasible, and its prognosis is usually very poor. Therefore, careful 
attention should be paid to these high-risk patients, especially, males, more 
than 40 years old, and presenting slight jaundice. Then imaging examination (US, 
CT and EUS) and serum tumor marker examination (CA19-9) are used to detect this 
disease earlier, and perform curative resection earlier. In this way, it is 
possible to cure the patients with a longer survival time and better quality of 
life.

PMID: 19208521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. BMJ. 2009 Feb 10;338:b270. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b270.

Cost effectiveness of nurse delivered endoscopy: findings from randomised 
multi-institution nurse endoscopy trial (MINuET).

Richardson G(1), Bloor K, Williams J, Russell I, Durai D, Cheung WY, Farrin A, 
Coulton S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Hull York Medical School (HYMS), University 
of York, York YO10 5DD. gar2@york.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of nurses and doctors in performing 
upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and flexible sigmoidoscopy.
DESIGN: As part of a pragmatic randomised trial, the economic analysis 
calculated incremental cost effectiveness ratios, and generated cost 
effectiveness acceptability curves to address uncertainty.
SETTING: 23 hospitals in the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 67 doctors and 30 nurses, with a total of 1888 patients, from July 
2002 to June 2003.
INTERVENTION: Diagnostic upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and flexible 
sigmoidoscopy carried out by doctors or nurses.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Estimated health gains in QALYs measured with EQ-5D. 
Probability of cost effectiveness over a range of decision makers' willingness 
to pay for an additional quality adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Although differences did not reach traditional levels of significance, 
patients in the doctor group gained 0.015 QALYs more than those in the nurse 
