from 2004 to 2006 to identify some of the principle factors that inhibit leek 
moth population growth in areas of low pest density. The contribution of natural 
enemies to leek moth mortality was measured by comparing mortality on caged and 
uncaged leeks. Total pre-imaginal mortality on uncaged plants was 99.6%, 99.1% 
and 96.4% in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Variation in mortality was 
greater among years than among sites. Total larval mortality was greater than 
that in the eggs and pupae. This was due largely to the high mortality (up to 
83.3%) of neonates during the brief period between egg hatch and establishment 
of the feeding mine. Leek moth pupal mortality was significantly greater on 
uncaged than on caged leeks, indicating an impact by natural enemies, and this 
pattern was consistent over all three years of study. In contrast, the other 
life stages did not show consistently higher mortality rates on uncaged plants. 
This observation suggests that the pupal stage may be particularly vulnerable to 
natural enemies and, therefore, may be the best target for classical biological 
control in Canada.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007485309006804
PMID: 19323855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):100-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.01.011. Epub
2009  Mar 25.

Using thrombophilia testing to determine anticoagulation duration in pediatric 
thrombosis is not cost-effective.

O'Brien SH(1), Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Innovation in Pediatric Practice, The Research Institute at 
Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH 43205, USA. 
sarah.obrien@nationwidechildrens.org

OBJECTIVE: To address the cost-effectiveness of thrombophilia testing and 
treatment strategies among children with a first episode of thrombosis.
STUDY DESIGN: A 2-year Markov model was developed to evaluate the cost-utility 
of 3 strategies: (1) no testing, anticoagulate for 3 months, (2) no testing, 
anticoagulate for 6 months, and (3) testing, anticoagulate 3 or 6 months, based 
on results. We performed a literature search to estimate clinical probabilities 
and obtained quality-of-life and cost data from published sources.
RESULTS: Total costs per patient were $7900 for no test, treat for 3 months; 
$8900 for test, treat based on results; and $12,100 for no test, treat for 6 
months. Three months of treatment without testing was the least expensive 
strategy and also the most effective (1.74 quality-adjusted life-years) by 0.01 
to 0.03 quality-adjusted life-years. Cost-utility ratios were sensitive to 
variation in hospitalization and medication costs, but 3 months, no testing, 
always remained the preferred choice.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal thrombophilia testing after a first episode of thrombosis 
is not cost-effective when used solely to determine anticoagulation duration. 
Therefore, a full panel of thrombophilia studies does not need to be an 
automatic response at the time of any deep venous thrombosis diagnoses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.01.011
PMID: 19324372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Biol Lett. 2009 Jun 23;5(3):339-42. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2009.0009. Epub 2009
Mar  11.

Trade-off between age of first reproduction and survival in a female primate.

Blomquist GE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA. 
blomquistg@missouri.edu

Trade-offs are central to life-history theory but difficult to document. 
Patterns of phenotypic and genetic correlations in rhesus macaques, Macaca 
mulatta-a long-lived, slow-reproducing primate-are used to test for a trade-off 
between female age of first reproduction and adult survival. A strong positive 
genetic correlation indicates that female macaques suffer reduced adult survival 
when they mature relatively early and implies primate senescence can be 
explained, in part, by antagonistic pleiotropy. Contrasts with a similar human 
study implicate the extension of parental effects to later ages as a potential 
mechanism for circumventing female life-history trade-offs in human evolution.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2009.0009
PMCID: PMC2679923
PMID: 19324637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Proc Biol Sci. 2009 May 7;276(1662):1679-83. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2008.1817.
Epub  2009 Feb 25.

Telomere dynamics rather than age predict life expectancy in the wild.

Bize P(1), Criscuolo F, Metcalfe NB, Nasir L, Monaghan P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Glasgow, Glasgow 
G12 8QQ, UK. pierre.bize@unil.ch

Despite accumulating evidence from in vitro studies that cellular senescence is 
linked to telomere dynamics, how this relates to whole-organism senescence and 
longevity is poorly understood and controversial. Using data on telomere length 
in red blood cells and long-term survival from wild Alpine swifts of a range of 
ages, we report that the telomere length and the rate of telomere loss are 
predictive of life expectancy, and that slow erosion of relatively long 
telomeres is associated with the highest survival probabilities. Importantly, 
because telomere dynamics, rather than chronological age, predict life 
expectancy, our study provides good evidence for a mechanistic link between 
telomere erosion and reduced organism longevity under natural conditions, 
chronological age itself possibly not becoming a significant predictor until 
very old ages beyond those in our sample.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2008.1817
PMCID: PMC2660992
PMID: 19324831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Crit Care Med. 2009 May;37(5):1655-62. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31819da853.

Differences in immune response may explain lower survival among older men with 
pneumonia.

Reade MC(1), Yende S, D'Angelo G, Kong L, Kellum JA, Barnato AE, Milbrandt EB, 
Dooley C, Mayr FB, Weissfeld L, Angus DC; Genetic and Inflammatory Markers of 
Sepsis Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, CRISMA Laboratory, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2009 May;37(5):1809-10.

OBJECTIVE: Lower life expectancy in men is generally attributed to higher 
likelihood of risky behavior and because men develop chronic conditions earlier. 
If sex-related differences in survival are independent of preinfection chronic 
health and health behavior, it would suggest that survival differences may occur 
because of sex differences in quality of care and biological response to 
infection, and these differences may contribute to sex differences in life 
expectancy. We assessed if sex-related survival difference following 
community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) is due to differences in clinical 
characteristics, quality of care, or immune response.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND SUBJECTS: Prospective observational cohort of 2183 subjects 
with CAP.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Mean age was 64.9 years. Men were more likely to 
smoke and had more comorbidity compared with women. At emergency department 
presentation, men had different biomarker patterns, as evidenced by higher 
inflammation (tumor necrosis factor, interleukin [IL]-6, and IL-10) and 
fibrinolysis (d-dimer), and lower coagulation biomarkers (antithrombin-III and 
factor IX) (p < 0.05). Small differences in favor of men were seen in care 
quality, including antibiotic timing and compliance with American Thoracic 
Society guidelines. Men had lower survival at 30, 90, and 365 days. The higher 
1-year mortality was not attenuated when adjusted for differences in 
demographics, smoking, resuscitation, insurance, and vaccination status, 
comorbidity, hospital characteristics, and illness severity (unadjusted hazard 
ratio [HR] = 1.35, p = 0.003; and adjusted HR = 1.29, p = 0.004). HR was no 
longer statistically significant when additionally adjusted for differences in 
emergency department concentrations of tumor necrosis factor, IL-6, IL-10, 
d-dimer, antithrombin-III, and factor IX (adjusted HR = 1.27, p = 0.17). 
Patterns of biomarkers observed in men were associated with worse survival for 1 
year.
CONCLUSIONS: Lower survival among men following CAP was not explained by 
differences in chronic diseases, health behaviors, and quality of care. Patterns 
of inflammatory, coagulation, and fibrinolysis biomarkers among men may explain 
reduced short-term and long-term survival.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31819da853
PMCID: PMC2760065
PMID: 19325487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Curr Opin Urol. 2009 May;19(3):247-57. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32832a0814.

Predicting cancer-control outcomes in patients with renal cell carcinoma.

Isbarn H(1), Karakiewicz PI.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: An increasing number of models are becoming available for 
patients with either suspected or established renal cell carcinoma (RCC) of 
various stages. In this review, we propose a systematic approach to the 
assessment of the quantity of the existing predictive and prognostic models.
RECENT FINDINGS: Only one model was designed to distinguish between malignant or 
benign histology prior to nephrectomy and another tool attempts to discriminate 
between low-grade and high-grade histology. Four tools predict the natural 
history of RCC using preoperative tumor characteristics. Postnephrectomy 
recurrence can be predicted with four tools. Finally, mortality predictions can 
be quantified with 21 predictive tools. Although several of these tools are 
validated, formal tests were performed in surprisingly few such models.
SUMMARY: Multiple models can be applied to nephrectomy candidates, to patients 
treated with nephrectomy, or to individuals with metastatic RCC regardless of 
nephrectomy status. For newly diagnosed and untreated patients, these tools can 
guide the clinician with respect to treatment selection. For patients treated 
with nephrectomy, they can assess the risk of recurrence and/or mortality and 
can guide the type and frequency of follow-up considerations. Finally, for 
patients with metastatic RCC, the models can provide the best estimate of 
remaining life expectancy. Unfortunately, virtually no data are available to 
model the prognosis of patients subjected to surveillance or nonextirpative 
treatment models.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32832a0814
PMID: 19325492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Aging Male. 2009 Mar;12(1):13-20. doi: 10.1080/13685530902814434.

Anti-aging medicine: pitfalls and hopes.

Dominguez LJ(1), Barbagallo M, Morley JE.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Unit, Department of Clinical Medicine and Emerging Pathologies, 
University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.

Since the beginnings of time humans have searched for a fountain of youth. This 
has led to many extravagant claims which have been highly profitable for their 
proponents. This area has become known as anti-aging medicine and has deservedly 
been frowned upon by the medical establishment. On the other hand, in the last 
decades dramatic advances in our understanding of the aging process have come 
from studies in worms, flies and mice. This article reviews some of these 
advances and places the extravagant claims of anti-aging medicine in 
perspective. We conclude that a balanced diet of moderate proportions and 
exercise remain today the only proven fountain of youth.

DOI: 10.1080/13685530902814434
PMID: 19326292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. J Vector Borne Dis. 2009 Mar;46(1):26-35.

Burden of chikungunya in India: estimates of disability adjusted life years 
(DALY) lost in 2006 epidemic.

Krishnamoorthy K(1), Harichandrakumar KT, Krishna Kumari A, Das LK.

Author information:
(1)Vector Control Research Centre, Puducherry, India. kkrish_3@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: During 2006, chikungunya emerged as a major ever known 
epidemic in India. Disability adjusted life years (DALY) is an appropriate 
summary measure of population health to express epidemiological burden of 
diseases. We estimated the burden due to suspected chikungunya using DALYs for 
the first time and compared between the states and also with the burden due to 
other vector-borne diseases in India. The economic burden was also assessed in 
terms of productivity loss.
METHODS: Data on the reported cases of fever/suspected cases of chikungunya from 
different states during 2006 in India were used. Years lived with disability 
(YLD) were calculated for non-fatal cases to estimate DALY. Since the disability 
weight for chikungunya is not available, the weights available for rheumatic 
arthritis, comparable to the disease outcome of chikungunya were used for the 
estimation. The burden was estimated for both acute and chronic cases. It is 
considered that about 11.5% of cases were reported to have extended morbidity 
with persisting arthralgia. For acute disease, the average duration of illness 
was considered to be nine days and for chronic cases it was six months on an 
average. The productivity loss due to income foregone by the working class was 
calculated using minimum official wage.
RESULTS: National burden of chikungunya was estimated to be 25,588 DALYs lost 
during 2006 epidemic, with an overall burden of 45.26 DALYs per million. It 
varied from 0.01 to 265.62 per million in different states. Karnataka alone 
contributed as high as 55% of the national burden. Persistent arthralgia was 
found to impose heavy burden, accounting for 69% of the total DALYs. The 
productivity loss in terms of income foregone was estimated to be a minimum of 
Rs. 391 million.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSION: The chikungunya epidemic in the year 2006 imposed 
heavy epidemiological burden and productivity loss to the community. The burden 
of chikungunya in terms of DALY was estimated for the first time. In view of 
re-emergence and spread of this infection in recent times it is warranted for 
derivation of disability weight for different health states of chikungunya to 
facilitate realistic estimates of DALYs. Quality epidemiological data from 
surveillance system to monitor vector-borne and zoonotic diseases would pave way 
for more realistic estimates of burden. The productivity loss in-terms of income 
foregone could be minimal as the estimation was made by using the minimum wage 
fixed by the government although the actual loss is expected to be higher.

PMID: 19326705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Acta Vet Scand. 2009 Mar 27;51(1):14. doi: 10.1186/1751-0147-51-14.

A pig model of acute Staphylococcus aureus induced pyemia.

Nielsen OL(1), Iburg T, Aalbaek B, Leifsson PS, Agerholm JS, Heegaard P, Boye M, 
Simon S, Jensen KB, Christensen S, Melsen K, Bak AK, Backman ER, Jørgensen MH, 
Groegler DK, Jensen AL, Kjelgaard-Hansen M, Jensen HE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Disease Biology, University of Copenhagen, 
Frederiksberg C, Denmark. ole@life.ku.dk

BACKGROUND: Sepsis caused by Staphylococcus aureus constitutes an important 
cause of morbidity and mortality in humans, and the incidence of this 
disease-entity is increasing. In this paper we describe the initial microbial 
dynamics and lesions in pigs experimentally infected with S. aureus, with the 
aim of mimicking human sepsis and pyemia.
METHODS: The study was conducted in anaesthetized and intravenously inoculated 
pigs, and was based on bacteriological examination of blood and testing of blood 
for IL-6 and C-reactive protein. Following killing of the animals and necropsy 
bacteriological and histological examinations of different organs were performed 
4, 5 or 6 h after inoculation.
RESULTS: Clearance of bacteria from the blood was completed within the first 2 h 
in some of the pigs and the highest bacterial load was recorded in the lungs as 
compared to the spleen, liver and bones. This probably was a consequence of both 
the intravenous route of inoculation and the presence of pulmonary intravascular 
macrophages. Inoculation of bacteria induced formation of acute microabscesses 
in the lungs, spleen and liver, but not in the kidneys or bones. No generalized 
inflammatory response was recorded, i.e. IL-6 was not detected in the blood and 
C-reactive protein did not increase, probably because of the short time course 
of the study.
CONCLUSION: This study demonstrates the successful induction of acute pyemia 
(microabscesses), and forms a basis for future experiments that should include 
inoculation with strains of S. aureus isolated from man and an extension of the 
timeframe aiming at inducing sepsis, severe sepsis and septic shock.

DOI: 10.1186/1751-0147-51-14
PMCID: PMC2667522
PMID: 19327150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2009 Apr;137(4):881-6, 886e1-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2008.09.028. Epub 2009 Feb 25.

Patient outcome after aortic valve replacement with a mechanical or biological 
prosthesis: weighing lifetime anticoagulant-related event risk against 
reoperation risk.

van Geldorp MW(1), Eric Jamieson WR, Kappetein AP, Ye J, Fradet GJ, Eijkemans 
MJ, Grunkemeier GL, Bogers AJ, Takkenberg JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.vangeldorp@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Although the results of aortic valve replacement with different valve 
prostheses are well documented in terms of survival, the risks of 
(valve-related) events are less well explored.
METHODS: We used a dataset of 3934 patients who underwent aortic valve 
replacement with either a bioprosthesis (73%) or a mechanical prosthesis (27%) 
between 1982 and 2003 to simulate the outcome of patients after aortic valve 
replacement with either valve type. With the use of microsimulation, we compared 
total age and gender-specific life expectancy, event-free life expectancy, 
reoperation-free life expectancy, lifetime risks of reoperation, and 
valve-related events for both valve types.
RESULTS: The total follow-up was 26,467 patient-years. The mean follow-up was 
6.1 years in the biological arm and 8.5 years in the mechanical arm. The mean 
age at implantation was 70 and 58 years for biological and mechanical 
prostheses, respectively, and the percentage of concomitant coronary artery 
bypass grafting was 47% and 28%, respectively. For a 60-year-old man, simulated 
life expectancy in years for biological versus mechanical prostheses was 11.9 
versus 12.2, event-free life expectancy was 9.8 versus 9.3, and reoperation-free 
life expectancy was 10.5 versus 11.9. Lifetime risk of reoperation was 25% 
versus 3%. Lifetime risk of bleeding was 12% versus 41%.
CONCLUSION: Even for patients aged 60 years, event-free life expectancy is 
better with a bioprosthesis. Although the chance of reoperation is higher, the 
lifetime risk of bleeding is lower compared with a mechanical prosthesis. 
Comparing lifetime event risks between different types of valve prostheses 
provides more insight into patient outcome after aortic valve replacement and 
aids patient selection and counseling.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2008.09.028
PMID: 19327512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Prev Vet Med. 2009 Jun 1;89(3-4):249-54. doi:
10.1016/j.prevetmed.2009.02.011.  Epub 2009 Mar 26.

Modelling the demographics of the Irish cattle population.

O'Connor J(1), More SJ, Griffin JM, O'Leary E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Agriculture House, Kildare 
Street, Dublin 2, Ireland. jarlath.oconnor@agriculture.gov.ie

In recent years, national authorities have committed very substantial resources 
to the creation and maintenance of databases capable of recording important 
animal event data, such as births, deaths and movements. This has primarily been 
driven by the need to ensure the quality and safety of animal products. However, 
it can also be used to assist policy makers in decision making. Despite the 
abundance of animal event data, as yet there is little published information 
about the use of these data to better understand the demography of cattle 
populations. This study reports the development of, and outputs from, a 
demographic model using data routinely collected from the Irish cattle 
population. The demographic model was based on a series of life tables detailing 
age-specific probabilities of survival up to a maximum of 17 years. These 
outputs were used to determine characteristics of the Irish cattle population, 
including estimated mortality rates, life expectancies and age profiles, and 
estimated cattle numbers by age and date. Separate life tables were developed 
for each of the 204 monthly birth cohorts born between January 1989 and December 
2005. Within the Irish cattle population, the peak estimated mortality rate 
occurs at 29-33 months. The estimated life expectancy at birth of cattle in 
Ireland was 42 months. When the survival rates for all the cohorts within a 
population are calculated, then it is possible to use these rates as a model for 
determining future population size and answering cohort specific queries.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2009.02.011
PMID: 19327855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Health Econ. 2009 May;28(3):553-62. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.02.003.
Epub  2009 Mar 3.

Trying to estimate a monetary value for the QALY.

Pinto-Prades JL(1), Loomes G, Brey R.

Author information:
(1)University Pablo de Olavide, 41013 Sevilla, Spain. jlpinto@upo.es

In this paper we study the feasibility of estimating a monetary value for a QALY 
(MVQ). Using two different surveys of the Spanish population (total n = 892), we 
consider whether willingness to pay (WTP) is (approximately) proportional to the 
health gains measured in QALYs. We also explore whether subjects' responses are 
prone to any significant biases. We find that the estimated MVQ varies inversely 
with the magnitude of health gain. We also find two other (ir)regularities: the 
existence of ordering effects; and insensitivity of WTP to the duration of the 
period of payment. Taken together, these effects result in large variations in 
estimates of the MVQ. If we are ever to obtain consistent and stable estimates, 
we should try to understand better the sources of variability found in the 
course of this study.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.02.003
PMID: 19327857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2009 Oct;72(1):83-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.02.005. Epub 2009 Mar 26.

Is age a prognostic factor for treatment outcome in renal cell cancer-A 
comprehensive review.

Ramos-Barcelo E(1), Rioja J, Pes PL, de la Rosette JJ, de Reijke TM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio Urología Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, 
Cantabria, Spain.

Life expectancy gradually increases in the Western part of the world. Older 
patients may present with small, localized tumours and/or advanced or metastatic 
disease and still, potentially, have a considerable life expectancy. The 
consequence of the increased life span is that in older patients all potential 
treatments have to be discussed. A critical review of the literature regarding 
the treatment of different stages of renal cell cancer (RCC) in the elderly 
patient group was conducted. Elderly people with small renal masses are up to 
3.5 times more likely to have a benign lesion. The oncological outcome from 
nephron sparing surgery (NSS), whether by means of laparoscopy or by means of 
open surgery, seems not to be different between young and old patients. No 
relationship between local recurrence and metastatic progression rates and 
patient age has been demonstrated. The outcome from systemic treatments in 
advanced/metastatic disease has been studied, no differences were observed 
between age groups, although toxicity profiles might differ between the younger 
and older patient groups.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.02.005
PMID: 19328009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Am J Emerg Med. 2009 Mar;27(3):293-302. doi: 10.1016/j.ajem.2008.02.025.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of ED decision making in patients with non-high-risk 
heart failure.

Collins SP(1), Schauer DP, Gupta A, Brunner H, Storrow AB, Eckman MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH 
45267, USA. sean.collins@uc.edu

BACKGROUND: The ED disposition of patients with non-high-risk acute 
decompensated heart failure (ADHF) is challenging. To help address this problem, 
we investigated the cost-effectiveness of different ED disposition strategies.
METHODS: We constructed a decision analytic model evaluating the 
cost-effectiveness of 3 possible ED ADHF disposition strategies in a 60-year-old 
man: (1) discharge home from the ED; (2) observation unit (OU) admission; (3) 
inpatient admission. Base case patients had no high-risk features. We used 
Medicare costs and the national physician fee schedule to capture ED, OU, and 
hospital costs, including costs of complications and death. All analyses were 
conducted using Decision Maker software (University of Medicine and Dentistry of 
New Jersey, Newark, NJ).
RESULTS: Compared to ED discharge, OU admission had a reasonable marginal 
cost-effectiveness ratio ($44 249/quality adjusted life year), whereas hospital 
admission had an unacceptably high marginal cost-effectiveness ratio ($684 
101/quality adjusted life year). Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that as the 
risk of early (within 5 days) and late (within 30 days) readmission exceeded 36% 
and 74%, respectively, in those discharged from the ED, OU admission became less 
costly and more effective than ED discharge. Similarly, an increase in relative 
risk of both early and late death in those discharged from the ED improves the 
marginal cost-effectiveness ratio of OU admission. Finally, as postdischarge 
event rates increase in those discharged from the OU, hospital admission became 
more cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Observation unit admission for patients with non-high-risk ADHF has 
a societally acceptable marginal cost-effectiveness ratio compared to ED 
discharge. However, as ED and OU discharge event rates increase, hospital 
admission becomes the more cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajem.2008.02.025
PMID: 19328373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Spine J. 2009 Jul;9(7):537-44. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2009.02.005. Epub 2009
Mar  28.

Survey of spine surgeons on attitudes regarding osteoporosis and osteomalacia 
screening and treatment for fractures, fusion surgery, and pseudoarthrosis.

Dipaola CP(1), Bible JE, Biswas D, Dipaola M, Grauer JN, Rechtine GR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, University of Rochester, NY, 
USA.

Comment in
    Spine J. 2009 Jul;9(7):602-4.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Osteoporosis and osteomalacia are significant risk factors 
for fracture and spine instrumentation failure. Low-energy fractures are 
becoming increasingly more common because of an increase in life expectancy and 
age of the population. Decreased bone density is an independent risk factor for 
instrumentation failure in spinal fusion operations.
PURPOSE: To assess the awareness and practice patterns of spine surgeons 
regarding metabolic bone disorders and osteoporosis with emphasis on fracture 
care and arthrodesis.
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: Questionnaire study.
PATIENT SAMPLE: Spine surgeons attending the "Disorders of the Spine" conference 
(January 2007, Whistler, British Columbia, Canada).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Respondent reported frequencies of diagnostics, screening, and 
treatment methods for patients with low-energy spine fractures, pseudoarthrosis, 
and those undergoing spinal arthrodesis.
METHODS: A ten-question survey was administered to orthopedic surgeons and 
neurosurgeons who treated spine fractures and degenerative spine conditions in 
their practice. The survey was given to those who were attending a continuing 
medical education spinal disorders conference. The survey asked about treatment 
patterns with respect to osteoporosis and osteomalacia workup and treatment for 
patients with low-energy spine fractures, pseudoarthrosis, and those undergoing 
spinal arthrodesis.
RESULTS: Of the 133 surgeons to whom the questionnaire was distributed at this 
meeting, 114 questionnaires were returned that corresponds to a response rate of 
86%. Twenty-one surveys were excluded because of incomplete biographical 
information, resulting in a total of 93 completed questionnaires that were 
available for analysis. When treating patients with low-energy spine fractures, 
60% checked dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) and 39% checked metabolic 
laboratories (of those who did not order laboratories and DEXA about 63% refer 
for treatment). Before instrumented fusion, 44% of those queried checked DEXA 
and 12% checked metabolic laboratories (vitamin D, parathyroid hormone [PTH], 
and calcium [Ca]). Before noninstrumented fusion, 22% checked DEXA and 11% 
checked metabolic laboratories. Before addressing pseudoarthrosis, 19% checked 
DEXA and 20% checked metabolic laboratories.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite of the large number of elderly patients undergoing spine 
care and the high incidence of osteoporosis and/or osteomalacia in this 
population, a large portion of the spine surgeons who responded to the survey 
reported that they do not perform routine osteoporosis/osteomalacia workups. Of 
those who do perform workups, some commented that it will change their surgical 
plan or preoperative treatment. It appears that there is a need for increased 
awareness among spine specialists regarding osteoporosis screening and 
treatment. Osteoporosis practice patterns may also be affected with newly 
evolving government quality reporting regulations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2009.02.005
PMID: 19328744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Hellenic J Cardiol. 2009 Mar-Apr;50(2):105-18.

Analysis of published economic evaluations of angiotensin receptor blockers.

Theodoratou D(1), Maniadakis N, Fragoulakis V, Stamouli E.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Boehringer Ingelheim Ellas, Athens, Greece.

INTRODUCTION: In this study we reviewed the published literature on the economic 
evaluation of the use of angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) for the treatment 
of hypertension, either primary or due to diabetes.
METHODS: An extensive literature review was undertaken. The HEED (Health 
Economic Evaluations Database) of the Office for Health Economics and the 
NHS-EED (NHS Economic Evaluation Database) databases were searched. Keywords 
used were "losartan", "irbesartan", "valsartan", "candesartan", "olmesartan", 
"telmisartan", "eprosartan", "primary hypertension" and "diabetes". The study 
included all articles retrieved from 2001 onwards. Exclusion criteria included 
economic evaluations of ARBs for other indications (e.g. heart failure, 
myocardial infarction, etc.), an underage population, as well as prevalence 
studies of hypertension for a disease-specific population.
RESULTS: Of the 63 studies retrieved in the literature search, 35 were included 
in the review. The majority of the studies were of irbesartan (16) or losartan 
(8). In each study, the model used country-specific data to project and evaluate 
the clinical and cost outcomes of the treatment arms. The most common method 
undertaken was cost-consequence analysis (52.94%) followed by cost-effectiveness 
analysis (32.35%). In most cases, costs and benefits results were not 
synthesised. Results failed to show a clear advantage in favour of specific 
therapy, as the outcomes suffered from heterogeneity, referred to specific 
circumstances and were rather difficult to compare. For different treatment 
comparators, all the analyses demonstrated an improved life expectancy and a 
cost-saving choice. The robustness of results was tested with a series of 
sensitivity analyses, which showed a statistically significant result in each 
case.
CONCLUSIONS: The evidence from this review suggests that the available ARBs 
represent a cost-saving and cost-effective treatment compared with other 
conventional treatment options for patients with hypertension and associated 
conditions. However, there are no meaningful differences between available ARBs, 
as the design of clinical and economic studies makes it difficult to find any 
such differences.

PMID: 19329412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Adv Ther. 2009 Mar;26(3):346-68. doi: 10.1007/s12325-009-0013-x. Epub 2009
Mar  28.

Cost-effectiveness of transcranial magnetic stimulation in the treatment of 
major depression: a health economics analysis.

Simpson KN(1), Welch MJ, Kozel FA, Demitrack MA, Nahas Z.

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina, 67 President Street, Room 502N, 
Charleston, SC, 29403, USA.

Erratum in
    Adv Ther. 2009 Jul;26(7):737.

INTRODUCTION: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a novel antidepressant 
therapy shown to be effective and safe in pharmacotherapy-resistant major 
depression. The incremental cost-effectiveness and the direct cost burden 
compared with sham treatment were estimated, and compared with the current 
standard of care.
METHODS: Healthcare resource utilization data were collected during a 
multicenter study (n=301) and a decision analysis was used to stratify the 
9-week treatment outcomes. A Markov model with an acute-outcome severity-based 
risk of relapse was used to estimate the illness course over a full year of 
treatment follow-up. These model estimates were also compared to best estimates 
of outcomes and costs of pharmacotherapy treatment, using the published STAR(*)D 
outcomes. The cost-effectiveness of TMS was described using an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained and 
on a direct cost per patient basis across a varying range of assumptions. The 
model's sensitivities to costs due to losses in work productivity and to 
caregiver time were also examined.
RESULTS: Compared with sham treatment and at a cost of US$300 per treatment 
session, TMS provides an ICER of US$34,999 per QALY, which is less than the 
"willingness-to-pay' standard of US$50,000 per QALY for a new treatment for 
major depression. When productivity gains due to clinical recovery were 
included, the ICER was reduced to US$6667 per QALY. In open-label conditions, 
TMS provided a net cost saving of US$1123 per QALY when compared with the 
current standard of care. In the openlabel condition, cost savings increased 
further when the costs for productivity losses were included in the model (net 
savings of US$7621). The overall cost benefits of treating MD using TMS were 
greater in those patients at the earliest levels of treatment resistance in the 
overall sample.
CONCLUSION: TMS is a cost-effective treatment for patients who have failed to 
receive sufficient benefit from initial antidepressant pharmacotherapy. When 
used at earlier levels of treatment resistance, significant cost savings may be 
expected relative to the current standard of care.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-009-0013-x
PMID: 19330495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Pediatr Surg Int. 2009 May;25(5):385-93. doi: 10.1007/s00383-009-2350-x.
Epub  2009 Mar 29.

Kidney transplantation and donation in children.

van Heurn E(1), de Vries EE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Hospital Maastricht, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. e.vanheurn@mumc.nl

It has been shown that kidney transplantation results in superior life 
expectancy and quality of life compared with dialysis treatment for patients 
with end-stage renal disease. However, kidney transplantation in children 
differs in many aspects from adult kidney transplantation. This review focuses 
on specific issues of surgical care associated with kidney transplantation in 
children, including timing of transplantation, technical considerations, patient 
and graft survival, growth retardation and post-transplant malignancy. At the 
same time, there is a large discrepancy between the number of available donor 
kidneys and the number of patients on the waiting list for kidney 
transplantation. There is a general reluctance to use paediatric donor kidneys, 
because of relatively frequent complications such as graft thrombosis and early 
graft failure. We review the specific aspects of kidney transplantation from 
paediatric donors such as the incidence of graft thrombosis, hyperfiltration 
injury and 'en bloc' transplantation of two kidneys from one donor with an 
excellent long-term outcome, which is comparable with adult donor kidney 
transplantation. We also discuss the potential use of paediatric 
non-heart-beating donor kidneys, from donors whose heart stopped beating with 
the preservation techniques used.

DOI: 10.1007/s00383-009-2350-x
PMID: 19330513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Swiss Med Wkly. 2009 Mar 21;139(11-12):173-84. doi: 10.4414/smw.2009.12381.

Cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone in patients with type 2 diabetes and a 
history of macrovascular disease in a Swiss setting.

Brändle M(1), Goodall G, Erny-Albrecht KM, Erdmann E, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kantonsspital, St Gallen, Switzerland. michael.braendle@kssg.ch

Comment in
    Swiss Med Wkly. 2009 Mar 21;139(11-12):154-5.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pioglitazone versus placebo, 
given in addition to existing treatment regimens, in patients with type 2 
diabetes and evidence of macrovascular disease in Switzerland.
METHODS: Event rates corresponding to macrovascular outcomes from the PROactive 
(Prospective Pioglitazone Clinical Trial in Macrovascular Events) trial of 
pioglitazone were used to project long-term clinical outcomes as part of a 
modified version of the previously validated CORE Diabetes Model. Direct medical 
costs associated with treatment regimens, complications and patient management 
were accounted in 2005 values based on Swiss-specific unit costs. Time horizon 
was set to lifetime (35 years). Future costs and clinical benefits were 
discounted at 2.5% annually in line with Swiss recommendations. One-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Addition of pioglitazone was associated with a reduced incidence of 
most diabetes-related complications, improved life expectancy (0.258 years) and 
improved quality-adjusted life expectancy (0.180 QALYs) compared with placebo. 
Pioglitazone treatment increased direct costs by CHF 10,914 per patient over a 
lifetime horizon. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
pioglitazone versus placebo was CHF 42,274 per life-year gained and CHF 60,596 
per QALY gained. ICERs were sensitive to variation in time horizon and duration 
of pioglitazone treatment effects. With a willingness to pay of CHF 80,000 per 
QALY in the Swiss setting, there was a 62.5% chance that pioglitazone would be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of pioglitazone to existing therapy was projected to 
reduce the long-term cumulative incidence of most diabetes complications and 
improve quality-adjusted life expectancy. Evaluation of incremental direct 
medical costs associated with these clinical benefits indicated that 
pioglitazone is likely to be a cost-effective treatment option in the Swiss 
setting over patient lifetimes.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2009.12381
PMID: 19330561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Feb 18;5(191):429.

[Tithonus and the rapid decline hypothesis].

[Article in French]

Martin-Du-Pan RC.

PMID: 19331102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Urol Nurs. 2009 Jan-Feb;29(1):49-54.

A culturally competent model of care for African Americans.

Campinha-Bacote J(1).

Author information:
(1)Transcultural C.A.R.E Associates, Cincinnati, OH, USA.

African Americans are one of the largest ethnic groups in the United States. 
Data from the U.S. Department of Commerce, Bureau of the Census (2001) reveal 
that there are approximately 34,333,000 African Americans residing in the United 
States, representing 12.1% of the total population. The African-American 
population is expected to increase to 40.2 million by 2010 (American 
Demographics, Inc., 1991). Health disparities among the African-American 
population include life expectancy, heart disease, hypertension, infant morality 
and morbidity rates, cancer, HIV/AIDS, violence, type 2 diabetes mellitus, and 
asthma. The purpose of this article is to address the issue of health 
disparities among African Americans by providing nurses with a practice model of 
cultural competence.

PMID: 19331277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Trials. 2009 Mar 30;10:18. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-18.

The second Symptom Management Research Trial in Oncology (SMaRT Oncology-2): a 
randomised trial to determine the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of adding 
a complex intervention for major depressive disorder to usual care for cancer 
patients.

Walker J(1), Cassidy J, Sharpe M; SMaRT Oncology-2 Trialists.

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre, Western General Hospital, 
Edinburgh, Scotland, UK. jane.walker@ed.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Depression Care for People with Cancer is a complex intervention 
delivered by specially trained cancer nurses, under the supervision of a 
psychiatrist. It is given as a supplement to the usual care for depression, 
which patients receive from their general practitioner and cancer service. In a 
'proof of concept' trial (Symptom Management Research Trials in Oncology-1) 
Depression Care for People with Cancer improved depression more than usual care 
alone. The second Symptom Management Research Trial in Oncology (SMaRT 
Oncology-2 Trial) will test its effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in a 'real 
world' setting.
DESIGN: A two arm parallel group multi-centre randomised controlled trial. TRIAL 
PROCEDURES: 500 patients will be recruited through established systematic 
Symptom Monitoring Services, which screen patients for depression. Patients will 
have: a diagnosis of cancer (of various types); an estimated life expectancy of 
twelve months or more and a diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder. Patients 
will be randomised to usual care or usual care plus Depression Care for People 
with Cancer. Randomisation will be carried out by telephoning a secure 
computerised central randomisation system or by using a secure web interface. 
The primary outcome measure is 'treatment response' measured at 24 week outcome 
data collection. 'Treatment response' will be defined as a reduction of 50% or 
more in the patient's baseline depression score, measured using the 20-item 
Symptom Checklist (SCL-20D). Secondary outcomes include remission of major 
depressive disorder, depression severity and patients' self-rated improvement of 
depression.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current controlled trials ISRCTN40568538 TRIAL HYPOTHESES: 
(1) Depression Care for People with Cancer as a supplement to usual care will be 
more effective than usual care alone in achieving a 50% reduction in baseline 
SCL-20D score at 24 weeks. (2) Depression Care for People with Cancer as a 
supplement to usual care will cost more than usual care alone but will be more 
cost effective in achieving improvements in patients' depression and quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-18
PMCID: PMC2669069
PMID: 19331675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. BMC Health Serv Res. 2009 Mar 30;9:55. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-55.

The economic costs and health-related quality of life of people with HIV/AIDS in 
the Canary Islands, Spain.

Lopez-Bastida J(1), Oliva-Moreno J, Perestelo-Perez L, Serrano-Aguilar P.

Author information:
(1)Evaluation and Planning Unit, Canary Island Health Service, Spain. 
jlopbas@gobiernodecanarias.org.

BACKGROUND: The objective was to determine the economic burden, as well as the 
impact on HRQOL for people with HIV/AIDS in Spain in 2003.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study of 572 people with HIV were recruited from 
outpatient clinics in the Canary Islands, Spain. Demographic, health resources 
utilization, indirect costs and quality of life data were collected through 
medical records and questionnaires filled out by people with HIV. HRQOL was 
measured with two generic questionnaires: SF-36 and EQ-5D.
RESULTS: In 2003 annual costs of caring for patients with asymptomatic HIV, 
symptomatic HIV and AIDS were euro10,351, euro14,489 and euro15,750, 
respectively. The HRQOL with the EQ-5D was 0.78. SF-36 summary results for 
physical and mental health were 48.30 and 38.80, respectively.
CONCLUSION: HIV/AIDS represent a high economic impact from society point of 
view. the structure of health care costs have changed due to these new drugs, 
increasing the weight of pharmaceutical treatment over total costs and 
decreasing the importance of inpatient care costs. In spite of the therapeutic 
improvements, labour losses/indirect costs still represent a high cost. Costs 
and HRQOL were strongly associated with severity. Although the latest drug 
developments have not yet been able to find the definitive cure, they have 
allowed an improvement in expectancy of life and in the HRQOL of the patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-55
PMCID: PMC2670289
PMID: 19331682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):151-60. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309090205. Epub 2009 Mar 31.

Microvolt T-wave alternans and the selective use of implantable cardioverter 
defibrillators for primary prevention: a cost-effectiveness study.

Filion KB(1), Xie X, van der Avoort CJ, Dendukuri N, Brophy JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, 1020 Pine Avenue West Montreal, Quebec H3A 1A2, Canada. 
kristian.filion@mail.mcgill.ca

OBJECTIVES: Implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) are an effective but 
expensive treatment for the prevention of sudden cardiac deaths in patients with 
severe left-ventricular dysfunction. Recent studies suggest that microvolt 
T-wave alternans (MTWA) predicts mortality and severe arrhythmic events in this 
population. However, the impact of MTWA on ICD cost-effectiveness is unknown.
METHODS: A Markov decision-analysis model evaluated three treatment strategies 
for primary prevention in patients with severe left-ventricular dysfunction: (i) 
medical therapy for all; (ii) ICD therapy for all; and (iii) selective ICD 
therapy based on non-negative (positive or indeterminate) MTWA test results. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were calculated from the 
perspective of a third party payer using a 10-year time horizon. Sensitivity 
analyses examined the robustness of the estimates.
RESULTS: A treatment strategy involving ICD therapy in all patients was 
associated with an ICER of $121,800/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) compared 
with medical therapy, whereas a treatment strategy involving the selective use 
of ICDs based on MTWA test results was associated with an ICER of $108,900/QALY 
compared with medical therapy. Sensitivity analyses suggest that, under most 
scenarios, the selective use of ICDs based on MTWA results does not decrease the 
ICER to below $100,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: MTWA only marginally improves the cost-effectiveness of ICDs for 
primary prevention in patients with severe left-ventricular dysfunction. There 
remains a need for improved means to effectively identify which patients will 
derive the greatest benefit from ICD implantation.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309090205
PMID: 19331707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):171-80. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309090229. Epub 2009 Mar 31.

Cost-effectiveness of pegylated interferon and ribavirin for patients with 
chronic hepatitis C treated in routine clinical practice.

Grishchenko M(1), Grieve RD, Sweeting MJ, De Angelis D, Thomson BJ, Ryder SD, 
Irving WL; Trent HCV Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Global Outcomes Research & Health Technology Assessment, H. Lundbeck A/S, 37 
Avenue Pierre 1er de Serbie, Paris, 75008, France. mrgr@lundbeck.com

OBJECTIVES: This study assesses whether pegylated interferon and ribavirin is 
cost-effective compared with no antiviral treatment provided in routine clinical 
practice, for different patient subgroups.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) uses a Markov decision model to 
estimate the lifetime cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of antiviral 
treatment compared with no treatment. The model is populated with data on 
sustained virological responses, costs, and transition probabilities all taken 
from a large representative sample of UK cases and centers (Trent HCV database).
RESULTS: The CEA found that pegylated interferon and ribavirin was 
cost-effective for most patient subgroups. The CEA found that for patients with 
genotype non-1, the intervention led to cost reductions and gains of at least 
0.5 QALYs. For genotype 1 cases with mild or moderate disease, and younger 
cirrhotic patients (aged 40 or less), costs per QALY remained below 20,000 pound 
sterling ($40,000 or 29,000 euro). For genotype 1 cases with cirrhosis aged 50, 
the mean cost per QALY rose to over 60,000 pound sterling ($120,000 or 87,000 
euro).
CONCLUSIONS: The study concludes that, based on cost and effectiveness data 
collected from routine clinical practice, treatment with pegylated interferon 
and ribavirin is generally cost-effective. The study shows that there are 
variations according to patient subgroup and for older (aged 50 or over) 
genotype 1 patients with cirrhosis, antiviral treatment appears less 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309090229
PMID: 19331708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):181-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309090230. Epub 2009 Mar 31.

Modeling the cost-effectiveness of treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with 
rituximab using registry data from Southern Sweden.

Lindgren P(1), Geborek P, Kobelt G.

Author information:
(1)i3/innovus, Klarabergsviadukten 90D, SE-111 64 Stockholm, Sweden. 
Peter.Lindgren@3innovus.com

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
rituximab in patients not responding adequately to the first tumor necrosis 
factor (TNF) inhibitor using a model constructed to predict resource consumption 
and health outcomes in a population-based registry of biological treatments in 
Southern Sweden (SSATG).
METHODS: The model was developed as a discrete event simulation model, using 
SSATG data for the years 1999-2007. The data set included 1,903 patients with 
complete data on treatments (up to three treatment lines), functional capacity 
(HAQ), disease activity (DAS28), and utility (EQ-5D). Resource consumption was 
based on a regular population-based survey of patients in Southern Sweden. 
Rituximab was incorporated as second line treatment, using effectiveness data 
for the active group (N = 311) in a clinical trial comparing rituximab to 
placebo (REFLEX). It is thus compared to the mix of second line biologics used 
in SSATG. The analysis starts after failure of the first TNF inhibitor. Results 
are reported as costs (2008 euro) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY; both 
discounted 3 percent), for the societal perspective in Sweden.
RESULTS: Total costs in the rituximab strategy are estimated at 401,100 euro 
compared with 403,000 euro in the TNF-inhibitor arm. Total QALYs are 5.98 and 
5.78, respectively. The findings were found to be robust in extensive 
sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In our model, a strategy where rituximab is used as second line 
treatment after failure of the first TNF inhibitor provides a small saving 
(essentially due to the lower price of rituximab) and a QALY gain (due to better 
effect than the mix of second line TNF inhibitors).

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309090230
PMID: 19331709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Apr;25(2):196-207. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309090254. Epub 2009 Mar 31.

Economic evaluation of drug-eluting stents compared to bare metal stents using a 
large prospective study in Ontario.

Goeree R(1), Bowen JM, Blackhouse G, Lazzam C, Cohen E, Chiu M, Hopkins R, 
Tarride JE, Tu JV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. goereer@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness (CE) and cost-utility (CU) of 
drug-eluting stents (DES) compared to bare metal stents (BMS) in Ontario using a 
large prospective "real-world" cohort study and determine the extent to which 
results vary by patient risk subgroups.
METHODS: A field evaluation was conducted based on all stent procedures in the 
province of Ontario between December 1, 2003, and March 31, 2005, with a minimum 
subject follow-up of 1 year. Effectiveness data from the study using a 
propensity-score matched cohort were combined with resource utilization and cost 
data and quality of life (QOL) data from the published literature in a decision 
analytic modeling framework to determine 2-year cost-effectiveness (cost per 
revascularization avoided) and cost-utility (cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
([QALY] gained). Stochastic model parameter uncertainty was expressed using 
probability distributions and analyzed using a probabilistic model. Modeling 
assumptions were assessed using traditional deterministic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Significant differences in revascularization rates were found for 
