one to reduce the impact of CVD risk factors. The reduction in CVD morbidity can 
improve expectancy and quality of life, as well as graft function and survival 
among renal transplant patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.02.045
PMID: 19460510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. J Cyst Fibros. 2009 Jun;8 Suppl 1(0 1):S15-9. doi: 
10.1016/S1569-1993(09)60006-0.

Characterizing aggressiveness and predicting future progression of CF lung 
disease.

Konstan MW(1), Wagener JS, VanDevanter DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital, Case 
Western Reserve University School of Medicine, Cleveland, Ohio 44106, USA. 
michael.konstan@case.edu

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life-shortening genetic disease characterized by 
variability in age of death that is largely due to variability in rate of 
progression of lung disease, the primary cause of mortality. Recognizing which 
individuals have more aggressive disease phenotypes and predicting their risk of 
immediate lung disease progression is a critical step in managing CF lung 
disease and extending the life expectancy of CF patients. Studies using 
observational CF patient registries have yielded useful methods for predicting 
future rate of disease progression and can be used to determine the impact that 
chronic pulmonary therapies have on slowing rate of lung function decline.

DOI: 10.1016/S1569-1993(09)60006-0
PMCID: PMC4167362
PMID: 19460682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement Michael Konstan, 
MD and Jeffrey Wagener, MD are members of the scientific advisory group for the 
Epidemiologic Study of Cystic Fibrosis (ESCF), and have received honoraria from 
Genentech, Inc. for consulting activities associated with ESCF and other studies 
sponsored by Genentech. Drs. Konstan’s and Wagener’s institutions have received 
grant support from Genentech for their participation in ESCF and other studies 
sponsored by Genentech. Dr. Wagener was previously employed by Genentech, Inc. 
from 2005 to 2007, Donald VanDevanter, PhD is a paid consultant to Genentech, 
Inc.


738. ANS Adv Nurs Sci. 2009 Apr-Jun;32(2):E30-41. doi:
10.1097/ANS.0b013e3181a3b354.

Mapping chronic illness in the age of globalization: reclaiming the good for the 
chronically ill.

del Pilar Camargo Plazas M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, 7-80 University Terrace, Edmonton, Alberta T6G 2T4, 
Canada. mcamargo@ualberta.ca

Until recently, infectious diseases were the main cause of death worldwide. New 
medical discoveries and the evolution of public health improved life expectancy 
and the ability to survive acute threats, thus changing the course of diseases 
from acute to chronic. Today, chronic illness is the most important health 
concern worldwide. Chronic illness increases existing poverty and pushes other 
people into it. As nurses, members of the healthcare system and members of this 
world, we cannot forget that our response toward globalization and chronic 
disease has to be centered in leadership through reorienting local and national 
healthcare systems. All actions must be grounded in the ethical treatment of the 
ill; we cannot close our eyes in hospitals or communities to what is happening 
now worldwide because our responsibility is to promote health, prevent disease, 
and care for human beings.

DOI: 10.1097/ANS.0b013e3181a3b354
PMID: 19461220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Am J Dermatopathol. 2009 Jun;31(4):367-9. doi: 10.1097/DAD.0b013e318185d1ec.

Angiomatosis: a case with metaplastic ossification.

Arsenovic NN(1), Sen S, Patel J, Terzic M, Reed M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular Pathology, PathLinks Pathology Services, Lincoln 
County Hospital, Lincoln, UK. arsenovic@doctors.org.uk

Angiomatosis is defined as a hemangioma that affects a large segment of the body 
in a contiguous fashion, either by vertical extension to involve multiple tissue 
planes (eg, skin, subcutis, muscle, bone) or by crossing muscle compartments to 
involve similar tissue types (eg, multiple muscles). Such lesions usually 
present in the first 2 decades of life and have a highly characteristic but not 
totally specific histological pattern. Histology usually shows a haphazard 
mixture of small and medium-sized vessels, fat, connective tissue, and 
lymphatics. Large amounts of mature fat frequently accompany the vascular 
elements, suggesting that the lesion may possibly be a more generalized 
mesenchymal proliferation rather than an exclusively vascular lesion. Here we 
present what we believe to be the first case of angiomatosis showing osseous 
metaplasia.

DOI: 10.1097/DAD.0b013e318185d1ec
PMID: 19461241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Abdom Imaging. 2010 Feb;35(1):95-8. doi: 10.1007/s00261-009-9524-9. Epub
2009  May 22.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm: high prevalence in men over 59 years of age with TIA 
or stroke, a perspective.

Gratama JW(1), van Leeuwen RB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology and Neurology, Gelre Hospitals, Albert Schweitzerlaan 
31, 7334 DZ, Apeldoorn, The Netherlands. j.w.gratama@gelre.nl

Death resulting from a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is potentially 
preventable. Screening for AAA is cost-effective, reducing risk of AAA-related 
death by 50%. For various reasons screening programs have not been implemented 
widely. Therefore, the need to identify subgroups with increased prevalence of 
AAA remains. Recently, men over 59 years of age presenting with stroke or a 
transient ischemic attack (TIA) at the neurology department were found to have a 
doubled prevalence of AAA. This confirmed data of another study (SMART), which 
included broader inclusion criteria (either manifest atherosclerotic disease or 
only risk factors for atherosclerosis). Incorporation of an aortic 
ultrasonography into the neurological work up of these patients could result in 
an effective screening program. However, before that, several cost-effectiveness 
issues need to be resolved, such as growth rate of the detected aneurysms, risk 
of death by AAA rupture in this patient group with increased co-morbidity and 
decreased life expectancy, peri-operative risk of open or endovascular repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s00261-009-9524-9
PMID: 19462200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Ann Thorac Surg. 2009 Jun;87(6):1662-6; discussion 1667-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2009.02.097.

Anatomic segmentectomy for stage I non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly.

Kilic A(1), Schuchert MJ, Pettiford BL, Pennathur A, Landreneau JR, Landreneau 
JP, Luketich JD, Landreneau RJ.

Author information:
(1)Heart, Lung, and Esophageal Surgery Institute, University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA.

BACKGROUND: Anatomic segmentectomy for stage I non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) offers the potential of surgical cure with preservation of lung 
function. This may be of particular importance in elderly NSCLC patients with 
declining cardiopulmonary status and a limited life expectancy.
METHODS: The study compared outcomes of 78 elderly patients (aged > 75 years) 
with stage I NSCLC undergoing segmentectomy and 106 undergoing lobectomy for 
stage I NSCLC from 2002 to 2007. Primary outcome variables included 
perioperative morbidity and mortality, hospital course, recurrence patterns, and 
survival.
RESULTS: Age, gender, tumor histology, and surgical approach were similar 
between groups. Comorbidities were similar except for a higher incidence of 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and diabetes in segmentectomy patients. 
The tumors in the lobectomy group were significantly larger (3.5 vs 2.5 cm, p = 
0.0001). Operative mortality was 1.3% for segmentectomy and 4.7% for lobectomy. 
Segmentectomy patients had fewer major complications (11.5% vs 25.5%, p = 0.02). 
There were no differences in median hospitalization (7 vs 6 days). The estimated 
overall survival at 2, 3, and 5 years was 76%, 69%, and 46% for segmentectomy 
patients and 68%, 59%, and 47% for lobectomy patients (p = 0.28). The 5-year 
disease-free survival was equivalent (segmentectomy, 49.8%; lobectomy, 45.5%; p 
= 0.80).
CONCLUSIONS: Anatomic segmentectomy can be performed safely in elderly patients 
with early-stage NSCLC. This approach is associated with reduced perioperative 
complications and comparable oncologic efficacy compared with lobectomy in older 
patients with a limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2009.02.097
PMID: 19463574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Ann Thorac Surg. 2009 Jun;87(6):1806-14. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2009.03.048.

Pacemaker therapy after tricuspid valve operations: implications on mortality, 
morbidity, and quality of life.

Jokinen JJ(1), Turpeinen AK, Pitkänen O, Hippeläinen MJ, Hartikainen JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Helsinki University Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. janne.jokinen@helsinki.fi

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2009 Jun;87(6):1814-5.

BACKGROUND: We studied the incidence and predictors of permanent pacemaker 
implantation after tricuspid valve operation and its implications on patient 
outcome in terms of survival, morbidity, and quality of life.
METHODS: Between 1992 and 2007, 136 consecutive patients underwent tricuspid 
valve repair or valve replacement with a biologic valve at Kuopio University 
Hospital. Comprehensive clinical data were recorded prospectively. Data for the 
Nottingham Health Profile quality of life analysis were collected 
cross-sectionally.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up time was 7.9 +/- 4.1 years (range, 0.8 to 15.7 
years). A pacemaker was implanted in 28 patients (21%); 54% were implanted 
before hospital discharge. The 10-year survival of patients with a pacemaker was 
higher (94%) than of patients without a pacemaker (59%; p = 0.050). The need of 
a pacemaker was related to a significantly higher rate of transient ischemic 
attacks (30% vs 6%, p = 0.004), strokes (9% vs 4%; p = 0.008), and impaired 
physical capacity in terms of higher New York Heart Association functional class 
(p = 0.03) and the quality of life scores describing energy (31 vs 17; p = 0.01) 
and mobility (32 vs 17; p = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: The need for pacemaker implantation after tricuspid valve 
operations was high. Unexpectedly, the life expectancy of the patients who 
needed a pacemaker postoperatively was higher compared with those who did not. 
This beneficial effect on mortality was offset by impaired morbidity: patients 
with a pacemaker experienced a significantly higher rate of thromboembolic 
complications and impaired quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2009.03.048
PMID: 19463599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. J Invertebr Pathol. 2009 Jul;101(3):222-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2009.05.007.
Epub  2009 May 20.

Selection of improved Beauveria bassiana (Bals.) Vuill. strains based on 
2-deoxy-D-glucose resistance and physiological analysis.

Robledo-Monterrubio M(1), Alatorre-Rosas R, Viniegra-González G, Loera O.

Author information:
(1)Area de Biología, Universidad Autónoma Chapingo, Km 38.5 Carretera 
México-Texcoco, CP, Mexico.

A series of 2-deoxy-D-glucose resistant mutants was obtained from wild type 
Beauveria bassiana 88 (Bb 88) by UV irradiation. Five mutants were characterized 
on Sabouraud Dextrose Agar and Chitin Agar for both radial extension rate (V(r)) 
and specific growth rate (micro). These values were obtained after adjusting 
morphometric data to a mathematical model used for filamentous fungi. 
Additionally, the protease and lipase potency index, conidial size, viability, 
and production levels were analyzed. The highest values for those physiological 
measurements were obtained by mutant 882.5 which, relative to Bb 88, showed a 
30% reduction in half-life (LT(50)) on Sphenarium purpurascens, 70% on Acheta 
domesticus, and 71% on Tenebrio molitor larvae and adults. The half lethal 
concentration (LC(50)) on T. molitor larvae was 2.8 x 10(5)conidia/mL (con/mL) 
and 1.5 x 10(6)con/mL, respectively, for mutant 882.5 and Bb 88. This 
demonstrates that mutant 882.5 is more virulent, with up to an 80% reduction in 
LC(50). This work provides a convenient method for improving strains to be used 
in biocontrol as a suitable alternative to transgenic constructs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2009.05.007
PMID: 19463827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Lancet. 2009 May 23;373(9677):1735. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60954-5.

Diabetes--a global threat.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60954-5
PMID: 19465209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Food Microbiol. 2009 Aug;26(5):475-82. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2009.02.008. Epub
2009  Mar 5.

Combined effect of MAP and thyme essential oil on the microbiological, chemical 
and sensory attributes of organically aquacultured sea bass (Dicentrarchus 
labrax) fillets.

Kostaki M(1), Giatrakou V, Savvaidis IN, Kontominas MG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Food Microbiology, Department of Chemistry, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

The present study evaluated the combined effect of Modified Atmosphere Packaging 
(MAP) using two different gas mixtures (40% CO2/50% N2/10% O2; treatment M1, 60% 
CO2/30% N2/10% O2, treatment M2), and thyme oil (0.2% v/w, T) used as a natural 
preservative, on the quality and shelf life extension of fresh filleted sea 
bass, product of organic aquaculture, during refrigerated storage (4 +/- 0.5 
degrees C), for a period of 21 days. Aerobically packaged sea bass fillets (A) 
were used as control samples. The dominant bacteria in the microflora of sea 
bass fillets, irrespective of treatment, were the pseudomonads and the 
H2S-producing bacteria while lactic acid bacteria were also part of the dominant 
microflora. Total viable counts for fresh sea bass fillets stored aerobically 
exceeded 7 log CFU/g after 7 days, while treatments A+T, M1, M2 and M2+T reached 
the same value on days 9, 10, 12 and 19, respectively. Among the chemical 
indices determined, TBA values were within the good quality limits (2-4 mg 
MDA/kg), during the sensory shelf lives of sea bass samples, irrespective of 
treatment. TVB-N proved to be a suitable index for the spoilage of sea bass 
fillets stored at 4 degrees C. Samples A and A+T, M1, M2, M2+T exceeded the 
proposed upper TVB-N acceptability limit (10 mg N/100 g) on days 6, 8, 9, 13 and 
17 of storage respectively. TMA-N values of the samples A, A+T and M1, M2, M2+T 
exceeded the proposed limit (4 mg N/100 g) on days 6, 9, 9-10, 13 and 19 of 
storage, respectively, and correlated well with the microbiological data, 
indicating that along with TVB-N, TMA-N may serve as a useful index for sea bass 
fillets spoilage. As regards sensory evaluation, the presence of thyme oil 
proved to improve the sensory quality of sea bass fillets when used in 
combination with MAP2, providing a shelf life of 17 days as compared to 6 days 
of the control samples.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2009.02.008
PMID: 19465243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. J Adolesc Health. 2009 Jun;44(6):606-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jadohealth.2008.11.004.  Epub 2009 Feb 12.

Chronic disease-related lifestyle risk factors in a sample of Canadian 
adolescents.

Plotnikoff RC(1), Karunamuni N, Spence JC, Storey K, Forbes L, Raine K, Cameron 
Wild T, McCargar L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Promotion Studies, School of Public Health, 5-10 University 
Extension Centre, 8303 112 Street, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB T6G 2T4, 
Canada. ron.plotnikoff@ualberta.ca

This study examined the prevalence, clustering, age trends, and gender 
differences of chronic-disease related risk factors among a large sample of 
adolescents (N = 4932) in Alberta, Canada. Approximately 43% of boys and 53% of 
girls displayed two or more risk factors. Age trends and gender differences were 
also observed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2008.11.004
PMID: 19465326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Oct;19(5):534-40. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp060. Epub
 2009 May 21.

Health status of 'Ruhr-City' in 2025--predicted disease burden for the 
metropolitan Ruhr area in North Rhine-Westphalia.

Terschüren C(1), Mekel OC, Samson R, Classen TK, Hornberg C, Fehr R.

Author information:
(1)NRW Institute of Health and Work (LIGA.NRW), Westerfeldstrasse 35-37, 
Bielefeld, Germany. claudia.terschueren@liga.nrw.de

BACKGROUND: Demographic change is a driving force of disease burden. The German 
population is aging and simultaneously shrinking, due to a rising life 
expectancy and a declining fertility rate. North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) is the 
most populous federal state of Germany including the Ruhr metropolitan area. The 
NRW population is expected to shrink by 2.5% until 2025, the population of the 
Ruhr area by 9.5%. At the same time, the population forecast predicts a growth 
of 30% in the age group > or =55 years for NRW.
METHODS: The 'burden of disease' approach of the World Health Organisation (WHO) 
summarizes the health status of populations. This approach was used to predict 
the regional disease burden in 2025 by calculating disability adjusted life 
years (DALY) as the sum of life years lost due to premature death and years 
lived with disability due to selected diseases. Our projection included selected 
tumours, myocardial infarction (MI) and dementia.
RESULTS: For the Ruhr area, increases in DALYs are expected for all causes 
studied, i.e. selected tumours (20%), MI (17%) and dementia (36%). The increase 
in the Ruhr area was estimated to be proportionally lower than in NRW in total, 
but the disease burden per inhabitant is higher.
CONCLUSION: The population shrinking is no cure for 'Ruhr City'. The projection 
of disease burden shows that health status will decrease due to the demographic 
change. DALY estimates show the potential health gains, which can be won by 
implementing measures to reduce premature deaths and to prevent new cases.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp060
PMID: 19465401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Eukaryot Cell. 2009 Jul;8(7):1027-37. doi: 10.1128/EC.00095-09. Epub 2009
May  22.

Protein phosphatase type 1-interacting protein Ysw1 is involved in proper septin 
organization and prospore membrane formation during sporulation.

Ishihara M(1), Suda Y, Inoue I, Tanaka T, Takahashi T, Gao XD, Fukui Y, Ihara S, 
Neiman AM, Tachikawa H.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of Agriculture and Life 
Science, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.

Sporulation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a developmental process in which four 
haploid spores are generated inside a diploid cell. Gip1, a sporulation-specific 
targeting subunit of protein phosphatase type 1, together with its catalytic 
subunit, Glc7, colocalizes with septins along the extending prospore membrane 
and is required for septin organization and spore wall formation. However, the 
mechanism by which Gip1-Glc7 phosphatase promotes these events is unclear. We 
show here that Ysw1, a sporulation-specific coiled-coil protein, has a 
functional relationship to Gip1-Glc7 phosphatase. Overexpression of YSW1 
partially suppresses the sporulation defect of a temperature-sensitive allele of 
gip1. Ysw1 interacts with Gip1 in a two-hybrid assay, and this interaction is 
required for suppression. Ysw1 tagged with green fluorescent protein colocalizes 
with septins and Gip1 along the extending prospore membrane during spore 
formation. Sporulation is partially defective in ysw1Delta mutant, and 
cytological analysis revealed that septin structures are perturbed and prospore 
membrane extension is aberrant in ysw1Delta cells. These results suggest that 
Ysw1 functions with the Gip1-Glc7 phosphatase to promote proper septin 
organization and prospore membrane formation.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00095-09
PMCID: PMC2708458
PMID: 19465564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Emerg Med J. 2009 Jun;26(6):446-51. doi: 10.1136/emj.2008.061424.

Is it cost effective to introduce paramedic practitioners for older people to 
the ambulance service? Results of a cluster randomised controlled trial.

Dixon S(1), Mason S, Knowles E, Colwell B, Wardrope J, Snooks H, Gorringe R, 
Perrin J, Nicholl J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, UK. 
s.dixon@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: A scheme to train paramedics to undertake a greater role in the care 
of older people following a call for an emergency ambulance was developed in a 
large city in the UK.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost effectiveness of the paramedic practitioner (PP) 
scheme compared with usual emergency care.
METHODS: A cluster randomised controlled trial was undertaken of PP compared 
with usual care. Weeks were allocated to the study group at random to the PP 
scheme either being active (intervention) or inactive (control). Resource use 
data were collected from routine sources, and from patient-completed 
questionnaires for events up to 28 days. EQ-5D data were also collected at 28 
days.
RESULTS: Whereas the intervention group received more PP contact time, it 
reduced the proportion of emergency department (ED) attendances (53.3% vs 84.0%) 
and time in the ED (126.6 vs 211.3 minutes). There was also some evidence of 
increased use of health services in the days following the incident for patients 
in the intervention group. Overall, total costs in the intervention group were 
140 UK pounds lower when routine data were considered (p = 0.63). When the costs 
and QALY were considered simultaneously, PP had a greater than 95% chance of 
being cost effective at 20 000 UK pounds per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Several changes in resource use are associated with the use of PP. 
Given these economic results in tandem with the clinical, operational and 
patient-related benefits, the wider implementation and evaluation of similar 
schemes should be considered.

DOI: 10.1136/emj.2008.061424
PMID: 19465624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Am J Sports Med. 2009 Jun;37(6):1075-6. doi: 10.1177/0363546509337289.

Show me the money!

Reider B.

Comment on
    Am J Sports Med. 2009 Apr;37(4):683-7.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546509337289
PMID: 19465732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2009 Nov;21(11):1302-9. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0b013e32832a8d71.

Cost-effectiveness of adalimumab for the maintenance of remission in patients 
with Crohn's disease.

Loftus EV Jr(1), Johnson SJ, Yu AP, Wu EQ, Chao J, Mulani PM.

Author information:
(1)Miles and Shirley Fiterman Center for Digestive Diseases, Division of 
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Mayo Clinic, 200 First Street SW, Rochester, MN 
55905, USA. loftus.edward@mayo.edu

OBJECTIVE: Adalimumab is a fully human, monoclonal antibody clinically effective 
for the treatment of active Crohn's disease. The cost-effectiveness of 
adalimumab versus conventional, nonbiologic pharmacotherapies is unknown. This 
study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of adalimumab versus conventional, 
nonbiologic pharmacotherapies in the maintenance of Crohn's disease.
METHODS: Trial data from two randomized controlled studies [Crohn's Trial of the 
Fully Human Antibody Adalimumab for Remission Maintenance (CHARM) and CLinical 
Assessment of Adalimumab Safety and Efficacy Studied as Induction Therapy in 
Crohn's Disease (CLASSIC I)] were analyzed within a cost-utility framework using 
a 1-year horizon from the perspective of the National Health Service (UK). The 
treatment efficacy and use for the adalimumab arm were based on observations 
from CHARM. A regression model used data from CLASSIC I to predict efficacy in 
patients who received nonbiologic pharmacotherapy. Unit costs of drugs, 
hospitalization, and other medical resources were derived from the literature. 
Primary standard gamble-calculated data were used to derive health-utility 
estimates.
RESULTS: Compared with conventional, nonbiologic pharmacotherapy, adalimumab 
seemed to be cost-effective for the treatment of patients with severe disease 
and moderate-to-severe disease. The 56-week incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
was 16 064 UK pounds/quality-adjusted life-year and 33 731 UK 
pounds/quality-adjusted life-year for severe and moderate-to-severe groups, 
respectively. Sensitivity analyses showed that the findings were robust. In the 
treatment of patients over their lifetimes, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was 6550 UK pounds/quality-adjusted life-year and 17 873 UK 
pounds/quality-adjusted life-year for patients with severe Crohn's disease and 
those with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Adalimumab maintenance therapy seems to be cost-effective versus 
conventional, nonbiologic therapies for the maintenance of remission in patients 
with active Crohn's disease.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e32832a8d71
PMID: 19465858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Br J Dermatol. 2009 Jul;161(1):19-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2009.09243.x.
 Epub 2009 Apr 20.

Gene therapy of inherited skin adhesion disorders: a critical overview.

De Luca M(1), Pellegrini G, Mavilio F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Regenerative Medicine Stefano Ferrari, Department of Biomedical 
Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena 41100, Italy. 
michele.deluca@unimore.it

Gene therapy has the potential to treat devastating inherited diseases for which 
there is little hope of finding a conventional cure. These include lethal 
diseases, like immunodeficiencies or several metabolic disorders, or conditions 
associated with a relatively long life expectancy but poor quality of life and 
expensive and life-long symptomatic treatments, such as muscular dystrophy, 
cystic fibrosis and thalassaemia. Skin adhesion defects belong to both groups. 
For the nonlethal forms, gene therapy, or transplantation of cultured skin 
derived from genetically corrected epidermal stem cells, represents a very 
attractive therapeutic option, and potentially a definitive treatment. Recent 
advances in gene transfer and stem cell culture technology are making this 
option closer than ever. This paper critically reviews the progress and 
prospects of gene therapy for epidermolysis bullosa, and the technical and 
nontechnical factors currently limiting its development.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2133.2009.09243.x
PMID: 19466960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Gastrointest Endosc. 2009 Jul;70(1):96-108, 108.e1-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.gie.2008.08.040. Epub 2009 May 24.

Individualizing colonoscopy screening by sex and race.

Lansdorp-Vogelaar I(1), van Ballegooijen M, Zauber AG, Boer R, Wilschut J, 
Winawer SJ, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. i.vogelaar@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2009 Jul;70(1):109-11.

BACKGROUND: There is increasing discussion whether colorectal cancer (CRC) 
screening guidelines should be individualized by sex and race.
OBJECTIVES: To determine individualized colonoscopic screening guidelines by sex 
and race for the average-risk population and to compare the cost-effectiveness 
of this approach with that of uniform guidelines for all.
DESIGN: We used the MISCAN-Colon microsimulation model to estimate life 
expectancy and lifetime CRC screening and treatment costs in a U.S. cohort of 
black and white men and women at average risk for CRC. We compared the base-case 
strategy of no screening and 3 competing colonoscopy strategies: (1) the 
currently recommended "uniform 10-yearly colonoscopy from age 50 years," (2) a 
shorter interval "uniform 8-yearly colonoscopy from age 51 years," and (3) 
"individualized screening according to sex and race."
RESULTS: The base-case strategy of no screening was the least expensive, yet 
least effective. The uniform 10-yearly colonoscopy strategy was dominated. The 
uniform 8-yearly colonoscopy and individualized strategies both increased life 
expectancy by 0.0433 to 0.0435 years per individual, at a cost of $15,565 to 
$15,837 per life-year gained. In the individualized strategy, blacks began 
screening 6 years earlier, with a 1-year shorter interval compared with whites. 
The individualized policies were essentially the same for men and women, because 
the higher CRC risk in men was offset by their shorter life expectancy. The 
results were robust for changes in model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The improvements in costs and effects of individualizing CRC 
screening on a population level were only marginal. Individualized guidelines, 
however, could contribute to decreasing disparities between blacks and whites. 
The acceptability and feasibility of individualized guidelines, therefore, 
should be explored.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2008.08.040
PMCID: PMC2805960
PMID: 19467539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. J Neurol Sci. 2009 Oct 15;285(1-2):10-2. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2009.05.012.
Epub  2009 May 24.

The neurology map of the Arab world.

Benamer HT(1), Shakir RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, New Cross hospital, Wolverhampton, WV10 0QP, United 
Kingdom. benamer@doctors.org.uk

The Arab world covers a large geographical area over two continents, Africa and 
Asia and includes 23 countries ranging from low-to-high income. The estimated 
total population of the Arab world was around 318 million in 2005 and is 
projected to increase to 480 million in 2030. The percentage of people above the 
age of 60 will change from an average of 5.1% of the population in 2005 to 10.5% 
in 2030 with an increase in life expectancy from 68.2 years to 73.4 years. This 
will have a major effect on the burden of neurological diseases in the region. 
This article aims to review the available literature on the neurological supply 
and demand in the Arab countries and draws attention to the gaps in knowledge on 
the subject.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2009.05.012
PMID: 19467546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jul;69(2):160-4. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.04.009.
Epub  2009 May 23.

Time to retire--time to die? A prospective cohort study of the effects of early 
retirement on long-term survival.

Brockmann H(1), Müller R, Helmert U.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Sciences and Humanities, Jacobs University, Campus Ring 1, 
28758 Bremen, Germany. h.brockmann@jacobs-university.de

In a long-term prospective cohort study we try to assess selective and 
protective impacts of early retirement on life expectancy. The results are based 
on the members of a compulsory German health insurance fund (Gmünder 
Ersatzkasse). We analyzed 88,399 men and 41,276 women who retired between the 
ages of 50 and 65 from January 1990 to December 2004. Our main outcome measures 
are hazard ratios for death adjusted for age, sex, marital and socioeconomic 
status, year of observation, age at retirement, hospitalization, and form of 
retirement scheme. We found a significantly higher mortality risk among 
pensioners with reduced earning capacities than among old-age pensioners who 
either left the labor market between the ages of 56 and 60 or between 61 and 65. 
The youngest male and female pensioners who left the labor market between the 
ages of 51 and 55 because of their reduced earning capacity faced the highest 
mortality risk. But healthy people who retire early do not experience shorter 
long-term survival than those who retire late. On the contrary, if we take into 
consideration the amount of days spent in hospital during the last 2 years prior 
to retirement, early retirement in fact lowers mortality risks significantly by 
12% for men and by 23% for women. Thus with respect to mortality, early 
retirement reflects both selective and protective processes. First of all, 
individuals with poor health and lower survival chances are filtered out of the 
labor market. However, healthy pensioners may be protected during retirement. 
For the former, early retirement is a necessity, for the latter it is an asset. 
Pension reformers should take health differentials into consideration when 
cutting back pension programs and increasing retirement age.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.04.009
PMID: 19467567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. J Biomech. 2009 Aug 7;42(11):1772-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2009.03.052.
Epub  2009 May 20.

Comparison of tendon tensions estimated from two biomechanical models of the 
thumb.

Vigouroux L(1), Domalain M, Berton E.

Author information:
(1)Movement Sciences Institute, Etienne Jules Marey, UMR 6233, Mediterranean 
University, Marseille, France. laurent.vigouroux@univmed.fr

Despite the paramount function of the thumb in daily life, thumb biomechanical 
models have been little developed and studied. Moreover, only two studies 
provided quantitative anthropometric data of tendon moment arms. To investigate 
thumb tendon tensions, biomechanicians and clinicians have to know the 
performances and the limits of these two data sets. The aim of this study was 
thus to compare the results of these two models and evaluate their performances 
in regard to prior electromyographic measurements (EMG). Thumb posture was 
recorded during the classical key pinch and pulp pinch grips. Various fingertip 
forces applied at the distal segment were simulated in a range including 
extension, adduction, flexion, abduction. Input data of thumb postures and 
fingertip forces were used to compute tendon tensions with both models. Tendon 
tensions obtained using these two models were then compared and correlated to 
EMG measurements provided in the literature. The results showed that both models 
predicted relevant muscle coordination for five of the nine muscles modelled. 
Opponent and abductor longus muscle coordinations were badly estimated by both 
models. Each model was sensible to kinematic errors but not in the same 
proportion. This study pointed out the advantages/limits of the two models to 
use them more appropriately for clinical and/or research purposes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2009.03.052
PMID: 19467660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Curr Rev Musculoskelet Med. 2009 Mar;2(1):43-50. doi:
10.1007/s12178-008-9042-3.  Epub 2009 Jan 7.

Treatment of bone tumours by radiofrequency thermal ablation.

Santiago FR(1), Del Mar Castellano García M, Montes JL, García MR, Fernández JM.

Author information:
(1)Traumatology Hospital (Ciudad Sanitaria Virgen de las Nieves), Carretera de 
Jaen SN, 18013 Granada, Spain. ferruizsan@terra.es

Radiofrequency thermal ablation (RFTA) is considered the treatment of choice for 
osteoid osteomas, in which it has long been safely used. Other benign conditions 
(chondroblastoma, osteoblastoma, giant cell tumour, etc.) can also be treated by 
this technique, which is less invasive than traditional surgical procedures. 
RFTA ablation is also an option for the palliation of localized, painful 
osteolytic metastatic and myeloma lesions. The reduction in pain improves the 
quality of life of patients with cancer, who often have multiple morbidities and 
a limited life expectancy. In some cases, these patients are treated with RFTA 
because conventional therapies (surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy, etc.) have 
been exhausted. In other cases, it is combined with conventional therapies or 
other percutaneous treatments, e.g., cementoplasty, offering faster pain relief 
and bone strengthening. A multidisciplinary approach to the management of these 
patients is recommended to select the optimal treatment, including orthopaedic 
surgeons, neurosurgeons, medical and radiation oncologists and interventional 
radiologists.

DOI: 10.1007/s12178-008-9042-3
PMCID: PMC2684952
PMID: 19468917


758. Hematol Oncol. 2009 Jun;27 Suppl 1:5-7. doi: 10.1002/hon.910.

New perspectives in managing myeloproliferative disorders: focus on the patient.

Birgegård G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden. 
gunnar.birgegard@medsci.uu.se

Risk stratification is the basis for treatment decisions in the chronic 
myeloproliferative disorders, and in addition to the three established risk 
factors of previous thrombosis, age and platelets >1500 x 10(9), cardiovascular 
risk factors should be addressed. In addition, premorbidity with regard to 
possible side effects of platelet-reducing drugs as well as the impact on 
quality of life of such side effects should be considered. The near-to-normal 
life expectancy and long term nature of treatment also makes it necessary to 
consider the potential leukaemogenic effects of some cytostatic drugs.

DOI: 10.1002/hon.910
PMID: 19468983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. East Mediterr Health J. 2009 Jan-Feb;15(1):76-84.

Direct estimation of life expectancy in the Islamic Republic of Iran in 2003.

Pourmalek F(1), Abolhassani F, Naghavi M, Mohammad K, Majdzadeh R, Holakouie 
Naeini K, Fotouhi A.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Department, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Islamic Republic of Iran. 
pourmalek_farshad@yahoo.com

We estimated the life expectancy for 2003 for 23 provinces in the Islamic 
Republic of Iran using population and mortality data from the Ministry of Health 
and Medical Education. The underreporting of deaths above 4 years was corrected 
using the Brass Growth Balance method. We assumed that the distributions of 
population, deaths, and hence life expectancy in the 23 provinces were equal to 
those for all 28 provinces of the country. Thus we estimated life expectancy at 
birth to be 71.56 years for the total population [95% uncertainty interval (UI): 
71.52-71.62]; 70.09 (95% UI: 70.02-70.16) years for males, and 73.17 (95% UI: 
73.10-73.24) years for females. Our estimates were higher than the model-based 
estimates of the Statistical Centre of Iran, United Nations agencies and the 
World Bank, due to differences in the estimation methods used.

PMID: 19469429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Rehabil Psychol. 2009 May;54(2):204-10. doi: 10.1037/a0015770.

Longitudinal analysis of physical activity and symptoms as predictors of change 
in functional limitations and disability in multiple sclerosis.

Motl RW(1), McAuley E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign. robmotl@illinois.edu

OBJECTIVE: This longitudinal, observational study examined changes in physical 
activity and symptoms as correlates of changes in functional limitations and 
disability across a 6-month period among individuals with multiple sclerosis 
(MS).
METHOD: Individuals with MS wore an accelerometer for a 7-day period and 
completed a battery of measures including the Godin Leisure-Time Exercise 
Questionnaire (Godin & Shephard, 1985), Symptom Inventory (Schwartz, Vollmer, & 
Lee, 1999), MS-Related Symptom Checklist (Gulick, 1989), and abbreviated 
Late-Life Function and Disability Inventory (McAuley, Konopack, Motl, Rosengren, 
& Morris, 2005) at baseline (n = 292) and 6-month follow-up (n = 276). The data 
were analyzed using panel analysis with latent variables in AMOS 16.0.
RESULTS: The standardized coefficients indicated that (a) change in physical 
activity was associated with residual change in function (beta = .22), (b) 
change in symptoms was associated with residual changes in both function (beta = 
-.29) and disability (gamma = -.15), and (c) change in function was associated 
with residual change in disability (beta = .20).
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that change in physical activity is associated 
with change in disability through a pathway that is consistent with Nagi's 
(1976) Disablement Model and its extension in individuals with MS.

(PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2009 APA, all rights reserved).

DOI: 10.1037/a0015770
PMID: 19469611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2009 Jan-Mar;10(1):45-8.

Incidence and trends of prostate cancer in Karachi South, 1995-2002.

Bhurgri Y(1), Kayani N, Pervez S, Ahmed R, Tahir I, Afif M, Usman A, Faridi N, 
Bashir I, Bhurgri A, Hasan SH, Zaidi SM.

Author information:
(1)Karachi Cancer Registry, Department of Pathology and Microbiology, Aga Khan 
University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan. yasmin.bhurgri@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Cancer prostate (CaP) is a commonly diagnosed cancer in western 
men, but there is sparse information about the demographics of this malignancy 
in Pakistan. The study objective was to provide an overview of CaP in Karachi, 
Pakistan.
METHODOLOGY: Epidemiological data of 282 incident CaP cases registered at 
Karachi Cancer Registry (KCR) during 1st January 1995 to 31st December 2002 were 
reviewed. Incidence and trends were studied in 2 time periods, 1995-7 and 
1998-2002.
RESULTS: In 1995-7, CaP accounted for approximately 3.4% of the cancers in males 
and ranked 8th in hierarchy with an age standardized incidence rate (ASR) world 
and crude incidence rate (CIR) per 100,000 of 6.0 and 2.8 respectively. During 
1998-2002, CaP accounted 4.6% of the cancers, ranked 4th with an ASR world and 
CIR per 100,000 of 10.1 and 4.4. Thus an approximate 60% increase was observed 
between 1995 and 2002. Mean ages of the patients were 67.0 and 67.4 years. 
Age-specific curves showed a gradual increase in risk from the fifth decade 
onwards. A marginal down staging was also observed in period 2, more apparent in 
the more educated Mohajir and Punjabi ethnicities.
CONCLUSION: Karachi falls into a low risk region for CaP, with a rapidly 
increasing incidence and a marginal down staging. The probable reasons for the 
lower incidence are a low life expectancy, lack of availability or accessibility 
to health care and lack of public awareness. Implementation of CaP screening and 
public health education is a necessity today. The low incidence of CaP in 
Pakistan may be an artefact!

PMID: 19469623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2009 Jun;119(6):417-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0447.2009.01392.x.

Last episode psychosis.

Munk-Jørgensen P, Nielsen J, Nielsen RE, Stahl SM.

Comment on
    Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2002 Jun;105(6):404-13.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0447.2009.01392.x
PMID: 19469724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. BMC Public Health. 2009 May 26;9:152. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-152.

Health enhancing strength training in nonagenarians (STRONG): rationale, design 
and methods.

Serra Rexach JA(1), Ruiz JR, Bustamante-Ara N, Villarán MH, Gil PG, Sanz Ibáñez 
MJ, Sanz NB, Santamaría VO, Sanz NG, Prada AB, Gallardo C, Romo GR, Lucia A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Universidad Europea de Madrid, Madrid, Spain. 
jserra.hgugm@salud.madrid.org

BACKGROUND: The Health Enhancing Strength Training in Nonagenarians (STRONG) is 
a randomised control trial to assess the effectiveness of an aerobic and 
strength training program for improving muscle strength, functional capacity and 
quality of life in nonagenarians.
METHODS: Sixty (51 women) nonagenarians (age range: 90-102 years) who live in a 
geriatric nursing home will be randomly assigned to either a usual care 
(control) group (n = 30) or an intervention (training) group (n = 30). 
Participants allocated in the usual care group will receive general physical 
activity guidelines and participants allocated in the intervention group will 
also enroll in three weekly non-consecutive individualized training sessions 
(approximately 45-50 min each) during 8 weeks. The exercise program will consist 
of muscular strength [with a special focus on leg press at 30% (start of the 
program) to 70% 1 repetition maximum (end)] and aerobic exercises 
(cycle-ergometry during 3-5 to 15 minutes at 12-14 points in the rate of 
perceived exertion scale).
RESULTS: Results from STRONG will help to better understand the potential of 
regular physical activity for improving the well-being of the oldest population 
groups.
CONCLUSION: The increase in life expectancy together with the dramatic decrease 
in birth rates in industrialized countries calls the attention to health care 
systems and public health policymakers to focus attention on promoting healthy 
lifestyle in the highest sector of the population pyramid. Our study attempts to 
improve functional capacity and QOL of nonagenarians by implementing an 
individualised aerobic and strength training program in a geriatric residential 
care. Results from STRONG will help to better understand the potential of 
regular physical activity for improving the well being even in persons aged 90 
years or over.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-152
PMCID: PMC2693136
PMID: 19470176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Horm Behav. 2009 Mar;55(3):375-89. doi: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.12.009. Epub
2009  Jan 20.

The Reactive Scope Model - a new model integrating homeostasis, allostasis, and 
stress.

Romero LM(1), Dickens MJ, Cyr NE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Tufts University, Medford, MA 02155, USA. 
Michael.romero@tufts.edu

Comment in
    Horm Behav. 2010 Feb;57(2):105-11.

Allostasis, the concept of maintaining stability through change, has been 
proposed as a term and a model to replace the ambiguous term of stress, the 
concept of adequately or inadequately coping with threatening or unpredictable 
environmental stimuli. However, both the term allostasis and its underlying 
model have generated criticism. Here we propose the Reactive Scope Model, an 
alternate graphical model that builds on the strengths of allostasis and 
traditional concepts of stress yet addresses many of the criticisms. The basic 
model proposes divergent effects in four ranges for the concentrations or levels 
of various physiological mediators involved in responding to stress. (1) 
Predictive Homeostasis is the range encompassing circadian and seasonal 
variation - the concentrations/levels needed to respond to predictable 
environmental changes. (2) Reactive Homeostasis is the range of the mediator 
needed to respond to unpredictable or threatening environmental changes. 
Together, Predictive and Reactive Homeostasis comprise the normal reactive scope 
of the mediator for that individual. Concentrations/levels above the Reactive 
Homeostasis range is (3) Homeostatic Overload, and concentrations/levels below 
the Predictive Homeostasis range is (4) Homeostatic Failure. These two ranges 
represent concentrations/levels with pathological effects and are not compatible 
with long-term (Homeostatic Overload) or short-term (Homeostatic Failure) 
health. Wear and tear is the concept that there is a cost to maintaining 
physiological systems in the Reactive Homeostasis range, so that over time these 
systems gradually lose their ability to counteract threatening and unpredictable 
stimuli. Wear and tear can be modeled by a decrease in the threshold between 
Reactive Homeostasis and Homeostatic Overload, i.e. a decrease in reactive 
scope. This basic model can then be modified by altering the threshold between 
Reactive Homeostasis and Homeostatic Overload to help understand how an 
individual's response to environmental stressors can differ depending upon 
factors such as prior stressors, dominance status, and early life experience. We 
illustrate the benefits of the Reactive Scope Model and contrast it with the 
traditional model and with allostasis in the context of chronic malnutrition, 
changes in social status, and changes in stress responses due to early life 
experiences. The Reactive Scope Model, as an extension of allostasis, should be 
useful to both biomedical researchers studying laboratory animals and humans, as 
well as ecologists studying stress in free-living animals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yhbeh.2008.12.009
PMID: 19470371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Life Sci. 2009 Jul 31;85(5-6):196-205. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2009.05.008. Epub
2009  May 24.

Chemopreventive effect of farnesol on DMBA/TPA-induced skin tumorigenesis: 
involvement of inflammation, Ras-ERK pathway and apoptosis.

Chaudhary SC(1), Alam MS, Siddiqui MS, Athar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Elementology and Toxicology, Faculty of Science, Jamia 
Hamdard, Hamdard Nagar, New Delhi-110062, India. 
sandeepcchaudhary@rediffmail.com

AIMS: Naturally-derived farnesol has been reported for its chemopreventive and 
chemotherapeutic efficacy in various cancers. However, the mechanism of action 
of farnesol is still to be elucidated. The present study demonstrates the 
chemopreventive potential of farnesol on 9,10-dimethylbenz(a)anthracene 
(DMBA)-initiated and 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)-promoted skin 
tumorigenesis in Swiss albino mice.
MAIN METHODS: Farnesol at three different doses 25, 50 and 100 mg/kg body weight 
was topically applied to the mouse skin, 30 min prior to TPA (2 microg/200 
microl acetone) to evaluate edema, hyperplasia, expression of cyclooxygenase-2 
(COX-2), oxidative stress response and hyperproliferation, and expression of 
Ras, Raf, p-ERK1/2, Bax and Bcl-2 in DMBA/TPA-induced tumors.
KEY FINDINGS: Farnesol at both the low doses significantly reduced the 
TPA-induced skin edema, hyperplasia, expression of COX-2 and oxidative stress 
response. Interestingly, higher dose of farnesol did not show any significant 
response. Pretreatment of farnesol significantly decreased TPA-induced ornithine 
decarboxylase (ODC) activity and [(3)H]thymidine incorporation in dose-dependent 
manner. During promotion phase, farnesol with higher dose significantly 
regressed tumor incidence and tumor burden with an extension of latency period 
of 4-8 weeks. More importantly, low doses of farnesol significantly inhibited 
Ras/Raf/ERK1/2 signaling pathway in mouse skin tumors whereas higher dose of 
farnesol induced the pathway. Moreover, farnesol at all doses altered Bax/Bcl-2 
ratio which leads to induction of apoptosis as confirmed by DNA fragmentation.
SIGNIFICANCE: These findings revealed that oxidative stress, inflammation, 
Ras/Raf/ERK1/2 pathway and apoptosis collectively played a crucial role in the 
chemopreventive activity of farnesol to inhibit the murine skin tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2009.05.008
PMID: 19470390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Jun 9;106(23):9262-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0904115106. Epub 2009 May 22.

Long-lived Indy and calorie restriction interact to extend life span.

Wang PY(1), Neretti N, Whitaker R, Hosier S, Chang C, Lu D, Rogina B, Helfand 
SL.

