RESULTS: Respondents included 85% non-Hispanic whites, 4.6% Hispanics, 6.3% 
blacks, and 4.2% "other" race/ethnicity. More blacks (18%) and Hispanics (15%) 
than whites (8%) want to die in the hospital; more blacks (28%) and Hispanics 
(21.2%) than whites (15%) want life-prolonging drugs that make them feel worse 
all the time; fewer blacks (49%) and Hispanics (57%) than whites (74%) want 
potentially life-shortening palliative drugs, and more blacks (24%, 36%) and 
Hispanics (22%, 29%) than whites (13%, 21%) want MV for life extension of 1 week 
or 1 month, respectively. In multivariable analyses, sociodemographic variables, 
preference for specialists, and an overly optimistic belief in the effectiveness 
of MV explained some of the greater preferences for life-sustaining drugs and 
mechanical ventilation among non-whites. Black race remained an independent 
predictor of concern about receiving too much treatment [adjusted OR = 2.0 
(1.5-2.7)], preference for dying in a hospital [AOR = 2.3 (1.6-3.2)], receiving 
life-prolonging drugs [1.9 (1.4-2.6)], MV for 1 week [2.3 (1.6-3.3)] or 1 
month's [2.1 (1.6-2.9)] life extension, and a preference not to take potentially 
life-shortening palliative drugs [0.4 (0.3-0.5)]. Hispanic ethnicity remained an 
independent predictor of preference for dying in the hospital [2.2 (1.3-4.0)] 
and against potentially life-shortening palliative drugs [0.5 (0.3-0.7)].
CONCLUSIONS: Greater preference for intensive treatment near the end of life 
among minority elders is not explained fully by confounding sociocultural 
variables. Still, most Medicare beneficiaries in all race/ethnic groups prefer 
not to die in the hospital, to receive life-prolonging drugs that make them feel 
worse all the time, or to receive MV.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-009-0952-6
PMCID: PMC2686762
PMID: 19387750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Nucl Cardiol. 2009 May-Jun;16(3):447-55. doi: 10.1007/s12350-009-9074-0.
Epub  2009 Apr 22.

Witnessing ischemia or proofing coronary atherosclerosis: two different windows 
on the same or on different pathways precipitating cardiovascular events?

Sambuceti G(1), Marini C, Morbelli S, Paoli G, Derchi M, Pomposelli E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Nuclear Medicine Unit, University of Genoa, 
Viale Benedetto XV, 16132, Genoa, Italy. Sambuceti@unige.it

Risk stratification and prevention of future cardiac events is an extremely 
relevant part of the daily medical practice in the large population of 
asymptomatic or scarcely symptomatic patients. The strategies available to this 
purpose encompass programs intended either to reduce progression and 
complications of atherosclerosis, and revascularization procedures aimed to 
reduce total ischemic burden. The former represents a primary prevention 
approach and fights the substrate of ischemic heart disease. The latter, 
instead, is used to reduce the total ischemic burden and thus implies to 
identify those patients in whom ischemia can be life threatening because of its 
severity and extension. Today, at least two imaging methods are available for 
this task: coronary calcium scoring by x-ray CT and ischemia assessment by 
myocardial perfusion imaging. Although both approaches can accurately estimate 
cardiovascular risk, from a theoretical point of view, the assessment of 
ischemia evaluates the functional consequences of coronary obstructions and thus 
the target of revascularization procedure, while estimating the total 
atherosclerotic burden represents an indirect index of it. This difference might 
appear academic in its nature, given the current model of ischemic heart disease 
pathophysiology that assumes and predicts a very tight correlation between the 
severity of a coronary stenosis and its capability to cause ischemia. However, 
the majority of studies focused on the combined risk assessment with both 
approaches confirm the relevance of this issue. In fact, among 7785 patients 
reported in the literature, coronary calcium scoring most often resulted in 
positive findings (78%). However, this sign of atherosclerosis was associated 
with inducible ischemia in only one-fifth of patients. In the near future, 
coronary calcium scoring will be easily and immediately completed by the 
noninvasive definition of coronary stenoses. At that time we will face a still 
largely unknown risk: the presence of a stenosis in the absence of symptoms and 
of ischemia. Evaluating the effectiveness of different protocols will thus be 
needed to improve our capability to help these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s12350-009-9074-0
PMID: 19387762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Interprof Care. 2009 May;23(3):234-41. doi: 10.1080/13561820802602420.

Cost effective interprofessional training: an evaluation of a training unit in 
Denmark.

Hansen TB(1), Jacobsen F, Larsen K.

Author information:
(1)University of Aarhus, Denmark. tbhansen@dadlnet.dk

In 2004, the first Danish undergraduate interprofessional training unit (ITU) 
was established at the Regional Hospital Holstebro, inspired by experiences from 
Sweden. In this unit, medical, nursing, occupational therapy and physiotherapy 
students are given responsibility, under supervision by trained and motivated 
personnel, for rehabilitation and care of patients in a subunit of an 
orthopaedic department. The aim of this study was to see whether the ITU was 
cost effective in treating patients compared with a conventional orthopaedic 
ward. One-hundred and thirty-four patients admitted for primary hip or knee 
replacement surgery were included in the study. All costs were recorded in the 
ITU and in the conventional ward. Follow-up was done by a quality of life 
questionnaire three months after the operation. Comparison was done by 
univariable and multivariable testing of costs and effect. In both, the ITU was 
more cost effective than the conventional ward. No difference was found in 
complications and patient-reported quality of life. In conclusion, clinical 
training can be given to students in an ITU without reducing productivity in a 
hospital environment if pedagogic principles, clinical tutors and patient 
logistics all adapt to the challenge of the teaching environment.

DOI: 10.1080/13561820802602420
PMID: 19387912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Health Rep. 2009 Mar;20(1):29-35.

The natural history of health-related quality of life: a 10-year cohort study.

Orpana HM(1), Ross N, Feeny D, McFarland B, Bernier J, Kaplan M.

Author information:
(1)Health Information and Research Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario. 
Heather.Orpana@statcan.gc.ca

BACKGROUND: Taking account of the impacts of institutionalization and death, 
this study describes the normative trajectories of health-related quality of 
life (HRQL) in Canada as individuals age from mid-to late life.
METHODS: A nationally representative sample of 7,915 community-dwelling adults 
aged 40 and older in 1994/1995 was studied using 10 years of data from the 
longitudinal National Population Health Survey. Growth curve models of HRQL over 
age were fitted to describe the evolution of HRQL. Successive models were 
tested, first including only those living in a household throughout the entire 
period, then adding those who moved to an institution, and finally, including 
those who had died.
RESULTS: HRQL remained generally stable until approximately age 70, when it 
began to decline. Excluding individuals when they were institutionalized, or 
ignoring the impact of death resulted in overly optimistic trajectories of HRQL 
in later years.
INTERPRETATION: These results demonstrate the importance of following 
individuals into institutions and accounting for death in the production of 
realistic health estimates in aging populations.

PMID: 19388366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Diabet Med. 2009 Apr;26(4):453-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02702.x.

European physicians overestimate life expectancy and the likely impact of 
interventions in individuals with Type 2 diabetes.

Price HC, Thorne KI, Duk√°t A, Kellett J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02702.x
PMID: 19388980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. BJU Int. 2009 Jun;103(11):1509-15. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.08402.x.
Epub  2009 Apr 15.

Improvement in quality of life after botulinum toxin-A injections for idiopathic 
detrusor overactivity: results from a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled 
trial.

Sahai A(1), Dowson C, Khan MS, Dasgupta P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology Guy's Hospital and King's College London School of 
Medicine, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE To determine whether botulinum toxin-A (BTX-A) treatment has an effect 
on the quality of life (QoL) of patients with overactive bladder (OAB) 
refractory to anticholinergics. PATIENTS AND METHODS This was a single centre, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Participants were men and 
women with idiopathic detrusor overactivity (IDO). Participants were randomised 
to receive either 200 U of BTX-A (Botox(R), Allergan Inc., Irvine, CA, USA; n = 
16) or placebo (n = 18) via a trigone-sparing flexible cystoscopic technique. 
QoL was assessed using the King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ) at baseline and at 
4 and 12 weeks, after injection. At 12 weeks patients were 'unblinded' and a 
further open-label follow-up in the BTX-A group occurred at 24 weeks. The 
changes in the subdomains of the KHQ were assessed over the study period. 
RESULTS Overall QoL was significantly improved in the BTX-A treated patients 
compared with placebo in the blinded part of the study. When analysing the KHQ 
subdomains, 'Incontinence Impact', 'Emotions', 'Physical Limitations', 'Social 
Limitations' and 'Severity Measures' were significantly improved in those that 
received BTX-A compared with placebo. The 'Symptom Severity' domain was also 
significantly improved at 4 weeks but not at 12 weeks. At 12 weeks 'Role 
Limitations' also became statistically significant in favour of BTX-A. The 
open-label extension study suggested these benefits last for at least 24 weeks. 
CONCLUSIONS BTX-A bladder injections at 200 U appear to improve QoL in patients 
with OAB symptoms and IDO refractory to anticholinergics for at least 24 weeks. 
As well as the improvement seen in clinical parameters with this form of 
therapy, perhaps of more importance to the patient, is the improvement in QoL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.08402.x
PMID: 19389019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Epilepsia. 2009 Aug;50(8):1995-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2009.02073.x.
Epub  2009 Apr 6.

Mortality in captive baboons with seizures: a new model for SUDEP?

Szab√≥ CA(1), Knape KD, Leland MM, Feldman J, McCoy KJ, Hubbard GB, Williams JT.

Author information:
(1)South Texas Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, 
University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas 
78229-7883, USA. szabo@uthscsa.edu

Because the baboon is a model of primary generalized epilepsy, we were 
interested in mortality of captive animals with a history of witnessed seizures. 
Causes of natural death were investigated in 46 seizure baboons (SZ) and 78 
nonepileptic controls (CTL), all of which underwent a complete pathologic 
examination at the Southwest Foundation for Biomedical Research (SFBR) in San 
Antonio. SZ animals died at a younger age than the control baboons (p < 0.001). 
Almost all epileptic baboons that died suddenly without an apparent cause 
(SZ-UKN), had pulmonary congestion or edema without evidence of trauma, systemic 
illness, or heart disease, compared to nine controls (12%) (p < 0.001), most of 
which demonstrated evidence of a concurrent illness. Serosanguineous bronchial 
secretions were found in 15 SZ-UKN baboons (58%), but in only three controls 
(4%) (p < 0.001). Chronic multifocal fibrotic changes in myocardium were noted 
in only three (12%) of SZ-UKN baboons and one control baboon. Based upon these 
results, untreated seizures appear to reduce the life expectancy of captive 
baboons. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) may be a common cause of 
natural death in epileptic baboons.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1528-1167.2009.02073.x
PMCID: PMC2935173
PMID: 19389147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Cerebrovasc Dis. 2009;27(6):537-43. doi: 10.1159/000214216. Epub 2009 Apr
24.

Stroke in the very elderly: hospital care, case fatality and disposition.

Saposnik G(1), Black S; Stroke Outcome Research Canada (SORCan) Working Group.

Author information:
(1)Stroke Research Program, South East Toronto Regional Stroke Center, Division 
of Neurology, Department of Medicine, St. Michael's Hospital, Ont., Canada. 
saposnikg@smh.toronto.on.ca

BACKGROUND: The worldwide growing number of older people represents a new 
phenomenon. Considering that the prevalence of stroke increases with age and 
higher life expectancy, the prevalence of stroke will likely rise in the next 
decade. However, limited information is available about the burden of stroke in 
individuals over 90.
METHODS: This is a subgroup analysis from a multicenter cohort study including 
individuals admitted with an ischemic stroke to a broad range of hospitals 
across Canada. Patients were identified from the Canadian Hospital Morbidity 
database (HMDB), which is a national database that contains patient-level 
sociodemographic, diagnostic and administrative information. Multivariable 
analysis was performed using logistic regression. Outcomes measures include 
risk-adjusted stroke fatality, ICU admissions, medical complications, length of 
hospital stay and discharge disposition.
RESULTS: Among 26,676 patients with ischemic stroke admitted to 606 hospitals, 
2,015 (7.6%) were aged 90 years or older. Risk-adjusted fatality at discharge 
was 6.3% (age <69), 12.5% (age 70-79), 22.0% (age 80-89) and 36.1% (age >or=90) 
(p < 0.001). Patients aged 90 and over were more likely admitted on weekends 
(28.1 vs. 24.6; p < 0.001), and less likely to be admitted to the ICU (4.3 vs. 
13.0%, p < 0.001) and discharged to their pre-stroke residence (39.9% for those 
over 90 vs. 57.3% for patients younger than 90, p < 0.001). In the multivariable 
analysis, nonagenarians and older were 5-8 times more likely to die after 
adjusting for covariates.
CONCLUSION: In our study, stroke patients over 90 had higher risk-adjusted 
mortality, longer hospitalization, and were less likely to be discharged to 
their original place of residence. In view of these findings, strategies need to 
be implemented to facilitate equal access to specialized stroke care for the 
elderly.

DOI: 10.1159/000214216
PMID: 19390178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Eur Spine J. 2009 Jun;18 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):89-94. doi:
10.1007/s00586-009-0991-z.  Epub 2009 Apr 24.

Effectiveness of posterior tension band fixation in the thoracolumbar seat-belt 
type injuries of the young population.

Ramieri A(1), Domenicucci M, Cellocco P, Raco A, Costanzo G.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Service, The Don Gnocchi Foundation of Rome, Rome, Italy. 
alexramieri@libero.it

We report results in the surgical treatment of thoracolumbar flexion-distraction 
fractures, both associated or not with neurological impairment. Items in the 
present study include function, pain (back pain rating scale) and neurological 
recovery (Asia Score). A prospective series of 19 consecutive flexion-extension 
thoracolumbar injuries (T11-L2), occurred in young patients (20-33 years) due to 
motor vehicle crashes wearing the 3-point safety belts, includes 2 Chance and 17 
seat-belt fractures, with different amount of vertebral dislocation and 
neurological impairment. Fractures have been evaluated according to the Magerl's 
classification. All patients were operated via posterior approach using hybrid 
instrumentation or short pedicular fixation to reduce dislocation and to obtain 
spinal fusion. Posterior decompression was performed in all patients with 
neurological deficit. Posterior instrumented arthodesis was performed by wide 
constructs that preferably include 2 levels above and below the dislocated 
vertebra. Most of them were instrumented using thoracic hooks and lumbar 
pedicular screws. One postoperative vascular complication was successfully 
treated by selective embolization. All neurological patients were submitted to a 
postoperative rehabilitation program. Posterior procedure allows proper 
reduction and realignment. In our experience, the use of laminar hooks one level 
above the dislocation seems to reduce the potential risk of neurological and /or 
vascular damage during the intraoperative maneuvers on the dislocated pedicles. 
At follow-up, fusion was achieved in all patients. The clinical condition was 
totally satisfactory due to the absence of significant pain, confirming 
mechanical stability of the implants. In terms of neurological outcomes, 
patients presenting as ASIA A-B or ASIA E, maintained their preoperative 
neurological condition. Surgical treatment, together with an early postoperative 
rehabilitation program, can be of paramount importance in neurological patients' 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-009-0991-z
PMCID: PMC2899616
PMID: 19390871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Indian J Pediatr. 2009 Jan;76(1):51-6. doi: 10.1007/s12098-009-0029-x. Epub
2009  Apr 18.

Stem cell through present and future.

Sharma VK(1), Singh UK, Prasad R, Fletcher S.

Author information:
(1)Dewsbury District Hospital, Dewbury, UK.

Stem cell transplantation (SCT) has the potential to transform the lives of 
children with a wide variety of genetic diseases, ranging from inherent defects 
of hemopoietic cell production or function through to metabolic diseases mostly 
affecting solid organs. For these children life expectancy or quality of life 
would otherwise be very poor. It ranks as one of the most remarkable therapeutic 
advances of the past 40 years. Despite rapid technological improvements, 
however, there are still many short term risks and potential long term 
toxicities. Consequently, the rapid emergence of alternative therapies 
(including new drugs, enzyme and gene therapies), necessitate constant 
re-evaluation of the risk/benefit ratio for each disease and hence the 
appropriateness of SCT. This review describes the major aspects of the 
transplant process, indications for transplantation, outcome statistics, and 
areas where alternative therapies are becoming available. SCT remains a highly 
experimental therapy. Due to the relatively short history of the discipline no 
data exists on truly long term follow up. This is important as some organs 
benefit relatively poorly or problems may emerge which were never apparent as 
part of the untreated disease. The speed of technological change makes 
randomised trials on these diseases, which are individually quite rare, almost 
impossible to perform.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-009-0029-x
PMID: 19391003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. J Infect Dis. 2009 May 15;199(10):1416-8. doi: 10.1086/598219.

High burden of staphylococcal disease in indigenous communities.

Turnidge JD.

Comment on
    J Infect Dis. 2009 May 15;199(10):1461-70.

DOI: 10.1086/598219
PMID: 19392619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Am J Transplant. 2009 Jul;9(7):1507-12. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02594.x.  Epub 2009 Apr 10.

The kidney allocation score: methodological problems, moral concerns and 
unintended consequences.

Hippen B(1).

Author information:
(1)Metrolina Nephrology Associates, Charlotte, NC, USA. benjaminhippen@gmail.com

The growing disparity between the demand for and supply of kidneys for 
transplantation has generated interest in alternative systems of allocating 
kidneys from deceased donors. This personal viewpoint focuses attention on the 
Kidney Allocation Score (KAS) proposal promulgated by the UNOS/OPTN Kidney 
Committee. I identify several methodological and moral flaws in the proposed 
system, concluding that any iteration of the KAS proposal should be met with 
more skepticism than sanguinity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02594.x
PMID: 19392985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. J AAPOS. 2009 Apr;13(2):186-90. doi: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2008.10.014.

Cost-utility analysis of screening and laser treatment of retinopathy of 
prematurity.

Dunbar JA(1), Hsu V, Christensen M, Black B, Williams P, Beauchamp G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, California 
92354, USA. Jdunbar@llu.edu

PURPOSE: Retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) is a major cause of lifelong blindness 
beginning in infancy. Utility analysis is used to describe the effect of illness 
and medical intervention on an individual's quality of life during the course of 
a lifetime. In this study, cost-utility analysis is used to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of both screening and laser photoablation for ROP.
METHODS: Data from 2 neonatal intensive care units were recorded for infants 
screened and treated for ROP between March 4, 2004, and January 5, 2006. The 
cost model was developed using procedures classified by Current Procedural 
Terminology and the costs paid for by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid 
Services for 2006. Visual acuities were obtained from 10-year post-laser data 
and from the 10-year post-CRYO-ROP untreated cohort.
RESULTS: During the study period, 515 infants received screening and treatment 
for ROP. They required a mean 3.4 exams per infant; 11.2% received laser 
photoablation. Mean visual acuities were 0.5 (Snellen 20/40) for laser-treated 
eyes and 0.20 (Snellen 20/100) for those who did not receive treatment. The 
cost-effectiveness of screening and laser photoablation of ROP in 2006 is 
$650/quality-adjusted life years. When discounted 3% per year for the time value 
of money, the cost is $1,565/ quality-adjusted life years.
CONCLUSIONS: The screening and laser photoablation of ROP continue to be 
extremely cost-effective medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaapos.2008.10.014
PMID: 19393519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Clin Ther. 2009 Mar;31(3):657-67. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.03.013.

Health economic comparison between continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion and 
multiple daily injections of insulin for the treatment of adult type 1 diabetes 
in Canada.

St Charles ME(1), Sadri H, Minshall ME, Tunis SL.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Inc., Falls Church, Virginia 22046, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (DM) may be treated with 
insulin via multiple daily injections (MDI) or continuous subcutaneous insulin 
infusion (CSII).
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the projected long-term 
cost-effectiveness of CSII compared with MDI by modeling a simulated sample of 
adult patients with type 1 DM in Canada.
METHODS: A health economic model was used to determine the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of CSII compared with MDI from the perspective 
of a Canadian provincial government. The primary input variable was change in 
glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)). A series of Markov constructs also simulated 
the progression of disease-related complications. Annual acquisition costs for 
CSII and MDI were year-2006 Can $6347.18 and Can $4649.69, respectively. A 
60-year time horizon and a discount rate of 5.0% per annum on costs and clinical 
outcomes were used.
RESULTS: Mean direct lifetime costs were Can $15,591 higher with CSII treatment 
than MDI. Treatment with CSII was associated with an improvement in discounted 
life expectancy of 0.655 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over a 60-year time 
horizon, compared with MDI (mean [SD], 10.029 [0.133] vs 9.374 [0.076] QALYs). 
ICERs were Can $27,264 per life-year gained and Can $23,797 per QALY for CSII 
compared with MDI. The results were most sensitive to HbA(1c) assumptions.
CONCLUSION: Based on this analysis, CSII may be a cost-effective treatment 
option when compared with MDI in adult patients with type 1 DM in Canada.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.03.013
PMID: 19393856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):21-5, 25.e1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.01.040.
Epub  2009 Apr 24.

Improving decision analyses: parent preferences (utility values) for pediatric 
health outcomes.

Carroll AE(1), Downs SM.

Author information:
(1)Children's Health Services Research, Indiana University School of Medicine, 
Indianapolis, IN, USA. aaecarro@iupui.edu

Comment in
    J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):A2.
    J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):7-9.

OBJECTIVE: To gather and calculate utilities for a wide range of health states 
in the pediatric population.
STUDY DESIGN: The study subjects, parents or guardians at least 18 years of age 
with at least 1 child under age 18 years, were recruited through our Pediatric 
Research Network (PResNet). Recruitment locations included pediatric clinics, 
the Indiana State Fair, and public and private conventions. Each subject's 
utilities were assessed on 3 random health states out of 29 chosen for the 
study. Both the time trade-off and standard gamble methods were used to measure 
utilities.
RESULTS: Utilities were assessed in a total of 4016 participants (a recruitment 
rate of 88%). Utility values ranged from a high for acute otitis media (0.96 by 
standard gamble; 0.97 by time trade-off) to a low for severe mental retardation 
(0.59 by standard gamble; 0.51 by time trade-off).
CONCLUSIONS: Our extensive data set of utility assessments for a wide range of 
disease states can aid future economic evaluations of pediatric health care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.01.040
PMID: 19394030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Jun;68(12):2170-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.03.031.
Epub  2009 Apr 24.

Changing health status and health expectancies among older adults in China: 
gender differences from 1992 to 2002.

Gu D(1), Dupre ME, Warner DF, Zeng Y.

Author information:
(1)Nohad A Toulan School of Urban Studies and Planning, Portland State 
University, Portland, OR 97207, United States. gudanan@yahoo.com

Numerous studies document improvements in health status and health expectancies 
among older adults over time. However, most evidence is from developed nations 
and gender differences in health trends are often inconsistent. It remains 
unknown whether changes in health in developing countries resemble Western 
trends or whether patterns of health improvement are unique to the country's 
epidemiologic transition and gender norms. Using two nationally representative 
samples of non-institutionalized adults in China aged 65 years and older, this 
study investigates gender differences in the improvements in disability, chronic 
disease prevalence, and self-rated health from 1992 to 2002. Results from 
multivariate logistic regression models show that all three indicators of health 
improved over the 10-year period, with the largest improvement in self-rated 
health. With the exception of disability, the health of women improved more than 
men. Using Sullivan's decomposition methods, we also show that active life 
expectancy, disease-free life expectancy, and healthy life expectancy increased 
over this decade and were patterned differently according to gender. Overall, 
the findings demonstrate that China experienced broad health improvements during 
its early stages of the epidemiologic transition and that these changes were not 
uniform by gender. We discuss the public health implications of the findings in 
the context of China's rapidly aging population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.03.031
PMCID: PMC2727476
PMID: 19394120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2010 Feb 1;76(2):337-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.01.045. Epub 2009 Apr 22.

Survival following radiation and androgen suppression therapy for prostate 
cancer in healthy older men: implications for screening recommendations.

Nguyen PL(1), Chen MH, Renshaw AA, Loffredo M, Kantoff PW, D'Amico AV.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Department of Radiation Oncology, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. pnguyen@LROC.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: The U.S. Preventive Services Task Force has recommended against 
screening men over 75 for prostate cancer. We examined whether older healthy men 
could benefit from aggressive prostate cancer treatment.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: 206 men with intermediate to high risk localized prostate 
cancer randomized to 70 Gy of radiation (RT) or RT plus 6 months of androgen 
suppression therapy (RT+AST) constituted the study cohort. Within subgroups 
stratified by Adult Comorbidity Evaluation-27 comorbidity score and age, Cox 
multivariable analysis was used to determine whether treatment with RT+AST as 
compared with RT was associated with a decreased risk of death.
RESULTS: Among healthy men (i.e., with mild or no comorbidity), 78 were older 
than the median age of 72.4 years, and in this subgroup, RT+AST was associated 
with a significantly lower risk of death on multivariable analysis (adjusted 
hazard ratio = 0.36 (95% CI=0.13-0.98), p = 0.046, with significantly lower 
8-year mortality estimates of 16.5% vs. 41.4% (p = 0.011). Conversely, among men 
with moderate or severe comorbidity, 24 were older than the median age of 73, 
and in this subgroup, treatment with RT+AST was associated with a higher risk of 
death (adjusted hazard ratio = 5.2 (1.3-20.2), p = 0.018).
CONCLUSION: In older men with mild or no comorbidity, treatment with RT+AST was 
associated with improved survival compared with treatment with RT alone, 
suggesting that healthy older men may derive the same benefits from prostate 
cancer treatment as younger men. We therefore suggest that prostate cancer 
screening recommendations should not be based on strict age cutoffs alone but 
should also take into account comorbidity.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2009.01.045
PMID: 19395186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Br J Ophthalmol. 2009 May;93(5):698-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.151357.

Ocular telemedicine between Nepal and the USA: prevalence of vitreoretinal 
disease in rural Nepal.

Ulrich JN(1), Poudyal G, Marks SJ, Vrabec TR, Marks B, Thapa AB, Shresta MK, 
Ruit S, Federman JL.

Author information:
(1)Geisinger Medical Center, Department of Ophthalmology, Danville, PA 17822, 
USA. npilic@web.de

This study is aimed at reporting experiences with telemedicine between Nepal and 
the USA and at reporting the prevalence of age-related macular degeneration 
(AMD) and diabetic retinopathy (DR) in rural Nepal. AMD and DR are becoming more 
significant factors for non-reversible vision loss in rural Nepal due to 
increasing life expectancy and urbanisation. The prevalence of DM is low 
compared with the developed world, but the percentage of diabetics with DR is 
high, presumably due to limited access to healthcare. The higher prevalence of 
DM in Hetauda is explained as being due to a more urban lifestyle, dietary 
habits (more deep-fried food) and more advanced age.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.151357
PMID: 19395632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2009 Sep;45(3):349-54. Epub 2009 Apr 27.

Are indexes of arm recovery related to daily life autonomy in patients with 
stroke?

Smania N(1), Gambarin M, Tinazzi M, Picelli A, Fiaschi A, Moretto G, Bovi P, 
Paolucci S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological and Visual Sciences, University of Verona, Italy. 
nicola.smania@univr.it

AIM: The level of daily life autonomy in patients with stroke may be related to 
recovery of affected arm function. The aim of the study was to assess whether 
four simple bedside indexes of arm recovery can predict levels of autonomy in 
daily life activities.
METHODS: A consecutive sample of 48 patients presenting with upper limb 
paresis/plegia in the acute stage after stroke was selected. Patients underwent 
five evaluation sessions at 7, 14, 30, 90 and 180 days after stroke. Forward 
stepwise multiple regression analysis was used to clarify the role of four 
potential predictors of upper limb recovery (active finger extension, shoulder 
abduction, shoulder shrug and hand movement scales). Dependent variables in 
these models were the Barthel Index score and sub-items of the 
Burke-Fahn-Marsden Scale.
RESULTS: The active finger extension scale showed a highly significant 
statistical correlation with patient performance in nearly all outcome measures. 
The shoulder shrug correlated with the BI score, and with the dressing and 
hygiene Burke-Fahn-Marsden Scale sub-items. Shoulder abduction and hand movement 
scale played only a minor role.
CONCLUSIONS: The active finger extension scale proved to be a strong early 
predictor of recovery of daily life autonomy in patients with stroke. This 
finding could be important in order to planning a specific rehabilitation 
treatment after the onset.

PMID: 19396056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. J Perioper Pract. 2009 Mar;19(3):88-92. doi: 10.1177/175045890901900301.

Health economics: what value to the theatre practitioner?

Evans J(1), Lipp A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Sport & Science, University of Glamorgan, Glyntaf, 
Pontypridd, CF37 1DL.

Clinical effectiveness has become embedded into healthcare in the last decade. 
In juxtaposition with this philosophy lies health economics with its mantra of 
resources being finite, whilst the need for healthcare remains infinite. An 
outline of a provocative cost-benefit analysis is provided to increase the 
knowledge of health economics for those working in the operating department. 
This paper argues that cost effectiveness must be embedded within clinical 
effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1177/175045890901900301
PMID: 19397059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Vet Parasitol. 2009 Aug 26;163(4):286-92. doi: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2009.03.026.
 Epub 2009 Mar 26.

Climate and Dirofilaria infection in Europe.

Genchi C(1), Rinaldi L, Mortarino M, Genchi M, Cringoli G.

Author information:
(1)DIPAV, Section of General Pathology and Parasitology, University of Milan, 
20133 Milan, Italy. claudio.genchi@unimi.it

Climatic changes, together with an increase in the movement of cats and dogs 
across Europe, have caused an increase in the geographical range of several 
vector borne parasites like Dirofilaria, and in the risk of infection for 
animals and humans. The present paper reviews the effects of climate and other 
global drivers on Dirofilaria immitis and Dirofilaria repens infections in 
Europe and the possible implications on the transmission and control of these 
mosquito-borne nematodes. In the last several years, growing degree day 
(GDD)-based forecast models, which use wide or local scale temperature data, 
have been developed to predict the occurrence and seasonality of Dirofilaria in 
different parts of the world. All these models are based on the fact that: there 
is a threshold of 14 degrees C below which Dirofilaria development will not 
proceed; and there is a requirement of 130 GDD for larvae to reach infectivity 
and a maximum life expectancy of 30 days for a vector mosquito. The output of 
these models predicts that the summer temperatures (with peaks in July) are 
sufficient to facilitate extrinsic incubation of Dirofilaria even at high 
latitudes. The global warming projected by the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change suggests that warm summers suitable for Dirofilaria transmission 
in Europe will be the rule in the future decades and if the actual trend of 
temperature increase continues, filarial infection should spread into previously 
infection-free areas. These factors not only favour incubation of Dirofilaria, 
but also impact on mosquito species. Recent findings have also demonstrated that 
Aedes albopictus is now considered to be an important, competent vector of 
Dirofilaria infections. This mosquito species could spread from southern to 
northern European countries in the near future, changing the epidemiological 
patterns of dirofilariosis both in humans and animals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vetpar.2009.03.026
PMID: 19398159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2009 May;49(5):405-26. doi:
10.1080/10408390802067878.

Shelf life of packaged bakery goods--a review.

Galiƒá K(1), Curiƒá D, Gabriƒá D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Food Technology and Biotechnology, University of Zagreb, Zagreb, 
Croatia. kgalic@pbf.hr

Packaging requirements for fresh bakery goods are often minimal as many of the 
products are for immediate consumption. However, packaging can be an important 
factor in extending the shelf life of other cereal-based goods (toast, frozen 
products, biscuits, cakes, pastas). Some amount of the texture changes and 
flavor loss manifest over the shelf life of a soft-baked good can usually be 
minimized or delayed by effective use of packaging materials. The gains in the 
extension of shelf life will be application specific. It is recognized that 
defining the shelf life of a food is a difficult task and is an area of intense 
research for food product development scientists (food technologists, 
microbiologists, packaging experts). Proper application of chemical kinetic 
principles to food quality loss allows for efficiently designing appropriate 
shelf-life tests and maximizing the useful information that can be obtained from 
the resulting data. In the development of any new food product including 
reformulating, change of packaging, or storage/distribution condition (to 
penetrate into a new market), one important aspect is the knowledge of shelf 
life.

DOI: 10.1080/10408390802067878
PMID: 19399669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2009 May;49(5):474-99. doi:
10.1080/10408390802145724.

Edible moisture barriers: how to assess of their potential and limits in food 
products shelf-life extension?

Bourlieu C(1), Guillard V, Vall√®s-Pami√®s B, Guilbert S, Gontard N.

Author information:
(1)UMR 1208 Ing√©nierie des Agropolym√®res et Technologies Emergentes, CIRAD, 
INRA, Montpellier SupAgro, Universit√© Montpellier 2, Montpellier, France.

Control of moisture transfer inside composite food products or between food and 
its environment remains today a major challenge in food preservation. A wide 
rage of film-forming compounds is now available and facilitates tailoring 
moisture barriers with optimized functional properties. Despite these huge 
potentials, a realistic assessment of the film or coating efficacy is still 
critical. Due to nonlinear water sorption isotherms, water-dependent 
diffusivities, and variations of physical state, modelling transport phenomena 
through edible barriers is complex. Water vapor permeability can hardly be 
considered as an inherent property of films and only gives a relative indication 
of the barrier efficacy. The formal or mechanistic models reported in literature 
that describe the influence of testing conditions on the barrier properties of 
edible films are reviewed and discussed. Most of these models have been 
validated on a narrow range of conditions. Conversely, few original predictive 
models based on Fick's Second Law have been developed to assess shelf-life 
extension of food products including barriers. These models, assuming complex 
and realistic hypothesis, have been validated in various model foods. The 
development of nondestructive methods of moisture content measurement should 
speed up model validation and allow a better comprehension of moisture transfer 
through edible films.

DOI: 10.1080/10408390802145724
PMID: 19399672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Jul 1;515(1):4-14. doi: 10.1002/cne.22034.

Development of vaccination approaches for the treatment of neurological 
diseases.

Federoff HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Georgetown University, Washington DC 20057, USA. 
hjf8@georgetown.edu

Several progressive neurodegenerative diseases share a common pathology: the 
accumulation of misfolded proteins within cells or neuropil of the brain. 
Characteristically, these misfolded proteins form organized 
beta-sheet-containing assemblies that have optical and biochemical properties of 
amyloid. Thus, the brain amyloidoses, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease, and the prionoses or transmissible spongioform encelphalopathies (TSEs) 
all manifest putatively pathogenic misfolded proteins, suggesting that these 
proteins or their precursors may be targets for therapeutics development 
efforts. Two different biological approaches, both predicated on vaccination, 
are discussed in this monograph as preclinical approaches for the treatment of 
AD and a TSE. Herein, I first describe an active vaccination approach that 
exploits immune shaping to engender a prophylactic T(H)2 response to Abeta in AD 
mouse models. Second, I describe a passive vaccination strategy whereby 
recombinant adeno-associated virus vectored delivery of anti-prion single-chain 
fragment variable antibodies attenuates disease progression and promotes life 
extension in a mouse TSE model.

Copyright 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22034
PMID: 19399901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Environ Health. 2009 Apr 28;8:21. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-8-21.

Dealing with uncertainties in environmental burden of disease assessment.

Knol AB(1), Petersen AC, van der Sluijs JP, Lebret E.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
the Netherlands. anne.knol@rivm.nl

Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) combine the number of people affected by 
disease or mortality in a population and the duration and severity of their 
condition into one number. The environmental burden of disease is the number of 
DALYs that can be attributed to environmental factors. Environmental burden of 
disease estimates enable policy makers to evaluate, compare and prioritize 
dissimilar environmental health problems or interventions. These estimates often 
have various uncertainties and assumptions which are not always made explicit. 
Besides statistical uncertainty in input data and parameters - which is commonly 
addressed - a variety of other types of uncertainties may substantially 
influence the results of the assessment. We have reviewed how different types of 
uncertainties affect environmental burden of disease assessments, and we give 
suggestions as to how researchers could address these uncertainties. We propose 
the use of an uncertainty typology to identify and characterize uncertainties. 
Finally, we argue that uncertainties need to be identified, assessed, reported 
and interpreted in order for assessment results to adequately support decision 
making.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-8-21
PMCID: PMC2684742
PMID: 19400963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Biol Chem. 2009 Jul 3;284(27):18106-14. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.003236. Epub
 2009 Apr 28.

Loss of cardiolipin leads to longevity defects that are alleviated by 
alterations in stress response signaling.

Zhou J(1), Zhong Q, Li G, Greenberg ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan 
48202, USA.

Perturbation of cardiolipin (CL) synthesis in yeast cells leads to defective 
respiratory chain function and mitochondrial DNA loss, both of which have been 
implicated in aging in mammals. The availability of yeast CL mutants enabled us 
to directly investigate the role of CL synthesis in aging. In this report, we 
show that the replicative life span of pgs1Delta, which lacks both CL and the 
precursor phosphatidylglycerol (PG), was significantly decreased at 30 degrees 
C. The life span of crd1Delta, which has PG but not CL, was unaffected at 30 
degrees C but reduced at 37 degrees C. Life span extension induced by calorie 
restriction was not affected by the loss of CL. However, mild heat and osmotic 
stress, which extend life span in wild type cells, did not increase longevity in 
CL mutants, suggesting that the stress response is perturbed in these mutants. 
Consistent with this, longevity defects in pgs1Delta were alleviated by 
down-regulation of the high osmolarity glycerol stress response pathway, as well 
as by promoting cell integrity with the osmotic stabilizer sorbitol or via 
genetic suppression with the kre5(W1166X) mutant. These findings show for the 
first time that perturbation of CL synthesis leads to decreased longevity in 
yeast, which is restored by altering signaling through stress response pathways.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.003236
PMCID: PMC2709391
PMID: 19401462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Ann Pharmacother. 2009 May;43(5):914-9. doi: 10.1345/aph.1L643. Epub 2009
Apr  28.

Romiplostim management of immune thrombocytopenic purpura.

Ipema HJ(1), Jung MY, Lodolce AE.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, 
USA.

OBJECTIVE: To review the pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, and safety of 
romiplostim, the first drug approved for use in patients with immune 
thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP).
DATA SOURCES: Articles were identified through searches of MEDLINE (1966-January 
2009) and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts (1970-January 2009) using the 
key words romiplostim and AMG 531. Searches were limited to articles published 
in English. The manufacturer was contacted for additional data.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Clinical trials and pharmacokinetic data 
were selected for review.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Romiplostim is a second-generation thrombopoietic receptor 
agonist that exerts its therapeutic effect by stimulating megakaryopoiesis. 
Subcutaneous therapy results in a dose-dependent increase in platelets; however, 
interindividual variability exists. Time to peak concentration is approximately 
14 hours, and the elimination half-life is approximately 3.5 days (range 1-34). 
Romiplostim undergoes endothelial recirculation and is eliminated by the 
reticuloendothelial system. The results of 2 Phase 3, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trials have demonstrated the efficacy of romiplostim for 
increasing platelet counts in patients with ITP refractory to other therapies, 
including splenectomy. Effects on platelets were transient and decreased within 
2 weeks of discontinuing the drug. Interim results of an open-label extension 
study revealed that romiplostim has sustained efficacy and tolerability for up 
to 156 weeks at a dosage range of 1-17 microg/kg/wk (mean 5.9 +/- 3.9). The most 
common adverse effects include headache, fatigue, epistaxis, and contusion. 
Romiplostim is also under investigation for treatment of thrombocytopenia 
associated with myelodysplastic syndrome. The drug must be ordered directly from 
the manufacturer through a limited access program, and weekly subcutaneous 
injections are given in the clinic setting.
CONCLUSIONS: Romiplostim is effective for the management of ITP in adults 
refractory to other therapies, including splenectomy.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1L643
PMID: 19401474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Soc Secur Bull. 2008;68(4):1-13.

Cohort changes in the retirement resources of older women.

Iams HM(1), Phillips JW, Robinson K, Deang L, Dushi I.

Author information:
(1)Office of Research, Evaluation, and Statistics, Office of Retirement and 
Disability Policy, Social Security Administration, USA.

Dramatic changes in life expectancy, women's roles in the labor market, the 
structure of the workforce, and pension systems have occurred in recent decades, 
all influencing the wellbeing of future retirees. This article uses different 
sources of U.S. data to focus on the retirement resources of women aged 55-64. 
By comparing the resources for this age group in 2004 to their counterparts in 
1994 and 1984, this analysis provides some indication of changes in the 
retirement preparedness of three different cohorts of women. Our findings 
indicate that notable changes have occurred with women's pathways into 
retirement that are due to increased education and lifetime work experience. As 
a consequence, there are marked differences in potential retirement outcomes. We 
find that women aged 55-64 today are better prepared in several respects than 
their counterparts of the same age 10 or 20 years ago.

PMID: 19402458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2009 Apr;9(2):99-102. doi: 
10.1586/erp.09.10.

Quality-adjusted life-years as decisionmaker tools to address limitations 
inherent in number-needed-to-treat/harm values.

Raisch DW, Nawarskas JJ.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.09.10
PMID: 19402794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Lancet. 2009 May 30;373(9678):1891-904. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60327-5.
Epub  2009 May 4.

Cystic fibrosis.

O'Sullivan BP(1), Freedman SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester, MA 01655, USA. osullivb@ummhc.org

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):978; author reply 978.

Cystic fibrosis is the most common lethal genetic disease in white populations. 
The outlook for patients with the disease has improved steadily over many years, 
largely as a result of earlier diagnosis, more aggressive therapy, and provision 
of care in specialised centres. Researchers now have a more complete 
understanding of the molecular-biological defect that underlies cystic fibrosis, 
which is leading to new approaches to treatment. One of these treatments, 
hypertonic saline, is already in use, whereas others are in advanced stages of 
development. We review clinical care for cystic fibrosis and discuss recent 
advances in the understanding of its pathogenesis, implementation of screening 
of neonates, and development of therapies aimed at treating the basic defect.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60327-5
PMID: 19403164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Eur Urol. 2009 Jul;56(1):81-8. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2009.04.028. Epub 2009
Apr  21.

EAU guidelines on neurogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction.

St√∂hrer M(1), Blok B, Castro-Diaz D, Chartier-Kastler E, Del Popolo G, Kramer G, 
Pannek J, Radziszewski P, Wyndaele JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Essen, Essen, Germany. 
manfred@stoehrer.com

CONTEXT: Most patients with neurogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction (NLUTD) 
require life-long care to maintain their quality of life (QoL) and to maximise 
life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To provide a summary of the 2008 version of the European Association 
of Urology (EAU) guidelines on NLUTD and to assess the effectiveness of 
currently available diagnostic tools, particularly ultrasound imaging and 
urodynamics.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: The recommendations provided in the 2008 EAU guidelines on 
NLUTD are based on a review of the literature, using online searches of Medline 
