and other source documents published between 2004 and 2007. A level of evidence 
and/or a grade of recommendation have been assigned to the guidelines where 
possible.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: NLUTD encompasses a wide spectrum of pathologies, and 
patients often require life-long, intensive medical care to maximise their 
life-expectancy and to maintain their QoL. Treatment must be tailored to the 
needs of the individual patient and, in many cases, involves a multidisciplinary 
team of experts. Timely diagnosis and treatment are essential if irreversible 
deterioration of both the upper and lower urinary tracts are to be avoided. 
Therapeutic decisions are made on the basis of a comprehensive medical 
assessment, including urodynamics to identify the type of dysfunction. Advances 
in investigative technologies have facilitated the noninvasive and conservative 
management of patients who have NLUTD.
CONCLUSIONS: The diagnosis and treatment of NLUTD, which is a highly specialised 
and complex field involving both urology and medicine, requires up-to-date 
expert advice to be readily available. The current guidelines are designed to 
fulfil this need.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2009.04.028
PMID: 19403235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Schizophr Res. 2009 Jul;112(1-3):158-63. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2009.03.041.
Epub  2009 Apr 28.

Cognitive behaviour therapy for improving social recovery in psychosis: 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Barton GR(1), Hodgekins J, Mugford M, Jones PB, Croudace T, Fowler D.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Health Policy and Practice, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, UK. g.barton@uea.ac.uk

A randomised trial was conducted in order to estimate the clinical and 
cost-effectiveness of social recovery orientated cognitive behavioural therapy 
(SRCBT) for people diagnosed with psychosis, compared to case management alone 
(CMA). The mean incremental health and social care cost, and the mean 
incremental quality adjusted life year (QALY) gain, of SRCBT was calculated over 
the 9 month intervention period. The cost-effectiveness of SCRBT was in turn 
estimated, and considered in relation to the cost-effectiveness threshold of 
20000 UK pounds per QALY. The level of uncertainty associated with that decision 
was estimated by calculating the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve for 
SRCBT. N=35 received SRCBT and N=42 received CMA. The mean incremental cost was 
estimated to be 668 UK pounds, and the mean incremental QALY gain 0.035. SRCBT 
was estimated to be cost-effective as it had a cost per QALY of 18844 UK pounds, 
which was more favourable than the assumed cost-effectiveness threshold of 20000 
UK pounds per QALY. At that threshold the probability of being cost-effective 
was however estimated to be 54.3% according to the CEAC, suggesting that further 
research may be warranted in order to reduce the level of uncertainty associated 
with the decision as to whether SRCBT is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2009.03.041
PMID: 19403270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Genetics. 2009 May;182(1):3-9. doi: 10.1534/genetics.109.103341.

The szilard hypothesis on the nature of aging revisited.

Zetterberg H(1), BÃ¥th M, Zetterberg M, Bernhardt P, Hammarsten O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Chemistry and Transfusion Medicine, University of 
Gothenburg, S-413 45 Gothenburg, Sweden. henrik.zetterberg@clinchem.gu.se

This year marks the 50th anniversary of a nearly forgotten hypothesis on aging 
by Leo Szilard, best known for his pioneering work in nuclear physics, his 
participation in the Manhattan Project during World War II, his opposition to 
the nuclear arms race in the postwar era, and his pioneering ideas in biology. 
Given a specific set of assumptions, Szilard hypothesized that the major reason 
for the phenomenon of aging was aging hits, e.g., by ionizing radiation, to the 
gene-bearing chromosomes and presented a mathematical target-hit model enabling 
the calculation of the average and maximum life span of a species, as well as 
the influence of increased exposure to DNA-damaging factors on life expectancy. 
While many new findings have cast doubt on the specific features of the model, 
this was the first serious effort to posit accumulated genetic damage as a cause 
of senescence. Here, we review Szilard's assumptions in the light of current 
knowledge on aging and reassess his mathematical model in an attempt to reach a 
conclusion on the relevance of Szilard's aging hypothesis today.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.109.103341
PMCID: PMC2674825
PMID: 19403867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2009 May 1;34(10):1018-24. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31819b3254.

Cervical motion assessment using virtual reality.

Sarig-Bahat H(1), Weiss PL, Laufer Y.

Author information:
(1)Physical Therapy Department, Faculty of Social Welfare and Health Sciences, 
University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel. hbahat@research.haifa.ac.il

STUDY DESIGN: Repeated measures of cervical motion in asymptomatic subjects.
OBJECTIVES: To introduce a virtual reality (VR)-based assessment of cervical 
range of motion (ROM); to establish inter and intratester reliability of the 
VR-based assessment in comparison with conventional assessment in asymptomatic 
individuals; and to evaluate the effect of a single VR session on cervical ROM.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Cervical ROM and clinical issues related to neck 
pain is frequently studied. A wide variety of methods is available for 
evaluation of cervical motion. To date, most methods rely on voluntary responses 
to an assessor's instructions. However, in day-to-day life, head movement is 
generally an involuntary response to multiple stimuli. Therefore, there is a 
need for a more functional assessment method, using sensory stimuli to elicit 
spontaneous neck motion. VR attributes may provide a methodology for achieving 
this goal.
METHODS: A novel method was developed for cervical motion assessment utilizing 
an electromagnetic tracking system and a VR game scenario displayed via a head 
mounted device. Thirty asymptomatic participants were assessed by both 
conventional and VR-based methods. Inter and intratester repeatability analyses 
were performed. The effect of a single VR session on ROM was evaluated.
RESULTS: Both assessments showed non-biased results between tests and between 
testers (P > 0.1). Full-cycle repeatability coefficients ranged between 15.0 
degrees and 29.2 degrees with smaller values for rotation and for the VR 
assessment. A single VR session significantly increased ROM, with largest effect 
found in the rotation direction.
CONCLUSION: Inter and intratester reliability was supported for both the 
VR-based and the conventional methods. Results suggest better repeatability for 
the VR method, with rotation being more precise than flexion/extension. A single 
VR session was found to be effective in increasing cervical motion, possibly due 
to its motivating effect.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e31819b3254
PMID: 19404177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Eur J Neurol. 2009 May;16(5):556-61. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2009.02591.x.

Bulbar and spinal muscular atrophy (Kennedy's disease): a review.

Finsterer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria. fifigs1@yahoo.de

Bulbar and spinal muscular atrophy (BSMA) is an adult-onset, X-linked recessive 
trinucleotide, polyglutamine disorder, caused by expansion of a polymorphic CAG 
tandem-repeat in exon 1 of the androgen-receptor (AR) gene on chromosome 
Xq11-12. Pathogenetically, mutated AR accumulates in nuclei and cytoplasm of 
motor neurons, resulting in their degeneration and loss. Phenotypically, 
patients present with amyotrophic, proximal or distal weakness and wasting of 
the facial, bulbar and limb muscles, occasionally sensory disturbances, and 
endocrinologic disturbances, such as androgen resistance, gynecomastia, elevated 
testosterone or progesterone, and reduced fertility. There may be mild 
hyper-CK-emia, abnormal motor and sensory nerve conduction studies, and 
neuropathic and myopathic alterations on muscle biopsy. The golden standard for 
diagnosing BSMA is genetic analysis, demonstrating a CAG-repeat number >40. No 
causal therapy is available, but symptomatic therapy should be provided for 
tremor, endocrinologic abnormalities, sensory disturbances, or muscle cramps. 
The course is slowly progressive, the ability to walk lost only late in life, 
only few patients require ventilatory support, and life expectancy only slightly 
reduced.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2009.02591.x
PMID: 19405197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Reprod Biomed Online. 2009;18 Suppl 2:11-4. doi:
10.1016/s1472-6483(10)60442-7.

Demographics of infertility.

Ledger WL(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Academic Unit of Reproductive and Developmental 
Medicine, Sheffield, UK. W.Ledger@Sheffield.ac.uk

The demographic composition of many developed countries threatens their 
economies and global influence. On the one hand, the increased cost of living 
and of raising children discourages couples from starting families until later 
in life while, on the other hand, improved living standards have increased life 
expectancy. Together, these have resulted in a low total fertility rate and a 
net increase in the elderly population. The financial and employment protection 
incentives offered by governments have had relatively little impact on this 
demographic trend, and a multi-level approach is needed. Governments are, 
therefore, considering alternatives as part of a so-called 'population policy 
mix'. One option is to promote access to assisted reproductive technology for 
infertile couples. The prevalence of infertility has increased, in part because 
of general health issues, such as obesity and the rise in sexually transmitted 
diseases, and also because women are postponing having their first child. 
Improving accessibility to assisted reproductive technology will relieve the 
burden of infertility on these couples and may contribute to effectively 
challenging the problem of low total fertility rates in many developed 
countries.

DOI: 10.1016/s1472-6483(10)60442-7
PMID: 19406025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2009 Jul;63(7):534-40. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2008.082198. Epub 2009 Apr 30.

Long-term wine consumption is related to cardiovascular mortality and life 
expectancy independently of moderate alcohol intake: the Zutphen Study.

Streppel MT(1), OckÃ© MC, Boshuizen HC, Kok FJ, Kromhout D.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, The 
Netherlands. martinette.streppel@wur.nl

BACKGROUND: Light to moderate alcohol intake lowers the risk of cardiovascular 
mortality, but whether this protective effect can be attributed to a specific 
type of beverage remains unclear. Moreover, little is known about the effects of 
long-term alcohol intake on life expectancy.
METHODS: The impact of long-term alcohol intake and types of alcoholic beverages 
consumed on cardiovascular mortality and life expectancy at age 50 was 
investigated in the Zutphen Study, a cohort of 1373 men born between 1900 and 
1920 and examined repeatedly between 1960 and 2000. Hazard ratios (HRs) for 
total alcohol intake and alcohol from wine, beer and spirits were obtained from 
time-dependent Cox regression models. Life expectancy at age 50 was calculated 
from areas under survival curves.
RESULTS: Long-term light alcohol intake, that is < or =20 g per day, compared 
with no alcohol, was strongly and inversely associated with cerebrovascular (HR 
0.43, 95% CI 0.26 to 0.70), total cardiovascular (HR 0.70, 95% CI 0.55 to 0.89) 
and all-cause mortality (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.63 to 0.91). Independent of total 
alcohol intake, long-term wine consumption of, on average, less than half a 
glass per day was strongly and inversely associated with coronary heart disease 
(HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.41 to 0.89), total cardiovascular (HR 0.68, 95% CI 0.53 to 
0.86) and all-cause mortality (HR 0.73, 95% CI 0.62 to 0.87). These results 
could not be explained by differences in socioeconomic status. Life expectancy 
was about 5 years longer in men who consumed wine compared with those who did 
not use alcoholic beverages.
CONCLUSION: Long-term light alcohol intake lowered cardiovascular and all-cause 
mortality risk and increased life expectancy. Light wine consumption was 
associated with 5 years longer life expectancy; however, more studies are needed 
to verify this result.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2008.082198
PMID: 19406740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Br J Psychiatry. 2009 May;194(5):451-5. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.108.054833.

Stalking among juveniles.

Purcell R(1), Moller B, Flower T, Mullen PE.

Author information:
(1)ORYGEN Research Centre, Department of Psychiatry, The University of 
Melbourne, Australia. rpurcell@unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND: There is an almost total lack of empirical research on stalking 
among juveniles.
AIMS: To examine the characteristics, nature and impacts of stalking by 
juveniles.
METHOD: Analysis of consecutive court applications for a restraining order 
against a juvenile because of stalking behaviours.
RESULTS: A total of 299 juvenile stalkers were identified. The majority were 
male (64%) and their victims predominantly female (69%). Most pursued a 
previously known victim (98%), favouring direct means of contact via unwanted 
approaches (76%) and telephone calls or text messaging (67%). Threats (75%) and 
physical and sexual assaults (54%) were common. The contexts for juvenile 
stalking involved an extension of bullying (28%), retaliation for a perceived 
harm (22%), a reaction to rejection (22%), sexual predation (5%) and infatuation 
(2%).
CONCLUSIONS: Juvenile stalking is characterised by direct, intense, overtly 
threatening and all too often violent forms of pursuit. The seriousness that is 
afforded to adult forms of stalking should similarly apply to this behaviour 
among juveniles given the even greater rates of disruption to the victim's life 
and risks of being attacked.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.108.054833
PMID: 19407277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Eur Neurol. 2009;62(1):16-22. doi: 10.1159/000216838. Epub 2009 May 4.

Primary diffuse leptomeningeal gliomatosis.

Jicha GA(1), Glantz J, Clarke MJ, Lehwald LM, Russo DP, Giannini C, Wald JT, Uhm 
J, Kumar N, Aksamit AJ, Wetmore CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Sanders-Brown Center on Aging, University of 
Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Primary diffuse leptomeningeal gliomatosis (PDLG) is a rare 
presentation of a primary central nervous system glial tumor.
METHODS: Four case reports of PDLG in young males aged 14-24 years are 
presented. These reports are discussed in the context of the existing 
literature.
RESULTS: The clinical presentation of 4 new cases of PDLG resembled chronic 
meningitis with and without polyradiculopathy. Spinal fluid studies are 
typically nondiagnostic, but characteristically show elevated opening pressure, 
an elevated protein level, and a relative paucity of cellular reaction. An 
accurate antemortem diagnosis required contrast-enhanced imaging and meningeal 
biopsy in all 4 of our cases. Treatment strategies including craniospinal 
radiation and chemotherapeutic approaches, alone or in combination, have not 
been proven to alter the course of the disease. Initial responses to 
temozolomide and radiation treatments in all 4 of our cases were promising, 
resulting in temporary stabilization of the disease and prolonging life 
expectancy over what was previously reported in the literature.
CONCLUSION: Total neuroaxis contrast-enhanced MRI scanning is required for 
directing biopsy confirmation and detecting the extent of the disease. More 
effective therapeutic strategies are needed, but the combination of temozolomide 
and radiation therapy may slow disease progression.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000216838
PMID: 19407451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Ann Surg Oncol. 2009 Jul;16(7):1912-7. doi: 10.1245/s10434-009-0475-8. Epub
2009  May 2.

Effect of age on survival of clinical stage I non-small-cell lung cancer.

Sigel K(1), Bonomi M, Packer S, Wisnivesky J.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New 
York, NY, USA. keith.sigel@mssm.edu

BACKGROUND: Elderly patients with early-stage lung cancer are less likely to 
undergo tumor resection because of concerns about their ability to tolerate 
surgery or perceived limited life expectancy. The objective of this study was to 
evaluate the impact of age and competing risks on outcomes of elderly patients 
with stage I non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: We identified 27,859 cases of histologically confirmed, stage I NSCLC 
from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results registry. Patients were 
grouped by age (<60, 61-69, 70-79, >or=80 years) and surgical resection status. 
Relative survival rates were compared amongst treatment groups by age strata to 
determine the potential impact of surgery and the contribution of competing 
risks to overall mortality.
RESULTS: Patients aged <60, 61-69, 70-79, and >or=80 years represented 20%, 32%, 
37%, and 11% of cases. The rate of surgical resections declined from 95% of 
patients <60 years, to 79% of patients aged >or=80 years. While 5-year relative 
survival rates were somewhat lower among males >or=80 years compared with those 
<60 years (63.5% versus 69.2%), there were no significant differences in 
relative survival among resected women or unresected patients, regardless of 
sex. Most deaths in unresected patients were attributed to lung cancer across 
all age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly patients who undergo resection achieve relative survival 
rates that are comparable to their younger counterparts. In unresected patients, 
lung cancer is the major source of mortality, even in the oldest age groups, 
suggesting that elderly patients with stage I lung cancer should receive 
aggressive surgical management when possible.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-009-0475-8
PMID: 19408051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Res Q Exerc Sport. 2009 Mar;80(1):22-31. doi:
10.1080/02701367.2009.10599526.

Decreasing sports activity with increasing age? Findings from a 20-year 
longitudinal and cohort sequence analysis.

Breuer C(1), Wicker P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Sport Economics and Sport Management, German Sport University, 
Cologne, Germany. breuer@dshs-koeln.de

According to cross-sectional studies in sport science literature, decreasing 
sports activity with increasing age is generally assumed. In this paper, the 
validity of this assumption is checked by applying more effective methods of 
analysis, such as longitudinal and cohort sequence analyses. With the help of 20 
years' worth of data records from the German SocioEconomic Panel, the 
development of sports activity over a lifespan is analyzed. According to 
inadequate cross-sectional analyses, sports activity decreases with increasing 
age. In contrast, longitudinal analyses show that sports activity increases with 
increasing age. Furthermore, cohort sequence analyses indicate that not only age 
but also cohort and period effects influence sports activity. Thus, different 
methods of analysis reveal opposite results.

DOI: 10.1080/02701367.2009.10599526
PMID: 19408464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Int J Periodontics Restorative Dent. 2009 Apr;29(2):191-9.

Use of sintered porous-surfaced dental implants to restore single teeth in the 
maxilla: a 7- to 9-year follow-up.

MacDonald K(1), Pharoah M, Todescan R, Deporter D.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Periodontology, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

This report from a prospective study discusses the status of a group of 20 
single maxillary sintered porous-surfaced (SPS) dental implants after 7 to 9 
years in function restored with screw-retained crowns. Twenty patients each 
received a single SPS implant placed in a two-stage surgical approach; 65% 
replaced premolar or molar teeth, while the remainder replaced anterior teeth. 
Patients were examined annually. Standardized radiographs were used to assess 
peri-implant crestal bone levels and to determine an implant success rate. Jemt 
Papilla Index scores were used to assess the extent of papilla reformation 
between each implant and its two contiguous teeth. After 7 to 9 years, 17 
implants were available for assessment (one patient had died, and two patients 
had moved away). One implant was removed after the 9-year visit because of 
progressive bone loss, giving a survival rate of 92.9%. The failure of this 
implant was related to deficiency in initial alveolar ridge width with loss of 
the remaining thin buccal cortical plate. With the exception of the failed 
implant, no significant changes in mean annual crestal bone loss were noted from 
years 1 to 9, giving a similar success rate (92.9%). Jemt Papilla Index scores 
of 2 or 3 were assigned for the majority of papillae. SPS implants can be used 
effectively to replace single missing maxillary teeth.

PMID: 19408481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Rev Laryngol Otol Rhinol (Bord). 2008;129(4-5):333-6.

Frontal sinus osteoma complicated with intracranial inflammatory polyp: a case 
report and review of the literature.

Umur AS(1), Gunhan K, Songu M, Temiz C, Yuceturk AV.

Author information:
(1)Celal Bayar University Hospital, Department of Neurosurgery, Manisa, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Osteomas of the paranasal sinuses rarely cause intracranial 
manifestations. A neurological symptom may be the first sign of a previously 
unrecognized osteoma.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 28-year-old male was referred with one episode of witnessed 
tonic-clonic seizure and loss of consciousness. Radiologic examination revealed 
a calcific mass in the frontal sinus and a cystic structure was detected in the 
posterior component of the lesion. The patient underwent a combined nasal 
endoscopic approach and a bilateral frontal osteoplastic craniotomy. The 
ossifying tumoral tissue and the polypoid soft tissue mass were removed. The 
histo-pathologic diagnosis of the hard, bony tumor was consistent with an 
osteoma and the polypoid soft tissue was an inflammatory polyp.
CONCLUSION: This case report illustrates a rare and life threatening 
complication of a frontal sinus osteoma with an intracranial extension of an 
inflammatory polyp.

PMID: 19408522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2009;110(2):112-5.

Paradoxes in medicine: an access to new knowledge?

Ginter E(1), Simko V, Dolinska S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovakia. 
ginter.emil@mail.t-com.s

The analysis of health and nutrition data from various countries shows many 
surprising and seemingly incomprehensible facts and paradoxical relationships. 
Health status of a country is the result of long-term factors and therefore it 
cannot be changed from day to day. For example in Central European countries 
there was a sudden increase in life expectancy after the fall of Soviet 
hegemony. French paradox is the oldest example of apparent contrast between 
"unhealthy" nutrition and low cardiovascular mortality. Although, the 
consumption of animal fat and milk and milk products in Switzerland is very 
high, but premature cardiovascular mortality of Swiss men and women is the 
lowest in Europe. In USA there is concominant increase of obesity and decrease 
in cardiovascular mortality. In Cuba, in spite of great economic problems its 
relatively high male and female life expectancy is very similar to the rich USA. 
The life expectancy in Albania is significantly higher than in many countries in 
Central Europe and in the Balkan region, in spite of the fact that Albania 
remains the poorest European country. Analysis of these unexpected and 
paradoxical relations indicate the importance of the quality of medical care, 
control of cardiovascular risk factors (USA) and the influence of modest but 
biologically balanced diet on low prevalence of cardiovascular disease in Cuba 
and Albania. The experience from former communist Central European countries 
suggests important influence of chronic stress and psychosocial factors on heart 
diseases and life expectancy. These paradoxes open the door to new information 
(Fig. 5, Ref. 11). Full Text (Free, PDF) www.bmj.sk.

PMID: 19408844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 Mar-Apr;50(2):179-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.03.007. Epub 2009 May 1.

Breast cancer in the elderly.

Petrakis IE(1), Paraskakis S.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, University Hospital of Heraklion, Medical 
School of Crete, 114 Akadimias Avenue, GR-71305 Heraklion, Crete, Greece. 
petrakis@post.com

Breast cancer is the most commonly diagnosed cancer in women and most breast 
cancers are not attributable to risk factors other than female gender and 
increased age. However, despite its increasing prevalence in the geriatric 
population, prospective clinical trials for older cancer patients do not exist 
and most data come from retrospective studies or subanalyses from general 
population studies. As a result physician's, patient's and family members' fear 
predominates and elderly patients do not receive the appropriate treatment when 
compared with younger ones. Treatment is offered according to biological age 
alone and life expectancy, comorbidity and functional status are not considered 
when deciding treatment strategy. Surgery is often denied to patients older than 
70 years of age, radiotherapy and chemotherapy are omitted due to the fear of 
toxicity and hormonal therapy, even though it represents a great tool as 
adjuvant therapy, it is associated with significant morbidity when chosen as 
primary treatment. Palliation of symptoms remains the main goal for metastatic 
disease but for the rest of the patients improving disease-free survival in the 
early stages should guide therapy no matter chronological age.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.03.007
PMID: 19409626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2009 Jun 1;19(11):2986-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bmcl.2009.04.036.  Epub 2009 Apr 18.

Synthesis of novel cholesterol-based cationic lipids for gene delivery.

Kim BK(1), Doh KO, Nam JH, Kang H, Park JG, Moon IJ, Seu YB.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Kyungpook National University, 
Sankyukdong, Bookgu, Daegu, Republic of Korea.

The new cholesterol-based cationic lipids B, C, and D with an ether linked 
spacer were synthesized by using aminopropyl chain extension with acrylonitrile. 
The cholesterol-based cationic lipid A with carbamoyl linkage were also 
synthesized in order to compare the difference in transfection efficiency of the 
two linkage types. To this end, GFP expression of these cationic lipids was 
confirmed respectively.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2009.04.036
PMID: 19409781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Biotechnol Adv. 2009 Nov-Dec;27(6):671-679. doi: 
10.1016/j.biotechadv.2009.04.025. Epub 2009 May 4.

The encapsulation technology in fruit plants--a review.

Rai MK(1), Asthana P(2), Singh SK(3), Jaiswal VS(2), Jaiswal U(2).

Author information:
(1)Lab of Morphogenesis, Department of Botany, Banaras Hindu University, 
Varanasi-221005, U.P., India. Electronic address: mkraibhu@gmail.com.
(2)Lab of Morphogenesis, Department of Botany, Banaras Hindu University, 
Varanasi-221005, U.P., India.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Institute of plant Biology, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

Encapsulation technology is an exciting and rapidly growing area of 
biotechnological research. This has drawn tremendous attention in recent years 
because of its wide use in conservation and delivery of tissue cultured plants 
of commercial and economic importance. Production of synthetic seeds by 
encapsulating somatic embryos, shoot buds or any other meristmatic tissue helps 
in minimizing the cost of micropropagated plantlets for commercialization and 
final delivery. In most of fruit crops, seed propagation has not been successful 
because of heterozygosity of seeds, minute seed size, presence of reduced 
endosperm, low germination rate, and also some are having seedless varieties. 
Many species have desiccation-sensitive intermediate or recalcitrant seeds and 
can be stored for only a few weeks or months. Under these circumstances, 
increasing interest has been shown recently to use encapsulation technology for 
propagation and conservation. Many fruit plants are studied worldwide for 
breeding, genetic engineering, propagation, and pharmaceutical purposes. In this 
context, synthetic seeds would be more applicable in exchange of elite and 
axenic plant material between laboratories and extension centers due to small 
bead size and ease in handling. Due to these advantages, interest in using 
encapsulation technology has continuously been increasing in several fruit plant 
species. The purpose of this review is to focus upon current information on 
development of synthetic seeds in several fruit crops.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2009.04.025
PMID: 19409974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 Mar-Apr;50(2):185-91. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.03.008. Epub 2009 May 1.

Safety and feasibility of radiotherapy treatment in elderly non-small-cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) patients.

Fiorica F(1), Cartei F, Ursino S, Stefanelli A, Zagatti Y, Berretta S, Figura S, 
Maugeri D, Zanet E, SpartÃ  D, La Morella C, Tirelli U, Berretta M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiotherapy, Arcispedale S. Anna Universitary Hospital, Corso 
Giovecca 203, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy. francesco.fiorica@unife.it

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and activity of 
radiotherapy (RT) treatment in elderly patients with locally advanced lung 
cancer. From January 2002 to December 2007, 51 consecutive patients (43 men and 
8 women) aged > or = 65 received RT for locally advanced lung cancer, 22 with 
radical intent and 16 in adjuvant setting. Thirty-six patients received 
chemotherapy. Variables considered were age, co-morbidities, evaluated according 
to the adult co-morbidity evaluation index (ACE-27), surgery vs. no surgery, 
radiation dose and chemotherapy. The median age was 74.7 years (range 65-91). Of 
the patients, 15.7% had no co-morbidity, 41.2% mild, 25.5% moderate, and 17.6% 
had severe co-morbidities. Sixteen subjects (31.4%) underwent surgery. All 
patients completed the planned radiation schedule, while chemotherapy was 
reduced in 16 patients. At a median follow-up of 22 months, the 2- and 3-year 
overall survival rates were 46.5% and 35.4%, respectively. Patients with no or 
mild co-morbidities (p < 0.0001) and a good performance status (p < 0.0001) had 
a better survival. The actuarial progression-free survival at 2 and 3 years was 
41.4% and 38.2%, respectively. Acute lung toxicity rates were different between 
patients with different ACE-27 indexes, whereas late toxicity was not 
influenced. In conclusion, in elderly patients, the compliance with RT is good 
and the rate of toxicity is acceptable. Patients with no or mild co-morbidities 
have a significantly better survival. The increasing severity of co-morbidities 
may sufficiently shorten the remaining life expectancy, cancel the gains 
obtained by RT and increase the acute lung toxicity. Further prospective trials 
are needed to confirm these results.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.03.008
PMID: 19410305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2009 May-Jun;51(6):454-9. doi:
10.1016/j.pcad.2008.08.005.

Current status of surgery for degenerative mitral valve disease.

Amirak E(1), Chan KM, Zakkar M, Punjabi PP.

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Surgery, National Heart and Lung Institute, South Kensington 
Campus, Imperial College London, UK.

Degenerative mitral valve (MV) disease refers to a collection of ill-defined 
pathologies of the MV which manifest as mitral regurgitation (MR). Untreated MR 
may progress to heart failure and death. Recent advances in the surgical 
technique of MV repair have improved long-term surgical results to the extent 
that early surgery is advocated in most patients with severe MR even when 
asymptomatic to restore normal functional capacity and life expectancy. This 
article reviews the pathophysiology, evaluation, treatment, and results of 
surgical intervention for degenerative MR.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcad.2008.08.005
PMID: 19410678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):821-2. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.01.042.

Glaucoma: where to now?

Taylor HR.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):823-32.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.01.042
PMID: 19410940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):1016. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.02.022.

Glaucoma care cost-effectiveness.

Hoskins HD Jr.

Comment on
    Ophthalmology. 2009 May;116(5):823-32.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.02.022
PMID: 19410965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Mov Disord. 2009 Jul 15;24(9):1325-32. doi: 10.1002/mds.22586.

The impact of treatment of depression on quality of life, disability and relapse 
in patients with Parkinson's disease.

Menza M(1), Dobkin RD, Marin H, Mark MH, Gara M, Buyske S, Bienfait K, Dicke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, Piscataway, New 
Jersey 08854, USA. menza@umdnj.edu

Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease affecting up to 
one million individuals in the United States. Depression is found in 40 to 50% 
of these patients and is associated with a variety of poor outcomes for both 
patients and their families. Despite this, there are few evidence-based data to 
guide clinical care. This was an NIH-funded, randomized, controlled trial of 
paroxetine, nortriptyline, and placebo. It included an 8 week acute phase and a 
16 week blind extension phase. This report details the impact of depression 
treatment on quality of life (QoL) and disability in the acute and extension 
phase of this study. Secondary outcomes included relapse, tolerability, safety, 
and the impact of depression treatment on PD physical functioning. Patients who 
had improvement in depression, compared with those who did not, had significant 
gains in measures of QoL and disability (PDQ-8, P = 0.0001; SF-36, P = 0.0001) 
at 8 weeks and maintained their gains in the extension phase. Patients who were 
on active drug were significantly less likely to relapse in the extension phase 
than those on placebo (P = 0.041). Though relatively modest in size, this trial 
provides the first controlled data on the impact of treatment of depression on 
QoL and disability in PD. It suggests that successfully treating depression in 
PD leads to important, sustained improvements in these outcomes and that 
patients who improve on antidepressants are less likely to relapse than are 
patients who initially improve on placebo.

2009 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.22586
PMCID: PMC2819360
PMID: 19412944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Neurourol Urodyn. 2009;28(8):986-9. doi: 10.1002/nau.20732.

Prevalence of incontinence and incontinence-specific quality of life impairment 
in women with cystic fibrosis.

Vella M(1), Cartwright R, Cardozo L, Parsons M, Madge S, Burns Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urogynaecology, King's College Hospital, London, UK. 
mvella@hotmail.com

AIMS: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the commonest autosomal recessive disorder in 
Caucasians. With advancing medical technology, the life expectancy has more than 
double in the last twenty years. This has led to new unforeseen health problems 
like urinary incontinence. The aim was to establish the prevalence, symptomatic 
typology, and quality of life impact of incontinence in a population of women 
with CF.
METHODS: Women were recruited from two London tertiary referral centres for CF. 
They were asked to fill in a self- completed anonymous King's Health 
Questionnaire (KHQ) for assessment of symptoms and quality of life Impairment. 
Their age was also noted. Descriptive statistics are reported. Correlation was 
assessed using Pearson's Product Moment Correlation Coefficient (r).
RESULTS: One hundred and forty six women were approached for enrolment. 98(67%) 
consented to take part in study. Their mean age was 28. Seventy three (74%) 
reported symptoms of urinary incontinence, which in all cases was perceived as 
stress urinary incontinence. Of these 44(60%) reported mild stress incontinence, 
16(22%) moderate stress incontinence and 13(18%) severe stress incontinence. 
Continent and incontinent women perceived their general health to be similarly 
poor (mean score 40 vs 44 points). Strong positive correiations were found 
between age and stress urinary incontinence severity (r=0.742; P <0.001) and 
between age and total King's Health Questionnaire score (r=0.828; P <0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Women with CF have a higher prevalence of stress urinary 
incontinence than the general population, with both the prevalence and 
associated quality of life impairment increasing with age.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/nau.20732
PMID: 19412959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Biophys J. 2009 May 6;96(9):3708-15. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2009.01.048.

Hidden Markov analysis of nucleosome unwrapping under force.

Kruithof M(1), van Noort J.

Author information:
(1)Physics of Life Sciences, Leiden University, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Transient conformational changes of DNA-protein complexes play an important role 
in the DNA metabolism but are generally difficult to resolve. Single molecule 
force spectroscopy has the unique capability to follow such reactions but 
Brownian fluctuations in the end-to-end distance of a DNA tether can obscure 
these events. Here we measured the force-induced unwrapping of DNA from a single 
nucleosome and show that hidden Markov analysis, adopted for the nonlinear 
force-extension of DNA, can readily resolve unwrapping events that are 
significantly smaller than the Brownian fluctuations. The resulting probability 
distributions of the tether length are used to accurately resolve small changes 
in contour length and persistence length. The latter is shown to be directly 
related to the DNA bending angle of the complex. The wormlike chain-adapted 
hidden Markov analysis can be used for any transient DNA-protein complex and 
provides a robust method for the investigation of these transient events.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpj.2009.01.048
PMCID: PMC2711431
PMID: 19413976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Jul;64(7):711-22. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glp051. Epub 2009 May 4.

Life-span extension in mice by preweaning food restriction and by methionine 
restriction in middle age.

Sun L(1), Sadighi Akha AA, Miller RA, Harper JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, 48109-2200, USA.

Life span can be extended in rodents by restricting food availability (caloric 
restriction [CR]) or by providing food low in methionine (Meth-R). Here, we show 
that a period of food restriction limited to the first 20 days of life, via a 
50% enlargement of litter size, shows extended median and maximal life span 
relative to mice from normal sized litters and that a Meth-R diet initiated at 
12 months of age also significantly increases longevity. Furthermore, mice 
exposed to a CR diet show changes in liver messenger RNA patterns, in 
phosphorylation of Erk, Jnk2, and p38 kinases, and in phosphorylation of 
mammalian target of rapamycin and its substrate 4EBP1, HE-binding protein 1 that 
are not observed in liver from age-matched Meth-R mice. These results introduce 
new protocols that can increase maximal life span and suggest that the spectrum 
of metabolic changes induced by low-calorie and low-methionine diets may differ 
in instructive ways.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glp051
PMCID: PMC2691799
PMID: 19414512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Cleve Clin J Med. 2009 May;76(5):276-85. doi: 10.3949/ccjm.76a.07002.

Advance care planning: Beyond the living will.

Messinger-Rapport BJ(1), Baum EE, Smith ML.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, OH 44195, USA. rapporb@ccf.org

Comment in
    Cleve Clin J Med. 2009 May;76(5):287-8.

For a variety of reasons, the most commonly used advance directive documents 
(eg, the living will) may not be very useful in many situations that older 
adults encounter. The durable power of attorney for health care is a more 
versatile document. We advocate focusing less on "signing away" certain 
interventions and more on clarifying the goals of care in the ambulatory 
setting.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.76a.07002
PMID: 19414542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Circulation. 2009 May 19;119(19):2561-7. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.841494.  Epub 2009 May 4.

Cardiac microvascular pathology in Fabry disease: evaluation of endomyocardial 
biopsies before and after enzyme replacement therapy.

Thurberg BL(1), Fallon JT, Mitchell R, Aretz T, Gordon RE, O'Callaghan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Genzyme Corporation, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
Beth.Thurberg@genzyme.com

Comment in
    Circulation. 2009 May 19;119(19):2539-41.

BACKGROUND: In classic Fabry patients, accelerated coronary atherosclerosis and 
left ventricular hypertrophy manifest in the fourth decade; however, signs of 
cardiovascular disease also are observed later in life in "cardiac variant" 
patients and symptomatic female heterozygotes. These disturbances are caused by 
globotriaosylceramide (GL-3) accumulation in the heart resulting from lysosomal 
alpha-galactosidase A deficiency.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We analyzed pretreatment and posttreatment endomyocardial 
biopsies from 58 Fabry patients enrolled in a 5-month, phase 3, double-blind, 
randomized, placebo-controlled trial, followed by a 54-month open-label 
extension study of recombinant human alpha-galactosidase A. Baseline evaluations 
revealed GL-3 deposits in interstitial capillary endothelial cells and large, 
laminated inclusions within cardiomyocytes. In this study, we evaluated 
microvascular GL-3 clearance; no clearance of GL-3 was observed in the 
cardiomyocytes during this trial. Five months of recombinant human 
alpha-galactosidase A treatment in the phase 3 trial resulted in complete 
microvascular clearance of GL-3 from 72% of treated patients compared with only 
3% of placebo patients (P<0.001). The placebo group achieved similar results 
after 6 months of treatment in the open-label trial. In addition, the capillary 
endothelium remained free of GL-3 for up to 60 months in 6 of 8 patients who 
consented to an end-of-study biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that long-term treatment with recombinant 
human alpha-galactosidase A may halt the progression of vascular pathology and 
prevent the clinical manifestations of atherosclerotic disease. This 
histopathological study should be a useful guide for clinicians and pathologists 
who diagnose and follow Fabry patients.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.841494
PMID: 19414635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Curr Genomics. 2007 Dec;8(8):550-8. doi: 10.2174/138920207783769549.

Current therapeutic options for Alzheimer's disease.

LleÃ³ A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Avda. San Antoni M 
feminine Claret 167, Barcelona 08025, Spain.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease in the 
developed world. The increasing life expectancy in the last years has led to an 
increase in the prevalence of this age-related condition and has posed an 
important medical and social challenge for developed societies. The mainstays of 
current therapy for AD rely on the cholinergic hypothesis developed more than 20 
years ago. These compounds, known as acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs), 
inhibit the cholinesterases and aim at improving the brain synaptic availability 
of acetylcholine. These drugs have been approved for the treatment of AD based 
on pivotal clinical trials showing modest symptomatic benefit on cognitive, 
behavioral, and global measures. Memantine, an NMDA antagonist, has been 
recently included as a therapeutic option for AD. Memantine can be combined 
safely with AChEIs for an additional symptomatic benefit. During the last years 
our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the pathogenesis of AD has 
markedly expanded. Several putative neuroprotective drugs are thoroughly 
investigated and many of them have reached the clinical arena. It can be 
anticipated that some of these drugs will be able to slow/prevent the 
progression of this condition in the near future.

DOI: 10.2174/138920207783769549
PMCID: PMC2647161
PMID: 19415128


618. Environ Monit Assess. 2010 May;164(1-4):573-92. doi:
10.1007/s10661-009-0914-9.  Epub 2009 May 5.

An empirical model of sediment deposition processes in Lake Kerkini, Central 
Macedonia Greece.

Psilovikos A(1), Margoni S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agriculture Ichthyology & Aquatic Environment, School of 
Agricultural Sciences, University of Thessaly, Fytoko st., N. Ionia, Magnisias, 
38446, Greece. psiloviko@uth.gr

The deposition processes in Kerkini Reservoir, since 1933, are examined in this 
paper. Built on the course of River Strymonas at the plain of Serres for 
anti-flooding control, it was gradually developed as a multipurpose reservoir 
for irrigation and a very important international wetland protected by the 
Ramsar Treaty. The deposition into Lake Kerkini is caused by the high rates of 
sediment transport by River Strymonas from the Bulgarian, Serbian and Former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia territory drainage basin of Kerkini of 11,600 
km(2). The life expectancy of the original reservoir was approximately 40 years. 
The sediment transport and the deposition volumes and rates were high during the 
first stages of Kerkini operation due to deforestations and stockbreeding 
activities against forested and agricultural areas in southwestern Bulgaria 
before World War II, which intensify erosion and deposition phenomena in 
Kerkini's catchment. They were gradually reduced due to the anti-erosion 
hydraulic works, extended reforestations mainly in the period 1962-1977, and the 
natural processes of Strymonas-Kerkini hydrosystem to attain its equilibrium. 
Based on six systematic bottom surveys of the reservoir from 1933 to 1991, two 
empirical formulas of the total deposition volume (Sigma V(s)) and the 
deposition rates (DeltaSigma V(s)/DeltaSigma t) through time (Sigma t) were 
developed. The results have been compared with other catchments of the broader 
Balkan area concerning the erosion, sediment yield, sediment deposition volumes, 
and rates, and it was found in accordance with the measured data. The obtained 
empirical model was used to estimate the life expectancy of the new rebuilt 
reservoir of Kerkini in 1984; in the case of natural processes, these do not 
change dramatically in the transboundary Lake Kerkini catchment. The deposition 
processes of Kerkini were the major causes of its development into an 
internationally important wetland and biotope. Kerkini offers development 
opportunities for scientific research, environmental education, ecotourism, and 
recreation activities.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-009-0914-9
PMID: 19415514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Foodborne Pathog Dis. 2009 May;6(4):417-24. doi: 10.1089/fpd.2008.0208.

Attributing the human disease burden of foodborne infections to specific 
sources.

Pires SM(1), Evers EG, van Pelt W, Ayers T, Scallan E, Angulo FJ, Havelaar A, 
Hald T; Med-Vet-Net Workpackage 28 Working Group.

Collaborators: Schroeter A, Brisabois A, Thebault A, KÃ¤sbohrer A, Schroeder C, 
Frank C, Guo C, Lo Fo Wong D, DÃ¶pfer D, Snary E, Nichols G, Spitznagel H, 
WahlstrÃ¶m H, David J, Panoer K, Stark K, Forshell LP, Nally P, Sanders P, Hiller 
P.

Author information:
(1)National Food Institute, Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark. 
smpi@food.dtu.dk

Foodborne diseases are an important cause of human illness worldwide. Humans 
acquire these infections from a variety of sources and routes of transmission. 
Many efforts have been made in the last decades to prevent and control foodborne 
diseases, particularly foodborne zoonoses. However, information on the impact of 
these interventions is limited. To identify and prioritize successful food 
safety interventions, it is important to attribute the burden of human illness 
to the specific sources. Defining scientific concepts and harmonizing 
terminology for "source attribution" is essential for understanding and 
improving attribution methodologies and for sharing knowledge within the 
scientific community. We propose harmonized nomenclature, and describe the 
various approaches for human illness source attribution and their usefulness to 
address specific public health questions.

DOI: 10.1089/fpd.2008.0208
PMID: 19415971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2009 Aug;51(8):622-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2008.03190.x. Epub 2009 Mar 24.

Lifetime costs of cerebral palsy.

Kruse M(1), Michelsen SI, Flachs EM, BrÃ¸nnum-Hansen H, Madsen M, Uldall P.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark. 
mak@niph.dk

This study quantified the lifetime costs of cerebral palsy (CP) in a 
register-based setting. It was the first study outside the US to assess the 
lifetime costs of CP. The lifetime costs attributable to CP were divided into 
three categories: health care costs, productivity costs, and social costs. The 
population analysed was retrieved from the Danish Cerebral Palsy Register, which 
covers the eastern part of the country and has registered about half of the 
Danish population of individuals with CP since 1950. For this study we analysed 
2367 individuals with CP, who were born in 1930 to 2000 and were alive in 2000. 
