therapy due to missed and delayed detection of failure. The life expectancy gain 
for individuals who took a 2bPI was 6.7-8.9 months, depending on the monitoring 
strategy. When CD4 alone was available, adding a regimen with a 2bPI was 
associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $2581 per year of 
life gained, and when viral load was available, the ratio was $6519 per year of 
life gained. Strategies with triple-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
regimens in initial therapy were dominated. Results were sensitive to the price 
of 2bPIs.
CONCLUSIONS: About 1 in 4 individuals who start highly active antiretroviral 
therapy in sub-Saharan Africa will fail currently recommended regimens. At 
current prices, adding a regimen with a 2bPI is cost effective for South Africa 
and other middle-income countries by WHO standards.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181a4f9c4
PMCID: PMC2757100
PMID: 19448557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Apr;11(2):141-50. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0156-3.
Epub  2009 May 17.

The relevance of unrelated costs internal and external to the healthcare sector 
to the outcome of a cost-comparison analysis of secondary prevention: the case 
of general colorectal cancer screening in the German population.

Tscheulin DK(1), Drevs F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Marketing and Health Care Management, 
Albert-Ludwigs-Universität Freiburg, Platz der Alten Synagoge 1, 79085, Freiburg 
im Breisgau, Germany.

The potential of secondary prevention measures, such as cancer screening, to 
produce cost savings in the healthcare sector is a controversial issue in 
healthcare economics. Potential savings are calculated by comparing treatment 
costs with the cost of a prevention program. When survivors' subsequent 
unrelated health care costs are included in the calculation, however, the 
overall cost of disease prevention rises. What have not been studied to date are 
the secondary effects of fatal disease prevention measures on social security 
systems. From the perspective of a policy maker responsible for a social 
security system budget, it is not only future healthcare costs that are relevant 
for budgeting, but also changes in the contributions to, and expenditures from, 
statutory pension insurance and health insurance systems. An examination of the 
effect of longer life expectancies on these insurance systems can be justified 
by the fact that European social security systems are regulated by the state, 
and there is no clear separation between the financing of individual insurance 
systems due to cross-subsidisation. This paper looks at how the results of 
cost-comparison analyses vary depending on the inclusion or exclusion of future 
healthcare and non-healthcare costs, using the example of colorectal cancer 
screening in the German general population. In contrast to previous studies, not 
only are future unrelated medical costs considered, but also the effects on the 
social security system. If a German colorectal cancer screening program were 
implemented, and unrelated future medical care were excluded from the 
cost-benefit analysis, savings of up to 548 million euros per year would be 
expected. The screening program would, at the same time, generate costs in the 
healthcare sector as well as in the social security system of 2,037 million 
euros per year. Because the amount of future contributions and expenditures in 
the social security system depends on the age and gender of the recipients of 
the screening program (i.e. survivors of a typically fatal condition), the 
impact of age and gender on the results of a cost-comparison analysis of 
colorectal cancer screening are presented and discussed. Our study shows that 
colorectal cancer screening generates individual cost savings in the social 
security system up to a life expectancy of 60 years. Beyond that age, the 
balance between a recipient's social security contributions and insurance system 
expenditure is negative. The paper clarifies the relevance of healthcare costs 
not related to the prevented disease to the economic evaluation of prevention 
programs, particularly in the case of fatal diseases such as colorectal cancer. 
The results of the study imply that, from an economic perspective, the 
participation of at-risk individuals in disease prevention programs should be 
promoted.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0156-3
PMID: 19449159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. J Health Commun. 2009;14 Suppl 1(0 1):95-108. doi:
10.1080/10810730902806786.

Communication in end-stage cancer: review of the literature and future research.

Trice ED(1), Prigerson HG.

Author information:
(1)Center for Psycho-Oncology and Palliative Care Research, Dana-Farber Cancer 
Institute, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. etrice@partners.org

Concerns have been raised about the quality of life and health care received by 
cancer patients at the end of life (EOL). Many patients die with pain and other 
distressing symptoms inadequately controlled, receiving burdensome, aggressive 
care that worsens quality of life and limits patient exposure to palliative 
care, such as hospice. Patient-physician communication is likely a very 
important determinate of EOL care. Discussions of EOL with physicians are 
associated with an increased likelihood of the following (1) acknowledgment of 
terminal illness, (2) preferences for comfort care over life extension, and (3) 
receipt of less intensive, life-prolonging and more palliative EOL care; while 
this appears to hold for White patients, it is less clear for Black, advanced 
cancer patients. These results highlight the importance of communication in 
determining EOL cancer care and suggest that communication disparities may 
contribute to Black-White differences in EOL care. We review the pertinent 
literature and discuss areas for future research.

DOI: 10.1080/10810730902806786
PMCID: PMC3779876
PMID: 19449273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. J Econ Entomol. 2009 Apr;102(2):542-51. doi: 10.1603/029.102.0211.

Demographic changes in Anastrepha obliqua (Diptera: Tephritidae) throughout the 
laboratory colonization process.

Hernández E(1), Toledo J, Artiaga-López T, Flores S.

Author information:
(1)Programa Moscafrut-Desarrollo de Métodos (SAGARPA-IICA), Calle Central 
Poniente No. 14-Altos, Tapachula, Chiapas 30700, Mexico. emilioho@prodigy.net.mx

The demographic changes in Anastrepha obliqua (Macquart) (Diptera: Tephritidae) 
throughout laboratory colonization were characterized over the course of 11 
generations. Four significant changes were determined. The first change was a 
reduction in the preoviposition period from the G(p) to G(1). The second was 
that wild female flies had difficulty ovipositing in an artificial substrate, 
yielding the lowest fecundity rates observed throughout the experiment. The 
third significant change was a decrease in longevity and life expectancy from 
G(p) to G(1), which then continued to decrease with successive generations. This 
resulted in a lab strain with high fecundity limited to a short period of 
oviposition. The last significant change was a reduction in larval and pupal 
weight. In addition, larval recovery decreased from G(p) to G(1) but displayed 
rapid recovery over the course of generations. There was no change in adult 
emergences for all generations, and flight ability increased with successive 
generations. These changes were correlated with demographic parameters, 
indicating that the increased investment in early age reproduction incurs costs 
such as a reduction in life expectancy or fecundity later in life. This trend 
was also correlated with an increase in early fecundity and reduction in the 
oviposition period.

DOI: 10.1603/029.102.0211
PMID: 19449633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. J Med Econ. 2009 Mar;12(1):9-16. doi: 10.3111/13696990902728729.

Modelling the lifetime economic consequences of glaucoma in France.

Philippe Nordmann J(1), Lafuma A, Berdeaux G.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital des Quinze-Vingts, Centre Hospitalier National d'Ophtalmologie, 
Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the lifetime economic consequences of glaucoma in France.
METHODS: A Markov model estimated the average discounted outcome and cost of 
glaucoma treatment over a patient's lifetime. Clinical states were defined as 
first- to fourth-line drugs, no treatment, laser therapy, surgery, blindness and 
death. After each failure (always after the fourth-line drug) patients could 
receive either laser treatment or surgery followed by no treatment, or a new 
treatment. A societal perspective was adopted. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: Discounted medical costs were euro 7,322 for ocular hypertension 
treatment (OHT) and euro 8,488 for a glaucoma patient. Social costs of OHT and 
glaucoma patients exceeded medical costs. First-line use of the most effective 
drug would reduce medical and social costs. Societal willingness to pay for the 
vision benefit would equal the medical costs. Treatment initiated with the most 
effective drug is a cost saving strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Public health decisions in glaucoma treatment should take a broad 
economic view embracing the lifetime duration of the disease. There is still a 
place both within and outside the healthcare system for therapeutic innovations 
with important economic consequences that bring high added value to patients.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990902728729
PMID: 19450060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Med Econ. 2008;11(4):571-84. doi: 10.3111/13696990802354683.

Cost utility of allogeneic stem cell transplantation with matched unrelated 
donor versus treatment with imatinib for adult patients with newly diagnosed 
chronic myeloid leukaemia.

Breitscheidel L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Munich, Department of Medical Informatics, Biometrics and 
Epidemiology, Munich, Germany. breitscheidel.lusine@kendle.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate, from the perspective of the German statutory health 
insurance, the cost utility of allogeneic stem cell transplantation with matched 
unrelated donor (MUD-SCT) in newly diagnosed, chronic-phase chronic myeloid 
leukaemia (CML) patients aged 40 years or younger, relative to the treatment 
with imatinib.
METHODS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the additional cost 
of imatinib versus MUD-SCT per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained was 
chosen as a target assessment. ICER was quantified using a Markov cohort 
modelling approach. The evaluation encompassed 5 years of treatment with either 
approach, and only direct medical costs (in euro, year 2005) were considered.
RESULTS: There were incremental costs of euro77,410 for imatinib therapy per 
QALY gained versus MUD-SCT. No strategy was clearly dominant; on average, during 
5 years, cost savings of euro63,433 were obtained and 0.82 QALY lost by SCT 
compared to treatment with imatinib. QALYs gained in CML patients with either 
treatment resulted in considerable cost to the third-party payer in Germany. The 
results were particularly sensitive to the price of imatinib.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis finds that imatinib is more costly but more effective 
(as measured in QALYs) over a 5-year time horizon. The resulting ICER of 
euro77,410 per QALY is higher than commonly cited thresholds. The cost utility 
of MUD-SCT to treat CML in patients with a European Group for Blood and Marrow 
Transplantation score < or = to 2 compares with that of the imatinib strategy.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990802354683
PMID: 19450068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Med Econ. 2008;11(4):651-70. doi: 10.3111/13696990802589122.

Therapy conversion to biphasic insulin aspart 30 improves long-term outcomes and 
reduces the costs of type 2 diabetes in Saudi Arabia.

Ali M(1), White J, Lee CH, Palmer JL, Smith-Palmer J, Fakhoury W, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

OBJECTIVE: An observational study in Saudi Arabia indicated that conversion to 
biphasic insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 30) from human insulin (HI) was associated 
with improvement of glycaemic control.
METHODS: A validated computer simulation model of diabetes was used to project 
long-term outcomes (such as quality-adjusted life expectancy and direct medical 
costs) based on patient characteristics and treatment effects observed in the 
Saudi Arabian PRESENT subgroup (n=598). Baseline prevalence of comorbidities was 
obtained from published sources. Primary research was performed in Riyadh and 
Jeddah to derive diabetes-related complication costs and patient management 
practices.
RESULTS: Conversion to BIAsp 30 from HI was projected to increase life 
expectancy by 0.62 years (11.77 +/- 0.20 vs. 11.15 +/- 0.19 years) and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.96 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
(7.03 +/- 0.12 vs. 6.07 +/- 0.11 QALYs). Direct medical cost savings of Saudi 
Arabian Riyals (SAR) 53,879 per patient were projected for conversion to BIAsp 
30 therapy (SAR 84,761 +/- 3102 vs. SAR 138,640 +/- 4102 per patient). Cost 
savings were driven by lower costs of hypoglycaemia (SAR 286 vs. SAR 57,437 per 
patient), and lower costs of renal complications (SAR 18,848 vs. SAR 31,228) 
over patient lifetimes.
CONCLUSION: Conversion to BIAsp 30 from HI was projected to improve life 
expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy while reducing lifetime direct 
medical costs.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990802589122
PMID: 19450074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Med Econ. 2008;11(3):499-523. doi: 10.3111/13696990802332770.

Cost effectiveness and cost utility of risedronate for osteoporosis treatment 
and fracture prevention in women: a Swiss perspective.

Wasserfallen JB(1), Krieg MA, Greiner RA, Lamy O.

Author information:
(1)Lausanne University Hospital (CHUV), Lausanne, Switzerland. jbw@chuv.ch

OBJECTIVES: To assess the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and 
incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) of risedronate compared to no intervention 
in postmenopausal osteoporotic women in a Swiss perspective.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov model was populated with epidemiological 
and cost data specific to Switzerland and published utility values, and run on a 
population of 1,000 women of 70 years with established osteoporosis and previous 
vertebral fracture, treated over 5 years with risedronate 35 mg weekly or no 
intervention (base case), and five cohorts (according to age at therapy start) 
with eight risk factor distributions and three lengths of residual effects.
RESULTS: In the base case population, the ICER of averting a hip fracture and 
the ICUR per quality-adjusted life year gained were both dominant. In the 
presence of a previous vertebral fracture, the ICUR was below euro45,000 
(pound30,000) in all the scenarios. For all osteoporotic women>or=70 years of 
age with at least one risk factor, the ICUR was below euro45,000 or the 
intervention may even be cost saving. Age at the start of therapy and the 
fracture risk profile had a significant impact on results.
CONCLUSION: Assuming a 2-year residual effect, that ICUR of risedronate in women 
with postmenopausal osteoporosis is below accepted thresholds from the age of 65 
and even cost saving above the age of 70 with at least one risk factor.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990802332770
PMID: 19450101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. J Med Econ. 2008;11(3):555-70. doi: 10.3111/13696990802320908.

Seretide: a pharmacoeconomic analysis.

Fritscher L(1), Chapman KR.

Author information:
(1)Asthma & Airway Centre, University Health Network, Toronto Western Hospital, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The costs of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD), the two most common chronic respiratory illnesses, are substantial and 
rising. The fixed-dose combination of fluticasone and salmeterol has been a safe 
and effective therapy for these diseases.
OBJECTIVES: To review the pharmacoeconomic impact of the fixed-dose combination 
of inhaled fluticasone and salmeterol in asthma and COPD.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was carried out to identify 
pharmacoeconomic studies with fixed-dose salmeterol and fluticasone (Seretide, 
Advair, Viani). In addition, abstracts from recent respiratory meetings were 
sought, and any unpublished data were requested from the manufacturer.
RESULTS: For asthma, when compared to treatment with inhaled corticosteroid 
monotherapy and antileukotrienes, alone or combined, salmeterol/fluticasone 
inhalation produced a higher proportion of successfully treated weeks, 
improvement in lung function and quality of life, and fewer treatment failures. 
The costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) for fluticasone/salmeterol have 
been favourable not only in patients with moderate to severe disease but also in 
patients with mild disease or patients not previously treated with a maintenance 
therapy. The excess cost per QALY varied from US$2,670 to US$26,445. For COPD, a 
clear reduction in exacerbation rates and improvement in quality of life has 
been demonstrated with salmeterol/fluticasone along with a likely improvement in 
survival rates. The incremental cost per QALY ratio for fluticasone/salmeterol 
against placebo ranged from US$9,512 to US$64,038.
CONCLUSIONS: The data currently available suggest that the cost effectiveness of 
combination therapy with fluticasone and salmeterol is favourable for asthma and 
COPD in a variety of clinical settings.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990802320908
PMID: 19450105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Med J Aust. 2009 May 18;190(10):542-4. doi:
10.5694/j.1326-5377.2009.tb02555.x.

"Closing the gap" by 2030: aspiration versus reality in Indigenous health.

Hoy WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Disease, School of Medicine, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, QLD, Australia. w.hoy@uq.edu.au

The goal of "closing the gap" in life expectancy between Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous people by 2030 is probably unattainable. Despite our best 
efforts, it is implausible that, within 21 years, preventive strategies, social 
or medical, will extinguish all excess expression and risk of chronic disease, 
the greatest contributor to excess Indigenous deaths. Developing systems to 
supply optimal primary care, as we currently know it, will take time. In 
addition, we have an incomplete understanding of the nature of excess risk, and 
lack remedies to totally contain it. Furthermore, vertical imprinting of excess 
risk will take some generations to ameliorate. To avoid failure by specifying 
unattainable goals, emphasis should be given to process measures that will lead 
to better outcomes. It is self-evident that sustained change requires better 
education, nutrition, employment opportunities and infrastructure. Within the 
health system, access to good quality, integrated primary care, needs-based 
health services funding, and an urgent and intensified focus on areas with the 
highest mortality rates, are top priorities.

DOI: 10.5694/j.1326-5377.2009.tb02555.x
PMID: 19450194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Heart Lung Circ. 2009 Oct;18(5):319-29. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2009.02.005. Epub
 2009 May 17.

State of the art: degenerative mitral valve disease.

Chikwe J(1), Adams DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, 
NY 10029, United States. joanna.chikwe@mountsinai.org

Mitral valve repair offers superior long-term survival, freedom from cardiac 
morbidity, and quality of life in patients with severe mitral regurgitation 
compared to medical management and mitral valve replacement; it is the treatment 
of choice in these patients. Mitral valve repair is the only treatment that 
restores normal life expectancy to otherwise healthy patients with advanced 
degenerative mitral valve disease. This review focuses on indications, timing 
and techniques for mitral valve repair in degenerative disease, emphasising the 
importance of anatomy in surgical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2009.02.005
PMID: 19451034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Physiol. 2009 Jul 15;587(Pt 14):3459-72. doi:
10.1113/jphysiol.2009.173013.  Epub 2009 May 18.

Placental efficiency and adaptation: endocrine regulation.

Fowden AL(1), Sferruzzi-Perri AN, Coan PM, Constancia M, Burton GJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, University of 
Cambridge, Physiology Building, Downing Street, Cambridge CB2 3EG, UK. 
alf1000@cam.ac.uk

Size at birth is critical in determining life expectancy and is dependent 
primarily on the placental supply of nutrients. However, the fetus is not just a 
passive recipient of nutrients from the placenta. It exerts a significant 
acquisitive drive for nutrients, which acts through morphological and functional 
adaptations in the placenta, particularly when the genetically determined drive 
for fetal growth is compromised by adverse intrauterine conditions. These 
adaptations alter the efficiency with which the placenta supports fetal growth, 
which results in optimal growth for prevailing conditions in utero. This review 
examines placental efficiency as a means of altering fetal growth, the 
morphological and functional adaptations that influence placental efficiency and 
the endocrine regulation of these processes.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2009.173013
PMCID: PMC2742275
PMID: 19451204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Infect Immun. 2009 Aug;77(8):3328-36. doi: 10.1128/IAI.01383-08. Epub 2009
May  18.

Characterization of a novel ADAM protease expressed by Pneumocystis carinii.

Kennedy CC(1), Kottom TJ, Limper AH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

Pneumocystis species are opportunistic fungal pathogens that cause severe 
pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts. Recent evidence has suggested that 
unidentified proteases are involved in Pneumocystis life cycle regulation. 
Proteolytically active ADAM (named for "a disintegrin and metalloprotease") 
family molecules have been identified in some fungal organisms, such as 
Aspergillus fumigatus and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and some have been shown to 
participate in life cycle regulation. Accordingly, we sought to characterize 
ADAM-like molecules in the fungal opportunistic pathogen, Pneumocystis carinii 
(PcADAM). After an in silico search of the P. carinii genomic sequencing project 
identified a 329-bp partial sequence with homology to known ADAM proteins, the 
full-length PcADAM sequence was obtained by PCR extension cloning, yielding a 
final coding sequence of 1,650 bp. Sequence analysis detected the presence of a 
typical ADAM catalytic active site (HEXXHXXGXXHD). Expression of PcADAM over the 
Pneumocystis life cycle was analyzed by Northern blot. Southern and 
contour-clamped homogenous electronic field blot analysis demonstrated its 
presence in the P. carinii genome. Expression of PcADAM was observed to be 
increased in Pneumocystis cysts compared to trophic forms. The full-length gene 
was subsequently cloned and heterologously expressed in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae. Purified PcADAMp protein was proteolytically active in casein 
zymography, requiring divalent zinc. Furthermore, native PcADAMp extracted 
directly from freshly isolated Pneumocystis organisms also exhibited protease 
activity. This is the first report of protease activity attributable to a 
specific, characterized protein in the clinically important opportunistic fungal 
pathogen Pneumocystis.

DOI: 10.1128/IAI.01383-08
PMCID: PMC2715687
PMID: 19451239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2009 Jun;30(3):330-8. doi:
10.1055/s-0029-1222447.  Epub 2009 May 18.

Hypoventilation after spinal cord injury.

Castriotta RJ(1), Murthy JN.

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston Medical School, 
72019, USA. Richard.J.Castriotta@uth.tmc.edu

Comment in
    Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2009 Jun;30(3):249-51.

There are ~12,000 new cases per year in the United States of spinal cord injury 
(SCI) with life expectancies from 11 to 14 years (ventilator dependent) to 44 
years (non-ventilator dependent). Those with SCI (C2-C8) are at great risk for 
developing hypoventilation, especially during sleep, and this risk increases 
along with the risk of sleep disordered breathing as they age. Most will have 
significantly reduced vital capacity and ventilatory reserve because of 
interruption of neural pathways to the diaphragm, chest, and abdomen, resulting 
in a restrictive ventilatory impairment with intact diffusing capacity. 
Diagnosis entails measurement of pCO (2) with capnography both awake and during 
sleep, optimally along with polysomnography to evaluate for all forms of sleep 
disordered breathing. Treatment options include diaphragmatic pacing, full 
positive pressure ventilation through tracheostomy, and noninvasive positive 
pressure ventilation. Some may require mechanical ventilation only during sleep.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1222447
PMID: 19452393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Hepatogastroenterology. 2009 Jan-Feb;56(89):54-8.

Controversies in periampullary tumors.

Hamaloglu E(1), Yildiz BD, Karakoc D.

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Faculty of Medicine, General Surgery, Sihhiye, Ankara 
06810, Turkey.

Periampullary tumors are one of the most common tumors of the gastrointestinal 
tract. Despite the increase of 1-5% in five year life expectancy in 
periampullary tumors prognosis is still poor. The controversies in diagnosis, 
surgical and adjuvant treatment will be discussed in this article.

PMID: 19453028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Int J Urol. 2009 Jun;16(6):584-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.2008.02209.x.
Epub  2009 Apr 22.

Salvage radical prostatectomy for recurrent prostate cancer after radiation 
therapy.

Leonardo C(1), Simone G, Papalia R, Franco G, Guaglianone S, Gallucci M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Rome, Rome, Italy. 
constantino.leonardo@gmail.com

Salvage radical prostatectomy is considered for patients with locally recurrent 
prostate cancer after external beam radiotherapy. Between 2001 and 2004, 32 men 
treated with curative intent with radiotherapy for prostate cancer were 
subsequently treated with salvage surgery for clinically localized prostate 
cancer. We assessed the morbidity associated with this procedure and the outcome 
of the patients. Thirty-two patients underwent salvage radical prostatectomy. 
Initial pre-radiation median prostate-specific antigen was 13 ng/ml. 
Pre-radiation disease was clinical stage T1b in five cases, T2a in 10, T2b in 10 
and T3a in seven. Mean operative time was 122 minutes, intraoperative blood loss 
was 550 ml and hospital stay and catheterization time were 5 and 12 days, 
respectively. There was biochemical failure in eight patients after salvage 
radical prostatectomy and 24 patients are biochemical non evidence of disease 
(bNED). In recurrent prostate local disease with prostate-specific antigen <10 
ng/ml and life expectancy greater than 10 years, salvage radical prostatectomy 
is a reasonable treatment option.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-2042.2008.02209.x
PMID: 19453762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. BMJ Clin Evid. 2007 Aug 15;2007:1202.

Multiple sclerosis.

Nicholas R(1), Chataway J.

Author information:
(1)West London Neurosciences Centre, Charing Cross Hospital, London, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Multiple sclerosis is the most common cause of neurological 
disability in young adults. Irreversible disability can occur, but life 
expectancy is generally not affected.
METHODS AND OUTCOMES: We conducted a systematic review and aimed to answer the 
following clinical questions: What are the effects of: interventions aimed at 
reducing relapse rates and disability; interventions to improve symptoms during 
acute relapse; treatments for fatigue; treatments for spasticity; and 
multidisciplinary care on disability? We searched: Medline, Embase, The Cochrane 
Library and other important databases up to November 2006 (Clinical Evidence 
reviews are updated periodically, please check our website for the most 
up-to-date version of this review). We included harms alerts from relevant 
organisations such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the UK 
Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA).
RESULTS: We found 58 systematic reviews, RCTs, and observational studies that 
met our inclusion criteria. We performed a GRADE evaluation of the quality of 
evidence for interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: In this systematic review we present information relating to the 
effectiveness and safety of the following key interventions: amantadine, 
azathioprine, behaviour modification, botulinum toxin, corticosteroids, 
exercise, gabapentin, inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation, interferon beta, 
intrathecal baclofen, intravenous immunoglobulin, methotrexate, mitoxantrone, 
modafinil, oral drug treatments, oral glatiramer acetate, parenteral glatiramer 
acetate, physiotherapy, and plasma exchange.

PMID: 19454107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Cell Sci. 2009 Jun 15;122(Pt 12):1979-89. doi: 10.1242/jcs.041962. Epub
2009  May 19.

Role of kinesin-1 and cytoplasmic dynein in endoplasmic reticulum movement in 
VERO cells.

Woźniak MJ(1), Bola B, Brownhill K, Yang YC, Levakova V, Allan VJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester, The Michael Smith 
Building, Oxford Road, Manchester, UK M13 9PT.

Generating the extended endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network depends on 
microtubules, which act as tracks for motor-driven ER tubule movement, generate 
the force to extend ER tubules by means of attachment to growing microtubule 
plus-ends and provide static attachment points. We have analysed ER dynamics in 
living VERO cells and find that most ER tubule extension is driven by 
microtubule motors. Surprisingly, we observe that approximately 50% of rapid ER 
tubule movements occur in the direction of the centre of the cell, driven by 
cytoplasmic dynein. Inhibition of this movement leads to an accumulation of 
lamellar ER in the cell periphery. By expressing dominant-negative kinesin-1 
constructs, we show that kinesin-1 drives ER tubule extension towards the cell 
periphery and that this motility is dependent on the KLC1B kinesin light chain 
splice form but not on KLC1D. Inhibition of kinesin-1 promotes a shift from 
tubular to lamellar morphology and slows down the recovery of the ER network 
after microtubule depolymerisation and regrowth. These observations reconcile 
previous conflicting studies of kinesin-1 function in ER motility in vivo. 
Furthermore, our data reveal that cytoplasmic dynein plays a role in ER motility 
in a mammalian cultured cell, demonstrating that ER motility is more complex 
than previously thought.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.041962
PMCID: PMC2723153
PMID: 19454478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. AIDS. 2009 Jun 19;23(10):1187-95. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32832c4af0.

Early antiretroviral treatment prevents the development of central nervous 
system abnormalities in simian immunodeficiency virus-infected rhesus monkeys.

Marcondes MC(1), Flynn C, Huitron-Rezendiz S, Watry DD, Zandonatti M, Fox HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Integrative Neurosciences, The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Neurocognitive disorders are devastating consequences of HIV 
infection. Although antiretroviral regimens have been efficacious in both 
improving life expectancy and decreasing dementia, there has not been an effect 
on the overall prevalence of HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders. Whether 
early institution of treatment, or treatment with drugs that effectively 
penetrate the blood-brain barrier, would help protect from such conditions is 
not known. Using the simian immunodeficiency virus/macaque model, we 
investigated the hypothesis that early introduction of antiretroviral treatment 
can protect the brain.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Animals were inoculated with simian immunodeficiency virus, 
and upon resolution of the acute infection period divided into two groups and 
treated, or not, with combination antiretroviral therapy. Viral, immune, and 
physiological parameters were measured during the course of infection, followed 
by assessment of viral, immune, and molecular parameters in the brain.
RESULTS: We observed that even with agents that show poor penetration into the 
central nervous system, early antiretroviral treatment prevented characteristic 
neurophysiological and locomotor alterations arising after infection and 
resulted in a significant decrease in brain viral load. Although the number of 
infiltrating immune cells in the brain did not change with treatment, their 
phenotype did, favoring an enrichment of effector T cells. Early treatment also 
significantly lowered brain levels of interferon-alpha, a cytokine that can lead 
to neurocognitive and behavioral alterations.
CONCLUSION: Early antiretroviral treatment prevents central nervous system 
dysfunction by decreasing brain viral load and interferon-alpha levels, which 
can have a profound impact over the course of infection.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32832c4af0
PMCID: PMC2698130
PMID: 19455015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2009 Jul;12(4):364-5. doi: 
10.1097/MCO.0b013e32832cdc98.

Nutritional care: from the dark ages to the renaissance, to the age of 
enlightenment.

Meguid MM, Laviano A, Pichard C.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e32832cdc98
PMID: 19455027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2009 Aug;50(4):509-14. Epub 2009 May 19.

Outcome of open versus endovascular revascularization for chronic mesenteric 
ischemia: review of comparative studies.

Assar AN(1), Abilez OJ, Zarins CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA. assar@stanford.edu

Erratum in
    J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2010 Apr;51(2):289.

Chronic mesenteric ischemia is a rare disorder that has traditionally been 
treated with open surgical revascularization (OR). Endovascular 
revascularization (ER) has recently gained popularity as an alternative modality 
of treatment; however, OR is still predominantly used. This study aimed at 
comparing the outcomes of these two treatment modalities. The literature was 
searched using the MEDLINE database through the PubMed search engine for 
relevant articles that compared the outcomes after OR and ER for chronic 
mesenteric ischemia. Review of the selected articles revealed that patients had 
lower postoperative mortality and morbidity, and shorter intensive care unit and 
hospital stay after ER. However, early and long-term symptomatic relief and 
significantly lower restenosis rate were characteristic of OR. Although no level 
1 evidence governs the treatment of chronic mesenteric ischemia, the durability 
and efficacy of OR is such that this modality should remain the procedure of 
choice for patients who are fit or whose fitness could be improved before 
surgery. For unfit patients, or those with short life expectancy, ER is 
preferable owing to its minimally invasive nature and reduced postoperative 
mortality and morbidity. Randomized controlled studies are needed to compare the 
long-term durability and efficacy of ER to those of OR.

PMID: 19455085 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. J Neurovirol. 2009 May;15(3):238-48. doi: 10.1080/13550280902939748.

Nef and cell signaling transduction: a possible involvement in the pathogenesis 
of human immunodeficiency virus-associated dementia.

Bergonzini V(1), Calistri A, Salata C, Del Vecchio C, Sartori E, Parolin C, Palù 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology, Microbiology, and Medical Biotechnologies, Division 
of Microbiology and Virology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy.

Although the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has 
resulted in a significant decrease of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) 
morbidity and mortality, the prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-associated dementia (HAD) has actually risen, due to the increasing life 
expectancy of the infected subjects. To date, several aspects of the HAD 
pathogenesis remain to be dissected. In particular, the viral-cellular protein 
interplay is still under investigation. Given their specific features, two viral 
proteins, Tat and Nef, have been mainly hypothesized to play a role in HIV 
neuropathology. Here we show that HIV-1 Nef has an effect on the transcriptional 
levels of a cellular protein, anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), that is 
preferentially expressed in the central and peripheral nervous system at late 
embryonic stages. By its overexpression along with Nef, the authors demonstrate 
ALK ability to influence, at least in the U87MG astrocytic glioma cells, the 
mytogen-activated protein kinase (MAP-K)-dependent pathway. Moreover, although 
in the absence of a physical direct interaction, Nef and ALK activate matrix 
metalloproteinases (MMPs), which are likely to contribute to blood-brain barrier 
(BBB) damage in HAD. Finally, in the in vitro model of glioblastoma cells 
adopted, Nef and ALK show similar effects by increasing different 
cytochines/chemokines that may be relevant for HAD pathogenesis. If confirmed in 
vivo, these data may indicate that, thanks to its ability to interfere with 
specific cellular pathways involved in BBB damage and in central nervous system 
(CNS) integrity, Nef, along with specific cellular counterparts, could be one of 
the viral players implicated in HAD development.

DOI: 10.1080/13550280902939748
PMID: 19455469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. J Biol Chem. 2009 Jul 17;284(29):19196-202. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.010777.
Epub  2009 May 19.

A familial mutation renders atrial natriuretic Peptide resistant to proteolytic 
degradation.

Dickey DM(1), Yoder AR, Potter LR.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Biochemistry, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55455, USA.

A heterozygous frameshift mutation causing a 12-amino acid extension to the C 
terminus of atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) was recently genetically linked to 
patients with familial atrial fibrillation (Hodgson-Zingman, D. M., Karst, M. 
L., Zingman, L. V., Heublein, D. M., Darbar, D., Herron, K. J., Ballew, J. D., 
de Andrade, M., Burnett, J. C., Jr., and Olson, T. M. (2008) N. Engl. J. Med. 
359, 158-165). The frameshift product (fsANP), but not wild-type ANP (wtANP), 
was elevated in the serum of affected patients, but the molecular basis for the 
elevated peptide concentrations was not determined. Here, we measured the 
ability of fsANP to interact with natriuretic peptide receptors and to be 
proteolytically degraded. fsANP and wtANP bound and activated human NPR-A and 
NPR-C similarly, whereas fsANP had a slightly increased efficacy for human 
NPR-B. Proteolytic susceptibility was addressed with novel bioassays that 
measure the time required for kidney membranes or purified neutral endopeptidase 
to abolish ANP-dependent activation of NPR-A. The half-life of fsANP was 
markedly greater than that of wtANP in both assays. Additional membrane 
proteolysis studies indicated that wtANP and fsANP are preferentially degraded 
by neutral endopeptidase and serine peptidases, respectively. These data 
indicate that the familial ANP mutation associated with atrial fibrillation has 
only minor effects on natriuretic peptide receptor interactions but markedly 
modifies peptide proteolysis.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.010777
PMCID: PMC2740543
PMID: 19458086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Autophagy. 2009 Aug;5(6):847-9. doi: 10.4161/auto.8824. Epub 2009 Aug 23.

Autophagy is required for extension of yeast chronological life span by 
rapamycin.

Alvers AL(1), Wood MS, Hu D, Kaywell AC, Dunn WA Jr, Aris JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

Rapamycin is an antibiotic that stimulates autophagy in a wide variety of 
eukaryotes, including the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Low 
concentrations of rapamycin extend yeast chronological life span (CLS). We have 
recently shown that autophagy is required for chronological longevity in yeast, 
which is attributable in part to a role for autophagy in amino acid homeostasis. 
We report herein that low concentrations of rapamycin stimulate macroautophagy 
during chronological aging and extend CLS.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.8824
PMCID: PMC3586265
PMID: 19458476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Lifetime Data Anal. 2009 Sep;15(3):316-29. doi: 10.1007/s10985-009-9119-3.
Epub  2009 May 21.

Estimating the case fatality rate using a constant cure-death hazard ratio.

Chen Z(1), Akazawa K, Nakamura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, 
Southern Medical University, Guangzhou, China. zheng-chen@hotmail.com

The case fatality rate is an important indicator of the severity of a disease, 
and unbiased and accurate estimates of it during an outbreak are important in 
the study of epidemic diseases, including severe acute respiratory syndrome 
(SARS). In this paper, estimation methods are developed using a constant 
cure-death hazard ratio. A semiparametric model is presented, in which the 
cure-death hazard ratio is a parameter of interest, and a profile 
likelihood-based technique is proposed for estimating the case fatality rate. An 
extensive simulation was carried out to investigate the performance of this 
technique for small and medium sample sizes, using both summary and individual 
data. The results show that the performance depends on the model validity but is 
not heavily dependent on the sample size. The method was applied to summary SARS 
data obtained from Hong Kong and Singapore.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-009-9119-3
PMID: 19459044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Health Econ. 2010 May;19(5):596-607. doi: 10.1002/hec.1497.

QALYs: is the value of treatment proportional to the size of the health gain?

Nord E(1), Enge AU, Gundersen V.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, The University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway. 
erik.nord@fhi.no

In societal priority setting between health programs for different patient 
groups, many people are reluctant to discriminate too strongly between those who 
can benefit much from treatment and those who can benefit moderately. We suggest 
that this view of distributive fairness has a counterpart in personal valuations 
of gains in health. Such valuations may be influenced by psychological reference 
points and diminishing marginal utility such that the individual utility of care 
in patient groups with different potentials may be more similar than what 
conventional QALY estimates suggest. In interviews in three convenience samples, 
there is some support for the hypothesis. Most respondents do not think that 
desire for treatment is significantly less in those who stand to gain only 
moderately compared with those who stand to gain much - even when the treatment 
is associated with a mortality risk. When stating insurance preferences, a 
majority of subjects express a greater concern for avoiding the worst states in 
question than for maximising expected value for money in terms of treatment 
effects. The tendency applies to outcomes in terms of both quality and quantity 
of life. Choices between prefixed response options fit well with oral 
explanations of these choices.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1497
PMID: 19459186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2009 Feb;20(2):370-5.

[Effects of food concentration on life history traits of Brachionus calyciflorus 
clones in Jinghu Lake].

[Article in Chinese]

Dong LL(1), Xi YL, Zhang L.

Author information:
(1)Anhui Provincial Laboratory of Conservation and Utilization for Important 
Biological Resource, College of Life Sciences, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu 
241000, Anhui, China. kinddongli@163.com

Four Brachionus calyceflorus clones (clone A, B, C, and D) different in 
biochemical and genetic characteristics were collected from Jinghu Lake in 
summer, and their life history traits were studied at 25 degrees C under the 
conditions of feeding with 1.0 x 10(6), 2.0 x 10(6), 4.0 x 10(6) and 8.0 x 10(6) 
cells x L(-1) of Scenedesmus obliquus. The results showed that S. obliquus 
concentration had different effects on the survival rate and fecundity of 
different B. calyciflorus clones. Among the four clones, clone C had the 
shortest generation time, clone B had the longest generation time, life 
expectancy and average lifespan, and clone A had the highest percentage of 
mictic females in its offspring. No significant differences were observed in the 
net reproductive rate and individual fitness among the four clones. At 2.0 x 
10(6) cells x L(-1) of S. obliquus, the net reproductive rate of B. 
calyceiflorus was the lowest; at 1.0 x 10(6) cells x L(-1) of S. obliquus, B. 
calyciflorus had the shortest average lifespan and life expectancy but the 
highest mictic rate in its offspring; at 8.0 x 10(6) cells x L(-1) of S. 
obliquus, B. calyciflorus had the highest intrinsic rate of population increase 
and the longest average lifespan and life expectancy; and at 4.0 and 8.0 x 10(6) 
cells x L(-1) of S. obliquus, the individual fitness of B. calyciflorus was the 
highest. Clone C had the smallest individual fitness at 3.9 x 10(6) cells x 
L(-1) of S. obliquus and clone D had the highest one at 6. 34 x 10(6) cells x 
L(-1) of S. obliquus, while the individual fitness of clones A and B was not 
correlated with S. obliquus concentration. After July, the disappearance of 
genetically different B. calyciflorus clones from Jinghu Lake might attribute to 
the variation of algal food concentration, and the similar individual fitness of 
the four clones might be one of the reasons that contribute to the coexistence 
of B. calyciflorus clones in Jinghu Lake in summer.

PMID: 19459378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Drug Saf. 2009;32(6):449-52. doi: 10.2165/00002018-200932060-00001.

Understanding and communicating key concepts in risk management: what do we mean 
by benefit and risk?

Edwards IR, Lindquist M.

DOI: 10.2165/00002018-200932060-00001
PMID: 19459712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Am J Transplant. 2009 Jul;9(7):1513-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02667.x.  Epub 2009 May 20.

Evaluating options for utility-based kidney allocation.

Segev DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. dorry@jhmi.edu

Over the last 5 years, a number of utility-based allocation systems have been 
proposed in an effort to increase the life-prolonging potential of deceased 
donor kidneys in the United States. These have included various adaptations of 
age-matching and net benefit, including the Eurotransplant Senior Program, Life 
Years From Transplant, and several systems for avoiding extreme donor/recipient 
mismatch. However, utility-based allocation is complex and raises issues 
regarding choice of metric, appropriateness of certain factors for use in 
allocation, accuracy of prediction models, transparency and perception, and 
possible effects on donation rates. Changing the role of utility in kidney 
allocation will likely cause changes to efficiency, equity, predictability, 
autonomy, controversy, trust and live donation. In this manuscript, various 
allocation systems are discussed, and a framework is proposed for quantifying 
the goals of the transplant community and evaluating options for utility-based 
kidney allocation in this context.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02667.x
PMID: 19459795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. FEBS J. 2009 May;276(10):2657-68. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.06981.x.

Modified PCR methods for 3' end amplification from serial analysis of gene 
expression (SAGE) tags.

Xu WJ(1), Wang ZX, Qiao ZD.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Bio-X Research Center, Key Laboratory 
of Developmental Genetics and Neuropsychiatric Diseases, Ministry of Education, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, China.

Serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE) is a powerful technique to study gene 
expression at the genome level. However, a disadvantage of the shortness of SAGE 
tags is that it prevents further study of SAGE library data, thus limiting 
extensive application of the SAGE method in gene expression studies. However, 
this problem can be solved by extension of the SAGE tags to 3' cDNAs. Therefore, 
several methods based on PCR have been developed to generate a 3' longer 
fragment cDNA corresponding to a SAGE tag. The list of modified methods is 
extensive, and includes rapid RT-PCR analysis of unknown SAGE tags (RAST-PCR), 
generation of longer cDNA fragments from SAGE tags for gene identification 
(GLGI), a high-throughput GLGI procedure, reverse SAGE (rSAGE), two-step 
analysis of unknown SAGE tags (TSAT-PCR), etc. These procedures are constantly 
being updated because they have characteristics and advantages that can be 
shared. Development of these methods has promoted the widespread use of the SAGE 
technique, and has accelerated the speed of studies of large-scale gene 
expression.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.06981.x
PMID: 19459930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Transplant Proc. 2009 May;41(4):1178-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.02.045.

Immunosuppressive agents and metabolic factors of cardiovascular risk in renal 
transplant recipients.

Sessa A(1), Esposito A, Giliberti A, Iavicoli G, Costa C, Bergallo M, Lettieri 
E, Rossano R, Capuano M.

Author information:
(1)Day Hospital Post Trapianto Rene, U.O.C. Nefrologia e Dialisi, P.O. dei 
Pellegrini, Napoli, Italy. dhtr.pellegrini@libero.it

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) accounts for 35% to 50% of deaths among renal 
transplant recipients. Beside the atherogenic risk factors related to 
hemodialysis, renal function, and use of immunosuppressive agents, other 
relevant risk factors for CVD include acute rejection episodes, microalbuminuria 
(muAlb), diabetes, arterial hypertension, lipid disorders, inflammatory 
triggers, hyperhomocysteinemia, anemia, erythrocytosis, obesity, and 
hyperuricemia. We studied the prevalence of risk factors and the impact of 
various drugs on CVD among 103 renal transplant recipients with measured 
glomerular filtration rates showing values >45 mL/min. We measured uric acid, 
triglycerides (TG), low-density lipoprotein (LDL)/high-density lipoprotein (HDL) 
LDL/HDL ratio, homocysteine (HOMO), insulin resistance, muAlb, C-reactive 
protein (CRP), and fibrinogen. Subsequently, patients were divided into 8 groups 
based on the immunosuppressive protocol to evaluate its impact on CVD risk 
factors. Insulin resistance and hyperhomocysteinemia were present in >2/3 of 
patients. Considering the impact of protocols, the combination of cyclosporine 
(CsA) + everolimus (EVL) resulted in the most favorable profile in terms of 
reduction of hyperuricemia, hyperlipidemia, and hyperhomocysteinemia. Insulin 
resistance tended to be more frequent among patients treated with protocols 
including calcineurin inhibitors (CNI) and steroids. The prevalence of 
hyperhomocyteinemia was similar among patients on CsA and on tacrolimus (Tac). 
Sirolimus (SRL) was associated with higher levels of HOMO. The combination of 
CNI and proliferative signal inhibitors (PSI) seemed to be the most promising 
