RESULTS: Treatment costs for 6 months were pound1530 for venlafaxine, pound1539 
for fluoxetine and pound1558 for amitriptyline (year of costing 2006). Cost 
effectiveness as assessed by incremental cost per QALY ratio at 8 weeks was 
pound20 600 for venlafaxine compared with fluoxetine, with fluoxetine dominating 
(being less costly and more effective than) amitriptyline. To test the 
robustness of the model a Rank Order Stability Assessment was performed that 
showed that even if fluoxetine and/or amitriptyline were given away free, a 
scenario starting with venlafaxine would still be the least costly treatment 
over a 6-month period.
CONCLUSION: In this model, venlafaxine was shown to be a cost-effective 
alternative to generic fluoxetine and amitriptyline when used as a first-line 
therapy. Thus, cost of therapy should not be a barrier to use of venlafaxine as 
a first-line option in treating major depressive disorder in primary care in the 
UK.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200929030-00004
PMID: 19243210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Malar J. 2009 Feb 25;8:33. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-8-33.

Physical and chemical stability of expired fixed dose combination 
artemether-lumefantrine in uncontrolled tropical conditions.

Bate R(1), Tren R, Hess K, Attaran A.

Author information:
(1)Africa Fighting Malaria, Washington, D.C., USA. RBate@aei.org

BACKGROUND: New artemisinin combination therapies pose difficulties of 
implementation in developing and tropical settings because they have a short 
shelf-life (two years) relative to the medicines they replace. This limits the 
reliability and cost of treatment, and the acceptability of this treatment to 
health care workers. A multi-pronged investigation was made into the chemical 
and physical stability of fixed dose combination artemether-lumefantrine 
(FDC-ALU) stored under heterogeneous, uncontrolled African conditions, to probe 
if a shelf-life extension might be possible.
METHODS: Seventy samples of expired FDC-ALU were collected from private 
pharmacies and malaria researchers in seven African countries. The samples were 
subjected to thin-layer chromatography (TLC), disintegration testing, and near 
infrared Raman spectrometry for ascertainment of active ingredients, tablet 
integrity, and chemical degradation of the tablet formulation including both 
active ingredients and excipients.
RESULTS: Seventy samples of FDC-ALU were tested in July 2008, between one and 58 
months post-expiry. 68 of 70 (97%) samples passed TLC, disintegration and Raman 
spectrometry testing, including eight samples that were post-expiry by 20 months 
or longer. A weak linear association (R2 = 0.33) was observed between the age of 
samples and their state of degradation relative to brand-identical samples on 
Raman spectrometry. Sixty-eight samples were retested in February 2009 using 
Raman spectrometry, between eight and 65 months post-expiry. 66 of 68 (97%) 
samples passed Raman spectrometry retesting. An unexpected observation about 
African drug logistics was made in three batches of FDC-ALU, which had been sold 
into the public sector at concessional pricing in accordance with a World Health 
Organization (WHO) agreement, and which were illegally diverted to the private 
sector where they were sold for profit.
CONCLUSION: The data indicate that FDC-ALU is chemically and physically stable 
well beyond its stated shelf-life in uncontrolled, tropical conditions. While 
these data are not themselves sufficient, it is strongly suggested that a 
re-evaluation of the two-year shelf-life by drug regulatory authorities is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-8-33
PMCID: PMC2649943
PMID: 19243589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Neural Netw. 2009 May;22(4):463-78. doi: 10.1016/j.neunet.2009.01.012. Epub
2009  Feb 1.

SOM of SOMs.

Furukawa T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain Science and Engineering, Graduate School of Life Science 
and Systems Engineering, Kyushu Institute of Technology, Kitakyushu, Japan. 
furukawa@brain.kyutech.ac.jp

This paper proposes an extension of the self-organizing map (SOM), in which the 
mapping objects themselves are self-organizing maps. Thus a "SOM of SOMs" is 
presented, which we refer to as a SOM(2). A SOM(2) has a hierarchical structure 
consisting of a single parent SOM and a set of child SOMs. Each child SOM is 
trained to represent the distribution of a data class in a manifold, while the 
parent SOM generates a self-organizing map of the group of manifolds modeled by 
the child SOMs. Thus a SOM(2) is an architecture that organizes a product 
manifold represented as (child SOM) x (parent SOM). Such a product manifold is 
called a fiber bundle in terms of the topology. This extension of a SOM is 
easily generalized to any combination of SOM families, including cases of neural 
gas (NG) in which, for example, " NG(2) (=NG x NG) as an NG of NGs" and "NG x 
SOM as a SOM of NGs" are possible. Furthermore, a SOM(2) can be extended to a 
SOM(n), such as SOM(3)=SOM x SOM x SOM defined as a "SOM of SOM(2)". In this 
paper, the algorithms for the SOM(2) and its variations are introduced, and some 
simulation results are reported.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neunet.2009.01.012
PMID: 19243913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Sci Context. 2008 Dec;21(4):537-79. doi: 10.1017/s0269889708001956.

The animal economy as object and program in Montpellier vitalism.

Wolfe CT(1), Terada M.

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney.

Our aim in this paper is to show the importance of the notion of éonomie animale 
in Montpellier vitalism as a hybrid concept which brings together the structural 
and functional dimensions of the living body--dimensions which hitherto had 
primarily been studied according to a mechanistic model, or were discussed 
within the framework of Stahlian animism. The celebrated image of the bee-swarm 
expresses this structural-functional understanding of living bodies quite well: 
"One sees them press against each other, mutually supporting each other, forming 
a kind of whole, in which each living part, in its own way, by means of the 
correspondence and directions of its motions, enables this kind of life to be 
sustained in the body" (Ménuret 1765c, Enc. XI, 319a). What is important here is 
that every component part is always a living part, i.e., every structural unit 
is always functional. Interestingly, while the twin notions of "animal economy" 
and organisation are presented as improvements over a mechanistic perspective, 
they are nonetheless compatible with an expanded sense of mechanism, and by 
extension, with materialism as reflected notably in the writings of Ménuret and 
Bordeu. We thus propose both a revision and reconstruction of the historical 
status of the "animal economy," and a reflection on its conceptual status.

DOI: 10.1017/s0269889708001956
PMID: 19245106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Law Med Ethics. 2009 Spring;37(1):118-33. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-720X.2009.00356.x.

Prejudice and the medical profession: a five-year update.

Clark PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Ethics, Saint Joseph's University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

Over the past decades the mortality rate in the United States has decreased, and 
life expectancy has increased. Yet a number of recent studies have drawn 
Americans' attention to the fact that racial and ethnic disparities persist in 
health care. It is clear that the U.S. health care system, which is the envy of 
the world, is not only flawed by basic injustices, but may be the cause of both 
injury and death for members of racial and ethnic minorities. Progress has been 
made in several areas since the original Institute of Medicine 2002 report. 
However, five years later, the 2007 National Healthcare Disparities Report 
(NHDR) reported that overall, disparities in quality and access for minority 
groups and poor populations have not been reduced since the original report. The 
three key themes that have emerged from this report are the following: (1) 
overall, disparities in health care quality and access are not getting smaller; 
(2) progress is being made, but many of the biggest gaps in quality and access 
have not been reduced; and (3) the problem of persistent uninsurance is a major 
barrier to reducing disparities. Unless measures are taken to address this 
racism, unless a new sense of trust is established between the medical 
establishment and racial and ethnic minorities, these injustices will continue 
to deepen and expand, and more lives will be placed in jeopardy. What is needed 
is a comprehensive, multi-level, culturally relevant strategy that contains 
interventions that target individuals, communities, and the nation as a whole. 
This will entail understanding the causes of racism in the medical profession, 
identifying practical interventions that address racism in individuals, 
communities, and the nation as a whole, and forming partnerships that will work 
to develop a new sense of trust between the medical establishment and the 
minority communities.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-720X.2009.00356.x
PMID: 19245608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Acta Physiol (Oxf). 2009 May;196(1):99-113. doi: 
10.1111/j.1748-1716.2009.01975.x. Epub 2009 Feb 19.

AMP-activated protein kinase--a sensor of glycogen as well as AMP and ATP?

McBride A(1), Hardie DG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Physiology, College of Life Sciences, University of 
Dundee, Dow Street, Dundee, UK.

The classical role of the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is to act as a 
sensor of the immediate availability of cellular energy, by monitoring the 
concentrations of AMP and ATP. However, the beta subunits of AMPK contain a 
glycogen-binding domain, and in this review we develop the hypothesis that this 
is a regulatory domain that allows AMPK to act as a sensor of the status of 
cellular reserves of energy in the form of glycogen. We argue that the pool of 
AMPK that is bound to the glycogen particle is in an active state when glycogen 
particles are fully synthesized, causing phosphorylation of glycogen synthase at 
site 2 and providing a feedback inhibition of further extension of the outer 
chains of glycogen. However, when glycogen becomes depleted, the glycogen-bound 
pool of AMPK becomes inhibited due to binding to alpha1-->6-linked branch points 
exposed by the action of phosphorylase and/or debranching enzyme. This allows 
dephosphorylation of site 2 on glycogen synthase by the glycogen-bound form of 
protein phosphatase-1, promoting rapid resynthesis of glycogen and replenishment 
of glycogen stores. This is an extension of the classical role of AMPK as a 
'guardian of cellular energy', in which it ensures that cellular energy reserves 
are adequate for medium-term requirements. The literature concerning AMPK, 
glycogen structure and glycogen-binding proteins that led us to this concept is 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1748-1716.2009.01975.x
PMID: 19245651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Med Genet. 2009 May;46(5):324-30. doi: 10.1136/jmg.2008.063800. Epub 2009
Feb  25.

Premature death in adults with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome.

Bassett AS(1), Chow EW, Husted J, Hodgkinson KA, Oechslin E, Harris L, 
Silversides C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Genetics Research Program, Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 
Ontario, Canada. anne.bassett@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: 22q11.2 deletion syndrome (22q11.2DS) is a multisystem disease with 
a prevalence of 1/4000. Variable expression of congenital and later onset 
features contributes to its under-recognition. Longevity in those surviving 
childhood is believed to be normal but data are limited.
METHODS: We prospectively followed 264 subjects; 102 adults (>17 years) with 
22q11.2DS (44 male (M), 58 female (F); mean (SD) age 33.6 (10.9) years) and 
their 162 unaffected siblings (77 M, 85 F; mean age 36.1 (12.2) years). We 
compared survival between groups using Kaplan-Meier estimates.
RESULTS: Twelve (11.8%; 4 M, 8 F) individuals with 22q11.2DS and no siblings 
died (p<0.0001). Survival to ages 40 and 50 years was 89.9% and 73.9%, 
respectively. Median age at death was 41.5 (range 18.1-68.6) years. Deaths 
included two (7.7%) of 26 subjects with neither major congenital heart disease 
(CHD) nor schizophrenia. Four of six sudden and unexpected deaths occurred in 
individuals with no major CHD. There was no evidence of cancer or coronary 
artery disease or family history of sudden death in the 12 patients who died, 
six of whom had autopsies.
DISCUSSION: Individuals with 22q11.2DS who survive childhood have diminished 
life expectancy and increased risk of sudden death not attributable to any 
single factor. Some sudden and/or premature deaths observed in the general 
population may represent undiagnosed 22q11.2DS. Increased recognition of the 
syndrome by family doctors, specialists and coroners will be essential to 
facilitate the tissue studies needed to determine underlying mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2008.063800
PMCID: PMC3188306
PMID: 19246480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


213. Ann Oncol. 2009 Jul;20(7):1275-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdn775. Epub 2009 Feb
26.

Phase II study of 3-AP Triapine in patients with recurrent or metastatic head 
and neck squamous cell carcinoma.

Nutting CM(1), van Herpen CM, Miah AB, Bhide SA, Machiels JP, Buter J, Kelly C, 
de Raucourt D, Harrington KJ.

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Unit, Royal Marsden Hospital and Institute of Cancer Research, 
London, UK. chris.nutting@rmh.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: Treatment options for recurrent or metastatic head and neck squamous 
cell carcinoma (HNSCC) are limited with response rates to cytotoxic chemotherapy 
of approximately 30% and median survival of 6 months.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In a multicentre phase II study, 32 patients with 
recurrent or metastatic HNSCC received 3-AP Triapine 
(3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone), an inhibitor of 
ribonucleotide reductase, 96 mg/m2, daily for 4 days every 14 days (one cycle). 
Eligibility criteria required Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance 
status (ECOG PS) of zero to two with a life expectancy of >3 months; one prior 
chemotherapy regimen was allowed.
RESULTS: Thirty patients were assessable for response and toxicity. Median age 
was 57 years (range 36-79) and median ECOG PS was one (range 0-2). Thirteen 
patients had previously been treated with chemotherapy. A total of 130 cycles 
were administered with a median number of cycles of 3.5 (range 1-8). Mild 
anaemia (40%), nausea (22%) and fatigue (22%) were commonly reported with G3 and 
G4 neutropenia documented in 22% and 22%, respectively. Overall response rate 
was 5.9% (95% confidence interval 0.2% to 28.7%). One patient achieved a partial 
response, eight had stable disease and 21 progressive disease. Median time to 
disease progression was 3.9 months.
CONCLUSIONS: 3-AP Triapine as a single agent, at this dose and schedule, is well 
tolerated but has only minor activity in the treatment of advanced HNSCC.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdn775
PMID: 19246715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Microbiology (Reading). 2009 Mar;155(Pt 3):751-760. doi:
10.1099/mic.0.021907-0.

Specific point mutations in Lactobacillus casei ATCC 27139 cause a phenotype 
switch from Lac- to Lac+.

Tsai YK(1), Chen HW(1), Lo TC(1), Lin TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Prof. Thy-Hou Lin laboratory, Institute of Molecular Medicine and Department 
of Life Science, National Tsing Hua University, 101, Section 2, Kuang Fu Road, 
Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan, ROC.

Lactose metabolism is a changeable phenotype in strains of Lactobacillus casei. 
In this study, we found that L. casei ATCC 27139 was unable to utilize lactose. 
However, when exposed to lactose as the sole carbon source, spontaneous Lac(+) 
clones could be obtained. A gene cluster (lacTEGF-galKETRM) involved in the 
metabolism of lactose and galactose in L. casei ATCC 27139 (Lac(-)) and its 
Lac(+) revertant (designated strain R1) was sequenced and characterized. We 
found that only one nucleotide, located in the lacTEGF promoter (lacTp), of the 
two lac-gal gene clusters was different. The protein sequence identity between 
the lac-gal gene cluster and those reported previously for some L. casei 
(Lac(+)) strains was high; namely, 96-100 % identity was found and no premature 
stop codon was identified. A single point mutation located within the lacTp 
promoter region was also detected for each of the 41 other independently 
isolated Lac(+) revertants of L. casei ATCC 27139. The revertants could be 
divided into six classes based on the positions of the point mutations detected. 
Primer extension experiments conducted on transcription from lacTp revealed that 
the lacTp promoter of these six classes of Lac(+) revertants was functional, 
while that of L. casei ATCC 27139 was not. Northern blotting experiments further 
confirmed that the lacTEGF operon of strain R1 was induced by lactose but 
suppressed by glucose, whereas no blotting signal was ever detected for L. casei 
ATCC 27139. These results suggest that a single point mutation in the lacTp 
promoter was able to restore the transcription of a fully functional lacTEGF 
operon and cause a phenotype switch from Lac(-) to Lac(+) for L. casei ATCC 
27139.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.021907-0
PMID: 19246746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Ann Surg. 2009 Mar;249(3):402-8. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e31819a0469.

The importance of tumor stage and relative survival analysis for the association 
between sex and survival after resection of colorectal cancer.

Dent OF(1), Chapuis PH, Renwick AA, Bokey EL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Concord Hospital and The Discipline of 
Surgery, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
Owen.Dent@netspeed.com.au

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine whether the previously noted 
poorer survival of men after resection of colorectal cancer varied among 
clinicopathological tumor stages.
SUMMARY BACKGROUND DATA: The question of whether sex is independently associated 
with prognosis after resection of colorectal cancer has been examined in 
numerous studies over the past 2 decades, but with conflicting results.
METHODS: Data on 3,301 patients were drawn from a comprehensive, prospective 
hospital registry of all resections for colorectal cancer performed between 
January 1971 and December 2005. Statistical analysis employed Kaplan Meier 
estimation and relative survival analysis to adjust for differential male/female 
life expectancy in the general population.
RESULTS: The relative survival of males was significantly less than that of 
females (P = 0.004) only in stage B. This was not accounted for by other 
negative pathology features and cause of death did not differ significantly 
between males and females. However, men with stage B tumor were more likely than 
women to experience postoperative morbidity, particularly a respiratory 
complication or a surgical complication requiring urgent reoperation. The sex 
difference in relative survival persisted among patients who had either a 
respiratory complication or an urgent reoperation (P = 0.003) but disappeared 
among those who had neither (P = 0.193).
CONCLUSION: The poorer survival of men with stage B tumor was attributable to 
their greater postoperative morbidity which led to the earlier death of some due 
to causes unrelated to their colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e31819a0469
PMID: 19247026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. J Rehabil Med. 2009 Mar;41(4):237-41. doi: 10.2340/16501977-0313.

A prospective study on coping strategies and quality of life in patients after 
stroke, assessing prognostic relationships and estimates of cost-effectiveness.

Darlington AS(1), Dippel DW, Ribbers GM, van Balen R, Passchier J, Busschbach 
JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. a.darlington@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVE: To examine the prognostic value of coping strategies of patients 
after stroke at time of discharge on quality of life approximately one year 
later. In addition, we estimated the maximum cost of improving quality of life 
by enhancing coping strategies using strict assumptions.
METHODS: Eighty patients with a stroke completed several questionnaires, at 
discharge to home and 9-12 months later (follow-up). Questionnaires measured 
quality of life, coping strategies Tenacious Goal Pursuit and Flexible Goal 
Adjustment. First, a regression analysis was carried out predicting quality of 
life at follow-up from coping strategies at discharge. Secondly, a maximum in 
terms of acceptable cost was calculated for several possible effect sizes.
RESULTS: Both coping strategies at discharge were positively associated with 
quality of life at follow-up. With regards to cost-effectiveness, a medium 
effect size would result in an increase in quality of life of approximately 10%. 
The maximum acceptable cost of an intervention for a single patient is therefore 
set at euro2500, assuming a benefit of one year and a cost per quality adjusted 
life year of euro25,000.
CONCLUSION: Coping strategies at discharge are predictive of quality of life one 
year later. The costs of improving quality of life are thought to be within the 
limits that determine a cost-effective intervention.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-0313
PMID: 19247542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Mar 15;61(3):291-9. doi: 10.1002/art.24169.

Cost-utility analysis of treatment strategies in patients with recent-onset 
rheumatoid arthritis.

van den Hout WB(1), Goekoop-Ruiterman YP, Allaart CF, de Vries-Bouwstra JK, 
Hazes JM, Kerstens PJ, van Zeben D, Hulsmans HM, de Jonge-Bok JM, de Sonnaville 
PB, Dijkmans BA, Breedveld FC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Hout@lumc.nl

Comment in
    Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Mar 15;61(3):289-90.
    Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Nov 15;61(11):1616-7; author reply 1617-8.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate societal costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of 
treatment strategies for patients with recent-onset active rheumatoid arthritis 
(RA).
METHODS: Patients (n = 508) were randomly allocated to 1 of 4 treatment strategy 
groups: sequential monotherapy, step-up combination therapy, initial combination 
therapy with prednisone, or initial combination therapy with infliximab. For 2 
years, patients reported cost and utility measures.
RESULTS: Average QALYs (ideally 2.00) for groups 1-4 were 1.29, 1.31, 1.32, and 
1.41, respectively, for the British EuroQol (P <or= 0.05 for group 4 versus 
groups 1-3); 1.41, 1.43, 1.44, and 1.52, respectively, for the Dutch EuroQol (P 
<or= 0.05 for group 4 versus groups 1-3); and 1.38, 1.38, 1.39, and 1.44, 
respectively, for the Short Form 6D (P <or= 0.05 for group 4 versus groups 1-3). 
The Time Trade-Off showed no significant differences. In the primary analysis, 
using the friction cost method to value productivity, the cost-utility ratio for 
group 4 against the next best alternative was estimated at euro 130,000 (95% 
confidence interval euro 27,000, euro 3,000,000) per QALY. Using the human 
capital method, the value of sustained productivity in group 4 largely 
compensated for the extra medication costs.
CONCLUSION: Initial combination therapy with infliximab for patients with 
recent-onset active RA resulted in significantly better quality of life than 
other strategies. Using the friction cost method, costs to achieve this 
improvement are generally considered too high, and initial combination therapy 
with prednisone should be preferred. However, depending on the extent to which 
productivity is valued, infliximab costs could be largely compensated for by 
savings on productivity. Since patterns of infliximab use had not yet stabilized 
after 2 years, longer followup may change the economic conclusions.

DOI: 10.1002/art.24169
PMID: 19248130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Nurs Stand. 2009 Jan 28-Feb 3;23(21):41-5. doi: 
10.7748/ns2009.01.23.21.41.c6767.

Poor physical health and mortality in patients with schizophrenia.

Pack S(1).

Author information:
(1)Somerset Partnership NHS Foundation Trust, Bridgwater, Somerset. 
Steve.Pack@sompar.nhs.uk

Schizophrenia, its treatment and the lifestyle of patients contribute to high 
rates of mortality. Patients often have poorer diets, lower rates of physical 
activity and smoke more than the general population. Such lifestyle choices 
predispose them to physical health problems and disease. This article explores 
the impact of poor physical health on mortality in patients with schizophrenia. 
Suggestions are made for patient education and promotion of a healthy lifestyle 
to improve the quality of life for patients with the illness.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2009.01.23.21.41.c6767
PMID: 19248449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. J Am Coll Radiol. 2009 Mar;6(3):171-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2008.10.003.

Cost effectiveness of breast cancer screening with contrast-enhanced MRI in 
high-risk women.

Taneja C(1), Edelsberg J, Weycker D, Guo A, Oster G, Weinreb J.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc, Brookline, Massachusetts 02445, USA. ctaneja@pai2.com

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost effectiveness of breast 
cancer screening with contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), with 
and without adjunctive x-ray mammography (XM), compared with XM alone in 
high-risk women.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A model was developed to depict the consequences of 
screening with MRI and/or XM for cohorts of 10,000 women with BRCA1/2 mutations 
and women with other high-risk characteristics, respectively. The model 
predicted the number of women correctly and incorrectly diagnosed with each 
strategy and lifetime consequences in terms of additional care, patient 
utilities, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Cost 
effectiveness was calculated in terms of cost per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Among the 400 women (of 10,000) with BRCA1/2 mutations and undiagnosed 
breast cancer, 361 cases would be detected with MRI and XM, 290 with MRI, and 
160 with XM. False-positive results would total 1,526, 1,190, and 528, 
respectively. Cost per QALY gained with MRI and XM compared with XM alone for 
women with BRCA1/2 mutations was $25,277. Among other high-risk women, cost per 
QALY gained with MRI and XM compared with XM alone varied depending on the 
prevalence of breast cancer, ranging from $45,566 (300 cases) to $310,616 (50 
cases). The cost effectiveness of MRI alone compared with XM alone was similar.
CONCLUSION: Screening with MRI, alone or in combination with XM, in women with 
BRCA1/2 mutations is cost effective by current standards compared with XM alone. 
In women with other high-risk characteristics, MRI screening may also be cost 
effective, depending on the expected prevalence of undiagnosed breast cancer at 
the time of screening.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2008.10.003
PMID: 19248993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Am Heart J. 2009 Mar;157(3):457-66. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2008.11.006. Epub
2009  Jan 20.

Effects of cardiac resynchronization therapy on long-term quality of life: an 
analysis from the CArdiac Resynchronisation-Heart Failure (CARE-HF) study.

Cleland JG(1), Calvert MJ, Verboven Y, Freemantle N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University of Hull, Castle Hill Hospital, Kingston 
upon Hull, United Kingdom. j.g.cleland@hull.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) improves quality of life 
(QoL) when measured 3 to 6 months after implantation, but whether these effects 
are sustained is unknown. The CArdiac Resynchronisation-Heart Failure study is 
the only long-term randomized trial of CRT with repeated measures of QoL.
METHODS: Quality of life was measured at baseline and 3 months using generic 
European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions and disease-specific (Minnesota Living 
with Heart Failure) questionnaires and at 18 months and study-end using the 
latter instrument. Median follow-up was 29.6 (interquartile range 23.6-34.6) 
months.
RESULTS: At baseline, patients had a substantially impaired QoL (mean European 
Quality of Life-5 Dimensions score 0.60, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.58-0.62) 
compared to an age-matched general population (0.78, 95% CI 0.76-0.80). Quality 
of life improved to a greater extent in patients assigned to CRT at each time 
point (P < .0001). By 18 months, the mean difference in disease-specific QoL 
score was 10.7 (95% CI 7.6-13.8) in favor of CRT, mostly due to improved 
physical functioning. Differences were sustained thereafter. Quality-adjusted 
life-years at 18 months increased by 0.13 (95% CI 0.07-0.182) and by 0.23 (95% 
CI 0.13-0.33) at study-end (both P < .0001). Little heterogeneity of effect 
across subgroups was observed.
CONCLUSION: Cardiac resynchronization therapy improves long-term QoL and 
survival in patients with moderate to severe heart failure. The effects appear 
sustained, and therefore, the gain in quality-adjusted life years with CRT 
should be even greater during longer term follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2008.11.006
PMID: 19249415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Transplant Proc. 2009 Jan-Feb;41(1):208-12. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.10.050.

Successful use of extended criteria donor grafts with low to moderate steatosis 
in patients with model for end-stage liver disease scores below 27.

Avolio AW(1), Frongillo F, Nicolotti N, Mulè A, Vennarecci G, De Simone P, Agnes 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery - Transplantation Service, "A.Gemelli" Catholic 
University of Rome, Italy. alfonso.avolio@rm.unicatt.it

Liver transplantation may be performed using extended criteria donor grafts 
(ECDg). The characteristics of ECDg include age >60 years, long intensive care 
unit (ICU) stay, history of malignancy or steatosis. Grafts are often discarded 
due to steatosis, which can be macrovesicular (MaS) or microvesicular (MiS). MaS 
is the variety most frequently involved with unfavorable outcomes due to primary 
nonfunction (PNF) or primary dysfunction (PDF). As of January 2000, all livers 
referred to our institution were considered potentially transplantable. 
Steatosis was defined as the presence of fat droplets in more than 5% of 
hepatocytes. We observed 35 steatotic grafts. Grafts were stratified according 
to MaS and MiS as follows: low steatosis (5%-15%), mild steatosis (16%-30%), 
moderate steatosis (31%-60%), or severe steatosis (>60%). Fifteen grafts with 
moderate (n = 2) or severe (n = 13) MaS were discarded. Twenty grafts were 
harvested: 18 of them were transplanted at our institution, the remaining 2, 
discarded by our donor team, were transplanted by other Italian centers. Low MaS 
was detected in 10 grafts (50%), mild MaS in 4 (20%), and moderate MaS in 2 
(10%). Low MiS was detected in 8 grafts (40%), mild MiS in 5 (25%), and moderate 
MiS in 1 (5%). Steatotic grafts were transplanted only into recipients with 
model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) scores <27. The 6-month graft survival 
was 80%; the PNF rate was 10%; and the PDF rate was 15%. The careful use of ECDg 
with low to moderate steatosis is possible if particular care is taken to avoid 
additional risk factors related to the recipient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.10.050
PMID: 19249515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Transplant Proc. 2009 Jan-Feb;41(1):213-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.09.056.

Ten-year follow-up of kidney transplantation from hepatitis B surface 
antigen-positive donors.

Sumethkul V(1), Ingsathit A, Jirasiritham S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.

Hepatitis B surface antigen positivity (HBsAg(+)) was believed to be an 
exclusion for kidney donation. However, in the presence of an organ shortage, 
allocation of kidneys from HBsAg(+) donors to recipients with anti-HBsAb(+) 
might be allowed. We examined the 10-year outcomes of kidney transplants (KT) 
from HBsAg(+) donors to natural or vaccine-induced anti-HBsAb(+) recipients 
(Group 1). Hepatitis B hyperimmune globulin (HBIG) and lamivudine were not used 
at any time. We compared the 10-year outcomes of patients who had HBsAg(+) prior 
to KT and received kidneys from HBsAg(-) donors (Group 2). The endpoint was 
patient survival determined by Kaplan-Meier and Cox proportional hazard methods. 
A total of 41 patients were transplanted from 1991-1997. There were 14 Group 1 
patients and 27 Group 2 patients. Anti-HBsAb titer ranged from 10 to >1000 
mIU/mL. Actuarial 10-year patient survivals were 92.8% and 62.5% for Group 1 and 
Group 2. Only 1 patient in Group 1 died; this case was due to an acute 
myocardial infarction. Eleven deaths occurred among Group 2; they were due to 
chronic active hepatitis (n = 5), hepatoma (n = 3), acute fibrosing cholestatic 
hepatitis (n = 1), and stroke (n = 2). More than 2 times elevated ALT occurred 
among 45% of Group 2 but none in Group 1. No patients in Group 1 had positive 
HBsAg and HBV DNA at last follow-up. Four patients in Group 2 displayed 
seroconversion to positive HBeAg after KT. Secondary analysis examining the 
impact of KT on patient life expectancy (from the start of dialysis until last 
follow-up) used Cox regression, revealing that KT was significantly associated 
with an increased risk for death within 12 months after transplantation (RR = 
30, P = .005) but a decreased risk for death thereafter (RR = .03, P = .005) for 
Group 2. However, KT did not have significant impact on the risk for death 
within the first year for Group 1 (P = .61). Our results showed that the 10-year 
survival of KT from HBsAg(+) donors to recipients with anti-HBsAb(+) was good. 
This was not associated with evidence of active liver disease. The presence of 
HBsAg(+) in donors thus should not be considered an exclusion for kidney 
donation for anti-HBsAb(+) recipients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2008.09.056
PMID: 19249516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S1-4. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00514.x.

Moving the QALY forward: rationale for change.

Smith MD(1), Drummond M, Brixner D.

Author information:
(1)International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research, 
Lawrenceville, NJ, USA. mdsmith@ispor.org

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00514.x
PMID: 19250124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S10-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00516.x.

QALYs: some challenges.

Nord E(1), Daniels N, Kamlet M.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Oslo, Norway. erik.nord@fhi.no

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00516.x
PMID: 19250125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S16-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00517.x.

A different approach to health state valuation.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00517.x
PMID: 19250126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S18-26. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00518.x.

Retaining, and enhancing, the QALY.

Lipscomb J(1), Drummond M, Fryback D, Gold M, Revicki D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Rollins School of Public Health, 
Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30322, USA. jlipsco@sph.emory.edu

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00518.x
PMID: 19250127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S27-30. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00519.x.

The use of QALYs in clinical and patient decision-making: issues and prospects.

Kind P(1), Lafata JE, Matuszewski K, Raisch D.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research Group, Centre for Health Economics, Alcuin College, 
University of York, York, UK. pk1@york.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00519.x
PMID: 19250128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S31-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00522.x.

Toward a consensus on the QALY.

Drummond M(1), Brixner D, Gold M, Kind P, McGuire A, Nord E; Consensus 
Development Group.

Author information:
(1)University of York, Centre for Health Economics, York, UK. md18@york.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00522.x
PMID: 19250129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S36-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00520.x.

Editorial: On the benefits of modeling using QALYs for societal resource 
allocation: the model is the message.

Garrison LP Jr.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00520.x
PMID: 19250130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S38-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00521.x.

Editorial: Moving the QALY forward or just stuck in traffic?

Johnson FR.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00521.x
PMID: 19250131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Value Health. 2009 Mar;12 Suppl 1:S5-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00515.x.

QALYs: the basics.

Weinstein MC(1), Torrance G, McGuire A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA. mcw@hsph.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    Value Health. 2010 Dec;13(8):1065.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00515.x
PMID: 19250132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. J Laryngol Otol. 2009 Aug;123(8):873-6. doi: 10.1017/S0022215109004629. Epub
 2009 Mar 2.

Early results for treatment of unilateral vocal fold palsy with injection 
medialisation under local anaesthetic.

Pratap R(1), Mehta P, Blagnys B, Montgomery PQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital, 
Norwich, UK. rohitpratap@doctors.org.uk

BACKGROUND: The diagnosis and treatment of unilateral vocal fold palsy is a 
common part of otolaryngology practice. In those patients in whom resolution of 
symptoms is slow, the resulting dysphonia can have a dramatic effect on the 
patient's quality of voice and life. We have previously described the procedure 
of direct phonoplasty under local anaesthesia using the transnasal 
laryngoesophagoscope.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the subjective and objective data for the first five 
patients to undergo this procedure, in the form of laryngographic speech 
analysis, perceptual assessment and therapy outcome measures.
RESULTS: Analysis showed a statistically significant improvement in voice 
quality, in all the above assessment categories, following local anaesthetic 
direct phonoplasty using the transnasal laryngoesophagoscope.
CONCLUSION: Collagen injection via transnasal flexible laryngoesophagoscopy is a 
particularly useful technique for treating vocal fold medialisation, especially 
in palliative care patients and those with shortened life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/S0022215109004629
PMID: 19250587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. BMB Rep. 2009 Feb 28;42(2):62-71.

Autophagy--is it a preferred route for lifespan extension?

Dwivedi M(1), Ahnn J.

Author information:
(1)BK21 Life Science for Gloval Warming Team, Department of Life Science, 
Research Institute for Natural Sciences (RINS), Hanyang University, Seoul, 
Korea.

Autophagy, which is a process of self eating, has gained interest in the past 
decade due to its both beneficial and controversial roles in various biological 
phenomena. The discovery of autophagy genes (ATG) in yeast has led to focused 
research designed to elucidate the mechanism and regulation of this process. The 
role of autophagy in a variety of biological phenomena, including human disease, 
is still the subject of debate. However, recent findings suggest that autophagy 
is a highly regulated process with both beneficial and negative effects. Indeed, 
studies conducted using various model organisms have demonstrated that increased 
autophagy leads to an extended lifespan. Despite these findings, it is still 
unknown if all pathways leading to extended lifespan converge at the process of 
autophagy or not. Here, an overview of modern developments related to the 
process of autophagy, its regulation and the molecular machinery involved is 
presented. In addition, this review focuses on one of the beneficial aspects of 
autophagy, its role in lifespan regulation.

PMID: 19250605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2009 Nov 1;75(3):828-35. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2008.11.017. Epub 2009 Feb 26.

Clinical outcome of dose-escalated image-guided radiotherapy for spinal 
metastases.

Guckenberger M(1), Goebel J, Wilbert J, Baier K, Richter A, Sweeney RA, 
Bratengeier K, Flentje M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Wuerzburg, 
Josef-Schneider-Strasse 11, Wuerzburg, Germany. 
guckenberger_m@klinik.uni-wuerzburg.de

PURPOSE: To evaluate the outcomes after dose-escalated radiotherapy (RT) for 
spinal metastases and paraspinal tumors.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A total of 14 patients, 12 with spinal metastases and a 
long life expectancy and 2 with paraspinal tumors, were treated for 16 lesions 
with intensity-modulated, image-guided RT. A median biologic effective dose of 
74 Gy(10) (range, 55-86) in a median of 20 fractions (range, 3-34) was 
prescribed to the target volume. The spinal canal was treated to 40 Gy in 20 
fractions using a second intensity-modulated RT dose level in the case of 
epidural involvement.
RESULTS: After median follow-up of 17 months, one local recurrence was observed, 
for an actuarial local control rate of 88% after 2 years. Local control was 
associated with rapid and long-term pain relief. Of 11 patients treated for a 
solitary spinal metastasis, 6 developed systemic disease progression. The 
actuarial overall survival rate for metastatic patients was 85% and 63% after 1 
and 2 years, respectively. Acute Grade 2-3 skin toxicity was seen in 2 patients 
with no late toxicity greater than Grade 2. No radiation-induced myelopathy was 
observed.
CONCLUSION: Dose-escalated irradiation of spinal metastases was safe and 
resulted in excellent local control. Oligometastatic patients with a long life 
expectancy and epidural involvement are considered to benefit the most from 
fractionated RT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2008.11.017
PMID: 19250762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2009 Oct;1790(10):1040-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbagen.2009.02.011. Epub 2009 Feb 27.

Caloric restriction-induced life extension of rats and mice: a critique of 
proposed mechanisms.

Masoro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center, San Antonio, TX, USA. masoro@aol.com

In 1935, Clive McCay and colleagues reported that decreasing the food intake of 
rats extends their life. This finding has been confirmed many times using rat 
and mouse models. The responsible dietary factor in rats is the reduced intake 
of energy; thus, this phenomenon is frequently referred to as caloric 
restriction. Although many hypotheses have been proposed during the past 74 
years regarding the underlying mechanism, it is still not known. It is proposed 
that this lack of progress relates to the fact that most of these hypotheses 
have been based on a single underlying mechanism and that this is too narrow a 
focus. Rather, a broad framework is needed. Hormesis has been suggested as 
providing such a framework. Although it is likely that hormesis is involved in 
the actions of caloric restriction, it also is probably too narrowly focused. 
Based on currently available data, a provisional broad framework is presented 
depicting the complex of mechanisms that likely underlie the life-extending and 
other anti-aging actions of caloric restriction.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbagen.2009.02.011
PMID: 19250959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Encephale. 2009 Feb;35(1):18-24. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2007.11.008. Epub 2008
Apr  2.

[A proposal for reforming psychologists' training in France and in the European 
Union].

[Article in French]

Bouchard JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre international de sciences criminelles et pénales (CISCP), 115, rue 
Saint-Dominique, 75007 Paris, France. jean-pierre-bouchard@yahoo.fr

BACKGROUND: In France, as in the European Union, the number of psychologists 
continues to increase and constitutes by far the most important source of 
professionals in this field. The requests for services of psychologists in many 
various domains have also increased in an unprecedented way over a number of 
years. In spite of this development, which should continue to increase 
considerably, the initial training of psychologists remains uneven and disparate 
and often remote from, even unsuitable to, the legitimate expectations of users. 
It is therefore important to reform this training by extending, updating, 
homogenising and adapting it to current knowledge and needs, and by marking it 
by a single and specific degree: that of a doctorate. This new eight-year 
doctoral curriculum would be at the same time more complete and simpler than the 
European Diploma in Psychology model (EuroPsy), for instance. This latter is a 
very complicated and insufficient subject and would not completely resolve the 
great problems of psychologists' training and the competences they need to gain 
in order to access professional practise, research and teaching. This extension 
of the psychologists' training would make it possible to integrate new data 
concerning traditional fields of psychology and data concerning new fields of 
application of psychology and should obviously include the essential training 
for psychotherapies referred to the great theoretical and practical models, 
since their interest is clinically acknowledged (psychoanalysis and 
psychoanalytical therapies, cognitive and behavioural therapies, systemic 
therapies, therapies for individuals, couples, families, groups...). This 
polyreferred training would make it possible to go from a culture still too 
often axed on orientation and deficiencies of the therapist, to a culture of 
indication, opening and competence, focused on the patient's interest. Teaching 
of psychophysiology and neurosciences should be updated and harmonised by taking 
into account the great current and future stakes of public health. It should be 
supplemented by psychopharmacology lectures. This reform of psychologists' 
training would ensure a common pedestal of increased knowledge coupled with 
theoretical/practical competence. The positive consequences of such a reform 
would relate to many fields. Here are six examples.
TRACKS OF WORK: Education: prevention, tracking, treatment of personal problems 
or of instruction from nursery school to university; orientation; council, 
assistance with managing difficulties of teaching staff, etc. Health: tracking, 
prevention, diagnosis, treatment of psychic and behavioural disorders, of 
addictive attitudes, of psychological problems related to somatic pathologies 
(cancer, HIV, etc.), of problems related to ageing of population; training and 
supervision of medical staff, etc. Justice: caring of victims, of offenders in 
prison or out of prison, fight against repetition, expertise, staff training 
(magistrates, lawyers, penitentiary staff, social workers...). Work context: 
(companies, public and private organisations): recruitment, management of staff 
problems, human resources management, coaching, competence assessment, 
orientation, etc. Sport: assessment, management and improvement of performances, 
management of stress, success, failures, and career; fight against doping; help 
for retraining after suspension of activity, etc.
RESEARCH: development of many useful research axes in relation to ground needs 
in all application fields of psychology. Such a reform, which would make it 
possible to shift towards a training more adapted to reality, more homogeneous 
and aiming at excellence, would ensure better guarantees of service to 
psychologist users and to their possible employers. Beyond a deep improvement of 
their initial training and their offer of competence, it would also enable 
psychologists to witness a very clear improvement of their professional status 
as well as their level of remuneration. The number of trained psychologists 
could be adapted to the needs of our society by organizing a numerus clausus for 
access in a Master 1. This regulation would leave at least three years to 
students to show their motivations and competence. It would also give a valuable 
licence level (clearly recognized on the European scene) to students who do not 
continue the university course in psychology and want to reorientate themselves 
(entrance exams, studies or professions requiring good prerequisite in social 
studies and nature studies, etc.).
SOME SUGGESTIONS: Those already authorised to hold the title of psychologist 
when this doctorate is created would not be obliged to validate it, but would 
profit from the progress generated by this important improvement in the initial 
training (status, remuneration, etc). If some of these people wished to validate 
it, they could do so within a defined time and according to defined methods 
(additional training, validation of experience assets, thesis, etc.). To help 
students to materially take up the extension of the curriculum, systems of 
financial assistance for the last three years of studies should be set up either 
in the form of study allowances, or in the form of internship with remunerated 
professional implication in the great sectors of exercise of psychology 
(education, legal and paralegal sectors, industry and work sectors, health, 
etc.) in parallel and in addition to university training. Internship should be 
privileged because it would permit the achievement of four objectives: immersion 
of very advanced students in professional exercise while maintaining training 
them under supervision, to offer them various and crucial grounds of exercise 
and research that are adapted to reality, to remunerate them and hence also, 
offer an important professional service to users (individuals or institutions). 
The most important and essential improvement added to the initial training of 
psychologists by the creation of this new doctoral course would not exclude 
continuous training when necessary in career course. This reform aiming at 
excellence, which is socially and humanly highly necessary, must obviously also 
be accompanied by an indispensable and important revision of the criteria in the 
selection and competence of those who will dispense this renewed training (the 
current criteria used to recruit psychology teachers have been widely contested 
and deemed to be, justly so, the main cause of shortcomings of the initial 
training of psychologists and of their professional segmentation). An 
aggregative or postdoctoral route should thus be created to recruit future 
psychology teachers in the higher education (public and private). This 
recruitment should take into account candidates' theoretical knowledge, but also 
their knowledge of the profession and their qualities in its exercise. Thus the 
following criteria are essential when recruiting psychology teachers: validation 
of the reformed doctorate in psychology (and possibly validation of trainings 
