the whole Drosophila. Antioxidant treatment partially restored lifespan in the 
male dOpa1 mutants, but had no effects in the females. Heterozygous dOpa1 
mutation caused an impairment of respiratory chain complex activities, 
especially complexes II and III, and reversible decreased aconitase activity. 
Heterozygous dOpa1 mutation is also associated with irregular and dysmorphic 
mitochondria in the muscle. Our results, for the first time, demonstrate the 
important role of OPA1 in aging and lifespan, which is most likely mediated 
through augmented ROS production.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004492
PMCID: PMC2637430
PMID: 19221591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


149. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2009;50(1):79-84.

Hypothesis of microfractures by buckling theory of bone's trabeculas from 
vertebral bodies affected by osteoporosis.

Ionovici N(1), Negru M, Grecu D, Vasilescu M, Mogoantă L, Bold A, Trăistaru R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of Craiova, 
Romania.

Osteoporosis has become in recent years a public health problem considered a 
true "silent epidemic", by increasing the number of osteoporosis fractures in 
the world as a result of increased number of persons 3rd group of age by 
increasing life expectancy and reducing physical effort and the emergence of 
sedentary occupations, increasing incidence of obesity, diabetes, liver disease 
and kidney by applying widely corticosteroid therapy. Starting from the 
macroscopic and microscopic aspects of the bone spongy tissue affected by 
osteoporosis, from vertebral bodies, we try to explain the modality of damaging 
the bone micro-structure by buckling phenomenon, knowing that the bone tissue 
has at trabecular level, an elasticity degree and supports high levels of 
mechanical forces.

PMID: 19221649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. World J Urol. 2009 Aug;27(4):547-55. doi: 10.1007/s00345-009-0373-5. Epub
2009  Feb 17.

Effect of testosterone, raloxifene and estrogen replacement on the 
microstructure and biomechanics of metaphyseal osteoporotic bones in 
orchiectomized male rats.

Stuermer EK(1), Sehmisch S, Tezval M, Tezval H, Rack T, Boekhoff J, Wuttke W, 
Herrmann TR, Seidlova-Wuttke D, Stuermer KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma and Reconstructive Surgery, Georg-August-University of 
Goettingen, Robert-Koch-Str. 40, 37099 Goettingen, Germany. 
e.k.stuermer@med.uni-goettingen.de

INTRODUCTION: Currently, osteoporosis research is rarely undertaken in males but 
an increase in male life expectancy in the company of hypogonadism suggests the 
necessity for potential therapeutic options.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, the changes in bone structure under 
standardized testosterone- (T), raloxifene- (R) and estrogen (E)-supplemented 
diets were analyzed in osteoporotic castrated male rats.
RESULTS: Unexpected biomechanical results could be only explained by the 
histomorphometry, but not by BMD measurements obtained from the qCT. All tested 
substances showed a significant improvement in the trabecular network 
(trabecular bone area for C: 2.55 mm(2), T: 4.25 mm(2), R: 4.22 mm(2) and E: 
4.28 mm(2)), and suggests that the bone structure was preserved. For the 
metaphyseal cortical bone, a significant loss was detected in T (CBP: 18.7%) 
compared to R (CBP: 30.0%), E (CBP: 26.8%) and even to the osteoporotic control 
(CBP: 28.6%). This explains the observed early mechanical final failure after T 
supplementation. However, due to the preserved trabecular bone in T, the 
occurrence of the first microfractures (yL: 49 +/- 21.4 N) was significantly 
later than in the osteoporotic control (yL: 39.5 +/- 15.5 N). Raloxifene 
performed well in hindering the bone loss associated with osteoporosis. However, 
its effect (yL: 83.3 +/- 16.5 N) did not approach the protective effect of E 
(yL: 99.2 +/- 21.1 N).
CONCLUSION: Testosterone only preserved the deterioration of the trabecular bone 
but not of the cortical bone. Raloxifene prevented the bone loss associated with 
osteoporosis at all bony structures. This effect did not approach the protective 
effect of estrogen on trabecular bone, but it is more suitable for male 
individuals because it has no feminizing effects on the subject.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-009-0373-5
PMCID: PMC2720581
PMID: 19221760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2009 Feb;56(1):73-8.

[Scientific and holistic therapy perspectives on Qigong practice for elders with 
cardiovascular disease risk factors].

[Article in Chinese]

Hung HM(1), Chen KM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Allied Health Sciences, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, ROC.

The ratio of older adults with chronic illnesses has increased due to increased 
average life spans. The incidence of cardiovascular diseases among older adults 
has reached 33.26%, becoming the leading chronic disease and second most 
significant cause of mortality among older adults. Statistics show that the 
largest proportion of expenditures on prescription pharmaceuticals in the 
National Health Insurance goes toward the treatment of cardiovascular diseases. 
In addition, complications resulting from cardiovascular diseases result in 
burdens of care that impact seriously on the individual, their family, and 
society. Studies have supported physical activity as the most important behavior 
in reducing cardiovascular disease risk factors. Qigong, a traditional Chinese 
therapeutic activity, uses gentle movements of extremities and control of 
breathing to improve health, enhance vitality and enable bodies, emotion, and 
spirit to reach optimal performance. Evidence-based research supports the 
argument that Qigong improves cardiovascular-respiratory function and lipid 
profile, decreases blood sugar, and relieves anxiety and depression. We suggest 
developing a safe, convenient, and simple Qigong exercise regimen for older 
adults at higher risk of cardiovascular diseases to extend their life expectancy 
and quality of life.

PMID: 19222003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. World J Gastroenterol. 2009 Feb 14;15(6):641-6. doi: 10.3748/wjg.15.641.

A shield against a monster: Hepatitis C in hemodialysis patients.

Alavian SM.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is highly prevalent among patients on 
hemodialysis (HD). The prevalence of HCV infection in HD patients varies 
markedly from country to country. Some factors are especially related to these 
high prevalence rates, such as blood transfusions and length of dialysis time. 
Nosocomial routes of transmission including the use of contaminated equipment 
and patient-to-patient exposure is considered more important. Several 
prophylactic measures have been suggested to avoid infection by HCV in the HD 
environment.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.15.641
PMCID: PMC2653433
PMID: 19222088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2009 Dec;71(6):787-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2265.2009.03540.x. Epub 2009 Feb 16.

Parathyroidectomy is safe and improves symptoms in elderly patients with primary 
hyperparathyroidism (PHPT).

Stechman MJ(1), Weisters M, Gleeson FV, Sadler GP, Mihai R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrine Surgery, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK. 
mstechman@doctors.org.uk

Comment in
    Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2009 Dec;71(6):766-7.

OBJECTIVE: Parathyroidectomy for primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is curative 
in over 95% of cases. Although PHPT affects up to 2% of the elderly population, 
whose life expectancy may be a decade or more, such patients may be denied 
surgery because of perceived risk. This study investigates the outcomes of 
surgery for PHPT in the elderly.
DESIGN AND PATIENTS: Consecutive patients with PHPT treated at a tertiary 
referral centre over 5 years.
MEASUREMENTS: A prospective database recorded clinical, biochemical and 
pathological information. Pasieka's parathyroid symptom scores were obtained 
pre-operatively and post-operatively, from a recent subgroup of 70 consecutive 
patients. Deaths during follow-up were identified using the NHS Strategic 
Tracing Service. Statistical analysis was performed with spss v12.0.
RESULTS: Between November 2002 and October 2007, 224 patients (17-89 years) 
underwent surgery for PHPT. In the subgroup comprising patients aged >75 years 
there was a significantly greater proportion of women (47/56 vs. 52/81, P < 
0.05). Pre-operative indices of these patients were similar to younger patients, 
as were proportions undergoing minimally invasive parathyroidectomy (n = 134) or 
bilateral neck exploration (n = 90). Patients >75 years had a longer hospital 
stay (1.6 vs. 0.8 days, P = 0.003). Pasieka's symptom scores improved 
significantly at 3-6 months postoperatively in all age groups. During a minimum 
median follow-up of 22 months, there were seven patients with 
persistent/recurrent disease. Median 2-year survival of those aged 60-74 and 
those over 75 ranged from 85-90%.
CONCLUSION: Parathyroidectomy is safe in the elderly and is associated with a 
significant improvement in symptoms. As survival after operation is similar to 
younger patients, surgery should be considered in all elderly patients with 
PHPT.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2265.2009.03540.x
PMID: 19222492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Nucl Med. 2009 Mar;50(3):376-81. doi: 10.2967/jnumed.108.055988. Epub 2009
Feb  17.

Cost-effectiveness of 99mTc-sestamibi in predicting response to chemotherapy in 
patients with lung cancer: systematic review and meta-analysis.

Mohan HK(1), Miles KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Guys & St. Thomas Hospitals, NHS Trust, 
London, United Kingdom. mohannhk@hotmail.com

Comment in
    J Nucl Med. 2009 Mar;50(3):338-9.

Multidrug resistance (MDR) is a major problem in lung cancer. 
(99m)Tc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile ((99m)Tc-MIBI) has been demonstrated to be a 
noninvasive marker for the diagnosis of MDR-related P glycoprotein and 
MDR-associated protein expression in various solid tumors. Studies have shown 
that (99m)Tc-MIBI could play a significant role in the management of lung 
cancer; for example, it could be used in the selection of patients for 
chemotherapy or radiotherapy or in combined protocols before the start of 
treatment. Accurate selection of chemosensitive patients with (99m)Tc-MIBI would 
result not only in effective treatment of patients but also in significant cost 
savings for health care providers. There is increasing pressure on health care 
providers to consider costs in medical decision making, particularly in the last 
decade, as several economic evaluations have appeared in the medical literature. 
The aims of this study were to undertake a systematic review of the performance 
of (99m)Tc-MIBI imaging in the assessment of treatment resistance in lung cancer 
and to use the findings of the review in a decision tree analysis of the 
potential cost-effectiveness of (99m)Tc-MIBI imaging in selecting lung cancer 
patients for chemotherapy.
METHODS: This study included a systematic review of the literature and a 
meta-analysis together with a cost-effectiveness analysis of studies with a 
decision tree analysis model.
RESULTS: Analysis of the studies revealed that the overall sensitivity of 
(99m)Tc-MIBI in identifying responders to chemotherapy was 94%, the specificity 
was 90%, and the accuracy was 92%. The sensitivity analysis revealed an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of greater than pound30,000 ( approximately 
$42,900) for the strategy of treating all patients to recover the small loss of 
life expectancy (7.5 d) associated with the use of (99m)Tc-MIBI to preselect 
patients for chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: (99m)Tc-MIBI SPECT can accurately predict which patients with lung 
cancer will respond to chemotherapy. The use of (99m)Tc-MIBI to preselect 
patients for chemotherapy has the potential to yield significant cost savings in 
the health care system without a significant loss of life expectancy for 
patients.

DOI: 10.2967/jnumed.108.055988
PMID: 19223414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2009 Mar;18(3):915-21. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-08-0685. Epub 2009 Feb 17.

Socioeconomic inequalities in cancer survival in New Zealand: the role of extent 
of disease at diagnosis.

Jeffreys M(1), Sarfati D, Stevanovic V, Tobias M, Lewis C, Pearce N, Blakely T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 39 
Whately Road, Bristol BS8 2PS, United Kingdom. mona.jeffreys@bristol.ac.uk

We examined socioeconomic inequalities in cancer survival in New Zealand among 
132,006 people ages 15 to 99 years who had a cancer registered (1994-2003) and 
were followed up to 2004. Relative survival rates (RSR) were calculated using 
deprivation-specific life tables. A census-based measure of socioeconomic 
position (New Zealand deprivation based on the 1996 census) based on residence 
at the time of cancer registration was used. All RSRs were age-standardized, and 
further standardization was used to investigate the effect of extent of disease 
at diagnosis on survival. Weighted linear regression was used to estimate the 
deprivation gap (slope index of inequality) between the most and least deprived 
cases. Socioeconomic inequalities in cancer survival were evident for all of the 
major cancer sites, with the deprivation gap being particularly high for 
prostate (-0.15), kidney and uterus (both -0.14), bladder (-0.12), colorectum 
(-0.10), and brain (+0.10). Accounting for extent of disease explained some of 
the inequalities in survival from breast and colorectal cancer and melanoma and 
all of the deprivation gaps in survival of cervical cancer; however, it did not 
affect RSRs for cancers of the kidney, uterus, and brain. No substantial 
differences between the total compared with the non-Māori population were found, 
indicating that the findings were not due to confounding by ethnicity. In 
summary, socioeconomic disparities in survival were consistent for nearly all 
cancer sites, persisted in ethnic-specific analyses, and were only partially 
explained by differential extent of disease at diagnosis. Further investigation 
of reasons for persisting inequalities is required.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-08-0685
PMID: 19223561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Stereotact Funct Neurosurg. 2009;87(2):114-9. doi: 10.1159/000202978. Epub
2009  Feb 18.

Gamma knife radiosurgery for recurrent and residual meningeal 
hemangiopericytomas.

Sun S(1), Liu A, Wang C.

Author information:
(1)Gamma Knife Center, Beijing Neurosurgical Institute, Tiantan Hospital, 
Capital University of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China. ssbwyl@vip.sina.com

AIMS: The aim of this study was to assess the clinical effects of Gamma Knife 
radiosurgery (GKS) for recurrent and residual meningeal hemangiopericytomas 
(M-HPC).
METHODS: Between December 1994 and December 2006, 22 patients with recurrent and 
residual M-HPC with 58 foci underwent GKS at the Gamma Knife Center of Beijing 
Neurosurgical Institute. Of these 22 patients, 13 patients (59.1%) were males 
and 9 patients (40.9%) were females. The mean age was 40.9 years (range 16-64 
years). The mean volume of these tumors was 5.4 cm(3) (range 0.1-37.2 cm(3)). 
The mean tumor margin dose was 13.5 Gy (range 10.0-20.0 Gy). The mean tumor 
central dose was 28.2 Gy (range 21.8-35.0 Gy). The mean prescription isodose 
line was 48.4% (range 30.0-70.0%).
RESULTS: The mean period of follow-up was 26.0 months (range 5-90 months). Of 
these 22 patients, intracranial metastases developed in 7 patients (31.8%), 
extracranial metastases developed in 3 patients (13.6%). Four patients died. The 
mean life expectancy of these 22 patients was 67.7 months (range 7-192 months). 
Of these 58 foci, radiological follow-up showed that 25 foci (43.1%) nearly 
disappeared, 13 foci (22.4%) shrunk, 14 foci (24.1%) remained stable and 6 foci 
(10.3%) enlarged. The overall tumor control rate was 89.7%.
CONCLUSION: GKS provides an effective and safe adjunct management for 
postoperative small-to-moderate sized M-HPC and plays an important role in 
controlling recurrent and residual M-HPC to avoid a repeat surgical resection.

(c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000202978
PMID: 19223698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Br J Nurs. 2009 Feb 12-25;18(3):158-61. doi: 10.12968/bjon.2009.18.3.39043.

Barriers to effective pain management in sickle cell disease.

Wright K(1), Adeosum O.

Author information:
(1)University of Greenwich, Eltham, UK.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a long-term condition that would benefit from a 
long-term conditions approach to its care and management. SCD is growing in 
prevalence, affecting 10,000-12,000 people in the UK, with SCD sufferers having 
an increased life expectancy from in the past. The most problematic aspect of 
managing SCD is management of the pain from vaso-occlusive crises. 
Vaso-occlusive pain is the most common reason for hospital admissions in people 
with SCD and accounts for large numbers of accident and emergency (A&E) 
attendances. A literature review was carried out to examine the management of 
vaso-occlusive pain in SCD. The review identified three main barriers to 
effective pain management in SCD: the manifestation of vaso-occlusive pain, the 
sociocultural factors affecting pain assessment, and the concerns regarding 
addiction and pseudo-addiction. Addressing these barriers will allow people with 
SCD to have their pain managed more effectively, improve their quality of life 
and potentially reduce A&E attendances and admissions to hospital.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2009.18.3.39043
PMID: 19223799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Mov Disord. 2009 Apr 30;24(6):819-25. doi: 10.1002/mds.22414.

Mortality in Parkinson's disease: a 20-year follow-up study.

Diem-Zangerl A(1), Seppi K, Wenning GK, Trinka E, Ransmayr G, Oberaigner W, 
Poewe W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, Austria.

Comment in
    Mov Disord. 2010 Mar 15;25(4):507-8.

We determined mortality rates and predictors of survival in 238 consecutive 
patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) with symptom onset between 1974 and 1984. 
All patients were regularly followed at the Movement Disorder Clinic (Department 
of Neurology at the Innsbruck Medical University) until December 31, 2004, or 
death. As of December 31, 2004, 189 patients had died. Standardized mortality 
ratios (SMRs) increased over time. SMRs were 0.6 (95% CI 0.4-1.0) by 5 years, 
0.9 (95% CI 0.7-1.2) by 10 years, 1.2 (95% CI 1.0-1.4) by 15 years, and 1.3 (95% 
CI 1.1-1.5) by 20 to 30 years. SMR for male patients was significantly increased 
to 1.3 (95% CI 1.1-1.6), whereas SMR increase of 1.2 (0.9-1.4) observed in 
female patients was not significant. Significantly increased SMRs were detected 
in patients with younger and older age of onset. Male gender, gait disorder, 
lack of tremor, and lack of asymmetry as presenting clinical features predicted 
poor survival in a Cox's proportional hazard analysis. This study demonstrates 
similar survival of patients with PD to the normal control population up to a 
disease duration of 10 years, followed by a modest rise of mortality with 
disease duration beyond 10 years compared with the general population. Under 
regular specialist care using all currently available therapies life expectancy 
in PD does not appear seriously compromised, but male gender, gait disorder, and 
absent rest tremor at presentation are associated with poorer long-term 
survival.

(c) 2009 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.22414
PMID: 19224612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Clin Oncol. 2009 Mar 20;27(9):1394-400. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.18.7658.
Epub  2009 Feb 17.

First-line gefitinib for patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
harboring epidermal growth factor receptor mutations without indication for 
chemotherapy.

Inoue A(1), Kobayashi K, Usui K, Maemondo M, Okinaga S, Mikami I, Ando M, 
Yamazaki K, Saijo Y, Gemma A, Miyazawa H, Tanaka T, Ikebuchi K, Nukiwa T, Morita 
S, Hagiwara K; North East Japan Gefitinib Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Tohoku University, Graduate School of Medicine and School of Medicine, Japan.

Erratum in
    J Clin Oncol. 2009 Jun 20;27(18):3071.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2009 Mar 20;27(9):1350-4.

PURPOSE: This multicenter phase II study was undertaken to investigate the 
efficacy and feasibility of gefitinib for patients with advanced non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) harboring epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations 
without indication for chemotherapy as a result of poor performance status (PS).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Chemotherapy-naïve patients with poor PS (patients 20 to 
74 years of age with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group PS 3 to 4, 75 to 79 
years of age with PS 2 to 4, and >or= 80 years of age with PS 1 to 4) who had 
EGFR mutations examined by the peptide nucleic acid-locked nucleic acid 
polymerase chain reaction clamp method were enrolled and received gefitinib (250 
mg/d) alone.
RESULTS: Between February 2006 and May 2007, 30 patients with NSCLC and poor PS, 
including 22 patients with PS 3 to 4, were enrolled. The overall response rate 
was 66% (90% CI, 51% to 80%), and the disease control rate was 90%. PS 
improvement rate was 79% (P < .00005); in particular, 68% of the 22 patients 
improved from >or= PS 3 at baseline to <or= PS 1. The median progression-free 
survival, median survival time, and 1-year survival rate were 6.5 months, 17.8 
months, and 63%, respectively. No treatment-related deaths were observed.
CONCLUSION: This is the first report indicating that EGFR mutation-positive 
patients with extremely poor PS benefit from first-line gefitinib. Because there 
previously has been no standard treatment for these patients with short life 
expectancy other than best supportive care, examination of EGFR mutations as a 
biomarker is recommended in this patient population.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2008.18.7658
PMID: 19224850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Jun;19(3):228-9. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp016. Epub
2009  Feb 17.

Preferences, quality of life and public health.

Leidl R.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp016
PMID: 19224935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Feb;64(2):161-3. doi:
10.1093/gerona/gln067.  Epub 2009 Feb 18.

Can we develop genetically tractable models to assess healthspan (rather than 
life span) in animal models?

Tatar M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, 
USA. marc_tatar@Brown.edu

Understanding healthspan is arguably the most relevant clinical, social, and 
economic feature of aging research. The model systems of worm, fly, and mouse 
are potentially powerful tools to achieve this aim. These models provide two 
unique approaches. The first is based on genetic screening for gain or loss of 
function mutations that ameliorate senescence. Genetic factors discovered by 
this process permit us to recognize causal and regulatory mechanisms of aging. A 
related screen looks for compounds that slow aging or act upon proteins that 
were initially identified from genetic analysis. The second research strategy 
uses manipulations of targeted genetic factors to test causal explanations for 
aging. These studies include transgenic organisms and genetic epistasis 
analysis. Overall, genetically driven research with model organisms is largely 
responsible for the breakthrough of aging biology in the past 15 years. Aging in 
these contexts, however, has been measured almost exclusively from cohort 
survival statistics such as life expectancy and age-specific mortality. This is 
for a good reason. Manipulated factors that extend life span are thought to 
unambiguously slow senescence and thus to reflect underlying causes of the aging 
process. But this approach is also common for a practical reason--healthspan is 
a poorly defined commodity in humans, let alone for genetic animal model 
systems. It was the consensus of the working session that making healthspan an 
operational metric would be an innovation needed for the genetic power of model 
systems to address this aspect of human aging.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gln067
PMCID: PMC2655017
PMID: 19225031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Pain Res Manag. 2008 Nov-Dec;13(6):506-10. doi: 10.1155/2008/635197.

Five-year follow-up of a cordotomy.

Meeuse JJ(1), Vervest AC, van der Hoeven JH, Reyners AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. j.j.meeuse@int.umcg.nl

Percutaneous cervical cordotomy is an invasive procedure to treat severe, 
opioid-resistant cancer pain. It is usually proposed for patients with a limited 
life expectancy. As a consequence, objective quantification of the long-term 
effects of this procedure is lacking. The present report describes a patient who 
was treated with a right-sided percutaneous cervical cordotomy for refractory 
cancer pain. Afterward, disseminated seminoma was diagnosed, which was cured 
with chemotherapy. Five years after the procedure, a qualitative and 
quantitative evaluation of the long-term effects was performed. Sensory 
dysfunction was observed in the left side of the body, but no motor neuron or 
autonomic dysfunction was observed. The influence of these long-term effects on 
the patient's daily activities was limited.

La cordotomie cervicale percutanée est une intervention effractive visant à 
traiter les douleurs intenses résistantes aux opiacés. On la propose 
généralement aux patients dont l’espérance de vie est limitée. C’est pourquoi il 
est difficile d’en quantifier les effets à long terme. Le présent rapport décrit 
un patient qui a été traité par cordotomie cervicale percutanée droite pour une 
douleur cancéreuse rebelle. Par la suite, on a diagnostiqué chez ce patient un 
séminome diffus qui a pu être traité par chimiothérapie. Cinq ans après 
l’intervention, on a réalisé une évaluation qualitative et quantitative des 
effets à long terme de l’intervention. Une dysfonction sensorielle a été 
observée du côté gauche du corps, mais on n’a noté aucune dysfonction du neurone 
moteur ou du système nerveux autonome. Ces effets à long terme ont eu peu 
d’influence sur les activités quotidiennes du patient.

DOI: 10.1155/2008/635197
PMCID: PMC2799320
PMID: 19225608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. World J Surg. 2009 Aug;33(8):1783-4; author reply 1786-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00268-009-9929-1.

Mirizzi syndrome: diagnosis, treatment and a plea for a simplified 
classification.

Solis-Caxaj CA.

Erratum in
    World J Surg. 2009 Aug;33(8):1785.

Comment on
    World J Surg. 2008 Oct;32(10):2237-43.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-009-9929-1
PMID: 19225836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2009 Apr;53(4):489-95. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-6576.2008.01808.x. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

ECMO in ARDS: a long-term follow-up study regarding pulmonary morphology and 
function and health-related quality of life.

Lindén VB(1), Lidegran MK, Frisén G, Dahlgren P, Frenckner BP, Larsen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of ECMO, Astrid Lindgren Children's Hospital, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden. 
viveka.linden@karolinska.se

BACKGROUND: A high survival rate can be achieved in patients with severe acute 
respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation 
(ECMO). The technique and the costs are, however, debated and follow-up studies 
in survivors are few. The aim of this study was to evaluate long-term pulmonary 
health after ECMO and severe ARDS.
METHODS: Twenty-one long-term survivors of severe ARDS and ECMO were studied in 
a follow-up program including high-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) of the 
lungs, extensive pulmonary function tests, pulmonary scintigraphy and the 
pulmonary disease-specific St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ).
RESULTS: The majority of patients had residual lung parenchymal changes on HRCT 
suggestive of fibrosis, but the extension of morphologic abnormalities was 
limited and without the typical anterior localization presumed to indicate 
ventilator-associated lung injury. Pulmonary function tests revealed good 
restitution with mean values in the lower normal range, while T(1/2) for outwash 
of inhaled isotope was abnormal in all patients consistent with subclinical 
obstructivity. Most patients had reduced health-related quality of life (HRQoL), 
according to the SGRQ, but were stating less respiratory symptoms than 
conventionally treated ARDS patients in previous studies. The majority were 
integrated in normal work.
CONCLUSION: The majority of ECMO-treated ARDS patients have good physical and 
social functioning. However, lung parenchymal changes on HRCT suggestive of 
fibrosis and minor pulmonary function abnormalities remain common and can be 
detected more than 1 year after ECMO. Furthermore, most patients experience a 
reduction in HRQoL due to the pulmonary sequelae.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-6576.2008.01808.x
PMID: 19226296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Int J Androl. 2009 Dec;32(6):587-98. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.2008.00951.x.
Epub  2009 Feb 10.

Hypogonadism, ED, metabolic syndrome and obesity: a pathological link supporting 
cardiovascular diseases.

Corona G(1), Mannucci E, Forti G, Maggi M.

Author information:
(1)Andrology Unit, Department of Clinical Physiopathology, University of 
Florence, Florence, Italy.

Hypogonadism, erectile dysfunction (ED), visceral adiposity, insulin resistance 
and metabolic syndrome (MetS) often coexist in the same subjects. This cluster 
of abnormalities is associated with an increased risk of diabetes and 
cardiovascular diseases (CVD), affecting not only quality of life but also life 
expectancy. Longitudinal studies have also demonstrated that ED and male 
hypogonadism could be considered surrogate markers of incident CVD and MetS. 
However, how androgens signal fat depots and lessen them is still a matter of 
active research and whether or not low testosterone could play a pathogenetic 
role in CVD is still under debate. Hence, pathogenetic mechanisms linking 
hypogonadism with obesity and insulin resistance appear to be complex and often 
multi-directional. Visceral obesity can probably be considered a relevant cause 
of hypogonadism but at the same time, hypogonadism could be a cause of obesity 
and insulin resistance, consequently establishing a vicious cycle. To provide a 
critical analysis of these issues, a comprehensive literary search was carried 
out to discuss the relationship between insulin resistance ED, visceral 
adiposity, MetS and hypogonadism focusing on their possible involvement in the 
development of CVD.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2605.2008.00951.x
PMID: 19226407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. BMC Health Serv Res. 2009 Feb 18;9:32. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-32.

A pharmaco-economic analysis of patients with schizophrenia switching to generic 
risperidone involving a possible compliance loss.

Treur M(1), Heeg B, Möller HJ, Schmeding A, van Hout B.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit BV, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. mtreur@pharmerit.com

BACKGROUND: As schizophrenia patients are typically suspicious of, or are 
hostile to changes they may be reluctant to accept generic substitution, 
possibly affecting compliance. This may counteract drug costs savings due to 
less symptom control and increased hospitalization risk. Although compliance 
losses following generic substitution have not been quantified so far, one can 
estimate the possible health-economic consequences. The current study aims to do 
so by considering the case of risperidone in Germany.
METHODS: An existing DES model was adapted to compare staying on branded 
risperidone with generic substitution. Differences include the probability of 
non-compliance and medication costs. Incremental probability of non-compliance 
after generic substitution was varied between 2.5% and 10%, while generic 
medication costs were assumed to be 40% lower. Effect of medication price was 
assessed as well as the effect of applying compliance losses to all treatment 
settings. The probability of staying on branded risperidone being cost-effective 
was calculated for various outcomes of a hypothetical study that would 
investigate non-compliance following generic substitution of risperidone.
RESULTS: If the incremental probability of non-compliance after generic 
substitution is 2.5%, 5.0%, 7.5% and 10% respectively, incremental effects of 
staying on branded risperidone are 0.004, 0.007, 0.011 and 0.015 Quality 
Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). Incremental costs are euro757, euro343, -euro123 
and -euro554 respectively. Benefits of staying on branded risperidone include 
improved symptom control and fewer hospitalizations. If generic substitution 
results in a 5.2% higher probability of non-compliance, the model predicts 
staying on branded risperidone to be cost-effective (NICE threshold of 30,000 
per QALY gained). Compliance losses of more than 6.9% makes branded risperidone 
the dominant alternative. Results are sensitive to the locations at which 
compliance loss is applied and the price of generic risperidone. The probability 
that staying on branded risperidone is cost-effective would increase with larger 
compliance differences and more patients included in the hypothetical study.
CONCLUSION: The model predicts that it is cost-effective to keep a patient with 
schizophrenia in Germany on branded risperidone instead of switching him/her to 
generic risperidone (assuming a 40% reduction in medication costs), if the 
incremental probability of becoming non-compliant after generic substitution 
exceeds 5.2%.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-32
PMCID: PMC2652458
PMID: 19226465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Stat Med. 2009 Jul 10;28(15):2012-27. doi: 10.1002/sim.3556.

Parametric estimation of quality adjusted lifetime (QAL) distribution in 
progressive illness--death model.

Pradhan B(1), Dewanji A.

Author information:
(1)SQC and OR Unit, Indian Statistical Institute, 203 B.T. Road, Kolkata 700108, 
India. bis@isical.ac.in

In this work, we consider the parametric estimation of quality adjusted lifetime 
(QAL) distribution in progressive illness-death models. The main idea of this 
paper is to derive the theoretical distribution of QAL for the progressive 
illness-death models, under parametric models for the sojourn time distributions 
in different states, and then replace the model parameters by their estimates 
obtained by standard techniques of survival analysis. The method of estimation 
of the model parameters is also described. A data set of IBCSG Trial V has been 
analyzed for illustration. Extension to more general illness-death models is 
also discussed.

Copyright 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3556
PMID: 19226565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Palliat Care. 2008 Winter;24(4):282-4.

Use of the Palliative Performance Scale in survival prediction for terminally 
ill patients in Western Newfoundland, Canada.

Lau F, Bell H, Dean M, Downing M, Lesperance M.

PMID: 19227023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2008 Dec;39(6):224-32. doi: 10.1007/BF03078161.

[The end of life in Dutch nursing homes].

[Article in Dutch]

Deliens L(1), Brandt HE, Ribbe MW.

Author information:
(1)Afdeling Sociale Geneeskunde, EMGO Instituut, VU medisch centrum, Amsterdam. 
l.deliens@vumc.nl

BACKGROUND: Nursing homes (NH) are less well studied than hospices or hospitals 
as a setting for terminal care. The aim of this study is to identify the direct 
causes and underlying diseases of the terminal phase in Dutch nursing homes.
METHODS: A prospective study of terminally ill patients with a maximum 
life-expectancy of (less than) 6 weeks in 16 NHs in the Netherlands. 544 
long-term care patients were enrolled in the study.
RESULTS: The terminal phase was marked with symptoms of low fluid and food 
intake, general weakness and respiratory problems/dyspnea. Direct causes of 
these conditions were diseases of the respiratory system (mainly pneumonia), and 
general disorders, e.g., cachexia. Mental and behavioral disorders and diseases 
of the circulatory system were the two main underlying diseases of the terminal 
phase. Per 100 beds per year, 34 NH patients entered a terminal phase. Most 
patients (82.9%) died within seven days of inclusion. End-of-life decisions 
occurred in 70% of all deceased patients, most often made on the 
psycho-geriatric wards.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing good and timely palliative care to elderly patients in 
Dutch nursing homes is a major medical and societal challenge. In this study, 
the terminal phase of the mainly non-cancer patients is difficult to predict, 
and once diagnosed, little time is left.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03078161
PMID: 19227590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Soc Sci Res. 2008 Dec;37(4):1235-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2007.07.004.

Long and happy living: trends and patterns of happy life expectancy in the U.S., 
1970-2000.

Yang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Population Research Center and Center on Aging at 
NORC, The University of Chicago, 1126 E. 59th Street, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. 
yangy@uchicago.edu

This study assesses the trends and differentials in length of quality life in 
the U.S. population as measured by happy life expectancy in 1970, 1980, 1990, 
and 2000. The analysis combines age-specific prevalence rates of subjective 
well-being from a large nationally representative survey and life table 
estimates of mortality in decennial Census years. Employing the period 
prevalence-rate life table method--Sullivan method, the analysis finds evidence 
for improvement in quality of life in the U.S. Happy life expectancy largely 
increased in both absolute terms (number of years) and relative terms 
(proportion of life) over time at all adult ages examined. And increases in 
total life expectancy were mainly contributed by increases in expectancy in 
happy years rather than unhappy years. Happy life expectancy is longer than 
active life expectancy. And there has been greater compression of unhappiness 
than compression of morbidity. There are substantial differentials in happy life 
expectancy by sex and race because of differential prevalence rates of 
happiness. Women and whites had longer years of total and happy life 
expectancies at most ages and dates, while men and blacks had greater 
proportions of happy life expectancies across the three decades. Although race 
differentials generally decreased at older ages and with time, relative 
disadvantages of blacks persisted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2007.07.004
PMCID: PMC3609702
PMID: 19227700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2008 Dec;55(12):811-21.

[Administrative study to calculate the healthy life expectancy of local 
governments in Tokyo].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueki T.

PMID: 19227922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Haemophilia. 2009 Jul;15(4):853-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.01987.x.
Epub  2009 Feb 18.

Co-morbidity in the ageing haemophilia patient: the down side of increased life 
expectancy.

Mauser-Bunschoten EP(1), Fransen Van De Putte DE, Schutgens RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Postbox 85500, 
Utrecht 3508 GA, The Netherlands. e.mauserbunschoten@umcutrecht.nl

Because of an increased life expectancy, (age-related) co-morbidity is becoming 
a common occurrence in haemophilia patients. In this review, haemophilia-related 
and non-haemophilia-related medical problems, treatment recommendations and 
psychosocial consequences in ageing haemophilia patients are discussed. 
Haemophilic arthropathy is an important cause of pain and disability, and a 
frequent indication for surgery in haemophilia patients. In addition, many adult 
patients are infected with hepatitis C or HIV, the consequences and treatment of 
which can add to physical and mental discomfort. Moreover, inhibitors against 
factor VIII can also develop in adulthood, especially in patients with mild 
haemophilia. Hypertension is reported to occur more often in haemophilia 
patients than in the general population. Other internal problems, like renal 
abnormalities, overweight, diabetes mellitus and hypercholesterolemia are 
discussed. Haemophilia seems to protect against cardiovascular disease, although 
the incidence is increasing. Recommendations are given on dealing with tooth 
extractions, surgical interventions and sexuality problems in patients with 
haemophilia. In addition to haemophilia in itself, co-morbidity has a major 
psychological impact, and an important effect on quality of life. It can also 
result in complex treatment regimens, in which coordination between health care 
workers is essential.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.01987.x
PMID: 19228203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Intellect Disabil Res. 2009 May;53(5):419-25. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2788.2009.01158.x. Epub 2009 Feb 18.

Down syndrome: a cardiovascular perspective.

Vis JC(1), Duffels MG, Winter MM, Weijerman ME, Cobben JM, Huisman SA, Mulder 
BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

This review focuses on the heart and vascular system in patients with Down 
syndrome. A clear knowledge on the wide spectrum of various abnormalities 
associated with this syndrome is essential for skillful management of cardiac 
problems in patients with Down syndrome. Epidemiology of congenital heart 
defects, cardiovascular aspects and thyroid-related cardiac impairment in 
patients with Down syndrome will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2788.2009.01158.x
PMID: 19228275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. N Engl J Med. 2009 Feb 19;360(8):774-83. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa0805151.

Quality of life after late invasive therapy for occluded arteries.

Mark DB(1), Pan W, Clapp-Channing NE, Anstrom KJ, Ross JR, Fox RS, Devlin GP, 
Martin CE, Adlbrecht C, Cowper PA, Ray LD, Cohen EA, Lamas GA, Hochman JS; 
Occluded Artery Trial Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research Group, Duke Clinical Research Institute, and the Department 
of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: The open-artery hypothesis postulates that late opening of an 
infarct-related artery after myocardial infarction will improve clinical 
outcomes. We evaluated the quality-of-life and economic outcomes associated with 
the use of this strategy.
METHODS: We compared percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) plus stenting with 
medical therapy alone in high-risk patients in stable condition who had a 
totally occluded infarct-related artery 3 to 28 days after myocardial 
infarction. In 951 patients (44% of those eligible), we assessed quality of life 
by means of a battery of tests that included two principal outcome measures, the 
Duke Activity Status Index (DASI) (which measures cardiac physical function on a 
scale from 0 to 58, with higher scores indicating better function) and the 
Medical Outcomes Study 36-Item Short-Form Mental Health Inventory 5 (which 
measures psychological well-being). Structured quality-of-life interviews were 
performed at baseline and at 4, 12, and 24 months. Costs of treatment were 
assessed for 458 of 469 patients in the United States (98%), and 2-year 
cost-effectiveness was estimated.
RESULTS: At 4 months, the medical-therapy group, as compared with the PCI group, 
had a clinically marginal decrease of 3.4 points in the DASI score (P=0.007). At 
1 and 2 years, the differences were smaller. No significant differences in 
psychological well-being were observed. For the 469 patients in the United 
States, cumulative 2-year costs were approximately $7,000 higher in the PCI 
group (P<0.001), and the quality-adjusted survival was marginally longer in the 
medical-therapy group.
CONCLUSIONS: PCI was associated with a marginal advantage in cardiac physical 
function at 4 months but not thereafter. At 2 years, medical therapy remained 
significantly less expensive than routine PCI and was associated with marginally 
longer quality-adjusted survival. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00004562.)

2009 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa0805151
PMCID: PMC2724193
PMID: 19228620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 May;64(5):522-9. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glp017.  Epub 2009 Feb 19.

Reduced incidence and delayed occurrence of fatal neoplastic diseases in growth 
hormone receptor/binding protein knockout mice.

Ikeno Y(1), Hubbard GB, Lee S, Cortez LA, Lew CM, Webb CR, Berryman DE, List EO, 
Kopchick JJ, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, San Antonio, TX 
78245-3207, USA. ikeno@uthscsa.edu

Although studies of Ames and Snell dwarf mice have suggested possible important 
roles of the growth hormone (GH)/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) axis in 
aging and age-related diseases, the results cannot rule out the possibility of 
other hormonal changes playing an important role in the life extension exhibited 
by these dwarf mice. Therefore, growth hormone receptor/binding protein (GHR/BP) 
knockout (KO) mice would be valuable animals to directly assess the roles of 
somatotropic axis in aging and age-related diseases because the primary hormonal 
change is due to GH/IGF-1 deficiency. Our pathological findings showed GHR/BP KO 
mice to have a lower incidence and delayed occurrence of fatal neoplastic 
lesions compared with their wild-type littermates. These changes of fatal 
neoplasms are similar to the effects observed with calorie restriction and 
therefore could possibly be a major contributing factor to the extended life 
span observed in the GHR/BP KO mice.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glp017
PMCID: PMC2667132
PMID: 19228785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Feb;64(2):187-91. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gln061. Epub 2009 Feb 19.

Biological approaches to mechanistically understand the healthy life span 
extension achieved by calorie restriction and modulation of hormones.

Barzilai N(1), Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Aging Research, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 
Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461, USA. barzilai@aecom.yu.edu

Calorie restriction and reduced somatotropic (growth hormone and insulin-like 
growth factor-1) signaling have a widespread though not universal ability to 
extend life. These interventions are considered central tools to understanding 
the downstream events that lead to the increase in healthy life span. As these 
approaches have been validated, the animals phenotyped, and the mechanisms 
proposed, many challenges have emerged. In this article, we give several 
examples and propose several considerations, opportunities, and approaches that 
may identify major mechanisms through which these interventions exert their 
effects, and which may lead to drug therapy to increase "health span."

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gln061
PMCID: PMC2655014
PMID: 19228789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Stroke. 2009 Apr;40(4):1304-9. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.534776. Epub 2009
Feb  19.

New-onset constipation at acute stage after first stroke: incidence, risk 
factors, and impact on the stroke outcome.

Su Y(1), Zhang X, Zeng J, Pei Z, Cheung RT, Zhou QP, Ling L, Yu J, Tan J, Zhang 
Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Stroke Center, the First Affiliated Hospital, Sun 
Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, PR China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The prevalence of constipation after stroke varies from 
30% to 60%. The incidence of new-onset constipation during the early stage of 
stroke remains uncertain. The present study was designed to investigate the 
prevalence of new-onset constipation, its risk factors, and its impact on stroke 
outcome in patients with their first stroke at acute stage.
METHODS: This is a prospective cohort study of 154 patients admitted with their 
first stroke. New-onset constipation during the first 4 weeks of stroke was 
recorded, using the Rome II criteria for constipation. Demographics, 
characteristics of the stroke, laboratory parameters, and use of medications 
were evaluated as risk factors for constipation. Death, recurrent stroke, and 
handicap at 12 weeks were regarded as poor outcome. The impact of constipation 
on poor outcome was also studied.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of new-onset constipation was 55.2% at 4 weeks 
poststroke. The occurrence of constipation was associated with dependence 
(P<0.01) and use of bedpan for defecation (P<0.05). Among patients with moderate 
stroke severity (NIHSS 4 to 11) at baseline, constipation at 4 weeks was 
associated with a poor outcome at 12 weeks.
CONCLUSIONS: New-onset constipation is a common complication of acute stroke. 
Its occurrence is associated with dependence and use of bedpan for defecation. 
Its development may predict a poor outcome at 12 weeks in patients with 
moderately severe stroke.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.108.534776
PMID: 19228840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Curr Oncol. 2009 Jan;16(1):49-54. doi: 10.3747/co.v16i1.172.

Demographic profile and utilization statistics of a Canadian inpatient 
