this cohort; with stomach, liver and lung cancer the three most frequent cancers 
in both sexes. YLL and AYLL reflect the cost of dying from cancer in terms of 
years of life expectancy lost. The different mortality statistics used here may 
be useful in public health considerations of cancer burden.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp020
PMID: 19269981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2009 Feb;38(2):99-105.

Trends in long-term cancer survival in Singapore: 1968-2002.

Lim GH(1), Wong CS, Chow KY, Bhalla V, Chia KS.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Molecular Epidemiology, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: The life expectancy of cancer patients has increased in recent 
decades due to better diagnostic and screening tools as well as better treatment 
modalities. Hence, it becomes increasingly important to study trends in 
long-term cancer patient survival in order to document that medical progress has 
conveyed benefit at the population level. In this paper, we assessed the 
long-term survival experience of all incident cancer patients in Singapore.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study population consisted of patients diagnosed with 
single primary invasive cancer from 1 January 1968 to 31 December 2002, and 
passively followed up to 31 December 2005. The data was derived from the 
Singapore Cancer Registry, which has been in existence since 1968. Relative 
survival via the period approach was used to provide a more up-to-date estimate 
by looking at recent cohorts of patients. Sex- and stage-specific survival was 
compared for each cancer.
RESULTS: The overall age-standardised 10-year relative survival ratios for the 
calendar years of 1998 to 2002 were 30.5% in males and 44.2% in females. A 
steady improvement in overall long-term cancer survival was observed over the 
study period. This upward trend in survival was observed in localised tumours 
and cancers with a favourable prognosis such as breast, cervical and colorectal 
cancers. In contrast, survival of cancers with poor prognosis such as lung, 
liver and pancreas remained low.
CONCLUSIONS: Although factors such as changes in diagnostic criteria could 
influence the trend in survival, we believed that the improvement in survival 
predominantly reflected real progress in cancer control in Singapore.

PMID: 19271035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Osteoporos Int. 2009 Jun;20(6):853-68. doi: 10.1007/s00198-009-0844-y. Epub
2009  Mar 7.

An updated systematic review of Health State Utility Values for osteoporosis 
related conditions.

Peasgood T(1), Herrmann K, Kanis JA, Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield Regent Court, Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, UK S1 
4DA.

INTRODUCTION: An important component of cost effectiveness models in the field 
of osteoporosis is the set of Health State Utility Values (HSUVs) used for key 
fracture outcomes. This paper presents a review of HSUVs for key osteoporotic 
states (hip, wrist, shoulder, clinical, and morphometric vertebral fractures, 
established osteoporosis, and interaction of several fractures). It provides an 
update to the systematic review conducted by Brazier et al. (Osteoporos Int 
13(10):768-776, 2002).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic search was undertaken of the main literature 
databases for HSUVs for established osteoporosis, vertebral, hip, wrist, and 
shoulder fractures were identified. Studies meeting the inclusion criteria were 
reviewed in terms of the patient population, the method of describing health (if 
not obtained directly from patients), the method of valuing health states and 
the source of values.
RESULTS: Estimates of Health State Utility Values were found across the 
osteoporosis conditions from 27 studies. A wide range of empirical estimates 
were found, partly due to differences in valuation technique (VAS, SG, TTO), 
descriptive system and differences in respondents (population or patient), the 
perspective of the task (own health or a scenario), sample size, and study 
quality.
CONCLUSION: The paper provides a set of multipliers representing the loss in 
HSUVs for use as a "reference case" in cost-effectiveness models.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-009-0844-y
PMID: 19271098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Gastroenterology. 2009 Jun;136(7):2101-2114.e1-6. doi: 
10.1053/j.gastro.2009.02.062. Epub 2009 Mar 6.

A cost-utility analysis of ablative therapy for Barrett's esophagus.

Inadomi JM(1), Somsouk M, Madanick RD, Thomas JP, Shaheen NJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, San Francisco General Hospital, San Francisco, 
California 94110, USA. jinadomi@medsfgh.ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Recommendations for patients with Barrett's esophagus (BE) 
include endoscopic surveillance with esophagectomy for early-stage cancer, 
although new technologies to ablate dysplasia and metaplasia are available. This 
study compares the cost utility of ablation with that of endoscopic surveillance 
strategies.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was created to examine a population of 
patients with BE (mean age 50), with separate analyses for patients with no 
dysplasia, low-grade dysplasia (LGD), or high-grade dysplasia (HGD). Strategies 
compared were no endoscopic surveillance; endoscopic surveillance with ablation 
for incident dysplasia; immediate ablation followed by endoscopic surveillance 
in all patients or limited to patients in whom metaplasia persisted; and 
esophagectomy. Ablation modalities modeled included radiofrequency, argon plasma 
coagulation, multipolar electrocoagulation, and photodynamic therapy.
RESULTS: Endoscopic ablation for patients with HGD could increase life 
expectancy by 3 quality-adjusted years at an incremental cost of <$6,000 
compared with no intervention. Patients with LGD or no dysplasia can also be 
optimally managed with ablation, but continued surveillance after eradication of 
metaplasia is expensive. If ablation permanently eradicates >or=28% of LGD or 
40% of nondysplastic metaplasia, ablation would be preferred to surveillance.
CONCLUSIONS: Endoscopic ablation could be the preferred strategy for managing 
patients with BE with HGD. Ablation might also be preferred in subjects with LGD 
or no dysplasia, but the cost effectiveness depends on the long-term 
effectiveness of ablation and whether surveillance endoscopy can be discontinued 
after successful ablation. As further postablation data become available, the 
optimal management strategy will be clarified.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2009.02.062
PMCID: PMC2693449
PMID: 19272389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Soc Sci Med. 2009 May;68(9):1617-24. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.02.011.
Epub  2009 Mar 9.

Infant mortality and diminished entelechy in three European countries.

Bruckner TA(1), Catalano RA.

Author information:
(1)UC Berkeley School of Public Health, 322 Warren Hall, Box 7360, Berkeley, CA 
94720-7360, USA. brucknet@berkeley.edu

Individual-level research reports that adverse environmental conditions during 
infancy increase the risk of mortality later in life. Extending this model to 
populations implies what we call the "diminished entelechy" hypothesis in which 
birth cohorts subjected to virulent environmental insults early in life 
experience increased mortality at older ages and do not realize their otherwise 
expected lifespan. Controversy remains as to whether the individual-level 
findings generalize to populations. We test the "diminished entelechy" 
hypothesis by measuring the association between infant mortality and life 
expectancy at age one for males and females born in Sweden (1751-1912), Denmark 
(1835-1913), and England and Wales (1841-1912). Time-series methods control for 
trends and other forms of autocorrelation that could confound the associations. 
Results support diminished entelechy in Sweden and England and Wales, but not in 
Denmark, in that environmental insults during infancy appear associated with 
reduced cohort lifespan. We then explored when in the life course the sequelae 
of infancy appear most salient. We examined cohort associations between infant 
mortality and mortality during childhood (1-4 years), youth (5-19 years), 
adulthood (20-54 years), and old-age (55-79 years). We generally find that 
infant cohort effects appear to "program" the mortality experience in youth, but 
not in adulthood or old-age. These findings conflict with the notion that 
improved conditions during infancy shaped the historical decline of old-age 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.02.011
PMID: 19272687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Rheumatol. 2009 Apr;36(4):736-42. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.080813. Epub 2009
Feb  27.

Safety and efficacy of the selective costimulation modulator abatacept in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis receiving background methotrexate: a 5-year 
extended phase IIB study.

Westhovens R(1), Kremer JM, Moreland LW, Emery P, Russell AS, Li T, Aranda R, 
Becker JC, Qi K, Dougados M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, KU Leuven, Herestraat 49, B 3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
rene.westhovens@uz.kuleuven.ac.be

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of abatacept plus methotrexate 
(MTX) over 5 years in patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
METHODS: Patients were randomized to abatacept 10 or 2 mg/kg or placebo, plus 
MTX. Patients completing the 1-year, double-blind period entered the longterm 
extension, where all patients received a fixed dose of abatacept ~10 mg/kg. We 
describe safety analyses for all patients who received at least 1 dose of 
abatacept and efficacy analyses for the original ~10 mg/kg abatacept-treated 
group, over 5 years.
RESULTS: Of the 235 abatacept- or placebo-treated patients completing the 
double-blind period, 219 entered the longterm extension; 130 (59.4%) were 
continuing at Year 5. No unexpected safety events were observed during the 
longterm extension compared with the double-blind period. Incidence rates of 
adverse events (AE) and serious AE were 489.7 and 20.0/100 patient-years in Year 
1 versus 374.9 and 18.9/100 patient-years in the cumulative period, 
respectively. Using exploratory analyses, improvements observed at Year 1 in the 
10 mg/kg group were maintained at Year 5, as assessed by ACR responses 
(ACR20=77.1% vs 82.7%; ACR50=53.0% vs 65.4%; ACR70=28.9% vs 40.4% at Years 1 and 
5, respectively) and disease activity (Low Disease Activity State=48.2% vs 
58.5%; Disease Activity Score-28-defined remission=25.3% vs 45.3% at Years 1 and 
5, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Abatacept maintained the efficacy observed at Year 1 over 5 years of 
treatment, and demonstrated consistent safety and tolerability. These data, 
along with relatively high retention rates, support the longterm clinical 
benefit provided by selective T cell costimulation modulation.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRY: ClinicalTrials.gov; clinical trial registration number: 
NCT00254293.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.080813
PMID: 19273451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Ophthalmic Plast Reconstr Surg. 2009 Jan-Feb;25(1):37-41. doi: 
10.1097/IOP.0b013e318192a27e.

Primary orbital intraosseous hemangioma.

Madge SN(1), Simon S, Abidin Z, Ghabrial R, Davis G, McNab A, Selva D.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Adelaide, 
Adelaide, South Australia. drsimonmadge@gmail.com

PURPOSE: Primary orbital intraosseous hemangioma represents a rare, 
histopathologically benign, vascular tumor of the bony orbit. Only 41 cases have 
been documented in the literature to date. The authors present 4 new cases of 
the disease and review the relevant literature.
METHODS: Retrospective, multicenter case note analysis of 4 patients with 
histopathologically confirmed primary orbital intraosseous hemangioma and a 
systematic review of the English-language literature.
RESULTS: Four new cases of cavernous haemangiomata are presented with varying 
clinical manifestations, radiologic appearances, and treatments. Literature 
review (including the present 4 cases) yielded 45 cases in total. Presentation 
is often in the fourth and fifth decades (42% cases), the frontal bone being 
most commonly affected, followed by the zygoma, sphenoid, and maxilla. 
Intracranial extension occurred in 4 cases. Median duration of symptoms before 
presentation was 12 months (range, 1 month to 15 years) and the most frequent 
presentation was a painless mass, often on the orbital rim. The radiologic 
findings are reviewed. Histopathologically, the lesions were cavernous in 80%, 
capillary in 17%, and mixed in 3%; the capillary subtype seemed to be associated 
with more aggressive disease. Treatment was mainly by surgical excision and 
occasionally complicated by significant blood loss; preoperative embolization of 
lesions may reduce bleeding.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary orbital intraosseous hemangioma is a rare vascular tumor 
that typically presents with a mass effect in the orbits of patients in the 
fourth and fifth decades of life. Preoperatively, it is important to be 
cognizant of the possible diagnosis as surgery can be complicated by 
life-threatening hemorrhage.

DOI: 10.1097/IOP.0b013e318192a27e
PMID: 19273921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Br J Nurs. 2009 Mar 12-25;18(5):301-2, 304-7. doi: 
10.12968/bjon.2009.18.5.40542.

Nutrition through the life span. Part 3: adults aged 65 years and over.

Shepherd A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary and Intermediate Care, Florence Nightingale School of 
Nursing, King's College, London.

The UK has an ageing population, but this is not being matched by a similar 
increase in healthy life expectancy. The greatest challenge in the 21st century 
will be to improve the quality of life as ageing occurs. Health is the most 
important prerequisite for people to enjoy life in their older years 
(Brundtland, 1988). Diet is one factor that is believed to play a key role in 
the prevention and treatment of chronic diseases associated with ageing. The 
third and final part of this series addressing the concept of nutrition through 
the lifespan seeks to educate health-care professionals as to what constitutes a 
healthy diet for the elderly population, and gives practical guidance as to how 
to try and prevent the ever-growing problem of malnutrition within this age 
group. It is suggested that when the older adult is hospitalized their risk of 
malnutrition increases. Therefore, some guidance for the use of oral nutritional 
supplements in this population is given. Good nutrition and physical exercise 
are essential for healthy ageing from both a physical and psychological 
perspective (NICE, 2008). Therefore a multidisciplinary life course approach to 
ageing is vital to minimizing its complications for quality of life and 
subsequent public health (Denny, 2008).

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2009.18.5.40542
PMID: 19273990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Acta Oncol. 2009;48(7):1019-25. doi: 10.1080/02841860902795240.

Chemotherapy and quality of life in NSCLC PS 2 patients.

Helbekkmo N(1), Strøm HH, Sundstrøm SH, Aasebø U, Von Plessen C, Bremnes RM; 
Norwegian Lung Cancer Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Tromsø and Dept. of Oncology, 
University Hospital of Northern Norway, Tromsø, Norway. 
nina.helbekkmo@fagmed.uit.no

INTRODUCTION: Nearly 40% of patients with advanced NSCLC are in performance 
status (PS) 2. These patients have a shorter life expectancy than PS 0/1 
patients and they are underrepresented in clinical trials. Data on how 
platinum-based combination chemotherapy affects Health Related Quality of Life 
(HRQOL) of patients with PS 2 are scarce and the treatment of this important 
group of patients is controversial.
METHODS: A national multicenter phase III study on platinum based chemotherapy 
to 432 advanced NSCLC patients included 123 patients with PS 2. To explore the 
treatment impact on HRQOL, the development of HRQOL during the first nine weeks 
were compared between PS 2 and PS 0/1 patients. We used the EORTC QLQ-C30 and 
QLQ-LC13 questionnaires. Standardized area under the curve for all HRQOL items, 
and HRQOL responses classified as better, stable or worse, were compared between 
the groups.
RESULTS: Whereas the demographic data at baseline were well balanced between the 
groups, the PS 2 patients had significantly worse function and more severe 
symptoms than the PS 0/1 patients. In response to combination chemotherapy, the 
PS 2 patients had a more profound improvement of global QOL, cognitive function, 
fatigue, dyspnea, sleeping problems and appetite loss in comparison to the PS 
0/1 group.
CONCLUSIONS: PS 2 NSCLC patients seem to achieve valuable HRQOL benefits from 
platinum-based combination therapy. Prospective clinical studies with predefined 
HRQOL outcomes in PS 2 patients are needed to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.1080/02841860902795240
PMID: 19274496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Consult Pharm. 2009 Jan;24(1):30-6, 41-4. doi: 10.4140/tcp.n.2009.30.

Pharmacoepidemiology of the elderly in Brazil: state of the art.

Ribeiro AQ(1), de A Acurcio F, Wick JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Health, Federal University of Viçosa, Viçosa 
(MG), Brazil. andreiaribeiro@hotmail.com

With improving socioeconomic conditions, longer life spans have become more 
common in developing countries-those with a growing economy increasing 
production, per capita consumption, and income. This has been the case in 
Brazil. If, on one hand, this phenomenon undoubtedly represents a major social 
achievement, there is also consensus that it provides a set of challenges for 
Brazilian society. Among these challenges: promoting rational drug use in the 
elderly. This article aims at presenting the current state of the 
pharmacoepidemiology of aging in Brazil. It describes the main components and 
needed advances in this field of knowledge. It also identifies areas that, if 
improved, will allow more consistent contributions to national drug policy and 
improve the quality of pharmacotherapy and other health conditions among 
Brazilian seniors.

DOI: 10.4140/tcp.n.2009.30
PMID: 19275458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Neurotrauma. 2009 Sep;26(9):1479-87. doi: 10.1089/neu.2008.0753.

Pediatric brain trauma outcome prediction using paired serum levels of 
inflammatory mediators and brain-specific proteins.

Lo TY(1), Jones PA, Minns RA.

Author information:
(1)Child Life and Health, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, United Kingdom. 
mils.lo@doctors.org.uk

Many potential brain trauma biomarkers have been reported, but no previous study 
has described outcome prediction using combinations of biomarker levels. We 
aimed to investigate the outcome predictive values of multiple biomarkers from 
different mediator families and to determine whether combinations of two serum 
biomarkers may achieve higher outcome predictive values than individual 
biomarker levels. A prospective observational study was conducted involving 28 
children requiring intensive care management following brain trauma. Day 1 
post-injury serum concentrations of eight different biomarkers--S100b protein 
(S100b), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), interleukin-6 (IL-6), interleukin-8 
(IL-8), interleukin-10 (IL-10), soluble intracellular adhesion molecule (SICAM), 
L-selectin, and endothelin--were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay (ELISA). Global outcome was assessed at 6 months post-injury using the 
Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS). Receiver operator characteristic curve (ROC) 
analysis and its multivariate extension, Multivariate ROC (MultiROC), were used 
to assess the outcome predictive values of the individual and the paired 
biomarkers. None of the eight biomarkers assessed individually achieved an area 
under the ROC curve (AUC) of more than 0.95 for predicting unfavorable outcome, 
but five of the 20 biomarker pairs assessed had this high degree of outcome 
predictability. Two combinations using S100b as the "screening marker" and 
either L-selectin or IL-6 as the "varying marker" achieved an AUC of 0.98, and 
their specificity and sensitivity for unfavorable outcome prediction were 96% 
and 100%, respectively. Prognostic pairs combining serum levels of two 
biomarkers (inflammatory mediators and brain-specific proteins) offer better 
outcome predictive values for unfavorable outcome after childhood brain trauma 
than may be achieved using individual marker levels.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2008.0753
PMID: 19275469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Protein Pept Lett. 2009;16(3):239-46. doi: 10.2174/092986609787601705.

Role of cellular prion proteins in the function of macrophages and dendritic 
cells.

Nitta K(1), Sakudo A, Masuyama J, Xue G, Sugiura K, Onodera T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Immunology and Research Center for Food Safety, 
School of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Yayoi 1-1-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 
113-8657, Japan.

The cellular isoform of prion proteins (PrPC) is expressed in hematopoietic stem 
cells, granulocytes, T and B lymphocyte natural killer cells, platelets, 
monocytes, dendritic cells, and follicular dendritic cells, which may act as 
carrier cells for the spread of its abnormal isoform (PrPSc) before manifesting 
transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSEs). In particular, macrophages and 
dendritic cells seem to be involved in the replication of PrPSc after ingestion. 
In addition, information on the role of PrPC during phagocytotic activity in 
these cells has been obtained. A recent study showed that resident macrophages 
from ZrchI PrP gene (Prnp)-deficient (Prnp-/-) mice show augmented phagocytotic 
activity compared to Prnp+/+ counterparts. In contrast, our study suggests that 
Rikn Prnp-/- peritoneal macrophages show pseudopodium extension arrest and 
up-regulation of phagocytotic activity compared to Prnp+/+ cells. Although 
reports regarding phagocytotic activity in resident and peritoneal macrophages 
are inconsistent between ZrchI and Rikn Prnp-/- mice, it seems plausible that 
PrPC in macrophages could contribute to maintain the immunological environment. 
This review will introduce the recent progress in understanding the functions of 
PrPC in macrophages and dendritic cells under physiological conditions and its 
involvement in the pathogenesis of prion diseases.

DOI: 10.2174/092986609787601705
PMID: 19275736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Vet Pathol. 2009 Jul;46(4):576-88. doi: 10.1354/vp.08-VP-0238-B-REV. Epub
2009  Mar 9.

Review paper: Cancer chemopreventive compounds and canine cancer.

Baek SJ(1), McEntee MF, Legendre AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathobiology, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Tennessee, 2407 River Dr., Knoxville, TN 37996-4542, USA. sbaek2@utk.edu

Canine cancer has become more prevalent in recent years because of increased 
life expectancy and greater attention to the health of pets. The range of 
cancers seen in dogs is as diverse as that in human patients, and despite more 
intensive therapeutic interventions, fatality rates remain unacceptably high in 
both species. Chemoprevention is therefore an important means of confronting 
this disease. Because domestic pets share our environment, greater 
cross-application and study of the protumorigenic and antitumorigenic factors in 
our shared environment will benefit all species, leading to the development of 
new families of less toxic antitumorigenic compounds based on novel and 
established molecular targets. Currently, the most interesting cancer preventive 
agents are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, peroxisome 
proliferator-activated receptor-gamma ligands, and dietary compounds. This 
article provides an overview of what is known about how these agents affect 
molecular signaling in neoplastic disease, with reference to reported 
application and/or study in dogs where available.

DOI: 10.1354/vp.08-VP-0238-B-REV
PMID: 19276067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Clin Cancer Res. 2009 Mar 15;15(6):2123-9. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-2663.  Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Clinical and biological efficacy of recombinant human interleukin-21 in patients 
with stage IV malignant melanoma without prior treatment: a phase IIa trial.

Davis ID(1), Brady B, Kefford RF, Millward M, Cebon J, Skrumsager BK, Mouritzen 
U, Hansen LT, Skak K, Lundsgaard D, Frederiksen KS, Kristjansen PE, McArthur G.

Author information:
(1)Ludwig Oncology Unit, Austin Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

PURPOSE: Human interleukin-21 (IL-21) is a class I cytokine that mediates 
activation of CD8(+) T cells, natural killer (NK) cells, and other cell types. 
We report final clinical and biological results of a phase II study of 
recombinant human IL-21 (rIL-21) in patients with metastatic melanoma.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Open-label, single-arm, two-stage trial.
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: unresectable metastatic melanoma, measurable disease by 
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, no prior systemic therapy 
(adjuvant IFN permitted), adequate major organ function, good performance 
status, no significant autoimmune disease, and life expectancy at least 4 
months.
PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: antitumor efficacy (response rate).
SECONDARY OBJECTIVES: safety, blood biomarkers, and generation of anti-rIL-21 
antibodies. rIL-21 (30 microg/kg/dose) was administered by intravenous bolus 
injection in 8-week cycles (5 dosing days followed by 9 days of rest for 6 weeks 
and then 2 weeks off treatment).
RESULTS: Stage I of the study comprised 14 patients. One confirmed complete 
response (CR) was observed, and as per protocol, 10 more patients were accrued 
to stage II (total n = 24: 10 female and 14 male). Best tumor response included 
one confirmed CR and one confirmed partial response, both with lung metastases. 
Treatment was overall well tolerated. Biomarker analyses showed increases in 
serum soluble CD25, frequencies of CD25(+) NK and CD8(+) T cells, and mRNA for 
IFN-gamma, perforin, and granzyme B in CD8(+) T and NK cells.
CONCLUSIONS: rIL-21 administered at 30 microg/kg/d in 5-day cycles every second 
week is biologically active and well tolerated in patients with metastatic 
melanoma. Confirmed responses, including one CR, were observed.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-2663
PMID: 19276257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Clin Cancer Res. 2009 Mar 15;15(6):1947-53. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-2332.  Epub 2009 Mar 10.

Effective prostate cancer chemopreventive intervention with green tea 
polyphenols in the TRAMP model depends on the stage of the disease.

Adhami VM(1), Siddiqui IA, Sarfaraz S, Khwaja SI, Hafeez BB, Ahmad N, Mukhtar H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, 
Wisconsin, USA.

PURPOSE: We have shown previously that oral feeding of green tea polyphenols 
(GTP) to transgenic adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate mice in a purely 
chemopreventive setting significantly inhibits prostate cancer development. To 
translate this to a human situation, the present study was designed to identify 
the stage of prostate cancer that is most vulnerable to chemopreventive 
intervention by GTP.
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: GTP infusion (0.1% in drinking water) to transgenic 
adenocarcinoma of the mouse prostate was initiated at ages representing 
different stage of the disease: (a) 6 weeks (group 1, normal prostate), (b) 12 
weeks (group 2, prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia), (c) 18 weeks (group 3, 
well-differentiated adenocarcinoma), and (b) 28 weeks (group 4, moderately 
differentiated adenocarcinoma). At age 32 weeks, subsets of animals were 
evaluated by magnetic resonance imaging, ultrasound, and prostate weight and for 
serum insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-I/IGF binding protein-3 and IGF 
signaling.
RESULTS: Tumor-free survival was extended to 38 weeks (P < 0.001) in group 1, 31 
weeks (P < 0.01) in group 2, and 24 weeks (P < 0.05) in group 3 compared with 19 
weeks in water-fed controls. Median life expectancy was 68 weeks in group 1, 63 
weeks in group 2, 56 weeks in group 3, and 51 weeks in group 4 compared with 42 
weeks in the control mice. IGF-I and its downstream targets including 
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, pAkt, and phosphorylated extracellular 
signal-regulated kinase were significantly inhibited only when intervention was 
initiated early when prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia lesions were common.
CONCLUSIONS: Our studies indicate that chemopreventive potential of GTP 
decreases with advancing stage of the disease and underscore the need to design 
appropriate chemoprevention clinical trails.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-08-2332
PMCID: PMC2991083
PMID: 19276266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest No 
potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.


304. Glob Health Promot. 2009 Mar;16(1):5-16. doi: 10.1177/1757975908100746.

What we mean by social determinants of health.

Navarro V(1).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University, USA, Pompeu Fabra University, Spain.

Republished in
    Int J Health Serv. 2009;39(3):423-41.

DOI: 10.1177/1757975908100746
PMID: 19276329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Mar 18;101(6):362-3. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djp028. Epub
 2009 Mar 10.

Why are a high overdiagnosis probability and a long lead time for prostate 
cancer screening so important?

Barry MJ, Mulley AJ Jr.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Mar 18;101(6):374-83.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp028
PMID: 19276451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Minerva Med. 2009 Feb;100(1):1.

Personal point of view on the 2008 life expectancy at birth: the positive 
results of Italian medicine.

Pellicano R.

PMID: 19277001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. PLoS One. 2009;4(3):e4812. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004812. Epub 2009 Mar
11.

Potential excess mortality in BRCA1/2 mutation carriers beyond breast, ovarian, 
prostate, and pancreatic cancers, and melanoma.

Mai PL(1), Chatterjee N, Hartge P, Tucker M, Brody L, Struewing JP, Wacholder S.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Genetic Branch, National Cancer Institute, Rockville, Maryland, 
United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Although the increase in risk of developing breast, ovarian, and 
prostate cancer in BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers has been studied 
extensively, its impact on mortality is not well quantified. Further, possible 
effect of BRCA mutations on non-cancer mortality risk has not been examined.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using mortality data from the relatives of 5,287 
genotyped participants, of whom 120 carried a BRCA Ashkenazi Jewish founder 
mutation, in a community-based study of the Ashkenazi Jewish population in the 
Washington D.C area, we examined the association between the three Ashkenazi 
BRCA founder mutations and risk of overall and non-cancer mortality. To examine 
risks beyond the established effects of these mutations, we analyzed the data 
excluding both deaths and follow-up times after reported diagnosis of melanoma 
and cancer of the breast, ovary, prostate, and pancreas. Using an extension of 
the kin-cohort method that accounts for informative censoring, we estimated 
that, in the absence of breast, ovarian, and pancreatic cancers, and melanoma, 
female carriers had a life expectancy that was 6.8 years lower (95% CI: 
1.2-10.5) than non-carriers. In male mutation carriers, the reduction in life 
expectancy, in the absence of prostate and pancreatic cancers and melanoma, was 
3.7 (95% CI: -0.4, 6.8) years. When deaths and follow-up times after any cancer 
diagnosis were excluded, the difference in life expectancy was 5.7 years for 
women (95% CI: -0.1, 10.4) and 3.7 years for men (95% CI: -0.4, 6.9). An overall 
test of association for men and women together showed a statistically 
significant association between BRCA1/2 mutations and increased non-cancer 
mortality (p = 0.024).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: These findings suggest that there may be unknown 
effects of BRCA1/2 mutations on non-neoplastic diseases that cause death at 
older ages.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004812
PMCID: PMC2652075
PMID: 19277124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


308. PLoS One. 2009;4(3):e4801. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004801. Epub 2009 Mar
11.

A unique dual activity amino acid hydroxylase in Toxoplasma gondii.

Gaskell EA(1), Smith JE, Pinney JW, Westhead DR, McConkey GA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Integrative and Comparative Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds, 
United Kingdom.

The genome of the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii was found to contain two 
genes encoding tyrosine hydroxylase; that produces L-DOPA. The encoded enzymes 
metabolize phenylalanine as well as tyrosine with substrate preference for 
tyrosine. Thus the enzymes catabolize phenylalanine to tyrosine and tyrosine to 
L-DOPA. The catalytic domain descriptive of this class of enzymes is conserved 
with the parasite enzyme and exhibits similar kinetic properties to metazoan 
tyrosine hydroxylases, but contains a unique N-terminal extension with a signal 
sequence motif. One of the genes, TgAaaH1, is constitutively expressed while the 
other gene, TgAaaH2, is induced during formation of the bradyzoites of the cyst 
stages of the life cycle. This is the first description of an aromatic amino 
acid hydroxylase in an apicomplexan parasite. Extensive searching of 
apicomplexan genome sequences revealed an ortholog in Neospora caninum but not 
in Eimeria, Cryptosporidium, Theileria, or Plasmodium. Possible role(s) of these 
bi-functional enzymes during host infection are discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004801
PMCID: PMC2653193
PMID: 19277211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


309. Sci China C Life Sci. 2009 Feb;52(2):111-4. doi: 10.1007/s11427-009-0022-7.

Eight lucky lessons learned.

Wu AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Teaching Excellence (CTE), 420 Computing and Communications 
Center, Garden Avenue Extension Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853-6601, USA. 
aw17@cornell.edu

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-009-0022-7
PMID: 19277517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. J Med Genet. 2009 May;46(5):319-23. doi: 10.1136/jmg.2008.064311. Epub 2009
Mar  10.

Evaluation of a surveillance programme for women with a family history of breast 
cancer.

Reis MM(1), Tavakoli M, Dewar J, Goudie D, Cook A, McLeish L, Young D, Kenyon J, 
Steel M.

Author information:
(1)Tayside Cancer Family Clinical Service, Ninewells Hospital and Medical 
School, Dundee, UK.

AIM: To establish health related costs and benefits of clinical services for 
women at increased familial risk of breast cancer.
METHODS: Analysis of costs and outcomes for one UK regional service, 
supplemented with data from a multinational collaborative study. Main outcome 
measures were aggregate costs for regular clinical examination, mammographic 
screening and further investigations; breast cancer incidence; proportion of 
cancers detected at "early" or "late" stage, compared with corresponding data 
for unscreened women of comparable age; survival in relation to stage at 
diagnosis; itemised and aggregate costs of management for "early" and "late" 
stage breast cancer; hence direct health care costs per quality adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The surveillance programme costs pound1500 (euro1600, US$2100) per 
woman (over 15 years). Breast cancer incidence is close to 6 per thousand 
examinations; 75% of tumours are detected through screening and 77% are "early" 
(path stage 1 or 2). Corresponding figures for unscreened women (including 
relatives of those attending the breast cancer family clinic) indicate that 
surveillance achieves a beneficial "stage shift", with reduction in treatment 
costs and improvement in survival, in about 22% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The current clinical service for women at familial risk of breast 
cancer costs about pound4800 (euro5200, US$6800) per QALY gained. That figure is 
sensitive to the rate of detection of breast cancer and the degree of beneficial 
stage shift achieved. Within the realistic range of estimates for these two 
parameters, the cost per QALY may be as high as pound14,000 (euro15,300, 
US$20,000) or as low as pound1000 (euro1100, US$1400).

DOI: 10.1136/jmg.2008.064311
PMID: 19279022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Autophagy. 2009 Jul;5(5):604-7. doi: 10.4161/auto.5.5.8157.

Autophagy genes mediate the effect of calcineurin on life span in C. elegans.

Dwivedi M(1), Song HO, Ahnn J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Hanyang University, Seoul, South Korea.

Calcineurin (CaN) is a serine/threonine phosphatase, activated by 
Ca2+/calmodulin (Ca2+/CaM). CaN is known to regulate various cellular responses 
in different organisms. A recent study showed an extended life span in the 
calcineurin mutants of C. elegans. In this study, we report that calcineurin 
defective strains exhibit enhanced autophagy. In addition, we found two 
essential autophagy genes (bec-1 and atg-7) are required for the life-span 
extension in calcineurin null mutants [cnb-1(jh103)]. Thus, for the first time 
we suggest that autophagy genes are required for the life-span regulation in 
calcineurin defective C. elegans strains.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.5.5.8157
PMID: 19279398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. PLoS One. 2009;4(3):e4826. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004826. Epub 2009 Mar
12.

Buying years to extinction: is compensatory mitigation for marine bycatch a 
sufficient conservation measure for long-lived seabirds?

Igual JM(1), Tavecchia G, Jenouvrier S, Forero MG, Oro D.

Author information:
(1)Imedea-CSIC/UIB, Esporles, Spain.

Along the lines of the 'polluter pays principle', it has recently been proposed 
that the local long-line fishing industry should fund eradication of terrestrial 
predators at seabird breeding colonies, as a compensatory measure for the 
bycatch caused by the fishing activity. The measure is economically sound, but a 
quantitative and reliable test of its biological efficacy has never been 
conducted. Here, we investigated the demographic consequences of predator 
eradication for Cory's shearwater Calonectris diomedea, breeding in the 
Mediterranean, using a population model that integrates demographic rates 
estimated from individual life-history information with experimental measures of 
predation and habitat structure. We found that similar values of population 
growth rate can be obtained by different combinations of habitat 
characteristics, predator abundance and adult mortality, which explains the 
persistence of shearwater colonies in islands with introduced predators. Even 
so, given the empirically obtained values of survival, all combinations of 
predator abundance and habitat characteristics projected a decline in shearwater 
numbers. Perturbation analyses indicated that the value and the sensitivity of 
shearwater population growth rates were affected by all covariates considered 
and their interactions. A decrease in rat abundance delivered only a small 
increase in the population growth rate, whereas a change in adult survival (a 
parameter independent of rat abundance) had the strongest impact on population 
dynamics. When adult survival is low, rat eradication would allow us to "buy" 
years before extinction but does not reverse the process. Rat eradication can 
therefore be seen as an emergency measure if threats on adult survival are 
eliminated in the medium-term period. For species with low fecundity and long 
life expectancy, our results suggest that rat control campaigns are not a 
sufficient, self-standing measure to compensate the biological toll of long-line 
fisheries.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0004826
PMCID: PMC2653230
PMID: 19279685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


313. J Nematol. 1994 Jun;26(2):127-37.

Plant and soil nematodes: societal impact and focus for the future.

Barker KR, Hussey RS, Krusberg LR, Bird GW, Dunn RA, Ferris H, Ferris VR, 
Freckman DW, Gabriel CJ, Grewal PS, Macguidwin AE, Riddle DL, Roberts PA, 
Schmitt DP.

Plant and soil nematodes significandy impact our lives. Therefore, we must 
understand and manage these complex organisms so that we may continue to develop 
and sustain our food production systems, our natural resources, our environment, 
and our quality of life. This publication looks specifically at soil and plant 
nematology. First, the societal impact of nematodes and benefits of nematology 
research are briefly presented. Next, the opportunities facing nematology in the 
next decade are outlined, as well as the resources needed to address these 
priorities. The safety and sustainability of U.S. food and fiber production 
depends on public and administrative understanding of the importance of 
nematodes, the drastic effects of nematodes on many agricultural and 
horticultural crops, and the current research priorities of nematology.

PMCID: PMC2619488
PMID: 19279875


314. Phys Chem Chem Phys. 2009 Mar 28;11(12):2016-22. doi: 10.1039/b818032f. Epub
 2009 Jan 28.

Beyond amphiphiles: coarse-grained simulations of star-polyphile liquid 
crystalline assemblies.

Kirkensgaard JJ(1), Hyde S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Sciences and Environment, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
Copenhagen University, Copenhagen, Denmark. kirkensgaard@life.ku.dk

We have simulated the self-assembly of a novel class of three-arm molecules, ABC 
star-architecture polyphiles, using coarse-grained bead simulations. A number of 
topologically complex liquid crystalline mesostructures arise that can be 
related to the better-known bicontinuous mesophases of lyotropic amphiphilic 
systems. The simulations reveal 3D self-assemblies whose structural variations 
follow those expected assuming a simple steric molecular packing model as a 
function of star polyphile splay and relative volumes of each arm in the 
polyphile. The splay of each arm, characterised by the 3D wedge-shape emanating 
from the core of each molecule to its exterior induces torsion of the interfaces 
along the triple lines, whereas differences in the relative volumes of arms 
induce curvature of the triple lines. Three distinct mesostructures are 
described, characterised by their micro-domain topologies, which are unknown in 
simpler amphiphilic systems, but resemble in some respects bicontinuous 
mesophases. These three- (or more) arm polyphilic systems offer an interesting 
extension to the better-known self-assembly of (two-arm) amphiphiles in 
solution.

DOI: 10.1039/b818032f
PMID: 19280012


315. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2009 May;32(3):417-21. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-009-9527-5. Epub 2009 Mar 12.

Endovascular treatment strategies in aortoiliac occlusion.

Ozkan U(1), Oguzkurt L, Tercan F, Gumus B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Baskent University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, 
Turkey. radugur@yahoo.com

The aim of this study was to report our experience in endovascular treatment of 
total aortoiliac occlusion. Five patients who underwent endovascular 
recanalization procedures including manual aspiration thrombectomy, balloon 
angioplasty, and stent placement for total aortoiliac occlusion in a 4-year 
period were reviewed retrospectively. The mean age of patients was 51 years 
(range, 43 to 58 years). All patients had abdominal aorta and bilateral common 
iliac artery occlusion with or without external iliac artery occlusion. All 
patients either had a contraindication to surgery or refused it. Initial 
technical success was obtained in four of five (80%) patients. Endovascular 
techniques were successful in four patients who had good distal runoff and 
short-segment aortoiliac occlusion, but failed in a patient who had the worst 
distal runoff and long-segment aortoiliac occlusion. We observed two major 
complications, one of which was bilateral rupture of the common iliac arteries 
treated with covered stent placement. Another patient had extension of 
intra-aortic thrombus into the iliac stent after primary stenting. This was 
successfully treated with manual aspiration thrombectomy. Aortic and iliac 
stents remained patent during the follow-up period (median, 18 months; range, 3 
to 26 months) in four patients. Primary patency rates at 6, 12, and 24 months 
were all 80%. In conclusion, endovascular treatment can be an alternative for 
aortoiliac occlusion in selected patients. Short- to midterm follow-up so far is 
satisfactory. Removal of intra-aortic thrombus with manual aspiration 
thrombectomy before balloon angioplasty and/or stenting is possible and a good 
alternative to thrombolysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-009-9527-5
PMID: 19280255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Am J Phys Anthropol. 2009 Aug;139(4):584-90. doi: 10.1002/ajpa.21022.

Brief communication: Rethinking the impact of the 1918 influenza pandemic on sex 
differentials in mortality.

Sawchuk LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto Scarborough, Toronto, ON, 
Canada M1C 1A4. sawchukl@utsc.utoronto.ca

Comment in
    Am J Phys Anthropol. 2010 Dec;143(4):499-500.

This study will assess the general impact of the 1918 influenza on overall 
mortality and its impact on mortality attributable to pulmonary tuberculosis in 
a small-scale population. Using life table and decomposition methodologies, 
changes in mortality in Gibraltar used a scheme that identified a pre-epidemic 
period (1904-1917), the epidemic year (1918), and the post-epidemic period 
(1919-1927). Overall health in both sexes fell significantly in 1918 with a drop 
in life expectancy at birth, however, health quickly rebounded in the 
post-epidemic period. In the case of women, there was a significant increase in 
life expectancy at birth after the epidemic. The impact of influenza on the 
magnitude of sex differentials in the life expectancy at birth fell during 
epidemic year but returned to a level comparable to that of the pre-epidemic 
period. With respect to respiratory tuberculosis deaths, the immediate impact of 
influenza was restricted to only a significant increase in the rate among women 
(aged 15-54). In the post-epidemic period, tuberculosis mortality rates returned 
to the pre-epidemic state in both sexes. The findings from Gibraltar stand in 
contrast opposition to results reported for experience in the United States 
during the 1918 flu.

DOI: 10.1002/ajpa.21022
PMID: 19280673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Clin Interv Aging. 2008;3(4):659-65. doi: 10.2147/cia.s3697.

Growth hormone and aging: a challenging controversy.

Bartke A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of 
Medicine, P.O. Box 19628, Springfield, Illinois 62794-9628, USA. 
abartke@siumed.edu

Although advanced age or symptoms of aging are not among approved indications 
for growth hormone (GH) therapy, recombinant human GH (rhGH) and various 
GH-related products are aggressively promoted as anti-aging therapies. 
Well-controlled studies of the effects of rhGH treatment in endocrinologically 
normal elderly subjects report some improvements in body composition and a 
number of undesirable side effects in sharp contrast to major benefits of GH 
therapy in patients with GH deficiency. Controversies surrounding the potential 
utility of GH in treatment of a geriatric patient are fueled by increasing 
evidence linking GH and cancer and by remarkably increased lifespan of 
GH-resistant and GH-deficient mice. Conservation of cellular signaling 
mechanisms that influence aging in organisms ranging from worms to mammals 
suggests that at least some of the results obtained in mutant mice are 
applicable to the human. We suggest that the normal, physiological functions of 
GH in promoting growth, sexual maturation and fecundity involve significant 
costs in terms of aging and life expectancy. Natural decline in GH levels during 
aging likely contributes to concomitant alterations in body composition and 
vigor but also may be offering important protection from cancer and other 
age-associated diseases.

DOI: 10.2147/cia.s3697
PMCID: PMC2682398
PMID: 19281058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Endovasc Ther. 2009 Feb;16(1):60-70. doi: 10.1583/08-2561.1.

Treating the thoracic aorta in Marfan syndrome: surgery or TEVAR?

Cooper DG(1), Walsh SR, Sadat U, Hayes PD, Boyle JR.

Author information:
(1)Cambridge University Hospitals NHS Trust, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, 
UK.

Marfan syndrome (MFS) is an inherited disorder of connective tissue that is 
historically associated with high mortality due to disorders of the 
cardiovascular system. Over the past 40 years, surgery to the aortic root and 
thoracoabdominal aorta has resulted in a significantly prolonged life 
expectancy. More recently, techniques for endovascular repair of the aortic 
complications of MFS have been described. In this article we review the relative 
merits of open and endovascular approaches to thoracic aortic complications in 
MFS, comparing outcomes from contemporary literature. A reasonably large body of 
evidence has developed concerning the surgical treatment of the aortic root, 
ascending thoracic aorta, and arch in MFS. It is clear from large series that 
pathology, such as acute type A dissections and aneurysmal dilatation, can be 
successfully repaired with low mortality. Recently published series, although 
reporting smaller numbers, have demonstrated that the same is true for open 
surgical replacement of descending thoracic and thoracoabdominal aortic 
aneurysms. The evidence for thoracic endovascular aortic repair in MFS is much 
more limited. Small series and registry or case reports describe a heterogeneous 
group of patients with only short-term follow-up. Outcomes of endovascular 
repair are mixed, with questionable longevity. Reoperation is, however, common 
in MFS, and minimally invasive techniques may provide a bridging role or 
alternative solution when revisiting the hostile surgical field.

DOI: 10.1583/08-2561.1
PMID: 19281290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Maturitas. 2009 May 20;63(1):13-9. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.02.006.
Epub  2009 Mar 17.

Changing course in ageing research: The healthy ageing phenotype.

Franco OH(1), Karnik K, Osborne G, Ordovas JM, Catt M, van der Ouderaa F.

