palliative care unit within a tertiary care setting.

Napolskikh J(1), Selby D, Bennett M, Chow E, Harris K, Sinclair E, Myers J.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology, Odette Cancer Centre, Toronto, ON.

BACKGROUND: Canadian data describing inpatient palliative care unit (PCU) 
utilization are scarce. In the present study, we performed a quality assessment 
of a 24-bed short-term PCU with a 3-months-or-less life expectancy policy in a 
tertiary care setting.
METHODS: Using a retrospective chart review, we explored wait time (wt) for 
admission (May 2005 to April 2006), length of stay [los (February 2005 to 
January 2006)], and patient demographics.
RESULTS: The wt data showed 508 referrals, with 242 resulting in admissions (92% 
malignant diagnoses) and 266 not (82% malignant). The most common malignancies 
in both groups were gastrointestinal, lung, and genitourinary. Median wt for 
admitted patients was 6 days, varying with referral source, such as the same 
hospital, home, or another hospital (6, 4, and 8.5 days respectively). Most 
admissions (93%) occurred in 21 or fewer days. Patient death (52%), admission to 
another PCU (25%), and declined offer (10%) were common reasons for no 
admission. Median los for 219 admitted patients was 19 days (range: 0-249 days). 
Most patients (94%) died in the PCU; a minority were discharged.
CONCLUSIONS: Many patients requiring PCU services are admitted within a few days 
of referral, especially patients with the least available support: those at 
home. However, half of the non-admitted patients die while waiting-a potential 
area for improvement. The los for admitted patients complied with the 3-month 
"expected lifespan" PCU policy. Results are significant, because ensuring 
quality of life for palliative care patients includes timely PCU access and 
sufficient los to address end-of-life needs.

DOI: 10.3747/co.v16i1.172
PMCID: PMC2644624
PMID: 19229370


179. J Microbiol. 2009 Feb;47(1):123-30. doi: 10.1007/s12275-008-0217-9. Epub
2009  Feb 20.

Cloning, expression, and characterization of thermostable manganese superoxide 
dismutase from Thermoascus aurantiacus var. levisporus.

Song NN(1), Zheng Y, E SJ, Li DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Biology, Shandong Agricultural University, 
Tai'an, Shandong 271018, PR China.

A superoxide dismutase (SOD) gene of Thermoascus aurantiacus var. levisporus, a 
thermophilic fungus, was cloned, sequenced, and expressed in Pichia pastoris and 
its gene product was characterized. The coding sequence predicted a 231 residues 
protein with a unique 35 amino acids extension at the N-terminus indicating a 
mitochondrial-targeting sequence. The content of Mn was 2.46 microg/mg of 
protein and Fe was not detected in the purified enzyme. The enzyme was found to 
be inhibited by NaN(3), but not by KCN or H(2)O(2). These results suggested that 
the SOD in Thermoascus aurantiacus var. levisporus was the manganese superoxide 
dismutase type. In comparison with other MnSODs, all manganese-binding sites 
were also conserved in the sequence (H88, H136, D222, H226). The molecular mass 
of a single band of the enzyme was estimated to be 21.7 kDa. The protein was 
expressed in tetramer form with molecular weight of 68.0 kDa. The activity of 
purified protein was 2,324 U/mg. The optimum temperature of the enzyme was 55 
degrees C and it exhibited maximal activity at pH 7.5. The enzyme was 
thermostable at 50 and 60 degrees C and the half-life at 80 degrees C was 
approximately 40 min.

DOI: 10.1007/s12275-008-0217-9
PMID: 19229500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Soc Work Public Health. 2009 Jan-Apr;24(1-2):39-46. doi: 
10.1080/19371910802569435.

Early motherhood, high mortality, and HIV/AIDS rates in Sub-Saharan Africa.

Gant L(1), Heath KM, Ejikeme GG.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

Despite billions of dollars devoted to HIV/AIDS prevention since 1990, rates of 
infection continue to climb worldwide, primarily through heterosexual contact, 
and Sub-Saharan Africa is the worst case scenario (UNAIDS, 2004). Traditional 
intervention programs based on the ABCs (abstinence, being faithful, and condom 
use) of safe sex practices have shown mixed success. Engaging in risky sexual 
behavior (behaviors not adhering to the ABCs of safe sex practices) continues to 
escalate the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Although research abounds with correlates to 
HIV/AIDS rates, few studies have addressed the basis of sexual behavior. Here we 
show that not only are HIV/AIDS rates significantly higher in Sub-Saharan Africa 
than in the rest of the world but also infant mortality rates and teenage birth 
rates are higher as well. Based on these findings, we argue that engaging in 
risky sexual behavior, in many circumstances associated with deplorable living 
conditions and high mortality, is the only viable option for avoiding 
reproductive failure: dying without leaving surviving descendents. We suggest 
that initiatives that improve overall health and living conditions in the 
at-risk populations are necessary before traditional intervention programs can 
effectively combat the spread of HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa.

DOI: 10.1080/19371910802569435
PMID: 19229771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Soc Work Public Health. 2009 Jan-Apr;24(1-2):131-47. doi: 
10.1080/19371910802569716.

Public health expenditure as a determinant of health status in Lesotho.

Akinkugbe O(1), Mohanoe M.

Author information:
(1)Rhodes University, Grahamstown, South Africa. yeleakinkugbe@gmail.com

In this article, we have examined the relationship between public expenditure on 
health care and health status in Lesotho using an econometric technique-the 
error correction model. Three indicators of health status were used: life 
expectancy at birth (years), infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births), and 
under-5 mortality rate (per 1,000). The results of our analyses provided 
evidence that in addition to public expenditure on health, the availability of 
physicians, female literacy, and child immunization are also important 
determinants of health status in Lesotho. Contrary to findings from earlier 
studies, our analyses also found income per capita to be an insignificant 
determinant of health status. The policy implications that emanate from this 
article are for the government of Lesotho to channel more resources to educating 
women, hiring more physicians, and increasing the number of children immunized 
per year. This will imply an increase in the share of public spending on health.

DOI: 10.1080/19371910802569716
PMID: 19229779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Am J Hematol. 2009 Apr;84(4):202-4. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21369.

Enzyme replacement therapy for mild patients with Gaucher disease.

Zimran A, Ilan Y, Elstein D.

Comment in
    Am J Hematol. 2009 Apr;84(4):205-7.

Comment on
    Am J Hematol. 2009 Apr;84(4):208-14.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21369
PMID: 19229987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. World J Gastroenterol. 2009 Feb 21;15(7):871-6. doi: 10.3748/wjg.15.871.

Combined treatment of oxaliplatin and capecitabine in patients with metastatic 
esophageal squamous cell cancer.

Qin TJ(1), An GL, Zhao XH, Tian F, Li XH, Lian JW, Pan BR, Gu SZ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, First Affiliated Hospital of Medical School 
of Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 710061, Shaanxi Province, China.

AIM: To investigate the efficacy and side effects of the combined therapy of 
oxaliplatin and capecitabine in patients with metastatic esophageal squamous 
cell cancer (ESCC) and the survival of the patients.
METHODS: Sixty-four patients (median age of 63 years) with histological or 
cytological confirmation of ESCC received oxaliplatin 120 mg/m(2) intravenously 
on day 1 and capecitabine 1000 mg/m(2) orally twice daily on days 1 to 14 in a 
21-d treatment cycle as palliative chemotherapy. Each patient received at least 
two cycles of treatment. The efficacy, side effects and patient survival were 
evaluated.
RESULTS: The partial response (PR) rate was 43.8% (28/64). Stable disease (SD) 
rate was 47.9% (26/64), and disease progression rate was 15.6% (10/64). The 
clinical benefit rate (PR + SD) was 84.4%. The main toxicities were leukopenia 
(50.0%), nausea and vomiting (51.6%), diarrhea (50.0%), stomatitis (39.1%), 
polyneuropathy (37.5%) and hand-foot syndrome (37.5%). No grade 4 event in the 
entire cohort was found. The median progression-free survival was 4 mo, median 
overall survival was 10 mo (95% CI: 8.3-11.7 mo), and the 1- and 2-year survival 
rates were 38.1% and 8.2%, respectively. High Karnofsky index, single metastatic 
lesion and response to the regimen indicated respectively good prognosis.
CONCLUSION: Oxaliplatin plus capecitabine regimen is effective and tolerable in 
metastatic ESCC patients. The regimen has improved the survival moderately and 
merits further studies.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.15.871
PMCID: PMC2653389
PMID: 19230050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Int J Food Microbiol. 2009 Apr 15;130(3):172-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2009.01.009. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

Effect of modified atmosphere and temperature abuse on the growth from spores 
and cereulide production of Bacillus weihenstephanensis in a cooked chilled meat 
sausage.

Thorsen L(1), Budde BB, Koch AG, Klingberg TD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Faculty of Life Science, Copenhagen University, 
Frederiksberg C, Denmark. lith@life.ku.dk

The effect of modified atmosphere packaging (MAP) on the germination and growth 
of toxin producing psychrotolerant Bacillus spp is not well described. A model 
agar system mimicking a cooked meat product was used in initial experiments. 
Incubation at refrigeration temperature of 8 degrees C for 5 weeks of 26 
Bacillus weihenstephanensis including two emetic toxin (cereulide) producing 
strains showed that B. weihenstephanensis is sensitive to MAP containing CO2. 
The sensitivity to 20% CO2 was dependent on strain and oxygen level, being 
increased when oxygen was excluded from the MAP. Growth from spores was observed 
at the earliest within 2 weeks when 20% CO2 was combined with 2% O2 and in 3 
weeks when combined with "0"% O2 (the remaining atmosphere was made up from N2). 
Results were validated in a cooked meat sausage model for two non-emetic and one 
emetic B. weihenstephanensis strain. The packaging film oxygen transfer rates 
(OTR) were 1.3 and 40 ml/m(2)/24 h and the atmospheres were 2% O2/20% CO2 and 
"0"% O2/20% CO2. Oxygen availability had a large impact on the growth from 
spores in the MAP meat sausage, only the most oxygen restricted condition (OTR 
of 1.3 ml/m(2)/24 h and "0"% O2/20 % CO2 inhibited growth of the three strains 
during 4 weeks storage at 8 degrees C. Cereulide production was undetectable 
during storage at 8 degrees C irrespective of choice of the MAP (quantified by 
liquid chromatography mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry). MAP storage at 8 
degrees C for 1 and 3 weeks followed by opening of packages and temperature 
abuse for 1.5 h daily at 20 degrees C during 1 week resulted in increased cell 
counts and variable cereulide production in the meat sausage. A pre-history at 8 
degrees C for 1 week in MAP with OTR of 1.3 or 40 ml/m(2)/24 h and 2% O2 
resulted in cereulide concentrations of 0.816-1.353 microg/g meat sausage, while 
a pre-history under the most oxygen restricted condition (OTR of 1.3 ml/m(2)/24 
h, "0"% O2/20 % CO2 resulted in minimal cereulide production (0.004 microg/g 
meat sausage) at abuse condition. Extension of MAP storage at 8 degrees C for 3 
weeks followed by abuse resulted in a substantially reduced cereulide 
production. Data demonstrates that MAP can be used to inhibit growth of a 
psychrotolerant toxin producing Bacillus spp. during chill storage at 8 degrees 
C, and substantially reduce the risk of emetic food poisoning at abuse 
condition. Results are of relevance for improving safety of ready to eat 
processed chilled foods of extended durability.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2009.01.009
PMID: 19230998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2008;6(2-3):113-35. doi: 10.1007/BF03256127.

Cost effectiveness of ultrasound and bone densitometry for osteoporosis 
screening in post-menopausal women.

Mueller D(1), Gandjour A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. dirkwmueller@gmx.de

BACKGROUND: According to a new German guideline, decisions about bisphosphonate 
treatment for post-menopausal women should be based on 10-year fracture risk, 
and bone density should be measured by dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA). 
Recently, there has been growing interest in quantitative ultrasound (QUS) as a 
less expensive screening alternative.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost effectiveness of osteoporosis screening with 
QUS as a pre-test for DXA and treatment with alendronate compared with (i) 
immediate access to DXA and (ii) no screening in women of the general population 
aged 50-90 years in Germany.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis and a budget impact analysis were performed 
from the perspective of the statutory health insurance (SHI). A Markov model 
with a 1-year cycle length was used to simulate costs and benefits (QALYs), 
discounted at 3% per annum, over a lifetime. The number of women correctly 
diagnosed by QUS and DXA as being above a 10-year risk of > or =30% was 
estimated for different age groups (50-60, 60-70, 70-80 and 80-90 years, 
respectively). The robustness of the results was tested by a probabilistic Monte 
Carlo simulation.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, the cost effectiveness of QUS plus DXA was 
found to be Euro 3529, Euro 9983, Euro 4382 and Euro 1987 per QALY for 50-, 60-, 
70- and 80-year-old women, respectively (year 2006 values). This screening 
strategy results in annual costs of Euro 96 million or 0.07% of the SHI's annual 
budget. The cost effectiveness of DXA alone compared with DXA plus QUS is Euro 
5331, Euro 60, 804, Euro 14, 943 and Euro 3654 per QALY for 50-, 60-, 70- and 
80-year-old women, respectively. DXA alone results in a higher number of QALYs 
in all age groups. The results were robust in the sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSION: Compared with no screening, the cost effectiveness of QUS and DXA in 
sequence is very favourable in all age groups. However, direct access to DXA is 
also a cost-effective option, as it increases the number of QALYs at an 
acceptable cost compared with pre-testing by QUS (except for women aged 60-70 
years). Therefore, QUS as a pre-test for DXA can be clearly recommended only in 
women aged 60-70 years. For the other age groups, the cost effectiveness of QUS 
as a pre-test depends on the global budget constraint and the accessibility of 
DXA.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256127
PMID: 19231905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2008;6(2-3):163-71. doi: 10.1007/BF03256131.

11th Annual European Congress of the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics 
and Outcomes Research (ISPOR): Athens, Greece, 8-11 November 2008.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256131
PMID: 19231909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2009 Feb 20;4:5. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-5.

Osteopetrosis.

Stark Z(1), Savarirayan R.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Health Services Victoria, and Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, 
Melbourne, Australia. zornitza.stark@ghsv.org.au

Osteopetrosis ("marble bone disease") is a descriptive term that refers to a 
group of rare, heritable disorders of the skeleton characterized by increased 
bone density on radiographs. The overall incidence of these conditions is 
difficult to estimate but autosomal recessive osteopetrosis (ARO) has an 
incidence of 1 in 250,000 births, and autosomal dominant osteopetrosis (ADO) has 
an incidence of 1 in 20,000 births. Osteopetrotic conditions vary greatly in 
their presentation and severity, ranging from neonatal onset with 
life-threatening complications such as bone marrow failure (e.g. classic or 
"malignant" ARO), to the incidental finding of osteopetrosis on radiographs 
(e.g. osteopoikilosis). Classic ARO is characterised by fractures, short 
stature, compressive neuropathies, hypocalcaemia with attendant tetanic 
seizures, and life-threatening pancytopaenia. The presence of primary 
neurodegeneration, mental retardation, skin and immune system involvement, or 
renal tubular acidosis may point to rarer osteopetrosis variants, whereas onset 
of primarily skeletal manifestations such as fractures and osteomyelitis in late 
childhood or adolescence is typical of ADO. Osteopetrosis is caused by failure 
of osteoclast development or function and mutations in at least 10 genes have 
been identified as causative in humans, accounting for 70% of all cases. These 
conditions can be inherited as autosomal recessive, dominant or X-linked traits 
with the most severe forms being autosomal recessive. Diagnosis is largely based 
on clinical and radiographic evaluation, confirmed by gene testing where 
applicable, and paves the way to understanding natural history, specific 
treatment where available, counselling regarding recurrence risks, and prenatal 
diagnosis in severe forms. Treatment of osteopetrotic conditions is largely 
symptomatic, although haematopoietic stem cell transplantation is employed for 
the most severe forms associated with bone marrow failure and currently offers 
the best chance of longer-term survival in this group. The severe infantile 
forms of osteopetrosis are associated with diminished life expectancy, with most 
untreated children dying in the first decade as a complication of bone marrow 
suppression. Life expectancy in the adult onset forms is normal. It is 
anticipated that further understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of these 
conditions will reveal new targets for pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-5
PMCID: PMC2654865
PMID: 19232111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Prev Med. 2009 May;48(5):444-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2009.02.011. Epub 2009
Feb  14.

Economic evaluations of massive HPV vaccination: within-study and between study 
variations in incremental cost per QALY gained.

Puig-Junoy J(1), Lopez-Valcarcel BG.

Author information:
(1)University Pompeu Fabra, Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Prev Med. 2010 Jan-Feb;50(1-2):93.

OBJECTIVE: We describe the heterogeneity of the estimates of the incremental 
cost per quality-adjusted year of life (QALY) within and between cost-utility 
studies of the human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine.
METHOD: We searched for articles in English published in peer-reviewed journals 
that perform cost-utility analyses to evaluate the addition of HPV vaccine to 
12-year-old girls to existing cervical cancer screening practices. Fifteen 
studies were selected according to our inclusion and exclusion criteria.
RESULTS: There are large within-study variations in estimates of the cost per 
QALY gained. The most influential source of uncertainty is the duration of the 
vaccine protection. Between-study variations are mainly due to three causes: 
methodological differences, assumptions, and local conditions in the application 
area. We find large variations between studies for a given country.
DISCUSSION: Economic evaluation models are increasingly sophisticated, but 
scientific treatment of epidemiological and market uncertainty does not 
compensate for the lack of basic information.
CONCLUSIONS: The large disparities in cost per QALY estimates of massive 
vaccination programs around the world may be attributed to several critical 
sources (unavoidable and avoidable) of uncertainty. An asset of economic 
evaluation is the ability to highlight the areas of research that could be 
undertaken to reduce uncertainty.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2009.02.011
PMID: 19232368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2009 Apr;1792(4):275-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2009.02.006.  Epub 2009 Feb 13.

Telomerase and DNA repair in glioma.

Patel R(1), Shervington A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Science and Technology, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, 
PR1 2HE, UK.

Both DNA repair (MGMT) and immortalisation (telomerase) have been linked to the 
root of cancer. In glioma, MGMT expression is negatively regulated through 
promoter methylation and its absence is associated with enhanced 
chemosensitivity. However, recent studies indicate that telomerase is positively 
regulated through methylation and its elimination enhances chemotherapy. These 
observations suggest that suppression of telomerase in combination with MGMT may 
have additional anti-proliferative and anti-apoptotic effects, which may lead to 
increased patient survival rates. However, different approaches may be required 
to compliment the epigenetic events that regulate these genes. Nevertheless, 
given that median survival of glioma patients is less than a year, this review 
focuses on the recent approaches used to target MGMT and telomerase, with a view 
to increase life expectancy of patients while limiting side effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2009.02.006
PMID: 19232390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Mol Biol. 2009 Apr 3;387(3):559-69. doi: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.02.028. Epub
2009  Feb 20.

Mutations in the C. elegans succinate dehydrogenase iron-sulfur subunit promote 
superoxide generation and premature aging.

Huang J(1), Lemire BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

The mitochondrial succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) is an iron-sulfur flavoenzyme 
linking the Krebs cycle and the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Mutations in 
the human SDHB, SDHC and SDHD genes are responsible for the development of 
paraganglioma and pheochromocytoma, tumors of the head and neck or the adrenal 
medulla, respectively. In recent years, SDH has become recognized as a source of 
reactive oxygen species, which may contribute to tumorigenesis. We have 
developed a Caenorhabditis elegans model to investigate the molecular and 
catalytic effects of mutations in the sdhb-1 gene, which encodes the SDH 
iron-sulfur subunit. We created mutations in Pro211; this residue is located 
near the site of ubiquinone reduction and is conserved in human SDHB (Pro197), 
where it is associated with tumorigenesis. Mutant phenotypes ranged from 
relatively benign to lethal and were characterized by hypersensitivity to 
oxidative stress, a shortened life span, impaired respiration and overproduction 
of superoxide. Our data suggest that the SDH ubiquinone-binding site can become 
a source of superoxide and that the pathological consequences of SDH mutations 
can be mitigated with antioxidants, such as ascorbate and N-acetyl-l-cysteine. 
Our work leads to a better understanding of the relationship between genotype 
and phenotype in respiratory chain mutations and of the mechanisms of aging and 
tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmb.2009.02.028
PMID: 19233206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2009 Mar 1;66(5):469-80. doi: 10.2146/ajhp080296.

Cost-effectiveness of treating influenzalike illness with oseltamivir in the 
United States.

Talbird SE(1), Brogan AJ, Winiarski AP, Sander B.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-2194, USA. 
stalbird@rti.org

PURPOSE: The cost-effectiveness of treating influenzalike illness (ILI) with 
oseltamivir in the United States was assessed.
METHODS: A decision-analysis model was developed with a one-year time horizon to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of oseltamivir compared with usual care from 
societal and payer perspectives for four patient populations: high-risk adults, 
healthy adults, elderly adults, and children. The model used efficacy data from 
oseltamivir clinical trials and other published literature and assumed 
oseltamivir was effective only in individuals infected with influenza virus not 
resistant to oseltamivir and treated within 48 hours of symptom onset. Direct 
medical costs were based on resources used; indirect costs were estimated based 
on time lost from work due to illness and premature mortality. Base-case 
estimates were tested in one-way sensitivity and variability analyses.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, oseltamivir was cost-effective across all 
populations modeled, with an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
gained of $5,388, $6,317, $7,652, and $16,176 for high-risk adults, children, 
elderly adults, and healthy adults, respectively. Results were similar from a 
payer perspective. When indirect costs were included (for all populations except 
elderly adults), oseltamivir was cost saving. In sensitivity analyses, 
oseltamivir remained cost-effective across all patient populations for all 
values tested, except the probability of developing influenza-related pneumonia. 
Variability analyses showed that oseltamivir remained cost-effective under most 
scenarios tested.
CONCLUSION: Base-case results and sensitivity analyses from a decision-analysis 
model found that treatment of ILI with oseltamivir was cost-effective compared 
with usual care from U.S. payer and societal perspectives in all patient 
populations studied when only direct costs were considered.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp080296
PMID: 19233995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2009 May;43(9):725-37. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2009.27.
Epub  2009 Feb 23.

A randomized trial on the effect of a multimodal intervention on physical 
capacity, functional performance and quality of life in adult patients 
undergoing allogeneic SCT.

Jarden M(1), Baadsgaard MT, Hovgaard DJ, Boesen E, Adamsen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, The University Hospital of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. mary@ucsf.dk

The aim of this randomized controlled trial was to investigate the effect of a 
4- to 6-week multimodal program of exercise, relaxation and psychoeducation on 
physical capacity, functional performance and quality of life (QOL) in 
allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HSCT) adult recipients. In 
all, 42 patients were randomized to a supervised multimodal intervention or to a 
control group receiving usual care. The primary end point was on aerobic 
capacity measured in VO(2) max. Secondary end points were muscle strength, 
functional performance, physical activity level, QOL, fatigue, psychological 
well-being and clinical outcomes. The multimodal intervention had a significant 
effect on physical capacity: VO(2) max (P<0.0001) and muscle strength: chest 
press (P<0.0001), leg extension (P=0.0003), right elbow flexor (P=0.0009), right 
knee extensor (P<0.0001) and functional performance (stair test) (0.0008). 
Moreover, the intervention group showed significantly better results for the 
severity of diarrhea (P=0.014) and fewer days of total parenteral nutrition 
(P=0.019). Longitudinal changes in QOL, fatigue and psychological well-being 
favored the intervention group, but did not reach statistical significance. 
Assignment of a multimodal intervention during allo-HSCT did not cause untoward 
events, sustained aerobic capacity and muscle strength and reduced loss of 
functional performance during hospitalization.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2009.27
PMID: 19234513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Vet Surg. 2009 Feb;38(2):192-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1532-950X.2008.00487.x.

A longitudinal study of the influence of lifetime food restriction on 
development of osteoarthritis in the canine elbow.

Huck JL(1), Biery DN, Lawler DF, Gregor TP, Runge JJ, Evans RH, Kealy RD, Smith 
GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. jhuck@mail.vetmed.lsu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To report the effects of age and lifetime calorie restriction on 
development and progression of osteoarthritis (OA) in elbow joints of Labrador 
retrievers.
STUDY DESIGN: Longitudinal cohort study.
ANIMALS: Labrador retriever dogs (n=48).
METHODS: Puppies from 7 litters were allotted to 2 groups of 24 dogs each. 
Diet-restricted (DR) dogs received 25% fewer calories than control-fed (CF) pair 
mates. Elbow radiographs were taken at 6 and 8 years of age and end of life 
(EOL). Gross and histopathologic evaluations for OA occurred at EOL.
RESULTS: There was no statistical difference in radiographic OA frequency 
between groups at any of the time points. Radiographic OA severity was greater 
for CF dogs at 6 years only (P<.05). There was no significant difference between 
feeding groups for histopathologic prevalence or severity of OA. Similarly, 
there were no differences in gross OA lesions between the groups (P>.05). 
Fragmented medial coronoid process, un-united anconeal process, and 
osteochondrosis were not present in any elbow.
CONCLUSION: No differences in prevalence or severity of radiographic and 
histopathologic elbow OA were found between feeding groups. Diet restriction 
resulted in a 1.8-year extension in median lifespan but no additional 
incremental worsening of elbow disease. Evaluation at time points <6 years may 
have revealed larger differences in OA prevalence and severity between the 
dietary groups.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These findings support calorie restriction as a clinical 
tool to slow progression of elbow OA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-950X.2008.00487.x
PMID: 19236677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2009 Jan-Feb;44(1):19-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2008.05.003. Epub 2009 Jan 21.

[Scenarios for the impact of immigration on longevity and dependency among the 
elderly in the Spanish population].

[Article in Spanish]

Bermúdez Morata L(1), Guillén Estany M, Solé Auró A.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Matemática Económica, Financiera y Actuarial, RFA-IREA, 
Universidad de Barcelona, Barcelona, España. lbermudez@ub.edu

INTRODUCTION: The composition of the Spanish population has recently changed due 
to immigration. The present study aimed to estimate the magnitude of change in 
the calculation of healthy life expectancy and life expectancy in disability, 
taking the population of foreign residents into account. For this population, 
there is no information on mortality or the prevalence of disability.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Data were extracted from the 1999 Survey on Disabilities, 
Handicaps and Health Status to estimate healthy life expectancy and life 
expectancy in disability using the Sullivan method. Data were taken from the 
Spanish Statistical Institute and the World Health Organization, Sullivan's 
method was adapted to the case of two different populations, and possible 
scenarios were established.
RESULTS: The differences between the mortality table estimated for the foreign 
resident population and that estimated for the Spanish population were 
considerable and were more evident in women. At 65 years of age and in the worst 
scenario, which occurs when all the members of the foreign resident population 
are disabled, life expectancy in disability would be 2 more years for men and 3 
more years for women than when the foreign population was not considered.
CONCLUSIONS: Our scenarios reveal that the impact of immigration on the 
calculation of healthy life expectancy and life expectancy in disability is 
moderate.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2008.05.003
PMID: 19237030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Menopause Int. 2009 Mar;15(1):19-25. doi: 10.1258/mi.2009.009004.

Cost-effectiveness of hormone replacement therapy for menopausal symptoms in the 
UK.

Lekander I(1), Borgström F, Ström O, Zethraeus N, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Klarabergsviadukten 90 Hus D, Stockholm, Sweden. 
ingrid.lekander@i3innovus.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of five-year treatment of hormone 
replacement therapy (HRT) compared with no treatment for women with menopausal 
symptoms in the UK.
METHOD: A Markov cohort simulation model with tunnel techniques was used to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of HRT in women aged 50 years. For the clinical 
effects of HRT we used, where possible, results taken from the Women's Health 
Initiative (WHI). The model had a life-time horizon with cycle lengths of one 
year and contained the following disease states: hip fracture, vertebral 
fracture, wrist fracture, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, coronary heart 
disease, stroke and venous thromboembolic events. An intervention was modelled 
by its impact on the disease risks during and after stopping treatment. The 
model was populated with UK-specific data on risks, mortality rates, 
quality-of-life weights and costs. The main outcome of the model was cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of HRT compared with no treatment.
RESULTS: The results indicated that it was cost-effective to treat women with 
menopausal symptoms with HRT in the UK. The severity of menopausal symptoms was 
the single most important determinant of cost-effectiveness, but HRT remained 
cost-effective even where symptoms were mild or effects on symptom relief were 
small.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of women with menopausal symptoms with HRT is 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1258/mi.2009.009004
PMID: 19237618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Med Decis Making. 2009 Mar-Apr;29(2):207-16. doi: 10.1177/0272989X08327397.
Epub  2009 Feb 23.

Value for money in changing clinical practice: should decisions about guidelines 
and implementation strategies be made sequentially or simultaneously?

Hoomans T(1), Severens JL, Evers SM, Ament AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Organisation, Policy, and Economics, Maastricht 
University, Maastricht, the Netherlands. t.hoomans@beoz.unimaas.nl

Decisions about clinical practice change, that is, which guidelines to adopt and 
how to implement them, can be made sequentially or simultaneously. Decision 
makers adopting a sequential approach first compare the costs and effects of 
alternative guidelines to select the best set of guideline recommendations for 
patient management and subsequently examine the implementation costs and effects 
to choose the best strategy to implement the selected guideline. In an integral 
approach, decision makers simultaneously decide about the guideline and the 
implementation strategy on the basis of the overall value for money in changing 
clinical practice. This article demonstrates that the decision to use a 
sequential v. an integral approach affects the need for detailed information and 
the complexity of the decision analytic process. More importantly, it may lead 
to different choices of guidelines and implementation strategies for clinical 
practice change. The differences in decision making and decision analysis 
between the alternative approaches are comprehensively illustrated using 2 
hypothetical examples. We argue that, in most cases, an integral approach to 
deciding about change in clinical practice is preferred, as this provides more 
efficient use of scarce health-care resources.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X08327397
PMID: 19237645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Crit Care Med. 2009 Mar;37(3):902-11. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e3181962aa9.

Pulsatile perfusion with intra-aortic balloon pumping ameliorates whole body 
response to cardiopulmonary bypass in the elderly.

Onorati F(1), Santarpino G, Presta P, Caroleo S, Abdalla K, Santangelo E, 
Gulletta E, Fuiano G, Costanzo FS, Renzulli A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Surgery Unit, Magna Graecia University of Catanzaro, Catanzaro, 
Italy. frankono@libero.it

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2009 Mar;37(3):1142-3.
    Crit Care Med. 2009 Aug;37(8):2489; author reply 2489-90.

OBJECTIVE: The growing life expectancy has led the elderly to be increasingly 
referred to coronary artery bypass grafting. Preexisting comorbidities may 
benefit from theoretical advantages of pulsatile perfusion during 
cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
DESIGN: Prospective randomized trial.
SETTING: Cardiac surgery unit in a university hospital.
PATIENTS: Eighty consecutive patients older than 70 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Elective coronary artery bypass grafting on CPB, randomizing to 
conventional linear CPB (40 patients, group A) or intra-aortic balloon pump 
(IABP)-induced pulsatile CPB (40 patients, group B).
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We evaluated hemodynamic response by pulmonary 
artery flotation catheter, metabolic/splanchnic response by lactate and 
transaminase, bilirubin, amylase, and renal function (creatinine clearance, 
creatinine, incidence of renal insufficiency and failure), respiratory response 
by Pao2/Fio2, respiratory compliance, scoring of chest radiograph, intubation 
time, and need for noninvasive positive-pressure ventilation, hematologic 
response by chest drainage, hemocoagulative and fibrinolytic cascades, and 
transfusions. IABP-related complications were recorded. Two minor IABP-related 
complications (2.5%) were registered. Hemodynamics was comparable, except for a 
slightly better cardiac index and indexed systemic vascular resistances at the 
end of CPB and at intensive therapy unit (ITU) admission (p < 0.05). 
Transaminases, bilirubin, amylase, proved lower in group B (p < 0.05 from ITU 
admission to 48 hours). Creatinine clearance, serum creatinine, and lactate were 
better in group B (p < 0.05), and acute renal insufficiency was accordingly 
lower (p = 0.02). Respiratory response demonstrated better Pao2/Fio2 and 
respiratory compliance from aortic declamping to 48 hours, with better scoring 
of chest radiograph (p < 0.05 from ITU admission to 48 hours), lower noninvasive 
positive-pressure ventilation (p = 0.002) and intubation time (p = 0.031) in 
group B. Lower chest drainage (p < 0.05 at first and second day), transfusions 
(p < 0.05), activated partial thromboplastin time, international normalized 
ratio, white blood cells, and D-dimer (p < 0.05 from ITU admission to 48 hours), 
together with higher platelets, fibrinogen, and antithrombin III (p < 0.05 from 
ITU admission to 48 hours) were demonstrated in the pulsated group.
CONCLUSIONS: IABP-induced pulsatile flow significantly improves whole body 
perfusion in the elderly undergoing CPB.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e3181962aa9
PMID: 19237895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Sleep. 2009 Feb;32(2):135-6. doi: 10.1093/sleep/32.2.135.

Just a good deal or truly a steal? Medical cost savings and the impact on the 
cost-effectiveness of treating sleep apnea.

Kapur VK(1), Alfonso-Cristancho R.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington, Department of Medicine, Box 359803, 325 Ninth Ave., 
Seattle, WA 98104-2499, USA. vkapur@u.washington.edu

Comment on
    Sleep. 2009 Feb;32(2):247-52.

DOI: 10.1093/sleep/32.2.135
PMCID: PMC2635575
PMID: 19238798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Ann Ig. 2008 Nov-Dec;20(6):595-601.

[Closing the gap in a generation: health equity through action on the social 
determinants of health. A challenge for the international community].

[Article in Italian]

Di Thiene D(1), Marceca M.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Scienze di Sanità Pubblica G. Sanarelli, Sapienza Università 
di Roma. dotilla@libero.it

The aim of this contribution is to present the Report of 'Commission on Social 
Determinants of Health' (Who) published in August 2008, 30th Alma Ata Conference 
anniversary. The Report highlights major inequalities in life expectancy and 
rates of disease between rich and poor within countries as well as among 
different parts of the world. The report makes wide ranging recommendations in 
order to 'close the gap in a generation', emphasizing action on living 
conditions, access to services, social support, information and research. We 
will discuss the echoes from the scientific and media world and their impact on 
national and global scale.

PMID: 19238884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Clin Nurs. 2009 Mar;18(5):745-54. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2008.02671.x.

Living with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neurone disease (ALS/MND): 
decision-making about 'ongoing change and adaptation'.

King SJ(1), Duke MM, O'Connor BA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health, Medicine, Nursing and Behavioural Sciences, School of 
Nursing, Deakin University, Burwood, Vic, Australia. susan.king@deakin.edu.au

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To present a model that explicates the dimensions of change 
and adaptation as revealed by people who are diagnosed and live with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis/motor neurone disease.
BACKGROUND: Most research about amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neurone 
disease is medically focused on cause and cure for the illness. Although 
psychological studies have sought to understand the illness experience through 
questionnaires, little is known about the experience of living with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis/motor neurone disease as described by people with the disease.
DESIGN: A grounded theory method of simultaneous data collection and constant 
comparative analysis was chosen for the conduct of this study.
METHODS: Data collection involved in-depth interviews, electronic 
correspondence, field notes, as well as stories, prose, songs and photographs 
important to participants. QSR NVivo 2 software was used to manage the data and 
modelling used to illustrate concepts.
FINDINGS: Participants used a cyclic, decision-making pattern about 'ongoing 
change and adaptation' as they lived with the disease. This pattern formed the 
basis of the model that is presented in this paper.
CONCLUSION: The lives of people living with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor 
neurone disease revolve around the need to make decisions about how to live with 
the disease progression and their deteriorating abilities. Life decisions were 
negotiated by participants to maintain a sense of self and well-being in the 
face of change.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: The 'ongoing change and adaptation' model is a 
framework that can guide practitioners to understand the decision-making 
processes of people living with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neurone 
disease. Such understanding will enhance caring and promote models of care that 
are person-centred. The model may also have relevance for people with other life 
limiting diseases and their care.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2008.02671.x
PMID: 19239541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Eur J Endocrinol. 2009 May;160(5):807-13. doi: 10.1530/EJE-08-0854. Epub
2009  Feb 24.

Medullary thyroid carcinoma identified within the first year of life in children 
with hereditary multiple endocrine neoplasia type 2A (codon 634) and 2B.

Zenaty D(1), Aigrain Y, Peuchmaur M, Philippe-Chomette P, Baumann C, Cornelis F, 
Hugot JP, Chevenne D, Barbu V, Guillausseau PJ, Schlumberger M, Carel JC, 
Travagli JP, Léger J.

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Endocrinology Department, Centre de Référence Maladies 
Endocriniennes Rares de la Croissance Paediatric Surgery Department Pathology, 
Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Robert Debré Hospital, 75019 Paris, 
France.

CONTEXT: Early prophylactic thyroidectomy in patients with multiple endocrine 
neoplasia (MEN) type 2 offers the best chance for a normal life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the results of thyroidectomy performed during the first 
year of life in six patients with MEN 2A (codon 634) or MEN 2B (codon 918) 
syndrome.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A university hospital-based prospective study from 2001 to 
2008.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Six family members affected either by MEN 2A (n=3) or MEN 
2B (n=3) syndrome were identified through neonatal genetic screening.
RESULTS: Total thyroidectomy was performed at a median age of 0.8 year in the 
six patients, with central lymph node dissection in five. Bilateral millimetric 
medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) was found in all patients, with a unilateral 
lymph node micrometastasis in two of the three MEN 2B patients. Before 
thyroidectomy, MEN 2B patients had much higher basal serum calcitonin levels 
than those with MEN 2A and controls. After thyroidectomy, with a median 
follow-up of 3.3 years, the six patients had no evidence of persistent MTC.
CONCLUSION: Bilateral millimetric MTC may be present during the first year of 
life in these patients, with lymph node metastases also occurring in MEN 2B 
patients. These results support a total thyroidectomy at the age of about one 
year in MEN 2A (codon 634) children with an abnormal serum calcitonin level, and 
a total thyroidectomy with central neck dissection within the first weeks of 
life in MEN 2B patients.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-08-0854
PMID: 19240193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Postgrad Med J. 2009 Jan;85(999):1-2. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2008.071589.

Twinning for better diabetes care: a model for improving healthcare for 
non-communicable diseases in resource-poor countries.

Yudkin JS, Holt RI, Silva-Matos C, Beran D.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2008.071589
PMID: 19240280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Acta Chir Belg. 2008 Nov-Dec;108(6):679-84. doi:
10.1080/00015458.2008.11680315.

Quality of life after surgical treatment of pancreatic cancer.

Kostro J(1), Sledziński Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of General, Endocrine and Transplantation Surgery, Medical 
University of Gdańsk, Poland. kostro@amg.gda.pl

BACKGROUND: This study was designed to assess postoperative changes in the 
quality of life (QoL) of patients after surgical treatment for pancreatic 
cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: QoL was analyzed in a prospective single-centre study that 
included 54 patients with pancreatic cancer. Patients with potentially 
resectable tumours underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) (n = 26), a 
double-bypass procedure (DBP) (n = 17) or laparotomy (L) (n = 11). They were 
asked to complete a questionnaire before and at 1, 2, 3 and 6 months after 
surgery. QoL was assessed using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and EORTC QLQ-PAN26 
questionnaires (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality of Life Questionnaire C30 and PAN26).
RESULTS: The patients did not demonstrate significant differences in the 
assessment of their global health status. Although, after resection, patients 
gave a positive assessment of most parameters in question, after DBP they 
reported some aggravation of most of the symptoms. The majority of patients did 
not have aggravated symptoms after laparotomy.
CONCLUSIONS: The study has shown the value of conducting both curative and 
palliative resection for QoL. Bypass procedures should be performed in cases of 
non-resectable pancreatic cancer with accompanying jaundice and/or gastric 
outlet obstruction in patients with a life expectancy of at least 6 months.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2008.11680315
PMID: 19241917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2009 Nov;280(5):815-8. doi: 10.1007/s00404-009-1007-2.
Epub  2009 Feb 26.

Route of delivery of thoracoomphalopagus twins: analysis of three cases.

Tug N(1), Sahinoglu Z, Cam C, Eren S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Zeynep Kamil Maternity Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey. 
niyazitug@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The management of thoracoomphalopagus twins depends on gestational 
age and life expectancy of the fetuses. Vaginal route of delivery is limited to 
small nonviable fetuses. Cesarean section should be reserved for larger fetuses 
or when the life expectancy of the fetuses is of concern.
CASES: The first case was that of heavily malformed fetuses of 28 weeks in 
preterm labor, delivered vaginally according to their parent's request, but the 
fusion between fetuses was torn cephalad. The second case was diagnosed and 
underwent cesarean section at her 29th gestational week, but her babies were 
lost after birth due to cardiorespiratory arrest. The third case was 34 weeks 
pregnant and not diagnosed until birth. Presentation of the first fetus was 
vertex, while the other was breech. Totally 3,700 g twins were delivered by 
vaginal route without any serious complication.
CONCLUSION: Successful vaginal delivery of the third trimester fetuses is 
possible. The technique of the delivery is important.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-009-1007-2
PMID: 19242708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Chromosoma. 2009 Jun;118(3):391-400. doi: 10.1007/s00412-009-0205-9. Epub
2009  Feb 26.

2C or not 2C: a closer look at cell nuclei and their DNA content.

Greilhuber J(1), Dolezel J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Systematic and Evolutionary Botany, University of Vienna, 
Rennweg 14, 1030 Vienna, Austria. johann.greilhuber@univie.ac.at

The life cycle of animals and plants involves changes in chromosome number 
(nuclear phase) and sometimes even the karyotype, and consequently the DNA 
content of a nuclear genome is not static in time. Thus, in order to interpret 
DNA content data, it is important that the status of the materials from which 
DNA content is estimated be precisely defined. The previously proposed 
distinction between "holoploid" (C) and "monoploid" (Cx) genome size covers the 
most frequent states of plant and animal nuclear genomes. However, restricting 
nomenclature to just C and Cx still leaves a number of unresolved problems. 
Here, we propose an extension of the C-value terminology to handle a range of 
cytogenetic conditions, life cycle segments, and nuclear phases. A set of 
superscripts and subscripts are used in a formal way to identify life cycle 
segments and to express the quantitative relationship between these segments. A 
revision of the current usage of the holoploid chromosome number n was necessary 
to maintain the intimate link between n and C-value and between the monoploid 
chromosome number x and Cx-value. In this revision, haplophase individuals 
(i.e., "haploid" animals and "haploid" spontaneous or experimentally induced 
land plant sporophytes) have chromosome number n (not 2n, as is the current 
tradition) and thus nuclear DNA contents based on 1C. However, to avoid an 
unlimited progression of n levels due to generative polyploidy, zygotic 
individuals are assigned as 2n starting from the zygote, whatever their ploidy 
level. Their ploidy is indicated by multiples of the basic chromosome number x. 
The extended terminology for genome size should eliminate ambiguities in 
reporting DNA contents in both plants and animals.

DOI: 10.1007/s00412-009-0205-9
PMID: 19242716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Clin Drug Investig. 2009;29(3):173-84. doi:
10.2165/00044011-200929030-00004.

Cost effectiveness of venlafaxine compared with generic fluoxetine or generic 
amitriptyline in major depressive disorder in the UK.

Lenox-Smith A(1), Greenstreet L, Burslem K, Knight C.

Author information:
(1)Wyeth Pharmaceuticals, Taplow, UK. Alan@lenox-smith1800.fsnet.uk

Erratum in
    Clin Drug Investig. 2010;30(1):70.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of venlafaxine compared with 
generic fluoxetine and generic amitriptyline used in major depressive disorder 
in primary care in the UK.
METHODS: A decision-tree model for the treatment of major depressive disorder 
was constructed using a Delphi panel. The tree was populated with clinical 
success rates from a pooled analysis of fluoxetine compared with venlafaxine and 
a clinical trial of amitriptyline compared with venlafaxine using remission as 
the key endpoint. Where there was insufficient data from clinical trials, the 
Delphi panel was used. Costs within the tree were taken from contemporary UK 
sources. Six-monthly costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were then estimated.
