defence of honour; exposure to abuse in childhood and weak parenting; access to 
firearms; widespread alcohol misuse; and weaknesses in the mechanisms of law 
enforcement. Although there have been advances in development of services for 
victims of violence, innovation from non-governmental organisations, and 
evidence from research, there has been a conspicuous absence of government 
stewardship and leadership. Successful prevention of violence and injury is 
contingent on identification by the government of violence as a strategic 
priority and development of an intersectoral plan based on empirically driven 
programmes and policies.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60948-X
PMID: 19709732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Lancet. 2009 Sep 12;374(9693):934-47. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61087-4.
Epub  2009 Aug 24.

The burden of non-communicable diseases in South Africa.

Mayosi BM(1), Flisher AJ, Lalloo UG, Sitas F, Tollman SM, Bradshaw D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital and University of Cape Town, 
Cape Town, South Africa. bongani.mayosi@uct.ac.za

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):957-9.
    Lancet. 2009 Dec 19;374(9707):2052; author reply 2052-3.

15 years after its first democratic election, South Africa is in the midst of a 
profound health transition that is characterised by a quadruple burden of 
communicable, non-communicable, perinatal and maternal, and injury-related 
disorders. Non-communicable diseases are emerging in both rural and urban areas, 
most prominently in poor people living in urban settings, and are resulting in 
increasing pressure on acute and chronic health-care services. Major factors 
include demographic change leading to a rise in the proportion of people older 
than 60 years, despite the negative effect of HIV/AIDS on life expectancy. The 
burden of these diseases will probably increase as the roll-out of 
antiretroviral therapy takes effect and reduces mortality from HIV/AIDS. The 
scale of the challenge posed by the combined and growing burden of HIV/AIDS and 
non-communicable diseases demands an extraordinary response that South Africa is 
well able to provide. Concerted action is needed to strengthen the 
district-based primary health-care system, to integrate the care of chronic 
diseases and management of risk factors, to develop a national surveillance 
system, and to apply interventions of proven cost-effectiveness in the primary 
and secondary prevention of such diseases within populations and health 
services. We urge the launching of a national initiative to establish sites of 
service excellence in urban and rural settings throughout South Africa to trial, 
assess, and implement integrated care interventions for chronic infectious and 
non-communicable diseases.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61087-4
PMID: 19709736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Curr Probl Dermatol. 2009;38:21-36. doi: 10.1159/000232302. Epub 2009 Jul
28.

Impact of comorbidities on the management of psoriasis.

Gerdes S, Mrowietz U.

Psoriasis is associated with numerous comorbidities that have a major impact on 
severely affected patients. Besides psoriatic arthritis, other diseases such as 
metabolic syndrome and cardiovascular diseases are becoming of major importance. 
In particular, patients with severe forms of psoriasis are at a higher risk of 
developing cardiovascular diseases and myocardial infarction. In a recent study, 
a reduction in life expectancy was shown for this subgroup of patients. An 
increased prevalence of concomitant diseases leads to an increased intake of 
concomitant medication; thus, it is easy for comorbidities and their treatments 
to interact with routinely used antipsoriatic therapies and complicate the 
management of severely affected patients. This patient subgroup has a strong 
need of sufficient treatment not only for their severe skin symptoms, but also 
for preventing the possible development of comorbidities and their long-term 
complications. As dermatologists are often one of the first and most often 
consulted health care specialists for patients with psoriasis, advanced 
knowledge of the comorbid state of these patients should influence clinical 
management and lead to new standards of care. This article will summarize the 
current knowledge on comorbidities in psoriasis and their impact on patient 
management.

Copyright (c) 038\ S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000232302
PMID: 19710548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Duodecim. 2009;125(14):1557-65.

[Home rehabilitation assistant improves the quality of life of the elderly].

[Article in Finnish]

Leinonen R(1), Niemelä K, Jokinen S, Kangas I, Laukkanen P.

Author information:
(1)Tutkimus- ja kehittämiskeskus GeroCenter, 40930 Kinkomaa.

We investigated the health status, functional ability, mood and quality of life 
of 464 persons undergoing a rehabilitation period in two centers for care and 
rehabilition for war veterans' by comprehensive interviews and measurements of 
functional ability. The investigation involved a 2 to 4-week period in a 
rehabilitation unit and a controlled investigation with a home rehabilitation 
assistant for one year. Hand grip strength, knee extension strength and walking 
speed, among other things, improved during the institutional rehabilitation 
period. The rehabilitation period study included no control group. During the 
one-year follow-up, those participating in the home rehabilitation assistant 
intervention considered their quality of life and health better than in the 
beginning of the study.

PMID: 19711578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Health Policy. 2009 Dec;93(2-3):77-84. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.005.
 Epub 2009 Aug 27.

Severity of illness and priority setting in healthcare: a review of the 
literature.

Shah KK(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, 12 Whitehall, London SW1A 2DY, United Kingdom. 
kshah@ohe.org

BACKGROUND: It is widely assumed that the principal objective of healthcare is 
to maximise health. However, people may be willing to sacrifice aggregate health 
gain in order to direct resources towards those who are worst off in terms of 
the severity of their pre-treatment health state.
OBJECTIVES: This paper reviews the literature on severity in the context of 
economic evaluation, with the aim of establishing the extent to which popular 
preferences concerning severity imply a departure from the health maximisation 
objective.
METHODS: Data were obtained using a keyword search of major databases and a hand 
search of articles written by leading researchers in the subject area.
RESULTS: The empirical evidence suggests that people are, on the whole, willing 
to sacrifice aggregate health in order to give priority to the severely ill. 
However, there remain unresolved issues regarding the elicitation and 
interpretation of severity preferences (and indeed popular preferences 
generally).
CONCLUSIONS: The use of severity as a priority setting criterion is supported by 
a large number of empirical studies of popular preferences. Further work is 
needed, however, to accurately estimate the strength of this support.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.005
PMID: 19712990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Haematologica. 2010 Jan;95(1):65-70. doi: 10.3324/haematol.2009.007542. Epub
 2009 Aug 27.

Hereditary thrombocytosis caused by MPLSer505Asn is associated with a high 
thrombotic risk, splenomegaly and progression to bone marrow fibrosis.

Teofili L(1), Giona F, Torti L, Cenci T, Ricerca BM, Rumi C, Nunes V, Foà R, 
Leone G, Martini M, Larocca LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

Background The MPL(Ser505Asn) mutation has been reported to be a cause of 
hereditary thrombocythemia. Recently, we detected this mutation in a large 
proportion of children with familial thrombocythemia, suggesting that in Italy 
the incidence of MPL(Ser505Asn) mutation could be underestimated.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We extended the search for this mutation to all patients 
with essential thrombocythemia who had a positive family history for 
thrombocytosis or essential thrombocythemia. We identified eight Italian 
families positive for the MPL(Ser505Asn) mutation. Clinical and hematologic data 
were available for members of seven families, including 21 patients with a 
proven mutation and 20 relatives with thrombocytosis.
RESULTS: Fifteen major thrombotic episodes, nine of which were fatal, were 
recorded among 41 patients. The thrombotic manifestation was stroke in four 
cases, myocardial infarction in seven cases, fetal loss in two cases, deep vein 
thrombosis of the leg in one case and Budd Chiari syndrome in one case. Almost 
all patients over 20 years old had splenomegaly and bone marrow fibrosis, while 
these were rarely observed in patients under 20 years old, suggesting that these 
manifestations are associated with aging. Finally, the life expectancy of family 
members with thrombocytosis was significantly shorter than that of members 
without thrombocytosis (P=0.003). Conclusions Patients with familial 
thrombocytosis caused by a MPL(Ser505Asn) mutation have a high risk of 
thrombosis and, with aging, develop splenomegaly and bone marrow fibrosis, 
significantly affecting their life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2009.007542
PMCID: PMC2805752
PMID: 19713221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Blood. 2009 Oct 29;114(18):3769-72. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-05-220145. Epub
2009  Aug 27.

Prognostically relevant breakdown of 123 patients with systemic mastocytosis 
associated with other myeloid malignancies.

Pardanani A(1), Lim KH, Lasho TL, Finke C, McClure RF, Li CY, Tefferi A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
Pardanani.animesh@mayo.edu

The prognostic heterogeneity of the World Health Organization category of 
"systemic mastocytosis with associated clonal hematologic nonmast cell lineage 
disease" (SM-AHNMD) has not been systematically validated by primary data. Among 
138 consecutive cases with SM-AHNMD, 123 (89%) had associated myeloid neoplasm: 
55 (45%) myeloproliferative neoplasm (SM-MPN), 36 (29%) chronic myelomonocytic 
leukemia, 28 (23%) myelodysplastic syndrome (SM-MDS), and 4 (3%) acute leukemia. 
Of the myeloid subgroups, SM-MPN displayed a 2- to 3-fold better life expectancy 
(P = .003), whereas leukemic transformation was more frequent in SM-MDS (29%; P 
= .02). The presence of eosinophilia, although prevalent (34%), was 
prognostically neutral, and the overall results were not affected by exclusion 
of FIP1L1-PDGFRA-positive cases. We conclude that it is clinically more useful 
to consider specific entities, such as SM-MPN, systemic mastocytosis with 
chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, SM-MDS, and systemic mastocytosis with-acute 
leukemia, rather than their broad reference as SM-AHNMD.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-05-220145
PMID: 19713463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2009 Sep;6(9):503-4. doi: 
10.1038/nrgastro.2009.138.

Hepatitis C: Should antiviral therapy be offered to elderly patients?

Floreani A.

relatively little information exists on the prognosis for elderly patients with 
chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Moreover, the majority of randomized, clinical trials 
of hepatitis C treatment exclude elderly patients. Findings from a 2009 clinical 
study address risk of hepatocellular carcinoma, life expectancy and the 
influence of antiviral therapy in elderly patients with CHC.

DOI: 10.1038/nrgastro.2009.138
PMID: 19713980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. PLoS One. 2009 Aug 28;4(8):e6817. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0006817.

Life expectancy in a large cohort of type 2 diabetes patients treated in primary 
care (ZODIAC-10).

Lutgers HL(1), Gerrits EG, Sluiter WJ, Ubink-Veltmaat LJ, Landman GW, Links TP, 
Gans RO, Smit AJ, Bilo HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen, 
Groningen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Most longitudinal studies showed increased relative mortality in 
individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus until now. As a result of major 
changes in treatment regimes over the past years, with more stringent goals for 
metabolic control and cardiovascular risk management, improvement of life 
expectancy should be expected. In our study, we aimed to assess present-day life 
expectancy of type 2 diabetes patients in an ongoing cohort study.
METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We included 973 primary care type 2 diabetes 
patients in a prospective cohort study, who were all participating in a shared 
care project in The Netherlands. Vital status was assessed from May 2001 till 
May 2007. Main outcome measurement was life expectancy assessed by transforming 
actual survival time to standardised survival time allowing adjustment for the 
baseline mortality rate of the general population. At baseline, mean age was 66 
years, mean HbA(1c) 7.0%. During a median follow-up of 5.4 years, 165 patients 
died (78 from cardiovascular causes), and 17 patients were lost to follow-up. 
There were no differences in life expectancy in subjects with type 2 diabetes 
compared to life expectancy in the general population. In multivariate Cox 
regression analyses, concentrating on the endpoints 'all-cause' and 
cardiovascular mortality, a history of cardiovascular disease: hazard ratio (HR) 
1.71 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.23-2.37), and HR 2.59 (95% CI 1.56-4.28); 
and albuminuria: HR 1.72 (95% CI 1.26-2.35), and HR 1.83 (95% CI 1.17-2.89), 
respectively, were significant predictors, whereas smoking, HbA(1c), systolic 
blood pressure and diabetes duration were not.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows a normal life expectancy in a cohort of subjects 
with type 2 diabetes patients in primary care when compared to the general 
population. A history of cardiovascular disease and albuminuria, however, 
increased the risk of a reduction of life expectancy. These results show that, 
in a shared care environment, a normal life expectancy is achievable in type 2 
diabetes patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0006817
PMCID: PMC2729379
PMID: 19714245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


348. Am J Orthop (Belle Mead NJ). 2009 Jul;38(7):E115-22.

Clinical outcomes of lumbar degenerative disc disease treated with posterior 
lumbar interbody fusion allograft spacer: a prospective, multicenter trial with 
2-year follow-up.

Arnold PM(1), Robbins S, Paullus W, Faust S, Holt R, McGuire R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Kansas Medical Center, Kansas City, 
KS 66160, USA. parnold@kumc.edu

The clinical benefits and complications of posterior lumbar interbody fusion 
(PLIF) have been studied over the past 60 years. In recent years, spine surgeons 
have had the option of treating low back pain caused by degenerative disc 
disease using PLIF with machined allograft spacers and posterior pedicle 
fixation. The purpose of this clinical series was to assess the clinical 
benefits of using a machined PLIF allograft spacer and posterior pedicle 
fixation to treat degenerative disc disease, both in terms of fusion rates and 
patient outcomes, and to compare these results with those in previous studies 
using autograft and metal interbody fusion devices. Results were also compared 
with results from studies using transverse process fusion. This prospective, 
nonrandomized clinical series was conducted at 10 US medical centers. 
Eighty-nine (55 male, 34 female) patients underwent PLIF with a presized, 
machined allograft spacer and posterior pedicle fixation between January 2000 
and April 2003. Their outcomes were compared with outcomes in previous series 
described in the literature. All patients had experienced at least 6 months of 
low back pain that had been unresponsive to nonsurgical treatment. Physical 
examinations were performed before surgery, after surgery, and at 4 follow-up 
visits (6 weeks, 6 months, 12 months, 24 months). At each interval, we obtained 
radiographs and patient outcome measures, including SF-36 Bodily Pain Score, 
visual analog scale pain rating, and Oswestry Disability Index. The primary 
outcome was fusion results at 12 and 24 months; the secondary outcomes were 
pain, disability, function/quality of life, and satisfaction. One-level PLIFs 
were performed in 65 patients, and 2-level PLIFs in 24 patients. 
Flexion-extension radiographs at 12 and 24 months revealed a 98% fusion rate. Of 
the 72 patients who reached the 12-month follow-up, 86% reported decreased pain 
and disability as measured with the Oswestry Disability Index. Decreased pain as 
measured with the SF-36 Bodily Pain Score was reported by 74% of patients who 
reached the 12-month follow-up. The graft-related complication rate among all 
patients who underwent PLIF was 1.61%. When performed with machined allograft 
spacers and posterior pedicle fixation, PLIF is a safe and effective surgical 
treatment for low back pain caused by degenerative disc disease. The patients in 
this clinical series had outcomes equal or superior to the outcomes in previous 
series.

PMID: 19714280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Internist (Berl). 2009 Oct;50(10):1213-4, 1216, 1218-20. doi: 
10.1007/s00108-009-2399-6.

[Cystic fibrosis care in transition from adolescence to adult age].

[Article in German]

Fischer R(1), Nährig S, Kappler M, Griese M.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für erwachsene Mukoviszidose-Patienten, Klinikum der Universität 
München-Pneumologie, 80336 München. Rainald.Fischer@med.uni-muenchen.de

During the last 30 years, life expectancy in patients with cystic fibrosis has 
significantly improved. In Germany, almost half of the 8500 patients are 18 
years or older. Older patients have increased rates of cystic fibrosis typical 
complications, In addition the characteristic complications of adulthood, 
including arterial hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and cardiovascular diseases, 
occur. Also crisis of marriage or loss of work place, as well as family planning 
measures including in-vitro-fertilization are problems merely of the adult 
cystic fibrosis patient. Therefore adult patients should be treated in a centre 
specialized on adults. At the moment, in Germany only one third of all adult 
patients are followed up in an adult center, many patients are treated in 
age-independent centers, and also a significant number is treated in small 
clinics. In this article models for transition currently established in Germany 
are described and occurring problems with their implementation are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-009-2399-6
PMID: 19714300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Strahlenther Onkol. 2009 Jul;185(7):417-24. doi: 10.1007/s00066-009-2044-2.
Epub  2009 Aug 28.

DEGRO practice guidelines for palliative radiotherapy of metastatic breast 
cancer: bone metastases and metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC).

Souchon R(1), Wenz F, Sedlmayer F, Budach W, Dunst J, Feyer P, Haase W, Harms W, 
Sautter-Bihl ML, Sauer R; German Society of Radiation Oncology (DEGRO).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, UKT Tübingen, Tübingen, Germany. 
rainer.souchon@med.uni-tuebingen.de

PURPOSE: To provide practice guidelines and clinical recommendations on 
preferred standard palliative radiation therapy of bone metastases as well as 
metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) for metastatic breast cancer patients.
METHODS: The breast cancer expert panel of the German Society of Radiation 
Oncology (DEGRO) performed a comprehensive survey of the literature comprising 
recently published data from clinical controlled trials. The literature search 
encompassed the period 1995-2008 using databases of PubMed and Guidelines 
International Network (G-I-N). Search terms were "breast cancer", "bone 
metastasis", "osseous metastasis", "metastatic spinal cord compression" as well 
as "radiotherapy" and "radiation therapy". Clinical recommendations were 
formulated based on the panel's interpretation of the level of evidence 
referring to the criteria of evidence-based medicine.
RESULTS: Different therapeutic goals (pain relief, local tumor control, 
prevention or improvement of motor deficits, stabilization of the spine or other 
bones) require complex approaches considering individual factors (i.e., life 
expectancy, tumor progression at other sites). Best results are achieved by 
close interdisciplinary cooperation minimizing the interval between diagnosis 
and onset of treatment. Most important criteria for prognosis and choice of 
treatment (mostly combined multimodal therapy) are neurologic status at 
diagnosis of MSCC, time course of duration and progression of the neurologic 
symptoms. Radiation therapy is effective and regarded as treatment of choice for 
MSCC with or without motor deficits and/or bone metastases, which do not need 
immediate surgical intervention. It may be used either postoperatively or as 
primary treatment in case of inoperability. An optimal dose fractionation 
schedule or optimal standard dose for treatment of bone metastases has not been 
established. With regard to different therapeutic goals, different dose concepts 
and fractionation schedules, single- versus multifraction palliative radiation 
therapy (1 x 8, 5 x 4, 10 x 3, 15 x 2.5, 20 x 2 Gy), should be adapted 
individually.
CONCLUSION: Bone metastases as well as MSCC should be managed in an 
interdisciplinary approach mostly as combined-modality treatment according to 
the specific clinical situation. The present practice guidelines offer criteria 
and recommendations for different radiooncologic treatment schedules based on 
the best available levels of evidence. Preferred technique, targeting and 
different dose schedules are described in detail.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-009-2044-2
PMID: 19714302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Clin Drug Investig. 2009;29(10):635-46. doi:
10.2165/11317820-000000000-00000.

Cost-utility of treatments for pulmonary arterial hypertension: a Markov 
state-transition decision analysis model.

Garin MC(1), Clark L, Chumney EC, Simpson KN, Highland KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Clinicians must choose between an increasing number of 
medications for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) with 
different routes of administration, adverse effects, costs and efficacies. We 
constructed a decision analysis to help inform treatment choices in PAH.
METHODS: We created a Markov-type model to evaluate 1-year treatment with 
bosentan, treprostinil, epoprostenol, inhaled iloprost, sildenafil, sitaxentan 
and ambrisentan. Transition probabilities were based on observed transitions 
between WHO functional classes, adjusted by relative risk of improvement in a 
6-minute walk test. Utilities were based on reported values for each functional 
class, adjusted for burden of treatment administration. Costs were estimated 
from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement data. Sensitivity analyses evaluated 
changes in efficacy, utilities and costs.
RESULTS: Treatment with sildenafil was less costly and resulted in a greater 
gain in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) compared with other treatments. 
Treatment with ambrisentan and bosentan resulted in the same gain in QALYs as 
sildenafil, but at a higher cost. Sensitivity analyses had minimal impact on 
these results.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this model, sildenafil is a cost-effective treatment for 
PAH with a low price and a net increase in QALYs. The results from this analysis 
are a tool to help guide clinicians in deciding which PAH medications to use; 
however, the final decisions should be individualized because the effectiveness 
of therapy, resulting utilities and acceptable costs will differ with each 
patient.

DOI: 10.2165/11317820-000000000-00000
PMID: 19715380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. BMC Public Health. 2009 Aug 28;9:315. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-315.

European network for promoting the physical health of residents in psychiatric 
and social care facilities (HELPS): background, aims and methods.

Weiser P(1), Becker T, Losert C, Alptekin K, Berti L, Burti L, Burton A, 
Dernovsek M, Dragomirecka E, Freidl M, Friedrich F, Genova A, Germanavicius A, 
Halis U, Henderson J, Hjorth P, Lai T, Larsen JI, Lech K, Lucas R, Marginean R, 
McDaid D, Mladenova M, Munk-Jørgensen P, Paziuc A, Paziuc P, Priebe S, 
Prot-Klinger K, Wancata J, Kilian R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy II, Ulm University, Günzburg, 
Germany. prisca.weiser@uni-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: People with mental disorders have a higher prevalence of physical 
illnesses and reduced life expectancy as compared with the general population. 
However, there is a lack of knowledge across Europe concerning interventions 
that aim at reducing somatic morbidity and excess mortality by promoting 
behaviour-based and/or environment-based interventions.
METHODS AND DESIGN: HELPS is an interdisciplinary European network that aims at 
(i) gathering relevant knowledge on physical illness in people with mental 
illness, (ii) identifying health promotion initiatives in European countries 
that meet country-specific needs, and (iii) at identifying best practice across 
Europe. Criteria for best practice will include evidence on the efficacy of 
physical health interventions and of their effectiveness in routine care, cost 
implications and feasibility for adaptation and implementation of interventions 
across different settings in Europe. HELPS will develop and implement a 
"physical health promotion toolkit". The toolkit will provide information to 
empower residents and staff to identify the most relevant risk factors in their 
specific context and to select the most appropriate action out of a range of 
defined health promoting interventions. The key methods are (a) stakeholder 
analysis, (b) international literature reviews, (c) Delphi rounds with experts 
from participating centres, and (d) focus groups with staff and residents of 
mental health care facilities.Meanwhile a multi-disciplinary network consisting 
of 15 European countries has been established and took up the work. As one main 
result of the project they expect that a widespread use of the HELPS toolkit 
could have a significant positive effect on the physical health status of 
residents of mental health and social care facilities, as well as to hold 
resonance for community dwelling people with mental health problems.
DISCUSSION: A general strategy on health promotion for people with mental 
disorders must take into account behavioural, environmental and iatrogenic 
health risks. A European health promotion toolkit needs to consider 
heterogeneity of mental disorders, the multitude of physical health problems, 
health-relevant behaviour, health-related attitudes, health-relevant living 
conditions, and resource levels in mental health and social care facilities.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-315
PMCID: PMC2741451
PMID: 19715560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2009 Aug 28;9:42. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-9-42.

Percutaneous coronary revascularization in patients with formerly "refractory 
angina pectoris in end-stage coronary artery disease" - not "end-stage" after 
all.

Jax TW(1), Peters AJ, Khattab AA, Heintzen MP, Schoebel FC.

Author information:
(1)Profil Institut für Stoffwechselforschung, Hellersbergstrasse 9, 41460 Neuss, 
Germany. thomas.jax@profil-research.de

BACKGROUND: Patients with refractory angina pectoris in end-stage coronary 
artery disease represent a severe condition with a higher reduction of 
life-expectancy and quality of life as compared to patients with stable coronary 
artery disease. It was the purpose of this study to invasively re-evaluate 
highly symptomatic patients with formerly diagnosed refractory angina pectoris 
in end-stage coronary artery disease for feasible options of myocardial 
revascularization.
METHODS: Thirty-four patients formerly characterized as having end stage 
coronary artery disease with refractory angina pectoris were retrospectively 
followed for coronary interventions.
RESULTS: Of those 34 patients 21 (61.8%) were eventually revascularized with 
percutaneous interventional revascularization (PCI). Due to complex coronary 
morphology (angulation, chronic total occlusion) PCI demanded an above-average 
amount of time (66 +/- 42 minutes, range 25-206 minutes) and materials (contrast 
media 247 +/- 209 ml, range 50-750 ml; PCI guiding wires 2.0 +/- 1.4, range 1-6 
wires). Of PCI patients 7 (33.3%) showed a new lesion as a sign of progression 
of atherosclerosis. Clinical success rate with a reduction to angina class II or 
lower was 71.4% at 30 days. Surgery was performed in a total of8 (23.5%) 
patients with a clinical success rate of 62.5%. Based on an intention-to-treat 2 
patients of originally 8 (25%) demonstrated clinical success. Mortality during 
follow-up (1-18 months) was 4.8% in patients who underwent PCI, 25% in patients 
treated surgically and 25% in those only treated medically.
CONCLUSION: The majority of patients with end-stage coronary artery disease can 
be treated effectively with conventional invasive treatment modalities. 
Therefore even though it is challenging and demanding PCI should be considered 
as a first choice before experimental interventions are considered.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-9-42
PMCID: PMC2739155
PMID: 19715566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Vaccine. 2009 Oct 19;27(44):6121-8. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.030. Epub
 2009 Aug 26.

The cost-effectiveness of rotavirus vaccination: Comparative analyses for five 
European countries and transferability in Europe.

Jit M(1), Bilcke J, Mangen MJ, Salo H, Melliez H, Edmunds WJ, Yazdan Y, Beutels 
P.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, United Kingdom. 
m.jit@bham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2011 May 12;29(21):3731; author reply 3732-3.

Cost-effectiveness analyses are usually not directly comparable between 
countries because of differences in analytical and modelling assumptions. We 
investigated the cost-effectiveness of rotavirus vaccination in five European 
Union countries (Belgium, England and Wales, Finland, France and the 
Netherlands) using a single model, burden of disease estimates supplied by 
national public health agencies and a subset of common assumptions. Under base 
case assumptions (vaccination with Rotarix, 3% discount rate, health care 
provider perspective, no herd immunity and quality of life of one caregiver 
affected by a rotavirus episode) and a cost-effectiveness threshold of 
euro30,000, vaccination is likely to be cost effective in Finland only. However, 
single changes to assumptions may make it cost effective in Belgium and the 
Netherlands. The estimated threshold price per dose for Rotarix (excluding 
administration costs) to be cost effective was euro41 in Belgium, euro28 in 
England and Wales, euro51 in Finland, euro36 in France and euro46 in the 
Netherlands.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.030
PMID: 19715781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Transplant Proc. 2009 Jul-Aug;41(6):2132-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.06.078.

Clinical and epidemiological characteristics of refractory hypertension in renal 
transplant patients.

Gago Fraile M(1), Fernandez Fresnedo G, Gómez-Alamillo C, de Castro SS, Arias M.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Department, University Hospital Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, 
Spain. mgagofraile@gmail.com

Hypertension is common following renal transplantation, affecting up to 80% of 
recipients. It is generally accepted that hypertension is associated with poor 
graft survival and reduced life expectancy, contributing to increased 
cardiovascular risk factors and mortality rates. The prevalence of refractory 
hypertension among renal transplant patients is unknown; it may be associated 
with a worse prognosis. The aim of our study was to determine the prevalence of 
refractory hypertension among 529 stable renal transplant recipients and to 
describe its clinical and epidemiological features. We divided this population 
into 4 groups to make comparisons: normotensive (n = 82), controlled 
hypertension (n = 228), uncontrolled hypertension but not refractory (n = 183), 
and refractory hypertension (n = 36) as defined by a systolic blood pressure 
>or= 140 mm Hg and/or a diastolic blood pressure >or= 90 mm Hg among patients 
treated with 3 or more drugs (1 of them being a diuretic). The proportion of 
patients with refractory hypertension in our transplant unit was 6.8%. The main 
characteristics of patients with refractory hypertension versus normotensive 
patients were: mainly systolic hypertension (152.5 +/- 10.32 vs 121.6 +/- 9.26 
mm Hg; P < .012), elderly age (59.47 vs 48.33 years; P < .000), diabetes (36.2% 
vs 1.2%; P < .000), poorer renal function as measured by glomerular filtration 
rate (36.15 +/- 20.41 vs 56.12 +/- 15.75 mL/min/1.73 m(2); P < .004), higher 
24-hour urinary protein excretion (2.55 +/- 2.61 vs 0.5 +/- 0.8 g; P < .003), 
and steroid treatment (47.2% vs 23.2%; P < .000). The results of this study may 
help identify the clinical and epidemiological factors which correlated with 
refractory hypertension for future interventional applications to reduce the 
morbidity/mortality among the renal transplant population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.06.078
PMID: 19715853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. J Heart Lung Transplant. 2009 Sep;28(9):863-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.healun.2009.05.016.

Thresholds of physical activity and life expectancy for patients considering 
destination ventricular assist devices.

Stewart GC(1), Brooks K, Pratibhu PP, Tsang SW, Semigran MJ, Smith CM, Saniuk C, 
Camuso JM, Fang JC, Mudge GH, Couper GS, Baughman KL, Stevenson LW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. gcstewart@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Current implantable left ventricular assist devices (LVAD) improve 
survival and function for patients with very late stage heart failure (HF) but 
may also offer benefit before inotrope dependence. Debate continues about 
selection of HF patients for LVAD therapy. We sought to determine what level of 
personal risk and disability HF patients thought would warrant LVAD therapy.
METHODS: The study included 105 patients with symptomatic HF and an LV ejection 
fraction (EF) < 35% who were given a written paragraph about LVADs and asked 
about circumstances under which they would consider such a device. New York 
Heart Association (NYHA) functional class, time trade-off utility, and 
patient-assessed functional score were determined.
RESULTS: Participants (mean age, 58 years) had an LVEF of 21%. The median 
duration of HF was 5 years, and 65% had a primary prevention implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator. Presented with a scenario of bed-ridden HF, 81% 
stated they would definitely or probably want an LVAD; 50% would consider LVAD 
to prolong survival if HF survival were predicted to be < 1 year and 75% if < 6 
months. Meanwhile, 44% would consider LVAD if they could only walk < 1 block and 
64% if they could not dress without stopping. Anticipated thresholds did not 
differ by NYHA class, time trade-off, or functional score.
CONCLUSIONS: Patient thresholds for LVAD insertion parallel objective survival 
and functional data. HF patients would be receptive to referral for discussion 
of LVAD by the time expected mortality is within 6 to 12 months and activity 
remains limited to less than 1 block.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healun.2009.05.016
PMID: 19716036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2009 Sep;10(7):466-71. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2009.03.014.
 Epub 2009 Jun 27.

Dementia and life expectancy: what do we know?

Lee M(1), Chodosh J.

Author information:
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA, Division of Geriatric Medicine, Los 
Angeles, CA 90095, USA. mglee@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Dementia is a common geriatric syndrome. It is unclear how best to 
predict survival among dementia patients, which leaves clinicians, patients, and 
families uncertain as to how to proceed with medical decisions and reassessing 
goals.
METHODS: We performed a MEDLINE systematic review of studies that evaluated 
dementia prognosis and survival; 48 studies (cohort, cross-sectional, 
retrospective, and case-control studies) were included.
RESULTS: Increased age, male gender, decreased functional status, and medical 
comorbidities such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and malignancy were 
associated with a higher mortality rate in dementia patients. Patients' baseline 
education level showed no influence on survival. There was no consensus 
regarding the association among dementia type, baseline cognitive function, and 
neuropsychiatric symptoms with dementia prognosis.
CONCLUSION: Despite much data, we lack a unifying guideline for dementia 
prognostication. Moving forward, the creation of a risk score for dementia could 
be helpful for patients and families in reassessing goals of care and possible 
enrollment in services such as hospice or palliative care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2009.03.014
PMID: 19716062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Nov;44(11):718-26. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.08.007. Epub
 2009 Aug 27.

Date of eclosion modulates longevity: insights across dietary-restriction 
gradients and female reproduction in the mexfly Anastrepha ludens.

Kulminski AM(1), Molleman F, Culminskaya IV, Arbeev KG, Ukraintseva SV, Carey 
JR, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University Population Research 
Institute, Department of Sociology, Duke University, Trent Hall, Room 002, Box 
90408, Durham, NC 27708, USA. Alexander.Kulminski@duke.edu

We use unique experimental data on daily reproduction and survival of individual 
fruit flies from eight cohorts eclosed at different dates in 2004 and 2005 who 
were treated with varying proportions of sugar and yeast and subject to 
different caloric restrictions (CR). We investigate the relationship between 
eclosion date and longevity across diets and reproduction in Anastrepha ludens. 
We show that eclosion date can be associated with uncontrolled external or 
internal factor(s) which can modulate longevity of males and females 
independently of diet and reproduction to the extent similar to the effect of 
diet on longevity. The effect of diet manipulation on longevity is sensitive to 
date of eclosion with the role of CR in life extension ranging from beneficial 
to harmful. Interaction of date of eclosion with compositional changes of sugar 
and yeast but not with CR is responsible for life extension. Highly 
protein-enriched diets reliably maximize reproduction but not life span. 
Decreased longevity of flies treated with high-protein diets may be associated 
with harmful consequences of protein ingestion but is unlikely a result of high 
reproduction rates. We present evidence for the presence of two 
frailty-sensitive weakly interacting mechanisms of longevity in female flies 
associated with differences in predisposed fitness.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.08.007
PMCID: PMC2783806
PMID: 19716408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Oral Surg Oral Med Oral Pathol Oral Radiol Endod. 2009 Sep;108(3):e21-5.
doi:  10.1016/j.tripleo.2009.05.002.

A case of brain abscess extended from deep fascial space infection.

Sakamoto H(1), Karakida K, Otsuru M, Arai M, Shimoda M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Tokai University Hachioji Hospital, Tokyo, Japan. 
sakamoto.haruo@hachioji-hosp.tokai.ac.jp

A case of brain abscess in the temporal lobe caused by direct intracranial 
extension of deep neck abscess is described. The abscess also spread to the 
orbital cavity through infraorbital fissure. The possible etiology of this case 
might be dental surgery. The diagnostic imaging clearly showed the routes of 
intracranial and -orbital extension of parapharyngeal and masticator space 
abscesses. From the abscess specimens, oral streptococci, anaerobic 
streptococci, and anaerobic gram-negative bacilli were isolated. Antimicrobial 
susceptibility testing of isolates showed that some Prevotella and Fusobacterium 
strains had decreased susceptibility to penicillin, and these bacteria produced 
beta-lactamase. The bacteria from the deep neck abscess were consistent with 
those detected from the brain abscess. Proper diagnosis, aggressive surgical 
intervention, and antibiotics chemotherapy saved the patient from this 
life-threatening condition.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tripleo.2009.05.002
PMID: 19716487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Bone. 2010 Feb;46(2):440-6. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2009.08.052. Epub 2009 Aug
28.

Cost-effectiveness of strontium ranelate versus risedronate in the treatment of 
postmenopausal osteoporotic women aged over 75 years.

Hiligsmann M(1), Bruyère O, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)HEC-ULg Management School, University of Liège, Boulevard du Rectorat 7, Bât 
B31, 4000 Liège, Belgium. m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of strontium ranelate in the 
treatment of postmenopausal osteoporotic women aged over 75 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A validated Markov microsimulation model with a Belgian 
payer's perspective estimated the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of 
a 3-year strontium ranelate treatment compared with no treatment and with the 
bisphosphonate risedronate. Data on the effect of both treatments on fracture 
risk were taken from the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. Analyses were 
performed for postmenopausal women aged 75 and 80 years, either with a diagnosis 
of osteoporosis (i.e. bone mineral density T-score <or=-2.5 SD) or with 
prevalent vertebral fractures (PVF). Parameter uncertainty was evaluated using 
both one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Strontium ranelate was dominant (i.e. more effective and less costly) 
versus risedronate for women with osteoporosis aged over 75 years and for women 
with PVF aged 80 years. The cost per QALY gained of strontium ranelate compared 
with risedronate at 75 years of age was euro 11,435 for women with PVF. When 
compared with no treatment, the costs per QALY gained of strontium ranelate were 
euro 15,588 and euro 7,708 at 75 and 80 years of age for women with 
osteoporosis; the equivalent values were euro 16,518 and euro 6,015 for women 
with PVF. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses showed that strontium ranelate was 
generally more cost-effective than risedronate, in the range of 60% in all 
cases.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that strontium ranelate is a 
cost-effective strategy, in a Belgian setting, for the treatment of 
postmenopausal osteoporotic women aged over 75 years.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2009.08.052
PMID: 19716940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Gastroenterol Clin Biol. 2009 Aug-Sep;33(8-9):672-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.gcb.2009.07.019. Epub 2009 Aug 29.

[Targeted biotherapy: a revolution in the management of patients with colorectal 
cancer?].

[Article in French]

Rougier P(1), Mitry E.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Ambroise-Paré, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, 92100 Boulogne, 
France. philippe.rougier@apr.aphp.fr

In metastatic colorectal cancers (CRC), progress of chemotherapies in 40 years 
greatly increased their median survival from 6 to 8 months to 20 months. The 
first step of this development has been: the discovery of 5-fluorouracil, its 
optimisation by folinic acid and continuous perfusions. In the years 1990 to 
2000, oxaliplatin and irinotecan opened the era of polychemotherapies. Their use 
in fisrt line treatment is not mandatory for all patients for whom chemotherapy 
may only have a palliative role without need for high response rates as for 
patients with symptomatic metastases or metastases hardly resectable. Targeted 
therapies have increased the life expectancy of the metastatic CRC and for some 
of them to facilitate secondary resections. Bevacizumab, an anti-VEGF antibody, 
in combination with an irinotecan based regimen increased dramatically the life 
expectancy with an acceptable toxicity, at least in patients of less than 70 
years old. Efficacy of bevacizumab has also been demonstrated in combination 
with oxaliplatin based regimen (XELOX and FOLFOX) in first and second line, and 
in combination with 5-fluorouracil alone. Presently, bevacizumab is the most 
used targeted therapies in first line chemotherapy in combination with FOLFIRI, 
FOLFOX or XELOX. Cetuximab and panitumumab have first demonstrated their 
efficacy in the population of fully resistant patients to chemotherapies with a 
progression free survival gain of about 4 months as single treatment (cetuximab 
and panitumumab) or combined to irinotecan (cetuximab). Two studies have 
demonstrated that the adjonction of cetuximab in the first line treatment to 
FOLFIRI or FOLFOX increased the response rates. The presence of epithelial 
growth factor receptors (EGFR) at the cell'surface in immunohistochemistry is 
not a prerequisite for responses to cetuximab and panitumumab, and only patients 
with tumors without mutation of oncogene KRAS (60% of patients) are able to 
respond to anti-EGFR. This activity for the KRAS non mutated population has also 
been demonstrated in patients resistant to chemotherapy, compared to best 
supportive cases with panitumumab and with cetuximab. Thus, utilisation of 
anti-EGFR is only authorized in non mutated KRAS tumors and for the first time 
in metastatic CRC, we have the possibility to enrich the population in selecting 
non mutated KRAS population and to treat only patients having increased chance 
of response and of secondary resections of initially non resectable metastases. 
The cost of these targeted therapies is elevated and we need to find factors 
which will allow a personalized medicine with the dual selection of the good 
drug for the right patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gcb.2009.07.019
PMID: 19717258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Eur Respir J. 2010 Mar;35(3):532-9. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00153108. Epub
2009  Aug 28.

Is treatment with ICS and LABA cost-effective for COPD? Multinational economic 
analysis of the TORCH study.

Briggs AH(1), Glick HA, Lozano-Ortega G, Spencer M, Calverley PM, Jones PW, 
Vestbo J; TOwards a Revolution in COPD Health (TORCH) investigators.

Author information:
(1)Section of Public Health & Health Policy, University of Glasgow, 1 Lilybank 
Gardens, Glasgow, G12 8RZ, UK. a.briggs@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

The TOwards a Revolution in COPD Health (TORCH) study was a 3-yr multicentre 
trial of 6,112 patients randomised to salmeterol (Salm), fluticasone propionate 
(FP), a Salm/FP combination (SFC) or placebo (P). Here the cost-effectiveness of 
treatments evaluated in the TORCH study is assessed. For four regions, 3-yr 
all-cause hospitalisation, medication and outpatient care costs were calculated. 
The sample was restricted to the 21 countries (n = 4,237) in which European 
quality of life five-dimension (EQ-5D) data were collected in order to estimate 
the number of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Regression models were fitted 
to survival, study medication cost, other medication cost and EQ-5D data in 
order to estimate total cost, number of QALYs and cost per QALY, adjusted for 
missing data and region. SFC had a trial-wide estimate of cost per QALY of 
43,600 US dollars (USD) compared with P (95% confidence interval 21,400-123,500 
USD). Estimates for Salm versus P (197,000 USD) and FP versus P (78,000 USD) 
were less favourable. The US estimates were greater than those from other 
regions; for SFC versus P, the cost per QALY was 77,100 (46,200-241,700) USD 
compared to 24,200 (15,200-56,100) USD in Western Europe. Compared with P, SFC 
has a lower incremental cost-effectiveness ratio than either FP or Salm used 
alone, and is, therefore, preferred to these monotherapies on the grounds of 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00153108
PMID: 19717476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Bacteriol. 2009 Nov;191(21):6501-12. doi: 10.1128/JB.00767-09. Epub 2009
Aug  28.

Cell wall hydrolases affect germination, vegetative growth, and sporulation in 
Streptomyces coelicolor.

Haiser HJ(1), Yousef MR, Elliot MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology and Michael G. DeGroote Institute for Infectious 
Disease Research, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, Ontario 
L8S 4K1, Canada.

Peptidoglycan is a major cell wall constituent of gram-positive bacteria. It is 
a dynamic macromolecule that is actively remodeled to enable cell growth and 
differentiation through a tightly choreographed interplay of hydrolytic and 
biosynthetic enzyme activities. The filamentous bacterium Streptomyces 
coelicolor has a complex life cycle that likely requires considerable cell wall 
remodeling to enable both extension of vegetative hyphae and formation of 
differentiated cell types. In silico analysis of the S. coelicolor genome 
enabled identification of 56 candidate cell wall hydrolase genes. We found that 
seven of these genes shared a highly conserved 5' untranslated region and were 
expressed during both vegetative growth and sporulation; four of these genes 
were selected for more extensive biochemical and biological characterization. 
The proteins encoded by these genes, termed RpfA, SwlA, SwlB, and SwlC, were 
confirmed to be hydrolytic enzymes, as they could efficiently cleave S. 
coelicolor cell walls. Phenotypic analyses revealed that these enzymes are 
important throughout development; deletion of each hydrolase gene resulted in a 
mutant strain that was heat sensitive, defective in spore formation, and either 
altered in vegetative growth or delayed in spore germination. Our results 
indicate that these enzymes play key roles at multiple stages in the growth and 
development of S. coelicolor, highlighting both the lack of redundancy in 
hydrolase activity and the importance of cell wall remodeling in the S. 
coelicolor life cycle.

DOI: 10.1128/JB.00767-09
PMCID: PMC2795291
PMID: 19717604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Med Ethics. 2009 Sep;35(9):565-9. doi: 10.1136/jme.2008.028845.

A note on Brock: prioritarianism, egalitarianism and the distribution of life 
years.

Norheim OF(1).

Author information:
(1)Division for Medical Ethics, Department of Public Health and Centre for 
International Health, University of Bergen, Kalfarveien 18, Bergen 5018, Norway. 
ole.norheim@isf.uib.no

The moral philosopher Dan Brock has argued that equality of health outcomes 
"even if achievable" is problematic as a goal in its own right-because it is 
open to the levelling down objection. The levelling down objection to 
egalitarianism has received surprisingly little attention in the bioethics 
literature on distribution of health and healthcare and deserves more attention. 
This paper discusses and accepts an example given by Brock showing that 
prioritarianism and egalitarianism may judge distributions of health outcomes 
differently. We should accept that levelling down is never a good thing, all 
things considered, but that equality often is. By discussing variants of Brock's 
example, it is demonstrated that if equality, prioritarianism and aggregation 
are combined, as in a population-wide summary measure of health, such as the 
health achievement index, this combined set of principles is not open to 
levelling down. The paper suggests-although a more thorough investigation of the 
properties of the achievement index is needed-that this measure (a) is always 
sensitive to inequality in health, (b) is always sensitive to average health, 
(c) can assign priority to those with lowest health outcomes and (d) is not 
sensitive to levelling down. Levelling down is not an embarrassment for 
egalitarians if they adopt a pluralist theory that integrates fairness with 
goodness. Equality is not the only value egalitarians promote. But equality is 
so important that we should not reject it.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2008.028845
PMID: 19717696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Radiology. 2009 Sep;252(3):729-36. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2531071360.

Cost-effectiveness of MR lymphography for the detection of lymph node metastases 
in patients with prostate cancer.

Hövels AM(1), Heesakkers RA, Adang EM, Barentsz JO, Jager GJ, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Health Technology Assessment, 
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Geert Grooteplein 21, 6525 EZ 
Nijmegen, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To apply a decision analytic model to determine whether the addition of 
magnetic resonance (MR) lymphography to the diagnostic workup of patients with 
intermediate or high probability of lymph node metastases is cost effective from 
a health care perspective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The data that were used for the decision analytic model 
were obtained from an empiric study population of 375 patients. As the input of 
the decision analytic model was made given prospective patient data from several 
hospitals, the ethics review board of each hospital approved the study. Written 
consent was obtained from all patients. To investigate possible differences 
