PMID: 19633049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Cell Oncol. 2009;31(4):301-15. doi: 10.3233/CLO-2009-0472.

Altered Ca2+-homeostasis of cisplatin-treated and low level resistant 
non-small-cell and small-cell lung cancer cells.

Schrödl K(1), Oelmez H, Edelmann M, Huber RM, Bergner A.

Author information:
(1)Pneumology, Medizinische Klinik-Innenstadt, Ludwig-Maximilians-University, 
Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Chemotherapy often leads to encouraging responses in lung cancer. 
But, in the course of the treatment, resistance to chemotherapy ultimately 
limits the life expectancy of the patient. We aimed at investigating if 
treatment with cisplatin alters the intracellular Ca2+-homeostasis of lung 
cancer cells and how this may be related to cisplatin resistance.
METHODS: The squamous cell lung carcinoma cell line EPLC M1 and the small cell 
lung cancer cell line H1339 were exposed to cisplatin analogue to the in vivo 
pharmacokinetics. Changes in the cytoplasmic Ca2+-concentration ([Ca2+]c) were 
recorded using fluorescence microscopy. Protein expression was quantified using 
immuno-fluorescence and Western Blot analysis. Changes in gene expression were 
accomplished by small-interfering (si) RNA techniques.
RESULTS: Four "cycles" of cisplatin led to low level resistance in EPLC and 
H1339 cells. In the low level resistant cell clones, the Ca2+-content of the 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) was decreased. In low level resistant EPLC cells, 
this was correlated with an increased expression of the 
inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R). Inhibiting the increased 
expression of IP3R using siRNA, the low level resistance could be reversed. In 
low level resistant H1339 cells, the decreased Ca2+-content of the ER was 
correlated with a decreased expression of sarco/endoplasmic reticulum 
Ca2+-ATPases (SERCA). Decreasing the expression of SERCA in naïve H1339 cells 
resulted in low level cisplatin resistance.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that cisplatin therapy leads to a decreased Ca2+-content 
of the ER thereby inducing low level resistance. This is caused by upregulation 
of the IP3R in EPLC and decreased expression of SERCA in H1339 cells.

DOI: 10.3233/CLO-2009-0472
PMCID: PMC4619039
PMID: 19633366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2008 Feb;105(7):113-9. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2008.0113.
Epub  2008 Feb 15.

Multiple sclerosis registry in Germany: results of the extension phase 
2005/2006.

Flachenecker P(1), Stuke K, Elias W, Freidel M, Haas J, Pitschnau-Michel D, 
Schimrigk S, Zettl UK, Rieckmann P.

Author information:
(1)Neurologisches Rehabilitationszentrum Quellenhof, Kuranlagenallee 2, Bad 
Wildbad, Germany. peter.flachenecker@quellenhof.de

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2008 Apr;105(17):318; author reply 318.

INTRODUCTION: In 2001, a nationwide multiple sclerosis (MS) registry was 
initiated in Germany under the auspices of the German MS Society, (DMSG 
Bundesverband e.V.). The project aimed at collecting epidemiological data and 
information on health care provision for MS patients in Germany.
METHODS: After a 2-year pilot phase, the original entry mask was modified, and 
new centers were recruited, resulting in the registration of a total of 5821 
patients in 2005 and 2006. Following a 2 stage quality control process, 
standardized data sets for 5445 patients (93.5%) were able to be analyzed.
RESULTS: Mean duration from onset of disease to diagnosis was 3.5 years. More 
than 70% of patients received immunomodulatory drugs, whereas symptomatic 
treatments were less commonly administered. The number of participating centers 
as of 31 December 2006 was 57 (29 neurological hospitals, 11 rehabilitation 
units, 13 specialized practitioners, and 4 regional MS centers).
DISCUSSION: The MS registry provides valuable data on patterns of care for MS 
patients in Germany, and may help to improve service provision and overall 
quality of life for these patients.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2008.0113
PMCID: PMC2696719
PMID: 19633761


150. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2008 Feb;105(8):143-8. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2008.0143.
Epub  2008 Feb 22.

Durability of bioprosthetic cardiac valves.

Hoffmann G(1), Lutter G, Cremer J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Gefässchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum 
Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Kiel, Arnold-Heller-Strasse 7, Kiel, Germany. 
grischa.hoffmann@gmx.de

INTRODUCTION: The choice of type of heart valve prosthesis is determined by the 
patient's age since bioprostheses have a limited lifespan. This article reviews 
current recommendations and the literature on cardiac valve replacement.
METHODS: Selective literature search in Medline/PubMed back to 1996 and review 
of current national and international recommendations from specialist societies.
RESULTS: The recommendations guiding the type of heart valve replacement have 
been revised in recent years. Of particular interest are the new generation of 
biological prostheses with extended durability, a growing use of stentless 
bioprostheses, a decrease in mortality of reoperation and an increase in life 
expectancy. Comorbidities such as chronic renal insufficiency or chronic atrial 
fibrillation are no longer contraindications to bioprosthesis. The number of 
heart valve replacements in recent years rose despite a concomitant increase in 
valve repairs. Aortic valves are being increasingly replaced by bioprostheses.
DISCUSSION: The choice of heart valve prosthesis should be tailored to each 
patient taking into account the patient's age, life expectancy, comorbidities, 
and life style. Different decisions may be made now than those based on earlier 
recommendations resulting in an individualized treatment, in patients over the 
age of 65 or 70.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2008.0143
PMCID: PMC2696738
PMID: 19633780


151. Health Serv J. 2009 Jun 25;119(6162):14.

Lifesaving myths.

Christie S(1).

Author information:
(1)Birmingham East and North PCT.

PMID: 19634229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Pediatr Surg. 2009 Aug;44(8):1640-2. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2009.04.013.

A male adolescent with left iliac thrombophlebitis and heterozygosity for factor 
V Leiden mutation.

Lovejoy AE(1), Bush RA, Pong AL, Hilfiker ML.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Rady Children's Hospital, San Diego, CA 
92123, USA.

The epidemiology of deep vein thrombosis in adolescents has 2 potential 
associations. First, there is a demonstrated association with a congenital 
anomaly of the inferior vena cava (Dean SM, Tytle TL. Vas Med. 2006;11:165-169; 
Schnieider JG, Eynatten MV, Dugi KA, et al. J Intern Med. 2002;252:276-280). 
Secondly, resistance to activated protein C as a result of factor V Leiden is 
associated with thromboembolic disease at an early age (Price DT, Ridker PM. Ann 
Intern Med. 1997;127:895-903). Imaging modalities, central venous catheters, and 
improved life expectancy for critically and chronically ill children have 
resulted in an increased diagnosis of thromboembolic disease in the pediatric 
population (Journeycake MM, Manco-Johnson MJ. Hematol Oncol Clin N Am. 
2004;18;1315-1338), and evaluation for thrombophilia should be performed for any 
child with thromboembolic disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2009.04.013
PMID: 19635319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Am J Epidemiol. 2009 Sep 1;170(5):559-65. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwp168. Epub 2009
Jul  27.

Good semen quality and life expectancy: a cohort study of 43,277 men.

Jensen TK(1), Jacobsen R, Christensen K, Nielsen NC, Bostofte E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine, Institute of Public Health, University 
of Southern Denmark, Winsloewsparken 17, 5000 Odense C, Denmark. 
tkjensen@health.sdu.dk

Erratum in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2009 Dec 1;170(11):1453.

Fertility status may predict later mortality, but no studies have examined the 
effect of semen quality on subsequent mortality. Men referred to the Copenhagen 
Sperm Analysis Laboratory by general practitioners and urologists from 1963 to 
2001 were, through a unique personal identification number, linked to the Danish 
central registers that hold information on all cases of cancer, causes of death, 
and number of children in the Danish population. The men were followed until 
December 31, 2001, death, or censoring, whichever occurred first, and the total 
mortality and cause-specific mortality of the cohort were compared with those of 
all age-standardized Danish men or according to semen characteristics. Among 
43,277 men without azospermia referred for infertility problems, mortality 
decreased as the sperm concentration increased up to a threshold of 40 
million/mL. As the percentages of motile and morphologically normal spermatozoa 
and semen volume increased, mortality decreased in a dose-response manner 
(P(trend) < 0.05). The decrease in mortality among men with good semen quality 
was due to a decrease in a wide range of diseases and was found among men both 
with and without children; therefore, the decrease in mortality could not be 
attributed solely to lifestyle and/or social factors. Semen quality may 
therefore be a fundamental biomarker of overall male health.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwp168
PMID: 19635736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. J Gen Physiol. 2009 Aug;134(2):95-113. doi: 10.1085/jgp.200810158.

The external pore loop interacts with S6 and S3-S4 linker in domain 4 to assume 
an essential role in gating control and anticonvulsant action in the Na(+) 
channel.

Yang YC(1), Hsieh JY, Kuo CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Chang-Gung University, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan.

Carbamazepine, phenytoin, and lamotrigine are widely prescribed anticonvulsants 
in neurological clinics. These drugs bind to the same receptor site, probably 
with the diphenyl motif in their structure, to inhibit the Na(+) channel. 
However, the location of the drug receptor remains controversial. In this study, 
we demonstrate close proximity and potential interaction between an external 
aromatic residue (W1716 in the external pore loop) and an internal aromatic 
residue (F1764 in the pore-lining part of the sixth transmembrane segment, S6) 
of domain 4 (D4), both being closely related to anticonvulsant and/or local 
anesthetic binding to the Na(+) channel. Double-mutant cycle analysis reveals 
significant cooperativity between the two phenyl residues for anticonvulsant 
binding. Concomitant F1764C mutation evidently decreases the susceptibility of 
W1716C to external Cd(2+) and membrane-impermeable methanethiosulfonate 
reagents. Also, the W1716E/F1764R and G1715E/F1764R double mutations 
significantly alter the selectivity for Na(+) over K(+) and markedly shift the 
activation curve, respectively. W1716 and F1764 therefore very likely form a 
link connecting the outer and inner compartments of the Na(+) channel pore (in 
addition to the selectivity filter). Anticonvulsants and local anesthetics may 
well traverse this "S6 recess" without trespassing on the selectivity filter. 
Furthermore, we found that Y1618K, a point mutation in the S3-4 linker (the 
extracellular extension of D4S4), significantly alters the consequences of 
carbamazepine binding to the Na(+) channel. The effect of Y1618K mutation, 
however, is abolished by concomitant point mutations in the vicinity of Y1618, 
but not by those in the internally located inactivation machinery, supporting a 
direct local rather than a long-range allosteric action. Moreover, Y1618 could 
interact with D4 pore residues W1716 and L1719 to have a profound effect on both 
channel gating and anticonvulsant action. We conclude that there are direct 
interactions among the external S3-4 linker, the external pore loop, and the 
internal S6 segment in D4, making the external pore loop a pivotal point 
critically coordinating ion permeation, gating, and anticonvulsant binding in 
the Na(+) channel.

DOI: 10.1085/jgp.200810158
PMCID: PMC2717694
PMID: 19635852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Oct;44(10):634-8. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.07.006. Epub
2009  Jul 26.

Rejuvenation in distinct cell populations - What does it mean?

Hass R(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University Hannover, Germany. 
hass.ralf@mh-hannover.de

Rejuvenation represents a well organized and tightly regulated cellular process 
in vitro and in vivo, whereby senescent and/or certain differentiated cells 
revert specific properties acquired during previous steps of maturation to 
restore again a younger phenotype. Effects of the microenvironment and cellular 
mechanisms including asymmetric mitosis or retrodifferentiation can contribute 
to rejuvenation during a dynamic cellular development in contrast to terminally 
differentiated cells like unicellular organisms, which appear unable to 
retrodifferentiate and to rejuvenate. The process of rejuvenation is observed in 
distinct cell populations and includes a coordinated multistep network of 
transduction cascades with extracellular signaling and cell-to-cell 
communication to relay intracellular pathways. This provides a certain tissue 
homeostasis by a regenerative potential and renewal upon tissue-specific repair 
requirements in addition to residual stem cells, which can vary among different 
organs and species to extend their life span. However, dysfunctions within a 
rejuvenation program may also include the risk of neoplastic growth during such 
a retrograde development. In contrast to rejuvenation in certain cell types, a 
life span extension - also termed longevity - does not represent a retrograde 
development but an overall prolonged function of tissues, organs and/or whole 
organisms. Thus, rejuvenation of a distinct cell population could contribute to 
longevity of the corresponding organism but may not necessarily be required 
since longevity could also be achieved mechanistically by inhibition of the 
mTOR-mediated signaling pathway or by sufficient supply of anti-oxidative 
defence compounds, physiologically by nutrient restrictions, genetically by the 
induction of longevity genes or environmentally by the inhibition of aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.07.006
PMID: 19638307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2009 Dec;9(6):961-4. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2009.211516. Epub 2009 Jul 28.

Malignant pleural effusion in the presence of trapped lung. Five-year experience 
of PleurX tunnelled catheters.

Efthymiou CA(1), Masudi T, Thorpe JA, Papagiannopoulos K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, St James's Hospital, Level 3, Bexley Wing, 
Beckett Street, Leeds, LS9 7TF, UK.

Malignant pleural effusions in the presence of trapped lung remain notoriously 
difficult to treat. Various methods exist ranging from minimally invasive 
procedures including repeated needle thoracocentesis to the need for a formal 
surgical procedure such as placement of a pleuroperitoneal shunt and even 
thoracotomy and decortication. Controversy exists as to what is the optimum 
treatment for this condition. Any planned treatment should balance the 
therapeutic benefit provided against convalesce for a disease with a limited 
life expectancy. Patients should not spend a significant proportion of their 
remaining life span recovering from palliative procedures. In a series of 
patients with malignant pleural effusion the medial survival time was 20 weeks, 
with 30 days and 1 year mortality rates of 12.8% and 83.6%, respectively. We 
describe our five-year experience with the use of indwelling PleurX catheters in 
patients with malignant pleural effusions in the presence of confirmed trapped 
lung on radiological or VATS investigation. Patient health related quality of 
life was investigated by telephone questionnaire. The parameters analysed were 
symptomatic relief, mobility and ease of management following insertion. One 
hundred and sixteen patients underwent PleurX catheter insertion by a single 
operator, 48 questionnaires were completed. Of the 48 cases analysed, 
improvement in all three quality of life indices was recorded following catheter 
insertion. Ease of mobility was recorded as moderately satisfied and very 
satisfied in 50% and 15% of patients, respectively. Symptomatic improvement was 
found to have been increased with 42% and 6% of patients responding to 
moderately satisfied and very satisfied, respectively. Ease of management was 
recorded as 'slightly satisfied' and moderately satisfied in 50% and 33% of 
patients, respectively, demonstrating a high satisfaction index in patients with 
chronic progressively debilitating malignancies. Complications were either 
transient or readily correctable. Pain was the predominant complication 
occurring in 35% of patients lasting <3 days. No patient required catheter 
removal for resolution of discomfort. Our findings support the use of PleurX 
catheters for palliative patients with malignant pleural effusions in the 
presence of trapped lung. The catheters are not only easy to insert and discrete 
but they can be managed effectively by patients and community nurse 
practitioners and prevent repeated admissions to hospital in palliative patients 
with compromised life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2009.211516
PMID: 19638358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. BMJ. 2009 Jul 28;339:b3044. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3044.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm. Comparing studies for cost effectiveness of 
screening.

Thompson S, Kim L, Gao L.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2009;338:b2243.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3044
PMID: 19638382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Open AIDS J. 2009 Jul 16;3:31-7. doi: 10.2174/1874613600903010031.

New options in the treatment of lipid disorders in HIV-infected patients.

da Silva EF(1), Bárbaro G.

Author information:
(1)Federal University of São Paulo, R Loefgren, 1588, Zip Code 04040 002, São 
Paulo, Brazil. erikaferrari@uol.com.br

Since the introduction of HAART, there was a remarkably change in the natural 
history of HIV disease, leading to a notable extension of life expectancy, 
although prolonged metabolic imbalances could significantly act on the longterm 
prognosis and outcome of HIV-infected persons, and there is an increasing 
concern about the cardiovascular risk in this population. Current 
recommendations suggest that HIV-infected perons undergo evaluation and 
treatment on the basis of the Third National Cholesterol Education Program 
Expert Panel on Detection, Evaluation and Treatment of High Blood Cholesterol in 
Adults (NCEP ATP III) guidelines for dyslipidemia, with particular attention to 
potential drug interactions with antiretroviral agents and maintenance of 
virologic control of HIV infection. While a hypolipidemic diet and physical 
activity may certainly improve dyslipidemia, pharmacological treatment becomes 
indispensable when serum lipid are excessively high for a long time or the 
patient has a high cardiovascular risk, since the suspension or change of an 
effective antiretroviral therapy is not recommended. Moreover, the choice of a 
hypolipidemic drug is often a reason of concern, since expected drug-drug 
interactions (especially with antiretroviral agents), toxicity, intolerance, 
effects on concurrent HIV-related disease and decrease patient adherence to 
multiple pharmacological regimens must be carefully evaluated. Often the lipid 
goals of patients in this group are not achieved by the therapy recommended in 
the current lipid guidelines and in this article we describe other possibilities 
to treat lipid disorders in HIV-infected persons, like rosuvastatin, ezetimibe 
and fish oil.

DOI: 10.2174/1874613600903010031
PMCID: PMC2714525
PMID: 19639034


159. Herzschrittmacherther Elektrophysiol. 2009 Sep;20(3):143-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00399-009-0054-5.

[Cardiac resynchronization therapy: is there always a need for the adjunctive 
ICD therapy?].

[Article in German]

Kullmer M(1), Albanese M, Schöls W.

Author information:
(1)Evangelisches und Johanniter Klinikum Niederrhein, Klinik für Kardiologie und 
Angiologie, Herzzentrum Duisburg, Gerrickstr. 21, 47137, Duisburg, Deutschland. 
mkullmer@ejk.de

Chronic postinfarction patients with an ejection fraction ≤ 30% and heart 
failure patients in NYHA classes II and III with an ejection fraction ≤ 35% due 
to ischemic or dilated cardiomyopathy meet current indications for ICD therapy. 
There is significant overlap with patients in NYHA class III also exhibiting a 
wide QRS complex (>120 ms), who commonly benefit from resynchronization therapy. 
Although a combination of ICD and CRT seems reasonable in many patients, one 
should be aware of subtle distinctions regarding selection criteria for either 
therapy. There is no clear ICD indication for heart failure patients in NYHA 
class IV or even III, taking subclass analysis of SCD-HeFT [4] into account. 
Uncertainty still exists for the subacute postinfarction phase (4 weeks to 6 
months), whereas the early postinfarction phase should clearly not be considered 
for ICD evaluation. No randomized data exist for heart failure due to other 
etiologies. CRT, on the other hand, is not only helpful regarding symptom relief 
and quality of life, but also with respect to life expectancy. The additive 
value of adjunctive ICD therapy has not yet been proven in a randomized 
comparison. Finally, particularly in elderly patients, quality of life might 
seem more desirable than prevention of sudden cardiac death. Thus, combination 
of ICD and CRT is not always a "must". Instead, ICD guidelines still leave room 
for a patient specific decision, with "stand-alone" CRT still providing a very 
helpful, prognostically significant therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00399-009-0054-5
PMID: 19639380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry. 2009 Oct;24(10):1072-8. doi: 10.1002/gps.2223.

Economic evaluation of cholinesterase inhibitor therapy for dementia: comparison 
of Alzheimer's disease and Dementia with Lewy bodies.

Gustavsson A(1), Van Der Putt R, Jönsson L, McShane R.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) 
treatment in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Dementia with Lewy 
bodies (DLB).
METHOD: We used 4-month open label follow-up data from routine memory clinic 
patients. There were 852 patients with AD and 112 with DLB. We applied three 
predictive models to estimate clinical and economic outcomes at five years, 
comparing AD and DLB patients with hypothetical untreated controls.
RESULTS: The mean improvement in MMSE in 852 AD patients was 0.57 (SD 3.4) at 4 
months, and in the subgroup with baseline MMSE of 10-20 (moderate) was 1.6 (SD 
3.7). Overall, the 112 DLB patients improved by 1.4 (SD 3.7). DLB patients with 
an MMSE 10-20 improved by 3.1 (SD 4.5) points. These efficacy data were input 
into the SHTAC, microsimulation and Markov models and produced estimated costs 
per QALY gained (CQG) for all AD of pound194,066, pound67,904 and pound123,935 
respectively. In comparison, the CQGs for all DLB were pound46,794, pound2,706 
and pound35,922. For the moderate subgroups only the SHTAC and microsimulation 
models were applicable. These gave CQG estimates for moderate AD of pound39,664 
and cost saving respectively. For moderate DLB, both estimates were cost saving.
CONCLUSION: The cost per QALY gained of cholinesterase treatment of all patients 
with DLB (including those with MMSE outside the 10-20 range) is comparable to 
that of patients with moderate AD, and is probably cost saving.

Copyright (c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/gps.2223
PMID: 19639600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Issue Brief (Commonw Fund). 2009 Jul;59:1-12.

Comparative effectiveness review within the U.K.'s National Institute for Health 
and Clinical Excellence.

Chalkidou K(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. 
kalipso.chalkidou@nice.org.uk

The U.K.'s National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) was 
established to perform three core functions: 1) reduce unwarranted variation in 
practice across the United Kingdom through the development and dissemination of 
best practice evidence-based standards; 2) encourage fast diffusion and uniform 
uptake of high-value medical innovations; and 3) ensure the taxpayers' money is 
invested in the National Health Service so that health benefit is maximized. 
NICE decisions are made by independent committees of health professionals, 
academics, and industry and lay representatives. More than 2,000 experts engage 
with NICE processes throughout the year. NICE committees consider comparative 
clinical and cost effectiveness, social values (including impact on equity), and 
U.K. and European Union legislation when making their decisions.

PMID: 19639713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(6):439-50. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200927060-00001.

Cost effectiveness of influenza vaccination in older adults: a critical review 
of economic evaluations for the 50- to 64-year age group.

Newall AT(1), Kelly H, Harsley S, Scuffham PA.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Several recent studies have assessed the benefits of extending influenza 
vaccination programmes, which are currently targeted primarily at those aged 
over 65 years, to those aged 50-64 years. We identified and reviewed all 
cost-effectiveness studies of influenza vaccination in those aged 50-64 years 
published before July 2008. While the studies suggest that vaccination in this 
age-group is likely to be cost effective, these results were dependent on 
several key assumptions. The estimates of serious outcomes due to influenza and 
the estimates of vaccine effectiveness (VE) against these outcomes were found to 
have the most influence on cost effectiveness. However, due to factors including 
mismatches between the measure of VE and the outcome under consideration, as 
well as various other data limitations, there is significant uncertainty around 
these key assumptions that was not well explored. There was a failure in some 
studies to report fundamental inputs such as discount rates. Overall, there was 
a general lack of transparency in the studies and, consequently, the conclusions 
around the cost effectiveness of influenza vaccine in those aged 50-64 years 
must be interpreted with caution.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200927060-00001
PMID: 19640008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2009 Jul-Sep;10(3):413-8.

Toward prostate cancer early detection in Iran.

Mousavi SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center, 
Heidelberg, Germany. smmousavi@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to document the epidemiological features 
of prostate cancer in Iran and to define its public health priorities for an 
early detection program.
METHODS: A review of published articles from 1975 to October 2008 was conducted 
using different search engines and 147 Persian medical journals. Abstracts only 
were excluded. Inclusion criteria were studies on prostate cancer clinical and 
epidemiological data.
RESULTS: In all, 40 full texts, 7 national reports, and 10 provincial reports 
were accessed. The incidence rate of prostate cancer was 9.6 (3.2 to 16.0) per 
100,000 in multi geographical settings. The crude prostate cancer mortality rate 
was 4.5 per 100,000 in 2004. The prevalence of prostate cancer among patients 
with benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) presentation was 6.3%. The overall 
prostate cancer detection rate was reported 3.6% in male over 40 years old by 
population screening programs.
CONCLUSION: The rate of prostate cancer incidence in Iran is significantly less 
than those in developed countries and similar to Eastern Mediterranean Regions. 
However, it is expected to rise dramatically in the future because of the 
anticipated increase in life expectancy and percentage of old age groups. 
Therefore, prostate cancer control should be integrated into the National Cancer 
Control Program focusing on prevention and early detection in men over 40 years 
old or with symptomatic BPH. An appropriate PSA cut off point for screening 
should be defined by population pilot studies.

PMID: 19640184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Aug;47(8):501-15. doi: 10.5414/cpp47501.

Exenatide versus insulin glargine: a cost-effectiveness evaluation in patients 
with Type 2 diabetes in Switzerland.

Brändle M(1), Erny-Albrecht KM, Goodall G, Spinas GA, Streit P, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Kantonsspital St. Gallen, Switzerland. Michael.Braendle@kssg.ch

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the long-term clinical and economic outcomes 
associated with exenatide versus insulin glargine as "add-on" treatments to oral 
therapy in individuals with Type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with 
combination oral agents in the Swiss setting.
METHODS: A computer simulation model of diabetes was used to project 
complications, life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy and direct 
medical costs over a 35-year time horizon. Cohort characteristics and treatment 
effect data were derived from a 26-week randomized clinical trial comparing 
exenatide and insulin glargine. Modeled treatment effects included reductions in 
glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) by -0.99% and -1.07% and in body mass index 
(BMI) by -0.80 and +0.55 kg/m2 with exenatide and insulin glargine respectively. 
Changes in systolic blood pressure and serum lipid levels were also captured. 
Simulations incorporated published quality of life utilities and Swiss costs 
from 2006. Extensive sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the 
robustness of projected outcomes. Future clinical and economic outcomes were 
discounted at 2.5% per annum.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis exenatide was associated with comparable life 
expectancy (11,549 years versus 11,468 years) and an improvement in 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.43 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
versus insulin glargine over a 35-year time horizon. Exenatide was associated 
with a reduced cumulative incidence of most diabetes-related complications 
including an absolute reduction in myocardial infarction by 0.28%. Assuming an 
annual treatment cost of CHF 2,797.74 for exenatide, direct costs increased by 
CHF 8,378 per patient over the 35-year time horizon compared to insulin 
glargine. The resultant incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was CHF 19,450 per 
QALY gained for exenatide versus insulin glargine.
CONCLUSIONS: Exenatide was associated with comparable life expectancy and an 
improvement in quality-adjusted life expectancy versus insulin glargine over a 
35-year time horizon. Based on current standards exenatide would be a 
cost-effective treatment alternative to insulin glargine in Switzerland for Type 
2 diabetes patients inadequately controlled on oral therapy.

DOI: 10.5414/cpp47501
PMID: 19640359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Blood. 2009 Sep 24;114(13):2581-8. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-05-206821. Epub
2009  Jul 29.

Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for chronic lymphocytic leukemia: 
ready for prime time?

Delgado J(1), Milligan DW, Dreger P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, 
Spain. jdelgadog@santpau.cat

The development of reduced intensity conditioning regimens has increased the 
number of patients diagnosed with chronic lymphocytic leukemia that are referred 
for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT). However, given the 
toxicity of allo-HCT, it should only be offered to eligible patients whose life 
expectancy is significantly reduced by the disease. Accordingly, the European 
Group of Blood and Marrow Transplantation has recently identified those patients 
in whom allo-HCT could be a reasonable therapeutic approach. In this review, we 
have evaluated the outcome of chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients undergoing 
allo-HCT, either after conventional or reduced intensity conditioning regimens, 
in the context of current nontransplantation strategies. We have also analyzed 
the most important predisposing factors that might interfere with the procedure 
as well as posttransplantation complications that are particularly common in 
these patients. Finally, we have addressed the most relevant factors when 
deciding what patients should be considered for allo-HCT and the timing of the 
procedure.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-05-206821
PMID: 19641189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Neuroepidemiology. 2009;33(3):254-60. doi: 10.1159/000229780. Epub 2009 Jul
27.

Long-term survival after stroke: 30 years of follow-up in a cohort, the 
Copenhagen City Heart Study.

Boysen G(1), Marott JL, Grønbaek M, Hassanpour H, Truelsen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Bispebjerg Hospital, University of Copenhagen, 
DK-2400 Copenhagen, Denmark. gb01@bbh.regionh.dk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Only few have studied long-term survival after stroke. 
Such knowledge is essential for the evaluation of the current and future burden 
of stroke. The present study presents up to 30 years of follow-up of patients 
after a first-ever stroke.
METHODS: Participants in the Copenhagen City Heart Study who experienced a 
first-ever stroke from 1978 to the end of 2001 were followed to the end of 2007. 
Stroke events were validated using the World Health Organization's definition of 
stroke. Linkage to the Danish Civil Registration System enabled identification 
of participants who died before the end of 2007. The National Register of Causes 
of Death provided cause of death. Survival in stroke patients was compared with 
survival in participants in the Copenhagen City Heart Study who did not suffer a 
stroke, and with survival in the general Danish population. Cox regression 
analyses adjusting for age and gender were used to compare survival in six 
consecutive 4-year periods starting with 1978-1982.
RESULTS: Of 2,051 patients with first-ever stroke 1,801 died during follow-up. 
Causes of death were cerebrovascular disease in 37%, other cardiovascular 
diseases in 28%, cancer in 12%, and other causes in 23%. The most important 
determinant for long-term survival was age at time of stroke. In the 65- to 
72-year age group 11% survived 15 years after stroke. In the age group <65 years 
28% survived 15 years. For all age groups survival was poorer in stroke patients 
than in non-stroke controls. Long-term survival improved steadily over time. 
Life expectancy after stroke increased up to 4 years from 1978 to the end of 
2001, exceeding the increase of life expectancy in the general population. 
Slightly longer survival was found in women than in men when adjusted for age at 
stroke onset.
CONCLUSION: In this cohort long-term survival after stroke gradually improved 
over three decades from 1978. The gain in remaining lifetime after stroke 
exceeded that of the general population.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000229780
PMID: 19641331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Ann Nutr Metab. 2009;54 Suppl 1:33-8. doi: 10.1159/000220825. Epub 2009 Jul
30.

Fat and heart disease: yes we can make a change--the case of North Karelia 
(Finland).

Puska P(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki, Finland. 
pekka.puska@thl.fi

BACKGROUND/METHODS: The exceptionally high mortality from cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) in the Finnish population in the 1970s ensued the initiation of preventive 
health interventions, which were first started in the Province of North Karelia 
and later on extended to all other regions of Finland. Their aim was to change 
population diets, especially with respect to the quality of fat: to reduce 
saturated and increase unsaturated fat intake. In addition, emphasis was placed 
on increased vegetable intake and salt reduction. The aim of this paper was to 
illustrate the effect of combined efforts of several stakeholders on CVD. This 
comprehensive action in Finland has involved health education programs, 
preventive measures in health services, actions at schools, broad collaboration 
with non-governmental and private sector organizations, government policies, 
population-based monitoring and evaluation, and international collaboration.
RESULTS: The combined efforts of all stakeholders have greatly helped people to 
reduce the intake of saturated fat and to replace this with unsaturated fat. 
This has been associated with an improved quality of the dietary fat (e.g. in 
1972, over 90% of the population used butter on their bread compared to <5% at 
present) and a remarkable reduction in blood cholesterol levels. It has led to a 
80% reduction in annual CVD mortality rates among the working aged population, 
to a major increase in life expectancy and to major improvements in functional 
capacity and health. Studies have shown that the reduction in blood cholesterol 
levels, explained by the target dietary changes, have had the greatest impact on 
these very favorable health changes.
CONCLUSION: The Finnish experience shows both the feasibility and great 
potential of CVD prevention and heart health promotion through general dietary 
changes in the population.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000220825
PMID: 19641348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Cas Lek Cesk. 2009;148(6):264-8.

[On human longevity--1. external influences].

[Article in Czech]

Brdicka R(1).

Author information:
(1)Ustav hematologie a krevní transfuze, Praha. molgen@uhkt.cz

Human life-span is controlled by many factors, both internal (genomic) and 
external. In this paper only impact of external conditions is to be discussed. 
External factors are very variable, sometimes difficult to ascertain, but their 
control is relatively easier to address than the internal ones. The effect of 
human activities on human lifespan can be positive or negative. Experimental 
results have shown that one of the ways leading to prolongation of life-span is 
caloric restriction (CR). There are, of course, many other factors, not only of 
nurture character, inflicting on quality and length of human life. Some of them 
are human products including stress with different levels of inherited ability 
to resist it, but also possibility to improve individual capacity to control its 
effect due to hormesis. Prolongation of life expectancy--ageing of the 
population has become an economic burden in many countries, especially for 
social and health services.

PMID: 19642308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Parasitol. 2009 Jun;95(3):718-21. doi: 10.1645/GE-1512.1.

A new trematode (Digenea: Mesotretidae) from the horseshoe bat Rhinolophus 
ferrumequinum (Chiroptera: Rhinolophidae) in China.

Ma JY(1), Yu Y, Peng WF.

Author information:
(1)Parasitology Research Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Xiamen University, 
South Siming Street 422, Xiamen, Fujian 361005, PR China. marsjy72@hotmail.com

A new species of Mesotretes (Trematoda: Mesotretidae) parasitizing the small 
intestine of Rhinolophus ferrumequinum was obtained by the examination of 48 
bats collected from 4 localities in Henan Province, China, from August 2003 to 
January 2005. This species, Mesotretes jiyuanensis n. sp., is similar to 
Mesotretes orientalis and Mesotretes hangzhouensis, but mainly differs from them 
in the ratio of the oral sucker and the ventral sucker, and the distance of the 
intestinal bifurcation from anterior edge of acetabulum, as well as from the 
former in the extension of the vitellarium. Mesotretes jiyuanensis n. sp. 
differs from Mesotretes peregrinus chiefly in the shape of the testes and the 
distribution of cuticular spines. The ratio of the oral sucker and the ventral 
sucker in this species also differs from that of M. peregrinus.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-1512.1
PMID: 19642799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. J Parasitol. 2009 Dec;95(6):1391-6. doi: 10.1645/GE-2080.1.

Estrogen-related fecundity reduction of Lymnaea ollula following Fasciola 
gigantica infection.

Kumkate S(1), Onmek N, Boonburapong B, Singhakaew S, Leardkamolkarn V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Mahidol University, Bangkok 10400, 
Thailand. scskk@mahidol.ac.th

Infection by trematode parasites generally affects life history traits of their 
intermediate hosts. Reduction in life expectancy and reproductive capacity have 
previously been documented in Fasciola gigantica-infected Lymnaea ollula, but 
the influence of the endocrine system on this specific host–parasite interaction 
has not been previously examined. In the present study, we observed survival, 
growth pattern, and reproductive output of L. ollula following exposure to F. 
gigantica. Both the survival and the growth pattern of infected snails were 
similar to those of the non-infected control group. However, a significant 
difference was apparent in fecundity, as infected snails consistently showed 
lower levels of egg and embryo production throughout a 7-wk observation period. 
Semi-quantitative RT-PCR also revealed down-regulation of estrogen receptor 
expression in infected snails during the first 4 wk of infection. Nonetheless, 
the inhibition of estrogen signaling was transient, as they regained expression 
in the later phase of infection. It is, therefore, suggested that other hormones 
of the complex endocrine system may be involved in the reduced fecundity of L. 
ollula following F. gigantica infection.

DOI: 10.1645/GE-2080.1
PMID: 19642809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Health Promot J Austr. 2009 Aug;20(2):86-91. doi: 10.1071/he09086.

Concepts and new frontiers for development - What role should health promoters 
play in lifestyle-based diabetes prevention programs in Australia?

Milat AJ(1), O'Hara B, Develin E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Advancement, NSW Department of Health, North Sydney. 
andrew.milat@doh.health.nsw.gov.au

ISSUE ADDRESSED: As the prevalence of many chronic diseases, particularly type 2 
diabetes continues to increase, Australia's health system must be able to 
respond in an appropriate and cost-effective way. These efforts have been 
enhanced recently by a number of Council of Australian Governments' initiatives 
that have seen an increased focus on lifestyle-based secondary prevention of 
chronic disease, in particular for diabetes. This paper aims to stimulate 
interest and debate in relation to the role that health promotion practitioners 
can play in shaping lifestyle-based diabetes prevention programs in Australia. 
The paper briefly describes the chronic disease prevention policy context in 
Australia and defines primary, secondary, and tertiary prevention. It also 
examines effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of diabetes prevention 
interventions and describes how the field can use its expertise in the areas of 
equity, diffusion of innovation, partnership development, participant 
empowerment and advocacy in order to shape the design, implementation and 
evaluation of lifestyle-based diabetes prevention programs in Australia.
CONCLUSIONS: State and national governments have substantially increased their 
investment in lifestyle-based diabetes prevention programs in Australia. If they 
are found to be effective and cost effective they are likely to attract 
additional investment and make up an increasing proportion of the prevention 
budget and accordingly, should not be ignored by the field of health promotion.

DOI: 10.1071/he09086
PMID: 19642954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 2009 Oct;24(8):661-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2009.06.006. Epub 2009 Jul 29.

Wear behaviour in total ankle replacement: a comparison between an in vitro 
simulation and retrieved prostheses.

Affatato S(1), Taddei P, Leardini A, Giannini S, Spinelli M, Viceconti M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio di Tecnologia Medica, Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli, Bologna, 
Italy. affatato@tecno.ior.it

BACKGROUND: To minimise wear of the meniscal component in total ankle 
replacement, a three-component artificial joint has recently been developed. 
This new prosthesis has convex spherical tibial and anticlastic talar metal 
components with non-anatomic but ligament-compatible shapes in the sagittal 
plane, and a fully conforming ultra-high-molecular-weight-polyethylene meniscal 
component inserted in between. The in vitro wear of meniscal components can be 
assessed using a four-station joint simulator. The study was aimed at comparing 
wear patterns obtained in vitro with those observed in implant retrievals with 
the same design.
METHODS: The wear tests were run in a joint wear simulator at a frequency of 1.1 
Hz for two million cycles. Three bearings within corresponding metal components 
were subjected to flexion/extension (range 0-58 degrees), anterior-posterior 
translation (0-5.2 mm), internal-external rotation (-1.9 degrees to +5.7 
degrees), and a maximum axial load of 2.6 KN. These conditions were taken from 
the most recent findings in ankle joint mechanics. Three prostheses of the same 
type were harvested from patients due to replacement failures not associated 
with the device, 24, 24 and 9 months, respectively, after implantation. The in 
vitro worn components and the three retrievals were analysed by using a scanning 
electron microscope, a Coordinate Measuring Machine, and micro-Raman 
spectroscopy.
FINDINGS: Visual and microscopic observations, analyses, and Raman 
crystallinity-based measurements showed similarity between the patterns 
generated experimentally in the wear simulator and those seen in retrievals with 
similar wear life.
INTERPRETATION: A joint wear simulator like the one used in this study, once 
configured properly, appears to be suitable to assess wear rates also in total 
ankle prostheses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2009.06.006
PMID: 19643517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. An Pediatr (Barc). 2009 Sep;71(3):250-64. doi: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2009.06.020.
 Epub 2009 Jul 29.

[Protocol for the diagnosis and follow up of patients with cystic fibrosis].

[Article in Spanish]

Barrio Gómez de Agüero MI(1), García Hernández G, Gartner S; Grupo de Trabajo de 
Fibrosis Quística.

Collaborators: Asensio de la Cruz O, CobosBarroso N, Escribano Montaner A, Lamas 
Ferreiro A, del Carmen Martínez Carrasco M, Moreno Galdó A, Pérez Frías J, Pérez 
Ruiz E, Salcedo Posadas A, Sánchez-Solís de Querol M, Vázquez Cordero C.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, España.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common severe recessive genetic disease in 
Caucasians. During the last years, new therapies and aggressive management of 
the lung disease have contributed significantly to the increased life expectancy 
in CF patients. A review and update of CF diagnosis and management of lung 
disease are included. The sweat chloride test (SCT) remains the gold standard 
for CF diagnosis and should be performed properly. However, in a few patients 
SCT results may not be conclusive to clarify the CF diagnosis. Patients with CF 
should be followed up in specialist Units by an expert multidisciplinary expert 
applying standard clinical protocols and using lung function tests, and 
microbiological and imaging studies. An overview with the recommendations for 
treatment of early onset and chronic infections due to Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 
Staphylococcus aureus and other uncommon pathogens is included. Furthermore, the 
management of other aspects of CF lung disease and complications is provided, as 
well as the indications for lung transplantation. This document has been 
prepared by the members of the CF working group of the Spanish Paediatrics 
Pulmonary Society to provide an update to the earlier documents published in 
this Journal in 1999.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2009.06.020
PMID: 19643690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Asian Cardiovasc Thorac Ann. 2009 Jun;17(3):272-7. doi: 
10.1177/0218492309104772.

Is age over 70 years a risk factor for pneumonectomy?

Annessi V(1), Paci M, Ricchetti T, Ferrari G, Formisano D, Sgarbi G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Cardiothoracic & Vascular Department, Santa 
Maria Nuova Hospital, 42100, Reggio Emilia, Italy. joanna@ppukm.ukm.my

The lengthening of life expectancy has led to more surgical procedures in 
elderly patients. The aim of this work was to determine whether age >70 years is 
a risk factor for pneumonectomy. All cases of pneumonectomy from January 1999 to 
December 2006 were retrospectively reviewed. The 40 patients aged >70 years were 
compared with a group of 70 patients aged 40-68 years matched for sex, physical 
status, respiratory function, side of pneumonectomy, and pathologic stage. 
Postoperatively, significantly more older patients had atrial fibrillation (24% 
vs. 5.6%). There was a low incidence of respiratory complications in both 
groups, and reduced respiratory function did not increase respiratory morbidity. 
Thirty-day mortality was not significantly different (2.5% in older vs. 1.4% in 
younger patients), but long-term mortality rates evaluated at December 31, 2007 
were 50% for those aged <70 years (35 patients) and 72.5% for the older group. 
Although age is a risk factor for morbidity and mortality in pneumonectomy, the 
risk is acceptable.

DOI: 10.1177/0218492309104772
PMID: 19643851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Med Ethics. 2009 Aug;35(8):502-7. doi: 10.1136/jme.2008.028779.

Judgement of suffering in the case of a euthanasia request in The Netherlands.

Rietjens JA(1), van Tol DG, Schermer M, van der Heide A.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. j.rietjens@erasmusmc.nl

INTRODUCTION: In The Netherlands, physicians have to be convinced that the 
patient suffers unbearably and hopelessly before granting a request for 
euthanasia. The extent to which general practitioners (GPs), consulted 
physicians and members of the euthanasia review committees judge this criterion 
similarly was evaluated.
METHODS: 300 GPs, 150 consultants and 27 members of review committees were sent 
a questionnaire with patient descriptions. Besides a "standard case" of a 
patient with physical suffering and limited life expectancy, the descriptions 
included cases in which the request was mainly rooted in psychosocial or 
existential suffering, such as fear of future suffering or dependency. For each 
case, respondents were asked whether they recognised the case from their own 
practice and whether they considered the suffering to be unbearable.
RESULTS: The cases were recognisable for almost all respondents. For the 
"standard case" nearly all respondents were convinced that the patient suffered 
unbearably. For the other cases, GPs thought the suffering was unbearable less 
often (2-49%) than consultants (25-79%) and members of the euthanasia review 
committees (24-88%). In each group, the suffering of patients with early 
dementia and patients who were "tired of living" was least often considered to 
be unbearable.
CONCLUSIONS: When non-physical aspects of suffering are central in a euthanasia 
request, there is variance between and within GPs, consultants and members of 
the euthanasia committees in their judgement of the patient's suffering. 
Possible explanations could be differences in their roles in the decision-making 
process, differences in experience with evaluating a euthanasia request, or 
differences in views regarding the permissibility of euthanasia.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2008.028779
