intermediate-risk patients who received coronary CTA in the ED for evaluation of 
a potential acute coronary syndrome (ACS). Patients with cocaine use, known 
cancer, and significant comorbidity reducing life expectancy and those found to 
have significant disease (stenosis > or = 50% or ejection fraction < 30%) were 
excluded. Demographics, medical and cardiac history, labs, and electrocardiogram 
(ECG) results were collected. Patients were followed by telephone contact and 
record review for 1 year. The main outcome was 1-year cardiovascular death or 
nonfatal acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
RESULTS: Of 588 patients who received coronary CTA in the ED, 481 met study 
criteria. They had a mean (+/-SD) age of 46.1 (+/-8.8) years, 63% were black or 
African American, and 60% were female. There were 53 patients (11%) 
rehospitalized and 51 patients (11%) who received further diagnostic testing 
(stress or catheterization) over the subsequent year. There was one death (0.2%; 
95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.01% to 1.15%) with unclear etiology, no AMI 
(0%; 95% CI = 0 to 0.76%), and no revascularization procedures (0%; 95% CI = 0 
to 0.76%) during this time period.
CONCLUSIONS: Low- to intermediate-risk patients with a Thrombosis In Myocardial 
Infarction (TIMI) score of 0 to 2 who present to the ED with potential ACS and 
have a negative coronary CTA have a very low likelihood of cardiovascular events 
over the ensuing year.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.2009.00459.x
PMID: 19594460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Aging Cell. 2009 Sep;8(5):542-52. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00504.x. Epub
 2009 Jul 9.

d4eBP acts downstream of both dTOR and dFoxo to modulate cardiac functional 
aging in Drosophila.

Wessells R(1), Fitzgerald E, Piazza N, Ocorr K, Morley S, Davies C, Lim HY, 
Elmén L, Hayes M, Oldham S, Bodmer R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine/Institute of Gerontology, University of 
Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA. wessells@med.umich.edu

dTOR (target of rapamycin) and dFoxo respond to changes in the nutritional 
environment to induce a broad range of responses in multiple tissue types. Both 
dTOR and dFoxo have been demonstrated to control the rate of age-related decline 
in cardiac function. Here, we show that the Eif4e-binding protein (d4eBP) is 
sufficient to protect long-term cardiac function against age-related decline and 
that up-regulation of dEif4e is sufficient to recapitulate the effects of high 
dTOR or insulin signaling. We also provide evidence that d4eBP acts 
tissue-autonomously and downstream of dTOR and dFoxo in the myocardium, where it 
enhances cardiac stress resistance and maintains normal heart rate and myogenic 
rhythm. Another effector of dTOR and insulin signaling, dS6K, may influence 
cardiac aging nonautonomously through its activity in the insulin-producing 
cells, possibly by regulating dilp2 expression. Thus, elevating d4eBP activity 
in cardiac tissue represents an effective organ-specific means for slowing or 
reversing cardiac functional changes brought about by normal aging.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00504.x
PMCID: PMC2832479
PMID: 19594484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Aging Cell. 2009 Sep;8(5):604-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00503.x. Epub 
2009 Jul 9.

Calorie restriction alters mitochondrial protein acetylation.

Schwer B(1), Eckersdorff M, Li Y, Silva JC, Fermin D, Kurtev MV, Giallourakis C, 
Comb MJ, Alt FW, Lombard DB.

Author information:
(1)Program in Cellular and Molecular Medicine, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, 
The Children's Hospital, and Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) increases lifespan in organisms ranging from budding 
yeast through mammals. Mitochondrial adaptation represents a key component of 
the response to CR. Molecular mechanisms underlying this adaptation are largely 
unknown. Here we show that lysine acetylation of mitochondrial proteins is 
altered during CR in a tissue-specific fashion. Via large-scale mass 
spectrometry screening, we identify 72 candidate proteins involved in a variety 
of metabolic pathways with altered acetylation during CR. Mitochondrial 
acetylation changes may play an important role in the pro-longevity CR response.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00503.x
PMCID: PMC2752488
PMID: 19594485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. BJU Int. 2009 Dec;104(11):1655-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.08681.x.
Epub  2009 Jul 7.

Living-donor renal transplantation of grafts with incidental renal masses after 
ex-vivo partial nephrectomy.

Sener A(1), Uberoi V, Bartlett ST, Kramer AC, Phelan MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Transplantation, University of Maryland 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To assess transplantation of high-risk kidneys with incidental renal 
masses (found occasionally during the routine evaluation of a living kidney 
donor) into recipients with limited life-expectancy on haemodialysis, as this 
offers a potential solution to the current organ deficit.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We detected five small (<2.3 cm), incidental, enhancing 
renal masses during donor evaluation. All patients had a standard metastatic 
evaluation. After laparoscopic donor nephrectomy a back-table partial 
nephrectomy was performed and frozen-section analysis was used to confirm both 
the diagnosis and negative surgical margins before transplantation.
RESULTS: Renal cell carcinoma was found in three of the five masses (one each 
cystic, clear cell and papillary; Fuhrman grades II, II and III, respectively) 
and the other two patients had angiomyolipoma. There were no long-term 
complications in the transplanted kidneys. One patient developed delayed acute 
humoral rejection after transplantation and was treated appropriately. Both 
donor and recipient were followed with periodic imaging. At a median (range) 
last follow-up of 15 (1-41) months, four patients were alive and one had died 
from complications after a fall. The cancer-specific survival was 100%. There 
was no evidence of local recurrence in any patient at the last follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Live donor kidneys with incidental small renal masses might be 
acceptable for transplantation in high-risk recipients after careful back-table 
partial nephrectomy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.08681.x
PMID: 19594738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Lancet. 2009 Aug 22;374(9690):620-7. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60742-X.

11-year follow-up of mortality in patients with schizophrenia: a 
population-based cohort study (FIN11 study).

Tiihonen J(1), Lönnqvist J, Wahlbeck K, Klaukka T, Niskanen L, Tanskanen A, 
Haukka J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Forensic Psychiatry, University of Kuopio and Niuvanniemi 
Hospital, Department of Clinical Physiology, Kuopio University Hospital, Kuopio, 
Finland. jari.tiihonen@niuva.fi

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Aug 22;374(9690):590-2.
    Lancet. 2009 Nov 7;374(9701):1591; author reply 1592-3.
    Lancet. 2009 Nov 7;374(9701):1591; author reply 1592-3.
    Lancet. 2009 Nov 7;374(9701):1592; author reply 1592-3.
    Lancet. 2009 Nov 7;374(9701):1592; author reply 1592-3.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of second-generation antipsychotic drugs during the 
1990s is widely believed to have adversely affected mortality of patients with 
schizophrenia. Our aim was to establish the long-term contribution of 
antipsychotic drugs to mortality in such patients.
METHODS: Nationwide registers in Finland were used to compare the cause-specific 
mortality in 66 881 patients versus the total population (5.2 million) between 
1996, and 2006, and to link these data with the use of antipsychotic drugs. We 
measured the all-cause mortality of patients with schizophrenia in outpatient 
care during current and cumulative exposure to any antipsychotic drug versus no 
use of these drugs, and exposure to the six most frequently used antipsychotic 
drugs compared with perphenazine use.
FINDINGS: Although the proportional use of second-generation antipsychotic drugs 
rose from 13% to 64% during follow-up, the gap in life expectancy between 
patients with schizophrenia and the general population did not widen between 
1996 (25 years), and 2006 (22.5 years). Compared with current use of 
perphenazine, the highest risk for overall mortality was recorded for quetiapine 
(adjusted hazard ratio [HR] 1.41, 95% CI 1.09-1.82), and the lowest risk for 
clozapine (0.74, 0.60-0.91; p=0.0045 for the difference between clozapine vs 
perphenazine, and p<0.0001 for all other antipsychotic drugs). Long-term 
cumulative exposure (7-11 years) to any antipsychotic treatment was associated 
with lower mortality than was no drug use (0.81, 0.77-0.84). In patients with 
one or more filled prescription for an antipsychotic drug, an inverse relation 
between mortality and duration of cumulative use was noted (HR for trend per 
exposure year 0.991; 0.985-0.997).
INTERPRETATION: Long-term treatment with antipsychotic drugs is associated with 
lower mortality compared with no antipsychotic use. Second-generation drugs are 
a highly heterogeneous group, and clozapine seems to be associated with a 
substantially lower mortality than any other antipsychotics. Restrictions on the 
use of clozapine should be reassessed.
FUNDING: Annual EVO Financing (Special government subsidies from the Ministry of 
Health and Welfare, Finland).

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60742-X
PMID: 19595447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Lancet. 2009 Aug 22;374(9690):590-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61072-2.

The unchanging mortality gap for people with schizophrenia.

Chwastiak LA(1), Tek C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06508, USA. 
lydia.chwastiak@yale.edu

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 Aug 22;374(9690):620-7.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61072-2
PMID: 19595448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. J Vasc Surg. 2009 Oct;50(4):776-783.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2009.05.050. Epub 
2009 Jul 12.

Perioperative outcomes and amputation-free survival after lower extremity bypass 
surgery in California hospitals, 1996-1999, with follow-up through 2004.

Feinglass J(1), Sohn MW, Rodriguez H, Martin GJ, Pearce WH.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. j-feinglass@northwestern.edu

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2010 Nov;52(5):1425-7; author reply 1427.

OBJECTIVE: There are very few population-based studies of long-term outcomes 
after lower extremity (LE) bypass graft surgery. This study analyzes 
perioperative and long-term limb salvage and amputation-free survival outcomes 
for patients undergoing initial aortoiliac or femoropopliteal bypass graft 
surgery in California hospitals from 1996 to 1999.
METHODS: Administrative data with encrypted identifiers were used to identify a 
chronologically first, index admission of all patients undergoing LE bypass 
procedures for occlusive disease from 1996 to 1999. A 1993 to 1995 look-back 
period was used to exclude patients who had undergone prior bypass surgery or 
amputation procedures. Patients with incident procedures were then followed 
forward to determine subsequent hospitalizations and vital status through 2004. 
The study comprised 28,128 patients discharged from 345 California hospitals 
with a median 61.5-month follow-up. Risk factors included demographic 
characteristics, comorbid conditions, admission type, gangrene or ulceration, 
operation level, hospital LE bypass surgery volume, and year of discharge. 
Logistic regression was used to analyze 30-day outcomes, and Kaplan-Meier 
analysis and Cox proportional hazard models were used to analyze amputation-free 
survival.
RESULTS: Overall 30-day mortality was 4.3, and the 30-day major amputation rate 
was 2.6%. Limb salvage was 81.9% at 5 years and 76.4% at 9 years. 
Amputation-free survival was 51.5% at 5 years and 34.1% at 9 years. Risk factors 
were generally similar for both perioperative and late outcomes. Advanced age, 
higher comorbidity level, gangrene, and emergency or nursing home admission 
conferred significantly greater risk. Hospital volume was associated with both 
perioperative and late outcomes. African American and Hispanic patients had much 
higher amputation rates but did not have higher mortality risk after controlling 
for baseline severity of illness.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term outcomes of LE bypass surgery were superior for 
high-volume hospital patients. Graft surveillance and risk factor follow-up care 
provide a major opportunity for quality improvement efforts. The contrast 
between traditional limb salvage and amputation-free survival outcomes raises 
questions about the value of surgical treatment, particularly for patients with 
limited life expectancy and without coding of tissue loss or critical limb 
ischemia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2009.05.050
PMID: 19595538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Oct;44(10):639-45. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.07.001. Epub 
2009 Jul 10.

Age-related increase of prostaglandin D(2) synthase concentration and glycation 
in ovine cerebrospinal fluid.

Chen CP(1), Chen RL, Preston JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Gueishan, Taoyuan 
County, Taiwan. carlchendr@gmail.com

Prostaglandin D(2) synthase (PGDS) is a glycoprotein that is exclusively brain 
derived and is one of the most abundant proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid 
(CSF). Due to its high CSF specificity, it can be used as a tool for the 
diagnosis of central nervous system (CNS) disorders. However, several studies 
have yielded contradictory CSF PGDS concentrations in various CNS 
neurodegenerative disorders. Sheep CSF samples from different ages were used in 
this study and 2-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) was applied in PGDS 
identification and concentration calculation. SYPRO Ruby Protein Gel Stain was 
the staining method used to stain the 2-DE gel protein spots. Pro-Q Emerald 488 
Staining for Glycoproteins was used for the staining of glycoproteins. A total 
of nine PGDS isoforms were identified and CSF total PGDS concentration was 
calculated to increase linearly by 44% from young (0.9323+/-0.0637mgdL(-1)) to 
old (1.3669+/-0.0558mgdL(-1)). However, the proportion of CSF total PGDS as a 
percentage of CSF total protein was discovered to decrease exponentially with 
age. This was due to the influence of larger age-related increase in CSF albumin 
concentration (>200% from young to old) as albumin is the most abundant protein 
in the CSF (>60% of total CSF proteins). Active deglycosylation was not observed 
in PGDS isoforms during healthy ageing. Some PGDS isoforms were observed to have 
age-related increase in glycation. These findings suggest that CSF PGDS 
concentration is increased during healthy ageing and must be taken into 
consideration when using PGDS as a potential biomarker in diagnosing CNS 
neurodegenerative disorders. Whether age-related increase in the glycation of 
some CSF PGDS isoforms will result in detrimental effects on the PGDS protein 
function needs further investigations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.07.001
PMID: 19595756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Int J Nurs Stud. 2010 Feb;47(2):136-45. doi: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2009.06.003. 
Epub 2009 Jul 10.

Using the serious mental illness health improvement profile [HIP] to identify 
physical problems in a cohort of community patients: a pragmatic case series 
evaluation.

Shuel F(1), White J, Jones M, Gray R.

Author information:
(1)Wishaw General Hospital, Lanarkshire, Scotland, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The physical health of people with serious mental 
illness is a cause of growing concern to clinicians. Life expectancy in this 
population may be reduced by up to 25 years and patients often live with 
considerable physical morbidity that can dramatically reduce quality of life and 
contribute to social exclusion. This study sought to determine whether the 
serious mental illness health improvement profile [HIP], facilitated by mental 
health nurses [MHNs], has the clinical potential to identify physical morbidity 
and inform future evidence-based care.
DESIGN: Retrospective documentation audit and qualitative evaluation of 
patients' and clinicians' views about the use of the HIP in practice.
SETTING: A nurse-led outpatient medication management clinic, for community 
adult patients with serious mental illness in Scotland.
PARTICIPANTS: 31 Community patients with serious mental illness seen in the 
clinic by 2 MHNs trained to use the HIP. All 31 patients, 9 MHNs, 4 consultant 
psychiatrists and 12 general practitioners [GPs] (primary care physicians) 
participated in the qualitative evaluation.
METHODS: A retrospective documentation audit of case notes for all patients 
where the HIP had been implemented. Semi-structured interviews with patients and 
their secondary care clinicians. Postal survey of GPs.
RESULTS: 189 Physical health issues were identified (mean 6.1 per patient). 
Items most frequently flagged 'red', suggesting that intervention was required, 
were body mass index [BMI] (n=24), breast self-examination (n=23), waist 
circumference (n=21), pulse (n=14) and diet (n=13). Some rates of physical 
health problems observed were broadly similar to those reported in studies of 
patients receiving antipsychotics in primary care but much lower than those 
reported in epidemiological studies. Individualised care was planned and 
delivered with each patient based on the profile. 28 discreet interventions that 
included providing advice, promoting health behavioural change, performing an 
electrocardiogram and making a referral to professional colleagues were used. 
Qualitative feedback was positive. Our observations support the use of the HIP 
in clinical settings to enhance mental health nursing practice; however, we 
strongly recommend that training is required to support the use of the HIP.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2009.06.003
PMID: 19596322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nephrol Ther. 2009 Jun;5 Suppl 4:S286-9. doi: 10.1016/S1769-7255(09)74560-2.

[Medical and economic evaluation of new peritoneal dialysis solutions].

[Article in French]

Ryckelynck JP(1), Lobbedez T, Ficheux M, Chatelet V, Thuillier-Lecouf A, Henri 
P, Hurault de Ligny B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Néphrologie-Dialyse-Transplantation rénale, CHU Clémenceau 14033 
Caen cedex. ryckelynck-jp@chu-caen.fr

Conventional peritoneal dialysis solutions are mostly bioincompatible in 
relationship with a low pH, a high glucose and glucose degradation products 
(GDP) concentrations inducing anatomical and functional peritoneal membrane 
alterations. Use of icodextrin solution instead of glucose hypertonic solution 
preserves peritoneal membrane minimizing glucose exposure and its peritoneal 
absorption. Physiological fluids with a neutral pH and less GDP seem to have a 
positive effect on residual renal function which declines more slowly when they 
are early prescribed, before highly damaged and sclerotic kidneys. Preliminary 
data show that patients and technique survivals are better when physiological 
solutions are used either for diabetic and non diabetic patients. However, these 
new solutions do not improve peritonitis rates except for bicarbonate solutions 
but this fact must still be confirmed by other studies. In spite of a higher 
cost, physiological solutions must be proposed mainly for patients with a low 
comorbidity index and a high life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/S1769-7255(09)74560-2
PMID: 19596350 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Vaccine. 2009 Aug 20;27(38):5171. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.06.067. Epub
2009  Jul 9.

"Anti-HPV vaccination: a review of recent economic data for Italy.".

Garattini L, Casadei G.

Comment in
    Vaccine. 2009 Dec 9;27(52):7238-9.

Comment on
    Vaccine. 2009 May 29;27 Suppl 1:A54-61.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.06.067
PMID: 19596421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Med Decis Making. 2009 Sep-Oct;29(5):549-56. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09340238.
Epub  2009 Jul 13.

Effects of categorizing continuous variables in decision-analytic models.

Bentley TG(1), Weinstein MC, Kuntz KM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
USA.

PURPOSE: When using continuous predictor variables in discrete-state Markov 
modeling, it is necessary to create categories of risk and assume homogeneous 
disease risk within categories, which may bias model outcomes. This analysis 
assessed the tradeoffs between model bias and complexity and/or data limitations 
when categorizing continuous risk factors in Markov models.
METHODS: The authors developed a generic Markov cohort model of disease, 
defining bias as the percentage change in life expectancy gain from a 
hypothetical intervention when using 2 to 15 risk factor categories as compared 
with modeling the risk factor as a continuous variable. They evaluated the 
magnitude and sign of bias as a function of disease incidence, disease-specific 
mortality, and relative difference in risk among categories.
RESULTS: Bias was positive in the base case, indicating that categorization 
overestimated life expectancy gains. The bias approached zero as the number of 
risk factor categories increased and did not exceed 4% for any parameter 
combinations or numbers of categories considered. For any given disease-specific 
mortality and disease incidence, bias increased with relative risk of disease. 
For any given relative risk, the relationship between bias and parameters such 
as disease-specific mortality or disease incidence was not always monotonic.
CONCLUSIONS: Under the assumption of a normally distributed risk factor and 
reasonable assumption regarding disease risk and moderate values for the 
relative risk of disease given risk factor category, categorizing continuously 
valued risk factors in Markov models is associated with less than 4% absolute 
bias when at least 2 categories are used.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09340238
PMID: 19596867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Anticancer Res. 2009 Jul;29(7):2461-5.

Immunobiological and experimental aspects of malignant astrocytoma.

Nano R(1), Capelli E, Facoetti A, Benericetti E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology, University of Pavia, Piazza Botta 10, 27100 
Pavia, Italy. nano@unipv.it

Today several findings indicate that a multifactorial strategy is the best 
strategy for treating cancer. Although radiotherapy, chemotherapy and surgery 
have been differently applied to treat human gliomas, no substantial improvement 
in life expectancy has been observed. Starting from 1992, the goal of our 
studies was to obtain new biological data on malignant astrocytomas to better 
understand the basic biology of the tumour and these are reviewed here. 
Immunotherapy may represent an available method in addition to the traditional 
therapeutic approaches. Starting from 1991, we set up a cellular model of 
lymphocytes obtained from peripheral blood of healthy patients treated with 
interleukin-2 (IL-2) in order to study the role of IL-2 in regulating 
lymphocytes activation. The lymphocytes responding to IL-2 treatment, named 
lymphokine-activated killer (LAK) cells, have a killer non MHC restricted 
activity, and are able to kill autologous and allogenic glioma cells. The 
interaction of LAK cells with various normal and transformed targets indicates 
that LAK cells recognize surface structures present both on normal and 
transformed cells. However, only the interaction with transformed cells induces 
lytic events and LAK cells can act as "surgical weapons" against tumour cells 
independently from their cell cycle. Much recent effort has focused on 
identifying the immune escape mechanisms used by glioma cells, in particular the 
modulation of the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) and antigen processing machinery 
component expression. Finally, another interesting field of research that will 
be presented is that of new tumour biomarkers of proliferation and apoptosis, 
cytokine/chemokine release and cytokine/chemokine receptors.

PMID: 19596914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Clin Microbiol Rev. 2009 Jul;22(3):396-414. doi: 10.1128/CMR.00001-09.

Pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management of primary antibody deficiencies and 
infections.

Fried AJ(1), Bonilla FA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Immunology, Children's Hospital Boston, Fegan Building, 6th 
Floor, 300 Longwood Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
ari.fried@childrens.harvard.edu

Primary antibody deficiencies are the most common primary immunodeficiency 
diseases. They are a heterogeneous group of disorders with various degrees of 
dysfunctional antibody production resulting from a disruption of B-cell 
differentiation at different stages. While there has been tremendous recent 
progress in the understanding of some of these disorders, the etiology remains 
unknown for the majority of patients. As there is a large spectrum of underlying 
defects, the age at presentation varies widely, and the clinical manifestations 
range from an almost complete absence of B cells and serum immunoglobulins to 
selectively impaired antibody responses to specific antigens with normal total 
serum immunoglobulin concentrations. However, all of these disorders share an 
increased susceptibility to infections, affecting predominantly the respiratory 
tract. A delay of appropriate treatment for some diseases can result in serious 
complications related to infections, while timely diagnosis and adequate therapy 
can significantly decrease morbidity and increase life expectancy and quality of 
life.

DOI: 10.1128/CMR.00001-09
PMCID: PMC2708392
PMID: 19597006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. J Inherit Metab Dis. 2009 Aug;32(4):534-43. doi: 10.1007/s10545-009-1119-7.
Epub  2009 Jul 14.

Mortality and cause of death in mucopolysaccharidosis type II-a historical 
review based on data from the Hunter Outcome Survey (HOS).

Jones SA(1), Almássy Z, Beck M, Burt K, Clarke JT, Giugliani R, Hendriksz C, 
Kroepfl T, Lavery L, Lin SP, Malm G, Ramaswami U, Tincheva R, Wraith JE; HOS 
Investigators.

Collaborators: Kroepfl T, Bodamer O, De Meirleir L, Melgar D, Giugliani R, Boy 
R, Horovitz D, Tincheva R, Clarke J, Clarke L, Mabe P, Barisić I, Barić I, Zeman 
J, Lund AM, Guffon N, Valayannopoulos V, Héron B, Beck M, Frenking GS, Muschol 
N, Zafeiriou D, Almássy Z, Gabrielli O, Cicognani A, DiRocco M, Parini R, Scarpa 
M, Feliciani C, Ricci R, Gaspar A, Teles EL, Martina E, Novikov P, Pintos G, 
Galán E, del Toro M, Pineda M, Aldámiz L, Herrero MM, Munguira P, 
Gutiérrez-Solana LG, Domingo R, Novoa G, de Azua B, Lluch D, Dalmau J, Muro JM, 
Baldellou A, Calvo JP, Nilsson N, Papadopoulou D, Malm G, Lin SP, van der PLoeg 
A, Hendriksz C, Deegan P, Ramaswami U, Vellodi A, Jones S, Wraith E, Fernhoff P, 
Hamosh A, Leslie N, Muenzer J, Wilson W, Burton B, Thomas J, Greenstein R, Eng 
C, Copeland S, Peters C, Smith L, Moeschler J, Jayakar P, Mendelsohn N, Whitley 
C, Pastories G, Proud V, Harmatz P, Schaefer B, Aleck K, Steiner R, Viskochil D, 
Keppen L, Tifft C.

Author information:
(1)Willink Unit, Genetic Medicine, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, 
Central Manchester University Hospitals, NHS Foundation Trust, St Mary's 
Hospital, Manchester, UK. simon.jones@cmft.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2013 May 13;140(10):451-2.

Mucopolysaccharidosis type II (MPS II or Hunter syndrome) is a progressive, 
multisystemic disease caused by a deficiency of iduronate-2-sulfatase. Patients 
with the severe form of the disease have cognitive impairment and typically die 
in the second decade of life. Patients with the less severe form do not 
experience significant cognitive involvement and may survive until the fifth or 
sixth decade of life. We studied the relationship of both severity of MPS II and 
the time period in which patients died with age at death in 129 patients for 
whom data were entered retrospectively into HOS (Hunter Outcome Survey), the 
only large-scale, multinational observational study of patients with MPS II. 
Median age at death was significantly lower in patients with cognitive 
involvement compared with those without cognitive involvement (11.7 versus 14.1 
years; p = 0.024). These data indicate that cognitive involvement is indicative 
of more severe disease and lower life expectancy in patients with MPS II. Median 
age at death was significantly lower in patients who died in or before 1985 
compared with those who died after 1985 (11.3 versus 14.1 years; p alpha 0.001). 
The difference in age at death between patients dying in or before, relative to 
after, the selected cut-off date of 1985 may reflect improvements in patient 
identification, care and management over the past two decades. Data from 
patients who died after 1985 could serve as a control in analyses of the effects 
of enzyme replacement therapy with idursulfase on mortality in patients with MPS 
II.

DOI: 10.1007/s10545-009-1119-7
PMID: 19597960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Cult Med Psychiatry. 2009 Sep;33(3):382-411. doi: 10.1007/s11013-009-9141-7.

"Maybe I made up the whole thing": placebos and patients' experiences in a 
randomized controlled trial.

Kaptchuk TJ(1), Shaw J, Kerr CE, Conboy LA, Kelley JM, Csordas TJ, Lembo AJ, 
Jacobson EE.

Author information:
(1)Osher Research Center, Harvard Medical School, 401 Park Drive, Boston, MA 
02215, USA. ted_kaptchuk@hms.harvard.edu

Patients in the placebo arms of randomized controlled trials (RCT) often 
experience positive changes from baseline. While multiple theories concerning 
such "placebo effects" exist, peculiarly, none has been informed by actual 
interviews of patients undergoing placebo treatment. Here, we report on a 
qualitative study (n = 27) embedded within a RCT (n = 262) in patients with 
irritable bowel syndrome. Besides identical placebo acupuncture treatment in the 
RCT, the qualitative study patients also received an additional set of 
interviews at the beginning, midpoint, and end of the trial. Interviews of the 
12 qualitative subjects who underwent and completed placebo treatment were 
transcribed. We found that patients (1) were persistently concerned with whether 
they were receiving placebo or genuine treatment; (2) almost never endorsed 
"expectation" of improvement but spoke of "hope" instead and frequently reported 
despair; (3) almost all reported improvement ranging from dramatic psychosocial 
changes to unambiguous, progressive symptom improvement to tentative impressions 
of benefit; and (4) often worried whether their improvement was due to normal 
fluctuations or placebo effects. The placebo treatment was a problematic 
perturbation that provided an opportunity to reconstruct the experiences of the 
fluctuations of their illness and how it disrupted their everyday life. 
Immersion in this RCT was a co-mingling of enactment, embodiment and 
interpretation involving ritual performance and evocative symbols, shifts in 
bodily sensations, symptoms, mood, daily life behaviors, and social 
interactions, all accompanied by self-scrutiny and re-appraisal. The placebo 
effect involved a spectrum of factors and any single theory of placebo--e.g. 
expectancy, hope, conditioning, anxiety reduction, report bias, symbolic work, 
narrative and embodiment--provides an inadequate model to explain its salubrious 
benefits.

DOI: 10.1007/s11013-009-9141-7
PMCID: PMC2716443
PMID: 19597976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Curr Pharm Des. 2009;15(21):2508-19. doi: 10.2174/138161209788682244.

Therapeutic potential of peptide motifs against HIV-1 reverse transcriptase and 
integrase.

Andréola ML(1).

Author information:
(1)UMR 5234 CNRS, Université Victor Segalen Bordeaux 2, France. 
marie-line.andreola@reger.u-bordeaux2.fr

Multiple clinical benefits have been obtained thanks to the combination of drugs 
targeting several steps of the HIV-1 replication. However, despite such 
combination therapy, complete eradication of the virus cannot be attained. 
Moreover, emergence of resistance observed under treatment and the lengthening 
life expectancy of treated patients highlight the need for new anti-HIV agents. 
Peptide-based compounds that exhibit anti RT and anti integrase activities were 
particularly described. Active peptides have been obtained from several ongoing 
approaches. The study of interaction between viral proteins inside the 
preintegration complex, and the growing knowledge of interactions between viral 
proteins and cellular partners, have generated a useful source of data for the 
development of peptide inhibitors. Recent data were also obtained from the 
observation that viral enzymes such as RT and integrase are fully active when 
they are in a dimeric (RT) or oligomeric state. Peptides derived from the 
interface of dimers are also of interest. The obtention of efficient small 
molecules as competitive oligomerization inhibitors is problematic, but anyway, 
improved cellular uptake and chemical modifications that were obtained in the 
past ten years allowed numerous peptide drugs to reach the clinic. Finally, a 
new promising class of peptide inhibitors is emerging called "shiftides", which 
interfere with the ability of IN to adopt an oligomeric active state.

DOI: 10.2174/138161209788682244
PMID: 19601847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2009 Jul;32 Suppl 2:S80-2. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.2009.02391.x.

Psychosocial considerations for children and young adolescents with implantable 
cardioverter defibrillators: an update.

Sears SF(1), St Amant JB, Zeigler V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, East Carolina University, Greenville, North 
Carolina 27858, USA. searss@ecu.edu

BACKGROUND: The extension of the life-saving benefits of the implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) to prevent sudden cardiac arrest in children 
and young adults represents a key clinical development. The psychosocial 
adjustment in young ICD patients has not been as well-studied as in adults and 
remains an area of needed research.
METHODS: The current paper reviews the quantitative research regarding ICD 
patient psychosocial outcomes in the adult and pediatric literature, and 
highlights existing intervention research on adult ICD patients and its 
implications for young ICD patients.
RESULTS: Literature review indicates that anxiety may be the most problematic 
psychosocial reaction for young ICD patients, similar to adult patients. Since 
young ICD patients appear to be more likely to experience shocks than adults; 
shock-related anxiety is suspected to be particularly common. Interventions in 
adults have shown a reduction in anxiety but no pediatric intervention studies 
are currently available in the literature.
CONCLUSION: Additional research and clinical attention is warranted to further 
assist young ICD patients to achieve desirable quality of life outcomes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.2009.02391.x
PMID: 19602170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Value Health. 2008 Dec;11(7):1070-80. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00389.x.

Expected value of perfect information: an empirical example of reducing decision 
uncertainty by conducting additional research.

Oostenbrink JB(1), Al MJ, Oppe M, Rutten-van Mölken MP.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus MC Rotterdam, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: Value of information (VOI) analysis informs decision-makers about the 
expected value of conducting more research to support a decision. This expected 
value of (partial) perfect information (EV(P)PI) can be estimated by 
simultaneously eliminating uncertainty on all (or some) parameters involved in 
model-based decision-making. This study aimed to calculate the EVPPI, before and 
after collecting additional information on the parameter of a probabilistic 
Markov model with the highest EVPPI.
METHODS: The model assessed the 5-year costs per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) of three bronchodilators in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
It had identified tiotropium as the bronchodilator with the highest expected net 
benefit. Total EVPI was estimated plus the EVPPIs for four groups of parameters: 
1) transition probabilities between COPD severity stages; 2) exacerbation 
probabilities; 3) utility weights; and 4) costs. Partial EVPI analyses were 
performed using one-level and two-level sampling algorithms.
RESULTS: Before additional research, the total EVPI was Euro 1985 per patient at 
a threshold value of Euro 20,000 per QALY. EVPPIs were Euro 1081 for utilities, 
Euro 724 for transition probabilities, and relatively small for exacerbation 
probabilities and costs. A large study was performed to obtain more precise 
EQ-5D utilities by COPD severity stages. After using posterior utilities, the 
EVPPI for utilities decreased to almost zero. The total EVPI for the updated 
model was reduced to Euro 1037. With an EVPPI of Euro 856, transition 
probabilities were now the single most important parameter contributing to the 
EVPI.
CONCLUSIONS: This VOI analysis clearly identified parameters for which 
additional research is most worthwhile. After conducting additional research on 
the most important parameter, i.e., the utilities, total EVPI was substantially 
reduced.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00389.x
PMID: 19602213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Value Health. 2008 Dec;11(7):1088-95. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00393.x.

Cost-effectiveness of preventing hip fractures by hip protectors in elderly 
institutionalized residents in Germany.

Gandjour A(1), Weyler EJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. afschin.gandjour@uk-koeln.de

OBJECTIVE: To determine the long-term cost-effectiveness of hip protector use in 
the prevention of hip fractures in elderly institutionalized residents in 
Germany compared to no prevention.
METHODS: A lifetime Markov decision model was developed using published data on 
costs and health outcomes. A societal and statutory health insurance perspective 
was adopted.
RESULTS: From a societal/statutory health insurance perspective, use of hip 
protectors yields savings of 315 EURO/257 EURO and a gain of 0.13 
quality-adjusted life years per person over lifetime.
CONCLUSION: Hip protector use in elderly institutionalized residents in Germany 
is highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00393.x
PMID: 19602215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. BMJ. 2009 Jul 14;339:b2538. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b2538.

Cost effectiveness of COX 2 selective inhibitors and traditional NSAIDs alone or 
in combination with a proton pump inhibitor for people with osteoarthritis.

Latimer N(1), Lord J, Grant RL, O'Mahony R, Dickson J, Conaghan PG; National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence Osteoarthritis Guideline 
Development Group.

Collaborators: Birrell F, Burke M, Cumming J, Dieppe P, Doherty M, Dziedzic K, 
Francis R, Kell C, MacGregor A, Naisby C, Oliver S, Richards A, Underwood M, 
Barton G, Higgins B.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield S1 4DA.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cost effectiveness of cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX 2) 
selective inhibitors and traditional non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs), and the addition of proton pump inhibitors to these treatments, for 
people with osteoarthritis.
DESIGN: An economic evaluation using a Markov model and data from a systematic 
review was conducted. Estimates of cardiovascular and gastrointestinal adverse 
events were based on data from three large randomised controlled trials, and 
observational data were used for sensitivity analyses. Efficacy benefits from 
treatment were estimated from a meta-analysis of trials reporting total Western 
Ontario and McMaster Universities (WOMAC) osteoarthritis index score. Other 
model inputs were obtained from the relevant literature. The model was run for a 
hypothetical population of people with osteoarthritis. Subgroup analyses were 
conducted for people at high risk of gastrointestinal or cardiovascular adverse 
events. Comparators Licensed COX 2 selective inhibitors (celecoxib and 
etoricoxib) and traditional NSAIDs (diclofenac, ibuprofen, and naproxen) for 
which suitable data were available were compared. Paracetamol was also included, 
as was the possibility of adding a proton pump inhibitor (omeprazole) to each 
treatment.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measure was cost effectiveness, which 
was based on quality adjusted life years gained. Quality adjusted life year 
scores were calculated from pooled estimates of efficacy and major adverse 
events (that is, dyspepsia; symptomatic ulcer; complicated gastrointestinal 
perforation, ulcer, or bleed; myocardial infarction; stroke; and heart failure).
RESULTS: Addition of a proton pump inhibitor to both COX 2 selective inhibitors 
and traditional NSAIDs was highly cost effective for all patient groups 
considered (incremental cost effectiveness ratio less than pound1000 (euro1175, 
$1650)). This finding was robust across a wide range of effectiveness estimates 
if the cheapest proton pump inhibitor was used. In our base case analysis, 
adding a proton pump inhibitor to a COX 2 selective inhibitor (used at the 
lowest licensed dose) was a cost effective option, even for patients at low risk 
of gastrointestinal adverse events (incremental cost effectiveness ratio 
approximately pound10 000). Uncertainties around relative adverse event rates 
meant relative cost effectiveness for individual COX 2 selective inhibitors and 
traditional NSAIDs was difficult to determine.
CONCLUSIONS: Prescribing a proton pump inhibitor for people with osteoarthritis 
who are taking a traditional NSAID or COX 2 selective inhibitor is cost 
effective. The cost effectiveness analysis was sensitive to adverse event data 
and the specific choice of COX 2 selective inhibitor or NSAID agent should, 
therefore, take into account individual cardiovascular and gastrointestinal 
risks.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b2538
PMCID: PMC2714674
PMID: 19602530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors were members of 
the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence Osteoarthritis 
Guideline Development Group (PGC chaired the group, JD was the clinical adviser, 
RLG was project manager, NL was the health economist, JL was the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence technical adviser, and RO was the 
research fellow). During the guidelines process, PGC received travel grants to 
educational meetings and honoraria for joint injection tutorials from Merck, 
Sharp & Dohme, he has also been adviser to Novartis and Bristol Myers Squibb on 
imaging studies in rheumatoid arthritis. JD has received travel grants from 
Pfizer, Wyeth, Novartis, and Napp, and honoraria for tutorials from Pfizer and 
Novartis. He has also been on advisory boards for pharmaceutical companies 
including GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth, and Novartis. After completing the guideline 
analysis but before its publication, NL joined Roche Products and has since 
moved to the University of Sheffield. RLG, JL, and RO have no competing 
interests.


91. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2009;28(1):6-12. doi: 10.1159/000228713. Epub
2009  Jul 15.

Cognitive function in Japanese centenarians according to the Mini-Mental State 
Examination.

Inagaki H(1), Gondo Y, Hirose N, Masui Y, Kitagawa K, Arai Y, Ebihara Y, 
Yamamura K, Takayama M, Nakazawa S, Shimizu K, Homma A.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan. inagaki@tmig.or.jp

BACKGROUND/AIMS: We examined the effect of aging on cognitive function at the 
limit of human life expectancy by characterizing state of cognition in 
centenarians without clinical cognitive impairment.
METHODS: Participants were 68 centenarians without cognitive impairment 
(Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) 0), 96 controls 60 to 74 years old, and 46 
controls 75 to 89 years old. We visited the places where centenarians were 
living and administered the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) individually. 
Control subjects came to the assembly hall within their dwelling area, to be 
administered the MMSE.
RESULTS: Mean total scores of centenarians (22.3) were lower than for either 
60-74 (27.2) or 75-89 (26.2). Comparison of scores in each of five cognitive 
domains measured by MMSE showed a significant age-group effect upon orientation, 
memory, and attention. Centenarians' scores were lower than for younger groups 
in every domain except for the language and praxis, concentration, and for 
repetition.
CONCLUSION: The centenarians' scores in memory and orientation declined as in 
earlier studies of normal aging. Centenarians' scores for attention and 
concentration differed from those in previous studies. The present result 
suggests that even primary memory is influenced by advanced age in centenarians, 
while ability to store information declines, ability to process is maintained.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000228713
PMID: 19602888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Semin Immunopathol. 2009 Sep;31(3):283-307. doi: 10.1007/s00281-009-0164-5.
Epub  2009 Jul 15.

Primary biliary cirrhosis.

Hohenester S(1), Oude-Elferink RP, Beuers U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology & Hepatology/Liver Center, Academic Medical 
Center, G4-213, University of Amsterdam, P.O. Box 22700, 1100 DE, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is an immune-mediated chronic cholestatic liver 
disease with a slowly progressive course. Without treatment, most patients 
eventually develop fibrosis and cirrhosis of the liver and may need liver 
transplantation in the late stage of disease. PBC primarily affects women 
(female preponderance 9-10:1) with a prevalence of up to 1 in 1,000 women over 
40 years of age. Common symptoms of the disease are fatigue and pruritus, but 
most patients are asymptomatic at first presentation. The diagnosis is based on 
sustained elevation of serum markers of cholestasis, i.e., alkaline phosphatase 
and gamma-glutamyl transferase, and the presence of serum antimitochondrial 
antibodies directed against the E2 subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase 
complex. Histologically, PBC is characterized by florid bile duct lesions with 
damage to biliary epithelial cells, an often dense portal inflammatory 
infiltrate and progressive loss of small intrahepatic bile ducts. Although the 
insight into pathogenetic aspects of PBC has grown enormously during the recent 
decade and numerous genetic, environmental, and infectious factors have been 
disclosed which may contribute to the development of PBC, the precise 
pathogenesis remains enigmatic. Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is currently the 
only FDA-approved medical treatment for PBC. When administered at adequate doses 
of 13-15 mg/kg/day, up to two out of three patients with PBC may have a normal 
life expectancy without additional therapeutic measures. The mode of action of 
UDCA is still under discussion, but stimulation of impaired hepatocellular and 
cholangiocellular secretion, detoxification of bile, and antiapoptotic effects 
may represent key mechanisms. One out of three patients does not adequately 
respond to UDCA therapy and may need additional medical therapy and/or liver 
transplantation. This review summarizes current knowledge on the clinical, 
diagnostic, pathogenetic, and therapeutic aspects of PBC.

DOI: 10.1007/s00281-009-0164-5
PMCID: PMC2758170
PMID: 19603170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Med Humanit. 2009 Sep;30(3):155-71. doi: 10.1007/s10912-009-9086-4.

"A study in nature": the Tuskegee experiments and the New South plantation.

Rusert B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of English, Duke University, Box 90017, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
bmr6@duke.edu

This essay rethinks the Tuskegee Syphilis Experiments in light of a long history 
of experimentation in plantation geographies of the U.S. South. Turning to late 
nineteenth- and early twentieth-century discourses of the New South and to 
Booker T. Washington's Tuskegee Institute, this essay illuminates the extension 
of the laboratory life of the plantation into the twentieth century. The focus 
on personal hygiene at the Tuskegee Institute opened the door for alliances with 
public health initiatives early on, making the school's student population as 
well as residents of surrounding counties subjects of intense hygienic 
surveillance well before the official start of the syphilis study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10912-009-9086-4
PMID: 19603260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Med Decis Making. 2009 Sep-Oct;29(5):557-69. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09334419.
Epub  2009 Jul 15.

Incorporating herd immunity effects into cohort models of vaccine 
cost-effectiveness.

Bauch CT(1), Anonychuk AM, Van Effelterre T, Pham BZ, Merid MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada. cbauch@uoguelph.ca

BACKGROUND: Cohort models are often used in cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of 
vaccination. However, because they cannot capture herd immunity effects, cohort 
models underestimate the reduction in incidence caused by vaccination. Dynamic 
models capture herd immunity effects but are often not adopted in vaccine CEA.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to develop a pseudo-dynamic approximation that can 
be incorporated into an existing cohort model to capture herd immunity effects.
METHODS: The authors approximated changing force of infection due to universal 
vaccination for a pediatric infectious disease. The projected lifetime cases in 
a cohort were compared under 1) a cohort model, 2) a cohort model with 
pseudo-dynamic approximation, and 3) an age-structured 
susceptible-exposed-infectious-recovered compartmental (dynamic) model. The 
authors extended the methodology to sexually transmitted infections.
RESULTS: For average to high values of vaccine coverage (P > 60%) and small to 
average values of the basic reproduction number (R(0) < 10), which describes 
school-based vaccination programs for many common infections, the pseudo-dynamic 
approximation significantly improved projected lifetime cases and was close to 
projections of the full dynamic model. For large values of R(0) (R(0) > 15), 
projected lifetime cases were similar under the dynamic model and the cohort 
model, both with and without pseudo-dynamic approximation. The approximation 
captures changes in the mean age at infection in the 1st vaccinated cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: This methodology allows for preliminary assessment of herd immunity 
effects on CEA of universal vaccination for pediatric infectious diseases. The 
method requires simple adjustments to an existing cohort model and less data 
than a full dynamic model.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09334419
PMID: 19605882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Curr Opin Oncol. 2009 Nov;21(6):543-9. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e3283305996.

Surgery of low-grade gliomas: towards a 'functional neurooncology'.

Duffau H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hôpital Gui de Chauliac, France. 
h-duffau@chu-montpellier.fr

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: For a long time, surgery of diffuse low-grade glioma was 
debated because of the poor knowledge of the natural history, the lack of 
objective evaluation of the extent of resection, a too short follow-up and the 
functional risk. Recently, new technical and conceptual advances in surgery have 
dramatically changed the management.
RECENT FINDINGS: Despite the lack of class I evidence, there is currently 
growing evidence that a more extensive surgical resection of low-grade glioma is 
associated with a more favorable life expectancy. The use of cortical and 
subcortical functional mapping allows us to tailor the resection according to 
individual functional boundaries, thus optimizing the extent of resection while 
minimizing the risk of permanent deficit less than 2%. The quality of life may 
also be improved, thanks to seizures control and functional rehabilitation.
SUMMARY: Early surgery is currently the first treatment in low-grade glioma. 
Re-operation can also be considered, possibly more extensive than the first one, 
thanks to a functional remapping and/or a tumor shrink induced by neoadjuvant 
treatment, especially chemotherapy. The next step is to better evaluate the 
quality of life and to continue to improve it in addition to the survival to 
evolve towards a 'functional neurooncology'.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0b013e3283305996
PMID: 19606033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
