pain algorithm, technical improvements that have enabled CT to attain its 
current role for this application, scan protocols and radiation considerations, 
the evidence base regarding diagnostic and prognostic performance, and initial 
data on the cost-effectiveness of this promising emerging test.
CONCLUSION: Currently available evidence suggests that CT-based approaches with 
modern scan technology are safe, accurate, and potentially cost-saving, although 
large-scale clinical trials are needed to ascertain the precise role of CT in 
the evaluation of acute chest pain.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.08.2265
PMID: 19620436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Aug 4;106(31):12820-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0902578106. Epub 2009 Jul 20.

Protein targeting into secondary plastids of chlorarachniophytes.

Hirakawa Y(1), Nagamune K, Ishida K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
1-1-1, Tennodai, Tsukuba 305-8572, Japan.

Most plastid proteins are encoded by the nuclear genome, and consequently, need 
to be transported into plastids across multiple envelope membranes. In diverse 
organisms possessing secondary plastids, nuclear-encoded plastid precursor 
proteins (preproteins) commonly have an N-terminal extension that consists of an 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-targeting signal peptide and a transit peptide-like 
sequence (TPL). This bipartite targeting peptide is believed to be necessary for 
targeting the preproteins into the secondary plastids. Here, we newly 
demonstrate the function of the bipartite targeting peptides of an algal group, 
chlorarachniophytes, and characterize the functional domains of the TPL in the 
precursor of a plastid protein, ATP synthase delta subunit (AtpD), using a GFP 
as a reporter molecule. We show that the C-terminal portion of the TPL is 
important for targeting the AtpD preprotein from the ER into the 
chlorarachniophyte plastids, and several positively charged amino acids in the 
TPL are also necessary for transporting the preprotein across the 2 innermost 
plastid membranes. Compared with other groups with secondary plastids, the TPL 
functional domains of the chlorarachniophytes are unique, which might be caused 
by independent acquisition of their plastids.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0902578106
PMCID: PMC2722280
PMID: 19620731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.121. Rural Remote Health. 2009 Jul-Sep;9(3):1265. Epub 2009 Jul 15.

The impact of recession on the health of rural citizens in British Columbia, 
Canada.

Ostry AS.

PMID: 19621979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Diabetes Educ. 2009 Sep-Oct;35(5):761-9. doi: 10.1177/0145721709340931. Epub
 2009 Jul 21.

Cost-effectiveness of diabetes self-management programs in community primary 
care settings.

Brownson CA(1), Hoerger TJ(2), Fisher EB(3), Kilpatrick KE(4).

Author information:
(1)The National Program Office of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Diabetes 
Initiative, Division of Health Behavior Research, Washington University School 
of Medicine in St Louis, St Louis, Missouri (Ms Brownson)
(2)Research Triangle Institute International (RTI), RTI–University of North 
Carolina Center of Excellence in Health Promotion Economics, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina (Dr Hoerger)
(3)National Program Office of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Diabetes 
Initiative and Peers for Progress, Department of Health Behavior and Health 
Education, Gillings School of Global Public Health, University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill (Dr Fisher)
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (Dr Kilpatrick)

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
diabetes self-management programs in real-world community primary care settings. 
Estimates incorporated lifetime reductions in disease progression, costs of 
adverse events, and increases in quality of life.
METHODS: Clinical results and costs were based on programs of the Diabetes 
Initiative of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, implemented in primary care 
and community settings in disadvantaged areas with notable health disparities. 
Program results were used as inputs to a Markov simulation model to estimate the 
long-term effects of self-management interventions. A health systems perspective 
was adopted.
RESULTS: The simulation model estimates that the intervention does reduce 
discounted lifetime treatment and complication costs by $3385, but this is more 
than offset by the $15,031 cost of implementing the intervention and maintaining 
its effects in subsequent years. The intervention is estimated to reduce 
long-term complications, leading to an increase in remaining life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is 
$39,563/QALY, well below a common benchmark of $50,000/QALY. Sensitivity 
analyses tested the robustness of the model's estimates under various 
alternative assumptions. The model generally predicts acceptable 
cost-effectiveness ratios.
CONCLUSIONS: Self-management programs for type 2 diabetes are cost-effective 
from a health systems perspective when the cost savings due to reductions in 
long-term complications are recognized. These findings may justify increased 
reimbursement for effective self-management programs in diverse settings.

DOI: 10.1177/0145721709340931
PMID: 19622716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Rev Mal Respir. 2009 Jun;26(6):667-78. doi: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)74696-0.

[Respiratory diseases related to passive smoking].

[Article in French]

Wirth N(1), Bohadana A, Spinosa A, Martinet Y.

Author information:
(1)Unité de Coordination de Tabacologie, Service de Pneumologie, Centre 
Hospitalier Universitaire de Nancy, France. n.wirth@chu-nancy.fr

Passive smoking, measured in practice by using specific biomarkers, is a well 
known factor of morbidity and mortality. The main victims are children, often 
starting from conception, but adults are not spared. Many respiratory diseases 
are caused and/or worsened by passive smoking and environmental tobacco smoke 
(ETS) exposure can have serious health consequences that reduce life expectancy 
(sudden infant death, respiratory infections, asthma, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary diseases and lung cancer). Better knowledge of these risks has 
favourably influenced the legislation banning smoking in enclosed public places 
in France and in other countries. If one of the main objectives of this measure 
is to protect non-smokers as well as smokers, its rigorous application fits 
directly within the goals of prevention and treatment of tobacco dependency.

DOI: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)74696-0
PMID: 19623110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Mymensingh Med J. 2009 Jul;18(2):154-8.

Anthropometric assessment in retired geriatric population.

Khan HU(1), Latif SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Mymensingh Medical College, Mymensingh, Bangladesh. 
hafiz2008bd@yahoo.com

Bangladesh is one of the twenty countries in the world with the largest elderly 
populations, and by 2025, along with four other Asian countries, will account 
for 44% of world's total elderly population. This rapidly increasing population 
is a new and important group in terms of social and health policy in the 
country. As retired geriatric population is increasing day by day and there is a 
striking increase in their life expectancy and as malnutrition, overweight, 
obesity is commonly accompanying the elderly and all these leads to many 
functional impairment and diseases. So, evaluations of anthropometric 
measurements of retired Geriatric population are essential. This study was done 
for the evaluation the anthropometric measurement of retired geriatric people. 
This was a cross-sectional study. A total number of 70 retired subjects 57 years 
to 90 years were included in this study. All the subjects were evidently healthy 
both physically and mentally and without known hypertension, diabetes, renal 
diseases. Another 70 normal adult aged 18 to 55 years were taken as control 
group. All were obtained from different areas of greater Mymensingh districts of 
Bangladesh. Height, weight were measured and then Body mass index (BMI) was 
calculated. In the present study the result were interpreted as a mean of 
measured values with standard deviation (SD). The data were statistically 
analyzed by a computer with the statistical package for social science (SPSS) 
program (version 12.0). Both the descriptive and inferential statistics were 
calculated using the above programme. The mean+/-SD of BMI of study group was 
24.49+/-1.11 and of control group was 23.43+/-1.46, which is a bit higher than 
the control group and is statistically highly significant. The mean BMI of study 
group was a bit higher than the control group, yet all the values were within 
physiological limits. So the retired geriatric population having normal 
anthropometric measurements in our setting.

PMID: 19623139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2008 Oct;105(43):733-40. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2008.0733.
Epub  2008 Oct 24.

Metastases in the Absence of a Primary Tumor: Advances in the Diagnosis and 
Treatment of CUP Syndrome.

Neben K, Hübner G, Folprecht G, Jäger D, Krämer A.

INTRODUCTION: The term cancer of unknown primary site (CUP) syndrome is used to 
describe malignancies in which a complete diagnostic work-up detects metastases 
in the absence of an identifiable primary tumor.
METHODS: Based on a selective literature review, national and international 
guidelines, and the experience of the "Arbeitskreis CUP-Syndrom der 
Arbeitsgemeinschaft Internistische Onkologie der Deutschen Krebsgesellschaft" 
(CUP Syndrome Committee of the Medical Oncology Joint Working Group of the 
German Cancer Society), developments in the diagnosis and treatment of CUP 
syndrome are reported.
RESULTS: Most patients diagnosed with CUP have an unfavorable prognosis, with a 
life expectancy of less than 12 months. Nevertheless, it is important to 
identify subsets of patients in whom specific treatment offers the chance of 
long-term survival or even full recovery.
DISCUSSION: Only rigorous further development of diagnostic tools and treatment 
protocols will enable an improvement of the poor prognosis of patients with CUP 
syndrome. Specific molecular treatment strategies have shown promising results.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2008.0733
PMCID: PMC2696976
PMID: 19623297


126. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Jun;106(24):407-12. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0407.
Epub  2009 Jun 12.

Deep brain stimulation: a new approach to the treatment of epilepsy.

Schulze-Bonhage A(1).

Author information:
(1)Epilepsiezentrum am Universitätsklinikum Freiburg, 79106 Freiburg, Germany. 
andreas.schulze-bonhage@uniklinik-freiburg.de

BACKGROUND: Deep brain stimulation, known to be effective in the treatment of 
movement disorders, is now attracting increasing interest in the treatment of 
other neurological and psychiatric diseases, particularly pain syndromes and 
epilepsy. It may be a new treatment option for intractable epilepsy.
METHODS: Selective literature review of human applications of deep brain 
stimulation in epilepsy presented together with the author's own experimental 
and clinical experience.
RESULTS: Conceptually, deep brain stimulation might be used to prevent the 
spread of epileptic discharges or to suppress their generation. Various target 
structures in the brain, including the thalamus, the subthalamic nucleus, and 
foci in the hippocampus and neocortex, are currently of interest and are being 
analyzed in multicenter clinical studies. In parallel, experimental models of 
epilepsy are being used to help determine the suitable stimulation parameters, 
e.g., frequency or type of stimulation. Recent clinical studies on stimulation 
of epileptic foci indicate a favorable ratio of efficacy to adverse effects in 
the treatment of temporal lobe epilepsy, although only a small number of 
patients have been so treated to date.
CONCLUSIONS: Large-scale studies involving stimulation of the thalamus and of 
cortical foci are now underway in the United States. On the basis of the 
favorable results of focus stimulation, a multicenter study in Europe is 
currently comparing the safety and efficacy of hippocampal stimulation to that 
of surgical treatments. These studies are expected to yield benchmark findings 
in the next few years that will determine the role deep brain stimulation will 
play in the treatment of epilepsy.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0407
PMCID: PMC2704363
PMID: 19623308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Jun;106(25):416-22. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0416.
Epub  2009 Jun 19.

Cardiac surgery in the elderly patient.

Friedrich I(1), Simm A, Kötting J, Thölen F, Fischer B, Silber RE.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und Thoraxchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Halle, Halle, 
Germany. ivar.friedrich@medizin.uni-halle.de

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Oct;106(42):693-4; author reply 694.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Oct;106(42):693; author reply 694.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancies rise and the number of persons over age 75 in 
the population increases, the proper treatment of elderly cardiac patients is 
becoming a matter of ever greater medical and political importance.
METHODS: In collaboration with the German Federal Quality Assurance Office 
(Bundesgeschäftsstelle Qualitätssicherung, BQS), the authors analyzed the risk 
profiles of elderly patients by means of data sets from all cardiac surgical 
centers in Germany for the year 2007. The results regarding risk distribution 
and the morbidity and lethality statistics for isolated coronary surgery were 
derived from the complete, nationwide BQS data pool, containing information on a 
total of 47,881 operations. Data on quality of life and long-term survival were 
obtained from a selective literature search using Medline.
RESULTS: Compared to patients under age 65, those over age 75 have significantly 
more prognosis-determining comorbidities and risk factors. Accordingly, 
complication rates and lethality are higher in the latter age group (for 
example, there is a 4.3-fold relative risk elevation for renal dysfunction, a 
3.0-fold elevation for neurological complications, and 3.7-fold elevation for 
in-hospital lethality). The patient's chronological age is a risk factor for 
lethality and morbidity after coronary surgical procedures.
CONCLUSIONS: The lethality risk of a bypass operation can be predicted very 
accurately with the aid of modern scoring systems. Successful cardiac surgical 
procedures can return the patient to a normal life expectancy and quality of 
life for his or her age group.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0416
PMCID: PMC2704365
PMID: 19623310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. J Med Liban. 2009 Apr-Jun;57(2):124-9.

[Adjuvant endocrine therapy in breast cancer. Management of early-risk relapse].

[Article in French]

Chahine G(1), Howayek M, Atallah D.

Author information:
(1)Service Hématologie-Oncologie, Centre hospitalier universitaire Hôtel-Dieu de 
France, Beyrouth, Liban. chahine_georges@hotmail.com

The goal of adjuvant endocrine therapy for early breast cancer is to prolong 
overall survival and improve the quality of life of patients. Studies on breast 
cancer show an early peak of recurrence at two years after surgery and distant 
recurrences that are responsible for a significant reduction in overall 
survival. Tamoxifen has been the standard of adjuvant endocrine therapy in 
breast cancer for years, however only about half of relapses are prevented and 
there is an early occurrence of serious adverse events due to agonistic 
estrogenic activity of tamoxifen, such as an increase in the risk of endometrial 
hyperplasia and venous thromboembolism. The use of aromatase inhibitors is 
changing this standard with studies covering various clinical settings. They 
have shown a benefit in many situations, such as an extension of endocrine 
therapy by tamoxifen, sequential hormonotherapy or up-front adjuvant therapy 
with aromatase inhibitors.

PMID: 19623889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. J Endovasc Ther. 2009 Apr;16(2 Suppl 2):II31-62. doi: 10.1583/08-2657.1.

Medical and endovascular management of critical limb ischemia.

Lumsden AB(1), Davies MG, Peden EK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Methodist DeBakey Heart and Vascular 
Center, The Methodist Hospital, 6550 Fannin Street, Suite 1401, Houston, TX 
77030, USA. ablumsden@tmhs.org

Critical limb ischemia (CLI) is the term used to designate the condition in 
which peripheral artery disease has resulted in resting leg or foot pain or in a 
breakdown of the skin of the leg or foot, causing ulcers or tissue loss. If not 
revascularized, CLI patients are at risk for limb loss and for potentially fatal 
complications from the progression of gangrene and the development of sepsis. 
The management of CLI requires a multidisciplinary team of experts in different 
areas of vascular disease, from atherosclerotic risk factor management to 
imaging, from intervention to wound care and physical therapy. In the past 
decade, the most significant change in the treatment of CLI has been the 
increasing tendency to shift from bypass surgery to less invasive endovascular 
procedures as first-choice revascularization techniques, with bypass surgery 
then reserved as backup if appropriate. The goals of intervention for CLI 
include the restoration of pulsatile, inline flow to the foot to assist wound 
healing, the relief of rest pain, the avoidance of major amputation, 
preservation of mobility, and improvement of patient function and quality of 
life. The evaluating physician should be fully aware of all revascularization 
options in order to select the most appropriate intervention or combination of 
interventions, while taking into consideration the goals of therapy, 
risk-benefit ratios, patient comorbidities, and life expectancy. We discuss the 
incidence, risk factors, and prognosis of CLI and the clinical presentation, 
diagnosis, available imaging modalities, and medical management (including pain 
and ulcer care, pharmaceutical options, and molecular therapies targeting 
angiogenesis). The endovascular approaches that we review include percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (with or without adjunctive stenting); subintimal 
angioplasty; primary femoropopliteal and infrapopliteal deployment of bare 
nitinol, covered, drug-eluting, or bioabsorbable stents; cryoplasty; excimer 
laser-assisted angioplasty; excisional atherectomy; and cutting balloon 
angioplasty.

DOI: 10.1583/08-2657.1
PMID: 19624074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. BJU Int. 2009 Nov;104(9):1191-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.08743.x. Epub
 2009 Jul 14.

Key targets of hormonal treatment of prostate cancer. Part 2: the androgen 
receptor and 5alpha-reductase.

Vis AN(1), Schröder FH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, VU Medical Centre, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 
a.vis@vumc.nl

OBJECTIVE: The inhibition of 5alpha-reductase (5AR) blocks the synthesis of the 
most powerful intracellular androgen, dihydrotestosterone (DHT). The prostate 
has two 5AR isoenzymes (5AR1 and 5AR2) that change in expression and cellular 
location during the development of prostate cancer and tumour progression. The 
objective of this review is to provide an understanding of the pharmacological 
properties and the potential clinical benefits of 5AR inhibition.
METHODS: We searched Pubmed for data obtained from pharmacological, preclinical 
and clinical studies.
RESULTS: 5AR1 expression increases with increasing aggressiveness and extension 
of malignant prostatic disease. Conversely, 5AR2 expression decreases from 
benign prostatic tissue to localized prostate cancer. The efficacy of 5AR2 
monotherapy with finasteride alone or in combination with an androgen receptor 
antagonist on more final outcome measures seems to be limited. Combining an 
androgen receptor antagonist with a 5AR inhibitor in patients with asymptomatic, 
locally advanced or recurrent prostate cancer might be a reasonable first 
therapeutic hormonal approach. As plasma testosterone levels are maintained, 
beneficial effects on quality of life, potency and sexual function are expected. 
From studies on the dual 5AR inhibitor dutasteride, the drug produces a 
biochemical response in some men who progressed under androgen-deprivation 
therapy, and is generally well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: Achieving more potent suppression of intracellular DHT synthesis by 
5AR inhibition is expected to provide clinical benefit to patients. Previous 
studies have shown that 5AR inhibition, by dutasteride in particular, 
halts/delays the progression of disease, and might even cause regression of 
disease in patients with advanced prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2009.08743.x
PMID: 19624596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12(8):1118-23. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00572.x.  Epub 2009 Jul 14.

The economic value of innovative treatments over the product life cycle: the 
case of targeted trastuzumab therapy for breast cancer.

Garrison LP Jr(1), Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy,University of Washington, Health Sciences Building, 
Seattle, WA 98195-7630, USA. lgarrisn@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVE: Pharmacoeconomic analyses typically project the expected 
cost-effectiveness of a new product for a specific indication. This analysis 
develops a dynamic life-cycle model to conduct a multi-indication evaluation 
using the case of trastuzumab licensed in the United States for both early-stage 
and metastatic (or late-stage) human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 
(HER2)-positive breast cancer therapy (early breast cancer [EBC]; metastatic 
breast cancer [MBC]), approved in 2006 and 1998, respectively.
METHODS: This dynamic model combined information on expected incremental 
cost-utility ratios for specific indications with an epidemiologically based 
projection of utilization by indication over the product life cycle-from 1998 to 
2016. Net economic value was estimated as the cumulative quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained over the life cycle multiplied by a societal valuation of 
health gains ($/QALY) minus cumulative net direct treatment costs. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed under a range of assumptions.
RESULTS: We projected that the annual number of EBC patients receiving 
trastuzumab will be more than three times that of MBC by 2016, in part because 
adjuvant treatment reduces the future incidence of MBC. Over this life cycle, 
the estimated overall incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 
$35,590/QALY with a total of 432,547 discounted QALYs gained. Under sensitivity 
analyses, the overall ICER varied from $21,000 to $53,000/QALY, and the 
projected net economic value resulting from trastuzumab treatment ranged from 
$6.2 billion to $49.5 billion.
CONCLUSIONS: Average ICERs for multi-indication compounds can increase or 
decrease over the product life cycle. In this example, the projected overall 
life-cycle ICER for trastuzumab was less than one half of that in the initial 
indication. This dynamic perspective-versus the usual static one-highlights the 
interdependence of drug development decisions and investment incentives, raising 
important reimbursement policy issues.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00572.x
PMID: 19624617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2009 Jul 22;10:90. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-10-90.

A three-group study, internet-based, face-to-face based and standard- management 
after acute whiplash associated disorders (WAD) - choosing the most efficient 
and cost-effective treatment: study protocol of a randomized controlled trial.

Söderlund A(1), Bring A, Asenlöf P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiotherapy, School of Health, Care and Social Welfare, 
Mälardalen University, Västerås, Box 833 SE-721 23 Västerås, Sweden. 
anne.soderlund@mdh.se

BACKGROUND: The management of whiplash associated disorders is one of the most 
complicated challenges with high expenses for the health care system and 
society. There are still no general guidelines or scientific documentation to 
unequivocally support any single treatment for acute care following whiplash 
injury. The main purpose of this study is to try a new behavioural medicine 
intervention strategy at acute phase aimed to reduce the number of patients who 
have persistent problems after the whiplash injury. The goal is also to identify 
which of three different interventions that is most cost-effective for patients 
with whiplash associated disorders. In this study we are controlling for two 
factors. First, the effect of behavioural medicine approach is compared with 
standard care. Second, the manner in which the behavioural medicine treatment is 
administered, Internet or face-to-face, is evaluated in it's effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study is a randomized, prospective, experimental three-group 
study with analyses of cost-effectiveness up to two-years follow-up. Internet - 
based programme and face-to-face group treatment programme are compared to 
standard-treatment only. Patient follow-ups take place three, six, twelve and 24 
months, that is, short-term as well as long-term effects are evaluated. Patients 
will be enrolled via the emergency ward during the first week after the 
accident.
DISCUSSION: This new self-help management will concentrate to those psychosocial 
factors that are shown to be predictive in long-term problems in whiplash 
associated disorders, i.e. the importance of self-efficacy, fear of movement, 
and the significance of catastrophizing as a coping strategy for restoring and 
sustaining activities of daily life. Within the framework of this project, we 
will develop, broaden and evaluate current physical therapy treatment methods 
for acute whiplash associated disorders. The project will contribute to the 
creation of a cost-effective behavioural medicine approach to management of 
acute whiplash associated disorders. The results of this study will answer an 
important question; on what extent and how should these patients be treated at 
acute stage and how much does the best management cost.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN61531337.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-10-90
PMCID: PMC2722568
PMID: 19624833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Oncology (Williston Park). 2009 Jun;23(7):579-88.

What is the optimal initial treatment of low-risk papillary thyroid cancer (and 
why is it controversial)?

Mazzaferri EL(1).

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University, USA. ernest.mazzaferri@gmail.com

Comment in
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2009 Jun;23(7):589, 592.
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2009 Jun;23(7):592, 600, 603.
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2009 Jun;23(7):603, 608.

The incidence of papillary thyroid cancer has been rising steadily over the past 
3 decades. Most tumors in this setting are regarded as low risk, but recurrence 
rates are high, producing controversy about initial therapy. Microcarcinomas 
smaller than 1 cm are generally best treated with lobectomy alone. Total 
thyroidectomy should be performed for tumors 1 cm or larger or for tumors that 
have metastasized. Prophylactic central and lateral neck lymph node compartment 
dissection uncovers unsuspected metastases in about half the patients, which may 
alleviate the need for postsurgical radioiodine therapy but can be associated 
with surgical complications. Radioiodine may diminish tumor recurrence but is 
complicated by injury to nonthyroidal tissues and by dose-related nonthyroidal 
cancers that occur in a small number of patients. Tumors that are metastatic, 
invasive, or multifocal or have aggressive histologic features should be treated 
with radioiodine. Total-body irradiation can be significantly reduced by 
preparing the patient with recombinant human thyrotropin and by using smaller 
amounts of radioiodine (approximately 30 mCi). The natural history of papillary 
cancer is such that patients who achieve disease-free status after total 
thyroidectomy and radioiodine therapy usually achieve normal life expectancy.

PMID: 19626823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Jun 10;5(207):1339.

[AIDS: mutilate to try to prevent?].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 19626937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Aging Cell. 2009 Jun;8(3):270-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00474.x. Epub
 2009 Mar 27.

Centenarians--a useful model for healthy aging? A 29-year follow-up of 
hospitalizations among 40,000 Danes born in 1905.

Engberg H(1), Oksuzyan A, Jeune B, Vaupel JW, Christensen K.

Author information:
(1)The Danish Aging Research Center, Epidemiology Unit, Institute of Public 
Health, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

Centenarians surpass the current human life expectancy with about 20-25 years. 
However, whether centenarians represent healthy aging still remains an open 
question. Previous studies have been hampered by a number of methodological 
shortcomings such as a cross-sectional design and lack of an appropriate control 
group. In a longitudinal population-based cohort, it was examined whether the 
centenarian phenotype may be a useful model for healthy aging. The study was 
based on a complete follow up of 39,945 individuals alive in the Danish 1905 
birth cohort on January 1, 1977 identified through the Danish Civil Registration 
System (DCRS). Data from the Danish Demographic Database and The Danish National 
Patient Register (in existence since 1977) were used. The 1905 cohort was 
followed up from 1977 through 2004 with respect to hospitalizations and number 
of hospital days. Survival status was available until December 2006. Danish 
centenarians from the 1905 cohort were hospitalized substantially less than 
their shorter-lived contemporaries at the same point in time during the years 
1977 through 2004. For example, at age 71-74, the proportion of nonhospitalized 
centenarians was 80.5% compared with 68.4% among individuals who died in their 
early 80s. This trend was evident in both sexes. As a result of their lower 
hospitalization rates and length of stay in hospital compared with their 
contemporaries, who died at younger ages, Danish centenarians represent healthy 
agers. Centenarians constitute a useful study population in the search for fixed 
traits associated with exceptional longevity, such as genotype.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00474.x
PMCID: PMC2774420
PMID: 19627266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2009 Aug;51(8):670-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03322.x.

Adult outcomes and lifespan issues for people with childhood-onset physical 
disability.

Roebroeck ME(1), Jahnsen R, Carona C, Kent RM, Chamberlain MA.

Author information:
(1)The Transition Research Group, Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Erasmus 
MC - University Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
m.roebroeck@erasmusmc.nl

This paper aimed to discuss functioning, quality of life, (QoL) and lifespan 
care issues of adolescents and young adults with childhood-onset physical 
disability from a clinical, scientific, and personal perspective. We present a 
résumé of results of recently performed studies in rehabilitation-based samples 
of (young) adults with childhood-onset conditions such as cerebral palsy (CP) 
and spina bifida (SB), and different models of transition and lifespan care. The 
studies showed that many young adults with a childhood-onset disability 
experience health-related problems such as functional deterioration, pain or 
fatigue, and an inactive lifestyle. A significant number are restricted in 
participation in work, housing, and intimate relationships. They perceive a 
lower health-related and global QoL compared with a reference group. In some 
centres in the UK and the Netherlands specialized outpatient services are 
available or being developed. In conclusion, transition to adulthood is a 
critical phase for reaching autonomous participation in adult life. There is an 
international challenge to incorporate a lifespan perspective in paediatric, 
transition, and adult health care services for persons with a childhood-onset 
disability.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03322.x
PMID: 19627341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. PM R. 2009 Mar;1(3):268-76. doi: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2008.12.002.

Enhanced external counterpulsation: an innovative physical therapy for 
refractory angina.

Braverman DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Albert Einstein Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA 19111, USA. 
bravermd@einstein.edu

The prevalence of refractory angina in the United States is 600,000 to 1.8 
million. Improved pharmacological, invasive, and surgical therapies for 
cardiovascular diseases during the last few decades have led to an increase in 
life expectancy of such individuals. Despite treatment with multiple medications 
and invasive procedures, these patients remain symptomatic and functionally 
limited. Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) is a safe, noninvasive, 
well-tolerated, and clinically effective outpatient physical therapy for many 
patients with refractory angina. Numerous trials demonstrate positive clinical 
responses among at least 80% of patients undergoing EECP, including reductions 
in angina and nitrate use, increases in exercise tolerance, and enhanced quality 
of life. Several mechanisms, including the promotion of collateral blood flow, 
improvement in endothelial function, reduction in inflammation, and the 
production of peripheral training effects similar to exercise, are thought to be 
responsible for the clinical benefits of this therapy. Despite the marked 
success rates EECP achieves with appropriately selected patients who have 
end-stage coronary artery disease, the treatment remains largely unknown, 
particularly among physiatrists. This review will summarize the current evidence 
for the use of EECP and spark a better understanding of the potential role of 
this treatment in cardiac rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2008.12.002
PMID: 19627906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2009 Nov;24(11):3284-5. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfp368.
Epub  2009 Jul 23.

Coumarin use in dialysis patients with atrial fibrillation--more harm than 
benefit?

Krüger T(1), Floege J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology and Clinical Immunology, RWTH University of Aachen, 
Germany.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfp368
PMID: 19628646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2009 Jun;92(6):454-60, 473-9, 490-6. doi: 
10.1590/s0066-782x2009000600013.

Impact of the nursing consultation on the frequency of hospitalizations in 
patients with heart failure in Curitiba, Parana State.

[Article in English, Multiple languages]

Bento VF(1), Brofman PR.

Author information:
(1)Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Paraná, Curitiba, PR, Brasil. 
vivian.rezende@terra.com.br

BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) has become a public health problem with increased 
incidence and prevalence in the last decade, a consequence of the aging of the 
population and improved pharmacological and interventionist therapies. It has 
high rates of mortality and morbidity, expressed as high rates of 
hospitalizations and re-hospitalizations, even in patients submitted to new 
therapies, especially ACEI and beta-blockers.
OBJECTIVE: This study is the analysis of the impact that the nursing 
consultation has on the frequency of hospitalizations in patients with HF living 
in the city of Curitiba, state of Parana and its metropolitan region.
METHOD: Patients with a diagnosis of HF and New York Heart Association (NYHA) 
functional classification, with telephone access, living in the city of Curitiba 
or its metropolitan region, life expectancy > 3 months due to non-cardiac 
diseases, aged 18 or older, non-users of illicit drugs. The groups were created 
by simple random allocation (drawing lots) and one group received the usual 
medical care, nursing consultation and telephone monitoring every 15 days of 
educational nature, intervention group (IG), whereas the other group received 
the usual medical care, monthly telephone monitoring of administrative and 
epidemiological nature, control group (CG). The follow-up was carried out for 6 
months.
RESULTS: The IG needed 0.25+/-0.79 and the CG needed 1.10 +/-1.41; p = 0.037 
hospitalizations.
CONCLUSION: The nursing consultation promotes the decrease in the frequency of 
hospitalizations in patients with HF undergoing treatment and living in the city 
of Curitiba and its metropolitan region.

DOI: 10.1590/s0066-782x2009000600013
PMID: 19629314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Swiss Med Wkly. 2009 Jul 11;139(27-28):400-4. doi: 10.4414/smw.2009.12635.

Age and gender distribution of primary hyperparathyroidism and incidence of 
surgical treatment in a European country with a particularly high life 
expectancy.

Richert L(1), Trombetti A, Herrmann FR, Triponez F, Meier C, Robert JH, Rizzoli 
R.

Author information:
(1)Service of Bone Diseases, Department of Rehabilitation and Geriatrics, 
University Hospitals of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: Primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) is a frequently encountered 
endocrine disease in the elderly, but little is known about ist epidemiology in 
the aging European population. This study investigates the age- and 
sex-dependence of PHPT and the incidence of parathyroidectomy (PTX) in 
Switzerland, a country with a particularly high life expectancy.
DESIGN: A population-based study was performed using data from the Swiss Federal 
Statistical Office covering years 2000 to 2004. Anonymised hospital discharge 
codes for PHPT and PTX were analysed, and the hospitalisation rate for PHPT and 
incidence of PTX were calculated.
RESULTS: The mean annual hospitalisation rate of patients with PHPT was 
8.3/100,000 inhabitants. The rate was approximately three times higher in women 
than in men, with the highest estimate found in women > or = 80 years (63.7/ 
100,000). The population-adjusted annual incidence of PTX was 3.8/100,000 
inhabitants. PTX incidence was higher in individuals > or = 50 years than in 
younger persons (8.7/100,000 vs 1.3/100,000), with a peak in patients aged 70-74 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: In a European population with high life expectancy, the 
hospitalisation rate of PHPT is higher in women and increases continuously with 
age. Incidence of PTX is highest in patients aged 70-74 years. These findings 
underscore the need for further research on the impact of population aging on 
the treatment patterns of PHPT.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2009.12635
PMID: 19629768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Clin Exp Immunol. 2009 Sep;157 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):3-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2249.2009.03954.x.

The European internet-based patient and research database for primary 
immunodeficiencies: results 2006-2008.

Gathmann B(1), Grimbacher B, Beauté J, Dudoit Y, Mahlaoui N, Fischer A, Knerr V, 
Kindle G; ESID Registry Working Party.

Collaborators: Beauté J, Micol R, Dudoit Y, Benslama L, Plebani A, Notarangelo 
L, Pignata C, Bangs C, Lucas M, Tierney P, Core C, Dempster J, Knerr V, Exley A, 
Kumararatne D, Paschenko O, Kondratenko I, Shcherbina A, Velbri S, Ciznar P, 
Duobiene R, Kilic S, Kütükcüler N, Sanal O, Reisli I, Yegin O, Kanariou M, 
Papadopoulou-Alataki E, Trachana M, Hatzistilianou M, Farber CM, Meyts I, Pasic 
S, Richter D, Marodi L, Touitou I, Abuzakouk M, Feighery C, Thon V, Litzman J, 
Cucuruz M, Wolska B, Szaflarska A, Reda S, Soler P, Caragol I, Llobet P, Savchak 
I, Marques L, Koren A, Hörnes M, Shchebet S, Goldacker S, Ritterbusch H, 
Fasshauer M, Sollinger F, Witte T, Baumann U, Wittkowski H, Viemann D, Niehues 
T, Stimm H, Brodszki N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, University Medical Center 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Primary immunodeficiencies (PID) are rare diseases; therefore transnational 
studies are essential to maximize the scientific outcome and to improve 
diagnosis and therapy. In order to estimate the prevalence of PID in Europe as 
well as to establish and evaluate harmonized guidelines for the diagnosis and 
treatment of PID, the European Society for Immunodeficiencies (ESID) has 
developed an internet-based database for clinical and research data on patients 
with PID. This database is a platform for epidemiological analyses as well as 
the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies and the 
identification of novel disease-associated genes. Within 4 years, 7430 patients 
from 39 countries have been documented in the ESID database. Common variable 
immunodeficiency (CVID) represents the most common entity, with 1540 patients or 
20.7% of all entries, followed by isolated immunoglobulin (Ig)G subclass 
deficiency (546 patients, 7.4%). Evaluations show that the average life 
expectancy for PID patients varies from 1 to 49 years (median), depending on the 
type of PID. The prevalence and incidence of PID remains a key question to be 
answered. As the registration progress is far from finished we can only 
calculate minimum values for PID, with e.g. France currently showing a minimum 
prevalence of 3.72 patients per 100,000 inhabitants. The most frequently 
documented permanent treatment is immunoglobulin replacement; 2819 patients (42% 
of all patients alive) currently receive this form of treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2249.2009.03954.x
PMCID: PMC2715433
PMID: 19630863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Med Clin (Barc). 2008 Dec;131 Suppl 5:1-5. doi:
10.1016/S0025-7753(08)76399-1.

[The evaluation of the impact of biomedical research. Current situation and 
future perspectives].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Romero A(1).

Author information:
(1)UPIB, Agencia Laín Entralgo y Universidad Carlos III. Madrid, España. 
agr33@salud.madrid.org

Biomedical research significantly contributes both to social issues, such as 
improving quality of life and life expectancy, and to economic issues, such as 
employment. This is one of the reasons that explain the increasing demand for 
methods of assessing the socioeconomic impacts of research that would complement 
traditional methods of research assessment. Despite its inherent difficulty, 
assessment of the impacts of biomedical research is facilitated by a number of 
characteristics, such as the traceability of knowledge flow. However, methods of 
impact assessment should be considered as complementary to traditional 
evaluation methods. This article analyzes several fundamental issues concerning 
the evaluation of socioeconomic returns from biomedical research and also 
includes a brief presentation of the remaining articles included in this 
monograph.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-7753(08)76399-1
PMID: 19631815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Med Clin (Barc). 2008 Dec;131 Suppl 5:42-7. doi:
10.1016/S0025-7753(08)76406-6.

[The returns to society from medical research].

[Article in Spanish]

Lewison G(1).

Author information:
(1)Evaluametrics Ltd, School of Library, Archive and Information Studies, 
University College, Londres, Reino Unido. grantlewison@aol.co.uk

Medical research can benefit society in many ways and through a multiplicity of 
inter-connected pathways. Some of these pathways involve the commercial sector 
directly, through the invention, trial and marketing of new drugs, vaccines, 
medical devices and equipment, which can improve patient diagnosis and 
treatment. These inventions are usually protected by patents. Biomedical patents 
often cite scientific articles, usually basic research rather than clinical 
observations. However, disease prevention may provide greater returns, and is 
typically accomplished through public health measures (e.g., vaccination, health 
services, provision of clean water) and wiser lifestyle choices by the 
population (e.g., not smoking, taking more exercise, practising safe sex, and 
eating a healthy diet). The reduction of environmental pollution has also played 
a major role in the increase in life expectancy. All these measures are ideally 
informed by sound research, and are brought about by government policy and 
influenced by public opinion. The latter is strongly affected by the mass media, 
which play an increasing role in connecting readers, listeners and viewers with 
medical research enterprise. Hopes of a cure for a disease are frequently 
offered, but commentators usually warn that much more research is needed first. 
New bibliometric techniques allow some of these interconnected pathways to be 
traced and analyzed, mainly through news stories or other documents citing 
research articles. For example, clinical guidelines rely on scientific evidence, 
including clinical trials, and even government policy documents sometimes cite 
research findings, although not often enough. Thus the socioeconomic effect of 
biomedical research can be evaluated in new ways that may provide a fairer view 
of its utility and impact than do conventional methods of citation analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-7753(08)76406-6
PMID: 19631822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Med Clin (Barc). 2009 Sep;132 Suppl 2:25-9. doi:
10.1016/S0025-7753(09)71749-X.

[Implications of the REACH registry for vascular surgery].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvarez-Fernández LJ(1), Vallina-Victorero Vázquez MJ, Ramos Gallo MJ, Santiago 
MV.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Cabueñes, Gijón, España. ljavieralvarez@telecables.es

Because of the increase in life expectancy, peripheral artery disease (PAD) has 
become a major health problem. A study performed in Spain in persons aged more 
than 65 years old found an overall prevalence of PAD of 9.9%. The most important 
risk factors for PAD were smoking, diabetes mellitus, advanced age, 
hyperlipidemia and hypertension. Treatment includes smoking cessation, exercise, 
statins, platelet antiaggregants, cilostazol or hemorheologic agents, and 
revascularization techniques. Data from the Spanish arm of REACH indicate that 
the PAD subgroup shows the poorest control of blood pressure and cholesterol and 
that use of platelet antiaggregants and statins is lowest in these patients, 
indicating that therapeutic and preventive strategies are not being correctly 
applied.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-7753(09)71749-X
PMID: 19631835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Lancet. 2009 Jul 25;374(9686):265. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61345-3.

England's big care debate.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61345-3
PMID: 19632478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. J Am Coll Surg. 2009 Aug;209(2):170-179.e1-2. doi: 
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2009.03.025. Epub 2009 May 28.

Treatment options for Graves disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

In H(1), Pearce EN, Wong AK, Burgess JF, McAneny DB, Rosen JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Boston Medical Center, 88 East Newton St, #C515, 
Boston, MA 02118, USA. hain@bmc.org

Comment in
    J Am Coll Surg. 2011 Dec;213(6):806-8.

BACKGROUND: First-line treatment for Graves disease is frequently 18 months of 
antithyroid medication (ATM). Controversy exists concerning the next best line 
of treatment for patients who have failed to achieve euthyroidism; options 
include lifelong ATM, radioactive iodine (RAI), or total thyroidectomy (TT). We 
aim to determine the most cost-effective option.
STUDY DESIGN: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing these 
different strategies. Treatment efficacy and complication data were derived from 
a literature review. Costs were examined from a health-care system perspective 
using actual Medicare reimbursement rates to an urban university hospital. 
Outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life-years (QALY). Costs and 
effectiveness were converted to present values; all key variables were subjected 
to sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: TT was the most cost-effective strategy, resulting in a gain of 1.32 
QALYs compared with RAI (at an additional cost of 9,594 US dollars) and an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 7,240 US dollars/QALY. RAI was the least 
costly option at 23,600 US dollars but also provided the least QALY (25.08 
QALY). Once the cost of TT exceeds 19,300 US dollars, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of lifelong ATM and TT reverse and lifelong ATM becomes 
the more cost-effective strategy at 15,000US dollars/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first formal cost-effectiveness study in the US of the 
optimal treatment for patients with Graves disease who fail to achieve 
euthyroidism after 18 months of ATM. Our findings demonstrate that TT is more 
cost effective than RAI or lifelong ATM in these patients; this continues until 
the cost of TT becomes > 19,300 US dollars.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2009.03.025
PMID: 19632593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Ann Oncol. 2010 Feb;21(2):335-341. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdp309. Epub 2009 Jul
24.

Expected long-term survival of patients diagnosed with acute myeloblastic 
leukemia during 2006-2010.

Pulte D(1), Gondos A(2), Brenner H(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, German Cancer Research 
Center, Heidelberg, Germany; Department of Medicine, Division of 
Hematology-Oncology, University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, Newark, 
NJ, USA. Electronic address: pultedi@umdnj.edu.
(2)Division of Clinical Epidemiology and Aging Research, German Cancer Research 
Center, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Treatment of acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML) has evolved over the 
past several decades. Therefore, currently available estimates of long-term 
survival, which are based on survival for patients treated with potentially now 
obsolete protocols, may not pertain to patients currently diagnosed.
METHODS: Using data from the 1973-2005 database of the Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results Program, we empirically validated a novel 
model-based method to project 5- and 10-year relative survival of AML patients 
and we applied the method to project relative survival of AML patients in the 
United States diagnosed during 2006-2010.
RESULTS: Empirical evaluation indicated that the modeling approach provides more 
accurate estimates of currently diagnosed patients than standard methods of 
survival analysis, such as cohort analysis or period analysis, in the majority 
of cases. Projected figures for 2006-2010 show 5- and 10-year relative survival 
estimates of 21.4% and 18.7% for all ages combined, 62.2% and 57.4% for ages 
25-34, and 60.6% and 58.1% for ages 35-44. These estimates are substantially 
higher than the most up-to-date estimates obtained by standard survival 
analysis.
CONCLUSION: Patients diagnosed with AML during 2006-2010 at younger ages have 
much higher long-term survival expectations than indicated by previously 
available survival statistics.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdp309
