had previously received renal replacement therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Most deceased Fabry Registry patients exhibited serious cardiac and 
renal dysfunction. Late diagnosis may have contributed to the early deaths of 
these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3181bb05bb
PMID: 19745746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Nat Protoc. 2009;4(10):1413-21. doi: 10.1038/nprot.2009.126. Epub 2009 Sep
10.

Time-resolved RNA SHAPE chemistry: quantitative RNA structure analysis in 
one-second snapshots and at single-nucleotide resolution.

Mortimer SA(1), Weeks KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA.

RNA selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension (SHAPE) 
chemistry exploits the discovery that conformationally dynamic nucleotides 
preferentially adopt configurations that facilitate reaction between the 2'-OH 
group and a hydroxyl-selective electrophile, such as benzoyl cyanide (BzCN), to 
form a 2'-O-adduct. BzCN is ideally suited for quantitative, time-resolved 
analysis of RNA folding and ribonucleoprotein (RNP) assembly mechanisms because 
this reagent both reacts with flexible RNA nucleotides and also undergoes 
auto-inactivating hydrolysis with a half-life of 0.25 s at 37 degrees C. RNA 
folding is initiated by addition of Mg(2+) or protein, or other change in 
solution conditions, and nucleotide resolution structural images are obtained by 
adding aliquots of the evolving reaction to BzCN and then 'waiting' for 1 
second. Sites of the 2'-O-adduct formation are subsequently scored as stops to 
primer extension using reverse transcriptase. This time-resolved SHAPE protocol 
makes it possible to obtain 1-second structural snapshots in time-resolved 
kinetic studies for RNAs of arbitrary length and complexity in a straightforward 
and concise experiment.

DOI: 10.1038/nprot.2009.126
PMCID: PMC4950915
PMID: 19745823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Am J Manag Care. 2009 Sep;15(9):607-15.

Cost-effectiveness of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass in type 2 diabetes patients.

Ikramuddin S(1), Klingman D, Swan T, Minshall ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Manag Care. 2009 Nov;15(11):826-8; author reply 828-30.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass for 
treating type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in the United States compared with 
standard medical management, using clinical data from a prospective 
observational study conducted at an academic medical center.
STUDY DESIGN: Our study used a predictive health economic model (the CORE 
Diabetes Model) to project the long-term costs and clinical effectiveness of 
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass as a treatment for T2DM using the prospective 
observational study as the basis for our clinical effectiveness assumptions.
METHODS: The CORE Diabetes Model used Monte Carlo simulation with tracker 
variables to estimate the lifetime costs and clinical outcomes of Roux-en-Y 
gastric bypass compared with standard medical management of obese T2DM patients. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed on key clinical assumptions, discount rates, 
and shorter time horizons.
RESULTS: The base-case scenario yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of $21,973 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. In sensitivity 
analyses, shortening the time horizon to 5 and 10 years and excluding the 
negative impact of increased body mass index on the patient's quality of life 
had the greatest adverse impact on the ICERs (ie, higher cost per QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Under base-case assumptions, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass is 
cost-effective in the treatment of T2DM in the United States with an ICER below 
$50,000 per QALY gained. Sensitivity analyses indicated that bariatric surgery 
is not cost-effective over shorter time horizons, or if the negative 
quality-of-life impact of increased body mass index is ignored.

PMID: 19747025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Transfus Med. 2009 Oct;19(5):223-34. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-3148.2009.00927.x.

Clinical stem cell therapies for severe autoimmune diseases.

Snowden JA(1), Martin-Rendon E, Watt SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust 
and University of Sheffield, Sheffield, S10 2JF, UK. john.snowden@sth.nhs.uk

Severe autoimmune diseases (ADs) are a major source of disability and reduced 
quality of life and may result in shortened life expectancy, particularly in 
treatment-resistant patients. For several decades, allogeneic and autologous 
haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) has been the focus of scientific 
investigation as a potential means of delivering 'one-off' intensive treatment 
in severe ADs. Improvements in the clinical safety of HCST were followed by its 
increasing use in recent years as an experimental treatment for severe and 
resistant ADs. European and North American registries have accumulated between 
one and two thousand procedures. Retrospective analyses and prospective studies 
have demonstrated the feasibility, safety and initial efficacy data in various 
ADs. Profound cell biological changes induced by HSCT leading to stabilization 
or reversal of organ damage have been characterized. These have also shed light 
on basic disease mechanisms and support investigation of more specific cellular 
therapy in ADs. There is clear potential for harnessing a profound immunological 
effect through HSCT. However, there is a need for an ongoing balance against 
evolving non-transplant treatments for ADs. Ideally, these issues should be 
resolved in phase III studies, in which HSCT approaches are compared with the 
best comparator.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3148.2009.00927.x
PMID: 19747285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Curr Biol. 2009 Oct 13;19(19):1591-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2009.08.016. Epub
2009  Sep 10.

Extension of Drosophila life span by RNAi of the mitochondrial respiratory 
chain.

Copeland JM(1), Cho J, Lo T Jr, Hur JH, Bahadorani S, Arabyan T, Rabie J, Soh J, 
Walker DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Science, University of California, Los Angeles, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. davidwalker@ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Mitochondria have long been proposed to play an important role in 
the aging process. In the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, genes important for 
mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) function stand out as a principal 
group of genes affecting life span. However, it has been suggested that this may 
be a peculiarity of nematode biology. In the present study, we have used an in 
vivo RNA interference (RNAi) strategy to inactivate ETC genes in Drosophila 
melanogaster and examine the impact on longevity.
RESULTS: Here, we report that RNAi of five genes encoding components of 
mitochondrial respiratory complexes I, III, IV, and V leads to increased life 
span in flies. Long-lived flies with reduced expression of ETC genes do not 
consistently show reduced assembly of respiratory complexes or reduced ATP 
levels. In addition, extended longevity is not consistently correlated with 
reduced fertility or increased resistance to the free-radical generator 
paraquat. Targeted RNAi of two complex I genes in adult tissues or in neurons 
alone is sufficient to extend life span.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that the role of mitochondrial ETC function in 
modulating animal aging is evolutionarily conserved and might also operate in 
humans. Furthermore, our findings suggest that the longer life span of flies 
with reduced ETC gene expression cannot simply be attributed to reduced energy 
production leading to decreased "rate of living."

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2009.08.016
PMID: 19747824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Prev Med. 2009 Nov;49(5):449-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2009.09.008. Epub 2009
Sep  10.

Economic evaluation of skin cancer prevention in Australia.

Shih ST(1), Carter R, Sinclair C, Mihalopoulos C, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Public Health Research, Evaluation and Policy 
Cluster, Faculty of Health, Medicine, Nursing and Behavioural Sciences, Deakin 
University, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood, VIC 3125, Australia. 
sophy.shih@deakin.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: Australia has the highest incidence of skin cancer in the world, 
despite prevention campaigns being implemented since the early 1980s. This study 
assesses the cost-effectiveness of a skin cancer prevention program (named 
SunSmart) since it was introduced, together with its potential 
cost-effectiveness as an upgraded and ongoing national program.
METHODS: The reduction in melanoma incidence attributable to SunSmart was 
modelled as the primary end-point. Historical expenditures on SunSmart were 
obtained from representative Australian states in three latitude zones. Melanoma 
incidence rates from these states were used to model key health outcomes. 
Non-melanoma skin cancer was modelled separately based on national survey 
results.
RESULTS: We estimate that SunSmart has averted 28,000 disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs), equivalent to 22,000 life-years saved, in the state of 
Victoria since its introduction in 1988, as well as saving money from cost 
offset in skin cancer management (dominant). An upgraded national program for 
the next 20 years is estimated to avert 120,000 DALYs, with associated 
reductions in the use of health care resources. It remains a dominant 
intervention in which every dollar invested in SunSmart will return an estimated 
AU$2.30.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that a sustained modest investment in skin 
cancer control is likely to be an excellent value for money.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2009.09.008
PMID: 19747936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Health Policy. 2010 Jan;94(1):45-53. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.003.
Epub  2009 Sep 11.

Welfare state regimes and population health: integrating the East Asian welfare 
states.

Abdul Karim S(1), Eikemo TA, Bambra C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biomedical Ethics, National University of Singapore, Singapore.

Epidemiological studies have consistently shown that population health varies 
significantly by welfare state regime. However, these studies have focused 
exclusively on the welfare states of Europe, North America and Australasia. This 
focus ignores the existence of welfare states in other parts of the world, 
specifically in East Asia. This study therefore investigates whether the 
association between population health (Infant Mortality Rates and Life 
Expectancy at birth) and welfare state regimes is still valid when the welfare 
states of East Asia are added into the analysis. It also examines whether 
population health is worse in the East Asian welfare states. Infant Mortality 
Rates and Life Expectancy at birth as well as GDP per capita and social and 
health expenditures as a percentage of GDP were examined in 30 welfare states, 
categorised into six different regimes (Scandinavian, Anglo-Saxon, Bismarckian, 
Southern, Eastern European and East Asian). ANOVA analysis showed significant 
differences by welfare state regime in the magnitude of IMR, LE, SE, HE and GDP 
per capita. However, when controlling for GDP per capita in the ANCOVA analyses, 
only Life Expectancy (R(2)=0.58, adjusted R(2)=0.47, p<0.05) and Social 
Expenditure (R(2)=0.70, adjusted R(2)=0.61, p<0.05) differed significantly by 
welfare state regime. 47% of the variation in Life Expectancy was explained by 
welfare state regime type. Further, the East Asian welfare states did not have 
the worst health outcomes. The study concludes by highlighting the need to 
expand comparative health analysis both in terms of the range of countries 
examined and also in terms of incorporating other societal and public health 
factors-towards a 'public health regime' analysis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.003
PMID: 19748149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Nov;69(9):1360-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.08.012.
Epub  2009 Sep 11.

Inequality in individual mortality and economic conditions earlier in life.

van den Berg GJ(1), Lindeboom M, Lopez M.

Author information:
(1)Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, 1081 HV Amsterdam, Netherlands. 
gberg@feweb.vu.nl

We analyze the effect of being born in a recession on the mortality rate later 
in life in conjunction with social class. We use individual data records from 
Dutch registers of birth, marriage, and death certificates, covering the period 
1815-2000, and we merge these with historical data on macro-economic outcomes 
and health indicators. We estimate duration models and inequality measures. The 
results indicate that being born in a recession increases the mortality rate 
later in life for most of the population. Lower social classes suffer 
disproportionally from being born in recessions. This exacerbates mortality 
inequality. Upward mobility does not vary much with the business cycle at birth.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.08.012
PMID: 19748168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Lancet. 2009 Sep 12;374(9693):881-92. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60741-8.

Global patterns of mortality in young people: a systematic analysis of 
population health data.

Patton GC(1), Coffey C, Sawyer SM, Viner RM, Haller DM, Bose K, Vos T, Ferguson 
J, Mathers CD.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Adolescent Health and Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Royal 
Children's Hospital, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. george.patton@rch.org.au

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Sep 12;374(9693):853-4.

BACKGROUND: Pronounced changes in patterns of health take place in adolescence 
and young adulthood, but the effects on mortality patterns worldwide have not 
been reported. We analysed worldwide rates and patterns of mortality between 
early adolescence and young adulthood.
METHODS: We obtained data from the 2004 Global Burden of Disease Study, and used 
all-cause mortality estimates developed for the 2006 World Health Report, with 
adjustments for revisions in death from HIV/AIDS and from war and natural 
disasters. Data for cause of death were derived from national vital registration 
when available; for other countries we used sample registration data, verbal 
autopsy, and disease surveillance data to model causes of death. Worldwide rates 
and patterns of mortality were investigated by WHO region, income status, and 
cause in age-groups of 10-14 years, 15-19 years, and 20-24 years.
FINDINGS: 2.6 million deaths occurred in people aged 10-24 years in 2004. 2.56 
million (97%) of these deaths were in low-income and middle-income countries, 
and almost two thirds (1.67 million) were in sub-Saharan Africa and southeast 
Asia. Pronounced rises in mortality rates were recorded from early adolescence 
(10-14 years) to young adulthood (20-24 years), but reasons varied by region and 
sex. Maternal conditions were a leading cause of female deaths at 15%. HIV/AIDS 
and tuberculosis contributed to 11% of deaths. Traffic accidents were the 
largest cause and accounted for 14% of male and 5% of female deaths. Other 
prominent causes included violence (12% of male deaths) and suicide (6% of all 
deaths).
INTERPRETATION: Present global priorities for adolescent health policy, which 
focus on HIV/AIDS and maternal mortality, are an important but insufficient 
response to prevent mortality in an age-group in which more than two in five 
deaths are due to intentional and unintentional injuries.
FUNDING: WHO and National Health and Medical Research Council.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60741-8
PMID: 19748397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2010 Mar;37(3):635-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2009.07.044. Epub 2009 Sep 12.

Factors influencing survival and postoperative quality of life after mitral 
valve reconstruction.

Hansen L(1), Winkel S, Kuhr J, Bader R, Bleese N, Riess FC.

Author information:
(1)Albertinen-Krankenhaus, Hamburg, Germany. lorenz.hansen@albertinen.de

OBJECTIVE: Mitral valve reconstruction (MVR) is the preferred treatment for 
regurgitant lesions. Clinical benefit is well documented, but comparative data 
scrutinising factors influencing survival and postoperative quality of life 
(QOL) in different subsets of patients are missing. We hypothesised that mitral 
valve reconstruction for mitral regurgitation benefits the patients, regardless 
of the valve pathology.
METHODS: In this study, 663 consecutive patients undergoing mitral valve 
reconstruction using Carpentier techniques were assigned to four different 
groups. Aetiology of mitral regurgitation was degenerative (DEG) in 372 (56.1%) 
patients and ischaemic (ISC) in 157 (23.6%). Cardiomyopathy (CMP) was present in 
23 (3.4%) cases and combined degenerative regurgitation plus coronary artery 
disease (DEG+CAD) in 111 (16.7%) patients. Survival was evaluated using a Cox 
proportional hazards model. Postoperative QOL was assessed using the short form 
(SF)-36 questionnaire in a multivariate analysis of covariance.
RESULTS: The overall 30-day mortality was 1.1% (0.3%, 1.9%, 0% and 2.7% for 
groups DEG, ISC, CMP and DEG+CAD, respectively). The median preoperative NYHA 
class and grade MI was 3 and evenly distributed between groups. After a mean 
follow-up of 4.1+/-3.4 years, MVR proved to be effective in all groups with 
90.3% of patients in the NYHA classes I and II (p<0.001). At 5 years, unadjusted 
survival was 90.3%, 69.7%, 50.5% and 86.2%. However, after correcting for age, 
ejection fraction, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), renal 
insufficiency and the preoperative NYHA class, survival in groups ISC and 
DEG+CAD was comparable. Group allocation was not a predictor for late death. 
Postoperative QOL was inferior in female patients in all SF-36 scales (p<0.01) 
and was impaired by co-morbidities. QOL scores were best for patients in group 
DEG and worst in group CMP. In a multivariate model correcting for gender, age 
and co-morbidities (COPD, treated diabetes, renal insufficiency, subjective 
heart rhythm, preoperative NYHA class and previous myocardial infarction), 
postoperative QOL was comparable between groups. For the majority of patients 
with degenerative MR, postoperative life expectancy as well as QOL is similar to 
a normal population.
CONCLUSIONS: MVR was safely and effectively accomplished in all groups. Survival 
and postoperative QOL was determined by left ventricular function and 
co-morbidities rather than MR aetiology.

Copyright (c) 2009 European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. Published 
by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2009.07.044
PMID: 19748791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Tob Control. 2010 Feb;19(1):7-12. doi: 10.1136/tc.2009.031245. Epub 2009 Sep
10.

Smoking-attributable deaths and potential years of life lost from a large, 
representative study in China.

Jiang J(1), Liu B, Sitas F, Li J, Zeng X, Han W, Zou X, Wu Y, Zhao P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Institute of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVES: To provide a more accurate estimate of early smoking-attributable 
mortality and potential years of life lost using data from a representative 
study of 103 study areas in China.
METHODS: Two datasets were employed as follows. Firstly, retrospective national 
mortality survey data, which included a population of 67 million in 103 study 
areas, and about 1 million adults who died in 1986-1988; secondly, nationally 
representative case-control comparative data was extracted from the survey data 
to measure the effect of smoking on age trends in smoking-attributable 
mortality. Potential years of life lost, and sex differences in life expectancy 
in smokers and non-smokers in the total population aged 35 and over were also 
estimated.
RESULTS: Tobacco caused 11.2% (16.0% of men and 3.7% of women) of total deaths 
in 1987, and more than two-thirds of these excess deaths occurred between the 
ages of 50 and 74 years, but only less than 5% excess deaths occurred at ages 
under 50. Although life expectancies varied with region or sex differences, the 
years of life lost attributable to smoking was almost the same. Smokers at age 
35 lost about 3 years of life expectancy in comparison with never smokers. The 
study also confirmed that more than 50% of the sex difference in life expectancy 
was accounted for by smoking.
CONCLUSION: Fully understanding the consequences of smoking in relation to 
mortality can clarify its effects on the health and longevity of the entire 
population.

DOI: 10.1136/tc.2009.031245
PMID: 19748886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. PLoS Genet. 2009 Sep;5(9):e1000639. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000639. Epub
2009  Sep 11.

A transcription elongation factor that links signals from the reproductive 
system to lifespan extension in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Ghazi A(1), Henis-Korenblit S, Kenyon C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California, United States of America.

In Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, the aging of the soma is 
influenced by the germline. When germline-stem cells are removed, aging slows 
and lifespan is increased. The mechanism by which somatic tissues respond to 
loss of the germline is not well-understood. Surprisingly, we have found that a 
predicted transcription elongation factor, TCER-1, plays a key role in this 
process. TCER-1 is required for loss of the germ cells to increase C. elegans' 
lifespan, and it acts as a regulatory switch in the pathway. When the germ cells 
are removed, the levels of TCER-1 rise in somatic tissues. This increase is 
sufficient to trigger key downstream events, as overexpression of tcer-1 extends 
the lifespan of normal animals that have an intact reproductive system. Our 
findings suggest that TCER-1 extends lifespan by promoting the expression of a 
set of genes regulated by the conserved, life-extending transcription factor 
DAF-16/FOXO. Interestingly, TCER-1 is not required for DAF-16/FOXO to extend 
lifespan in animals with reduced insulin/IGF-1 signaling. Thus, TCER-1 
specifically links the activity of a broadly deployed transcription factor, 
DAF-16/FOXO, to longevity signals from reproductive tissues.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000639
PMCID: PMC2729384
PMID: 19749979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


461. Gesundheitswesen. 2009 Nov;71(11):709-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1224139. Epub
2009  Sep 11.

[Early health promotion and prevention at the beginning of the 20th and 21st 
centuries. Data and thoughts on the 100th anniversary of the opening of the 
Empress Auguste Victoria House in Berlin].

[Article in German]

Bergmann KE(1), Bergmann RL, Richter R, Finke C, Dudenhausen JW.

Author information:
(1)Kaiserin Auguste Victoria Gesellschaft für Präventive Pädiatrie e.V., 
Kliniken für Geburtsmedizin, Charité Centrum XVII, Centrum für Zahn-, Mund- und 
Kieferheilkunde, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin. karl.bergmann@charite.de

In June 1909, The Empress Auguste Victoria House in Berlin was opened. This 
first institute for preventive paediatrics had the objective to overcome infant 
mortality in Germany. This objective was attained. Since then, an unprecedented 
decrease of mortality in all age groups occurred as well as a doubling of life 
expectancy. With this "retreat of death", our concepts of health changed 
fundamentally, and a new spectrum of diseases emerged. This article discusses 
some mile stones of this change, and explains why we find more illness despite 
the great improvement in the field of health. The "new diseases" amenable to 
early prevention are presented in a table. To make disease prevention successful 
requires the participation of the individual. Therefore, it is important to know 
the demand to make a good programme effective in the population. Empirical 
results of a nationwide representative study on the demand by expecting and 
young parents for preventive consultation are presented. Anticipatory guidance 
of young parents is a modern approach to health promotion and disease 
prevention. A controlled trial shows that this approach improved knowledge, 
behaviour, health risk indicators, health, and development during the first two 
years after delivery. Future studies should focus on long term effects of early 
health promotion.

Copyright Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart . New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1224139
PMID: 19750459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Mov Disord. 2009 Oct 30;24(14):2033-41. doi: 10.1002/mds.22755.

Essential tremor--neurodegenerative or nondegenerative disease towards a working 
definition of ET.

Deuschl G(1), Elble R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian-Albrechts-University, Kiel, Germany. 
g.deuschl@neurologie.uni-kiel.de

Essential tremor (ET) is a syndrome of tremor in posture and movement, but 
recent studies have revealed additional cerebellar motor disturbances, cognitive 
disturbances, personality changes, hearing loss, and olfactory deficits. Even 
dementia and shortened life expectancy were found in one cohort. Recent 
postmortem studies have found limited Lewy body pathology in some patients and 
Purkinje cell loss with torpedoes and Bergmann gliosis in others. These findings 
have led to the hypothesis that ET is a syndrome produced by at least two 
neurodegenerative diseases with more widespread clinical consequences than 
previously appreciated. We review the evidence for and against this hypothesis 
and conclude that studies purporting to support this hypothesis have failed to 
control for age-associated comorbidities, depression, medications, and other 
confounding factors. We propose the alternative hypothesis that abnormal 
neuronal oscillation is the fundamental abnormality in ET, and the 
well-documented cerebellar signs and symptoms, the controversial non-motor 
signs, and even the cerebellar pathology of ET could be caused by this 
oscillation. A major problem for many studies is the lack of a diagnostic gold 
standard. Lacking such a standard, we propose a subclassification of ET into 
three categories: hereditary ET, sporadic ET, and senile ET, which we believe 
will help researchers resolve many of the controversies in this field.

(c) 2009 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.22755
PMID: 19750493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. J Fr Ophtalmol. 2009 Jun;32(6):425-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jfo.2009.04.008.

[Orbital metastasis from cutaneous melanoma].

[Article in French]

Ben Hadj Hamida F(1), Fezani M, Ben Amor H, Krifa F, Chaabani L, Khalfallah W, 
Yacoubi S, Ben Rayana N.

Author information:
(1)Service d'ophtalmologie, Centre hospitalo universitaire Farhat Hached, 
Sousse, Tunisie. fafani.benhamida@rns.tn

PURPOSE: We report the case of a patient presenting with a one-sided orbital 
metastasis from a cutaneous melanoma, and analyze clinical features, diagnostic 
difficulties and prognosis of such metastasis.
CASE REPORT: We report the case of a woman aged 70 years, who presented with a 
right one-sided proptosis associated to a decrease of the vision. The clinical 
features were: visual acuity at 2/10, an axile proptosis and a papillary 
sectorial temporal atrophy. The computed tomography (CT) disclosed an 
intraorbital mass with double tonality, rounded and well limited driving back 
the optic nerve and erasing the limits of the lateral rectus muscle. The orbital 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an intra-conal fusiform mass with an 
heterogeneous signal in T1 and T2, heightening intensely and heterogeneously 
after the injection of Gadolinium. Otherwise, the patient presented with an 
associated respiratory failure, and thoracic CT has disclosed diffuse 
metastases. It was then noted that a cutaneous melanoma of the left foot had 
been operated ten years before. The patient died during the following month.
DISCUSSION: The cutaneous melanoma is a rare cause of orbital metastasis. The 
diagnosis is often easy, when a primitive tumor is known, but it remains 
uncertain for a long time.
CONCLUSION: Orbital metastases from cutaneous melanoma are rare, generally 
occurring at the late stage of the disease with a life expectancy not passing 
one year.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfo.2009.04.008
PMID: 19750592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Pediatr Neonatol. 2009 Aug;50(4):147-51. doi: 10.1016/S1875-9572(09)60053-X.

Changing clinical presentations and survival pattern in trisomy 18.

Hsiao CC(1), Tsao LY, Chen HN, Chiu HY, Chang WC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Children's Hospital, Changhua Christian Hospital, 
Taiwan. 68206@cch.org.tw

Comment in
    Pediatr Neonatol. 2009 Aug;50(4):133-4.

BACKGROUND: The clinical presentations and survival patterns of infants with 
trisomy 18 have changed with increasing utilization of prenatal ultrasound and 
amniocentesis, and improvements in neonatal intensive care.
METHODS: We obtained data on duration of survival, male to female ratio, and 
clinical details for patients with trisomy 18, and calculated the prevalence 
rate.
RESULTS: We studied 31 consecutive trisomy 18 infants. The estimated prevalence 
was 1/4, 144. Eleven (35%) were premature infants, and 20 (65%) were full term. 
Mean birth weight was 1896 g. Median life expectancy was 12 days; 11 days for 
males and 14 days for females (p = 0.87). The short-term survival rates of 1 
week, 4 weeks, and 6 months were 58%, 32%, and 10%, respectively. The long-term 
survival rates of 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years were 6%, 6%, and 3%, 
respectively. Families signed do-not-resuscitate consent forms for five male 
(50%) and 19 female infants (90%) (p = 0.043).
CONCLUSION: All trisomy 18 infants in this study were preterm or full-term 
deliveries. Mean birth weight was lower than previously reported, and a high 
percentage of families signed do-not-resuscitate consent forms. Females did not 
survive longer than males, due to more females not being resuscitated. Most 
infants died in the first few weeks of life, but 3-6% of infants lived for 21 
year. The possibility of long-term survival should be considered when counseling 
parents regarding trisomy 18.

DOI: 10.1016/S1875-9572(09)60053-X
PMID: 19750888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Int Endod J. 2009 Oct;42(10):874-83. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2591.2009.01582.x.

Evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of root canal treatment using conventional 
approaches versus replacement with an implant.

Pennington MW(1), Vernazza CR, Shackley P, Armstrong NT, Whitworth JM, Steele 
JG.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne 
NE2 4AA, UK. mark.pennington@ncl.ac.uk

AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of root canal treatment for a maxillary 
incisor tooth with a pulp infection, in comparison with extraction and 
replacement with a bridge, denture or implant supported restoration.
METHODOLOGY: A Markov model was built to simulate the lifetime path of 
restorations placed on the maxillary incisor following the initial treatment 
decision. It was assumed that the goal of treatment was the preservation of a 
fixed platform support for a crown without involving the adjacent teeth. 
Consequently, the model estimates the lifetime costs and the total longevity of 
tooth and implant supported crowns at the maxillary incisor site. The model 
considers the initial treatment decisions, and the various subsequent treatment 
decisions that might be taken if initial restorations fail.
RESULTS: Root canal treatment extended the life of the tooth at an additional 
cost of pound5-8 per year of tooth life. Provision of orthograde re-treatment, 
if the root canal treatment fails returns further extension of the expected life 
of the tooth at a cost of pound12-15 per year. Surgical re-treatment is not 
cost-effective; it is cheaper, per year, to extend the life of the crown by 
replacement with a single implant restoration if orthograde endodontic treatment 
fails.
CONCLUSION: Modelling the available clinical and cost data indicates that, root 
canal treatment is highly cost-effective as a first line intervention. 
Orthograde re-treatment is also cost-effective, if a root treatment subsequently 
fails, but surgical re-treatment is not. Implants may have a role as a third 
line intervention if re-treatment fails.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2591.2009.01582.x
PMID: 19751289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Clin Oncol. 2009 Nov 10;27(32):5383-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.22.8460. Epub
 2009 Sep 14.

Cost effectiveness and screening interval of lipid screening in Hodgkin's 
lymphoma survivors.

Chen AB(1), Punglia RS, Kuntz KM, Mauch PM, Ng AK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. achen7@partners.org

PURPOSE: Survivors of Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL) who received mediastinal 
irradiation have an increased risk of coronary heart disease. We evaluated the 
cost effectiveness of lipid screening in survivors of HL and compared different 
screening intervals.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to evaluate lipid screening in a 
hypothetical cohort of 30-year-old survivors of HL who survived 5 years after 
mediastinal irradiation. We compared the following strategies: no screening, and 
screening at 1-, 3-, 5-, or 7-year intervals. Screen-positive patients were 
treated with statins. Markov models were used to calculate life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy, and lifetime costs. Baseline probabilities, 
transition probabilities, and utilities were derived from published studies and 
US population data. Costs were estimated from Medicare fee schedules and the 
medical literature. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Using an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) threshold of 
$100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) saved, lipid screening at every 
interval was cost effective relative to a strategy of no screening. When 
comparing screening intervals, a 3-year interval was cost effective relative to 
a 5-year interval, but annual screening, relative to screening every 3 years, 
had an ICER of more than $100,000/QALY saved. Factors with the most influence on 
the results included risk of cardiac events/death after HL, efficacy of statins 
in reducing cardiac events/death, and costs of statins.
CONCLUSION: Lipid screening in survivors of HL, with statin therapy for 
screen-positive patients, improves survival and is cost effective. A screening 
interval of 3 years seems reasonable in the long-term follow-up of survivors of 
HL.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.22.8460
PMCID: PMC2868601
PMID: 19752333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


467. Circulation. 2009 Sep 15;120(11 Suppl):S127-33. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.842641.

Long-term survival of the very elderly undergoing aortic valve surgery.

Likosky DS(1), Sorensen MJ, Dacey LJ, Baribeau YR, Leavitt BJ, DiScipio AW, 
Hernandez F Jr, Cochran RP, Quinn R, Helm RE, Charlesworth DC, Clough RA, 
Malenka DJ, Sisto DA, Sardella G, Olmstead EM, Ross CS, O'Connor GT; Northern 
New England Cardiovascular Disease Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Hanover, NH, USA. 
donald.likosky@dartmouth.edu

BACKGROUND: Increasing numbers of the very elderly are undergoing aortic valve 
procedures. We describe the short- and long-term survivorship for this cohort.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a cohort study of 7584 consecutive patients 
undergoing open aortic valve surgery without (51.1%; AVR) or with (48.9%; AVR + 
CABG) concomitant coronary artery bypass graft surgery between November 10, 1987 
through June 30, 2006. Patient records were linked to the Social Security 
Administration's Death Master File. Survivorship was stratified by age and 
concomitant CABG surgery. During 39 835 person-years of follow-up, there were 
2877 deaths. Among AVR, there were 3304 patients <80 years of age, 419 patients 
80 to 84 years, and 156 patients > or =85 years (24 patients >90 years). Among 
AVR+CABG patients, there were 2890 patients <80 years of age, 577 patients 80 to 
84 years, and 238 patients > or =85 years (22 patients >90 years). Median 
survivorship for patients undergoing isolated AVR was 11.5 years (<80 years), 
6.8 years (80 to 84 years), 6.2 years (> or =85 years); for patients undergoing 
AVR+CABG, median survivorship was 9.4 years (<80 years), 6.8 years (80 to 84 
years), and 7.1 years (> or =85 years). Among both procedures, adjusted 
survivorship was significantly different across strata of age (P<0.001). These 
findings are similar to life expectancy of the general population from actuarial 
tables: 80 to 84 years (7 years) and > or =85 years (5 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Survivorship among octogenarians is favorable, with more than half 
the patients surviving more than 6 years after their surgery. Concomitant CABG 
surgery does not diminish median survivorship among patients >80 years of age.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.842641
PMID: 19752357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Circulation. 2009 Sep 15;120(11 Suppl):S65-9. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.844316.

Evaluation of revascularization subtypes in octogenarians undergoing coronary 
artery bypass grafting.

Aziz A(1), Lee AM, Pasque MK, Lawton JS, Moazami N, Damiano RJ Jr, Moon MR.

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110-1013, USA.

BACKGROUND: Recent data suggest that octogenarians' long-term survival after 
complete coronary artery bypass graft revascularization is superior to 
incomplete revascularization. Discriminating between variable definitions of 
"complete" complicates interpretation of survival data. We aimed to clarify 
octogenarian long-term survival rates by stratifying revascularization subtypes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From 1986 to 2007, 580 patients 80 to 94 years of age 
underwent coronary artery bypass graft. Functional complete revascularization 
was defined as at least 1 graft to all diseased coronary vessels with >50% 
stenosis. Traditional complete revascularization was defined as 1 graft to each 
major arterial system with at least 50% stenosis. Incomplete revascularization 
was defined as leaving diseased, ungrafted regions. Revascularization was 
functional in 279 (48%), traditional in 181 (31%), and incomplete in 120 (21%). 
Long-term survival was evaluated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Of 537 operative 
survivors, there were 402 late deaths. Cumulative long-term survival totaled 
2890 patient-years. Late survival (Kaplan-Meier) was similar between functional 
(mean, 6.8 years) and traditional (6.7 years) groups (P=0.51), but diminished 
with incomplete (4.2 years) revascularization (P=0.007). Survival by group at 5 
years was: 59+/-3% functional, 57+/-4% traditional, and 45+/-5% incomplete. 
Survival at 8 years was: 40+/-3% functional, 37+/-4% traditional, and 26+/-5% 
incomplete. To minimize selection bias in patients with limited life expectancy, 
Kaplan-Meier analysis was repeated including only patients with survival >12 
months. Survival was again impaired with incomplete revascularization (P=0.04), 
and there was no difference between functional and traditional complete 
revascularization (P=0.73).
CONCLUSIONS: Bypassing all diseased arterial vessels after revascularization 
does not afford significant long-term survival advantage compared to a 
traditional approach. Incomplete revascularization, related to more extensive 
disease, is associated with an 18% decline in survival. These data suggest that 
it is important to avoid incomplete revascularization in octogenarians, but the 
supplementary endeavor required to perform functional complete revascularization 
does not improve survival.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.844316
PMCID: PMC2752867
PMID: 19752388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures There are no potential conflicts of 
interest from any of the authors in relation to information conveyed from this 
manuscript.


469. Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;127(9):1183-93. doi:
10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.113.

Use of Global Visual Acuity Data in a time trade-off approach to calculate the 
cost utility of cataract surgery.

Lansingh VC(1), Carter MJ.

Author information:
(1)Fundacion Vision, Asuncion, Paraguay.

Erratum in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;127(12):1609.

Comment in
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;127(9):1205-6.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost utility of cataract surgery worldwide using 
visual acuity (VA) outcomes and utility values determined by the time trade-off 
(TTO) method.
DATA SOURCES: Some cost data were taken from a previous search conducted for 
1995 to 2006 and we searched MEDLINE and Scopus and Google for more recent data 
(2006 and 2007).
STUDY SELECTION: Articles were identified from the literature using "cataract 
surgery" in combination with the terms outcome or visual acuity. Additional 
searches were conducted using individual countries as a term in combination with 
VA, outcome, or cost. Regression curves were constructed from utility values 
derived from a TTO study and VA data. Gains in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were calculated based on life expectancy tables from the World Health 
Organization and discounts of 3% for both cost and benefit. Sensitivity analyses 
explored the effect of changes in discounting, life expectancy, preoperative VA, 
and cost.
DATA EXTRACTION: If the data were usable, they were kept; otherwise they were 
discarded.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Preoperative VA (logMAR) correlated with increasing gross 
national income per capita (Pearson correlation coefficient, -0.784; P < .001) 
and showed that in developing countries preoperative vision is much poorer 
compared with developed countries. Cost utility data ranged from $3.5 to 
$834/QALY in developing countries to $159 to $1356/QALY in developed countries. 
Sensitivity analysis showed that changing life expectancy, VA, and discount rate 
resulted in moderate changes.
CONCLUSIONS: The TTO approach demonstrates that cataract surgery is extremely 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.113
PMID: 19752429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;127(9):1205-6. doi:
10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.236.

Use of Global Visual Acuity Data in a time trade-off approach to calculate the 
cost utility of cataract surgery: methodological issues of cost-utility 
comparisons.

Frick KD, Massof RW.

Comment on
    Arch Ophthalmol. 2009 Sep;127(9):1183-93.

DOI: 10.1001/archophthalmol.2009.236
PMID: 19752432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Dermatology. 2009;219(3):239-49. doi: 10.1159/000237871. Epub 2009 Sep 10.

Once-weekly administration of etanercept 50 mg improves patient-reported 
outcomes in patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis.

Reich K(1), Segaert S, Van de Kerkhof P, Durian C, Boussuge MP, Paolozzi L, 
Wajdula J, Boggs R.

Author information:
(1)Dermatologikum, Hamburg, Germany. kreich@dermatologikum.de

OBJECTIVE: To assess baseline patient-reported outcomes (PROs) and PRO 
improvement in patients with psoriasis administered etanercept 50 mg once weekly 
(QW).
METHODS: Adult patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis participated in 
a 12-week, double-blind, controlled trial in which they received etanercept 50 
mg QW (n = 96) or placebo QW (n = 46), followed by a 12-week, open-label 
extension in which they received etanercept 50 mg QW (etanercept-etanercept, n = 
90; placebo-etanercept, n = 36). Patients completed the Dermatology Life Quality 
Index (DLQI), EuroQoL-5D (EQ-5D) and Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness 
Therapy-Fatigue (FACIT-F) at baseline and subsequent study visits.
RESULTS: At baseline, DLQI and EQ-5D scores indicated significant quality of 
life (QoL) impairment, and FACIT-F scores suggested more fatigue than in the 
general population. At week 12, etanercept 50 mg QW provided statistically 
significantly (p < 0.05) and clinically meaningfully greater improvement in DLQI 
and EQ-5D utility scores than placebo, but not in FACIT-F scores. After 24 weeks 
of etanercept, the mean DLQI suggested psoriasis had a small effect on QoL, 
while EQ-5D and FACIT-F scores were comparable to population norms.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis entered this trial with 
serious PRO impairment. At week 12, etanercept 50 mg QW provided significant QoL 
improvements compared with placebo. After 24 weeks of etanercept, the patients' 
serious PRO impairment had largely abated.

(c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000237871
PMID: 19752505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Gerontology. 2009;55(6):601-6. doi: 10.1159/000239757. Epub 2009 Sep 15.

Parathyroid hormone as a mortality predictor in frail aged inpatients.

Bjorkman M(1), Sorva A, Tilvis R.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. 
mikko.bjorkman@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: Some prospective cohort studies have associated parathyroid hormone 
(PTH) levels with survival independently of renal function, calcaemic and 
vitamin D status in the elderly.
OBJECTIVE: In order to further evaluate the prognostic significance of subtle 
elevation of PTH and the involvement of vitamin D status in bedridden aged 
inpatients, the participants of a 6-month vitamin D supplementation trial were 
followed for 2 years.
METHODS: Eligible patients (n = 218) of 4 long-term care hospitals (1,215 beds) 
were randomized to receive 0, 400 or 1,200 IU/day cholecalciferol for 6 months. 
In addition to routine analyses, plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD), PTH and 
ionized calcium (Ca(2+)) levels were measured. Functional capacity was evaluated 
by activities of daily living (ADL) hierarchy scale and cognition was assessed 
by cognitive performance scale (CPS). Body mass index and glomerular filtration 
rate (GFR) were calculated. Mortality data was collected from patient records.
RESULTS: The patients were aged (84.5 +/- 7.5 years), vitamin D deficient 
(25-OHD = 23 +/- 10 nmol/l) and frail (ADL 5.5, range 3-6; CPS 4.9, range 1-6). 
The PTH levels ranged from 12 to 268 ng/l, the cut points for IV quartile being 
72 ng/l. The PTH levels in the IV quartile predicted a significant 1.58-fold 
over-mortality (95% CI 1.08-2.32, p = 0.020), resulting in a 9.1-month 
shortening (p = 0.019) in median life expectancy in patients with poorest renal 
function, but the prognostic significance of PTH was not explained by GFR. 
Furthermore, controlling for age, gender, body mass index, creatinine, 25-OHD, 
supplementation group, Ca(2+) and albumin levels did not abolish this 
significance. Mortality was predicted neither by baseline 25-OHD nor vitamin D 
supplementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Even a subtle elevation of PTH is a relatively independent 
predictor of increased 2-year mortality in severely frail older inpatients with 
poor overall survival prognosis. Further prospective studies on the involvement 
of 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin D status in the predictive value of PTH are needed.

DOI: 10.1159/000239757
PMID: 19752529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Aug 19;5(213):1628.

[BMI and longevity].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 19754018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Vet Comp Oncol. 2006 Jun;4(2):63-74. doi: 10.1111/j.1476-5810.2006.00090.x.

Histiocytic sarcomas in flat-coated retrievers: a summary of 37 cases (November 
1998-March 2005).

Fidel J(1), Schiller I, Hauser B, Jausi Y, Rohrer-Bley C, Roos M, Kaser-Hotz B.

Author information:
(1)Section of Diagnostic Imaging and Radiation Oncology of the Vetsuisse, 
Faculty University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland. jfidel@vetmed.wsu.edu

Thirty-seven cases of histiocytic-like sarcomas (HLSs) in flat-coated retriever 
dogs were evaluated retrospectively. This tumour accounted for 36% of the 
malignant tumours seen in this breed during the study period. The median age at 
presentation was 8.2 years. Thirty-four dogs presented with a swelling or mass 
in a muscle group or surrounding a joint. The remaining three presented for rib 
(1), cutaneous (1) or primary splenic origin (1). A high rate of metastasis to 
local lymph nodes (45%), thorax (20%) and abdominal organs (20% confirmed) was 
seen. Overall metastastic rate by the time of death was 70%. The median survival 
for all dogs was 123 days. The most significant prognostic indicator was 
presence of distant metastasis at the time of diagnosis with median survival of 
68 or 200 days, with or without metastasis, respectively. Chemotherapy and 
radiation therapy significantly improved survival. Dogs given chemotherapy 
survived a median of 185 versus 34 days for dogs that were not (P = 0.0008). 
Dogs treated with radiation survived a median of 182 versus 60 days for those 
that were not (P = 0.0282). Dogs receiving only palliative therapy survived a 
median of 17 versus 167 days in dogs receiving any kind of radiation, 
chemotherapy, surgery or combinations. A set protocol of radiation and CCNU 
(RTCCNU) induced minimal toxicity and provided a median survival of 208 versus 
68 days for all other dogs. While this tumour carries a poor long-term prognosis 
in flat-coated retrievers, it is reasonable to treat these dogs for palliation 
of signs and extension of life.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5810.2006.00090.x
PMID: 19754816


475. Prev Chronic Dis. 2009 Oct;6(4):A115. Epub 2009 Sep 15.

Disparities in chronic disease among Canada's low-income populations.

Fang R(1), Kmetic A, Millar J, Drasic L.

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Provincial Health Services Authority, Vancouver, BC V6Z 2H3, 
Canada. rfang@phsa.ca

INTRODUCTION: Many studies have found inequities in health among income groups 
in Canada. We report the variations in the major chronic disease risks among 
low-income populations, by province of residence, as a proxy measure of social 
environment.
METHODS: We used estimates from the 2005 Canadian Community Health Survey to 
study residents who were aged 45 years or older and from the lowest income 
quintile nationally. Multivariate logistic regression was used to examine the 
relationship between province of residence and risk of chronic diseases.
RESULTS: British Columbia is the healthiest province overall but not in terms of 
its low-income residents, whereas Quebec's low-income residents are at the least 
risk for major chronic diseases. The significant differences in risk of 
hypertension, diabetes, and heart disease in favor of British Columbia over 
Quebec for the entire population disappear when considering only the low-income 
subset.
CONCLUSION: Quebec's antipoverty strategy, formalized as law in 2002, has led to 
social and health care policies that appear to give its low-income residents 
advantages in chronic disease prevention. Our findings demonstrate that chronic 
disease prevalence is associated with investment in social supports to 
vulnerable populations.

PMCID: PMC2774629
PMID: 19754991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Prev Chronic Dis. 2009 Oct;6(4):A132. Epub 2009 Sep 15.
