between strategies that utilize MR lymphography and those that do not (pelvic 
lymph node dissection [PLND]), two outcome measures were examined and combined 
in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of health care resources 
consumed and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Probabilistic and one-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: The PLND strategy is dominated by the MR lymphography strategy. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that in 63% of simulations, MR 
lymphography was cost saving and resulted in better patient outcome for patients 
with prostate cancer and intermediate or high probability of lymph node 
metastases. The probability of MR lymphography being inferior (more expensive 
and worse patient outcome) is less than 3%.
CONCLUSION: MR lymphography is an efficient strategy in the detection of lymph 
node metastases of prostate cancer when compared with the PLND strategy.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2531071360
PMID: 19717752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Radiology. 2009 Sep;252(3):737-46. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2523082219.

Hepatocellular adenoma: cost-effectiveness of different treatment strategies.

van der Sluis FJ(1), Bosch JL, Terkivatan T, de Man RA, Ijzermans JN, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Centre Rotterdam, Dr 
Molewaterplein 50, Room Ee 21-40, 3015 GE Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To determine the effectiveness, costs, and cost-effectiveness of 
strategies for the management of hepatocellular adenoma (HA) in women who are 
otherwise healthy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate the 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (in quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]), 
lifetime costs (in 2007 U.S. dollars), and net health benefits (QALY equivalent) 
of surgery, transarterial embolization (TAE), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), and 
watchful waiting. Model parameters and their distributions were derived from the 
literature and the hospital database.
RESULTS: In patients with HA tumors suitable for RFA, RFA had the highest 
effectiveness (23.89 QALYs) and lowest costs ($2965). The treatment decision was 
sensitive to RFA-related mortality. In patients with tumors unsuitable for RFA, 
watchful waiting combined with TAE in cases of hemorrhage had the highest 
effectiveness (23.83 QALYs) and lowest costs ($8493). The treatment decision was 
sensitive to probability of tumor growth, probability of hemorrhage, and 
hemorrhage-related mortality.
CONCLUSION: According to the model results, the most favorable treatment 
strategy for patients with small HAs was RFA. In patients with HA unsuitable for 
RFA, watchful waiting was the optimal strategy.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2523082219
PMID: 19717753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Autophagy. 2009 Oct;5(7):1043-5. doi: 10.4161/auto.5.7.9351. Epub 2009 Oct
25.

Cisd2 mediates mitochondrial integrity and life span in mammals.

Chen YF(1), Kao CH, Kirby R, Tsai TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Institute of Genome Sciences, National 
Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan.

CISD2, the causative gene for Wolfram syndrome 2 (WFS2), is a previously 
uncharacterized novel gene. Using a mouse genetic approach, this work 
demonstrated for the first time that Cisd2 is involved in mammalian life span 
control. Cisd2 deficiency in mice leads to mitochondrial breakdown and 
dysfunction; this is accompanied by cell death with autophagic features and 
these events precede the two earliest manifestations of nerve and muscle 
degeneration. Together, they lead to a panel of phenotypic features suggestive 
of premature aging. This work effectively links Cisd2 gene function, 
mitochondrial integrity and aging in mammals.

DOI: 10.4161/auto.5.7.9351
PMID: 19717971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. HPB (Oxford). 2009 Jun;11(4):358-63. doi: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2009.00069.x.

Primary patency of percutaneously inserted self-expanding metallic stents in 
patients with malignant biliary obstruction.

Dahlstrand U(1), Sandblom G, Eriksson LG, Nyman R, Rasmussen IC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Uppsala University Hospital, Uppsala, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Effective bile duct drainage is crucial to the health-related 
quality of life of patients with jaundice caused by obstruction of the bile duct 
by inoperable malignant tumours.
METHODS: All patients who were treated at Uppsala University Hospital, Sweden 
with percutaneous stenting between 2000 and 2005 were identified 
retrospectively. Data on the location of the obstruction and type of stent used, 
date and cause of death and date of stent failure were abstracted from the 
patients' notes. Stent patency was defined as the duration from the insertion of 
the stent to the date of failure. In cases in which the cause of death was 
directly related to failure of the stent, the date of death was defined as the 
patency endpoint.
RESULTS: A total of 64 patients (34 women, 30 men) were identified. Their mean 
age was 71 years (standard deviation 11 years). The median length of patency was 
11.4 months. Stent diameter >10 mm and distal stricture were found to be 
associated with significantly longer patency time in univariate Cox proportional 
hazard analysis. In multivariate Cox proportional hazard analysis, only location 
of the stricture was found to be independently and significantly associated with 
patency time.
DISCUSSION: Percutaneous stenting is a good alternative for patients with 
obstructive jaundice and a life expectancy < or = 1 year. It may give instant 
relief from the symptoms associated with jaundice. Patency time may be prolonged 
by using stents with a diameter > or = 10 mm. However, patency time was found to 
be lower for hilar tumours.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2009.00069.x
PMCID: PMC2727091
PMID: 19718365


369. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2009 Aug;134 Suppl 5:S164-6. doi:
10.1055/s-0029-1225315.  Epub 2009 Aug 28.

[Pulmonary hypertension in COPD and interstitial lung diseases].

[Article in German]

Markart P(1), Ghofrani HA, Grimminger F, Günther A.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Innere Medizin, Medizinische Klinik II und Poliklinik, 
Universitätsklinikum Giessen und Marburg, Standort Giessen.

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a common complication of chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD) and of interstitial lung diseases (ILD) such as 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and sarcoidosis. When present in these patients, 
PH is usually mild to moderate. When severe PH is diagnosed in COPD and ILD 
patients, other potentially better treatable underlying causes should be ruled 
out. In COPD patients, PH is associated with an increased risk of severe 
exacerbations and a reduced life expectancy. Similarly, in patients with ILD, 
the presence of PH correlates with a poor prognosis. Doppler echocardiography is 
the best non-invasive method for the diagnosis of PH, but is frequently 
inaccurate in patients with advanced lung diseases. Thus, when clinical 
suspicion remains high, right heart catheterization in a reference center is 
required to ultimately confirm the presence of PH. Treatment of PH in COPD and 
ILD is primarily based on long term oxygen therapy. Drugs approved for pulmonary 
arterial hypertension, such as prostanoids, phosphodiesterase inhibitors, and 
endothelin receptor antagonists, may represent promising options for COPD and 
ILD patients, however, their use may be hampered by potentially deleterious 
effects on gas exchange and their efficacy yet remains to be proven in 
appropriately designed and controlled clinical trials. Lung transplantation may 
be considered in all patients with an advanced disease.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart, New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1225315
PMID: 19718606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Riv Biol. 2009 Jan-Apr;102(1):29-59.

The fractal geometry of life.

Losa GA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Scientific Interdisciplinary Studies, 6600 Locarno, Switzerland. 
glosa@cerfim.ch

The extension of the concepts of Fractal Geometry (Mandelbrot [1983]) toward the 
life sciences has led to significant progress in understanding complex 
functional properties and architectural / morphological / structural features 
characterising cells and tissues during ontogenesis and both normal and 
pathological development processes. It has even been argued that fractal 
geometry could provide a coherent description of the design principles 
underlying living organisms (Weibel [1991]). Fractals fulfil a certain number of 
theoretical and methodological criteria including a high level of organization, 
shape irregularity, functional and morphological self-similarity, scale 
invariance, iterative pathways and a peculiar non-integer fractal dimension 
[FD]. Whereas mathematical objects are deterministic invariant or self-similar 
over an unlimited range of scales, biological components are statistically 
self-similar only within a fractal domain defined by upper and lower limits, 
called scaling window, in which the relationship between the scale of 
observation and the measured size or length of the object can be established 
(Losa and Nonnenmacher [1996]). Selected examples will contribute to depict 
complex biological shapes and structures as fractal entities, and also to show 
why the application of the fractal principle is valuable for measuring 
dimensional, geometrical and functional parameters of cells, tissues and organs 
occurring within the vegetal and animal realms. If the criteria for a strict 
description of natural fractals are met, then it follows that a Fractal Geometry 
of Life may be envisaged and all natural objects and biological systems 
exhibiting self-similar patterns and scaling properties may be considered as 
belonging to the new subdiscipline of "fractalomics".

PMID: 19718622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Laryngoscope. 2009 Dec;119(12):2337-44. doi: 10.1002/lary.20576.

Impact of surveillance on survival after laryngeal cancer in the medicare 
population.

Francis DO(1), Yueh B, Weymuller EA Jr, Merati AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington 98195, USA. dof@u.washington.edu

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Routine surveillance is advocated to detect recurrent 
disease after treatment for laryngeal cancer. This aim of this study was to 
determine the 1- and 5-year postrecurrence mortality for laryngeal cancers and 
evaluate whether more intensive surveillance improved survival.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
METHODS: Patients with recurrent cancers (1992-1999) were identified in a 
national cancer clinical database. Multivariate analysis was used to evaluate 
the effect of surveillance on postrecurrence survival.
RESULTS: Of 2,121 recurrent cancers identified, 913 were laryngeal. Patients 
with laryngeal cancer recurrence had 27% (P = .001) and 22% (P = .007) better 
odds of 1- and 5-year survival than other sites. The 1- and 5-year 
postrecurrence survival rates for laryngeal cancer patients were 72.4% and 
41.3%, respectively. Glottic cancer cases had the best postrecurrence life 
expectancy. Multivariate regression revealed that clinical surveillance 
intensity had no independent impact on their survival (P < .05). However, 
patients with recurrent glottic cancer seen in surveillance had 23% improved 
odds of survival (P = .037).
CONCLUSIONS: More frequent surveillance visits was not associated with a 
survival advantage in the overall population. Patients with glottic cancer had a 
postrecurrence survival advantage if seen during the surveillance period. 
Laryngeal cancer patients had better postrecurrence survival than other head and 
neck sites.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.20576
PMID: 19718759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2009 Feb;193(2):365-402; discussion 402-4.

[The biology of aging].

[Article in French]

Le Gall JY, Ardaillou R.

Although aging is unavoidable, its course can be influenced by various factors, 
as illustrated by the increase in life expectancy associated with improvements 
in hygiene and with the general reduction in morbidity. Longevity has also been 
altered experimentally in some animal species. Aging follows a period of growth 
and reproduction. Death may occur when the immortality of the germinal line has 
been ensured. In other cases it results from gradual cellular deterioration. 
Four principal molecular and cellular processes have been studied in 
experimental models (mainly mice, worms and fruit flies):--inhibition of the 
insulin/IGF-1 axis increases life expectancy by allowing a transcription factor 
(DAF-16 in C. elegans, FoXo in mice) to enter the nucleus, where it stimulates 
the expression of genes encoding survival-promoting proteins; one such inhibitor 
is Klotho protein;--the detrimental effects of highly toxic reactive oxygen 
species, mainly produced in the mitochondria, are partly controlled by 
scavenging molecules and enzymes. Their accumulation leads to DNA, lipid and 
protein changes, resulting in cell dysfunction;--the telomeres situated at the 
ends of each chromosome get shorter with time because of inadequate telomerase 
activity, and this appears to be associated with diminished 
longevity;--autophagia within lysosomes destroys altered proteins and thereby 
maintains cell homeostasis. However, this activity diminishes with time, 
resulting in the accumulation of toxic metabolites in the cell, dysfunction of 
the endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria, and increased apoptosis. Studies of 
genetically mediated aging disorders have revealed the importance of lamins 
(intermediate nuclear filaments). For example, a mutation that prevents the 
protein lamin A from maturing is the cause of progeria, a disease associated 
with an acceleration of most aging processes and with premature death. There is 
no single biological marker of aging. In contrast, a combination of Nt-proBNP, 
troponin I, C-reactive protein and cystatin may be useful, as increased levels 
are a risk factor for atheroma and cardiovascular diseases, both of which are 
associated with aging. The different organs age in different ways: vessel walls 
become rigid due to protein glycation and develop atheroma; the heart is invaded 
by fibrosis; the brain suffers from neurofibrillar degeneration and senile 
plaques (responsible for Alzheimer's disease); the retina undergoes macular 
degeneration; renal function declines in parallel with the fall in the 
glomerular filtration rate due to a gradual decrease in the nephron pool; and 
immune defenses become less effective due to the functional degradation of B and 
T lymphocytes and thymus involution. Reproduction is a special case: despite the 
increase in human longevity, the chronology of the reproductive cycle and the 
age of menopause onset have not changed. The frequency of cancers increases with 
age, due to the increase in somatic mutations and the decline in immune 
defenses. Drug therapy must be adapted to age, owing to age-related changes in 
pharmacology. Physical exercise and dietary measures are currently the only 
known ways of slowing the aging process.

PMID: 19718893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Bull Am Coll Surg. 2009 Jul;94(7):8-15.

Does the U.S. have the best health care system in the world?

Wenger RD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin, Madison, USA.

Comment in
    Bull Am Coll Surg. 2010 Jan;95(1):66.

PMID: 19718966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Zhonghua Gan Zang Bing Za Zhi. 2009 Aug;17(8):569-73.

[Pharmacoeconomic evaluation of telbivudine vs. lamivudine in treating the 
patients with HBeAg-positive and negative chronic hepatitis B].

[Article in Chinese]

Chen W(1), Hou JL.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmacoeconomic Evaluation and Research, School of Public Health, 
Fudan University, Shanghai 200032, China. wenchen@fudan.edu.cn

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate long-term cost effectiveness of telbivudine and 
lamivudine for the treatment of CHB.
METHODS: Cost effectiveness was conducted from social health insurance 
perspective. A Markov model was established based on disease progression pattern 
and the data from the 2 years GLOBE clinical trial. The information of annual 
medical expenditure and quality-of-life assessment for different CHB-related 
diseases was obtained from literature. Incremental cost per life year or 
quality-adjusted life year gained was measured.
RESULTS: Compared with lamivudine, the incremental cost for 1 additional QALY 
gained with telbivudine in treating HBeAg-positive and -negative CHB were 5403 
yuan and 28239 yuan in Beijing, as well 4916 yuan and 29618 yuan in Guangzhou, 
respectively. According to national economic burden of CHB-related diseases, the 
ICER with telbivudine vs lamivudine were 1282 yuan and 31565 yuan for 
HBeAg-positive and -negative CHB.
CONCLUSION: According to WHO recommendation for ICER threshold, telbivudine is 
cost effective in treating HBeAg-positive and -negative CHB, as compared to 
lamivudine.

PMID: 19719912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Midwifery Womens Health. 2009 Sep-Oct;54(5):412. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmwh.2009.06.001.

Zimbabwe queues.

Strysko B(1).

Author information:
(1)Brenda Strysko, CNM, MSN, FNP-C, has worked in several specialized 
environments, including labor and delivery, women's health, and HIV/AIDS 
education. She and her family work to develop discipleship, leadership training, 
and sustainable health care in Bulawayo, Zimbabwe, as members of the Assemblies 
of God World Missions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmwh.2009.06.001
PMID: 19720344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Trends Parasitol. 2009 Sep;25(9):393-5. doi: 10.1016/j.pt.2009.05.013. Epub
2009  Aug 31.

Inappropriate measures of population health for parasitic disease?

Payne RJ(1), Turner L, Morgan ER.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol, Woodland Road, Bristol, 
BS8 1UG, UK.

The dominant metric for setting public health priorities, the 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY), is unsuited to parasitic infections. In 
particular, the current DALY framework fails to acknowledge the non-linear 
pathologies of infection, the community level dynamics of epidemiology and the 
co-morbidities of polyparasitism. Parasitologists must urgently provide a better 
way of accounting for the true costs of parasitic disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pt.2009.05.013
PMID: 19720565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. CMAJ. 2009 Nov 24;181(11):868. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.091402. Epub 2009 Aug 31.

End of life, year after year after year.

Koch T(1).

Author information:
(1)Vancouver, BC.

Comment in
    CMAJ. 2010 Jan 12;182(1):63.
    CMAJ. 2010 Feb 9;182(2):176.
    CMAJ. 2010 Feb 9;182(2):176.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.091402
PMCID: PMC2780503
PMID: 19720683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. CMAJ. 2009 Sep 1;181(5):281-5. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.090553.

The effect of economic recession on population health.

Bezruchka S(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Health Services and Global Health, School of Public Health, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7660, USA. sabez@u.washington.edu

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.090553
PMCID: PMC2734206
PMID: 19720709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Rev Salud Publica (Bogota). 2009 Jan-Feb;11(1):92-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0124-00642009000100010.

[Statistical process control charts in perinatal mortality surveillance].

[Article in Spanish]

Montoya-Restrepo NE(1), Correa-Morales JC.

Author information:
(1)SUSALUD, Medellín, Colombia. noramore@susalud.com.co

OBJECTIVE: Applying statistical process control (SPC) charts in perinatal 
mortality surveillance (as an epidemiological indicator).
METHOD: The control charts were prepared using 51,840 births; 286 cases were 
produced from these births. All information came from SUSALUD between January 
2004 and December 2007. Two control charts are presented; the first one's 
central line was considered to be the proportion of cases + 3 SD and the second 
one used the logits from the percentages of cases.
RESULTS: Two control charts were prepared for monitoring perinatal mortality. 
The first considered the percentage of cases per month and an average of five 
cases per one thousand births was obtained (p=0.005). The logits were used for 
the second chart.
CONCLUSIONS: Having SPC charts available for monitoring and analysing perinatal 
mortality will allow changes in service quality to be quickly detected and let 
aspects regarding the quality of the service being provided for mothers and the 
newborn to be evaluated. Specific interventions can also be programmed.

DOI: 10.1590/s0124-00642009000100010
PMID: 19721983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Ir Med J. 2009 Jun;102(6):176-8.

Traveller health: prevalence of diabetes, pre diabetes and the metabolic 
syndrome.

Tan S(1), Avalos G, Dineen B, Burke A, Gavin J, Brennan M, Murphy D, Dunne F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, National University of Ireland, 
Galway. stezsie@yahoo.com

Irish Travellers are an ethnic minority group exposed to a myriad of social and 
health inequalities. Their current life expectancy equals that of the background 
population in the 1940s and one of the main causes of death is cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). There is a paucity of information on CVD risk factor assessment 
in the research literature in this population. This study assesses the 
prevalence of Diabetes, Pre-Diabetes and the Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) in a 
sample population from this community. Working with the Galway Traveller 
Movement, and following an overnight fast we measured fasting plasma glucose, 
HDL-cholesterol and Triglycerides. In addition weight, height, waist 
circumference (WC) and blood pressure (BP) were recorded. Of the 47 subjects, 
there were 4 (8.5%) participants identified as having diabetes, 5 (10.6%) 
pre-diabetes and 25 (53.2%) with the metabolic syndrome. The point prevalence of 
diabetes was calculated as 8.5%, pre-diabetes 10.6% and the metabolic syndrome 
53.2%. In addition abdominal obesity was present in 70% and hypertension in 43%. 
Targeted screening for glucose abnormalities and traditional CVD risk factors is 
needed. Based on current literature, appropriate interventions might reasonably 
be expected to lower mortality and increase life expectancy.

PMID: 19722353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. MMW Fortschr Med. 2009 Jul 23;151(30-33):18-9.

[Boom in geriatric surgery. Eliminating fear of the knife in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Klein F.

PMID: 19722452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. BMC Womens Health. 2009 Sep 1;9:24. doi: 10.1186/1472-6874-9-24.

Protocol for Physiotherapy Or TVT Randomised Efficacy Trial (PORTRET): a 
multicentre randomised controlled trial to assess the cost-effectiveness of the 
tension free vaginal tape versus pelvic floor muscle training in women with 
symptomatic moderate to severe stress urinary incontinence.

Labrie J(1), van der Graaf Y, Buskens E, Tiersma SE, van der Vaart HC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University Medical Centre Utrecht, 
The Netherlands. j.labrie@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: Stress urinary incontinence is a common condition affecting 
approximately 20% of adult women causing substantial individual (quality of 
life) and economic (119 million Euro/year spent on incontinence pads in the 
Netherlands) burden. Pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) is regarded as first 
line treatment, but only 15-25% of women will be completely cured. Approximately 
65% will report that their condition improved, but long term adherence to 
treatment is problematic. In addition, at longer term (2-15 years) follow-up 
30-50% of patients will end up having surgery. From 1996 a minimal invasive 
surgical procedure, the Tension-free Vaginal Tape (TVT) has rapidly become the 
gold standard in surgical treatment of stress urinary incontinence. With TVT 
65-95% of women are cured. However, approximately 3-6% of women will develop 
symptoms of an overactive bladder, resulting in reduced quality of life. Because 
of its efficacy the TVT appears to be preferable over PFMT but both treatments 
and their costs have not been compared head-to-head in a randomised clinical 
trial.
METHODS/DESIGN: A multi-centre randomised controlled trial will be performed for 
women between 35-80 years old with moderate to severe, predominantly stress, 
urinary incontinence, who have not received specialised PFMT or previous 
anti-incontinence surgery. Women will be assigned to either PFMT by a 
specialised physiotherapist for a standard of 9-18 session in a period of 6 
months, or TVT(O) surgery. The main endpoint of the study is the subjective 
improvement of urinary incontinence. As secondary outcome the objective cure 
will be assessed from history and clinical parameters. Subjective improvement in 
quality of life will be measured by generic (EQ-5D) and disease-specific 
(Urinary Distress Inventory and Incontinence Impact Questionnaire) quality of 
life instruments. The economical endpoint is short term (1 year) incremental 
cost-effectiveness in terms of costs per additional year free of urinary 
incontinence and costs per Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) gained. Finally, 
treatment strategy and patient characteristics will be combined in a prediction 
model, to allow for individual treatment decisions in future patients. Four 
hundred female patients will be recruited from over 30 hospitals in the 
Netherlands.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Nederlands trial register: NTR 1248.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6874-9-24
PMCID: PMC2749818
PMID: 19723313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2009 Aug;13(8):962-8.

Targeted screening and treatment for latent tuberculosis infection using 
QuantiFERON-TB Gold is cost-effective in Mexico.

Burgos JL(1), Kahn JG, Strathdee SA, Valencia-Mendoza A, Bautista-Arredondo S, 
Laniado-Laborin R, Castañeda R, Deiss R, Garfein RS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Global Public Health, School of Medicine, University of 
California San Diego, San Diego, California 92093-0507, USA. jlburgos@ucsd.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of screening for latent tuberculosis 
infection (LTBI) using a commercially available detection test and treating 
individuals at high risk for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in a 
middle-income country.
DESIGN: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the cost per LTBI case detected, 
TB case averted and quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for a cohort of 
1000 individuals at high risk for HIV infection over 20 years. Baseline model 
inputs for LTBI prevalence were obtained from published literature and 
cross-sectional data from tuberculosis (TB) screening using QuantiFERON-TB Gold 
In-Tube (QFT-GIT) testing among sex workers and illicit drug users at high risk 
for HIV recruited through street outreach in Tijuana, Mexico. Costs are reported 
in 2007 US dollars. Future costs and QALYs were discounted at 3% per year. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate model robustness.
RESULTS: Over 20 years, we estimate the program would prevent 78 cases of active 
TB and 55 TB-related deaths. The incremental cost per case of LTBI detected was 
US$730, cost per active TB averted was US$529 and cost per QALY gained was 
US$108.
CONCLUSIONS: In settings of endemic TB and escalating HIV incidence, targeting 
LTBI screening and treatment among high-risk groups may be highly 
cost-effective.

PMCID: PMC2763545
PMID: 19723375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2009 Sep;13(9):1061-7.

The value of tuberculosis elimination and of progress in tuberculosis control in 
twentieth-century England and Wales.

Hickson KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. kh422@cam.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To calculate the monetary value of tuberculosis (TB) elimination and 
of progress in TB control in twentieth-century England and Wales.
METHODS: An original methodology that utilises original data is used, which 
facilitates the calculation of the number of life years that have been saved as 
a result of the decline in the TB mortality rate, prevalence rate and quality of 
life burden.
RESULTS: The magnitude of the decline in the mortality and morbidity burden of 
TB is estimated at 104,425 life years, which is valued to be worth in excess of 
US$127 billion. The value of improvements in morbidity contributes nearly as 
much as the more obvious gains for mortality.
CONCLUSION: Such significant results indicating the value of improvements in TB 
control have important implications for our understanding of these achievements 
and justify increased spending in developing countries that continue to be 
plagued by high rates of TB prevalence.

PMID: 19723393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. HIV Clin Trials. 2009 Jul-Aug;10(4):233-53. doi: 10.1310/hct1004-233.

Cost-effectiveness of raltegravir in antiretroviral treatment-experienced 
HIV-1-infected patients in Switzerland.

Elbasha EE(1), Szucs T, Chaudhary MA, Kumar RN, Roediger A, Cook JR, Opravil M.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, North Wales, Pennsylvania, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Raltegravir, a novel integrase inhibitor, has shown great efficacy 
in reducing HIV viral load among treatment-experienced patients. A cohort 
state-transition model was used to assess the long-term effect of raltegravir 
treatment on costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy from a Swiss 
perspective.
METHODS: Patients were stratified into health states according to opportunistic 
infection status, HIV RNA level, and CD4 count, with each group assigned a 
treatment cost and utility (quality of life) score. Model inputs came from 
published studies, clinical trials, and database analyses. Results were used to 
calculate incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of raltegravir use, 
expressed in Swiss francs (CHF) as incremental cost/quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained. Future costs and QALYs were discounted at 3% per year.
RESULTS: Five years of raltegravir treatment increased discounted 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 3.73 years over placebo, with additional 
discounted cost of CHF 170,347, resulting in an ICER of CHF 45,687/QALY. ICERs 
ranged from CHF 42,751 to 53,478/QALY for treatment duration of 3 and 10 years, 
respectively. Results were most sensitive to changes in raltegravir treatment 
duration, source of estimated quality of life weights, and raltegravir price.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding raltegravir to optimized background therapy was a 
cost-effective strategy for treatment-experienced patients in Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1310/hct1004-233
PMID: 19723611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Menopause Int. 2009 Sep;15(3):134-8. doi: 10.1258/mi.2009.009027.

Hormone replacement therapy and the endometrium.

Daayana S(1), Holland CM.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Manchester School 
of Cancer and Imaging Science, St Mary's Hospital, Whitworth Park, Manchester, 
UK.

The life-expectancy for women has increased significantly in the 20th century, 
although the time of onset of menopause has not. Almost a third of a woman's 
life is now postmenopausal and therefore many postmenopausal women consider 
using hormone replacement therapy (HRT) to improve their quality of life. Most 
cases of endometrial carcinoma arise in postmenopausal women and this raises 
concern among patients and clinicians with regard to the safety of HRT in this 
age group. Whenever the use of HRT is considered, a careful consideration of the 
actual benefit in terms of symptom relief and quality of life must be balanced 
against the risks for each individual woman. This review discusses the effects 
of HRT on the endometrium and the evidence regarding HRT use and risk of 
endometrial cancer.

DOI: 10.1258/mi.2009.009027
PMID: 19723685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2009 Sep;91(9):2086-93. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.H.01111.

Is early internal fixation preferred to cast treatment for well-reduced unstable 
distal radial fractures?

Koenig KM(1), Davis GC, Grove MR, Tosteson AN, Koval KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03756, USA.

BACKGROUND: In the treatment of distal radial fractures, physicians often 
advocate internal fixation over cast treatment for potentially unstable fracture 
patterns, citing the difficulties of successful nonoperative treatment and a 
decrease in patient tolerance for functional deficiencies. This study was 
performed to evaluate whether early internal fixation or nonoperative treatment 
would be preferred for displaced, potentially unstable distal radial fractures 
that initially had an adequate reduction.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was created to compare early internal 
fixation with use of a volar plate and nonoperative management of a displaced, 
potentially unstable distal radial fracture with an acceptable closed reduction. 
To identify the optimal treatment, quality-adjusted life expectancy was 
estimated for each management approach. Data from the literature were used to 
estimate rates of treatment complications (e.g., fracture redisplacement with 
nonoperative treatment) and of treatment outcomes. Mean health-state utilities 
for treatment outcomes of painless malunion, functional deficit, and painful 
malunion were derived by surveying fifty-one adult volunteers with use of the 
time trade-off method. Sensitivity analysis was used to determine which model 
parameters would change the treatment decision over a plausible range of values.
RESULTS: Early internal fixation with volar plating was the preferred strategy 
in most scenarios over the ranges of parameters available, but the margins were 
small. The older patient (mean age, 57.8 years) who sustains a distal radial 
fracture can expect 0.08 more quality-adjusted life years (29.2 days) with 
internal fixation compared with nonoperative treatment. Sensitivity analysis 
revealed no single factor that changed the preferred option within the reported 
ranges in the base case. However, the group of patients sixty-five years or 
older, who had lower disutility for painful malunion, derived a very small 
benefit from operative treatment (0.01 quality-adjusted life year or 3.7 days) 
and would prefer cast treatment in some scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: Internal fixation with use of a volar plate for potentially 
unstable distal radial fractures provided a higher probability of painless union 
on the basis of available data in the literature. This long-term gain in 
quality-adjusted life years outweighed the short-term risks of surgical 
complications, making early internal fixation the preferred treatment in most 
cases. However, the difference was quite small. Patients, especially those over 
sixty-four years old, who have lower disutility for the malunion and painful 
malunion outcome states may prefer nonoperative treatment.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.H.01111
PMID: 19723984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Rejuvenation Res. 2009 Aug;12(4):283-8. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0894.

Live fast, die young: new lessons in mammalian longevity.

Cox LS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom. 
lynne.cox@bioch.ox.ac.uk

Can we extend human lifespan? Do we need to regulate lifestyle choices or can we 
simply pop a pill to make us live longer? These are questions raised by two new 
studies demonstrating significant lifespan extension in mice fed the drug 
rapamycin in their diet and in calorically restricted rhesus monkeys. The 
excitement generated by these papers is a consequence of their novelty and 
possible applicability to humans: the mouse study on rapamycin is the first to 
highlight a drug that given in the diet late in life leads to increased 
mammalian longevity, and the Wisconsin monkey study is the first to report 
significant lifespan extension and delay in age-associated morbidity in nonhuman 
primates following adult-onset caloric restriction. These papers are discussed 
here in the context of current knowledge of molecular mechanisms of aging.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0894
PMID: 19725776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):160-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00608.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 2.

Cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators in Brazil: primary 
prevention analysis in the public sector.

Ribeiro RA(1), Stella SF, Camey SA, Zimerman LI, Pimentel M, Rohde LE, Polanczyk 
CA.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Epidemiology of Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do 
Sul, Hospital de Clínicas de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have demonstrated the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) in chronic 
heart failure (CHF) patients. Despite its widespread use in developing 
countries, limited data exist on its cost-effectiveness in these settings.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of ICD in CHF patients under the 
perspective of the Brazilian Public Healthcare System (PHS).
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to evaluate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of ICD compared with conventional therapy in 
patients with CHF and New York Heart Association class II and III. Effectiveness 
was evaluated in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and time horizon was 20 
years. We searched MEDLINE for clinical trials and cohort studies to estimate 
data from effectiveness, complications, mortality, and utilities. Costs from the 
PHS were retrieved from national administrative databases. The model's 
robustness was assessed through Monte Carlo simulation and one-way sensitivity 
analysis. Costs were expressed as international dollars, applying the purchasing 
power parity conversion rate (PPP US$).
RESULTS: ICD therapy was more costly and more effective, with incremental 
cost-effectiveness estimates of PPP US$ 50,345/QALY. Results were more sensitive 
to costs related to the device, generator replacement frequency and ICD 
effectiveness. In a simulation resembling the MADIT-I population survival and 
ICD benefit, the ICER was PPP US$ 17,494/QALY and PPP US$ 15,394/life years.
CONCLUSIONS: In a Brazilian scenario, where ICD cost is proportionally more 
elevated than in developed countries, ICD therapy was associated with a high 
cost-effectiveness ratio. The results were more favorable for a patient subgroup 
at increased risk of sudden death.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00608.x
PMID: 19725912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Crit Care. 2009;13(4):180. doi: 10.1186/cc7977. Epub 2009 Aug 21.

Empiric anti-Candida therapy for patients with sepsis in the ICU: how little is 
too little?

Golan Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geographic Medicine and Infectious Diseases, Tufts Medical 
Center, 800 Washington Street, Boston, MA 02111, USA. 
ygolan@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Comment on
    Crit Care. 2009;13(3):R94.

Prior analyses suggest that empiric fluconazole for ICU patients with sepsis is 
cost-effective. Using updated estimates of efficacy and cost, Zilberberg and 
colleagues compare the use of micafungin with that of fluconazole. The authors 
conclude that micafungin is an attractive alternative to fluconazole. This 
conclusion is driven by recent reduction in micafungin's cost and by better 
activity of micafungin against azole-resistant Candida species. Their results 
are limited by inflated estimates of efficacy, life expectancy and risk of 
Candida sepsis. This commentary explores the rationale for early anti-Candida 
strategies in the ICU and highlights the contribution and limitations of the 
article by Zilberberg and colleagues.

DOI: 10.1186/cc7977
PMCID: PMC2750174
PMID: 19725938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Toxicol Sci. 2009 Nov;112(1):44-58. doi: 10.1093/toxsci/kfp198. Epub 2009
Sep 2.

Evaluating placental transfer and tissue concentrations of manganese in the 
pregnant rat and fetuses after inhalation exposures with a PBPK model.

Yoon M(1), Nong A, Clewell HJ 3rd, Taylor MD, Dorman DC, Andersen ME.

Author information:
(1)The Hamner Institutes for Health Sciences, 6 Davis Drive, Research Triangle 
Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. myoon@thehamner.org

A Physiologically Based Pharmaco Kinetic (PBPK) model, based on a published 
description of manganese (Mn) kinetics in adult rats, has been developed to 
describe Mn uptake and tissue distribution in the pregnant dam and fetus during 
dietary and inhalation exposures. This extension incorporated key physiological 
processes controlling Mn pharmacokinetics during pregnancy and fetal 
development. After calibration against tissue Mn concentrations observed during 
late gestation, the model accurately simulated Mn tissue distribution in the dam 
and fetus following both diet and inhalation exposures to the pregnant rat. 
Maternal to fetal transfer of Mn through placenta was described using two 
pathways: a saturable active transport with high affinity and a simple 
diffusion. The active transport dominates at basal and lower Mn exposure, 
whereas at higher Mn exposure, the relative contribution of the diffusion 
pathway increases. To simulate fetal tissue Mn, tissue-binding parameters and 
preferential influx/efflux rates in fetal brain were adjusted from the adult 
model based on differential developmental processes and varying tissue demands 
for Mn in early life. Model simulations were consistent with observed tissue Mn 
concentrations in fetal tissues, including brain for diet alone and for combined 
diet and inhalation. Simulations of Mn in placenta and other maternal tissues in 
late gestation correlated well with measured tissue concentrations. This model, 
together with our published models for Mn kinetics during lactation and 
postnatal development, will help to address concerns about Mn neurotoxicity in 
potentially sensitive human subpopulation, such as infants and children by 
providing an estimate of Mn exposure in the population of interest.

DOI: 10.1093/toxsci/kfp198
PMID: 19726578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. N Engl J Med. 2009 Sep 3;361(10):968-79. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa0810866.

Injectable collagenase clostridium histolyticum for Dupuytren's contracture.

Hurst LC(1), Badalamente MA, Hentz VR, Hotchkiss RN, Kaplan FT, Meals RA, Smith 
TM, Rodzvilla J; CORD I Study Group.

Collaborators: Akelman E, Bear B, Belsky MR, Blazar P, Britton EN, Costas B, 
Frazier JL, Hentz V, Hotchkiss RN, Hurst LC, Badalamente MA, Kaplan FT, Lubahn 
J, McPherson S, Meals R, Peimer CA, Roeshot D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, SUNY at Stony Brook, Health Science Center, Level 
18, Rm. 020, Stony Brook, NY 11794-8181, USA. lhurst@notes.cc.sunysb.edu

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Dec 24;361(26):2578-9; author reply 2579-80.
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Dec 24;361(26):2579; author reply 2579-80.

BACKGROUND: Dupuytren's disease limits hand function, diminishes the quality of 
life, and may ultimately disable the hand. Surgery followed by hand therapy is 
standard treatment, but it is associated with serious potential complications. 
Injection of collagenase clostridium histolyticum, an office-based, nonsurgical 
option, may reduce joint contractures caused by Dupuytren's disease.
METHODS: We enrolled 308 patients with joint contractures of 20 degrees or more 
in this prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter 
trial. The primary metacarpophalangeal or proximal interphalangeal joints of 
these patients were randomly assigned to receive up to three injections of 
collagenase clostridium histolyticum (at a dose of 0.58 mg per injection) or 
placebo in the contracted collagen cord at 30-day intervals. One day after 
injection, the joints were manipulated. The primary end point was a reduction in 
contracture to 0 to 5 degrees of full extension 30 days after the last 
injection. Twenty-six secondary end points were evaluated, and data on adverse 
events were collected.
RESULTS: Collagenase treatment significantly improved outcomes. More cords that 
were injected with collagenase than cords injected with placebo met the primary 
end point (64.0% vs. 6.8%, P < 0.001), as well as all secondary end points (P < 
or = 0.002). Overall, the range of motion in the joints was significantly 
improved after injection with collagenase as compared with placebo (from 43.9 to 
80.7 degrees vs. from 45.3 to 49.5 degrees, P < 0.001). The most commonly 
reported adverse events were localized swelling, pain, bruising, pruritus, and 
transient regional lymph-node enlargement and tenderness. Three 
treatment-related serious adverse events were reported: two tendon ruptures and 
one case of complex regional pain syndrome. No significant changes in flexion or 
grip strength, no systemic allergic reactions, and no nerve injuries were 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Collagenase clostridium histolyticum significantly reduced 
contractures and improved the range of motion in joints affected by advanced 
Dupuytren's disease. (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00528606.)

2009 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa0810866
PMID: 19726771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2009 Oct;44(10):947-53. doi: 10.1002/ppul.21086.

Renal dysfunction in cystic fibrosis: is there cause for concern?

Soulsby N(1), Greville H, Coulthard K, Doecke C.

Author information:
(1)Sansom Institute, University of South Australia, South Australia, Australia. 
natalie.soulsby@unisa.edu.au

Most people associate cystic fibrosis (CF) with lung disease. Although this is 
the major cause of morbidity and mortality, CF is in fact a multi-organ disease. 
Patients with CF are living longer. Accompanying their increased life expectancy 
are complications not previously encountered. One of the less obvious concerns 
is that of renal dysfunction associated with long-term exposure to 
aminoglycosides as well as renally toxic immunosuppressants in lung transplant 
recipients. This article reviews what is known about the extent of the problem, 
summarizes what the current practices of measuring and monitoring renal function 
in patients with CF, and makes suggestions for alternative approaches. In 
particular, the potential role of cystatin C will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.21086
PMID: 19728391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Drugs Aging. 2009;26(9):791-801. doi: 10.2165/11316770-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of rasagiline and pramipexole as treatment strategies in 
early Parkinson's disease in the UK setting: an economic Markov model 
evaluation.

Haycox A(1), Armand C, Murteira S, Cochran J, François C.

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool Management School, Liverpool, UK.

Comment in
    Drugs Aging. 2011 Feb 1;28(2):161-2.

BACKGROUND: Levodopa is the most effective treatment for the symptoms of 
Parkinson's disease (PD). However, after an initial period of benefit, several 
limitations become apparent, including motor complications such as dyskinesia. 
Dyskinesia can severely affect patients' quality of life and increases 
healthcare resource use. Thus, delaying the need for levodopa, and therefore the 
onset of levodopa-induced dyskinesia, is important.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the cost effectiveness, from a 
UK healthcare payer perspective, of two antiparkinsonian treatment strategies in 
early PD: first-line monotherapy with rasagiline, a novel monoamine oxidase B 
inhibitor; and the non-ergoline dopamine receptor agonist pramipexole.
METHODS: An economic Markov model was developed as a pragmatic tool to derive 
comparative information on the effectiveness, utility and costs of these two 
strategies over a 5-year period. Model input data were obtained from the TEMPO 
study for rasagiline and from a study by the Parkinson Study Group for 
pramipexole. Effectiveness outcomes were time to levodopa and time to 
levodopa-induced dyskinesia. Cost and quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) data 
were derived from published sources.
RESULTS: Rasagiline was the dominant strategy. Compared with pramipexole, use of 
the rasagiline strategy was estimated to reduce costs by 18% per patient over 5 
years and was associated with an additional 10% delay in dyskinesia onset (0.41 
years; 95% CI 0.27, 0.55). This strategy was also found to prolong the time to 
levodopa initiation by 25% through a gain of 0.83 levodopa-free years (95% CI 
0.56, 1.1). In addition, use of the rasagiline strategy was found to generate a 
5% gain in QALYs over 5 years compared with the pramipexole strategy (3.7 +/- 
0.02 vs 3.51 +/- 0.03). Sensitivity analyses confirmed that the model was 
robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Rasagiline represents a cost-effective alternative to pramipexole 
in the treatment of early PD in the UK.

DOI: 10.2165/11316770-000000000-00000
PMID: 19728752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2009 Oct;20(10):2093-7. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2009070715. Epub
2009  Sep 3.

ESRD as a window into America's cost crisis in health care.

Knauf F(1), Aronson PS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University 
School of Medicine, TAC S-255, New Haven, CT 06520-8029, USA.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2009070715
PMID: 19729435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Diabetes Care. 2009 Dec;32(12):2193-9. doi: 10.2337/dc09-0651. Epub 2009 Sep
3.

