through sources of levels and combining mean differences at group levels and the 
variation of individuals, for the benefits of decision making and intervention 
planning. Measures derived recently from marginal models such as beta-binomial 
and frailty survival, address this issue to some extent, but are limited in 
handling data with complex structures. Beta-binomial models were also limited in 
relation to measuring inequalities of life expectancy (LE) directly.
METHODS: We propose a multilevel survival model analysis that estimates life 
expectancy based on survival time with censored data. The model explicitly 
disentangles total health inequalities in terms of variance components of life 
expectancy compared to the source of variation at the level of individuals in 
households and parishes and so on, and estimates group differences of 
inequalities at the same time. Adjusted distributions of life expectancy by 
gender and by household socioeconomic level are calculated. Relative and 
absolute health inequality indices are derived based on model estimates. The 
model based analysis is illustrated on a large Swedish cohort of 22,680 men and 
26,474 women aged 6569 in 1970 and followed up for 30 years. Model based 
inequality measures are compared to the conventional calculations.
RESULTS: Much variation of life expectancy is observed at individual and 
household levels. Contextual effects at Parish and Municipality level are 
negligible. Women have longer life expectancy than men and lower inequality. 
There is marked inequality by the level of household socioeconomic status 
measured by the median life expectancy in each socio-economic group and the 
variation in life expectancy within each group.
CONCLUSION: Multilevel survival models are flexible and efficient tools in 
studying health inequalities of life expectancy or survival time data with a 
geographic structure of more than 2 levels. They are complementary to 
conventional methods and override some limitations of marginal models. Future 
research on determinants of health inequalities in the LE of the specific cohort 
on the household and individual factors could reveal some important causes over 
the marked household level inequalities.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-8-31
PMCID: PMC2740845
PMID: 19698159


313. Eur Psychiatry. 1998;13 Suppl 2:75s-81s. doi: 10.1016/S0924-9338(98)80018-7.

New treatments for panic.

Ballenger J.

Panic disorder is a chronic condition for many patients and can be socially, 
emotionally and occupationally disabling. Until recently, clomipramine and 
alprazolam were the only drugs approved for its treatment. While widely used in 
the US and Europe, both belong to drug classes (tricyclics and benzodiazepines) 
with well-recognised side effects that can be problematic and thus limit their 
use. Recently, paroxetine became the first selective serotonin reuptake 
inhibitor to receive approval and licensing for panic disorder. The short- and 
long-term efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine in panic disorder has been 
established in clinical trials of almost 1,000 patients meeting Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual (DSM)-IIIR criteria for panic disorder, with or without 
agoraphobia. In a 12-week double-blind study of 120 panic patients receiving 
standardised cognitive therapy, paroxetine was significantly more effective than 
placebo in reducing panic attack frequency. In a 12-week placebo-controlled 
comparison in 367 panic patients, paroxetine was at least as effective as 
clomipramine and better tolerated. There was also some evidence that paroxetine 
had an earlier onset of action than clomipramine. A 9-month extension of the 
placebo-controlled comparison with clomipramine showed that the efficacy of 
paroxetine and clomipramine is maintained when treatment is continued into the 
longer term. In a relapse prevention study, 105 responders to 3 months' 
treatment with paroxetine or placebo were re-randomised, either to continue 
existing treatment or to receive placebo for 3 months. Only 5% of patients who 
continued to take paroxetine experienced a relapse compared with 30% of those 
who switched to placebo (P = 0.002). Paroxetine was generally well tolerated. In 
the short-term trials, the frequency of withdrawals due to adverse events (7.3%) 
was lower than that for placebo (11.4%) or clomipramine (14.9%). In the longer 
term, the dropout rate due to adverse events increased in the clomipramine group 
(19.0%) but was unchanged in the paroxetine group (7.4%). Since most patients 
with panic disorder will require prolonged treatment, the long-term tolerability 
of paroxetine and its lack of potential for dependence are important advantages 
that will encourage good compliance with treatment and improve the quality of 
life of patients.

DOI: 10.1016/S0924-9338(98)80018-7
PMID: 19698677


314. Mech Ageing Dev. 2009 Oct;130(10):691-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2009.08.004.
Epub  2009 Aug 19.

A functional EXO1 promoter variant is associated with prolonged life expectancy 
in centenarians.

Nebel A(1), Flachsbart F, Till A, Caliebe A, Blanché H, Arlt A, Häsler R, Jacobs 
G, Kleindorp R, Franke A, Shen B, Nikolaus S, Krawczak M, Rosenstiel P, 
Schreiber S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, the Christian-Albrechts-University, 
Kiel, Germany.

Human longevity is heritable with a genetic component of 25-32%. Variation in 
genes regulating the levels of somatic maintenance and DNA repair functions is 
thought to modulate the aging process and to contribute to survival at advanced 
age. We tested 92 non-synonymous SNPs in 49 DNA repair genes for a possible 
association with longevity in a sample of 395 German centenarians and 411 
controls. The obtained association signal in exonuclease 1 (EXO1) was further 
investigated by fine mapping and mutation detection, leading to the 
identification of the functionally relevant SNP rs1776180. Our detailed analyses 
revealed that the C allele of this promoter SNP is significantly enriched in 
female centenarians. This finding replicated in 455 female French centenarians 
and 109 controls. The C allele leads to the loss of a binding site for the basic 
helix-loop-helix transcription factor E47, resulting in higher EXO1 expression. 
Thus, we have detected a hitherto undescribed role for E47 as a negative 
regulator of EXO1 transcription and a genetic variant in the EXO1 promoter that 
counteracts the E47-mediated repression of the gene. Given the survival 
advantage that is associated with the C allele of rs1776180, EXO1 can be 
considered a candidate for a novel longevity-enabling gene.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2009.08.004
PMID: 19698732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Vaccine. 2009 Oct 19;27(44):6196-202. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.004.
Epub  2009 Aug 19.

The potential cost-effectiveness of adding a human papillomavirus vaccine to the 
cervical cancer screening programme in South Africa.

Sinanovic E(1), Moodley J, Barone MA, Mall S, Cleary S, Harries J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, School of Public Health & Family Medicine, University 
of Cape Town, Anzio Road, Observatory 7925, Cape Town, South Africa. 
Edina.Sinanovic@uct.ac.za

Erratum in
    Vaccine. 2010 Aug 9;28(35):5755.

This study was designed to answer the question of whether a cervical cancer 
prevention programme that incorporates a human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine is 
potentially more cost-effective than the current strategy of screening alone in 
South Africa. We developed a static Markov state transition model to describe 
the screening and management of cervical cancer within the South African 
context. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of adding HPV vaccination to 
the screening programme ranged from US $1078 to 1460 per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained and US$3320-4495 per life year saved, mainly depending on 
whether the study was viewed from a health service or a societal perspective. 
Using discounted costs and benefits, the threshold analysis indicated that a 
vaccine price reduction of 60% or more would make the vaccine plus screening 
strategy more cost-effective than the screening only approach. To address the 
issue of affordability and cost-effectiveness, the pharmaceutical companies need 
to make a commitment to price reductions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.004
PMID: 19698807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Clin Ther. 2009 Jun;31 Pt 1:1456-68. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.06.009.

Cost-effectiveness of quetiapine plus mood stabilizers compared with mood 
stabilizers alone in the maintenance therapy of bipolar I disorder: results of a 
Markov model analysis.

Fajutrao L(1), Paulsson B, Liu S, Locklear J.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca Research and Development, Södertälje, Sweden. 
liberty.fajutrao@astrazeneca.com

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the following: (1) the number 
of acute mood events prevented by adjunctive quetiapine therapy, and the 
potential cost savings; (2) the number of acute mood event-associated 
hospitalizations avoided by using adjunctive quetiapine therapy, and the 
potential cost savings of this intervention; and (3) the economic value of 
adjunctive quetiapine therapy in the maintenance treatment of bipolar I 
disorder.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the transitions of newly 
stabilized adult patients with bipolar I disorder across 4 possible health 
states: euthymia, acute mania, acute depression, and discontinued/ no active 
therapy. Clinical data were obtained from 2 randomized, double-blind, Phase III 
trials of up to 2 years' duration (D1447C00126 and D1447C00127) that evaluated 
the efficacy and tolerability of quetiapine (versus placebo) when coadministered 
with lithium or valproate in increasing the time to recurrence of acute mood 
events in patients with bipolar I disorder. The model evaluated clinical and 
economic outcomes in 8 quarterly cycles (24 months). Outcome measures included 
the number of acute mood events, number of hospitalizations related to acute 
mood events, and their costs. Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were 
calculated as a secondary outcome. The model was conducted from the perspective 
of the UK National Health Service, base year 2007.
RESULTS: In the model analysis, adjunctive quetiapine with lithium or valproate 
was associated with a 54% reduction in the occurrence of acute mood events, a 
29% reduction in acute mood event-related hospitalization costs, and a 4% 
improvement in QALY gains, with 5% lower total direct costs than placebo + 
lithium/valproate. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (in year-2007 
pound) were 506 per additional acute mood event avoided, 4261 per additional 
acute mood event-related hospitalization prevented, and -7453 per additional 
QALY gained. The sensitivity analyses indicated that these results were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this Markov model with a 2-year time horizon suggest 
that adjunctive quetiapine and mood-stabilizer therapy with lithium or 
valproate, compared with mood-stabilizer therapy alone in the maintenance 
treatment of patients with bipolar I disorder, were associated with fewer acute 
mood events, fewer acute mood event-related hospitalizations, and lower total 
costs, thereby improving patient mental health outcomes and minimizing impact on 
payer budgets, from the perspective of the UK National Health Service.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.06.009
PMID: 19698903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Electrocardiol. 2009 Nov-Dec;42(6):473-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2009.07.005. Epub 2009 Aug 20.

The role of continuous monitoring in a 24/7 telecardiology consultation 
service--a feasibility study.

Nikus K(1), Lähteenmäki J, Lehto P, Eskola M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Heart Center, Tampere University Hospital, Tampere, 
Finland.

Today's coronary care unit patients include those with complicated and 
uncomplicated myocardial infarction, decompensated heart failure and frank 
cardiogenic shock, severe valvular heart disease, high-grade conduction 
disturbances, and incessant ventricular arrhythmias. Increasingly in modern 
medicine, these conditions are not seen in isolation but rather in connection 
with a series of additional medical comorbidities. Increased life expectancy 
results in an increase in the prevalence of chronic cardiovascular diseases and 
an increased demand for health care services. Telemedicine is the provision of 
health care services, through the use of information and communication 
technology, in situations where the health care professional and the patient, or 
2 health care professionals, are not in the same location. It involves the 
secure transmission of medical data and information, through text, sound, 
images, or other forms needed for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and 
follow-up of a patient. Telecardiology is one of the oldest applications in 
telemedicine and has been largely applied during the last 10 to 20 years. This 
study evaluated the feasibility of remote surveillance of coronary care unit and 
cardiology ward patient monitoring data by a "telecardiologist" with access to 
electronic health care record data and digitally stored 12-lead 
electrocardiograms. The remote access to the hospital intranet proved to be 
technically feasible. Also, the server applications used over the remote 
connection proved to be reliable and showed robustness against network 
performance variations. Extending remote patient surveillance to other hospitals 
is possible, provided that similar electrocardiogram and electronic health care 
record applications are available and a remote access can be arranged to them. 
However, the usability from cardiologist's perspective may be degraded if 
connecting with multiple applications and hospital networks is needed. The study 
indicated potential for speeding up the diagnostic and therapeutic processes in 
the hospital, although the study was limited in that the telecardiologist played 
a passive role and did not acutely impact patient care. In the future, the 
system could be expanded to surveillance of smaller hospitals. Telemedicine has 
the potential to aid in solving the conflict between aging of population, rise 
in the demand for critical care services, and shortage of professional 
personnel. This might, however, require a more active remote surveillance than 
the one tested in this study. Privacy- and security-related aspects are major 
components of building trust and confidence in telemedicine systems. In 
telecardiology, the real-time interactive telemedicine model with 24/7 service 
has potential superior performance compared with a store-and-forward 
telemedicine model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jelectrocard.2009.07.005
PMID: 19698956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Am J Med. 2009 Sep;122(9):815-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2009.05.009.

Acute urinary retention in elderly men.

Thorne MB(1), Geraci SA.

Author information:
(1)Medical Service, G.V. (Sonny) Montgomery Veterans' Affairs Medical Center and 
the Department of Medicine, University of Mississippi School of Medicine, 
Jackson, Mississippi, USA. marybeththorne@yahoo.com

Acute urinary retention is a urologic emergency that can affect elderly men. It 
requires prompt bladder decompression and identification of the underlying 
cause. Elderly patients with acute urinary retention often have associated fecal 
impaction, delirium, and constitutional symptoms. With increasing age, 
hospitalization for acute urinary retention may be necessary to treat 
precipitating events, whereas acute urinary retention itself might precipitate 
or exacerbate comorbid medical conditions, necessitating hospitalization. 
Multiple causative factors operate via 3 main mechanisms: obstructive, 
neurogenic, and detrusor underactivity. More than 1 mechanism might exist in a 
single patient. Definitive treatment must be individualized on the basis of the 
quality of life, life expectancy, caregiver support, and presence of other 
chronic medical conditions. Urology consultation may be needed for invasive 
diagnostic testing or management of refractory cases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2009.05.009
PMID: 19699373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Ann Thorac Surg. 2009 Sep;88(3):796-801. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2009.04.104.

Four-year outcome of OPCAB no-touch with total arterial Y-graft: making the best 
treatment a daily practice.

Halbersma WB(1), Arrigoni SC, Mecozzi G, Grandjean JG, Kappetein AP, van der 
Palen J, Zijlstra F, Mariani MA.

Author information:
(1)Thoraxcenter Twente, Enschede, the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2010 Oct;90(4):1392-3; author reply 1393-4.

BACKGROUND: A retrospective, single-center 4-year clinical study of the off-pump 
coronary artery bypass grafting no-touch technique with arterial conduits 
(Y-graft) was compared with the Syntax trial.
METHODS: Four hundred consecutive patients ("all-comers") who underwent coronary 
surgery between 2004 and 2008 at the Thorax Center Twente (TCT) formed the study 
group. The primary end point was in-hospital and 12-month major cardiovascular 
or cerebrovascular event (MACCE). Event rates of MACCE were based on life 
tables, and overall MACCE was determined by Kaplan-Meier analysis.
RESULTS: In-hospital mortality was 0.2%. Cumulative 1-year survival was 98.2%, 
and freedom from MACCE was 94.7% +/- 1.1%. Cumulative 4-year survival and 
freedom from MACCE were 91.2% +/- 2.4% and 82.1% +/- 3.0%, respectively. There 
were no significant differences in the baseline characteristics between the 
patients of the TCT group and the surgical arm of the Syntax trial. Repeat 
revascularization, MACCE, and symptomatic graft occlusion in the TCT group were 
significantly lower than in the Syntax trial. The event rate of myocardial 
infarction and all-cause death in the TCT group were significantly lower than 
those of the percutaneous coronary intervention arm of the Syntax trial. There 
was a clear trend toward a reduction of the event rate of stroke in the TCT 
group (0.8%) compared with the surgical arm of the Syntax trial (2.2%). There 
was no significant difference of stroke rate between the TCT group and the 
percutaneous coronary intervention arm of the Syntax trial.
CONCLUSIONS: A state-of-the-art surgical technique such as off-pump coronary 
artery bypass grafting no-touch can further improve the advantage of surgical 
treatment with respect to percutaneous coronary intervention. Off-pump coronary 
artery bypass grafting no-touch surgery can be the treatment of choice for 
patients with three-vessel disease and left main stenosis.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2009.04.104
PMID: 19699900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Clin Chest Med. 2009 Sep;30(3):415-44, vii. doi: 10.1016/j.ccm.2009.05.001.

The obesity epidemic.

Catenacci VA(1), Hill JO, Wyatt HR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, 
University of Colorado Denver, Denver, CO 80220, USA.

Obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the United States, with 35.1% of 
adults being classified as obese. Obesity affects every segment of the US 
population and continues to increase steadily, especially in children. Obesity 
increases the risk for many other chronic diseases, including diabetes mellitus, 
cardiovascular disease, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and decreases 
overall quality of life. The current US generation may have a shorter life 
expectancy than their parents if the obesity epidemic is not controlled, and 
there is no indication that the prevalence of obesity is decreasing. Because of 
the complexity of obesity, it is likely to be one of the most difficult public 
health issues our society has faced.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccm.2009.05.001
PMID: 19700042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Hand Surg Am. 2009 Sep;34(7):1201-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.06.009.

The cost-effectiveness of nonsurgical versus surgical treatment for carpal 
tunnel syndrome: invited commentary.

Haase SC(1), Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Section of Plastic Surgery, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109-5340, USA.

Comment on
    J Hand Surg Am. 2009 Sep;34(7):1193-200.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.06.009
PMID: 19700069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2009 Nov;36(5):818-24. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejcts.2009.05.020. Epub 2009 Aug 22.

Mitroflow aortic pericardial bioprosthesis--clinical performance.

Jamieson WR(1), Koerfer R, Yankah CA, Zittermann A, Hayden RI, Ling H, Hetzer R, 
Dolman WB.

Author information:
(1)St. Paul's Hospital & Royal Columbian Hospital, University of British 
Columbia, 486 Burrard Building, 1081 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, Vancouver, 
BC, Canada V6Z 1Y6. eric.jamieson@vch.ca

Comment in
    Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2010 Nov;38(5):649; author reply 649-50.

OBJECTIVE: Advancing life expectancy with the increased prevalence of aortic 
valve degenerative disease brings the need for an aortic bioprosthesis with 
excellent haemodynamic performance and comparable durability. The Mitroflow 
bioprosthesis has been on the worldwide market, except in the United States, 
since 1982, while the current model (1991) has only recently gained regulatory 
approval in the latter country. This study was primarily performed to determine 
the durability of the current Mitroflow bioprosthesis.
METHODS: The contemporary Mitroflow bioprosthesis was implanted in 381 patients 
in three centres. The mean age was 76.4 years (range 53-91 years) and the mean 
follow-up period was 5.4+/-3.4 years, a total of 2048.7 years of evaluation. 
Prosthesis-patient mismatch (PPM) was classified by reference effective orifice 
area index categories: normal > or = 0.85 cm(2) m(-2) (53.9%), mild 0.84-0.76 
cm(2) m(-2) (33.9%), moderate < or = 0.75-0.66 cm(2) m(-2) (11.7%) and severe < 
or = 0.65 cm(2) m(-2) (0.5%).
RESULTS: The survival, at 10 years, was 39.9+/-7.9% for 50-69 years, 27.0+/-3.7% 
for 70-79 years and 16.6+/-4.4% for > or = 80 years (p=0.011). There was a trend 
(p=0.063) influencing survival for moderate-to-severe PPM. Of the independent 
predictors influencing survival--moderate-to-severe projected effective orifice 
area index (pEOAI) (Hazard Ratio (HR) 1.6, p=0.0142) and left ventricular 
dysfunction (ejection fraction < 35%) (HR 1.9, p=0.0193) were included. The 
10-year freedom from structural valve deterioration (SVD) at explant assessing 
the same age groups as survival was not different (p=0.081). The 10-year 
actual/actuarial freedom from SVD, at explant was for > or = 60 
years--94.4+/-1.4% (85.2+/-3.9%), for > or = 65 years--94.2+/-1.4% 
(85.0+/-4.0%), for 61-70 years--97.4+/-2.6% (95.7+/-4.3%) and for > 70 
years--94.0+/-1.5% (83.2+/-4.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: The Mitroflow external mounted, pericardial aortic bioprosthesis 
with documented excellent haemodynamics (especially for the small aortic root), 
demonstrates that prosthesis-patient mismatch in moderate and severe categories 
can essentially be eliminated, with durability performance comparable to other 
heterograft (porcine and pericardial) bioprostheses.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejcts.2009.05.020
PMID: 19700338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Med Pregl. 2009;62 Suppl 3:75-9.

[Anatomic distribution of peripheral atherosclerosis and its correlation with 
lipid disorders].

[Article in Serbian]

Tesić DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinicka centar Vojvodine, Novi Sad. drtesic@EUnet.rs

The peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) of the lower extremities caused 
by atherosclerosis is usually associated with the one in the coronary and 
cerebral arteries. Life expectancy of patients having PAOD is shorter for about 
10 years and most of these patients die from a heart disease or insult. Arterial 
occlusive Such a multi-segment disease is also associated with the poorer 
general cardiovascular health condition and higher morbidity and mortality than 
in the case of a localized one-segment disease. Numerous studies have shown that 
the etiology of a disease in the changes in the legs usually develop at several 
levels within the arteries, but it is possible to localize them only in one 
limited region in the vessel. When stenosis is found on several places, the 
blood flow in the lower extremities is often very compromised, and ischaemia of 
the legs may become an important clinical problem. lower extremities may vary 
depending on the anatomic site of me lesion. Aorto-iliac disease seems to 
develop in younger patients who smoke, whereas a more distal lesion in the 
infrapopliteal arteries is primarily found in diabetic patients.

PMID: 19702121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Ann Hum Genet. 2009 Nov;73(Pt 6):601-13. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-1809.2009.00539.x.  Epub 2009 Aug 20.

Tests of association for quantitative traits in nuclear families using principal 
components to correct for population stratification.

Zhang L(1), Li J, Pei YF, Liu Y, Deng HW.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Xi'an 
710049, People's Republic of China.

Traditional transmission disequilibrium test (TDT) based methods for genetic 
association analyses are robust to population stratification at the cost of a 
substantial loss of power. We here describe a novel method for family-based 
association studies that corrects for population stratification with the use of 
an extension of principal component analysis (PCA). Specifically, we adopt PCA 
on unrelated parents in each family. We then infer principal components for 
children from those for their parents through a TDT-like strategy. Two test 
statistics within the variance-components model are proposed for association 
tests. Simulation results show that the proposed tests have correct type I error 
rates regardless of population stratification, and have greatly improved power 
over two popular TDT-based methods: QTDT and FBAT. The application to the 
Genetic Analysis Workshop 16 (GAW16) data sets attests to the feasibility of the 
proposed method.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-1809.2009.00539.x
PMCID: PMC2764806
PMID: 19702646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Gerodontology. 2009 Sep;26(3):163-4. doi: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2009.00338.x.

Retirement--choice or necessity?

Newton JP.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-2358.2009.00338.x
PMID: 19702818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Neuropsychiatr. 2009;23(3):151-6.

[Physical activity in persons with severe mental illness: research-based 
clinical recommendations].

[Article in German]

Kopp M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Medizinische Universität 
Innsbruck, Univ.-Klinik für Allgemeine Psychiatrie und Sozialpsychiatrie, 
Fachbereich Klinische- und Gesundheitspsychologie. Martin.Kopp@i-med.ac.at.

Recent data show alarming reduction of life-expectancy in patients with severe 
mental illness; due to these findings strategies to reduce cardiovascular and 
behavioural risk factors are needed. Integrating physical activity programs into 
psychiatric services can improve physical health outcomes of patients with 
serious mental illness and may produce improvements in psychological and social 
outcomes. Thus, recovery-oriented treatment strategies may benefit from a 
biopsychosocial approach and a case management concept including concepts 
derived from psychiatry and health psychology.

PMID: 19703380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Respir Physiol Neurobiol. 2009 Nov 30;169(2):218-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.resp.2009.08.008. Epub 2009 Aug 22.

Role of neurotrophins in recovery of phrenic motor function following spinal 
cord injury.

Sieck GC(1), Mantilla CB.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Physiology & Biomedical Engineering and Anesthesiology, Mayo 
Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, United States. sieck.gary@mayo.edu

Many individuals who sustain a cervical spinal cord injury are unable to 
maintain adequate ventilation due to diaphragm muscle paralysis. These patients 
become dependent on mechanical ventilators and this situation is associated with 
ongoing problems with pulmonary clearance, infections, and lung injury leading 
to significant morbidity and reduced life expectancy. Therefore, functional 
recovery of rhythmic phrenic activity and the ability to generate expulsive 
forces would dramatically affect the quality of life of patients with cervical 
spinal cord injury. Neurotrophins are very promising in that they have been 
shown to play an important role in modulating functional neuroplasticity. 
Specifically, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) acting via the 
tropomyosin-related kinase receptor type B (TrkB) has been implicated in 
neuroplasticity following spinal cord injury. Our central hypothesis is that 
functional recovery of rhythmic phrenic activity after cervical spinal cord 
injury is enhanced by an increase in BDNF/TrkB signaling in phrenic motoneurons, 
providing a novel therapeutic target for patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resp.2009.08.008
PMCID: PMC2783678
PMID: 19703592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Neurology. 2009 Aug 25;73(8):596-601. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181b388a3.

Cognitive impairment and reduced life span of oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy 
homozygotes.

Blumen SC(1), Bouchard JP, Brais B, Carasso RL, Paleacu D, Drory VE, Chantal S, 
Blumen N, Braverman I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hillel Yaffe Medical Center, PO Box 169, Hadera, 
38100, Israel. navabl@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the evolution and life expectancy in patients with 
oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD) who are homozygotes for two (GCN)13 
expansions in the PABPN1 encoding gene.
BACKGROUND: OPMD is particularly frequent among French Canadians (FCs) and Uzbek 
Jews (UJs), who carry a same size, (GCN)13, PABPN1 mutation. The high rate of 
consanguinity among UJs together with late disease onset and normal fertility 
results in homozygous cases.
METHODS: For 15 to 20 years, we followed 4 FC and 6 UJ homozygotes with OPMD and 
compared them with their heterozygous parents and siblings. In addition to 
clinical evaluation, electrodiagnostic tests, psychological tests, and brain 
imaging studies were performed.
RESULTS: In all (GCN)13-(GCN)13 patients, OPMD started before age 35 years, with 
bilateral ptosis and dysphagia; external ophthalmoparesis and dysphonia followed 
within a few years, as well as weakness in proximal limb muscles. All patients 
had recurrent aspirations and lost weight; 4 patients required surgical 
interventions to alleviate dysphagia, and 5 required feeding gastrostomies. Most 
patients were followed by psychiatrists due to cognitive decline, recurrent 
depression, or psychotic episodes. Six patients died at ages 50, 51, 53, 56, 56, 
and 57 years. The eldest patient is now 51 years old; she is cachectic and 
requires special diet and psychiatric care for paranoid psychosis and 
uninhibited behavior.
CONCLUSIONS: Oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy progresses faster in homozygote 
compared with heterozygote patients. It is not restricted to the muscles, but 
also involves the CNS with cognitive decline and psychotic manifestations and 
leads to a reduced life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3181b388a3
PMID: 19704078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Plant Signal Behav. 2008 Nov;3(11):969-71. doi: 10.4161/psb.6169.

Expansins are among plant cell wall modifying agents specifically expressed 
during development of nematode-induced syncytia.

Fudali S(1), Sobczak M, Janakowski S, Griesser M, Grundler FM, Golinowski W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany; Warsaw University of Life Sciences (SGGW); Warsaw 
Poland.

Comment on
    Fudali S, Janakowski S, Sobczak M, Griesser M, Golinowski W, Grundler FMW. 
Two tomato α-expansins show distinct spatial and temporal expression patterns 
during development of nematode induced syncytia. Physiol Plant. 
2008;132:370–383. doi: 10.1111/j.1399-3054.2007.01017.x.

Cyst nematodes are economically important pests. As obligatory biotrophic 
endoparasites they invade host roots and induce formation of syncytia, 
structures that serve them as the only source of nutrients. During syncytium 
development, extensive cell wall modifications take place. Cell wall dissolution 
occurs during cell wall opening formation, cell walls expand during hypertrophy 
of syncytial elements and local cell wall synthesis leads to the thickening of 
syncytial cell wall and the formation of cell wall ingrowths. Numerous studies 
revealed that nematodes change expression of plant genes encoding cell wall 
modifying proteins including expansins. Expansins poses unique abilities to 
induce cell wall extension in acidic pH. Recently, we demonstrated that two 
alpha-expansin genes LeEXPA4 and LeEXPA5 are upregulated in tomato roots 
infected with potato cyst nematode (Globodera rostochiensis). In this addendum, 
we present the most recent results concerning involvement of plant cell wall 
modifying genes in syncytium development and discuss possible practical 
applications of this knowledge for developing plants with resistance against 
nematodes.

DOI: 10.4161/psb.6169
PMCID: PMC2633745
PMID: 19704422


330. Pflugers Arch. 2010 Jan;459(2):237-8. doi: 10.1007/s00424-009-0708-5. Epub
2009  Aug 25.

Molecular determinants of life span.

Lang F.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-009-0708-5
PMID: 19705145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Annu Rev Public Health. 2009;30:27-41. doi: 
10.1146/annurev.publhealth.031308.100310.

Social epidemiology: social determinants of health in the United States: are we 
losing ground?

Berkman LF(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard School of 
Public Health, USA. lberkman@hsph.harvard.edu

The United States ranks in the lower tiers of OECD countries in life expectancy, 
and recent studies indicate that socioeconomic inequalities in health have been 
widening in the past decades. Over this period, many rigorous longitudinal 
studies have identified important social, behavioral, and environmental 
conditions that might reduce health disparities if we could design effective 
interventions and make specific policy changes to modify them. Often, however, 
neither our policy changes nor our interventions are as effective as we hoped 
they would be on the basis of findings from observational studies. Reviewed here 
are issues related to causal inference and potential explanations for the 
discrepancy between observational and experimental studies. We conclude that 
more attention needs to be devoted to (a) identifying the correct etiologic 
period within a life-course perspective and (b) understanding the dynamic 
interplay between interventions and the social, economic, and environmental 
contexts in which interventions are delivered.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.publhealth.031308.100310
PMID: 19705554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12(8):1106-17. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00577.x.  Epub 2009 Aug 10.

Cost-effectiveness of using clinical risk factors with and without DXA for 
osteoporosis screening in postmenopausal women.

Mueller D(1), Gandjour A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics and Health Care Management, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. dirkwmueller@gmx.de

BACKGROUND: According to several guidelines, the assessment of postmenopausal 
fracture risk should be based on clinical risk factors (CRFs) and bone density. 
Because measurement of bone density by dual x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) is quite 
expensive, there has been increasing interest to estimate fracture risk by CRFs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
osteoporosis screening of CRFs with and without DXA compared with no screening 
in postmenopausal women in Germany.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis and a budget-impact analysis were performed 
from the perspective of the statutory health insurance. A Markov model simulated 
costs and benefits discounted at 3% over lifetime.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness of CRFs compared with no screening is euro4607, 
euro21,181, and euro10,171 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for 60-, 70-, 
and 80-year-old women, respectively. Cost-effectiveness of DXA plus CRFs 
compared with CRFs alone is euro20,235 for 60-year-old women. In women above the 
age of 70, DXA plus CRFs dominates CRFs alone. DXA plus CRFs results in annual 
costs of euro175 million, or 0.4% of the statutory health insurance's annual 
budget.
CONCLUSION: Funders should be careful in adopting a strategy based on CRFs alone 
instead of DXA plus CRFs. Only if DXA is not available, assessing CRFs only is 
an acceptable option in predicting a woman's risk of fracture.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00577.x
PMID: 19706151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. BMC Geriatr. 2009 Aug 26;9:40. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-9-40.

Implementation of an active aging model in Mexico for prevention and control of 
chronic diseases in the elderly.

Mendoza-Núñez VM(1), Martínez-Maldonado Mde L, Correa-Muñoz E.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación en Gerontología, Facultad de Estudios Superiores 
Zaragoza, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México, México DF, México. 
mendovic@servidor.unam.mx

BACKGROUND: World Health Organization cites among the main challenges of 
populational aging the dual disease burden: the greater risk of disability, and 
the need for care. In this sense, the most frequent chronic diseases during old 
age worldwide are high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes mellitus, cancer, 
arthritis, osteoporosis, depression, and dementia. Chronic disease-associated 
dependency represents an onerous sanitary and financial burden for the older 
adult, the family, and the health care system. Thus, it is necessary to propose 
community-level models for chronic disease prevention and control in old age. 
The aim of the present work is to show our experience in the development and 
implementation of a model for chronic disease prevention and control in old age 
at the community level under the active aging paradigm.
METHODS/DESIGN: A longitudinal study will be carried out in a sample of 400 
elderly urban and rural-dwelling individuals residing in Hidalgo State, Mexico 
during five years. All participants will be enrolled in the model active aging. 
This establishes the formation of 40 gerontological promoters (GPs) from among 
the older adults themselves. The GPs function as mutual-help group coordinators 
(gerontological nuclei) and establish self-care and self-promotion actions for 
elderly well-being and social development. It will be conformed a big-net of 
social network of 40 mutual-help groups of ten elderly adults each one, in which 
self-care is a daily practice for chronic disease prevention and control, as 
well as for achieving maximal well-being and life quality in old age. Indicators 
of the model's impact will be (i) therapeutic adherence; (ii) the incidence of 
the main chronic diseases in old age; (iii) life expectancy without chronic 
diseases at 60 years of age; (iv) disability adjusted life years lost; (v) years 
of life lost due to premature mortality, and (vi) years lived with disability.
DISCUSSION: We propose that the implementation of the model active aging 
framework will permits the empowerment of older adults, which constitutes basic 
social capital for chronic disease prevention and control in old age.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-9-40
PMCID: PMC2739527
PMID: 19706199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Gerontology. 2010;56(2):208-13. doi: 10.1159/000235813. Epub 2009 Aug 25.

Health and well-being in old age: the pertinence of a gender mainstreaming 
approach in research.

Perrig-Chiello P(1), Hutchison S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychology, University of Berne, Switzerland. 
pasqualina.perrigchiello@psy.unibe.ch

Comment in
    Gerontology. 2010;56(3):348-50.
    Gerontology. 2010;56(3):345-7.

BACKGROUND: The demographic and societal changes of the past decades, such as 
longevity and improvements in public health, have created new and often very 
distinct realities for men and women. However, these diversities have only 
marginally and fragmentally been the topic of research endeavours. There is a 
growing awareness of the societal phenomenon 'feminization of old age', yet the 
topic and its psychosocial and health-related consequences have not attracted 
the scientific interest they deserve. Due to scientific neglects and 
limitations, state of the art research in the field of gender, health and ageing 
is still sketchy and often contradictory.
OBJECTIVE: In the present article, the complex pattern of roles and values that 
define what is thought of as 'masculine' and 'feminine' and its significant 
impact on health-related lifestyles will be examined. Based on current research, 
we try to give answers to questions such as: 'Do older women really have more 
physical and mental health problems than older men, or are these findings 
influenced by a gender bias, due to a different awareness and understanding of 
health and illness?' It will be shown that it is impossible to find satisfactory 
answers to such questions without considering the cultural and social contexts 
of the individuals studied. The inclusion of gender as a social reality in the 
broadest sense is therefore an absolute prerequisite for gaining valid 
information.
CONCLUSION: Gender has played only a marginal role in the hitherto existing 
geriatric and gerontological research and practice. Therefore, a gender-fair 
approach in research and practice is indicated, i.e. an approach that takes into 
account differences and commonalities of women and men and considers their 
differing circumstances and specific problems (gender mainstream). Gender 
mainstreaming entails on the one hand horizontal justice (denoting equal 
treatment and benefits for equal needs of men and women) and on the other hand 
vertical justice (indicating differential treatment and benefits for 
differential needs of the 2 sexes).

2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000235813
PMID: 19707008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Biologics. 2007 Sep;1(3):291-300.

Agalsidase alfa (Replagal) in the treatment of Anderson-Fabry disease.

Pastores GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurogenetics Division, Department of Neurology and Pediatrics, New York 
University School of Medicine, New York, NY 10016, USA.

Anderson-Fabry disease (AFD) is an X-linked storage disorder caused by a 
deficiency of the lysosomal hydrolase a-galactosidase A (AGAL) and the resultant 
accumulation of its glycosphingolipid substrate (Gb3) in several tissue types. 
Major morbidity and reduced life expectancy among affected individuals are a 
consequence of renal, cardiac and cerebrovascular involvement. Symptomatic males 
and females with AFD have been described, although the onset of clinical 
manifestations may be delayed and more variable among the latter patient group, 
partly attributed to lyonization. Agalsidase alfa (Replagal()) is a recombinant 
formulation of human AGAL which has been demonstrated to modify the course of 
AFD in treated patients. Factors that may influence clinical outcomes include 
disease stage at the point of treatment initiation and antibody formation. There 
is incomplete understanding of AFD pathophysiology. Early diagnosis and timely 
intervention may be essential. The use of adjunctive therapies, directed at risk 
reduction (eg, aspirin for stroke prophylaxis), require careful scrutiny, but 
such agents are likely to be vital components of a comprehensive approach to 
patient care. Long-term studies may clarify the optimal dose and frequency of 
enzyme administration. Meanwhile, budding strategies such as chaperone-mediated 
enzyme enhancement may offer the potential for an alternative or multimodality 
approach to the management of AFD.

PMCID: PMC2721310
PMID: 19707338


336. Diabet Med. 2009 Aug;26(8):803-14. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02775.x.

An estimation of the long-term clinical and economic benefits of insulin lispro 
in Type 1 diabetes in the UK.

Pratoomsoot C(1), Smith HT, Kalsekar A, Boye KS, Arellano J, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Allschwil, Switzerland. cpratoomsoot@ch.imshealth.com

AIMS: To determine the long-term health economic benefits associated with lispro 
vs. regular human insulin (RHI) in UK Type 1 diabetic (T1DM) patients using the 
previously published and validated CORE Diabetes Model.
METHODS: A literature review designed to capture clinical benefits associated 
with lispro and T1DM cohort characteristics specific to UK was undertaken. 
Clinical benefits were derived from a Cochrane meta-analysis. The estimated 
difference (weighted mean) in glycated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) was -0.1% (95% 
confidence interval -0.2 to 0.0%) for lispro vs. RHI. Severe hypoglycaemia rates 
for lispro and RHI were 21.8 and 46.1 events per 100 patient years, 
respectively. Costs and disutilities were accounted for severe hypoglycaemia 
rates. All costs were accounted in 2007 poundUK from a National Health Service 
(NHS) perspective. Future costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 3.5% 
annually.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, lispro was projected to be dominant compared 
with RHI. Lispro was associated with improvements in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) of approximately 0.10 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) vs. 
RHI (7.60 vs. 7.50 QALYs). Lifetime direct medical costs per patient were lower 
with lispro treatment, pound70 576 vs. pound72 529. Severe hypoglycaemia rates 
were the key driver in terms of differences in QALE and lifetime costs. 
Sensitivity analyses with assumptions around time horizon, discounting rates and 
benefits in terms of glycaemic control or hypoglycaemic event rates revealed 
that lispro remained dominant.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that lispro is likely to improve QALE, reduce 
frequency of diabetes-related complications and lifetime medical costs compared 
with RHI.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-5491.2009.02775.x
PMCID: PMC3228293
PMID: 19709151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Haemophilia. 2010 Jan;16(1):54-60. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02089.x.
Epub  2009 Aug 26.

Uncomplicated neurosurgical resection of a malignant glioneuronal tumour under 
haemostatic cover of rFVIIa in a severe haemophilia patient with a high-titre 
inhibitor: a case report and literature review of rFVIIa use in major surgeries.

Aouba A(1), Dezamis E, Sermet A, Rothschild C, Hermine O, Lasne D, Torchet MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology and Haemophilic Centre, Hôpital Necker-Enfants 
Malades, Université de Paris V, René Descartes, 149 rue de Sevres, Paris Cedex, 
France. achille.aouba@orange.fr or

The development of inhibitors following factor VIII replacement therapy is a 
serious complication in severe inherited haemophilia. Whereas significant 
experience, notably in orthopaedic surgery, is now obtained with the use of 
bypassing agents in haemophilia with high-titre inhibitor, new surgical 
challenges might occur due to patients' increasing life expectancy. A 
56-year-old severe haemophilia A patient with a high-titre inhibitor was 
diagnosed for probable right temporoparietal malignant glioneuronal tumour on 
cerebral magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (4 cm x 3 cm cerebromeningeal tumour 
with perilesional oedema and transfalcial herniation) requiring total resection. 
Then recombinant activated FVII (rFVIIa) was chosen as the haemostatic agent: 
bolus of 270 microg kg(-1) every 2 h during the first 24 h, 180 microg kg(-1) 
every 3, 4 and 6 h, respectively, at days 2-3, from days 4-10 and finally from 
days 11-15. Tranexamic acid was associated. Pre- and postoperative courses were 
uneventful, the surgical procedure being assessed at optimal haemostatic 
condition without any unusual haemorrhage on MRI controls, diffuse intravascular 
coagulation criteria or thromboembolic event. Intensive rFVIIa therapy has shown 
to be safe and effective in this first reported neurosurgery about a malignant 
tumour exhibiting to a high-bleeding risk notably in haemophilia with high-titre 
inhibitor. The use of lower doses of rFVIIa might have been possible; however, 
in the absence of accurate test for monitoring rFVIIa therapy, the potentially 
life-threatening complications of this procedure required maximum haemostasis 
with high rFVIIa doses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02089.x
PMID: 19709314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2010 Feb;104(2):133-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.trstmh.2009.07.014. Epub 2009 Aug 25.

Estimating the burden of disease and the economic cost attributable to 
chikungunya, Andhra Pradesh, India, 2005-2006.

Seyler T(1), Hutin Y, Ramanchandran V, Ramakrishnan R, Manickam P, Murhekar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Sciences, French Institute of Pondicherry, 11 Saint 
Louis Street, 605 001 Pondicherry, India. thomas.seyler@gmail.com

To estimate the burden and cost of chikungunya in India, we searched for cases 
of fever and joint pain in the village of Mallela, Andhra Pradesh, and collected 
information on the demography, signs, symptoms, healthcare utilization and 
expenditure associated with the disease. We estimated the burden of the disease 
using disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). We estimated direct and indirect 
costs and made projections for the district and state using surveillance data 
corrected for under-reporting. On average, from December 2005 to April 2006, 
each of the 242 cases in the village led to a burden of 0.0272 DALYs (95% CI 
0.0224-0.0319) and a cost of US$37.50 (95% CI 30.6-44.3). Overall, chikungunya 
in Mallela led to 6.57 DALYs and a loss of US$9100. Out-of-pocket direct medical 
costs accounted for 68% of the total. From January to December 2006 the burden 
for Kadapa district was 160 DALYs (cost: US$290 000). Over the same period the 
burden for Andhra Pradesh was 6600 DALYs (cost: US$12 400 000). While the burden 
was moderate, costs were high and mostly out of pocket.

Copyright 2009 Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trstmh.2009.07.014
PMID: 19709705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):1011-1022. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60948-X.
 Epub 2009 Aug 24.

Violence and injuries in South Africa: prioritising an agenda for prevention.

Seedat M(1), Van Niekerk A(2), Jewkes R(3), Suffla S(4), Ratele K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social and Health Sciences, University of South Africa, 
Johannesburg, South Africa; Crime, Violence and Injury Lead Programme, Medical 
Research Council-University of South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa.
(2)Crime, Violence and Injury Lead Programme, Medical Research 
Council-University of South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa. Electronic address: 
ashley.vanniekerk@mrc.ac.za.
(3)Gender and Health Research Unit, Medical Research Council, Pretoria, South 
Africa.
(4)Crime, Violence and Injury Lead Programme, Medical Research 
Council-University of South Africa, Cape Town, South Africa.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):978.
    Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):978.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):957-9.
    Lancet. 2009 Dec 19;374(9707):2053.

Violence and injuries are the second leading cause of death and lost 
disability-adjusted life years in South Africa. The overall injury death rate of 
157.8 per 100,000 population is nearly twice the global average, and the rate of 
homicide of women by intimate partners is six times the global average. With a 
focus on homicide, and violence against women and children, we review the 
magnitude, contexts of occurrence, and patterns of violence, and refer to 
traffic-related and other unintentional injuries. The social dynamics that 
support violence are widespread poverty, unemployment, and income inequality; 
patriarchal notions of masculinity that valourise toughness, risk-taking, and 
