HLA mismatches. Other factors, notably younger age and African American race, 
also contributed to a higher PRA at relisting.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there might be a limited impact of HLA matching on acute 
rejection and graft survival, many patients might be negatively impacted from 
poor HLA matching of their first kidney transplant when needing a second 
transplant. This might be particularly important in patients with a long life 
expectancy because of the high likelihood of needing a second transplant during 
their lifetime.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181a9ec89
PMID: 19584676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Med Care. 2009 Aug;47(8):889-94. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181a39428.

Comparing cost-utility estimates: does the choice of EQ-5D or SF-6D matter?

Sach TH(1), Barton GR, Jenkinson C, Doherty M, Avery AJ, Muir KR.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Sciences and Pharmacy, University of East Anglia, Norwich, 
NR4 7TJ United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: A number of different measures can be used within cost-utility 
analyses, we compared results according to both the EQ-5D and SF-6D.
METHODS: A randomized trial was conducted to compare 4 options for people with 
knee pain. Over the 2 year trial period, the change in cost to health-service 
was estimated, and both the EQ-5D and SF-6D were used to estimate the change in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Using a complete case analysis, the 
cost-utility (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER]) of each option, 
according to both the EQ-5D and SF-6D, was calculated and assessed in relation 
to the cost-effectiveness threshold of pound20,000 per QALY.
RESULTS: Of the 389 participants, 247 had complete cost, EQ-5D and SF-6D data. 
According to the EQ-5D, option 1 had an estimated ICER of pound10,815 (compared 
with option 4), option 2 was dominated by option 1, and option 3 was subject to 
extended dominance. Conversely, according to the SF-6D, option 3 had an ICER of 
pound9999 (compared with option 4), option 2 had an ICER of pound36,883 
(compared with option 3), and option 1 was subject to extended dominance.
CONCLUSION: The EQ-5D and SF-6D estimated that different options (1 and 3, 
respectively) were cost-effective at the pound20,000 per QALY threshold, 
demonstrating that the choice of measure does matter.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181a39428
PMID: 19584759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Apr;11(2):215-25. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0168-z.
Epub  2009 Jul 8.

A review of studies mapping (or cross walking) non-preference based measures of 
health to generic preference-based measures.

Brazier JE(1), Yang Y, Tsuchiya A, Rowen DL.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 
30 Regent Street, Sheffield, S1 4DA, UK. j.e.brazier@sheffield.ac.uk

Clinical studies use a wide variety of health status measures to measure health 
related quality of life, many of which cannot be used in cost-effectiveness 
analysis using cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY). Mapping is one 
solution that is gaining popularity as it enables health state utility values to 
be predicted for use in cost per QALY analysis when no preference-based measure 
has been included in the study. This paper presents a systematic review of 
current practice in mapping between non-preference based measures and generic 
preference-based measures, addressing feasibility and validity, circumstances 
under which it should be considered and lessons for future mapping studies. This 
review found 30 studies reporting 119 different models. Performance of the 
mappings functions in terms of goodness-of-fit and prediction was variable and 
unable to be generalised across instruments. Where generic measures are not 
regarded as appropriate for a condition, mapping does not solve this problem. 
Most testing in the literature occurs at the individual level yet the main 
purpose of these functions is to predict mean values for subgroups of patients, 
hence more testing is required.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0168-z
PMID: 19585162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Scand J Rheumatol. 2009;38(5):342-8. doi: 10.1080/03009740902913496.

Health status and perception of pain: a comparative study between female 
patients with hand osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.

Slatkowsky-Christensen B(1), Mowinckel P, Kvien TK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Diakonhjemmet Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
barbaraschrist@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most frequent rheumatic joint disease and 
its occurrence is growing due to prolonged life expectancy and an increasing 
number of elderly individuals in the population. The main objective of this 
study was to compare the burden of disease, assessed by measures of pain and 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL), between female patients with hand 
osteoarthritis (HOA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: One hundred and ninety female HOA patients were compared with 194 
female RA patients of the same age. HRQoL was measured with the Arthritis Impact 
Measurement 2 Scale (Aims2), the 36-item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-36) and 
its preference-based single index measure SF-6D, the Health Assessment 
Questionnaire (HAQ), the modified HAQ (MHAQ), self-efficacy scales, and visual 
analogue scales (VAS) for pain and fatigue. We also compared levels of 
fibromyalgia (FM)-like symptoms (headache, muscle pain, numbness, and 
concentration problems). Scores were compared by a multivariate analysis of 
covariance (ANCOVA), adjusted for age, number of comorbidities, and years of 
education. Sime's procedure was used to adjust for multiple testing.
RESULTS: RA patients had significantly lower levels of physical functioning 
compared to HOA patients, whereas pain measured on the Arthritis Impact 
Measurement Scale 2 (AIMS2) was significantly worse in HOA as compared with RA. 
The HOA patients also had worse scores for FM-like symptoms. SF-6D utility 
scores in HOA and RA were similar (0.63 and 0.64, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The overall impact of the disease on HRQoL was similar between RA 
and HOA patients, based on the SF-6D scores. Physical function was worse in RA 
patients, but HOA patients reported worse scores in pain measures and FM-like 
symptoms.

DOI: 10.1080/03009740902913496
PMID: 19585382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Lancet Oncol. 2009 Jul;10(7):647-8. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(09)70169-x.

Lenalidomide for the treatment of relapsed multiple myeloma.

Gajraj E, Chung H, Boysen M, Barnett DB, Longson C.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(09)70169-x
PMID: 19585686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Epidemiol Prev. 2009 Jan-Apr;33(1-2):7-8.

[Assessing the effectiveness of actions for reducing air pollution in urban 
areas].

[Article in Italian]

Forastiere F.

PMID: 19585868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Dialogues Clin Neurosci. 2009;11(2):201-12. doi: 
10.31887/DCNS.2009.11.2/msbeeri.

The effects of cardiovascular risk factors on cognitive compromise.

Beeri MS(1), Ravona-Springer R, Silverman JM, Haroutunian V.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 10029, USA. 
michal.beeri@mssm.edu

As life expectancy in the United States continues to increase, the projected 
numbers of elderly people who will develop dementia will grow rapidly. This 
paper reviews four well-established cardiovascular risk factors (type 2 
diabetes, hypertension, cholesterol, and inflammation), for which there is 
longitudinal epidemiological evidence of increased risk of dementia, Alzheimer's 
disease, mild cognitive impairment, and cognitive decline. These risk factors 
are of special interest because of their potential modifiability, which may 
affect the course of cognitive compromise. Diabetes is the cardiovascular risk 
factor (CvRF) most consistently associated with cognition. Hypertension in 
midlife is consistently associated with cognition, but its associations with 
late-life hypertension are less clear. Total cholesterol is not consistently 
associated with cognition. Interleukin-6 and C-reactive protein are inflammatory 
markers relatively consistently associated with cognition. Composites of the 
CvRFs increase the risk for dementia in a dose-dependent fashion, suggesting a 
cumulative effect of these factors on neuronal stress. In the relatively few 
studies that have reported interactions of risk factors, they potentiate each 
other. The effect of each of these risk factors varies according to 
apolipoprotein E genotype. It may be that the effect of these risk factors 
varies according to the presence of the others, and these complex relationships 
underlie the biological mechanisms of cognitive compromise. This may be crucial 
for understanding the effects on cognition of drugs and other approaches, such 
as lifestyle change, for treating these risk factors.

Dado que la expectativa de vida en los Estados Unidos continúa incrementándose, 
el número proyectado de personas de edad avanzada que desarrollarán demencia 
crecerá rápidamente. Este artículo revisa cuatro factores de riesgo 
cardiovascular bien establecidos (diabetes tipo 2, hipertensión, coleste-rol e 
inflamación), para los cuales existen evidencias epidemiológicas longitudinales 
de un riesgo aumentado de demencia, Enfermedad de Alzheimer, deterioro cognitívo 
leve y decaimiento cognitivo, Estos factores de riesgo son de especial interés 
ya que son potencial mente modificables, lo que puede influir en la evolución 
del compromiso cognitivo, La diabetes es el factor de riesgo cardiovascular 
(FRCv) que se asocia con mayor consistencia con la cognición. La hipertensión en 
la edad media de la vida está asociada consistentemente con la cognición, pero 
las asociaciones de esta última con la hipertensión de las etapas tardías de la 
vida son menos claras. El coles-terol total no está asociado consistentemente 
con la cognición. La interleukina 6 y la proteína C reactiva son marcadores 
inflamatorios con una asociación relativamente consistente con la cognición. Una 
combinación de los FRCv aumenta el riesgo para demencia de manera 
dosis-dependiente, lo que sugiere un efecto acumulativo de estos factores de 
estrés neu-ronal. En los relativamente pocos estudios que han dado cuenta de las 
interacciones entre los factores de riesgo, estos se potencian unos con otros, 
El efecto de cada uno de los factores de riesgo varía de acuerdo con el genotipo 
para la apolipoproteína £ Puede ser que el efecto de estos factores de riesgo se 
modifique según la presencia de los otros, y estas complejas relaciones estén a 
la base de los mecanismos biológicos del compromiso cognitivo. Para el 
tratamiento de los factores de riesgo puede ser crucial comprender los efectos 
que tienen en la cognición los fármacos y otras intervenciones, como el cambio 
de estilo de vida.

L'espérance de vie continuant à augmenter aux Étais-Unis, le nombre de sujets 
âgés qui développeront une démence est appelé à augmenter rapidement. Cet 
article examine quatre facteurs de risque cardiovasculaire bien connus (diabète 
de type 2, hypertension, cholestérol et inflammation) qui ont montré lors 
d'études épidémiologiques longitudinales qu'ils présentaient un risque accru de 
démence, de maladie d“ Alzheimer, de déficit cognitif léger et de déclin 
cognitif. Ces facteurs de risque sont très intéressants car ils peuvent être 
modifiés, ce qui pourrait influencer l'évolution du déclin cognitif. Le diabète 
est le facteur de risque cardiovasculaire (FRCv) le plus régulièrement associé à 
la cognition. L'hypertension des sujets d'âge moyen semble liée aux capacités 
cognitives, ce qui apparaît moins important chez les sujets plus âgés. Le 
cholestérol total n'est pas corrêlé à la cognition alors que les marqueurs de 
l'inflammation interleukine-6 et protéine-réactive C le seraient relativement 
Les FRCv augmenteraient le risque de démence de façon dose-dépendante, avec un 
potentiel effet cumulatif sur le stress neuronal. Dans les relativement rares 
études qui ont rapporté des interactions des facteurs de risque, ces derniers 
semblaient se poteniialiser les uns les autres. Par ailleurs, l'effet de chacun 
d'entre eux varierait selon le génotype de l'apolipoprotéine E. L'effet de ces 
facteurs de risque pourrait varier en fonction de la présence des autres et ces 
relations complexes sous-tendent les mécanismes biologiques du déficit cognitif. 
Leur étude apparaît cruciale pour la compréhension des effets des médicaments et 
d'autres approches thérapeutiques (modification du style de vie) sur la 
cognition, afin de traiter ces facteurs de risque.

DOI: 10.31887/DCNS.2009.11.2/msbeeri
PMCID: PMC3093131
PMID: 19585955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(5):405-19. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200927050-00005.

Utility assessment in patients with mental disorders: validity and 
discriminative ability of the time trade-off method.

König HH(1), Günther OH, Angermeyer MC, Roick C.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. hans-helmut.koenig@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

BACKGROUND: Preference-based health-state values, also referred to as utility 
scores, are considered an important measure of outcome in the evaluation of 
healthcare. A common approach to elicit utility scores is the use of the time 
trade-off (TTO) method; however, the data on TTO utility scores in patients with 
mental disorders are scarce.
OBJECTIVE: To analyse the TTO method in patients with mental disorders in terms 
of discriminative ability, validity and the refusal to trade life time (zero 
trade).
METHODS: In patients with affective (n = 172), schizophrenia spectrum (n = 166) 
and alcohol-related (n = 160) mental disorders, TTO utilities were administered 
through a standardized interview. Measures of quality of life (QOL) EQ-5D, 
WHOQOL-BREF, subjective (SCL-90R) and objective (CGI-S) psychopathology, and 
functioning (GAF, GARF, SOFAS, HoNOS) provided comparison. Discriminative 
ability was analysed by assessing frequency distributions of TTO utilities. 
Validity was analysed by assessing the correlation of TTO utilities with all 
other scores. The association of a patient's QOL, sociodemographic and 
disease-related variables with zero trade was analysed by logistic regression.
RESULTS: Of patients with affective/schizophrenic/alcohol-related mental 
disorders, 153/143/145 (89/86/91%), respectively, completed the TTO elicitation; 
29/43/28% of the respondents were zero traders. The mean TTO utility was 
0.66/0.75/0.61 and the median was 0.85/0.95/0.75. TTO utility scores 
discriminated well among more impaired mental health states, but discrimination 
was limited among less impaired health states. In patients with affective and 
alcohol-related mental disorders, TTO utility scores were significantly 
correlated (mostly moderate: 0.3 < r < 0.5) with all other scores. However, in 
schizophrenic patients, TTO utility scores were only a little correlated with 
other subjective measures and not correlated with objective measures. QOL was 
significantly associated with zero trade; the influence of the other variables 
on zero trade was negligible.
CONCLUSIONS: TTO utility scores in patients with affective or alcohol-related 
mental disorders were reasonably valid, but discriminative ability was 
compromised by a ceiling effect due to zero trade. In schizophrenic patients, 
validity of TTO utility scores was not demonstrated.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200927050-00005
PMID: 19586078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(5):433; author reply 433-4. doi: 
10.2165/00019053-200927050-00008.

Cost-effectiveness evaluation of a quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine in 
Belgium.

Cleemput I, Thiry N.

Comment on
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(3):231-45.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200927050-00008
PMID: 19586082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jul;13(32):1-207, iii. doi: 10.3310/hta13320.

Systematic review and individual patient data meta-analysis of diagnosis of 
heart failure, with modelling of implications of different diagnostic strategies 
in primary care.

Mant J(1), Doust J, Roalfe A, Barton P, Cowie MR, Glasziou P, Mant D, McManus 
RJ, Holder R, Deeks J, Fletcher K, Qume M, Sohanpal S, Sanders S, Hobbs FD.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the accuracy in diagnosing heart failure of clinical 
features and potential primary care investigations, and to perform a decision 
analysis to test the impact of plausible diagnostic strategies on costs and 
diagnostic yield in the UK health-care setting.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE and CINAHL were searched from inception to 7 July 2006. 
'Grey literature' databases and conference proceedings were searched and authors 
of relevant studies contacted for data that could not be extracted from the 
published papers.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the clinical evidence was carried out 
according to standard methods. Individual patient data (IPD) analysis was 
performed on nine studies, and a logistic regression model to predict heart 
failure was developed on one of the data sets and validated on the other data 
sets. Cost-effectiveness modelling was based on a decision tree that compared 
different plausible investigation strategies.
RESULTS: Dyspnoea was the only symptom or sign with high sensitivity (89%), but 
it had poor specificity (51%). Clinical features with relatively high 
specificity included history of myocardial infarction (89%), orthopnoea (89%), 
oedema (72%), elevated jugular venous pressure (70%), cardiomegaly (85%), added 
heart sounds (99%), lung crepitations (81%) and hepatomegaly (97%). However, the 
sensitivity of these features was low, ranging from 11% (added heart sounds) to 
53% (oedema). Electrocardiography (ECG), B-type natriuretic peptides (BNP) and 
N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptides (NT-proBNP) all had high 
sensitivities (89%, 93% and 93% respectively). Chest X-ray was moderately 
specific (76-83%) but insensitive (67-68%). BNP was more accurate than ECG, with 
a relative diagnostic odds ratio of ECG/BNP of 0.32 (95% CI 0.12-0.87). There 
was no difference between the diagnostic accuracy of BNP and NT-proBNP. A model 
based upon simple clinical features and BNP derived from one data set was found 
to have good validity when applied to other data sets. A model substituting ECG 
for BNP was less predictive. From this a simple clinical rule was developed: in 
a patient presenting with symptoms such as breathlessness in whom heart failure 
is suspected, refer directly to echocardiography if the patient has a history of 
myocardial infarction or basal crepitations or is a male with ankle oedema; 
otherwise, carry out a BNP test and refer for echocardiography depending on the 
results of the test. On the basis of the cost-effectiveness analysis carried 
out, such a decision rule is likely to be considered cost-effective to the NHS 
in terms of cost per additional case detected. The cost-effectiveness analysis 
further suggested that, if likely benefit to the patient in terms of improved 
life expectancy is taken into account, the optimum strategy would be to refer 
all patients with symptoms suggestive of heart failure directly for 
echocardiography.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis suggests the need for important changes to the NICE 
recommendations. First, BNP (or NT-proBNP) should be recommended over ECG and, 
second, some patients should be referred straight for echocardiography without 
undergoing any preliminary investigation. Future work should include evaluation 
of the clinical rule described above in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13320
PMID: 19586584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Yi Chuan. 2009 Apr;31(4):439-44. doi: 10.3724/sp.j.1005.2009.00439.

[A new SNP microarray technology based on single base extension].

[Article in Chinese]

Dong YY(1), Sheng HH, Yang Q, Zeng XT, Wu XM.

Author information:
(1)National Engineering Center for Biochip at Shanghai, Shanghai 201203, China. 
dongyuanyuan_dyy@yahoo.com.cn

Investigation of DNA-protein interactions is fundamental to understand the 
mechanism underlying a variety of life processes. In this article, various types 
of biochemical methods in DNA-protein interaction study in vivo and in vitro at 
the level of DNA, protein, and the complex, respectively were briefly reviewed. 
Traditional assays including Nitrocellulose filter-binding assay, Footprinting, 
EMSA, and Southwestern blotting were summarized. In addition, chromatin 
immunopre-cipitation techniques including nChIP, xChIP, and ChIP-on-chip, which 
were widely used in epigenetics, were particularly introduced.

DOI: 10.3724/sp.j.1005.2009.00439
PMID: 19586899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Behav Res Methods. 2009 Aug;41(3):657-63. doi: 10.3758/BRM.41.3.657.

A mixed-effects expectancy-valence model for the Iowa gambling task.

Cheng CP(1), Sheu CF, Yen NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, National Chengchi University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
cpcheng@nccu.edu.tw

The Iowa gambling task (IGT; Bechara, Damasio, Damasio, & Anderson, 1994) was 
developed to simulate real-life decision making under uncertainty. The task has 
been widely used to examine possible neurocognitive deficits in normal and 
clinical populations. Busemeyer and Stout (2002) proposed the expectancy-valence 
(EV) model to explicitly account for individual participants' repeated choices 
in the IGT. Parameters of the EV model presumably measure different 
psychological processes that underlie performance on the task, and their values 
may be used to differentiate individuals across different populations. In the 
present article, the EV model is extended to include both fixed effects and 
subject-specific random effects. The mixed-effects EV model fits the nested 
structure of observations in the IGT naturally and provides a unified procedure 
for parameter estimation and comparisons among groups of populations. We 
illustrate the utility of the mixed-effects approach with an analysis of gender 
differences using a real data set. A simulation study was conducted to verify 
the advantages of this approach.

DOI: 10.3758/BRM.41.3.657
PMID: 19587175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Eur J Public Health. 2010 Feb;20(1):91-5. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp102. Epub
2009  Jul 8.

Living longer and feeling better: healthy lifestyle, self-rated health, obesity 
and depression in Ireland.

Harrington J(1), Perry IJ, Lutomski J, Fitzgerald AP, Shiely F, McGee H, Barry 
MM, Van Lente E, Morgan K, Shelley E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College Cork, Cork, 
Ireland. j.harrington@ucc.ie

BACKGROUND: The combination of four protective lifestyle behaviours (being 
physically active, a non-smoker, a moderate alcohol consumer and having adequate 
fruit and vegetable intake) has been estimated to increase life expectancy by 14 
years. However, the effect of adopting these lifestyle behaviours on general 
health, obesity and mental health is less defined. We examined the combined 
effect of these behaviours on self-rated health, overweight/obesity and 
depression.
METHODS: Using data from the Survey of Lifestyle Attitudes and Nutrition (SLAN) 
2007 (), a protective lifestyle behaviour (PLB) score was constructed for 10,364 
men and women (>18 years), and representative of the Republic of Ireland adult 
population (response rate 62%). Respondents scored a maximum of four points, one 
point each for being physically active, consuming five or more fruit and 
vegetable servings daily, a non-smoker and a moderate drinker.
RESULTS: One-fifth of respondents (20%) adopted four PLBs, 35% adopted three, 
29% two, 13% one and 2% adopted none. Compared to those with zero PLBs, those 
with four were seven times more likely to rate their general health as 
excellent/very good [OR 6.8 95% CI (3.64-12.82)] and four times more likely to 
have better mental health [OR 4.4 95% CI (2.34-8.22)].
CONCLUSIONS: Adoption of core protective lifestyle factors known to increase 
life expectancy is associated with positive self-rated health, healthier weight 
and better mental health. These lifestyles have the potential to add quality and 
quantity to life.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp102
PMID: 19587230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):392-5. doi: 10.1038/nature08221. Epub 2009 Jul
8.

Rapamycin fed late in life extends lifespan in genetically heterogeneous mice.

Harrison DE(1), Strong R, Sharp ZD, Nelson JF, Astle CM, Flurkey K, Nadon NL, 
Wilkinson JE, Frenkel K, Carter CS, Pahor M, Javors MA, Fernandez E, Miller RA.

Author information:
(1)The Jackson Laboratory, Bar Harbor, Maine 04609, USA. david.harrison@jax.org

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Jul 16;460(7253):331-2.

Inhibition of the TOR signalling pathway by genetic or pharmacological 
intervention extends lifespan in invertebrates, including yeast, nematodes and 
fruitflies; however, whether inhibition of mTOR signalling can extend lifespan 
in a mammalian species was unknown. Here we report that rapamycin, an inhibitor 
of the mTOR pathway, extends median and maximal lifespan of both male and female 
mice when fed beginning at 600 days of age. On the basis of age at 90% 
mortality, rapamycin led to an increase of 14% for females and 9% for males. The 
effect was seen at three independent test sites in genetically heterogeneous 
mice, chosen to avoid genotype-specific effects on disease susceptibility. 
Disease patterns of rapamycin-treated mice did not differ from those of control 
mice. In a separate study, rapamycin fed to mice beginning at 270 days of age 
also increased survival in both males and females, based on an interim analysis 
conducted near the median survival point. Rapamycin may extend lifespan by 
postponing death from cancer, by retarding mechanisms of ageing, or both. To our 
knowledge, these are the first results to demonstrate a role for mTOR signalling 
in the regulation of mammalian lifespan, as well as pharmacological extension of 
lifespan in both genders. These findings have implications for further 
development of interventions targeting mTOR for the treatment and prevention of 
age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08221
PMCID: PMC2786175
PMID: 19587680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2009 May-Jun;24(3):502-10.

Vertical ridge augmentation using guided bone regeneration (GBR) in three 
clinical scenarios prior to implant placement: a retrospective study of 35 
patients 12 to 72 months after loading.

Urban IA(1), Jovanovic SA, Lozada JL.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Implant Dentistry, Loma Linda University, Department of Restorative 
Dentistry, Loma Linda, CA, USA. istvan@implant.hu

PURPOSE: The aims of the current study were to: (1) evaluate the results of 
vertical guided bone regeneration (GBR) with particulate autogenous bone grafts, 
(2) determine clinically and radiographically the success and survival rates of 
82 implants placed in such surgical sites after prosthetic loading for 12 to 72 
months, and (3) compare defects that were treated simultaneously with sinus 
augmentation and vertical GBR to other areas of the jaw treated with vertical 
GBR only.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Eighty-two implants were inserted in 35 patients with 36 
three-dimensional vertical bone defects. The patients were divided into three 
groups: single missing teeth (group A), multiple missing teeth (group B), and 
vertical defects in the posterior maxilla only (group C). All group C subjects 
were treated simultaneously with sinus and vertical augmentations. All patients 
were treated with vertical ridge augmentation utilizing titanium-reinforced 
polytetrafluoroethylene (e-PTFE) membranes and particulated autografts. After 
removal of the e-PTFE membrane, all sites received a collagen membrane.
RESULTS: At membrane removal, mean vertical augmentation was 5.5 mm (+/-2.29 
mm). Mean combined crestal remodeling was 1.01 mm (+/-0.57 mm) at 12 months, 
which remained stable through the 6-year follow-up period. There were no 
statistically significant differences between the three groups in mean marginal 
bone remodeling. One defect had a bone graft complication (2.78%, 95% CI: 0.00%, 
8.15%). The overall implant survival rate was 100% with a cumulative success 
rate of 94.7%.
CONCLUSIONS: (1) Vertical augmentation with e-PTFE membranes and particulated 
autografts is a safe and predictable treatment; (2) success and survival rates 
of implants placed in vertically augmented bone with the GBR technique appear 
similar to implants placed in native bone under loading conditions; (3) success 
and failure rates of implants placed into bone regenerated simultaneously with 
sinus and vertical augmentation techniques compare favorably to those requiring 
only vertical augmentation.

PMID: 19587874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Nephrol Ther. 2009 Nov;5(6):550-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nephro.2009.05.005. Epub
2009  Jul 8.

[Renal diseases in cystic fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Montagnac R(1), Sanlaville F, Soto B, Vuiblet V, Schillinger F.

Author information:
(1)Service de néphrologie-hémodialyse, centre hospitalier de Troyes, 10003 
Troyes cedex, France. richard.montagnac@ch-troyes.fr

Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) show a continuing improvement in their life 
expectancy thanks to advances in knowledge of this disorder, allowing better 
multidisciplinary routine monitoring and earlier therapeutic interventions. 
Likewise, more than of 40% of these patients are adults and CF is no more only a 
pediatric disease. Due to their higher life expectancy, CF patients present new 
and unusual complications that were not recorded before. Among them, some renal 
disorders have to be added to the CF-related renal diseases. They are due to 
frequent and prolonged exposure to various potentially nephrotoxic factors that 
need to be taken into account early enough in order to avoid renal failure : 
essentially risk factors for kidney stones formation, bacterial infections with 
their associated immune complexes diseases, nephrotoxic effects of antibiotics, 
diabetes mellitus. Because we observed a case of IgA glomerulonephritis in a 
35-year-old patient with cystic fibrosis, we have searched about all these renal 
consequences due to this affection and here report them.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nephro.2009.05.005
PMID: 19589743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. BMJ. 2009 Jul 9;339:b2775. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b2775.

Life expectancy in England between the rich and poor widens for both men and 
women.

Mooney H.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b2775
PMID: 19589824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Clin J Pain. 2009 May;25(4):313-9. doi: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e31818c00c5.

The national burden of musculoskeletal pain in Japan: Projections to the year 
2055.

Suka M(1), Yoshida K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, St. Marianna University School of 
Medicine, Miyamae-ku, Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan. suka@marianna-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVES: To project the national burdens of low back, hip, and knee pains in 
Japan from 2005 to 2055 in terms of quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
METHODS: The age- and sex-specific prevalence rates of low back, hip, and knee 
pains in the questionnaire survey (3048 men and 1885 women) were multiplied by 
the corresponding age- and sex-specific Japanese population projections. The 
losses of QALYs associated with low back, hip, and knee pains were calculated as 
the projected numbers of men and women with pain at each site multiplied by the 
corresponding sex-specific mean differences of EQ-5D scores between those who 
reported pain at each site and those who reported no musculoskeletal pain in the 
questionnaire survey.
RESULTS: Among a total of 87.9 million Japanese people aged 30 years or older in 
2005, 21.4 million (24.3%), 3.2 million (3.7%), and 9.1 million (10.4%) were 
estimated to have low back, hip, and knee pains, respectively. The prevalence 
rates of low back, hip, and knee pains will gradually increase in subsequent 
years, reaching 26.5%, 4.4%, and 12.9%, respectively by 2055. Consequently, the 
losses of QALYs associated with low back, hip, and knee pains per 1000 
population will increase from 17.2, 3.8, and 8.9, respectively in 2005 to 18.8, 
4.5, and 11.2, respectively by 2055.
DISCUSSION: Due to population aging, the national burden of musculoskeletal pain 
in Japan is projected to increase in the next 50 years. Musculoskeletal pain has 
not been counted among national healthcare priorities. However, the control of 
musculoskeletal pain should not be bypassed to improve QOL and extend healthy 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/AJP.0b013e31818c00c5
PMID: 19590480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Diabetologia. 2009 Sep;52(9):1881-8. doi: 10.1007/s00125-009-1438-0. Epub
2009  Jul 10.

Autoantibodies to zinc transporter 8 and SLC30A8 genotype stratify type 1 
diabetes risk.

Achenbach P(1), Lampasona V, Landherr U, Koczwara K, Krause S, Grallert H, 
Winkler C, Pflüger M, Illig T, Bonifacio E, Ziegler AG.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Institute of Forschergruppe Diabetes e.V., Helmholtz Center 
Munich, Ingolstaedter Landstr. 1, 85764, Neuherberg, Germany.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Our aim was to determine the relationships between 
autoantibodies to zinc transporter 8 (ZnT8), genotypes of the ZnT8-encoding gene 
SLC30A8 and type 1 diabetes risk.
METHODS: ZnT8 autoantibodies (ZnT8A) were measured in sera of 1,633 children 
with a first-degree family history of type 1 diabetes and who were prospectively 
followed from birth. Antibodies were measured by Protein A-based radiobinding 
assays and COOH-terminal (R325, W325 or Q325 variants) or NH(2)-terminal 
constructs of human ZnT8. SLC30A8 genotyping at single-nucleotide polymorphism 
(SNP) rs13266634 was performed on 1,170 children.
RESULTS: Antibodies against COOH-terminal ZnT8 constructs (ZnT8A-COOH) developed 
in 58 children as early as 9 months of age (median 3 years). They were detected 
in 55 of 128 (43%) children with autoantibodies to insulin, GAD and/or 
insulinoma-associated protein 2 and 34 of 42 (81%) who progressed to diabetes. 
The additional presence of ZnT8A-COOH stratified diabetes risk in islet 
autoantibody-positive children (p < 0.0001). SLC30A8 genotype strongly 
influenced ZnT8A type and diabetes risk in ZnT8A-COOH-positive children. 
Antibody binding against the ZnT8 R325 variant was strictly correlated with the 
number of the corresponding SLC30A8 R325-encoding alleles, whereas binding 
against the W325 variant was highest in children who had SLC30A8 W325-encoding 
alleles (p = 0.001). Moreover, ZnT8A-COOH-positive children who carried 
homozygous SLC30A8 SNP rs13266634 genotypes progressed faster to diabetes than 
those who were heterozygous (59% [95% CI 42.3-75.7%] vs 22% [95% CI 0-44.3%] 
within 5 years; p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Autoimmunity against the COOH-terminal region of 
ZnT8 is a highly relevant prognostic feature in childhood type 1 diabetes. Risk 
stratification in ZnT8A-COOH-positive children is further improved by SLC30A8 
genotyping.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-009-1438-0
PMID: 19590848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Nihon Rinsho. 2009 Jul;67(7):1396-401.

[Hormone replacement therapy--growth hormone, melatonin, DHEA and sex hormones].

[Article in Japanese]

Fukai S(1), Akishita M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, The University 
of Tokyo.

The ability to maintain active and independent living as long as possible is 
crucial for the healthy longevity. Hormones responsible for some of the 
manifestations associated with aging are growth hormone, insulin-like growth 
factor-1 (IGF-1), melatonin, dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), sex hormones and 
thyroid hormones. These hormonal changes are associated with changes in body 
composition, visceral obesity, muscle weakness, osteoporosis, urinary 
incontinence, loss of cognitive functioning, reduction in well being, 
depression, as well as sexual dysfunction. With the prolongation of life 
expectancy, both men and women today live the latter third life with endocrine 
deficiencies. Hormone replacement therapy may alleviate the debilitating 
conditions of secondary partial endocrine deficiencies by preventing or delaying 
some aspects of aging.

PMID: 19591292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2009;146:166-70.

The elderly demographic time bomb - sharing the load with the active ageing: can 
eHealth technologies help defuse it?

Layzell B(1), Manning B, Benton S.

Author information:
(1)Business Psychology Centre, University of Westminster, London, UK. 
layzell@bcs.org.uk

This paper examines strategic health management and practical health service 
delivery issues inherent in the potential doubling in the number of over 65s 
over the next two decades. It considers the use of scarce and overloaded 
resources in providing care and support to this age group across the spectrum of 
community environments, and advocates the use of shared information services 
coupled with the deployment of 'smart' technologies to supplement available yet 
scarce professional resources as well as enabling elderly people to maintain a 
safe, active and independent lifestyle. An innovative approach to provide 
support both to an active ageing population, as well as the more frail or 
vulnerable members of society, is outlined. Based on an ongoing research 
programme, this centres on the extension of the Smart Home concept to create an 
overarching smart environment. This combines advanced information, 
communications and textile technologies with physiological monitoring and 
location based processes and services, to protect and support users by 
maintaining the range of services they need. Discussion of the behavioural 
dynamics inherent in organizational change concludes the paper.

PMID: 19592828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2010 Feb;17(1):50-5. doi: 
10.1097/HJR.0b013e32832f3a76.

Food and vessels: the importance of a healthy diet to prevent cardiovascular 
disease.

Engelfriet P(1), Hoekstra J, Hoogenveen R, Büchner F, van Rossum C, Verschuren 
M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment, BA Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

AIM: We attempted to quantify the burden of cardiovascular disease that can be 
prevented by broader adherence to recommendations on dietary intake of key 
nutrients.
METHODS: A computer model capturing the epidemiology of chronic disease and risk 
factors in the Dutch population was used to simulate differences in the 
occurrence of cardiovascular disease under various scenarios defined by levels 
of intake of saturated and trans fatty acids, fruit, vegetables and fish. The 
following scenarios were compared with the current situation: (i) the whole 
population adhering to recommendations (optimum scenario); (ii) a moderate 
improvement and (iii) increased intake of fruit as has been achieved in an 
actual intervention ('fruit at work'). Other outcome measures assessed were 
(differences in) life expectancy and healthy life expectancy for a 40-year-old 
individual.
RESULTS: In the optimum scenario, cumulative incidence prevented over a period 
of 20 years was 240,000 cases for acute myocardial infarction, or 30% of the 
expected number of cases, 328,000 (16%) for other coronary heart disease and 
215,000 (21%) for stroke. For the moderate improvement scenario, the 
corresponding figures were 119,000 (14%), 163 000 (8%) and 105,000 (10%), 
respectively. The individual contributions of each of the separate dietary 
factors were greatest for fish, followed in decreasing order by fruit, 
vegetables, saturated and trans fatty acids. Only fish and fruit contributed to 
a decrease in strokes. In the optimum scenario, 1 year was added to the life 
expectancy of a 40-year-old individual and half a year in the moderate 
improvement scenario.
CONCLUSION: Broader adherence to recommendations for daily intake of fruit, 
vegetables, fish and fatty acid composition may take away as much as 20-30% of 
the burden of cardiovascular disease and result in approximately 1 extra life 
year for a 40-year-old individual. Promotion of a healthy diet should be given 
more emphasis in the prevention of cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1097/HJR.0b013e32832f3a76
PMID: 19593150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. PLoS One. 2009 Jul 10;4(7):e6212. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0006212.

Biomarkers for early and late stage chronic allograft nephropathy by 
proteogenomic profiling of peripheral blood.

Kurian SM(1), Heilman R, Mondala TS, Nakorchevsky A, Hewel JA, Campbell D, 
Robison EH, Wang L, Lin W, Gaber L, Solez K, Shidban H, Mendez R, Schaffer RL, 
Fisher JS, Flechner SM, Head SR, Horvath S, Yates JR, Marsh CL, Salomon DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Experimental Medicine, The Scripps Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite significant improvements in life expectancy of kidney 
transplant patients due to advances in surgery and immunosuppression, Chronic 
Allograft Nephropathy (CAN) remains a daunting problem. A complex network of 
cellular mechanisms in both graft and peripheral immune compartments complicates 
the non-invasive diagnosis of CAN, which still requires biopsy histology. This 
is compounded by non-immunological factors contributing to graft injury. There 
is a pressing need to identify and validate minimally invasive biomarkers for 
CAN to serve as early predictors of graft loss and as metrics for managing 
long-term immunosuppression.
METHODS: We used DNA microarrays, tandem mass spectroscopy proteomics and 
bioinformatics to identify genomic and proteomic markers of mild and 
moderate/severe CAN in peripheral blood of two distinct cohorts (n = 77 total) 
of kidney transplant patients with biopsy-documented histology.
FINDINGS: Gene expression profiles reveal over 2400 genes for mild CAN, and over 
700 for moderate/severe CAN. A consensus analysis reveals 393 (mild) and 63 
(moderate/severe) final candidates as CAN markers with predictive accuracy of 
80% (mild) and 92% (moderate/severe). Proteomic profiles show over 500 
candidates each, for both stages of CAN including 302 proteins unique to mild 
and 509 unique to moderate/severe CAN.
CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies several unique signatures of transcript and 
protein biomarkers with high predictive accuracies for mild and moderate/severe 
CAN, the most common cause of late allograft failure. These biomarkers are the 
necessary first step to a proteogenomic classification of CAN based on 
peripheral blood profiling and will be the targets of a prospective clinical 
validation study.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0006212
PMCID: PMC2703807
PMID: 19593431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


65. Ann Hum Biol. 2009 Sep-Oct;36(5):496-510. doi: 10.1080/03014460902980303.

The recognition and treatment of growth disorders - a 50-year retrospective.

Zemel B(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition, The Children's 
Hospital of Philadelphia, Department of Pediatrics, The University of 
Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. 
zemel@email.chop.edu

The past 50 years have seen great progress in the understanding and treatment of 
classic growth disorders. Advances such as the recognition of hormone receptor 
defects, the development of recombinant growth hormone, and the expanding 
awareness of epigenetic phenomena affecting growth are among these great 
achievements. Yet growth failure remains a pervasive problem among children with 
complex health conditions, such as survivors of childhood cancers, premature 
infants, organ transplant recipients, and children with cystic fibrosis. The 
significant increases in life expectancy among these groups underscores the 
potential consequences of poor growth, whether due to the underlying conditions 
or medical treatments, as they may have long-lasting effects into adulthood. The 
ongoing contributions of human biologists to the study of human growth remain 
essential in the recognition and treatment of growth disorders, by defining 
normal patterns of growth and body composition, the interplay of growth and 
maturation, the role of environmental, behavioral and genetic factors, and the 
long-term consequences of growth patterns. Examples will be given based on two 
common genetic disorders, cystic fibrosis and sickle-cell anemia, to highlight 
the relationships between growth failure, survival, and malnutrition. Also, a 
study of bone mineral accretion in children with cystic fibrosis will illustrate 
the importance of understanding patterns of growth in healthy children, and 
their application in the diagnosis and management of children with chronic 
disease. These examples accentuate the need for continued participation of human 
biologists in the study of growth and development and the care of children.

DOI: 10.1080/03014460902980303
PMID: 19593695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Am J Hum Biol. 2010 Jan-Feb;22(1):129-33. doi: 10.1002/ajhb.20968.

The health of Arctic populations: Does cold matter?

Young TK(1), Mäkinen TM.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. kue.young@utoronto.ca

The objective of the study was to examine whether cold climate is associated 
with poorer health in diverse Arctic populations. With climate change 
increasingly affecting the Arctic, the association between climate and 
population health status is of public health significance. The mean January and 
July temperatures were determined for 27 Arctic regions based on weather station 
data for the period 1961-1990 and their association with a variety of health 
outcomes assessed by correlation and multiple linear regression analyses. Mean 
January temperature was inversely associated with infant and perinatal mortality 
rate, age-standardized mortality rate from respiratory diseases, and 
age-specific fertility rate for teens and directly associated with life 
expectancy at birth in both males and females, independent of a variety of 
socioeconomic, demographic, and health care factors. Mean July temperature was 
also associated with infant mortality and mortality from respiratory diseases, 
and with total fertility rate. For every 10 degrees C increase in mean January 
temperature, the life expectancy at birth among males increased by about 6 years 
and infant mortality rate decreased by about 4 deaths/1,000 livebirths. Cold 
climate is significantly associated with higher mortality and fertility in 
Arctic populations and should be recognized in public health planning.

2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajhb.20968
PMID: 19593739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Zhongguo Gu Shang. 2009 Jun;22(6):428-31.

[Study on short-term effects of ankle replacement for the treatment of 
hemophilic arthritis].

[Article in Chinese]

Min ZH(1), Zhang HM.

Author information:
(1)The 12st Endemic Area of Orthopaedics Department, Jiaxing TCM Hospital 
Affiliated to Zhejiang University of TCM, Jiaxing 314001, Zhejiang, China. 
min.af.1@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the short-term effects of ankle joint replacement for the 
patients with hemophilic arthritis. To find out the main points for improving 
the joint function and the patients' life quality. To accumulate more experience 
for clinical treatment.
METHODS: The Kofoed evaluation system and the AOFAS evaluation system were used 
to follow-up 6 hemophilic patients with ankle arthritis (6 males, ranging in age 
from 23 to 57 years, with an average of 41.2 years), who were treated with ankle 
joint replacement from 2004.7 to 2007.7. The scores before operation, and the 
6th,12th months after operation were compared.
RESULTS: The Kofoed evaluation system showed the joint replacement significantly 
improved the scores for relieving pain, joint function, range of motion and the 
total score (P<0.05). Except the score for relieving pain, the other three also 
had significant differences between the 6th month and the 12th month after the 
operation (P<0.05). Compared with each details of the joint function, there was 
significant improvement before and after the operation (P<0.05). The ankle got 
more extended range of motion in the 12th month after operation than the 6th 
month (P<0.05). The AOFAS evaluation system showed the joint replacement 
significantly improved the scores for relieving pain, joint function, X-ray 
measurement and the total score (P<0.05). There was no differences between the 
6th month after operation and the 12th month in the results for relieving pain 
and the X-ray measurement (P>0.05). However, the joint function and the total 
score had significant differences (P<0.05). Compared with each details of the 
joint function, there was also significant improvement before and after the 
operation (P< 0.05), and the walk distance, as well as the joint flexion and 
extension activities, had differences between the 6th month and the 12th month 
after the operation. Both of the two evaluation system showed the operation 
could get good curative effects (P< 0.05), and the artificial joint could 
constantly be in good condition from the 6th month to the 12th month after 
operation (P> 0.05).
CONCLUSION: In this short-term observation, the joint replacement can 
significantly improve the life quality for the hemophilic patients with ankle 
arthritis.

PMID: 19594039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Cultur Divers Ethnic Minor Psychol. 2009 Jul;15(3):255-64. doi: 
10.1037/a0015109.

Violated expectations and acculturative stress among U.S. Hispanic immigrants.

Negy C(1), Schwartz S, Reig-Ferrer A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Central Florida, Orlando, FL 32816, 
USA. cnegy@mail.ucf.edu

Expectancy violation theory (EVT) was tested with 112 Hispanic immigrants living 
in the United States by determining whether discrepancies between their 
retrospectively recalled pre-migration expectations about life in the United 
States and their post-migration (actual) experiences in the United States would 
predict their levels of acculturative stress. Discrepancies were assessed in 4 
domains (ability to communicate with English speakers, perceiving their 
communities and the United States as safe, obtaining adequate employment, and 
experiencing racism). Overall, the results indicated that discrepancies between 
pre-migration expectations and post-migration experiences were associated 
significantly with acculturative stress, although some of the findings were 
counter to EVT. Also, on the basis of a hierarchical regression analysis, the 
discrepancies significantly, albeit modestly, contributed to the prediction of 
acculturative stress beyond the predictive ability of general demographic 
variables and post-migration experiences. Implications for clinical 
interventions and research opportunities with EVT and Hispanic immigrants are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1037/a0015109
PMID: 19594254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Rejuvenation Res. 2009 Jun;12(3):165-7. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0884.

Why are so many people so unashamedly selfish about the prospect of combating 
aging?

de Grey AD.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0884
PMID: 19594324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Acad Emerg Med. 2009 Aug;16(8):693-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1553-2712.2009.00459.x. 
Epub 2009 Jul 10.

One-year outcomes following coronary computerized tomographic angiography for 
evaluation of emergency department patients with potential acute coronary 
syndrome.

Hollander JE(1), Chang AM, Shofer FS, Collin MJ, Walsh KM, McCusker CM, Baxt WG, 
Litt HI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. hollandj@uphs.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVES: Coronary computerized tomographic angiography (CTA) has high 
correlation with cardiac catheterization and has been shown to be safe and 
cost-effective when used for rapid evaluation of low-risk chest pain patients 
from the emergency department (ED). The long-term outcome of patients discharged 
from the ED with negative coronary CTA has not been well studied.
METHODS: The authors prospectively evaluated consecutive low- to 
