
The previous health economic simulation of donepezil based on the Markov model 
revealed the treatment for mild to moderate stage of Alzheimer disease (AD) to 
be cost-effective. Our aim was to examine the economic effect of donepezil 
treatment for mild cognitive impairment, from which about 15% convert to 
dementia per year. We constructed a new Markov model using three simulations. 
Namely, Simulation A hypothesized that mild AD patients, i.e., Clinical Dementia 
Rating (CDR) 1, received donepezil as in the previous study. Simulation B 
hypothesized that all CDR 0.5 subjects received donepezil, and Simulation C 
considered that only the CDR 0.5 converters to dementia received donepezil. We 
calculated the models as follows: Simulation B, supposes that the annual 
transition probabilities were reduced even from 15% to 10% by donepezil, 
however, the drug had a negative economic effect. By contrast, in Simulation C, 
the annual transition probability was reduced from only 15% to 12% by donepezil, 
there was a positive economic effect. Since it is necessary to reduce the annual 
transition probability from 15% to 12% in order to manifest a concomitant 
economic benefit, we consider that early detection of CDR 0.5 converters in the 
community is important for health policy planning.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.04.014
PMID: 19481822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Eur Urol. 2009 Sep;56(3):443-54. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2009.05.008. Epub
2009  May 18.

Complications following radical cystectomy for bladder cancer in the elderly.

Froehner M(1), Brausi MA, Herr HW, Muto G, Studer UE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Technical 
University of Dresden, Dresden, Germany. Michael.Froehner@uniklinikum-dresden.de

CONTEXT: The incidence of bladder cancer increases with advancing age. 
Considering the increasing life expectancy and the increasing proportion of 
elderly people in the general population, radical cystectomy will be considered 
for a growing number of elderly patients who suffer from muscle-invasive or 
recurrent bladder cancer.
OBJECTIVE: This article reviews contemporary complication and mortality rates 
after radical cystectomy in elderly patients and the relationship between age 
and short-term outcome after this procedure.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A literature review was performed using the PubMed 
database with combinations of the following keywords cystectomy, elderly, 
complications, and comorbidity. English-language articles published in the year 
2000 or later were reviewed. Papers were included in this review if the authors 
investigated any relationship between age and complication rates with radical 
cystectomy for bladder cancer or if they reported complication rates stratified 
by age groups.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Perioperative morbidity and mortality are increased and 
continence rates after orthotopic urinary diversion are impaired in elderly 
patients undergoing radical cystectomy. Complications are frequent in this 
population, particularly when an extended postoperative period (90 d instead of 
30 d) is considered.
CONCLUSIONS: Although age alone does not preclude radical cystectomy for 
muscle-invasive or recurrent bladder cancer or for certain types of urinary 
diversion, careful surveillance is required, even after the first 30 d after 
surgery. Excellent perioperative management may contribute to the prevention of 
morbidity and mortality of radical cystectomy, supplementary to the skills of 
the surgeon, and is probably a reason for the better perioperative results 
obtained in high-volume centers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2009.05.008
PMID: 19481861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Lancet. 2009 May 30;373(9678):1821-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61003-5.

Aspirin in primary prevention: sex and baseline risk matter.

Algra A(1), Greving JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Rudolf Magnus Institute of Neuroscience, University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, Netherlands. a.algra@umcutrecht.nl

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 May 30;373(9678):1849-60.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61003-5
PMID: 19482200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Am J Surg. 2009 Jul;198(1):92-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2008.09.030. Epub
2009  May 31.

A prospective observational study examining quality of life in patients with 
malignant gastric outlet obstruction.

Schmidt C(1), Gerdes H, Hawkins W, Zucker E, Zhou Q, Riedel E, Jaques D, 
Markowitz A, Coit D, Schattner M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY, 
USA.

BACKGROUND: Gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) often complicates advanced 
malignancy. Palliative options include surgical bypass, endoscopic stent, 
percutaneous gastrostomy (PEG), or percutaneous jejunostomy (PEJ).
METHODS: We enrolled 50 patients with GOO secondary to unresectable primary or 
metastatic cancer in a study examining palliative interventions. Validated 
instruments assessed quality of life (QOL) at baseline, 1 month, and 3 months 
following intervention.
RESULTS: Median overall survival was 64 days. A shorter hospital stay and trend 
to lower mortality were observed after stent placement; solid food intake and 
rates of secondary intervention were comparable. Both stent and surgical bypass 
were associated with acceptable QOL outcomes. Fifteen patients refused 
participation at 1 month and 28 died of disease before 3 months, so 10 patients 
completed all surveys.
CONCLUSIONS: Although malignant GOO is associated with poor survival, there are 
reasonable alternatives for palliation. QOL studies are difficult to complete in 
this population due to severity of illness and short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjsurg.2008.09.030
PMID: 19482259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Pediatrics. 2009 Jun;123(6):1452-63. doi: 10.1542/peds.2008-1482.

New vaccines against otitis media: projected benefits and cost-effectiveness.

O'Brien MA(1), Prosser LA, Paradise JL, Ray GT, Kulldorff M, Kurs-Lasky M, 
Hinrichsen VL, Mehta J, Colborn DK, Lieu TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: New vaccines that offer protection against otitis media caused by 
nontypeable Haemophilus influenzae and by Moraxella catarrhalis are under 
development. However, the potential health benefits and economic effects of such 
candidate vaccines have not been systematically assessed.
METHODS: We created a computerized model to compare the projected benefits and 
costs of (1) the currently available 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, 
(2) a candidate pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae vaccine that has been 
tested in Europe, (3) a hypothetical pneumococcal-nontypeable H 
influenzae-Moraxella vaccine, and (4) no vaccination. The clinical probabilities 
of acute otitis media and of otitis media with effusion were generated from 
multivariate analyses of data from 2 large health maintenance organizations and 
from the Pittsburgh Child Development/Otitis Media Study cohort. Other 
probabilities, costs, and quality-of-life values were derived from published and 
unpublished sources. The base-case analysis assumed vaccine dose costs of $65 
for the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine, $100 for the 
pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae vaccine, and $125 for the 
pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae-Moraxella vaccine.
RESULTS: With no vaccination, we projected that 13.7 million episodes of acute 
otitis media would occur annually in US children aged 0 to 4 years, at an annual 
cost of $3.8 billion. The 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine was projected 
to prevent 878,000 acute otitis media episodes, or 6.4% of those that would 
occur with no vaccination; the corresponding value for the 
pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae vaccine was 3.7 million (27%) and for the 
pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae-Moraxella vaccine was 4.2 million (31%). 
Using the base-case vaccine costs, pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae vaccine 
use would result in net savings compared with nontypeable 7-valent pneumococcal 
conjugate use. Conversely, pneumococcal-nontypeable H influenzae-Moraxella 
vaccine use would not result in savings compared with pneumococcal-nontypeable H 
influenzae vaccine use, but would cost $48 000 more per quality-adjusted 
life-year saved. The results were sensitive to variations in assumptions on 
vaccine effectiveness and vaccine dose costs but not to variations in other 
assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: New candidate vaccines against otitis media have the potential to 
prevent millions of disease episodes in the United States annually. If priced 
comparably with other recently introduced vaccines, these new otitis vaccines 
could achieve cost-effectiveness comparable with or more favorable than that of 
the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2008-1482
PMID: 19482754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2009 May;159(9-10):253-61. doi:
10.1007/s10354-009-0674-8.

[Economic concepts for measuring the costs of illness of osteoporosis: an 
international comparison].

[Article in German]

Viktoria Stein K(1), Dorner T, Lawrence K, Kunze M, Rieder A.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Public Health, Institut für Sozialmedizin der Medizinischen 
Universität Wien, Wien, Austria. katharina.v.stein@meduniwien.ac.at

Worldwide osteoporosis is underestimated and despite availability of effective 
and cost effective treatments, these are often not implemented. Apart from a 
demographically driven increase in disease cases, failure to implement or tardy 
implementation of preventive measures as well as poor treatment compliance leads 
to a deterioration of the health economic outcomes. This in turn causes 
considerable costs to the health care system and to society, through ineffective 
intake of medication, diminished quality of life and inability to work as well 
as substantial costs of rehabilitation of patients. Health economic analyses and 
methods are increasingly used by decision makers to set priorities and evaluate 
alternative treatment measures about their cost-effectiveness. In order to be 
able to capture the costs of illness incurred by osteoporosis, different 
diseases specific models and methods have been developed, such as the reference 
model of the IOF, an osteoporosis-specific Markov model or internationally 
comparable intervention thresholds. Health economists estimate that 
osteoporosis-related costs will double by 2050 in both Europe and the individual 
countries. For Europe this means an increase from 40 billion Euro in 2000 to 
almost 80 billion Euro in 2050. In Austria, an aggregation of the different 
costs of osteoporosis is not possible, due to a lack of comparability and 
availability of data. The international ICUROS study and the Austrian 
Osteoporosis Report 2007 are the first steps towards counteracting this 
situation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-009-0674-8
PMID: 19484209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(4):313-27. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200927040-00004.

Cost effectiveness of drug-eluting stents in Belgian practice: healthcare payer 
perspective.

Neyt M(1), De Laet C, De Ridder A, Van Brabandt H.

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre, Brussels, Belgium. 
mattias.neyt@kce.fgov.be

BACKGROUND: There has been a steep increase in the number of percutaneous 
coronary intervention procedures performed for coronary heart disease since 
their introduction about 30 years ago. Recently, the use of drug-eluting stents 
(DES) compared with the original bare metal stents (BMS) has increased in many 
countries.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of DES versus BMS in a real-world 
setting from the Belgian healthcare payer perspective.
METHODS: We developed a decision analysis model to estimate incremental costs 
(year 2004 or 2007 values [depending on the underlying variable]) and 
effectiveness. Incremental effectiveness was calculated by combining relative 
benefits from published meta-analyses with real-world observations from a 
Belgian registry. Probabilistic modelling and sensitivity analyses were 
performed. The model had a 1-year time horizon. Sixteen sub groups were created 
based on the following characteristics: initial stent type, diabetic status, 
complex lesion and multi-vessel disease. Scenario analyses were performed for 
the influence on reinterventions and the duration of clopidogrel use. In each 
analysis, 1000 Monte Carlo simulations were performed.
RESULTS: The incremental costs for switching from BMS to DES are substantial 
(approximately euro1000), while the benefits, expressed as QALYs, are extremely 
small (on average <0.001 QALYs gained). This led to very high incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios: over euro860 000 per QALY gained in all subgroups and 
scenario analyses.
CONCLUSION: Comparing DES with BMS, no life-years are gained and small 
quality-of-life improvements are achieved for short periods, resulting in a high 
likelihood that DES are not cost effective. When there is competition for scarce 
resources this should be considered when deciding on the reimbursement of this 
technology.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200927040-00004
PMID: 19485427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(4):341-54. doi: 10.2165/00019053-200927040-00006.

Clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of tailoring chronic hepatitis C 
treatment with peginterferon alpha-2b plus ribavirin to HCV genotype and early 
viral response: a decision analysis based on German guidelines.

Siebert U(1), Sroczynski G, Aidelsburger P, Rossol S, Wasem J, Manns MP, 
McHutchison JG, Wong JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, UMIT-University of Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and 
Technology, Hall i.T., Austria. public-health@umit.at

BACKGROUND: Recently developed German guidelines for antiviral treatment in 
patients with chronic hepatitis C recommend basing drug dosage, intended 
treatment duration and early stopping rules on the genotype of the hepatitis C 
virus and early viral responses to treatment.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate effectiveness and cost effectiveness of different 
antiviral treatment strategies including the German guidelines, for chronic 
hepatitis C.
METHODS: A validated lifetime Markov model was used to project life expectancy, 
QALYs and lifetime costs for the following strategies: (i) no antiviral therapy 
(NoAVT); (ii) interferon-alpha-2b plus ribavirin for 48 weeks (IFN + R); (iii) 
peginterferon-alpha-2b plus weight-based ribavirin for 48 weeks (PEG + R); (iv) 
peginterferon-alpha-2b plus ribavirin according to German guidelines with 
genotype-dependent treatment duration, dosage and 12-week viral response 
evaluation (GUIDE). Clinical and resource utilization data were derived from a 
clinical trial, the published literature and a survey of German hepatologists. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated adopting the 
German societal perspective. Costs (in euro, year 2005 values) and health 
outcomes were discounted at 3% annually. Uncertainty was assessed using 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Compared with NoAVT, PEG + R increased undiscounted life expectancy by 
5.0 life-years (5.2 QALYs) and GUIDE increased undiscounted life expectancy by 
4.9 years (5.1 QALYs). Compared with PEG + R, GUIDE saved 13% of hepatitis C 
virus-related lifetime costs per patient. GUIDE dominated IFN + R. Compared with 
NoAVT, discounted ICERs were euro1500 per QALY for GUIDE and euro3200 per QALY 
for PEG + R.
CONCLUSION: Administering GUIDE should allow tailoring treatment efficiently to 
genotype, bodyweight and early viral response in patients with chronic hepatitis 
C, and appears cost effective compared with other well accepted medical 
interventions.

DOI: 10.2165/00019053-200927040-00006
PMID: 19485429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Expert Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2009 Jun;3(3):269-91. doi:
10.1586/egh.09.15.

Current and future treatments of autoimmune hepatitis.

Czaja AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. 
czaja.albert@mayo.edu

Corticosteroid therapy induces clinical, laboratory and histological 
improvements in 80% of patients with autoimmune hepatitis. Prednisone, alone or 
at a lower dose in combination with azathioprine, increases the 20-year life 
expectancy to 80% and prevents or reduces hepatic fibrosis in 79% of patients. 
The combination regimen is preferred and treatment should be considered in all 
patients with active disease. The duration of therapy is finite and the 
medication should be discontinued after resolution of all manifestations of 
inflammatory activity, including the histological changes. Relapse after drug 
withdrawal occurs in 50-79% of patients, and it should be treated with long-term 
azathioprine (2 mg/kg daily). Salvage therapies for individuals intolerant of or 
refractory to the conventional regimens include high-dose corticosteroids, with 
or without high-dose azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine, mycophenolate mofetil, 
tacrolimus or ciclosporin. Liver transplantation should be considered in 
patients with hepatic failure unresponsive to corticosteroid treatment, 
decompensated cirrhosis with a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease score of at 
least 15 points, or hepatocellular carcinoma that meets transplantation 
criteria. Autoimmune hepatitis recurs after transplantation in at least 17% of 
patients, and it typically improves after adjustments in the immunosuppressive 
regimen. Future therapies are likely to include mesenchymal stem cell 
transplantation, adoptive transfer of T regulatory cells, and cytokine 
manipulation. The emergence of new treatments will require the development of a 
collaborative network of clinical and basic investigators, as the complexity and 
specificity of current management problems require solutions that exceed the 
capabilities of single institutions.

DOI: 10.1586/egh.09.15
PMID: 19485809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2010 Jul;8(4):517-25. doi: 10.2174/157016110791330889.

The role of the stress-related anti-inflammatory hormones ACTH and cortisol in 
atherosclerosis.

Fantidis P(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Angiología y Cirugía Vascular, Hospital San Pedro de 
Alcántara-Complejo Hospitalario de Cáceres, Cáceres, Comunidad Autónoma de 
Extremadura, Madrid, Spain. pfantidis@yahoo.es

Chronic stress and probably the accompanying changes in personal behaviours can 
influence life expectancy. The role of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and 
cortisol in atherosclerosis is not widely accepted and incompletely 
characterized. Several reports support a role of these hormones in atherogenesis 
by modulating the function of vascular endothelium, the recruitment of 
circulating monocytes to the artery wall and their differentiation into 
macrophages- foam cells, by controlling the expression of pro- and 
anti-inflammatory interleukins. Previous reports suggested an important role of 
ACTH and cortisol in the modulation of atherosclerotic plaque progression by 
removal of excess free cholesterol from macrophages. Studies suggested a crucial 
role of these hormones on the development of acute coronary syndromes [(ACS); 
unstable angina, and acute myocardial infarction] and stroke, by modulating 
platelet aggregation and thrombus formation. This review focuses on the 
identified mechanisms and roles of ACTH and cortisol in atherogenesis, 
progression of atherosclerosis and the development of ACS. Finally, it proposes 
experimental studies to evaluate the therapeutic potential of new glucocorticoid 
antagonists, the effects that may derive from the inhibition cortisol synthesis 
and the role of 11beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 inhibitors in 
atherogenesis, progression of atherosclerosis and the development of ACS. These 
hormones may be a possible additional target for the prevention and treatment of 
atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.2174/157016110791330889
PMID: 19485904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Haemophilia. 2009 Sep;15(5):1006-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02045.x.
Epub  2009 May 26.

Enhancement of haemostatic efficacy of plasma-derived FVIII by formulation with 
PEGylated liposomes.

Dayan I(1), Robinson M, Baru M.

Author information:
(1)Omri Laboratories Ltd., Weizmann Science Park, Nes-Ziona, Israel.

We have shown previously that PEGylated liposomes (PEGLip) bind recombinant 
FVIII (rFVIII) with high affinity and specificity. This binding resulted in a 
significant extension of the biological activity of rFVIII as demonstrated in 
animal models and in clinical trials. In the present study we found that PEGLip 
bind plasma-derived factor VIII (pdFVIII). PEGLip binding did not affect potency 
or stability in vitro and did not alter levels of FVIII activity in vivo 
immediately after injection. However, formulation of pdFVIII with PEGLip led to 
several important improvements. Twenty-four and 30 hours after injection, FVIII 
activity levels were significantly higher in haemophilic mice injected with 
PEGLip-pdFVIII than in mice injected with standard pdFVIII. Half life, area 
under the curve and mean residence time were increased while clearance was 
decreased. In vivo efficacy was evaluated in a tail vein transection assay 
performed in haemophilic mice. Prophylactic treatment with PEGLip-pdFVIII was 
much more effective in prolonging survival in this assay than similar treatment 
with standard pdFVIII. These results suggest that formulation of pdFVIII with 
PEGLip has the potential to improve patient care by prolonging the biological 
efficacy of pdFVIII and reducing the frequency of FVIII infusions.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02045.x
PMID: 19486171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Health Soc Care Community. 2009 Nov;17(6):636-46. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2524.2009.00867.x. Epub 2009 May 27.

The role of advocacy and interpretation services in the delivery of quality 
healthcare to diverse minority communities in London, United Kingdom.

El Ansari W(1), Newbigging K, Roth C, Malik F.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sport, Health & Social Care, University of Gloucestershire, 
Gloucester, UK. walidansari@glos.ac.uk

Inequalities in access to appropriate and acceptable healthcare contributes to a 
pattern of poorer health status, reduced life expectancy and greater 
dissatisfaction with healthcare amongst people from Black and minority ethnic 
communities (BME). Language acts as a further barrier to access. The development 
of bilingual advocacy fuses two key functions--interpretation and advocacy--to 
ensure that people from BME communities are able to have their healthcare needs 
met appropriately. This paper explores the development of bilingual advocacy in 
East London, which has a highly diverse population speaking over 100 different 
languages. It considers the development of the bilingual advocacy services by an 
NHS University Hospital Trust, the local experience of these services and the 
factors that have influenced their development. We employed the Delphi method 
amongst the four authors to examine the advocate-, service- or client-related 
challenges that face advocacy services; and the threats of these challenges to 
Trust-based advocacy and their implications to the service, client and advocate. 
Advocate-related challenges included status, esteem and remuneration of 
bilingual advocates in relation to other health professionals, as well as skills 
development, career progression, gender, capacity building and potential 
research contributions. Service-related challenges included work load, case mix, 
administration, commissioning processes/arrangements; entrepreneurial aspects of 
advocacy services; and mechanisms/potentials for cost recovery. Client-related 
challenges included continuity of advocacy; language requirements and advocacy 
needs of clients; and ways in which mobile populations influence planning and 
delivery of advocacy services for inner city hospitals. The paper concludes with 
identifying the implications for future development of bilingual advocacy 
services and the implications for their workforce.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2524.2009.00867.x
PMID: 19486185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Philos Trans A Math Phys Eng Sci. 2009 Jul 13;367(1898):2691-703. doi: 
10.1098/rsta.2009.0043.

HIV decision support: from molecule to man.

Sloot PM(1), Coveney PV, Ertaylan G, Müller V, Boucher CA, Bubak M.

Author information:
(1)Computational Science, University of Amsterdam, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. p.m.a.sloot@uva.nl

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is recognized to be one of the most 
destructive pandemics in recorded history. Effective highly active 
antiretroviral therapy and the availability of genetic screening of patient 
virus data have led to sustained viral suppression and higher life expectancy in 
patients who have been infected with HIV. The sheer complexity of the disease 
stems from the multiscale and highly dynamic nature of the system under study. 
The complete cascade from genome, proteome, metabolome and physiome to health 
forms a multidimensional system that crosses many orders of magnitude in 
temporal and spatial scales. Understanding, quantifying and handling this 
complexity is one of the biggest challenges of our time, which requires a highly 
multidisciplinary approach. In order to supply researchers with an interactive 
framework and to provide the medical professional with appropriate tools and 
information for making a balanced and reliable clinical decision, we have 
developed 'ViroLab', a collaborative decision-support system 
(http://www.virolab.org/). ViroLab contains computational models that cover 
various spatial and temporal scales from atomic-level interactions in 
nanoseconds up to sociological interactions on the epidemiological level, 
spanning years of disease progression. ViroLab allows for personalized drug 
ranking. It is on trial in six hospitals and various virology and epidemiology 
laboratories across Europe.

DOI: 10.1098/rsta.2009.0043
PMID: 19487205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Ann Transplant. 2009 Apr-Jun;14(2):55-60.

Pregnancy after renal transplantation: prospects and concerns.

Khedmat H(1), Alavian SM, Taheri S.

Author information:
(1)Baqiyatallah Research Center for Gastroenterology & Liver Diseases, 
Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. khedmat.h@gmail.com

The first child born to a renal transplant patient who was the first woman 
undergone a renal transplant from her identical twin celebrated his 53th 
birthday on March 10, 2009. Since this first experience, over 14,000 births 
among women with transplanted organs have been reported worldwide and several 
more also not reported. Pregnancy is now considered a frequent part of women 
after organ transplantation. However, substantial gaps remain in our knowledge 
about pregnancy in the transplant recipient and its effects on the mother and 
child. As well, several ethical concerns have been raised about the wisdom of 
pregnancy for a woman with a proportionally lower life span with expected 
medical complications. In this review article we tried to address all issues 
related to pregnancy after renal transplantation.<br />

PMID: 19487796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2009 May 9;153(19):896-8.

[New opportunities to overcome health disparities].

[Article in Dutch]

Houweling TA(1), Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)University College London, Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, 
London.

PMID: 19489291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Value Health. 2009 Sep;12(6):888-98. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00534.x.
Epub  2009 Mar 18.

Budget impact and cost-effectiveness of including a pentavalent rotavirus 
vaccine in the New Zealand childhood immunization schedule.

Milne RJ(1), Grimwood K.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 
richard.milne@hoa.co.nz

OBJECTIVES: To estimate: 1) rotavirus disease burden in New Zealand children 
aged under 5 years, and 2) health benefits, budget impact, and 
cost-effectiveness of incorporating a pentavalent rotavirus vaccine (PRV) into 
the national immunization schedule.
METHODS: A static equilibrium model was developed to evaluate health benefits 
and budget impact of vaccinating five successive birth cohorts with PRV at $50 
per dose and 85% coverage (three doses). Cost-effectiveness was estimated from 
the societal perspective in year 5 of the program, with future health benefits 
discounted at 3.5% per annum.
RESULTS: By the age of 5 years, one in five children will have sought medical 
advice for rotavirus gastroenteritis and one in 43 will have been hospitalized. 
In 2009, we estimate 1506 hospitalizations (476 per 100,000; 95% confidence 
interval 451, 502), 3086 Emergency Department (ED) presentations not requiring 
hospitalization, plus 10,120 cases of rotavirus gastroenteritis managed solely 
in primary care. The annual societal cost is $7.07 million, including 41% from 
hospitalization and 25% from caregiver income loss. Health benefits will 
increase and the cost of illness will decline by 78% in year 5 as successive 
birth cohorts are immunized. In the fifth year, 1191 hospitalizations, 2442 ED 
treated cases, 9762 primary care consultations, and 0.8 deaths will be averted. 
It requires six vaccinated children to avoid one primary care consultation, 49 
to avert one hospitalization, and 73,357 to prevent one death. The incremental 
cost is $2.99 million and the break-even price per vaccine dose is $32.39 at 
2006 prices. The cost is $2509 to avert one hospitalization and $305 to prevent 
one case seeking health-care assistance. The cost per life-year gained in year 5 
is $143,097 and the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained is $46,092 
(US$26,774). The cost per QALY is sensitive to incidence rates, vaccine price 
and efficacy, loss of quality of life by the child, case fatality, and caregiver 
income loss.
CONCLUSIONS: From a societal perspective, addition of PRV to the New Zealand 
childhood immunization schedule would confer important clinical gains at a 
modest cost per QALY gained.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00534.x
PMID: 19490550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Value Health. 2009 Jul-Aug;12(5):649-56. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00513.x.

Cost-effectiveness of drug-eluting stents in a US Medicare setting:a 
cost-utility analysis with 3-year clinical follow-up data.

Bischof M(1), Briel M, Bucher HC, Nordmann A.

Author information:
(1)Basel Institute for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University 
Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: There is only limited information about cost-effectiveness of 
drug-eluting compared with bare metal stents (BMS) over a time horizon of more 
than 1 year.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a Markov model based on clinical outcome data 
from a meta-analysis including 17 randomized controlled trials comparing 
drug-eluting versus BMS with a minimum follow-up of 1 (n = 8221) and a maximum 
follow-up of 3 years (n = 4105) in patients with chronic coronary artery 
disease. Costs were obtained as reimbursement rates for diagnosis related groups 
from the US Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. All costs and effects 
were discounted at 3% annually. All costs are reported in US dollars of the 
financial year 2007. The incremental effects are 0.002 (95% confidence interval 
−0.039 to 0.041) quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for the sirolimus- and 
−0.001 (−0.040 to 0.038) QALYs for the paclitaxel-eluting stents (PES). The 
incremental costs are $2790 for the sirolimus- and $3838 for the PES. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is >$1,000,000 per QALY for the 
sirolimus-eluting stent. PES are dominated by BMS (i.e., less effective and more 
costly). Among various sensitivity analyses performed, the model proved to be 
robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis from a US Medicare perspective suggests that 
drug-eluting stents are not cost-effective compared with BMS when implanted in 
unselected patients with symptomatic ischemic coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00513.x
PMID: 19490551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Value Health. 2009 Sep;12(6):880-7. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00531.x.
Epub  2009 Mar 11.

Economic evaluation of atorvastatin for prevention of recurrent stroke based on 
the SPARCL trial.

Kongnakorn T(1), Ward A, Roberts CS, O'Brien JA, Proskorovsky I, Caro JJ.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Lexington, MA 02420, USA. 
thitima.kongnakorn@unitedbiosource.com

OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the economic implications of results obtained 
by the Stroke Prevention by Aggressive Reduction in Cholesterol Levels (SPARCL) 
trial.
METHODS: To enable long-term projection of the trial results, a discrete event 
simulation of the course of clinical care after a recent stroke or transient 
ischemic attack (TIA) was developed. It generates pairs of identical patients; 
both receive usual care, one receives atorvastatin in addition. Their clinical 
course is simulated based on their risk of stroke, cardiovascular events, and 
case fatality rates taken from SPARCL, life expectancy from Saskatchewan Health 
data, and utility weights from literature. Costs, from a US health-care payer 
perspective in 2005 US dollars, were estimated for a within-trial 5-year period; 
survival and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were extrapolated over a 
patient's lifetime; all discounted at 3%/year.
RESULTS: The prevention of stroke, coronary, and other cardiovascular events 
expected with atorvastatin translates to mean gains of 0.155 life-years gained 
and 0.172 QALYs per patient over their lifetime. Reducing associated medical 
costs ($8405 vs. $11,237) but increasing drug costs ($13,984 vs. $8752) results 
in net $2400/patient, or $13,916/QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
indicates no simulations yield ratios above $50,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Prescribing atorvastatin for patients with prior stroke or TIA is 
expected to provide health benefits at an acceptable cost in the United States.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00531.x
PMID: 19490555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Value Health. 2009 Sep;12(6):872-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00529.x.
Epub  2009 Mar 11.

Cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel plus aspirin versus aspirin alone for 
secondary prevention of cardiovascular events: results from the CHARISMA trial.

Chen J(1), Bhatt DL, Dunn ES, Shi C, Caro JJ, Mahoney EM, Gabriel S, Jackson JD, 
Topol EJ, Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel plus 
aspirin (C + A) compared with aspirin (A) alone during the Clopidogrel for High 
Atherothrombotic Risk and Ischemic Stabilization, Management and Avoidance 
(CHARISMA) trial from a US payer perspective.
BACKGROUND: Although the CHARISMA trial did not find a benefit of adding 
clopidogrel to aspirin in its overall study cohort, a benefit was suggested in a 
prespecified subgroup of patients with established cardiovascular (CV) disease. 
The cost-effectiveness of dual antiplatelet therapy in this population is 
unknown.
METHODS: Medical resource utilization was assessed prospectively, and costs for 
hospitalizations, physician services, outpatient care, and medications were 
assigned using 2007 US dollars. Life expectancy was estimated contingent on 
fatal and nonfatal CV events using statistical models of long-term survival from 
the Saskatchewan Health database.
RESULTS: C + A was associated with a 12.5% relative reduction in CV death, 
myocardial infarction, or stroke compared with A alone (6.9% vs. 7.9%, P = 
0.048) over a median 28 months of follow-up. Severe or moderate bleeding events 
were higher in patients receiving C + A versus A alone (3.6% vs. 2.5%, P < 
0.001). Mean cost/patient was $2607 higher for C + A, while projected life 
expectancy increased by an average of 0.072 years due to fewer in-trial events. 
The resulting incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for C + A was 
$36,343/year of life gained. Findings were insensitive to discount rate, life 
expectancy projections, post-event costs, and indirect costs from lost 
productivity; the ICER was most sensitive to the cost of clopidogrel. Bootstrap 
analysis demonstrated that the ICER for C + A remained <$50,000/life-year gained 
in 70.6% of bootstrap replicates and <$100,000/life-year gained in 87.4%.
CONCLUSIONS: Among patients with established CV disease, adding clopidogrel to 
aspirin appears to increase life expectancy modestly at a cost generally 
considered acceptable within the US health-care system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00529.x
PMID: 19490556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Value Health. 2009 Jul-Aug;12(5):697-707. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00512.x.

Age-based programs for vaccination against HPV.

Elbasha EH(1), Dasbach EJ, Insinga RP, Haupt RM, Barr E.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, Merck & Co., Inc., NorthWales, PA, USA. 
elamin_elbasha@merck.com

BACKGROUND: The risk of infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) increases with 
age. Answering the question of which age groups are appropriate to target for 
catch-up vaccination with the newly licensed quadrivalent HPV vaccine (types 
6/11/16/18) will be important for developing vaccine policy recommendations.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the value of varying female HPV vaccination strategies by 
specific age groups of a catch-up program in the United States.
METHODS: The authors used previously published mathematical population dynamic 
model and cost-utility analysis to evaluate the public health impact and 
cost-effectiveness of alternative quadrivalent HPV (6/11/16/18) vaccination 
strategies. The model simulates heterosexual transmission of HPV infection and 
occurrence of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), cervical cancer, and 
external genital warts in an age-structured population stratified by sex and 
sexual activity groups. The cost-utility analysis estimates the cost of 
vaccination, screening, diagnosis, and treatment of HPV diseases, and 
quality-adjusted survival.
RESULTS: Compared with the current screening practices, vaccinating girls and 
women ages 12 to 24 years was the most effective strategy, reducing the number 
of HPV6/11/16/18-related genital warts, CIN grades 2 and 3, and cervical cancer 
cases among women in the next 25 years by 3,049,285, 1,399,935, and 30,021; 
respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of this strategy when 
compared with vaccinating girls and women ages 12 to 19 years was $10,986 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. CONCLUSION;: Relative to other commonly 
accepted health-care programs, vaccinating girls and women ages 12 to 24 years 
appears cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00512.x
PMID: 19490561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Value Health. 2009 Jul-Aug;12(5):641-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00511.x.

The cost-utility of sequential adjuvant trastuzumab in women with 
Her2/Neu-positive breast cancer: an analysis based on updated results from the 
HERA Trial.

Skedgel C(1), Rayson D, Younis T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The efficacy of sequential adjuvant trastuzumab (aTZ) after 
chemotherapy in women with early-stage human epidermal growth factor-2 
(HER2/neu)-positive breast cancer reported by the updated Herceptin Adjuvant 
(HERA) trial appears less favorable than originally reported. Based on these 
updated results, we estimated the cost-utility (CU) of sequential aTZ relative 
to chemotherapy alone in terms of incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained.
METHODS: A Markov model estimated incremental costs and outcomes of 12 months of 
aTZ after adjuvant chemotherapy in women with HER2/neu-positive breast cancer 
over a 25-year horizon. The model incorporated four broad health states 
(disease-free, local recurrence [LCR], distant recurrence [DCR], death), 
stratified with or without symptomatic cardiotoxicity. Baseline event rates and 
3-year relative risk (RR = 0.75) were derived from the HERA trial. As the 
duration of the benefit remains uncertain, the analysis considered 5-year and 
3-year duration of benefit in two scenarios. Costs and utility weights were from 
the literature. The analysis took a direct payer perspective, with costs 
reported in 2007 Canadian dollars. Costs and QALYs were discounted by 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: The mean CU of sequential aTZ at a 25-year horizon was $72,292 per QALY 
gained in the 5-year scenario and $127,862 per QALY gained in the 3-year 
scenario. Results were particularly sensitive to the magnitude and duration of 
carryover benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: The CU of sequential aTZ is primarily dependent on the magnitude 
and duration of benefit. Further clinical research is required to establish the 
optimum sequence and duration of aTZ therapy and clarify the magnitude and 
duration of treatment benefit.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00511.x
PMID: 19490562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Value Health. 2009 Jul-Aug;12(5):750-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00509.x.

Comparison of different valuation methods for population health status measured 
by the EQ-5D in three European countries.

Bernert S(1), Fernández A, Haro JM, König HH, Alonso J, Vilagut G, 
Sevilla-Dedieu C, de Graaf R, Matschinger H, Heider D, Angermeyer MC; 
ESEMeD/MHEDEA 2000 Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to analyze and compare different 
valuation methods for population health status measured by the EuroQol-5D 
(EQ-5D) in three European countries.
METHODS: A representative survey of the noninstitutionalized population aged 18 
and above was conducted in three European countries (Germany, The Netherlands, 
and Spain). A total of 11,932 respondents were interviewed using the EQ-5D 
self-classifier. Health state values based on community preferences (EQ-5D 
index) were calculated for each country using four different value sets: 
national value sets based on the time trade-off (TTO) and the visual analogue 
scale (VAS), the UK TTO-based value set and the European VAS-based value set. 
Linear regression analysis was conducted to evaluate the factors associated with 
different EQ-5D index scores depending on the value set used. Loss of 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) was calculated for each country using the 
four value sets by multiplying the age and gender-specific values with the 
respective population size.
RESULTS: In all countries, means of all EQ-5D index scores were higher for men 
than women, and decreased with age. Index scores calculated using the national 
value set based on TTO were higher than those calculated using the UK TTO-based 
value set and, also, slightly higher than those calculated using the European 
VAS-based value set or the national value set based on the VAS. The mean loss of 
QALYs estimated for Germany per inhabitant varied between 0.062 (national value 
set based on TTO) and 0.094 (European VAS-based value set). In The Netherlands, 
the mean loss of QALYs per inhabitant ranged from 0.090 (national value set 
based on TTO) to 0.125 (national value set based on VAS). In Spain, the mean 
loss of QALYs per inhabitant ranged between 0.072 (national value set based on 
TTO) and 0.085 (European VAS-based value set).
CONCLUSIONS: In general, the differences among countries and valuations were 
rather small; nevertheless, some important variations should be taken into 
account while applying different valuation methods to the EQ-5D descriptive 
system. The associations between sociodemographic variables and health state 
scores remained the same across countries regardless of which value sets were 
used. Using different valuation methods lead to different QALY losses. To 
overcome this problem in international surveys aimed to compare health state 
scores or QALYs, it is advisable to use a single valuation method, making these 
scores comparable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00509.x
PMID: 19490564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Value Health. 2009 Sep;12(6):967-76. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00536.x.
Epub  2009 Mar 16.

Preliminary validation of an optimally weighted patient-based utility index by 
application to randomized trials in breast cancer.

Grimison PS(1), Simes RJ, Hudson HM, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. 
Peter.Grimison@ctc.usyd.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: To optimize, apply, and validate a scoring algorithm that provides a 
utility index from a cancer-specific quality of life questionnaire called the 
Utility-Based Questionnaire-Cancer (UBQ-C) using data sets from randomized 
trials in breast cancer. The index is designed to reflect the perspective of 
cancer patients in a specific clinical context so as to best inform clinical 
decisions.
METHODS: We applied the UBQ-C scoring algorithm to trials of chemotherapy for 
advanced (n = 325) and early (n = 126) breast cancer. The algorithm converts 
UBQ-C subscales into a subset index, and combines it with a global health status 
item into an overall HRQL index, which is then converted to a utility index 
using a power transformation. The optimal subscale weights were determined by 
their correlations with the global scale in the relevant data set. The validity 
of the utility index was tested against other patient characteristics.
RESULTS: Optimal weights (range 0-1) for the subset index in advanced (early) 
breast cancer were: physical function 0.20 (0.09); social/usual activities 0.23 
(0.25); self-care 0.04 (0.01); and distresses 0.53 (0.64). Weights for the 
overall HRQL index were health status 0.66 (0.63) and subset index 0.34 (0.37). 
The utility index discriminated between breast cancer that was advanced rather 
than early (means 0.88 vs. 0.94, P < 0.0001) and was responsive to the toxic 
effects of chemotherapy in early breast cancer (mean change 0.07, P < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The scoring algorithm for the UBQ-C utility index can be optimized 
in different clinical contexts to reflect the relative importance of different 
aspects of quality of life to the patients in a trial. It can be used to 
generate sensitive and responsive utility scores, and quality-adjusted 
life-years that can be used within a trial to compare the net benefit of 
treatments and inform clinical decision-making.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00536.x
PMID: 19490566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. J Int Soc Sports Nutr. 2009 Jun 2;6:13. doi: 10.1186/1550-2783-6-13.

Creatine supplementation enhances muscle force recovery after 
eccentrically-induced muscle damage in healthy individuals.

Cooke MB(#)(1)(2), Rybalka E(#)(1), Williams AD(#)(3), Cribb PJ(#)(1), Hayes 
A(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Exercise Metabolism Unit, Centre for Ageing, Rehabilitation, Exercise and 
Sport, School of Biomedical and Health Sciences, Victoria University, Melbourne, 
Australia.
(2)Exercise & Sport Nutrition Lab, Center for Exercise, Nutrition and Preventive 
Health, Department of Health, Human Performance & Recreation, Baylor University, 
Waco, Texas, USA.
(3)School of Human Life Sciences, University of Tasmania, Launceston, Tasmania.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Eccentric exercise-induced damage leads to reductions in muscle 
force, increased soreness, and impaired muscle function. Creatine monohydrate's 
(Cr) ergogenic potential is well established; however few studies have directly 
examined the effects of Cr supplementation on recovery after damage. We examined 
the effects of Cr supplementation on muscle proteins and force recovery after 
eccentrically-induced muscle damage in healthy individuals.
METHODS: Fourteen untrained male participants (22.1 +/- 2.3 yrs, 173 +/- 7.7 cm, 
76.2 +/- 9.3 kg) were randomly separated into 2 supplement groups: i) Cr and 
carbohydrate (Cr-CHO; n = 7); or ii) carbohydrate (CHO; n = 7). Participants 
consumed their supplement for a period of 5 days prior to, and 14 days following 
a resistance exercise session. Participants performed 4 sets of 10 
eccentric-only repetitions at 120% of their maximum concentric 1-RM on the leg 
press, leg extension and leg flexion exercise machine. Plasma creatine kinase 
(CK) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity were assessed as relevant blood 
markers of muscle damage. Muscle strength was examined by voluntary isokinetic 
knee extension using a Cybex dynamometer. Data were analyzed using repeated 
measures ANOVA with an alpha of 0.05.
RESULTS: The Cr-supplemented group had significantly greater isokinetic (10% 
higher) and isometric (21% higher) knee extension strength during recovery from 
exercise-induced muscle damage. Furthermore, plasma CK activity was 
significantly lower (by an average of 84%) after 48 hrs (P < 0.01), 72 hrs (P < 
0.001), 96 hrs (P < 0.0001), and 7 days (P < 0.001) recovery in the 
Cr-supplemented group.
CONCLUSION: The major finding of this investigation was a significant 
improvement in the rate of recovery of knee extensor muscle function after Cr 
supplementation following injury.

DOI: 10.1186/1550-2783-6-13
PMCID: PMC2697134
PMID: 19490606


819. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Dec;19(6):650-4. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp075. Epub
2009  Jun 2.

Cost-effectiveness of varenicline compared with nicotine patches for smoking 
cessation--results from four European countries.

Bolin K(1), Wilson K, Benhaddi H, de Nigris E, Marbaix S, Mork AC, Aubin HJ.

Author information:
(1)Lund University Department of Economics and Centre for Health Economics, 
Lund, Sweden. kristian.bolin@nek.lu.se

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate and compare the 
cost-effectiveness of varenicline with nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) for 
smoking cessation in four European countries (Belgium, France, Sweden and the 
UK).
METHODS: Markov simulations, using the Benefits of Smoking Cessation on Outcomes 
(BENESCO) model, were performed. We simulated the incidence of four 
smoking-related morbidities: lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
coronary heart disease and stroke. The model computes quality-adjusted 
life-years gained and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Incremental 
cost-utility ratios were calculated, adopting a lifetime perspective. Efficacy 
data were obtained from a randomized open-label trial: Week 52 continuous 
abstinence rates were 26.1% for varenicline and 20.3% for NRT.
RESULTS: The analyses imply that for countries analysed, smoking cessation using 
varenicline versus NRT was associated with reduced smoking-related morbidity and 
mortality. The number of morbidities avoided, per 1000 smokers attempting to 
quit, ranged from 9.7 in Belgium to 6.5 in the UK. The number of 
quality-adjusted life-years gained, per 1000 smokers, was 23 (Belgium); 19.5 
(France); 29.9 (Sweden); and 23.7 (UK). In all base-case simulations (except 
France), varenicline dominated (more effective and cost saving) NRT regarding 
costs per quality-adjusted life-year gained; for France the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 2803.
CONCLUSION: This cost-effectiveness analysis demonstrated that since varenicline 
treatment was more effective, the result was increased healthcare cost savings 
in Belgium, Sweden and the UK. Our results suggest that funding varenicline as a 
smoking cessation aid is justifiable from a healthcare resource allocation 
perspective.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp075
PMID: 19491286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Indian J Med Res. 2009 Mar;129(3):321-6.

Call for more research on injury from the developing world: results of a 
bibliometric analysis.

Borse NN(1), Hyder AA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Unintentional Injury Prevention, National Center for Injury 
Prevention & Control, Centers for Disease Control & Prevention, Atlanta, GA 
30341, USA. nborse@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVE: Injury prevention is a daunting health challenge as 
public health systems particularly in the developing world are least prepared to 
respond to this issue. In 2005, an estimated 5.4 million people worldwide died 
from injuries over 90 per cent in low- and middle-income countries. The main 
objective of this bibliometric analysis was to document injury literature 
published on low- and middle- income countries, and also to quantify literature 
on road traffic injuries by countries before and after the World Health Day on 
Road Safety celebrated in April 2004.
METHODS: A systematic search was done using MeSH terms on PubMed. Papers on road 
traffic injuries were assessed by country/cluster and by publication date for 
two periods (March 2001-March 2004) and (April 2004-April 2007). The rate of 
articles published per million population was calculated. Finally, a comparison 
was made between disease burden in disability adjusted life years (DALYs) and 
