
Woodhall SC(1), Jit M, Cai C, Ramsey T, Zia S, Crouch S, Birks Y, Newton R, 
Edmunds WJ, Lacey CJ.

Author information:
(1)Hull York Medical School, University of York, Department of GU Medicine, York 
HIV Research Group, York YO31 7WA, UK. sarah.woodhall@hyms.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Data on the burden of genital warts in terms of treatment costs and 
detriment to quality of life (QoL) are required to assess cost-effectiveness of 
quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccination. We investigated the cost of 
treatment and period of time for which QoL is affected to obtain estimates of 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) loss associated with an episode of genital 
warts.
METHODS: Adults diagnosed with genital warts attending the York sexually 
transmitted disease clinic during two 3-month periods in 2006 and 2007 were 
enrolled (n = 189). Data on cost of treatment and duration of episode of care 
were collected from a retrospective case note review. QALY loss was calculated 
by applying estimates of the duration of time for which QoL was affected to the 
previously reported detriment to QoL associated with genital warts.
RESULTS: The average cost per episode of care was 286 US dollars (139 pound, 95% 
CI: 246-327 US dollars). Estimated loss of QALYs ranged from 0.0045 (95% CI: 
0.0014-0.0078) to 0.023 (95% CI: 0.0072-0.039).
CONCLUSIONS: Genital warts present a significant burden both to individuals and 
to the health service. Data on the burden of genital warts should be 
incorporated into economic evaluations of human papillomavirus vaccination 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181a74c2c
PMID: 19543143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2009 Jun;50(3):339-43.

Heparin-bonded expanded polytetrafluoroethylene graft for infragenicular bypass: 
five-year results.

Lösel-Sadée H(1), Alefelder C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Sana Kliniken Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, 
Germany. h.loesel-sadee@sana-duesseldorf.de

AIM: This study assessed five-year results with a heparin-bonded expanded 
polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) graft (GORE PROPATEN Vascular Graft) used in 
infragenicular bypasses in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) with 
no available autologous vein for grafting.
METHODS: A retrospective review was conducted of the records of the 75 patients 
given a heparin-bonded ePTFE graft in 2003 to 2007 and in whom a femoropopliteal 
3 (FP 3; distal anastomosis below the knee articulation) or femorocrural (FC) 
anastomosis was performed. Graft patency rates were determined by life-table 
analysis.
RESULTS: Most patients (88%) had previously been treated for PAD (Rutherford 
category 4 to 6 in 91% of patients overall); 31% had renal insufficiency; and 
55% had only one patent run-off vessel. Three major procedure-related adverse 
events occurred within 30 days postoperatively: one death from congestive heart 
failure, one hemorrhage, and one graft infection. The 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-year 
primary patency rates were, respectively, 77.3%, 71.4%, 71.4%, 71.4%, and 
undeterminable for the FP 3 bypasses and 64.4%, 56.8%, 49.7%, 49.7%, and 49.7% 
for the FC bypasses. The 1-, 2-, 3-, 4-, and 5-year secondary patency rates 
were, respectively, 87.7%, 82.5%, 82.5%, 82.5%, and undeterminable for the FP 3 
bypasses and 87.1%, 78.0%, 71.5%, 71.5%, and 71.57% for the FC bypasses. The 
major amputation rate was 16% or limb salvage was 84% at five years.
CONCLUSIONS: The heparin-bonded ePTFE graft provided good long-term results in 
infragenicular bypasses in patients with severe PAD.

PMID: 19543194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2009 May;6(5):1597-608. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph6051597. Epub 2009 May 6.

Development of the Jackson Heart Study Coordinating Center.

Campbell-Jenkins BW(1), Addison CC, Young L, Anugu P, Wilson G, Sarpong D.

Author information:
(1)Jackson Heart Study, 350 West Woodrow Wilson Drive, Suite 701, Jackson, MS 
39213 USA. brenda.w.campbell@jsums.edu

The public health burden caused by cardiovascular disease (CVD) continues to 
adversely affect individuals in terms of cost, life expectancy, medical, 
pharmaceutical and hospital care. This burden has been excessive in the case of 
African Americans. The objective of this paper is to chronicle the procedures 
and processes that were implemented in the development of the Jackson Heart 
Study Coordinating Center. The Jackson Heart Study (JHS) is a population-based 
investigation of traditional and emerging risk factors that predict progression 
to CVD among African Americans. In response to the struggle against CVD, the 
Jackson Heart Study has convened a professional, technical, and administrative 
staff with specific competence in the operation of a coordinating center to 
handle the wide variety of areas related to CVD studies. The Jackson Heart Study 
Coordinating Center (JHSCC) was created to assure validity of the JHS findings 
and provide the resources necessary to meet comprehensive statistical needs 
(planning, implementing and monitoring data analysis); data management 
(designing, implementing and managing data collection and quality control), and 
administrative support. The JHSCC began with a commitment to support study 
functions in order to increase participant recruitment, retention and safety, 
meet regulatory requirements, prepare progress reports, and facilitate effective 
communication with the community and between all JHS centers. The JHSCC 
facilitates the efforts of the JHS scientists through the development and 
implementation of the study protocol. The efforts of the JHSCC have resulted in 
the successful preparation of scientific reports and manuscripts for publication 
and presentation of study findings and results. In summary, the JHSCC has 
emerged as an effective research mechanism that serves as the driving force 
behind the Jackson Heart Study activities.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph6051597
PMCID: PMC2697930
PMID: 19543408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Rev Med Chil. 2009 Feb;137(2):296-302. Epub 2009 Jun 10.

[Biology of aging].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez V(1), Sierra F.

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies, University of Texas Health 
Science Center at San Antonio, San Antonio, Texas, USA.

The study of biological aging has seen a spectacularly fast progress in the last 
decade. Besides a better understanding and comprehension of physiological 
aspects, an important advance has been the identification of at least a hundred 
different genes which control the process of aging. Their mechanism of action 
falls within the expectations from a handful of theories which attempt to 
provide a global explanation of the phenomenon of aging, including free 
radicals, cell senescence and loss of regenerative capacity through the 
activation of stem cells. In this review we will concentrate in these biological 
aspects, with a special emphasis on animal models used to study both the 
genetics and physiology of aging as well as experimental approaches to test the 
aforementioned theories. It should be emphasized that, while the emphasis is in 
purely biological aspects of the process, the fast pace of aging of the world's 
population, including Chile, needs a rapid advance also in our understanding o 
fits social and economic implications.

PMID: 19543655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Acta Diabetol. 2009 Sep;46(3):173-81. doi: 10.1007/s00592-009-0134-3. Epub
2009  Jun 20.

Is the current therapeutic armamentarium in diabetes enough to control the 
epidemic and its consequences? What are the current shortcomings?

Giugliano D(1), Standl E, Vilsbøll T, Betteridge J, Bonadonna R, Campbell IW, 
Schernthaner GH, Staels B, Trichopoulou A, Farinaro E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Metabolic Diseases, Center of Excellence for Cardiovascular 
Diseases, Second University of Naples, Piazza Miraglia, 80138, Naples, Italy. 
dario.giugliano@unina2.it

The prevalence of diabetes is expected to rise together with an increase in 
morbidity and a reduction in life expectancy. A leading cause of death is 
cardiovascular disease, and hypertension and diabetes are additive risk factors 
for this complication. Selected treatment options should neither increase 
cardiovascular risk in patients with diabetes, nor increase risk of 
hyperglycaemia in patients with hypertension. The efficacy of present 
antihyperglycaemic agents is limited and new therapies, such as 
incretin-targeted agents, are under development. Even though most patients do 
not achieve glycated haemoglobin targets, trial data show that such 
interventions reduce the incidence of macrovascular events; however, intensive 
lowering may be detrimental in patients with existing cardiovascular disease. 
Currently available oral drugs do not address the key driver of type 2 
diabetes--loss of functional beta-cell mass. In the future, new oral treatments 
must improve this, whilst providing durable blood glucose control and long-term 
tolerability.

DOI: 10.1007/s00592-009-0134-3
PMID: 19543848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Asthma. 2009 Jun;46(5):465-9. doi: 10.1080/02770900902846323.

A randomized study comparing the effect of loratadine added to montelukast with 
montelukast, loratadine, and beclomethasone monotherapies in patients with 
chronic asthma.

Lu S(1), Liu N, Dass SB, Reiss TF.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories, Rahway, New Jersey 07065, USA.

BACKGROUND: Loratadine added to montelukast has been suggested to improve 
endpoints of asthma.
OBJECTIVE: This study investigated the additive effects of concomitant 
montelukast and loratadine when compared with montelukast, loratadine, and 
inhaled beclomethasone monotherapies in asthma. Methods. Patients (N = 406) were 
15 to 65 years of age with a forced expiratory volume in 1 second 
(FEV(1))-predicted of 50% to 85%, FEV(1) reversibility > or = 15%, and a minimal 
level of daytime symptoms and beta -agonist use. This three-part 2X2 
crossover-study consisted of two double-blind 6-week treatment periods where 
patients were administered once daily oral montelukast 10 mg, loratadine 10 mg, 
montelukast 10 mg + loratadine 10 mg, or twice daily inhaled beclomethasone 200 
mu g. A subsequent 48-week extension study compared montelukast + loratadine 
with beclomethasone. The primary endpoint was the percentage change from 
baseline in FEV(1).
RESULTS: Over 6 weeks of double-blind treatment, significant improvements (p < 
0.05) in the primary endpoint of FEV(1) were seen for montelukast + loratadine 
versus loratadine (least-square mean percentage-point difference of 5.8%), 
beclomethasone versus montelukast + loratadine (2.35%), montelukast versus 
loratadine (5.94%), and beclomethasone versus montelukast (4.65%); a numerical 
improvement (p = 0.054) was seen for montelukast + loratadine versus montelukast 
(1.60%). Significant improvements for montelukast + loratadine versus 
montelukast were seen in some secondary endpoints (evening peak expiratory flow, 
nocturnal asthma symptom score, nocturnal awakenings, and asthma-specific 
quality of life) but not others. Significant improvements in most endpoints 
except daytime asthma symptoms score were seen for montelukast + loratadine 
versus loratadine. In the extension study, both montelukast + loratadine and 
beclomethasone improved several endpoints. All treatments were generally 
comparable in the percentage of patients with clinical and laboratory adverse 
experiences.
CONCLUSION: In this study, the addition of loratadine to montelukast produced a 
small numerical, but not statistically significant, improvement in FEV(1) and, 
in general, no consistent improvement in other asthma endpoints. No improvement 
of montelukast + loratadine versus beclomethasone was seen in any endpoint.

DOI: 10.1080/02770900902846323
PMID: 19544166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Cancer. 2009 Jul 1;115(13 Suppl):3128-34. doi: 10.1002/cncr.24351.

Predictive models in palliative care.

Ripamonti CI(1), Farina G, Garassino MC.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Unit, National Cancer Institute, Milan, Italy. 
carla.ripamonti@istitutotumori.mi.it

It is important to identify prognostic and predictive factors concerning both 
life expectancy and quality of life in palliative care patients to facilitate 
ethical, clinical, and organizational decisions, but also to use resources in 
the best possible way. The authors reviewed the literature to identify the major 
factors that can predict survival of patients with solid tumors. They found only 
a few prospective assessments of prognostic factors. Clinical 
prognostic/predictors of survival based on physician's and/or nurse's judgment, 
performance status, dyspnea at rest, anorexia, dysphagia, or delirium are all 
considered to be of primary importance. Despite several contrasting findings, it 
is generally agreed that the type and site of the primary tumor and metastasis, 
psychosocial factors, and quality of life should be considered secondary to the 
organic effects in the final stages of life. Leukocytosis, lymphocytopenia, and 
elevated C-reactive protein are all reported to have prognostic significance, 
and low serum albumin and high lactate dehydrogenase levels must also be taken 
into consideration. Cancer 2009;115(13 suppl):3128-34. (c) 2009 American Cancer 
Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.24351
PMID: 19544541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Sleep. 2009 Jun;32(6):817-24. doi: 10.1093/sleep/32.6.817.

Cost-effectiveness of eszopiclone for the treatment of adults with primary 
chronic insomnia.

Snedecor SJ(1), Botteman MF, Bojke C, Schaefer K, Barry N, Pickard AS.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit North America, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of treatment with eszopiclone 
for chronic primary insomnia in adults.
METHODS: A model using patient-level data from a 6-month, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, clinical trial (n = 824), combined with data from a claims 
database and published literature, was used to assess the quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained and costs associated with eszopiclone versus placebo in 
adults with primary insomnia. Quality of life data were collected during the 
trial via the SF-36, from which preference-based utility scores were derived 
using published algorithms. Medical and absenteeism costs, estimated via a 
retrospective analysis of a claims and absenteeism database, were assigned to 
patients based on the degree of severity of their insomnia, assessed via the 
Insomnia Severity Index collected in the clinical trial. Presenteeism costs 
(lost productivity while at work) were estimated from responses to the Work 
Limitation Questionnaire collected during the trial. Six-month gains in QALYs 
and costs for each treatment group were calculated to derive cost-effectiveness 
ratios. Uncertainty was addressed via univariate and multivariate sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: Over the 6-month period, eszopiclone use resulted in a net gain of 
0.0137 QALYs over placebo at an additional cost of $67, resulting in an 
incremental cost per QALY gained of slightly less than $5,000. When absenteeism 
and presenteeism costs were excluded, the cost-effectiveness ratio increased to 
approximately $33,000 per QALY gained, which is below the commonly used 
threshold of $50,000 used to define cost-effectiveness. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses indicate the results are generally robust.
CONCLUSION: Our model, based on efficacy data from a clinical trial, 
demonstrated eszopiclone was cost-effective for the treatment of primary 
insomnia in adults, especially when lost productivity costs were included.

DOI: 10.1093/sleep/32.6.817
PMCID: PMC2690570
PMID: 19544759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. J Med Econ. 2009 Jun;12(2):114-23. doi: 10.3111/13696990903080344.

Cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir compared with neutral protamine Hagedorn 
insulin in patients with type 1 diabetes using a basal-bolus regimen in five 
European countries.

Gschwend MH(1), Aagren M, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Allschwil/Basel, Switzerland. mgschwend@ch.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this analysis was to evaluate the long-term clinical and 
economic outcomes associated with insulin detemir and neutral protamine Hagedorn 
(NPH) insulin in combination with mealtime insulin aspart in patients with type 
1 diabetes in Belgian, French, German, Italian and Spanish settings.
METHODS: The published and validated IMS CORE Diabetes Model was used to make 
long-term projections of life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
direct medical costs. The analysis was based on patient characteristics and 
treatment effects from a 2-year randomised controlled trial. Events were 
projected for a time horizon of 50 years. Potential uncertainty using a 
modelling approach was addressed.
RESULTS: Basal-bolus therapy with insulin detemir was projected to improve 
quality-adjusted life expectancy by 0.45 years versus NPH in the German setting, 
with similar improvements in the other countries. Insulin detemir was associated 
with cost savings in Belgium, Germany and Spain. In France and Italy, lifetime 
costs were slightly higher in the detemir arm, leading to incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of 519 euro per QALY gained and 3,256 euro per QALY 
gained, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared to NPH, insulin detemir is likely to be a dominant 
treatment strategy in Belgium, Germany and Spain and highly cost-effective in 
France and Italy in patients with type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903080344
PMID: 19545216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Crit Care. 2009;13(3):R94. doi: 10.1186/cc7924. Epub 2009 Jun 19.

Cost-effectiveness of micafungin as an alternative to fluconazole empiric 
treatment of suspected ICU-acquired candidemia among patients with sepsis: a 
model simulation.

Zilberberg MD(1), Kothari S, Shorr AF.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Health Sciences, University of Massachusetts, 
Arnold House, Amherst, MA 01003, USA. mzilberb@schoolph.umass.edu

Comment in
    Crit Care. 2009;13(4):180.

INTRODUCTION: Recent epidemiologic literature indicates that candidal species 
resistant to azoles are becoming more prevalent in the face of increasing 
incidence of hospitalizations with candidemia. Echinocandins, a new class of 
antifungal agents, are effective against resistant candidal species. As delaying 
appropriate antifungal coverage leads to increased mortality, we evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of 100 mg daily empiric micafungin (MIC) vs. 400 mg daily 
fluconazole (FLU) for suspected intensive care unit-acquired candidemia (ICU-AC) 
among septic patients.
METHODS: We designed a decision model with inputs from the literature in a 
hypothetical 1000-patient cohort with suspected ICU-AC treated empirically with 
either MIC or FLU or no treatment accompanied by a watchful waiting strategy. We 
examined the differences in the number of survivors, acquisition costs of 
antifungals, and lifetime costs among survivors in the cohort under each 
scenario, and calculated cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY). We 
conducted Monte Carlo simulations and sensitivity analyses to determine the 
stability of our estimates.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, assuming ICU-AC attributable mortality of 
0.40 and a 52% relative risk reduction in mortality with appropriate timely 
therapy, compared with FLU (total deaths 31), treatment with MIC (total deaths 
27) would result in four fewer deaths at an incremental cost/death averted of 
$61,446. Similarly, in reference case, incremental cost-effectiveness of MIC 
over FLU was $34,734 (95% confidence interval $26,312 to $49,209) per QALY. The 
estimates were most sensitive to the QALY adjustment factor and the risk of 
candidemia among septic patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the increasing likelihood of azole resistance among candidal 
isolates, empiric treatment of ICU-AC with 100 mg daily MIC is a cost-effective 
alternative to FLU.

DOI: 10.1186/cc7924
PMCID: PMC2717466
PMID: 19545361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2009 Jun 19;4:16. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-16.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2): a clinical and molecular review.

Evans DG(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Genetics Research Group, Regional Genetics Service and National 
Molecular Genetics Reference Laboratory, Central Manchester Foundation Trust, St 
Mary's Hospital, Manchester M130JH, UK. dgr.evans@virgin.net

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a tumour-prone disorder characterised by the 
development of multiple schwannomas and meningiomas. Prevalence (initially 
estimated at 1: 200,000) is around 1 in 60,000. Affected individuals inevitably 
develop schwannomas, typically affecting both vestibular nerves and leading to 
hearing loss and deafness. The majority of patients present with hearing loss, 
which is usually unilateral at onset and may be accompanied or preceded by 
tinnitus. Vestibular schwannomas may also cause dizziness or imbalance as a 
first symptom. Nausea, vomiting or true vertigo are rare symptoms, except in 
late-stage disease. The other main tumours are schwannomas of the other cranial, 
spinal and peripheral nerves; meningiomas both intracranial (including optic 
nerve meningiomas) and intraspinal, and some low-grade central nervous system 
malignancies (ependymomas). Ophthalmic features are also prominent and include 
reduced visual acuity and cataract. About 70% of NF2 patients have skin tumours 
(intracutaneous plaque-like lesions or more deep-seated subcutaneous nodular 
tumours). Neurofibromatosis type 2 is a dominantly inherited tumour 
predisposition syndrome caused by mutations in the NF2 gene on chromosome 22. 
More than 50% of patients represent new mutations and as many as one-third are 
mosaic for the underlying disease-causing mutation. Although truncating 
mutations (nonsense and frameshifts) are the most frequent germline event and 
cause the most severe disease, single and multiple exon deletions are common. A 
strategy for detection of the latter is vital for a sensitive analysis. 
Diagnosis is based on clinical and neuroimaging studies. Presymptomatic genetic 
testing is an integral part of the management of NF2 families. Prenatal 
diagnosis and pre-implantation genetic diagnosis is possible. The main 
differential diagnosis of NF2 is schwannomatosis. NF2 represents a difficult 
management problem with most patients facing substantial morbidity and reduced 
life expectancy. Surgery remains the focus of current management although 
watchful waiting with careful surveillance and occasionally radiation treatment 
have a role. Prognosis is adversely affected by early age at onset, a higher 
number of meningiomas and having a truncating mutation. In the future, the 
development of tailored drug therapies aimed at the genetic level are likely to 
provide huge improvements for this devastating condition.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-4-16
PMCID: PMC2708144
PMID: 19545378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 May;1804(5):1049-63. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.06.012. Epub 2009 Jun 21.

DNA polymerase proofreading: Multiple roles maintain genome stability.

Reha-Krantz LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, CW405 BioSciences Bldg., University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada T6G 2E9. Linda.Reha-Krantz@ualberta.ca

DNA polymerase proofreading is a spell-checking activity that enables DNA 
polymerases to remove newly made nucleotide incorporation errors from the primer 
terminus before further primer extension and also prevents translesion 
synthesis. DNA polymerase proofreading improves replication fidelity 
approximately 100-fold, which is required by many organisms to prevent 
unacceptably high, life threatening mutation loads. DNA polymerase proofreading 
has been studied by geneticists and biochemists for >35 years. A historical 
perspective and the basic features of DNA polymerase proofreading are described 
here, but the goal of this review is to present recent advances in the 
elucidation of the proofreading pathway and to describe roles of DNA polymerase 
proofreading beyond mismatch correction that are also important for maintaining 
genome stability.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.06.012
PMID: 19545649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 May-Jun;50(3):e63-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.05.012. Epub 2009 Jul 9.

Developing a self-reported comorbidity index to predict mortality of 
community-dwelling older adults.

Md Yusof MY(1), Horan MA, Jones M, McInnes L, Rabbitt PM, Pendleton N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Gerontology, School of Translational Medicine, 
University of Manchester, Salford Hospital Foundation Trust, Stott Lane, Salford 
M6 8HD, United Kingdom. yuzaifulyusof@doctors.org.uk

Current common comorbidity measures have poor to moderate predictive validity of 
mortality of community-dwelling older adults. Hence, our aim is to develop a 
simpler resource-efficient self-reported comorbidity index in the prediction of 
survival. 113 older adults in Greater Manchester, United Kingdom attended a 
routine medical examination whereby information gathered was used to construct 
Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI). They completed the Cornell Medical Index (CMI) 
questionnaire and reported the number of medication prescribed to them. We 
compared the ability of CCI, CMI, number of medication, age and sex to predict 
mortality of the sample over 7-year period using Cox-regression and Kaplan-Meier 
plot and rank test. None of the variables individually was significant when 
tested using either Cox-regression via ENTER method or Kaplan-Meier test. 
Remarkably, by means of forward step-wise Cox-regression, two variables emerged 
significant: (i) number of medicine (beta coefficient=0.229, SE=0.090 and 
p=0.011) and (ii) age (beta coefficient=0.106, SE=0.051 and p=0.037). We 
demonstrated that simple count of medication predicted mortality of 
community-dwelling older adults over the next 7 years more accurately than CMI 
or CCI. Further works involving a larger scale of subjects is needed for use in 
epidemiological study of survival where cost and resources are concerned.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.05.012
PMID: 19545917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Conscious Cogn. 2009 Sep;18(3):831-3; discussion 834-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.concog.2009.05.002. Epub 2009 Jul 9.

Visual perspective and genetics: a commentary on Lemogne and colleagues.

Sutin AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Personality and Cognition, National Institute on Aging, NIH, 
DHHS, 251 Bayview Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. sutina@nia.nih.gov

Comment on
    Conscious Cogn. 2009 Sep;18(3):823-30.

Lemogne and colleagues offer an interesting extension to their previous work on 
visual perspective and depression: Individuals at-risk for depression (defined 
as higher scores on Harm Avoidance), without a history of mood disorders, report 
retrieval of positive memories from the 3rd person perspective. Their findings 
suggest that the retrieval of positive experiences from the 3rd person 
perspective may be a risk-factor for depression, not just a lingering 
consequence of it. Their study, however, also reports a genetic association in a 
severely underpowered sample. Rather than focusing on gene x environment 
interactions, which large, well-powered studies on related phenotypes have 
failed to detect, a greater understanding of the phenomenology of visual 
perspective may be a more fruitful avenue for future research.

DOI: 10.1016/j.concog.2009.05.002
PMCID: PMC2763310
PMID: 19546011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. BMJ. 2009 Jun 22;338:b2532. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b2532.

Long term exposure to air pollution decreases life expectancy, UK report finds.

Mayor S.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b2532
PMID: 19546137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Arch Intern Med. 2009 Jun 22;169(12):1113-21; discussion 1121-2. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2009.136.

Cost-effectiveness of total knee arthroplasty in the United States: patient risk 
and hospital volume.

Losina E(1), Walensky RP, Kessler CL, Emrani PS, Reichmann WM, Wright EA, Holt 
HL, Solomon DH, Yelin E, Paltiel AD, Katz JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Orthopedic and Arthritis Center for 
Outcomes Research, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
elosina@partners.org

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2009 Jun 22;169(12):1102-3.

BACKGROUND: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) relieves pain and improves quality of 
life for persons with advanced knee osteoarthritis. However, to our knowledge, 
the cost-effectiveness of TKA and the influences of hospital volume and patient 
risk on TKA cost-effectiveness have not been investigated in the United States.
METHODS: We developed a Markov, state-transition, computer simulation model and 
populated it with Medicare claims data and cost and outcomes data from national 
and multinational sources. We projected lifetime costs and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) for different risk populations and varied TKA intervention and 
hospital volume. Cost-effectiveness of TKA was estimated across all patient risk 
and hospital volume permutations. Finally, we conducted sensitivity analyses to 
determine various parameters' influences on cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Overall, TKA increased QALE from 6.822 to 7.957 quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Lifetime costs rose from $37,100 (no TKA) to $57 900 after TKA, 
resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $18,300 per QALY. For 
high-risk patients, TKA increased QALE from 5.713 to 6.594 QALY, yielding a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $28,100 per QALY. At all risk levels, TKA was more 
costly and less effective in low-volume centers than in high-volume centers. 
Results were insensitive to variations of key input parameters within 
policy-relevant, clinically plausible ranges. The greatest variations were seen 
for the quality of life gain after TKA and the cost of TKA.
CONCLUSIONS: Total knee arthroplasty appears to be cost-effective in the US 
Medicare-aged population, as currently practiced across all risk groups. Policy 
decisions should be made on the basis of available local options for TKA. 
However, when a high-volume hospital is available, TKAs performed in a 
high-volume hospital confer even greater value per dollar spent than TKAs 
performed in low-volume centers.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2009.136
PMCID: PMC2731300
PMID: 19546411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Arch Intern Med. 2009 Jun 22;169(12):1130-8. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2009.104.

Cutaneous malignancies among HIV-infected persons.

Crum-Cianflone N(1), Hullsiek KH, Satter E, Marconi V, Weintrob A, Ganesan A, 
Barthel RV, Fraser S, Agan BK.

Author information:
(1)Tri-Service AIDS Clinical Consortium, Infectious Disease Clinical Research 
Program, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, 
Maryland, USA. crum@med.navy.mil

BACKGROUND: As the life expectancy of persons infected with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) increases, cancers have become an important cause 
of morbidity and mortality. Although cutaneous cancers are the most common 
malignant neoplasms in the general population, little data exist among 
HIV-positive persons, especially regarding the impact of HIV-specific factors.
METHODS: We evaluated the incidence rates and factors associated with the 
development of cutaneous malignancies among HIV-infected persons by examining 
data that were prospectively collected from a large HIV study that included 4490 
participants (1986-2006). Poisson regression and Cox proportional hazards models 
were performed.
RESULTS: Six percent of HIV-infected persons (n = 254) developed a cutaneous 
malignancy during 33 760 person-years of follow-up (mean, 7.5 years). Since the 
advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), the incidence rates of 
cutaneous non-AIDS-defining cancers (NADCs), in particular basal cell carcinoma, 
have exceeded the rates of cutaneous AIDS-defining cancers such as Kaposi 
sarcoma. Factors associated with the development of cutaneous NADCs in the 
multivariate models included increasing age (hazard ratio [HR], 2.1; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 1.7-2.6) and race. Compared with the 
white/non-Hispanic race, African Americans (HR, 0.03; 95% CI, 0.01-0.14) and 
other races (HR, 0.14; 95% CI, 0.03-0.57) had a lower risk of cutaneous NADCs. 
There were no significant associations between cutaneous NADCs and time-updated 
CD4 lymphocyte counts, HIV RNA levels, or receipt of HAART.
CONCLUSIONS: At present, the most common cutaneous malignancies among 
HIV-infected persons are NADCs. Cutaneous NADCs do not appear to be 
significantly associated with immune function or HAART but rather are related to 
traditional factors such as aging and skin color.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2009.104
PMCID: PMC2761839
PMID: 19546414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The opinions or assertions contained herein are 
the private views of the authors and are not to be construed as official or as 
reflecting the views of the Departments of the Army, Navy, or Air Force, or the 
Department of Defense. The authors have no commercial or other association that 
might pose a conflict of interest in this work.


952. Am J Clin Oncol. 2009 Aug;32(4):423-8. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31818da9f7.

Economic analysis of radiation therapy oncology group 97-14: multiple versus 
single fraction radiation treatment of patients with bone metastases.

Konski A(1), James J, Hartsell W, Leibenhaut MH, Janjan N, Curran W, Roach M, 
Watkins-Bruner D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 
Barbara Ann Karmanus Cancer Center, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. 
akonski@med.wayne.edu

INTRODUCTION: Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 97-14 concluded that a single 
fraction of radiation was as effective in relieving pain as multiple fractions 
in the treatment of patients with bone metastases. A statistically significant 
higher retreatment rate, however, was noted in patients undergoing a single 
fraction treatment. The purpose of the analysis was to determine whether 
multiple fraction treatment is cost-effective in treating patients with bone 
metastasis, by preventing further retreatment.
METHODS AND MATERIAL: A Markov model was used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of 30 Gy in 10 fractions in comparison with 8 Gy in 1 fraction. Transition 
probabilities, cost, and utilities were obtained from the clinical trial. Costs 
and outcomes were not discounted because of the short time line for the study.
RESULTS: The expected mean cost and quality-adjusted survival in months for 
patients receiving 8 Gy in 1 fraction and 30 Gy in 10 fractions was 998 US 
dollars and 7.26 months and 2316 US dollars and 9.53 months, respectively. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 6973 US dollars/quality-adjusted life 
year. The results were sensitive to the utility of the posttreatment state for 
both single and multiple fraction treatments.
CONCLUSION: Single fraction treatment was the less expensive treatment in the 
treatment of patients with bone metastasis treated on Radiation Therapy Oncology 
Group 97-14.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31818da9f7
PMCID: PMC2941643
PMID: 19546803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Apr;106(14):242-7. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0242.
Epub  2009 Apr 3.

Hormonal therapy in the elderly prostate cancer patient.

Pfitzenmaier J(1), Altwein JE.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik Heidelberg, Germany.

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Sep;106(38):622; author reply 622.

BACKGROUND: Prostatic cancer (PCa) is the most common cancer in men in Germany. 
The goal of this review is to define the indication for hormonal treatment in 
patients over age 70.
METHODS: A selective search of the literature up to 2008 for the terms "prostate 
cancer", "androgen suppression and deprivation", "hormone therapy", "LHRH 
analogs", "antiandrogens", "active surveillance", and "watchful waiting" was 
performed in the Medline and Cochrane databases. The guidelines of the American 
Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO, 2007) and the European Society of Urology 
(EAU, 2008) were also taken into account.
RESULTS: Hormonal therapy is not indicated for patients with organ-confined, 
well-differentiated or moderately differentiated tumors who are otherwise in 
good health. It is beneficial in the treatment of locally advanced cancer with 
an unfavorable Gleason score. For patients with organ-confined cancers who are 
in poor general condition, hormonal therapy is deferred until symptoms arise. 
The guidelines recommend hormonal therapy in case of PSA elevations greater than 
1.5 ng/mL after attempted curative treatment. Symptomatic metastases require 
immediate hormonal therapy. Intermittent androgen deprivation is an attractive 
alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients over age 70, an attempt at curative treatment is only 
reasonable if the life expectancy exceeds 10 years. Hormonal therapy is the 
treatment of choice for patients with undifferentiated, locally advanced 
prostate cancer, recurrences as defined by PSA elevation, and symptomatic 
metastases.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0242
PMCID: PMC2689585
PMID: 19547640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Ginekol Pol. 2009 May;80(5):348-53.

[Detection of selected mutations in the CFTR gene in single cells for the use in 
preimplantation genetic diagnosis of cystic fibrosis].

[Article in Polish]

Bielawska K(1), Liss J, Nocoń K, Lukaszuk K.

Author information:
(1)Klinika Endokrynologii Ginekologicznej i Leczenia Niepłodności, Katedra 
Perinatologii Akademii Medycznej w Gdańsku. katarzynanocon@amg.gda.pl

Cysitic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common autosomal recessive diseases. 
The median life expectancy is currently about 30 years. Because of a 
considerable social meaning of CF, it is very important to create more specific 
and efficient methods diagnosing defects in the gene CFTR that are responsible 
for CF. The use of these methods in preimplantation diagnosis could prevent the 
disease and also the carrier state.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to construct a diagnostic test for five 
CFTR gene mutations, the most frequent in Polish population, which can be used 
to analyze single cells while preimplantation genetic diagnosis.
MATERIAL: The material used in research were 60 single cells--blastomers. The 
positive controls of the CFTR gene mutations: delF508, R117H, G542X, R553X, 
dele2,3 were obtained from blood of patients with CF. At first Nested Multiplex 
PCR reaction was performed. Its products were used as DNA template for the next 
reaction--ASA (allele-specific amplification) PCR. SSCP method (Single Strand 
Conformation Polymorphism) was used as a verification method.
RESULTS: The diagnostic test for the presence of the mutations: delF508, R117H, 
G542X, R553X and dele2,3 (when homozygosity) was constructed. Mutations: delF508 
(3 cells--5%), G542X (2 cells--3.33%) and R553X (1 cell-- 1,.7%) were detected 
as a result of performing ASA PCR analysis for the presence of the CFTR gene 
mutations in 60 blastomers. The SSCP analysis for the mutations delF508, R 17H, 
G542X, R553X confirmed the results of ASA PCR analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The constructed diagnostic test for the mutations delF508, G542X, 
R553X, R 17H and dele2,3 can be used to analyze single cells during 
preimplantation genetic diagnosis.

PMID: 19548454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2009 Jul;18(7):1035-41. doi: 
10.1517/13543780903055056.

Rilpivirine: a novel non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor.

Garvey L(1), Winston A.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Fellow, Imperial College London, Division of Medicine, 
Ground Floor, Clinical Trials, Winston Churchill Wing, London W21PG, London, UK. 
l.garvey@imperial.ac.uk

Combination antiretroviral therapy has transformed the prognosis and life 
expectancy of HIV-1 infected individuals in resource-rich settings. British 
guidelines currently recommend the non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitor (NNRTI) efavirenz as part of first-line treatment in therapy-naive 
HIV-1 infected individuals. However, efavirenz is limited by its low genetic 
barrier to the development of resistance, together with its potential for CNS 
toxicities. To overcome these obstacles, several 'next-generation' NNRTIs are in 
various stages of clinical development. Here, we review the journey of 
rilpivirine (also known as TMC278, Tibotec), from the discovery of the chemical 
compound, through successful Phase I and II development, to its current position 
of being studied in international Phase III trials for the treatment of 
therapy-naive HIV-1 infected subjects using a 25 mg daily dose. Pharmacokinetic 
findings and food and drug interactions are discussed, together with safety 
profile. Rilpivirine has demonstrated high antiviral activity (including against 
NNRTI-resistant isolates) in vitro, with similar rates of virological 
suppression in therapy-naive individuals at 96 weeks when compared to efavirenz. 
Rilpivirine seems to be well tolerated with less CNS disturbance than efavirenz, 
and has non-teratogenic potential; however, unfavorable interactions with acid 
suppressant medications will require heightened vigilance when rilpivirine is 
used in widespread clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1517/13543780903055056
PMID: 19548857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Crit Care. 2009;13(3):R96. doi: 10.1186/cc7926. Epub 2009 Jun 23.

Results from the national sepsis practice survey: predictions about mortality 
and morbidity and recommendations for limitation of care orders.

O'Brien JM Jr(1), Aberegg SK, Ali NA, Diette GB, Lemeshow S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine, Department 
of Internal Medicine, The Ohio State University Medical Center, Columbus, OH 
43210, USA. james.obrien@osumc.edu

Comment in
    Crit Care. 2009;13(4):168.

INTRODUCTION: Critically ill patients and families rely upon physicians to 
provide estimates of prognosis and recommendations for care. Little is known 
about patient and clinician factors which influence these predictions. The 
association between these predictions and recommendations for continued 
aggressive care is also understudied.
METHODS: We administered a mail-based survey with simulated clinical vignettes 
to a random sample of the Critical Care Assembly of the American Thoracic 
Society. Vignettes represented a patient with septic shock with multi-organ 
failure with identical APACHE II scores and sepsis-associated organ failures. 
Vignettes varied by age (50 or 70 years old), body mass index (BMI) (normal or 
obese) and co-morbidities (none or recently diagnosed stage IIA lung cancer). 
All subjects received the vignettes with the highest and lowest mortality 
predictions from pilot testing and two additional, randomly selected vignettes. 
Respondents estimated outcomes and selected care for each hypothetical patient.
RESULTS: Despite identical severity of illness, the range of estimates for 
hospital mortality (5th to 95th percentile range, 17% to 78%) and for problems 
with self-care (5th to 95th percentile range, 2% to 74%) was wide. Similar 
variation was observed when clinical factors (age, BMI, and co-morbidities) were 
identical. Estimates of hospital mortality and problems with self-care among 
survivors were significantly higher in vignettes with obese BMIs (4.3% and 5.3% 
higher, respectively), older age (8.2% and 11.6% higher, respectively), and 
cancer diagnosis (5.9% and 6.9% higher, respectively). Higher estimates of 
mortality (adjusted odds ratio 1.29 per 10% increase in predicted mortality), 
perceived problems with self-care (adjusted odds ratio 1.26 per 10% increase in 
predicted problems with self-care), and early-stage lung cancer (adjusted odds 
ratio 5.82) were independently associated with recommendations to limit care.
CONCLUSIONS: The studied clinical factors were consistently associated with 
poorer outcome predictions but did not explain the variation in prognoses 
offered by experienced physicians. These observations raise concern that 
provided information and the resulting decisions about continued aggressive care 
may be influenced by individual physician perception. To provide more reliable 
and accurate estimates of outcomes, tools are needed which incorporate patient 
characteristics and preferences with physician predictions and practices.

DOI: 10.1186/cc7926
PMCID: PMC2717468
PMID: 19549300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Oral Sci. 2009 Jun;51(2):293-6. doi: 10.2334/josnusd.51.293.

Treatment of large ameloblastic fibroma: a case report.

Vasconcelos BC(1), Andrade ES, Rocha NS, Morais HH, Carvalho RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Pernambuco School of Dentistry, 
University of Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil. belmiro@pesquisador.cnpq.br

Ameloblastic fibroma (AF) is an extremely rare true mixed benign tumor that can 
occur in either the mandible or the maxilla, but is most frequently found in the 
posterior region of the mandible. It usually occurs in the first two decades of 
life and is associated with tooth enclosure, causing a delay in eruption or 
altering the dental eruption sequence. AF is diagnosed on routine radiographic 
evaluation and is clinically and radiographically similar to ameloblastic 
fibrodontoma and odontoma, which makes an accurate diagnosis mandatory. There is 
controversy in the literature as to whether treatment should be conservative or 
agressive. A conservative treatment strategy, such as enucleation and curettage, 
is usually sufficient. However, extensive lesions require radical treatment. We 
describe a case of ameloblastic fibroma with a very unusual clinical 
manifestation: it demonstrated considerable extension but no associated impacted 
tooth, was located in the anterior region of the mandible, and became 
symptomatic in the fifth decade of life. A radical surgical approach was taken, 
with immediate reconstruction.

DOI: 10.2334/josnusd.51.293
PMID: 19550100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Orthop Trauma. 2009 Jul;23(6):428-33. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181761490.

Optimal arthroplasty for femoral neck fractures: is total hip arthroplasty the 
answer?

Schmidt AH(1), Leighton R, Parvizi J, Sems A, Berry DJ.

Author information:
(1)HCMC Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Minneapolis, MN 55415, USA. 
schmi115@umn.edu

Although there is little doubt that arthroplasty of one form or another is 
appropriate treatment for many patients with a displaced femoral neck fracture, 
there is ongoing controversy about the relative merits of different types of 
arthroplasty among specific groups of patients. In particular, total hip 
arthroplasty is infrequently recommended because of concerns about the perceived 
high initial cost, increased risk of dislocation, and the anticipated low 
functional demands and life expectancy of the typical hip fracture patient. When 
viewed in this traditional context, the merits of total hip arthroplasty are not 
believed to outweigh the risks, except in the rare instance of a patient with 
preexisting symptomatic hip arthritis that sustains a hip fracture.Accumulating 
evidence suggests that a reevaluation of the role of total hip arthroplasty 
(THA) in patients with hip fracture is warranted. Recent comparative follow-up 
studies have documented superior and more durable function in a subset of 
patients with displaced femoral neck fractures after total hip replacement when 
compared to hemiarthroplasty or uncomplicated osteosynthesis. Economic analyses 
have suggested that the long-term cost of treatment favors total hip replacement 
because of the additional cost of treating failures of internal fixation and 
hemiarthroplasty in patients who survive 2 years or longer after their initial 
hip fracture. Finally, recent advances in the design of THA components such as 
the introduction of improved bearing surfaces allowing the use of larger femoral 
heads, combined with improved surgical techniques, may be making THA safer and 
less prone to dislocation and other mechanical complications.The purpose of this 
paper is to review the recent literature regarding the results of total hip 
replacement in patients with a displaced fracture of the femoral neck. Total hip 
replacement may have a larger role in the treatment of displaced femoral neck 
fractures than it has in the past.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181761490
PMID: 19550230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2009 Aug;20(4):315-20. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e32832dd51a.

New insights and therapies for the metabolic consequences of Alström syndrome.

Paisey RB(1).

Author information:
(1)South Devon Healthcare Foundation Trust, Department of Diabetes and 
Endocrinology, Torbay Hospital, Torquay, Devon, UK. richard.paisey@nhs.net

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Recent studies have begun to evaluate the heterogeneity of 
insulin resistance in syndromes associated with type 2 diabetes, dyslipidaemia 
and associated cardiac, renal and hepatic consequences. These insights are of 
particular importance in Alström syndrome in which all of these conditions 
coexist from a young age with considerable morbidity and reduction in life 
expectancy. Clear definition of the phenotype in the syndrome may clarify 
biochemical pathways of crucial importance in propensity to diabetic 
complications and heart disease in the general population. This review will 
focus on ways in which more effective treatments can be put in place for Alström 
families from childhood and adolescence.
RECENT FINDINGS: Studies of body fat distribution, insulin resistance, glucose 
metabolism and dyslipidaemia in Alström syndrome will be discussed as well as 
genotypic and phenotypic variation in the syndrome in the context of recent 
metabolic studies in insulin resistance. Potential therapies including 
low-carbohydrate diet, niaspan and incretins will be considered.
SUMMARY: These new insights will encourage early introduction of protective 
nutrition, exercise and drug therapies in Alström syndrome and suggest novel 
approaches to understanding diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidaemias and heart 
disease in the general population.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e32832dd51a
PMID: 19550324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am J Gastroenterol. 2009 Sep;104(9):2312-7. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2009.363. Epub
2009  Jun 23.

Mortality rate and risk factors in patients with hereditary pancreatitis: uni- 
and multidimensional analyses.

Rebours V(1), Boutron-Ruault MC, Jooste V, Bouvier AM, Hammel P, Ruszniewski P, 
Lévy P.

Author information:
(1)Pôle des Maladies de l'Appareil Digestif, Service de 
Gastroentérologie--Pancréatologie, Hôpital Beaujon, AP-HP, Université Denis 
Diderot-Paris VII, 92118 Clichy, France. vinciane.rebours@bjn.aphp.fr

OBJECTIVES: Patients with hereditary pancreatitis (HP) bear a high risk of 
pancreatic adenocarcinoma, but their life expectancy remains unknown. The 
objective of the study was to assess whether the high risk of cancer decreases 
survival.
METHODS: Inclusion criteria were the presence of a PRSS1 mutation with 
pancreatic symptoms or chronic pancreatitis in at least two first-degree 
relatives or three second-degree relatives without another cause. Survival rates 
were assessed according to risk factors. Excess mortality compared with the 
general French population was calculated (statistical Esteve model) for two 
periods (20-50 and 50-70 years), according to several risk factors.
RESULTS: The cohort comprised 189 patients. PRSS1 mutations were found in 66%. A 
total of 19 patients died at the median age of 60. In all, 10 deaths were 
attributable to HP, including 8 to pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Median overall 
survival for the whole cohort was 74 years (95% confidence interval (CI): 
71-79). The presence of R122H mutation, gender, tobacco consumption in patients 
older than 18 years, and diabetes mellitus were not associated with differences 
in survival. Only patients with pancreatic cancer had decreased survival 
(P=0.008). Excess mortality risk compared with the general population was 0.02% 
between 20 and 50 years, and 0.61% between 50 and 70 years (NS). Gender, R122H 
mutation, diabetes, and tobacco use were not associated with excess mortality in 
these two periods.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite their high risk of cancer, HP patients do not have excess 
mortality risk compared with the general population, irrespective of gender, 
tobacco use, or diabetes mellitus. These data should be brought to the patient's 
attention.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2009.363
