DOI: 10.3810/pgm.10.2002.suppl20.105
PMID: 19667594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Paediatr Child Health. 2005 Apr;10(4):209-13. doi: 10.1093/pch/10.4.209.

Réfléchir, c'est déjà prendre une décision: Le processus décisionnel des 
pédiatres face à une situation de fin de vie.

Cyr C(1), Hoang NB.

Author information:
(1)Département de pédiatrie et de psychiatrie.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the end-of-life decision-making process for children and 
the significance given by paediatricians to the parents’ opinion versus the 
child’s opinion in such a situation.
METHODS: A clinical vignette describing a teenager reporting to the emergency 
department with severe breathing difficulties, a health status that was already 
compromised by a neurodegenerative disease and a limited life expectancy was 
used. A five-section questionnaire was used to assess the paediatricians’ 
decision-making process and to determine the information that they found to be 
useful.
RESULTS: In all, 26 physicians participated. Ten (39%) were residents and 16 
(61%) were directors. Most respondents had participated in end-of-life 
decision-making for a child before, the median being higher with directors than 
with residents (four versus one; P=0.025, Mann-Whitney U test). Initially, after 
reading the clinical vignette and before gathering more information, 20 
respondents (74%) said that they would have intubated the child. At the time of 
the final decision, after gathering more information, 15 respondents (56%) said 
that they would have intubated the patient. The factors considered to be most 
significant to the final decision were: the parents’ opinion, the child’s 
opinion, the mother’s opinion about basic functioning at home, the physical 
examination after 1 h of treatment, and the value of arterial gas after 1 h of 
treatment. ‘Nonintubators’ considered the child’s opinion to be more important 
than ‘intubators’. Of the nine respondents who gave more importance to the 
parents’ opinion than the child’s, eight said that they would have intubated the 
patient. The respondents that gave more importance to the child’s opinion were 
less likely to intubate the patient (seven of 17; P=0.036, Fisher exact test).
CONCLUSION: This study shows the variability of the end-of-life decision-making 
process for children. This assessment will foster an open debate on recognized 
factors during this process.

OBJECTIFS: Évaluer le processus décisionnel de fin de vie chez un enfant et 
l’importance accordée par les pédiatres à l’opinion des parents par rapport à 
celle de l’enfant dans une telle situation.
MÉTHODOLOGIE: Vignette clinique décrivant un adolescent se présentant à 
l’urgence avec une difficulté respiratoire sévère, un état de santé déjà 
compromis par une maladie neurodégénérative et une espérance de vie limitée. Un 
questionnaire en cinq parties a été utilisé pour évaluer le processus 
décisionnel des pédiatres et les éléments d’information que ceux-ci jugeaient 
utiles.
RÉSULTATS: Au total, 26 médecins ont participé. Dix (39 %) étaient résidents et 
16 (61 %), patrons. La majorité des répondants avaient déjà participé à des 
décisions de fin de vie chez un enfant, avec une médiane plus grande chez les 
patrons que chez les résidents (quatre par rapport à un; p=0,025, test 
Mann-Whitney U). Initialement, 20 répondants (74 %) avaient décidé d’intuber 
l’enfant après avoir lu la vignette clinique et avant d’obtenir de l’information 
supplémentaire. Lors de la décision finale, après l’obtention d’information 
supplémentaire, 15 répondants (56 %) auraient intubé le patient. Les éléments 
d’information jugés les plus importants pour la décision finale étaient 
l’opinion des parents, l’opinion de l’enfant, l’opinion de la mère sur le 
fonctionnement de base à domicile, l’examen physique après une heure de 
traitement, la valeur de gaz artériel après une heure de traitement. Les « 
non-intubateurs » accordaient plus d’importance à l’opinion de l’enfant que les 
« intubateurs ». Des neuf participants qui attachaient plus d’importance à 
l’opinion des parents qu’à celle de l’enfant, huit auraient intubé le patient. 
Les participants jugeant l’opinion de l’enfant plus importante l’auraient moins 
souvent intubé (sept sur 17; p=0,036, test exact de Fisher).
CONCLUSION: Cette étude démontre la variabilité dans le processus décisionnel de 
fin de vie chez l’enfant. Cette évaluation permet d’engager des discussions sur 
les facteurs pris en compte lors de ce processus.

DOI: 10.1093/pch/10.4.209
PMCID: PMC2722528
PMID: 19668616


236. PLoS One. 2009 Aug 11;4(8):e6590. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0006590.

Inflammation and infection do not promote arterial aging and cardiovascular 
disease risk factors among lean horticulturalists.

Gurven M(1), Kaplan H, Winking J, Eid Rodriguez D, Vasunilashorn S, Kim JK, 
Finch C, Crimmins E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California Santa Barbara, Santa 
Barbara, CA, USA. gurven@anth.ucsb.edu

BACKGROUND: Arterial aging is well characterized in industrial populations, but 
scantly described in populations with little access to modern medicine. Here we 
characterize health and aging among the Tsimane, Amazonian 
forager-horticulturalists with short life expectancy, high infectious loads and 
inflammation, but low adiposity and robust physical fitness. Inflammation has 
been implicated in all stages of arterial aging, atherogenesis and hypertension, 
and so we test whether greater inflammation associates with atherosclerosis and 
CVD risk. In contrast, moderate to vigorous daily activity, minimal obesity, and 
low fat intake predict minimal CVD risk among older Tsimane.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), based on the 
Ankle-Brachial Index (ABI), and hypertension were measured in Tsimane adults, 
and compared with rates from industrialized populations. No cases of PAD were 
found among Tsimane and hypertension was comparatively low (prevalence: 3.5%, 
40+; 23%, 70+). Markers of infection and inflammation were much higher among 
Tsimane than among U.S. adults, whereas HDL was substantially lower. Regression 
models examine associations of ABI and BP with biomarkers of energy balance and 
metabolism and of inflammation and infection. Among Tsimane, obesity, blood 
lipids, and disease history were not significantly associated with ABI. Unlike 
the Tsimane case, higher cholesterol, C-reactive protein, leukocytes, cigarette 
smoking and systolic pressure among North Americans are all significantly 
associated with lower ABI.
CONCLUSIONS: Inflammation may not always be a risk factor for arterial 
degeneration and CVD, but instead may be offset by other factors: healthy 
metabolism, active lifestyle, favorable body mass, lean diet, low blood lipids 
and cardiorespiratory health. Other possibilities, including genetic 
susceptibility and the role of helminth infections, are discussed. The absence 
of PAD and CVD among Tsimane parallels anecdotal reports from other small-scale 
subsistence populations and suggests that chronic vascular disease had little 
impact on adult mortality throughout most of human evolutionary history.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0006590
PMCID: PMC2722089
PMID: 19668697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


237. An Bras Dermatol. 2009 Jul;84(3):263-9. doi:
10.1590/s0365-05962009000300008.

[Molecular basis of photoaging].

[Article in Portuguese]

Montagner S(1), Costa A.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Municipal Dr Mário Gatti, Campinas, SP, Brazil. 
suelen_montagner@yahoo.com.br

As a result of the increase in life expectancy, the study of the organic process 
of aging has been stimulated. Skin ageing, which reflects the signs of time, is 
a time-dependent process of progressive deterioration that can be intensified by 
sun exposure, which is known as photoaging. The damage of radiation on various 
cell structures and on the skin results in molecular and morphological changes 
to these components. Many research studies are performed to try to minimize the 
effects of photoaging; however, the main strategy to manage it is still 
prevention, which will only be achieved once we learn about the mechanisms 
involved in the process.

DOI: 10.1590/s0365-05962009000300008
PMID: 19668940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Rev Saude Publica. 2009 Aug;43 Suppl 1:62-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0034-89102009000800010.

Economic evaluation of antipsychotic drugs for schizophrenia treatment within 
the Brazilian Healthcare System.

Lindner LM(1), Marasciulo AC, Farias MR, Grohs GE.

Author information:
(1)Programa de Pós-Graduação em Farmácia, Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina 
(UFSC), 88040-970 Florianópolis, SC, Brasil.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-utility of first and second-generation 
antipsychotics for treatment of schizophrenia.
METHODS: A five-year Markov model was constructed based on a survey of the 
records of patients seen in 2006 at a psychosocial care center in the 
municipality of Florianopolis, Southern Brazil. Costs were evaluated from the 
perspective of the Sistema Unico de Saúde (SUS - Unified Healthcare System). 
Utility was measured in quality-adjusted life years obtained in the literature.
RESULTS: The Markov model indicated risperidone and haloperidol utilization 
before olanzapine as the most cost-effective alternatives.
CONCLUSIONS: Antipsychotic agents haloperidol and risperidone are more 
cost-effective than olanzapine. Strategies prioritizing the use of 
antipsychotics with better cost-effectiveness could optimize resource allocation 
without necessarily compromising the health of patients treated through the 
Sistema Unico de Saúde.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102009000800010
PMID: 19669066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Anaesthesist. 2009 Aug;58(8):829-47; quiz 848-9. doi:
10.1007/s00101-009-1592-2.

[Acute perioperative disturbances of renal function. Strategies for prevention 
and therapy].

[Article in German]

Jaschinski U(1), Lichtwarck-Aschoff M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Anästhesiologie und Operative Intensivmedizin, Klinikum Augsburg, 
Augsburg. ulrich.jaschinski@klinikum-augsburg.de

The increasing life expectancy in industrial nations leads to an increase in the 
number of elderly and aged persons treated in hospital. Increasingly more 
complex operations are being carried out on this group of patients. Renal 
dysfunction in the preoperative situation increases morbidity and mortality. 
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is nearly always part of a multi-organ dysfunction 
syndrome in critically ill patients. The treatment strategy of the AKI should be 
oriented to the degree of organ dysfunction. However, the stage of organ 
dysfunction is mostly unknown so that the therapeutically exploitable interval 
is often missed. The same therapy is practically always used for all patients: 
administration of fluids and diuretics often under the premise of "the kidneys 
must be rinsed". A unified classification of the continuation of kidney function 
disorders using the RIFLE criteria (risk, injury, failure, loss, endstage kidney 
disease) can assist recognition of early stages of kidney failure in order to 
react correspondingly with therapeutic measures and to critically question or 
optimize the use of conservative treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00101-009-1592-2
PMID: 19669104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Comp Physiol A Neuroethol Sens Neural Behav Physiol. 2009
Sep;195(9):865-71.  doi: 10.1007/s00359-009-0465-0. Epub 2009 Aug 8.

Seasonal and inter-individual variation in testosterone levels in badgers Meles 
meles: evidence for the existence of two endocrinological phenotypes.

Buesching CD(1), Heistermann M, Macdonald DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, University of Oxford, Tubney, Oxon, UK. 
christina.buesching@zoo.ox.ac.uk

Elevated testosterone levels can lower condition and increase parasites. We 
analysed testosterone in 84 blood samples of wild European badgers Meles meles 
collected at regular intervals (winter = mating season; spring = end of mating 
season; summer = minor mating peak; autumn = reproductive quiescence), and 
related variation to body condition, subcaudal gland secretion, parasite burden, 
and bite wounding. All males showed elevated levels in winter and low levels in 
autumn. In neither season did testosterone correlate with fitness-related 
parameters. However, two different endocrinological phenotypes existed in spring 
and summer. Whilst some males lowered their testosterone to levels comparable to 
autumnal quiescence (Type 1), others maintained elevated levels comparable to 
those during winter (Type 2). In spring and summer high levels were correlated 
with lower body condition and increased parasite burden, and Type 2 males tended 
to suffer higher mortality rates than Type 1. No animals older than 6 years 
adopted phenotype 2, indicating that males either switch phenotypes with age or 
that Type 2 results in lower life expectancy, evidencing the costs of male 
reproduction in badgers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00359-009-0465-0
PMID: 19669151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Feb;11(1):57-66. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0175-0.
Epub  2009 Aug 8.

An economic model for the prevention of MRSA infections after surgery: 
non-glycopeptide or glycopeptide antibiotic prophylaxis?

Elliott RA(1), Weatherly HL, Hawkins NS, Cranny G, Chambers D, Myers L, Eastwood 
A, Sculpher MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Social Research in Medicines and Health, School of Pharmacy, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, NG7 2RD, UK. 
rachel.elliott@nottingham.ac.uk

AIM: Surgical site infection is commonly caused by Staphylococcus aureus. The 
multiresistant strains (MRSA) are resistant to most antibiotic prophylaxis 
regimens. Our aim was to explore whether there is a threshold of MRSA prevalence 
at which switching to routine glycopeptide-based antibiotic prophylaxis becomes 
cost-effective.
METHODS: An indicative model was designed to explore the cost-effectiveness of 
vancomycin, cephalosporin or a combination, in patients undergoing primary hip 
arthroplasty.
RESULTS: If the MRSA infection rate is equal to or above 0.25% and the rate of 
other infections with cephalosporin prophylaxis is equal to or above 0.2%, use 
of the combination antibiotic prophylaxis is optimal.
DISCUSSION: Modelling the cost-effectiveness of interventions for MRSA 
prevention is complex due to uncertainty around resistance and effectiveness of 
glycopeptides.
CONCLUSIONS: The indicative model provides a framework for evaluation. More work 
is needed to understand the impact of antibiotic resistance over time in these 
currently effective antibiotics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0175-0
PMID: 19669182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Apr;248(4):467-76. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-009-1156-9. Epub 2009 Aug 11.

Cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab compared with pegaptanib in neovascular 
age-related macular degeneration.

Hernández-Pastor LJ(1), Ortega A, García-Layana A, Giráldez J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, AV/Pio XII, 36, 
31.008, Pamplona, Navarra, Spain. luisjaher@unav.es

Comment in
    Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Nov;248(11):1675; author reply 1677.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of ranibizumab compared with 
pegaptanib in the treatment of patients with minimally classic/occult 
neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD), from a societal perspective 
in Spain.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov model with five states defined by visual acuity 
(VA) in the better-seeing eye (Snellen scale): VA >20/40, < or =20/40 to >20/80, 
< or =20/80 to >20/200, < or =20/200 to >20/400, < or =20/400, and an additional 
death state. Two cohorts of patients were distributed along the VA states, and 
treated with either ranibizumab or pegaptanib. Transition probabilities assigned 
for movement between these states with both drugs were obtained from published 
randomized clinical trials. Medical costs related to AMD treatment and 
follow-up, medical costs related to AMD comorbidities, and non-medical-related 
costs were taken into account. Costs (2008 Euro), health outcomes 
(Quality-adjusted life years--QALYs), both discounted at a 3.5% annual rate, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER: euro/QALY), were determined for a 
lifetime horizon in the base case analysis. Sensitivity analyses were conducted 
to explore different scenarios and assumptions in the model.
RESULTS: Treating patients with varying degrees of visual impairment with 
monthly ranibizumab instead of pegaptanib was 71,206 euro more costly and 
provided 2.437 additional QALYs (29,224 euro/QALY). When administered on an 
as-needed basis, as in the Prospective Optical Coherence Tomography Imaging of 
Patients with Neovascular AMD Treated with Intraocular Ranibizumab (PrONTO) 
trial, the cost per QALY gained with ranibizumab was reduced to 4,623 euro.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost per QALY gained with monthly ranibizumab compared with 
pegaptanib in the minimally classic/occult neovascular AMD population is just 
below the 30,000 euro threshold below which new drugs are sometimes regarded as 
cost-effective strategies in Spain. In this model, the key variables with 
greater impact on the cost-effectiveness results were the selected time horizon 
and the chosen extrapolation method, the source for data on pegaptanib efficacy 
and the number of ranibizumab injections. When administered on an as-needed 
basis, ranibizumab was a cost-effective strategy compared to pegaptanib in this 
population.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-009-1156-9
PMID: 19669678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. J Cell Biochem. 2009 Oct 1;108(2):353-61. doi: 10.1002/jcb.22284.

Endocrine parameters of cystic fibrosis: back to basics.

Stalvey MS(1), Flotte TR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and the Gene Therapy Center, University of 
Massachusetts Medical School, Worcester, Massachusetts 01655, USA. 
michael.stalvey@umassmed.edu

Dramatic changes in the life expectancy of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are 
occurring, creating a cohort of aging individuals experiencing long-term 
complications of this chronic disease. The two most common of these 
complications include CF-related diabetes and CF bone disease. The clinical 
implications of each have become better understood, as have potential therapies. 
However, data obtained from the basic science studies of both diseases have not 
been widely recognized. In this review, we focus on the known and hypothesized 
pathogenesis of these two disorders. Additionally, the molecular underpinnings 
of CF will be explained along with the potential interactions with endocrine 
disease phenotypes.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.22284
PMID: 19670266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Proteomics. 2009 Oct;9(19):4529-38. doi: 10.1002/pmic.200900062.

Proteomic analysis of the cold stress response in the moss, Physcomitrella 
patens.

Wang X(1), Yang P, Zhang X, Xu Y, Kuang T, Shen S, He Y.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Capital Normal University, Beijing 100048, PR 
China.

Cold stress has adverse effects on plant growth and development. Plants respond 
and acclimate to cold stress through various biochemical and physiological 
processes, thereby acquiring stress tolerance. To better understand the basis 
for tolerance, we carried out a proteomic study in the model moss, 
Physcomitrella patens, characterizing gametophore proteins with 2-DE and mass 
spectroscopy. Following exposure to 0 degrees C for up to 3 days, out of the 
more than 1000 protein spots reproducibly resolved, only 45 changed in abundance 
by at least 1.5-fold. Of these, 35 were identified by tryptic digestion and mass 
spectroscopy. Photosynthetic proteins decreased, whereas many catabolic proteins 
increased. In addition, cold stress up-regulated a variety of signaling, 
cytoskeleton, and defense proteins and few proteins in these classes were 
down-regulated. Up-regulated proteins include the 14-3-3-like protein, actin, 
HSP70s, lipoxygenases, and cytochrome P450 proteins. These results point to 
pathways that are important for the mechanism of cold stress response in P. 
patens and by extension to the entire plant kingdom.

DOI: 10.1002/pmic.200900062
PMID: 19670371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Cancer. 2009 Nov 15;115(22):5272-83. doi: 10.1002/cncr.24617.

Estimating breast cancer-specific and other-cause mortality in clinical trial 
and population-based cancer registry cohorts.

Dignam JJ(1), Huang L, Ries L, Reichman M, Mariotto A, Feuer E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Studies and Cancer Research Center, The University of 
Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. jdignam@health.bsd.uchicago.edu

BACKGROUND: To compute net cancer-specific survival rates using population data 
sources (eg, the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results [SEER] Program), 2 approaches primarily are used: relative survival 
(observed survival adjusted for life expectancy) and cause-specific survival 
based on death certificates. The authors of this report evaluated the 
performance of these estimates relative to a third approach based on detailed 
clinical follow-up history.
METHODS: By using data from Cancer Cooperative Group clinical trials in breast 
cancer, the authors estimated 1) relative survival, 2) breast cancer-specific 
survival (BCSS) determined from death certificates, and 3) BCSS obtained by 
attributing cause according to clinical events after diagnosis, which, for this 
analysis was considered the benchmark "true" estimate. Noncancer life expectancy 
also was compared between trial participants, SEER registry patients, and the 
general population.
RESULTS: Among trial patients, relative survival overestimated true BCSS in 
patients with lymph node-negative breast cancer; whereas, in patients with lymph 
node-positive breast cancer, the 2 estimates were similar. For higher risk 
patients (younger age, larger tumors), relative survival accurately estimated 
true BCSS. In lower risk patients, death certificate BCSS was more accurate than 
relative survival. Noncancer life expectancy was more favorable among trial 
participants than in the general population and among SEER patients. Tumor size 
at diagnosis, which is a potential surrogate for screening use, partially 
accounted for this difference.
CONCLUSIONS: In the clinical trials, relative survival accurately estimated BCSS 
in patients who had higher risk disease despite more favorable other-cause 
mortality than the population at large. In patients with lower risk disease, the 
estimate using death certificate information was more accurate. For SEER data 
and other data sources where detailed postdiagnosis clinical history was 
unavailable, death certificate-based estimates of cause-specific survival may be 
a superior choice.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.24617
PMCID: PMC2783951
PMID: 19670456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2009 Aug;9(4):289-92. doi: 
10.1586/erp.09.36.

Health utility and economic analysis: theoretical and practical issues.

Payakachat N, Murawski MM, Summers KH.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.09.36
PMID: 19670986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2009 Aug;9(4):353-64. doi: 
10.1586/erp.09.35.

Life-expectancy gains from pharmaceutical drugs: a critical appraisal of the 
literature.

Grootendorst P(1), Piérard E, Shim M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto and Department of Economics, 
McMaster University, Hamilton ON, 144 College Street, Toronto, ON, M5S 3M2, 
Canada. paul.grootendorst@utoronto.ca

Comment in
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2009 Dec;9(6):499-504; author reply 
505-8.

OBJECTIVES: Several studies suggest that, on the basis of life-expectancy 
regressions, pharmaceutical drugs are responsible for much of the marked gains 
in life expectancy observed over the last 50 years. In this article, we 
critically appraise these studies.
METHODS: We point out several modeling issues: identification of the 
contribution of new drugs from advances in disease management, changes in the 
distribution of healthcare and other confounding factors.
RESULTS: We suggest that some models produce estimates of pharmaceutical 
productivity that are implausibly high. Other models have very large forecast 
errors. Finally, the models that we replicated were found to be sensitive to 
seemingly innocuous changes in specification.
CONCLUSION: It is difficult to estimate the biomedical determinants of life 
expectancy using aggregate data. Analyses using individual level data or perhaps 
disease-specific data will probably produce more compelling results.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.09.35
PMID: 19670996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. BMC Health Serv Res. 2009 Aug 11;9:145. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-145.

The German MultiCare-study: Patterns of multimorbidity in primary health care - 
protocol of a prospective cohort study.

Schäfer I(1), Hansen H, Schön G, Maier W, Höfels S, Altiner A, Fuchs A, Gerlach 
FM, Petersen JJ, Gensichen J, Schulz S, Riedel-Heller S, Luppa M, Weyerer S, 
Werle J, Bickel H, Barth K, König HH, Rudolph A, Wiese B, Prokein J, Bullinger 
M, von dem Knesebeck O, Eisele M, Kaduszkiewicz H, Wegscheider K, van den 
Bussche H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Medical Care, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. in.schaefer@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: Multimorbidity is a highly frequent condition in older people, but 
well designed longitudinal studies on the impact of multimorbidity on patients 
and the health care system have been remarkably scarce in numbers until today. 
Little is known about the long term impact of multimorbidity on the patients' 
life expectancy, functional status and quality of life as well as health care 
utilization over time. As a consequence, there is little help for GPs in 
adjusting care for these patients, even though studies suggest that adhering to 
present clinical practice guidelines in the care of patients with multimorbidity 
may have adverse effects.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study is designed as a multicentre prospective, 
observational cohort study of 3.050 patients aged 65 to 85 at baseline with at 
least three different diagnoses out of a list of 29 illnesses and syndromes. The 
patients will be recruited in approx. 120 to 150 GP surgeries in 8 study centres 
distributed across Germany. Information about the patients' morbidity will be 
collected mainly in GP interviews and from chart reviews. Functional status, 
resources/risk factors, health care utilization and additional morbidity data 
will be assessed in patient interviews, in which a multitude of well established 
standardized questionnaires and tests will be performed.
DISCUSSION: The main aim of the cohort study is to monitor the course of the 
illness process and to analyse for which reasons medical conditions are stable, 
deteriorating or only temporarily present. First, clusters of combinations of 
diseases/disorders (multimorbidity patterns) with a comparable impact (e.g. on 
quality of life and/or functional status) will be identified. Then the 
development of these clusters over time will be analysed, especially with regard 
to prognostic variables and the somatic, psychological and social consequences 
as well as the utilization of health care resources. The results will allow the 
development of an instrument for prediction of the deterioration of the illness 
process and point at possibilities of prevention. The practical consequences of 
the study results for primary care will be analysed in expert focus groups in 
order to develop strategies for the inclusion of the aspects of multimorbidity 
in primary care guidelines.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-145
PMCID: PMC3224741
PMID: 19671164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Br J Nutr. 2010 Jan;103(1):107-13. doi: 10.1017/S0007114509991383. Epub 2009
Aug  12.

Chinese tea consumption is associated with longer telomere length in elderly 
Chinese men.

Chan R(1), Woo J, Suen E, Leung J, Tang N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, 
Shatin, Hong Kong. ruthchansm@cuhk.edu.hk

Environmental and lifestyle factors that affect oxidative stress and 
inflammation may influence telomere length (TL). There are limited data to 
relate the effect of dietary components on TL. The present study examined the 
association between food groups and TL in a sample of elderly Chinese. In a 
sample of 2006 Chinese (976 men and 1030 women) aged 65 years and over, TL was 
measured by quantitative real-time PCR and daily intake of food groups was 
assessed by a validated FFQ. Linear regression and analysis of covariance were 
used to examine the association between food group intake and TL, with 
adjustment for demographic and lifestyle factors. In men, only Chinese tea 
consumption was significantly associated with TL after adjustment for 
demographics and lifestyle factors (P = 0.002). Mean difference in TL for those 
in the highest quartile of Chinese tea consumption (>3 cups/d or >750 ml/d) as 
compared with those in the lowest quartile of Chinese tea consumption ( <or= 
0.28 cups/d or <or= 70 ml/d) was 0.46 kb, corresponding to approximately a 
difference of 5 years of life. In women, intake of fats and oils was borderline 
and negatively associated with TL after adjustment for demographic and lifestyle 
factors (P = 0.037). In conclusion, Chinese tea consumption was positively 
associated with TL in elderly Chinese men.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114509991383
PMID: 19671205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Ind Health. 2009 Aug;47(4):369-75. doi: 10.2486/indhealth.47.369.

Prevalence characteristics and prediction of coal workers' pneumoconiosis in the 
Tiefa Colliery in China.

Liu H(1), Tang Z, Weng D, Yang Y, Tian L, Duan Z, Chen J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pneumoconiosis, School of Public Health, China Medical 
University, Shenyang 110001, China.

To explore characteristics of the development of coal workers' pneumoconiosis 
(CWP) at present and trend in the future, we investigated 16,154 coal miners 
exposed to dust for at least 1 yr in the Tiefa Colliery in China. Occupational 
categories were divided into tunneling, mining, combining and helping. Four 
cohorts (before 1958, 1958-, 1968-, and after 1978) were created according to 
years of first exposure. Life-Table Method was used to calculate cumulative 
incidence rates of CWP adjusted by duration of dust exposure and predict the 
number of the new CWP patients. Results indicated that cumulative incidence 
rates of CWP in four cohorts were 26.65%, 18.94%, 1.15%, and 0.06%, respectively 
(Chi(2)=493.57, p<0.0001). The 55-yr cumulative rate of CWP of tunneling miners 
(25.90%) or that of combining miners (14.53%) was statistically higher than that 
of mining miners (7.26%) or that of helping miners (0.89%). The number of new 
CWP patients predicted in future was approximately 77. New CWP patients 
predicted would mainly occur among coal miners with first dust exposure in 
1958-1967 and those working at tunneling. Most of them could be diagnosed in the 
age group from 45 to 75 and in the period of the next 20 yr from 2008 to 2028.

DOI: 10.2486/indhealth.47.369
PMID: 19672010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Leukemia. 2009 Aug;23(8):1373. doi: 10.1038/leu.2009.39.

Iron chelation therapy in myelodysplastic syndrome - Cui bono?

Tefferi A, Stone RM.

DOI: 10.1038/leu.2009.39
PMID: 19672273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Br J Surg. 2009 Sep;96(9):1031-40. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6685.

Prospective randomized trial using cost-utility analysis of early versus delayed 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute gallbladder disease.

Macafee DA(1), Humes DJ, Bouliotis G, Beckingham IJ, Whynes DK, Lobo DN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastrointestinal Surgery, Nottingham Digestive Diseases Centre 
Biomedical Research Unit, Nottingham University Hospitals, Queen's Medical 
Centre, Nottingham, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2009 Dec;96(12):1492-3; author reply 1493.
    Br J Surg. 2009 Dec;96(12):1492; author reply 1493.

BACKGROUND: This randomized controlled trial compared the cost-utility of early 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy with that for conventional management of newly 
diagnosed acute gallbladder disease.
METHODS: Adults admitted to hospital with a first episode of biliary colic or 
acute cholecystitis were randomized to an early intervention group (36 patients, 
operation within 72 h of admission) or a conventional group (36, elective 
cholecystectomy 3 months later). Costs were measured from a National Health 
Service and societal perspective. Quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gains were 
calculated 1 month after surgery.
RESULTS: The mean(s.d.) total costs of care were pound 5911(2445) for the early 
group and pound 6132(3244) for the conventional group (P = 0.928), Mean(s.d.) 
societal costs were pound 1322(1402) and pound 1461(1532) for the early and 
conventional groups respectively (P = 0.732). Visual analogue scale scores of 
health were 72.94 versus 84.63 (P = 0.012) and the mean(s.d.) QALY gain was 
0.85(0.26) versus 0.93(0.13) respectively (P = 0.262). The incremental cost per 
additional QALY gained favoured conventional management at a cost of pound 3810 
per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: In this pragmatic trial, the cost-utilities of both the early and 
conventional approaches were similar, but the incremental cost per additional 
QALY gained favoured conventional management.

(c) 2009 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6685
PMID: 19672930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Adv Child Dev Behav. 2009;37:55-104. doi: 10.1016/s0065-2407(09)03702-1.

The developmental origins of naïve psychology in infancy.

Poulin-Dubois D(1), Brooker I, Chow V.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research in Human Development, Department of Psychology (py-170), 
Concordia University, 7141 Sherbrooke Street West, Montreal, Quebec, H4B 1R6, 
Canada.

Research interest in children's understanding of the mind goes back as far as 
Piaget's claim that children are cognitively egocentric (Flavell, 2000). Many 
years later, research on the understanding of the mind was revived in a paper 
that sought evidence for a theory of mind, not for children but for chimpanzees 
(Premack & Woodruff, 1978). The researchers claimed that chimpanzees' ability to 
predict what a human actor will do to achieve certain goals implies that the 
animal attributes mental states to the actor. This seminal paper generated a 
flurry of studies on theory of mind in nonhuman primates. A review of this 
research based on several different experimental paradigms concluded that 
chimpanzees understand others in terms of a perception-goal psychology (i.e., 
they can perceive what the other's goal is but not understand the mental states 
associated with the goal), as opposed to a full-fledged, human-like 
belief-desire psychology (Call & Tomasello, 2008). Around the same time, 
research on children's understanding of the mind was revived in a landmark paper 
by Wimmer and Perner (1983) and by other developmentalists (Bretherton, McNew, & 
Beegly-Smith. 1981). In line with the research on nonhuman primates, part of the 
progress that has been made in recent years is a recognition that theory of mind 
knowledge is acquired in an extended series of developmental milestones and that 
this development is based on a rich set of socio-cognitive abilities that 
develop in infancy (Wellman, 2002). The evidence outlined in the sections of 
this chapter suggests that infants possess a nascent understanding of mental 
states that older children use in explaining and predicting human behavior. 
Researchers have learned a great deal about the developmental origins of naive 
psychology in infancy. Nevertheless, the depth of infants' understanding of 
human behavior is still a controversial issue. For example, a popular paradigm 
in naive psychology is violation of expectancy. In false-belief tasks, infants 
look longer at a scene.in which a protagonist searches for an object in a 
location she does not know than at a scene in which the protagonist searches for 
an object in a location where she has previously seen the object disappear. The 
fact that no active behavioral response is required makes many researchers doubt 
that an infants' looking pattern reflects a deep level of understanding. Looking 
pattern may simply reflect the infants' detection that something in the scene is 
novel (e.g., protagonist looks at a location different than the one infants last 
saw her look at). Indeed this interpretation may account for the conflicting 
results in recent studies (e.g., Poulin-Dubois et al., 2007; Onishi & 
Baillargeon, 2005; Surian et al., 2007). Poulin-Dubois et al. (2007) recently 
reported that the ability to distinguish between knowledge and ignorance (true 
belief) is absent at 14 months of age and still fragile at 18 months in a 
violation-of-expectancy task depicting videotaped human actors. In contrast, 
false-belief attribution to a computer animated caterpillar has been reported in 
13-month-old infants (Surian et al., 2007). Given that infants have had more 
experience with humans looking at objects than with a caterpillar's looking 
behavior, the current evidence for an implicit understanding of advanced mental 
states such as false belief should be interpreted with caution. As is the case 
for nonhuman primate research, infants' mind-reading success might be accounted 
for by a simple behavior-reading explanation. According to some researchers, 
primates' (and infants') successful performance in theory of mind tasks can be 
explained by a sophisticated form of behavior reading. Under this view, infants 
perform well in such tasks because they are adept at calculating the statistical 
likelihood that some aspects of people's observable features (e.g., gaze) will 
be linked to future actions (e.g., search at a location). Distinguishing between 
a mentalistic and rule-based account is very difficult (Povinelli & Vonk, 2004). 
One way to address this debate would be to design training studies that provide 
infants with first-person experience of mental states and to use more active 
behavioral measures. In terms of training, there is some evidence that infants' 
performance on goal and visual perception attribution tasks is improved if they 
received training of relevant skills (e.g., wearing a blindfold, reaching with a 
"sticky mitten": Meltzoff & Brooks, 2007: Sommerville & Woodward, 2004). 
Furthermore, longitudinal research using more active measures revealed links 
between goal detection as measured with the violation of expectancy paradigm at 
10 months of age and the ability to infer intended goals in an imitation task at 
14 months (Olineck & Poulin-Dubois, 2007b). Developmental changes in the scope 
of infants' concept of intentional agent also will require more attention from 
researchers. According to some, infants' attributions of intentional behavior 
are activated whenever infants recognize an object as a psychological agent, 
based on an evolutionary designed system which is sensitive to certain cues such 
as self-propulsion, contingent reactivity or equifinal variation of the action 
(Baron-Cohen, 1995; Gergely & Csibra, 2003; Johnson, 2000; Leslie, deficient in 
theory of mind. One may hope that nonverbal theory of mind tasks that reliably 
predict later theory mind skills will be adapted for use with this population 
and eventually used for the early detection of autism. In sum, the numerous 
studies reported here show that by the end of the second year of life, infants 
have developed ways to predict human actions The review also makes clear that we 
do not yet fully understand how deep infants' insight into the mind really is. 
Nonetheless, there appears to be some consensus that infants, like chimpanzees, 
understand the goals, intentions, perception, and knowledge of others. This 
provides the foundations for the full-fledged adult-like naive psychology that 
develops gradually in early childhood.

DOI: 10.1016/s0065-2407(09)03702-1
PMID: 19673160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2010 May;12 Suppl 1:e95-103. doi: 
10.1111/j.1708-8208.2009.00222.x. Epub 2009 Aug 5.

Clinical experience of TiUnite implants: a 5-year cross-sectional, retrospective 
follow-up study.

Friberg B(1), Jemt T.

Author information:
(1)Brånemark Clinic, Public Dental Health Service, Göteborg, Sweden. 
bertil.friberg@vgregion.se

BACKGROUND: Little is known of the long-term clinical and radiographic 
performance of moderately rough surface implants.
PURPOSE: The aim of the present retrospective investigation was to study two 
pioneer cohorts of patients, that is, the first patients to receive Brånemark 
System implants with a moderately rough surface (TiUnite, Nobel Biocare AB, 
Göteborg, Sweden) at the present clinic. TiUnite implants were inserted either 
in compromised bone sites in a mixed-mouth concept together with turned implants 
or used solely. Patients were followed up over a period of 5 years with regard 
to implant survival and the marginal bone response.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients who received both implant types (mixed group) 
comprised 41 subjects, and the second group (TiUnite group) comprised 70 
subjects. A total of 110 turned and 68 TiUnite implants were placed in the mixed 
group, and 212 TiUnite implants in the TiUnite group. Follow-up radiographs were 
obtained at prosthesis placement and at the 1- and 5-year check-ups, and 
examined by independent observers.
RESULTS: One turned (0.9%) and two TiUnite (2.9%) implants failed in the mixed 
group, and three implants (1.6%) failed in the TiUnite group, indicating no 
significant differences between surfaces or groups (p < .05). The mean marginal 
bone loss at 5 years was 0.6 mm to 0.8 mm, also indicating no significant 
differences for the two implant types tested in the mixed group.
CONCLUSIONS: Cumulative survival rates for the two implant surfaces were 
favorable at 5 years, and the marginal bone loss was low and similar for both 
implant surfaces.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1708-8208.2009.00222.x
PMID: 19673919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Colorectal Dis. 2011 Jan;13(1):31-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2009.02027.x.

Prospective evaluation of a colorectal cancer nurse follow-up clinic.

Jeyarajah S(1), Adams KJ, Higgins L, Ryan S, Leather AJ, Papagrigoriadis S.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Colorectal Surgery, King's College Hospital, London, UK.

AIM: Colorectal Nurse Specialist (CNS) clinics for postoperative follow up of 
colorectal cancer aim to maintain clinical efficacy while reducing costs. We 
prospectively studied the efficacy and financial implications of such a clinic.
METHOD: This was a prospective study of all patients attending CNS clinics over 
3 years. A lower-risk protocol for patients with Dukes A was used over 3 years 
and a higher-risk protocol for patients with Dukes B, C or D was used over 5 
years. Department of Health Pricing Charts were used to cost the follow-up 
protocols, and adjustment was performed to calculate the cost of each quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: One hundred and ninety-three patients entered into this nurse-led 
follow-up protocol implemented by the CNS clinic between 2005 and 2007. The 
Dukes stages and proportions of patients in each stage were as follows: stage A, 
13%; stage B, 8%; stage C, 36.3%; and stage D, 9.3%. Ninety-seven per cent 
underwent curative treatment and 2.6% had palliative treatment. Twenty-one per 
cent of patients developed recurrent disease. Overall actuarial 5-year survival 
was 80% and recurrences had a 30% 5-year actuarial survival. The total cost per 
patient for 3 years of follow up was £1506 and £1179 for lower-risk rectal and 
nonrectal cancers, respectively. The adjusted cost for each QALY gained for 
lower-risk tumours was £1914. The total cost per patient with higher-risk 
tumours was £1814 and £1487 for rectal and nonrectal tumours, respectively. The 
adjusted cost for each QALY gained was £2180 for higher-risk tumours.
CONCLUSIONS: This clinic demonstrated cost-effective detection of recurrent 
disease. Computed tomography (CT) was the most sensitive alert test. As all 
recurrences were detected within 4 years, we suggest that this is the indicated 
time to follow up.

© 2010 The Authors. Colorectal Disease © 2010 The Association of Coloproctology 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2009.02027.x
PMID: 19674021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Presse Med. 2009 Sep;38(9):1272-80. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2009.05.001. Epub
2009  Aug 11.

[Liver transplantation for hepatocellular carcinoma and for patients with 
pre-existing cancers].

[Article in French]

Hurtova M(1), Decaens T, Laurent A, Cherqui D, Duvoux C.

Author information:
(1)Service d'hépato-gastro-entérologie, Hôpital Henri Mondor, AP-HP, Université 
Paris XII Val-de-Marne, Créteil, France.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is currently the leading indication for liver 
transplantation in France, accounting for 25% of all cases. Transplantation is 
appropriate, nonetheless, only for patients whose HCC has a low risk of 
posttransplant recurrence and is limited in size and number, meeting the Milan 
criteria (1 single nodule of a maximum diameter of 5 cm or 3 lesions of a 
maximum diameter of 3 cm), or slightly exceeds these criteria without vascular 
invasion visible on preoperative imaging. Results for this indication are very 
satisfactory, and 5-year survival ranges from 60 to 80%, according to tumor 
stage. Small HCCs (<2 cm) are usually treated conservatively. Transplantation is 
proposed in cases of a contraindication to resection or radiofrequency ablation 
or of recurrence after local treatment. A history of an extrahepatic tumor is 
found in approximately 5% of candidates for liver transplantation. This history 
is not necessarily a contraindication to transplantation. They may be considered 
eligible for a graft after discussion in a multidisciplinary meeting, if the 
extrahepatic tumor was treated curatively and if their 5-year tumor-related life 
expectancy is greater than 50-60%.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2009.05.001
PMID: 19674868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Diabetes. 2009 Nov;58(11):2450-6. doi: 10.2337/db09-0567. Epub 2009 Aug 12.

C. elegans as model for the study of high glucose- mediated life span reduction.

Schlotterer A(1), Kukudov G, Bozorgmehr F, Hutter H, Du X, Oikonomou D, Ibrahim 
Y, Pfisterer F, Rabbani N, Thornalley P, Sayed A, Fleming T, Humpert P, 
Schwenger V, Zeier M, Hamann A, Stern D, Brownlee M, Bierhaus A, Nawroth P, 
Morcos M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I and Clinical Chemistry, University of Heidelberg, 
Heidelberg, Germany. andreas.schlotterer@med.uniheidelberg.de

OBJECTIVE: Establishing Caenorhabditis elegans as a model for glucose 
toxicity-mediated life span reduction.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: C. elegans were maintained to achieve glucose 
concentrations resembling the hyperglycemic conditions in diabetic patients. The 
effects of high glucose on life span, glyoxalase-1 activity, advanced glycation 
end products (AGEs), and reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation and on 
mitochondrial function were studied.
RESULTS: High glucose conditions reduced mean life span from 18.5 + or - 0.4 to 
16.5 + or - 0.6 days and maximum life span from 25.9 + or - 0.4 to 23.2 + or - 
0.4 days, independent of glucose effects on cuticle or bacterial metabolization 
of glucose. The formation of methylglyoxal-modified mitochondrial proteins and 
ROS was significantly increased by high glucose conditions and reduced by 
mitochondrial uncoupling and complex IIIQo inhibition. Overexpression of the 
methylglyoxal-detoxifying enzyme glyoxalase-1 attenuated the life-shortening 
effect of glucose by reducing AGE accumulation (by 65%) and ROS formation (by 
50%) and restored mean (16.5 + or - 0.6 to 20.6 + or - 0.4 days) and maximum 
life span (23.2 + or - 0.4 to 27.7 + or - 2.3 days). In contrast, inhibition of 
glyoxalase-1 by RNAi further reduced mean (16.5 + or - 0.6 to 13.9 + or - 0.7 
days) and maximum life span (23.2 + or - 0.4 to 20.3 + or - 1.1 days). The life 
span reduction by glyoxalase-1 inhibition was independent from the insulin 
signaling pathway because high glucose conditions also affected daf-2 knockdown 
animals in a similar manner.
CONCLUSIONS: C. elegans is a suitable model organism to study glucose toxicity, 
in which high glucose conditions limit the life span by increasing ROS formation 
and AGE modification of mitochondrial proteins in a daf-2 independent manner. 
Most importantly, glucose toxicity can be prevented by improving 
glyoxalase-1-dependent methylglyoxal detoxification or preventing mitochondrial 
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.2337/db09-0567
PMCID: PMC2768179
PMID: 19675139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Med Decis Making. 2010 Mar-Apr;30(2):163-75. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09341752.
Epub  2009 Aug 12.

Bayesian hierarchical models for cost-effectiveness analyses that use data from 
cluster randomized trials.

Grieve R(1), Nixon R, Thompson SG.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. richard.grieve@lshtm.ac.uk

Cost-effectiveness analyses (CEA) may be undertaken alongside cluster randomized 
trials (CRTs) where randomization is at the level of the cluster (for example, 
the hospital or primary care provider) rather than the individual. Costs (and 
outcomes) within clusters may be correlated so that the assumption made by 
standard bivariate regression models, that observations are independent, is 
incorrect. This study develops a flexible modeling framework to acknowledge the 
clustering in CEA that use CRTs. The authors extend previous Bayesian bivariate 
models for CEA of multicenter trials to recognize the specific form of 
clustering in CRTs. They develop new Bayesian hierarchical models (BHMs) that 
allow mean costs and outcomes, and also variances, to differ across clusters. 
They illustrate how each model can be applied using data from a large (1732 
cases, 70 primary care providers) CRT evaluating alternative interventions for 
reducing postnatal depression. The analyses compare cost-effectiveness estimates 
from BHMs with standard bivariate regression models that ignore the data 
hierarchy. The BHMs show high levels of cost heterogeneity across clusters 
(intracluster correlation coefficient, 0.17). Compared with standard regression 
models, the BHMs yield substantially increased uncertainty surrounding the 
cost-effectiveness estimates, and altered point estimates. The authors conclude 
that ignoring clustering can lead to incorrect inferences. The BHMs that they 
present offer a flexible modeling framework that can be applied more generally 
to CEA that use CRTs.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09341752
PMID: 19675321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Eur J Cardiovasc Prev Rehabil. 2009 Aug;16 Suppl 2:S65-7. doi: 
10.1097/01.hjr.0000359241.90303.37.

A modern fairy tale.

Ferrari R(1), Guardigli G, Tavazzi L.

Author information:
(1)University of Ferrara, and Salvatore Maugeri Foundation, IRCCS, Ferrara, 
Italy. roberto.ferrari@unife.it

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjr.0000359241.90303.37
PMID: 19675442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Ger Med Sci. 2003 Jul 1;1:Doc04.

Effects of weight-reduction on obesity-associated diseases.

Liebermeister H(1).

Author information:
(1)PVS Mosel/Saar, Neunkirchen, Germany. Liebermeister-N@t-online.de

Even moderate, but persistent weight-loss ameliorates most of the related 
diseases in obesity. Besides the consequences of the metabolic syndrome, this 
includes less well-known obesity-associated changes, such as impaired fertility, 
menstrual disorders, psychic changes, total leucocyte-count as a parameter of 
immunity and the impaired pulmonary function in asthma and sleep-apnoea. 
Life-expectancy is prolonged by diminution of visceral fat depots, whilst 
weight-loss by shrinking of fat-free body-mass seems to have a contrary effect.

Auch eine mäßige, aber dauerhafte Gewichtsverringerung bessert die meisten 
Begleitkrankheiten der Adipositas. Dazu gehören - neben dem Metabolischen 
Syndrom - auch weniger bekannte Folgeerscheinungen der Adipositas, wie 
Fertilitätsstörungen, Menstruations-Anomalien, psychische Veränderungen, die 
Gesamt-Leukozyten-Konzentration als Parameter für die Immunitäts-Lage und die 
gestörte Lungenfunktion bei Asthma und Schlaf-Apnöe. Die Lebenserwartung erhöht 
sich nach Verringerung der intraabdominalen Fett-Depots, während ein 
Gewichtsverlust infolge Abbaus der fettfreien Körpermasse den gegenteiligen 
