jean-jacques.monsuez@rmb.aphp.fr

Cerebrovascular disease (CVD) has early been recognized in HIV-infected 
patients, including infectious arteritis, inflammatory vasculitis, aneurismal 
and small-vessel arteriopathy, to which adds now the premature atherosclerotic 
cerebral arteriopathy associated with the highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART)-induced metabolic disorders. As a result of the increased 
life-expectancy associated with HAART, HIV patients grow older and are exposed 
to the combined vascular risk of antiviral-induced metabolic changes and 
advancing age. Several studies have documented subclinical cervical artery 
atherosclerosis, as assessed by intima-media thickness, ultrasound detection of 
carotid artery plaques and intracerebral small-vessel disease, all being 
associated with the induced metabolic changes. This suggests that vascular 
prevention should be performed on a long-term basis.

DOI: 10.2174/157016209789346345
PMID: 19534663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. BMC Public Health. 2009 Jun 17;9:188. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-188.

Assessing the disease burden of Yi people by years of life lost in Shilin county 
of Yunnan province, China.

Zhou SC(1), Cai L, Wan CH, Lv YL, Fang PQ.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Health Management, Tongji Medical College, Huazhong 
University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, PR China. zsc_2k@163.com

BACKGROUND: Years of Life Lost (YLL) is one of the methods used to estimate the 
duration of time lost due to premature death. While previous studies of disease 
burden have been reported using YLL, there have been no studies investigating 
YLL of Yi people in rural China. Yunnan Province ranks first in terms of Yi 
people in China. This paper uses YLL to estimate the disease burden of Yi people 
in Shilin county of Yunnan Province. This study aims to address the 
differentials about YLL between Yi people and Han people for providing useful 
information for health planning.
METHODS: We applied the Global Burden of Disease (GBD) method created by WHO. 
YLL rate per 1,000 were calculated from medical death certificates in 2003 in 
Shilin Yi Nationality Autonomous County (Shilin county).
RESULTS: The male had greater YLL rate per 1,000 than did the female almost in 
each age group. It demonstrated a higher premature mortality burden due to 
injuries in Shilin county. Among the top non-communicable diseases, respiratory 
diseases are the most common mortality burden. Yi people are still suffering 
from maternal conditions, with two times the burden rates of Han people. For Yi 
people, while malignant neoplasm was one of the least burden of disease for 
male, it was the greatest for female, which is the opposite to Han people.
CONCLUSION: Strategies of economic development should be reviewed to enhance the 
prevention and treatment of injuries, maternal conditions and respiratory 
diseases for Yi people.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-188
PMCID: PMC2709619
PMID: 19534776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Med Care. 2009 Jul;47(7 Suppl 1):S21-7. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181a2bf32.

Using costs in cost-effectiveness models for chronic diseases: lessons from 
diabetes.

Hoerger TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)RTI-UNC Center of Excellence in Health Promotion Economics, RTI 
International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. tjh@rti.org

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness models for chronic diseases frequently require 
simulating the development of disease complications over a long period. Model 
development often focuses on disease progression, with less attention devoted to 
costs.
OBJECTIVE: To identify key challenges in incorporating costs in 
cost-effectiveness models for chronic diseases.
RESEARCH DESIGN: We use our experience in developing and applying a diabetes 
cost-effectiveness model to illustrate the challenges in incorporating costs in 
cost-effectiveness models for chronic diseases.
RESULTS: Costs used in cost-effectiveness analyses for chronic diseases are 
sometimes drawn from a variety of published sources with little concern about 
consistency between sources or the underlying functional form for costs. 
Identifying costs of complications in chronic disease modeling often receives 
inadequate attention compared to the time and effort devoted to modeling disease 
progression. Costs of averted complications typically cannot be estimated during 
a trial, because these complications begin to accrue years after the 
intervention. Complication costs may be estimated through gross-costing, using 
an additive cost function with individual complication costs derived from 
difference sources, or through cost regressions that apply a multiplicative 
functional form using a single data source. The choice between additive and 
multiplicative cost functions may affect the cost-effectiveness ratios generated 
by the model. Current guidelines do not provide much guidance on choosing 
between the costing approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: Developing a set of standard cost estimates might streamline the 
modeling process for chronic diseases, but standardization will require careful 
attention to functional form and the selection of appropriate data sets.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e3181a2bf32
PMID: 19536014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Med Care. 2009 Jul;47(7 Suppl 1):S28-32. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31819bc09d.

Costing and perspective in published cost-effectiveness analysis.

Neumann PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Tufts Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02111, USA. pneumann@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

BACKGROUND: Methods for appropriate costing in Cost-effectiveness analyses 
(CEAs), seemingly straightforward, have always raised questions. Questions 
linger about what cost components to include under a "societal" perspective, as 
well as how to value resources.
OBJECTIVES: This article discusses issues surrounding costing and "perspective" 
in published CEA.
METHODS: I examine data from the Tufts Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness (CEA) 
Registry to investigate the use of perspective and costing methodology in 
published cost-utility analyses. The CEA Registry contains over 3000 
cost-utility ratios and utility weights for roughly 4000 health states from 1164 
published cost-utility analyses through 2005. The Registry also provides an 
online-based searchable database (Available at: www.cearegistry.org). I analyze 
changes over time in several dimensions related to costing methodology: 
disclosure of study perspective; statement of time horizon; use of discounting 
for future costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); statement of year of 
currency; reporting of sensitivity analysis; and use of incremental analysis.
RESULTS: In practice, there has been a great deal of variation in costing 
methodology used in published CEAs, though methods have improved somewhat over 
time. Many CE researchers continue to claim that their studies take a societal 
perspective, but instead their articles only consider a health care payer 
perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: Analysts conducting CEAs should be more transparent about their 
costing methodology and clearer in their usage of terminology regarding 
perspective. The field would also benefit from more attention to the question of 
how much different costing methods influence the results of CEAs.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31819bc09d
PMID: 19536023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Minerva Chir. 2009 Jun;64(3):253-64.

Tips and tricks in bariatric surgical procedures: a review article.

Wyles SM(1), Ahmed AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bariatric Surgery, Imperial College Healthcare, Charing Cross 
Hospital, London, UK.

Worldwide there is a rapidly expanding problem of obesity and it is one of the 
greatest public health challenges of the 21st century. This is affecting the 
developing world in particular, with obesity related comorbidities representing 
a significant problem. The most effective treatment for severe obesity is 
bariatric surgery, producing improvement of comorbid conditions, sustained 
weight loss and restores life expectancy towards normal. This is one of the most 
technically challenging branches of general surgery, and has a long learning 
curve before operative proficiency is seen. The aim of this paper was to provide 
a review of bariatric surgical techniques with a summary of recommended ''top 
tips''.

PMID: 19536051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Hum Hypertens. 2010 Feb;24(2):117-23. doi: 10.1038/jhh.2009.47. Epub 2009
Jun  18.

Cost-effectiveness of antihypertensive treatment in patients 80 years of age or 
older in Switzerland: an analysis of the HYVET study from a Swiss perspective.

Szucs TD(1), Waeber B, Tomonaga Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Economics, Institute of Social- and Preventive 
Medicine, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. thomas.szucs@ifspm.uzh.ch

This analysis shows the economic benefit of antihypertensive treatment in 
patients 80 years of age or older from the perspective of the Swiss healthcare 
system. The cost-effectiveness analysis of antihypertensive treatment in the 
elderly was carried out applying the results of the Hypertension in the Very 
Elderly Trial study to the Swiss healthcare system. The analysis shows that 
hypertension treatment provides, compared with placebo, an additional life 
expectancy of 0.0457 years per patient, over a follow-up period of 2 years. The 
medication cost was covered by the reduction of costs related to the treatment 
of strokes, myocardial infarctions and heart failure: the total cost per patient 
in the active group resulted in a dominant strategy of savings compared with the 
placebo group. Sensitivity analysis yielded a stable estimate after varying the 
costs of medication, stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure and life 
expectancy, confirming the robustness of these results. Moreover, considering 
that antihypertensive treatment also positively affects the incidence of 
dementia, those net benefits might even be underestimated.

DOI: 10.1038/jhh.2009.47
PMCID: PMC3011095
PMID: 19536166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Ther Clin Risk Manag. 2009 Apr;5(2):391-402. doi: 10.2147/tcrm.s4412. Epub
2009  May 20.

Recombinant factor VIII in the management of hemophilia A: current use and 
future promise.

Powell JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of California Davis Cancer 
Center, Sacramento, CA, USA.

Hemophilia A is a rare inherited bleeding disorder due to mutation of the gene 
that encodes the coagulation protein factor VIII. Historically, prior to the 
availability of treatment with factor VIII preparations, most boys died from 
uncontrolled bleeding, either spontaneous bleeding or after injury, before 
reaching 20 years of age. One of the most impressive triumphs of modern medicine 
is that with current recombinant factor VIII replacement therapy, a boy born in 
the 21st century with severe hemophilia A can anticipate a normal life 
expectancy with essentially no permanent complications from bleeding. For severe 
hemophilia A, current optimal treatment should have two goals: first, to provide 
sufficient factor VIII to prevent spontaneous bleeding, and second, to provide 
sufficient factor VIII to have normal coagulation function after any trauma. 
However, the replacement therapy requires tremendous resources for effective 
use, and remains extraordinarily expensive. Thus there are opportunities for 
further advances in therapy for hemophilia A. Two major concerns continue to 
trouble current optimal treatment approaches: some patients will develop 
neutralizing antibodies during the first 50 infusions of therapeutic factor 
VIII, and second, to administer therapeutic factor VIII every other day in young 
boys often requires placement of a central venous access device, and such use 
carries the life-threatening risks of infection and thrombosis. Because of the 
effectiveness of current therapy, any new developments in treatment will require 
significant concerns for safety, both immediate and in the long term. A number 
of research groups seek to prolong the biological efficacy of infused 
recombinant factor VIII. Currently, one such promising development is in the 
advanced stages of clinical trial. The goals will be to improve further the 
quality of life of an individual with severe hemophilia A, and to reduce the 
burden of current treatment strategies on families and medical resources. 
Hopefully, the hemophilia community will continue to participate actively in the 
clinical trials needed to address these new challenges.

DOI: 10.2147/tcrm.s4412
PMCID: PMC2697540
PMID: 19536318


916. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2009;646:71-81. doi: 10.1007/978-1-4020-9173-5_8.

The early origins of later obesity: pathways and mechanisms.

McMillen IC(1), Rattanatray L, Duffield JA, Morrison JL, MacLaughlin SM, Gentili 
S, Muhlhausler BS.

Author information:
(1)Early Origins of Adult Health Research Group, Sansom Research Institute, 
University of South Australia, SA, Australia. caroline.mcmillen@unisa.edu.au

Excess bodyweight is the sixth most important risk factor contributing to the 
overall burden of disease worldwide. In excess of a billion adults and 10% of 
all children are now classified as overweight or obese. The main adverse 
consequences of obesity are the metabolic syndrome, cardiovascular disease and 
type 2 diabetes and a diminished average life expectancy. It has been argued 
that the complex pathological processes underlying obesity reflect environmental 
and genetic interactions, and individuals from disadvantaged communities seem to 
have greater risks than more affluent individuals partly because of fetal and 
postnatal programming interactions. Abundant evidence indicates that the obesity 
epidemic reflects progressive secular and age-related decreases in physical 
activity, together with passive over-consumption of energy dense foods despite 
neurobiological processes designed to regulate energy balance. The difficulty in 
treating obesity, however, highlights the deficits in our current understanding 
of the pathophysiology which underlies the initiation and chronic nature of this 
disorder. Large population based studies in Europe and North America in healthy 
women and in women with gestational diabetes have demonstrated that there are 
clear relationships between maternal and fetal nutrient supply, fetal growth 
patterns and the subsequent risk of obesity and glucose intolerance in childhood 
and adult life. In this review we discuss the impact of fetal nutrition on the 
biology of the developing adipocyte and brain and the growing evidence base 
supporting an intergenerational cycle of obesity.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-4020-9173-5_8
PMID: 19536665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Tunis Med. 2009 Mar;87(3):188-90.

Hypovitaminosis D in Tunisian osteoporotic postmenopausal women and the 
relationship with bone fractures.

Bahlous A(1), Farjallah N, Bouzid K, Klouz A, Mohsni A, Sahli H, Lakhal M, 
Sallami S, Abdelmoula J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Charles Nicolle Hospital, Tunis.

AIM: The purpose of this study is to evaluate the frequency of hypovitaminosis D 
in Tunisian osteoporotic women and to search an eventual association between 
vitamin D status and the fracture risk.
METHODS: A transverse descriptive study enrolled 134 osteoporotic menopausal 
women aged 50 years or more. We measured calcium, phosphorus, albumin, alkaline 
phosphatase, creatinine and 25 hydroxyvitamin D [25 (OH) vit D]. Bone mineral 
density (BMD) was measured for all and osteoporotic women were defined for a 
T-score of -2,5 or less in the spine, hip or femoral neck. Two groups were 
defined: G1 with fracture and G2 without fracture. We used SPSS 10.5, chi-2 
tests and a statistical significance level of p<0,05.
RESULTS: Women in G1 (n= 102) were more aged than those in G2 (n= 32) and their 
menopause was more ancient. Hypovitaminosis D was found in 45,2% of all women, 
respectively in 50,98% of G1 and 25% of G2. The mean level of vitamin D was more 
important in G2 (27,5 + 15,1 vs 21,3 + 12,8 ng/ml; p=0,002). BMD in femoral and 
lumbar were statistically lower when fractures are present (p<0,001).
CONCLUSION: Our study shows that women with hypovitaminosis D (vit D < 20 ng/ml) 
are prone to osteoporotic fractures. All fracture in community in menopausal 
women, should be assessed with BMD and screening for 25 (OH) vit D. Increasing 
life expectancy in our country suggests that this public health problem will 
grow in the years to come, pointing out the importance of better management of 
osteoporosis and hypovitaminosis D to prevent fractures.

PMID: 19537011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Int J Palliat Nurs. 2009 Mar;15(3):120-7. doi:
10.12968/ijpn.2009.15.3.41090.

A neurological care pathway for meeting the palliative care needs of people with 
life-limiting neurological conditions.

Brown JB(1), Sutton L.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of Southampton, Highfield.

The expectancy and demand for palliative care provision beyond cancer continues 
to increase in the Western world. This challenge raises the need for useful 
tools to support palliative care practitioners and other specialists in caring 
for people with a range of non-malignant life-limiting diseases. This paper 
describes the development process and the resulting care pathway for meeting the 
palliative care needs of people living with neurological conditions. The pathway 
was designed as a template, suitable for local modification, to support timely 
referrals and coordination of care through a patient's illness journey 
incorporating the provision of palliative and end-of-life care. Although the 
pathway was developed for neurological conditions, it is suggested that 
presentation of the development process and the care pathway template may 
support practitioners to develop further pathways for a wider range of 
life-limiting conditions.

DOI: 10.12968/ijpn.2009.15.3.41090
PMID: 19537532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Clin Ther. 2009 May;31(5):1082-91; discussion 1066-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.05.006.

Results of a model analysis to estimate cost utility and value of information 
for intravenous immunoglobulin in Canadian adults with chronic immune 
thrombocytopenic purpura.

Xie F(1), Blackhouse G, Assasi N, Campbell K, Levin M, Bowen J, Tarride JE, Pi 
D, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. fengxie@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) compared with oral prednisone as a treatment 
for Canadian adults with persistent chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura 
(ITP).
METHODS: The lifetime costs and effectiveness of IVIg and prednisone were 
estimated from the perspective of a publicly funded health care system in 
Canada, using a Markov model that was developed based on a systematic clinical 
and economic review and recommendations of clinical experts in Canada. 
Transition probabilities (ie, point estimates and 95% CIs) were estimated from 
the studies identified in a systematic literature review using a random-effect 
meta-analysis; point estimates were weighted-mean values from the meta-analysis. 
No published studies directly estimate the utility weight for patients with 
relapsed or refractory ITP; therefore, a value of 0.76 was used, based on the 
mean of the utilities for thrombocytopenia without major bleeding or hemorrhagic 
stroke. Costs and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were reported as 
year-2007 Can $.
RESULTS: The incremental costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of IVIg 
versus prednisone were Can $8080 and 0.0071, respectively, resulting in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of Can $1.13 million/ QALY in the base-case 
analysis. The probability of IVIg being cost-effective was 0 if the maximum 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) value for an additional QALY was below Can $40,000. The 
probability that IVIg would be cost-effective was only 20%, even if the WTP 
increased to Can $100,000. The expected value of perfect information (EVPI) and 
expected value of partial perfect information (EVPPI) were 0 if the WTP was less 
than Can $30,000. If WTP increased to Can $100,000, the EVPI was Can $1700, and 
the EVPPI was Can $1010 for utility weights of relapse/refractory states, Can 
$136 for initial response rates of the treatments, and Can $6 for first-year 
relapse rates for the treatments.
CONCLUSION: Based on the current available clinical evidence, this model 
analysis of hypothetical patients suggests that IVIg may not be a cost-effective 
option for adults with persistent chronic ITP in Canada.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.05.006
PMID: 19539109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Clin Ther. 2009 May;31(5):1105-15; discussion 1066-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.05.011.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of micafungin versus fluconazole for prophylaxis of 
invasive fungal infections in patients undergoing hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation in Korea.

Sohn HS(1), Lee TJ, Kim J, Kim D.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey, USA.

BACKGROUND: Invasive fungal infections are often fatal complications in patients 
undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), and prophylactic 
antifungal treatment has been recommended. Within budget-limited health care 
environments, choosing a cost-effective drug is very important.
OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to analyze the cost-effectiveness of 
micafungin and fluconazole for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections from 
the payer's perspective in patients undergoing HSCT in a Korean health care 
setting.
METHODS: We constructed a decision-analytic model to evaluate both total costs 
for each state of health and outcomes (such as the fungal-infection prevention 
rate and life expectancy) for 2 alternatives in a hypothetical cohort of 100 
patients undergoing HSCT. The target population was aged 43 years, weighed >50 
kg, and had normal renal function. For prophylaxis against systemic fungal 
infections, patients were administered either micafungin 50 mg/d or fluconazole 
400 mg/d, without dose adjustment, as a 1-hour infusion for a mean of 19 
consecutive days. Depending on the clinical outcomes with prophylactic therapy, 
different treatments were assumed. Patients with proven/ probable fungal 
infection received acute antifungal therapy, and those with suspected fungal 
infection received empiric antifungal therapy. All patients received general 
medical care during the analysis period. Results are expressed as Korean won 
(KW; US $1 = KW 925 as of December 1, 2007).
RESULTS: The base-case analysis found that micafungin treatment, compared with 
fluconazole, saved KW 95,511,000, increased the number of infection-free 
patients by 0.5, and saved 4.8 life-years per 100 patients. Results with 
micafungin as the dominant strategy were found to be robust in sensitivity 
analyses for several parameters, including treatment success and failure rates; 
mortality risk ratio; and costs for general care, empiric therapy, and acute 
antifungal therapy.
CONCLUSION: Micafungin was a cost-effective prophylactic antifungal strategy by 
providing lower medical costs and longer life expectancy than fluconazole from 
the payer's perspective in a hypothetical cohort of Korean adults undergoing 
HSCT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.05.011
PMID: 19539111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009 Jun 23;53(25):2332-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2009.02.063.

Maximizing patient benefit from cardiac resynchronization therapy with the 
addition of structured exercise training: a randomized controlled study.

Patwala AY(1), Woods PR, Sharp L, Goldspink DF, Tan LB, Wright DJ.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009 Jun 23;53(25):2340-2.

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the benefits of additional exercise training after 
cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT).
BACKGROUND: Cardiac resynchronization therapy results in improved morbidity and 
mortality in appropriate patients. We hypothesized that a structured exercise 
training program in addition to CRT would maximize the improvements in exercise 
capacity, symptoms, and quality of life (QOL).
METHODS: Fifty patients referred for CRT were recruited. Patients were assessed 
before and 3 and 6 months after CRT. Functional class and QOL scores were 
recorded, and exercise tests were performed with hemodynamic measurements. Peak 
lower limb skeletal muscle torque was measured during extension, and 
echocardiography was undertaken at each visit. At 3 months, patients were 
randomized with a simple sealed envelope method to exercise training (n = 25) or 
control group (n = 25). The exercise group underwent an exercise program 
consisting of 3 visits/week for 3 months. Paired sample t tests were used to 
look for in-group differences and independent sample t tests for between-group 
differences.
RESULTS: Three months after CRT there were significant improvements in all 
functional, exercise hemodynamic, and echocardiographic measures. After 
randomization the exercise group showed further significant improvements in 
functional, exercise hemodynamic, and QOL measures compared with the control 
group. There were also significant in-group improvements in peak skeletal muscle 
function and ejection fraction that did not reach statistical significance on 
intergroup analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Exercise training leads to further improvements in exercise 
capacity, hemodynamic measures, and QOL in addition to the improvements seen 
after CRT. Therefore, exercise training allows maximal benefit to be attained 
after CRT.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2009.02.063
PMID: 19539142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. J Ren Nutr. 2009 Jul;19(4):259-66. doi: 10.1053/j.jrn.2009.01.030.

Effects of omega-3 fatty acid supplementation on lipid levels in endstage renal 
disease patients.

Bowden RG(1), Jitomir J, Wilson RL, Gentile M.

Author information:
(1)Health, Human Performance, and Recreation, School of Education, Baylor 
University, Waco, TX 76798-7313, USA. Rodney_Bowden@baylor.edu

OBJECTIVE: Our purpose was to determine if over-the-counter fish oil improves 
the cardiovascular-disease risk profile of endstage renal disease patients.
DESIGN: This study used a double-blind, permuted-block, randomized, 
placebo-controlled design. The experimental intervention consisted of fish-oil 
concentrate supplementation, whereas corn-oil capsules were used as a control. 
Compliance follow-ups were performed 3 times per week.
SETTING: Patients of Central Texas Nephrology Associates clinics were eligible 
for this study.
PATIENTS: Exclusion criteria comprised a life-expectancy of less than 6 months, 
pregnancy, a history of hemodialysis or medication noncompliance, or age below 
18 years. The final sample size was 87 patients. The attrition rate was 9%.
INTERVENTION: Participants in the experimental group consumed six 1-g soft-gel 
capsules of fish-oil concentrate each day for 6 months. The control group 
consumed corn-oil capsules, following the same protocol. Venous blood samples 
were acquired before and after the intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: We assessed a number of serum lipid indicators.
RESULTS: There were significant supplement/time interactions in low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) levels (P = .0001) and LDL particle number (P = 
.0001). Repeated-measures analysis of variance revealed significant time trends 
in high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (P = .012) and LDL (P = .001). 
High-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels significantly decreased in the 
control group, and increased in the fish-oil group, at 6 months, and LDL levels 
increased significantly in both groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis indicates mixed results with respect to cardiovascular 
disease risk. Further research is needed to assess the benefits of an 
over-the-counter fish-oil supplement in the renal population.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jrn.2009.01.030
PMID: 19539180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Semin Arthritis Rheum. 2009 Aug;39(1):1-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.semarthrit.2009.04.001. Epub 2009 Jun 17.

A double-blind, randomized, saline-controlled study of the efficacy and safety 
of EUFLEXXA for treatment of painful osteoarthritis of the knee, with an 
open-label safety extension (the FLEXX trial).

Altman RD(1), Rosen JE, Bloch DA, Hatoum HT, Korner P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology and Immunology, University of California Los 
Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. journals@royaltman.com

OBJECTIVE: To report the FLEXX trial, the first well-controlled study assessing 
the safety and efficacy of Euflexxa (1% sodium hyaluronate; IA-BioHA) therapy 
for knee osteoarthritis (OA) at 26 weeks.
METHODS: This was a randomized, double-blind, multicenter, saline-controlled 
study. Subjects with chronic knee OA were randomized to 3 weekly intra-articular 
(IA) injections of either buffered saline (IA-SA) or IA-BioHA (20 mg/2 ml). The 
primary efficacy outcome was subject recorded difference in least-squares means 
between IA-BioHA and IA-SA in subjects' change from baseline to week 26 
following a 50-foot walk test, measured via 100-mm visual analog scale (VAS). 
Secondary outcome measures included Osteoarthritis Research Society 
International responder index, Western Ontario McMaster University 
Osteoarthritis Index VA 3.1 subscales, patient global assessment, rescue 
medication, and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) by the SF-36. Safety was 
assessed by monitoring and reporting vital signs, physical examination of the 
target knee following injection, adverse events, and concomitant medications.
RESULTS: Five hundred eighty-eight subjects were randomized to either IA-BioHA 
(n = 293) or IA-SA (n = 295), with an 88% 26 week completion rate. No 
statistical differences were noted between the treatment groups at baseline. In 
the IA-BioHA group, mean VAS scores decreased by 25.7 mm, compared with 18.5 mm 
in the IA-SA group. This corresponded to a median reduction of 53% from baseline 
for IA-BioHA and a 38% reduction for IA-SA. The difference in least-squares 
means was -6.6 mm (P = 0.002). Secondary outcome measures were consistent with 
significant improvement in Osteoarthritis Research Society International 
responder index, HRQoL, and function. Both IA-SA and IA-BioHA injections were 
well tolerated, with a low incidence of adverse events that were equally 
distributed between groups. Injection-site reactions were reported by 1 (<1%) 
subject in the IA-SA group and 2 (1%) in the IA-BioHA group.
CONCLUSIONS: IA-BioHA therapy resulted in significant OA knee pain relief at 26 
weeks compared with IA-SA. Subjects treated with IA-BioHA also experienced 
significant improvements in joint function, treatment satisfaction, and HRQoL.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semarthrit.2009.04.001
PMID: 19539353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Bone. 2009 Oct;45(4):777-83. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2009.06.009. Epub 2009 Jun
17.

Pathological fracture prediction in patients with metastatic lesions can be 
improved with quantitative computed tomography based computer models.

Tanck E(1), van Aken JB, van der Linden YM, Schreuder HW, Binkowski M, Huizenga 
H, Verdonschot N.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Research Laboratory, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center, 
PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, The Netherlands. e.tanck@orthop.umcn.nl

PURPOSE: In clinical practice, there is an urgent need to improve the prediction 
of fracture risk for cancer patients with bone metastases. The methods that are 
currently used to estimate fracture risk are dissatisfying, hence affecting the 
quality of life of patients with a limited life expectancy. The purpose of this 
study was to assess if non-linear finite element (FE) computer models, which are 
based on Quantitative Computer Tomography (QCT), are better than clinical 
experts in predicting bone strength.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Ten human cadaver femurs were scanned using QCT. In one 
femur of each pair a hole (size 22, 40, or 45 mm diameter) was drilled at the 
anterior or medial side to simulate a metastatic lesion. All femurs were 
mechanically tested to failure under single-limb stance-type loading. The 
failure force was calculated using non-linear FE-models, and six clinical 
experts were asked to rank the femurs from weak to strong based on X-rays, 
gender, age, and the loading protocol. Kendall Tau correlation coefficients were 
calculated to compare the predictions of the FE-model with the predictions of 
the clinicians.
RESULTS: The FE-failure predictions correlated strongly with the experimental 
failure force (r(2)=0.92, p<0.001). For the clinical experts, the Kendall Tau 
coefficient between the experimental ranking and predicted ranking ranged 
between tau=0.39 and tau=0.72, whereas this coefficient was considerably higher 
(tau=0.78) for the FE-model.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that the use of a non-linear FE-model can improve 
the prediction of bone strength compared to the prediction by clinical experts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2009.06.009
PMID: 19539798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Theor Biol. 2009 Oct 7;260(3):445-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2009.06.013.
Epub  2009 Jun 21.

Capturing the essence of a metabolic network: a flux balance analysis approach.

Murabito E(1), Simeonidis E, Smallbone K, Swinton J.

Author information:
(1)Doctoral Training Centre Integrative Systems Biology from Molecules to Life, 
Manchester Interdisciplinary Biocentre, The University of Manchester, Manchester 
M1 7DN, UK. ettore.murabito@postgrad.manchester.ac.uk

As genome-scale metabolic reconstructions emerge, tools to manage their size and 
complexity will be increasingly important. Flux balance analysis (FBA) is a 
constraint-based approach widely used to study the metabolic capabilities of 
cellular or subcellular systems. FBA problems are highly underdetermined and 
many different phenotypes can satisfy any set of constraints through which the 
metabolic system is represented. Two of the main concerns in FBA are exploring 
the space of solutions for a given metabolic network and finding a specific 
phenotype which is representative for a given task such as maximal growth rate. 
Here, we introduce a recursive algorithm suitable for overcoming both of these 
concerns. The method proposed is able to find the alternate optimal patterns of 
active reactions of an FBA problem and identify the minimal subnetwork able to 
perform a specific task as optimally as the whole. Our method represents an 
alternative to and an extension of other approaches conceived for exploring the 
space of solutions of an FBA problem. It may also be particularly helpful in 
defining a scaffold of reactions upon which to build up a dynamic model, when 
the important pathways of the system have not yet been well-defined.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2009.06.013
PMID: 19540851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Theor Popul Biol. 2009 Nov;76(3):179-88. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2009.06.003.
Epub  2009 Jun 21.

Population and prehistory III: food-dependent demography in variable 
environments.

Lee CT(1), Puleston CO, Tuljapurkar S.

Author information:
(1)Biological Science, Florida State University, Tallahassee, FL 32306, USA. 
ctlee@bio.fsu.edu

The population dynamics of preindustrial societies depend intimately on their 
surroundings, and food is a primary means through which environment influences 
population size and individual well-being. Food production requires labor; thus, 
dependence of survival and fertility on food involves dependence of a 
population's future on its current state. We use a perturbation approach to 
analyze the effects of random environmental variation on this nonlinear, 
age-structured system. We show that in expanding populations, direct 
environmental effects dominate induced population fluctuations, so environmental 
variability has little effect on mean hunger levels, although it does decrease 
population growth. The growth rate determines the time until population is 
limited by space. This limitation introduces a tradeoff between population 
density and well-being, so population effects become more important than the 
direct effects of the environment: environmental fluctuation increases 
mortality, releasing density dependence and raising average well-being for 
survivors. We discuss the social implications of these findings for the 
long-term fate of populations as they transition from expansion into limitation, 
given that conditions leading to high well-being during growth depress 
well-being during limitation.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2009.06.003
PMID: 19540865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2009 Sep;124(3):514-21. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2009.05.003.  Epub 2009 Jul 9.

Prognosis in adult indolent systemic mastocytosis: a long-term study of the 
Spanish Network on Mastocytosis in a series of 145 patients.

Escribano L(1), Alvarez-Twose I, Sánchez-Muñoz L, Garcia-Montero A, Núñez R, 
Almeida J, Jara-Acevedo M, Teodósio C, García-Cosío M, Bellas C, Orfao A.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudios de Mastocitosis de Castilla La Mancha, Hospital Virgen del 
Valle, Toledo, Spain. lescribanom@sescam.jccm.es

BACKGROUND: Indolent systemic mastocytosis is a group of rare diseases for which 
reliable predictors of progression and outcome are still lacking.
OBJECTIVE: Here we investigate the prognostic impact of the clinical, 
biological, phenotypic, histopathological, and molecular disease characteristics 
in adults with indolent systemic mastocytosis, who were followed using 
conservative therapy.
METHODS: A total of 145 consecutive patients were prospectively followed between 
January 1983 and July 2008; in addition, from 1967 to 1983, 20 patients were 
retrospectively studied.
RESULTS: Multivariate analysis showed that serum beta2-microglobulin (P = .003) 
together with the presence of mast/stem cell growth factor receptor gene (KIT) 
mutation in mast cells plus myeloid and lymphoid hematopoietic lineages (P = 
.02) was the best combination of independent parameters for predicting disease 
progression (cumulative probability of disease progression of 1.7% +/- 1.2% at 
5-10 years and of 8.4% +/- 5.0% at 20-25 years). Regarding overall survival, the 
best predictive model included age >60 years (P = .005) and development of an 
associated clonal hematological non-mast cell disorder (P = .03) with a 
cumulative probability of death of 2.2% +/- 1.3% at 5 years and of 11% +/- 5.9% 
at 25 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Indolent systemic mastocytosis in adults has a low disease 
progression rate, and the great majority of patients have a normal life 
expectancy, with the presence of KIT mutation in all hematopoietic lineages and 
increased serum beta2-microglobulin the most powerful independent parameters for 
predicting transformation into a more aggressive form of the disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2009.05.003
PMID: 19541349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Trends Immunol. 2009 Jul;30(7):344-50. doi: 10.1016/j.it.2009.03.011. Epub
2009  Jun 21.

Immune therapy for age-related diseases.

Weksler ME(1), Pawelec G, Franceschi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Weill-Cornell Medical College, NY 10065, USA. 
weksler@med.cornell.edu

Human aging is reaching epidemic proportions as life expectancy increases and 
birth rate decreases. These demographic trends have led to a sharp increase in 
the diseases of aging, and an understanding of immune senescence promises to 
limit the development and progression of these diseases. In this review, we 
discuss three of the most important diseases of aging: shingles, Alzheimer's 
disease and atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease. All of these diseases have 
significant immunological components in either their etiology and/or 
progression, suggesting that appropriate immune intervention could be used in 
their prevention or treatment. Indeed, recent clinical studies have already 
demonstrated that vaccination can reduce the incidence of shingles and might 
prove effective in patients with Alzheimer's disease and artherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.it.2009.03.011
PMID: 19541533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Ann Phys Rehabil Med. 2009 Jun;52(5):374-81. doi:
10.1016/j.rehab.2009.05.003.  Epub 2009 Jun 6.

Care protocol for persistent vegetative states (PVS) and minimally conscious 
state (MSC) in Lorraine: retrospective study over an 18-year period.

[Article in English, French]

Beis JM(1), Seyer JL, Brugerolle B, Le Chapelain L, Thisse MO, Mainard D, 
Paysant J, André JM.

Author information:
(1)Centre de médecine physique et de réadaptation, institut régional de médecine 
physique et de réadaptation, Lay-Saint-Christophe, France. 
jeanmarie.beis@irr.u-nancy.fr

OBJECTIVES: Retrospective analysis of the efficiency of a protocol for care of 
chronic vegetative states (CVS) and minimally conscious state (MCS) in Lorraine.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Two indicators are used: protocol activity (number of 
patients hospitalized between 1988 and 2006, number of admissions per year, of 
requests per year, origin of requests, waiting time) and the epidemiological 
data (age, sex ratio, etiology, length of stay, geographic origin, number of 
deaths, number of hospital discharges). The number of CVS and MCS and patients 
having progressed towards arousal is specified as well as the technical 
procedures (orthopedic surgery, number of tracheotomies).
RESULTS: Forty-seven patients (30 males and 17 females) were hospitalized in a 
12-bed unit. The number of admissions per year was 2.4, and the annual number of 
requests varied between five and 15. Hospitalization times ranged from six to 18 
months. The average length of hospitalization was 41 months. Eighty-eight 
percent of the cases were residents of Lorraine. The etiology was traumatic 
(53%), vascular (38% including 12% anoxia), miscellaneous (9%). Fifteen percent 
rate of return to arousal (average time period: 28.41 months, traumatic 
etiology) with hospital discharge in four cases.
CONCLUSION: The protocol is managed as part of a local scheme and enables an 
appropriate response to a specific clinical profile by providing up-to-date 
multidiscipline follow-up care and a rapid solution should intercurrent events 
occur (signs of arousal, orthopedic deterioration, change of environment). 
Typical limitations are geographical remoteness and difficulties with family 
support care.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rehab.2009.05.003
PMID: 19541559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Am J Epidemiol. 2009 Jul 15;170(2):229-36. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwp150. Epub
2009  Jun 18.

Life-years gained among US adults from modern treatments and changes in the 
prevalence of 6 coronary heart disease risk factors between 1980 and 2000.

Capewell S(1), Hayes DK, Ford ES, Critchley JA, Croft JB, Greenlund KJ, Labarthe 
DR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health, University of Liverpool, Liverpool,United 
Kingdom.capewell@liverpool.ac.uk

Has the recent US decline in coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality increased 
life expectancy? The authors estimated the number of life-years gained from CHD 
treatments and changes in the prevalence of cardiovascular disease risk factors 
for the US population between 1980 and 2000. The previously validated IMPACT 
model was used to integrate data on numbers of CHD patients, treatment uptake, 
treatment effectiveness, population risk factor trends, and median survival 
among US adults. There were 308,900 fewer CHD deaths in 2000 among Americans 
aged 25-84 years than if 1980 mortality rates had applied. These 308,900 fewer 
deaths represented approximately 3,147,800 life-years gained (sensitivity 
analysis range, 2,448,900-3,744,900). Treatments for patients accounted for 
approximately 1,092,400 (751,700-1,387,000) life-years gained, whereas changes 
in the prevalence of population risk factors accounted for a gain of 2,055,500 
(1,697,200-2,346,300) life-years. However, the 2,770,500 life-years gained 
through decreased levels of smoking, cholesterol, blood pressure, and physical 
inactivity were diminished by a loss of 715,000 life-years attributable to 
increased rates of obesity and diabetes. Therefore, modest reductions in the 
prevalence of several major cardiovascular disease risk factors accounted for 
more than twice as many life-years gained as did treatments. Unfortunately, 
these gains were partially offset by substantial increases in obesity and 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwp150
PMID: 19541856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Diabetes Care. 2009 Sep;32(9):1632-8. doi: 10.2337/dc09-0670. Epub 2009 Jun
19.

Impact of a natural disaster on diabetes: exacerbation of disparities and 
long-term consequences.

Fonseca VA(1), Smith H, Kuhadiya N, Leger SM, Yau CL, Reynolds K, Shi L, 
McDuffie RH, Thethi T, John-Kalarickal J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, USA. vfonseca@tulane.edu

OBJECTIVE: To examine the impact of Hurricane Katrina on the health of 
individuals with diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This was an observational study in 1,795 adults 
with an A1C measurement 6 months before and 6-16 months after Hurricane Katrina 
in three health care systems: private (Tulane University Hospital and Clinic 
[TUHC]), state (Medical Center of Louisiana at New Orleans [MCLNO]), and 
Veterans Affairs (VA). Glycemic control (A1C), blood pressure, and lipids before 
the hurricane were compared with the patients' first measurement thereafter. The 
CORE Diabetes Model was used to project life expectancy and health economic 
impact.
RESULTS: Mean predisaster A1C levels differed between MCLNO and VA patients 
(mean 7.7 vs. 7.3%, P < 0.001) and increased significantly among MCLNO patients 
to 8.3% (P < 0.001) but not among VA and TUHC patients. Mean systolic blood 
pressure increased in all three systems (130-137.6 mmHg for TUHC and 130.7-143.7 
for VA, P < 0.001; 132-136 for MCLNO, P = 0.008). Mean LDL cholesterol increased 
in the VA (97.1-104.3 mg/dl) and TUHC patients (103.4-115.5; P < 0.001). 
Hurricane Katrina increased modeled direct, indirect, and total health care 
costs and also reduced life expectancy as well as quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, with the economic impact being quite substantial because of the 
large population size affected. We estimate a lifetime cost of USD $504 million 
for the adult population affected, with the largest economic impact seen among 
MCLNO patients.
CONCLUSIONS: A major disaster had a significant effect on diabetes management 
and exacerbated existing disparities. These effects may have a lasting impact on 
both health and economic implications.

DOI: 10.2337/dc09-0670
PMCID: PMC2732170
PMID: 19542210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. Med Decis Making. 2009 Nov-Dec;29(6):690-706. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09336143.
 Epub 2009 Jun 19.

Evaluating the claim of enhanced persistence: the case of osteoporosis and 
implications for payers.

Kelton CM(1), Pasquale MK.

Author information:
(1)College of Business, University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, 90 West Daniels, 
Cincinnati, OH 45221-0223, USA. chris.kelton@uc.edu

Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) has been widely used in evaluating treatments 
for osteoporosis. To study the claim of enhanced persistence, this research 
determined the effects of persistence (the proportion of individuals who remain 
on treatment) and efficacy on incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for 
bisphosphonate treatment relative to no bisphosphonate treatment in the United 
States. For 2 age groups, 55 to 59 and 75 to 79, the authors relied on published 
fracture rates and applied them to 1000 postmenopausal osteoporotic patients 
with bone mineral density (BMD) T score < or = -2.5 during 3 years of treatment. 
After developing an algebraic ICER, with effectiveness measured by either 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained or number of fractures averted, they 
determined the effects of persistence and efficacy and then calibrated the model 
to variable estimates from the literature. For the younger (older) cohort, the 
cost per fracture averted was $66,606 ($18,256), consistent with a validated 
Markov simulation model. The effect of a 1 percentage point change in vertebral 
efficacy was 24 (5) times the effect of a 1 percentage point change in 
persistence for the younger cohort when QALYs (fractures) were involved. 
Nonvertebral efficacy had approximately 27 (9) times the effect of persistence. 
For the older cohort, the ratios were 15 (4.5) and 33 (10) for vertebral and 
nonvertebral fractures, respectively. In evaluating the claim of enhanced 
persistence, formulary decision makers need to exercise caution to ensure that 
efficacy is not compromised. Two drugs would have to be virtually identical in 
efficacy for better persistence to improve cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09336143
PMID: 19542361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Ann Oncol. 2009 Jul;20(7):1163-9. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdp048.

Palliative sedation therapy does not hasten death: results from a prospective 
multicenter study.

Maltoni M(1), Pittureri C, Scarpi E, Piccinini L, Martini F, Turci P, Montanari 
L, Nanni O, Amadori D.

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care Unit, Valerio Grassi Hospice, Forlimpopoli, Italy. 
ma.maltoni@ausl.fo.it

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 2009 Jul;20(7):1153-5.

BACKGROUND: Palliative sedation therapy (PST) is indicated for and used to 
control refractory symptoms in cancer patients undergoing palliative care. We 
aimed to evaluate whether PST has a detrimental effect on survival in terminally 
ill patients.
METHODS: This multicenter, observational, prospective, nonrandomized 
population-based study evaluated overall survival in two cohorts of hospice 
patients, one submitted to palliative sedation (A) and the other managed as per 
routine hospice practice (B). Cohorts were matched for age class, gender, reason 
for hospice admission, and Karnofsky performance status.
RESULTS: Of the 518 patients enrolled, 267 formed cohort A and 251 cohort B. In 
total, 25.1% of patients admitted to the participating hospices received PST. 
Mean and median duration of sedation was 4 (standard deviation 6.0) and 2 days 
(range 0-43), respectively. Median survival of arm A was 12 days [90% confidence 
interval (CI) 10-14], while that of arm B was 9 days (90% CI 8-10) (log rank = 
0.95, P = 0.330) (unadjusted hazard ratio = 0.92, 90% CI 0.80-1.06).
CONCLUSION: PST does not shorten life when used to relieve refractory symptoms 
and does not need the doctrine of double effect to justify its use from an 
ethical point of view.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdp048
PMID: 19542532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Transplantation. 2009 Jun 27;87(12):1830-6. doi:
10.1097/TP.0b013e3181a6b4ff.

Renal transplant from very old donors: how far can we go?

Collini A(1), Kalmar P, Dhamo A, Ruggieri G, Carmellini M.

Author information:
(1)UOC Chirurgia dei Trapianti, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Senese, V.le 
Bracci, Siena, Italy. collini@unisi.it

BACKGROUND: The organ shortage has led many transplant centers to accept kidneys 
from old, suboptimal deceased donors, and make increasing use of old-for-old 
allocation systems. We report the experience of an Italian transplant center in 
the utilization of "ultra-old" (>75 years old) donors.
METHODS: Sixty grafts from donors aged 75 years or older (mean age 79.1 years, 
range 75-90 years) were used for 38 patients: 16 as single and 22 as double 
transplants.
RESULTS: The actuarial graft survival rate was 73.7% for year 1, 69.8% for year 
2, and 64.0% for year 3. The patient survival rate was 81.2% and remained stable 
for years 1, 2, and 3. The delayed graft function rate was 57.9%. Acute 
rejection and chronic allograft nephropathy rates were comparable with our other 
expanded criteria donors. The majority of the patients had stable creatinine 
levels, between 2 and 3 mg/mL after the second month, with sufficient creatinine 
clearance.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results seems encouraging with patient and graft survival 
rates, complication rates, and renal function parameters being slightly worse 
than in expanded criteria donors, but still generally acceptable. The use of old 
kidneys in old recipients, bearing in mind their usual life expectancy, gives 
them a properly functioning kidney and improved quality of life.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181a6b4ff
PMID: 19543060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Sex Transm Dis. 2009 Aug;36(8):515-21. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e3181a74c2c.

Cost of treatment and QALYs lost due to genital warts: data for the economic 
evaluation of HPV vaccines in the United Kingdom.
