
All-cause mortality in Tianjin, China, 1999-2004.

Wang X(1), Jiang G, Wang D, Pan Y, Boulton M.

Author information:
(1)Tianjin Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, He Dong District, Tianjin 
300011, China. wjsttigo@126.com

INTRODUCTION: We analyzed trends of major causes of death in Tianjin, China, 
from 1999 through 2004 to better inform disease prevention and control programs 
and policies.
METHODS: To report all-cause deaths among Tianjin residents from 1999 through 
2004, we standardized mortality rates to the world population in 2000. We 
analyzed age, sex, and geographic distribution of deaths from different causes 
and the leading causes of death in Tianjin.
RESULTS: The 5 leading causes of death in Tianjin were cardiovascular disease, 
cerebrovascular disease, malignant neoplasm, chronic lower respiratory disease, 
and injuries and poisoning. Mortality in Tianjin declined from 0.60% in 1999 to 
0.48% in 2004. Noncommunicable diseases accounted for more than 80% of all 
deaths. Infant and maternal mortality in Tianjin were low. Life expectancy of 
Tianjin residents increased every year but was consistently longer in women. 
When deaths from the main chronic diseases are not considered, life expectancy 
lengthens substantially.
CONCLUSION: Chronic diseases are the leading cause of death in Tianjin, China. 
China should commit additional resources to supporting chronic disease 
prevention and control programs, including proven special health promotion 
projects.

PMCID: PMC2774646
PMID: 19755008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Z Rheumatol. 2009 Dec;68(10):836-41. doi: 10.1007/s00393-009-0506-7.

[Health-economic assessment of combination therapy for rheumatoid arthritis with 
methotrexat and etanercept based on the TEMPO Study].

[Article in German]

Schulze-Koops H(1), Deeg M, Runge C, Volmer T, Brecht JG.

Author information:
(1)Rheumaeinheit, Klinikum der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München, 
Pettenkoferstr. 8a, 80336, München, Deutschland. 
hendrik.schulze-koops@med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: The TEMPO study has shown that the combination of etanercept and 
methotrexat (MTX) in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is superior to 
monotherapy. It further suggested that remission of RA is a realistic treatment 
objective. A health-economic assessment of the combination needs to demonstrate 
the suitability of the combination for daily clinical practice taking economic 
aspects into consideration.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: For the 686 patients in the TEMPO study, a re-analysis was 
carried out in the form of a Monte-Carlo-Markov-Chain simulation. Study types 
were cost-effectiveness analysis and cost-utility analysis. Comparators were 
combined etanercept and MTX vs. MTX alone; the perspective was that of society 
as a whole.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the combination is 
<euro>21,300 per life year in remission as compared with MTX alone. The 
incremental cost-utility ratio of the combination is <euro>38,700 per 
quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: Both health-economic parameters suggest to adopt the combination 
therapy into daily clinical practice of RA patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-009-0506-7
PMID: 19756664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Pflugers Arch. 2010 Jan;459(2):315-24. doi: 10.1007/s00424-009-0727-2. Epub
2009  Sep 12.

Cardiovascular determinants of life span.

Shi Y(1), Camici GG, Lüscher TF.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Research, Institute of Physiology, and Center for Integrative 
Human Physiology (ZIHP), University of Zürich, Zürich, Switzerland.

The prevalence of cardiovascular diseases rises with aging and is one of the 
main causes of mortality in western countries. In view of the progressively 
aging population, there is an urge for a better understanding of age-associated 
cardiovascular diseases and its underlying molecular mechanisms. The risk 
factors for cardiovascular diseases include unhealthy diet, diabetes, obesity, 
smoking, alcohol consumption, physical inactivity, and aging. Increased 
production of oxygen-derived free radicals plays an important role in mediating 
cardiovascular diseases. Oxidative stress affects the availability and/or 
balance of key-regulators of vascular homeostasis and favors the development of 
cardiovascular diseases. Reactive oxygen species are generated by different 
intracellular molecular pathways principally located in the cytoplasm and in the 
mitochondria. The mitochondrial protein p66Shc and the deacetylase enzyme SIRT1 
were shown to be involved in different aspects of cardiovascular diseases. This 
review focuses on the latest scientific advances in understanding cardiovascular 
diseases associated to aging, as well as delineating the possible therapeutic 
implications of p66Shc and SIRT 1 in this process.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-009-0727-2
PMID: 19756718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Pflugers Arch. 2010 Jan;459(2):277-89. doi: 10.1007/s00424-009-0724-5. Epub
2009  Sep 11.

Mitochondrial function as a determinant of life span.

Lanza IR(1), Nair KS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Endocrinology Research Unit, Mayo Clinic College 
of Medicine, Rochester, MN, USA.

Average human life expectancy has progressively increased over many decades 
largely due to improvements in nutrition, vaccination, antimicrobial agents, and 
effective treatment/prevention of cardiovascular disease, cancer, etc. Maximal 
life span, in contrast, has changed very little. Caloric restriction (CR) 
increases maximal life span in many species, in concert with improvements in 
mitochondrial function. These effects have yet to be demonstrated in humans, and 
the duration and level of CR required to extend life span in animals is not 
realistic in humans. Physical activity (voluntary exercise) continues to hold 
much promise for increasing healthy life expectancy in humans, but remains to 
show any impact to increase maximal life span. However, longevity in 
Caenorhabditis elegans is related to activity levels, possibly through 
maintenance of mitochondrial function throughout the life span. In humans, we 
reported a progressive decline in muscle mitochondrial DNA abundance and protein 
synthesis with age. Other investigators also noted age-related declines in 
muscle mitochondrial function, which are related to peak oxygen uptake. 
Long-term aerobic exercise largely prevented age-related declines in 
mitochondrial DNA abundance and function in humans and may increase spontaneous 
activity levels in mice. Notwithstanding, the impact of aerobic exercise and 
activity levels on maximal life span is uncertain. It is proposed that 
age-related declines in mitochondrial content and function not only affect 
physical function, but also play a major role in regulation of life span. 
Regular aerobic exercise and prevention of adiposity by healthy diet may 
increase healthy life expectancy and prolong life span through beneficial 
effects at the level of the mitochondrion.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-009-0724-5
PMCID: PMC2801852
PMID: 19756719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Pflugers Arch. 2010 Jan;459(2):301-14. doi: 10.1007/s00424-009-0721-8. Epub
2009  Sep 13.

Insulin signaling and life span.

Avogaro A(1), de Kreutzenberg SV, Fadini GP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Padova, Via 
Giustiniani 2, 35128 Padova, Italy. angelo.avogaro@unipd.it

Hyperinsulinemia and metabolic diseases are known to be associated with a 
reduction in life span. In the presence of insulin resistance, insulin signaling 
is selectively impaired, contributing to longevity shortening. Insulin indeed 
activates a complex web of intracellular downstream pathways, which are involved 
in mechanisms regulating longevity, primarily affecting cellular proliferation 
and apoptosis. Insulin resistance promotes reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
formation and favors a pro-inflammatory milieu, both these conditions playing a 
critical role in the reduction of life span. Insulin resistance/hyperinsulinemia 
also influences longevity regulating other intracellular signaling downstream in 
a direct or indirect manner, such as the phosphoinositide 3-kinase pathway that 
appears selectively impaired by insulin resistance. Decreased NAD-dependent 
deacetylase sirtuin (Sirt) 1 activity may mediate the shortened life span in 
conditions of insulin resistance. Furthermore, insulin resistance and diabetes 
may also associate with the telomere shortening, another important regulator of 
life span. This review will focus on the main intracellular pathways and 
mediators regulated by insulin and altered by hyperinsulinemia/insulin 
resistance; it summarizes the underlying mechanisms and provides evidence of 
these observations in experimental animal models and in human, giving further 
insight on the hypothesis that insulin signaling may play an important role in 
life span.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-009-0721-8
PMID: 19756720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Dec;24(12):1356; author reply 1357. doi: 
10.1007/s11606-009-1101-y.

Do new drugs save lives?

Lichtenberg FR.

Comment on
    J Gen Intern Med. 2009 May;24(5):678-82.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-009-1101-y
PMCID: PMC2787934
PMID: 19756872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(9):713-23. doi: 10.2165/11317060-000000000-00000.

Methods for measuring temporary health States for cost-utility analyses.

Wright DR(1), Wittenberg E, Swan JS, Miksad RA, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Preferences Working Group, Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School 
of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

A variety of methods are available to measure preferences for temporary health 
states for cost-utility analyses. The objectives of this review were to 
summarize the available temporary health-state valuation methods, identify 
advantages and disadvantages of each, and identify areas for future research. We 
describe the key aspects of each method and summarize advantages and 
disadvantages of each method in terms of consistency with QALY theory, relevance 
to temporary health-state-specific domains, ease of use, time preference, and 
performance in validation studies. Two broad categories of methods were 
identified: traditional and adapted. Traditional methods were health status 
instruments, time trade-off (TTO), and the standard gamble (SG). Methods adapted 
specifically for temporary health-state valuation were TTO with specified 
duration of the health state, TTO with a lifespan modification, waiting 
trade-off, chained approaches for TTO and SG, and sleep trade-off. Advantages 
and disadvantages vary by method and no 'gold standard' method emerged. 
Selection of a method to value temporary health states will depend on the 
relative importance of the following considerations: ability to accurately 
capture the unique characteristics of the temporary health state, level of 
respondent burden and cognition, theoretical consistency of elicited preference 
values with the overall purpose of the study, and resources available for study 
development and data collection. Further research should focus on evaluating 
validity, reliability and feasibility of temporary health-state valuation 
methods.

DOI: 10.2165/11317060-000000000-00000
PMID: 19757865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Sep;1173:822-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04669.x.

Predictors of damage progression in Portuguese patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus.

Santos MJ(1), Vinagre F, Nero P, Barcelos F, Barcelos A, Rodrigues AM, de Matos 
AA, Silva C, Miranda L, Capela S, Marques A, Branco J, da Silva JC.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department, Hospital Garcia de Orta, Almada, Portugal. 
mjps@netvisao.pt

Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have a longer life expectancy. 
The occurrence of irreversible damage has become a major concern. The present 
study assessed damage progression in patients with SLE over a 2-year period and 
identified baseline features associated with damage accrual. Two hundred and 
twenty-one patients that fulfilled criteria for SLE and had a follow-up longer 
than 6 months were enrolled. Demographic, clinical, and immunological data were 
collected at baseline. Accumulated organ damage was scored using the Systemic 
Lupus International Collaborating Clinics/American College of Rheumatology 
damage index (SDI). Patients were prospectively followed and SDI assessment 
repeated at 2 years. At baseline 72 patients (33%) presented some irreversible 
damage, and after 2 years 53 had accrued new damage. The mean SDI for the whole 
cohort increased from 0.582 to 0.980. Damage progression was higher in ocular, 
cardiovascular, and musculoskeletal systems. Older age [OR = 1.045; 95% 
confidence interval (CI) 1.021-1.069; P = 0.03], presence of antiphospholipid 
antibodies (OR = 3.047; 95% CI 1.169-7.941; P = 0.02), steroid use (OR = 6.401; 
95% CI 1.601-25.210; P = 0.008), azathioprine use (OR = 3.501; CI 1.224-10.012; 
P = 0.01), and hypertension (OR = 3.825; 95% CI 1.490-9.820; P = 0.005) were 
predictors of damage progression in multivariate analysis. Overall SDI increased 
over time, with some systems being affected more frequently. Demographic and 
clinical characteristics, co-morbidity, and treatment options may contribute to 
irreversible damage. It is necessary to determine whether the control of 
modifiable factors (e.g., hypertension and judicious use of medications) might 
prevent damage progression in SLE patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04669.x
PMID: 19758234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Public Health Nutr. 2010 Apr;13(4):566-78. doi: 10.1017/S1368980009991418.
Epub  2009 Sep 17.

Cost-effectiveness of mandatory folate fortification v. other options for the 
prevention of neural tube defects: results from Australia and New Zealand.

Dalziel K(1), Segal L, Katz R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Division of Health Sciences, University of South Australia, 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Kim.Dalziel@unisa.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To provide input to Australian and New Zealand government decision 
making regarding an optimal strategy to reduce the rate of neural tube defects 
(NTD).
DESIGN: Standard comparative health economic evaluation techniques were employed 
for a set of intervention options for promoting folate/folic acid consumption in 
women capable of or planning a pregnancy. Evidence of effectiveness was informed 
by the international literature and costs were derived for Australia and New 
Zealand.
RESULTS: Population-wide campaigns to promote supplement use and mandatory 
fortification were the most effective at reducing NTD, at an estimated 36 and 31 
fewer cases per annum respectively for Australia and New Zealand, representing 
an 8 % reduction in the current annual NTD rate. Population-wide and targeted 
approaches to increase supplement use were cost-effective, at less than $AU 
12,500 per disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted ($US 9893, pound 5074), 
as was extending voluntary fortification. Mandatory fortification was not 
cost-effective for New Zealand at $AU 138,500 per DALY ($US 109 609, pound 
56,216), with results uncertain for Australia, given widely varying cost 
estimates. Promoting a folate-rich diet was least cost-effective, with benefits 
restricted to impact on NTD.
CONCLUSIONS: Several options for reducing NTD appear to fall well within 
accepted societal cost-effectiveness norms. All estimates are subject to 
considerable uncertainty, exacerbated by possible interactions between 
interventions, including impacts on currently effective strategies. The 
Australian and New Zealand governments have decided to proceed with mandatory 
fortification; it is hoped they will support a rigorous evaluation which will 
contribute to the evidence base.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980009991418
PMID: 19758481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):336-9. doi: 10.1038/461336a.

Health economics: Life in the balance.

Cressey D.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):35.

DOI: 10.1038/461336a
PMID: 19759594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2009 Oct;30(5):503. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1238908.
 Epub 2009 Sep 16.

Cystic fibrosis.

McArdle JR(1), Whittaker LA.

Author information:
(1)Section of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut 06520-8057, USA. john.mcardle@yale.edu

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1238908
PMID: 19760537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Comp Neurol. 2009 Nov 20;517(3):333-49. doi: 10.1002/cne.22153.

Effects of developmental age, brain region, and time in culture on long-term 
proliferation and multipotency of neural stem cell populations.

Gritti A(1), Dal Molin M, Foroni C, Bonfanti L.

Author information:
(1)San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Telethon Institute for Gene Therapy 
(HSR-TIGET), Milan 20132, Italy. gritti.angela@hsr.it

Neural stem cells (NSCs) in the murine subventricular zone (SVZ) niche allow 
life-long neurogenesis. During the first postnatal month and throughout aging, 
the decrease of neuroblasts and the rise of astrocytes results in diminished 
neurogenesis and increased astrocyte:neuron ratio. Also, a different neurogenic 
activity characterizes the SVZ periventricular region (LV, lateral ventricle) as 
compared to its rostral extension (RE). In order to investigate whether and to 
what extent these physiological modifications may be ascribed to intrinsic 
changes of the endogenous NSC/progenitor features, we performed a functional 
analysis on NSCs isolated and cultured from LV and RE tissues at distinct 
postnatal stages that are marked by striking modifications to the SVZ niche in 
vivo. We evaluated the effect of age and brain region on long-term proliferation 
and multipotency, and characterized the cell type composition of NSC-derived 
progeny, comparing this make-up to that of region- and age-matched primary 
neural cultures. Furthermore, we analyzed the effect of prolonged in vitro 
expansion on NSC functional properties. We documented age- and region-dependent 
differences on the clonogenic efficiency and on the long-term proliferative 
capacity of NSCs. Also, we found age- and region-dependent quantitative changes 
in the cell composition of NSC progeny (decreased quantity of neurons and 
oligodendrocytes; increased amount of astroglial cells) and these differences 
were maintained in long-term cultured NSC populations. Overall, these data 
strengthen the hypothesis that age- and region-dependent differences in 
neurogenesis (observed in vivo) may be ascribed to the changes in the intrinsic 
developmental program of the NSC populations.

DOI: 10.1002/cne.22153
PMID: 19760739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Natl Med J India. 2009 Jan-Feb;22(1):40-1.

The heat targets.

Kohli HS.

PMID: 19761162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Transfusion. 2010 Jan;50(1):240-2. doi: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2009.02374.x.
Epub  2009 Sep 16.

Expensive blood safety initiatives may offer less benefit than we think.

Kamper-Jørgensen M(1), Hjalgrim H, Edgren G, Titlestad K, Ullum H, Shanwell A, 
Reilly M, Melbye M, Nyrén O, Rostgaard K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology Research, Statens Serum Institut, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. mka@ssi.dk

BACKGROUND: Various blood safety initiatives have ensured a historically low 
risk of infection transmission through blood transfusion. Although further 
prevention of infection transmission is possible through, for example, nucleic 
acid testing and future introduction of pathogen inactivation, such initiatives 
are very costly in relation to the benefit they offer. Although estimation of 
the cost-effectiveness requires detailed information about the survival of 
transfusion recipients, previous cost-effectiveness analyses have relied on 
incorrect survival assumptions.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Based on empirical data of more than 1 million 
Scandinavian transfusion recipients followed for up to 20 years, we present two 
new survival functions. In a fictitious example we assessed the impact of 
survival assumptions on the estimated costs per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained, by using the survival functions of three previous 
cost-effectiveness analyses along with the two new survival functions.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that despite considerable costs, previous 
cost-effectiveness studies may have underestimated the costs per QALY gained by 
as much as 44%.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1537-2995.2009.02374.x
PMID: 19761551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Rev Calid Asist. 2009 Nov-Dec;24(6):256-62. doi: 10.1016/j.cali.2009.04.002.
 Epub 2009 Sep 3.

[A web information system for enhancing management and improving special care 
services provided to dependent persons].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvarez-Bermejo JA(1), Hernández-Capel DM, Belmonte-Ureña LJ, Roca-Piera J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Arquitectura de Computadores y Electrónica, Universidad de 
Almería, Almería, España. jaberme@ual.es

OBJECTIVE: Ensuring the quality of services provided in centres where dependent 
persons are seen by specialist services, by improving and enhancing how 
information -salary, control of tasks, patients' records, etc.- is shared 
between staff and carers. A web information system has been developed and 
experimentally deployed to accomplish this.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The accuracy of the system was evaluated by assessing how 
confident the employees were with it rather than relying on statistical data. It 
was experimentally deployed since January 2009 in Asociación de Personas con 
Discapacidad "El Saliente" that manages several day centres in Almeria, for 
dependent persons over 65 years old, particularly those affected by Alzheimer' 
disease. Incidence data was collected during the experimental period.
RESULTS: A total of 84% of the employees thought that the system helped to 
manage documents, administrative duties, etc., and 92.4% said they could attend 
to really important tasks because the system was responsible for alerting them 
of every task, such as medication timetables, checking all patients were present 
(to prevent an Alzheimer affected person leaving the centre) etc. During this 
period the incidences reported were reduced by about a 30%, although data is 
still partially representative.
CONCLUSIONS: As the life expectancy of the population gets longer, these centres 
will increase. Providing systems such as the one presented here would be of 
great help for administrative duties (sensitive data protection...) as well as 
ensuring high quality care and attention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cali.2009.04.002
PMID: 19761746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Bodyw Mov Ther. 2009 Oct;13(4):328-35. doi: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2008.04.040.
Epub  2008 Jul 10.

Interdisciplinary palliative care, including massage, in treatment of 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Blatzheim K(1).

Author information:
(1)Meridians-A Center for the Healing Arts, 321 Main Street, Gaithersburg, MD 
20878, USA. kendrablatzheim@comcast.ne

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive fatal neurological disease 
that affects approximately 20,000 Americans. Symptoms include muscle weakness, 
fatigue, twitching, atrophy, spasticity, pain, oropharyngeal dysfunction, 
pseudobulbar affect, weight loss, and respiratory impairment. Death occurs 
within 3-5 yr after onset of symptoms, with diagnosis taking from 11 to 17.5 
months. The only FDA-approved drug for ALS is Riluzole, which only increases the 
life expectancy by a few months. All other treatments for ALS provide symptom 
management to improve the patient's quality of life. An interdisciplinary 
palliative care team for the ALS patient helps to reduce the stress that the 
illness places on families. Massage can be a useful adjunctive treatment for 
spasticity and pain when medication side effects are unwanted. A holistic 
interdisciplinary palliative care team supports both the patient and the family 
improving their quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbmt.2008.04.040
PMID: 19761955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. BMJ. 2009 Sep 16;339:b3513. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3513.

Life expectancy in relation to cardiovascular risk factors: 38 year follow-up of 
19,000 men in the Whitehall study.

Clarke R(1), Emberson J, Fletcher A, Breeze E, Marmot M, Shipley MJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit (CTSU), Richard 
Doll Building, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 7LF. robert.clarke@ctsu.ox.ac.uk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2009;339:b5099.

OBJECTIVE: To assess life expectancy in relation to cardiovascular risk factors 
recorded in middle age.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Men employed in the civil service in London, England.
PARTICIPANTS: 18 863 men examined at entry in 1967-70 and followed for 38 years, 
of whom 13,501 died and 4811 were re-examined in 1997.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy estimated in relation to fifths and 
dichotomous categories of risk factors (smoking, "low" or "high" blood pressure 
(>or=140 mm Hg), and "low" or "high" cholesterol (>or=5 mmol/l)), and a risk 
score from these risk factors.
RESULTS: At entry, 42% of the men were current smokers, 39% had high blood 
pressure, and 51% had high cholesterol. At the re-examination, about two thirds 
of the previously "current" smokers had quit smoking shortly after entry and the 
mean differences in levels of those with high and low levels of blood pressure 
and cholesterol were attenuated by two thirds. Compared with men without any 
baseline risk factors, the presence of all three risk factors at entry was 
associated with a 10 year shorter life expectancy from age 50 (23.7 v 33.3 
years). Compared with men in the lowest 5% of a risk score based on smoking, 
diabetes, employment grade, and continuous levels of blood pressure, cholesterol 
concentration, and body mass index (BMI), men in the highest 5% had a 15 year 
shorter life expectancy from age 50 (20.2 v 35.4 years).
CONCLUSION: Despite substantial changes in these risk factors over time, 
baseline differences in risk factors were associated with 10 to 15 year shorter 
life expectancy from age 50.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3513
PMCID: PMC2746269
PMID: 19762417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


493. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2009 Oct;20(10):2205-13. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2008111144. Epub
 2009 Sep 17.

Cost-effectiveness of aliskiren in type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and 
albuminuria.

Delea TE(1), Sofrygin O, Palmer JL, Lau H, Munk VC, Sung J, Charney A, Parving 
HH, Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis, Inc, Brookline, Massachusetts 02445, USA. tdelea@pai2.com

The Aliskiren in the Evaluation of Proteinuria in Diabetes (AVOID) trial 
demonstrated that adding aliskiren, an oral direct renin inhibitor, at a dosage 
of 300 mg/d to the highest approved dosage of losartan and optimal 
antihypertensive therapy reduces albuminuria over 6 mo among patients with type 
2 diabetes, hypertension, and albuminuria. The cost-effectiveness of this 
therapy, however, is unknown. Here, we used a Markov model to project 
progression to ESRD, life years, quality-adjusted life years, and lifetime costs 
for aliskiren plus losartan versus losartan. We used data from the AVOID study 
and the Irbesartan in Diabetic Nephropathy Trial (IDNT) to estimate 
probabilities of progression of renal disease. We estimated probabilities of 
mortality for ESRD and other comorbidities using data from the US Renal Data 
System, US Vital Statistics, and published studies. We based pharmacy costs on 
wholesale acquisition costs and based costs of ESRD and transplantation on data 
from the US Renal Data System. We found that adding aliskiren to losartan 
increased time free of ESRD, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy by 0.1772, 0.1021, and 0.0967 yr, respectively. Total expected 
lifetime health care costs increased by $2952, reflecting the higher pharmacy 
costs of aliskiren and losartan ($7769), which were partially offset by savings 
in costs of ESRD ($4860). We estimated the cost-effectiveness of aliskiren to be 
$30,500 per quality-adjusted life year gained. In conclusion, adding aliskiren 
to losartan and optimal therapy in patients with type 2 diabetes, hypertension, 
and albuminuria may be cost-effective from a US health care system perspective.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2008111144
PMCID: PMC2754109
PMID: 19762496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Am J Public Health. 2009 Nov;99(11):2096-101. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.172627.
 Epub 2009 Sep 17.

The benefits of risk factor prevention in Americans aged 51 years and older.

Goldman DP(1), Zheng Y, Girosi F, Michaud PC, Olshansky SJ, Cutler D, Rowe JW.

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation, 1776 Main St, Santa Monica, CA 90407-2138, USA. 
dgoldman@rand.org

OBJECTIVES: We assessed the potential health and economic benefits of reducing 
common risk factors in older Americans.
METHODS: A dynamic simulation model tracked a national cohort of persons 51 and 
52 years of age to project their health and medical spending in prevention 
scenarios for diabetes, hypertension, obesity, and smoking.
RESULTS: The gain in life span from successful treatment of a person aged 51 or 
52 years for obesity would be 0.85 years; for hypertension, 2.05 years; and for 
diabetes, 3.17 years. A 51- or 52-year-old person who quit smoking would gain 
3.44 years. Despite living longer, those successfully treated for obesity, 
hypertension, or diabetes would have lower lifetime medical spending, exclusive 
of prevention costs. Smoking cessation would lead to increased lifetime 
spending. We used traditional valuations for a life-year to calculate that 
successful treatments would be worth, per capita, $198,018 (diabetes), $137,964 
(hypertension), $118,946 (smoking), and $51,750 (obesity).
CONCLUSIONS: Effective prevention could substantially improve the health of 
older Americans, and--despite increases in longevity--such benefits could be 
achieved with little or no additional lifetime medical spending.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.172627
PMCID: PMC2759785
PMID: 19762651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Pflugers Arch. 2010 Jan;459(2):239-46. doi: 10.1007/s00424-009-0726-3. Epub
2009  Sep 11.

Gene variants as determinants of longevity: focus on the inflammatory factors.

Jylhävä J(1), Hurme M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Medical School, University of 
Tampere, Biokatu 6, Finn Medi-1, 33520 Tampere, Finland. juulia.jylhava@uta.fi

Human longevity is an extremely complex trait with various genetic, epigenetic 
and environmental factors acting upon the longevity phenotype. It is now 
becoming evident that whilst the genetic differences contribute only modestly to 
life expectancy before the age of 60 years, their impact on survival becomes 
more prominent at the extreme ages. Several longevity gene candidates have 
emerged during the past decade; the majority of them are related either to 
inflammatory functions, stress response or to lipid and glucose metabolism. The 
variants of inflammatory and immune response genes are of special interest since 
advancing ages is accompanied by a decline in several immune functions--a 
phenomenon called immunosenescence. Paradoxically, ageing is also characterised 
by chronic low-grade inflammation termed "inflammaging", which manifests as a 
two- to fourfold increase in the production of proinflammatory cytokines and 
acute phase proteins. These contrasting phenomena provide a functional rationale 
of how the genetic differences in inflammatory mediators may modify the life 
span of the elderly. Besides describing the pre-existing inflammatory and 
immune-related longevity gene variants, in this review, we also explain some of 
the theoretical and practical challenges that genetic longevity studies often 
encounter.

DOI: 10.1007/s00424-009-0726-3
PMID: 19763607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Eur Spine J. 2010 Jul;19 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S124-9. doi: 
10.1007/s00586-009-1156-9. Epub 2009 Sep 10.

Spinal cord compression caused by idiopathic intradural arachnoid cysts of the 
spine: review of the literature and illustrated case.

Petridis AK(1), Doukas A, Barth H, Mehdorn HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Schleswig Holstein, Campus Kiel, 
Schittenhelmstr 10, 24105 Kiel, Germany. opticdisc@aol.de

Intradural spinal arachnoid cysts with cord compression are rare. When becoming 
symptomatic they cause variable symptoms involving gait disturbance, paraparesis 
or tetraparesis and neuropathic pain, decreasing significantly the patients' 
life quality. The extension of such cysts averages 3.7 vertebral bodies. The 
diagnosis is clinical and radiological with the use of MRI, CT myelography or a 
combination of both. The best treatment option is complete removal of the cyst. 
However, even when paresis is regressing there is no good recovery from 
neuropathic pain. Laminectomy approach can cause postoperative complications 
especially when the cyst(s) expand(s) in more than one level. Alternatively, a 
cyst fenestration can be performed, including the levels of the maximal spinal 
cord compression. The clinical outcome is as good as after the cyst resection 
enabling the patient to walk again. The neuropathic pain may persist and require 
medication. A clinical case is presented, and the literature is reviewed. In the 
present case we report a patient with intradural arachnoid cysts extending from 
T6 to L2 and causing severe gait ataxia as well as neuropathic pain and 
hypaesthesia. The spinal-cord was compressed at T8 and T12. Surgical treatment 
with partial cyst resection in the compressed levels with an interlaminar 
approach brought similar results as complete resection. The patient was able to 
walk without help which was not possible before surgery. The cysts' extension is 
impressive as well as the minimal operative procedure.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-009-1156-9
PMCID: PMC2899629
PMID: 19763637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Dec;24(12):1263-8. doi: 10.1007/s11606-009-1110-x.
Epub  2009 Sep 18.

Provider recommendations for colorectal cancer screening in elderly veterans.

Kahi CJ(1), van Ryn M, Juliar B, Stuart JS, Imperiale TF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Indiana 
University School of Medicine, 1481 W 10th street C-7055, Indianapolis, IN 
46202, USA. ckahi2@iupui.edu

BACKGROUND: Decisions regarding colorectal cancer (CRC) screening in the elderly 
depend on providers' assessment of likelihood of benefit partly based on patient 
comorbidity and past screening history. We aimed to describe providers' 
experiences and practice patterns regarding screening for CRC in elderly 
patients in the VA system.
METHODS AND PARTICIPANTS: A survey was sent to VA primary care providers who had 
previously participated in the CanCORS-sponsored Share Thoughts on Care study 
and at a VA medical center. The surveys consisted of clinical vignettes that 
varied by patient age (75, 80, or 85 years), comorbidity, and past CRC screening 
history.
MAIN RESULTS: Completed questionnaires were received from 183 of 351 providers 
(52%). Ninety-five percent of providers would recommend screening for a healthy 
75 year old compared to 66% and 39% for a healthy 80 and 85 year old, 
respectively (p-values < 0.0001). Providers were more likely to recommend 
screening for a 75 year old with moderate CHF versus severe CHF [61% versus 15%, 
OR 9.0 (95% CI 5.8-14.0), p < 0.0001] and more likely to recommend screening for 
an 80 year old with prior colonoscopy within the preceding 10 years, versus 5 
years [42% versus 23%, OR 2.6 (95% CI 1.9-3.5), p < 0.0001]. A substantial 
minority of respondents (range 15-21%) reported they would screen a 75 year old 
with an active malignancy, severe CHF, or severe COPD. Provider demographic 
characteristics were not significantly associated with the probability of a 
screening recommendation.
CONCLUSIONS: VA providers incorporate patient age, comorbidity, and past CRC 
screening history into CRC screening recommendations for elderly veterans; 
however, substantial proportions of these recommendations are inappropriate.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-009-1110-x
PMCID: PMC2787936
PMID: 19763698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Health Econ. 2010 Oct;19(10):1212-25. doi: 10.1002/hec.1546.

The cost-effectiveness of a law banning the use of cellular phones by drivers.

Sperber D(1), Shiell A, Fyie K.

Author information:
(1)Population Health Intervention Research Centre, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Canada. drsperbe@ucalgary.ca

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a law banning the use of cellular 
phones by drivers in the Canadian province of Alberta.
METHOD: Cost-effectiveness analysis using a probabilistic decision-analytic 
model and publicly available data. We adopted a societal perspective. Health 
gains were measured in terms of quality-adjusted life-years. Costs include those 
associated with awareness raising, enforcement and the welfare loss associated 
with the reduction in cellular phone use, less savings in health care and other 
costs associated with automobile accidents.
RESULTS: A ban promotes health and releases resources worth more than the costs. 
There is an 80% chance that a ban will be 'cost saving', and a 94% chance that a 
ban will cost less than Can$50,000/QALY. The results are sensitive to the 
additional risk posed by cellular phone use while driving, and the rate and 
pattern with which drivers comply with a ban.
CONCLUSION: Under our base line assumptions a cellular phone ban is likely to be 
cost saving from a societal perspective. The results are sensitive to parameters 
for which there is very little information or for which the available 
information is contradictory.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1546
PMID: 19764069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. Aging Cell. 2009 Dec;8(6):706-25. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00524.x.
Epub  2009 Sep 17.

Caenorhabditis elegans PI3K mutants reveal novel genes underlying exceptional 
stress resistance and lifespan.

Ayyadevara S(1), Tazearslan C, Bharill P, Alla R, Siegel E, Shmookler Reis RJ.

Author information:
(1)Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare Service, Little Rock, AR 72205, USA.

Two age-1 nonsense mutants, truncating the class-I phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase 
catalytic subunit (PI3K(CS)) before its kinase domain, confer extraordinary 
longevity and stress-resistance to Caenorhabditis elegans. These traits, unique 
to second-generation homozygotes, are blunted at the first generation and are 
largely reversed by additional mutations to DAF-16/FOXO, a transcription factor 
downstream of AGE-1 in insulin-like signaling. The strong age-1 alleles (mg44, 
m333) were compared with the weaker hx546 allele on expression microarrays, 
testing four independent cohorts of each allele. Among 276 genes with 
significantly differential expression, 92% showed fewer transcripts in adults 
carrying strong age-1 alleles rather than hx546. This proportion is 
significantly greater than the slight bias observed when contrasting age-1 
alleles to wild-type worms. Thus, transcriptional changes peculiar to nonsense 
alleles primarily involve either gene silencing or failure of transcriptional 
activation. A subset of genes responding preferentially to age-1-nonsense 
alleles was reassessed by real-time polymerase chain reaction, in worms bearing 
strong or weak age-1 alleles; nearly all of these were significantly more 
responsive to the age-1(mg44) allele than to age-1(hx546). Additional mutation 
of daf-16 reverted the majority of altered mg44-F2 expression levels to 
approximately wild-type values, although a substantial number of genes remained 
significantly distinct from wild-type, implying that age-1(mg44) modulates 
transcription through both DAF-16/FOXO-dependent and -independent channels. When 
age-1-inhibited genes were targeted by RNA interference (RNAi) in wild-type or 
age-1(hx546) adults, most conferred significant oxidative-stress protection. 
RNAi constructs targeting two of those genes were shown previously to extend 
life, and RNAi's targeting five novel genes were found here to increase 
lifespan. PI3K-null mutants may thus implicate novel mechanisms of life 
extension.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00524.x
PMCID: PMC2917200
PMID: 19764929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Int J Stroke. 2009 Oct;4(5):340-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2009.00330.x.

Modelling the burden of stroke in Finland until 2030.

Sivenius J(1), Torppa J, Tuomilehto J, Immonen-Räihä P, Kaarisalo M, Sarti C, 
Kuulasmaa K, Mähönen M, Lehtonen A, Salomaa V.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital of Kuopio, Brain Research and Rehabilitation Center 
Neuron Kuopio, Finland.

BACKGROUND: It is well known that increasing age is the strongest risk factor of 
stroke. Therefore, it has been a common belief in many countries including 
Finland that the numbers of stroke patients will increase considerably during 
the next two decades because the population is rapidly ageing.
METHODS: The FINMONICA and FINSTROKE registers operated in Finland in the Kuopio 
area and city of Turku from 1983 to 1997. The results showed that the incidence, 
mortality and case fatality of stroke declined significantly during that period. 
Importantly, it was established that the trends in incidence and mortality were 
also declining among the elderly (>74 years). We used these results to create a 
model for the entire country. The model was based on the trends present in these 
registers from Turku and Kuopio area and age-specific population projections up 
to the year 2030 that were obtained from Statistics Finland.
RESULTS: In the year 2000, the number of new first stroke cases was estimated to 
be 11 500. If the declining trend were to level off totally after the year 2000, 
the number of new strokes would be 20 100 in the year 2030 due to the ageing of 
the population. It would be 12 100 if the trend continued as favourable as 
during the years 1983-1997.
CONCLUSIONS: Ageing of the population will not inevitably increase the burden of 
stroke in Finland if the present declining trends are maintained, but the annual 
number of cases will almost double if the incidence remains at the level of the 
year 2000.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2009.00330.x
PMID: 19765121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. BMC Public Health. 2009 Sep 18;9:352. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-352.

Determining a cost effective intervention response to HIV/AIDS in Peru.

Aldridge RW(1), Iglesias D, Cáceres CF, Miranda JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, University College London, 
London, UK. rob.aldridge@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The HIV epidemic in Peru is still regarded as concentrated -- 
sentinel surveillance data shows greatest rates of infection in men who have sex 
with men, while much lower rates are found in female sex workers and still lower 
in the general population. Without an appropriate set of preventive 
interventions, continuing infections could present a challenge to the 
sustainability of the present programme of universal access to treatment. 
Determining how specific prevention and care strategies would impact on the 
health of Peruvians should be key in reshaping the national response.
METHODS: HIV/AIDS prevalence levels for risk groups with sufficient sentinel 
survey data were estimated. Unit costs were calculated for a series of 
interventions against HIV/AIDS which were subsequently inputted into a model to 
assess their ability to reduce infection transmission rates. Interventions 
included: mass media, voluntary counselling and testing; peer counselling for 
female sex workers; peer counselling for men who have sex with men; peer 
education of youth in-school; condom provision; STI treatment; prevention of 
mother to child transmission; and highly active antiretroviral therapy. Impact 
was assessed by the ability to reduce rates of transmission and quantified in 
terms of cost per DALY averted.
RESULTS: Results of the analysis show that in Peru, the highest levels of HIV 
prevalence are found in men who have sex with men. Cost effectiveness varied 
greatly between interventions ranging from peer education of female commercial 
sex workers at $US 55 up to $US 5,928 (per DALY averted) for prevention of 
mother to child transmission.
CONCLUSION: The results of this work add evidence-based clarity as to which 
interventions warrant greatest consideration when planning an intervention 
response to HIV in Peru. Cost effectiveness analysis provides a necessary 
element of transparency when facing choices about priority setting, particularly 
when the country plans to amplify its response through new interventions partly 
funded by the GFATM.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-352
PMCID: PMC2761404
PMID: 19765304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Curr Gastroenterol Rep. 2009 Oct;11(5):406-12. doi:
10.1007/s11894-009-0061-z.

Advances in colorectal cancer screening.

Vu HT(1), Burke CA.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Digestive Disease Institute, Department of 
Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) remains the third most commonly diagnosed cancer and 
second leading cause of cancer death in the United States. Declines in CRC 
incidence and mortality over the past 20 years were attributed to CRC screening. 
Yet, only slightly more than half of the eligible at-risk population acknowledge 
being screened. To effectively meet the demands of screening in an enlarging, 
ethnically diverse, and aging population, a variety of modalities are needed. 
This article provides a focused assessment of effectiveness, limitations, and 
alternative available screening methods. New modalities endorsed in the updated 
guidelines (eg, fecal immunochemical tests, fecal DNA, and CT colonography) are 
reviewed. In addition, advances and updates in existing tests (eg, guaiac-based 
fecal occult blood tests and colonoscopy) are evaluated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11894-009-0061-z
PMID: 19765369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Clin Geriatr Med. 2009 Aug;25(3):543-53. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2009.04.006.

Ethical issues in the elderly with renal disease.

Del Vecchio L(1), Locatelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Dialysis, and Renal Transplant, Ospedale A. 
Manzoni, Via dell'Eremo 9, 23900 Lecco, Italy.

Despite the many technical advances in medical care and dialysis delivery, 
mortality and morbidity remain high in patients with end-stage renal disease. 
This is particularly true in older patients, who often have a great number of 
coexisting diseases. In this population, life expectancy and quality of life may 
be rather poor, raising a number of ethical issues about the decision of 
starting start or withdrawing renal replacement therapy. Unfortunately, clear 
behavior guidelines on these critical issues are still insufficient. Reasons for 
not starting dialysis include old age, neurologic impairment, end-stage organ 
failure other than the kidneys, metastatic cancer, multiple comorbidities, and 
patient or family refusal. Similar reasons often underlie dialysis withdrawal of 
dialysis. Often these difficult decisions are left to care givers and family 
members or surrogates, since only a minority of patients with severe medical 
conditions discuss end-of-life care before becoming mentally impaired. The final 
shared decision should be the result of weighing beneficence (to maximise 
maximize good) with non-maleficence (to not cause harm); in the presence of 
severe medical conditions and/or mental impairment, dialysis may represent a 
prolongation of death rather than life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2009.04.006
PMID: 19765495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Chir Main. 2009 Oct;28(5):326-9. doi: 10.1016/j.main.2009.08.001. Epub 2009
Aug  26.

Desmoid tumor of the forearm. Reconstructive surgery and functional result.

Gallucci GL(1), Boretto JG, De Carli P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Hospital Italiano, Potosí, 4247, 
Capital Federal, Buenos Aires C1199ACK, Argentina. 
gerardo.gallucci@hospitalitaliano.org.ar

Functional results after resection-reconstruction operated at the same time. 
Desmoid tumors, also known as aggressive fibromatosis, are benign locally 
aggressive tumors with a high rate of recurrence. Most authors recommend 
surgical treatment with wide-free margin. Achieving margins of normal tissue 
around an upper extremity lesion without creating significant functional 
compromise is frequently difficult. Therefore, functional reconstructive surgery 
is important, considering that for most patients treated for these tumors, the 
life expectancy is high and considering also that wide resection can affect the 
function and the aesthetics as well. We present a case of aggressive 
fibromatosis in the proximal third of the forearm treated by wide resection and 
reconstructive surgery in one single procedure, with an acceptable functional 
result with no evidence of recurrence at 3 years of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1016/j.main.2009.08.001
PMID: 19766035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Lancet. 2009 Sep 19;374(9694):973-974. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61655-X.

Climate change is not the biggest global health threat.

Goklany IM(1).

Author information:
(1)8726 Old Courthouse Road, Vienna, VA 22182, USA. Electronic address: 
igoklany@verizon.net.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 May 16;373(9676):1693-733.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61655-X
PMID: 19766873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Bioinformatics. 2009 Dec 1;25(23):3194-6. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btp550.  Epub 2009 Sep 18.

Client-side integration of life science literature resources.

Easty R(1), Nikolov N.

Author information:
(1)Computing Department, InfoLab21, Lancaster University, South Drive, Lancaster 
LA1 4WA, UK.
