History of foot ulcer increases mortality among individuals with diabetes: 
ten-year follow-up of the Nord-Trøndelag Health Study, Norway.

Iversen MM(1), Tell GS, Riise T, Hanestad BR, Østbye T, Graue M, Midthjell K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, Bergen University College, Bergen, 
Norway. marjolein.iversen@hib.no

OBJECTIVE: To compare mortality rates for individuals with diabetes with and 
without a history of foot ulcer (HFU) and with that for the nondiabetic 
population.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: This population-based study included 155 diabetic 
individuals with an HFU, 1,339 diabetic individuals without an HFU, and 63,632 
nondiabetic individuals who were all followed for 10 years with mortality as the 
end point.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period, a total of 49.0% of diabetic individuals 
with an HFU died, compared with 35.2% of diabetic individuals without an HFU and 
10.5% of those without diabetes. In Cox regression analyses adjusted for age, 
sex, education, current smoking, and waist circumference, having an HFU was 
associated with more than a twofold (2.29 [95% CI 1.82-2.88]) hazard risk for 
mortality compared with that of the nondiabetic group. In corresponding analyses 
comparing diabetic individuals with and without an HFU, an HFU was associated 
with 47% increased mortality (1.47 [1.14-1.89]). Significant covariates were 
older age, male sex, and current smoking. After inclusion of A1C, insulin use, 
microalbuminuria, cardiovascular disease, and depression scores in the model, 
each was significantly related to life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: AN HFU increased mortality risk among community-dwelling adults and 
elderly individuals with diabetes. The excess risk persisted after adjustment 
for comorbidity and depression scores, indicating that close clinical monitoring 
might be warranted among individuals with an HFU, who may be particularly 
vulnerable to adverse outcomes.

DOI: 10.2337/dc09-0651
PMCID: PMC2782976
PMID: 19729524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Gerontology. 2010;56(1):73-9. doi: 10.1159/000236045. Epub 2009 Sep 3.

The grandmother effect: implications for studies on aging and cognition.

Herndon JG(1).

Author information:
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, Ga 30329, 
USA. james.herndon@emory.edu

Comment in
    Gerontology. 2010;56(2):217-9.
    Gerontology. 2010;56(2):214-6.

BACKGROUND: Women experience more years of vigorous life after ovulation has 
ceased than do females of other primate species. Is this an epiphenomenon of the 
greater life expectancy humans have enjoyed in the past century or so, or is 
long post-menopausal survival the result of an evolutionary selection process? 
Recent research implies the latter: Long post-menopausal survival came about 
through natural selection. One prominent line of thought explaining this 
selection process is the grandmother hypothesis.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the implications of the hypothesis for non-human primate 
studies of aging and cognition.
METHOD: The author presents a synopsis of the hypothesis, evaluates the 
uniqueness of the 'grandmother effect' to humans, and discusses its implications 
for non-human primate models of cognitive aging.
RESULTS: The hypothesis contends that, in past epochs, women who remained 
vigorous beyond their fertile years may have enhanced their reproductive success 
by providing care for their grandchildren. This care would have enabled their 
daughters to resume reproduction sooner, endowing them with greater lifetime 
fertility. Genes of grandmothers possessing such old-age vigor would be more 
likely to persist in subsequent generations. Is midlife menopause a uniquely 
human phenomenon, or does the chimpanzee, our closest primate relative, also 
display this trait? If so, we might expect a grandmother effect in this species 
as well. However, female chimpanzees continue to cycle until near the end of 
their maximum life span of about 60 years.
CONCLUSION: Long survival beyond fertility and a long life expectancy are 
distinctive human adaptations. The robustness of ancestral human grandmothers 
necessarily included resistance to cognitive decline through preservation of 
functions present in many primates but also development of processes of social 
cognition unique to our species. Cognitive traits such as language and social 
cognitive functions may function in our species in particular as mechanisms to 
compensate for age-related decline. This has significant implications for 
research in which non-human primates are considered as models of human cognitive 
aging; it also means that some processes can be studied only in humans.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000236045
PMCID: PMC2874731
PMID: 19729883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Forsch Komplementmed. 2009 Aug;16(4):217-26. doi: 10.1159/000226249. Epub
2009  Jul 17.

Efficacy and safety of mistletoe preparations (Viscum album) for patients with 
cancer diseases. A systematic review.

Melzer J(1), Iten F, Hostanska K, Saller R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Complementary Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, 
University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland. joerg.melzer@usz.ch

BACKGROUND: Mistletoe is often used as a complementary approach in oncology. 
Despite experimental anti-tumour effects and several reviews there remains 
controversy about its clinical role.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Potentially relevant trials were identified to perform a 
systematic review (databases: e.g. EMBASE, MEDLINE; hand search: e.g. 
bibliographies; search terms: e.g. mistletoe). To be included, randomised or 
comparative clinical trials at least had to examine mistletoe preparations 
standardized according to manufacturing process and to describe interventions 
explicitly. Additionally, cohort studies were included for reasons of external 
validity. Results were summarised in tables.
RESULTS: 18 clinical trials (>6,800 participants) were included. Their internal 
quality was mostly low. Due to heterogeneity between trials a meta-analysis was 
impossible. Regarding efficacy, findings were inconsistent regarding life 
expectancy, relation to tumour entity, dosing and treatment duration. Yet, 
studies indicate that quality of life (QoL) is improved. As these findings do 
not seem to be limited to one of the different parenteral mistletoe preparations 
reviewed the treatment may be summarised under the umbrella term 'mistletoe 
therapy'. Regarding safety, 1 serious adverse event (AE) related to mistletoe 
was described; non-serious AEs were local reactions at injection site. Allergic 
reactions were rare.
CONCLUSION: Supportive 'mistletoe therapy' seems safe and beneficial for QoL in 
adult patients with solid tumours. But there is an urgent need to confirm its 
efficacy in patient-centred care in a complex oncological setting. This has to 
be evaluated systematically in prospective observational trials with validated, 
multidimensional patient-rated QoL questionnaires and comparisons of different 
preparations and dosages.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000226249
PMID: 19729932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2010 Jan;53(1):124-30. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181b563e7.

Life expectancy after HIV diagnosis based on national HIV surveillance data from 
25 states, United States.

Harrison KM(1), Song R, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral 
Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. kMcDavid@cdc.gov

INTRODUCTION: We estimate life expectancy and average years of life lost (AYLL) 
after an HIV diagnosis using population-based surveillance data from 25 states 
that have had name-based HIV surveillance since 1996.
METHODS: We used US national HIV surveillance data (cases > or = 13 years old) 
to model life expectancy after an HIV diagnosis using the life table approach. 
We then compared life expectancy at HIV diagnosis with that in the general 
population of the same age, sex, and race/ethnicity in the same calendar year 
using vital statistics data to estimate the AYLL due to an HIV diagnosis.
RESULTS: Average life expectancy after HIV diagnosis increased from 10.5 to 22.5 
years from 1996 to 2005. Life expectancy (years) was better for females than for 
males but improved less for females (females: 12.6-23.6 and males: 9.9-22.0). In 
2005, life expectancy for black males was shortest, followed by Hispanic males 
and then white males. AYLL for cases diagnosed in 2005 was 21.1 years (males: 
19.1 and females: 22.7) compared with 32.9 years in 1996.
CONCLUSIONS: Disparity in life expectancy for females and both black and 
Hispanic males, compared with males and white males, respectively, persists and 
should be addressed.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3181b563e7
PMID: 19730109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Ann Surg. 2009 Oct;250(4):618-30. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e3181b76d2b.

One thousand simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplants at a single center with 
22-year follow-up.

Sollinger HW(1), Odorico JS, Becker YT, D'Alessandro AM, Pirsch JD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53792, USA. 
hans@surgery.wisc.edu

OBJECTIVE: Simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation (SPK) is a procedure 
which frees the diabetic patient with end-stage nephropathy from dialysis and 
daily insulin injections. The purpose of this study is to report long-term 
outcomes of this procedure, and describe surgical and medical complications.
METHODS: The analysis includes 1000 consecutive SPKs performed between 1985 and 
2007. Bladder drainage was used in 390 patients and enteric drainage in 610 
patients. In 362 patients, SPK transplantation was performed before initiation 
of dialysis.
RESULTS: Patient survival at 1, 10, and 20 years is 97%, 80%, and 58%; kidney 
survival is 91%, 63%, and 38%; and pancreas survival is 88%, 63%, and 36%, 
respectively. There was no difference (P > 0.19) for patient, kidney, and 
pancreas survival between bladder and enteric drainage. Major surgical 
complications for bladder-drained patients were anastomotic leaks, urological 
complications, and infections. For enteric-drained patients, major surgical 
complications were infection, bleeding, and enzyme leak. Principal causes of 
death were myocardial infarction (n = 23), cerebrovascular accident (n = 18), 
and renal failure (n = 15). Graft failure for the kidney was due to acute 
rejection (n = 48), chronic rejection (n = 146), and death with a functioning 
graft (n = 99). Graft failure for the pancreas was caused by chronic graft loss 
(n = 44), thrombosis (n = 31), rejection (n = 80), and death with a functioning 
graft (n = 125). A total of 113 patients were retransplanted with either living 
related or unrelated donor kidneys (n = 64) or deceased donor kidneys (n = 42). 
Survival for retransplanted kidneys is 84% at 1 year and 68% at 5 years. 
Surviving bladder-drained patients underwent enteric conversion (>50%) for 
severe recalcitrant metabolic or urologic complications, most commonly enzyme 
leaks, hematuria, and recurrent urinary tract infection.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetic patients with end-stage renal failure have a poor 
prognosis without transplantation. Transplantation with SPK provides a marked 
extension of the patient's life and freedom from insulin injections. Enteric 
drainage is currently the surgical technique of choice. SPK transplantation 
should be considered the treatment of choice in this patient population.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e3181b76d2b
PMID: 19730242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2009 Nov;21(6):594-8. doi:
10.1097/BOR.0b013e3283317fa5.

Paraneoplastic myopathy.

Dankó K(1), Ponyi A, Molnar AP, András C, Constantin T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology, 3rd Department of Internal Medicine, Medical 
and Health Science Center, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary. 
katalin.danko@gmail.com

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: It has been recognized for some time now, that compared with 
the normal population, patients with idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM) 
live with an increased risk of developing malignancy. In the majority of these 
patients, cancer-associated myositis appears to have some paraneoplastic 
features. The aim of the present review is to describe new data that explain the 
connection between myositis and malignant diseases, as well as to highlight its 
value in the current management of these patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Antigen expressions and patterns shared by regenerating muscle 
and cancers raise questions about whether myositis cases without clinically 
observable cancer may represent a fully successful antitumor immune response 
with bystander damage to regenerating muscle. The discovery of anti-155/140 
autoantibody may aid in the better diagnosis of adult IIM patients with a higher 
risk of malignancy. It also may help the better understanding of paraneoplastic 
myositis.
SUMMARY: Cancer-associated myositis differs from primary myositis in many 
aspects. Prognosis and life-expectancy are determined by the underlying 
malignancy. Therefore, patient-specific examinations for detection of an 
underlying cancer are important in the management of patients. Recent clinical 
findings and new possibilities in immunoserological testing may result in the 
elaboration of an evidence-based recommendation for cancer screening programs in 
patients with IIM in the future.

DOI: 10.1097/BOR.0b013e3283317fa5
PMID: 19730376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Age (Dordr). 2010 Mar;32(1):79-84. doi: 10.1007/s11357-009-9116-1.

Female fertility and longevity.

Mitteldorf J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology,University of Arizona,Tucson, 
AZ 85920, USA. josh@mathforum.org

Does bearing children shorten a woman's life expectancy? Pleiotropic theories of 
aging predict that it should, and in particular, the Disposable Soma theory 
predicts unequivocally that this effect should be inescapable. But many 
demographic studies, historic and current, have found no such effect. In this 
context,the Caerphilly cohort study stands apart as the sole test that 
corroborates the theory. Why has this study found an effect that others fail to 
see? Their analysis is based on Poisson regression, a statistical technique that 
is accurate only if the underlying data are Poisson distributed.But the 
distribution of the number of children born to women in the Caerphilly data 
based departs strongly from Poisson at the high end. This makes the result 
overly sensitive to a handful of women with 15 children or more who lived before 
1700. When these five women are removed from a database of more than 2,900, the 
Poisson regression no longer shows a significant result. Bilinear regression 
relating life span to fertility and date of birth results in a small positive 
coefficient for fertility, in agreement with the main trend of reported results.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-009-9116-1
PMCID: PMC2829636
PMID: 19731082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Head Neck. 2009 Oct;31(10):1255-62. doi: 10.1002/hed.21096.

Cost utility of docetaxel as induction chemotherapy followed by chemoradiation 
in locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck.

Parthan A(1), Posner MR, Brammer C, Beltran P, Jansen JP.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, 133 Portland Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Trial TAX 324 showed that induction chemotherapy with docetaxel plus 
cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil (TPF) compared with cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil 
(PF) followed by chemoradiation increases survival and time to progression in 
squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck (SCCHN).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
induction chemotherapy with docetaxel in the United Kingdom from the payer 
perspective. Health states were based on the WHO criteria for objective response 
to cancer treatments. Efficacy and safety data were obtained from the trial. 
Resource utilization, costs, and utility data were primarily derived from the 
literature.
RESULTS: A patient on TPF gained 4.1 quality adjusted life years (QALYs) versus 
2.0 QALYs for PF patient. Corresponding lifetime costs were pound 32,440 and 
pound 28,718. The cost per QALY gained for TPF versus PF was pound 1782.
CONCLUSIONS: TPF is cost-effective as induction chemotherapy in locally advanced 
SCCHN compared with PF. Local treatment patterns may impact findings for other 
countries.

(c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.21096
PMID: 19731394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Vnitr Lek. 2009 Jul-Aug;55(7-8):637-45.

[Treatment of diabetes in metabolic syndrome].

[Article in Czech]

Pelikánova T(1).

Author information:
(1)Centrum diabetologie IKEM Praha. tepe@medicon.cz

Hyperglycaemia is a typical feature of metabolic syndrome (MeTS) and one of its 
independent diagnostic criteria. The term includes impaired glucose homeostasis 
(impaired fasting glucose and impaired glucose tolerance) and type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. Although glycaemic control has been shown to lower the risk of 
microvascular events, the effect of intensive glycaemic control on macrovascular 
outcomes is less clear. Epidemiological studies show hyperglycaemia, 
particularly the postprandial one, to be a clear risk factor for cardiovascular 
(CV) mortality and morbidity. However, the intervention studies are less 
conclusive. The large interventional studies published in 2008 and 2009 (UKPDS, 
VADT, ACCORD, ADVANCE, RECORD) advocate the controlling of nonglycemic risk 
factors (through blood pressure control, lipid lowering with statin therapy, 
aspirin therapy, and lifestyle modifications) as the primary strategies for 
reducing the burden of CV disease in people with diabetes, and demonstrated the 
need for individualized approach to the patients' care in terms of blood glucose 
control. The patients with shorter duration of type 2 diabetes and without 
established atherosclerosis might reap CV benefit from intensive glycemic 
control. Conversely, it is possible that potential risks of intensive glycaemic 
control (hypoglycaemia) may outweigh its benefits in other patients, such as 
those with a very long duration ofdiabetes, known history of severe 
hypoglycemia, advanced atherosclerosis, and advanced age/frailty. According to 
the latest recommendations of the Czech Diabetes Society that are in line with 
the European and US standards the best way to protect type 2 diabetic patients 
against coronary and cerebrovascular disease is to target all cardiovascular 
risk factors (blood pressure treatment, including lipid-lowering with statins, 
aspirin prophylaxis, smoking cessation, and healthy lifestyle behaviors 
hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity and other symptoms of metabolic syndrome. 
The target HbA1c levels in patients with the low CV risk shoul be below 4.5%. 
Less strict goals (HbA1c below 6%) may be appropriate for patients with a 
history of severe hypoglycemia, limited life expectancy, advanced microvascular 
or macrovascular complications, or extensive comorbid conditions or those with 
long-standing diabetes. The individual targets should be achieved safely 
(without hypoglycaemias). Slow advancing in diabetes compensation is preferred. 
Lifestyle changes are the cornerstone of therapy. Metformin is the drug of 
choice; its administration, together with lifestyle changes, should be initiated 
immediately after the diagnoses of diabetes. If monotherapy does not provide 
satisfactory glucose control, other oral antidiabetic agents or insulin are 
added to the combination. Since it is not known which hypoglycaemic agents are 
beneficial from the perspective of long-term patient prognosis, the selection is 
liberal. Contraindication of the various farmaceuticals must be respected. It is 
possible to use a range of different combinations, metformin is administered 
with a glitazone (zero risk of hypoglycaemias is the advantage) with 
sulphonylurea derivatives (low price is the advantage) with glinides, with 
incretins, acarbose, antiobesity agents or insulin. The next step is a triple 
combination of hypoglycaemic agents with different mechanisms of action. Therapy 
also includes education focusing on changes to dietary and lifestyle habits, 
including smoking cessation, and education related to the prevention of 
complications, with particular regard to prevention of diabetic foot and 
atherosclerosis.

PMID: 19731868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Aging Cell. 2009 Dec;8(6):752-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00513.x. Epub
 2009 Sep 2.

Exploring mechanisms of sex differences in longevity: lifetime ovary exposure 
and exceptional longevity in dogs.

Waters DJ(1), Kengeri SS, Clever B, Booth JA, Maras AH, Schlittler DL, Hayek MG.

Author information:
(1)Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies, Gerald P. Murphy Cancer Foundation, 
3000 Kent Avenue, West Lafayette, IN 47906, USA. waters@purdue.edu

To move closer to understanding the mechanistic underpinnings of sex differences 
in human longevity, we studied pet dogs to determine whether lifetime duration 
of ovary exposure was associated with exceptional longevity. This hypothesis was 
tested by collecting and analyzing lifetime medical histories, age at death, and 
cause of death for a cohort of canine 'centenarians'--exceptionally long-lived 
Rottweiler dogs that lived more than 30% longer than average life expectancy for 
the breed. Sex and lifetime ovary exposure in the oldest-old Rottweilers (age at 
death, > or = 13 years) were compared to a cohort of Rottweilers that had usual 
longevity (age at death, 8.0-10.8 years). Like women, female dogs were more 
likely than males to achieve exceptional longevity (OR, 95% CI = 2.0, 1.2-3.3; P 
= 0.006). However, removal of ovaries during the first 4 years of life erased 
the female survival advantage. In females, a strong positive association between 
ovaries and longevity persisted in multivariate analysis that considered other 
factors, such as height, body weight, and mother with exceptional longevity. A 
beneficial effect of ovaries on longevity in females could not be attributed to 
resistance against a particular disease or major cause of death. Our results 
document in dogs a female sex advantage for achieving exceptional longevity and 
show that lifetime ovary exposure, a factor not previously evaluated in women, 
is associated with exceptional longevity. This work introduces a conceptual 
framework for designing additional studies in pet dogs to define the 
ovary-sensitive biological processes that promote healthy human longevity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00513.x
PMCID: PMC2805875
PMID: 19732047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2009 Nov;11(11):1068-79. doi: 
10.1111/j.1463-1326.2009.01099.x. Epub 2009 Sep 3.

Evaluation of exenatide vs. insulin glargine in type 2 diabetes: 
cost-effectiveness analysis in the German setting.

Mittendorf T(1), Smith-Palmer J, Timlin L, Happich M, Goodall G.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Economics, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz University, Hannover, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this analysis was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of exenatide vs. insulin glargine in patients with type 2 
diabetes failing to achieve glycaemic control with oral antidiabetic agents, in 
the German setting, from a third-party payer perspective.
METHODS: Data from a published randomized controlled trial were used in 
combination with a published, validated computer simulation model of type 2 
diabetes to project clinical and cost outcomes over a time horizon of 10 years. 
Cost data were obtained from published literature and expert opinion. Clinical 
and cost outcomes were discounted at 5% per annum. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed to establish key drivers and parameters.
RESULTS: Treatment with exenatide compared with insulin glargine was projected 
to be associated with improvements in life expectancy of 0.016 years and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.280 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
increased lifetime direct medical costs of euro 3854 (euro 22 095 vs. euro 18 
242) and an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of euro 13 746 per QALY. 
If quality of life was not taken into account, exenatide was associated with an 
ICER of euro 238 201 per life year gained vs. insulin glargine. Sensitivity 
analyses revealed that outcomes were most sensitive to changes in assumptions 
for (dis)utility values relating to weight change and the rate of self-monitored 
blood glucose testing.
CONCLUSIONS: Exenatide was projected to be associated with similar clinical 
outcomes and increased costs compared with insulin glargine. Analysis of 
cost-effectiveness from a third-party perspective suggests that exenatide is 
likely to represent good value for money in the German setting.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1326.2009.01099.x
PMID: 19732121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. BMC Bioinformatics. 2009 Sep 4;10:279. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-10-279.

XMPP for cloud computing in bioinformatics supporting discovery and invocation 
of asynchronous web services.

Wagener J(1), Spjuth O, Willighagen EL, Wikberg JE.

Author information:
(1)Max von Pettenkofer-Institut, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Munich, 
Germany. johannes.wagener@med.uni-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Life sciences make heavily use of the web for both data provision 
and analysis. However, the increasing amount of available data and the diversity 
of analysis tools call for machine accessible interfaces in order to be 
effective. HTTP-based Web service technologies, like the Simple Object Access 
Protocol (SOAP) and REpresentational State Transfer (REST) services, are today 
the most common technologies for this in bioinformatics. However, these methods 
have severe drawbacks, including lack of discoverability, and the inability for 
services to send status notifications. Several complementary workarounds have 
been proposed, but the results are ad-hoc solutions of varying quality that can 
be difficult to use.
RESULTS: We present a novel approach based on the open standard Extensible 
Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP), consisting of an extension (IO Data) to 
comprise discovery, asynchronous invocation, and definition of data types in the 
service. That XMPP cloud services are capable of asynchronous communication 
implies that clients do not have to poll repetitively for status, but the 
service sends the results back to the client upon completion. Implementations 
for Bioclipse and Taverna are presented, as are various XMPP cloud services in 
bio- and cheminformatics.
CONCLUSION: XMPP with its extensions is a powerful protocol for cloud services 
that demonstrate several advantages over traditional HTTP-based Web services: 1) 
services are discoverable without the need of an external registry, 2) 
asynchronous invocation eliminates the need for ad-hoc solutions like polling, 
and 3) input and output types defined in the service allows for generation of 
clients on the fly without the need of an external semantics description. The 
many advantages over existing technologies make XMPP a highly interesting 
candidate for next generation online services in bioinformatics.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-10-279
PMCID: PMC2755485
PMID: 19732427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Jan-Feb;1799(1-2):37-47. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbagrm.2009.08.009. Epub 2009 Sep 2.

HMGA molecular network: From transcriptional regulation to chromatin remodeling.

Sgarra R(1), Zammitti S, Lo Sardo A, Maurizio E, Arnoldo L, Pegoraro S, 
Giancotti V, Manfioletti G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, via L. Giorgieri, 1-34127 
Trieste, Italy.

Nuclear functions rely on the activity of a plethora of factors which mostly 
work in highly coordinated molecular networks. The HMGA proteins are chromatin 
architectural factors which constitute critical hubs in these networks. HMGA are 
referred to as oncofetal proteins since they are highly expressed and play 
essential functions both during embryonic development and neoplastic 
transformation. A particular feature of HMGA is their intrinsically disordered 
status, which confers on them an unusual plasticity in contacting molecular 
partners. Indeed these proteins are able to bind to DNA at the level of AT-rich 
DNA stretches and to interact with several nuclear factors. In the post-genomic 
era, and with the advent of proteomic tools for the identification of 
protein-protein interactions, the number of HMGA molecular partners has 
increased rapidly. This has led to the extension of our knowledge of the 
functional involvement of HMGA from the transcriptional regulation field to RNA 
processing, DNA repair, and chromatin remodeling and dynamics. This review 
focuses mainly on the protein-protein interaction network of HMGA and its 
functional outcome. HMGA molecular partners have been functionally classified 
and all the information collected in a freely available database 
(http://www.bbcm.units.it/ approximately manfiol/INDEX.HTM).

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbagrm.2009.08.009
PMID: 19732855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Ann Vasc Surg. 2010 Jan;24(1):92-9. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2009.06.019. Epub
2009  Sep 5.

Long-term results of eversion carotid endarterectomy.

Black JH 3rd(1), Ricotta JJ, Jones CE.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital, 
Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. jhblack@jhmi.edu

BACKGROUND: Carotid endarterectomy (CEA) is supported by level 1 evidence as the 
standard of care for symptomatic and asymptomatic extracranial carotid stenosis. 
Eversion CEA (ECEA) has been proposed as an acceptable alternative to the 
standard bifurcation endarterectomy in many patients; however, long-term 
follow-up of this technique has not been reported. This study was designed to 
analyze the long-term durability of ECEA in symptomatic and asymptomatic 
patients.
METHODS: From June 1989 to March 2002, 534 ECEAs were performed on 485 patients 
(60% male, 44% symptomatic, reoperative 1.0%). Preoperative characteristics, 
operative findings, and postoperative duplex data were entered prospectively 
into database. These data were retrospectively reviewed to determine the 
incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs) within 30 days of 
surgery, late survival, and the late incidence of ipsilateral carotid disease. 
Variables associated with carotid restenosis were subjected to statistical 
analysis.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up period was 8.86 years (95% confidence interval [CI] 
6.56-9.16, median 6.6). MACEs occurred in 19 patients (3.8%), including 13 
strokes (2.6%) and six deaths (1.2%). MACEs when added to surgical site-related 
complications yielded a <30-day complication rate of 5.3%. Survival by 
life-table analysis at 5 and 10 years was 75.2% and 50.1%, respectively. 
Recurrent stenosis of the ECEA site was noted in 20 patients (4.1%), with a mean 
time to recurrence of 4.4 years (95% CI 2.92-6.07, median 4.0). Statistical 
analyses failed to implicate any specific patient risk factor, symptomatic 
presentation, presence of hyperlipidemia or statin use, internal carotid artery 
diameter, or presence of residual disease as predictive of recurrent stenosis.
CONCLUSION: The current study represents the longest follow-up to date of 
patients undergoing ECEA. The findings of this study support ECEA as a safe and 
durable long-term treatment for extracranial carotid disease presenting with or 
without acute symptomatology.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2009.06.019
PMID: 19734006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Postgrad Med J. 2009 Sep;85(1007):464-9. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2008.073353.

Predicting mortality of psychogeriatric patients: a simple prognostic frailty 
risk score.

Pijpers E(1), Ferreira I, van de Laar RJ, Stehouwer CD, Nieuwenhuijzen Kruseman 
AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital Maastricht, 6202AZ 
Maastricht, The Netherlands. epij@sint.azm.nl

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Frailty and mortality in psychogeriatric patients are hard 
to predict but important in counselling and therapeutic decision making. We have 
therefore developed a simple frailty risk score to predict mortality this 
population.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective observational study including 401 community dwelling 
psychogeriatric patients (249 women; mean (SD) age 78.0 (6.5) years), who had 
been referred to a multidisciplinary diagnostic observation centre. We used Cox 
proportional hazards regression models to identify and select baseline 
characteristics for the development and validation of a risk score for the 
prediction of 3 year mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 116 subjects died during follow-up (median follow-up 
duration of 26 months). Baseline characteristics associated with mortality were: 
age (hazard ratio (HR) 1.44, 95% confidence interval (CI)1.02 to 2.04), male sex 
(HR 2.93, 95% CI 1.89 to 4.59), living alone (HR 1.53, 95% CI 0.99 to 2.38), 
body mass index (BMI) <18.5 kg/m(2) (HR 4.09, 95% CI 2.06 to 8.14), 
cardiovascular disease (HR 1.42, 95% CI 0.94 to 2.15), elderly mobility score 
<20 (HR 1.92, 95% CI 1.24 to 2.98), number of medicines > or =2 (HR 2.28, 95% CI 
1.21 to 4.31), and impaired motor (HR 1.47, 95% CI 0.93 to 2.32) and process 
skills (HR 1.92, 95% CI 1.12 to 2.98) in activities of daily living. These 
predictors were translated into an easy-to-use frailty risk score and patients 
were stratified into very good (<45 points), good (45-50) moderate (51-55), poor 
(56-61) and very poor (>61) prognosis groups. Three year mortality rates across 
these groups were 8.0%, 15.9%, 25.9%, 41.5%, and 68.8%, respectively (p<0.001). 
The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of the risk 
score was 0.78 (95% CI 0.73 to 0.82), indicating good discriminative 
performance.
CONCLUSIONS: We developed and validated a risk score for the prediction of 3 
year mortality. This risk score can be used to stratify patients into different 
risk categories, thereby informing patient counselling and tailored diagnostic 
and therapeutic decisions in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2008.073353
PMID: 19734513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2009 Aug;50(4):535-43.

Prognosis of perioperative myocardial infarction after off-pump coronary artery 
bypass surgery.

Vanden Eynden F(1), Cartier R, Marcheix B, Demers P, Bouchard D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Erasmus Hospital, Free University of Brussels, 
Brussels, Belgium.

AIM: Perioperative myocardial infarction (PMI) is associated with long-term 
morbidity and mortality. CKMB cut-off level and importance of Q-wave MI have not 
been specifically studied after off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery. 
The aim of this paper was to study the impact of PMI (CKMB >/= 20 times the 
upper normal limit [UNL] 100 mg/L) and CKMB rise (5-20 UNL) on survival and 
recurrent major adverse cardiac event (MACE) after OPCAB surgery.
METHODS: One thousand consecutive prospectively followed OPCAB patients operated 
between September 1996 and March 2004 were analyzed. Follow-up was complete in 
97% of the cohort. Average follow-up was 66 +/- 28 months.
RESULTS: Overall and cardiac survival at 10 years was 70 +/- 2.6% and 88 + 2.3%, 
respectively. Evolving MI (EMI) occurred in 1.8%, postoperative non-Q MI (NQMI) 
in 1.3%, and Q-wave MI (QMI) in 2.0%. Operative mortality was higher in PMI 
patients (P < 0.001). After adjusting for risk factors, survivors of EMI (HR: 
2.0) and QMI (HR: 2.3) but not NQMI had a lower life expectancy and a higher 
long-term cardiac mortality (EMI: HR: 3.5; QMI: HR: 4.3) compare to non-PMI 
patients. EMI and QMI were associated with a decrease MACE-free survival. CKMB 
5-10 UNL did not affect overall and cardiac mortality. CKMB 10-20 UNL was 
associated to lower cardiac survival.
CONCLUSIONS: PMI (CKMB > 20 UNL) was a strong predictor of operative mortality. 
QMI and EMI were predictors of long-term mortality and cardiac morbidity after 
OPCAB surgery. CKMB 10-20 UNL affected long-term cardiac survival but not 
overall survival.

PMID: 19734836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Genes Cells. 2009 Oct;14(10):1141-54. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2009.01341.x.
 Epub 2009 Sep 7.

FLR-2, the glycoprotein hormone alpha subunit, is involved in the neural control 
of intestinal functions in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Oishi A(1), Gengyo-Ando K, Mitani S, Mohri-Shiomi A, Kimura KD, Ishihara T, 
Katsura I.

Author information:
(1)Structural Biology Center, National Institute of Genetics, Mishima 411-8540, 
Japan.

The intestine plays an essential role in organism-wide regulatory networks in 
both vertebrates and invertebrates. In Caenorhabditis elegans, class 1 flr genes 
(flr-1, flr-3 and flr-4) act in the intestine and control growth rates and 
defecation cycle periods, while class 2 flr genes (flr-2, flr-5, flr-6 and 
flr-7) are characterized by mutations that suppress the slow growth of class 1 
flr mutants. This study revealed that flr-2 gene controls antibacterial defense 
and intestinal color, confirming that flr-2 regulates intestinal functions. 
flr-2 encoded the only glycoprotein hormone alpha subunit in C. elegans and was 
expressed in certain neurons. Furthermore, FLR-2 bound to another secretory 
protein GHI-1, which belongs to a family of lipid- and 
lipopolysaccharide-binding proteins. A ghi-1 deletion mutation partially 
suppressed the short defecation cycle periods of class 1 flr mutants, and this 
effect was enhanced by flr-2 mutations. Thus, FLR-2 acts as a signaling molecule 
for the neural control of intestinal functions, which is achieved in a 
functional network involving class 1 and class 2 flr genes as well as ghi-1. 
These results are informative to studies of glycoprotein hormone signaling in 
higher animals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2443.2009.01341.x
PMID: 19735483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Vaccine. 2009 Nov 12;27(48):6770-6. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.082. Epub
 2009 Sep 5.

Probabilistic cost-effectiveness analysis of the long-term effect of universal 
hepatitis B vaccination: an experience from Taiwan with high hepatitis B virus 
infection and Hepatitis B e Antigen positive prevalence.

Hung HF(1), Chen TH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive Medicine, National Taiwan University, Taiwan.

AIM: To assess cost-effectiveness of hepatitis B virus (HBV) vaccination 
strategies from health care payer and societal perspectives, focusing on the 
long-term effect, in Taiwan where prevalence of HBV and Hepatitis B e Antigen 
(HBeAg) is high.
METHODS: A decision analysis was performed to compare total costs and 
effectiveness between two vaccination strategies: universal vaccination and 
no-vaccination. The Markov process was defined as a series of states including 
acute HBV infection, asymptomatic carrier, chronic hepatitis, compensated and 
decompensated liver cirrhosis, hepatoma, and death. Direct and indirect costs 
were also imputed based on estimates. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) per life-year gained and quality-adjusted life years gained were 
calculated at a 3% discount rate. By assigning a series of specific 
distributions to each parameter, a probabilistic cost-effective analysis using 
Monte Carlo simulation was conducted to yield 5000 ICER replicates.
RESULTS: The effectiveness of a universal vaccination program for reducing 
hepatocellular carcinoma cases and deaths was approximately 86%. The average 
life years gained per subject as a result of such a universal vaccination was 
3.9. The vaccination program dominated over a no-vaccination program (less cost 
and more effectiveness).
CONCLUSIONS: A universal vaccination program against hepatitis B infection is 
not only effective for reducing long-term sequelae but is also a cost-saving 
primary preventive strategy, which supports a universal infant immunization in 
endemic area with high prevalence of HBV and HBeAg.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.082
PMID: 19735755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2009 Sep;90(9):1506-13. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2009.03.015.

Mortality over four decades after traumatic brain injury rehabilitation: a 
retrospective cohort study.

Harrison-Felix CL(1), Whiteneck GG, Jha A, DeVivo MJ, Hammond FM, Hart DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Colorado, 
Denver, CO, USA. charrison-felix@craighospital.org

OBJECTIVE: To investigate mortality, life expectancy, risk factors for death, 
and causes of death in persons with traumatic brain injury (TBI).
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Used data from an inpatient rehabilitation facility, the Social 
Security Death Index, death certificates, and the U.S. population 
age-race-sex-specific and cause-specific mortality rates.
PARTICIPANTS: Persons with TBI (N=1678) surviving to their first anniversary of 
injury admitted to rehabilitation from an acute care hospital within 1 year of 
injury between 1961 and 2002.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Vital status, standardized mortality ratio, life 
expectancy, cause of death.
RESULTS: Persons with TBI were 1.5 times more likely to die than persons in the 
general population of similar age, sex, and race, resulting in an estimated 
average life expectancy reduction of 4 years. Within the TBI population, the 
strongest independent risk factors for death after 1 year postinjury were being 
older, being male, having less education, having a longer hospitalization, 
having an earlier year of injury, and being in a vegetative state at 
rehabilitation discharge. After 1 year postinjury, persons with TBI were 49 
times more likely to die of aspiration pneumonia, 22 times more likely to die of 
seizures, 4 times more likely to die of pneumonia, 3 times more likely to commit 
suicide, and 2.5 times more likely to die of digestive conditions than persons 
in the general population of similar age, sex, and race.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated life expectancy after TBI rehabilitation is 
reduced and associated with specific risk factors and causes of death.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2009.03.015
PMID: 19735778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Health Policy. 2010 Jan;94(1):14-25. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.002.
Epub  2009 Sep 6.

Regional inequality in health and its determinants: evidence from China.

Fang P(1), Dong S, Xiao J, Liu C, Feng X, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Tongji Medical College, Huazhong University of Science & Technology, 13 
Hangkong Road, Wuhan, PR China. seawhu@163.com

Health inequality is a problem with great political importance all over the 
world. Urban-rural inequality in health has attracted great attentions in recent 
years in China, but very few researches have been undertaken into regional 
discrepancies in health. This research aims at measuring the degree of regional 
health inequality in China and identifying its determinants. Indicators for 
health, socioeconomic status, health resources and health services delivery were 
selected through Delphi consultations from 18 experts. With cross-sectional data 
from 31 provinces, composite health indexes were generated. The regional 
inequality in health was described by Lorenz curve and measured by Gini 
coefficient. The determinants of health inequality were identified through 
canonical correlation analysis. The results showed that there existed distinct 
regional disparities in health in China, which were mainly reflected in 
"Maternal & Child Health" and "Infectious Diseases", not in the most commonly 
used health indicator average life expectancy. The regional health inequality in 
China was increasing with the rapid economic growth. The regional health 
inequality was associated with not only the distribution of wealth, but also the 
distribution of health resources and primary health care services. Policy makers 
need to be aware of three major challenges when they try to achieve and maintain 
equality in distribution of health: First, the most commonly used health 
indicators are not necessarily sensitive enough to detect health inequalities. 
Second, increase in health inequality is often accompanied with rapid economic 
growth and increase in life expectancy. Countries in transition are facing the 
greatest challenge in developing a fair and equitable health care system. 
Finally, investment in health resources does bring about differences in 
distribution of health. However, primary health care plays a more important role 
than hospital services in reducing regional disparities in health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.002
PMID: 19735959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. EuroIntervention. 2009 May;5 Suppl D:D139-48.

What to do when everything has failed: alternative treatment strategies for 
failure revascularisations.

Jiménez-Quevedo P(1), González Ferrer JJ, Perín E.

Author information:
(1)The Cardiovascular Institute, San Carlos University Hospital, Madrid, Spain. 
patrop@telefonica.net

Percutaneous coronary intervention and bypass grafting are effective for 
relieving symptoms and improving outcome in patients with coronary artery 
disease. Despite advances in medical treatment and revascularisation procedures, 
some patients with symptomatic ischaemic cardiomyopathy are not candidates for 
revascularisation. As life expectancy increases, interventional cardiologists 
and cardiac surgeons face patients with more complex disease, such as those with 
diffuse coronary disease that cannot be completely revascularised.

PMID: 19736063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Arch Gen Psychiatry. 2009 Sep;66(9):978-85. doi: 
10.1001/archgenpsychiatry.2009.114.

Protective effect of CRHR1 gene variants on the development of adult depression 
following childhood maltreatment: replication and extension.

Polanczyk G(1), Caspi A, Williams B, Price TS, Danese A, Sugden K, Uher R, 
Poulton R, Moffitt TE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Institute for Genome Sciences and 
Policy, Duke University, 2020 W Main St, Ste 201, Durham, NC 27708, USA. 
gvp.ez@terra.com.br

CONTEXT: A previous study reported a gene x environment interaction in which a 
haplotype in the corticotropin-releasing hormone receptor 1 gene (CRHR1) was 
associated with protection against adult depressive symptoms in individuals who 
were maltreated as children (as assessed by the Childhood Trauma Questionnaire 
[CTQ]).
OBJECTIVE: To replicate the interaction between childhood maltreatment and a TAT 
haplotype formed by rs7209436, rs110402, and rs242924 in CRHR1, predicting adult 
depression.
DESIGN: Two prospective longitudinal cohort studies.
SETTING: England and New Zealand.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants in the first sample were women in the E-Risk Study (N 
= 1116), followed up to age 40 years with 96% retention. Participants in the 
second sample were men and women in the Dunedin Study (N = 1037), followed up to 
age 32 years with 96% retention. Main Outcome Measure Research diagnoses of 
past-year and recurrent major depressive disorder.
RESULTS: In the E-Risk Study, the TAT haplotype was associated with a 
significant protective effect. In this effect, women who reported childhood 
maltreatment on the CTQ were protected against depression. In the Dunedin Study, 
which used a different type of measure of maltreatment, this finding was not 
replicated.
CONCLUSIONS: A haplotype in CRHR1 has been suggested to exert a protective 
effect against adult depression among research participants who reported 
maltreatment on the CTQ, a measure that elicits emotional memories. This 
suggests the hypothesis that CRHR1's protective effect may relate to its 
function in the consolidation of memories of emotionally arousing experiences.

DOI: 10.1001/archgenpsychiatry.2009.114
PMCID: PMC3750953
PMID: 19736354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Saudi J Kidney Dis Transpl. 2009 Sep;20(5):876-82.

Treatment of a common problem in hemodialysis patients: is the juice worth the 
squeeze?

Al-Saran K(1), Sabry A, Shaheen N, Yehia A.

Author information:
(1)Prince Salman Center for Kidney, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Khalid_aln@yahoo.com

Chronic infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a serious public health 
problem affecting an estimated 2% of the world's population. The natural history 
of HCV infection in hemodialysis patients remains incompletely understood and 
the management is difficult. HCV infection in hemodialysis patients is usually 
asymptomatic. Given the diminished life expectancy of hemodialysis patients, 
complications such as decompensated cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma may 
not have time to develop. The frequency of advanced fibrosis or cirrhosis ranges 
from 0% to 28 %. We discuss in this presentation several aspects of HCV 
infection in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients such as relationship with 
glomerulopathy, renal allograft outcome, prevalence in hemodialysis patients in 
the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, treatment of HCV in hemodialysis patients in the 
kingdom of Saudia Arabia, and finally our experience at Prince Salman Center for 
kidney disease (PSCKD) in the management of HCV infected hemodialysis patients.

PMID: 19736496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Rev Invest Clin. 2009 May-Jun;61(3):186-93.

[Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery for morbid obesity. Experience at 
the Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán].

[Article in Spanish]

Romero-Lbargüengoitia ME(1), Lerman-Garber I, Herrera-Hernández MF, 
Pablo-Pantoja J, Sierra-Salazar M, López-Rosales F, Zamora-Barrón M, 
Vargas-Martínez A, García-García E.

Author information:
(1)Departamentos de Endocrinología y Metabolismo, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias 
Médicas y Nutrición Salvador Zubirán.

INTRODUCTION: Morbid obesity is a serious health problem associated to a 
significant reduction in life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the anthropometric and metabolic changes observed in 
obese patients, 3, 6 and 12 months after laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass 
surgery and the complications associated with the procedure.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective study that included 128 consecutive obese 
patients submitted for bariatric surgery at the INCMNSZ (2004-2006).
RESULTS: Their mean age was 38 +/- 10 years, 83% were women with a BMI of 48 +/- 
6 Kg/m2. 65% were hypertensives, 55% had hypertriglyceridemia and 34% diabetes. 
A year after surgery all patients had at least reduced 20% their body weight and 
the percentage of excess body weight loss was 73%. The prevalence of 
hypertension, hypertrigliceridemia and diabetes was reduced to 24%, 17% and 12%, 
respectively (p < 0.001). Four patients died (3%), all of them had a leak of the 
anastomosis and intra-abdominal abscess. One died because pulmonary embolism, 
another with a myocardial infarction (after surgical reinterventions) and the 
other two with sepsis.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass surgery in morbid obese 
patients favors significant reductions in body weight and associated co 
morbidities. This surgery is not free of complications and mortality, reason why 
it must be done only by surgical and interdisciplinary groups with experience in 
these procedures.

PMID: 19736806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. J Phys Chem B. 2009 Oct 1;113(39):12877-86. doi: 10.1021/jp902912m.

Experimental evidence of counterion affinity in alginates: the case of 
nongelling ion Mg2+.

Donati I(1), Asaro F, Paoletti S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Trieste, Via Licio Giorgieri 1, 
I-34127 Trieste, Italy. idonati@units.it

The present contribution aims at testing experimentally the theoretical model 
previously devised (Donati, I.; Cesaro, A.; Paoletti, S.; Biomacromolecules 
2006, 7, 281-287) for the description of the interaction between alginate and 
nongelling Mg(2+) ions. The model, based on an extension of the counterion 
condensation theory, introduces a contribution of free energy of affinity, 
DeltaG(aff,0), which depends on the monomer composition of the polyuronate. In 
the present work, three different alginates separately mimicking the mannuronan 
(polyM), the guluronan (polyG), and the polyalternating (polyMG) components of 
alginate, together with a natural alginate isolated from Laminaria hyperborea ( 
L. hyperborea ), were examined. They were treated with Mg(2+) ions, and relative 
variations in scattered light intensity, isothermal calorimetry (DeltaH(mix)), 
specific viscosity, and (23)Na NMR longitudinal relaxation rates were monitored 
with respect to samples at the same ionic strength but containing only Na(+) 
ions. The fraction of condensed magnesium counterions was found to be strongly 
dependent on alginate composition, increasing along the series mannuronan < 
polyalternating approximately L. hyperborea < guluronan, thus in good agreement 
with the theoretical predictions.

DOI: 10.1021/jp902912m
PMID: 19736959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Dermatol Surg. 2009 Nov;35(11):1776-87. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4725.2009.01291.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 8.

