Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Johannes Gutenberg University, Medical School, Mainz, 
Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Renal cell carcinoma mainly develops in the sixth or seventh 
decade of life. As life expectancy increases, urologists have to deal with 
elderly patients presenting with renal cancer. The introduction of ablative 
techniques has even widened our armamentarium of treating elderly patients with 
renal cancer apart from the standard laparoscopic and open surgical procedures. 
Our review highlights the current literature focusing on the functional and 
oncological outcome of surgically treated renal cancer in elderly patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: Despite the higher percentage of comorbidities, perioperative 
morbidity and declined renal reserve in elderly patients, radical or partial 
nephrectomy being performed open or laparoscopically for localized disease 
offers excellent functional and oncological outcome in this age group. Elderly 
patients seem to benefit more from laparoscopic procedures with lower rates of 
perioperative morbidity and faster convalescence compared with the open 
approach. Ablative techniques performed percutanousely may be promising for 
small renal masses in the future.
SUMMARY: Surgical treatment of renal cancer performed laparoscopically or open 
is feasible and well tolerated in elderly patients, with low perioperative 
morbidity and a good overall survival rate. Long-term results for ablative 
techniques are still missing for this age group. Patients should be carefully 
selected for one of the surgical treatments according to their health, fitness, 
wishes and the experience of the referred centre.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32832f0c7d
PMID: 19571755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2009 Nov;86(5):540-7. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2009.104. Epub
2009  Jul 1.

Potential clinical and economic outcomes of CYP2C9 and VKORC1 genotype-guided 
dosing in patients starting warfarin therapy.

You JH(1), Tsui KK, Wong RS, Cheng G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics Research, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. 
joyceyou@cuhk.edu.hk

The US Food and Drug Administration has updated the label information for 
warfarin to encourage the use of genetic information before initiating treatment 
with the drug. We used decision-tree modeling to simulate the outcomes of CYP2C9 
and vitamin K epoxide reductase complex 1 (VKORC1) genotype-guided dosing in 
patients in whom warfarin therapy is to be initiated. The inputs for the model 
were derived from the literature. The incremental costs per unit outcome 
improved (ICERs) were US$347,059 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, 
$170,192 per adverse event averted, and $1,106,250 per life saved. The outcomes 
of 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate that the ICER per QALY gained was 
>$50,000 62.1% of the time. ICER was sensitive to baseline international 
normalized ratio (INR) control, reduction in out-of-range INRs by 
genotype-guided dosing, and genotyping cost. In conclusion, genotype-guided 
dosing for warfarin therapy does not appear to be cost-effective, with the 
potential ICER per QALY being >$50,000. Lowering the genotyping cost, improving 
effectiveness of INR control of the genotype-guided dosing algorithm, and 
applying the algorithm in practice sites with high out-of-range INRs would 
improve the cost-effectiveness of the dosing algorithm.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2009.104
PMID: 19571807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Ophthalmologe. 2010 Feb;107(2):143-9. doi: 10.1007/s00347-009-1983-4.

[Health-economic aspects of glaucoma screening].

[Article in German]

Hirneiss C(1), Niedermaier A, Kernt M, Kampik A, Neubauer AS.

Author information:
(1)Augenklinik der Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität, Mathildenstrasse 8, 80336, 
München, Deutschland. Christoph.Hirneiss@med.uni-muenchen.de

PURPOSE: Screening for glaucoma can detect undiagnosed patients, and treatment 
can prevent blindness. There are defined criteria for screening programs, but 
economic aspects of screening programs and cost utility estimations are of 
increasing importance.
METHODS: Medical databases (CDSR, HTA, MEDLINE, EMBASE) were searched on the 
topics of glaucoma screening, screening strategies and tools, and relevant 
health-economic analyses for glaucoma screening. In this article, the most 
important findings are presented and discussed using epidemiological data.
RESULTS: Glaucoma screening meets most of the relevant criteria for screening 
strategies. The best single screening test at this time is the frequency 
doubling technique. The cost-effectiveness depends mainly on the prevalence of 
the disease, the specificity of the screening test, the costs of screening and 
disease, and the impairment of quality of life due to glaucoma. Two recently 
published cost utility studies from Finland and the United Kingdom are 
presented. A common result is that a population screening is not cost-effective, 
whereas targeted screening of high-risk groups is.
CONCLUSION: Glaucoma screening of the general population is not cost-effective, 
but screening of groups at risk (e.g., those of a certain age, family history, 
or ethnicity) may be cost-effective. Clear cutoff points regarding whom to 
screen can be determined by economic analyses using high-quality data. These 
data influence health policy decision makers.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-009-1983-4
PMID: 19572134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. J Pediatr Surg. 2009 Jul;44(7):1405-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2008.07.009.

Fetal extraperitoneal rectal perforation: a rare neonatal emergency.

Pitcher GJ(1), Davies MR, Bowley DM, Numanoglu A, Rode H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Surgery, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Witwatersrand, South Africa. pitchmax@icon.co.za

PURPOSE: Intraperitoneal bowel perforation may occur in utero as a result of a 
variety of abnormalities and typically results in sterile meconium ascites, 
pseudocysts, and/or calcification in the fetus. On the other hand, 
extraperitoneal bowel perforation in intrauterine life is extremely rare. The 
object of this report is to present our experience of prenatal extraperitoneal 
rectal perforation, defining the clinical presentation, management, and 
progress.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Nine babies who were identified from 2 centers in the 
Republic of South Africa with fetal extraperitoneal rectal perforation are 
presented. The details of these babies were obtained retrospectively from the 
case notes.
RESULTS: All patients presented at or shortly after birth with air and meconium 
tracking below the pelvic floor manifesting as either an expanding, 
meconium-stained aerocele or with perirectal spreading sepsis. Where abdominal 
signs were present, laparotomy confirmed the extension of the meconium 
perforation into the peritoneal cavity. Management was by diverting colostomy, 
drainage of the perineal collection, and supportive therapy. A posterior 
approach to the rectum and excision of a fibrotic section of the lower rectal 
wall was performed in one case. One case developed rectal stenosis that was 
treated by dilatation before colostomy closure. In all the other cases, digital 
examination performed before colostomy closure ruled out significant narrowing. 
There was no mortality, and the site of the rectal perforation healed in all 
cases to leave good anorectal function after treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Fetal extraperitoneal perforation is extremely rare, but the 
clinical features are easily recognizable, and when appropriate therapy is 
instituted, the outcome is likely to be good with normal anorectal function to 
be expected in the long-term. The exact cause of the condition is unknown.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2008.07.009
PMID: 19573670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Semin Pediatr Surg. 2009 Aug;18(3):168-75. doi: 
10.1053/j.sempedsurg.2009.04.007.

Medical versus surgical interventions for the metabolic complications of obesity 
in children.

Dixon JB(1), Jones K, Dixon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. 
john.dixon@med.monash.edu.au

The global epidemic of obesity has not spared children. Although prevention of 
obesity is commendable, we cannot hide from the pressing need to identify, 
assess, and actively manage children seriously afflicted by obesity and its 
associated conditions. Sustained weight loss (or, for children, lowering of body 
mass index standard deviation score) delivers major health benefit, but in 
children has been difficult to achieve. In adults, the success of the diabetes 
prevention programs using practical lifestyle interventions is indisputable. 
Medical therapy, although currently limited in it scope, provides some promise 
for older children. There is now accumulating evidence, generally of poor 
quality that surgical interventions (laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding and 
Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) provide excellent sustained weight loss and 
improvement in comorbidity and quality of life in selected older children. Their 
benefits in adults are well demonstrated. Surgery comes with risk, both 
immediate and in the future, as does severe obesity. Carefully weighing risk and 
benefit is challenging for the individual and for health service providers. 
Careful health outcomes research with registries and well-conducted trials will 
provide better direction in the future. In the meantime, we should move forward 
ethically and cautiously in providing more intensive obesity management in 
children.

DOI: 10.1053/j.sempedsurg.2009.04.007
PMID: 19573759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. J Sci Med Sport. 2010 Jul;13(4):410-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jsams.2009.04.010. Epub
 2009 Jul 1.

Mortality and longevity of elite athletes.

Teramoto M(1), Bungum TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports Education Leadership, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, 
USA. teramot4@unlv.nevada.edu

The health benefits of leisure-time physical activity are well known, however 
the effects of engaging in competitive sports on health are uncertain. This 
literature review examines mortality and longevity of elite athletes and 
attempts to understand the association between long-term vigorous exercise 
training and survival rates. Fourteen articles of epidemiological studies were 
identified and classified by type of sport. Life expectancy, standardised 
mortality ratio, standardised proportionate mortality ratio, mortality rate, and 
mortality odds ratio for all causes of death were used to analyse mortality and 
longevity of elite athletes. It appears that elite endurance (aerobic) athletes 
and mixed-sports (aerobic and anaerobic) athletes survive longer than the 
general population, as indicated by lower mortality and higher longevity. Lower 
cardiovascular disease mortality is likely the primary reason for their better 
survival rates. On the other hand, there are inconsistent results among studies 
of power (anaerobic) athletes. When elite athletes engaging in various sports 
are analysed together, their mortality is lower than that of the general 
population. In conclusion, long-term vigorous exercise training is associated 
with increased survival rates of specific groups of athletes.

Copyright 2009 Sports Medicine Australia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsams.2009.04.010
PMID: 19574095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2010 Jan;17(1):49-63. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-009-0217-2. Epub 2009 Jul 3.

The state of ambient air quality in Pakistan--a review.

Colbeck I(1), Nasir ZA, Ali Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, 
Colchester, CO4 3SQ, UK. colbi@essex.ac.uk

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Pakistan, during the last decade, has seen an extensive 
escalation in population growth, urbanization, and industrialization, together 
with a great increase in motorization and energy use. As a result, a substantial 
rise has taken place in the types and number of emission sources of various air 
pollutants. However, due to the lack of air quality management capabilities, the 
country is suffering from deterioration of air quality. Evidence from various 
governmental organizations and international bodies has indicated that air 
pollution is a significant risk to the environment, quality of life, and health 
of the population. The Government has taken positive steps toward air quality 
management in the form of the Pakistan Clean Air Program and has recently 
established a small number of continuous monitoring stations. However, ambient 
air quality standards have not yet been established. This paper reviews the data 
being available on the criteria air pollutants: particulate matter (PM), sulfur 
dioxide, ozone, carbon monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, and lead.
METHODS: Air pollution studies in Pakistan published in both scientific journals 
and by the Government have been reviewed and the reported concentrations of PM, 
SO(2), O(3), CO, NO(2), and Pb collated. A comparison of the levels of these air 
pollutants with the World Health Organization air quality guidelines was carried 
out.
RESULTS: Particulate matter was the most serious air pollutant in the country. 
NO(2) has emerged as the second high-risk pollutant. The reported levels of PM, 
SO(2), CO, NO(2), and Pb were many times higher than the World Health 
Organization air quality guidelines. Only O(3) concentrations were below the 
guidelines.
CONCLUSIONS: The current state of air quality calls for immediate action to 
tackle the poor air quality. The establishment of ambient air quality standards, 
an extension of the continuous monitoring sites, and the development of emission 
control strategies are essential.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-009-0217-2
PMID: 19575252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. World J Gastroenterol. 2009 Jul 7;15(25):3153-60. doi: 10.3748/wjg.15.3153.

What is the most cost-effective strategy to screen for second primary colorectal 
cancers in male cancer survivors in Korea?

Park SM(1), Kim SY, Earle CC, Jeong SY, Yun YH.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Center, Ilsan-Gu, Goyang, Gyeonggi, South Korea.

AIM: To identify a cost-effective strategy of second primary colorectal cancer 
(CRC) screening for cancer survivors in Korea using a decision-analytic model.
METHODS: A Markov model estimated the clinical and economic consequences of a 
simulated 50-year-old male cancer survivors' cohort, and we compared the results 
of eight screening strategies: no screening, fecal occult blood test (FOBT) 
annually, FOBT every 2 years, sigmoidoscopy every 5 years, double contrast 
barium enema every 5 years, and colonoscopy every 10 years (COL10), every 5 
years (COL5), and every 3 years (COL3). We included only direct medical costs, 
and our main outcome measures were discounted lifetime costs, life expectancy, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the non-dominated strategies in cancer 
survivors were COL5, and COL3. The ICER for COL3 in cancer survivors was 
$5593/life-year saved (LYS), and did not exceed $10,000/LYS in one-way 
sensitivity analyses. If the risk of CRC in cancer survivors is at least two 
times higher than that in the general population, COL5 had an ICER of less than 
$10,500/LYS among both good and poor prognosis of index cancer. If the age of 
cancer survivors starting CRC screening was decreased to 40 years, the ICER of 
COL5 was less than $7400/LYS regardless of screening compliance.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that more strict and frequent recommendations for 
colonoscopy such as COL5 and COL3 could be considered as economically reasonable 
second primary CRC screening strategies for Korean male cancer survivors.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.15.3153
PMCID: PMC2705739
PMID: 19575496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Annu Rev Psychol. 2010;61:383-409. doi: 10.1146/annurev.psych.093008.100448.

Social and emotional aging.

Charles ST(1), Carstensen LL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Social Behavior, University of California, 
Irvine, California 96297, USA. scharles@uci.edu

The past several decades have witnessed unidimensional decline models of aging 
give way to life-span developmental models that consider how specific processes 
and strategies facilitate adaptive aging. In part, this shift was provoked by 
the stark contrast between findings that clearly demonstrate decreased 
biological, physiological, and cognitive capacity and those suggesting that 
people are generally satisfied in old age and experience relatively high levels 
of emotional well-being. In recent years, this supposed "paradox" of aging has 
been reconciled through careful theoretical analysis and empirical 
investigation. Viewing aging as adaptation sheds light on resilience, 
well-being, and emotional distress across adulthood.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev.psych.093008.100448
PMCID: PMC3950961
PMID: 19575618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Brain Res Bull. 2009 Oct 28;80(4-5):315-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2009.06.014. Epub 2009 Jul 1.

Prevention of age-associated dementia.

Mohajeri MH(1), Leuba G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry Research, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. 
hasan.mohajeri@dsm.com

The advancement of medical sciences during the last century has resulted in a 
considerable increase in life expectancy. As more people live to old age, one of 
the most fundamental questions of the 21st century is whether the number of 
individuals suffering from dementia will also continue to increase. Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) accounts for the majority of cases of dementia in the elderly, but 
there is currently no curative treatment available. Several strategies have been 
introduced for treatment, the most recent strategy of which was the immunization 
of patients using antibodies against Abeta, which is a naturally occurring, even 
though misfolded peptide in the AD brain. Both active and passive immunization 
routes have been shown to reduce the pathology associated with Abeta 
accumulation in brains of genetically designed animal models. However, despite 
tremendous efforts, no unequivocal proof of therapeutic efficacy could be shown 
in AD patients. Particularly, the persistence of the neurofibrillary tangles in 
immunized brains and the issue of inducing cerebral amyloid angiopathy are major 
limiting factors of antibody therapy. Furthermore, physical activity, a healthy 
immune system and nutritional habits are suggested to protect against the onset 
of age-associated dementia. Thus, accumulative evidence suggests that an early 
integrated strategy, combining pharmacological, immunological, nutritional and 
life-style factors, is the most pragmatic approach to delay the onset and 
progression of age-associated dementia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2009.06.014
PMID: 19576269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Hepatol. 2009 Oct;51(4):640-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2009.04.013. Epub 2009
May  20.

Modeling the cost-effectiveness of different oral antiviral therapies in 
patients with chronic hepatitis B.

Buti M(1), Brosa M, Casado MA, Rueda M, Esteban R.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hepatologi a, Hospital Vall d'Hebrón and Ciber-ehd del Instituto 
Carlos III, Barcelona, Spain. mbuti@vhebron.net

Comment in
    J Hepatol. 2009 Oct;51(4):623-5.
    J Hepatol. 2009 Dec;51(6):1086-7; author reply 1087-8.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is a common disease associated with 
high morbidity, mortality and impact on healthcare costs. Several oral antiviral 
therapies can lead to complete virologic response, which is associated with 
prevention of disease progression. The aim of this study was to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of the oral antiviral treatments lamivudine, adefovir, 
telbivudine, entecavir and tenofovir, in patients with CHB.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to project the lifetime complications and costs 
in cohorts of both HBeAg-positive and HBeAg-negative CHB patients treated with 
one of the above drugs or no treatment. Rescue therapy with two different 
combination therapies (adefovir plus lamivudine or tenofovir plus entecavir) 
with their corresponding costs and efficacy rates was also considered. The 
probabilities of disease progression were based on serum HBV DNA levels. Disease 
and complication costs were assessed using the perspective of the Spanish 
National Health System.
RESULTS: The highest rate of virologic response was obtained with tenofovir, and 
this translated to its higher life years saved (LYS) and quality adjusted life 
years (QALY) compared with the rest of the alternatives in HBeAg-positive and 
HBeAg-negative patients. Tenofovir is associated with lower costs and higher 
efficacy over entecavir, telbivudine and adefovir in HBeAg-positive patients, 
and telbivudine and entecavir in HBeAg-negative patients. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios with respect to the rest of the alternatives are below 
the common reference efficiency threshold of 30,000 euro per LYS/QALY.
CONCLUSION: In chronic HBV infected patients, tenofovir is a cost-effective or 
even cost-saving strategy compared with other available treatment options for 
CHB.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2009.04.013
PMID: 19576651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Presse Med. 2009 Sep;38(9):1211-2. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2009.06.002. Epub 2009
Jul  2.

[Human longevity: 150 years and more?].

[Article in French]

Le Bourg E.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2009.06.002
PMID: 19576726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2009 Jul;90(7):1237-40. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2008.09.565.

Age-associated changes in motor unit physiology: observations from the Baltimore 
Longitudinal Study of Aging.

Ling SM(1), Conwit RA, Ferrucci L, Metter EJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Branch, National Institute on Aging Intramural Research 
Program, National Institutes of Health, Baltimore, MD, USA. lingsh@mail.nih.gov

OBJECTIVE: To examine motor unit characteristics (size and firing rate) 
associated with aging.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, observational.
SETTING: Community.
PARTICIPANTS: Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging participants (N=102), aged 
22.2 to 94.1 years, were studied.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Surface-represented motor unit size and firing rate were 
collected from the vastus medialis during knee extension at 10%, 20%, 30%, and 
50% of each subject's maximum isometric voluntary contraction (MVC).
RESULTS: MVC declined with older age (P<.0001). Adjusting for differences in 
MVC, both firing rate and motor unit size per newton force generated began to 
increase in the 6th decade of life. Motor unit size increased per newton force 
to a greater extent than firing rate. Those over the age of 75 years also 
activated significantly larger motor units per unit force (P=.04). Relative to 
force generated, the average firing rate began increasing at 57.8+/-3.4 years 
and between 50.2 and 56.4 years (+/-4y) for motor unit size.
CONCLUSIONS: The size of motor units and firing rates used to achieve a given 
force changes with age, particularly after middle age. Whether these changes 
precede, follow, or occur concurrent to age-related modifications in muscle 
structure and contractile properties or sarcopenia is not known.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2008.09.565
PMCID: PMC5496096
PMID: 19577038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No commercial party having a direct financial 
interest in the results of the research supporting this article has or will 
confer a benefit on the authors or on any organization with which the authors 
are associated.


27. Popul Environ. 2008 May 1;29(3-5):103-107. doi: 10.1007/s11111-008-0069-6.

The environmental dimensions of the HIV/AIDS pandemic: a call for scholarship 
and evidence-based intervention.

Hunter LM(1), De Souza RM, Twine W.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Sociology and Environmental Studies, Institute of Behavioral 
Science, Program on Environment and Society, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO, USA e-mail: Lori.Hunter@colorado.edu.

The HIV/AIDS pandemic has had dramatic influence on the demographic dynamics of 
many of the world's less economically developed regions. Today, an estimated 33 
million individuals are living with HIV, and recent data suggest that, every 
day, over 6800 persons become HIV-infected and over 5700 persons die from AIDS 
(UNAIDS 2006). The age profile of HIV infection is well known, with new cases 
impacting primarily prime-age adults. Sub-Saharan Africa remains the world's 
most affected region with recent population-based surveys suggesting that adult 
prevalence rates (age 15-49) reaches as high as 25% in Botswana and over 23% in 
Lesotho (UNAIDS 2006). Still, HIV/AIDS also impacts children, with over 2 
million HIV+ individuals under age 15 in sub-Saharan Africa; And the disease 
profile now includes many individuals over age 50 due to the positive impact on 
life expectancy of recent treatment advances (UNAIDS 2006).Of course, HIV/AIDS' 
impacts at the individual and household levels are difficult to discern from 
aggregate data although ethnographic research provides insights into nuanced 
household survival strategies (e.g., Evans 2005; Schatz and Ogunmefun 2007). 
Such work reveals household efforts to maintain a sense of "normality" in 
response to the impacts of HIV/AIDS, otherwise known as "the disease" (Bohman et 
al. 2007).

DOI: 10.1007/s11111-008-0069-6
PMCID: PMC2705167
PMID: 19578530


28. Tumori. 2009 Mar-Apr;95(2):219-26. doi: 10.1177/030089160909500214.

Cost-effectiveness of pegfilgrastim versus six days of filgrastim for preventing 
febrile neutropenia in breast cancer patients.

Danova M(1), Chiroli S, Rosti G, Doan QV.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology IRCCS Foundation S. Matteo, Pavia, Italy.

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Febrile neutropenia (FN) is a major complication of 
chemotherapy and is associated with substantial morbidity, mortality and costs. 
The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of primary 
prophylaxis with, pegfilgrastim versus six-day filgrastim in preventing FN in 
Italian patients with early-stage breast cancer receiving adjuvant chemotherapy 
associated with a > or = 20% FN risk.
METHODS: The pharmacoeconomic evaluation was based on a decision-analytic model 
taking into account the possible consequences of FN (e.g., death and 
reduction/delay of chemotherapy dose). Parameters included in the model were 
relative risk of FN with pegfilgrastim versus six-day filgrastim; direct costs 
(drug purchase and FN-related hospitalizations); relative risk of relative dose 
intensity < 85% with pegfilgrastim versus filgrastim; impact on long-term 
survival due to relative dose intensity < 85%; and impact of age on FN and 
relative dose intensity < 85%.
RESULTS: Under base-case assumptions, pegfilgrastim was cost-effective compared 
to six-day filgrastim in Italy. The estimated cost, life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life years per person for pegfilgrastim were Euro 3078, 16.47 
years, and 15.32; the corresponding figures for six-day filgrastim were Euro 
3033, 16.35 years, and 15.22. The corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio with pegfilgrastim was Euro 409 per life-year gained and Euro 429 per 
quality-adjusted life year gained. One-way sensitivity analyses showed that the 
results were most sensitive to the relative risk of FN for 6-day filgrastim 
versus pegfilgrastim. The results were moderately sensitive to the cost of 
pegfilgrastim and filgrastim, cost of drug administration, cost of FN 
hospitalization, and number of chemotherapy cycles. Pegfilgrastim remained 
cost-effective, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio well below the 
accepted limit of Euro 50,000 per life year gained in all one-way sensitivity 
analyses. A two-way sensitivity analysis on cost of drugs showed a range of 
pegfilgrastim dominance over six-day filgrastim.
CONCLUSIONS: At the current official price in Italy, primary prophylaxis with 
pegfilgrastim improved health outcomes with a very limited cost increase for the 
National Health Service payer. Even when very low prices of filgrastim and high 
prices of pegfilgrastim were considered in the model, the resulting incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio remained well within the acceptable cost-effectiveness 
limit of Euro 50,000/quality-adjusted life year.

DOI: 10.1177/030089160909500214
PMID: 19579869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 May 20;5(204):1116-8, 1120, 1122-3.

[Colorectal cancer in elderly patients].

[Article in French]

Des Guetz G(1), Carola E.

Author information:
(1)Service d'oncologie, Hôpital Avicenne, 125, rue de Stalingrad, 93009 Bobigny 
cedex, France. gaetan.des-guetz@wanadoo.fr

Colorectal cancer (CRC) is predominantly a disease of the elderly. The increase 
of life expectancy will no doubt lead to an increase of these cancers. Few 
studies have been specially designed for older patients treated for CRC. In 
general, publications consisted of small phase II studies or retrospective 
analyses of the subpopulation of elderly patients (from large phase III) -- 
patients over the age of 65 as compared with younger patients. Therefore we now 
need to offer specific treatment combining oncologist and geriatric physicians 
to better codify and adapt treatments to the physiological age of the patient. 
This is a review of the different stages of care for elderly patients with 
colorectal cancer in the light of recent publications.

PMID: 19580209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. West Indian Med J. 2008 Dec;57(6):577-88.

Ageing: the response yesterday, today and tomorrow.

Eldemire-Shearer D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, The University of the West 
Indies, Kingston 7, Jamaica, West Indies. denise.eldemireshearer@uwimona.edu.jm

This is an overview of the phenomenon of population ageing and ageing trends in 
Jamaica. It documents landmark policy achievements and responses to population 
ageing and analyses related social, economic and health implications, as well 
as, the challenges and opportunities of ageing. The interdigitations of ageing 
issues and public health is manifest from the early historical milestones in 
ageing research to the establishment of the Mona Ageing and Wellness Centre to 
the continuing collaborative work with international agencies such as the World 
Health Organization (WHO). The contribution of the University of the West Indies 
(UWI) through the Department of Community Health and Psychiatry to ageing 
research and policy is documented.

PMID: 19580239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. West Indian Med J. 2008 Dec;57(6):596-604.

Medical sociology: modelling well-being for elderly people in Jamaica.

Bourne PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, The University of the West 
Indies, Kingston 7, Jamaica, West Indies. paulbourne1@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: Advances in nutrition, sanitation, water supply, technology and drugs 
have managed to add years to life. However, with the continuing increase in the 
non-communicable diseases, the World Health Organization (WHO) has said that 
disabilities have eroded nine years from the healthy quality of life of 
Jamaicans. The current study aims to provide factors that will explain how to 
attain 'good' health.
METHOD: The research design for this study is an explanatory one. This research 
utilizes cross-sectional data taken from the Jamaica Survey of Living Conditions 
(JSLC) 2002 in order to identify and explain some of the determinants of 
well-being among the Jamaican elderly. Information collected used 
self-administered questionnaire. Multivariate regression was used to establish 
the well-being model. The surveyedpopulation was 3009 respondents ages 60 years 
and older, with 52.7% females (n=1423) and 47.3% males (n=1423). The average age 
of the surveyed population was 71 years 10 months +/- 8 years six months.
RESULT: Of the 14 predisposed variables that were used to test the general 
hypothesis, 11 were found to be statistically significant. From the selected 
variables of this study, the six most important factors that impact on the 
well-being of the Jamaican elderly in descending order are as follows: social 
support (beta = 0.486), average occupancy per room (beta = -0.428), area of 
residence--living in Kingston Metropolitan Area (KMA) with reference to rural 
areas (beta = 0.179) or dwelling in other towns with reference to rural area 
(beta = 0.157), education (beta = 0.155) followed by the physical environment 
(beta = -0.138) and age of respondents (beta = -0.129).
CONCLUSION: The predisposed variables used in this study explain 45.9% of the 
variance in quality of life. The variable that has the most influential impact 
on well-being is social support. The general wellbeing of the Jamaican elderly 
is low (mean of 3.9/14 +/- 2.3). The model provides a basis upon which we can 
address patient care and 'good' health.

PMID: 19580241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Sep;44(9):601-6. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.06.008. Epub
2009  Jul 4.

Does dietary restriction reduce life span in male fruit-feeding butterflies?

Molleman F(1), Ding J, Boggs CL, Carey JR, Arlet ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA. freerkmolleman@hotmail.com

Male life history and resource allocation is not frequently studied in aging and 
life span research. Here, we verify that males of long-lived fruit-feeding 
butterfly species have reduced longevity on restricted diets [Beck, J., 2007. 
The importance of amino acids in the adult diet of male tropical rainforest 
butterflies. Oecologia 151, 741-747], in contrast to the common finding of 
longevity extension in dietary restriction experiments in Drosophila and some 
other organisms. Males of some of the most long-lived species of fruit-feeding 
butterflies were collected from Kibale Forest, Uganda, and kept on diets of 
either sugar or mashed banana. Seven out of eight species had non-significantly 
longer life spans on mashed banana diets. Data analysis using a time-varying 
Cox-model with species as covariate showed that males had reduced survival on 
the sugar diet during the first 35 days of captive life, but the effect was 
absent or reversed at more advanced ages. These results challenge the generality 
of dietary restriction as a way to extend life span in animals. We argue that 
such studies on males are promising tools for better understanding life history 
evolution and aging because males display a wider variety of tactics for 
obtaining reproductive success than females.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.06.008
PMCID: PMC2788706
PMID: 19580860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Exp Gerontol. 2009 Sep;44(9):607-12. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.06.007. Epub
2009  Jul 4.

Multiple mild heat-shocks decrease the Gompertz component of mortality in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Wu D(1), Cypser JR, Yashin AI, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO 80309, USA. Deqing.wu@gmail.com

Exposure to mild heat-stress (heat-shock) can significantly increase the life 
expectancy of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. A single heat-shock early in 
life extends longevity by 20% or more and affects life-long mortality by 
decreasing initial mortality only; the rate of increase in subsequent mortality 
(Gompertz component) is unchanged. Repeated mild heat-shocks throughout life 
have a larger effect on life span than does a single heat-shock early in life. 
Here, we ask how multiple heat-shocks affect the mortality trajectory in 
nematodes and find increases of life expectancy of close to 50% and of maximum 
longevity as well. We examined mortality using large numbers of animals and 
found that multiple heat-shocks not only decrease initial mortality, but also 
slow the Gompertz rate of increase in mortality. Thus, multiple heat-shocks have 
anti-aging hormetic effects and represent an effective approach for modulating 
aging.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.06.007
PMCID: PMC2753291
PMID: 19580861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Magy Onkol. 2009 Jun;53(2):97-105. doi: 10.1556/MOnkol.53.2009.2.1.

[Chemotherapy of elderly patients with colorectal cancer].

[Article in Hungarian]

Landherr L(1), Nagykálnai T.

Author information:
(1)Fovárosi Onkormányzat Uzsoki utcai Kórháza Onkoradiológiai Központ 1145 
Budapest Uzsoki u. 29-41. landherr@uzsok.hu

Elderly patients will be the largest group of oncology patients in the future. 
Because of minimal participation of older patients in randomized clinical trials 
there is a lack of evidence-based data to make correct decisions with regard to 
chemotherapy and/or targeted therapy in this age group. Elderly patients have 
similar benefits from systemic therapies as younger counterparts, but many 
elders have substantial co-morbidities, which may limit the life expectancy and 
the effectiveness of systemic therapy. Close collaboration between oncologists 
and geriatrists will help make decisions on the management of elderly patients 
suffering from cancer.

DOI: 10.1556/MOnkol.53.2009.2.1
PMID: 19581175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Scand J Public Health. 2009 Aug;37(6):661-3. doi: 10.1177/1403494809341098.
Epub  2009 Jul 6.

Cross-national comparisons of non-harmonized indicators may lead to more 
confusion than clarification.

Ekholm O(1), Brønnum-Hansen H.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Public Health, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark. 
oek@niph.dk

AIMS: A newly published study showed that the life expectancy for Danes was 
below the European Union (EU) average. Furthermore, the study showed that 
healthy life years (HLYs) at 50 years of age were much higher in Denmark than in 
the other EU countries in 2005. However, the results of this study should be 
interpreted with caution.
METHODS: The analyses regarding HLYs were based on the global long-term activity 
limitation index as a measure of disability and were included in the EU Survey 
on Income and Living Condition (EU-SILC). In Denmark two response categories 
were used to asses long-term activity limitation (yes; no) compared to three 
levels in all other countries (severely limited; limited but not severely; 
none). In addition, the wording of the question in Denmark makes cross-national 
comparisons even more inadequate. The questions and the response categories were 
revised in the Danish SILC-2008.
RESULTS: A comparison of the previous and the revised indicator shows that the 
estimated number of HLYs at 50 years of age is approximately three years lower 
for both men and women in 2008 than in 2005. Furthermore, in Denmark data was 
collected via telephone interviews or postal questionnaires. However, in almost 
all other countries data was collected via face-to-face interviews. It is well 
known that the mode of data collection may affect response distributions.
CONCLUSIONS: Results based on non-harmonized indicators should always be 
interpreted cautiously to avoid policy-makers and others reaching erroneous 
conclusions.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494809341098
PMID: 19581358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Br J Sports Med. 2009 Jul;43(7):482.

Total mortality after changes in leisure time physical activity in 50 year old 
men: 35 year follow-up of population based cohort.

Byberg L(1), Melhus H, Gedeborg R, Sundström J, Ahlbom A, Zethelius B, Berglund 
LG, Wolk A, Michaëlsson K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical Sciences, Section of Orthopaedics, and Uppsala 
Clinical Research Centre, Uppsala University, SE-75185 Uppsala, Sweden. 
liisa.byberg@surgsci.uu.se

OBJECTIVE: To examine how change in level of physical activity after middle age 
influences mortality and to compare it with the effect of smoking cessation.
DESIGN: Population based cohort study with follow-up over 35 years.
SETTING: Municipality of Uppsala, Sweden.
PARTICIPANTS: 2205 men aged 50 in 1970-3 who were reexamined at ages 60, 70, 77, 
and 82 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Total (all cause) mortality.
RESULTS: The absolute mortality rate was 27.1, 23.6, and 18.4 per 1000 person 
years in the groups with low, medium, and high physical activity, respectively. 
The relative rate reduction attributable to high physical activity was 32% for 
low and 22% for medium physical activity. Men who increased their physical 
activity level between the ages of 50 and 60 continued to have a higher 
mortality rate during the first five years of follow-up (adjusted hazard ratio 
2.64, 95% confidence interval 1.32 to 5.27, compared with unchanged high 
physical activity). After 10 years of follow-up their increased physical 
activity was associated with reduced mortality to the level of men with 
unchanged high physical activity (1.10, 0.87 to 1.38). The reduction in 
mortality associated with increased physical activity (0.51, 0.26 to 0.97, 
compared with unchanged low physical activity) was similar to that associated 
with smoking cessation (0.64, 0.53 to 0.78, compared with continued smoking).
CONCLUSIONS: Increased physical activity in middle age is eventually followed by 
a reduction in mortality to the same level as seen among men with constantly 
high physical activity. This reduction is comparable with that associated with 
smoking cessation.

PMID: 19581403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Hippokratia. 2007 Jul;11(3):150-3.

Gitelman's syndrome (familial hypokalemia-hypomagnesemia).

Gjata M(1), Tase M, Gjata A, Gjergji Zh.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine and Hypertension Department, University Hospital Centre 
Mother Teresa, Tirana, Albania. mresuli@yahoo.com

Gitelman's syndrome (GS) is a heritable renal disorder characterized by 
hypomagnesemia, hypokalemia and hypocalciuria, and is distinct from Bartter's 
syndrome (BS). As compared to those with BS, patients with GS present at an 
older age, and they have a milder clinical picture, normal or slightly decreased 
concentrating urine ability, reduced urinary excretion of calcium, and 
permanently decreased serum magnesium level. GS is caused by defective NaCl 
transport in the distal convoluted tubule, and is linked to the gene encoding 
the thiazide sensitive Na-Cl-cotransporter located on chromosome 16q. Patients 
with BS, on the other hand, have mutations in the transporters in the thick 
ascending loop of Henle (NKCC2, ROMK, and C1C-Kb). Treatment of GS consists of 
magnesium salt replacement. Long term prognosis in terms of maintaining growth, 
preserving renal function and life expectancy is excellent.

PMCID: PMC2658800
PMID: 19582211


38. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Apr;11(2):205-13. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0167-0.
Epub  2009 Jul 7.

A social preference valuations set for EQ-5D health states in Flanders, Belgium.

Cleemput I(1).

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre, Administratief Centrum Kruidtuin, 
Doorbuilding, 10th Floor, Kruidtuinlaan 55, 1000, Brussels, Belgium. 
Irina.cleemput@kce.fgov.be

This study aimed at deriving a preference valuation set for EQ-5D health states 
from the general Flemish public in Belgium. A EuroQol valuation instrument with 
16 health states to be valued on a visual analogue scale was sent to a random 
sample of 2,754 adults. The initial response rate was 35%. Eventually, 548 (20%) 
respondents provided useable valuations for modeling. Valuations for 245 health 
states were modeled using a random effects model. The selection of the model was 
based on two criteria: health state valuations must be consistent, and the 
difference with the directly observed valuations must be small. A model 
including a value decrement if any health dimension of the EQ-5D is on the worst 
level was selected to construct the social health state valuation set. A 
comparison with health state valuations from other countries showed 
similarities, especially with those from New Zealand. The use of a single 
preference valuation set across different health economic evaluations within a 
country is highly preferable to increase their usability for policy makers. This 
study contributes to the standardization of outcome measurement in economic 
evaluations in Belgium.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0167-0
PMID: 19582490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Health Econ. 2010 Jun;19(6):697-715. doi: 10.1002/hec.1503.

A model to predict the cost-effectiveness of disease management programs.

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)The James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, Houston, 
USA. gandjour@rice.edu

High costs and deficits in the care of patients with chronic diseases have 
triggered numerous programs to improve the quality and efficiency of treatment 
of chronic diseases. Decision makers need to estimate the impact of a disease 
management program (DMP) on long-term costs and cost-effectiveness in order to 
decide which programs to introduce. This prediction, however, requires 
formalizing the relations between a variety of variables. The purpose of this 
paper is to formalize these relations and develop a model that enhances the 
quality of predictions of the costs and cost-effectiveness of a DMP. The model's 
cost function is able to portray a reduction both of treatment overuse and 
underuse by improving both physician and patient compliance. The model's 
applicability is demonstrated by a simulated DMP for patients with hypertension. 
The application example shows that implementation costs may have a larger 
financial impact than downstream costs.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1503
PMID: 19582700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Dev Psychopathol. 2009 Summer;21(3):687-713. doi: 10.1017/S095457940900039X.

A unifying perspective on personality pathology across the life span: 
developmental considerations for the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders.

Tackett JL(1), Balsis S, Oltmanns TF, Krueger RF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
tackett@psych.utoronto.ca

Proposed changes in the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual 
of Mental Disorders (DSM-V) include replacing current personality disorder (PD) 
categories on Axis II with a taxonomy of dimensional maladaptive personality 
traits. Most of the work on dimensional models of personality pathology, and on 
personality disorders per se, has been conducted on young and middle-aged adult 
populations. Numerous questions remain regarding the applicability and 
limitations of applying various PD models to early and later life. In the 
present paper, we provide an overview of such dimensional models and review 
current proposals for conceptualizing PDs in DSM-V. Next, we extensively review 
existing evidence on the development, measurement, and manifestation of 
personality pathology in early and later life focusing on those issues deemed 
most relevant for informing DSM-V. Finally, we present overall conclusions 
regarding the need to incorporate developmental issues in conceptualizing PDs in 
DSM-V and highlight the advantages of a dimensional model in unifying PD 
perspectives across the life span.

DOI: 10.1017/S095457940900039X
PMCID: PMC2864523
PMID: 19583880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Dev Psychopathol. 2009 Summer;21(3):793-814. doi: 10.1017/S0954579409000431.

A structural-developmental psychodynamic approach to psychopathology: two 
polarities of experience across the life span.

Blatt SJ(1), Luyten P.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychiatry and Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, CT 
06511, USA. sidney.blatt@yale.edu

Consistent with principles of developmental psychopathology, this paper presents 
a broad psychodynamic structural developmental perspective that establishes 
conceptual continuities between processes of normal personality development, 
personality organization, concepts of psychopathology, and processes of 
therapeutic change. The major assumption of this approach is that personality 
development proceeds in a dialectic synergistic interaction between the 
development of capacities for interpersonal relatedness and the development of 
self-definition or identity. Extensive research demonstrates that these two 
dimensions define two broad types of personality organization, each with a 
particular experiential mode; preferred forms of cognition, defense, and 
adaptation; unique qualities of interpersonal relatedness and specific types of 
object and self-representation. Severe disruptions of this normal dialectic 
developmental process result in various forms of psychopathology organized in 
two basic configurations in which there is distorted defensive preoccupation, at 
different developmental levels, with one of these polarities (relatedness or 
self-definition) at the expense of the development of the other dimension. This 
paper reviews empirical findings supporting this approach to normal and 
disrupted personality development throughout the life cycle and considers its 
relationship to the internalizing-externalizing distinction in childhood and 
adolescence, attachment theory, and research on the interaction between 
biological and psychosocial factors in development across the life span. 
Finally, we discuss the implications of this approach for intervention and 
prevention.

DOI: 10.1017/S0954579409000431
PMID: 19583884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Transplantation. 2009 Jul 15;88(1):23-9. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181a9ec89.

A lifetime versus a graft life approach redefines the importance of HLA matching 
in kidney transplant patients.

Meier-Kriesche HU(1), Scornik JC, Susskind B, Rehman S, Schold JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. 
meierhu@medicine.ufl.edu

INTRODUCTION: Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) matching has been de-emphasized in 
the allocation of renal allografts and further discounting is planned in the new 
United Network of Organ Sharing kidney allocation model. An unforeseen 
consequence of poorer matching could be increased sensitization for candidates 
pursuing retransplantation.
METHODS: We examined candidates listed in the United States from 1988 to 2007 
from the Scientific Renal Transplant Registry (SRTR) database that were relisted 
after loss of a primary kidney transplant (n=15,980). The primary outcome was 
change in panel reactive antibody (PRA) from prior to recipient's initial 
transplant to the subsequent listing. Absolute change in PRA levels were 
examined in general linear models and the likelihood of becoming newly 
sensitized in logistic models.
RESULTS: There was no appreciable change in PRA for patients receiving a first 0 
HLA-A, -B, -DR, or 0 HLA-A, -B-mismatched kidney transplant; contrariwise, there 
was a significant increase in PRA by increasing HLA mismatch of the first 
transplant. Only 10% of patients became sensitized after a 0 HLA-A, 
-B-mismatched transplant, whereas the proportion rose up to 37% with increasing 
