Effekt auszulösen scheint.

PMCID: PMC2703231
PMID: 19675702


261. Ger Med Sci. 2003 Nov 3;1:Doc07.

Antiviral combination therapy with interferon/peginterferon plus ribavirin for 
patients with chronic hepatitis C in Germany: a health technology assessment 
commissioned by the German Agency for Health Technology Assessment.

Siebert U(1), Sroczynski G; German Hepatitis C Model (GEHMO) Group; HTA Expert 
Panel on Hepatitis C.

Author information:
(1)Program on Health Technology Assessment and Decision Sciences, Bavarian 
Public Health Research and Coordinating Center, Institute of Medical 
Informatics, Biometry, and Epidemiology, Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, 
Germany. siebert@ibe.med.uni-muenchen.de

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this health technology assessment (HTA), commissioned 
by the German Agency for HTA at the German Federal Ministry of Health and Social 
Security, was to systematically review the evidence on effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of antiviral treatment (AVT) for initial chronic hepatitis C 
(CHC) and to apply these data in the context of the German health care system.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted to identify randomised 
controlled trials (RCTs), meta-analyses, and HTAs that evaluated initial AVT for 
CHC. A modified version of the German Hepatitis C Model (GEHMO)--a 
decision-analytic Markov model--was used to determine long-term morbidity, life 
expectancy, quality of life, costs and cost-effectiveness of different treatment 
strategies. Model parameters were derived from German databases, international 
RCTs, and a Cochrane Review.
RESULTS: Overall, 9 RCTs, 2 HTA reports, 1 Cochrane review, and 2 meta-analyses 
examining medical effectiveness of antiviral combination therapy, as well as 7 
economic evaluations, met the inclusion criteria. These studies indicate that 
combination therapy with peginterferon plus ribavirin produced the highest 
sustained virological response rates (54-61%), followed by interferon plus 
ribavirin with 38-54%, and interferon monotherapy with 11-21%. Based on 
international cost-effectiveness studies, interferon plus ribavirin is 
cost-effective compared to interferon monotherapy. No published articles were 
available regarding cost-effectiveness of peginterferon plus ribavirin. In our 
decision analysis, these findings were confirmed and the discounted incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for peginterferon plus ribavirin was euro 9,800 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained compared to interferon monotherapy (as the 
next best non-dominated strategy). Sensitivity analyses showed robust results 
across a wide range of model parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: This HTA suggests that initial combination therapy prolongs life, 
improves quality of life, and is cost-effective in patients with CHC. 
Combination of peginterferon and ribavirin is the most effective and efficient 
treatment strategy among the examined options.

Ziel: Gegenstand dieses Health Technology Assessments (HTA), welches im Auftrag 
der Deutschen Agentur für HTA (DIMDI/Bundesministerium für Gesundheit und 
Soziale Sicherung) durchgeführt wurde, war die systematische Bewertung der 
medizinischen Effektivität und der Kosteneffektivität antiviraler Therapien bei 
therapienaiven Patienten mit chronischer Hepatitis C im Kontext des deutschen 
Gesundheitswesens. Methoden: Es wurde eine systematische Literaturrecherche zur 
Identifikation von randomisierten klinischen Studien (RCT), Metaanalysen und 
HTAs zur initialen antiviralen Therapie bei chronischer Hepatitis C 
durchgeführt. Mit einer modifizierten Version des German Hepatitis C Model 
(GEHMO), einem entscheidungsanalytischen Markov-Modell, wurden 
Langzeitmorbidität, Lebenserwartung, qualitätskorrigierte Lebensjahre (QALY), 
Lebenszeitkosten und das inkrementelle Kosten-Nutzwert-Verhältnis (IKNV) für 
verschiedene Therapiestrategien ermittelt. Die Modellparameter wurden deutschen 
Datenbanken, internationalen RCTs und einem Cochrane-Review entnommen. 
Ergebnisse: Insgesamt erfüllten 9 RCTs, 2 HTA-Berichte, 1 Cochrane Review und 2 
Metaanalysen zur medizinischen Effektivität sowie 7 ökonomische Evaluationen die 
Einschlusskriterien dieses HTA. Die Sustained Virological Response Raten (SVR) 
waren am höchsten für Peginterferon plus Ribavirin mit 54-61%, gefolgt von 
Interferon plus Ribavirin mit 38-54% und der Interferon-Monotherapie mit 11-21%. 
In internationalen Kosten-Effektivitäts-Studien wurde die Kombinationstherapie 
mit Interferon und Ribavirin im Vergleich zur Interferon-Monotherapie als 
kosteneffektiv eingeschätzt. Publizierte Studien zur Kosteneffektivität der 
Kombinationstherapie mit Peginterferon und Ribavirin wurden im Recherchezeitraum 
nicht identifiziert. Die Ergebnisse dieses Reviews wurden in unserer 
entscheidungsanalytischen Modellierung bestätigt. Die Kombinationstherapie mit 
Peginterferon und Ribavirin erzielte im Vergleich zur Interferon-Monotherapie 
ein IKNV von 9.800 €/QALY. In Sensitivitätsanalysen zeigten sich robuste 
Ergebnisse über weite Bereiche der relevanten Modellparameter. Schlussfolgerung: 
Basierend auf den Ergebnissen dieses HTAs ist davon auszugehen, dass antivirale 
Kombinationstherapien bei therapienaiven Patienten die Lebenserwartung erhöhen, 
die Langzeit-Lebensqualität verbessern und als kosteneffektiv einzustufen sind. 
Die Kombinationstherapie mit Peginterferon und Ribavirin besitzt unter den 
untersuchten Therapien die höchste Effektivität und ist im Vergleich zu anderen 
im deutschen Gesundheitswesen akzeptierten medizinischen Verfahren als 
kosteneffektiv zu bewerten.

PMCID: PMC2703229
PMID: 19675705


262. Ger Med Sci. 2003 Nov 20;1:Doc08.

PMMA vertebroplasty in patients with malignant vertebral destruction of the 
thoracic and lumbar spine.

Winking M(1), Stahl JP, Oertel M, Schnettler R, Böker DK.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgical Clinic, Universitätsklinikum, Justus-Liebig-Universität, 
Giessen, Germany. michael.winking@neuro.med.uni-giessen.de

OBJECT: Patients with osteolytic metastases frequently suffer from serious local 
and radicular pain. Pathophysiologically, local pain arises from skeletal 
instability, whereas radicular pain originates from compression of nerve roots 
by local tumor growth. Causal treatment of osteolytic metastases in disseminated 
malignant disease is very difficult. Resection of vertebrae, in combination with 
ventro-dorsal stabilization, is a complex treatment for patients with a limited 
life expectancy. Percutaneous polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA) vertebroplasty is a 
new and easy method of relieving patients' pain. In addition, it is both cost 
effective and safe. Pain is reduced immediately after treatment. Due to the 
regained vertebral stability, early mobilization of the patients is possible.
METHODS: A total of 22 patients with osteolytic malignancies of the thoracic and 
lumbar spine were treated with PMMA vertebroplasty. Prior to and after surgery, 
then six weeks and six months after discharge from hospital, patients answered 
the Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability (OLBPD) Questionnaire for assessment of 
treatment-related change in disability. Percutaneous vertebroplasty was 
performed in a total of 19 patients. In three patients with tumor related 
compression of nerve roots an open neurolysis was performed followed by 
vertebroplasty.
RESULTS: A total of 86% of patients reported a significant pain reduction. 
Vertebroplasty was highly beneficial for patients with pain related to local 
instability of the spine, but less so in patients with additional nerve root 
compression. Extravasation of PMMA beyond the vertebral margins was observed in 
23% of the cases. No treatment-related clinical or neurological complications 
were seen.
CONCLUSIONS: PMMA vertebroplasty is a useful and safe method of pain relief for 
patients with malignant osteolytic diseases of the thoracic and lumbar spine.

Einleitung: Patienten mit osteolytischen Metastasen leiden häufig an Schmerzen 
zweier Qualitäten: den lokalen und den radikulären Schmerz. Pathophysiologisch 
kann der lokale Schmerz auf die knöcherne Instabilität zurückgeführt werden, 
wohingegen der radikuläre Schmerz aus der Kompression der Nervenwurzeln durch 
lokales Tumorwachstum resultiert. Eine Kausaltherapie osteolytischer Metastasen, 
die Ausdruck der disseminierten Aussaat einer malignen Erkrankung sind, ist 
schwierig. Die Resektion von Wirbeln in Kombination mit einer ventro-dorsalen 
Stabilisation ist für diese Patienten mit sehr begrenzter Überlebenszeit ein 
komplexes Behandlungsverfahren. Die perkutane Polymethylmetacrylat (PMMA) 
Vertebroplastie ist eine neue und einfache Methode die Schmerzen der Patienten 
zu vermindern. Zusätzlich ist sie kostengünstig und komplikationsarm. Der 
Schmerz wird unmittelbar nach Anwendung gelindert. Wegen der wiedergewonnenen 
knöchernen Stabilität ist eine frühzeitige Mobilisation der Patienten möglich. 
Methoden: Insgesamt wurden 22 Patienten mit osteolytischen Malignomen der 
thorakalen und lumbalen Wirbelsäule mit der PMMA Vertebroplastie behandelt. Nach 
Aufnahme, vor sowie sechs Wochen und sechs Monate nach Entlassung beantworteten 
die Patienten zur Beurteilung von behandlungsbedingten Änderungen ihrer 
Beschwerden den Oswestry Low Back Pain Disability (OLBPD) Fragebogen. Die 
perkutane Vertebroplastie wurde bei 19 Patienten eingesetzt. Bei drei Patienten 
mit tumorbedingter Kompression von Nervenwurzeln wurde die perkutane 
Vertebroplastie nach offener Neurolyse vorgenommen. Ergebnisse: Insgesamt 86% 
der Patienten berichteten über eine signifikante Schmerzreduktion. Die 
Vertebroplastie hatte einen hohen Nutzen bei Patienten mit Schmerzen, die durch 
eine lokale Instabilität hervorgerufen waren. Eine geringere Wirkung zeigte sich 
in Fällen mit zusätzlicher Nervenwurzelkompression. Der Austritt von PMMA über 
die Wirbelkörpergrenzen wurde bei 23% der Fälle beobachtet. Es traten keine 
behandlungsbedingten neurologischen Komplikationen auf. Schlussfolgerung: Die 
PMMA Vertebroplastie ist eine nützliche und sichere Methode zur Schmerzlinderung 
bei Patienten mit osteolytischen Metastasen der thorakalen und lumbalen 
Wirbelsäule.

PMCID: PMC2703227
PMID: 19675706


263. J Palliat Care. 2009 Summer;25(2):85-91.

Living with advanced cancer and short life expectancy: patients' experiences 
with managing medication.

Sand AM(1), Harris J, Rosland JH.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Nurse Education, Bergen University College, Bergen, Norway.

Our aim is to explore patients' experiences of using medicines when they are 
living with far-advanced cancer and short life expectancy; our method is a 
qualitative interview study. At a daycare centre at a palliative clinic in 
Norway, we interviewed 15 patients with advanced incurable cancer with multiple 
metastases who had a short life expectancy. We found that in taking their 
medications, they feared losing control, becoming addicted, or suffering harmful 
effects. Non-compliance was the rule, not the exception: patients juggled doses 
or dosage intervals, or they stopped taking the medications. They wanted to take 
as little medication as possible and self-manage it to gain control over their 
lives. We concluded that patients need to discuss their medication practice. If 
they choose alternative medication strategies, that choice must be respected. 
For patients, the issue is self-management, not compliance. Patients with a 
short life expectancy want to negotiate their medication practice with health 
care professionals and take an active role in tailoring it to suit their 
preferences. Health professionals should therefore consider a concordance rather 
than a compliance model for these patients.

PMID: 19678459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Vojnosanit Pregl. 2009 Jul;66(7):556-62. doi: 10.2298/vsp0907556j.

Cost-effectiveness of four immunomodulatory therapies for relapsing-remitting 
multiple sclerosis: a Markov model based on data a Balkan country in 
socioeconomic transition.

Janković SM(1), Kostić M, Radosavljević M, Tesić D, Stefanović-Stoimenov N, 
Stevanović I, Raković S, Aleksić J, Folić M, Aleksić A, Mihajlović I, Biorac N, 
Borlja J, Vucković R.

Author information:
(1)University of Kragujevac, Medical Faculty, Ul. Svetozara Markovića 69, 34 000 
Kragujevac, Serbia. slobnera@eunet.rs

BACKGROUND/AIM: A cost-effectiveness analyses of immunomodulatory treatments for 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) in developed countries have shown 
that any benefit from these drugs is achieved at very high cost. The aim of our 
study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of five treatment strategies in 
patients diagnosed with RRMS (symptom management alone and in combination with 
subcutaneous glatiramer acetate, intramuscular interferon beta-1a, subcutaneous 
interferon beta-1a, or intramuscular interferon [beta-1b) in a Balkan country in 
socio-economic transition.
METHODS: The Markov model was developed based on the literature about 
effectiveness and on local Serbian cost calculations. The duration of a cycle in 
the model was set to a month. The baseline time horizon was 480 months (40 
years). The societal perspective was used for costs and outcomes, and they were 
discounted for 3% annually. Monte Carlo micro simulation with 1000 virtual 
patients was done.
RESULTS: Significant gain with immunomodulatory therapy was achieved only in 
relapse-free years, while the time spent in health states EDSS 0.0-5.5 was 
longer with symptomatic therapy only, and gains in life years and QALYs were 
only marginal. One QALY gained costs more than a billion of Serbian dinars (more 
than 20 million US dollars), making each of the four immunomodulatory therapies 
cost-ineffective.
CONCLUSION: Our study suggests that immunomodulatory therapy of RRMS in a Balkan 
country in socioeconomic transition is not cost-effective, regardless of the 
type of the therapy. Moderate gain in relapse-free years does not translate to 
gain in QALYs, probably due to adverse effects of immunomodulatory therapy.

DOI: 10.2298/vsp0907556j
PMID: 19678581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Am Fam Physician. 2009 Aug 15;80(4):339-44.

Alpha and beta thalassemia.

Muncie HL Jr(1), Campbell J.

Author information:
(1)Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center, New Orleans, Louisiana 
70112, USA. hmunci@lsuhsc.edu

The thalassemias are a group of inherited hematologic disorders caused by 
defects in the synthesis of one or more of the hemoglobin chains. Alpha 
thalassemia is caused by reduced or absent synthesis of alpha globin chains, and 
beta thalassemia is caused by reduced or absent synthesis of beta globin chains. 
Imbalances of globin chains cause hemolysis and impair erythropoiesis. Silent 
carriers of alpha thalassemia and persons with alpha or beta thalassemia trait 
are asymptomatic and require no treatment. Alpha thalassemia intermedia, or 
hemoglobin H disease, causes hemolytic anemia. Alpha thalassemia major with 
hemoglobin Bart's usually results in fatal hydrops fetalis. Beta thalassemia 
major causes hemolytic anemia, poor growth, and skeletal abnormalities during 
infancy. Affected children will require regular lifelong blood transfusions. 
Beta thalassemia intermedia is less severe than beta thalassemia major and may 
require episodic blood transfusions. Transfusion-dependent patients will develop 
iron overload and require chelation therapy to remove the excess iron. Bone 
marrow transplants can be curative for some children with beta thalassemia 
major. Persons with thalassemia should be referred for preconception genetic 
counseling, and persons with alpha thalassemia trait should consider chorionic 
villus sampling to diagnose infants with hemoglobin Bart's, which increases the 
risk of toxemia and postpartum bleeding. Persons with the thalassemia trait have 
a normal life expectancy. Persons with beta thalassemia major often die from 
cardiac complications of iron overload by 30 years of age.

PMID: 19678601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Aging Cell. 2009 Sep;8(5):607-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00509.x.
Epub  2009 Aug 12.

Increasing longevity through caloric restriction or rapamycin feeding in 
mammals: common mechanisms for common outcomes?

Cox LS(1), Mattison JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, 
OX1 3QU, UK. lynne.cox@bioch.ox.ac.uk

Comment on
    Aging Cell.
    Aging Cell.

Significant extension of lifespan in important mammalian species is bound to 
attract the attention not only of the aging research community, but also the 
media and the wider public. Two recent papers published by Harrison et al. 
(2009) in Nature and by Colman et al. (2009) in Science report increased 
longevity of mice fed with rapamycin and of rhesus monkeys undergoing caloric 
restriction, respectively. These papers have generated considerable debate in 
the aging community. Here we assess what is new about these findings, how they 
fit with our knowledge of lifespan extension from other studies and what 
prospects this new work holds out for improvements in human longevity and human 
health span.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00509.x
PMCID: PMC5144999
PMID: 19678809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests LSC declares no conflict 
of interest.


267. J Theor Biol. 2009 Dec 7;261(3):407-13. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2009.08.001.
Epub  2009 Aug 11.

Membrane-spanning peptides and the origin of life.

Bywater RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Magdalen College, Oxford OX1 4AU, UK. robbyw@hotmail.com

An explanation is given as to why membrane-spanning peptides must have been the 
first "information-rich" molecules in the development of life. These peptides 
are stabilised in a lipid bilayer membrane environment and they are 
preferentially made from the simplest, and likewise oldest, of the amino acids 
that survive today. Transmembrane peptides can exercise functions that are 
essential for biological systems such as signal transduction and material 
transport across membranes. More complex peptides possessing catalytic 
properties could later develop on either side of the membrane as independently 
folding functional units formed by extension of the protruding ends of the 
transmembrane peptides within an aqueous environment and thereby give rise to 
more of the functions that are necessary for life. But the membrane was the 
cradle for the development of the first information-rich biomolecules.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2009.08.001
PMID: 19679140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Laeknabladid. 1997 Oct;83(10):664-72.

[Preventive geriatrics.].

[Article in Icelandic]

Jonsson A.

The concepts of geriatric medicine and prevention are described. The first 
speciality recognition of geriatric medicine was granted in 1981 and over 10 
speciality diplomas have since been granted by the health authorities in 
Iceland. The three stages of prevention and methods for detecting risk factors 
are described. General and special recommendations for medical prevention for 
the elderly are reviewed. It has been estimated that a third of recent reduction 
in coronary mortality in Iceland can be attributed to progress in medical 
technology and two thirds to reduction in risk factor prevalence. Nordic 
Geriatric Work-up has put an emphasis on geriatric assessment which has been 
shown to be of preventive value for the frail elderly. Life expectancy at birth 
has increased by 20 years over 75 years and the population ratio of centenarians 
has more than doubled for the past 20 years in Iceland. The demand for tertiary 
prevention and geriatric assessment will continue to grow.

PMID: 19679913


269. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2010 Feb;18(2):333-9. doi: 10.1038/oby.2009.253.
Epub  2009 Aug 13.

Individual and aggregate years-of-life-lost associated with overweight and 
obesity.

Finkelstein EA(1), Brown DS, Wrage LA, Allaire BT, Hoerger TJ.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, USA.

This study presents nationally representative estimates of individual and 
aggregate years-of-life-lost (YLLs) associated with overweight and three 
categories of obesity separately by age, race, smoking status, and gender 
strata. Using proportional hazards analysis and data from the National Health 
Interview Survey (NHIS) Linked Mortality Files, we estimated life expectancies 
for each BMI strata and quantified YLLs by comparing differences between each 
strata and the normal BMI reference group. Our results provide further evidence 
that overweight and mild obesity are not associated with a reduction in life 
expectancy. However, higher BMI categories are associated with lower expected 
survival. In aggregate, excess BMI is responsible for approximately 95 million 
YLLs. White females account for more than two-thirds of the aggregate YLLs. 
Unless something is done to reduce the rising prevalence of those with BMIs >35, 
or to mitigate the impact of obesity or its correlates on YLLs, expected life 
expectancy for US adults may decrease in the future.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2009.253
PMID: 19680230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Urologe A. 2009 Sep;48(9):1008, 1010, 1012-4, passim. doi: 
10.1007/s00120-009-2076-3.

[PSA--Quo vadis?].

[Article in German]

Börgermann C(1), Loertzer H, Luboldt HJ, Hammerer P, Fornara P, Graefen M, 
Rübben H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Uroonkologie und Kinderurologie, 
Universitätsklinik, Hufelandstrasse 55, 45122, Essen, Germany. 
christof.boergermann@uk-essen.de

Prostate cancer is the most frequent cancer in males. Because of the high cure 
rates, early detection of prostate cancer should identify organ-confined 
prostate cancers. An early detection examination should be performed annually 
starting at the age of 50 years and ending when life expectancy is less than 10 
years. Digital rectal examination is supplemented by determination of 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA). Before the first PSA test, the patient must be 
informed of possible consequences such as biopsy recommendation and treatment 
options. A threshold of 4 ng/ml is defined as the indication for prostate 
biopsy. Imaging methods do not play a major role in early detection of prostate 
cancer today. Early detection identifies many latent prostate cancers, and 
patients may receive overtreatment. A possible solution is to change the early 
detection paradigm from detection of all prostate cancers to identification of 
aggressive ones. In this article, early detection is discussed based on the 
recent literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-009-2076-3
PMID: 19680620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Jun;11(3):323-30. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0178-x.
Epub  2009 Aug 13.

Eliciting health state utilities from the general public for severe chronic 
pain.

Eldabe S(1), Lloyd A, Verdian L, Meguro M, Maclaine G, Dewilde S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pain and Anaesthesia, The James Cook University Hospital, 
Middlesbrough, UK.

OBJECTIVE: There is an absence of data on public preferences for health states 
(HSs) associated with severe chronic pain. The aim of this study was to develop 
accurate HS descriptions for severe chronic pain requiring intrathecal (IT) 
therapy and to derive utility weights that describe the health-related quality 
of life (HRQL) impact of chronic pain associated with malignant (MP) and 
non-malignant (NMP) aetiologies.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHOD: Eight visual analogue scale pain index (VAS-PI) HSs 
were defined using ranges 0-40, 41-60, 61-80 and 81-100 applied to both MP and 
NMP. Additionally, eight HSs representing common adverse events associated with 
IT therapy were identified. The content and description of the HSs were 
ascertained by interviews with five United Kingdom clinical experts. In total, 
16 HSs were compiled. These HS descriptions and HS questionnaires were 
administered to 102 members of the public, utilising a time trade off (TTO) 
approach to estimate utilities for the HSs.
RESULTS: Participants generally were well matched to the general public in 
England and Wales, with some differences in mean age, race and education. A 
substantial decline in utility was observed with more severe VAS-PI values. The 
mean TTO utility values also decreased from mild pain to severe pain. 
Participants were able to differentiate between the side effects.
CONCLUSION: The study shows a clear decrement in utility moving from different 
severity levels of severe chronic pain.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0178-x
PMID: 19680700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Addiction. 2009 Oct;104(10):1630-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2009.02655.x.
Epub  2009 Aug 4.

Alcohol and Russian mortality: a continuing crisis.

Leon DA(1), Shkolnikov VM, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK and Max Planck 
Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Russia remains in the grip of a mortality crisis in which alcohol 
plays a central role. In 2007, male life expectancy at birth was 61 years, while 
for females it was 74 years. Alcohol is implicated particularly in deaths among 
working-age men.
AIMS: To review the current state of knowledge about the contribution of alcohol 
to the continuing very high mortality seen among Russian adults
RESULTS: Conservative estimates attribute 31-43% of deaths among working-age men 
to alcohol. This latter estimate would imply a minimum of 170 000 excess deaths 
due to hazardous alcohol consumption in Russia per year. Men drink appreciably 
more than women in Russia. Hazardous drinking is most prevalent among people 
with low levels of education and those who are economically disadvantaged, 
partly because some of the available sources of ethanol are very cheap and easy 
to obtain. The best estimates available suggest that per capita consumption 
among adults is 15-18 litres of pure ethanol per year. However, reliable 
estimation of the total volume of alcohol consumed per capita in Russia is very 
difficult because of the diversity of sources of ethanol that are available, for 
many of which data do not exist. These include both illegal spirits, as well as 
legal non-beverage alcohols (such as medicinal tinctures). In 2006 regulations 
were introduced aimed at reducing the production and sale of non-beverage 
alcohols that are commonly drunk. These appear to have been only partially 
successful.
CONCLUSION: There is convincing evidence that alcohol plays an important role in 
explaining high mortality in Russia, in particular among working age men. 
However, there remain important uncertainties about the precise scale of the 
problem and about the health effects of the distinctive pattern of alcohol 
consumption that is prevalent in Russia today. While there is a need for further 
research, enough is known to justify the development of a comprehensive 
inter-sectoral alcohol control strategy. The recent fall in life expectancy in 
Russia should give a renewed urgency to attempts to move the policy agenda 
forward.

© 2009 The Authors. Journal compilation © 2009 Society for the Study of 
Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1360-0443.2009.02655.x
PMID: 19681805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2009 Sep;23(9):985-98. doi: 
10.1111/j.1468-3083.2009.03356.x.

Hidradenitis suppurativa.

Revuz J(1).

Author information:
(1)revuz.jean@wanadoo.fr

Hidradenitis suppurativa is a chronic disease characterized by recurrent, 
painful, deep-seated, rounded nodules and abscesses of apocrine gland-bearing 
skin. Subsequent suppuration, sinus tracts and hypertrophic scarring are its 
main features. Onset is usually after puberty, although it is most common during 
the third decade and may persist in old age. The disease tends to be chronic and 
may develop to subcutaneous extension leading to indurations, sinus, and fistula 
having a profound impact on the quality of life. The prevalence is 1% in several 
studies. Axillary and inguinal involvement is more common in females; peri-anal 
and buttocks localizations are prevalent in males. The exact aetiology remains 
unknown. The primary event is a follicular occlusion with secondary 
inflammation, infection and destruction of the pilo-sebaceo-apocrine apparatus 
and extension to the adjacent sub-cutaneous tissue. Infection is common. Smoking 
may be a triggering factor. Obesity aggravates the discomfort. Differential 
diagnostic includes Crohn's disease, nodular acne and furonculosis. The main 
complications are arthropathy, carcinoma. Treatment depends upon the stage of 
the disease. Early nodular lesions may be treated by antibiotics for acute 
stage; long-term antibiotics, zinc salts may be useful as maintenance treatment; 
anti-TNF drugs have been used in severe cases; systemic steroids, estrogens, 
anti-androgens, retinoids have been used as options with limited success. 
Surgical treatment includes incision with or without drainage for limited 
abscesses; limited excisions are used for locally recurring draining sinuses. 
Total wide excision and healing with secondary intention or flaps and grafts is 
the only curative procedure in case of advanced disease.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-3083.2009.03356.x
PMID: 19682181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Gend Med. 2009 Jul;6(2):369-75. doi: 10.1016/j.genm.2009.07.003.

Sex differences in body composition early in life.

Fields DA(1), Krishnan S, Wisniewski AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics Section of Endocrinology and Diabetes, Children's 
Medical Research Institute's Diabetes & Metabolic Research Program, University 
of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73117, USA. 
dfields@ouhsc.edu

BACKGROUND: Early development of the percentage of fat and muscle is rarely 
considered, but is important because excessive fat is related to the development 
of diabetes and other morbidities later in life. In pediatric medicine, there 
are few to no data comparing sex differences in body composition in the first 
months of life despite the fact that males are typically longer and weigh more 
than girls at birth.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to determine whether observed sex 
differences in body composition at birth persist through the first 6 months of 
life.
METHODS: Participants were healthy, full-term, male and female newborns. 
Children throughout the Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, metropolitan area were 
enrolled. The inclusion criteria were: mothers aged 18 to 45 years at the time 
of delivery; a term pregnancy lasting >or=37 weeks of gestation (determined by 
mother's physician); weight adequate for gestational age; and a hospital stay 
for the infant of <3 days following delivery. The exclusion criteria were: 
maternal tobacco use or alcohol consumption (>1 drink per week) during 
pregnancy; gestational diabetes; preeclampsia; and infants with presumed or 
known congenital birth defects. Baseline assessment at birth included length and 
weight. Newborns had their body composition (percent fat [%fat], total fat, and 
fat-free mass) determined at approximately 1 month of age using whole body 
plethysmography. Mothers were invited to have their children take part in a 
5-month extension that conducted additional body composition measurements at 3 
and 6 months of age.
RESULTS: Sixty-four girls (mean [SD] age at time of testing, 20.9 [7.9] days; 
birth weight, 3500 [388] g; birth length, 49.9 [2.4] cm; white race, 73.4%) and 
53 boys (mean age at time of testing, 20.2 [7.3] days; birth weight, 3353 [413] 
g; birth length, 51.0 [2.4] cm; white race, 69.8%) were assessed and included in 
the study. At birth, girls were significantly shorter and weighed more than boys 
(both, P < 0.05). At ~1 month of age, body composition revealed that girls had 
significantly greater %fat (15.1% vs 12.7%; P < 0.05) and less fat-free mass 
(3182 [303] vs 3454 [361] g; P < 0.001) than did boys. At 3 months of age, girls 
continued to have significantly less fat-free mass (4379 [347] vs 4787 [310] g; 
P < 0.01) than did boys; however, by 6 months of age, no significant sex 
difference was observed in any body composition variable studied.
CONCLUSION: In this small sample of healthy, full-term newborns, at ~1 month of 
age, statistically significant differences in %fat and fat-free mass existed 
between girls and boys; however, by 6 months of age, these differences no longer 
existed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genm.2009.07.003
PMID: 19682664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Theriogenology. 2010 Apr 1;73(6):796-801. doi: 
10.1016/j.theriogenology.2009.07.005. Epub 2009 Aug 13.

Molecules involved in sperm-oviduct adhesion and release.

Talevi R(1), Gualtieri R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Strutturale e Funzionale, Università di Napoli 
"Federico II", Complesso Universitario di Monte S Angelo, Via Cinthia, 80126 
Napoli, Italy. riccardo.talevi@unina.it

In mammals, sperm ascension within the female reproductive tract involves a 
transient adhesion to the caudal isthmus of the oviduct. Sperm adhesion to this 
specialized region, which is termed the "oviductal reservoir", extends the sperm 
fertile life span by delaying capacitation until, around ovulation, specific 
signals induce sperm release. In vivo and in vitro studies demonstrated that 
carbohydrates on the oviductal cell apical membranes and lectin-like molecules 
on the rostral sperm surface are involved in adhesion in a species-specific way. 
In this respect, the most intensely studied species are pigs and cattle. On the 
other hand, less is known about molecules involved in sperm release. Direct 
evidence that molecules present in the oviductal fluid trigger the release of 
sperm bound to in vitro cultured oviductal epithelium has been provided only in 
cattle. However, the identity of sperm and/or oviductal molecules that respond 
to these releasing signals is still unknown. The comprehension of molecular 
mechanisms underlying sperm-oviduct interaction may advance our understanding of 
the behavior of sperm within the female reproductive tract and provide new tools 
for sperm selection, extension of fertile life and modulation of capacitation in 
the field of reproductive biotechnologies. The aim of the present paper is to 
review the available knowledge on molecules involved in sperm selection, storage 
and release from the oviductal reservoir.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2009.07.005
PMID: 19682733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Eur Psychiatry. 2009 Sep;24(6):412-24. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2009.01.005.
Epub  2009 Aug 13.

Cardiovascular disease and diabetes in people with severe mental illness 
position statement from the European Psychiatric Association (EPA), supported by 
the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and the European 
Society of Cardiology (ESC).

De Hert M(1), Dekker JM, Wood D, Kahl KG, Holt RI, Möller HJ.

Author information:
(1)University Psychiatric, Centre Catholic University, Leuven campus Kortenberg, 
Leuvensesteenweg 517, 3070 Kortenberg, Belgium. marc.de.hert@uc-kortenberg.be

People with severe mental illnesses, such as schizophrenia, depression or 
bipolar disorder, have worse physical health and reduced life expectancy 
compared to the general population. The excess cardiovascular mortality 
associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder is attributed in part to an 
increased risk of the modifiable coronary heart disease risk factors; obesity, 
smoking, diabetes, hypertension and dyslipidaemia. Antipsychotic medication and 
possibly other psychotropic medication like antidepressants can induce weight 
gain or worsen other metabolic cardiovascular risk factors. Patients may have 
limited access to general healthcare with less opportunity for cardiovascular 
risk screening and prevention than would be expected in a non-psychiatric 
population. The European Psychiatric Association (EPA), supported by the 
European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and the European Society 
of Cardiology (ESC) published this statement with the aim of improving the care 
of patients suffering from severe mental illness. The intention is to initiate 
cooperation and shared care between the different healthcare professionals and 
to increase the awareness of psychiatrists and primary care physicians caring 
for patients with severe mental illness to screen and treat cardiovascular risk 
factors and diabetes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2009.01.005
PMID: 19682863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Bioorg Med Chem Lett. 2009 Sep 15;19(18):5297-301. doi: 
10.1016/j.bmcl.2009.07.142. Epub 2009 Aug 3.

NO-NSAIDs: Gastric-sparing nitric oxide-releasable prodrugs of non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs.

Nemmani KV(1), Mali SV, Borhade N, Pathan AR, Karwa M, Pamidiboina V, 
Senthilkumar SP, Gund M, Jain AK, Mangu NK, Dubash NP, Desai DC, Sharma S, 
Satyam A.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology Department, Piramal Life Sciences Limited, Nirlon Complex, 
Goregaon East, Mumbai 400 063, India.

Recently, a new class of nitric-oxide-releasing non-steroidal anti-inflammatory 
drugs (NO-NSAIDs) is being studied as 'Safe NSAIDs' because of their 
gastric-sparing properties. As an extension of our novel disulfide linker 
technology, we have designed, synthesized and evaluated novel NO-releasing NSAID 
prodrugs such as NO-Aspirin (1b-d) and NO-Diclofenac (2b-c). Although the 
amide-containing derivative 1d did not show any bioavailability, the remaining 
compounds have shown fair to excellent pharmacokinetic, anti-inflammatory and 
gastric-sparing properties. Among them, however, the NO-Diclofenac (2b) has 
shown the most promising pharmacokinetic, anti-inflammatory and NO-releasing 
properties and protected rats from NSAID-induced gastric damage which could be 
attributable to the beneficial effects of NO released from these prodrugs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmcl.2009.07.142
PMID: 19683923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Perspect Biol Med. 2009 Summer;52(3):355-63. doi: 10.1353/pbm.0.0092.

A new curriculum to link the basic science of aging with geriatric practice.

Hamerman D(1).

Author information:
(1)International Longevitiy Center-USA, New York, NY 10028, USA. 
Hamermandj@aol.com

There is a growing national awareness that the extraordinary extension of life 
expectancy in our society poses an impending crisis for our health-care system. 
This is due in large part to the scarcity of primary-care providers, especially 
geriatricians. To address these concerns, the Obama administration has 
considered wide-ranging health-care reforms. Academic geriatric organizations 
have proposed that geriatricians take the lead in working with other 
primary-care providers to develop a continuum of care to optimize health across 
a range of ages and stages. This article recommends a collaboration between 
basic scientists and geriatricians in order to develop a curriculum that would 
identify how new knowledge derived from basic aging research bears on the 
inception of aging-related conditions and diseases that emerge over time. This 
information could be used to create new approaches to reducing or postponing 
diseases in later life. Health providers participating in this curriculum would 
gain new insights about aging, health maintenance, risk factors for disease 
inception, and appropriate interventions over the life course of their adult 
patients, helping them to achieve a healthier longevity.

DOI: 10.1353/pbm.0.0092
PMID: 19684370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Public Health Genomics. 2009;12(5-6):343-51. doi: 10.1159/000214924. Epub
2009  Aug 11.

Economic evaluation of human papillomavirus vaccination in developed countries.

Brisson M(1), Van de Velde N, Boily MC.

Author information:
(1)Département de médecine sociale et préventive, Université Laval, Québec, 
Qué., Canada. marc.brisson@uresp.ulaval.ca

BACKGROUND: With promising efficacy results from randomized control trials of 
human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines and the availability of new screening 
paradigms, policymakers are being asked to make recommendations and decisions 
regarding the optimal strategies to reduce HPV infection and disease. Such 
decisions are increasingly being made with significant input from mathematical 
and economic models. The demand for modeling has resulted in the publication of 
numerous mathematical models looking at the cost-effectiveness of HPV 
vaccination.
OBJECTIVE: To review published models that have been used to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination in developed countries and highlight 
points of consensus and disagreement in methods and findings.
METHODS: This review consists of cost-effectiveness studies published in the 
peer-reviewed literature before August 2008.
RESULTS: Despite variations in methods, modeling studies are producing 
consistent conclusions: (1) vaccinating young girls against HPV is likely to be 
cost- effective; (2) vaccinating boys will most likely not be cost- effective in 
countries that can reach high coverage rates in girls, and (3) results are most 
sensitive to the duration of vaccine protection. However, results from analyses 
examining the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of vaccinating boys when 
coverage rates are low (< or = 80%) and catch-up strategies have reached 
conflicting conclusions.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000214924
PMID: 19684446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Cancer. 2009 Dec 1;115(23):5450-9. doi: 10.1002/cncr.24634.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of immediate radical cystectomy versus intravesical 
Bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy for high-risk, high-grade (T1G3) bladder 
cancer.

Kulkarni GS(1), Alibhai SM, Finelli A, Fleshner NE, Jewett MA, Lopushinsky SR, 
Bayoumi AM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgical Oncology, University Health 
Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. girish1975@gmail.com

Comment in
    Cancer. 2009 Dec 1;115(23):5366-7.

BACKGROUND: Although both radical cystectomy and intravesical immunotherapy are 
initial treatment options for high-risk, T1, grade 3 (T1G3) bladder cancer, 
controversy regarding the optimal strategy persists. Because bladder cancer is 
the most expensive malignancy to treat per patient, decisions regarding the 
optimal treatment strategy should consider costs.
METHODS: A Markov Monte-Carlo cost-effectiveness model was created to simulate 
the outcomes of a cohort of patients with incident, high-risk, T1G3 bladder 
cancer. Treatment options included immediate cystectomy and conservative therapy 
with intravesical Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG). The base case was a man aged 
60 years. Parameter uncertainty was assessed with probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses. Scenario analyses were used to explore the 2 strategies among patients 
stratified by age and comorbidity.
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted survival with immediate cystectomy and BCG therapy 
was 9.46 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 9.39 QALYs, respectively. The 
corresponding mean per-patient discounted lifetime costs (in 2005 Canadian 
dollars) were $37,600 and $42,400, respectively. At a willingness-to-pay 
threshold of $50,000 per QALY, the probability that immediate cystectomy was 
cost-effective was 67%. Immediate cystectomy was the dominant (more effective 
and less expensive) therapy for patients aged <60 years, whereas BCG therapy was 
dominant for patients aged >75 years. With increasing comorbidity, BCG therapy 
was dominant at lower age thresholds.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with BCG therapy, immediate radical cystectomy for average 
patients with high-risk, T1G3 bladder cancer yielded better health outcomes and 
lower costs. Tailoring therapy based on patient age and comorbidity may increase 
survival while yielding significant cost-savings for the healthcare system.

(c) 2009 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.24634
PMID: 19685529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Arthritis Res Ther. 2009;11(4):R124. doi: 10.1186/ar2790. Epub 2009 Aug 17.

Physical function, disease activity, and health-related quality-of-life outcomes 
after 3 years of adalimumab treatment in patients with ankylosing spondylitis.

van der Heijde DM(1), Revicki DA, Gooch KL, Wong RL, Kupper H, Harnam N, 
Thompson C, Sieper J; ATLAS Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, Leiden, 
The Netherlands. d.vanderheijde@kpnplanet.nl

INTRODUCTION: We evaluated the three-year impact of adalimumab on 
patient-reported physical function and health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) 
outcomes in patients with active ankylosing spondylitis (AS).
METHODS: The Adalimumab Trial Evaluating Long-Term Efficacy and Safety in AS 
(ATLAS) is an ongoing five-year study that included an initial 24-week, 
randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind period, followed by open-label 
extension treatment with adalimumab. Clinical and HRQOL data collected for up to 
three years from ATLAS were used for these analyses. Patients were randomized to 
receive adalimumab 40 mg or placebo by subcutaneous injection every other week. 
Physical function was assessed by the Bath AS Functional Index (BASFI), as well 
as by the Short Form 36 (SF-36) Health Survey Physical Component Summary (PCS) 
and Physical Function subscale scores. HRQOL was assessed using the AS Quality 
of Life (ASQOL) questionnaire. Disease activity was assessed by the Bath AS 
Disease Activity Index (BASDAI).
RESULTS: Of 315 patients enrolled in ATLAS, 288 (91%) participated in an 
open-label adalimumab treatment extension and 82% provided three-year outcome 
data. During the 24-week double-blind phase, adalimumab-treated patients 
experienced significant improvement compared with placebo-treated patients in 
the BASDAI (P < 0.001), BASFI (P < 0.001), ASQOL (P < 0.001), and both the SF-36 
PCS (P < 0.001) and Physical Function subscale (P < 0.001) scores, but not the 
SF-36 Mental Component Summary score (P = 0.181) and Mental Health subscale 
scores (P = 0.551). Mean changes from baseline through three years of adalimumab 
treatment were statistically significant for the BASDAI (change score: -3.9, P < 
0.001), BASFI (change score: -29.6, P < 0.001), SF-36 PCS (change score: 11.6, P 
< 0.001), and Physical Function (change score: 23.3, P < 0.001). Comparable 
results were observed for the other SF-36 scores and for the ASQOL (all P < 
0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Adalimumab significantly improved disease activity, 
patient-reported physical function, and HRQOL. These benefits were maintained 
over three years of treatment in patients with AS.

DOI: 10.1186/ar2790
PMCID: PMC2745808
PMID: 19686597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. J Cell Biol. 2009 Aug 24;186(4):509-23. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200906011. Epub
2009  Aug 17.

Oncogene homologue Sch9 promotes age-dependent mutations by a superoxide and 
Rev1/Polzeta-dependent mechanism.

Madia F(1), Wei M, Yuan V, Hu J, Gattazzo C, Pham P, Goodman MF, Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center and Department of Biological Sciences, University 
of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.

Oncogenes contribute to tumorigenesis by promoting growth and inhibiting 
apoptosis. Here we examine the function of Sch9, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
homologue of the mammalian Akt and S6 kinase, in DNA damage and genomic 
instability during aging in nondividing cells. Attenuation of age-dependent 
increases in base substitutions, small DNA insertions/deletions, and gross 
chromosomal rearrangements (GCRs) in sch9Delta mutants is associated with 
increased mitochondrial superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) expression, decreased DNA 
oxidation, reduced REV1 expression and translesion synthesis, and elevated 
resistance to oxidative stress-induced mutagenesis. Deletion of REV1, the lack 
of components of the error-prone Polzeta, or the overexpression of SOD1 or SOD2 
is sufficient to reduce age-dependent point mutations in SCH9 overexpressors, 
but REV1 deficiency causes a major increase in GCRs. These results suggest that 
the proto-oncogene homologue Sch9 promotes the accumulation of 
superoxide-dependent DNA damage in nondividing cells, which induces error-prone 
DNA repair that generates point mutations to avoid GCRs and cell death during 
the first round of replication.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200906011
PMCID: PMC2733759
PMID: 19687253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Poult Sci. 2009 Sep;88(9):1991-8. doi: 10.3382/ps.2008-00239.

The effect on turkey meat shelf life of modified-atmosphere packaging with an 
argon mixture.

Fraqueza MJ(1), Barreto AS.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina Veterinária, Centro de Investigação Interdisciplinar em 
Sanidade Animal (CIISA), Universidade Técnica de Lisboa, Av. da Universidade 
Técnica, Polo Universitário, Alto da Ajuda,1300-477 Lisboa, Portugal. 
mjoaofraqueza@fmv.utl.pt

There is a lack of knowledge related to the action of Ar on microbial 
development and prevention of oxidation when applied to raw meat under 
modified-atmosphere package (MAP). The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
effect of an anaerobic gas mixture with Ar on spoilage flora growth, color, and 
lipid oxidation stability of turkey meat under MAP stored at 0 degrees C. Breast 
muscles samples were collected on different working days from turkey carcasses 
(BUT9 and BIG6), fast-cooled in a tunnel (-2 degrees C, 2 m.s(-1), 90% RH) for 2 
h and selected to be deboned according current practices in industrial 
slaughterhouses. The breasts were cut into slices that were individually 
packaged under aerobiosis (P0) and in 4 different modified atmospheres 
containing different gas mixtures as (P1) 100% N2, (P2) 50% Ar-50% N2, (P3) 50% 
Ar-50% CO2, and (P4) 50% N2-50% CO2. All samples were stored at 0+/-1 degrees C 
in the dark for between 12 and 25 d. Meat samples packaged in P0 were analyzed 
for their microbial and physicochemical characteristics on d 0, 5, and 12 of 
storage and then extended to 19 and 25 d when samples were under MAP. The 
microbial shelf life period extension of MAP sliced turkey meat compared with 
aerobic packaging (5-d shelf life) is 1 wk more for P1 and P2 mixtures, 2 wk for 
P4, and 3 wk for P3. The Ar-CO2 mixture was more efficient in delaying flora 
development than CO2-N2 with 1 log difference on the 25th day of storage, for 
total psychrotrophic counts, total anaerobic counts, and Brochothrix 
thermosphacta. The presence of Ar on gas mixtures did not seem to have any 
additional protective effect on lipid turkey meat oxidation.

DOI: 10.3382/ps.2008-00239
PMID: 19687286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Neurosurgery. 2009 Sep;65(3):530-7; discussion 537-8. doi: 
10.1227/01.NEU.0000350861.97585.CE.

Survival and outcome of neurosurgical patients requiring ventilatory support 
after intensive care unit stay.

Malmivaara K(1), Hernesniemi J, Salmenperä R, Ohman J, Roine RP, Siironen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. kirsi.malmivaara@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to analyze the clinical outcome of severely 
ill neurosurgical patients whose need for artificial life support was extended. 
We sought to determine whether these patients benefit from extended treatment 
both in life expectancy and quality of life. Furthermore, we evaluated the 
direct cost of the neurosurgical treatment.
METHODS: The study group comprised a consecutive series of 346 neurosurgical 
patients in poor condition who were discharged from the intensive care unit but 
still in need of artificial respiratory support. The patients had various 
neurosurgical diagnoses and were treated between 2000 and 2003 at the Department 
of Neurosurgery, Helsinki University Central Hospital. We followed the outcome 
of these patients by specially formatted questionnaires 6 months and 1, 2, and 5 
years after treatment. Their health-related quality of life was evaluated with 
EuroQol EQ-5D; quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained with the treatment and 
the costs of a QALY were calculated.
RESULTS: The median follow-up time was 5 years. The mortality rate was 27% at 30 
days, 45% at 1 year, and 59% at 5 years after treatment. Of the patients, 20% 
had a good recovery (Glasgow Outcome Scale [GOS] scores 4 and 5), 18% had severe 
disability (GOS score 3), none was in a vegetative state (GOS score 2), 59% were 
dead (GOS score 1), and 3% were lost to follow-up. Of the survivors, 69% lived 
at home, 22% in a nursing home, 2% were in a hospital, and 7% were lost to 
follow-up. The median EQ-5D index value was lower than the median index value 
for the general population: 0.71 (25th percentile [Q1] 0.38 and 75th percentile 
[Q3] 0.85) versus 0.85 (Q1 0.73 and Q3 1.00). The median cost of the direct 
neurosurgical treatment per patient was 15,000 euros (25th percentile, 10,000 
euros 75th percentile, 22,000 euros). Surviving patients gained a mean of 17 +/- 
13 QALYs. The cost of 1 QALY was 2521 euros.
CONCLUSION: Prolonged intensive care unit and step-down unit treatment of 
critically ill neurosurgical patients seems to be clinically justified. 
Moreover, direct costs of neurosurgical treatment were reasonably low.

DOI: 10.1227/01.NEU.0000350861.97585.CE
PMID: 19687698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2010 Jul;45(7):741-50. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-009-0114-5. Epub 2009 Aug 18.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of an occupational therapy-led lifestyle approach 
and routine general practitioner's care for panic disorder.
