PMID: 19550412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Gesundheitswesen. 2009 Nov;71(11):739-50. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1220756. Epub
2009  Jun 23.

[Decision-analytical modelling of costs per QALY in the context of the German 
Social Law].

[Article in German]

Rogowski WH(1), Landauer M, John J.

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München, Deutsches Forschungszentrum für Gesundheit und 
Umwelt, Neuherberg. Rogowski@helmholtz-muenchen.de

PURPOSE: In 2007, a legal reform introduced formal health economic evaluation 
for selected reimbursement decisions by the statutory health insurance in 
Germany. The methods of evaluation are currently under discussion. This study 
assesses whether an approach based on decision-analytic cost per QALY modelling 
fits with the legal requirements set by Book Five of the German Social Code (SGB 
V).
METHODS: It is based on a review of legal documents and the relevant literature.
RESULTS: Key specifications for economic evaluation in Germany are the 
differential interpretations of "benefit" in the relevant legislation as well as 
the requirement that the methods follow "international standards of 
evidence-based medicine and health economics" ( section sign section sign 35b, 
139a SGB V). In German reimbursement decision practice, new interventions have 
undergone an assessment of (1) benefit, (2) necessity and (3) cost-effectiveness 
(prior to the legal reform only exclusion of dominated alternatives). While the 
establishment of benefit in step (1) is preferably based on clinical trials in 
current practice, also two different interpretations of "benefit" in steps (1) 
and (3) would be in accord with SGB V. Methods for establishing QALYs measure 
and evaluate different dimensions of health benefit based on transparent and 
theoretically justified methods. They also capture the dimensions specifically 
stated by section sign 35b SGB V, e. g., extension of life or improvement in 
quality of life. Compared to ad-hoc synthesis of the different measures of 
patient benefit from clinical trials, this is more consistent with the standards 
of evidence-based medicine and health economics. Decision analytical modelling 
provides a practical and theoretically sound method to integrate the 
condition-specific evidence for estimating the costs and benefits associated 
with a medical treatment in health care practice.
CONCLUSIONS: Both the establishment of health effects in terms of QALYs and 
decision-analytical models for evidence synthesis meet the requirements of SGB 
V. Further methodological issues that need to be addressed include guidelines 
for QALY measures, and the choice of analytical perspective that fits best with 
German law. This notwithstanding, it remains an open question how the 
appropriateness of a cost-benefit ratio should be appraised and what role 
cost-effectiveness should play in health care decision making, compared with 
other principles potentially relevant to the decision.

Copyright Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart . New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1220756
PMID: 19551622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. AIDS Res Hum Retroviruses. 2009 Jul;25(7):679-89. doi:
10.1089/aid.2008.0254.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of raltegravir in treatment-experienced HIV type 
1-infected patients in Spain.

Chaudhary MA(1), Moreno S, Kumar RN, Nocea G, Elbasha E.

Author information:
(1)Merck Research Laboratories , North Wales, Pennsylvania 19454, USA.

Raltegravir, a novel HIV-1 integrase inhibitor, has superior efficacy with 
optimized background treatment (OBT) vs. placebo + OBT in treatment-experienced 
HIV-1 patients. This study assessed the long-term cost effectiveness of 
raltegravir from a Spanish National Healthcare System perspective. A 
cohort-state-transition model was used to estimate clinical and economic 
outcomes associated with raltegravir + OBT vs. OBT alone. Subjects were 
stratified into health states according to HIV RNA level, CD4 count, and 
opportunistic infection (OI) history, and could transition into different health 
states over time based on projected long-term efficacy. Each health state was 
associated with a distinct treatment cost and utility (QoL) score. Model inputs 
for mortality, resource utilization, unit costs, OI risk, and long-term 
durability of viral suppression were obtained from clinical trials, published 
studies, and database analyses. Model outcomes were reported as incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) in 2007 Euros per quality-adjusted life-year 
(euro/QALY) gained. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 6% per year based on 
Spanish cost-effectiveness guidelines. Extensive sensitivity analyses were 
conducted. Five years of treatment with raltegravir + OBT resulted in an 
additional 4.5 years of undiscounted life expectancy vs. OBT alone. The ICER of 
raltegravir + OBT vs. OBT alone was euro22,908/QALY and euro31,431/QALY for 3- 
and 5-year use, respectively. Lower ICERs were observed with lower discount 
rates (3%) for costs and benefits, lower raltegravir price (20%), and shorter 
treatment duration (3 years). ICER was also sensitive to analytical time horizon 
and alternative sources of QoL scores. In treatment-experienced Spanish 
patients, raltegravir was projected to provide survival benefits and be cost 
effective.

DOI: 10.1089/aid.2008.0254
PMID: 19552590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. BMJ. 2009 Jun 24;338:b2243. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b2243.

Analysis of cost effectiveness of screening Danish men aged 65 for abdominal 
aortic aneurysm.

Ehlers L(1), Overvad K, Sørensen J, Christensen S, Bech M, Kjølby M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Aarhus University, Vennelyst Boulevard 6, 8000 
Aarhus C, Denmark. le@folkesundhed.au.dk

Comment in
    BMJ. 2009;338:b2185.
    BMJ. 2009;339:b3044.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of screening men aged 65 for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis based on a probabilistic, enhanced economic 
decision analytical model from screening to death.
POPULATION AND SETTING: Hypothetical population of men aged 65 invited (or not 
invited) for ultrasound screening in the Danish healthcare system.
DATA SOURCES: Published results from randomised trials and observational 
epidemiological studies retrieved from electronic bibliographic databases, and 
supplementary data obtained from the Danish Vascular Registry.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A hybrid decision tree and Markov model was developed to 
simulate the short term and long term effects of screening for abdominal aortic 
aneurysm compared with no systematic screening on clinical and cost 
effectiveness outcomes. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses using Monte Carlo 
simulation were carried out. Results were presented in a cost effectiveness 
acceptability curve, an expected value of perfect information curve, and a curve 
showing the expected (net) number of avoided deaths from abdominal aortic 
aneurysm over time after the introduction of screening. The model was validated 
by calibrating base case health outcomes and expected activity levels against 
evidence from the recent Cochrane review of screening for abdominal aortic 
aneurysm.
RESULTS: The estimated costs per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained 
discounted at 3% per year over a lifetime for costs and QALYs was pound43 485 
(euro54,852; $71,160). At a willingness to pay threshold of pound30,000 the 
probability of screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm being cost effective was 
less than 30%. One way sensitivity analyses showed the incremental cost 
effectiveness ratio varying from pound32,640 to pound66,001 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm does not seem to be cost 
effective. Further research is needed on long term quality of life outcomes and 
costs.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b2243
PMCID: PMC3272654
PMID: 19553267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


964. Blood. 2009 Sep 3;114(10):2044-50. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-04-214346. Epub
2009  Jun 24.

Improving survival in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (1980-2008): 
the Hospital Clinic of Barcelona experience.

Abrisqueta P(1), Pereira A, Rozman C, Aymerich M, Giné E, Moreno C, Muntañola A, 
Rozman M, Villamor N, Hodgson K, Campo E, Bosch F, Montserrat E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Institute of Hematology and Oncology, Institut 
d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Whether advances in treatment are prolonging survival of patients with chronic 
lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is unclear. We analyzed presentation patterns and 
survival over time in 929 patients followed from 1980 to 2008 at the Hospital 
Clinic of Barcelona. The 5- and 10-year relative survival (adjusted for the 
expected survival in the general population) was estimated in patients seen in 2 
periods of time: 1980-1994 (n = 451) and 1995-2004 (n = 365). We found that CLL 
shortens life expectancy in all age groups independently of clinical features at 
diagnosis. Nevertheless, survival is improving, particularly in some groups of 
patients. Thus, relative survival was significantly higher in the 1995-2004 
cohort than in the 1980-1994 group both at 5 years (incidence rate ratio [IRR] = 
0.46; P = .004) and 10 years (IRR = 0.65; P = .007) from diagnosis. The improved 
survival was largely due to a decrease in CLL-attributable mortality in patients 
younger than 70 years in Binet stage B or C at diagnosis (IRR = 0.40; P = .001 
at 5 years; IRR = 0.33; P < .001 at 10 years). These results suggest that newer 
treatments are changing the prognosis of CLL, particularly in younger patients 
with advanced disease, whereas no improvement is yet observed in older subjects 
or those with lower-risk disease.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-04-214346
PMID: 19553638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Turk Kardiyol Dern Ars. 2009 Apr;37(3):155-60.

[Age at death in the Turkish Adult Risk Factor Study: temporal trend and 
regional distribution at 56,700 person-years' follow-up].

[Article in Turkish]

Onat A(1), Uğur M, Tuncer M, Ayhan E, Kaya Z, Küçükdurmaz Z, Bulur S, Kaya H.

Author information:
(1)Turkish Society of Cardiology; Department of Cardiology, Cerrahpaşa Medical 
Faculty, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey. alt_onat@yahoo.com.tr

OBJECTIVES: We analyzed the temporal trend and regional distribution of age at 
all-cause death and the sex-specific and age-bracket defined coronary mortality 
in the 18-year follow-up of the Turkish Adult Risk Factor Study.
STUDY DESIGN: The participants of the Turkish Adult Risk Factor Study who have 
been examined in even years were last surveyed in August 2008. A total of 1,582 
individuals were surveyed, which constituted half of the alive participants of 
the overall cohort. Information on death was obtained from first-degree 
relatives and/or health personnel of local heath offices. Survivors were 
evaluated by history, physical examination, and 12-lead electrocardiography. The 
cumulative follow-up was 56,700 person-years.
RESULTS: Of 1,582 participants, 868 (431 men, 437 women) were examined, in 604 
subjects information was gathered, and 47 participants (26 men, 21 women) were 
ascertained to have died. Twenty-two deaths were classified as of coronary 
origin. Cumulative assessment of the entire cohort in the age bracket of 45-74 
years disclosed coronary mortality to be 7.64 per 1000 person-years in men and 
3.84 in women and persisted to be the highest among 30 European countries, 
whereas overall mortality declined at a greater proportion. Overall mean ages at 
death were deferred within a 12-year period by 7.4 years in men and 6 years in 
women, to 71.9 and 74.8 years, respectively. The extension of this mean survival 
was similar among urban-rural areas and geographic regions.
CONCLUSION: Coronary mortality declined modestly, but life expectancy of Turkish 
adults rose by a mean of nearly seven years in the 12 years to 2003-08, without 
showing major differences in sex, urban-rural dwelling, or geographic regions.

PMID: 19553737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2009 Sep;3(3):166-9. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0b013e32832e9c80.

Predicting life expectancy in prostate cancer patients.

Jeldres C(1), Latouff JB, Saad F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Montreal Health Center, Montreal, 
Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Due to its long natural history, prostate cancer illustrates 
best the need for tools that adequately predict life expectancy. We reviewed the 
actual tools available for clinicians involved in therapeutic decisions in newly 
diagnosed prostate cancer and examined their accuracy to provide individual life 
expectancy.
RECENT FINDINGS: Life tables, comorbidity indices, and multivariate prognostic 
models can assist clinicians for life expectancy predictions. However, the 
accuracy of life tables (60.9%) and comorbidity indices (accuracy unknown) may 
be as weak as clinician-derived life expectancy predictions (69%). Actually, 
statistical models provide the highest accuracy (69-84.3%). To date, Walz et al. 
developed the most accurate model (84.3%), predicting the risk of death of 
nonprostate cancer-related causes within 10 years of definitive therapy.
SUMMARY: Clinicians need the most accurate estimates of life expectancy in 
situations in which there is uncertainty regarding the need for aggressive local 
therapy. As the accuracy of clinician-derived life expectancy prediction is 
relatively modest, clinicians may benefit from assisted life expectancy 
prediction by life tables and statistical tools in their daily clinical 
practice. This would enhance the accuracy of the life expectancy predictions of 
individual candidates to definitive therapy for prostate cancer. Actually, 
nomograms provide the most accurate health-adjusted life expectancy 
prognostication.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0b013e32832e9c80
PMID: 19553817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Curr Opin Urol. 2009 Sep;19(5):494-9. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32832eb4ef.

Environmental factors promoting bladder cancer.

Hirao Y(1), Kim WJ, Fujimoto K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Nara Medical University, Nara, Japan. 
hiraoyos@naramed-u.ac.jp

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To understand the molecular mechanisms of bladder 
carcinogenesis in relation to environmental carcinogens in order to provide a 
given population with a preventive value of bladder cancer.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cigarette smoking, aromatic amines contained in dyes, chronic 
inflammation due to infection such as schistosomiasis, anticancer drugs, drug 
abuse of analgesic, and radiation are considered as well known risk factors of 
bladder cancer. Several environmental factors are supposed to be involved in 
carcinogenesis, cancer progression, and patient's prognosis in bladder cancer. 
On the basis of the results of recent genetic studies in relation to bladder 
carcinogenesis, several genetic polymorphisms of detoxification or DNA repair 
such as N-acetyltransferase 2, glutathione S-transferases, and human 
8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 give us important information in relation to 
environmental risk factors and ethnic differences for predicting the prognosis 
of patients with bladder cancer.
SUMMARY: Prevention of environmental carcinogens is important from the viewpoint 
of the social and clinical problems since elucidation of the correlation between 
epidemiologic and genetic phenomenon enable us to improve the life expectancy 
and quality of life of bladder cancer patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32832eb4ef
PMID: 19553820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Community Health. 2009 Oct;34(5):430-9. doi: 10.1007/s10900-009-9173-5.

County-level social environment determinants of health-related quality of life 
among US adults: a multilevel analysis.

Jia H(1), Moriarty DG, Kanarek N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, 617 West 168th Street, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
hj2198@columbia.edu

To show that an individual's health-related quality of life (HRQOL) is not 
determined only by their personal-level characteristics, but also is socially 
determined by both physical and social environmental characteristics of their 
communities. This analysis examined the association of selected county-level 
indicators on respondents' unhealthy days and assessed the utility of mean 
unhealthy days for US counties as community health indicators. Data came from 
the 1999-2001 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. We used multilevel 
models to calculate the proportion of between-county variation in HRQOL that was 
explained by county-level contextual variables and examine the causal 
heterogeneity of some personal-level factors modified by these contextual 
variables. Counties with worse socioeconomic indicators, high mortality rate, 
and low life expectancy were associated with higher numbers of unhealthy days. 
These indicators explained 13-22% variance of county-level physically unhealthy 
days and 4.5-9.5% variance of county-level mentally unhealthy days. The GINI 
index, suicide rate, percent uninsured, primary care facilities-to-population 
ratio, and most county-level demographic and housing indicators also had 
significant but smaller impact on respondents' unhealthy days. Also, the 
counties with poorer socioeconomic scores had additional negative HRQOL impact 
on older persons. This study provides important new empirical information on 
whether various commonly-measured characteristics of the social environment, 
which are believed to be social determinants of health, are in fact associated 
with the perceived physical and mental health of its residents. Our findings 
provide additional support for the construct validity of county-level HRQOL as a 
community health indicator.

DOI: 10.1007/s10900-009-9173-5
PMID: 19554435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2009 Jun;32(6):204-10; quiz 211-2.

[Atrial fibrillation].

[Article in German]

Schueller PO(1), Steiner S, Hennersdorf MG.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Kardiologie, Pneumologie und Angiologie, Medizinische Klinik und 
Poliklinik B der Heinrich-Heine-Universitat Düsseldorf, Moorenstr 5, 40225 
Düsseldorf. schueller@med.uniduesseldorf.de

Atrial fibrillation is the arrhythmia that most frequently leads to hospital 
admission. As prevalence of atrial fibrillation increases with age, its 
epidemiological relevance will increase due to the well-known changes in life 
expectancy. In the presence of atrial fibrillation the cardiovascular mortality 
and the risk for a stroke are considerably elevated. Interventional treatment, 
such as catheter ablation or special pacemaker algorithms, have been improved 
extensively in the last years as a therapeutic option. Nevertheless drug therapy 
is still the first choice of treating atrial fibrillation.

PMID: 19554830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Med Monatsschr Pharm. 2009 Jun;32(6):213-9.

[The Marfan syndrome and related connective tissue disorders].

[Article in German]

Siepe M(1), Löffelbein F.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgisches Universitätsklinikum Freiburg, Hugstetter Strasse 55, 79106 
Freiburg. matthias.siepe@uniklinik-freiburg.de

The Marfan syndrome is an inherited disorder of the connective tissue which is 
mainly caused by a mutation in the fibrillin-1 gene. The defect in the 
connective tissue protein can lead to several organ dysfunctions. For the life 
expectancy, the cardiovascular aspect is of paramount importance. Patients with 
Marfan syndrome may develop aortic aneurysms and valvular heart defects. The 
risk of aortic aneurysms consists in the development of aortic dissection or 
rupture with their fatal consequences. Besides the cardiovascular manifestation, 
the skeletal and ocular system can also be affected. The skeletal manifestation 
is often characterised by long limbs, arachnodactyly, and abnormal joint 
flexibility along with other signs. Patients may also have dislocated lenses, 
ectasia of the dural sac, stretch marks, spontaneous pneumothorax, recurrent 
hernia, or a family history suspicious for Marfan. During the past years, other 
related connective tissue disorders with analogous organ manifestation have been 
described (e.g., Loeys-Dietz syndrome). In this article we present the basic 
knowledge about these connective tissue disorders, and we mention new insights 
in the recently explored pathophysiology of the disorder which is a possible 
target for future medical treatment options. Furthermore, recent new concepts 
for the prophylactic treatment of the aortic manifestation are explained.

PMID: 19554831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Pediatr. 2009 Sep;155(3):338-43.e1-3. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.03.061.
Epub  2009 Jun 24.

Health-related quality of life in 5-year-old very low birth weight infants.

Rautava L(1), Häkkinen U, Korvenranta E, Andersson S, Gissler M, Hallman M, 
Korvenranta H, Leipälä J, Linna M, Peltola M, Tammela O, Lehtonen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Turku University Hospital, Turku, Finland. 
liisi.rautava@utu.fi

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of preterm birth, the time of birth, and 
birth hospital level and district on health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
STUDY DESIGN: This national study included all very low birth weight infants 
(VLBWIs; birth weight <or= 1500 g or gestational age < 32 weeks) born in Finland 
between 2000 and 2003 (n = 1169; live-born, n = 900) and full-term controls (n = 
368). Register data and parental questionnaires were used. The relationships 
among HRQoL and QALYs at age 5 years and preterm birth, time of birth, and the 
level and district of the birth hospital were studied.
RESULTS: HRQoL at age 5 years was lower and 1.3 QALYs were lost in VLBWIs 
compared with controls. Regional differences in the QALYs of VLBWIs were found 
among the 5 university hospital districts. Birth hospital level or birth outside 
office hours had no effect on the QALYs of live-born VLBWIs. The adjusted HRQoL 
total score was not affected by birth outside office hours or by the birth 
hospital level or district.
CONCLUSIONS: Differences in QALYs related to hospital district suggest variation 
in the care of VLBWIs that needs to be addressed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.03.061
PMID: 19555963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2009 Aug-Sep;43(4):346-51. doi: 
10.1177/1538574409336479. Epub 2009 Jun 24.

Is balloon angioplasty of peri-anastomotic stenoses of failing peripheral 
arterial bypasses worthwhile?

Eisenberg JA(1), Calligaro KD, Kolakowski S, Doerr KJ, Bennett S, Murtha K, 
Dougherty MJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania 19106, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Surgical revision of failing peripheral arterial bypass grafts has 
generally been shown to provide superior patency rates compared to balloon 
angioplasty. We analyzed whether balloon angioplasty, specifically of 
peri-anastomotic stenoses (PAS), provided acceptable patency rates, because 
surgery for these lesions is more difficult and is likely associated with higher 
complication rates compared to surgical revision of stenoses in the body of a 
graft.
METHODS: This is a retrospective review of PAS balloon angioplasties performed 
at a single institution between January 1, 1999, and September 1, 2005. We 
report ''primary site patency'' as a stenosis treated by balloon angioplasty, 
''revised primary site patency'' as a stenosis treated by repeat balloon 
angioplasty, and ''secondary site patency'' as an angioplastied stenosis treated 
surgically or when the graft thrombosed and was revised surgically. All 
procedures were performed in an endovascular operating room based on duplex scan 
findings suggesting a significant stenosis.
RESULTS: 48 PAS in 33 autologous vein and 15 prosthetic grafts were treated by 
balloon angioplasty in 42 patients. Mean follow-up was 12 months (range, 1-49 
months). Interventions were performed on 22 femoropopliteal grafts (11 proximal, 
11 distal), 20 femorotibial grafts (5 proximal, 15 distal), 2 axillofemoral 
grafts (2 proximal anastomoses), 2 popliteal-pedal grafts (1 proximal, 1 
distal), and 1 common iliac-femoral graft (proximal). Life-table analysis 
revealed 2-year primary, assisted primary, and secondary patency rates of 38%, 
58%, and 84%, respectively. No major complications occurred with any 
endovascular intervention.
CONCLUSION: Balloon angioplasty of PAS resulted in acceptable 2-year assisted 
primary patency rate of almost 60%. Endovascular intervention avoided repeat 
incisions in scarred groins, higher rates of nerve injury and infection, 
significant blood loss, and longer length of hospital stays. We recommend that 
balloon angioplasty of PAS be attempted before resorting to surgical 
intervention, especially in cases of hostile anastomotic wounds.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574409336479
PMID: 19556231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. BMJ. 2009 Jun 25;338:b2132. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b2132.

Russia's healthcare system: in need of modernisation.

Shishkin SV(1), Vlassov VV.

Author information:
(1)State University Higher School of Economics, Pokrovsky Boulevard, 11, Office 
E302, Moscow 109028, Russia. shishkin@hse.ru

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b2132
PMID: 19556273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2009;7(1):1-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03256137.

Informing disinvestment through cost-effectiveness modelling: is lack of data a 
surmountable barrier?

Karnon J(1), Carlton J, Czoski-Murray C, Smith K.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au

The mandatory nature of recommendations made by the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the UK has highlighted inherent 
difficulties in the process of disinvestment in existing technologies to fund 
NICE-approved technologies. A lack of evidence on candidate technologies means 
that the process of disinvestment is subject to greater uncertainty than the 
investment process, and inefficiencies may occur as a result of the inverse 
evidence law. This article describes a potential disinvestment scenario and the 
options for the decision maker, including the conduct of value of information 
analyses. To illustrate the scenario, an economic evaluation of a disinvestment 
candidate (screening for amblyopia and strabismus) is presented. Only very 
limited data were available. The reference case analysis found that screening is 
not cost effective at currently accepted values of a QALY. However, a small 
utility decrement due to unilateral vision loss reduced the incremental cost per 
QALY gained, with screening expected to be extremely cost effective. The 
discussion highlights the specific options to be considered by decision makers 
in light of the model-based evaluation. It is shown that the evaluation provides 
useful information to guide the disinvestment decision, providing a range of 
focused options with respect to the decision and the decision-making process. A 
combination of explicit model-based evaluation, and pragmatic and generalizable 
approaches to interpreting uncertainty in the decision-making process is 
proposed, which should enable informed decisions around the disinvestment of 
technologies with weak evidence bases.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256137
PMID: 19558190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Curr Med Res Opin. 2009 Aug;25(8):1919-30. doi: 10.1185/03007990903069249.

Probiotic dietary supplementation in patients with stage 3 and 4 chronic kidney 
disease: a 6-month pilot scale trial in Canada.

Ranganathan N(1), Friedman EA, Tam P, Rao V, Ranganathan P, Dheer R.

Author information:
(1)Kibow Biotech, Inc., Newtown Square, PA 19073, USA. Rangan@kibowbiotech.com

AIM: This was a pilot clinical trial to assess biochemical and clinical effects 
of an oral probiotic dietary supplement in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients 
(stages 3 and 4).
METHODS: A prospective, randomized, double-blind, crossover, placebo-controlled, 
6-month trial of probiotic bacteria was conducted in 16 outpatients in Ontario, 
Canada. Primary endpoints included effect on hematologic, biochemical, and fecal 
variables, and on general well-being as assessed by quality of life (QOL). These 
outcomes were evaluated from biochemical parameters, mainly blood urea nitrogen 
(BUN), creatinine, uric acid, and C-reactive protein (CRP) as a general 
inflammatory marker. QOL was assessed on a subjective scale of 1 to 10 as the 
secondary parameter.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This pilot study forms part of registered trial NCT00760162.
RESULTS: A total of 13 patients completed the study. Three patients dropped out: 
one was the receiver of a transplant. The second dropped out for unknown reasons 
and the third died of myocardial infarction (unrelated to probiotic bacteria or 
the protocol). Among the 13 patients who completed the trial, the mean change in 
BUN concentration during the probiotic treatment period (-2.93 mmol/L) differed 
significantly (p = 0.002) from the mean change in BUN concentration during the 
placebo period (4.52 mmol/L). In addition, the mean changes in uric acid 
concentration were moderate during the KB period (24.70 micromol/L) versus 
during the placebo period (50.62 micromol/L, p = 0.050), and the changes in 
serum creatinine concentration were insignificant. Neither gastrointestinal nor 
infectious complications were noted in any subject with improved QOL.
CONCLUSION: Orally administered probiotic bacteria selected to metabolize 
nitrogenous wastes may be tolerated for as long as 6 months. A major limitation 
of this trial is its small size that may have precluded detection of changes in 
other biochemical or hematologic parameters that would be evident in larger 
cohorts. Extension of the evaluation of this probiotic bacterial mixture will 
include a dose escalation trial in a similar prospective, placebo-controlled, 
and double-blind study site.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903069249
PMID: 19558344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12(8):1151-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00569.x.  Epub 2009 Jun 25.

Mapping the cancer-specific EORTC QLQ-C30 to the preference-based EQ-5D, SF-6D, 
and 15D instruments.

Kontodimopoulos N(1), Aletras VH, Paliouras D, Niakas D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social Sciences, Hellenic Open University, Bouboulinas 57, Patras, 
Greece. nkontodi@otenet.gr

OBJECTIVES: To estimate models, via ordinary least squares regression, for 
predicting Euro Qol 5D (EQ-5D), Short Form 6D (SF-6D), and 15D utilities from 
scale scores of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality of Life Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30).
METHODS: Forty-eight gastric cancer patients, split up into equal subgroups by 
age, sex, and chemotherapy scheme, were interviewed, and the survey included the 
QLQ-C30, SF-36, EQ-5D, and 15D instruments, along with sociodemographic and 
clinical data. Model predictive ability and explanatory power were assessed by 
root mean square error (RMSE) and adjusted R(2) values, respectively. Pearson's 
r between predicted and reported utility indices was compared. Three random 
subsamples, half in size the initial sample, were created and used for 
"external" validation of the modeling equations.
RESULTS: Explanatory power was high, with adjusted R(2) reaching 0.909, 0.833, 
and 0.611 for 15D, SF-6D, and EQ-5D, respectively. After normalization of RMSE 
to the range of possible values, the prediction errors were 12.0, 5.4, and 5.6% 
for EQ-5D, SF-6D, and 15D, respectively. The estimation equations produced a 
range of utility scores similar to those achievable by the standard scoring 
algorithms. Predicted and reported indices from the validation samples were 
comparable thus confirming the previous results.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence on the ability of QLQ-C30 scale scores to validly predict 
15D and SF-6D utilities, and to a lesser extent, EQ-5D, has been provided. The 
modeling equations must be tried in future studies with larger and more diverse 
samples to confirm their appropriateness for estimating quality-adjusted 
life-year in cancer-patient trials including only the QLQ-C30.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00569.x
PMID: 19558372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12(8):1100-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00568.x.  Epub 2009 Jun 25.

The cost-effectiveness of bosentan in the United Kingdom for patients with 
pulmonary arterial hypertension of WHO functional class III.

Stevenson MD(1), Macdonald FC, Langley J, Hunsche E, Akehurst R.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, 30 Regent 
Street, Sheffield, UK. m.d.stevenson@shef.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess whether bosentan or no active intervention, in addition to 
palliative care, is the more cost-effective first-line treatment option for 
patients with idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (iPAH) or PAH 
associated with connective tissue disease (PAH-CTD) of WHO functional 
classification (FC) III in the United Kingdom.
METHODS: A cost-utility model simulated the treatment of patients with PAH of FC 
III. Patients remained on the selected intervention until death or clinical 
deterioration to FC IV, which would trigger initiation of epoprostenol 
treatment. The initial first-line treatment choice was assumed to not affect 
survival, but to affect the time until clinical deterioration, with this 
assumption being relaxed in sensitivity analyses. The distribution of time to 
clinical deterioration was estimated from long-term clinical trial databases of 
bosentan and from published literature. Utility associated with FC was taken 
from published literature. Costs were sourced from published literature and from 
specialist PAH centers. The time horizon was that of patients' lifetimes, with 
costs and benefits discounted at 3.5% per annum.
RESULTS: In the base case, bosentan dominated no active intervention because of 
the longer time to clinical deterioration and therefore the reduced time, per 
patient, spent in FC IV, which was associated with high costs of epoprostenol 
and reduced utility. In sensitivity analyses, bosentan was estimated to be more 
cost-effective than no active intervention, provided that any survival benefit 
was not greater than 2 years for patients with iPAH and 1 year for those with 
PAH-CTD.
CONCLUSIONS: Bosentan is likely to be a more cost-effective first-line therapy 
for patients with PAH FC III in the UK than no active intervention.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00568.x
PMID: 19558373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Aging Cell. 2009 Sep;8(5):514-23. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00497.x.
Epub  2009 Jun 23.

Nutrients, not caloric restriction, extend lifespan in Queensland fruit flies 
(Bactrocera tryoni).

Fanson BG(1), Weldon CW, Pérez-Staples D, Simpson SJ, Taylor PW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Brain, Behaviour and Evolution, Macquarie University, Sydney, 
NSW 2109, Australia. bfanson@gmail.com

Caloric restriction (CR) has been widely accepted as a mechanism explaining 
increased lifespan (LS) in organisms subjected to dietary restriction (DR), but 
recent studies investigating the role of nutrients have challenged the role of 
CR in extending longevity. Fuelling this debate is the difficulty in 
experimentally disentangling CR and nutrient effects due to compensatory feeding 
(CF) behaviour. We quantified CF by measuring the volume of solution imbibed and 
determined how calories and nutrients influenced LS and fecundity in unmated 
females of the Queensland fruit fly, Bactocera tryoni (Diptera: Tephritidae). We 
restricted flies to one of 28 diets varying in carbohydrate:protein (C:P) ratios 
and concentrations. On imbalanced diets, flies overcame dietary dilutions, 
consuming similar caloric intakes for most dilutions. The response surface for 
LS revealed that increasing C:P ratio while keeping calories constant extended 
LS, with the maximum LS along C:P ratio of 21:1. In general, LS was reduced as 
caloric intake decreased. Lifetime egg production was maximized at a C:P ratio 
of 3:1. When given a choice of separate sucrose and yeast solutions, each at one 
of five concentrations (yielding 25 choice treatments), flies regulated their 
nutrient intake to match C:P ratio of 3:1. Our results (i) demonstrate that CF 
can overcome dietary dilutions; (ii) reveal difficulties with methods presenting 
fixed amounts of liquid diet; (iii) illustrate the need to measure intake to 
account for CF in DR studies and (iv) highlight nutrients rather than CR as a 
dominant influence on LS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00497.x
PMID: 19558564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Aging Cell. 2009 Sep;8(5):509-13. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00498.x.
Epub  2009 Jul 22.

Some highlights of research on aging with invertebrates, 2009.

Partridge L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Aging and GEE, UCL, Darwin Building, Gower St, London 
WC1E 6BT, UK. l.partridge@ucl.ac.uk

This annual review focuses on invertebrate model organisms, which shed light on 
new mechanisms in aging and provide excellent systems for both genome-wide and 
in-depth analysis. This year, protein interaction networks have been used in a 
new bioinformatic approach to identify novel genes that extend replicative 
lifespan in yeast. In an extended approach, using a new, human protein 
interaction network, information from the invertebrates was used to identify 
new, candidate genes for lifespan extension and their orthologues were validated 
in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. Chemosensation of diffusible substances 
from bacteria has been shown to limit lifespan in C. elegans, while a systematic 
study of the different methods used to implement dietary restriction in the worm 
has shown that they involve mechanisms that are partially distinct and partially 
overlapping, providing important clarification for addressing whether or not 
they are conserved in other organisms. A new theoretical model for the evolution 
of rejuvenating cell division has shown that asymmetrical division for either 
cell size or for damaged cell constituents results in increased fitness for most 
realistic levels of cellular protein damage. Work on aging-related disease has 
both refined our understanding of the mechanisms underlying one route to the 
development of Parkinson's disease and has revealed that in worms, as in mice, 
dietary restriction is protective against cellular proteotoxicity. Two 
systematic studies genetically manipulating the superoxide dismutases of C. 
elegans support the idea that damage from superoxide plays little or no role in 
aging in this organism, and have prompted discussion of other kinds of damage 
and other kinds of mechanisms for producing aging-related decline in function.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00498.x
PMID: 19558590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. BMC Public Health. 2009 Jun 26;9:206. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-206.

Smoking-attributable mortality and years of potential life lost in 16 Brazilian 
capitals, 2003: a prevalence-based study.

Corrêa PC(1), Barreto SM, Passos VM.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Alberto Cavalcanti, Fundação Hospitalar do Estado de Minas Gerais 
(FHEMIG), Bairro Padre Eustáquio, ZIP 30730-540, Belo Horizonte, Brazil. 
paulocrpcorrea@yahoo.com.br

BACKGROUND: To establish the impact of tobacco smoking on mortality is essential 
to define and monitor public health interventions in developing countries.
METHODS: The Smoking-Attributable Mortality, Morbidity and Economic Costs 
(SAMMEC) software was used to estimate the smoking attributable mortality (SAM) 
in 15 Brazilian State Capitals and the Federal District for the year 2003. 
Smoking prevalence and mortality data of people aged 35 years or older were 
obtained for each city from the Brazilian Household Survey on Non Communicable 
Diseases Risk Factors (2002-2003) and from the Brazilian Mortality System 
(2003), respectively.
RESULTS: In 2003, of the 177,543 deaths of persons aged 35 years and older 
24,222 (13.64%) were attributable to cigarette smoking. This total represents 
18.08% of all male deaths (n = 16,896) and 8.71% (n = 7,326) of all female 
deaths in these cities. The four leading causes of smoking-attributable death 
were chronic airways obstruction (4,419 deaths), ischemic heart disease (4,417 
deaths), lung cancer (3,682 deaths), and cerebrovascular disease (3,202 deaths). 
Cigarette smoking accounted for 419,935 years of potential life lost (YPLL) 
(279,990 YPLL for men and 139,945 YPLL for women) in the same period.
CONCLUSION: Tobacco use caused one out of five male deaths and one out of ten 
female deaths in the sixteen cities in 2003. Four leading causes of smoking 
attributable deaths (ischemic heart disease, chronic airways obstruction, lung 
cancer and cerebrovascular disease) accounted for 64.9% of SAM. Effective and 
comprehensive actions must be taken in order to slow this epidemic in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-206
PMCID: PMC2711948
PMID: 19558658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):A2. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.05.019.

Improving on quality adjusted life years measurements for health outcomes.

Long SS.

Comment on
    J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):21-5, 25.e1-5.
    J Pediatr. 2009 Jul;155(1):7-9.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2009.05.019
PMID: 19559281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Neurotherapeutics. 2009 Jul;6(3):478-86. doi: 10.1016/j.nurt.2009.04.005.

Operative techniques for gliomas and the value of extent of resection.

Sanai N(1), Berger MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Brain Tumor Research Center, University 
of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California 94143, USA.

Refinement of neurosurgical technique has enabled safer operations with more 
aggressive outcomes. One cornerstone of modern-day practice is the utilization 
of intraoperative stimulation mapping. In addition to identifying critical motor 
pathways, this technique can be adapted to reliably identify language pathways. 
Given the individual variability of cortical language localization, such awake 
language mapping is essential to minimize language deficits following tumor 
resection. Our experience suggests that cortical language mapping is a safe and 
efficient adjunct to optimize tumor resection while preserving essential 
language sites, even in the setting of negative mapping data. However, the value 
of maximizing glioma resections remains surprisingly unclear, as there is no 
general consensus in the literature regarding the efficacy of extent of glioma 
resection in improving patient outcome. While the importance of resection in 
obtaining tissue diagnosis and alleviating symptoms is clear, a lack of Class I 
evidence prevents similar certainty in assessing the influence of extent of 
resection. Beyond an analysis of modern intraoperative mapping techniques, we 
examine every major clinical publication since 1990 on the role of extent of 
resection in glioma outcome. The mounting evidence suggests that, despite 
persistent limitations in the quality of available studies, a more extensive 
surgical resection is associated with longer life expectancy for both low-grade 
and high-grade gliomas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nurt.2009.04.005
PMCID: PMC5084184
PMID: 19560738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Clin Breast Cancer. 2009 Jun;9 Suppl 1:S37-41. doi: 10.3816/CBC.2009.s.004.

A question of duration: do patients with early-stage breast cancer need more 
than five years of adjuvant endocrine therapy?

Burdette-Radoux S(1), Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)Hematology/Oncology Unit, University of Vermont and Vermont Cancer Center, 
Burlington, VT 05405, USA. susan.radoux@uvm.edu

Women with hormone receptor-positive breast cancer continue to be at risk for 
recurrence and mortality for many years after diagnosis. Previous clinical 
trials established 5 years of endocrine therapy as a standard of care for both 
premenopausal and postmenopausal women, resulting in long-lasting benefit over 
shorter durations of treatment. Until recently, trials testing durations of 
tamoxifen longer than 5 years have not shown additional benefit, but the ATLAS 
(Adjuvant Tamoxifen, Longer Against Shorter) trial, reported in 2007, showed a 
small but significant reduction in risk of recurrence with 10 compared with 5 
years of tamoxifen therapy. Aromatase inhibitors (AIs) improve relapse-free 
survival (RFS) in postmenopausal women when they are used sequentially with, or 
replace, tamoxifen for a total of 5 years of therapy. Extension of endocrine 
therapy to 10 years in the National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials 
Group MA.17 trial demonstrated that 5 years of letrozole therapy following 5 
years of tamoxifen therapy results in an improvement in RFS, but not overall 
survival, in postmenopausal women. Trials testing durations of AI therapy for 
longer than 5 years are ongoing. Selection of candidates for extended endocrine 
therapy should balance recurrence risk, toxicity of treatment, and comorbidities 
that might impact life expectancy and risk of side effects.

DOI: 10.3816/CBC.2009.s.004
PMID: 19561005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. West J Emerg Med. 2008 May;9(2):91-6.

The imminent healthcare and emergency care crisis in Japan.

Suzuki T(1), Nishida M, Suzuki Y, Kobayashi K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Health Information Science, Teikyo Heisei University, 
Department of Pre-hospital Emergency Medical Care. cpr119@coral.ocn.ne.jp

OBJECTIVES: Japan has a universal healthcare system, and this paper describes 
the reality of the healthcare services provided, as well as current issues with 
the system.
METHODS: Academic, government, and press reports on Japanese healthcare systems 
and healthcare guidelines were reviewed.
RESULTS: The universal healthcare system of Japan is considered internationally 
to be both low-cost and effective because the Japanese population enjoys good 
health status with a long life expectancy, while healthcare spending in Japan is 
below the average given by the Organization for Economic Corporation and 
Development (OECD). However, in many regions of Japan the existing healthcare 
resources are seriously inadequate, especially with regard to the number of 
physicians and other health professionals. Because healthcare is traditionally 
viewed as "sacred" work in Japan, healthcare professionals are expected to make 
large personal sacrifices. Also, public attitudes toward medical malpractice 
have changed in recent decades, and medical professionals are facing legal 
issues without experienced support of the government or legal professionals. 
Administrative response to the lack of resources and collaboration among 
communities are beginning, and more efficient control and management of the 
healthcare system is under consideration.
CONCLUSION: The Japanese healthcare system needs to adopt an efficient medical 
control organization to ease the strain on existing healthcare professionals and 
to increase the number of physicians and other healthcare resources. Rather than 
continuing to depend on healthcare professionals being able and willing to make 
personal sacrifices, the government, the public and medical societies must 
cooperate and support changes in the healthcare system.

PMCID: PMC2672251
PMID: 19561714


985. Ann Thorac Med. 2009 Apr;4(2):71-4. doi: 10.4103/1817-1737.49415.

The effect of age on the outcome of esophageal cancer surgery.

Alibakhshi A(1), Aminian A, Mirsharifi R, Jahangiri Y, Dashti H, Karimian F.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Surgery is still the best way for treatment of esophageal cancer. 
The increase in life expectancy and the rising incidence of esophageal tumors 
have led to a great number of elderly candidates for complex surgery. The 
purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of advanced age (70 years or 
more) on the surgical outcome of esophagectomy for esophageal cancer at a single 
high-volume center.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between January 2000 and April 2006, 480 cases with 
esophageal cancer underwent esophagectomy in the referral cancer institute. One 
hundred sixty-five patients in the elderly group (70 years old or more) were 
compared with 315 patients in the younger group (< 70 years). All in-hospital 
morbidity and mortality were studied.
RESULTS: The range of age was 38-84 years, with a mean of 58.7. The mean age of 
the elderly and younger groups was 74 and 53.2, respectively. In the younger 
group, 70 patients (22.2%) and in the elderly group, 39 patients (23.6%) were 
complicated (P 0.72).The most common complications in the two groups were 
pulmonary complications (9.8% in younger and 10.3% in elderly) (P 0.87). Rates 
of anastomotic leakage and cardiac complications were also similar between the 
two groups. Hospital mortality rates in younger and elderly patients were 2.8% 
and 3%, respectively. There was no significant difference between the two groups 
in morbidities and mortality (P-value > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: With increased experience and care, the outcomes of esophagectomy 
in elderly patients are comparable to young patients. Advanced age alone is not 
a contraindication for esophagectomy.

DOI: 10.4103/1817-1737.49415
PMCID: PMC2700490
PMID: 19561928

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


986. Qual Life Res. 2009 Sep;18(7):815-24. doi: 10.1007/s11136-009-9504-0. Epub
2009  Jun 27.

The concurrent validity and responsiveness of the health utilities index (HUI 3) 
among patients with advanced HIV/AIDS.

Nosyk B(1), Sun H, Bansback N, Guh DP, Li X, Barnett P, Bayoumi A, Griffin S, 
Joyce V, Holodniy M, Owens DK, Anis AH.

Author information:
(1)Canadian HIV Trials Network, St. Paul's Hospital, 620-1081 Burrard Street, 
Vancouver, BC, V6Z 1Y6, Canada. bnosyk@mail.cheos.ubc.ca

OBJECTIVES: To assess the concurrent validity and responsiveness of the Health 
Utility Index 3 (HUI3) in patients with advanced HIV/AIDS, and to determine the 
responsiveness of this measure, the MOS-HIV and EQ-5D to HIV-related clinical 
events.
METHODS: Data from the OPTIMA (OPTions In Management with Antiretrovirals) trial 
was analyzed. Two aspects of the validity of the HUI3 were considered: 
concurrent validity was evaluated using Spearman correlations with MOS-HIV 
component and summary scores. Responsiveness to AIDS-defining events (ADE) and 
all adverse events (our external change criterion) was assessed using area under 
the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curves.
RESULTS: The study enrolled 368 patients (mean follow-up: 3.66 years); 82% had 
at least one severe adverse event and 27% had at least one ADE. The HUI3 scale 
and items showed good concurrent validity, with 85% of the expected 
relationships with the MOS-HIV subscales verified. The HUI3 was responsive to 
both adverse events (AUROC [95%CI]: 0.68 [0.57, 0.80]) and ADEs (0.62 [0.51, 
0.74]). The EQ-5D was responsive to ADEs (0.66 [0.56, 0.76]), but not responsive 
to adverse events (0.56 [0.46, 0.68]).
CONCLUSION: The HUI3 is a valid and responsive measure of the change in HRQoL 
associated with clinical events in an advanced HIV/AIDS population.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-009-9504-0
PMID: 19562514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Health Stat Q. 2009 Summer;(42):40-53. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2009.16.

An update to measuring chronic illness, impairment and disability in national 
data sources.

White C(1).

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

This article reports progress in delivering a revision to survey questions on 
disability for implementation carrying out in 2010. The Office for National 
Statistics has relied on survey data to report and update annual estimates of 
disability-free life expectancy at national level.The survey question used in 
this calculation has remained consistent since 1972. However, changes in 
national legislation, a forthcoming European regulation and a number of 
inadequacies in the level of detail and consistency of disability data collected 
in household surveys (raised as part of the Review of Equality Data), will 
require its modification and extension to ensure survey data better reflect the 
growing data needs in the subject area of disability in the 21st Century. The 
accurate and reliable measurement of disability is increasing in importance 
following the revision to the Disability DiscriminationActin 2005 and the 
publication of a strategy to improve the life chances of disabled people. Of 
particular concern is the lack of data on impairment types and how impairments 
interact with social barriers erected by society and its institutions, leading 
to,
