
DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2009.16
PMID: 19562909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Curr Med Res Opin. 2009 Aug;25(8):2007-19. doi: 10.1185/03007990903090849.

Cost-effectiveness of ziconotide in intrathecal pain management for severe 
chronic pain patients in the UK.

Dewilde S(1), Verdian L, Maclaine GD.

Author information:
(1)Services in Health Economics, 1000 Brussels, Belgium. sd@SHE-consulting.be

OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of using intrathecal ziconotide in 
the treatment of severe chronic pain compared to best supportive care for 
patients with intractable chronic pain in the United Kingdom.
METHODS: Using a simulation model, the analysis evaluated the cost and health 
economic consequences of using ziconotide as a treatment for severe chronic 
pain. The modelled population and clinical data were based on a randomised 
controlled trial in which the main outcome was reduction in pain as measured by 
the visual analogue scale of pain intensity (VASPI). Resource use data were 
elicited using a modified Delphi panel and costed using published sources. 
Utility values were derived from a separate research study. The main outcome 
measure was the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Extensive scenario 
analysis was conducted to evaluate parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: Overall, findings were robust to most assumptions. The 
cost-effectiveness of ziconotide compared to best supportive care (BSC) was 
pound 27,443 per QALY (95% CI pound 18,304-38,504). Scenarios were investigated 
in which discount rates, the time horizon, the threshold for qualifying as a 
responder, pump-related assumptions, utilities, ziconotide drug dose, and the 
patient discontinuation rate with ziconotide were varied. The most sensitive 
parameter was the dosage of ziconotide: using the lower and upper bounds of the 
average ziconotide dosage observed in the long-term open-label study changed the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) to pound 15,500 [pound 8206-25,405] 
and pound 44,700 [pound 30,541-62, 670].
CONCLUSIONS: Ziconotide may offer an economically feasible alternative solution 
for patients for whom current treatment is inappropriate or ineffective. The 
main study limitation is that some model inputs, mainly related to resource use, 
are based on assumptions or expert interviews.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903090849
PMID: 19563256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. J Dent. 2009 Sep;37(9):731-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jdent.2009.06.002. Epub 2009
Jun  11.

A 3-year retrospective and clinical follow-up study of zirconia single crowns 
performed in a private practice.

Ortorp A(1), Kihl ML, Carlsson GE.

Author information:
(1)Department Prosthetic Dentistry/Dental Materials Science, Institute of 
Odontology, The Sahlgrenska Academy, University of Gothenburg, GÃ¶teborg, Sweden. 
anders.ortorp@odontologi.gu.se

OBJECTIVES: All-ceramic crowns have become increasingly used also in the 
posterior regions, but there are only few studies documenting the clinical 
outcome of these restorations. The aim was therefore to present the 3-year 
outcome of zirconia (NobelProcera) single crowns.
METHODS: All patients treated with porcelain-veneered zirconia single crowns in 
a private practice during the period October 2004 to November 2005 were 
included. The patient records were scrutinized for data on the restorations and 
the supporting teeth. Information was available for 161 patients and 204 crowns. 
At the 3-year recall appointments, a sample of 18 patients with 25 crowns was 
clinically examined and interviewed regarding patient satisfaction.
RESULTS: Most crowns (78%) were placed on premolars and molars. The clinical 
outcome of the crowns was favourable. No zirconia core fractured and no caries 
was observed on the abutment teeth. Some types of complication were recorded for 
32 (16%) crowns or abutment teeth. The most severe complications, in total 12 
restorations (6%), were recorded as failures: abutment tooth was extracted (5), 
remake of crown due to lost retention (4), veneer fracture (2) and persistent 
pain (1). The CDA criteria for 25 crowns were rated favourably, and patient 
satisfaction with the zirconia crowns was in general high.
CONCLUSIONS: The porcelain-veneered zirconia crowns (NobelProcera) showed good 
clinical results, were well accepted by the patients, and only few complications 
were reported over the 3-year follow-up period.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdent.2009.06.002
PMID: 19564070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Aug 5;101(15):1044-8. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djp177.
Epub  2009 Jun 29.

How much is life worth: cetuximab, non-small cell lung cancer, and the $440 
billion question.

Fojo T(1), Grady C.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Branch, Center for Cancer Research, National Cancer 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, MD 
20892, USA. tfojo@helix.nih.gov

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Aug 4;102(15):1207; author reply 1207-10.
    Virtual Mentor. 2013 Aug;15(8):677-80.

The spiraling cost of cancer care, in particular the cost of cancer therapeutics 
that achieve only marginal benefits, is under increasing scrutiny. Although 
health-care professionals avoid putting a value on a life, our limited resources 
require that society address what counts as a benefit, the extent to which cost 
should factor in deliberations, and who should be involved in these decisions. 
Professional societies, such as the American Society of Clinical Oncology, 
government agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, and insurance 
companies should be involved. However, no segment of society is better qualified 
to address these issues than the oncology community. Oncologists must offer 
clear guidance for the conduct of research, interpretation of results, and 
prescription of chemotherapies. We review recent drug approvals and clinical 
trials and comment on their relevance to the issue of the spiraling cost of 
oncology therapeutics. We suggest some standards that would serve as a starting 
point for addressing these issues.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp177
PMCID: PMC2724853
PMID: 19564563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. J Phys Act Health. 2009 May;6(3):269-80. doi: 10.1123/jpah.6.3.269.

The physical activity transition.

Katzmarzyk PT(1), Mason C.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Perkins Rd, Baton Rouge, LA 70808,USA.

Physical activity is important for the prevention of chronic disease morbidity 
and mortality, and the lack of adequate levels of physical activity represents a 
growing public health burden around the world. The purpose of this report is to 
introduce the concept of the "Physical Activity Transition" and to explore the 
potential effects that declining physical activity levels may play on health and 
life expectancy as countries undergo economic and demographic changes. Physical 
activity is related to mortality rates in humans, and the available evidence 
suggests that the adoption of a lifestyle characterized by lower levels of 
physical activity will attenuate the expected gains in life expectancy 
associated with the epidemiological transition. Advances in the measurement of 
physical activity at work, in the home, for transport, and in leisure time in a 
wide variety of populations will be integral to advancing the current 
understanding of how macro-level factors shape physical activity patterns and 
patterns of morbidity and mortality.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.6.3.269
PMID: 19564654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Med Sci Monit. 2009 Jul;15(7):PH78-84.

Primary healthcare in the developing part of Europe: changes and development in 
the former Eastern Bloc countries that joined the European Union following 2004.

Rurik I(1), Kalabay L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Faculty of Public Health, Medical and Health 
Science Center, University Debrecen, Hungary. rurik.dr@t-online.hu

BACKGROUND: Primary care is an important tool to improve global health. This 
study presents an overview of how targets regarding primary care were realized 
in ten countries of the former Soviet Bloc that joined the EU since 2004.
MATERIAL/METHODS: Demographic, socioeconomic, and mortality-based statistical 
data are presented, scientific publications from the countries analyzed, and 
personal experiences of family physicians of these countries compared.
RESULTS: After the collapse of communism, political changes and healthcare 
reforms began in these countries. There was economic recession and decline in 
the first decade. Life expectancies improved and total health expenditures 
increased to different extents, although governments spent barely more for 
healthcare. Primary care providers are the main private-sector contributors. The 
hospital-based structure changed, while the number of outpatient contacts is 
nearly the same. The ratio between secondary care specialists and family 
physicians remains too high and there is a shortage of educated nurses. Although 
new funding systems for primary care were introduced, budgets were mostly 
redistributed without substantial increases or improvement in outcome. The 
achievements of reform have rarely been evaluated systematically. Teamwork and 
praxis communities do not exist. The old style of polyclinics still predominates 
in some countries. The gate-keeping system is often symbolic or dysfunctional. 
Health promotion and prevention are rarely supported.
CONCLUSIONS: The implementation of family medicine is not an absolute priority 
for decision makers. The political situation is often unstable. Despite 
non-negligible achievements, the health systems in this part of Europe are still 
in the midst of transition.

PMID: 19564836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Internist (Berl). 2009 Aug;50(8):964-71. doi: 10.1007/s00108-009-2361-7.

[Thoracic aorta aneurysms].

[Article in German]

Akin I(1), Kische S, Schneider H, Ince H, Nienaber CA.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Klinik I-Kardiologie, Pulmologie, Internistische 
Intensivmedizin, UniversitÃ¤tsklinikum Rostock AÃ¶R, Ernst-Heydemann-Strasse 6, 
Rostock, Germany.

Thoracic aorta aneurysms are life-threatening diseases which can lead to rupture 
or dissection due to structural alterations. The exact etiology is still unclear 
but extended life-expectancy with arterial hypertension, positive family history 
for aneurysmic diseases, atherosclerosis, smoking and chronic obstructive lung 
disease are all considered to be risk factors. Nowadays, a diagnosis can often 
be made in the symptom-free stage. The risk of rupture varies between 46 and 74% 
for a diameter clearly greater than 5.5 cm and with a 2-year mortality rate of 
70%. The 5-year survival rate with conservative treatment can be as low as 
13-34% compared to 70-79% after optimal surgical treatment. Medical, operative 
and percutaneous interventional therapeutic strategies are basically available.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-009-2361-7
PMID: 19565210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Neurogenetics. 2010 Feb;11(1):53-71. doi: 10.1007/s10048-009-0203-3. Epub
2009  Jun 30.

A modifier locus on chromosome 5 contributes to L1 cell adhesion molecule 
X-linked hydrocephalus in mice.

Tapanes-Castillo A(1), Weaver EJ, Smith RP, Kamei Y, Caspary T, Hamilton-Nelson 
KL, Slifer SH, Martin ER, Bixby JL, Lemmon VP.

Author information:
(1)The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, Miller School of Medicine, University of 
Miami, Lois Pope LIFE Center, Room 4-16, 1095 NW 14th Terrace, Miami, FL 33136, 
USA.

Humans with L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) mutations exhibit X-linked 
hydrocephalus, as well as other severe neurological disorders. L1-6D mutant 
mice, which are homozygous for a deletion that removes the sixth 
immunoglobulin-like domain of L1cam, seldom display hydrocephalus on the 129/Sv 
background. However, the same L1-6D mutation produces severe hydrocephalus on 
the C57BL/6J background. To begin to understand how L1cam deficiencies result in 
hydrocephalus and to identify modifier loci that contribute to X-linked 
hydrocephalus by genetically interacting with L1cam, we conducted a genome-wide 
scan on F2 L1-6D mice, bred from L1-6D 129S2/SvPasCrlf and C57BL/6J mice. 
Linkage studies, utilizing chi-square tests and quantitative trait loci mapping 
techniques, were performed. Candidate modifier loci were further investigated in 
an extension study. Linkage was confirmed for a locus on chromosome 5, which we 
named L1cam hydrocephalus modifier 1 (L1hydro1), p = 4.04 X 10(-11).

DOI: 10.1007/s10048-009-0203-3
PMCID: PMC2863031
PMID: 19565280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Feb;30(2):105-9.

[Effects and trends of stroke and life expectancy among older adults--from 1990s 
to 2000s].

[Article in Chinese]

Fang XH(1), Tang Z, Zimmer Z, Xiang MJ, Kaneda T.

Author information:
(1)Xuanwu Hospital, Capital University of Medical Science, Beijing 100053, 
China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the experience of stroke influencing the life expectancy 
(LE), active life expectancy (ALE), inactive life expectancy (IALE), and the 
trend of life expectancy among older adults, from 1990s to 2000s in Beijing, 
China.
METHODS: A representative sample of 3257 elderly people living in urban or rural 
communities in Beijing were followed up from 1990 until 2004. Their health and 
survival status had been surveyed every 3-5 years. Activity Daily Living (ADL) 
scale, recommended by WHO was used to evaluate the physical function capability 
of the elderly. SAS was used to estimate LE, ALE and IALE for both periods of 
1992-1997 and 2000-2004 by age and by areas of residency (rural or urban).
RESULTS: LE and ALE were shorter, and IALE was longer, among the elderly with 
stroke than those without stroke at all age groups. Functional status at 
baseline was also a very important factor in determining ALE and IALE. For those 
active at baseline, ALE in the elderly with stroke was shorter than those 
without. There were no differences found in IALE between those with or without 
stroke, but ALE was longer than IALE. For the elderly with stroke and inactive 
at baseline, their IALE were longer than ALE and their ALE were at low levels in 
all age groups. Among those with stroke and living in urban, their LE and ALE 
were longer than those living in the rural area. When comparing with the period 
of 1992-1997, both LE and ALE increased during the period of 2000-2004 in all 
the elderly groups, both in urban and rural areas. The largest increment 
occurred among those with stroke who originated in an inactive state.
CONCLUSION: Stroke reduced both quality and quantity of life of the elderly. The 
reductions of LE and ALE were greater among the elderly with stroke in rural 
than in urban areas. Both LE and ALE increased from 1992-1997 to 2000-2004 among 
the elderly with stroke in both urban and rural areas.

PMID: 19565865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. West Indian Med J. 2008 Nov;57(5):476-81.

Health determinants: using secondary data to model predictors of well-being of 
Jamaicans.

Bourne PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, The University of the West 
Indies, Kingston 7, Jamaica, West Indies. paulbourne1@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: During 1880-1882, life expectancy for Jamaican males was 37.02 years 
and 39.80 for their female counterparts and 100 years later, the figures had 
increased to 69.03 for males and 72.37 for females. Despite the achievements in 
increased life expectancies of the general populace and the postponement of 
death, non-communicable diseases are on the rise. Hence, this means that 
prolonged life does not signify better quality life. Thus, this study seeks to 
examine the quality of life of Jamaicans by broadening the measure of well-being 
from the biomedical to the biopsychosocial and ecological model
METHOD: Secondary data were used for this study. The sample was a nationally 
representative one collected by the Statistical Institute of Jamaica and the 
Planning Institute of Jamaica in 2002. The total sample is 25,018 respondents of 
which the model used 1147. Data were stored and analysed using the Statistical 
Packages for the Social Sciences (SPSS). Multivariate regression was used to 
test the general hypothesis that well-being is a function of psychosocial, 
biological, environmental and demographic variables.
RESULTS: The model explains 39.3 percentage of the variance in well-being 
(adjusted r2). Among those 10, the 5 most significant determinants of well-being 
in descending order are average number of persons per room (beta = -0.254, p < 
0.001), area of residence (1 = KMA) (beta = -0.223, p < 0.001), area of 
residence [1 = Other Towns] (beta = -0.209, p < 0.001) and age of respondents 
(beta = -0.207, p < 0.001). These five variables accounted for 27.2 percentage 
of the model, with average occupancy and area of residence (being KMA) 
accounting for 7 per cent each.
CONCLUSION: This study has shown that well-being is indeed a multidimensional 
concept involving psychosocial, environmental and demographic variables.

PMID: 19565978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Popul Health Metr. 2009 Jun 30;7:11. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-7-11.

Mortality attributable to excess adiposity in England and Wales in 2003 and 
2015: explorations with a spreadsheet implementation of the Comparative Risk 
Assessment methodology.

Kelly C(1), Pashayan N, Munisamy S, Powles JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
University Forvie Site, Robinson Way, Cambridge, CB2 0SR, UK. jwp11@cam.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Our aim was to estimate the burden of fatal disease attributable to 
excess adiposity in England and Wales in 2003 and 2015 and to explore the 
sensitivity of the estimates to the assumptions and methods used.
METHODS: A spreadsheet implementation of the World Health Organization's (WHO) 
Comparative Risk Assessment (CRA) methodology for continuously distributed 
exposures was used. For our base case, adiposity-related risks were assumed to 
be minimal with a mean (SD) BMI of 21 (1) Kg m-2. All cause mortality risks for 
2015 were taken from the Government Actuary and alternative compositions by 
cause derived. Disease-specific relative risks by BMI were taken from the CRA 
project and varied in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Under base case methods and assumptions for 2003, approximately 41,000 
deaths and a loss of 1.05 years of life expectancy were attributed to excess 
adiposity. Seventy-seven percent of all diabetic deaths, 23% of all ischaemic 
heart disease deaths and 14% of all cerebrovascular disease deaths were 
attributed to excess adiposity. Predictions for 2015 were found to be more 
sensitive to assumptions about the future course of mortality risks for diabetes 
than to variation in the assumed trend in BMI. On less favourable assumptions 
the attributable loss of life expectancy in 2015 would rise modestly to 1.28 
years.
CONCLUSION: Excess adiposity appears to contribute materially but modestly to 
mortality risks in England and Wales and this contribution is likely to increase 
in the future. Uncertainty centres on future trends of associated diseases, 
especially diabetes. The robustness of these estimates is limited by the lack of 
control for correlated risks by stratification and by the empirical uncertainty 
surrounding the effects of prolonged excess adiposity beginning in adolescence.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-7-11
PMCID: PMC2714074
PMID: 19566928


998. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jun;13 Suppl 1:41-7. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl1/07.

Erlotinib for the treatment of relapsed non-small cell lung cancer.

McLeod C(1), Bagust A, Boland A, Hockenhull J, Dundar Y, Proudlove C, Davis H, 
Green J, Macbeth F, Stevenson J, Walley T, Dickson R.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group (LRiG), Room B05, Whelan 
Building,The Quadrangle, Brownlow Hill, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical and cost-effectiveness of erlotinib for the treatment of relapsed 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), according to its licensed indication, based 
upon the evidence submission from Roche Products to the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal 
(STA) process. The submitted clinical evidence includes one randomised 
controlled trial (RCT) (BR21) investigating the effect of erlotinib versus 
placebo, which demonstrates that erlotinib significantly increases median 
overall survival, progression-free survival and response rate compared with 
placebo. The majority of patients in the trial experienced non-haematological 
drug-related adverse effects. Currently there are no trials that directly 
compare erlotinib with any other second-line chemotherapy agent. For the 
purposes of indirect comparison, the manufacturer's submission provides a 
narrative discussion of data from 11 RCTs investigating the use of docetaxel. 
From these data the manufacturer concludes that erlotinib has similar clinical 
efficacy levels to docetaxel but results in fewer serious haematological adverse 
events; however, it is difficult to compare the results of BR21 with those of 
the docetaxel trials or with current UK clinical practice because, for example, 
the BR21 patient population is younger than that expected to present in UK 
clinical practice and almost half of the BR21 participants received erlotinib as 
third-line chemotherapy, with third-line chemotherapy being rare in the UK. The 
manufacturer's submission included a three-state model comparing erlotinib with 
docetaxel, reporting an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 1764 
pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for erlotinib compared with 
docetaxel. Rerunning the manufacturer's economic model with varied parameters 
and assumptions increases the ICER to in excess of 52,000 pounds per QALY 
gained. There is still a large amount of unquantifiable uncertainty in the model 
and it is unlikely that erlotinib could be considered to be cost-effective 
compared with docetaxel at a willingness to pay of 30,000 pounds and there may 
even be the potential for docetaxel to dominate erlotinib. Because of the 
limitations of the indirect analysis undertaken by the manufacturer and the 
subsequent economic modelling exercise there is a need for a head-to-head trial 
comparing erlotinib with docetaxel. The guidance issued by NICE in February 2007 
as a result of the STA states that erlotinib is not recommended for the 
treatment of locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl1/07
PMID: 19567213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jun;13 Suppl 1:49-54. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl1/08.

Cetuximab plus radiotherapy for the treatment of locally advanced squamous cell 
carcinoma of the head and neck.

Griffin S(1), Walker S, Sculpher M, White S, Erhorn S, Brent S, Dyker A, Ferrie 
L, Gilfillan C, Horsley W, Macfarlane K, Thomas S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York and NHS Northern and 
Yorkshire Regional Drug and Therapeutics Centre, York, UK. scg3@york.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical and cost-effectiveness of cetuximab plus radiotherapy for the treatment 
of locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA SCCHN) 
considered inappropriate for chemoradiotherapy but appropriate for radiotherapy, 
based upon the evidence submission from Merck Pharmaceuticals to the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single 
technology appraisal (STA) process. The manufacturer's submission was generally 
of good quality and was an accurate representation of the original reference 
data. One good-quality randomised controlled trial comparing radiotherapy plus 
cetuximab with radiotherapy alone in patients with stage III or IV 
non-metastatic LA SCCHN was included, demonstrating that the duration of 
locoregional control was significantly longer with radiotherapy plus cetuximab 
than with radiotherapy alone; also, overall and progression-free survival were 
significantly longer and the overall response rate was significantly better with 
the combination therapy. Cetuximab did not exacerbate the common toxic effects 
associated with radiotherapy of the head and neck. No supporting evidence for 
these findings are available. The patient population in the trial included a 
high proportion of patients who would be expected to be suitable for 
chemoradiotherapy and therefore does not match the population described in the 
submission's decision problem. Also, the radiotherapy regimens used in the trial 
are not typical of current UK practice. The ERG considered the manufacturer's 
economic evaluation to comprise the only relevant evidence to consider for the 
purposes of this STA. The economic model was considered appropriate for the 
decision problem. The results suggested that cetuximab plus radiotherapy was 
cost-effective compared with radiotherapy alone under a broad range of different 
assumptions on the basis of a cost-effectiveness threshold of 20,000 pounds. In 
the base case the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of cetuximab plus 
radiotherapy compared with radiotherapy alone in the treatment of patients with 
LA SCCHN was 6390 pounds per additional QALY. Simple sensitivity analyses to 
examine the robustness of the results were undertaken, suggesting that areas of 
uncertainty that emerged in the modelling are unlikely to have a material effect 
on the conclusions. The guidance issued by NICE in May 2007 as a result of the 
STA states that cetuximab in combination with radiotherapy is not recommended 
for patients with LA SCCHN.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl1/08
PMID: 19567214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Jun;13 Suppl 1:55-60. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl1/09.

Infliximab for the treatment of adults with psoriasis.

Loveman E(1), Turner D, Hartwell D, Cooper K, Clegg A.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Wessex Institute for Health 
Research and Development, University of Southampton, UK. 
emma.lovemann@soton.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical and cost-effectiveness of infliximab for the treatment of moderate to 
severe plaque psoriasis, in accordance with the licensed indication, based on 
the evidence submission from Schering-Plough to the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal 
(STA) process. The outcomes stated in the manufacturer's definition of the 
decision problem were severity [Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score], 
remission rates, relapse rates and health-related quality of life. The main 
evidence in the submission comes from four randomised controlled trials (RCT) 
comparing infliximab with placebo and eight RCTs comparing either etanercept or 
efalizumab with placebo. At week 10, patients on infliximab had a significantly 
higher likelihood of attaining a reduction in PASI score than placebo patients. 
There were also statistically significant differences between infliximab and 
placebo in the secondary outcomes. In the comparator trials both the efalizumab 
and etanercept arms included a significantly higher proportion of patients who 
achieved a reduction in PASI score at week 12 than the placebo arms. No 
head-to-head studies were identified directly comparing infliximab with 
etanercept or efalizumab. The manufacturer carried out an indirect comparison, 
but the ERG had reservations about the comparison because of the lack of 
information presented and areas of uncertainty in relation to the included data. 
The economic model presented by the manufacturer was appropriate for the disease 
area and given the available data. The cost-effectiveness analysis estimates the 
mean length of time that an individual would respond to infliximab compared with 
continuous etanercept and the utility gains associated with this response. The 
base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for infliximab compared 
with continuous etanercept for patients with severe psoriasis was 26,095 pounds 
per quality-adjusted life-year. A one-way sensitivity analysis, a scenario 
analysis and a probabilistic sensitivity analysis were undertaken by the ERG. 
The ICER is highly sensitive to assumptions about the costs and frequency of 
inpatient stays for non-responders of infliximab. The guidance issued by NICE in 
August 2007 as a result of the STA states that infliximab within its licensed 
indication is recommended for the treatment of adults with very severe plaque 
psoriasis, or with psoriasis that has failed to respond to standard systematic 
therapies. Infliximab treatment should be continued beyond 10 weeks in people 
whose psoriasis has shown an adequate response to treatment within 10 weeks. In 
addition, when using the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI), care should be 
taken to take into account the patient's disabilities, to ensure DLQI continues 
to be an accurate measure.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl1/09
PMID: 19567215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Vaccine. 2009 Aug 13;27(37):5111-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.06.043. Epub 
2009 Jun 28.

How to screen for cervical cancer after HPV16/18 vaccination in The Netherlands.

CoupÃ© VM(1), de Melker HE, Snijders PJ, Meijer CJ, Berkhof J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical 
Centre, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. v.coupe@vumc.nl

In The Netherlands, vaccination against HPV16/18 has been recommended for all 
12-year-old girls. Because screening of vaccinated women remains important, we 
evaluated the model-based cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer screening 
strategies. We considered cytology and the HPV DNA test as primary screening 
instrument, varied the number of screening rounds from 7 to 4, and set the 
screening starting age at 30 and 35 years. Our model predicted reductions in 
cervical cancer mortality between 60 and 81% (from 199 deaths to 37-79) when 
adding screening to vaccination (assumptions for vaccination: 95% efficacy, 100% 
compliance, lifelong protection). Screening 5 times with HPV DNA 
(euro11,133/QALY) or 7 times with cytology (euro17,627/QALY) were scenarios with 
comparable costs and effects and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios below the 
threshold in The Netherlands (euro20,000 per QALY).

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.06.043
PMID: 19567242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Blood. 2009 Sep 3;114(10):2037-43. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-01-197715. Epub
2009  Jun 30.

Long-term outcome of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia treated with 
second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors after imatinib failure is predicted 
by the in vitro sensitivity of BCR-ABL kinase domain mutations.

Jabbour E(1), Jones D, Kantarjian HM, O'Brien S, Tam C, Koller C, Burger JA, 
Borthakur G, Wierda WG, Cortes J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, 
1515 Holcombe Blvd., Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Secondary imatinib resistance in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is associated in 
approximately 50% of cases with mutations in the BCR-ABL kinase domain, 
necessitating switch to one of several new tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) 
that act differentially on mutated BCR-ABL. We assess here whether scoring 
mutation based on in vitro inhibitory concentration of each TKI-mutation pair 
can predict long-term clinical outcome. Among 169 patients with CML after 
imatinib failure, mutations were detected before TKI switch in 41 (48%) treated 
with dasatinib and 45 (52%) treated with nilotinib. Inhibitory concentration 
values for each TKI-mutation pair were stratified into high (n = 42), 
intermediate (n = 25), low (T315I, n = 9), or unknown sensitivity (n = 10). 
Hematologic and cytogenetic response rates were similar for patients with or 
without mutations. For patients in chronic phase, hematologic and cytogenetic 
responses correlated with mutation score; tumors with low and intermediate 
scores had lower response rates than those with highly sensitive mutations, and 
worse event-free and overall survival. These correlations with overall survival 
were not seen for advanced phases. Mutation scoring can predict outcome in 
CML-chronic phase with imatinib failure treated with second-generation TKIs and 
can help in therapy selection. More complex prognostic models will be required 
for advanced stages of disease.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-01-197715
PMCID: PMC4186638
PMID: 19567878 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Alzheimer Dis Assoc Disord. 2010 Jan-Mar;24(1):90-5. doi: 
10.1097/WAD.0b013e31819fe7d1.

Lethality of Alzheimer disease and its impact on nursing home placement.

Arrighi HM(1), Neumann PJ, Lieberburg IM, Townsend RJ.

Author information:
(1)Elan Pharmaceuticals, Inc, South San Francisco, CA, USA. 
Michael.Arrighi@elan.com

This analysis evaluates the progression of Alzheimer disease (AD) severity and 
compares the life expectancy and nursing home placement rates for AD patients 
with the same measures in the general population. Data from the Consortium to 
Establish a Registry for Alzheimer Disease were analyzed to estimate expected 
survival, time spent in each Clinical Dementia Rating stage, and nursing home 
admission rate for a hypothetical cohort of patients aged 70 years with 
new-onset AD. Corresponding estimates for the US general population were 
calculated from the 2004 National Nursing Home Survey and the 2003 life table 
estimates from the US Census Bureau. Deaths from all causes by age 80 years are 
expected in 61% of AD patients and in 30% of the general population. From the 
age of 70 to 80 years, a typical AD patient spends 4 years at Clinical Dementia 
Rating stage 3 (severe), 3 years at stage 2 (moderate), and 3 years at stage 1 
(mild). Nursing home admission by the age of 80 years is expected for 
approximately 75% of surviving AD patients, but for only 4% of the general 
population. Among persons aged > or =65 years, reported age-adjusted and 
sex-adjusted mortality rates for AD increased to 33% from 1999 to 2004.

DOI: 10.1097/WAD.0b013e31819fe7d1
PMID: 19568155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Feb;106(8):117-22. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0117.
Epub  2009 Feb 20.

Important aspects of organ-preserving surgery for renal tumors: indications, new 
standards, and oncological outcomes.

Becker F(1), Siemer S, Kamradt J, Zwergel U, StÃ¶ckle M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik fÃ¼r Urologie und Kinderurologie, UniversitÃ¤tsklinikum 
des Saarlandes, Homburg/Saar, Germany. frank.becker@uks.eu

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Aug;106(34-35):563; author reply 563-4.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2009 Aug;106(34-35):563; author reply 563-4.

INTRODUCTION: Organ-preserving surgery for renal tumors has become more common 
over the past two decades. At first, part of the kidney, rather than all of it, 
was resected only if there was an absolute indication for doing so, i.e., if the 
tumor was located in an anatomically or functionally solitary kidney or if renal 
failure was already present. Now that favorable oncological outcomes have been 
demonstrated, renal tumors are increasingly often removed with only partial 
resection of renal tissue even when the indications are less stringent, 
including when the other kidney is healthy.
METHODS: The indications for, and oncological outcomes of, partial renal 
resection are presented and discussed on the basis of a selective literature 
search of Medline as well as the guidelines of the European Association of 
Urologists (EAU).
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: The EAU, in its new guidelines for renal cell 
carcinoma, recommends partial renal resection as the standard treatment for 
tumors less than 4 cm in size that are wholly contained within one kidney when 
the other kidney is healthy. This practice yields comparable outcomes to those 
of nephrectomy, with tumor-specific five-year survival rates exceeding 90%. In 
major urological centers, partial resection is favored even for tumors larger 
than 4 cm, as long as they are in a favorable location. Nonetheless, the 
estimated rate of nephrectomy for tumors less than 4 cm in size currently 
remains very high in Germany, as it does in American studies, even though the 
organ-preserving resection of such small tumors usually results in cure.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2009.0117
PMCID: PMC2695362
PMID: 19568369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Clin Cardiol. 2009 Jun;32(6):296-301. doi: 10.1002/clc.20535.

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a potential option for the nonsurgical 
patient.

Patel JH(1), Mathew ST, Hennebry TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Science 
Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, USA.

With improved life expectancy, the incidence of aortic stenosis is rising. 
However, up to one-third of patients who require lifesaving surgical aortic 
valve replacement are denied surgery due to a high operative mortality rate. 
Such patients can only be treated with medical therapy or percutaneous aortic 
valvuloplasty, neither of which has been shown to improve mortality. With 
advances in interventional cardiology, transcatheter methods have been developed 
for aortic valve replacement. Clinical trials are investigating these devices in 
patients with severe aortic stenosis that have been denied surgery. Preliminary 
results from these trials suggest that transcatheter aortic valve replacement 
(TAVR) is not only feasible, but an effective way to improve symptoms. In this 
review, we describe the current technology and display available outcome data. 
Though technical challenges and operator learning curve limit optimal use of the 
current technology, continued experience and advancements in technology may one 
day make TAVR a viable alternative to traditional surgical aortic valve 
replacement.

2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.20535
PMCID: PMC6653302
PMID: 19569066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Ecology. 2009 Jun;90(6):1574-85. doi: 10.1890/08-1263.1.

Seasonal source-sink dynamics at the edge of a species' range.

Kanda LL(1), Fuller TK, Sievert PR, Kellogg RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ithaca College, Ithaca, New York 14850, USA. 
lkanda@ithaca.edu

The roles of dispersal and population dynamics in determining species' range 
boundaries recently have received theoretical attention but little empirical 
work. Here we provide data on survival, reproduction, and movement for a 
Virginia opossum (Didelphis virginiana) population at a local distributional 
edge in central Massachusetts (USA). Most juvenile females that apparently 
exploited anthropogenic resources survived their first winter, whereas those 
using adjacent natural resources died of starvation. In spring, adult females 
recolonized natural areas. A life-table model suggests that a population 
exploiting anthropogenic resources may grow, acting as source to a 
geographically interlaced sink of opossums using only natural resources, and 
also providing emigrants for further range expansion to new human-dominated 
landscapes. In a geographical model, this source-sink dynamic is consistent with 
the local distribution identified through road-kill surveys. The Virginia 
opossum's exploitation of human resources likely ameliorates energetically 
restrictive winters and may explain both their local distribution and their 
northward expansion in unsuitable natural climatic regimes. Landscape 
heterogeneity, such as created by urbanization, may result in source-sink 
dynamics at highly localized scales. Differential fitness and individual 
dispersal movements within local populations are key to generating regional 
distributions, and thus species ranges, that exceed expectations.

DOI: 10.1890/08-1263.1
PMID: 19569372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Int J Clin Pract. 2009 Jul;63(7):1031-40. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02090.x.

Assessing the value of atomoxetine in treating children and adolescents with 
ADHD in the UK.

Prasad S(1), Arellano J, Steer C, Libretto SE.

Author information:
(1)Department Paediatrics, Cromwell Hospital, London, UK. 
suyash@suyashprasad.com

BACKGROUND: Economic evaluation of healthcare technologies is becoming 
increasingly relevant, enabling decision makers to assess and compare treatments 
within the context of costs and outcomes. Moreover, it is increasingly important 
for clinicians and prescribers to have some understanding of economic 
evaluation. For attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), economic 
evaluations have largely focused on pharmacotherapy, and results indicate that 
such treatments are cost-effective compared with other interventions.
AIMS: This review provides an overview of ADHD, its consequences and 
pharmacotherapy; describes the principles of health economic analysis, 
health-related quality of life (HRQL) and a cost-effectiveness model of 
atomoxetine for ADHD treatment; and outlines guidance from the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence on ADHD pharmacotherapy.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of atomoxetine for children with ADHD in the UK 
was compared with treatment alternatives using an economic model with Markov 
processes. The model evaluated atomoxetine in five patient subgroups according 
to treatment history and comorbidities precluding stimulants. Incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was calculated and compared between 
treatment algorithms. The Markov process incorporated 18 health states, 
representing a range of outcomes across the treatments. Utility values were 
derived from a survey of 83 parents of children with ADHD, and treatment 
efficacy and safety were based on a review of controlled clinical trials and 
literature, and validated by international experts. Costs and outcomes were 
estimated using Monte Carlo simulation over 1-year.
RESULTS: Atomoxetine was a cost-effective treatment across the whole ADHD 
population, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios ranging from pound 11,500 
to pound 15,900 per QALY, compared with alternative pharmacotherapies, which are 
within UK and rest of Europe acceptability limits. Higher utility values 
achieved treating ADHD with atomoxetine, compensate for the relatively higher 
acquisition cost compared with stimulants.
CONCLUSIONS: Atomoxetine is cost-effective and may have advantages over 
stimulants, including benefits to HRQL and no abuse liability and is the only 
treatment in the UK licensed for continued treatment into adulthood in 
adolescents who have shown a response from treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02090.x
PMID: 19570121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2009 Jul;57(7):1301-2. doi:
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2009.02312.x.

Does increasing human life span really mean that societies age?

Ksiazek K.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2009.02312.x
PMID: 19570160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Clin Psychiatry. 2009;70 Suppl 3:22-9. doi: 10.4088/JCP.7075su1c.04.

The effects of undertreated chronic medical illnesses in patients with severe 
mental disorders.

Fagiolini A(1), Goracci A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, University of Siena School of Medicine, Viale 
Bracci 1, Siena 53100, Italy. andreafagiolini@gmail.com

Severe mental disorders such as bipolar disorder and schizophrenia often 
co-occur with chronic medical illnesses, especially cardiovascular disease and 
diabetes. These comorbidities are associated with a more severe course of mental 
illness, reduced quality of life, and premature mortality. Although the 
association between mental disorders and physical health complications has long 
been recognized, medical conditions remain undertreated in clinical psychiatric 
practice, and the life expectancy for individuals with serious psychiatric 
disorders is approximately 30% shorter than that of the general US population. 
Factors that are related to the mental illness (eg, cognitive impairment, 
reduced ability to function, and a lack of communication skills) as well as 
factors such as the high cost of medical care may make accessing general health 
care a difficult task for patients. Even when medical care is received by 
patients, the quality is often poor, and dangerous illnesses may be undiagnosed 
and untreated. In addition, harmful side effects of medications used to treat 
psychiatric disorders, unhealthy habits and lifestyles, and a possible genetic 
susceptibility to medical conditions increase the likelihood of comorbid 
physical conditions in patients with severe mental illness. Implementing 
behavioral interventions into clinical practice may help patients improve their 
overall health and prevent chronic medical conditions.

Â© Copyright 2009 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.4088/JCP.7075su1c.04
PMID: 19570498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Respir Med. 2009 Nov;103(11):1614-22. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2009.06.003. Epub
2009  Jun 30.

Allergic respiratory diseases in the elderly.

Bom AT(1), Pinto AM.

Author information:
(1)Immuno Allergology Department, Coimbra University Hospital, Portugal. 
flcosta@netcabo.pt

In industrialized countries there has been a significant increase in life 
expectancy, but chronic diseases are still important causes of death and 
disability in the elderly. Individuals over 65 years of age have a decrease in 
organic functions and lungs can lose more than 40% of their capacity. Although 
asthma and allergic rhinitis are more common in young people their prevalence in 
the elderly is increasing and the mortality reported in these patients is high. 
Asthmatic airways show an accumulation of activated eosinophils and lymphocytes 
determining structural changes of the bronchi. Local allergic inflammation, 
changes in T cell phenotypes and in apoptosis contribute to systemic 
inflammation. An increased risk of respiratory infections and neoplasic diseases 
has been recognized. These patients have increased susceptibility to 
atherosclerosis and cardiovascular diseases. Metabolic diseases are associated 
with an impairment of lung function and with systemic inflammation. Summing up 
older asthmatic patients have an increased risk to premature disability and 
death. A proper therapeutic approach to asthma can minimize this evolution. To 
identify the triggers is an important goal that allows reducing medication 
needs. Corticosteroids dampen allergic inflammation; therefore, they are the 
first choice in the treatment of patients with persistent asthma and rhinitis. 
Second-generation H1 receptor antagonists have reduced side effects and can be 
used if necessary. The elderly may have difficult access to health care. They 
should be educated about their disease and receive a written treatment plan. 
This information improves the quality of life, socialization and disease outcome 
in older people.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2009.06.003
PMID: 19570668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Cell Sci. 2009 Jul 15;122(Pt 14):2534-42. doi: 10.1242/jcs.046268.

Mouse ACF7 and drosophila short stop modulate filopodia formation and 
microtubule organisation during neuronal growth.

Sanchez-Soriano N(1), Travis M, Dajas-Bailador F, GonÃ§alves-Pimentel C, 
Whitmarsh AJ, Prokop A.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, The University of Manchester, Michael Smith 
Building, Manchester M13 9PT, UK.

Spectraplakins are large actin-microtubule linker molecules implicated in 
various processes, including gastrulation, wound healing, skin blistering and 
neuronal degeneration. Expression data for the mammalian spectraplakin ACF7 and 
genetic analyses of the Drosophila spectraplakin Short stop (Shot) suggest an 
important role during neurogenesis. Using three parallel neuronal culture 
systems we demonstrate that, like Shot, ACF7 is essential for axon extension and 
describe, for the first time, their subcellular functions during axonal growth. 
Firstly, both ACF7 and Shot regulate the organisation of neuronal microtubules, 
a role dependent on both the F-actin- and microtubule-binding domains. This role 
in microtubule organisation is probably the key mechanism underlying the roles 
of Shot and ACF7 in growth cone advance. Secondly, we found a novel role for 
ACF7 and Shot in regulating the actin cytoskeleton through their ability to 
control the formation of filopodia. This function in F-actin regulation requires 
EF-hand motifs and interaction with the translational regulator 
Krasavietz/eIF5C, indicating that the underlying mechanisms are completely 
different from those used to control microtubules. Our data provide the basis 
for the first mechanistic explanation for the role of Shot and ACF7 in the 
developing nervous system and demonstrate their ability to coordinate the 
organisation of both actin and microtubule networks during axonal growth.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.046268
PMCID: PMC2704885
PMID: 19571116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Aug 5;101(15):1083-92. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djp183.
Epub  2009 Jul 1.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of human papillomavirus vaccination in the 
Netherlands.

de Kok IM(1), van Ballegooijen M, Habbema JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center, 3000 CA 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. i.dekok@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Mar 3;102(5):358; author reply 358.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Mar 3;102(5):358-9; author reply 359-60.

BACKGROUND: In the Netherlands, low cervical cancer incidence and mortality 
rates might limit the cost-effectiveness of vaccination against the human 
papillomavirus (HPV). We examined the effect on cervical cancer incidence and 
mortality of adding HPV vaccination to the current Dutch cervical cancer 
screening situation and calculated the cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Costs and effects were estimated under favorable assumptions (ie, that 
HPV vaccination provides lifelong protection against 70% of all cervical 
cancers, has no side effects, and is administered to all women regardless of 
their risk of cervical cancer) by using the microsimulation screening analysis 
(MISCAN) model. The impact of changes in the price of vaccination, number of 
booster vaccinations, vaccination attendance rate, vaccination efficacy, 
cervical cancer incidence level, and quality-of-life assumptions was 
investigated in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Using the current price of euro118 per vaccine dose and with 
discounting of costs and effects at an annual rate of 3%, adding HPV vaccination 
to the current Dutch screening situation had a cost-effectiveness ratio of 
euro53 500 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. The threshold price per 
vaccine dose at which the cost-effectiveness of vaccination would correspond to 
an acceptability threshold of euro20 000 per QALY gained was euro40. With the 
addition of one or more (up to four) booster vaccinations during a lifetime, 
this threshold price decreased to euro33 for one booster (to euro16 for four 
boosters). With a doubling of the cervical cancer incidence level, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was euro24 400 per QALY gained and the maximum price 
per dose at threshold of euro20 000 was euro97. All threshold prices were lower 
under less favorable effectiveness assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: In the Netherlands, HPV vaccination is not cost-effective even 
under favorable assumptions. To become cost-effective, the vaccine price would 
have to be decreased considerably, depending on the effectiveness of the 
vaccine.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp183
PMID: 19571256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Med Decis Making. 2009 Jul-Aug;29(4):500-2. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09340585.
Epub  2009 Jul 1.

The half-cycle correction: banish rather than explain it.

Barendregt JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, School of Population Health, Herston, Australia. 
j.barendregt@sph.uq.edu.au

The half-cycle correction is often used in discrete Markov models to estimate 
state membership. This article shows that the correction, in addition to being 
unintuitive, actually produces the wrong results in many circumstances. These 
include quality-adjusted life year (QALY) weights and unit costs that differ by 
cycle. The half-cycle correction is also incompatible with discounting of the 
obtained stream of state membership. It is furthermore shown that the life table 
method of estimating state membership obtains correct results under these 
circumstances and is also much more transparent. The article concludes that the 
half-cycle correction should be dropped in favor of the life table method.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09340585
PMID: 19571330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Curr Opin Urol. 2009 Sep;19(5):459-64. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e32832f0c7d.

Renal cancer surgery in the elderly.

Roos FC(1), Hampel C, ThÃ¼roff JW.

