quantum of papers published. The search was performed on April 29, 2007.
RESULTS: PubMed had 8.26 million articles listed; of which, 72 per cent were in 
English and only 2 per cent were on unintentional injuries. For papers in all 
languages including English on road traffic injuries, 41 per cent were from US, 
36 per cent from Europe (other than Eastern Europe). Two most populous 
countries, China and India contributed only 0.9 and 0.7 per cent papers on road 
traffic injuries, respectively. On neoplasm there were 280 articles published 
per million population whereas for road traffic injuries, rate was 4 articles 
per million population. Northern Africa, India and China had less than one 
article on road traffic injuries per 1,000 road traffic related deaths. The 
percentage change in English papers on road traffic injuries for the period 
2004-2007 in comparison to period 2001-2004 was +191 per cent for China, +118 
per cent for India, and +106 per cent for Middle East. Unintentional injuries 
overall represented 18 per cent of the burden in terms of DALYs and represented 
only 2 per cent of all published articles.
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSION: The results noticeably reflected the small 
proportion of papers on injuries, the dominance of US, and the apparent increase 
in percentage of road traffic injuries papers from low- and middle- income 
countries after World Health Day on Road Safety in 2004. Policies on injury 
prevention and safety in developing countries will be effective if based on 
local evidence and research, and designed to suit the social, political, and 
economic circumstances found in developing countries.

PMID: 19491427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Postgrad Med. 2009 May;121(3):83-9. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2009.05.2006.

Diagnosis and management of acute rhinosinusitis.

Desrosiers M(1).

Author information:
(1)Hotel-Dieu de Montreal Hospital, 3840 St-Urbain Street, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada. desrosiers_martin@hotmail.com

Acute rhinosinusitis (ARS) is a highly prevalent condition with substantial 
public health implications. The disease is associated with a high degree of 
disability, impairment of quality of life, and school and workplace absenteeism. 
Acute rhinosinusitis is most often precipitated by a viral upper respiratory 
infection or an episode of allergic rhinitis. Typical signs and symptoms include 
nasal congestion, purulent nasal discharge, headache, cough, and facial pain or 
tenderness. Diagnosis is usually based on patient history and physical 
examination. Specialist consultation is indicated for intractable or complicated 
disease, signified by signs or symptoms suggestive of orbital, intraosseous, or 
intracranial extension of sinus disease. Most cases of ARS in the ambulatory 
setting are viral. In the absence of severe or rapidly worsening symptoms, 
antibiotic prescription should be delayed until an appropriate surveillance 
period has elapsed. Symptomatic therapy is the most efficient approach for 
uncomplicated ARS. There is a paucity of data supporting use of commonly used 
symptomatic therapies, with the exception of intranasal corticosteroids, which 
have demonstrated rapid improvement of the symptoms of ARS and return to normal 
functioning when used as monotherapy or as an adjunct to antibiotics.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2009.05.2006
PMID: 19491544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Hypertens Suppl. 2009 Jun;27(2):S11-4. doi: 
10.1097/01.hjh.0000354513.52203.a4.

Dual blockade versus single blockade of the renin-angiotensin system in the 
light of ONTARGET.

Sudano I(1), Noll G.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Center Cardiology, University Hospital Zürich, Zürich, 
Switzerland.

Angiotensin II plays an important role in the cardiovascular continuum starting 
with risk factors and progressing to atherosclerosis, target organ damage, and 
ultimately to heart failure, stroke, or death. Inhibiting the 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) represents a cornerstone for the 
treatment of hypertension and heart failure. In patients with heart failure, the 
single RAAS blockade with angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors have 
been shown to reduce morbidity and mortality, increase life expectancy, and 
preserve the renal function. AT1 receptor blockers (ARBs) are equally effective 
in reducing mortality and morbidity in patients with impaired left ventricular 
function. The combination of ACE inhibitors with ARBs leads to an additive blood 
pressure lowering effect, better reduction in proteinuria, and to additive 
benefits in heart failure and left ventricular hypertrophy. But combination 
therapy is also associated with more side effects. Further investigations 
evaluating the effect of dual RAAS blockade on fatal and nonfatal cardiovascular 
events are needed.

DOI: 10.1097/01.hjh.0000354513.52203.a4
PMID: 19491615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Anticancer Drugs. 2009 Aug;20(7):625-33. doi: 10.1097/CAD.0b013e32832d4f22.

Effect of adenosine 5'-triphosphate infusions on the nutritional status and 
survival of preterminal cancer patients.

Beijer S(1), Hupperets PS, van den Borne BE, Eussen SR, van Henten AM, van den 
Beuken-van Everdingen M, de Graeff A, Ambergen TA, van den Brandt PA, Dagnelie 
PC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Maastricht University, Maastricht 6200 MD, The 
Netherlands. sandra.beijer@epid.unimaas.nl

The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of intravenous infusions of 
adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) on nutritional status and survival in 
preterminal cancer patients. Ninety-nine preterminal cancer patients (estimated 
life expectancy 1-6 months) with mixed tumor types were randomly allocated to 
receive either intravenous ATP weekly (8-10 h/week, maximum 50 microg/kg/min) 
for 8 weeks, or no ATP (control group). Nutritional status parameters were 
assessed until 8 weeks, and analyzed by repeated-measures analysis of 
covariance. Cox proportional hazards models were fitted to assess the effect of 
ATP on short-term (0-8 weeks) and long-term (0-6 months) survival. Fifty-one 
patients were randomized to ATP and 48 to the control group. Results showed a 
significant favorable effect of ATP on triceps skin fold thickness 
[between-group difference per 8 weeks 1.76 mm, 95% confidence interval (CI): 
0.48-3.12 mm; P = 0.009] and on short-term survival [0-8 weeks hazard ratio 
(HR): 0.40, 95% CI: 0.17-0.95; P = 0.037]. In weight-stable patients and in lung 
cancer patients, long-term survival (0-6 months) was also significantly better 
in ATP-treated patients (weight-stable patients HR: 0.40, 95% CI: 0.19-0.83; P = 
0.014; patients with lung cancer: HR: 0.35, 95% CI: 0.14-0.88; P = 0.025). In 
conclusion, in this population of preterminal cancer patients, ATP infusions, at 
the dose and schedule studied, had a favorable effect on triceps skin fold 
thickness and survival, especially in weight-stable patients and patients with 
lung cancer. Larger studies are warranted to confirm these findings and to 
further define the effect of ATP on tumor growth and survival.

DOI: 10.1097/CAD.0b013e32832d4f22
PMID: 19491658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2009 Aug;16(4):304-7. doi: 
10.1097/MED.0b013e32832d88e4.

Recent advances in the treatment of acromegaly.

Aghi M(1), Blevins LS Jr.

Author information:
(1)California Center for Pituitary Disorders at UCSF, Department of Neurological 
Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, California, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Description of recent outcomes and approaches to the 
treatment of patients with de-novo and recurrent acromegaly.
RECENT FINDINGS: Radiosurgery for acromegaly results in a higher likelihood of 
remission and an earlier time to remission than does conventional radiotherapy. 
Somatostatin analogs results in control of acromegaly and one half of patients. 
Combining treatment with pegvisomant and somatostatin analogs results in overall 
improved quality of life.
SUMMARY: Existing treatments offer patients and their treating physicians 
opportunities to restore life expectancy to normal and reverse many of the 
symptoms and signs of acromegaly.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0b013e32832d88e4
PMID: 19491667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Tex Med. 2009 Jun 1;105(6):33-8.

Living with a killer: HIV/AIDS infect thousands of Texans.

Conde C.

Tens of thousands of Texans go about their everyday lives infected with HIV and 
AIDS. Many of them are children infected at birth. Two bills in this year's 
Texas legislative session sought to reduce the devastation wrought by the 
disease.

PMID: 19492268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Int J Health Serv. 2009;39(2):301-19. doi: 10.2190/HS.39.2.e.

The cultural production of health inequalities: a cross-sectional, multilevel 
examination of 52 countries.

Mansyur CL(1), Amick BC 3rd, Harrist RB, Franzini L, Roberts RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, TX 77098-3926, USA. cmansyur@bcm.edu

In a 2001 report, the U.S. National Institutes of Health called for more 
integration of the social sciences into health-related research, including 
research guided by theories and methods that take social and cultural systems 
into consideration. Based on a theoretical framework that integrates Hofstede's 
cultural dimensions with sociological theory, the authors used multilevel 
modeling to explore the association of culture with structural inequality and 
health disparities. Their results support the idea that cultural dimensions and 
social structure, along with economic development, may account for much of the 
cross-national variation in the distribution of health inequalities. Sensitivity 
tests also suggest that an interaction between culture and social structure may 
confound the relationship between income inequality and health. It is necessary 
to identify important cultural and social structural characteristics before we 
can achieve an understanding of the complex, dynamic systems that affect health, 
and develop culturally sensitive interventions and policies. This study takes a 
step toward identifying some of the relevant cultural and structural influences. 
More research is needed to explore the pathways leading from the sociocultural 
environment to health inequalities.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.39.2.e
PMID: 19492627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Microbiol Immunol. 2009 Jun;53(6):309-18. doi:
10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00130.x.

Characterization of the orf1-tolQRA operon in Pseudomonas aeruginosa.

Wei Y(1), Li Z, Chen B, Liang H, Duan K.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Microbiology Laboratory, Faculty of Life Sciences, Northwest 
University, 229 Taibai Road North, Xian, 710069, China.

The tol-pal genes play important roles in maintaining outer membrane integrity, 
transmembrane transportation, and cell division in Gram-negative bacteria. In 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa, an important human opportunistic pathogen, the tol-oprL 
genes are organized uniquely in three operons, orf1-tolQRA, tolB and oprL-orf2, 
and are regulated by iron availability. Similarity between TolQRA and the iron 
transport system ExbBD-TonB also exists in P. aeruginosa and they can replace 
each other imperfectly. It is of importance to investigate the regulation and 
functions of this membrane complex. In the present study, we characterized the 
promoters and expression profiles of the orf1-tolQRA operon and investigated the 
function of Orf1. Primer extension was carried out by using both isotope-labeled 
and florescence labeled primers and the expression profiles were determined 
using both lacZ and luxCDABE-based transcriptional fusions. Our results revealed 
two distinct promoters at the upstream region of tolQRA; the one located in 
front of orf1 was constitutive whereas the other within the orf1 coding region 
was iron regulated. Expression profiles indicate the tol genes were also 
downregulated by the quorum-sensing systems during the late stage of growth. 
Unlike tolQ and tolA, we were able to construct a viable orf1 knockout strain, 
and the mutant exhibited altered cell and colony morphology, providing first 
evidence that Orf1 plays a non-essential role in the Tol-OprL complex in P. 
aeruginosa.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1348-0421.2009.00130.x
PMID: 19493198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Public Health (Oxf). 2009 Sep;31(3):366-73. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdp051.
Epub  2009 Jun 3.

The burden of alcohol-related ill health in the United Kingdom.

Balakrishnan R(1), Allender S, Scarborough P, Webster P, Rayner M.

Author information:
(1)British Heart Foundation Health Promotion Research Group, Department of 
Public Health, University of Oxford, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LF, UK.

BACKGROUND: Although moderate alcohol consumption has been shown to confer a 
protective effect for specific diseases, current societal patterns of alcohol 
use impose a huge health and economic burden on modern society. This study 
presents a method for estimating the health and economic burden of alcohol 
consumption to the UK National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: Previous estimates of NHS costs attributable to alcohol consumption 
were identified by systematic literature review. The mortality and morbidity due 
to alcohol consumption was calculated using information from the World Health 
Organization Global Burden of Disease Project and routinely collected mortality 
data. Direct health-care costs were derived using information on population 
attributable fractions for conditions related to alcohol consumption and NHS 
cost data.
RESULTS: We estimate that alcohol consumption was responsible for 31,000 deaths 
in the UK in 2005 and that alcohol consumption cost the UK NHS 3.0 billion 
pounds in 2005-06. Alcohol consumption was responsible for 10% of all disability 
adjusted life years in 2002 (male: 15%; female: 4%) in the UK.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol consumption is a considerable public health burden in the 
UK. The comparison of the health and economic burden of various lifestyle 
factors is essential in prioritizing and resourcing public health action.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdp051
PMID: 19493915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. BMJ. 2009 Jun 3;338:b2221. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b2221.

A model for NICE in the US.

Ferner RE, McDowell SE.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b2221
PMID: 19493926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Scand J Public Health. 2009 Jun;37(4):444-5. doi: 10.1177/1403494809105859.

Healthreport: status of health in the European Union.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1177/1403494809105859
PMID: 19493990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Neuropsychopharmacology. 2009 Sep;34(10):2227-36. doi: 10.1038/npp.2009.50.
Epub  2009 Jun 3.

When is pharmacogenetic testing for antidepressant response ready for the 
clinic? A cost-effectiveness analysis based on data from the STAR*D study.

Perlis RH(1), Patrick A, Smoller JW, Wang PS.

Author information:
(1)Center for Human Genetics Research, Department of Psychiatry, Massachusetts 
General Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
rperlis@partners.org

The potential of personalized medicine to transform the treatment of mood 
disorders has been widely touted in psychiatry, but has not been quantified. We 
estimated the costs and benefits of a putative pharmacogenetic test for 
antidepressant response in the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD) from 
the societal perspective. Specifically, we performed cost-effectiveness analyses 
using state-transition probability models incorporating probabilities from the 
multicenter STAR*D effectiveness study of MDD. Costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were compared for sequential antidepressant trials, with or 
without guidance from a pharmacogenetic test for differential response to 
selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Likely SSRI responders received 
an SSRI, whereas likely nonresponders received the norepinephrine/dopamine 
reuptake inhibitor bupropion. For a 40-year old with MDD, applying the 
pharmacogenetic test and using the non-SSRI bupropion for those at higher risk 
for nonresponse cost $93,520 per additional QALY compared with treating all 
patients with an SSRI first and switching sequentially in the case of 
nonremission. Cost per QALY dropped below $50,000 for tests with remission rate 
ratios as low as 1.5, corresponding to odds ratios approximately 1.8-2.0. Tests 
for differential antidepressant response could thus become cost effective under 
certain circumstances. These circumstances, particularly availability of 
alternative treatment strategies and test effect sizes, can be estimated and 
should be considered before these tests are broadly applied in clinical 
settings.

DOI: 10.1038/npp.2009.50
PMCID: PMC3312011
PMID: 19494805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Singapore Med J. 2009 May;50(5):468-78.

Singapore's burden of disease and injury 2004.

Phua HP(1), Chua AV, Ma S, Heng D, Chew SK.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology & Disease Control Division, Ministry of Health, College of 
Medicine Building, 16 College Road, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: The Singapore Burden of Disease (SBoD) Study 2004 provides a 
comprehensive and detailed assessment of the size and distribution of health 
problems in Singapore. It is the first local study to use disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) to quantify the total disease burden.
METHODS: The SBoD study applied the methods developed for the original Global 
Burden of Disease study to data specific to Singapore to compute the DALYs. DALY 
is a summary measure of population health that combines time lost due to 
premature mortality (years of life lost [YLL]) with time spent in ill-health 
(broadly-termed disability) arising from incident cases of disease or injury 
(years of life lost due to disability [YLD]). DALYs, stratified by gender and 
age group, were calculated for more than 130 specific health conditions for the 
Singapore resident population for the year 2004.
RESULTS: In 2004, diabetes mellitus, ischaemic heart disease and stroke were the 
top three leading causes of premature death and ill-health in Singapore, and 
together accounted for more than one-quarter (28 percent) of the total disease 
burden (in DALYs). Morbidity burden (YLD) was responsible for 52 percent of the 
total DALYs, with diabetes mellitus, anxiety and depression, and Alzheimer's 
disease and other dementias being the main sources of the total YLDs. Ischaemic 
heart disease, stroke and lung cancer were the major contributors to the 
premature mortality burden (YLL).
CONCLUSION: This study provides an objective and systematic assessment of the 
fatal and nonfatal health conditions in Singapore to support priority setting in 
public health policies and research.

PMID: 19495514 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Ecotoxicology. 2009 Oct;18(7):824-8. doi: 10.1007/s10646-009-0325-2. Epub
2009  Jun 4.

Effects of measurement error on the strength of concentration-response 
relationships in aquatic toxicology.

Sonderegger DL(1), Wang H, Huang Y, Clements WH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Colorado State University, Fort Collins, CO, 
USAGM26079. sondereg@stat.colostate.edu

The effect that measurement error of predictor variables has on regression 
inference is well known in the statistical literature. However, the influence of 
measurement error on the ability to quantify relationships between chemical 
stressors and biological responses has received little attention in 
ecotoxicology. We present a common data-collection scenario and demonstrate that 
the relationship between explanatory and response variables is consistently 
underestimated when measurement error is ignored. A straightforward extension of 
the regression calibration method is to use a nonparametric method to smooth the 
predictor variable with respect to another covariate (e.g., time) and using the 
smoothed predictor to estimate the response variable. We conducted a simulation 
study to compare the effectiveness of the proposed method to the naive analysis 
that ignores measurement error. We conclude that the method satisfactorily 
addresses the problem when measurement error is moderate to large, and does not 
result in a noticeable loss of power in the case where measurement error is 
absent.

DOI: 10.1007/s10646-009-0325-2
PMID: 19495966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2009 Jun;9(6):839-49. doi: 10.1586/era.09.40.

Novel therapeutics for melanoma.

Seetharamu N(1), Ott PA, Pavlick AC.

Author information:
(1)NYU Cancer Institute, New York University Medical Center, New York, NY 10016, 
USA.

Advanced melanoma has the highest per-death loss of years of potential life 
expectancy except for adult leukemia. Standard therapy with agents such as 
dacarbazine, temozolomide and IL-2 is associated with notoriously low response 
rates. The identification of new active agents is, therefore, critical in this 
disease. In recent years, better understanding of melanoma biology, as well as 
cancer and immune biology in general has led to the development of a number of 
new potential therapeutic agents for advanced melanoma. While many of these 
compounds are being tested in clinical trials, there are more agents in various 
stages of preclinical development. These novel therapeutics offer hope for this 
aggressive and so far largely treatment-resistant disease. In this review we 
will discuss some of the most promising novel therapeutic agents for advanced 
melanoma.

DOI: 10.1586/era.09.40
PMID: 19496721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Pediatr Diabetes. 2009 Aug;10(5):347-55. doi:
10.1111/j.1399-5448.2009.00510.x.  Epub 2009 Jun 2.

Status and rationale of renoprotection studies in adolescents with type 1 
diabetes.

Marcovecchio ML(1), Tossavainen PH, Dunger DB.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Paediatrics, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge CB2 
0QQ, UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-5448.2009.00510.x
PMID: 19496962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Orthop Sci. 2009 May;14(3):245-7. doi: 10.1007/s00776-008-1320-9. Epub
2009  Jun 5.

The future of orthopedics.

Beaty JH.

DOI: 10.1007/s00776-008-1320-9
PMID: 19499288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Apr;23(2):167-79. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2008.09.009.

Therapeutic management of adrenal insufficiency.

Hahner S(1), Allolio B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I, Endocrinology & Diabetes Unit, University of 
Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany. hahner_s@medizin.uni-wuerzburg.de

Replacement therapy in adrenal insufficiency comprises treatment with 
glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids and adrenal androgen precursors. Initiation 
of hormone replacement therapy in newly diagnosed adrenal insufficiency leads to 
rapid and impressive improvements. However, despite the use of established 
replacement concepts, well-being is often not fully restored in patients with 
adrenal insufficiency, and life expectancy may even be reduced. This has led to 
a reconsideration of current replacement strategies. Several studies demonstrate 
that addition of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) to the treatment regimen may lead 
to further improvement of general well-being and also sexual function. However, 
long-term trials with DHEA are still lacking, and DHEA alone is not able to 
restore subjective health status to normal. Further innovations comprise the 
development of delayed-release glucocorticoid preparations that better allow 
mimicking of circadian cortisol secretion and may have the potential to 
significantly improve the treatment of patients with adrenal insufficiency. 
However, future studies have to prove the clinical importance of physiological 
cortisol day profiles. To date, no relevant risk factors for susceptibility to 
adrenal crisis are known, and patient education is key for a successful 
prevention strategy. In our experience the well-educated patient often guides 
the physician not familiar with this disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2008.09.009
PMID: 19500761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Lancet. 2009 Jun 6;373(9679):1987-92. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60231-2.

Does ratification of human-rights treaties have effects on population health?

Palmer A(1), Tomkinson J, Phung C, Ford N, Joffres M, Fernandes KA, Zeng L, Lima 
V, Montaner JS, Guyatt GH, Mills EJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Aug 8;374(9688):447.
    Lancet. 2009 Aug 8;374(9688):447.
    Lancet. 2009 Aug 8;374(9688):447-8.

Human-rights treaties indicate a country's commitment to human rights. Here, we 
assess whether ratification of human-rights treaties is associated with improved 
health and social indicators. Data for health (including HIV prevalence, and 
maternal, infant, and child [<5 years] mortalities) and social indicators (child 
labour, human development index, sex gap, and corruption index), gathered from 
170 countries, showed no consistent associations between ratification of 
human-rights treaties and health or social outcomes. Established market economy 
states had consistently improved health compared with less wealthy settings, but 
this was not associated with treaty ratification. The status of treaty 
ratification alone is not a good indicator of the realisation of the right to 
health. We suggest the need for stringent requirements for ratification of 
treaties, improved accountability mechanisms to monitor compliance of states 
with treaty obligations, and financial assistance to support the realisation of 
the right to health.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)60231-2
PMID: 19501746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Acupunct Med. 2009 Jun;27(2):76-8. doi: 10.1136/aim.2009.000703.

Modulation of involuntary movements in cerebral palsy with acupuncture.

Watson P(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. Paul.Watson@doctors.org.uk

This case describes the treatment of severe involuntary movements in a 
10-year-old boy suffering from cerebral palsy. Needling GB34 and ST36 
bilaterally for 25 minutes resulted in immediate temporary cessation of 
involuntary extension contractions of the erector spinae muscles for the 
duration of the treatment, resulting in increased functionality in the patient. 
This response occurred regularly on repeated treatment, but was not maintained 
between treatments. Involuntary movements are a major disabling feature of 
cerebral palsy, which impair quality of life and often prove difficult to treat 
successfully. This case is reported with the hope that this simple technique may 
provide relief for other patients suffering similar symptoms.

DOI: 10.1136/aim.2009.000703
PMID: 19502466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Dis Colon Rectum. 2009 May;52(5):863-71. doi: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e31819eefba.

Treatment for patients with rectal cancer and a clinical complete response to 
neoadjuvant therapy: a decision analysis.

Neuman HB(1), Elkin EB, Guillem JG, Paty PB, Weiser MR, Wong WD, Temple LK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New 
York 10065, USA.

PURPOSE: A clinical complete response to neoadjuvant therapy occurs in a subset 
of patients with rectal cancer. Management of these patients is controversial 
and tension exists between the recurrence risk with observation, and the impact 
of surgery on quality-of-life. Therefore, the objective was to develop a 
decision-analytic model to evaluate the relative benefits of surgery vs. 
observation in rectal cancer patients who achieve clinical complete response 
after neoadjuvant chemoradiation.
METHODS: Clinically relevant inputs and events, including the ability to 
identify complete responders, likelihood of relapse and of salvage surgery after 
relapse, and utilities for each health state, were simulated by use of a Markov 
state-transition model. Transition probabilities and health-state utilities were 
derived from the literature and expert consensus. One-way and two-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the robustness of model results to 
assumptions. The primary outcome was quality-adjusted life expectancy.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the quality-adjusted life expectancy with 
surgery exceeded observation (5.63 vs. 5.34 quality-adjusted life-years). 
Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that observation was preferred to surgery if 
the ability to correctly identify patients with true complete responses exceeded 
58 percent, if quality-of-life after surgery was poor (utility <0.81), or if the 
relative reduction in recurrence risk with surgery was <43 percent when compared 
with observation.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model outlines the issues associated with surgery vs. 
observation, and suggests that surgery is beneficial for the average patient 
with rectal cancer with a clinical complete response after neoadjuvant therapy. 
Current limitations in the clinical assessment of patient response to 
chemoradiation constitute an important factor influencing our results, and 
therefore warrant further investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e31819eefba
PMID: 19502849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Dis Colon Rectum. 2009 May;52(5):906-12. doi: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e31819f27c3.

Outcomes of Crohn's disease presenting with abdominopelvic abscess.

da Luz Moreira A(1), Stocchi L, Tan E, Tekkis PP, Fazio VW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Digestive Disease Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate clinical outcomes, 
quality-adjusted life-years, and the cost-effectiveness gained from percutaneous 
drainage followed by elective surgery vs. initial surgery for abdominopelvic 
abscesses related to Crohn's disease.
METHODS: All consecutive patients with spontaneous Crohn's disease-related 
abdominopelvic abscess from 1997 to 2007 were reviewed. The authors excluded 
postoperative and perirectal abscesses. Decision analysis during one year of 
patient life was used to calculate quality-adjusted life-years and the 
cost-effectiveness of each strategy.
RESULTS: Of 94 patients, 48 (51 percent) were initially approached with 
percutaneous drainage. Thirty-one (65 percent) had successful percutaneous 
drainage and delayed elective surgery. The factors significantly associated with 
percutaneous drainage failure were steroid use, colonic phenotype, and multiple 
or multilocular abscesses. The initial treatment was surgery in the remaining 46 
(49 percent) patients. The initial approach with percutaneous drainage gave 
higher quality-adjusted life-years and was more cost-effective than initial 
surgery. Percutaneous drainage was the optimal strategy in spite of the risk of 
failure and septic complications within the plausible range.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous drainage failure is associated with steroid use, 
colonic phenotype, and multiple or multilocular abscesses. When feasible, 
percutaneous drainage is the most effective strategy from the perspective of 
patients and third-party payers.

DOI: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e31819f27c3
PMID: 19502855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Dis Colon Rectum. 2009 May;52(5):964-71; discussion 971. doi: 
10.1007/DCR.0b013e31819f244e.

Cost-effectiveness of early one-year colonoscopy surveillance after polypectomy.

Hassan C(1), Pickhardt PJ, Di Giulio E, Kim DH, Zullo A, Morini S.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Digestive Endoscopy Unit, Nuovo Regina Margherita 
Hospital, Rome, Italy. cesareh@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: Some colorectal cancers have been unexpectedly diagnosed within one 
year after polypectomy in high-quality trials. The purpose of this study was to 
assess the clinical and economic impact of early surveillance colonoscopy one 
year after polypectomy in relation to detection of colorectal cancer.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was constructed to compare strategies of 
performing or not performing one-year endoscopic surveillance in 60-year-old 
patients who underwent an initial endoscopic polypectomy. Outcome measures 
included the number of early colonoscopies needed to detect one case of cancer 
and to prevent one cancer-related death and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio.
RESULTS: The number of early one-year colonoscopies needed to detect one cancer 
and to prevent one cancer-related death was 354 and 1,437, respectively. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of performing early one-year colonoscopy as 
compared with not performing it was $66,136 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Current guidelines for postpolypectomy surveillance are relatively 
inefficient in excluding a clinically meaningful colorectal cancer risk at one 
year after polypectomy.

DOI: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e31819f244e
PMID: 19502863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Acta Pharmacol Sin. 2009 Jul;30(7):935-46. doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.58. Epub
2009  Jun 8.

The peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha (PPAR-alpha) agonist, 
AVE8134, attenuates the progression of heart failure and increases survival in 
rats.

Linz W(1), Wohlfart P, Baader M, Breitschopf K, Falk E, Schäfer HL, Gerl M, 
Kramer W, Rütten H.

Author information:
(1)Therapeutic Department Cardiovascular Diseases, Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland 
GmbH, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

AIM: To investigate the efficacy of the peroxisome proliferator-activated 
receptor-alpha (PPARalpha) agonist, AVE8134, in cellular and experimental models 
of cardiac dysfunction and heart failure.
METHODS: In Sprague Dawley rats with permanent ligation of the left coronary 
artery (post-MI), AVE8134 was compared to the PPARgamma agonist rosiglitazone 
and in a second study to the ACE inhibitor ramipril. In DOCA-salt sensitive 
rats, efficacy of AVE8134 on cardiac hypertrophy and fibrosis was investigated. 
Finally, AVE8134 was administered to old spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) 
at a non-blood pressure lowering dose with survival as endpoint. In cellular 
models, we studied AVE8134 on hypertrophy in rat cardiomyocytes, nitric oxide 
signaling in human endothelial cells (HUVEC) and LDL-uptake in human MonoMac-6 
cells.
RESULTS: In post-MI rats, AVE8134 dose-dependently improved cardiac output, 
myocardial contractility and relaxation and reduced lung and left ventricular 
weight and fibrosis. In contrast, rosiglitazone exacerbated cardiac dysfunction. 
Treatment at AVE8134 decreased plasma proBNP and arginine and increased plasma 
citrulline and urinary NOx/creatinine ratio. In DOCA rats, AVE8134 prevented 
development of high blood pressure, myocardial hypertrophy and cardiac fibrosis, 
and ameliorated endothelial dysfunction. Compound treatment increased cardiac 
protein expression and phosphorylation of eNOS. In old SHR, treatment with a low 
dose of AVE8134 improved cardiac and vascular function and increased life 
expectancy without lowering blood pressure. AVE8134 reduced 
phenylephrine-induced hypertrophy in adult rat cardiomyocytes. In HUVEC, 
Ser-1177-eNOS phosphorylation but not eNOS expression was increased. In 
monocytes, AVE8134 increased the expression of CD36 and the macrophage scavenger 
receptor 1, resulting in enhanced uptake of oxidized LDL.
CONCLUSION: The PPARalpha agonist AVE8134 prevents post-MI myocardial 
hypertrophy, fibrosis and cardiac dysfunction. AVE8134 has beneficial effects 
against hypertension-induced organ damages, resulting in decreased mortality. 
The compound exerts its protective properties by a direct effect on 
cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, but also indirectly via monocyte signaling and 
increased endothelial NO production.Acta Pharmacologica Sinica (2009) 30: 
935-946; doi: 10.1038/aps.2009.58; published online 8 June 2009.

DOI: 10.1038/aps.2009.58
PMCID: PMC4006644
PMID: 19503102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Jun;25(6):1234-44. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2009000600006.

Global burden of disease attributable to diabetes mellitus in Brazil.

Oliveira AF(1), Valente JG, Leite Ida C, Schramm JM, Azevedo AS, Gadelha AM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Epidemiologia e Métodos Quantitativos em Saúde, Escola 
Nacional de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brasil. andreiaf@ensp.fiocruz.br

Type II diabetes mellitus accounts for 90% of all cases of diabetes, and its 
inclusion in health evaluation has shown that its complications have a 
considerable impact on the population's quality of life. The current article 
presents the results of the Global Burden of Disease Study in Brazil for the 
year 1998, with an emphasis on diabetes mellitus and its complications. The 
indicator used was disability-adjusted life years (DALY), using a discount rate 
of 3%. In Brazil, ischemic heart disease, stroke, and diabetes accounted for 
14.7% of total lost DALYs. Brazil showed a higher proportion of years lived with 
disability (YLDs) among total DALYs for diabetes as compared to other countries. 
Retinopathy and neuropathy were the complications that contributed most to YLDs. 
According to forecasts, diabetes mellitus will have an increasing impact on 
years of life lost due to premature death and disability in the world, shifting 
from the 11th to 7th cause of death by 2030. It is thus urgent to implement 
effective measures for prevention, early diagnosis, counseling, and adequate 
follow-up of patients with diabetes mellitus.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009000600006
PMID: 19503954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Jun;25(6):1251-66. doi:
10.1590/s0102-311x2009000600008.

[Environmental sustainability and health indicators in the Legal Amazonia, 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Freitas CM(1), Giatti LL.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Estudos da Saúde do Trabalhador e Ecologia Humana, Escola Nacional 
de Saúde Pública Sergio Arouca, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. 
carlosmf@ensp.fiocruz.br

One of the challenges for public health is to build systems of indicators that 
allow monitoring current conditions and trends in environmental and health 
sustainability. This article focuses on the Legal Amazonia macro-region, which 
has undergone profound socioeconomic, environmental, and health changes since 
the mid-20th century. The conceptual framework adopted here was the model 
entitled Driving Forces, Pressures, State, Exposure, Effects, and Action 
(DPSEEA) proposed by the World Health Organization and adopted for environmental 
health surveillance by the Brazilian Ministry of Health. The results show that 
numerous motor forces and pressures have contributed to the growth of the 
economy and the population, as well as to improvements in some traditional 
health indicators (a reduction in infant mortality and an increase in life 
expectancy), alongside major social and economic inequalities and heterogeneity 
in environmental health impacts. This same process has been accompanied by 
environmental changes that indicate an unsustainable development model for 
present and future generations, demanding comprehensive action by public health 
and environmental institutions.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009000600008
PMID: 19503956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Curr Microbiol. 2009 Sep;59(3):233-9. doi: 10.1007/s00284-009-9413-z. Epub
2009  Jun 6.

Detection of Yersinia enterocolitica in alfalfa, mung bean, cilantro, and mamey 
sapote (Pouteria sapota) food matrices using DNA microarray chip hybridization.

Siddique N(1), Sharma D, Al-Khaldi SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Molecular Genetics, School of Life Science, 
University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA.

Four different food matrices (alfalfa, cilantro, mamey sapote, and mung bean) 
were contaminated with three different dilutions 10(6), 10(4), and 10(3) cfu/g 
of Yersinia enterocolitica. DNA was isolated from each food mix and used in 
chromosomal amplifications. The amplified DNA was used as templates in single 
PCR reactions of the four genes (virF, ail, yst, and blaA) followed by mixing 
the four reactions for one PCR primer extension reaction. The presence and the 
limit of detection of four genes in four food matrices were established by 
microarray hybridization. Data revealed the diversity of signal intensities. 
Neither the microarray chip hybridization nor the single PCR amplification could 
detect virF's presence located on a plasmid. Ail was detected in 10(3) cfu/g, 
whereas blaA and yst were detected from 10(5) to 10(6) cfu/g in all food 
matrices. Therefore, the ail gene could be the gene of choice in identifying Y. 
enterocolitica in alfalfa, cilantro, mamey, and mung bean. Other genes--blaA, 
yst, virF--exhibited wide variability in hybridization signals, highlighting the 
need of a better DNA purification step prior to DNA microarray hybridization.

DOI: 10.1007/s00284-009-9413-z
PMID: 19504157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Clin Rev Allergy Immunol. 2010 Feb;38(1):3-10. doi:
10.1007/s12016-009-8136-z.

Chronic granulomatous disease.

Holland SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Infectious Diseases, National Institute of Allergy and 
Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and 
Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892-1684, USA. smh@nih.gov

Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) was first described in the 1950s and has 
become a paradigm for genetic neutrophil diseases. It is characterized by 
recurrent infections with a narrow spectrum of bacteria and fungi as well as a 
common set of inflammatory complications most notably including inflammatory 
bowel disease. Over the last half century major advances in management have 
profoundly altered the major clinical issues and the life expectancy of CGD. 
With X-linked and autosomal recessive forms, it has been an important disease 
for the development of bone marrow transplantation and gene therapy. Some of the 
recent developments in infectious syndromes, inflammatory complications, and 
curative approaches are discussed in this review.

DOI: 10.1007/s12016-009-8136-z
PMID: 19504359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Med Decis Making. 2009 Sep-Oct;29(5):590-8. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09336145.
Epub  2009 Jun 8.

Development of goal-sensitive health-related utility assessment procedures.

Schwartz A(1), Hazen GB, Leifer A, Heckerling PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Education, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, 
IL 60612, USA. alansz@uic.edu

PURPOSE: To measure the degree to which people express willingness to trade life 
or health for nonmedical goals.
METHOD: In 3 studies, outpatients provided important life goals. In study 1, 
patients performed time-tradeoff between life-years and goal achievement and 
chose between states that varied in goal achievement, life expectancy, and 
disability; in study 2, patients made choices that traded off health state and 
goal achievement; in study 3, patients performed time-tradeoff assessments in 3 
different goal achievement contexts.
RESULTS: In study 1 (n = 58), participants were eager to trade life-years for 
goal achievement, trading, on average, 71% of their remaining life for certain 
achievement v. certain nonachievement or 54% of their remaining life for their 
expected likelihood of achievement v. nonachievement. Life expectancy, 
disability status, and goal achievement each had a significant main effect on 
utility. In study 2 (n = 54), participants equally preferred a moderately 
impaired health state with goal achievement to perfect health without goal 
achievement and more strongly preferred the moderately impaired state with goal 
achievement than other less impaired states without goal achievement. Study 3 (n 
= 62) demonstrated that the mere discussion of goals and goal achievement or 
nonachievement in the context of a standard time-tradeoff assessment (without 
trading off goals) did not impact the assessment.
CONCLUSIONS: Nonmedical life goals are important determinants of quality of 
life. People express willingness to trade off life and health in pursuit of 
these goals, which are extrinsic to the standard quality-adjusted life-year 
model.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09336145
PMID: 19506084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Circulation. 2009 Jun 23;119(24):3078-84. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.816694. Epub 2009 Jun 8.

Predicting the 30-year risk of cardiovascular disease: the framingham heart 
study.

Pencina MJ(1), D'Agostino RB Sr, Larson MG, Massaro JM, Vasan RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Boston University, 111 Cummington St, Boston, MA 
02215, USA. mpencina@bu.edu

BACKGROUND: Present cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk prediction algorithms were 
developed for a < or =10-year follow up period. Clustering of risk factors at 
younger ages and increasing life expectancy suggest the need for longer-term 
risk prediction tools.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We prospectively followed 4506 participants (2333 women) of 
the Framingham Offspring cohort aged 20 to 59 years and free of CVD and cancer 
at baseline examination in 1971-1974 for the development of "hard" CVD events 
(coronary death, myocardial infarction, stroke). We used a modified Cox model 
that allows adjustment for competing risk of noncardiovascular death to 
construct a prediction algorithm for 30-year risk of hard CVD. Cross-validated 
survival C statistic and calibration chi2 were used to assess model performance. 
The 30-year hard CVD event rates adjusted for the competing risk of death were 
7.6% for women and 18.3% for men. Standard risk factors (male sex, systolic 
blood pressure, antihypertensive treatment, total and high-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol, smoking, and diabetes mellitus), measured at baseline, were 
significantly related to the incidence of hard CVD and remained significant when 
updated regularly on follow-up. Body mass index was associated positively with 
30-year risk of hard CVD only in models that did not update risk factors. Model 
performance was excellent as indicated by cross-validated discrimination C=0.803 
and calibration chi2=4.25 (P=0.894). In contrast, 30-year risk predictions based 
on different applications of 10-year functions proved inadequate.
CONCLUSIONS: Standard risk factors remain strong predictors of hard CVD over 
extended follow-up. Thirty-year risk prediction functions offer additional risk 
burden information that complements that of 10-year functions.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.108.816694
PMCID: PMC2748236
PMID: 19506114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Arch Neurol. 2009 Jun;66(6):767-72. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2009.80.

Biracial population study of mortality in mild cognitive impairment and 
Alzheimer disease.

Wilson RS(1), Aggarwal NT, Barnes LL, Bienias JL, Mendes de Leon CF, Evans DA.

Author information:
(1)Rush Alzheimer's Disease Center, Rush University Medical Center, 600 S 
Paulina Ave, Ste 1038, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. rwilson@rush.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess mortality associated with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
and Alzheimer disease (AD) among older African Americans and whites from an 
urban community.
DESIGN: Longitudinal population-based observational study.
SETTING: Four adjacent neighborhoods in Chicago, Illinois.
PARTICIPANTS: Persons deemed free of dementia in a previous wave of data 
collection (n = 1715) underwent detailed clinical evaluation: 802 had no 
cognitive impairment (46.8%), 597 had MCI (34.8%), 296 had AD (17.3%), and 20 
had other forms of dementia (1.2%).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: All-cause mortality.
RESULTS: During as many as 10 years of observation (mean [SD], 4.7 [3.0] years), 
634 individuals died (37.0%). Compared with people without cognitive impairment, 
risk of death was increased by about 50% among those with MCI (hazard ratio [95% 
confidence interval], 1.48 [1.22-1.80]) and was nearly 3-fold greater among 
those with AD (2.84 [2.29-3.52]). These effects were seen among African 
Americans and whites and did not differ by race. Among participants with MCI, 
risk of death increased with more severe cognitive impairment, and this effect 
did not vary by race. A similar effect was seen among participants with AD, but 
it was slightly stronger for African Americans vs whites. In the MCI and AD 
groups, the association of cognitive impairment with survival was stronger for 
perceptual speed than for other cognitive functions.
CONCLUSION: The presence and severity of MCI and AD are associated with reduced 
survival among African Americans, and these effects are comparable to those seen 
among whites.

DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2009.80
PMCID: PMC2743243
PMID: 19506138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2009 Jul;5(7):400-4. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2009.106. Epub
2009  Jun 9.

The socioeconomic burden of SLE.

Lau CS(1), Mak A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Sciences, Ninewells Hospital and Medical school, 
University of Dundee, Dundee, UK. c.lau@dundee.ac.uk

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a chronic, relapsing-remitting, 
multisystemic autoimmune inflammatory disorder that predominantly affects women 
of childbearing age. Much has been written about the clinical course and 
long-term damage associated with SLE, as well as the reduced life expectancy of 
patients with this condition. In addition, studies have emphasized the 
socioeconomic and psychosocial impact of SLE, although the monetary cost of 
caring for patients with the disorder has only been evaluated in a modest number 
of studies and a restricted number of countries. SLE has a negative impact on 
quality of life and is associated with high health-care costs and significant 
productivity loss. Factors associated with increased cost of SLE include long 
disease duration, high disease activity and damage, poor physical and mental 
health, and high education and employment levels. Similarly, high disease 
activity and damage, poor physical health, certain disease manifestations, as 
well as poor family and social support are associated with poor health-related 
quality of life outcomes. SLE incurs a great burden on both the patient and 
society. Long-term prospective studies should be encouraged to monitor the costs 
and psychosocial impact of this condition, and to better understand the factors 
that are associated with poor outcomes.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2009.106
PMID: 19506585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Feb;11(1):35-44. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0160-7.
Epub  2009 Jun 9.
