
'Life years from transplant' (LYFT) is the extra years of life that a candidate 
can expect to achieve with a kidney transplant as compared to never receiving a 
kidney transplant at all. The LYFT component survival models (patient lifetimes 
with and without transplant, and graft lifetime) are comparable to or better 
predictors of long-term survival than are other predictive equations currently 
in use for organ allocation. Furthermore, these models are progressively more 
successful at predicting which of two patients will live longer as their medical 
characteristics (and thus predicted lifetimes) diverge. The C-statistics and the 
correlations for the three LYFT component equations have been validated using 
independent, nonoverlapping split-half random samples. Allocation policies based 
on these survival models could lead to substantial increases in the number of 
life years gained from the current donor pool.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02708.x
PMID: 19656143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Am J Transplant. 2009 Jul;9(7):1528-32. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02712.x.

Developing a new kidney allocation policy: the rationale for including life 
years from transplant.

Stegall MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation Surgery, Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN, USA. stegall.mark@mayo.edu

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02712.x
PMID: 19656144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Maturitas. 2010 Feb;65(2):122-30. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.07.003. Epub
 2009 Aug 4.

The role of Mediterranean type of diet on the development of cancer and 
cardiovascular disease, in the elderly: a systematic review.

Tyrovolas S(1), Panagiotakos DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition-Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece.

BACKGROUND: The proportion of elderly worldwide is increasing. This increase in 
life expectancy, is staggering posing tremendous challenges in disease burden, 
especially, in chronic diseases such as obesity, diabetes, hypertension, 
hypercholesterolemia, cancer and cardiovascular disease (CVD). Limited studies 
investigate the effect of Mediterranean diet on cardiovascular risk and cancer 
in older populations. In this review, findings from observational studies are 
summarized to evaluate the effect of Mediterranean diet on cancer and 
cardiovascular disease risk in elderly people.
METHODS: Published results from observational studies that assessed food habits 
on cancer and cardiovascular disease risk in elderly were retrieved and 
summarized.
RESULTS: In all studies diet had an effect on cardiovascular disease risk. The 
Mediterranean diet, a high-quality diet and increased fruit and vegetable 
consumption were all found to be cardioprotective.
CONCLUSION: The systematically reviewed studies reveal that a high adherence to 
a Mediterranean type of diet or "prudent diet" is associated with reduced risk 
of CVD and some types of cancer, even in the elderly. Also dietary intervention 
strategies can prevent morbidity, premature mortality and improve quality of 
life in older persons worldwide.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.07.003
PMID: 19656644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Orthopade. 2009 Aug;38(8):667-80. doi: 10.1007/s00132-009-1430-x.

[Revision hip arthroplastiy of the hip joint. Revision of the femur: which 
implant is indicated when?].

[Article in German]

Gruner A(1), Heller KD.

Author information:
(1)Orthop√§dische Klinik Braunschweig, Herzogin-Elisabeth-Hospital, Leipziger 
Strasse 24, 38124 Braunschweig, Deutschland. A.Gruner@heh-bs.de

Cementless revision hip arthroplasty is described as state of the art, 
especially in cases of advanced bone loss of the femur. A requirement for a good 
result from cement-free revision hip arthroplasty is classification of the bone 
defect and the presence of a mechanically stable anchorage in the area of the 
original implant or, in cases of bone defects, distal to the original area in 
stable diaphyseal bone. The possibility of the accumulation of autografts or 
allogeneic osseous grafts and the entire removal of the cement and debris has 
been postulated. The advantages of cementless revision hip arthroplasty include 
regeneration of the bone stock and the often available modularity of the 
revision hip system, which allows adaptation to different bone configurations 
and also allows a partial change of the prosthesis in rerevision cases, such as 
in cases of sintering or derotation. Cemented revision arthroplasty should be 
done only in special cases, such as with marginal bone defects or for older 
patients with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-009-1430-x
PMID: 19657621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Issues Ment Health Nurs. 2009 Sep;30(9):569-80. doi:
10.1080/01612840902916151.

The resilience of Native American elders.

Grandbois DM(1), Sanders GF.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, North Dakota State University, Fargo, North Dakota 
58108-6050, USA. dmgrandbois@gmail.com

This article focuses on the lived experiences of resilience in eight Native 
American elders. Although resilience has not been conceptualized among this 
group, findings revealed five unique attributes. The study design fostered the 
culturally relevant use of story telling, which allowed the authentic voices of 
the elders to be heard. Resilience exists among these Native American elders, 
but it is uniquely enmeshed into the seamless fabric of their culture, 
world-view, and connectedness expressed as Oneness with all creation. This 
finding of a unified cosmology suggests an extension to Bronfenbrenner's 
ecological theory to include the cosmosystem as a new systemic level.

DOI: 10.1080/01612840902916151
PMID: 19657871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Lijec Vjesn. 1998 Oct-Nov;120(10-11):327-30.

[Castleman's disease].

[Article in Croatian]

Bradamante M(1), Dominis M.

Author information:
(1)Odjel za patologiju i citologiju Klinicke bolnice Merkur u Zagrebu.

In this paper we have presented five patients in whom the diagnosis of 
Castleman's disease was established. Although it was described for the first 
time in 1956, the etiology of this lymphoproliferative disorder is still 
unknown, and the life expectancy is uncertain. Lymph nodes and spleen were 
analysed with the standard histological procedures and hyaline-vascular or 
plasma type of Castleman's disease was diagnosed. It is known that 
plasma-cellular type, especially its systemic presentation, can transform into 
malignant lymphoma or Kaposi sarcoma. Hyaline-vascular type was considered as a 
localized, benign lesion until malignant proliferation of the stromal cells were 
found in patients with this disorder. Out of five patients plasma-cellular type 
was diagnosed in three of them. In two of these three, malignant lymphoma 
appeared. Out of two patients with hyaline-vascular type one has developed 
follicular dendritic cell tumor.

PMID: 19658349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Value Health. 2009 Nov-Dec;12(8):1187-93. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00579.x.  Epub 2009 Jul 29.

South Korean time trade-off values for EQ-5D health states: modeling with 
observed values for 101 health states.

Lee YK(1), Nam HS, Chuang LH, Kim KY, Yang HK, Kwon IS, Kind P, Kweon SS, Kim 
YT.

Author information:
(1)Division of Chronic Disease Surveillance, Korea Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVES: This study establishes the South Korean population-based preference 
weights for EQ-5D based on values elicited from a representative national sample 
using the time trade-off (TTO) method.
METHODS: The data for this paper came from a South Korean EQ-5D valuation study 
where 1307 representative respondents were invited to participate and a total of 
101 health states defined by the EQ-5D descriptive system were directly valued. 
Both aggregate and individual level modeling were conducted to generate values 
for all 243 health states defined by EQ-5D. Various regression techniques and 
model specifications were also examined in order to produce the best fit model. 
Final model selection was based on minimizing the difference between the 
observed and estimated value for each health state.
RESULTS: The N3 model yielded the best fit for the observed TTO value at the 
aggregate level. It had a mean absolute error of 0.029 and only 15 predictions 
out of 101 had errors exceeding 0.05 in absolute magnitude.
CONCLUSIONS: The study successfully establishes South Korean population-based 
preference weights for the EQ-5D. The value set derived here is based on a 
representative population sample, limiting the interpolation space and 
possessing better model performance. Thus, this EQ-5D value set should be given 
preference for use with the South Korean population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00579.x
PMID: 19659703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Value Health. 2010 Jan-Feb;13(1):103-11. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00573.x.  Epub 2009 Jul 29.

A multinational study of health state preference values associated with chronic 
myelogenous leukemia.

Szabo SM(1), Levy AR, Davis C, Holyoake TL, Cortes J.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is a progressive, largely fatal 
cancer. Emerging treatments may prolong life; however, these result in 
additional monetary costs. Accurate estimation of their economic impact requires 
reliable estimates on preferences for health states. The purpose was to estimate 
preference weights from the general population in four developed countries for 
standardized health states experienced by persons with CML.
METHODS: Time trade-off preferences with a 10-year time horizon were elicited 
for CML-related health states using an interviewer-administered survey from 
convenience samples in Canada (n=103), the United States (n=74), the UK (n=97), 
and Australia (n=79). Standardized descriptions of seven CML-related health 
states (characterizing chronic, accelerated and blast phases, each with 
responding and nonresponding state, and adverse events of treatment) were 
derived in consultation with oncologists. Generalized linear models were used to 
estimate whether utilities, adjusted for age and sex, differed by country.
RESULTS: The mean age of the sample (n=357) was 45 years and 46% were male. Mean 
unadjusted preference values of CML-related health states ranged from 0.84 for 
"Chronic phase responding to treatment" to 0.21 for "Blast phase, not responding 
to treatment." For each phase, preferences were lower for the nonresponding 
state. After adjustment for age and sex, considerable variability was observed 
in mean preference values between countries.
CONCLUSION: These data quantify the deteriorating impact of CML disease 
progression and the impact of nonresponse to treatment. The study results add to 
evidence from other disease areas that systematic differences exist in 
preference values between countries.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00573.x
PMID: 19659707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Malar J. 2009 Aug 6;8:190. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-8-190.

Longitudinal survey of malaria morbidity over 10 years in Saharevo (Madagascar): 
further lessons for strengthening malaria control.

Rabarijaona LP(1), Randrianarivelojosia M, Raharimalala LA, Ratsimbasoa A, 
Randriamanantena A, Randrianasolo L, Ranarivelo LA, Rakotomanana F, Randremanana 
R, Ratovonjato J, Rason MA, Duchemin JB, Tall A, Robert V, Jambou R, Ariey F, 
Domarle O.

Author information:
(1)Institut Pasteur de Madagascar, BP 1274 Antananarivo (101), Madagascar. 
milijaon@pasteur.mg

BACKGROUND: Madagascar has been known for having bio-geo-ecological diversity 
which is reflected by a complex malaria epidemiology ranging from hyperendemic 
to malaria-free areas. Malaria-related attacks and infection are frequently 
recorded both in children and adults living in areas of low malaria 
transmission. To integrate this variability in the national malaria control 
policy, extensive epidemiological studies are required to up-date previous 
records and adjust strategies.
METHODS: A longitudinal malaria survey was conducted from July 1996 to June 2005 
among an average cohort of 214 villagers in Saharevo, located at 900 m above the 
sea. Saharevo is a typical eastern foothill site at the junction between a 
costal wet tropical area (equatorial malaria pattern) and a drier high-altitude 
area (low malaria transmission).
RESULTS: Passive and active malaria detection revealed that malaria transmission 
in Saharevo follows an abrupt seasonal variation. Interestingly, malaria was 
confirmed in 45% (1,271/2,794) of malaria-presumed fevers seen at the health 
centre. All four Plasmodia that infect humans were also found: Plasmodium 
falciparum; Plasmodium vivax, Plasmodium malariae and Plasmodium ovale. Half of 
the malaria-presumed fevers could be confirmed over the season with the highest 
malaria transmission level, although less than a quarter in lower transmission 
time, highlighting the importance of diagnosis prior to treatment intake. P. 
falciparum malaria has been predominant (98%). The high prevalence of P. 
falciparum malaria affects more particularly under 10 years old children in both 
symptomatic and asymptomatic contexts. Children between two and four years of 
age experienced an average of 2.6 malaria attacks with P. falciparum per annum. 
Moreover, estimated incidence of P. falciparum malaria tends to show that half 
of the attacks (15 attacks) risk to occur during the first 10 years of life for 
a 60-year-old adult who would have experienced 32 malaria attacks.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of malaria decreased slightly with age but remained 
important among children and adults in Saharevo. These results support that a 
premunition against malaria is slowly acquired until adolescence. However, this 
claims for a weak premunition among villagers in Saharevo and by extension in 
the whole eastern foothill area of Madagascar. While the Malagasy government 
turns towards malaria elimination plans nowadays, choices and expectations to 
up-date and adapt malaria control strategies in the foothill areas are discussed 
in this paper.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-8-190
PMCID: PMC3224923
PMID: 19660116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):693-4. doi: 10.1038/460693a.

Demography: Babies make a comeback.

Tuljapurkar S.

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):741-3.

DOI: 10.1038/460693a
PMID: 19661903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):741-3. doi: 10.1038/nature08230.

Advances in development reverse fertility declines.

Myrskyl√§ M(1), Kohler HP, Billari FC.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104, USA.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Aug 6;460(7256):693-4.

During the twentieth century, the global population has gone through 
unprecedented increases in economic and social development that coincided with 
substantial declines in human fertility and population growth rates. The 
negative association of fertility with economic and social development has 
therefore become one of the most solidly established and generally accepted 
empirical regularities in the social sciences. As a result of this close 
connection between development and fertility decline, more than half of the 
global population now lives in regions with below-replacement fertility (less 
than 2.1 children per woman). In many highly developed countries, the trend 
towards low fertility has also been deemed irreversible. Rapid population 
ageing, and in some cases the prospect of significant population decline, have 
therefore become a central socioeconomic concern and policy challenge. Here we 
show, using new cross-sectional and longitudinal analyses of the total fertility 
rate and the human development index (HDI), a fundamental change in the 
well-established negative relationship between fertility and development as the 
global population entered the twenty-first century. Although development 
continues to promote fertility decline at low and medium HDI levels, our 
analyses show that at advanced HDI levels, further development can reverse the 
declining trend in fertility. The previously negative development-fertility 
relationship has become J-shaped, with the HDI being positively associated with 
fertility among highly developed countries. This reversal of fertility decline 
as a result of continued economic and social development has the potential to 
slow the rates of population ageing, thereby ameliorating the social and 
economic problems that have been associated with the emergence and persistence 
of very low fertility.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08230
PMID: 19661915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2010 Jan;37(1):131-5. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-009-1221-y.

PROLARA: prognosis-based lifetime attributable risk approximation for cancer 
from diagnostic radiation exposure.

Eschner W(1), Schmidt M, Dietlein M, Schicha H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Cologne, 50924 Koeln, Germany. 
wolfgang.eschner@uk-koeln.de

PURPOSE: To evaluate the impact of the reduced life expectancy of patients 
(compared to a nonpatient group with the same age distribution) on their nominal 
risk of developing cancer from the diagnostic use of radiation.
METHOD: We define a "prognosis-based lifetime attributable risk modifier" 
(PROLARM) as the ratio of the risks for nonpatients and patients, a 
dimensionless quantity which indicates how strongly the life-time attributable 
risk (LAR) is reduced due to a patient's prognosis. An approximation to this 
ratio can be given (named PROLARA) which depends only on the patient's age at 
exposure and his/her life expectancy, but is independent of the exact choice of 
values for the baseline risk of cancer incidence and the excess relative risk 
(ERR) from radiation exposure. PROLARM and PROLARA were computed for a cohort of 
4,285 female patients with metastatic breast cancer, for whom all necessary 
input data were available.
RESULTS: LAR of solid cancer was significantly decreased in these patients: 
PROLARM >20 for age at exposure < or = 65 years. For any reasonable choice of 
function for ERR, the approximation PROLARA gave a lower estimate of the 
reduction in risk. The risk for a patient from the above cohort, exposed at age 
50 years, is decreased by a factor of 29 (PROLARM) and 27 (PROLARA). In other 
words, 50 mSv in a patient with metastatic breast cancer corresponds risk-wise 
to only 2 mSv in a nonpatient of the same age.
CONCLUSION: A major proportion of the total dose from diagnostic medical 
exposures does not constitute an additional cancer risk due to the poorer 
prognosis of patients compared to nonpatients of same gender and age. Our new 
PROLARA concept allows an estimation of the reduction in risk for any pathology 
when the associated survival is known.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-009-1221-y
PMID: 19662409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Eur Spine J. 2010 Jan;19(1):57-64. doi: 10.1007/s00586-009-1104-8. Epub 2009
Aug  7.

Transpedicular closed wedge osteotomy in ankylosing spondylitis: results of 
surgical treatment and prospective outcome analysis.

Kiaer T(1), Gehrchen M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Spine Section, Rigshospitalet, National 
University Hospital, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Surgery in late stage ankylosing spondylitis (AS) most often tends to correct 
the sagittal balance with an extension osteotomy of the spine. In the 
literature, extension osteotomy was first described as an open wedge osteotomy 
but recently closed wedge osteotomy resecting the pedicles and posterior 
elements have become more popular. Only a limited number of cases have been 
reported in the literature and with limited focus on outcome of this major 
surgery. In this study, we reported the results of a large series of extension 
osteotomy in a population of patients with AS focusing on the technical aspects, 
complication rates, correction obtained and outcome evaluation using newer spine 
outcome measuring instruments. In the period from 1995 to 2005, 36 consecutive 
patients fulfilled the criteria where the files, radiographs and patients were 
available for further studies. The following data were recorded: Age, sex, 
comorbidity, indication, operation time and blood loss, level of osteotomy and 
estimated Correction. Furthermore, perioperative complications and all late 
complications were registered. The average follow-up was 50 months (3-128). 
Twenty-one patients also filled out questionnaires (SF36 and Oswestry Disability 
Index) preoperatively. At the end of the period all patients were contacted and 
filled out the same questionnaires. Fifteen of the patients had two pedicular 
resection osteotomies performed, 21 had one, and two had polysegmental 
osteotomies. Mean operation time was 180 min, bleeding was mean 2,450 ml, stay 
at the hospital was 13 days. One patient had partial paresis of the lower 
extremities all other complications were minor. The median correction was 45 
degrees . The median Oswestry score improved significantly from 54 (range 20-94) 
preoperatively to 38 (range 2-94) postoperatively. The SF-36 score significantly 
increased, when evaluated on the major components Physical Component Summary 
(PCS) and Mental Component Summary (MCS). The thoracolumbar closed wedge 
pedicular resection osteotomy used in this series was a safe method for 
correction of incapacitating kyphosis in AS. There was an acceptable rate of 
perioperative complications and no mortality. The correction obtained was in 
average 45 degrees . All of the patients except one maintained their good 
correction and restored function. Outcome analysis showed a significant 
improvement in SF-36 and Oswestry Disability Index, and the mental component of 
the SF-36 showed improvement to values near the normative population. It is 
concluded that corrective osteotomy of the thoracolumbar spine in AS is an 
effective and safe treatment with improvements in quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-009-1104-8
PMCID: PMC2899742
PMID: 19662442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Harv Heart Lett. 2006 Mar;16(7):4-5.

Survival of the fittest. Knowing your cardiovascular fitness, and improving it, 
can help you live longer and better.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 19662702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(7):609-21. doi: 10.2165/11312710-000000000-00000.

Cost utility of adalimumab versus infliximab maintenance therapies in the United 
States for moderately to severely active Crohn's disease.

Yu AP(1), Johnson S, Wang ST, Atanasov P, Tang J, Wu E, Chao J, Mulani PM.

Author information:
(1)Analysis Group, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts 02199, USA. ayu@analysisgroup.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine and compare the cost utilities of the tumour necrosis 
factor (TNF) antagonists adalimumab and infliximab as maintenance therapies for 
patients in the US with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease.
METHODS: Maintenance regimens of adalimumab (40 mg every other week) and 
infliximab (5 mg/kg) were compared using primary data from the CHARM and 
published data from the ACCENT I clinical trials. Differences in study samples 
were minimized by matching and weighting baseline characteristics (Crohn's 
Disease Activity Index score, age and sex) between the patient groups using the 
primary clinical trial data. Utilization data were estimated from trial data. 
Unit costs of TNF antagonists (year 2007 values), hospitalizations (year 2006 
values), and other medical costs (year 2006 values) were derived from a 
systematic literature search. Standard gamble-calculated primary data were used 
to derive health-utility estimates. Data were analysed in a cost-utility 
framework from a private payer perspective over a 56-week time horizon. 
Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were used to explore 
uncertainty related to the base-case cost-utility analysis. Given the time 
horizon, costs and effects were not discounted.
RESULTS: Adalimumab- and infliximab-treated patients were in remission for 47.2% 
and 37.1% of the 56-week period, respectively. Hospital admissions were 34-40% 
lower for adalimumab than for infliximab, based on the model and observed data, 
respectively. Patients treated with adalimumab accrued greater expected QALYs 
(0.014; 95% CI 0.000, 0.022) and lower costs (-$US4852; 95% CI -6758, 491) in 
the first year of therapy than patients treated with infliximab. Compared with 
infliximab maintenance therapy, adalimumab had lower drug and administration 
costs, less drug waste, and lower hospitalization rates. Univariate and 
multivariate probabilistic sensitivity analyses suggested that these results 
were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis suggests that adalimumab maintenance therapy is a 
dominant strategy versus infliximab maintenance therapy for patients with 
moderate to severe Crohn's disease. Adalimumab appeared more effective and less 
costly than infliximab.

DOI: 10.2165/11312710-000000000-00000
PMID: 19663531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Future Oncol. 2009 Aug;5(6):837-41. doi: 10.2217/fon.09.61.

Treatment of performance status 2 patients with advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer: what we know and what we don't know.

Tartarone A(1), Aieta M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Centro di riferimento oncologico di Basilicata, 
I.R.C.C.S., via Padre Pio 1, Rionero in Vulture (PZ), Italy. tarta1@virgilio.it

Performance status (PS)2 patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer have 
been historically excluded from clinical trials, and scant data are available to 
guide clinical practice. As in other types of cancer, PS represents a recognized 
prognostic factor, and the life expectancy for PS2 patients is nearly half that 
of the PS0/1 patients. Even if single-agent chemotherapy still remains the 
reference treatment, recent data suggest a role for new agents or combination 
chemotherapy in these patients. A large Phase III randomized trial comparing 
single-agent versus combination chemotherapy is strongly needed.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.09.61
PMID: 19663733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Clin Sci (Lond). 2009 Aug 14;117(6):209-28. doi: 10.1042/CS20080391.

Signalling pathways in prostate carcinogenesis: potentials for 
molecular-targeted therapy.

Ramsay AK(1), Leung HY.

Author information:
(1)Urology Research Group, Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Scotland, U.K.

Prostate cancer represents a major health issue and its incidence is rising 
globally. In developed countries, prostate cancer is the most frequently 
diagnosed cancer and the second most common cause of death from cancer in men. 
Androgen deprivation reduces tumour activity in approx. 80% of patients with 
advanced disease, but most tumours relapse within 2 years to an incurable 
hormone-resistant state. Even for patients with early disease at the time of 
diagnosis, a proportion of patients will unfortunately develop relapsed disease 
following radical therapy. Treatment options for patients with hormone-resistant 
prostate cancer are very limited and, even with toxic therapy, such as 
docetaxel, the life expectancy is only improved by a median of 2 months. 
Advances in molecular oncology have identified key signalling pathways that are 
considered to be driving events in prostate carcinogenesis. The activation of 
multiple signalling pathways increases further the possibility of cross-talk 
among 'linear' signalling cascades. Hence signalling networks that may 
incorporate distinct pathways in prostate cancer, particularly in 
hormone-resistant disease, are increasingly appreciated in drug development 
programmes. With the development of potent small-molecule inhibitors capable of 
specifically suppressing the activities of individual 'linear' cascades, it may 
be that, by combining these agents as guided by the molecular signature of 
prostate cancer, a more efficient therapeutic regime may be developed. Therefore 
the present review focuses on evidence of abnormal signalling in prostate cancer 
and the potential of these targets in drug development, and incorporates key 
findings of relevant clinical trials to date.

DOI: 10.1042/CS20080391
PMID: 19663810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Sleep Res. 2009 Dec;18(4):397-403. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2869.2009.00754.x.
Epub  2009 Aug 3.

Unexpected survival advantage in elderly people with moderate sleep apnoea.

Lavie P(1), Lavie L.

Author information:
(1)Lloyd Rigler Sleep Apnea Research Laboratory, Ruth and Bruce Rappaport 
Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, Haifa, Israel. 
plavie@tx.technion.ac.il

Comment in
    J Sleep Res. 2010 Mar;19(1 Pt 2):255; author reply 256.

Sleep-disordered breathing is much more prevalent in elderly people than in 
middle-aged or young populations, but its clinical significance in this age 
group is unclear. This study investigated retrospectively the rates of all-cause 
mortality in elderly people (>or= 65 years) with a laboratory diagnosis of sleep 
apnoea, and compared their rates of mortality with that of age-, gender- and 
ethnicity-matched national mortality data. Survival of 611 elderly people was 
ascertained after a follow-up of 5.17 +/- 1.13 years. Their age was 70.4 +/- 4.8 
years, body mass index 30.4 +/- 5.9 kg m(-2) and respiratory disturbance index 
(RDI) 28.9 +/- 20.1 events h(-1). Seventy-five (12.27%) patients died during the 
follow-up period. In comparison with the demographically matched cohort from the 
general population, the standardized mortality rate of the sleep laboratory 
cohort was 0.67 [95% confidence interval (CI): 0.53-0.88; chi(2) = 11.69, P < 
0.0006]. When calculated separately for patients with RDI < 20 (no/mild apnoea), 
RDI 20-40 (moderate apnoea) and RDI > 40 events h(-1) (severe apnoea) there was 
a significant survival advantage for the moderate group with a standardized 
mortality rate of 0.42 (P < 0.0002), while elderly people with no/mild apnoea 
tended to have lower mortality and those with severe sleep apnoea had the same 
mortality as the matched population cohorts. Cox regression analysis revealed 
that sleep latency and comorbidities but not sleep apnoea severity were 
associated independently with mortality. The survival advantage of elderly 
people with moderate sleep apnoea, combined with recent findings on the 
potential cardioprotective effects of chronic intermittent hypoxia, raise the 
possibility that apnoeas during sleep may activate adaptive pathways in the 
elderly.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2869.2009.00754.x
PMID: 19663998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2009 Jun-Jul;102(6-7):477-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.acvd.2009.02.013. Epub 2009 Apr 28.

Poor blood pressure control in general practice: in search of explanations.

Nicod√®me R(1), Albessard A, Amar J, Chamontin B, Lang T.

Author information:
(1)D√©partement universitaire de m√©decine g√©n√©rale, facult√© de m√©decine, CHU de 
Rangueil, 133, route de Narbonne, 31062 Toulouse cedex, France. 
dr.r.nicodeme@wanadoo.fr

Comment in
    Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2009 Jun-Jul;102(6-7):465-7.

BACKGROUND: Arterial hypertension is managed mainly by general practitioners. 
The blood pressure level of most patients treated in a general practice setting 
is greater than or equal to 140/90 mmHg.
AIMS: To understand why a blood pressure level greater than or equal to 140/90 
mmHg does not lead to a change of treatment.
METHODS: Over a 2-week period, 479 hypertensive patients were included in a 
cross-sectional study by 27 general practitioners. Consultation data were 
collected, as were reasons why patients with a blood pressure level greater than 
or equal to 140/90 mmHg did not have their treatment changed.
RESULTS: Blood pressure level was greater than or equal to 140/90 mmHg in 58% of 
patients; treatment was changed in 15% of these individuals. The lack of change 
in treatment was justified by the physicians as follows: the blood pressure 
measurements were not considered to be representative (about 30% of cases); the 
therapeutic result was considered to be satisfactory in the circumstances (about 
30% of cases); change was not appropriate given the patient's specific context 
(the remaining third of cases). The proportion of uncontrolled hypertensive 
patients whose treatment remained the same was significantly higher among 
patients with a disease that affected their lifestyle or threatened their life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSION: The disappointing therapeutic results observed in the management of 
arterial hypertension do not arise only from poor application of guidelines by 
general practitioners. Reluctance to rely on blood pressure measurements, a 
perception that guidelines are revised frequently and are not always clear, and 
consideration of the general practitioner's activity in the patient's specific 
context are the main factors involved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acvd.2009.02.013
PMID: 19664567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Eval Program Plann. 2009 Nov;32(4):326-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2009.06.015. Epub 2009 Jun 26.

Valuation of road safety effects in cost-benefit analysis.

Wijnen W(1), Wesemann P, de Blaeij A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Road Safety Research SWOV, PO Box 1090, 2260 BB Leidschendam, 
The Netherlands. Wim.Wijnen@SWOV.nl

Cost-benefit analysis is a common method for evaluating the social economic 
impact of transport projects, and in many of these projects the saving of human 
lives is an issue. This implies, within the framework of cost-benefit analysis, 
that a monetary value should be attached to saving human lives. This paper 
discusses the 'Value of a Statistical Life' (VoSL), a concept that is often used 
for monetising safety effects, in the context of road safety. Firstly, the 
concept of 'willingness to pay' for road safety and its relation to the VoSL are 
explained. The VoSL approach will be compared to other approaches to monetise 
safety effects, in particular the human capital approach and 'quality adjusted 
life years'. Secondly, methods to estimate the VoSL and their applicability to 
road safety will be discussed. Thirdly, the paper reviews the VoSL estimates 
that have been found in scientific research and compares them with the values 
that are used in policy evaluations. Finally, a VoSL study in the Netherlands 
will be presented as a case study, and its applicability in policy evaluation 
will be illustrated.

DOI: 10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2009.06.015
PMID: 19665228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2010 Jan;16(1):51-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2009.07.005. Epub 2009 Aug 8.

Costs of Parkinson's disease in eastern Europe: a Czech cohort study.

Winter Y(1), von Campenhausen S, Brozova H, Skoupa J, Reese JP, B√∂tzel K, Eggert 
K, Oertel WH, Dodel R, Ruzicka E.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Neurology, Philipps University, Marburg, Germany.

Life expectancy is increasing worldwide and the burden of Parkinson's disease 
(PD) is growing. There are several cost-of-illness studies for PD from Western 
Europe and the USA, however, data about the costs associated with PD in Eastern 
Europe are still lacking. The objective of this study was to evaluate direct and 
indirect costs in a cohort of Czech patients with idiopathic PD and to identify 
cost-driving factors. Study participants (n=100) were recruited from the 
neurological department of the Charles University in Prague. Health-economic 
data were collected using a "bottom-up" approach. Costs were calculated from the 
societal perspective and the human capital approach was used to estimate 
indirect costs. Czech currency was converted into 2004 Euros (EUR) and inflated 
to 2008 prices. Independent cost-driving factors were identified in multivariate 
regression analysis. Total semi-annual costs of PD were EUR 5510 (95% CI: 
4470-7090) per patient. Direct costs accounted for 60% of the total costs and 
indirect costs for 40%. Patients' expenditures accounted for 40% of their 
income. Independent cost-driving factors included disease severity, motor 
complications, psychosis and age. In conclusion, our study demonstrates a 
considerable economic burden of PD in the Czech Republic. Total costs are 
generally lower than in Western Europe but the proportion of costs that fall on 
patients is higher because of lower incomes. More intensive government support 
for patients with chronic diseases such as PD and the development of 
disease-management programs that incorporate both the clinical and economic 
effects of PD treatment are needed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2009.07.005
PMID: 19665915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Soc Sci Med. 2009 Oct;69(7):1099-106. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.07.016.
Epub  2009 Aug 8.

The income-climate trap of health development: a comparative analysis of African 
and Non-African countries.

Tang KK(1), Petrie D, Rao DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4072, Australia. 
kk.tang@uq.edu.au

This article conducts a comparative analysis of the interrelationship between 
climate, life expectancy and income between African and non-African countries. 
To put the analysis in a broader context of development, the paper develops an 
income-climate trap model that explains the multi-directional interaction 
between income, climate and life expectancy. It is suggested that the 
interaction can give rise to either a virtuous cycle of prosperity or a vicious 
cycle of poverty. Applying the model to a data set of 158 countries, we find 
that climate is a more important determinant of life expectancy in African 
countries than in non-African countries. We provide further empirical evidence 
that while climate is important in determining both life expectancy and income, 
income can in turn moderate the adverse effects of climate on life expectancy. 
In the past two decades, the income level of non-African countries has grown 
significantly while that of African countries has largely been stagnant, 
implying that the future development of African countries remains highly 
vulnerable to adverse climatic conditions. These findings have important 
implications in the context of climate change, as global warming is likely to 
create worsening climatic conditions that could see many less developed 
countries sinking deeper into an income-climate trap of underdevelopment in 
health.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.07.016
PMID: 19666204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. J Formos Med Assoc. 2009 Aug;108(8):663-72. doi:
10.1016/s0929-6646(09)60387-9.

Hylan G-F 20 has better pain relief and cost-effectiveness than sodium 
hyaluronate in treating early osteoarthritic knees in Taiwan.

Chou CW(1), Lue KH, Lee HS, Lin RC, Lu KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Chung Shan Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Intra-articular injection of hyaluronan (hyaluronic acid; 
HA) products is available to treat early osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee in 
Taiwan. We tested whether HA products with different molecular weights have 
significantly different effects on clinical efficacy and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Thirty-seven patients with mild to moderate OA of both knees underwent 
five weekly intra-articular injections of sodium hyaluronate (Artz) in one knee 
and three weekly intra-articular injections of chemically cross-linked Hylan G-F 
20 (Synvisc) in the other. Visual analog scale (VAS), Western Ontario and 
McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Lequesne's index, and 
Hospital for Special Surgery (HSS) knee scores were compared initially and at 
the last injection, and at 8, 12, 16, 20, and 26 weeks after the first 
injection.
RESULTS: VAS, WOMAC, WOMAC-A1 (pain when walking on a flat surface) scores 
before week 16, HSS scores before week 12, and Lequesne's index scores except at 
week 26 all showed that HA significantly improved the scores time-dependently. 
In VAS scores, Synvisc showed better improvement before week 20, while this 
effect appeared at week 12 for the WOMAC-A1 scores. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of the Taiwan National Health Insurance Program, of the 
patient, and both of these was lower for Synvisc, which also reduced the number 
of additional hospital visits for injections by two.
CONCLUSION: Synvisc possesses better symptom-modifying ability and cost-utility 
in treating early OA of the knee in Taiwan.

DOI: 10.1016/s0929-6646(09)60387-9
PMID: 19666354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Aug 18;106(33):13860-4. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0900300106. Epub 2009 Jul 30.

Latitudinal variation in lifespan within species is explained by the metabolic 
theory of ecology.

Munch SB(1), Salinas S.

Author information:
(1)School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Stony Brook University, Stony 
Brook, NY 11794-5000, USA.

Many ectotherms exhibit striking latitudinal gradients in lifespan. However, it 
is unclear whether lifespan gradients in distantly related taxa share a common 
mechanistic explanation. We compiled data on geographic variation in lifespan in 
ectotherms from around the globe to determine how much of this intraspecific 
variation in lifespan may be explained by temperature using the simple 
predictions of the metabolic theory of ecology. We found that the metabolic 
theory accurately predicts how lifespan varies with temperature within species 
in a wide range of ectotherms in both controlled laboratory experiments and 
free-living populations. After removing the effect of temperature, only a small 
fraction of species showed significant trends with latitude. There was, however, 
considerable residual intraspecific variation indicating that other, more local 
factors are likely to be important in determining lifespan within species. These 
findings suggest that, given predicted increases in global temperature, lifespan 
of ectotherms may be substantially shortened in the future.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0900300106
PMCID: PMC2728985
PMID: 19666552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


229. Scand J Public Health. 2009 Aug;37(6):584-9. doi: 10.1177/1403494809341093.

Cost-effectiveness in fall prevention for older women.

Hektoen LF(1), Aas E, Lur√•s H.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Physiotherapy, Oslo University College, Oslo 
Norway. Liv.Hektoen@hf.hio.no

AIMS: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
implementing an exercise-based fall prevention programme for home-dwelling women 
in the > or = 80-year age group in Norway.
METHODS: The impact of the home-based individual exercise programme on the 
number of falls is based on a New Zealand study. On the basis of the cost 
estimates and the estimated reduction in the number of falls obtained with the 
chosen programme, we calculated the incremental costs and the incremental effect 
of the exercise programme as compared with no prevention. The calculation of the 
average healthcare cost of falling was based on assumptions regarding the 
distribution of fall injuries reported in the literature, four constructed 
representative case histories, assumptions regarding healthcare provision 
associated with the treatment of the specified cases, and estimated unit costs 
from Norwegian cost data. We calculated the average healthcare costs per fall 
for the first year.
RESULTS: We found that the reduction in healthcare costs per individual for 
treating fall-related injuries was 1.85 times higher than the cost of 
implementing a fall prevention programme.
CONCLUSIONS: The reduction in healthcare costs more than offset the cost of the 
prevention programme for women aged > or = 80 years living at home, which 
indicates that health authorities should increase their focus on prevention. The 
main intention of this article is to stipulate costs connected to falls among 
the elderly in a transparent way and visualize the whole cost picture. 
Cost-effectiveness analysis is a health policy tool that makes politicians and 
other makers of health policy conscious of this complexity.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494809341093
PMID: 19666674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Sep 2;101(17):1182-92. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djp232.
Epub  2009 Aug 7.

Prospective cost-effectiveness analysis of cetuximab in metastatic colorectal 
cancer: evaluation of National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group 
CO.17 trial.

Mittmann N(1), Au HJ, Tu D, O'Callaghan CJ, Isogai PK, Karapetis CS, Zalcberg 
JR, Evans WK, Moore MJ, Siddiqui J, Findlay B, Colwell B, Simes J, Gibbs P, 
Links M, Tebbutt NC, Jonker DJ; Working Group on Economic Analysis of National 
Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group; Australasian Gastrointestinal 
Interest Group.

Collaborators: Au HJ, Chambers C, Ding K, Elit L, Evans WK, Hoch J, 
Johnson-Masotti AP, Koski B, Leighl N, Meyer R, Mittmann N, Peacock SJ, Reaume 
MN, Wu J, Younis T, Baran J, Berry S, Blondal JA, Burkes RL, Chalchal HI, 
Charpentier D, Classen V, Colwell B, Dueck DA, Findlay B, Haq R, Jonker D, 
Kennecke H, Kerr I, Knight GJ, Koski S, Krahn M, Lee UJ, Levesque R, Magoski N, 
Mathews J, Meharchand J, Moore M, Ottaway J, Robitaille S, Rubin S, Samson B, 
Shepard L, Siddiqui J, Taylor M, Tomiak A, Virk S, Weinerman B, Wierzbicki R, 
Wong R, Yadav SK, Ackland S, Aiken C, Begbie S, Burns I, Byard I, Claringbold P, 
Foo KF, Gibbs P, Goldstein D, Howard F, Isaacs R, Jeffery M, Jefford M, 
Karapetis C, Links M, Lowenthal R, Pavlakis N, Pearce A, Price T, Ransom D, 
Shanno J, Shapiro J, Shapiro J, Simard-Lebrun J, Simes J, Strickland A, Tebbutt 
NC, Trotter J, Underhill C, Vachan B, Van Hazel G, Wainwaring P, Wilson K, Wyld 
D, Yip D, Yip S, Zalcberg J.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes and Pharmacoeconomics Research Centre, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, Toronto, ON, Canada. nicole.mittmann@sunnybrook.ca

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Sep 2;101(17):1161-3.

BACKGROUND: The National Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group CO.17 
study showed that patients with advanced colorectal cancer had improved overall 
survival when cetuximab, an epidermal growth factor receptor-targeting antibody, 
was given in addition to best supportive care. We conducted a cost-effectiveness 
analysis using prospectively collected resource utilization and health utility 
data for patients in the CO.17 study who received cetuximab plus best supportive 
care (N = 283) or best supportive care alone (N = 274).
METHODS: Direct medical resource utilization data were collected, including 
medications, physician visits, toxicity management, blood products, emergency 
department visits, and hospitalizations. Mean survival times for the study arms 
were calculated for the entire population and for the subset of patients with 
wild-type KRAS tumors over an 18- to 19-month period. All costs were presented 
in 2007 Canadian dollars. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
used to determine the robustness of the results. Cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curves were determined. The 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and the incremental cost-utility ratios 
were estimated by use of a nonparametric bootstrapping method (with 1000 
iterations).
RESULTS: For the entire study population, the mean improvement in overall and 
quality-adjusted survival with cetuximab was 0.12 years and 0.08 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), respectively. The incremental cost with 
cetuximab compared with best supportive care was $23,969. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $199,742 per life-year gained (95% CI = $125,973 to 
$652,492 per life-year gained) and the incremental cost-utility ratio was 
$299,613 per QALY gained (95% CI = $187,440 to $898,201 per QALY gained). For 
patients with wild-type KRAS tumors, the incremental cost with cetuximab was 
$33,617 and mean gains in overall and quality-adjusted survival were 0.28 years 
and 0.18 QALYs, respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 
$120,061 per life-year gained (95% CI = $88,679 to $207,075 per life-year 
gained) and the incremental cost-utility ratio was $186,761 per QALY gained (95% 
CI = $130,326 to $334,940 per QALY gained). In a sensitivity analysis, cetuximab 
cost and patient survival were the only variables that influenced 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of cetuximab over best 
supportive care alone in unselected advanced colorectal cancer patients is high 
and sensitive to drug cost. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were lower 
when the analysis was limited to patients with wild-type KRAS tumors.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp232
PMID: 19666851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Sep 2;101(17):1161-3. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djp258.
Epub  2009 Aug 7.

Challenges and opportunities for use of cost-effectiveness analysis.

Yabroff KR, Schrag D.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Sep 2;101(17):1182-92.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp258
PMID: 19666852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. J Clin Oncol. 2009 Sep 10;27(26):e105. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.24.1810. Epub
2009  Aug 10.

"Sufficient life expectancy": an amazing inclusion criterion in cancer phase 
II-III trials.

Penel N, Clisant S, Lefebvre JL, Adenis A.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.24.1810
PMID: 19667257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Arch Intern Med. 2009 Aug 10;169(15):1442; author reply 1442-3. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2009.241.

Is concentration on more intensive treatment for younger patients more rational 
and humane than ignorant?

Jelinek M.

Comment on
    Arch Intern Med. 2009 Feb 23;169(4):372-8.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2009.241
PMID: 19667311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Postgrad Med. 2002 Oct;112(4 Suppl):6-11. doi:
10.3810/pgm.10.2002.suppl20.105.

Highlighting the unmet need for prevention: an epidemiologic perspective.

LaRosa JC(1).

Author information:
(1)State University of New York, Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, NY, USA. 
jclarosa@downstate.edu

Life expectancy, at an historical high in the wealthiest nations, may begin to 
take a downward trend unless medical and health care breakthroughs intervene. On 
the African continent, acquired immune deficiency syndrome continues to 
devastate large segments of the population, while in the European Union, the 
United States, and other developed countries, atherosclerosis threatens both 
length and quality of life. Urbanization, the trend toward a more sedentary 
lifestyle, and the abandonment of a vegetarian-based diet are among the premier 
underlying causes of ischemic heart disease today.

