Mohs versus traditional surgical excision for facial and auricular nonmelanoma 
skin cancer: an analysis of cost-effectiveness.

Seidler AM(1), Bramlette TB, Washington CV, Szeto H, Chen SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia 30322, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate and compare Mohs micrographic surgery and traditional 
excision in terms of cost and outcomes.
DESIGN: We developed a computer-simulation, probabilistic, decision model to 
perform a cost-effectiveness analysis, with each patient serving as his or her 
own control.
SETTING: University of Connecticut dermatology clinic, a tertiary care referral 
center.
PARTICIPANTS: Input data were derived from results of a consecutive sample of 98 
patients with nonmelanoma skin cancer on the face and ears, estimates in the 
literature on 5-year recurrence rates, and a query of healthy focus-group 
participants.
INTERVENTION: We considered Mohs and traditional excision strategies.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life years, 
cost, and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The Mohs strategy was $292 less expensive than the traditional surgical 
strategy and was more effective by an incremental quality-adjusted life year of 
0.056 (translating to approximately 3 weeks of optimal quality of life). Results 
were robust to subgroup and sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Mohs may be more cost-effective than traditional excision in 
eradicating nonmelanoma skin cancer. Further investigation of costs from various 
geographic payment localities and assessment of quality-of-life outcomes from a 
population-based sample are needed.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4725.2009.01291.x
PMID: 19737291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Rheumatol. 2009 Sep;36(9):2045-9. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.090355.

The OMERACT Initiative. Towards a reference approach to derive QALY for economic 
evaluations in rheumatology.

Boonen A(1), Maetzel A, Drummond M, Suarez-Almazor M, Harrison M, Welch V, 
Tugwell PS.

Author information:
(1)Maastricht University Medical Center, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Division of Rheumatology, Maastricht, The Netherlands. a.boonen@mumc.nl

Within the OMERACT Economics Workgroup, an initiative was started to work 
towards consensus on the approach to calculate quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALY) in rheumatology. We report on a first meeting May 7, 2008, in Toronto 
attended by rheumatologists and experts in QALY. Following a summary of an 
international QALY workshop of pharmacoeconomists conducted under the umbrella 
of the International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR), participating experts identified a series of high-level generic 
principles to be considered for QALY estimations. The OMERACT workgroup then 
addressed specific issues rheumatologists should concentrate on in research to 
build consensus on QALY in rheumatology; discussion was based on results of a 
Web-based survey, conducted prior to the meeting, to identify attributes of a 
QALY considered important and approaches considered suitable for the QALY 
estimations in rheumatology. One priority was to further explore indirect 
approaches to QALY estimation as representation of patients' preference for 
health in clinical decisions and to explore the additional value of patients' 
preferences versus societal preferences in allocation decisions. The role of the 
different descriptive systems and their influence on the QALY, the role of the 
visual analog scale to value preferences, and comparison of methods to integrate 
utility over time were also identified as research priorities. Approaches should 
be easy to apply, easy to understand by different parties, reproducible, and 
sensitive to change.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.090355
PMID: 19738211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Health Aff (Millwood). 2009 Sep-Oct;28(5):1260-75. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.28.5.1260.

Is health spending excessive? If so, what can we do about it?

Aaron HJ(1), Ginsburg PB.

Author information:
(1)Brookings Institution in Washington, DC, USA. haaron@brookings.edu

The case that the United States spends more than is optimal on health care is 
overwhelming. But identifying reasons for excessive spending is not the same as 
showing how to wring it out in ways that increase welfare. To lower spending 
without lowering net welfare, it is necessary to identify what procedures are 
effective at reasonable cost, to develop protocols that enable providers to 
identify in advance patients in whom expected benefits of treatment are lower 
than costs, to design incentives that encourage providers to act on those 
protocols, and to provide research support to maintain the flow of beneficial 
innovations.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.28.5.1260
PMID: 19738241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Health Aff (Millwood). 2009 Sep-Oct;28(5):1366-71. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.28.5.1366.

Is the United States ready for QALYs?

Neumann PJ(1), Greenberg D.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA. pneumann@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2010 Jan-Feb;29(1):220-1; author reply 221.

Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are used in cost-effectiveness analyses to 
aid coverage and reimbursement decisions worldwide. QALYs provide a flexible and 
convenient metric for measuring and comparing health outcomes across diverse 
diseases and treatments. But their use has stirred controversy about how 
accurately they reflect preferences for health care and whether their use is 
fair. We review the debate and the use of QALYs in other countries and discuss 
prospects for using them in the U.S. health care system. Strict adherence to a 
QALY approach is likely to prove unacceptable in the United States, but a more 
flexible use of QALYs could be beneficial.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.28.5.1366
PMID: 19738253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. South Med J. 2009 Oct;102(10):1075-7. doi: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e3181b612a4.

Anomalous origin of right coronary artery originating from the proximal part of 
the left anterior descending artery via a collateral.

Kaplan S(1), Baykan E, Oztürk S, Kiris A, Koçsucu P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey. 
skaplan74@hotmail.com

The incidence of anomalous coronary artery is approximatly 1% in patients who 
undergo coronary angiography. These anomalies, together with congenital heart 
disease, may cause myocardial ischemia, decreased life expectancy and sudden 
death. The case of a patient with a rare anomalous right coronary artery (RCA) 
from the very proximal part of the left anterior descending (LAD) artery via a 
collateral, aberrant vessel is described.

DOI: 10.1097/SMJ.0b013e3181b612a4
PMID: 19738513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Vestn Otorinolaringol. 2009;(4):23-6.

[Endonasal endoscopic orbital decompression through the transethmoidal 
approach].

[Article in Russian]

Kochetov PA, Lopatin AS, Sergienko NIu.

The paper is designed to discuss the possibilities for the extension of 
indications to endonasal endoscopic surgery. Original experience with the 
surgical treatment of endocrine ophthalmopathy in patients with 
pharmacologically compensated thyroid dysfunction and clinical manifestations of 
exophthalmus is presented. A total of 6 operations were made through the 
transethmoidal approach with the resection of medial and inferior orbital walls. 
Regression of exophthalmus from 3.5 to 6 mm was achieved in 5 patients. 
Postoperative diplopia was documented in two patients within 3 weeks after 
surgery. Five patients enjoyed improvement of vision and quality of life due to 
correction of the cosmetic eye defect. None of the patients developed purulent 
complications affecting orbital tissues and paranasal sinuses. Surgical 
techniques and peculiarities of postoperative patient care are discussed.

PMID: 19738586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ugeskr Laeger. 2009 Aug 24;171(35):2505.

[Average length of life status 2006].

[Article in Danish]

von Eyben FE.

PMID: 19739328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Int J Ment Health Nurs. 2009 Oct;18(5):299-300. doi: 
10.1111/j.1447-0349.2009.00640.x.

Physical health and severe mental illness: if we don't do something about it, 
who will?

Gray R, Hardy S, Anderson KH.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1447-0349.2009.00640.x
PMID: 19740138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2009 Oct;51 Suppl 4(0 4):16-23. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03428.x.

Cerebral palsy and aging.

Haak P(1), Lenski M, Hidecker MJ, Li M, Paneth N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Michigan State University, East Lansing, USA.

Cerebral palsy (CP), the most common major disabling motor disorder of 
childhood, is frequently thought of as a condition that affects only children. 
Deaths in children with CP, never common, have in recent years become very rare, 
unless the child is very severely and multiply disabled. Thus, virtually all 
children assigned the diagnosis of CP will survive into adulthood. Attention to 
the adult with CP has been sparse, and the evolution of the motor disorder as 
the individual moves through adolescence, young adulthood, middle age, and old 
age is not well understood. Nor do we know what happens to other functional 
domains, such as communication and eating behavior, in adults with CP. Although 
the brain injury that initially causes CP by definition does not progressively 
worsen through the lifetime, the effects of CP manifest differently throughout 
the lifespan. The aging process must inevitably interact with the motor 
disorder, but we lack systematic, large-scale follow-up studies of children with 
CP into adulthood and through adulthood with thorough assessments performed over 
time. In this paper we summarize what is known of the epidemiology of CP 
throughout the lifespan, beginning with mortality and life expectancy, then 
survey what is known of functioning, ability, and quality of life of adults with 
CP. We conclude by describing a framework for future research on CP and aging 
that is built around the World Health Organization's International 
Classification of Functioning, Disability, and Health (ICF) and suggest specific 
tools and approaches for conducting that research in a sound manner.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03428.x
PMCID: PMC4183123
PMID: 19740206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2009 Oct;51 Suppl 4:38-51. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03432.x.

Osteoporosis in adults with cerebral palsy.

Sheridan KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Gillette Children's Specialty Care, Saint Paul, MN 
55101, USA. ksheridan@gillettechildrens.com

Life expectancy for the 400 000 adults with cerebral palsy (CP) in the USA is 
increasing. Although there is a perception of increased fractured rate in the 
adult with CP, it has not been well studied. Low bone mineral density is found 
in more than 50% of adults with a variety of disabilities, including CP. 
Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scanning is commonly used to assess bone 
mineral density, but is limited by positioning and other artifacts in adults 
with CP. Novel scanning regions of interest, such as the distal femur, are not 
yet standardized in adults. Nutritional assessment and physical activity, the 
basis of most fracture prevention programs, are difficult to do in the adult 
with CP. A better understanding of the 'muscle-bone unit' physiology and its 
exploitation may lead to better treatment modifications. Clinical research 
trials with bisphosphonates (e.g. pamidronate), estrogen, selective estrogen 
receptor modulators, parathyroid hormone analogs, and growth hormone need to be 
targeted to the adult with CP. Longitudinal studies of fracture risk factors, 
genetic research in bone and neuromuscular biology, and the development of 
treatment surrogates for physical activity are additional areas of needed 
expertise. This could be facilitated by an adult CP registry and the 
centralization of clinical research efforts.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03432.x
PMID: 19740209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. J Card Surg. 2009 Sep-Oct;24(5):524-5. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8191.2009.00872.x.

Primary cardiac angiosarcoma of left atrium.

Ho CK(1), Wang E, Au WK, Cheng LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong Special 
Administrative Region, Hong Kong. callykalai@yahoo.com

Cardiac angiosarcoma usually arises from the right atrium. We report an 
extremely rare case of primary angiosarcoma originating from the left atrium in 
a 70-year-old woman. This represents the ninth reported case of left-sided 
cardiac angiosarcoma in the English literature. Analysis of all nine cases shows 
that this malignant neoplasm occurs more in female patients with a mean age of 
60 years, unlike the right-sided one which typically affects male patients in 
their early 40s. The prognosis of this tumor is extremely poor with life 
expectancy lying between 3 to 34 months despite early diagnosis by imaging and 
multimodality treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8191.2009.00872.x
PMID: 19740289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. N Engl J Med. 2009 Sep 24;361(13):e21. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp0906618. Epub 2009
Sep  9.

British lessons on health care reform.

Kerr DJ(1), Scott M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, University of Oxford, Oxford, United 
Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp0906618
PMID: 19741219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Trauma. 2009 Sep;67(3):485-9. doi: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3181ad67c1.

Long-term follow-up of trauma patients with permanent prophylactic vena cava 
filters.

Phelan HA(1), Gonzalez RP, Scott WC, White CQ, McClure M, Minei JP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Burns/Trauma/Critical Care, UT-Southwestern Medical Center, 5323 
Harry Hines Blvd, E5.508A, Dallas, TX 75390-9158, USA. 
herb.phelan@utsouthwestern.edu

BACKGROUND: Although permanent prophylactic Greenfield filters (PPGF) are 
effective, their use in young trauma patients who may eventually return to 
active lifestyles is controversial due to concerns about the safety of the 
devices over a lifetime. This descriptive study was undertaken to provide 
follow-up on the long-term safety and durability of PPGF.
METHODS: All patients receiving a PPGF between April 1, 1992 and March 1, 2001 
were sought for follow-up. Contacted patients were interviewed regarding known 
filter-related complications, venous thromboembolic events, and activity levels 
since the time of discharge from the hospital. Patients were also offered a 
physical examination focusing on venous thromboembolic sequelae, a plain film of 
the abdomen (KUB) to assess filter integrity and location, and an ultrasound to 
assess caval patency. As the original level of filter placement was usually not 
known, migration was defined as a filter above the first lumbar vertebra (L1).
RESULTS: The eligible cohort consisted of 188 patients. Ninety were unable to be 
located (47.8%), one refused enrollment (0.5%), and 97 patients or next of kin 
agreed to be interviewed by phone (51.6%) of whom 69 returned for evaluation 
(36.7%). No filter-related complications were self-reported. KUBs were performed 
in 68 patients; one filter strut fracture was found (1.5%), whereas no filter 
migrations above L1 were noted. No instances of caval thrombosis were found in 
55 ultrasounds. Two patients suffered interim pulmonary emboli (2.1%), one of 
which was fatal. Of 15 interim deaths, autopsy or death certificates were 
available for four patients, nine had their causes of death related by next of 
kin, and two were unknown. Although 95.4% of nonspinal cord injury patients 
reported at least some ability to ambulate, only 64.6% could do so ad libitum. 
Of those patients ambulating without limitation, 28.6% reported a complete 
inability to run any distance and another 23.8% could run less than one block. 
Follow-up for patients completing interviews was 105.3 months +/- 18.0 months, 
and for patients undergoing imaging was 104.6 months +/- 16.4 months. Interim 
deaths occurred at 48.2 months +/- 26.0 months.
CONCLUSIONS: PPGF seem to be safe and effective at 105 months of follow-up; most 
patients report significant limitations in activity level at this same 
timeframe. PPGF should be the filter of choice for elderly patients in whom this 
time period can reasonably be expected to cover the patient's remaining life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3181ad67c1
PMID: 19741388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Psychosoc Med. 2008 Dec 19;5:Doc10.

Evaluating patients' preferences for multiple myeloma therapy, a 
Discrete-Choice-Experiment.

Mühlbacher AC(1), Lincke HJ, Nübling M.

Author information:
(1)GEB: Gesellschaft für Empirische Beratung mbH (Empirical Consulting), 
Denzlingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: While there is an increasing emphasis on patient empowerment and 
shared decision making, patients' preferences for attributes associated with 
their treatment still need to be measured and considered. In the present study, 
patients' preferences regarding treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) were explored 
using direct assessment and a Discrete-Choice-Experiment (DCE).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: After reviewing the literature about preferences of 
myeloma patients we conducted a qualitative study with three focus groups 
consisting of six to eight MM-patients each. In order to achieve content 
validity, we aimed at collecting all relevant factors for an ideal MM-treatment. 
In a subsequent quantitative study phase, data was collected in an online or 
paper-pencil self-completed questionnaire. It included sociodemographic data, 
self-rated health (SF12v2 variation) and patients preferences of therapy 
characteristics using direct measurement (16 items on a five-point Likert-scale) 
as well as a Discrete-Choice-Experiment (DCE, eight pairs with eight 
characteristics).
RESULTS: 282 patients answered the questionnaire; 46% female, age: mean 62 yrs 
(SD=10 years), duration of MM: 5 yrs (SD=3.8 years). Direct measurement showed 
effectiveness aspects (i.e. high effectiveness, long lasting effects, max. 
prolonged life expectancy) and further treatment options in the first places, 
followed by maximal prolonged life expectancy, minor side effects and 
therapy-free-intervals. In the DCE, alternatives with further treatment options, 
longer life expectancy, "not always think of the disease" and 
therapy-free-intervals were more likely to be chosen, giving thus similar 
results.
CONCLUSION: Besides prolongation of life expectancy and effectiveness of 
treatment, further treatment options are of foremost importance to multiple 
myeloma patients. In addition, therapy-free intervals as well as an improved 
emotional quality of life ("Not always think of the disease") are valued as very 
important. The combination of direct assessment of importance and DCE is a valid 
combined survey technique for eliciting preferences of patients with multiple 
myeloma. The former ensures content validity (the possibility to measure a 
longer list of potentially important aspects), the latter has the advantage to 
combine positive and negative therapy characteristics and to avoid the problem 
of ceiling effects and "all-is-important" results.

Hintergrund: Mit dem wachsenden Fokus auf die Beteilung von Patienten an 
Therapieentscheidungen im Sinne des „Shared decision making“ ist es wichtig, die 
Patientenpräferenzen hinsichtlich von Therapieeigenschaften zu erfassen und zu 
berücksichtigen. Ziel der vorliegenden Studie war es, mittels direkter Bewertung 
und Discrete-Choice-Experiments (DCE) diejenigen Parameter der Therapie zu 
erfassen, die Patienten mit Multiplem Myelom (MM) am wichtigsten sind. Patienten 
und Methoden: Nach Durchsicht der relevanten Literatur führten wir eine 
qualitative Vorstudie auf Basis dreier Fokus-Gruppen mit jeweils sechs bis acht 
MM-Patienten durch. Um die Inhaltsvalidität des Fragebogens für die quantitative 
Hauptstudie abzusichern, zielten wir darauf ab, alle relevanten Faktoren einer 
idealen MM-Behandlung aus Patientensicht zu erfassen. Der Fragebogen (online 
sowie Papierversion) der Hauptstudie beinhaltete soziodemographische Angaben, 
Fragen zum Gesundheitszustand (SF12v2 SOEP Variante) und Fragen zur direkten 
Messung der Präferenzen (16 Items, fünfstufig Likert-skaliert) sowie ein 
Discrete-Choice-Experiment mit acht Paaren mit je acht Therapieeigenschaften. 
Ergebnisse: Die Auswertung basiert auf 282 Patienten; 46% weiblich, 
Durchschnittsalter 62 Jahre (SD=10 Jahre), mittlere Erkrankungsdauer fünf Jahre 
(SD=3,8). In der direkten Präferenzabfrage erachteten die Befragten die 
Parameter Wirksamkeit und weitere Behandlungsoptionen als am wichtigsten, 
gefolgt von verlängerter Lebenserwartung, geringen Nebenwirkungen und 
therapiefreien Intervallen. Im DCE bevorzugten Patienten Behandlungsalternativen 
signifikant, die eine oder mehrere der folgenden Eigenschaften beinhalteten: 
weitere Behandlungsoptionen, verlängerte Lebensdauer, "nicht immer an die 
Krankheit denken müssen“ sowie therapiefreie Intervalle. Damit ergeben sich 
ähnliche Präferenzen wie in der direkten Messung. Schlussfolgerung: Neben einer 
Verlängerung der Lebenserwartung und der Wirksamkeit der Behandlung ist es 
MM-Patienten besonders wichtig, dass eine Therapie weitere Behandlungsoptionen 
im Verlauf der Erkrankung offen hält. Darüber hinaus sind Therapiepausen und 
eine verbesserte emotionale Lebensqualität („Nicht immer an die Krankheit denken 
müssen“) von Bedeutung. Methodisch ist die Kombination der direkten Bewertung 
mit einer wahlbasierten Messung wie dem DCE für die Erhebung der Präferenzen von 
MM-Patienten bezüglich der Therapie nach unseren Ergebnissen sinnvoll und 
fruchtbar. Die direkte Methode kann mehr Aspekte berücksichtigen 
(Inhaltsvalidität), während das DCE durch Vorlage von Kombinationen positiver 
wie negativer Eigenschaften eine klarere Abstufung der Präferenzen erzeugt und 
Deckeneffekte sowie „alles-ist-wichtig“-Ergebnisse vermeidet.

PMCID: PMC2736517
PMID: 19742282


435. Psychosoc Med. 2007 Apr 12;4:Doc05.

Hope as an emotion of expectancy: first assessment results.

Roth M(1), Hammelstein P.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Psychology II, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany.

THEORETICAL BACKGROUND: Based on deficiencies of present conceptions of hope, an 
appraisal model is proposed as an alternative approach, in which hope is defined 
as the expectancy that a possible event, which a person rates positively, will 
occur in the future. The event depends both on situational and internal factors. 
This model differentiates between a subjective probability of occurrence and a 
subjective probability of affiliation. The first refers to a person's estimation 
of the probability that a positive event can occur in general (e.g. the chances 
of recovering from a life-threatening illness); the second refers to the 
estimated probability that he/she belongs to those, for which the positive 
outcome is likely.
OBJECTIVE: The present contribution is a first validation of the appraisal model 
of hope.
METHODS: On a sample of prisoners (N=172) the degree of hope never to be 
incarcerated again after serving the present sentence was tested. Furthermore, 
personality dimensions, psychological distress, perceived social support and 
features of childhood delinquency were assessed using questionnaires.
RESULTS: As expected, the results indicate that both probability-estimations are 
largely independent of each other and were predicted by different factors (such 
as duration of arrest, anxiety, social support, or childhood delinquency).

Theoretischer Hintergrund: Basierend auf Defiziten bisheriger 
Konzeptualisierungsversuche des Konstruktes Hoffnung wird hier ein 
bewertungstheoretisches Hoffnungskonzept als Alternative vorgeschlagen, in dem 
Hoffnung als die Erwartung definiert wird, dass ein mögliches Ereignisses, das 
eine Person positiv bewertet, in der Zukunft stattfinden wird. Das Ereignis 
hängt dabei sowohl von situativen als auch internalen Faktoren ab. Im Modell 
wird dabei zwischen eine zwischen einer subjektiven Eintrittwahrscheinlichkeit 
(Einschätzung der Wahrscheinlichkeit, dass ein bestimmtes positives Ereignis 
generell eintreten kann) und einer Zugehöringkeitswahrscheinlichkeit 
(Einschätzung der Wahrscheinlichkeit, dass ein solches Ereignis für die Person 
eintritt) unterschieden. Zielsetzung: Der vorliegende Beitrag stellt eine erste 
Validierung des Erwartungsmodells der Hoffnung vor. Methoden: In eine Stichprobe 
von Strafgefangenen (N=172) wurde das Ausmaß der Hoffnung, nach Verbüßung der 
gegenwärtigen Haftstrafe nie mehr erneut inhaftiert zu werden, gemessen. 
Weiterhin wurden Persönlichkeitsmerkmale, psychische Belastung, wahrgenommene 
soziale Unterstützung und Merkmale der kindlichen Delinquenz über 
Fragebogenverfahren erfasst. Ergebnisse: Wie erwartet zeigen die Ergebnisse, 
dass beide Wahrscheinlichkeitseinschätzungen voneinander weitgehend unabhängig 
sind und zudem von unterschiedlichen Faktoren vorhergesagt werden (wie Dauer der 
Haftstrafe, Ängstlichkeit, soziale Unterstützung oder kindliche Delinquenz).

PMCID: PMC2736531
PMID: 19742296


436. J Med Econ. 2009 Sep;12(3):246-58. doi: 10.3111/13696990903288970.

Cost-utility of celecoxib use in different treatment strategies for 
osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis from the Quebec healthcare system 
perspective.

Bessette L(1), Risebrough N, Mittmann N, Roussy JP, Ho J, Zlateva G.

Author information:
(1)Laval University Hospital Centre, Sainte-Foy, Quebec, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-utility of celecoxib in three treatment strategies 
for arthritis in Quebec, considering both upper gastrointestinal (GI) and 
cardiovascular (CV) events.
METHODS: A Markov analytic framework was used to model patients with 
osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis at low/average and high risk of GI and 
CV toxicity over 5 years with monthly cycles. Treatment strategies were modelled 
in line with Canadian clinical practice. In first-line treatment, patients 
started on celecoxib; second-line, patients started on a non-selective 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and switched to celecoxib after a 
first GI event; third-line, patients started on a non-selective NSAID, added a 
proton pump inhibitor (PPI) after a first GI event, and switched to celecoxib 
after a second GI event (while maintaining the PPI). Model inputs were 
determined through comprehensive literature searches (MEDLINE and EMBASE) from 
1995 to 2006. Included studies evaluated GI (dyspepsia, uncomplicated and 
complicated ulcers, death) and CV (myocardial infarction, stroke, death) events. 
Drug and procedure costs were derived from Canadian published sources 
(Can$2005).
RESULTS: Total costs per patient for celecoxib first-, second-, and third-line 
treatment were Can$4,790, $3,390, and $3,466, and total quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) were 3.251, 3.231, and 3.230, respectively. In all risk 
categories, celecoxib second-line was less costly and as effective as celecoxib 
third-line, producing savings to the healthcare system. Although celecoxib 
first-line generated incremental expenditures versus celecoxib second-line, it 
was also more effective. The resulting cost-utility ratio for the high-risk 
population was Can$54,696/QALY. Based on this analytical approach, a treatment 
strategy where celecoxib is used before the combination of a non-selective NSAID 
plus a PPI possesses cost advantages for the Quebec provincial drug programme. 
One-way sensitivity analysis (varying GI and CV event rates, utilities, and 
cost) generally showed second-line treatment with celecoxib as the dominant 
strategy compared with third-line treatment with celecoxib.
CONCLUSION: Although effectiveness of second- and third-line celecoxib use is 
similar, total cost is lower for second-line. These results suggest that the use 
of celecoxib before the combination of a non-selective NSAID plus a PPI is 
relatively cost-effective in the treatment of arthritis pain and support the 
full benefit listing of celecoxib in Quebec's drug programme.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903288970
PMID: 19743942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. J Hum Nutr Diet. 2009 Oct;22(5):383-93. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-277X.2009.00979.x.

A review of nutrition in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Davidson ZE(1), Truby H.

Author information:
(1)The University of Queensland, Children's Nutrition Research Centre, School of 
Medicine, Australia. z.davidson@uq.edu.au

Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X linked genetic disorder 
characterised by progressive muscle weakness and reduced muscle tone. Affecting 
only boys, it limits life expectancy to approximately 20 years. A literature 
review was conducted using MEDLINE and the Cochrane Library, employing the term 
'Duchenne muscular dystrophy'. A total of 1491 articles in English were 
recovered. These papers were searched thematically under the headings: body 
composition (n = 10), energy expenditure (n = 10), nutrition (n = 6), 
corticosteroid therapy (n = 55) and gene therapy (n = 199). Key dietetic 
practice points were identified relevant to nutritional management. Papers 
supporting these key themes were assigned a level of evidence and grade of 
recommendation. There is limited high-quality evidence to guide the nutritional 
management of boys with DMD. Currently, the majority of evidence is based on 
expert opinion and clinical expertise. Delayed growth, short stature, muscle 
wasting and increased fat mass are characteristics of DMD and impact on 
nutritional status and energy requirements. The early introduction of steroids 
has altered the natural history of the disease, but can exacerbate weight gain 
in a population already susceptible to obesity. Prior to commencing steroids, 
anticipatory guidance for weight management should be provided. Malnutrition is 
a feature of end stage disease requiring a multidisciplinary approach, such as 
texture modification and supplemental feeding. Micronutrient requirements are 
yet to be determined but, as a result of corticosteroid treatment, vitamin D and 
calcium should be supplemented. Some evidence exists supporting supplementation 
with creatine monohydrate to improve muscle strength. More research is needed to 
provide a higher quality of evidence for dietitians working within this area.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-277X.2009.00979.x
PMID: 19743977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Mol Ecol. 2009 Oct;18(19):4102-11. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04323.x.
Epub  2009 Sep 10.

The queen is dead--long live the workers: intraspecific parasitism by workers in 
the stingless bee Melipona scutellaris.

Alves DA(1), Imperatriz-Fonseca VL, Francoy TM, Santos-Filho PS, Nogueira-Neto 
P, Billen J, Wenseleers T.

Author information:
(1)Bee Laboratory, Bioscience Institute, University of São Paulo, 05508-900 Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. daalves@ib.usp.br

Comment in
    Mol Ecol. 2009 Oct;18(19):3958-60.

Insect societies are well known for their high degree of cooperation, but their 
colonies can potentially be exploited by reproductive workers who lay 
unfertilized, male eggs, rather than work for the good of the colony. Recently, 
it has also been discovered that workers in bumblebees and Asian honeybees can 
succeed in entering and parasitizing unrelated colonies to produce their own 
male offspring. The aim of this study was to investigate whether such 
intraspecific worker parasitism might also occur in stingless bees, another 
group of highly social bees. Based on a large-scale genetic study of the species 
Melipona scutellaris, and the genotyping of nearly 600 males from 45 colonies, 
we show that approximately 20% of all males are workers' sons, but that around 
80% of these had genotypes that were incompatible with them being the sons of 
workers of the resident queen. By tracking colonies over multiple generations, 
we show that these males were not produced by drifted workers, but rather by 
workers that were the offspring of a previous, superseded queen. This means that 
uniquely, workers reproductively parasitize the next-generation workforce. Our 
results are surprising given that most colonies were sampled many months after 
the previous queen had died and that workers normally only have a life 
expectancy of approximately 30 days. It also implies that reproductive workers 
greatly outlive all other workers. We explain our results in the context of kin 
selection theory, and the fact that it pays workers more from exploiting the 
colony if costs are carried by less related individuals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04323.x
PMID: 19744267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):306-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00610.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 10.

Health state valuations of patients and the general public analytically 
compared: a meta-analytical comparison of patient and population health state 
utilities.

Peeters Y(1), Stiggelbout AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Centre, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. y.peeters@lumc.nl

OBJECTIVES: To obtain quality-adjusted life-years, different respondent groups, 
such as patients or the general public, may be asked to value health states. 
Until now, it remains unclear if the respondent group has an influence on the 
values obtained. We assessed this issue through meta-analysis.
METHODS: A literature search was performed for studies reporting valuations 
given by patients and nonpatients. Studies using indirect utility instruments 
were excluded.
RESULTS: From 30 eligible studies, 40 estimators were retrieved revealing a 
difference between respondent group (Cohen's d=0.20, P<0.01). When elicitation 
methods were analyzed separately, patients gave higher valuations than 
nonpatients using the time trade-off (TTO) (N=25, unstandardized d=0.05, P<0.05) 
and the visual analog scale (VAS) (N=22, unstandardized d=0.04, P<0.05). When 
the standard gamble was used, no difference was seen (N=24, unstandardized 
d=0.01, P=0.70).
CONCLUSION: In contrast with Dolders et al., our results show that patients give 
higher valuations than members of the general public. For future cost-utility 
analyses, researchers should be aware of the differential effects of respondent 
group for the elicitation methods TTO and VAS.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00610.x
PMID: 19744288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Value Health. 2010 Jan-Feb;13(1):112-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00599.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 10.

Patient characteristics impacting health state index scores, measured by the 
EQ-5D of females with stress urinary incontinence symptoms.

Tincello D(1), Sculpher M, Tunn R, Quail D, van der Vaart H, Falconer C, Manning 
M, Timlin L.

Author information:
(1)University of Leicester, Leicester, UK. dgt4@leicester.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To describe the characteristics of women seeking treatment for 
symptoms of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) and to investigate the association 
of SUI symptoms with generic health-related quality of life (HRQoL) as measured 
by the EuroQol (EQ-5D) instrument.
METHODS: The Stress Urinary Incontinence Treatment (SUIT) study was a 12-month 
observational study in four European countries that evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of duloxetine compared with other forms of nonsurgical 
intervention in the treatment of the symptoms of SUI. Four hundred thirty-one 
physicians observed women seeking treatment for their SUI, and recorded the care 
provided and the outcomes of that care at enrollment and at 3, 6 and 12 months 
afterward The impact of SUI on baseline HRQoL as expressed by the EQ-5D index 
score was assessed by linear and logistic regression.
RESULTS: Three thousand seven hundred sixty-two women were enrolled into SUIT, 
with the largest patient group from Germany. Overall, the majority of women were 
postmenopausal, had a mean age of 58.0 years, were not current smokers, and 
tended to be overweight (mean body mass index [BMI]=27.7 kg/m2), with at least 
one comorbidity. The health state index scores were significantly and 
independently influenced by the presence of comorbidity(ies) affecting quality 
of life, total number of stress and urge incontinence episodes, urinary 
incontinence subtype, comorbidity(ies) affecting incontinence, BMI, 
socioeconomic status, educational status, age, and country.
CONCLUSION: This article describes the characteristics of patients at the SUIT 
enrollment visit, and demonstrates that the number of incontinence episodes has 
a significant impact on the EQ-5D index score.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00599.x
PMID: 19744293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):289-97. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00596.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 10.

Valuation of EQ-5D health states in Poland: first TTO-based social value set in 
Central and Eastern Europe.

Golicki D(1), Jakubczyk M, Niewada M, Wrona W, Busschbach JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacoeconomics, Medical University of Warsaw, Poland. 
dominik.golicki@wum.edu.pl

OBJECTIVE: Currently, there is no EQ-5D value set for Poland. The primary 
objective of this study was to elicit EQ-5D Polish values using the time 
trade-off (TTO) method.
METHODS: Face-to-face interviews with visitors of inpatients in eight medical 
centers in Warsaw, Skierniewice, and Puławy were carried out by trained 
interviewers. Quota sampling was used to achieve a representative sample of the 
Polish population with regard to age and sex. Modified protocol from the 
Measurement and Value of Health study was used. Each respondent ranked 10 health 
states and valued 4 health states using the visual analog scale and 23 using the 
TTO. Mean and variance stability tests were performed to determine whether using 
a larger number of health states per respondent would yield credible results. 
Modeling included random effects and random parameters models.
RESULTS: Between February and May 2008, 321 interviews were performed. Modeling 
based on 6777 valuations resulted in an additive model with all coefficients 
statistically significant, R(2) equal to 0.45, and value -0.523 for the worst 
possible health state. Means and variance did not differ significantly for 
states valued in the middle and at the end of the TTO exercise.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first EQ-5D value set based on TTO in Central and 
Eastern Europe so far. Because the values differ considerably from those 
elicited in Western European countries, its use should be recommended for 
studies in Poland. Increasing the number of health states that each respondent 
is asked to value using TTO seems feasible and justifiable.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00596.x
PMID: 19744296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Vaccine. 2009 Dec 9;27(52):7242-3. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.077. Epub
2009  Sep 8.

Conclusions on (cost-)effectiveness of pertussis booster vaccination strategies 
highly dependent on selections made in evidence review.

Postma MJ, de Vries R, Roord J.

Comment on
    Vaccine. 2008 Dec 9;26(52):6768-76.

This letter reacts on a paper recently published in this journal, reviewing the 
effectiveness and (cost-)effectiveness of pertussis booster vaccination 
strategies. We argue that a different selection of (cost-)effectiveness data 
could validly be made than the one presented in the review as being considered 
most robust. In particular, we explicitly present an alternative set of 
(cost-)effectiveness data.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.08.077
PMID: 19744583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Clin Psychol Rev. 2009 Dec;29(8):727-35. doi: 10.1016/j.cpr.2009.08.006.
Epub  2009 Aug 24.

Posttraumatic stress disorder and quality of life: extension of findings to 
veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan.

Schnurr PP(1), Lunney CA, Bovin MJ, Marx BP.

Author information:
(1)National Center for PTSD, Executive Division, United States. 
paula.schnurr@dartmouth.edu

The wars in Iraq and Afghanistan-Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring 
Freedom, or OEF/OIF-have created unique conditions for promoting the development 
of psychological difficulties such as posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). PTSD 
is an important outcome because it can affect quality of life, impairing 
psychosocial and occupational functioning and overall well-being. The literature 
on PTSD and quality of life in OEF/OIF Veterans is at an early stage, but the 
consistency of the evidence is striking. Our review indicates that the findings 
on PTSD and quality of life in OEF/OIF veterans are comparable to findings 
obtained from other war cohorts and from nonveterans as well. Even though the 
duration of PTSD in OEF/OIF Veterans is much shorter than in Vietnam Veterans, 
for example, those with PTSD in both cohorts are likely to experience poorer 
functioning and lower objective living conditions and satisfaction. The review 
ends with discussion of the implications of the evidence for research and 
clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpr.2009.08.006
PMID: 19744758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Bioorg Med Chem. 2009 Oct 1;17(19):6796-802. doi: 10.1016/j.bmc.2009.08.041.
 Epub 2009 Aug 22.

A new therapeutic approach in Parkinson's disease: some novel quinazoline 
derivatives as dual selective phosphodiesterase 1 inhibitors and 
anti-inflammatory agents.

Laddha SS(1), Bhatnagar SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, 
Ranchi 835215, Jharkhand, India.

The increasing life expectancy in our population makes Parkinson's disease (PD) 
a growing public health problem. There is a great need to find a way to prevent 
and delay the disease. It was shown that selective phosphodiesterase 1 (PDE1) 
inhibitors and anti-inflammatory agents might be effective in treating PD. 
Therefore, a novel 
1,2,9,11-tetrasubstituted-7H-thieno[2',3':4,5]pyrimido[6,1-b]-quinazolin-7-one 
(1-15) and 
1,3,10,12-tetrasubstituted-8H-pyrido[2',3':4,5]pyrimido[6,1-b]quinazolin-8-one 
(16-36) derivatives were synthesized by reported method and investigated for 
their ability to inhibit PDE1. Most of the synthesized compounds have shown good 
activity against PDE1 and were less effective than 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine. 
All the compounds were also tested for their in vitro anti-inflammatory activity 
by carrageenan-induced oedema in rats. In addition, ulcerogenic activity was 
determined. The combined anti-inflammatory data from in vitro animal model 
showed that compounds, 
9,11-dibromo-1-(2-furyl)-3-(4-tolyl)-8H-pyrido[2',3':4,5]pyrimido[6,1-b]quinazolin-8-one 
23, 
9,11-dibromo-1-(4-methoxy-phenyl)-3-phenyl-8H-pyrido[2',3':4,5]pyrimido[6,1-b]quinazolin-8-one 
24, 
9,11-dibromo-1-(4-chloro-phenyl)-3-(4-tolyl)-8H-pyrido[2',3':4,5]pyrimido[6,1-b]quinazolin-8-one 
29 and 
9-bromo-1-(4-chloro-phenyl)-3-(4-tolyl)-8H-pyrido[2',3':4,5]pyrimido[6,1-b]quinazolin-8-one 
36 exhibited even more potent anti-inflammatory activity and low gastric 
ulceration incidence compare to reference standard Indomethacin. Since compound 
23, 24, 29 and 36 exhibits both anti-inflammatory activity and PDE1 inhibition, 
it needs further detailed studies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bmc.2009.08.041
PMID: 19744861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. BMJ. 2009 Sep 10;339:b3454. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3454.

Comparisons between geographies of mortality and deprivation from the 1900s and 
2001: spatial analysis of census and mortality statistics.

Gregory IN(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences, Furness College, Lancaster University, 
Lancaster LA1 4YG. I.Gregory@lancaster.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To examine the geographical relation between mortality and 
deprivation in England and Wales at the start of the 20th and 21st centuries. To 
explore the evidence for a strengthening or weakening of this relation over the 
century and test for relations between the mortality and deprivation patterns of 
a century ago and modern mortality and causes of death.
DESIGN: Census and mortality data for 634 districts from the 1900s directly 
compared with interpolated ward level data from 2001.
SETTING: Census data and national statistics for England and Wales in the 1900s 
and 2001. Population Entire population in both periods.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Standardised mortality ratios for all districts for both 
periods with additional cause specific ratios calculated for 2001. Deprivation 
(Carstairs) scores for each district in 2001, with comparable measure created 
for the 1900s. Correlations and partial correlations between deprivation scores 
and standardised mortality ratios in the 1900s and 2001 for the 614 districts 
for which all data were available.
RESULTS: The was no evidence of a significant change in the strength of the 
relation between deprivation and mortality between the start and end of the 20th 
century. Modern patterns of mortality and deprivation remain closely related to 
the patterns of a century ago. Even after adjustment for modern deprivation, 
standardised mortality ratios from the 1900s show a significant correlation with 
modern mortality and most modern causes of death. Conversely, however, there was 
no significant relation between deprivation in the 1900s and modern mortality 
for most causes of death after adjustment for modern deprivation.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite all the medical, public health, social, economic, and 
political changes over the 20th century, patterns of poverty and mortality and 
the relations between them remain firmly entrenched. There is a strong relation 
between the mortality levels of a century ago and those of today. This goes 
beyond what would have been expected from the continuing relation between 
deprivation and mortality and holds true for most major modern causes of death.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3454
PMCID: PMC2741565
PMID: 19744974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


446. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2009;150:14-6.

Health-enabling technologies for pervasive health care: a pivotal field for 
future medical informatics research education?

Haux R(1), Gietzelt M, Hellrung N, Ludwig W, Marschollek M, Song B, Wolf KH.

Author information:
(1)Peter L. Reichertz Institute for Medical Informatics, University of 
Braunschweig - Institute of Technology and Hannover Medical School, 38106 
Braunschweig, Germany. reinhold.haux@plri.de

Our societies are changing worldwide. Life expectancy has increased in many 
societies and this increase is often related to an increase in the relative 
amount of elderly persons. Health-enabling technologies are information and 
communication technologies for creating sustainable conditions for 
self-sufficient and self-determined lifestyles. Sensor-enhanced health 
information systems play a major role in this context. The question is 
discussed, whether health-enabling technologies for pervasive health care can be 
regarded as a pivotal field for future medical informatics research and 
education.

PMID: 19745256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2009;149:187-94.

Fantastic voyage: live long enough to live forever. The science behind radical 
life extension questions and answers.

Kurzweil R(1), Grossman T.

Author information:
(1)Frontier Medical Institute.

Putting an end to human aging is now becoming a reality, and immortality is no 
longer just a dream. Through what we are calling "Fantastic Voyage," we provide 
a guide to achieving life extension through various means, thereby slowing down 
aging and disease processes. The three components of Fantastic Voyage are: 
Bridge One--Aggressively applying today's knowledge. Bridge Two--Putting 
biotechnology, such as gene technologies, to use with therapeutic cloning and 
rejuvenation medicine. Bridge Three--Putting nanotechnology to use by developing 
a means to rebuild our bodies and brains with nanobots. Many of these technology 
solutions can be simulated today through the use of targeted supplements, 
designed to address the specific needs of an individual, such as insulin 
resistance, cholesterol and homocysteine levels, and inflammation. To slow aging 
now, we propose a program of supplementing aggressively, eating foods that 
impede aging and disease processes, and reversing inflammation through diet. We 
also provide guidance to customize each program to the specific needs of the 
individual. Emerging technologies in rational drug design, tissue engineering, 
gene therapy, and nanobots (among others) promise a future of automated life 
extension. The use of such technologies, and the resulting dramatic increases in 
productivity in all areas of human endeavor, will enable us to live in a world 
in which all our physical needs can be met.

PMID: 19745481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2009;149:195-202.

The singularity and the Methuselarity: similarities and differences.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)Methuselah Foundation. aubrey@sens.org

Aging, being a composite of innumerable types of molecular and cellular decay, 
will be defeated incrementally. I have for some time predicted that this 
succession of advances will feature a threshold, which I here christen the 
"Methuselarity," following which there will actually be a progressive decline in 
the rate of improvement in our anti-aging technology that is required to prevent 
a rise in our risk of death from age-related causes as we become chronologically 
older. Various commentators have observed the similarity of this prediction to 
that made by Good, Vinge, Kurzweil and others concerning technology in general 
(and, in particular, computer technology), which they have termed the 
"singularity." In this essay I compare and contrast these two concepts.

PMID: 19745482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Genet Med. 2009 Nov;11(11):790-6. doi: 10.1097/GIM.0b013e3181bb05bb.

Life expectancy and cause of death in males and females with Fabry disease: 
findings from the Fabry Registry.

Waldek S(1), Patel MR, Banikazemi M, Lemay R, Lee P.

Author information:
(1)Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, United Kingdom. 
steve.waldek@srht.nhs.uk

PURPOSE: To evaluate life expectancy and cause of death among patients with 
Fabry disease, an X-linked lysosomal storage disorder.
METHODS: Data from 2848 patients in the Fabry Registry were summarized using 
descriptive statistics. Life expectancy at birth was compared with that of the 
United States general population.
RESULTS: As of August 2008, 75 of 1422 males and 12 of 1426 females in the Fabry 
Registry were reported to have died. The 87 deceased patients were diagnosed at 
a much older age than other patients in the Fabry Registry: median age at 
diagnosis was 40 vs. 24 years in males and 55 vs. 33 years in females. The life 
expectancy of males with Fabry disease was 58.2 years, compared with 74.7 years 
in the general population of the United States. The life expectancy of females 
with Fabry disease was 75.4 years, compared with 80.0 years in the United States 
general population. The most common cause of death among both genders was 
cardiovascular disease. Most (57%) patients who died of cardiovascular disease 
