reflex activation using electromyography (EMG) and (4) muscle elongation, 
extension and flexion velocities using vector TDI. The passive joint angular 
velocity was linearly related to the passive muscle elongation velocity 
(R(2)=0.88). The maximum estimated joint angular velocity corresponding to 
muscle elongation due to tendon tap was less than 8.25 radians/s. This 
preliminary study demonstrates the feasibility of vector TDI for measuring 
longitudinal muscle velocities and indicates that the muscle elongation 
velocities during a clinical tendon tap test are within the normal range of 
values for rapid limb stretch encountered in daily life. With further 
refinement, vector TDI could become a powerful method for quantitative 
evaluation of muscle motion in musculoskeletal disorders.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5332500
PMCID: PMC3576698
PMID: 19963547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2009;2009:6179-82. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5334506.

Evaluation of functional deficits and falls risk in the elderly--methods for 
preventing falls.

Narayanan MR(1), Scalzi ME, Redmond SJ, Lord SR, Celler BG, Lovell NH.

Author information:
(1)Biomedical Systems Laboratory, School of Electrical Engineering and 
Telecommunications, University of New South Wales, Sydney NSW 2052, Australia.

Falls in the elderly have a profound impact on their quality of life through 
injury, increased fear of falling, reduced confidence to perform daily tasks and 
loss of independence. Falls come at a substantial economic cost. Tools to 
quantify falls risk and evaluate functional deficits allow interventions to be 
targeted to those at increased risk of falling and tailored to correct deficits 
with the aim of reducing falls rate and reducing ones risk of falling. We 
describe a system to evaluate falls risk and functional deficits in the elderly. 
The system is based on the evaluation of performance in a simple set of 
controlled movements known as the directed routine (DR). We present preliminary 
results of the DR in a cohort of 68 subjects using features extracted from the 
DR. Linear least-squares models were trained to estimate falls risk, 
knee-extension strength, proprioception, mediolateral body sway, anteroposterior 
body sway and contrast sensitivity. The model estimates provided good to fair 
correlations with (r=0.76 p<0.001), (r=0.65 p<0.001), (r=0.35 p<0.01), (r=0.53 
p<0.001), (r=0.48 p<0.001) and (r=0.37 p<0.01) respectively.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5334506
PMID: 19964895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2009;2009:2494-7. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5335141.

ERP based decision fusion for AD diagnosis across cohorts.

Ahiskali M(1), Green D, Kounios J, Clark CM, Polikar R.

Author information:
(1)Signal Processing and Pattern Recognition Laboratory, Department of 
Electrical and Computer Eng. at Rowan University, Glassboro, NJ 08028, USA. 
mahiskali@gmail.com

As the average life expectancy increases, particularly in developing countries, 
prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases has also increased. This trend is 
especially alarming for Alzheimer's disease (AD); as there is no cure to stop or 
reverse the effects of AD. However, recent pharmacological advances can slow the 
progression of AD, but only if AD is diagnosed at early stages. We have 
previously introduced an ensemble of classifiers based approach for combining 
event related potentials obtained from different electrode locations as an 
effective approach for early diagnosis of AD. We further expand this approach 
and analyze its robustness and stability in two ways: comparing the diagnostic 
accuracy on hand selected and cleaned data vs. standard automated preprocessing, 
but more importantly, comparing the diagnostic accuracy on two different 
cohorts, whose data are collected under different settings: a research 
university lab and a community clinic.

DOI: 10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5335141
PMID: 19965206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Cancer Imaging. 2009 Oct 2;9 Spec No A(Special issue A):S14-21. doi: 
10.1102/1470-7330.2009.9004.

Meninges in cancer imaging.

Mahendru G(1), Chong V.

Author information:
(1)National University Hospital, 119074, Singapore. gm18radio@yahoo.com

Primary malignant tumours arising from the meninges are distinctly uncommon, and 
when they occur, they are usually sarcomas. In contrast, metastatic meningeal 
involvement is increasingly seen as advances in cancer therapy have changed the 
natural history of malignant disease and prolonged the life span of cancer 
patients. The meninges can either be infiltrated by contiguous extension of 
primary tumours of the central nervous system, paranasal sinuses and skull base 
origin or can be diffusely infiltrated from haematogenous dissemination from 
distant primary malignancies. Imaging in these patients provides crucial 
information in planning management. This article reviews the pertinent anatomy 
that underlies imaging findings, discusses the mechanism of meningeal metastasis 
and highlights different imaging patterns of meningeal carcinomatosis and the 
pitfalls.

DOI: 10.1102/1470-7330.2009.9004
PMCID: PMC2797462
PMID: 19965290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2009;18(4):620-32.

Equity, food security and health equity in the Asia Pacific region.

Friel S(1), Baker PI.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, The Australian 
National University, ACT 0200, Canberra, Australia. Sharon.friel@anu.edu.au

What, and how much, people eat is a response to their socio-political, 
socio-economic, socio-environmental and socio-cultural environments. Good 
nutrition is central to good health. Globally, health has improved for many but 
not for everyone equally. That food and nutrition-related health is unequally 
distributed is a marker of societal failure. For some individuals, communities 
and even nations, it is a matter of not having enough food, of being unable to 
afford food and there being little nutritious food readily available. For others 
there is an over abundance of food but its nutritional quality is compromised, 
access to healthy food is poor and cost of food is high relative to other 
commodities. Human development and poverty reduction in the Asia Pacific region 
cannot be achieved without improving nutrition in an equitable way. There is no 
biological reason for the scale of difference in health, including diet-related 
health that is observed in the Asia Pacific region. That it exists is unethical 
and inequitable. Asymmetric economic growth, unequal improvements in daily 
living conditions, unequal distribution of technical developments and 
suppression of human rights have seen health inequities perpetuate and worsen, 
particularly over the last three decades. Addressing diet-related health 
inequities requires attention to the underlying structural drivers and 
inequities in conditions of daily living that disempower individuals, social 
groups and even nations from the pursuit of good nutrition and health. These are 
matters of economic and social policy at the global, regional and national 
level.

PMID: 19965356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. J Lipid Res. 2010 Mar;51(3):490-9. doi: 10.1194/jlr.M001073. Epub 2009 Nov
25.

Adipose triglyceride lipase plays a key role in the supply of the working muscle 
with fatty acids.

Schoiswohl G(1), Schweiger M, Schreiber R, Gorkiewicz G, Preiss-Landl K, 
Taschler U, Zierler KA, Radner FP, Eichmann TO, Kienesberger PC, Eder S, Lass A, 
Haemmerle G, Alsted TJ, Kiens B, Hoefler G, Zechner R, Zimmermann R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Biosciences, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.

Comment in
    J Lipid Res. 2010 Mar;51(3):449-50.

FAs are mobilized from triglyceride (TG) stores during exercise to supply the 
working muscle with energy. Mice deficient for adipose triglyceride lipase 
(ATGL-ko) exhibit defective lipolysis and accumulate TG in adipose tissue and 
muscle, suggesting that ATGL deficiency affects energy availability and 
substrate utilization in working muscle. In this study, we investigated the 
effect of moderate treadmill exercise on blood energy metabolites and liver 
glycogen stores in mice lacking ATGL. Because ATGL-ko mice exhibit massive 
accumulation of TG in the heart and cardiomyopathy, we also investigated a mouse 
model lacking ATGL in all tissues except cardiac muscle (ATGL-ko/CM). In 
contrast to ATGL-ko mice, these mice did not accumulate TG in the heart and had 
normal life expectancy. Exercise experiments revealed that ATGL-ko and 
ATGL-ko/CM mice are unable to increase circulating FA levels during exercise. 
The reduced availability of FA for energy conversion led to rapid depletion of 
liver glycogen stores and hypoglycemia. Together, our studies suggest that 
ATGL-ko mice cannot adjust circulating FA levels to the increased energy 
requirements of the working muscle, resulting in an increased use of 
carbohydrates for energy conversion. Thus, ATGL activity is required for proper 
energy supply of the skeletal muscle during exercise.

DOI: 10.1194/jlr.M001073
PMCID: PMC2817579
PMID: 19965578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Br J Ophthalmol. 2010 Jun;94(6):712-9. doi: 10.1136/bjo.2008.151126. Epub
2009  Dec 3.

Costs and consequences of automated algorithms versus manual grading for the 
detection of referable diabetic retinopathy.

Scotland GS(1), McNamee P, Fleming AD, Goatman KA, Philip S, Prescott GJ, Sharp 
PF, Williams GJ, Wykes W, Leese GP, Olson JA; Scottish Diabetic Retinopathy 
Clinical Research Network.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Foresterhill, 
Aberdeen, UK. g.scotland@abdn.ac.uk

AIMS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of an improved automated grading 
algorithm for diabetic retinopathy against a previously described algorithm, and 
in comparison with manual grading.
METHODS: Efficacy of the alternative algorithms was assessed using a reference 
graded set of images from three screening centres in Scotland (1253 cases with 
observable/referable retinopathy and 6333 individuals with mild or no 
retinopathy). Screening outcomes and grading and diagnosis costs were modelled 
for a cohort of 180 000 people, with prevalence of referable retinopathy at 4%. 
Algorithm (b), which combines image quality assessment with detection algorithms 
for microaneurysms (MA), blot haemorrhages and exudates, was compared with a 
simpler algorithm (a) (using image quality assessment and MA/dot haemorrhage 
(DH) detection), and the current practice of manual grading.
RESULTS: Compared with algorithm (a), algorithm (b) would identify an additional 
113 cases of referable retinopathy for an incremental cost of pound 68 per 
additional case. Compared with manual grading, automated grading would be 
expected to identify between 54 and 123 fewer referable cases, for a grading 
cost saving between pound 3834 and pound 1727 per case missed. Extrapolation 
modelling over a 20-year time horizon suggests manual grading would cost between 
pound 25,676 and pound 267,115 per additional quality adjusted life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Algorithm (b) is more cost-effective than the algorithm based on 
quality assessment and MA/DH detection. With respect to the value of introducing 
automated detection systems into screening programmes, automated grading 
operates within the recommended national standards in Scotland and is likely to 
be considered a cost-effective alternative to manual disease/no disease grading.

DOI: 10.1136/bjo.2008.151126
PMID: 19965826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2011 Jul;82(7):718-27. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp.2009.185660. Epub 2009 Dec 3.

Aneurysm occlusion in elderly patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage: 
a cost-utility analysis.

Koffijberg H(1), Buskens E, Rinkel GJ.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, STR 6.131, PO Box 85500, Utrecht 3508 GA, The Netherlands. 
h.koffijberg@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: Aneurysm occlusion after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) aims to 
improve outcome by reducing the rebleeding risk. With increasing age, overall 
prognosis decreases, and the complications of aneurysm occlusion increase. The 
balance of risks for aneurysm occlusion in elderly SAH patients in different age 
categories and clinical conditions is unknown.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to evaluate quality-adjusted life years (QALY), 
additional costs and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) of aneurysm 
occlusion in 192 patient subgroups, based on age, gender, neurological condition 
at admission, time since SAH, and aneurysm size and location. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: For patients admitted in poor condition ≥ 10 days after SAH, and 
patients older than 80 years, admitted in poor condition admitted ≥ 4 days after 
SAH, occlusion implied QALY loss and increased costs. Only for women younger 
than 79 and men younger than 74 years admitted in good condition within 4 days 
did the ICER of occlusion fall below €50,000 per QALY. Occlusion was beneficial 
and cost-saving in women aged 74 years or younger admitted in good condition 
within 4 days with a small posterior circulation aneurysm. Conclusions Aneurysm 
occlusion is harmful in some subgroups of elderly patients and beneficial in 
others. It is cost-effective only in specific subgroups that comprise a large 
part of the patients encountered in clinical practice. Beyond the age of 80 
years, the balance between risks and benefits is often no longer positive for 
occlusion, and it should only be considered if the predicted life expectancy 
leaves margin for benefit.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp.2009.185660
PMID: 19965848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Dis Colon Rectum. 2009 Oct;52(10):1705-14. doi: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e3181b5504e.

Treatments and outcomes of peritoneal surface tumors through a centralized 
national service (United kingdom).

Rout S(1), Renehan AG, Parkinson MF, Saunders MP, Fulford PE, Wilson MS, O'Dwyer 
ST.

Author information:
(1)Peritoneal Tumour Service, Department of Surgery, the Christie NHS Foundation 
Trust, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2009 Oct;52(10):1714-5.
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2010 Aug;53(8):1218-9; author reply 1219-20.

PURPOSE: Treatment of peritoneal surface malignancies with combined 
cytoreductive surgery and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy may improve 
oncologic outcome. To better define treatment pathways, five-year results in 
patients referred to one of two centralized national treatment centers in the 
United Kingdom were analyzed.
METHODS: A prospective database of patients referred to the Manchester 
Peritoneal Tumor Service, established in 2002, was analyzed. Outcomes were 
evaluated using Kaplan-Meier life tables and Cox models.
RESULTS: Two hundred seventy-eight patients (median age, 56.9 (range, 16-86) 
years) were considered by a dedicated multidisciplinary team and tracked on 
seven clinical pathways. Among the 118 surgically treated, the most common 
diagnosis was pseudomyxoma peritonei (101 patients, 86%). Major complications 
occurred in 11 patients (9%); there was no 30-day mortality. Where complete 
cytoreduction was achieved, three-year and five-year tumor-related survival 
rates were 94% and 86%, respectively. In the Cox model, incompleteness of 
cytoreduction (P = 0.001) and high-grade tumor (P < 0.0001) were independent 
prognosticators of poor outcome.
CONCLUSION: The establishment of a national treatment center has allowed 
refinement of techniques to achieve internationally recognized results. Having 
achieved low levels of morbidity and mortality in the treatment of mainly 
pseudomyxoma peritonei of appendiceal origin, the technique of cytoreductive 
surgery and heated intraperitoneal chemotherapy may be considered for peritoneal 
carcinomatosis of colorectal origin.

DOI: 10.1007/DCR.0b013e3181b5504e
PMID: 19966601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Br J Community Nurs. 2009 Oct;14(10):422, 424-6. doi: 
10.12968/bjcn.2009.14.10.44493.

Dietary factors and depression in older people.

Williamson C(1).

Author information:
(1)British Nutirition Foundation, London. c.williamson@nutrition.org.uk

Depression is one of the most prevalent mental health conditions and can affect 
people of all ages, but it is becoming more common among the older population 
with increasing life expectancy. Observational studies have found poor 
micronutrient status (particularly folate and vitamin B12) to be associated with 
an increased risk of depression in older people. Supplementation with folic acid 
has been shown to enhance anti-depressant drug treatment and there is 
preliminary evidence that supplementation with certain micronutrients may help 
improve depressive symptoms in older patients. There has also been a lot of 
interest in the role of long-chain omega-3 fatty acids in depression. However, 
the evidence from randomized controlled trials is limited and difficult to 
evaluate owing to considerable variability between studies. The research 
highlights the importance of a healthy diet and lifestyle to help maintain good 
mental health into old age and health professionals should try to support older 
people in trying to achieve this.

DOI: 10.12968/bjcn.2009.14.10.44493
PMID: 19966681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2010 Dec;33(6):1270-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-009-9761-x. Epub 2009 Dec 5.

Sacroplasty for local or massive localization of multiple myeloma.

Basile A(1), Tsetis D, Cavalli M, Fiumara P, Di Raimondo F, Coppolino F, 
Coppolino C, Mundo E, Desiderio C, Granata A, Patti MT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, Ospedale Ferrarotto, 
via Citelli 6, 95124 Catania, Italy. antodoc@yahoo.com

The purpose of this study was to assess the efficacy of cementoplasty in the 
treatment of sacral multiple myelomas. We retrospectively reviewed the records 
of eight patients (four women and four men; age range 47-68 years; mean age 
57.8) who underwent cementoplasty for painful osteolytic localization of 
multiple myeloma between April 2007 and May 2009. The patients had difficulty 
walking because of increasing pain. Six patients had persistent pain despite 
other cementoplasties for vertebral and femoral localization, whereas two 
patients referred at the time of diagnosis had only sacral lesions. The clinical 
indication for treatment was (1) a pain intensity score ≥5 on visual analogue 
scale (VAS) and (2) pain totally or partially refractory to analgesic treatment 
in patients with a life expectancy >3 months. Technical planning was based on 
computed tomography and/or magnetic resonance imaging. Six patients had 
previously undergone radiotherapy or chemotherapy and were receiving varying 
doses of analgesics, whereas sacroplasty represented the first treatment for two 
patients. Five patients had monolateral local involvement, and the other 
patients had massive involvement of the sacrum; Technical success was achieved 
in all cases. We had only one small and asymptomatic foraminal leak. All 
patients experienced improvement in symptoms after the procedure, as 
demonstrated by improved VAS scores and performance status (PS) and decreased 
analgesic dose constant during follow-up. In our experience, percutaneous 
stabilization can be used effectively and safely in patients with focal or 
extensive involvement of the sacrum by multiple myeloma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-009-9761-x
PMID: 19967372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Feb;11(1):105-15. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0206-x.
Epub  2009 Dec 5.

Cost effectiveness of palivizumab in Spain: an analysis using observational 
data.

Nuijten MJ(1), Wittenberg W.

Author information:
(1)IMTA, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. nuijten@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost effectiveness of palivizumab for prevention of 
severe respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) disease in high-risk infants in Spain, 
incorporating country-specific observational hospitalisation data.
METHODS: An existing decision tree model, designed using data from a large 
international clinical trial of palivizumab versus no prophylaxis, was updated 
to include Spanish observational hospitalisation data. The analysis was 
performed for preterm children born at or before 32 weeks gestational age, who 
are at high risk of developing severe RSV disease requiring hospitalisation. 
Data sources included published literature, official price/tariff lists and 
national population statistics. The primary perspective of the study was that of 
the Spanish National Health Service in 2006.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis included the direct medical costs associated 
with palivizumab prophylaxis and hospital care for RSV infections. Use of 
palivizumab produces an undiscounted incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
of euro6,142 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), and a discounted ICER of 
euro12,814/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Palivizumab provides a cost-effective method of prophylaxis against 
severe RSV disease requiring hospitalisation among preterm infants in Spain.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0206-x
PMCID: PMC2816247
PMID: 19967425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Feb;11(1):95-104. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0205-y.
Epub  2009 Dec 5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of rituximab treatment in patients in Germany with 
rheumatoid arthritis after etanercept-failure.

Merkesdal S(1), Kirchhoff T, Wolka D, Ladinek G, Kielhorn A, Rubbert-Roth A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Immunology and Rheumatology, Working Group for Health 
Economics and Clinical Epidemiology, Hannover Medical School, 
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, OE 6830, 30625, Hannover, Germany. 
merkesdal.sonja@mh-hannover.de

OBJECTIVE: The present health economic analysis investigated the 
cost-effectiveness-ratios of either (1) rituximab or (2) an alternative 
TNF-alpha-inhibiting agent as second line biological treatment in patients with 
active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and an inadequate response to etanercept 
therapy.
METHODS: Incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained by 
rituximab treatment of RA is compared to TNF-inhibitor change (standard 
sequence) in a Markov-model (perspective: health care payer, full life-time 
approach). Direct cost components taken into account were treatment costs 
(medication-, administration- and monitoring costs) and resource utilisation 
(outpatient costs, inpatient costs). Indirect costs were estimated separately by 
the assessment of impaired work capacity due to RA (2008 Euro currency, discount 
rate 3.5%). Utility measures for the different treatment options were obtained 
from the ACR-response rates of published pivotal clinical trials.
RESULTS: Direct costs amount to euro 178,373 (standard sequence) and euro 
192,295 (rituximab sequence), respectively, rendering incremental direct costs 
of euro 13,922. Incremental utilities yield 0.57 QALYs and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness-ratio (ICER) of rituximab compared to the standard sequence 
amounts to euro 24,517. Inclusion of indirect costs leads to less incremental 
costs and a lower ICER of euro 15,565/QALY. Thus, ICERs stay beneath the 
accepted threshold of euro 50,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Rituximab appears to be a cost-effective treatment alternative 
compared to the switch between TNF-inhibitors as second line biological 
treatment in patients with active RA having failed etanercept.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0205-y
PMID: 19967426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2009 Nov;23(11):1334-7.

[Clinical application of rib autograft for iliac crest reconstruction by 
anterior approach of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang Y(1), Chen X, Zan Z, Tang H, Huang Y, Tang L, Wang Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Spinal Surgery, Affiliated Hospital of Luzhou Medical College, 
Luzhou Sichuan 646000, PR China. youyiyangyong@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical application of rib autograft for 
reconstructing iliac crest by anterior approach of thoracic and lumbar 
vertebrae, and to observe the short-term and long-term effects.
METHODS: From September 2004 to September 2007, 54 cases of thoracic and lumbar 
injuries were treated by the surgery of anterior approach of thoracic and lumbar 
vertebrae. There were 39 males and 15 females with an average age of 42 years 
old (range, 27-59 years old), including 4 cases of tuberculosis of spine and 50 
cases of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae bursting fracture. All cases underwent 
the surgery of anterior approach of thoracic or lumbar and iliac crest was used 
as autograft. Fifty-four patients were randomized into the reconstruction group 
(RG, n = 25) and the non-reconstruction group (NRG, n = 29). The patients of RG 
group were treated with rib autograft for reconstructing iliac crest. There were 
no statistically significant differences in general data between two groups (P > 
0.05). The visual analogue scores (VAS) was used to estimate pain degree of 
treated hip after 2 weeks, and 3, 12 months. The extension satisfaction grade of 
iliac crest and the comfort degree of action while bundling waist belt were 
estimated after 12 months. It was observed whether or not anterior superior 
iliac spine avulsion fracture occurred on the premise of non-accidental trauma 
within 1 year. The occurrence of fracture and the union status of reconstructed 
iliac crest were observed by X-ray after 1 year.
RESULTS: All wounds achieved primary healing. No complication was found at early 
stage. All patients were followed up 1 year. There was no significant difference 
in the VAS of the treated hip under conditions of clinostatism rest between two 
groups after 2 weeks and 3 months (P > 0.05). But there was significant 
difference in the VAS under conditions of action after 2 weeks and 3 months, 
under conditions of clinostatism rest after 12 months (P < 0.05), and the VAS of 
RG was lower than that of NRG. The exterior satisfaction grade of iliac crest 
and comfort degree of action while bundling waist belt in RG were higher than 
those in NRG after 1 year, showing significant differences (P < 0.05). No 
anterior superior iliac spine avulsion fracture occurred after 1 year. And in RG 
group no fracture of reconstructed iliac crest occurred after 1 year. The X-ray 
film showed that the two ends of rib reconstructed by iliac crest were blur, and 
that the rib healed well with iliac bone.
CONCLUSION: Rib autograft for reconstruction of iliac crest by anterior approach 
of thoracic and lumbar vertebrae was economic and convenient. It could improve 
local appearance, reduce the local pain, and improve patients' life quality.

PMID: 19968175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Community Dent Oral Epidemiol. 2010 Feb;38(1):58-67. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0528.2009.00501.x. Epub 2009 Nov 23.

Actuarial life-table analysis of lower impacted wisdom teeth in general dental 
practice.

Fernandes MJ(1), Ogden GR, Pitts NB, Ogston SA, Ruta DA.

Author information:
(1)General Dental Practitioner, Aberdeen, Scotland, UK. mfernandes10@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The appropriateness of extraction of asymptomatic impacted third 
molars has been much debated and as a result the number of extractions has 
fallen in the UK in the past few years. As a direct consequence of this decrease 
more impacted third molars are left in situ and yet, little is known about the 
natural history of these teeth.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to create an actuarial life-table and 
related survival analysis that would shed light on the natural history of an 
impacted lower third molar.
METHODS: Panoramic radiographs taken in 14 different general dental practices in 
Scotland were analysed and matched with their respective case notes in order to 
generate a sample of patients with asymptomatic impacted lower third molars. 
Subjects were assessed to confirm the presence of impaction and absence of 
symptoms and then re-assessed 1 year later for the development of symptoms 
during the study period to relate the incidence of symptoms within 1 year in the 
sample studied to age. Logistic regression was used to construct a life table 
based on the survival of symptom-free teeth (independently of extraction) during 
the study period.
RESULTS: The number of patients included in the study was 583 and 421 for the 
baseline and follow-up assessments respectively. The total number of teeth 
analysed in both appointments was 676; from those 37 (5.47%) were extracted 
during the study period. About 562 teeth (83.13%) survived the study period 
symptom-free. There was a statistically significant inverse association between 
the development of symptoms studied and age. There was no statistically 
significant association between extraction and age.
CONCLUSIONS: The study indicates that older patients are less likely to develop 
the symptoms studied. In addition the authors believe that there is evidence to 
suggest that general dental practitioners might not be following current 
guidelines when deciding whether or not to extract an impacted lower third molar 
in the centres studied.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0528.2009.00501.x
PMID: 19968676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Neuroeng Rehabil. 2009 Dec 7;6:44. doi: 10.1186/1743-0003-6-44.

Performance adaptive training control strategy for recovering wrist movements in 
stroke patients: a preliminary, feasibility study.

Masia L(1), Casadio M, Giannoni P, Sandini G, Morasso P.

Author information:
(1)Robotics Brain and Cognitive Science Dept, Italian Institute of Technology, 
Genoa, Italy. lorenzo.masia@iit.it

BACKGROUND: In the last two decades robot training in neuromotor rehabilitation 
was mainly focused on shoulder-elbow movements. Few devices were designed and 
clinically tested for training coordinated movements of the wrist, which are 
crucial for achieving even the basic level of motor competence that is necessary 
for carrying out ADLs (activities of daily life). Moreover, most systems of 
robot therapy use point-to-point reaching movements which tend to emphasize the 
pathological tendency of stroke patients to break down goal-directed movements 
into a number of jerky sub-movements. For this reason we designed a wrist robot 
with a range of motion comparable to that of normal subjects and implemented a 
self-adapting training protocol for tracking smoothly moving targets in order to 
facilitate the emergence of smoothness in the motor control patterns and 
maximize the recovery of the normal RoM (range of motion) of the different DoFs 
(degrees of Freedom).
METHODS: The IIT-wrist robot is a 3 DoFs light exoskeleton device, with 
direct-drive of each DoF and a human-like range of motion for Flexion/Extension 
(FE), Abduction/Adduction (AA) and Pronation/Supination (PS). Subjects were 
asked to track a variable-frequency oscillating target using only one wrist DoF 
at time, in such a way to carry out a progressive splinting therapy. The RoM of 
each DoF was angularly scanned in a staircase-like fashion, from the "easier" to 
the "more difficult" angular position. An Adaptive Controller evaluated online 
performance parameters and modulated both the assistance and the difficulty of 
the task in order to facilitate smoother and more precise motor command 
patterns.
RESULTS: Three stroke subjects volunteered to participate in a preliminary test 
session aimed at verify the acceptability of the device and the feasibility of 
the designed protocol. All of them were able to perform the required task. The 
wrist active RoM of motion was evaluated for each patient at the beginning and 
at the end of the test therapy session and the results suggest a positive trend.
CONCLUSION: The positive outcomes of the preliminary tests motivate the planning 
of a clinical trial and provide experimental evidence for defining appropriate 
inclusion/exclusion criteria.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-0003-6-44
PMCID: PMC2799433
PMID: 19968873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Prog Urol. 2009 Dec;19(13):907-15. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2009.09.011. Epub
2009  Nov 4.

[Update on the epidemiology of genital prolapse].

[Article in French]

Lousquy R(1), Costa P, Delmas V, Haab F.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Tenon, AP-HP, 4 rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris, 
France.

The prevalence of pelvic organ prolapse (POP) varies between 2.9 and 11.4% in 
questionnaire-based studies and from 31.8 to 97.7% according to the ICS Pelvic 
Organ Prolapse Classification (POPQ) anatomical classifications. The cumulative 
incidence of surgery for POP is as high as 70% in women more than 70-year-old. 
Aging is significantly associated with the prevalence and severity of POP. 
Pelvic disorders are a health economic challenge for the future due to the 
longer life expectancy of women and to an increasing demand for a better quality 
of life. Identification of risk factors will be critical in order to develop 
strategies to prevent the disease and limitate the need for surgical 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/j.purol.2009.09.011
PMID: 19969258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Proc R Soc Med. 1938 Jan;31(3):277-92.

Vesical Exclusion: (Section of Urology).

Wade H.

In the operation of vesical exclusion the urine stream is deviated from the 
urinary bladder into the colon, thereby forming a cloaca, or on to the surface 
of the skin, where a fistula discharging urine is created.The operation is 
indicated in all cases of complete or partial vesical exstrophy. It is 
successfully employed in treating severe cases of vesico-vaginal fistula, 
whether the result of obstetric injury or the delayed action of radium.In 
carcinoma of the urinary bladder, whether primary or secondary, it is practised, 
frequently preliminary to the operation of total cystectomy.In cases of 
persistent vesical systole and in intractable cystitis, it has also been 
occasionally done.The immediate operative mortality following transplantation of 
the ureters into the pelvic colon is largely dependent on the condition for 
which the operation is performed. In cases of malignant disease it is high: 
whereas in conditions that are non-malignant it is a relatively safe 
procedure.The establishment of a cloaca, particularly in the female, of itself 
produces no appreciable disability. If the operation has been performed for a 
congenital or an acquired deformity, and this has been skilfully and 
successfully carried out and the patient has become stabilized, the expectancy 
of life should not be appreciably diminished.The case of a patient, upon whom 
the operation had been performed twenty-nine years previously, is reviewed and 
particulars of others in which it was performed fourteen years ago, or later, 
are referred to.In the pre-operative preparation, in addition to the usual 
thorough clinical investigation, an examination by excretion urography is 
indicated, especially to determine the possible presence of a third ureter or a 
single functioning kidney. At this period it is also important, particularly in 
cases of obstetric injury, to be sure that the rectal sphincter is fully 
competent and that no haemorrhoids are present.The operative technique was 
carried out under twilight sleep and spinal anaesthesia. The vital importance of 
careful post-operative treatment is emphasized. By the immediate post-operative 
administration of sodium sulphate, by intravenous injection and attention to 
other details, bilateral ureteral transplantation carried out in one stage could 
be safely embarked upon without the fear of anuria developing.A detailed record 
of 60 cases, in which the operation of vesical exclusion has been carried out by 
the author is given.

PMCID: PMC2077171
PMID: 19991381


84. Health Stat Q. 2009 Winter;(44):59-68. doi: 10.1057/hsq.2009.38.

Life expectancy at birth and at age 65 by local areas in the United Kingdom, 
2006-08.

Kyte L(1), Gordon E.

Author information:
(1)Office for National Statistics.

DOI: 10.1057/hsq.2009.38
PMID: 19994751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2009 Nov-Dec;16(6):378-87. doi:
10.3109/09286580903312277.

Screening for refractive error and fitting with spectacles in rural and urban 
India: cost-effectiveness.

Frick KD(1), Riva-Clement L, Shankar MB.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Department of Health Policy 
and Management, Health Services Research and Development Center, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21205-1901, USA. kfrick@jhsph.edu

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of screening for refractive error 
and fitting with glasses in India.
METHODS: We populated a decision tree with the costs of screening and 
spectacles, prevalence of varying levels of presenting and best corrected visual 
acuity (BCVA) from two studies, and sensitivity and specificity of screening. We 
calculated dollars spent per disability adjusted life year (DALY) averted 
separately in urban and rural areas for school-based screening (SBS) and primary 
eye care (PEC) programs that fit spectacles to individuals presenting for care. 
We conducted a series of univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. An 
intervention was inferred to be highly cost-effective if the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was less than the gross domestic product (GDP) 
per capita and moderately cost-effective if the ICER was less than three times 
this level.
RESULTS: Compared with no screening, urban SBS was highly cost-effective; rural 
SBS was moderately cost-effective for ages 5-15 and highly cost-effective for 
ages 7-15. Both urban and rural PEC were moderately cost-effective in comparison 
to SBS. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggested that SBS is likely the most 
cost-effective solution for refractive error in India if the 5-15 year old age 
group is targeted; primary eye care is the best choice if a high value is placed 
on DALYs and the 7-15 year old age group is targeted.
CONCLUSION: Both SBS and PEC Interventions for refractive error can be 
considered cost-effective in India. Which is the more cost-effective depends on 
the choice of targeted age group and area of the intervention.

DOI: 10.3109/09286580903312277
PMID: 19995203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. J Palliat Med. 2009 Dec;12(12):1109-11. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2009.9926.

Long hours, luck, and a cast of thousands.

Teno J(1).

Author information:
(1)Warren Alpert School of Medicine at Brown University Community Health and 
Medicine, Providence, RI 02912, USA. joan_teno@brown.edu

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2009.9926
PMID: 19995290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. J Palliat Med. 2009 Dec;12(12):1151-2. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2009.9923.

Medical management of bowel obstructions, 2nd edition #45.

von Gunten CF(1), Muir JC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Palliative Medicine, San Diego Hospice, San Diego, CA 
92103-1407, USA. cvongunten@sdhospice.org

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2009.9923
PMID: 19995292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. J Palliat Med. 2009 Dec;12(12):1152-3. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2009.9922.

Invasive treatment options for malignant bowel obstruction #119.

Krouse RS(1).

Author information:
(1)Southern Arizona Veterans Affairs Health Care System, Surgical Care Line 
2-112, 3601 South 6th Avenue, Tucson, AZ 85723, USA. Robert.Krouse@va.gov

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2009.9922
PMID: 19995293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Ann Rheum Dis. 2010 Jan;69 Suppl 1:i89-91. doi: 10.1136/ard.2009.117150.

The value of productivity: human-capital versus friction-cost method.

van den Hout WB(1).

Author information:
(1)Leiden University Medical Centre, Department of Medical Decision Making, 
J10-S, PO Box 9600, 2300 RC Leiden, The Netherlands. hout@lumc.nl

Many cost-of-illness studies have investigated the impact of rheumatoid 
arthritis on productivity, invariably concluding that productivity costs are 
high. Different methods exist to value productivity. The human-capital method 
takes the patient's perspective and counts any hour not worked as an hour lost. 
By contrast, the friction-cost method takes the employer's perspective, and only 
counts as lost those hours not worked until another employee takes over the 
patient's work. Both methods can produce widely different results. Productivity 
costs have the potential to compensate for the costs of expensive biological 
agents, but only in early-onset disease when patients still have jobs and if 
productivity is given full weight by using the human-capital method. If 
productivity is given less weight by excluding productivity costs or by using 
the friction-cost method, then currently, biological agents are probably too 
expensive.

DOI: 10.1136/ard.2009.117150
PMID: 19995754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2009 Dec;4 Suppl 1:S121-4. doi: 10.2215/CJN.02920509.

More intensive hemodialysis.

Kliger AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hospital of Saint Raphael, Yale University School 
ofMedicine, 1450 Chapel Street, New Haven, CT 06511, USA. akliger@srhs.org

Clinical outcomes have not improved substantially for patients treated with 
conventional thrice weekly hemodialysis. More intensive hemodialysis regimens, 
including daily short dialysis, and nocturnal prolonged dialysis show promise to 
improve morbidity and mortality. Published studies and trials underway examining 
these therapies are reviewed.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.02920509
PMID: 19995995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2009 Dec;4 Suppl 1:S71-8. doi: 10.2215/CJN.01960309.

Cardiovascular problems on hemodialysis: current deficits and potential 
improvement.

Ritz E(1), Bommer J.

Author information:
(1)Department Internal Medicine, Nierenzentrum, Im Neuenheimer Feld 162, 69120 
Heidelberg, Germany. prof.e.ritz@t-online.de

High cardiovascular mortality is the major cause of reduced life expectancy of 
patients who are on hemodialysis. Classical risk factors cannot fully explain 
the magnitude of the risk. This article addresses some nontraditional approaches 
to deal with the excessive cardiovascular risk for patients who are on 
hemodialysis.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.01960309
PMID: 19996009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Laeknabladid. 2009 Nov;95(11):747-53.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of treatment for end-stage renal disease].

[Article in Icelandic]

Asgeirsdóttir TL(1), Asmundsdóttir G, Heimisdóttir M, Jónsson E, Pálsson R.

Author information:
(1)Lanspítala Eiríksgötu 5, 105 Reykjavík, Iceland.

Comment in
    Laeknabladid. 2009 Nov;95(11):743.

OBJECTIVE: End-stage renal disease (ESRD) requires costly life-sustaining 
therapy, either dialysis or kidney transplantation. The purpose of this study 
was to analyse and compare the cost-effectiveness of kidney transplantation and 
dialysis in Iceland.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Costs and effectiveness were assessed using the clinical 
records of the Division of Nephrology patient registration and billing systems 
and at Landspitali University Hospital, information from the Icelandic Health 
Insurance on payments for kidney transplantation at Rigshospitalet in 
Copenhagen, and published studies on survival and quality of life among patients 
with ESRD. All costs are presented at the 2006 price level and discounting was 
done according to the lowest interest rate of the Icelandic Housing Finance Fund 
in that year.
RESULTS: The cost associated with live donor kidney transplantation was greater 
in Denmark than at LUH, ISK 6.758.101 and ISK 5.442.763, respectively. The cost 
per quality-adjusted life year gained by live donor kidney transplantation was 
approximately ISK 2.5 million compared to ISK 10.7 million for dialysis.
CONCLUSION: The cost of live donor kidney transplantation is within the range 
generally considered acceptable for life-sustaining therapies. The transplant 
surgery is less expensive in Iceland than in Denmark. Increasing the number of 
kidney transplants is cost-effective in light of the lower cost per life-year 
gained by kidney transplantation compared to dialysis.

PMID: 19996463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Hum Hered. 2010;69(2):80-90. doi: 10.1159/000264446. Epub 2009 Dec 4.

Robust age at onset linkage analysis in nuclear families.

Callegaro A(1), van Houwelingen JC, Houwing-Duistermaat JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Statistics and Bioinformatics, Leiden University 
Medical Center, University of Leiden, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
a.callegaro@lumc.nl

OBJECTIVE: Standard methods for linkage analysis ignore the phenotype of the 
parents when they are not genotyped. However, this information can be useful for 
gene mapping. In this paper we propose methods for age at onset genetic linkage 
analysis in sibling pairs, taking into account parental age at onset.
METHODS: Two new score statistics are derived, one from an additive gamma 
frailty model and one from a log-normal frailty model. The score statistics are 
classical non-parametric linkage (NPL) statistics weighted by a function of the 
age at onset of the four family members. The weight depends on information from 
registries (age-specific incidences) and family studies (sib-sib and 
father-mother correlation).
RESULTS: In order to investigate how age at onset of sibs and their parents 
affect the information for linkage analysis the weight functions were studied 
for rare and common disease models, realistic models for breast cancer and human 
lifespan. We studied the performance of the weighted NPL methods by simulations. 
As illustration, the score statistics were applied to the GAW12 data. The 
results show that it is useful to include parental age at onset information in 
genetic linkage analysis.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000264446
PMCID: PMC2956010
PMID: 19996606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Strength Cond Res. 2010 Feb;24(2):322-31. doi:
10.1519/JSC.0b013e3181c865e2.

Time course of changes in muscle and tendon properties during strength training 
and detraining.

Kubo K(1), Ikebukuro T, Yata H, Tsunoda N, Kanehisa H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. 
kubo@idaten.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

The purpose of this study was to investigate the time course of changes in 
mechanical and morphological properties of muscle and tendon during isometric 
training and detraining. Eight subjects completed 3 months of isometric knee 
extension training and detraining for another 3 months. At beginning and on 
every 1 month of training and detraining periods, muscle strength, neural 
activation level, muscle and tendon cross-sectional areas (CSA), and tendon 
stiffness were measured. Training increased muscle strength and neural 
activation level by 29.6 and 7.3% after 2 months and by 40.5 and 8.9% after 3 
months (all p's < 0.05). Muscle CSA and tendon stiffness did not change until 2 
months of training period, and afterward, the increases in muscle CSA and tendon 
stiffness reached statistical significance at the end of training period (both 
p's < 0.05). During detraining period, muscle strength and neural activation 
level did not change, although muscle CSA and tendon stiffness decreased to 
pre-training level at 1 and 2 months of detraining, respectively. These results 
suggest that the adaptations of tendon properties and muscle morphology to 
resistance training are slower than those of muscle function and inversely that 
the adaptations of former to detraining are faster than those of latter.

DOI: 10.1519/JSC.0b013e3181c865e2
PMID: 19996769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. PLoS One. 2009 Dec 7;4(12):e7925. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007925.

Fertility desires and intentions of HIV-positive women of reproductive age in 
Ontario, Canada: a cross-sectional study.

Loutfy MR(1), Hart TA, Mohammed SS, Su D, Ralph ED, Walmsley SL, Soje LC, 
Muchenje M, Rachlis AR, Smaill FM, Angel JB, Raboud JM, Silverman MS, Tharao WE, 
Gough K, Yudin MH; Ontario HIV Fertility Research Team.

Collaborators: Govan V, Wong J, Ivanova E, Masinde KI, Hove P, Linklater G, 
Salam K, Daviau S, Chieza L, Laziri A, Ongoiba F, Monette L, Downey JF, Wagner 
AC, Newmeyer T, Panzo P, Teklemariam ST, Bessette J, MacTavish J, Christensen J, 
Ryan C, Ringlein M, Reyes E, Baxter L, Maguire C, Parmar J, Idem T, Henshaw J, 
Barrett-Greene J, Beasse A, Dougherty S, Skibinski R, Marsden B, Vijayanathan H.

Author information:
(1)Women's College Research Institute, Women's College Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. mona.loutfy@wchospital.ca

BACKGROUND: Improvements in life expectancy and quality of life for HIV-positive 
women coupled with reduced vertical transmission will likely lead numerous 
HIV-positive women to consider becoming pregnant. In order to clarify the 
demand, and aid with appropriate health services planning for this population, 
our study aims to assess the fertility desires and intentions of HIV-positive 
women of reproductive age living in Ontario, Canada.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A cross-sectional study with recruitment 
stratified to match the geographic distribution of HIV-positive women of 
reproductive age (18-52) living in Ontario was carried out. Women were recruited 
from 38 sites between October 2007 and April 2009 and invited to complete a 
189-item self-administered survey entitled "The HIV Pregnancy Planning 
Questionnaire" designed to assess fertility desires, intentions and actions. 
Logistic regression models were fit to calculate unadjusted and adjusted odds 
ratios of significant predictors of fertility intentions. The median age of the 
490 participating HIV-positive women was 38 (IQR, 32-43) and 61%, 52%, 47% and 
74% were born outside of Canada, living in Toronto, of African ethnicity and 
currently on antiretroviral therapy, respectively. Of total respondents, 69% 
(95% CI, 64%-73%) desired to give birth and 57% (95% CI, 53%-62%) intended to 
give birth in the future. In the multivariable model, the significant predictors 
of fertility intentions were: younger age (age<40) (p<0.0001), African ethnicity 
(p<0.0001), living in Toronto (p = 0.002), and a lower number of lifetime births 
(p = 0.02).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The proportions of HIV-positive women of reproductive 
age living in Ontario desiring and intending pregnancy were higher than reported 
in earlier North American studies. Proportions were more similar to those 
reported from African populations. Healthcare providers and policy makers need 
to consider increasing services and support for pregnancy planning for 
HIV-positive women. This may be particularly significant in jurisdictions with 
high levels of African immigration.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007925
