
15. J Health Econ. 2010 Jan;29(1):39-47. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.10.004.
Epub  2009 Oct 31.

Childhood economic conditions and length of life: evidence from the UK Boyd Orr 
cohort, 1937-2005.

Frijters P(1), Hatton TJ, Martin RM, Shields MA.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Finance, Queensland University of Technology, 
Brisbane, Australia.

We study the importance of childhood socioeconomic conditions in predicting 
differences in life expectancy using data from a large sample of children 
collected in 16 locations in England and Scotland in 1937-39, who have been 
traced through official death records up to 2005. We estimate a number of 
duration of life models that control for unobserved family heterogeneity. Our 
results confirm that childhood conditions such as household income and the 
quality of the home environment are significant predictors of longevity. 
Importantly, however, the role of socioeconomic status appears to differ across 
cause of death, with household income being a significant predictor of death 
from smoking-related cancer. Moreover, we find that (1) poor housing conditions 
in childhood is associated with reduced longevity, that (2) early 
doctor-assessed childhood health conditions significantly predict a reduced 
length of life, that (3) children born in a location with relatively high infant 
mortality rates live significantly fewer years, and that (4) there is a high 
correlation in longevity across children from the same family across all causes 
of death. We estimate that the difference in life expectancy between those with 
the 'best' and 'worst' observable characteristics is about 9 years, which 
increases to 20 years when we take into account the 'best' and 'worst' 
observable and unobservable household characteristics.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.10.004
PMID: 19944470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Cancer Treat Rev. 2010 Feb;36(1):83-90. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.10.008. Epub
 2009 Nov 26.

EORTC Elderly Task Force experts' opinion for the treatment of colon cancer in 
older patients.

Pallis AG(1), Papamichael D, Audisio R, Peeters M, Folprecht G, Lacombe D, Van 
Cutsem E.

Author information:
(1)EORTC Headquarters, EORTC-Elderly Task Force, Brussels, Belgium. 
athanasios.pallis@eortc.be

As a result of an increasing life expectancy, the incidence of colon cancer in 
the older population is rising. As a consequence oncologists and their older 
patients commonly face the dilemma of whether or not to give/receive treatment 
for colon cancer. However, the paucity of large, well conducted prospective 
trials makes it difficult to provide evidence-based clinical recommendations for 
these patients. The current evidence supports the safety and efficacy of 
treatment for colon cancer in fit older patients and demonstrates that treatment 
outcome can be similar to that of their younger counterparts. However, it should 
be noted that these data are derived from retrospective studies which are likely 
to suffer from selection bias. Despite a growing body of data, further work is 
still needed to establish optimal strategies to care for this special population 
and prospective specific trials for older colon cancer patients are clearly 
needed.

2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.10.008
PMID: 19944536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Am J Prev Med. 2009 Dec;37(6 Suppl 2):S386-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.amepre.2009.09.010.

The path to active living: physical activity through community design in 
Somerville, Massachusetts.

Burke NM(1), Chomitz VR, Rioles NA, Winslow SP, Brukilacchio LB, Baker JC.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Department, City of Somerville, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Somerville, Massachusetts, an ethnically diverse, urban community 
northwest of Boston, presents opportunities and challenges for active living. 
With a dense street grid, well-maintained sidewalks, neighborhood parks, and 
existing Community Path, Somerville is very walkable. However, two major surface 
arteries traverse and bisect neighborhoods, creating pedestrian safety and 
environmental justice issues.
INTERVENTION: Major goals included promoting increased collaboration and 
communication among existing active-living efforts; managing the Community Path 
extension project; encouraging Portuguese-speaking adults to incorporate daily 
physical activity; leveraging existing urban planning work to establish secure, 
attractive walking/biking corridors; and embedding active-living messages in 
everyday life.
RESULTS: The Somerville Active Living by Design Partnership (ALbD) successfully 
created a robust task force that was integrated with citywide active-living 
efforts, secured resources to increase infrastructure and support for active 
living, including city-level coordinator positions, and changed decision-making 
practices that led to incorporation of pedestrian and bicycle transportation 
priorities into city planning and that influenced the extension of the Community 
Path.
LESSONS LEARNED: Partnerships must employ sustainability planning early on, 
utilize skilled facilitative leaders to manage leadership transitions, and 
engage new partners. Identifying, cultivating, and celebrating champions, 
especially those with political power, are critical. Working closely with 
research partners leads to rich data sources for planning and evaluation. 
Changing the built environment is difficult; working toward smaller wins is 
realistic and achievable.
CONCLUSIONS: The synergy of ALbD and other community interventions created a 
foundation for short-term successes and accelerated political-cultural changes 
already underway with respect to active living.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.09.010
PMID: 19944939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Oct;23(5):555-74. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2009.05.010.

Pituitary tumours: acromegaly.

Chanson P(1), Salenave S, Kamenicky P, Cazabat L, Young J.

Author information:
(1)Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital de Bicêtre, Université 
Paris-Sud 11, INSERM U693, Le Kremlin-Bicêtre, France. 
philippe.chanson@bct.aphp.fr

Excessive production of the growth hormone (GH) is responsible for acromegaly. 
It is related to a pituitary GH-secreting adenoma in most cases. Prevalence is 
estimated 40-130 per million inhabitants. It is characterised by slowly 
progressive acquired somatic disfigurement (mainly involving the face and 
extremities) and systemic manifestations. The rheumatologic, cardiovascular, 
respiratory and metabolic consequences determine its prognosis. The diagnosis is 
confirmed by an increased serum GH concentration, unsuppressible by an oral 
glucose load and by detection of increased levels of insulin-like growth 
factor-I (IGF-I). Treatment is aimed at correcting (or preventing) tumour 
compression by excising the disease-causing lesion, and at reducing GH and IGF-I 
levels to normal values. When surgery, the usual first-line treatment, fails to 
correct GH/IGF-I hypersecretion, medical treatment with somatostatin analogues 
and/or radiotherapy can be used. The GH-receptor antagonist (pegvisomant) is 
helpful in patients who are resistant to somatostatin analogues. Thanks to this 
multistep therapeutic strategy, adequate hormonal disease control is achieved in 
most cases, allowing a normal life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2009.05.010
PMID: 19945023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Injury. 2010 Jun;41(6):599-605. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2009.10.056. Epub 2009
Nov  27.

Health and cost consequences of surgical versus conservative treatment for a 
comminuted proximal humeral fracture in elderly patients.

Fjalestad T(1), Hole MØ, Jørgensen JJ, Strømsøe K, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, Oslo University Hospital Aker, Norway. 
torfja@online.no

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate the costs and health outcome for surgical 
and conservative treatment of displaced proximal humeral fractures.
DESIGN: This study is a randomised controlled trial.
PARTICIPANTS: This study included 50 patients aged 60 or older admitted to 
hospital with a severely displaced three- or four-part fracture.
INTERVENTIONS: The patients were treated surgically with an angular stable 
interlocking implant (25 patients) or conservative treatment (25 patients).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The outcomes measured included quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and societal costs.
RESULTS: At 12 months' follow-up, the mean difference in the number of QALYs was 
0.027 (95% confidence interval (CI)=-0.025, 0.078) while the mean difference in 
total health-care costs was 597 euro in favour of surgery (95% CI=-5291, 3777).
CONCLUSION: There was no significant difference in QALYs or costs between 
surgical and conservative treatment of severe displaced proximal humeral 
fractures.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2009.10.056
PMID: 19945102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Prog Urol. 2009 Dec;19(11):810-7. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2009.02.008. Epub 2009
 Apr 8.

[Recommendations for the treatment of prostate cancer in the elderly man: A 
study by the oncology committee of the French association of urology].

[Article in French]

Mongiat-Artus P(1), Peyromaure M, Richaud P, Droz JP, Rainfray M, Jeandel C, 
Rebillard X, Moreau JL, Davin JL, Salomon L, Soulié M; Sous-Comité Prostate du 
CC-AFU.

Author information:
(1)Sous-comité prostate, comité de cancérologie de l'Association française 
d'urologie, France. pierre.mongiat-artus@sls.aphp.fr

Comment in
    Prog Urol. 2009 Dec;19(11):818.

The increase in life expectancy combined with the increase in the global 
incidence of cancers will probably results in an increase in the number of 
cancers observed in the elderly. The increase in the incidence of prostate 
cancers in geriatric patients (45% of prostate cancers are diagnosed after 75 
years old) is in sharp contrast with the lack of strong scientific data on the 
topic. By the meantime, oncogeriatrics has been developing for some years now 
under the guidance of the International Society of Oncogeriatrics. Such an 
approach aims at palliating the low quality of care of cancers in geriatric 
patients. The reasons for the low quality of care come from the characteristics 
of these patients and from the training of the care providers. The authors 
recall the principles of oncogeriatric evaluation and the classification of 
patients as it is actually proposed. They describe the main treatments and their 
results in the geriatric population and they describe the decision process 
concerning the choice of the treatment. They also suggest some guidelines on the 
diagnosis of prostate cancer, evaluation of the patients and the treatments of 
the disease in the elderly. Prostate cancer is almost the perfect model for 
oncogeriatrics. Urologists should remain the corner stone of its management, 
whatever the age of their patient.

DOI: 10.1016/j.purol.2009.02.008
PMID: 19945664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Qual Life Res. 2010 Feb;19(1):15-23. doi: 10.1007/s11136-009-9561-4. Epub
2009  Nov 28.

Change in health-related quality of life as a predictor of mortality in the 
older adults.

Otero-Rodríguez A(1), León-Muñoz LM, Balboa-Castillo T, Banegas JR, 
Rodríguez-Artalejo F, Guallar-Castillón P.

Author information:
(1)CIBER of Epidemiology and Public Health (CIBERESP), Department of Preventive 
Medicine and Public Health, School of Medicine, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
C/Arzobispo Morcillo, Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: We examined whether changes in health-related quality of life (HRQL) 
predict subsequent mortality among the Spanish elderly.
METHODS: Prospective cohort study of 2,373 persons, representative of the 
Spanish population aged 60 and older. HRQL was measured in 2001 and 2003 using 
the SF-36 health questionnaire. Cox regression models were used to examine the 
association of changes in the physical and mental component summary (PCS and 
MCS) scores of HRQL from 2001 to 2003 with all-cause mortality through 2007.
RESULTS: Two hundred twelve deaths were ascertained from 2003 to 2007. The 
hazard ratios for mortality across categories of PCS change were as follows: 
2.12 (95% confidence interval [CI] 1.39-3.24) for a > 10-point decline; 1.51 
(1.01-2.28) for a 6- to 10-point decline; 1 for the reference category, a change 
of -5 to +5 points; 0.83 (0.51-1.34) for a 6- to 9-point improvement and 0.68 
(0.42-1.09) for a > 10-point improvement; P for linear trend <0.001. The 
associations between changes in the MCS and mortality showed the same direction, 
but were of a lower magnitude and attained statistical significance (P < 0.05) 
only for a > 10-point decline in MCS.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in HRQL predict mortality in the older adults. A decline in 
HRQL should alert to a worse vital prognosis and stimulate the search for the 
possible determinants of such decline.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-009-9561-4
PMID: 19946754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Health Econ. 2011 Jan;20(1):56-67. doi: 10.1002/hec.1567. Epub 2009 Nov 27.

Measurement of QALYS and the welfare implications of survivor consumption and 
leisure forgone.

Nyman JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, University 
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455-0392, USA. Nyman001@umn.edu

In previous work (Health Econ. 2004; 13: 417-427; Health Econ. 2006; 15: 
319-322) has suggested that survivor consumption costs should be included in 
cost-utility analyses only if the corresponding utility gains are also included. 
Here, it is further argued that the welfare implications of survivor consumption 
are already known because unlike new medical treatments or interventions whose 
complex and uncertain outcomes and third-party purchasing make the welfare 
implications unclear, survivor consumption must have passed a private market 
welfare test. That is, the gains must have exceeded the costs in order for the 
survivor consumption to be purchased; therefore, survivor consumption is welfare 
increasing. The same would apply for survivor leisure forgone. Implications for 
cost-benefit analysis are clear, but are less so for cost-utility analysis. 
Moreover, as it is currently practiced, cost-utility analysis does not evaluate 
welfare because quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) do not meet all the criteria 
for representing utility. Therefore, rather than using QALYs to analyze welfare, 
cost-QALY analysis should be differentiated from cost-utility analysis. The 
former should continue to employ existing QALYs as a measure of health-focused 
effectiveness, but the latter should develop a new broader measure that meets 
the criteria for representing utility, and either this new measure or 
cost-benefit analysis should be used to evaluate welfare.

2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1567
PMID: 19946890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Econ Perspect. 2009 Fall;23(4):175-90. doi: 10.1257/jep.23.4.175.

Mortality Inequality.

Peltzman S(1).

Author information:
(1)Booth School of Business, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, USA. 
samp@uchicago.edu

DOI: 10.1257/jep.23.4.175
PMID: 19946979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Adv Gerontol. 2009;22(2):269-81.

[Interrelations of cancer of hormone dependent tissues and other non-infectious 
diseases: aging aspect].

[Article in Russian]

Bershteĭn LM.

The group of main noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) includes cardio- and 
cerebrovascular pathology, cancer, chronic nonspecific respiratory states, 
diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, unipolar depression, obesity, etc. Tumors of 
hormone dependent tissues compose about 35-45% of the whole cancer morbidity. 
The attempts to understand place of these tumors among other NCDs and analyze 
their interrelationships with regard to age and aging represent a vital task of 
contemporary oncoendocrinology. On the ground of accumulated data one can 
conclude that although principal NCDs are diagnosed mainly in the course of 
second half of human life, the maturing of their hormonal and metabolic bases is 
extended in time, rather often starts several decades before clinical appearance 
and demonstrates diverse character of the associations with different 
constituents of this group of diseases. As a result it may give rise for the 
absence of parallelism in age-specific incidence of several main NCDs, 
especially at concluding stages of ontogenesis.

PMID: 19947390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Ophthalmology. 2009 Dec;116(12):2471-77.e1-2. doi:
10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.10.023.

Verteporfin photodynamic therapy cohort study: report 3: cost effectiveness and 
lessons for future evaluations.

Grieve R(1), Guerriero C, Walker J, Tomlin K, Langham J, Harding S, Chakravathy 
U, Carpenter J, Reeves BC; Verteporfin Photodynamic Therapy Cohort Study Group.

Author information:
(1)The London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, England. 
richard.grieve@lshtm.ac.uk

PURPOSE: To report (1) the costs of verteporfin photodynamic therapy (VPDT) in 
routine treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD), (2) 
the relationship between health and social service costs and best-corrected 
visual acuity (BCVA), (3) the cost-effectiveness of VPDT versus a best 
supportive care (BSC) group who were assumed to have no active treatment, and 
(4) lessons for future cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs).
DESIGN: The CEA of VPDT versus BSC that uses health-related quality of life 
(HrQoL), resource use, and visual acuity data from the United Kingdom (UK) VPDT 
Cohort Study.
PARTICIPANTS: Data on VPDT use were collected from patients attending 45 
ophthalmology provider units in the UK National Health Service, 15 units 
collected data on self-reported use of services.
METHODS: Incremental costs of VPDT versus BSC were calculated from treatment 
costs, change in cost associated with declining BCVA, and difference in BCVA 
previously attributed to VPDT. Similarly, incremental quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) were calculated from change in HRQoL associated with declining 
BCVA, giving an incremental cost per QALY of VPDT versus BSC over 2 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs (UK pounds [ pound]; United States 
dollars [$]); incremental QALYs; costs per QALY.
RESULTS: The treatment costs of VDPT were pound 3026 ($4544) in year 1 and pound 
845 ($1269) in year 2. For patients who used services, a 5-letter decrease in 
BCVA was associated with an increase in annual costs of approximately pound 110 
($165; 95% confidence intervals, approximately pound 48 [$72] to pound 174 
[$261]). The incremental costs and QALYs for VPDT were pound 3514 ($5276) and 
0.021, respectively, giving incremental costs per QALY gained of pound 170000 
($255000).
CONCLUSIONS: Verteporfin photodynamic therapy is unlikely to be cost effective 
for patients with nAMD. This article provides realistic estimates of VPDT costs 
and the costs associated with declining vision. Future studies can follow this 
approach to assess accurately the cost effectiveness of new interventions for 
nAMD.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.10.023
PMID: 19948278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Physiol. 2010 Feb 1;588(Pt 3):527-38. doi: 10.1113/jphysiol.2009.181214.
Epub  2009 Nov 30.

Adaptations in placental phenotype support fetal growth during undernutrition of 
pregnant mice.

Coan PM(1), Vaughan OR, Sekita Y, Finn SL, Burton GJ, Constancia M, Fowden AL.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Trophoblast Research, Department of Physiology, Development and 
Neuroscience, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB2 3EG, UK. 
p.m.coan.02@cantab.net

Comment in
    J Physiol. 2010 Feb 1;588(Pt 3):393.

Undernutrition during pregnancy reduces birth weight and programmes adult 
phenotype with consequences for life expectancy, but its effects on the 
phenotype of the placenta, responsible for supplying nutrients for fetal growth, 
remain largely unknown. Using molecular, morphological and functional analyses, 
placental phenotype was examined in mice during restriction of dietary intake to 
80% of control from day 3 of pregnancy. At day 16, undernutrition reduced 
placental, but not fetal, weight in association with decreased junctional zone 
volume and placental expression of glucose transporter Slc2a1. At day 19, both 
placental and fetal weights were reduced in undernourished mice (91% and 87% of 
control, respectively, P < 0.01), as were the volume and surface area of the 
labyrinthine zone responsible for placental nutrient transfer (85% and 86%, 
respectively, P < 0.03). However, unidirectional materno-fetal clearance of 
tracer glucose was maintained and methyl-aminoisobutyric acid increased 166% (P 
< 0.005) per gram of undernourished placenta, relative to controls. This was 
associated with an 18% and 27% increased placental expression of glucose and 
system A amino acid transporters Slc2a1 and Slc38a2, respectively, at day 19 (P 
< 0.04). At both ages, undernutrition decreased expression of the placental 
specific transcript of the Igf2 gene by 35% (P < 0.01), although methylation of 
its promoter was unaffected. The placenta, therefore, adapts to help maintain 
fetal growth when its own growth is compromised by maternal undernutrition. 
Consequently, placental phenotype is responsive to environmental conditions and 
may help predict the risk of adult disease programmed in utero.

DOI: 10.1113/jphysiol.2009.181214
PMCID: PMC2825615
PMID: 19948659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Biol Chem. 2010 Feb 5;285(6):3833-3839. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.080424. Epub 
2009 Nov 30.

Proproliferative functions of Drosophila small mitochondrial heat shock protein 
22 in human cells.

Wadhwa R(1), Ryu J(2), Gao R(1), Choi IK(3), Morrow G(4), Kaur K(1), Kim I(3), 
Kaul SC(5), Yun CO(6), Tanguay RM(7).

Author information:
(1)From the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 
Central 4, 1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305 8562, Japan.
(2)From the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 
Central 4, 1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305 8562, Japan; the Brain Korea 21 
Project for Medical Science, Institute for Cancer Research, Yonsei University 
College of Medicine, 134 Shinchon-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, Korea.
(3)From the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 
Central 4, 1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305 8562, Japan; the Graduate Program 
for Nanomedical Science, Yonsei University, 134 Shinchon-dong, Seodaemun-gu, 
Seoul, Korea, and.
(4)the Laboratoire de Génétique Cellulaire et Développementale, Département de 
Médecine, PROTÉO, Pav. C.E.-Marchand, Université Laval, Quebec G1V 0A6, Canada.
(5)From the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, 
Central 4, 1-1-1 Higashi, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305 8562, Japan. Electronic address: 
s-kaul@aist.go.jp.
(6)the Brain Korea 21 Project for Medical Science, Institute for Cancer 
Research, Yonsei University College of Medicine, 134 Shinchon-dong, 
Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, Korea; the Graduate Program for Nanomedical Science, Yonsei 
University, 134 Shinchon-dong, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, Korea, and. Electronic 
address: chaeok@yuhs.ac.
(7)the Laboratoire de Génétique Cellulaire et Développementale, Département de 
Médecine, PROTÉO, Pav. C.E.-Marchand, Université Laval, Quebec G1V 0A6, Canada. 
Electronic address: Robert.tanguay@rsvs.ulaval.ca.

Aging is a complex process accompanied by a decreased capacity of cells to cope 
with random damages induced by reactive oxygen species, the natural by-products 
of energy metabolism, leading to protein aggregation in various components of 
the cell. Chaperones are important players in the aging process as they prevent 
protein misfolding and aggregation. Small chaperones, such as small heat shock 
proteins, are involved in the refolding and/or disposal of protein aggregates, a 
feature of many age-associated diseases. In Drosophila melanogaster, 
mitochondrial Hsp22 (DmHsp22), is localized in the mitochondrial matrix and is 
preferentially up-regulated during aging. Its overexpression results in an 
extension of life span (>30%) (Morrow, G., Samson, M., Michaud, S., and Tanguay, 
R. M. (2004) FASEB J. 18, 598-599 and Morrow, G., Battistini, S., Zhang, P., and 
Tanguay, R. M. (2004) J. Biol. Chem. 279, 43382-43385). Long lived flies 
expressing Hsp22 also have an increased resistance to oxidative stress and 
maintain locomotor activity longer. In the present study, the cross-species 
effects of Hsp22 expression were tested. DmHsp22 was found to be functionally 
active in human cells. It extended the life span of normal fibroblasts, slowing 
the aging process as evidenced by a lower level of the senescence associated 
beta-galactosidase. DmHsp22 expression in human cancer cells increased their 
malignant properties including anchorage-independent growth, tumor formation in 
nude mice, and resistance to a variety of anticancer drugs. We report that the 
DmHsp22 interacts and inactivates wild type tumor suppressor protein p53, which 
may be one possible way of its functioning in human cells.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.080424
PMCID: PMC2823525
PMID: 19948727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Eur J Public Health. 2010 Dec;20(6):659-64. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp192. Epub 
2009 Nov 30.

The 'secrets' of the long livers in Mediterranean islands: the MEDIS study.

Tourlouki E(1), Polychronopoulos E, Zeimbekis A, Tsakountakis N, Bountziouka V, 
Lioliou E, Papavenetiou E, Polystipioti A, Metallinos G, Tyrovolas S, Gotsis E, 
Matalas AL, Lionis C, Panagiotakos DB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition Science - Dietetics, Harokopio University, Athens, 
Greece. htourloukis@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The aim of the present work was to evaluate various 
socio-demographic, clinical, lifestyle and psychological characteristics of 
elderly (> 65 years) and very elderly (> 90 years) individuals without known 
cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: During 2005-7, 1190 elderly (aged > 65) men and women (from Cyprus, 
Mitilini, Samothraki, Cephalonia, Crete, Lemnos, Corfu and Zakynthos) were 
randomly enrolled. Socio-demographic, clinical, psychological and lifestyle 
factors were assessed using standard questionnaires and procedures.
RESULTS: From all islands, the proportion of males aged 65-80, 80-90 and > 90 
years was 71.8, 24.8 and 3.4%, respectively. The proportion of women, for the 
same age categories, was 80.4, 17.9 and 1.7%, respectively. Walking and other 
activities significantly declined with age (P < 0.001); however, nearly one in 
five participants over the age of 90 years remained physically active. Current 
smoking significantly declined in males as age increased (P < 0.001). All 
participants above the age of 90 years reported sleeping at noon. The proportion 
of participants living alone differs significantly (P < 0.001) across the three 
age groups. However, considerably more women live alone (men vs. women living 
alone: aged 65-80 years 12 vs. 37%; 80-90 years 16 vs. 55%; > 90 years 52 vs. 
55%). Dietary characteristics of The Mediterranean Islands Study (MEDIS) sample 
display a favourable adherence to dietary recommendations (Mediterranean diet).
CONCLUSION: A favourable adherence to the Mediterranean diet, mid-day naps and 
smoking cessation with an increase in age was characteristic of our elderly 
population. Future research should further evaluate whether the aforementioned 
characteristics are associated with longevity beyond the average life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp192
PMID: 19948776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Med Ethics. 2009 Dec;35(12):747-52. doi: 10.1136/jme.2009.030601.

Moral pluralism versus the total view: why Singer is wrong about radical life 
extension.

Blackford R(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Philosophy and Bioethics, Monash University, Wellington Road, 
Clayton, Victoria 3800, Australia. Russell.Blackford@arts.monash.edu.au

Peter Singer has argued that we should not proceed with a hypothetical 
life-extension drug, based on a scenario in which developing the drug would fail 
to achieve the greatest sum of happiness over time. However, this is the wrong 
test. If we ask, more simply, which policy would be more benevolent, we reach a 
different conclusion from Singer's: even given his (admittedly questionable) 
scenario, development of the drug should go ahead. Singer's rigorous utilitarian 
position pushes him in the direction of an implausible "total view" 
utilitarianism when it encounters the problems presented by certain thought 
experiments. A more pluralistic account of the nature of morality promises to 
solve these problems, and in this case it reaches a benevolent recommendation on 
life-extension technology.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2009.030601
PMID: 19948931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Dec 15;106(50):21137-42. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0907257106. Epub 2009 Nov 30.

A DinB variant reveals diverse physiological consequences of incomplete TLS 
extension by a Y-family DNA polymerase.

Jarosz DF(1), Cohen SE, Delaney JC, Essigmann JM, Walker GC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA 
02139, USA.

The only Y-family DNA polymerase conserved among all domains of life, DinB and 
its mammalian ortholog pol kappa, catalyzes proficient bypass of damaged DNA in 
translesion synthesis (TLS). Y-family DNA polymerases, including DinB, have been 
implicated in diverse biological phenomena ranging from adaptive mutagenesis in 
bacteria to several human cancers. Complete TLS requires dNTP insertion opposite 
a replication blocking lesion and subsequent extension with several dNTP 
additions. Here we report remarkably proficient TLS extension by DinB from 
Escherichia coli. We also describe a TLS DNA polymerase variant generated by 
mutation of an evolutionarily conserved tyrosine (Y79). This mutant DinB protein 
is capable of catalyzing dNTP insertion opposite a replication-blocking lesion, 
but cannot complete TLS, stalling three nucleotides after an N(2)-dG adduct. 
Strikingly, expression of this variant transforms a bacteriostatic DNA damaging 
agent into a bactericidal drug, resulting in profound toxicity even in a dinB(+) 
background. We find that this phenomenon is not exclusively due to a futile 
cycle of abortive TLS followed by exonucleolytic reversal. Rather, gene products 
with roles in cell death and metal homeostasis modulate the toxicity of 
DinB(Y79L) expression. Together, these results indicate that DinB is specialized 
to perform remarkably proficient insertion and extension on damaged DNA, and 
also expose unexpected connections between TLS and cell fate.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0907257106
PMCID: PMC2795518
PMID: 19948952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


31. Am J Alzheimers Dis Other Demen. 2010 Mar;25(2):116-8. doi: 
10.1177/1533317509353321. Epub 2009 Nov 30.

Famous forgetters: notable people and Alzheimer's disease.

Jones JM(1), Jones JL.

Author information:
(1)Neurology of Battle Creek, 70 W. Michigan Ave., Battle Creek, MI 49017, USA. 
jmjones1@voyager.net

As life expectancy continues to increase, Alzheimer's disease (AD) has become 
much more prevalent and as yet there is no cure. This has given rise to the 
situation Tithonus faced in Greek mythology of living longer but not staying 
young. In this article, the authors explore this phenomenon while reviewing some 
notable people and AD.

DOI: 10.1177/1533317509353321
PMID: 19949162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2010 Feb;23(1):32-8. doi: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e328334fec4.

Immunization for HIV-positive individuals.

Geretti AM(1), Doyle T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Virology, Royal Free Hampstead NHS Trust, UK. 
a.geretti@medsch.ucl.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review summarizes recent literature addressing 
immunization in the setting of HIV infection, with a specific focus on emerging 
evidence that can guide the care of HIV-positive adults.
RECENT FINDINGS: There are few controlled studies on the clinical efficacy and 
effectiveness of vaccination in HIV-infected adults receiving highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Published data indicate that HAART restores 
vaccine immunogenicity, improving the rates and persistence of immune responses, 
while reducing the risk of vaccine-related adverse events. Despite effective 
HAART, responses remain often suboptimal relative to HIV-negative individuals, 
although they improve with larger and more frequent vaccine doses. New vaccines 
are undergoing trial with promising results, including novel formulations 
against hepatitis B. Studies are also under way to explore the role of human 
papilloma virus vaccines for the prevention of anal cancer.
SUMMARY: Protecting HIV-positive patients against vaccine-preventable infections 
is important now that HAART has restored life expectancy and general well being, 
and increased the likelihood of HIV-infected patients engaging in exposure-prone 
activities related to travel, occupation or social interaction. A proactive 
approach for vaccinating HIV-positive patients also serves an important public 
health purpose, reducing the pool of susceptible individuals and contributing to 
the control of prevalent and re-emerging infections.

DOI: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e328334fec4
PMID: 19949327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Int J Obes (Lond). 2010 Apr;34(4):614-23. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2009.235. Epub
2009  Dec 1.

Getting heavier, younger: trajectories of obesity over the life course.

Lee JM(1), Pilli S, Gebremariam A, Keirns CC, Davis MM, Vijan S, Freed GL, 
Herman WH, Gurney JG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Endocrinology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109-5456, USA. joyclee@umich.edu

CONTEXT: Although recent trends in obesity have been well documented, 
generational patterns of obesity from early childhood through adulthood across 
birth cohorts, which account for the recent epidemic of childhood obesity, have 
not been well described. Such trends may have implications for the prevalence of 
obesity-associated conditions among population subgroups, including type 2 
diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate trajectories of obesity over the life 
course for the US population, overall and by gender and race.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: We conducted an age, period and birth cohort 
analysis of obesity for US individuals who participated in the National Health 
and Nutrition Examination Surveys (NHANES) (1971-2006).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Obesity was defined as a body mass index >or=95th 
percentile for individuals aged 2-16 years or >or=30 kg m(-2) among individuals 
older than 16 years. Age was represented by the age of the individual at each 
NHANES, period was defined by the year midpoint of each survey, and cohort was 
calculated by subtracting age from period.
RESULTS: Recent birth cohorts are becoming obese in greater proportions for a 
given age, and are experiencing a greater duration of obesity over their 
lifetime. For example, although the 1966-1975 and 1976-1985 birth cohorts had 
reached an estimated obesity prevalence of at least 20% by 20-29 years of age, 
this level was only reached by 30-39 years for the 1946-1955 and 1956-1965 birth 
cohorts, by 40-49 years for the 1936-1945 birth cohort and by 50-59 years of age 
for the 1926-1935 birth cohort. Trends are particularly pronounced for female 
compared with male, and black compared with white cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: The increasing cumulative exposure to excess weight over the 
lifetime of recent birth cohorts will likely have profound implications for 
future rates of type 2 diabetes, and mortality within the US population.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2009.235
PMCID: PMC2926791
PMID: 19949415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Korean J Intern Med. 2009 Dec;24(4):388-92. doi: 10.3904/kjim.2009.24.4.388. 
Epub 2009 Nov 27.

Delayed rupture of the right sinus of valsalva into the right atrium after 
percutaneous coronary intervention.

Shin SY(1), Joo HJ, Lim SY, Park SM, Hong SJ, Shim WJ, Lim DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Korea University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.

Rupture of the sinus of Valsalva is an extremely rare complication after 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Because it usually results from the 
retrograde extension of a dissection of the right coronary artery and may 
quickly spread to involve the entire aorta, it can cause life-threatening 
complications such as aortic dissection. If the dissection remains localized, it 
can resolve spontaneously in the first month. Our patient experienced a delayed 
rupture of the right sinus of Valsalva into the right atrium at approximately 3 
months after PCI.

DOI: 10.3904/kjim.2009.24.4.388
PMCID: PMC2784985
PMID: 19949740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Health Promot J Austr. 2009 Dec;20(3):172-9. doi: 10.1071/he09172.

The role of health impact assessment in promoting population health and health 
equity.

Wise M(1), Harris P, Harris-Roxas B, Harris E.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Equity Training Research and Evaluation, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia. m.wise@unsw.edu.au

Within the discipline of health promotion there has been long-standing 
understanding of the social determinants of health and life expectancy.1-3 There 
is also long-standing evidence of the unfair, unjust distribution of these 
resources within and among societies. It has proven difficult to translate this 
evidence of the need for the fairer distribution of socially-distributed 
resources into powerful action by the range of sectors through whose policies 
and programs/services much of this inequitable distribution is created.4 Health 
promotion has proven effective in contributing to significant improvements in 
the health of populations. It is, now, based on well-developed theory and a 
comprehensive body of evidence. However, health promotion in particular and the 
health sector in general have found it difficult to work with other sectors to 
influence public policy to create the social, economic, environmental and 
cultural conditions necessary for health equity. Health Impact Assessment (HIA) 
is outlined as an approach that offers the health sector a structured, 
transparent method and process to work with other sectors to predict the impact 
of policy proposals on the health of populations (and on the determinants of 
health), and to predict the distribution of these impacts in advance of adoption 
and implementation of the policy. Based on Australian experience of conducting 
HIAs, the paper outlines contributions that HIA can make to formulating and 
implementing of healthy public policy. It describes the steps in HIA and 
illustrates the use of these in practice.

DOI: 10.1071/he09172
PMID: 19951236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Mar;45(3):180-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.11.008. Epub
2009  Nov 29.

Dynamics of human mortality.

Milne EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, c/o Government Office 
for the North East, Citygate, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 4WH England, United 
Kingdom. eugene.milne@newcastle.ac.uk

Historical human mortality curves display five phases, differing in dimensions 
with population, time and circumstance. Existing explanatory models describe 
some but not all of these, and modelling of entire curves has hitherto 
necessitated an assumption of multiple distributions. A new distribution, shown 
previously to describe survival in experimental animals, postulates empirically 
that net mortality risk comprises two components described as 'redundancy decay' 
and 'interactive risk'. The former is proposed effectively to set a 'program' 
for the increase of mortality risk with age, and may be a better measure of the 
'rate of ageing' which has previously been assumed to determine the slope of 
semi-logarithmic mortality curves. Entire human mortality curves are shown here 
to be compatible with this single distribution given the assumption that 
individuals vary only with respect to the interactive risk parameter (k). 
Historical Swedish cohort data are modelled here exclusively through changes in 
k values, clustered increasingly toward the higher end of their range, while 
redundancy values are held constant. This pattern is compatible with the 
hypothesis that historical changes in human mortality may be explained purely in 
terms of interactive risks and without changes in the underlying pattern or rate 
of ageing.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.11.008
PMID: 19951741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2010 Mar;10(3):473-5. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2009.217612. Epub 2009 Dec 1.

Cavo-atrial thrombectomy combined with left hemi-hepatectomy for vascular 
invasion from hepatocellular carcinoma on diseased liver under hypothermic 
cardio-circulatory arrest.

Leo F(1), Rapisarda F, Stefano PL, Batignani G.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia dell'Apparato Digerente, Università degli Studi di 
Firenze, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Careggi, Viale Morgagni 85, 
Florence, Italy.

Vascular invasion of supra-hepatic veins (SHV) is a major complication of 
primary liver tumours. The tumorous thrombus, when extended to the vena cava and 
right atrium, may produce occlusion of the tricuspid valve or pulmonary embolism 
with sudden cardiac death. The presence of macroscopic vascular infiltration 
represents an advanced stage of the tumour contraindicating liver 
transplantation, thus liver resection with thrombectomy is the only therapeutic 
option in this setting despite the concerns of postoperative liver failure and 
the dismal results at distance. A 45-year-old male with chronic active 
hepatitis/cirrhosis was referred to our department for a tumour in the left 
hemi-liver with infiltration of the left-middle hepatic veins and a tumour 
thrombus extension to the right atrium. We reported a successful cavo-atrial 
thrombectomy, along with left hemi-hepatectomy, under hypothermic 
cardio-circulatory arrest (HCA). To our knowledge, this technique has been used 
only once for primary liver cancer on chronic liver disease, this being the 
second case reported in literature. We conclude that this technique should be 
considered for atrial thrombi removal in patients affected by liver tumours in 
the presence of a healthy liver or of a well compensated liver cirrhosis in 
order to prolong the patient's life span.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2009.217612
PMID: 19952014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Psychiatr Serv. 2009 Dec;60(12):1686-9. doi: 10.1176/ps.2009.60.12.1686.

Metabolic risk factors among medicaid outpatients with schizophrenia receiving 
second-generation antipsychotics.

Bell RC(1), Farmer S, Ries R, Srebnik D.

Author information:
(1)Rochester Psychiatric Center, 1111 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14620, USA. 
romdrcb@omh.state.ny.us

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is associated with significant reductions in life 
expectancy, largely because of the increased incidence of cardiovascular 
disease. This study examined the prevalence of metabolic risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease among Medicaid recipients diagnosed as having 
schizophrenia and taking second-generation antipsychotics (medications 
associated with increased risk of metabolic abnormalities contributing to 
cardiovascular disease).
METHODS: Fifteen community health centers in King County, Washington, identified 
1,317 eligible individuals, of whom 819 completed screenings for obesity, 
impaired fasting glucose levels or diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidemia.
RESULTS: Fasting serum levels were obtained for 675 individuals, of whom 90% 
were diagnosed as having at least one risk factor, with elevated body mass index 
and dyslipidemia the most prevalent factors. About one-third of the individuals 
approached to participate did not obtain laboratory work necessary for the 
screening.
CONCLUSIONS: The study indicates that this population has a high rate of 
metabolic risk of cardiovascular disease and that treatment will require 
addressing barriers to screening.

DOI: 10.1176/ps.2009.60.12.1686
PMID: 19952163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2009 Dec;124(6):1965-1973. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181bcf156.

A cost-utility analysis of amputation versus salvage for Gustilo type IIIB and 
IIIC open tibial fractures.

Chung KC(1), Saddawi-Konefka D, Haase SC, Kaul G.

Author information:
(1)Ann Arbor, Mich. From the Section of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
University of Michigan Health System; the University of Michigan Medical School; 
and the University of Michigan's Stephen M. Ross School of Business.

BACKGROUND: Lower extremity trauma is common. Despite an abundance of literature 
on severe injuries that can be treated with salvage or amputation, the 
appropriate management of these injuries remains uncertain. In this situation, a 
cost-utility analysis is an important tool in providing an evidence-based 
practice approach to guide treatment decisions.
METHODS: Costs following amputation and salvage were derived from data presented 
in a study that emerged from the Lower Extremity Assessment Project. The authors 
extracted relevant data on projected lifetime costs and analyzed them to include 
discounting and sensitivity analysis by considering patient age. The utilities 
for the various health states (amputation or salvage, including possible 
complications) were measured previously using the standard gamble method and a 
decision tree simulation to determine quality-adjusted life-years.
RESULTS: Amputation is more expensive than salvage, independently of varied 
ongoing prosthesis needs, discount rate, and patient age at presentation. 
Moreover, amputation yields fewer quality-adjusted life-years than salvage. 
Salvage is deemed the dominant, cost-saving strategy.
CONCLUSION: Unless the injury is so severe that salvage is not a possibility, 
based on this economic model, surgeons should consider limb salvage, which will 
yield lower costs and higher utility when compared with amputation.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181bcf156
PMCID: PMC2788746
PMID: 19952652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Microsc Res Tech. 2010 Aug;73(8):733-40. doi: 10.1002/jemt.20814.

A single pretreatment by zoledronic acid converts metastases from osteolytic to 
osteoblastic in the rat.

Nyangoga H(1), Blouin S, Libouban H, Baslé MF, Chappard D.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U922 - LHEA, Faculté de Médecine, 49045 Angers Cedex, France.

Bone metastases are severe complications of cancers associated with increased 
morbidity, pain, risk fracture, and reduced life span for patients. 
Bisphosphonates emerged as a relief treatment in bone metastases. A single dose 
of zoledronic acid (78 microg/kg) was injected into six Copenhagen rats 4 days 
before receiving an intraosseous inoculation of metastatic anaplastic tumor of 
lymph node and lung cell (MLL) prostate cancer cells. Rat femurs were analyzed 
for changes by microCT and histomorphometry; trabecular volume, trabecular 
characteristics, osteoid parameters, osteoblastic surfaces, and osteoclast 
number were measured. Values were compared to a group of SHAM animals, a group 
of SHAM animals having received zoledronic acid and animals inoculated with MLL 
cells. All rats were euthanized after 1 month. MLL cells induced osteolysis in 
the metaphysis with extension of the tumor to soft tissues through cortical 
perforations. Zoledronic acid induced a marked osteosclerosis in the primary 
spongiosa in both SHAM and rats inoculated with MLL. Osteosclerosis was obtained 
in the secondary spongiosa of MLL rats. The bisphosphonate preserved cortical 
integrity in all animals, and no extension to soft tissues was observed in most 
animals. The number of osteoclasts was elevated, indicating that there was no 
apoptosis of osteoclasts but they became inactive. Osteosclerosis was associated 
with increased osteoblastic surfaces. A single zoledronic acid injection turned 
osteolytic metastases into osteosclerotic and preserved cortical integrity.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jemt.20814
PMID: 19953666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Rheumatol. 2010 Jan;37(1):60-70. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.090194. Epub 2009 Dec
1.

Interleukin 6 (IL-6) deficiency delays lupus nephritis in MRL-Faslpr mice: the 
IL-6 pathway as a new therapeutic target in treatment of autoimmune kidney 
disease in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Cash H(1), Relle M, Menke J, Brochhausen C, Jones SA, Topley N, Galle PR, 
Schwarting A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Rheumatology and Clinical 
Immunology, Johannes Gutenberg-University, Mainz, Germany.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2010 Feb;6(2):63.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the pathophysiological effect of interleukin 6 (IL-6) 
on lupus nephritis in MRL-Fas(lpr) mice.
METHODS: We generated IL-6-deficient MRL-Fas(lpr) mice using a 
backcross/intercross breeding scheme. Renal pathology was evaluated using 
immunohistochemistry detection for macrophages, lymphocytes, vascular cell 
adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1), and TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotide 
transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labeling) for apoptotic cells, and renal IgG 
and C3 deposition by immunofluorescence staining. Expression of inflammatory 
markers in the spleen was analyzed by quantitative real-time reverse 
transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Serum cytokine concentrations were 
detected by FACS analysis.
RESULTS: IL-6 deficiency was highly effective in prolonging survival and 
ameliorating the clinical, immunological, and histological indicators of murine 
systemic lupus erythematosus. During the study period of 6 months, MRL-Fas(lpr) 
IL-6 -/- mice showed delayed onset of proteinuria and hematuria compared to 
IL-6-intact control mice. Survival rate was 100% in IL-6-deficient MRL-Fas(lpr) 
mice and 25% in the control group at 6 months of age. The absence of IL-6 
resulted in significant reduction of infiltrating macrophages in the kidney (p < 
0.05), a decrease in renal IgG and C3 deposition, and a reduction of CD4+ and 
CD8+ lymphocytes. The parenchymal adhesion molecule VCAM-1 was found to be 
downregulated in kidneys of MRL-Fas(lpr) IL-6 -/- compared to IL-6-intact mice. 
We found elevated serum levels of IL-10 and interferon-gamma in IL-6-deficient 
mice, while splenic mRNA showed an overall downregulation of immunoregulatory 
genes.
CONCLUSION: IL-6 is a strong promoter of lupus nephritis and may be a promising 
new therapeutic target in the treatment of human lupus nephritis.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.090194
PMID: 19955044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

