most sensitive to time horizon, the relative utility weights of successful 
ablation versus unsuccessful drug therapy, and to the cost of an ablation 
procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: RFA with/without AAD for symptomatic, drug-refractory paroxysmal AF 
appears to be reasonably cost-effective compared with AAD therapy alone from the 
perspective of the US health care system, based on improved quality of life and 
avoidance of future health care costs.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCEP.108.837294
PMCID: PMC2760061
PMID: 19808491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. JAMA. 2009 Nov 11;302(18):2015-22. doi: 10.1001/jama.2009.1502. Epub 2009
Oct 6.

A 66-year-old man with an abdominal aortic aneurysm: review of screening and 
treatment.

Schermerhorn M(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Endovascular Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, 110 
Francis St, Boston, MA 02215, USA. mscherm@bidmc.harvard.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2010 Mar 17;303(11):1035; author reply 1035-6.
    JAMA. 2011 May 11;305(18):1899.

Ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a common cause of death. Abdominal 
aortic aneurysms tend to be asymptomatic until the time of rupture, which has a 
mortality rate of greater than 80%. Therefore, elective repair prior to rupture 
is preferred if life expectancy is reasonable and the risk of rupture outweighs 
the risk of repair. Mr F, a 66-year-old man with a 5.2-cm AAA, illustrates the 
issues surrounding monitoring and treating AAA. Risk factors for AAA include 
older age, male sex, smoking history, and a family history of AAA. Screening for 
AAA with ultrasound has been shown to prevent rupture, prevent AAA-related 
death, and be cost-effective. Risk factors for rupture include larger diameter, 
female sex, and smoking history. Endovascular repair has lower operative 
mortality and complications and has replaced standard open surgery in more than 
half of patients. However, long-term survival is similar after endovascular and 
open surgical repair. Those at risk of AAA who would benefit from repair should 
undergo screening.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2009.1502
PMID: 19809012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Hastings Cent Rep. 2009 Sep-Oct;39(5):13-4.

Case study. Dirty blood. Commentary.

Keirns CC(1), Goold SD.

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Humanities, Compassionate Care, and Bioethics, Stony Brook 
University, USA.

Comment on
    Hastings Cent Rep. 2009 Sep-Oct;39(5):13.

PMID: 19810225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Expert Rev Neurother. 2002 Jan;2(1):97-104. doi: 10.1586/14737175.2.1.97.

Management of Parkinson's disease.

Colcher A(1).

Author information:
(1)Penn Neurological Institute, University of Pennsylvania,330 South 9th Street, 
Philadelphia, PA 19017, USA. acolcher@pahosp.com

Parkinson's disease is one of the most common and debilitating movement 
disorders. It affects a large number of the aging population and as the life 
expectancy of the average person increases, it will affect ever increasing 
numbers of people. Diagnostic accuracy remains problematic and treatment for 
some is unsatisfactory. New understanding of the mechanism behind 
neurodegeneration in this disease and the pathophysiology of the basal ganglia 
has helped in designing therapeutic paradigms. Patients diagnosed today have a 
far better quality of life than those diagnosed even 10 years ago, while 
patients diagnosed 10 years from now will fair even better. Research is 
advancing rapidly and will help to cure this disease in the next century.

DOI: 10.1586/14737175.2.1.97
PMID: 19811019


645. J Med Econ. 2009;12(4):301-8. doi: 10.3111/13696990903347172.

Cost effectiveness of palivizumab in children with congenital heart disease in 
Germany.

Nuijten M(1), Lebmeier M, Wittenberg W.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. nuijten@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost effectiveness of palivizumab, a humanised 
monoclonal antibody, used as prevention against severe respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) infection requiring hospitalisation, in infants with 
haemodynamically significant congenital heart disease (CHD) in the German 
healthcare setting.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision-tree model was used to estimate the cost effectiveness 
of palivizumab for a hypothetical cohort of patients. The analysis was based on 
a lifetime follow-up period in order to capture the impact of palivizumab on 
long-term morbidity and mortality resulting from an RSV infection. Data sources 
included published literature, the palivizumab pivotal trials, official 
price/tariff lists and national population statistics. The study was conducted 
from the perspective of society (primary analysis) and the healthcare purchaser 
(secondary analysis).
RESULTS: From the societal perspective, use of palivizumab results in an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of €2,615 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) without discounting, which increases to €9,529/QALY after 
discounting. From the perspective of the German healthcare purchaser, use of 
palivizumab results in an ICER of €4,576/QALY without discounting, which 
increases to €16,673/QALY after discounting. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
confirmed the robustness of the model. The study is limited by a number of 
conservative assumptions. It was assumed that palivizumab only affects the 
occurrence of RSV hospitalisation and does not influence the severity of the RSV 
infection. Another assumption was that international clinical trial data and 
data on utilities could be applied to the German healthcare setting.
CONCLUSION: This analysis showed that palivizumab represents a cost-effective 
means of prophylaxis against severe RSV infection requiring hospitalisation in 
infants with haemodynamically significant CHD.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903347172
PMID: 19811110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Med Econ. 2009;12(4):291-300. doi: 10.3111/13696990903316961.

Cost effectiveness of palivizumab for RSV prevention in high-risk children in 
the Netherlands.

Nuijten M(1), Lebmeier M, Wittenberg W.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. nuijten@bmg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a common pathogen that is the 
leading cause of lower respiratory tract infections in young children. High-risk 
children are at risk of severe infection, which may require hospitalisation. RSV 
is also associated with a high risk for respiratory morbidity and mortality, 
which may have long-term clinical and economic consequences.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of palivizumab, a humanised 
monoclonal antibody, used as prevention against severe respiratory syncytial 
virus (RSV) infection requiring hospitalisation, in the indication of preterm 
infants and infants with preterm/bronchopulmonary dysplasia and in the second 
indication of children with congenital heart disease in the Dutch healthcare 
setting.
METHODS: A decision-tree model was used to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
palivizumab, used as a preventative treatment against severe respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV) infection, in high-risk groups of children in the 
Netherlands. The analysis was based on a lifetime follow-up period in order to 
capture the impact of palivizumab on long-term morbidity and mortality resulting 
from an RSV infection. Data sources included published literature, the 
palivizumab pivotal trials, official price/tariff lists and national population 
statistics. The study was conducted from the perspective of society in the 
Netherlands.
RESULTS: The use of palivizumab results in undiscounted incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of €12,728/QALY and €4,256/QALY in 
preterm/bronchopulmonary dysplasia and congenital heart disease indications, 
respectively. Inclusion of indirect costs leads to even more favourable 
cost-effectiveness outcomes. The study is limited by a number of conservative 
assumptions. It was assumed that palivizumab only affects the occurrence of RSV 
hospitalisation and does not influence the severity of the RSV infection. 
Another assumption was that international clinical trial data and data on 
utilities could be applied to the Dutch healthcare setting.
CONCLUSION: Palivizumab provides cost-effective prophylaxis against RSV in 
high-risk infants. The use of palivizumab in these children results in positive 
short- and long-term health-economic benefits.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903316961
PMID: 19811111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Climacteric. 2009;12 Suppl 1:1-5. doi: 10.1080/13697130902896857.

Incidence and mortality of cardiovascular disease in postmenopausal women 
world-wide and relevance for preventive strategies.

van der Schouw YT(1).

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, UMC Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

World-wide, cardiovascular disease is mainly seen as a male problem, whereas 
breast cancer is considered to be the most important chronic disease in women. 
However, cardiovascular disease is the largest single cause of death also in 
women, accounting for approximately one-third of the mortality, while breast 
cancer is responsible for less than 5% of the mortality. Physicians and women 
are equally unaware of these numbers. From a public health viewpoint, morbidity 
might be even more important, given the fact that therapeutic strategies have 
improved in the last decades, and disease fatality has been decreasing. In this 
contribution, the mortality and disability-adjusted life-years of cardiovascular 
disease world-wide will be summarized, and the relevance for prevention and the 
specific issues relevant to postmenopausal women will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/13697130902896857
PMID: 19811232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2010 Jul;52(7):672-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03473.x. Epub 2009 Oct 7.

Survival of individuals with cerebral palsy receiving continuous intrathecal 
baclofen treatment: a matched-cohort study.

Krach LE(1), Kriel RL, Day SM, Strauss DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Minnesota, 
420 Delaware Street SE, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA. krach002@umn.edu

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2010 Jul;52(7):601-2.

AIM: To determine whether intrathecal baclofen (ITB) changes mortality risk in 
persons with cerebral palsy (CP).
METHOD: Records were reviewed for all persons with CP who were managed with ITB 
for hypertonicity at a specialty hospital in Minnesota between May 1993 and 
August 2007. A comparison cohort was randomly selected from clients of the 
California Department of Developmental Services who were initially evaluated 
between 1987 and 1990 and were matched to those with ITB for age, sex, Gross 
Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) level, presence or absence of 
epilepsy, and feeding-tube use. Survival probabilities were estimated using the 
Kaplan-Meier method, and differences were tested via log-rank.
RESULTS: Three hundred and fifty-nine persons with CP (202 males, 157 females) 
receiving ITB for hypertonicity (mean age 12y 8mo, SD 7y 9mo, range 3y 1mo to 
39y 9mo) were matched to 349 persons without ITB pumps (195 males, 154 females; 
mean age 12y 7mo, SD 8y 4mo, range 2y 7mo to 40y). The proportion of patients at 
different GMFCS levels in the ITB and in the non-ITB cohorts, respectively, was 
as follows: level II 3% and 3%, level III 16% and 16%, level IV 38% and 37%, and 
level V 43% and 44%. Survival at 8 years of follow-up was 92% (SD 1.9%) in the 
ITB cohort and 82% (SD 2.4%) in the non-ITB cohort (p<0.001). After adjustment 
to account for recent trends in improved survival in CP, 8-year survival in the 
non-ITB cohort was 88%, which was not significantly different from the ITB 
cohort (p=0.073).
INTERPRETATION: ITB therapy does not increase mortality in individuals with CP 
and may suggest an increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03473.x
PMID: 19811519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Lancet. 2009 Nov 21;374(9703):1765-72. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61199-5.
Epub  2009 Oct 5.

Premature deaths attributable to blood pressure in China: a prospective cohort 
study.

He J(1), Gu D, Chen J, Wu X, Kelly TN, Huang JF, Chen JC, Chen CS, Bazzano LA, 
Reynolds K, Whelton PK, Klag MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, 
Tulane University, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA. jhe@tulane.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Nov 21;374(9703):1728-9.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension is a major global-health challenge because of its high 
prevalence and concomitant risks of cardiovascular disease. We estimated 
premature deaths attributable to increased blood pressure in China.
METHODS: We did a prospective cohort study in a nationally representative sample 
of 169,871 Chinese adults aged 40 years and older. Blood pressure and other risk 
factors were measured at a baseline examination in 1991 and follow-up assessment 
was done in 1999-2000. Premature death was defined as mortality before age 72 
years in men and 75 years in women, which were the average life expectancies in 
China in 2005. We calculated the numbers of total and premature deaths 
attributable to blood pressure using population-attributable risk, mortality, 
and the population size of China in 2005.
FINDINGS: Hypertension and prehypertension were significantly associated with 
increased all-cause and cardiovascular mortality (p<0.0001). We estimated that 
in 2005, 2.33 million (95% CI 2.21-2.45) cardiovascular deaths were attributable 
to increased blood pressure in China: 2.11 million (2.03-2.20) in adults with 
hypertension and 0.22 million (0.19-0.25) in adults with prehypertension. 
Additionally, 1.27 million (1.18-1.36) premature cardiovascular deaths were 
attributable to raised blood pressure in China: 1.15 million (1.08-1.22) in 
adults with hypertension and 0.12 million (0.10-0.14) in adults with 
prehypertension. Most blood pressure-related deaths were caused by 
cerebrovascular diseases: 1.86 million (1.76-1.96) total deaths and 1.08 million 
(1.00-1.15) premature deaths.
INTERPRETATION: Increased blood pressure is the leading preventable risk factor 
for premature mortality in the Chinese general population. Prevention and 
control of this condition should receive top public-health priority in China.
FUNDING: American Heart Association (USA); National Heart, Lung, and Blood 
Institute, National Institutes of Health (USA); Ministry of Health (China); and 
Ministry of Science and Technology (China).

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61199-5
PMID: 19811816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. BMJ. 2009 Oct 7;339:b4119. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b4119.

Life expectancy differs by 30 years between richest and poorest countries, 
report shows.

Zarocostas J.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b4119
PMID: 19812138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. J Neurophysiol. 2009 Dec;102(6):3481-91. doi: 10.1152/jn.00688.2009. Epub
2009  Oct 7.

Been there, seen that: a neural mechanism for performing efficient visual 
search.

Mirpour K(1), Arcizet F, Ong WS, Bisley JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1763, USA. kmirpour@mednet.ucla.edu

In everyday life, we efficiently find objects in the world by moving our gaze 
from one location to another. The efficiency of this process is brought about by 
ignoring items that are dissimilar to the target and remembering which 
target-like items have already been examined. We trained two animals on a visual 
foraging task in which they had to find a reward-loaded target among five 
task-irrelevant distractors and five potential targets. We found that both 
animals performed the task efficiently, ignoring the distractors and rarely 
examining a particular target twice. We recorded the single unit activity of 54 
neurons in the lateral intraparietal area (LIP) while the animals performed the 
task. The responses of the neurons differentiated between targets and 
distractors throughout the trial. Further, the responses marked off targets that 
had been fixated by a reduction in activity. This reduction acted like 
inhibition of return in saliency map models; items that had been fixated would 
no longer be represented by high enough activity to draw an eye movement. This 
reduction could also be seen as a correlate of reward expectancy; after a target 
had been identified as not containing the reward the activity was reduced. 
Within a trial, responses to the remaining targets did not increase as they 
became more likely to yield a result, suggesting that only activity related to 
an event is updated on a moment-by-moment bases. Together, our data show that 
all the neural activity required to guide efficient search is present in LIP. 
Because LIP activity is known to correlate with saccade goal selection, we 
propose that LIP plays a significant role in the guidance of efficient visual 
search.

DOI: 10.1152/jn.00688.2009
PMCID: PMC2804407
PMID: 19812286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Nat Med. 2009 Oct;15(10):1104-5. doi: 10.1038/nm1009-1104.

Straight talk with...Christopher Murray.

Schubert C.

Hard numbers can be difficult to come by in the current debate about health care 
in the US. Even rarer are accurate assessments of health care systems in less 
developed countries. But policy makers are not completely groping in the dark 
when it comes to data-thanks in part to Christopher Murray. Two years ago, 
Murray, a physician and health economist with experience at the World Health 
Organization (WHO), took the helm of the newly created Institute for Health 
Metrics and Evaluation at the University of Washington. Since 2007, the 
institute, funded largely by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the state 
of Washington, has grown to a staff of 75 people and has begun churning out 
studies that that are shaping the debate on health care reform. For instance, 
Murray's group-along with colleagues at his former base, Harvard University in 
Cambridge, Massachusetts-have documented huge disparities in life expectancy and 
mortality in parts of the US. In some pockets of the country, life expectancy 
for women is even on the decline (PLoS Med. 27, e66; 2008). Murray spoke with 
Charlotte Schubert about how having accurate numbers can add up to progress in 
health care.

DOI: 10.1038/nm1009-1104
PMID: 19812558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Open Cardiovasc Med J. 2009 Sep 10;3:124-7. doi:
10.2174/1874192400903010124.

Adult congenital heart disease investigated with cardiac catheterization over a 
20-year period.

Giannoglou GD(1), Antoniadis AP, Chatzizisis YS, Louridas GE.

Author information:
(1)1st Cardiology Department, AHEPA University Hospital, Aristotle University 
Medical School, 1 St. Kyriakidi Street, 54636, Thessaloniki, Greece. 
yan@med.auth.gr

BACKGROUND: Recent advances in diagnosis and treatment have increased the life 
expectancy of patients with congenital heart disease.
METHODS: To investigate the prevalence of adult congenital heart disease (ACHD) 
in a large registry of patients over a 20-year period, we retrospectively 
assessed data of 14,012 males and 4,461 females who underwent clinically 
indicated cardiac catheterization from 1984 to 2003.
RESULTS: ACHD was recorded in 234 subjects aged from 18 to 66 years, [95 males 
(40.7%) and 139 females (59.3%)]. Females were more likely to present with ACHD 
than males (p<0.001). Atrial septal defect was the most common defect (43.3%) 
followed by partial anomalous pulmonary venous return (12.0%), pulmonary valve 
stenosis (11.3%) ventricular septal defect (8.0%), coarctation of aorta (5.5%) 
patent ductus arteriosus (4.0%) and Fallot's tetralogy (3.3%). Atrial septal 
defect was more common in females (p<0.01), while pulmonary valve stenosis was 
more frequent in males (p<0.05). No difference across sexes was found in the 
other forms of ACHD. Females with ACHD were significantly older than males at 
the time of catheterization (median age 41 years, interquartile range 26 to 53 
years vs. median age 35 years, interquartile range 22 to 48 years, p<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: In adulthood ACHD is found more commonly in females and is 
diagnosed later in life than in males. Atrial septal defect is the most 
prevalent form of ACHD and occurs most commonly in females.

DOI: 10.2174/1874192400903010124
PMCID: PMC2757672
PMID: 19812709


654. J Nutr Health Aging. 2009 Nov;13(9):797-806. doi: 10.1007/s12603-009-0216-5.

Balneotherapy, prevention of cognitive decline and care the Alzheimer patient 
and his family: outcome of a multidisciplinary workgroup.

Secher M(1), Soto M, Gillette S, Andrieu S, Villars H, Vellas B, Tabone C, 
Chareyras JB, Dubois O, Roques CF, Dubois B; Multidisciplinary Workgroup.

Author information:
(1)Service de medecine interne geriatrique et gerontologie clinique, 
Gerontopole, CHU Toulouse, Hopital Purpan Casselardit, Toulouse, France.

According to the latest forecasts of the INSEE - Institut National de la 
Statistique et des Etudes Economiques (National Statistics and Economic Studies 
Institute), ageing of the French population will increase between 2005 and 2050: 
whereas 20.8% of the population living in continental France reached the age of 
60 years or more in 2005, this proportion would be of 30.6% in 2035 and 31.9% in 
2050. In 2050, 22.3 million persons will have reached the age of 60 years or 
more compared to 12.6 million in 2005, increasing by 80% in a 45-year period. In 
line with the actual age pyramid, ageing is unavoidable, as those who will reach 
60 years of age in 2050 are already born (in 1989 or before). This expansion 
will be most important between 2006 and 2035, when the numerous "baby-boom" 
generations born between 1946 and 1975, will reach these ages. In future years, 
lifespan improvement will only emphasize this increase. Even if life expectancy 
stabilizes at the 2005 level, the number of seniors reaching 60 years or more 
would still increase to 50% between 2005 and 2050. This issue is identical in 
all countries of the European Union. Ageing is a major risk factor for dementia 
that will considerably worsen in the next years, if no curative therapies are 
found. Today, 25 million persons in the world suffer from Alzheimer's disease 
(AD). In France, it is estimated that 860,000 persons are affected and that 
225,000 news cases are annually diagnosed. After 75 years of age, more than 20% 
of women and 13% of men are concerned. Forecasts for the coming years are 
frightening. Considering ageing of the population, the number of Alzheimer's 
disease cases should raise to 1.3 million in 2020 (20 patients for 1000 
inhabitants) ant 2.1 million in 2040 (30 patients for 1000 inhabitants).

DOI: 10.1007/s12603-009-0216-5
PMID: 19812870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Acta Neurochir Suppl. 2010;106:121-6. doi: 10.1007/978-3-211-98811-4_21.

Intracranial irregularities beside hydrocephalus in H-Tx rats.

Kiefer M(1), Schneider G, Eymann R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Saarland University Medical School, Homburg-Saar, 
Germany. Michael.Kiefer@uks.eu

INTRODUCTION: It has been well documented that up to 70% of H-Tx rats' offspring 
suffer from severe hydrocephalus, which can be fatal if it remains untreated. 
Some offspring also have non-fatal moderate hydrocephalus allowing a normal life 
expectancy. The objective of this study was finding other morphological 
intracranial abnormalities that are not directly related to hydrocephalus.
METHOD: An MRT for small animals (Bruker, Biospec, Erlangen Germany) with a 2.4 
T magnet at 100 MHz has been used to study 98 apparently non-hydrocephalic H-Tx 
rats. T2-weighted 2D-RARE, T2-weighted 3D-Turbo-RARE sequence and T1-weighted 
3D-gradient-echo sequences were used.
RESULTS: Apart from 36% of animals with moderate or mild hydrocephalus, we found 
one animal with a cystic cerebellar malformation similar to an arachnoid cyst 
with minimal space occupying effects. Nine rats had a mild or moderate-sized 
unilateral enlargement of one lateral ventricle, but a causative occlusion of 
the Foramen of Monroe could not be verified. Finally, one animal with huge 
hydrocephalus had a midline cystic malformation between both cerebral 
hemispheres.
CONCLUSION: Aside from the well-documented hydrocephalus, H-Tx rats may develop 
other intracranial malformations that have not yet been documented in the 
literature.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-211-98811-4_21
PMID: 19812933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Hemoglobin. 2009;33(5):304-11. doi: 10.3109/03630260903212969.

Update on thalassemia treatment in Taiwan, including bone marrow 
transplantation, chelation therapy, and cardiomyopathy treatment effects.

Peng CT(1), Chang JS, Wang LY, Chiou SS, Hsiao CC, Wang SC, Hung GY, Wu KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, 
Taiwan.

Over the past few decades, Taiwan has seen striking improvements in the life 
expectancy of its 400 registered beta-thalassemia major (beta-TM) patients due 
mainly to adequate transfusion regimens and effective iron chelation therapy. 
Since 1995, Taiwanese citizens have enjoyed universal health care through 
National Health Insurance (NIH), receiving comprehensive treatment at minimal 
cost. In 1984, a national program for thalassemia prevention, control, and 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) was initiated. Recent data show 
1- and 2-year event-free survival rates of 85 and 78%, respectively. Chelation 
agents like deferoxamine (DFO), deferiprone (L1) and deferasirox (DFRA) are 
available in Taiwan, and therapy is tailored to individuals based on drug 
availability and tissue distribution of iron load. Intensive chelation regimens 
combining L1 and DFO are recommended in patients with cardiac complications, 
while DFRA has been found to be effective in reducing serum ferritin, with 
acceptable side effects. Here, we report advances in thalassemia treatment in 
Taiwan and suggest treatment guidelines.

DOI: 10.3109/03630260903212969
PMID: 19814676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Leuk Lymphoma. 2009 Oct;50 Suppl 1:23-6. doi: 10.3109/10428190903141820.

Long-term follow-up studies in hairy cell leukemia.

Grever MR(1), Zinzani PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. 
michael.grever@osumc.edu

Enormous progress has been made in the management of patients with hairy cell 
leukemia (HCL) over the past 50 years since this disease was initially described 
in 1958. The introduction of the two commonly used purine nucleoside analogs 
(pentostatin and cladribine, respectively) has independently changed the natural 
history of this rare malignancy. Both agents are equivalent in terms of response 
and long-term results. Advances in therapy are being further pursued with 
inclusion of monoclonal antibodies (e.g. rituximab) and other immunotherapeutic 
approaches. Patients with this disease now can live a near normal life 
expectancy, but the disease has not yet been cured. Clinical trials must 
continue to address the remaining unanswered questions.

DOI: 10.3109/10428190903141820
PMID: 19814694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. BMC Endocr Disord. 2009 Oct 8;9:20. doi: 10.1186/1472-6823-9-20.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of pegvisomant for the treatment 
of acromegaly: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Moore DJ(1), Adi Y, Connock MJ, Bayliss S.

Author information:
(1)Public Health, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Health and 
Population Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, B15 2TT, UK. 
d.j.moore@bham.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Acromegaly, an orphan disease usually caused by a benign pituitary 
tumour, is characterised by hyper-secretion of growth hormone (GH) and 
insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-1). It is associated with reduced life 
expectancy, cardiovascular problems, a variety of insidiously progressing 
detrimental symptoms and metabolic malfunction. Treatments include surgery, 
radiotherapy and pharmacotherapy. Pegvisomant (PEG) is a genetically engineered 
GH analogue licensed as a third or fourth line option when other treatments have 
failed to normalise IGF-1 levels.
METHODS: Evidence about effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of PEG was 
systematically reviewed. Data were extracted from published studies and used for 
a narrative synthesis of evidence. A decision analytical economic model was 
identified and modified to assess the cost-effectiveness of PEG.
RESULTS: One RCT and 17 non-randomised studies were reviewed for effectiveness. 
PEG substantially reduced and rapidly normalised IGF-1 levels in the majority of 
patients, approximately doubled GH levels, and improved some of the signs and 
symptoms of the disease. Tumour size was unaffected at least in the short term. 
PEG had a generally safe adverse event profile but a few patients were withdrawn 
from treatment because of raised liver enzymes. An economic model was identified 
and adapted to estimate the lower limit for the cost-effectiveness of PEG 
treatment versus standard care. Over a 20 year time horizon the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was pound81,000/QALY and pound212,000/LYG. To reduce 
this to pound30K/QALY would require a reduction in drug cost by about one third.
CONCLUSION: PEG is highly effective for improving patients' IGF-1 level. Signs 
and symptoms of disease improve but evidence is lacking about long term effects 
on improved signs and symptoms of disease, quality of life, patient compliance 
and safety. Economic evaluation indicated that if current standards (UK) for 
determining cost-effectiveness of therapies were to be applied to PEG it would 
be considered not to represent good value for money.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6823-9-20
PMCID: PMC2768727
PMID: 19814797


659. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2009 Jul;26(1):9-16. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892009000700002.

Estimating diabetes and diabetes-free life expectancy in Mexico and seven major 
cities in Latin America and the Caribbean.

Andrade F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign, Illinois 61820, United States of America. fanrade@illinois.edu

OBJECTIVES: To estimate diabetes and diabetes-free life expectancy in seven 
major cities in Latin America and the Caribbean, plus Mexico as a whole.
METHODS: Data from the Survey on Health, Well-being, and Aging in Latin America 
and the Caribbean (n = 10 602) and the Mexican Health and Aging Study (n = 6 
953) on individuals 60 or more years of age were used in this study. Estimates 
of diabetes and diabetes-free life expectancy were obtained by applying the 
Sullivan method.
RESULTS: Diabetes life expectancy for men 60 years of age was highest in Mexico 
City (4.5 years) and Bridgetown (3.4 years), and lowest in Havana (1.3 years). 
Diabetes-free life expectancy for men 60 years of age was highest in Santiago 
(17.6 years) and lowest in Bridgetown (14.2 years) and São Paulo (14.3 years). 
For women, diabetes life expectancy was highest in Bridgetown (5.4 years), 
followed by Mexico City and Havana; but these three cities also had the lowest 
diabetes-free life expectancy. Women 60 years of age in Buenos Aires had the 
lowest diabetes life expectancy (2.5 years), and in Santiago, the highest, with 
a diabetes-free life expectancy of 20.7 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Older individuals in Latin America and the Caribbean can expect to 
live a large proportion of their remaining lives with diabetes. There were also 
important differences across settings; in particular, the pronounced diabetes 
burden in Barbados and Mexico and among women. Given the fast growth of the 
elderly population in these societies, it is crucial to promote healthy eating 
and exercise as a way of reducing the burden of diabetes.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892009000700002
PMCID: PMC4059400
PMID: 19814876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. FEBS Lett. 2009 Nov 3;583(21):3377-87. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2009.09.051.
Epub  2009 Oct 5.

Deceptively simple but simply deceptive--Caenorhabditis elegans lifespan 
studies: considerations for aging and antioxidant effects.

Gruber J(1), Ng LF, Poovathingal SK, Halliwell B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore.

The nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) is increasingly popular as 
a model organism for aging studies as well as for testing antioxidants and other 
compounds for effects on longevity. However, results in the literature are 
sometimes confusing and contradictory. This review introduces C. elegans as a 
model organism, discusses aspects that make it attractive for aging and 
antioxidant research, and addresses some problems and potential artifacts.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2009.09.051
PMID: 19815017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Ophthalmology. 2009 Dec;116(12):2354-60. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.05.009.
Epub  2009 Oct 7.

Predicted long-term outcome of corneal transplantation.

Borderie VM(1), Boëlle PY, Touzeau O, Allouch C, Boutboul S, Laroche L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Centre Hospitalier National d'Ophtalmologie des 
XV-XX, UPMC University of Paris, Paris, France. vincent.borderie@upmc.fr

OBJECTIVE: To analyze graft survival and the outcome of the corneal endothelium 
after corneal transplantation in a single model to predict the long-term 
prognosis of these grafts.
DESIGN: Cohort study. Data were recorded prospectively and then analyzed 
retrospectively.
PARTICIPANTS: One thousand one hundred forty-four consecutive eyes of 1144 
patients who underwent corneal transplantation between 1992 and 2006.
INTERVENTIONS: Penetrating keratoplasty and deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Slit-lamp examination and wide-field specular microscopy 
results. A joint analysis of endothelial cell loss and time to graft failure was 
undertaken. From midterm simultaneous analysis of graft survival and endothelial 
cell loss, long-term graft survival was predicted.
RESULTS: The observed 5- and 10-year graft survival estimates were, 
respectively, 74% and 64%. The average endothelial cell density (cell loss) was 
2270 cells/mm(2) before surgery, 1058 cells/mm(2) (-53%) during the sixth 
postoperative year, and 865 cells/mm(2) (-61%) during the 10th postoperative 
year. Overall, the predicted graft survival estimate was 27% at 20 years and 2% 
at 30 years. Both observed and predicted graft survival were higher in patients 
who had undergone lamellar keratoplasty than in patients who had undergone 
penetrating keratoplasty and had normal recipient endothelium and higher in 
patients who had undergone penetrating keratoplasty and had normal recipient 
endothelium than in patients who had undergone penetrating keratoplasty and had 
impaired recipient endothelium.
CONCLUSIONS: For corneal diseases involving the endothelium, penetrating 
keratoplasty seems to be a good therapeutic approach in elderly patients because 
the graft life-span may be similar to the patient life expectancy. Conversely, 
for younger patients, penetrating keratoplasty is only a midterm therapeutic 
approach. For corneal diseases not involving the endothelium, deep anterior 
lamellar keratoplasty seems to be a promising therapeutic approach with higher 
long-term expected survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.05.009
PMID: 19815285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. BMJ. 2009 Oct 8;339:b3884. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3884.

Cost effectiveness analysis of including boys in a human papillomavirus 
vaccination programme in the United States.

Kim JJ(1), Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Department of Health Policy and Management, 
Center for Health Decision Science, 718 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, 
USA. jkim@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    BMJ. 2009;339:b4127.
    BMJ. 2009;339:b4514.
    BMJ. 2009;339:b4525.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of including preadolescent boys in a 
routine human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination programme for preadolescent 
girls.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis from the societal perspective.
SETTING: United States.
POPULATION: Girls and boys aged 12 years.
INTERVENTIONS: HPV vaccination of girls alone and of girls and boys in the 
context of screening for cervical cancer. Main outcome measure Incremental cost 
effectiveness ratios, expressed as cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained.
RESULTS: With 75% vaccination coverage and an assumption of complete, lifelong 
vaccine efficacy, routine HPV vaccination of 12 year old girls was consistently 
less than $50,000 per QALY gained compared with screening alone. Including 
preadolescent boys in a routine vaccination programme for preadolescent girls 
resulted in higher costs and benefits and generally had cost effectiveness 
ratios that exceeded $100,000 per QALY across a range of HPV related outcomes, 
scenarios for cervical cancer screening, and assumptions of vaccine efficacy and 
duration. Vaccinating both girls and boys fell below a willingness to pay 
threshold of $100,000 per QALY only under scenarios of high, lifelong vaccine 
efficacy against all HPV related diseases (including other non-cervical cancers 
and genital warts), or scenarios of lower efficacy with lower coverage or lower 
vaccine costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Given currently available information, including boys in an HPV 
vaccination programme generally exceeds conventional thresholds of good value 
for money, even under favourable conditions of vaccine protection and health 
benefits. Uncertainty still exists in many areas that can either strengthen or 
attenuate our findings. As new information emerges, assumptions and analyses 
will need to be iteratively revised to continue to inform policies for HPV 
vaccination.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3884
PMCID: PMC2759438
PMID: 19815582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


663. Neuroendocrinology. 2009;90(4):402-15. doi: 10.1159/000245900. Epub 2009 Oct
8.

Vascular endothelial growth factors, angiogenesis, and survival in human ileal 
enterochromaffin cell carcinoids.

Besig S(1), Voland P, Baur DM, Perren A, Prinz C.

Author information:
(1)2nd Medical Department, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Well-differentiated neuro-endocrine ileal carcinoids are 
composed of serotonin-producing enterochromaffin (EC) cells. Life expectancy is 
determined by metastatic spread to the liver because medical treatment options 
are still very limited. Selective inhibition of angiogenesis or 
lymphangiogenesis might prevent tumour growth and metastatic spread. We examined 
the role of the vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGFs) A, B, C, D, and 
their receptors (VEGFRs) 1, 2, 3 in angiogenesis and lymphangiogenesis of ileal 
EC cell carcinoids with and without liver metastases.
METHODS: The expression of various VEGFs and VEGFRs was determined by 
quantitative real-time RT-PCR in healthy mucosa, primary tumour, lymph node 
metastases and liver metastases of 25 patients with ileal EC cell carcinoids. 
Microvessel density (MVD) was determined by CD-31 staining in primary tumours 
and lymphatic vessel density (LVD) by LYVE-1 staining. VEGF expression levels, 
MVD, LVD, and patients' survival time were correlated using logistic regression 
and Kaplan-Meier survival analysis.
RESULTS: VEGF-A was highly expressed with no difference between normal mucosa 
and tumours. VEGF-B and -D as well as VEGFR-1 and -2 expression levels were 
significantly increased in the tumours when compared to normal mucosa. Patients 
with liver metastasis, however, had a significantly lower expression of the 
factors A, B, and C and the receptors 2 and 3. MVD in primary tumours positively 
correlated with the expression of VEGF ligands and their receptors, except for 
VEGF-D. LVD did not correlate with any VEGF ligand or receptor. Interestingly, 
low expression levels of VEGF-B were associated with poor survival.
CONCLUSION: Patients with more aggressive metastatic spreading had relatively 
decreased expression levels of VEGF ligands and receptors. Thus, anti-angiogenic 
therapy may not be a suitable target in metastatic ileal EC cell carcinoids.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000245900
PMID: 19816005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. J Mol Med (Berl). 2010 Feb;88(2):155-66. doi: 10.1007/s00109-009-0550-4.
Epub  2009 Oct 9.

Therapeutic targeting of signaling pathways in muscular dystrophy.

Bhatnagar S(1), Kumar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomical Sciences and Neurobiology, University of Louisville 
School of Medicine, 500 South Preston Street, Louisville, KY, 40202, USA.

Muscular dystrophy refers to a group of genetic diseases that cause severe 
muscle weakness and loss of skeletal muscle mass. Although research has helped 
understanding the molecular basis of muscular dystrophy, there is still no cure 
for this devastating disorder. Numerous lines of investigation suggest that the 
primary deficiency of specific proteins causes aberrant activation of several 
cell signaling pathways in skeletal and cardiac muscle leading to the 
pathogenesis of muscular dystrophy. Studies using genetic mouse models and 
pharmacological approaches have provided strong evidence that the modulation of 
the activity of specific cell signaling pathways has enormous potential to 
improving the quality of life and extending the life expectancy in muscular 
dystrophy patients. In this article, we have outlined the current understanding 
regarding the role of different cell signaling pathways in disease progression 
with particular reference to different models of muscular dystrophy and the 
development of therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-009-0550-4
PMCID: PMC2833214
PMID: 19816663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2009 Oct;9(5):435-44. doi: 
10.1586/erp.09.52.

Cost-effectiveness of Medicare's coverage of immunosuppression medications for 
kidney transplant recipients.

Page TF(1), Woodward RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Robert Stempel College of Public 
Health and Social Work, Florida International University, HLS II 560, Miami, FL 
33199, USA. tpage@fiu.edu

Kidney transplantation is the preferred method of treating patients with 
end-stage renal disease. Transplantation improves the quality of life of the 
transplant recipient and also results in reduced treatment costs owing to the 
cost difference between dialysis and the post-transplant immunosuppression 
medications. Currently, the USA's Medicare program covers immunosuppression 
medications for 3 years post-transplant for nonelderly, nondisabled patients, 
and there is currently a proposal to extend this coverage from 3 years to a 
lifetime for all transplant recipients. Upon expiration of the current 3-year 
benefit, some patients are unable to afford to pay for the medication on their 
own, resulting in graft loss and a return to dialysis. This article reviews 
studies that documented the improvements in long-term transplant outcomes 
attributable to previous coverage extensions of immunosuppression medications, 
from both 1-3 years post-transplant for all transplant recipients in 1993 and 
the coverage extension from 3 years to lifetime for elderly and disabled 
patients in the year 2000. In addition, previous studies of the potential 
cost-effectiveness of a lifetime immunosuppression benefit for all patients are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.09.52
PMID: 19817527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Fundam Clin Pharmacol. 2010 Feb;24(1):9-17. doi: 
10.1111/j.1472-8206.2009.00757.x. Epub 2009 Oct 9.

The challenge of polypharmacy in cardiovascular medicine.

Volpe M(1), Chin D, Paneni F.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, IInd School of Medicine, University of Rome Sapienza, 
S.Andrea Hospital, Rome, Italy. massimo.volpe@uniroma1.it

Albeit great efforts in reducing the burden of cardiovascular diseases (CVD), 
their prevalence continues to grow worldwide. Among the causes for this rising 
burden, the upcoming pandemic of obesity and diabetes further enhances the 
estimates of CV mortality and healthcare costs over the next decades. 
Nevertheless, advances in CVD treatment has increased life-expectancy, and 
future perspectives announce a growing aging population, with increasing 
comorbid conditions predisposing to CVD. Despite the emphasis on primary 
prevention, CV risk factors are still poorly controlled and a further need for 
CV drugs is upcoming. In chronic CVD such as hypertension, ischemic heart 
disease (IHD) and heart failure, the progressive use of multiple drugs is common 
and is recommended by international guidelines. However, the chronic use of five 
or more medications, defined as polypharmacy, has shown to be neither always 
efficacious nor safe. Polypharmacy is associated with an increased morbidity and 
costs. The use of multiple medications often leads to inappropriate drug use, 
underprescription, low adherence and side effects. In order to overcome these 
issues, a fixed-dose combination pill ('polypill') for the prevention of CVD has 
been recently proposed. A hypothetical meta-analysis estimated for this strategy 
a reduction of IHD and stroke by 88 and 80% respectively in people aged 55 or 
over. Such polypill can be cost effective and increase patient adherence. 
However, large randomized trials are required to define its impact on clinical 
outcomes. This review will focus on challenges of polypharmacy in CV medicine, 
illustrating potential options to face this emerging crisis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1472-8206.2009.00757.x
PMID: 19817871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2009 Oct;11(10):537-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1751-7176.2009.00193.x.

What price for blood pressure control?

Textor SC.

Comment on
    J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2009 Oct;11(10):555-63.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-7176.2009.00193.x
PMCID: PMC8673164
PMID: 19817933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2009 Oct;11(10):555-63. doi: 
10.1111/j.1751-7176.2009.00163.x.

Cost-effectiveness of treating resistant hypertension with an implantable 
carotid body stimulator.

Young KC(1), Teeters JC, Benesch CG, Bisognano JD, Illig KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of 
Rochester, Rochester, NY 14620, USA. kate_young@urmc.rochester.edu

Comment in
    J Clin Hypertens (Greenwich). 2009 Oct;11(10):537-9.

The purposes of this study are to investigate the cost-effectiveness of an 
implantable carotid body stimulator (Rheos; CVRx, Inc, Minneapolis, MN) for 
treating resistant hypertension and determine the range of starting systolic 
blood pressure (SBP) values where the device remains cost-effective. A Markov 
model compared a 20-mm Hg drop in SBP from an initial level of 180 mm Hg with 
Rheos to failed medical management in a hypothetical 50-year-old cohort. Direct 
costs (2007$), utilities, and event rates for future myocardial infarction, 
stroke, heart failure, and end-stage renal disease were modeled. Sensitivity 
analyses tested the assumptions in the model. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) for Rheos was $64,400 per quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) using 
Framingham-derived event probabilities. The ICER was <$100,000 per QALYs for 
SBPs > or =142 mm Hg. A probability of device removal of <1% per year or SBP 
reductions of > or =24 mm Hg were variables that decreased the ICER below 
$50,000 per QALY. For cohort characteristics similar to Anglo-Scandinavian 
Cardiac Outcomes Trial-Blood Pressure-Lowering Arm (ASCOT-BPLA) participants, 
the ICER became $26,700 per QALY. Two-way sensitivity analyses demonstrated that 
lowering SBP 12 mm Hg from 220 mm Hg or 21 mm Hg from 140 mm Hg were required. 
Rheos may be cost-effective, with an ICER between $50,000 and $100,000 per 
QALYs. Cohort characteristics and efficacy are key to the cost-effectiveness of 
new therapies for resistant hypertension .

DOI: 10.1111/j.1751-7176.2009.00163.x
PMCID: PMC3690459
PMID: 19817936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):242-50. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00656.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 8.

Value of information analyses of economic randomized controlled trials: the 
treatment of intermittent claudication.

Groot Koerkamp B(1), Spronk S, Stijnen T, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Program for the Assessment of Radiological Technology, Department of 
Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to design the optimal study comparing 
endovascular revascularization and supervised exercise training for patients 
with intermittent claudication and to demonstrate value of information (VOI) 
analysis of patient-level data from an economic randomized controlled trial to 
guide future research.
METHODS: We applied a net benefit framework to patient-level data on costs and 
quality-of-life of a previous randomized controlled trial. VOI analyses were 
performed using Monte Carlo simulation. We estimated the total expected value of 
perfect information (total EVPI), the total expected value of sample information 
(total EVSI), the partial expected value of perfect information (partial EVPI), 
and the partial expected value of sample information (partial EVSI). These VOI 
analyses identified the key parameters and the optimal sample size of future 
study designs. Sensitivity analyses were performed to explore the robustness of 
our assumptions about the population to benefit, the willingness-to-pay 
threshold, and the study costs. The VOI analyses are demonstrated in statistical 
software (R) and a spreadsheet (Excel) allowing other investigators to apply VOI 
analysis to their patient-level data.
RESULTS: The optimal study design for the treatment of intermittent claudication 
involves a randomized controlled trial collecting data on the quality-adjusted 
life expectancy and additional admission costs for 525 patients per treatment 
arm. The optimal sample size remained between 400 and 600 patients for a 
willingness-to-pay threshold between euro30,000 and euro100,000/quality-adjusted 
life-years, for even extreme assumptions about the study costs, and for a range 
of 3 to 7 years that future patients will benefit from the results of the 
proposed study.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) The optimal study for patients with intermittent claudication 
collects data on two key parameters for 525 patients per trial arm; and 2) we 
have shown that value of information analysis provides an explicit framework to 
determine the optimal sample size and identify key parameters for the design of 
future clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00656.x
PMID: 19818058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
