
MOTIVATION: The online resources in the life sciences are characterized by a 
great fragmentation and one of the pressing issues of bioinformatics is making 
the integration of these resources a smoother and more flexible process than it 
is currently. Here we present i-cite, a browser extension, which implements a 
client-side model of integration which improves the navigation within the 
rapidly increasing life science literature and links terms from it to 
corresponding non-textual data.
AVAILABILITY: http://i-cite.org.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btp550
PMID: 19767300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Neth J Med. 2009 Sep;67(8):322-7.

Assisted reproductive technologies to establish pregnancies in couples with an 
HIV-1-infected man.

van Leeuwen E(1), Repping S, Prins JM, Reiss P, van der Veen F.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, 
Academic Medical Centre, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. e.vanleeuwen@amc.uva.nl

For HIV -1-infected men and women the introduction of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HART) in 1996 led to a spectacular increase in life 
expectancy and quality of life. In Western society where HART is readily 
available, HIV -1 is now considered to be a chronic disease and as a consequence 
quality of life is an important aspect for men and women with HIV-1. Many of 
them express the desire to father or mother a child. Assisted reproductive 
technologies, including intrauterine insemination (IUI), in vitro fertilisation 
(IVF) and intracytoplasmatic sperm injection (ICSI) in combination with semen 
washing have been used to decrease the risk of HIV -1 transmission in 
HIV-1-infected discordant couples with an HIV-1-infected man. This article aims 
to summarise the current state of the art of assisted reproductive technologies 
for couples with an HIV -1-infected man and to discuss current trends and 
dilemmas in the treatment of these couples.

PMID: 19767658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. Rev Bras Cir Cardiovasc. 2009 Apr-Jun;24(2):218-24. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-76382009000200019.

Bicuspid aortic valve: theoretical and clinical aspects of concomitant ascending 
aorta replacement.

De Sá MP(1), Bastos ES, Murad H.

Author information:
(1)Toronto University,Canada. mpaesleme@oi.com.br

Bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) is associated with annuloaortic ectasia, dissection 
and ascending aortic aneurysm. The high incidence of this congenital 
malformation and aortic disease suggests a close correlation between the two 
phenomena. Abnormalities in different phases of cell migration of the neural 
crest might be responsible for the occurrence of abnormalities in the aortic 
valve, media layer of the ascending aorta and vessels of the aortic arch. 
Previous studies have shown that patients with normal BAV or slight dysfunction 
may present with dilation of the aortic root. The hemodynamic changes caused by 
BAV without stenosis or insufficiency seem to be an insufficient explanation for 
these findings. Several mechanisms have been proposed to explain the molecular 
and hystological aspects of this disease. We found a reduced fibrillin-1 content 
in both ascending aorta and pulmonary trunk as a possible cause. Histologically, 
the ascending aorta can present cystic medial necrosis and elastic 
fragmentation, similar to Marfan's disease. Some authors concluded that many 
patients, mainly those with aortic regurgitation, should have the aortic valve 
and the ascending aorta replaced at the same procedure, even if a mild 
dilatation (45 mm) is present in patients with BAV if life expectancy is 
anticipated to be greater than 10 years to prevent further aneurysms or 
ruptures.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-76382009000200019
PMID: 19768302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2009 Oct;44(10):989-96. doi: 10.1002/ppul.21090.

Healthcare expenditures for privately insured people with cystic fibrosis.

Ouyang L(1), Grosse SD, Amendah DD, Schechter MS.

Author information:
(1)National Center on Birth Defects and Developmental Disabilities, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, USA. louyang@cdc.gov

With improved survival and new therapies for people with cystic fibrosis (CF), 
updated information on medical care expenditures for those individuals is 
needed. We estimated medical care expenditures, including both insurance 
reimbursements and patient out-of-pocket expenses, for privately insured people 
with CF and investigated how those expenditures varied with certain 
complications of CF. From a private insurance claims database of people covered 
by health plans associated with large corporate employers, we identified people 
with CF who were currently receiving medical care for the disorder and 
characterized their medical expenditures during the period 2004-2006. We 
selected a matching group of people who did not have CF based on age, sex, and 
geographic area, and calculated incremental expenditures associated with CF. We 
also examined the effect of age and certain complications of CF on these 
expenditures. The annual medical care expenditure for a person with actively 
managed CF averaged $48,098 in 2006 dollars, which was 22 times higher than for 
a person without CF. This ratio is high relative to other chronic disorders. 
Outpatient prescription medications made up the largest component of total 
expenditures for people with CF (39%). Those who were recorded in claims data as 
having a liver or lung transplant, malnutrition, diabetes, or a chronic 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa pulmonary infection incurred much higher expenditures 
than people without these conditions. People with CF will incur high medical 
expenditures throughout their lifespan. These findings will assist in the 
development of economic evaluations of future CF screening and management 
initiatives.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.21090
PMID: 19768806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. J Econ Perspect. 2008 Fall;22(4):3-26. doi: 10.1257/jep.22.4.3.

Are we finally winning the war on cancer?

Cutler DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, 
and National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. 
dcutler@harvard.edu

DOI: 10.1257/jep.22.4.3
PMID: 19768842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Policy Brief George Wash Univ Cent Health Serv Res Policy. 2009 Feb:1-23.

Assessing the need for on-site eye care professionals in community health 
centers.

Shin P(1), Finnegan B.

Author information:
(1)The George Washington University School of Public Health and Health Services, 
Department of Health Policy.

Poor vision health severely impacts school and work performance, quality of 
life, and life expectancy, and results in billions of dollars in medical 
expenditures each year. While eye and vision problems are often associated with 
age, low income and racial and ethnic minorities also have elevated risk of eye 
problems. Federally-funded community health centers, which are mandated to 
provide comprehensive primary care in underserved communities, are often the 
only option to improve vision health for low-income residents. With respect to 
certain chronic conditions, health centers are able to provide high quality care 
that meets or exceeds national benchmarks despite limited financial resources, a 
shortage of primary care providers, and greater health care demands. What is not 
well known, is the extent to which health centers are able to provide on-site 
professional vision care. Our analysis found that seven out of 10 health centers 
do not staff on-site eye care professionals to provide comprehensive eye exams. 
Rather, many health centers rely on referral arrangements with local 
optometrists and ophthalmologists for such services. Major barriers to providing 
on-site comprehensive eye care services include the inability to afford 
necessary space/equipment and the perceived lack of reimbursement or inadequate 
reimbursement from Medicaid, Medicare and private insurers. Health centers 
indicated also that they also need assistance in developing a business plan, 
designing space, and developing an inventory of eye care equipment. While the 
lack of health insurance coverage, differences in Medicaid coverage and benefits 
across states, and inadequate reimbursements are likely to limit capacity and 
access to vision care professionals, another challenge may be patient's general 
lack of understanding about the need for routine eye exams. Therefore, 
strategies to improve access to vision care must go beyond developing financial 
incentives and restoring eye care professionals for eligible placements in 
underserved communities, to include education about the importance of routine 
eye care exams.

PMID: 19768853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Medicina (B Aires). 2009;69(4):466-72.

[Cerebral proteolysis of amiloid-b peptide: relevance of insulin-degrading 
enzyme in Alzheimer's disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Leal MC(1), Fernandez Gamba A, Morelli L, Castaño EM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Amiliodosis y Neurodegeneración, Fundación Instituto 
Leloir-Instituto de Investigaciones Bioquímicas, CONICET, Buenos Aires.

The global increase in life expectancy turns Alzheimer's disease (AD) into a 
growing problem. One of the distinctive features of AD is the excessive 
accumulation of amyloid-b (Ab) peptide in the brain. In recent years, a concept 
that has gained strength is that degradation of Ab by proteases in situ is an 
important mechanism that prevents cerebral peptide accumulation. Biochemical and 
genetic data have shown that insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) participates in Ab 
and insulin homeostasis. IDE expression and activity are significantly decreased 
in AD brains compared to age-matched controls. Also, IDE is deposited with Ab in 
senile plaques and blood vessels, indicating a gross conformational change as a 
consequence of diverse post-translational mechanisms. These alterations in IDE 
distribution and activity may result in insufficient degradation of Ab and 
insulin, promoting the formation of Ab oligomers and hormone resistance. Both 
processes might play a fundamental part in neurodegeneration. The study of the 
clearance mechanisms of cerebral Ab will not only aid in the understanding AD 
pathogenesis but will also allow a better interpretation of ongoing clinical 
trials and the development of new therapeutic strategies.

PMID: 19770104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2009 Oct 27;364(1532):2985-90. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2009.0137.

Human population growth and the demographic transition.

Bongaarts J(1).

Author information:
(1)The Population Council, One Dag Hammarskjold Plaza, New York, NY 10017, USA. 
jbongaarts@popcouncil.org

The world and most regions and countries are experiencing unprecedentedly rapid 
demographic change. The most obvious example of this change is the huge 
expansion of human numbers: four billion have been added since 1950. Projections 
for the next half century expect a highly divergent world, with stagnation or 
potential decline in parts of the developed world and continued rapid growth in 
the least developed regions. Other demographic processes are also undergoing 
extraordinary change: women's fertility has dropped rapidly and life expectancy 
has risen to new highs. Past trends in fertility and mortality have led to very 
young populations in high fertility countries in the developing world and to 
increasingly older populations in the developed world. Contemporary societies 
are now at very different stages of their demographic transitions. This paper 
summarizes key trends in population size, fertility and mortality, and age 
structures during these transitions. The focus is on the century from 1950 to 
2050, which covers the period of most rapid global demographic transformation.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2009.0137
PMCID: PMC2781829
PMID: 19770150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2009 Jul 15;34(16):1711-5. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181a9ece5.

Growing rods for infantile scoliosis in Marfan syndrome.

Sponseller PD(1), Thompson GH, Akbarnia BA, Glait SA, Asher MA, Emans JB, Dietz 
HC 3rd.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, The Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, 
Maryland 21224, USA.

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective review.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness of a new growing rod technique in 
controlling infantile scoliosis in patients with Marfan syndrome.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Infantile scoliosis in patients with Marfan syndrome 
is nearly always progressive and poorly controlled by bracing, yet previous 
studies have shown poor results with first-generation extensible spinal rod 
techniques.
METHODS: Ten patients with Marfan syndrome and scoliosis developing before 3 
years of age were treated with growing rods (3 single, 7 dual). Mean age at 
initial surgery was 5.3 years (SD, 2.7 years). Before surgery, the mean curve 
was 77.2 degrees (SD, 15.6 degrees ) and the mean thoracolumbar kyphosis was 56 
degrees (SD, 21 degrees ). Patients on warfarin sodium were lengthened at yearly 
intervals; others, more frequently. Mean follow-up was 87 months (SD, 30.5 
months).
RESULTS: Mean curve correction was 51% (SD, 23%) overall, 31% (SD, 23%) for 
single rods, and 60% (SD, 19%) for dual rods. Mean coronal and sagittal 
imbalance improved from 56 to 18 mm and from 31 to 21 mm, respectively. The mean 
length obtained was 11.5 cm (SD, 3.6 cm) overall and 11.2 cm (SD, 3.60 cm) for 
the 5 patients with final fusion. Complications included 2 rod breakages and 3 
intraoperative dural leaks. There was 1 anchor dislodgement and no postoperative 
dural leak. No patient developed clinically noteworthy junctional kyphosis. One 
patient died of unrelated causes 3 months after surgery.
CONCLUSION: As life expectancy improves for patients with neonatal Marfan 
syndrome, spinal deformity becomes an important issue. Extensible spinal growing 
rods are an effective solution to the problem. Dual rods appear to be more 
corrective than single rods. Substantial spinal length can be obtained to 
minimize trunk disproportion. Growing rods may help prevent large infantile 
curves from becoming severe in Marfan syndrome, allowing definitive spinal 
fusion closer to skeletal maturity.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181a9ece5
PMID: 19770613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. J Econ Perspect. 2008 Winter;22(1):129-152. doi: 10.1257/jep.22.1.129.

Biological measures of the standard of living.

Steckel RH(1).

Author information:
(1)Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, and National Bureau of Economic 
Research, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA. Steckel.1@osu.edu

When economists investigate long-term trends and socioeconomic differences in 
the standard of living or quality of life, they have traditionally focused on 
monetary measures such as gross domestic product--which has occupied center 
stage for over 50 years. In recent decades, however, scholars have increasingly 
recognized the limitations of monetary measures while seeking useful 
alternatives. This essay examines the unique and valuable contributions of four 
biological measures--life expectancy, morbidity, stature, and certain features 
of skeletal remains--to understand levels and changes in human well-being. 
People desire far more than material goods and in fact they are quite willing to 
trade or give up material things in return for better physical or psychological 
health. For most people, health is so important to their quality of life that it 
is useful to refer to the "biological standard of living." Biological measures 
may be especially valuable for historical studies and for other research 
circumstances where monetary measures are thin or lacking. A concluding section 
ruminates on the future evolution of biological approaches in measuring 
happiness.

DOI: 10.1257/jep.22.1.129
PMID: 19771661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. J Prev Med Hyg. 2009 Mar;50(1):53-7.

Survey of domestic accidents in the elderly in the Province of Genoa (northern 
Italy).

Panatto D(1), Gasparini R, Vitale A, Sasso T, Lugarini J, Cremonesi I, Sensi S, 
Badolati G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science (DiSSal), University of Genoa, Italy. 
panatto@unige.it

INTRODUCTION: Accidents in the home are a major public health issue in most 
industrialised countries, as they are a frequent cause of injury and death. 
Moreover, since a considerable portion of such accidents involve elderly people, 
it is important to assess their social impact in this population. In Italy, the 
available data indicate that well over 3 million people per year suffer 
accidents in the home, and that this number is rising. The aim of the present 
study was to evaluate the number, characteristics and causes of domestic 
accidents among the elderly.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study population was made up of subjects of both 
sexes aged between 65 and 92 years admitted to first aid units and emergency 
departments of hospitals in Genoa. The investigation was conducted by means of 
an ad hoc questionnaire designed to record the circumstances of the accident, 
the functional capacity of the subject involved, any risky behaviour enacted and 
the safety profile of the subject's home.
RESULTS: The study enrolled 111 voluntary participants: 62 women and 49 men. At 
the time of the accident, subjects were engaged in the following activities: 
housework (36.9%) "rest" (14.5%), ablutions (10%), gardening (9%), leisure 
activities (8.1%), eating and drinking (2.7%). The most common injuries were 
bruises (39.6%), followed by fractures (23.4%) and cuts (23.4%); the frequency 
of other, some time more severe injures (burns, poisoning, asphyxia, crush 
injuries, etc.) was,fortunately, very low. Anyway, taking into account their 
consequences, their surveillance and prevention is very important. Most subjects 
were deemed to be in good health and, in 76% of cases, the safety profile of 
their houses proved to be satisfactory.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The data collected during this survey are in line 
with those yielded by national and international studies. They show that the 
elderly are very vulnerable to domestic accidents and that, even in the event of 
only slight injury, the management of elderly victims requires a strong 
organisational commitment on the part of relatives and considerable financial 
resources for healthcare services. Falling proved to be the main cause of 
injury. Clearly, efforts to reduce the cost of accidents in the home should aim 
to implement preventive intervention among elderly people, since the elderly 
population is destined to grow as a result of increasing life expectancy. In 
particular, preventive action should focus on reducing the incidence of falls by 
eliminating risk-related structural features in domestic settings as far as 
possible and by raising public awareness of the problem through health education 
campaigns.

PMID: 19771761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Demography. 2009 Aug;46(3):627-46. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0070.

Change in disability-free life expectancy for Americans 70-years-old and older.

Crimmins EM(1), Hayward MD, Hagedorn A, Saito Y, Brouard N.

Author information:
(1)Andrus Gerontology Center, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90089-0191, USA. crimmin@usc.edu

In this article, we examine changes in life expectancy free of disability using 
longitudinal data collected from 1984 through 2000 from two cohorts who composed 
the Longitudinal Studies of Aging I and II. Life expectancies with and without 
ADL and/or IADL disability are calculated using a Markov-based multistate life 
table approach. At age 70, disability-free life expectancy increased over a 
10-year period by 0.6 of a year in the later cohort, which was the same as the 
increase in total life expectancy, both increases marginally statistically 
significant. The average length of expected life with IADL and ADL disability 
did not change. Changes in disability-free life expectancy resulted from 
decreases in disability incidence and increases in the incidence of recovery 
from disability across the two survey cohorts. Age-specific mortality among the 
ADL disabled declined significantly in the later cohort after age 80. Mortality 
for the IADL disabled and the nondisabled did not change significantly. Those 
with ADL disability at age 70 experienced substantial increases in both total 
life expectancy and disability-free life expectancy. These results indicate the 
importance of efforts both to prevent and delay disability and to promote 
recovery from disability for increasing life expectancy without disability. 
Results also indicate that while reductions in incidence and increases in 
recovery work to decrease population prevalence of disability, declining 
mortality among the disabled has been a force toward increasing disability 
prevalence.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0070
PMCID: PMC2831348
PMID: 19771948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Int J Health Serv. 2009;39(3):461-89. doi: 10.2190/HS.39.3.c.

Rapid large-scale privatization and death rates in ex-communist countries: an 
analysis of stress-related and health system mechanisms.

King L(1), Hamm P, Stuckler D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Free School Lane, University of Cambridge, United 
Kingdom. lk285@cam.ac.uk

During the transition to capitalism, the postcommunist countries have 
experienced devastating rises in mortality, although there has been considerable 
variation within and between countries and regions. Much of this 
population-level variation remains unexplained, but alcohol and psychological 
stress are found to be major proximal causes of rising mortality rates. The 
authors show that implementation of neoliberal-inspired rapid, large-scale 
privatization programs ("mass privatization") was associated with significant 
declines in life expectancy, as well as with greater alcohol-related deaths, 
heart disease, and suicide rates. The authors interpret these findings as 
evidence that rapid organizational reform created excess psychosocial stress, 
which, consistent with the public health literature, increases risk of death at 
the individual level. However, they also find that rapid privatization modestly 
contributed to a decline in health care resources, such as the number of 
physicians, dentists, and hospital beds per capita, although there is weak 
evidence that these reductions in health system capacity explain substantial 
differences in mortality at the country level.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.39.3.c
PMID: 19771951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Minn Med. 2009 Aug;92(8):6.

Spotlight on social determinants was right on.

Cleary J.

PMID: 19772042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Minn Med. 2009 Aug;92(8):8.

A measure of hope.

Peota C.

PMID: 19772043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. BMC Bioinformatics. 2009 Sep 22;10:306. doi: 10.1186/1471-2105-10-306.

A methodology for the analysis of differential coexpression across the human 
lifespan.

Gillis J(1), Pavlidis P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. 
jesse.gillis@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Differential coexpression is a change in coexpression between genes 
that may reflect 'rewiring' of transcriptional networks. It has previously been 
hypothesized that such changes might be occurring over time in the lifespan of 
an organism. While both coexpression and differential expression of genes have 
been previously studied in life stage change or aging, differential coexpression 
has not. Generalizing differential coexpression analysis to many time points 
presents a methodological challenge. Here we introduce a method for analyzing 
changes in coexpression across multiple ordered groups (e.g., over time) and 
extensively test its validity and usefulness.
RESULTS: Our method is based on the use of the Haar basis set to efficiently 
represent changes in coexpression at multiple time scales, and thus represents a 
principled and generalizable extension of the idea of differential coexpression 
to life stage data. We used published microarray studies categorized by age to 
test the methodology. We validated the methodology by testing our ability to 
reconstruct Gene Ontology (GO) categories using our measure of differential 
coexpression and compared this result to using coexpression alone. Our method 
allows significant improvement in characterizing these groups of genes. Further, 
we examine the statistical properties of our measure of differential 
coexpression and establish that the results are significant both statistically 
and by an improvement in semantic similarity. In addition, we found that our 
method finds more significant changes in gene relationships compared to several 
other methods of expressing temporal relationships between genes, such as 
coexpression over time.
CONCLUSION: Differential coexpression over age generates significant and 
biologically relevant information about the genes producing it. Our Haar basis 
methodology for determining age-related differential coexpression performs 
better than other tested methods. The Haar basis set also lends itself to ready 
interpretation in terms of both evolutionary and physiological mechanisms of 
aging and can be seen as a natural generalization of two-category differential 
coexpression.
CONTACT: paul@bioinformatics.ubc.ca.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2105-10-306
PMCID: PMC2761903
PMID: 19772654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Ageing Res Rev. 2010 Jul;9(3):363-8. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2009.09.001. Epub
2009  Sep 17.

Recent molecular biological progress in Marfan syndrome and Marfan-associated 
disorders.

Gao LG(1), Luo F, Hui RT, Zhou XL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, FuWai Hospital and Cardiovascular Institute, 
Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, 167 
Beilishi Road, Beijing 100037, China.

Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a connective tissue disorder with autosomal dominant 
inheritance. Advances in medicine and surgery have increased the average 
lifespan of classically affected patients. Serious visual and/or musculoskeletal 
impairment often has detrimental effects on day-to-day activities and quality of 
life. MFS patients suffer from many problems at younger ages and with higher 
frequencies than the general population because of the degenerative nature of 
the genetic condition. In classical MFS, changes are caused by mutations in the 
fibrillin-1 gene (FBN1). Mutations in the fibrillin-2 gene were discovered in 
individuals with a phenotypically related disorder, congenital contractural 
arachnodactyly. Some of the clinical manifestations of MFS cannot be explained 
by mechanical properties alone. Recently, mutations in the genes required for 
transforming growth factor-beta signaling (TGFBR1 and TGFBR2) have been found in 
several disorders with varying degrees of overlap with classical MFS, including 
Loeys-Dietz syndrome and familial thoracic aortic aneurysms and dissections. MFS 
is a disorder that is variable in its phenotypic expression. Specific 
information about mutations in the large FBN1 gene will give rise to more 
information about the phenotype-genotype correlations. Possible molecular 
mechanisms for the pathogenesis of MFS will be discussed which may assist 
healthcare professionals to control environmental factors that provoke 
individual complications in MFS.

2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2009.09.001
PMID: 19772952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. BMJ. 2009 Sep 22;339:b3532. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3532.

Economic evaluation of arthritis self management in primary care.

Patel A(1), Buszewicz M, Beecham J, Griffin M, Rait G, Nazareth I, Atkinson A, 
Barlow J, Haines A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Economics of Mental Health, Institute of Psychiatry, King's 
College London, London SE5 8AF. anita.patel@iop.kcl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of a self management programme plus 
education booklet for arthritis in primary care.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness and cost utility analysis from health and social care 
and societal perspectives alongside a randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: 74 general practices in the United Kingdom.
PARTICIPANTS: 812 patients aged 50 or more with osteoarthritis of the hips or 
knees, or both, and pain or disability, or both.
INTERVENTIONS: Randomisation to either six sessions of an arthritis self 
management programme plus an education booklet (intervention group) or the 
education booklet alone (standard care control group).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Total health and social care costs and total societal 
costs at 12 months; cost effectiveness (incremental cost effectiveness ratios 
and cost effectiveness acceptability curves) on basis of quality of life (SF-36, 
primary outcome measure), EuroQol visual analogue scale, and quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: At 12 months health and social care costs in the intervention group 
were pound101 higher (95% confidence interval pound3 to pound176) than those in 
the control group because the additional costs of the arthritis self management 
programme did not seem to be fully offset by savings elsewhere. There were no 
significant differences in societal costs (which were up to 13 times the size of 
health and social care costs) or any of the outcomes. From the health and social 
care perspective the intervention was dominated by the control on the basis of 
QALYs (which were non-significantly lower in the intervention group) and had 
incremental cost effectiveness ratios between pound279 and pound13 473 for the 
other outcomes. From the societal perspective the intervention seemed superior 
to the control owing to non-significantly lower costs and non-significantly 
better outcomes on all measures except QALYs. Probabilities of the arthritis 
self management programme's cost effectiveness ranged between 12% and 97% (for 
thresholds ranging pound0 to pound1000) based on one point improvements in SF-36 
outcomes, but the clinical significance of this is debatable. Probabilities of 
cost effectiveness on the basis of the visual analogue scale and QALYs were low.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost effectiveness of an arthritis self management programme is not 
suggested on the basis of current National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence cost perspectives and QALY thresholds. The probability of cost 
effectiveness is greater when broader costs and other quality of life outcomes 
are considered. These results suggest that the cost effectiveness of the 
Department of Health's expert patients programme cannot be assumed across all 
clinical conditions and that further rigorous evaluations for other conditions 
may be needed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN79115352.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3532
PMCID: PMC2749163
PMID: 19773329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


524. Med Decis Making. 2010 May-Jun;30(3):314-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09344749.
Epub  2009 Sep 22.

The adoption of cost-effectiveness acceptability curves in cost-utility 
analyses.

Meckley LM(1), Greenberg D, Cohen JT, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts 
02111, USA. lmeckley@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves (CEACs) plot the probability 
that one health intervention is more cost-effective than alternatives, as a 
function of societal willingness to pay for additional units of health (e.g., 
life-years or quality-adjusted life-years gained).
OBJECTIVES: To quantify the adoption of CEACs in published cost-utility analyses 
(CUAs), and to identify factors associated with CEAC use.
METHODS: Data from the Tufts Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry 
(www.cearegistry.org), a database with detailed information on approximately 
1,400 CUAs published in the peer reviewed literature through 2006, was analyzed. 
The registry includes data on study origin, study methodology, reporting of 
results, whether CEACs were presented, and a subjective quality score. 
Univariate and multivariate logistic regression analyses were used to identify 
factors predicting CEAC use, from their introduction in 1994 through 2006.
RESULTS: Approximately 15% of CUAs published since 1994 present a CEAC. The use 
of CEACs has increased rapidly in recent years, from 2.1% of published CUAs in 
2001 to 32.6% in 2006 (P < 0.0001). The most significant predictors of CEAC use 
were study quality (odds ratio [OR]: 2.26; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.80, 
2.85), recent publication (OR: 1.99; 95% CI: 1.73, 2.29), and whether studies 
pertain to the UK (OR: 5.66; 95% CI: 3.67, 8.72) or Sweden (OR: 3.76; 95% CI: 
1.67, 8.44).
CONCLUSIONS: CEAC use is increasing in the published cost-effectiveness 
literature, especially in UK-based studies.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09344749
PMID: 19773582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2010 Feb;22(2):213-20. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283314e48.

Cost-effectiveness of the artificial liver support system MARS in patients with 
acute-on-chronic liver failure.

Hessel FP(1), Bramlage P, Wasem J, Mitzner SR.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Management, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen 
D-45127, Germany. franz.hessel@uni-due.de

BACKGROUND: For patients with an acute exacerbation of chronic liver failure 
(ACLF), the molecular adsorbent recirculating system (MARS) can result in a 
prolongation of life, but data on costs and cost-effectiveness are lacking.
METHODS: A health economic evaluation of a prospective controlled cohort trial 
in patients with ACLF not eligible for liver transplantation with 3 years 
follow-up and consecutive modelling of long-term costs, outcomes and 
cost-effectiveness was conducted. Costs were calculated from the perspective of 
the German health-care system.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty-nine patients with ACLF were included of which 67 
(44.9%) were treated with MARS and 82 (55.1%) assigned to the control group. 
Mean survival was 692 days in MARS-treated patients (33% survival after 3 years) 
and 453 days in control patients (15% after 3 years, logrank P = 0.022). MARS 
patients gained 0.66 [95% confidence interval (CI): -0.12 to 1.46] life years 
(LYs), determined by the bootstrap method. The mean cost difference was 19.835 
euro (95% CI: 13.308-25.429) with 35639 euro for MARS-treated patients and 15804 
euro for controls. Incremental costs per LY gained were 29.985 euro (95% CI: 
9.441-321.761) and 43.040 euro (95% CI: 13.551-461.856) per quality-adjusted LY 
gained.
CONCLUSION: There is an acceptable cost-effectiveness of MARS, compared with 
other medical technologies presently reimbursed. Randomized controlled trials 
with sufficient sample size are necessary before a final recommendation for MARS 
can be given.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e3283314e48
PMID: 19773666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. J Gastrointest Surg. 2010 Jan;14(1):82-7. doi: 10.1007/s11605-009-1036-y.
Epub  2009 Sep 23.

Evolution of surgical treatment of amebiasis-associated colon perforation.

Athié-Gutiérrez C(1), Rodea-Rosas H, Guízar-Bermúdez C, Alcántara A, 
Montalvo-Javé EE.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General, Hospital General de México, Secretaría de Salud 
(SSA), Mexico City, Mexico, drcesarathie@prodigy.net.mx.

BACKGROUND: Amebiasis is a worldwide health problem that mainly affects 
developing countries. Invasive amebiasis tends to develop complications, and 
among these, perforation of the colon, although infrequent (1.9-9.1%), is the 
most lethal. Surgical treatment in these cases should be carried out in a timely 
fashion prior to the presentation of systemic repercussions or death. In the 
present study, we analyzed a total of 122 cases of invasive amebiasis-associated 
colon perforation.
METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a clinical, retrospective, and 
observational study and presented cases of colonic perforation observed over the 
past 30 years at the Medical-Surgical Emergency Service of the Mexico City-based 
Hospital General de México OD during the 1970-1999 period.
RESULTS: During this time, a total of 19,916 emergency abdominal surgeries were 
performed. One hundred twenty-two of these procedures corresponded to cases of 
colon perforation by ameba, which represents 0.6%; 80 patients were men (65.6%) 
and 42 were women (34.4%), with an average age of 48 years. Multiple colon 
perforation was 74%, with right colon the most affected (90.5%). Depending on 
the perforation's extension and localization, right hemicolectomy with ileostomy 
were performed in 53 patients (43.45%), subtotal colectomy with ileostomy in 43 
(35.25%), left hemicolectomy with transverse colostomy in 12 (9.83%), 
exteriorization of perforated left colon (stoma) in 13 (10.65%), and primary 
closure with exteriorization in one patient (0.8%). Post-operative complications 
were present in 48 patients (39.3%), and 20 cases were related with the creation 
of a stoma. Eighteen of these cases were due to persistent abdominal sepsis and 
ten due to toxic colon; the latter correspond solely to patients with initial 
nonresective treatment. General mortality was 40%, with 32% (17 of 53 cases) of 
mortality in those submitted to right hemicolestomy, 16.7% (two of 12) of left 
hemicolestomy, 44.2% (19 of 43) in those in whom a subtotal colectomy was 
performed, with 76.9% (ten of 13) patients with exteriorization of the 
perforated right colon, and with 100% (one of one patient) mortality with 
primary closure.
CONCLUSIONS: Perforation is the most frequent surgical complication of invasive 
amebiasis of the colon, occurring principally in masculine gender and in the 
fourth decade of life. Resection and stoma creation is the procedure of choice 
that can resolve the septic focus from the first surgical procedure, depending 
on the general status of the patient. However, morbidity and mortality are high, 
and there is a tendency for these to be lower on comparing initial cases with 
those with recently conducted surgical procedures.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-009-1036-y
PMID: 19774426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Rev Neurol. 2009 Oct 1-15;49(7):369-75.

[Duchenne muscular dystrophy: current aspects and perspectives on treatment].

[Article in Spanish]

López-Hernández LB(1), Vázquez-Cárdenas NA, Luna-Padrón E.

Author information:
(1)División de Genética, Centro de Investigación Biomédica de Occidente, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, México DF, México. mones17@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT: Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a severe 
neuromuscular disease of genetic origin that affects male children. It is 
characterized by progressive muscle deterioration which results in the patient 
becoming wheelchair-dependent until death from cardio-respiratory complications. 
A few years ago, DMD patients' life quality and expectancy were poor and 
treatment options limited; valuable recommendations that significantly delay the 
progress of the disease and improve the patient's life quality have been brought 
about recently. Numerous therapeutic approaches are now in development in order 
to correct the DMD genetic defect at molecular level. In the mean time, a 
comprehensive system to maintain patients in their best possible physical 
condition is needed.
CONCLUSIONS: Accurate detection of complications enables caregivers to determine 
which patients are at higher risk and to provide treatment accordingly. 
Nevertheless, all of these efforts are dependent on early clinical and molecular 
diagnosis, careful record of clinical changes and long-term follow-up of DMD 
patients. Furthermore, the involvement of multidisciplinary groups and the 
patient's family is essential in said interventions.

PMID: 19774532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. BMC Health Serv Res. 2009 Sep 24;9:172. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-172.

Long-term care cost drivers and expenditure projection to 2036 in Hong Kong.

Chung RY(1), Tin KY, Cowling BJ, Chan KP, Chan WM, Lo SV, Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong SAR, PR China. rychung@hkusua.hku.hk

BACKGROUND: Hong Kong's rapidly ageing population, characterised by one of the 
longest life expectancies and the lowest fertility rate in the world, is likely 
to drive long-term care (LTC) expenditure higher. This study aims to identify 
key cost drivers and derive quantitative estimates of Hong Kong's LTC 
expenditure to 2036.
METHODS: We parameterised a macro actuarial simulation with data from official 
demographic projections, Thematic Household Survey 2004, Hong Kong's Domestic 
Health Accounts and other routine data from relevant government departments, 
Hospital Authority and other LTC service providers. Base case results were 
tested against a wide range of sensitivity assumptions.
RESULTS: Total projected LTC expenditure as a proportion of GDP reflected 
secular trends in the elderly dependency ratio, showing a shallow dip between 
2004 and 2011, but thereafter yielding a monotonic rise to reach 3.0% by 2036. 
Demographic changes would have a larger impact than changes in unit costs on 
overall spending. Different sensitivity scenarios resulted in a wide range of 
spending estimates from 2.2% to 4.9% of GDP. The availability of informal care 
and the setting of formal care as well as associated unit costs were important 
drivers of expenditure.
CONCLUSION: The "demographic window" between the present and 2011 is critical in 
developing policies to cope with the anticipated burgeoning LTC burden, in 
concert with the related issues of health care financing and retirement 
planning.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-9-172
PMCID: PMC2765433
PMID: 19775476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Cardiol Young. 2009 Dec;19(6):641-3. doi: 10.1017/S1047951109991120. Epub
2009  Sep 24.

Replacement of the aortic valve in a patient with mucolipidosis III.

Cripe LH(1), Ware SM, Hinton RB.

Author information:
(1)The Heart Institute, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center and The 
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine, Cincinnati, Ohio.

We report replacement of the aortic valve in a patient aged 9 years with 
mucolipidosis III and severe aortic insufficiency. Histopathology demonstrated 
abnormalities of the matrix and lysosomal inclusion bodies. As life expectancy 
increases for patients with lysosomal storage disorders, approaches to 
intervention for valvar disease become increasingly important.

DOI: 10.1017/S1047951109991120
PMID: 19775498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Enferm Intensiva. 2009 Jul-Sep;20(3):104-9. doi:
10.1016/s1130-2399(09)72590-8.

[The nursing profession regarding limitation of life support treatment in the 
intensive care units. Technical and practical features].

[Article in Spanish]

Falcó-Pegueroles A(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Enfermería Fundamental y Médico-quirúrgica, Escuela de 
Enfermería, Universitat de Barcelona, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, 
España. annafalco@ub.edu

The scientific and technical developments in medicine in the recent decades have 
greatly helped to increase life expectancy and quality of life of many patients. 
In hospitals, this technological scenario has clearly influenced patient care, 
for example, in the Intensive Medicine Departments, leading to new clinical 
perspectives and has made the growing complexity of giving treatment and making 
decisions more evident. In some cases, it is difficult to predict how beneficial 
intensive medical care can be when there is no reasonable prospect of improving 
the patient's health, prolonging their life in situations with poor prognosis or 
dramatically reducing their quality of life. The clinical diagnosis of 
irreversibility, through indicators of severity and principles of beneficence, 
autonomy and justice in the professional conduct are the elements that give rise 
to the consideration of withholding and withdrawing treatment in the critical 
patient. However, there are other factors that need to be taken into 
consideration and that are analyzed by professional ethics and bioethics. It is 
from this approach that any decision involving withholding and withdrawing 
treatment should be taken so that these decisions can be considered estimable 
form an ethical point of view. The nursing professional in intensive care units 
is expected to actively participate in decision making by contributing with 
their humanizing vision and care ethics. They should be aware of their 
contribution in the medical team behaving, representing and encouraging the 
requirements of bioethics.

DOI: 10.1016/s1130-2399(09)72590-8
PMID: 19775567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Health Policy. 2010 Jan;94(1):84-9. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.007.
Epub  2009 Sep 22.

Difference in lifetime medical expenditures between male smokers and 
non-smokers.

Hayashida K(1), Imanaka Y, Murakami G, Takahashi Y, Nagai M, Kuriyama S, Tsuji 
I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthcare Economics and Quality Management, School of Public 
Health, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Yoshida Konoe-cho, 
Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, Japan.

OBJECTIVES: It is controversial whether smokers have higher lifetime medical 
expenditures than non-smokers, because smokers have high annual medical 
expenditures but comparatively short lives. We examined differences in lifetime 
medical expenditures between them.
METHODS: We constructed life tables for male smokers and non-smokers from 40 
years of age. We calculated average annual medical expenditures of them 
categorized by survivors and deceased, which were used to examine differences in 
lifetime medical expenditures between them and perform sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Smokers had a higher mortality rate, shorter life expectancy, and 
generally higher annual medical expenditures than non-smokers. We also observed 
tendencies for smokers to have higher inpatient expenditures, but non-smokers to 
have higher outpatient expenditures. Although non-smokers had lower long-term 
cumulative medical expenditures between 64 and 81 years of age, their lifetime 
medical expenditures were higher by a minimal amount. Sensitivity analyses did 
not change this result.
CONCLUSIONS: Smoking may not cause increases in lifetime medical expenditures 
because smokers had lower lifetime medical expenditures than non-smokers. 
However, it was clear that smokers, especially survivors, often had higher 
annual medical expenditures than non-smokers. The importance of tobacco control 
is still relevant.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2009.08.007
PMID: 19775772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2009 Nov;38(5):785-96. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2009.03.006. Epub 2009 Sep 23.

Associations between physical activity and quality of life in cancer patients 
receiving palliative care: a pilot survey.

Lowe SS(1), Watanabe SM, Baracos VE, Courneya KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Symptom Control and Palliative Care, Cross Cancer Institute, 
Alberta, Canada. sonyalow@cancerboard.ab.ca

The primary aim of this study was to examine the association between physical 
activity and quality of life (QoL) in cancer patients receiving palliative care. 
Fifty advanced cancer patients aged 18 years or older with clinician-estimated 
life expectancy of 3-12 months and Palliative Performance Status Scale scores 
greater than 30% were recruited from an outpatient palliative care clinic and 
palliative home care. Participants completed a cross-sectional survey by means 
of face-to-face interview assessing self-reported QoL (McGill Quality of Life 
Questionnaire [MQOL]), self-reported physical function (Late-Life Function and 
Disability Instrument), symptoms (Edmonton Symptom Assessment System), and 
physical activity behavior. Seventy-six percent (38 of 50) of the participants 
were deceased at the time of data analysis, with a median survival of 104 days 
from time of survey to time of death. Walking was the most common reported 
physical activity. Analyses of variance indicated that participants who reported 
walking more than 30 minutes per day also reported higher existential subscores 
(+/-0.8 [95% CI, 0.0-1.5]; P=0.045), support subscores (+/-0.7 [95% CI, 
0.1-1.4]; P=0.027), and total scores (+/-0.5 [95% CI, 0.0-0.9]; P=0.046) on the 
MQOL. There were no significant differences for self-reported physical function 
or symptoms. Our findings show a significant positive association between 
physical activity and QoL scores in this sample of patients with advanced 
cancer. A pilot intervention trial testing the causal effects of physical 
activity on QoL in cancer patients receiving palliative care is warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2009.03.006
PMID: 19775864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Br Med Bull. 2009;92:7-32. doi: 10.1093/bmb/ldp028.

Global and regional causes of death.

Mathers CD(1), Boerma T, Ma Fat D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics and Informatics, World Health Organization, 
1211 Geneva, Switzerland. mathersc@who.int

BACKGROUND: Assessing the causes of death across all regions of the world 
requires a framework for integrating, and analysing, the fragmentary information 
that is available on numbers of deaths and their cause distributions. This paper 
provides an overview of the met and methods used by the World Health 
Organization to develop global-, regional- and country-level estimates of 
mortality for a comprehensive set of causes, and provides an overview of global 
and regional levels and patterns of causes of death for the year 2004. The paper 
also examines some of the data gaps, uncertainties and limitations in the 
resulting mortality estimates.
SOURCES OF DATA: Deaths for 136 disease and injury causes were estimated from 
available death registration data (111 countries), sample death registration 
data (India and China), and for the remaining countries from census and survey 
information, and cause-of-death models. Population-based epidemiological studies 
and notifications systems also contributed to estimating mortality for 21 of 
these causes (representing 28% of deaths globally, 58% in Africa).
AREAS OF AGREEMENT: Ischaemic heart disease and cerebrovascular disease are the 
leading causes of death, followed by lower respiratory infections, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease and diarrhoeal diseases. AIDS and TB are the sixth 
and seventh most common causes of death, respectively, lower than in previous 
estimates. One-half of all child deaths are from four preventable and treatable 
communicable diseases. Globally, around 6 in 10 deaths are from non-communicable 
diseases, 3 from communicable diseases and 1 from injuries. Injury mortality is 
highest in South-East Asia, Latin America and the Eastern Mediterranean region. 
These results illustrate continuing huge disparities in risks and causes of 
death across the world.
AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: Global mortality analyses of the type reported here have 
been criticized for making estimates of mortality for regions with limited, 
incomplete and uncertain data. Estimates presented here use a range of 
techniques depending on the type and quality of evidence. Better evidence on 
levels of adult mortality is needed for African countries.
GROWING POINTS: Considerable gaps and deficiencies remain in the information 
available on causes of death. Nine of 10 deaths in 2004 occurred in low- and 
middle-income countries, reinforcing the fundamental importance of improving 
mortality statistics as a measure of health status in the developing world. 
Acknowledging the controversies around use of incomplete and uncertain data, 
systematic assessments and synthesis of the available evidence will continue to 
provide important inputs for global health planning.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: Innovative methods involving sample 
registration, and the use of verbal autopsy questionnaires in surveys, are 
needed to address these gaps. Research on strategies to improve comparability of 
cause-of-death certification and coding practices across countries is also a 
high priority.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/ldp028
PMID: 19776034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

