trends. Life expectancy increased in 2006 from 2005.

PMID: 19788058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Bioethics. 2009 Nov;23(9):497-502. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2009.01759.x.

How to connect bioethics and environmental ethics: health, sustainability, and 
justice.

Dwyer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Bioethics and Humanities, SUNY Upstate Medical University, 
Syracuse, New York 13210, USA. dwyerja@upstate.edu

In this paper, I explore one way to bring bioethics and environmental ethics 
closer together. I focus on a question at the interface of health, 
sustainability, and justice: How well does a society promote health with the use 
of no more than a just share of environmental capacity? To address this 
question, I propose and discuss a mode of assessment that combines a measurement 
of population health, an estimate of environmental sustainability, and an 
assumption about what constitutes a fair or just share. This mode of assessment 
provides an estimate of the just and sustainable life expectancy of a 
population. It could be used to monitor how well a particular society promotes 
health within just environmental limits. It could also serve as a source of 
information that stakeholders use when they deliberate about programs, policies, 
and technologies. The purpose of this work is to focus attention on an ethical 
task: the need to fashion institutions and forms of life that promote health in 
ways that recognize the claims of sustainability and justice.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-8519.2009.01759.x
PMID: 19788647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Clin Cornerstone. 2009;9(4):55-68; discussion 69-71. doi: 
10.1016/s1098-3597(09)80005-7.

Treatment of overweight and obesity: lifestyle, pharmacologic, and surgical 
options.

Cannon CP(1), Kumar A.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School Cardiovascular Division Brigham and Women's Hospital 
Boston, Massachusetts, USA. cpcannon@partners.org

Recent statistics indicate that overweight and obesity have become an 
increasingly serious clinical and socioeconomic problem worldwide, and one of 
the greatest public health challenges of our time. In the United States, 133.6 
million (66%) adults are overweight or obese (body mass index [BMI] >/=25 
kg/m(2)), with 63.3 million (31.4%) considered to be obese (BMI >/=30 kg/m(2)). 
The International Obesity Task Force estimates that worldwide at least 1.1 
billion adults are overweight, including 312 million who are obese. Overweight 
and obese patients are at an increased risk for developing numerous 
cardiometabolic complications, including hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, 
dyslipidemia, and cardiovascular diseases, as well as conditions such as 
osteoarthritis, obstructive sleep apnea, hepatobiliary diseases, and certain 
types of cancers. Owing to the major health risks and complications associated 
with obesity, which negatively affect quality of life and reduce average life 
expectancy, in addition to placing an enormous burden on health care resources, 
the treatment of overweight and obesity is a public health imperative. Treatment 
must begin with long-term lifestyle changes, including increased physical 
activity and dietary modifications. For overweight and obese individuals for 
whom lifestyle changes alone are insufficient, pharmacotherapy may be added. 
However, patients who choose adjunctive pharmacotherapy should be advised of the 
risks and benefits of drug therapy, the lack of long-term safety data, and the 
temporary and modest nature of the weight loss that can be achieved with these 
agents. Bariatric surgery is an effective treatment option for morbidly obese 
patients or obese patients with multiple comorbidities who have not been 
successful in achieving sufficient weight loss with nonsurgical approaches. 
However, appropriate candidates for bariatric surgery must also be committed to 
long-term lifestyle changes.

DOI: 10.1016/s1098-3597(09)80005-7
PMID: 19789064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. IEEE Trans Biomed Eng. 2010 Feb;57(2):469-78. doi:
10.1109/TBME.2009.2032162.  Epub 2009 Sep 29.

Nonstationary brain source separation for multiclass motor imagery.

Gouy-Pailler C(1), Congedo M, Brunner C, Jutten C, Pfurtscheller G.

Author information:
(1)Department Images-Signal, Grenoble Images, Speech, Signal and Control 
Laboratory, Grenoble 38031, France. cedric.gouypailler@gmail.com

This paper describes a method to recover task-related brain sources in the 
context of multiclass brain--computer interfaces (BCIs) based on noninvasive 
EEG. We extend the method joint approximate diagonalization (JAD) for spatial 
filtering using a maximum likelihood framework. This generic formulation: 1) 
bridges the gap between the common spatial patterns (CSPs) and blind source 
separation of nonstationary sources; and 2) leads to a neurophysiologically 
adapted version of JAD, accounting for the successive activations/deactivations 
of brain sources during motor imagery (MI) trials. Using dataset 2a of BCI 
Competition IV (2008) in which nine subjects were involved in a four-class 
two-session MI-based BCI experiment, a quantitative evaluation of our extension 
is provided by comparing its performance against JAD and CSP in the case of 
cross-validation, as well as session-to-session transfer. While JAD, as already 
proposed in other works, does not prove to be significantly better than 
classical one-versus-rest CSP, our extension is shown to perform significantly 
better than CSP for cross-validated and session-to-session performance. The 
extension of JAD introduced in this paper yields among the best 
session-to-session transfer results presented so far for this particular 
dataset; thus, it appears to be of great interest for real-life BCIs.

DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2009.2032162
PMID: 19789106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Acta Microbiol Immunol Hung. 2009 Sep;56(3):199-210. doi: 
10.1556/AMicr.56.2009.3.1.

Immunosenescence and vaccination of the elderly, I. Age-related immune 
impairment.

Ongrádi J(1), Stercz B, Kövesdi V, Vértes L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Semmelweis University, Budapest Hungary. 
ongjos@hotmail.com

The sharp increase of life expectancy and the increasing ratio of ageing 
population pose new challenges for the public health system. The elderly suffer 
from more frequent and severe infections than young people. Theoretically, 
vaccination could protect the elderly against several infectious diseases, but 
due to their age-related immune impairment, vaccination might fail in many 
cases. Instead of ineffective vaccination campaigns, exploration and restoration 
of age-dependent dysregulation of their immune functions have to be placed into 
the focus of recent research. Frequent comorbidities in these people augment 
immune defects. Immunosenescence affects both the innate and adaptive immunity. 
Disturbances in macrophage-derived cytokine release and reduction of the natural 
killer cell mediated cytotoxicity lead to increased frequency of respiratory, 
gastrointestinal and skin infections. Although the humoral immunity retains most 
of its original activity through life span, ageing dampens the ability of B 
cells to produce antibodies against novel antigens. Age-related declination of 
the cellular immunity is the consequence of thymic atrophy, reduced output of 
new T lymphocytes, accumulation of anergic memory cells, deficiencies in the 
cytokine production and uncertain antigen presentation. Persistent infection by 
different herpesviruses and other parasites contribute to the loss of 
immunosurveillance and premature exhaustion of T cells.

DOI: 10.1556/AMicr.56.2009.3.1
PMID: 19789136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Arh Hig Rada Toksikol. 2009 Sep;60(3):375-86. doi: 
10.2478/10004-1254-60-2009-1928.

[Human lifespan: to live and outlive 100 years?].

[Article in Croatian]

Roksandić ST(1), Zuskin E, Duraković Z, Smolej-Narancić N, Mustajbegović J, 
Pucarin-Cvetković J, Duraković MM, Jelinić JD, Turcić N, Milosević M.

Author information:
(1)Centar za gerontologiju Zavoda za javno zdravstvo Dr. Andrija Stampar, 
Zagreb, Hrvatska. gerontologija@stampar.hr

Aged population dominates in developed countries. Centenarians are a select 
group, and only one in 7,000 to 10,000 reach that age. Factors of longevity are 
numerous and include genetic predisposition (a locus on chromosome 4), 
environment, healthy lifestyle (hypocaloric diet, regular physical and mental 
exercise), accessible health services, and efficient health protection at old 
age. Centenarians are well adapted to the new life and compensate for the loss 
of functions with age. The limits of human life are extended, so that nowadays 
the oldest person has reached the age of 128. Some geographic areas are 
characterised by higher numbers of centenarians. This article mentions a few 
individuals who outlived 100 years in the world, Croatia, and neighbouring 
countries. Although some argue that the limits of human life cannot be extended 
over the age of 120 years, for now we cannot predict the actual limits of human 
life.

DOI: 10.2478/10004-1254-60-2009-1928
PMID: 19789168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2009 Oct;18(10):2677-84. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-09-0153. Epub 2009 Sep 29.

Cost-effectiveness of prophylactic surgery for duodenal cancer in familial 
adenomatous polyposis.

Greenblatt WH(1), Hur C, Knudsen AB, Evans JA, Chung DC, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Duodenal cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in familial 
adenomatous polyposis after colorectal cancer. The lifetime risk for developing 
duodenal cancer is 4% to 10%. Current treatment guidelines recommend endoscopic 
surveillance with a prophylactic pancreaticoduodenectomy in advanced duodenal 
polyposis, defined using the Spigelman staging system. Because no clinical 
trials have assessed this recommendation, a modeling approach was used to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of various treatment strategies.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to estimate the life expectancy and cost 
of three different strategies: pancreaticoduodenectomy at Spigelman stage III, 
pancreaticoduodenectomy at Spigelman stage IV, and pancreaticoduodenectomy at 
cancer diagnosis. A cohort of 30-year-old familial adenomatous polyposis 
patients with total colectomies was simulated until age 80. The analysis was 
from a societal perspective. Extensive sensitivity analysis was performed to 
assess the impact of model uncertainty on results.
RESULTS: At all stages of polyposis and all ages <80 years, prophylactic surgery 
at Spigelman stage IV resulted in the greatest life expectancy. Surgery at stage 
IV was more effective and more expensive than surgery at cancer diagnosis, with 
an incremental cost of $3,200 per quality-adjusted life year gained. Surgery at 
stage III was not a viable option. The results were robust to wide variation in 
model parameters but were sensitive to the post-pancreaticoduodenectomy quality 
of life score.
CONCLUSIONS: Prophylactic pancreaticoduodenectomy at stage IV duodenal polyposis 
in familial adenomatous polyposis is a cost-effective approach that results in 
greater life expectancy than surgery at either stage III or cancer diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-09-0153
PMCID: PMC2759853
PMID: 19789369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Neth Heart J. 2009 Jun;17(6):232-7. doi: 10.1007/BF03086253.

Cardiac assessment of patients with late stage Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

van Bockel EA(1), Lind JS, Zijlstra JG, Wijkstra PJ, Meijer PM, van den Berg MP, 
Slart RH, Aarts LP, Tulleken JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.

Background. Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) patients used to die mainly from 
pulmonary problems. However, as advances in respiratory care increase life 
expectancy, mortality due to cardiomyopathy rises. Echocardiography remains the 
standard diagnostic modality for cardiomyopathy in DMD patients, but is hampered 
by scoliosis and poor echocardiographic acoustic windows in adult DMD patients. 
Multigated cardiac radionuclide ventriculography (MUGA) does not suffer from 
these limitations. N-terminal proBNP (NTproBNP) has shown to be a diagnostic 
factor for heart failure. We present our initial experience with plasma 
NT-proBNP measurement in the routine screening and diagnosis of cardiomyopathy 
in adult mechanically ventilated DMD patients.Methods. Retrospective study, 13 
patients. Echocardiography classified left ventricular (LV) function as 
preserved or depressed. NT-proBNP was determined using immunoassay. LV ejection 
fraction (LVEF) was determined using MUGA.Results. Median (range) NT-proBNP was 
73 (25 to 463) ng/l. Six patients had an NT-proBNP >125 ng/l. Seven patients 
showed an LVEF <45% on MUGA. DMD patients with depressed LV function (n=4) as 
assessed by echocardiography had significantly higher median NT-proBNP than 
those (n=9) with preserved LV function: 346 (266 to 463) ng/l versus 69 (25 to 
257) ng/l (p=0.003). NT-proBNP significantly correlated with depressed LV 
function on echocardiogram and with LVEF determined by MUGA.Conclusion. Although 
image quality of MUGA is superior to echocardiography, the combination of 
echocardiography and NT-proBNP achieves similar results in the evaluation of 
left ventricular function and is less time consuming and burdensome for our 
patients. We advise to add NT-proBNP to echocardiography in the routine cardiac 
assessment of DMD patients. (Neth Heart J 2009;17:232-7.).

DOI: 10.1007/BF03086253
PMCID: PMC2711248
PMID: 19789685


570. Intern Emerg Med. 2010 Jun;5(3):177-84. doi: 10.1007/s11739-009-0319-3. Epub
 2009 Sep 30.

Insights into the pathogenesis and management of thrombosis in polycythemia vera 
and essential thrombocythemia.

Vannucchi AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Unità Funzionale di Ematologia, Dipartimento di Area Critica, Università 
degli Studi, Florence, Italy. amvannucchi@unifi.it

The classic myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) include polycythemia vera and 
essential thrombocythemia; their molecular basis has been described only 
recently with the demonstration of recurrent mutations in JAK2 or MPL. While 
life expectancy may not be significantly shortened, arterial and venous 
thrombosis constitute the major causes of morbidity and mortality, together with 
disease evolution to myelofibrosis or transformation to acute leukemia. Therapy 
is currently aimed at reducing the rate of thrombosis without increasing the 
risk of hematologic transformation by inappropriate exposure to cytotoxic drugs. 
Nevertheless, the mechanism(s) finally responsible for the increased thrombotic 
tendency have not been clearly elucidated, although risk factors for thrombosis 
have been identified, and are currently employed for stratifying patients to the 
most appropriate therapeutic options. Abnormalities of blood cells, activation 
of neutrophils and platelets, and a hypercoagulability state, can all act in 
conjunction to lead to thrombosis. Intriguing data also point to the JAK2V617F 
mutation as both a marker and a mechanism for thrombosis. Better knowledge in 
the pathophysiology of these disorders, and the introduction of molecularly 
targeted drugs in clinical trials, anticipate the possibility of more specific 
and efficacious treatment of classic MPN, particularly as concerns the reduction 
of risk associated with vascular events.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-009-0319-3
PMID: 19789961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Cytotechnology. 2009 Jul;60(1-3):125-32. doi: 10.1007/s10616-009-9226-8.
Epub  2009 Sep 30.

Liquiritin potentiate neurite outgrowth induced by nerve growth factor in PC12 
cells.

Chen ZA(1), Wang JL, Liu RT, Ren JP, Wen LQ, Chen XJ, Bian GX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Medical College, Yanbian University, 13300, 
Yanji, Jilin Province, People's Republic of China.

Neurite outgrowth and neuronal differentiation play a crucial role in the 
development of the nervous system. Understanding of neurotrophins induced 
neurite outgrowth was important to develop therapeutic strategy for axon 
regeneration in neurodegenerative diseases as well as after various nerve 
injuries. It has been reported that extension of neurite and differentiation of 
sympathetic neuron-like phenotype was modulated by nerve growth factor (NGF) in 
PC12 cells. In this study, NGF mediated neurite outgrowth was investigated in 
PC12 cells after liquiritin exposure. Liquiritin is a kind of flavonoids that is 
extracted from Glycyrrhizae radix, which is frequently used to treat injury or 
swelling for its life-enhancing properties as well as detoxification in 
traditional Oriental medicine. The result showed that liquiritin significantly 
promotes the neurite outgrowth stimulated by NGF in PC12 cells in dose dependant 
manners whereas the liquiritin alone did not induce neurite outgrowth. Oligo 
microarray and RT-PCR analysis further clarified that the neurotrophic effect of 
liquiritin was related to the overexpression of neural related genes such as 
neurogenin 3, neurofibromatosis 1, notch gene homolog 2, neuromedin U receptor 2 
and neurotrophin 5. Thus, liquiritin may be a good candidate for treatment of 
various neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease or Parkinson's 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10616-009-9226-8
PMCID: PMC2780551
PMID: 19789989


572. Environ Entomol. 2009 Feb;38(1):2-10. doi: 10.1603/022.038.0102.

Mortality risk in insects.

Peterson RK(1), Davis RS, Higley LG, Fernandes OA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Land Resources and Environmental Sciences, Montana State 
University, 334 Leon Johnson Hall, Bozeman, MT 59717-3120, USA. 
bpeterson@montana.edu

Comment in
    Environ Entomol. 2011 Dec;40(6):1341-4; author reply 1344.

Understanding how and why insect numbers fluctuate through time and space has 
been a central theme in ecological research for more than a century. Life tables 
have been used to understand temporal and spatial patterns in insect numbers. In 
this study, we estimated cause-of-death probabilities for phytophagous insects 
using multiple decrement life tables and the irreplaceable mortality analytic 
technique. Multiple decrement life tables were created from 73 insect life 
tables published from 1954 to 2004. Irreplaceable mortality (the portion of 
mortality that cannot be replaced by another cause) from pathogens, predators, 
and parasitoids was 8.6 +/- 7.2, 7.8 +/- 4.9, and 6.2 +/- 1.6%, respectively. In 
contrast, the mean irreplaceable mortality from all non-natural enemy mortality 
factors (mortality from factors other than natural enemies) was 35.1 +/- 4.4%. 
Irreplaceable mortality from natural enemies was significantly lower compared 
with non-natural enemy factors. Our results may partially explain cases of 
unsuccessful efficacy in classical biological control, after successful 
establishment, by showing low irreplaceable mortality for natural enemies, 
including 5.2 +/- 1.6% for introduced natural enemies. We suggest that the 
environment (i.e., the degree of environmental stability) influences the 
magnitude of the irreplaceable mortality from natural enemies. Our results lead 
to several testable hypotheses and emphasize that it is not possible to estimate 
the effect of any mortality factor without considering its interaction with 
competing mortality factors, which has far-reaching consequences for population 
biology and applied ecology.

DOI: 10.1603/022.038.0102
PMID: 19791592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. J Thromb Haemost. 2009 Dec;7(12):2028-34. doi:
10.1111/j.1538-7836.2009.03629.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 28.

Comparison of the clinical history of symptomatic isolated distal deep-vein 
thrombosis vs. proximal deep vein thrombosis in 11 086 patients.

Galanaud JP(1), Quenet S, Rivron-Guillot K, Quere I, Sanchez Muñoz-Torrero JF, 
Tolosa C, Monreal M; RIETE INVESTIGATORS.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Medicine Unit, University Hospital, Montpellier, France. 
jp-galanaud@chu-montpellier.fr

BACKGROUND: The clinical significance of symptomatic isolated distal deep vein 
thrombosis (DVT) is uncertain. Consequently, this leads to important disparities 
in its management.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the clinical history of isolated distal DVT and to compare 
it with that of proximal DVT.
METHODS: Using data from the international, prospective, RIETE registry on 
patients with confirmed symptomatic venous thromboembolism (VTE), we compared 
the risk factors and 3-month outcome in patients with isolated distal DVT vs. 
proximal DVT.
RESULTS: Eleven thousand and eighty-six patients with symptomatic DVT, but 
without pulmonary embolism, were included between 2001 and 2008; 1921 (17.3%) 
exhibited isolated distal DVT. Anticoagulant treatment was received by 89.1% 
(1680/1885) of isolated distal DVT and 91.8% (7911/8613) of proximal DVT 
patients for the entire follow-up period. Isolated distal DVTs were more 
associated with transient risk factors (i.e. recent travel, hospitalization, 
recent surgery), whereas proximal DVTs were more associated with chronic states 
(i.e. > or =75 years or with active cancer). At 3 months, major bleeding rate 
was lower in patients with isolated distal DVT (1.0% vs. 2.2%, P < 0.01), 
whereas VTE recurrence rate was equivalent (2.0% vs. 2.7%, P = 0.07). The 
mortality rate was lower in patients with isolated distal DVT (2.7% vs. 7.5%; P 
< 0.001); this was mainly due to a lower rate of non-VTE-related deaths (2.2% 
vs. 6.3%; P < 0.001). Active cancer was the main predictive factor of death in 
patients with isolated distal DVT.
CONCLUSIONS: Proximal and isolated distal DVT patients differ in terms of risk 
factors and clinical outcomes, suggesting different populations. In the short 
term, the life expectancy of patients with isolated distal DVT depended chiefly 
on their cancer status.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1538-7836.2009.03629.x
PMID: 19793188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Trials. 2009 Sep 30;10:92. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-92.

The third symptom management research trial in oncology (SMaRT oncology-3): a 
randomised trial to determine the efficacy of adding a complex intervention for 
major depressive disorder (depression care for people with lung cancer) to usual 
care, compared to usual care alone in patients with lung cancer.

Walker J(1), Cassidy J, Sharpe M; SMaRT Oncology-3 Trialists.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK, The University of Edinburgh Cancer Research Centre, 
Western General Hospital, Crewe Road, Edinburgh, UK. jane.walker@ed.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Depression Care for People with Lung Cancer is a complex 
intervention delivered by specially trained cancer nurses, under the supervision 
of a psychiatrist. It is given as a supplement to the usual care for depression, 
which patients receive from their general practitioner and cancer service. The 
third Symptom Management Research Trial in Oncology (SMaRT Oncology-3 Trial) 
will test its efficacy when compared to usual care alone.
DESIGN: A two arm parallel group multi-centre randomised controlled trial. 200 
patients will be recruited through established systematic Symptom Monitoring 
Services, which screen patients for depression. Patients will have: a diagnosis 
of lung cancer; an estimated life expectancy of three months or more and a 
diagnosis of Major Depressive Disorder. Patients will be randomised to usual 
care or usual care plus Depression Care for People with Lung Cancer. 
Randomisation will be carried out by telephoning a secure computerised central 
randomisation system or by using a secure web interface. The primary outcome 
measure is average depression severity. This will be assessed using scores on 
the 20-item Symptom Hopkins Checklist (SCL-20D), collected every four weeks over 
32 weeks. Secondary outcomes include severity of anxiety, pain and fatigue; 
self-rated improvement of depression; quality of life and satisfaction with 
depression care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current controlled trials ISRCTN75905964.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-92
PMCID: PMC2761912
PMID: 19793390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2009 Oct;13(10):1238-46.

Global tuberculosis trends: a reflection of changes in tuberculosis control or 
in population health?

Oxlade O(1), Schwartzman K, Behr MA, Benedetti A, Pai M, Heymann J, Menzies D.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory Epidemiology & Clinical Research Unit, Montreal Chest Institute, 
McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Many international organizations are advocating for new funds for 
tuberculosis (TB) specific interventions. Although this approach should help 
reduce TB incidence, improvements in population health may also be important. We 
have analyzed the association between changes in population health and health 
service indicators, and concomitant changes in TB incidence between 1990 and 
2005.
METHODS: Country level data on population health and health services, economic 
and epidemiologic indicators were obtained for 165 countries. Regression methods 
were used to estimate the association of changes in potential predictors with 
changes in TB incidence.
RESULTS: Improvements in population health and health services are associated 
with improvements in TB outcomes. In adjusted analyses, each 1 year increase in 
life expectancy was associated with a 7.8/100,000 decline in TB incidence. A 
1/1000 decrease in mortality rate in children aged <5 years and a 1% increase in 
measles vaccination coverage (serving as a general health services indicator) 
was associated with approximately a 1/100,000 decrease in TB incidence. In 
countries with a lower prevalence of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infection, a 1% increase in TB treatment success rate was also associated with a 
1/100,000 decrease in incidence.
CONCLUSION: Investment in improving population health and health services may be 
as important as targeted strategies for controlling TB.

PMID: 19793428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Magy Onkol. 2009 Sep;53(3):279-83. doi: 10.1556/MOnkol.53.2009.3.8.

[Detection of ototoxic effect of cisplatin with otoacoustic emission in 
testicular cancer patients].

[Article in Hungarian]

Biró K(1).

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem Patológiai Tudományok Doktori Iskola, Budapest. 
birok@oncol.hu

The aim of the research was to detect the acute and long-term ototoxic effect of 
cisplatin in testicular cancer patients, using OAE (otoacoustic emission), a 
highly sensitive new objective method, for detecting medication-related hearing 
loss. Secondary objective was to evaluate the risk factors that contribute to 
hearing loss. In the study for acute hearing loss ten males with different 
histological types of testicular germ cell tumor were examined with TOAE 
(transiently evoked otoacoustic emission), before the 1st and after the 5th day 
of their 1st cycle of cytostatic therapy. Patients received 100 mg/m 2 cisplatin 
per cycle (20 mg/m 2 for five days). Ten age-matched healthy volunteers of good 
hearing and without treatment were also examined with the same method. Wilcoxon 
and paired t-tests were used for statistical evaluation. In this acute phase 
study no differences were found either in otological physiological examination, 
in conventional audiometry, or in tympanometry. There were no statistically 
significant differences in amplitude either before and after therapy, or between 
patient and control group. No patient complained of hearing loss or tinnitus. In 
the long-term hearing loss study 223 cured patients were assessed by DPOAE 
(distorsion product otoacoustic emission). Patients received 100 mg/m 2 
cisplatin per cycle, in EP, BEP, VeIP, VIP or VPB regimens. The control group 
consisted of 40 testicular cancer patients without chemotherapy. A detailed 
medical history of the patient and his family evaluated audiological risk 
factors and hearing complaints. Before DPOAE, otoscopic examination and 
tympanometry tests were used to exclude any conductive component. DPOAE was 
measured in eight frequencies from 750 to 8,000 Hz. Paired t-test, Mann-Whitney 
test and stepwise discriminant analysis were used for statistical evaluation. 
Symptomatic ototoxicity was observed in 20% of the patients. In patients 
receiving < or =300 mg/m 2 cisplatin, no amplitude changes were detected. Beyond 
this dose, hearing impairment proved to be dose-dependent. Contrary to the 
literature, not only high frequencies were affected. In patients receiving > or 
=400 mg/m 2 , our method could also detect significant hearing impairment at 
lower frequencies that are important for speech perception (1000-3000 Hz). The 
lowest amplitudes were detected in those patients who had symptomatic 
ototoxicity. The only statistically significant risk factors were the cumulative 
dose of cisplatin and age; neither smoking nor previous noise exposure proved to 
be risk factors. As the life expectancy of testicular cancer patients matches in 
most cases the life expectancy of healthy males, studying long-term side effects 
is of great importance. OAE is a fast, noninvasive and reliable method in 
detecting ototoxicity in testicular cancer patients. Cisplatin dose regimens 
should be reduced to the minimum required for cure, based on a risk-adapted 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1556/MOnkol.53.2009.3.8
PMID: 19793694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Int J Surg Pathol. 2010 Aug;18(4):248-54. doi: 10.1177/1066896909346272.
Epub  2009 Sep 30.

Will the modification of the Gleason grading system affect the urology practice?

Ozok HU(1), Sagnak L, Tuygun C, Oktay M, Karakoyunlu N, Ersoy H, Alper M.

Author information:
(1)Diskapi Yildirim Beyazit Training and Research Hospital, Department of 3rd 
Urology, Ministry of Health, Ankara, Turkey. drozok@gmail.com

The aim of the present study was to determine how the modified Gleason grading 
(mGG) system affects the score discrepancy between needle biopsy (NB) and 
radical prostatectomy (RP) and to investigate the effect of the modified scores 
on nomogram predictions. When the conventional Gleason grading (cGG) and mGG 
systems were compared, a new Gleason score was obtained in the NBs for 40 out of 
97 patients (41.2%; P < .001) and in the RP specimens for 15 out of 97 patients 
(15.5%; P = .005). The agreement between the NBs and RP specimens rose from 
31.9% to 44.3% with the mGG system (P = .017). However, when the predictions 
calculated with the location of modified Gleason scores in the Memorial Sloan 
Kettering Cancer Center nomogram were compared with those of the conventional 
Gleason scores, higher pathological stage and lower life expectancy predictions 
were obtained. Therefore, when a clinician is making a choice from therapeutic 
options, this change should be taken into account.

DOI: 10.1177/1066896909346272
PMID: 19793829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Psychiatr Hung. 2009;24(3):166-74.

[Characteristics of depression in the elderly].

[Article in Hungarian]

Gonda X(1), Molnár E, Torzsa P, Rihmer Z.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, Farmakológiai és 
Farmakoterápiás Intézet. kendermagos@yahoo.com

With the increase of life expectancy the ratio of elderly people in our society 
also increases and consequently health problems related to old age gain more 
attention. The prevalence of depression does not decrease in the elderly, 
affective disorders in old people, however, often manifest masked by physical 
illness worsening the course of these somatic disorders. Elderly depression also 
tends to present with a peculiar clinical picture. Atypical and also only few 
symptoms are characteristic of depression in the elderly. Vegetative symptoms 
are often primary and depression in old people often manifests solely in somatic 
symptoms. Typical cognitive alterations and pseudodementia are also 
characteristic features. At the same time, typical affective symptoms of 
depression are often absent, and instead of psychomotor retardation, psychomotor 
agitation manifested as irritability or motor restlessness is frequent. In the 
diagnostic process depression in the elderly should be separated from somatic 
diseases and dementia. The correct diagnosis and treatment of depression in the 
elderly is very important, since old age depression does not only cause 
significant distress, but often leads to suicide, and in addition, it generally 
increases morbidity and mortality, worsens the general somatic condition of the 
patient and increases social isolation.

PMID: 19794224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Psychiatr Danub. 2009 Sep;21(3):350-5.

Psychofarmacology in the prevention of somatic comorbid diseases in mentally ill 
patients.

Jukić V(1), Petrović Z, Brecić P, Krizaj A, Savić A, Baceković A, Bilić P, Susac 
J, Mandić A, Prazen I.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Psychiatry, Psychiatric Hospital Vrapce, 10000 
Zagreb, Croatia. vlado.jukic@bolnica-vrapce.com

It is a well known fact that mentally ill patients, especially those with 
schizophrenia, have a higher incidence of somatic diseases than the general 
population and finally a significantly shorter life expectancy. In this paper a 
comparison is made between schizophrenia and somatic comorbidity before the era 
of antipsychotics and after, with consideration to the prevalent morbidity 
during each of these periods. In the period before antipsychotics acute 
infectious diseases and TBC were the prevalent comorbid diseases. High 
comorbidity rates were due not only to epidemics but also poor treatment 
success, deficient health habits and poor personal hygiene. In the period after 
the discovery of antipsychotics significant changes in morbidity occurred with 
the prevalence of chronic degenerative diseases, primarily diabetes, 
hypertension and dyslipidemia. Studies show that new generation antipsychotics 
partly generate the occurrence of metabolic disorders, which makes it necessary 
to consider the choice of antipsychotic depending on the assessed risk in every 
individual case.

PMID: 19794355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Oral Maxillofac Surg. 2009 Dec;13(4):225-30. doi: 10.1007/s10006-009-0169-1.

Basal cell nevus syndrome: clinical and genetic diagnosis.

García de Marcos JA(1), Dean-Ferrer A, Arroyo Rodríguez S, Calderón-Polanco J, 
Alamillos Granados FJ, Poblet E.

Author information:
(1)Service of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, Albacete University Hospital 
Complex, Albacete, Spain. pepio2@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Basal cell nevus syndrome (BCNS), also known as Gorlin-Goltz 
syndrome, comprises five main pathological features: nevoid basal cell 
carcinomas, keratocystic odontogenic tumors, congenital skeletal anomalies, 
calcification of the falx cerebri, and point skin depressions on the palms 
and/or soles. The disease exhibits a dominant autosomal hereditary trait, with 
implication of the human homologue of the Drosophila segment polarity Patched 
(PTCH) gene. BCNS is diagnosed on the basis of clinical and radiological 
criteria and can be confirmed by genetic study. The patient prognosis is very 
good, with normal life expectancy in most cases.
METHODS: The present study reports two cases of BCNS with the presence of 
maxillo-mandibular keratocystic odontogenic tumors.
RESULTS: One case was diagnosed according to clinical criteria, while the other 
required genetic confirmation that revealed a germ line mutation in exon 17 
(c.2868delC), not previously described in the databases, which was considered to 
be responsible for the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10006-009-0169-1
PMID: 19795138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2004 May;2(3):224-48. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2004.0021.

Prostate cancer. NCCN clinical practice guidelines in oncology.

National Comprehensive Cancer Network.

The intention of these guidelines is to provide a framework on which to base 
treatment decisions. Prostate cancer is a complex disease, with many 
controversial aspects of management and a dearth of sound data to support 
treatment recommendations. Several variables, including life expectancy, disease 
characteristics, predicted outcomes, and patient preferences, must be considered 
by the patient and physician in tailoring prostate cancer therapy to the 
individual.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2004.0021
PMID: 19795607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Neurosurg Focus. 2009 Oct;27(4):E4. doi: 10.3171/2009.8.FOCUS09137.

Intraoperative mapping and monitoring of brain functions for the resection of 
low-grade gliomas: technical considerations.

Bertani G(1), Fava E, Casaceli G, Carrabba G, Casarotti A, Papagno C, Castellano 
A, Falini A, Gaini SM, Bello L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurosurgery, Department of Neurological Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Milano, 20122 Milan, Italy.

Low-grade gliomas ([LGGs] WHO Grade II) are slow-growing intrinsic cerebral 
lesions that diffusely infiltrate the brain parenchyma along white matter tracts 
and almost invariably show a progression toward malignancy. The treatment of 
these tumors forces the neurosurgeon to face uncommon difficulties and is still 
a subject of debate. At the authors' institution, resection is the first option 
in the treatment of LGGs. It requires the combined efforts of a 
multidisciplinary team of neurosurgeons, neuroradiologists, neuropsychologists, 
and neurophysiologists, who together contribute to the definition of the 
location, extension, and extent of functional involvement that a specific lesion 
has caused in a particular patient. In fact, each tumor induces specific 
modifications of the brain functional network, with high interindividual 
variability. This requires that each treatment plan is tailored to the 
characteristics of the tumor and of the patient. Consequently, surgery is 
performed according to functional and anatomical boundaries to achieve the 
maximal resection with maximal functional preservation. The identification of 
eloquent cerebral areas, which are involved in motor, language, memory, and 
visuospatial functions and have to be preserved during surgery, is performed 
through the intraoperative use of brain mapping techniques. The use of these 
techniques extends surgical indications and improves the extent of resection, 
while minimizing the postoperative morbidity and safeguarding the patient's 
quality of life. In this paper the authors present their paradigm for the 
surgical treatment of LGGs, focusing on the intraoperative neurophysiological 
monitoring protocol as well as on the brain mapping technique. They briefly 
discuss the results that have been obtained at their institution since 2005 as 
well as the main critical points they have encountered when using this approach.

DOI: 10.3171/2009.8.FOCUS09137
PMID: 19795953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Eur J Neurol. 2010 Feb;17(2):252-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2009.02783.x.
Epub  2009 Oct 1.

How many dementia cases in France and Europe? Alternative projections and 
scenarios 2010-2050.

Mura T(1), Dartigues JF, Berr C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, U888, Pathologies du Système Nerveux, Recherche Epidémiologique et 
Clinique, Université MontpellierI, Montpellier, France.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The objective of this study is to estimate the number of 
dementia cases expected to occur in France and Europe over the next few decades 
until 2050.
METHODS: Our estimates are based on a model using the European incidence data 
for dementia by age and sex, the relative mortality risks related to dementia 
stratified by age classes, and the projections of mortality coefficients in the 
French and European general population.
RESULTS: In France, in 2010, the number of dementia cases should reach 754000, 
i.e., 1.2% of the general population or 2.8% of the active population. By 2050 
this number should be multiplied by 2.4, i.e., 1813000 cases, which will be 2.6% 
of the total population and 6.2% of the active population. In Europe this number 
could reach more than 6 millions in 2010 and 14 millions in 2050. The 
sensitivity analysis performed on French data showed that our projections were 
robust to the use of alternative data for incidence and relative mortality risk 
(variation of 5.5% and 6.5%), but very sensitive to hypotheses of evolution of 
mortality (variation of -22% to 29%).
CONCLUSIONS: The approach used in our study, integrating both the dementia 
incidence and the mortality in the calculations, allowed us to refine the 
projections and stress the great sensitivity of the demographic hypotheses 
forecasts on the evolution of life expectancy. The likely increase is 
particularly important and confirms that French and European health systems must 
take this into account when making future plans.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-1331.2009.02783.x
PMCID: PMC2925047
PMID: 19796284 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. FEBS J. 2009 Oct;276(20):5768-87. doi: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.07269.x.

Is there more to aging than mitochondrial DNA and reactive oxygen species?

Alexeyev MF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology and Neuroscience, University of South Alabama, 
Mobile, AL 36688, USA. malexeye@jaguar1.usouthal.edu

With the aging of the population, we are seeing a global increase in the 
prevalence of age-related disorders, especially in developed countries. Chronic 
diseases disproportionately affect the older segment of the population, 
contributing to disability, a diminished quality of life and an increase in 
healthcare costs. Increased life expectancy reflects the success of contemporary 
medicine, which must now respond to the challenges created by this achievement, 
including the growing burden of chronic illnesses, injuries and disabilities. A 
well-developed theoretical framework is required to understand the molecular 
basis of aging. Such a framework is a prerequisite for the development of 
clinical interventions that will constitute an efficient response to the 
challenge of age-related health issues. This review critically analyzes the 
experimental evidence that supports and refutes the Free Radical/Mitochondrial 
Theory of Aging, which has dominated the field of aging research for almost half 
a century.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-4658.2009.07269.x
PMCID: PMC3097520
PMID: 19796285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Biomaterials. 2010 Jan;31(3):559-69. doi:
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2009.09.055.  Epub 2009 Sep 30.

Redox-cleavable star cationic PDMAEMA by arm-first approach of ATRP as a 
nonviral vector for gene delivery.

Dai F(1), Sun P, Liu Y, Liu W.

Author information:
(1)School of Materials Science and Engineering, Tianjin Key Laboratory of 
Composite and Functional Materials, Tianjin University, Tianjin, PR China.

In this work, we synthesized a star cationic polymer(s-PDMAEMA) consisting of 
cleavable poly[N,N-bis(acryloyl) cystamine](PBAC) crosslinked core and 
poly(N,N-dimethyl-ethylamine methacrylate) (PDMAEMA) arms by atomic transfer 
radical polymerization using one-pot "arm first" method. The s-PDMAEMA that was 
degradable in a mimic intracellular redox environment was more efficient in 
condensing DNA. It was shown that s-PDMAEMA achieved higher gene transfection 
levels relative to their linear precursors and s-PDMAEMA200 with longer and more 
arms exhibited superior transfection efficiencies and lower cytotoxicity 
compared to PEI25K. The buffer capacities were examined by acid-base titration; 
the pH-dependent morphological evolution and enzyme stability of PDMAEMA/DNA 
complexes were investigated by atomic force microscopy (AFM) and time-resolved 
fluorescence spectroscopy, respectively. The results indicated that the star 
polymers exhibited a stronger buffering ability than their linear precursors due 
to the increased inner osmotic pressure. By decreasing the pH from 7.4 to 5.0, 
the linear PDMEMA/DNA complexes became more compact; in contrast, 
s-PDMAEMA200/DNA complex adopted a loose morphology due to the steric barrier of 
inter-arms and outward extension of positively charged arms. Analysis of the 
fluorescence life times of free and intercalated ethidium bromide unveiled more 
effective protection of DNA afforded by s-PDMAEMA. The effect of medium pH on 
the star PDMAEMA system was smaller owing to the ability of densely tertiary 
amino groups along multiple arms to absorb more protons, which was favorable for 
endosomolytic escape of complexes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2009.09.055
PMID: 19796806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2009;7(3):167-80. doi: 10.1007/BF03256150.

Short-term cost and health consequences of duodenal levodopa infusion in 
advanced Parkinson's disease in Sweden: an exploratory study.

Kristiansen IS(1), Bingefors K, Nyholm D, Isacson D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway. ivarsk@c21.net

Levodopa is the cornerstone treatment for Parkinson's disease, but the short 
half-life of levodopa limits its usefulness in late stages of the disease. 
Duodenal levodopa infusion (DLI) allows more stable plasma levels and better 
motor symptom control. To explore the costs and health benefits of replacing 
conventional oral polypharmacy with DLI in patients with advanced Parkinson's 
disease, from a Swedish healthcare payer perspective. Based on a clinical, 
randomized, crossover study with 24 patients (DIREQT), a decision analytic model 
predicted 2-year drug costs and QALYs for conventional oral therapy and for DLI. 
Health-related quality of life (HR-QOL) was recorded using a 15-dimensional 
(15D) utility instrument at baseline and during the two 3-week trial periods, 
and then at eight follow-up visits during the subsequent 6 months. Use of 
medication was based on data from DIREQT and previous studies. Unit costs were 
based on market prices (drugs) and customary charges in Sweden. All costs were 
expressed in Swedish kronor (SEK), year 2004 values euro 1.00 approximately 
SEK9.17, $US1.00 = SEK7.47). Future costs and outcomes were discounted at 3%. 
One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted. The mean utility 
scores were 0.77 for DLI and 0.72 for conventional therapy (p = 0.02). A 
considerable variation in the scores was observed during the study. The expected 
per-patient 2-year cost of DLI was SEK562 000 while it was SEK172 000 for 
conventional therapy. The mean number of QALYs was 1.48 and 1.42, respectively, 
representing an incremental cost of SEK6.1 million per QALY for DLI (all values 
discounted at 3%). Using other assumptions in sensitivity analyses, the cost per 
QALY could be as low as SEK456 000. This analysis can be considered exploratory 
only; it is based on very limited data. Nevertheless, our findings suggest that 
DLI results in a significant improvement in HR-QOL. However, the cost per QALY 
is likely to be higher than customary cost-effectiveness thresholds. Whether 
these benefits justify the additional costs depends on how the health benefits 
are measured and how these benefits are valued by society.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256150
PMID: 19799471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2009;7(3):181-91. doi: 10.1007/BF03256151.

Economic evaluation of Sinfrontal in the treatment of acute maxillary sinusitis 
in adults.

Kneis KC(1), Gandjour A.

Author information:
(1)University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Sinfrontal, a complex homeopathic medication, is popular in Germany for the 
treatment of ear, nose and throat and respiratory tract infections. Unlike many 
other homeopathic or herbal medications, the efficacy and safety of Sinfrontal 
has been demonstrated in a number of clinical studies of patients with 
sinusitis. To assess the cost effectiveness of Sinfrontal versus placebo in the 
treatment of adults with acute maxillary sinusitis (AMS) in Germany. A secondary 
objective was to assess the cost effectiveness of Sinfrontal versus standard 
treatment with antibacterials. Sinfrontal was compared with placebo in a 
cost-utility analysis based on data from a randomized controlled clinical trial 
over 3 weeks (Sinfrontal group: n = 57; placebo group: n = 56). Trial data were 
analysed from a societal perspective; resource use was valued with German unit 
costs for 2005. In a secondary analysis, the longer-term cost utility of 
Sinfrontal versus placebo was estimated over a total of 11 weeks based on an 
8-week post-treatment observational phase. In addition, the cost effectiveness 
of Sinfrontal versus antibacterials was determined based on an indirect 
comparison of placebo-controlled trials. Sinfrontal led to incremental savings 
of euro 275 (95% CI 433, 103) per patient compared with placebo over 22 days, 
essentially due to the markedly reduced absenteeism from work (7.83 vs 12.9 
workdays). Incremental utility amounted to 0.0087 QALYs (95% CI 0.0052, 0.0123), 
or 3.2 quality-adjusted life-days (QALDs). Bootstrapping showed that these 
findings were significant, with Sinfrontal being dominant in 99.9% of 
simulations. The results were robust to a number of sensitivity analyses. In the 
secondary analysis, Sinfrontal led to incremental cost savings of euro 511 and 
utility gains of 0.015 QALYs or 5.4 QALDs compared with placebo. Compared with 
antibacterials, Sinfrontal had a significantly higher cure rate (11% vs 59%; p < 
0.001) at similar or lower costs. The results of this economic evaluation 
indicate that Sinfrontal may be a cost-effective treatment for AMS in adults.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256151
PMID: 19799472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2009 Oct;24 Suppl 3:S105-18. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1746.2009.06080.x.

The liver and the waistline: Fifty years of growth.

Farrell GC(1).

Author information:
(1)Australian National University Medical School, Canberra, Australia. 
geoff.farrell@act.gov.au

Fifty years of the Gastroenterological Society of Australia have witnessed the 
changing appearance of Australians. Asian immigration has transformed the 
dominant urban culture from European to Eurasian, with some unique Australian 
attributes. Meanwhile, global conditions have altered body shape, and our 
sports-proud country is now fat! Thus, as in North America, Europe, China, and 
affluent Asia-Pacific countries, prosperity and lifestyle, cheap processed foods 
coupled with reduced physical activity have created an epidemic of 
over-nutrition resulting in overweight/obesity. Additional genetic factors are 
at the core of the apple shape (central obesity) that typifies over-nourished 
persons with metabolic syndrome. Indigenous Australians, once the leanest and 
fittest humans, now have exceedingly high rates of obesity and type 2 diabetes, 
contributing to shorter life expectancy; Asian Australians are also at higher 
risk. Like non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and cigarette smoking, 
obesity now contributes much to gastrointestinal morbidity and mortality 
(gastroesophageal reflux disease, cancers, gallstones, endoscopy complications). 
This review focuses on Australian research about fatty liver, particularly roles 
of central obesity/insulin resistance in non-alcoholic fatty liver 
disease/steatohepatitis (NAFLD/NASH). The outputs include many highly cited 
original articles and reviews and the first book on NAFLD. Studies have 
identified community prevalence, clinical outcomes, association with insulin 
resistance, metabolic syndrome and hypoadiponectinemia, developed and explored 
animal models for mechanisms of inflammation and fibrosis, conceptualized 
etiopathogenesis, and demonstrated that NASH can be reversed by lowering body 
weight and increasing physical activity. The findings have led to development of 
regional guidelines on NAFLD, the first internationally, and should now inform 
daily practice of gastroenterologists.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1746.2009.06080.x
PMID: 19799688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Am J Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;148(6):925-31.e7. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.07.010.
Epub  2009 Oct 2.

Incorporating mortality risk into estimates of 5-year glaucoma risk.

Griffin BA(1), Elliott MN, Coleman AL, Cheng EM.

Author information:
(1)RAND Corp, Arlington, Virginia, USA. bethg@rand.org

PURPOSE: To incorporate mortality risk, a potentially important factor to 
consider when deciding whether to initiate therapy for ocular hypertensives, 
into estimates of 5-year glaucoma risk.
DESIGN: Comparison study of estimates of glaucoma risk that do and do not 
account for mortality risk.
METHODS: We computed 5-year risk of glaucoma for a set of hypothetical glaucoma 
suspects. We then determined their 5-year risk of death using the Charlson 
index, which is based on age and comorbidity, and computed mortality-adjusted 
5-year risk that the individual will develop glaucoma before death.
RESULTS: Accounting for mortality risk reduces the risk of developing glaucoma 
in one's lifetime. For example, a 75-year-old patient with an unadjusted 5-year 
glaucoma risk of 51.0% can have mortality-adjusted 5-year glaucoma risks of 
41.8% (18% relative risk reduction) or 20.2% (60% relative risk reduction) 
assuming the patient has a Charlson comorbidity score of 1 or 3, respectively.
