

670. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):180-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00650.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 8.

Cost-effectiveness of using recombinant human thyroid-stimulating hormone before 
radioiodine ablation for thyroid cancer: the Canadian perspective.

Mernagh P(1), Suebwongpat A, Silverberg J, Weston A.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Analysts, Balmain, NSW, Australia. pmernagh@htanalysts.com

OBJECTIVES: Radioiodine ablation for the treatment of thyroid cancer is 
traditionally performed after preparing patients by inducing hypothyroidism. 
Exogenous stimulation of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) using recombinant 
human TSH (rhTSH) avoids hypothyroidism and hastens the clearance of radioiodine 
from the patient. These advantages are achieved without jeopardizing the success 
rate of remnant ablation. An economic analysis was performed to place the 
increased acquisition cost of rhTSH in the context of the health benefits 
achieved and the earlier discharge from radioprotection.
METHODS: Markov modeling, using 17 individual weekly cycles, was used to assess 
the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) associated with 
exogenous stimulation. Clinical inputs were largely sourced from a multicenter, 
randomized, controlled trial comparing remnant ablation success after either 
rhTSH or hypothyroid preparation. The model applied Canadian unit costs, taking 
a societal perspective. Additional costs associated with rhTSH were considered 
in the context of the clinical benefits and cost offsets. These included 
avoidance of hypothyroidism, increased work productivity, earlier administration 
of ablation after surgery, and earlier discharge from the radio-protective ward 
because of faster radioiodine clearance following rhTSH preparation. The model 
duration avoided the need for discounting.
RESULTS: The additional benefits of rhTSH (0.0576 QALY) are obtained with an 
incremental cost of CDN$87, generating an incremental cost per QALY of CDN$1520. 
Deterministic one-way and two-way sensitivity analyses demonstrated the result 
to be robust.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of rhTSH before radioiodine ablation represents a 
reasonable allocation of costs, with the benefits to patients, hospitals, and 
society as a whole, obtained at modest cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00650.x
PMID: 19818064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Oct;25(4):485-96. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990511. Epub 2009 Oct 12.

The cost-effectiveness of Maze procedures using ablation techniques at the time 
of mitral valve surgery.

Quenneville SP(1), Xie X, Brophy JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Royal Victoria Hospital, McGill University Health 
Centre, Quebec, Canada. stephane.quenneville@mail.mcgill.ca

BACKGROUND: The classic cut and sew surgical Maze procedure has been shown to 
reduce atrial fibrillation (AF), and recently newer surgical ablation techniques 
with reduced technical complexity have been introduced. This study sought to 
systematically review the efficacy and safety of these newer techniques and to 
evaluate their long-term cost-effectiveness at the time of scheduled mitral 
valve (MV) surgery.
METHODS: A systematic literature search and meta-analysis was performed to 
generate the most reliable efficacy and safety parameter estimates for a Markov 
decision analysis model comparing MV surgery alone to MV surgery plus an 
ablation Maze procedure. Both basic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
conducted.
RESULTS: Based on the six randomized controlled trials (RCTs) identified, the 
pooled 1-year estimate of AF after surgery alone was 71 percent (95 percent 
confidence interval [CI], 64 percent to 78 percent). The pooled risk ratio of AF 
after surgical ablation treatment at the time of mitral valve surgery relative 
to valve surgery alone was 0.33 (95 percent CI, 0.19 to 0.55). The pooled 
analyses showed that no statistical significant increases in operative 
mortality, permanent pacemaker implantation, and postoperative bleeding with the 
ablative Maze procedures. An ablation-based Maze procedure at the time of mitral 
valve surgery had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $4,446CAD 
($3,850US) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) compared with valve surgery 
alone. Specifically costs were an extra $900CAD but with improved clinical 
outcomes (0.20 QALYs), including a prolonged life expectancy of 0.10 life-years. 
In one-way sensitivity analyses, survival time after MV surgery had the largest 
impact on ICER. Other variables influencing the ICER included the risk ratio of 
AF, utility, and cost estimates. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggests 
that 58.1 percent, 73.9 percent, and 89.3 percent of the simulations of the Maze 
strategy are cost-effective at willingness to pay thresholds of $20,000, 
$50,000, and $100,000CAD per QALY gained, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Our meta-analysis suggests that a Maze surgical ablation procedure 
at the time of MV surgery is associated with a reduced postoperative AF risk. 
Our economic model further suggests that the surgical ablation strategy at the 
time of mitral valve surgery is likely a cost-effective intervention, provided 
patients have a good long-term postsurgical prognosis.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990511
PMID: 19818194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13(45):iii-xi, 1-134. doi: 10.3310/hta13450.

Vitamin K to prevent fractures in older women: systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Stevenson M(1), Lloyd-Jones M, Papaioannou D.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical and cost-effectiveness of vitamin K in 
preventing osteoporotic fractures in postmenopausal women.
DATA SOURCES: Searches were conducted in May 2007 in MEDLINE, MEDLINE 
In-Process, EMBASE, Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Cochrane Controlled 
Trials Register, BIOSIS, CINAHL, DARE, NHS EED and HTA databases, AMED, NRR, 
Science Citation Index and Current Controlled Trials. The MEDLINE search was 
updated in March 2009.
REVIEW METHODS: Selected studies were assessed and subjected to data extraction 
and quality assessment using standard methods. Where appropriate, meta-analysis 
was carried out. A mathematical model was constructed to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of vitamin K1.
RESULTS: The electronic literature searches identified 1078 potentially relevant 
articles. Of these, 14 articles relating to five trials that compared vitamin K 
with a relevant comparator in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis or 
osteopenia met the review inclusion criteria. The double-blind ECKO trial 
compared 5 mg of phylloquinone (vitamin K1) with placebo in Canadian women with 
osteopenia but without osteoporosis. Four open-label trials used 45 mg of 
menatetrenone (vitamin K2) in Japanese women with osteoporosis; the comparators 
were no treatment, etidronate or calcium. The methodological quality of the ECKO 
trial was good; however, all four menatetrenone trials were poorly reported and 
three were very small (n < 100 in each group). Phylloquinone was associated with 
a statistically significant reduction in the risk of clinical fractures relative 
to placebo [relative risk 0.46, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.22 to 0.99]; 
morphometric vertebral fractures were not reported. The smaller menatetrenone 
trials found that menatetrenone was associated with a reduced risk of 
morphometric vertebral fractures relative to no treatment or calcium; however, 
the larger Osteoporosis Fracture (OF) study found no evidence of a reduction in 
vertebral fracture risk. The three smaller trials found no significant 
difference between treatment groups in non-vertebral fracture incidence. In the 
ECKO trial, phylloquinone was not associated with an increase in adverse events. 
In the menatetrenone trials, adverse event reporting was generally poor; 
however, in the OF study, menatetrenone was associated with a significantly 
higher incidence of skin and skin appendage lesions. No published economic 
evaluations of vitamin K were found and a mathematical model was thus 
constructed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of vitamin K1. Comparators were 
alendronate, risedronate and strontium ranelate. Vitamin K1 and alendronate were 
markedly more cost-effective than either risedronate or strontium ranelate. The 
base-case results favoured vitamin K1, but this relied on many assumptions, 
particularly on the efficacy of preventing hip and vertebral fractures. 
Calculation of the expected value of sampled information was conducted assuming 
a randomised controlled trial of 5 years' duration comparing alendronate with 
vitamin K1. The costs incurred in obtaining updated efficacy data from a trial 
with 2000 women per arm were estimated to be a cost-effective use of resources.
CONCLUSIONS: There is currently large uncertainty over whether vitamin K1 is 
more cost-effective than alendronate; further research is required. It is 
unlikely that the present prescribing policy (i.e. alendronate as first-line 
treatment) would be altered.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13450
PMID: 19818211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Vaccine. 2009 Dec 9;27(52):7238-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.049. Epub
2009  Oct 7.

Rapid responses to: "Letter to the editor" by L. Garattini and G. Casadei 
[Vaccine 27 (38) (20 August 2009) 5171].

Mennini FS.

Comment on
    Vaccine. 2009 Aug 20;27(38):5171.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.049
PMID: 19818424 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Regul Pept. 2010 Jan 8;159(1-3):87-92. doi: 10.1016/j.regpep.2009.09.010.

Structure and function relationships of three novel hGHRH-GGC analogs.

Tang SS(1), Du MH, Zhang JH, Kong X, Liu JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular biology, School of Basic Courses, 
Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou 510006, China.

Growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) is one of the hypothalamus hormones. For 
its potential applications in agriculture and medicine, GHRH analog with higher 
activity and longer half-life has been looked for. By using the fusion 
expression with unique acid labile linker Asp-Pro and biochemical purification, 
the three novel GHRH peptides, Pro-Pro-hGHRH(1-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys, 
Pro-hGHRH(1-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys, and (1)Pro-GHRH(2-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys, were obtained. 
The peptide molecular weight with 5,455, 5,373 or 5,210 Da measured by EIS-MS is 
coincident with the actual values. The peptides at 0.1-10 microg/ml increased 
rat pituitary GH releases in a dose-dependent manner and at 5 microg/ml 
increased human pituitary GH releases. The activity comparisons showed that at 
10 microg/ml there were significant between (1)Pro-hGHRH(2-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys and 
Pro-Pro-hGHRH(1-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys or Pro-hGHRH(1-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys, 
(1)Pro-hGHRH(2-44) (P<0.05). The (1)Pro-hGHRH(2-44)-Gly-Gly-Cys showed the 
highest GH release from rat pituitary. The activity results showed that the 
N-terminal Pro modulations and the C-terminal Gly-Gly-Cys extension regulate GH 
release from pituitary. The results showed that the three peptides had good GH 
release, function-selectivity and species specificity.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regpep.2009.09.010
PMID: 19818814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Aug;1804(8):1567-75. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.09.030. Epub 2009 Oct 8.

Regulation of yeast sirtuins by NAD(+) metabolism and calorie restriction.

Lu SP(1), Lin SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Biological Sciences, University of 
California, Davis, CA 95616, USA.

The Sir2 family proteins (sirtuins) are evolutionally conserved NAD(+) 
(nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide)-dependent protein deacetylases and 
ADP-ribosylases, which have been shown to play important roles in the regulation 
of stress response, gene transcription, cellular metabolism and longevity. 
Recent studies have also suggested that sirtuins are downstream targets of 
calorie restriction (CR), which mediate CR-induced beneficial effects including 
life span extension in an NAD(+)-dependent manner. CR extends life span in many 
species and has been shown to ameliorate many age-associated disorders such as 
diabetes and cancers. Understanding the mechanisms of CR as well as the 
regulation of sirtuins will therefore provide insights into the molecular basis 
of these age-associated metabolic diseases. This review focuses on discussing 
advances in studies of sirtuins and NAD(+) metabolism in genetically tractable 
model system, the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. These studies have 
unraveled key metabolic longevity factors in the CR signaling and NAD(+) 
biosynthesis pathways, which may also contribute to the regulation of sirtuin 
activity. Many components of the NAD(+) biosynthesis pathway and CR signaling 
pathway are conserved in yeast and higher eukaryotes including humans. 
Therefore, these findings will help elucidate the mechanisms underlying 
age-associated metabolic disease and perhaps human aging.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.09.030
PMCID: PMC2886167
PMID: 19818879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Prog Brain Res. 2009;177:111-24. doi: 10.1016/S0079-6123(09)17709-9.

Long-term survival after severe TBI: clinical and forensic aspects.

Zasler ND(1).

Author information:
(1)Concussion Care Centre of Virginia, Ltd., Richmond, VA, USA. 
nzasler@cccv-ltd.com

This article will review current knowledge germane to understanding estimations 
of survival time of persons following severe traumatic brain injury (STBI). 
Nomenclature issues relevant to biostatistics and the neuroscientific 
investigation of survival after STBI will also be explored. Biostatistical 
methods used for determining survival time will be reviewed. The latest 
evidence-based data on morbidity and mortality risk factors after STBI as 
related to the nature of neurologic and functional impairments will be explored. 
Clinical as well as forensic issues pertinent to prognosticating survival time 
will also be enumerated. Current literature (i.e., within the last 5 years) 
examining life expectancy issues after STBI will be reviewed. Concluding remarks 
will identify directions for future research in the area of survival time 
following STBI.

DOI: 10.1016/S0079-6123(09)17709-9
PMID: 19818898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Semin Fetal Neonatal Med. 2010 Apr;15(2):94-9. doi:
10.1016/j.siny.2009.09.003.  Epub 2009 Oct 12.

Obesity in pregnancy: outcomes and economics.

Rowlands I(1), Graves N, de Jersey S, McIntyre HD, Callaway L.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

Maternal obesity is an important aspect of reproductive care. It is the 
commonest risk factor for maternal mortality in developed countries and is also 
associated with a wide spectrum of adverse pregnancy outcomes. Maternal obesity 
may have longer-term implications for the health of the mother and infant, which 
in turn will have economic implications. Efforts to prevent, manage and treat 
obesity in pregnancy will be costly, but may pay dividends from reduced future 
economic costs, and subsequent improvements to maternal and infant health. 
Decision-makers working in this area of health services should understand 
whether the problem can be reduced, at what cost; and then, what cost savings 
and health benefits will accrue in the future from a reduction of the problem.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.siny.2009.09.003
PMID: 19819773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Europace. 2009 Dec;11(12):1571-3. doi: 10.1093/europace/eup290. Epub 2009
Oct 8.

Pitfalls in health-economic evaluations: the case of cost-effectiveness of 
prophylactic implantable cardioverter-defibrillator therapy in Belgium.

Van Brabandt H, Neyt M.

Comment in
    Europace. 2010 Jul;12(7):1044-6; author reply 1046-7.

Comment on
    Europace. 2009 Jun;11(6):716-26.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eup290
PMID: 19819879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. J Anim Sci. 2010 Apr;88(13 Suppl):E205-15. doi: 10.2527/jas.2009-2351. Epub
2009  Oct 9.

Effects of maternal nutrition on conceptus growth and offspring performance: 
implications for beef cattle production.

Funston RN(1), Larson DM, Vonnahme KA.

Author information:
(1)West Central Research and Extension Center, University of Nebraska, North 
Platte, NE 69101, USA. rfunston2@unl.edu

Developmental programming is the concept that a maternal stimulus or insult at a 
critical period in fetal development has long-term effects on the offspring. 
Historically, considerable effort has been made to understand how nutrition 
influences health and productivity during the postnatal period. Whereas maternal 
nutrition during pregnancy plays an essential role in proper fetal and placental 
development, less is known about how maternal nutrition affects the health and 
productivity of the offspring. Conceptus growth is sensitive to direct and 
indirect effects of maternal dietary intake. Even from the earliest stages of 
embryonic life, when nutrient requirements for conceptus growth are negligible, 
alterations in tissue composition can occur, influencing future growth of the 
compromised organ system. Not only is neonatal health compromised, but 
subsequent health may also be programmed because offspring from undernourished 
dams have exhibited poor growth and productivity and have developed significant 
diseases later in life. Although the literature is now evolving, with increasing 
evidence of how maternal nutrient restriction impairs several prenatal 
physiological variables, few studies have evaluated postnatal growth and 
development in livestock species, and fewer have evaluated it in beef cattle. In 
addition, very few studies have evaluated restriction of specific components of 
the diet during pregnancy (such as protein) on offspring growth and performance. 
This review focuses on how maternal nutrition affects conceptus growth and 
postnatal responses in beef cattle.

DOI: 10.2527/jas.2009-2351
PMID: 19820049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Plant Signal Behav. 2009 Aug;4(8):787-9. doi: 10.4161/psb.4.8.9232. Epub
2009  Aug 8.

Rapid peroxisomal responses to ROS suggest an alternative mechanistic model for 
post-biogenesis peroxisomal life cycle in plants.

Mathur J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Guelph, Guelph, 
ON, CA. jmathur@uoguelph.ca

Comment on
    Plant J. 2009 Jul;59(2):231-42.

Plants adapt to and survive in some of the harshest environments. Their success 
can be ascribed to an ability to maintain an optimal subcellular redox 
environment. Peroxisomes, ubiquitous ROS producing and scavenging organelles in 
eukaryotes play an important role in cellular homeostasis. Recently the 
formation of thin membrane extensions called peroxules has provided further 
evidence for peroxisomal role in rapidly sensing and responding to alterations 
in subcellular ROS. Within a cell the transient extension and retraction of 
peroxules is asynchronous but takes place within seconds. Peroxules follow 
tracks defined by tubules of the endoplasmic reticulum and their formation does 
not appear to involve an elaborate transcriptional-translational machinery. 
Rather the rapidity of peroxisomal responses suggests ROS instigated membrane 
modifications aimed at local ROS scavenging or leading to peroxisome elongation 
prior to their fission for increasing peroxisome numbers within a cell. A model 
on post-biogenesis peroxisomal life-cycle taking cognizance of rapid peroxisomal 
responses is presented.

DOI: 10.4161/psb.4.8.9232
PMCID: PMC2801401
PMID: 19820326


681. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2009 Aug;19(6):1037-46. doi:
10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181a83d0b.

Rising cancer antigen 125 level and the type and timing of treatment for 
recurrent ovarian cancer: a clinical dilemma, but what would women do?

Harrison JD(1), Juraskova I, Anderson C, Nattress K, Beale P, Lopez AL, Carter 
J.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Outcomes Research Centre, Sydney South West Area Health Service and 
School of Public Health, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
james.harrison@email.cs.nsw.gov.au

OBJECTIVE: Clinical uncertainty currently exists for the timing of treatment for 
women with epithelial ovarian cancer who are under surveillance for their first 
recurrence and have rising cancer antigen 125 levels. This study ascertained 
women's preferences for this clinical scenario and the impact of regular 
surveillance on psychosocial well-being.
METHODS: Women with a diagnosis of epithelial ovarian cancer who had completed 
primary treatment and were in surveillance for their first recurrence were 
eligible to participate. Treatment preferences were ascertained using the 
Prospective Measure of Preference, and psychological well-being was ascertained 
using a series of psychological scales.
RESULTS: Women (n = 21) had highly variable preferences for the type and timing 
of second-line treatment when basing their decision on rising cancer antigen 125 
levels. Around half indicated a preference against treatment and were willing to 
trade life expectancy (WTT) to avoid chemotherapy (WTT = 0.45) or tamoxifen (WTT 
= 0.50). For these women, strong preferences against treatment were reflected in 
high Prospective Measure of Preference utility scores (0.15 for chemotherapy and 
0.19 for tamoxifen). The negative experience of chemotherapy, the uncertainty 
about tamoxifen's effectiveness, and remaining symptom-free influenced these 
decisions. The remaining women indicated they would begin chemotherapy or 
tamoxifen immediately. These women believed taking early steps to treatment was 
positive and a coping mechanism; however, some revealed unrealistic expectations 
of treatment. Most women reported good levels of psychological well-being and 
were coping with ongoing surveillance.
CONCLUSIONS: Women in surveillance for recurrent ovarian cancer have highly 
variable preferences, and their reasons for their treatment choices are diverse. 
Therefore, although uncertainty exists for this clinical scenario, treatment 
preference should be ascertained on an individual basis.

DOI: 10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181a83d0b
PMID: 19820365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Prof Case Manag. 2009 Sep-Oct;14(5):270-2. doi:
10.1097/NCM.0b013e3181badf1e.

What is aging and how is it different with a disability?

Forman LS(1), Carruthers D, Londner RB.

Author information:
(1)Client Services of Comprehensive Rehabilitation Consultants, Inc. 
lsf@crcmimia.com

DOI: 10.1097/NCM.0b013e3181badf1e
PMID: 19820642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Clin Res Cardiol. 2009 Dec;98(12):787-95. doi: 10.1007/s00392-009-0081-6.
Epub  2009 Oct 11.

Intervention study shows outpatient cardiac rehabilitation to be economically at 
least as attractive as inpatient rehabilitation.

Schweikert B(1), Hahmann H, Steinacker JM, Imhof A, Muche R, Koenig W, Liu Y, 
Leidl R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum 
München - German Research Center for Environmental Health, P.O.Box 1129, 85758, 
Neuherberg, Germany. bernd.schweikert@helmholtz-muenchen.de

BACKGROUND: Since the late 1990 s, cost pressure has led to a growing interest 
in outpatient rehabilitation in Germany where predominantly inpatient 
rehabilitation has been provided. Taking into account the feasibility of a 
randomized design, the aim of this study was to compare outpatient and inpatient 
cardiac rehabilitation from a societal perspective.
METHOD: A comprehensive cohort design was applied. Costs during rehabilitation 
were measured using individual documentation of the rehabilitation centers. 
Economic end points were quality of life (EQ-5D), and total direct and indirect 
costs. A propensity score approach, integrated into a simultaneous regression 
framework for cost and effects, was used to control for selection bias. 
Bootstrap analysis was applied for assessing uncertainty in cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: A total of 163 patients were included in the study (112 inpatients, 51 
outpatients). As randomization was chosen by only 2.5% of participants, the 
study had to be analyzed as an observational study. Direct costs during 
inpatient rehabilitation were significantly higher by 600 euro (+/-318; p < 
0.001) compared to outpatient rehabilitation (2,016 euro +/- 354 euro vs. 1,416 
euro +/- 315), while there was no significant difference in health-related 
quality of life. Over the 12-month follow-up period, adjusted costs difference 
in total cost was estimated at -2,895 euro (p = 0.102) and adjusted difference 
in effects at 0.018 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (n.s.) in favor of 
outpatient treatment.
CONCLUSION: The ratio of mean cost over mean effect difference (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio) indicates dominance of outpatient rehabilitation, but 
at a considerable statistical uncertainty. However, outpatient rehabilitation 
cannot be rejected from an economic perspective.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-009-0081-6
PMID: 19821135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Trials. 2009 Oct 12;10:93. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-93.

Prevention of depression and anxiety in adolescents: a randomized controlled 
trial testing the efficacy and mechanisms of Internet-based self-help 
problem-solving therapy.

Hoek W(1), Schuurmans J, Koot HM, Cuijpers P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Psychology, VU University, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. 
w.hoek@psy.vu.nl

BACKGROUND: Even though depression and anxiety are highly prevalent in 
adolescence, youngsters are not inclined to seek help in regular healthcare. 
Therapy through the Internet, however, has been found to appeal strongly to 
young people. The main aim of the present study is to examine the efficacy of 
preventive Internet-based guided self-help problem-solving therapy with 
adolescents reporting depressive and anxiety symptoms. A secondary objective is 
to test potential mediating and moderating variables in order to gain insight 
into how the intervention works and for whom it works best.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study is a randomized controlled trial with an intervention 
condition group and a wait-list control group. The intervention condition group 
receives Internet-based self-help problem-solving therapy. Support is provided 
by a professional and delivered through email. Participants in the wait-list 
control group receive the intervention four months later. The study population 
consists of adolescents (12-18-year-olds) from the general population who report 
mild to moderate depressive and/or anxiety symptoms and are willing to complete 
a self-help course. Primary outcomes are symptoms of depression and anxiety. 
Secondary outcomes are quality of life, social anxiety, and cost-effectiveness. 
The following variables are examined for their moderating role: demographics, 
motivation, treatment credibility and expectancy, externalizing behaviour, 
perceived social support from parents and friends, substance use, the experience 
of important life events, physical activity, the quality of the therapeutic 
alliance, and satisfaction. Mediator variables include problem-solving skills, 
worrying, mastery, and self-esteem. Data are collected at baseline and at 3 
weeks, 5 weeks, 4 months, 8 months, and 12 months after baseline. Both 
intention-to-treat and completer analyses will be conducted.
DISCUSSION: This study evaluates the efficacy and mechanisms of Internet-based 
problem-solving therapy for adolescents. If Internet-based problem-solving 
therapy is shown to reduce depressive and anxiety symptoms in adolescents, the 
implication is to implement the intervention in clinical practice. Strengths and 
limitations of the study are discussed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Netherlands Trial Register NTR1322.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-93
PMCID: PMC2771008
PMID: 19821984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Malar J. 2009 Oct 12;8:228. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-8-228.

Anopheles mortality is both age- and Plasmodium-density dependent: implications 
for malaria transmission.

Dawes EJ(1), Churcher TS, Zhuang S, Sinden RE, Basáñez MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial 
College London, London, UK. emma.dawes05@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Daily mortality is an important determinant of a vector's ability to 
transmit pathogens. Original simplifying assumptions in malaria transmission 
models presume vector mortality is independent of age, infection status and 
parasite load. Previous studies illustrate conflicting evidence as to the 
importance of Plasmodium-induced vector mortality, but very few studies to date 
have considered the effect of infection density on mosquito survival.
METHODS: A series of three experiments were conducted, each consisting of four 
cages of 400-1,000 Anopheles stephensi mosquitoes fed on blood infected with 
different Plasmodium berghei ookinete densities per microlitre of blood. Twice 
daily the numbers of dead mosquitoes in each group were recorded, and on 
alternate days a sample of live mosquitoes from each group were dissected to 
determine parasite density in both midgut and salivary glands.
RESULTS: Survival analyses indicate that mosquito mortality is both age- and 
infection intensity-dependent. Mosquitoes experienced an initially high, partly 
feeding-associated, mortality rate, which declined to a minimum before 
increasing with mosquito age and parasite intake. As a result, the life 
expectancy of a mosquito is shown to be dependent on both insect age and the 
density of Plasmodium infection.
CONCLUSION: These results contribute to understanding in greater detail the 
processes that influence sporogony in the mosquito, indicate the impact that 
parasite density could have on malaria transmission dynamics, and have 
implications for the design, development, and evaluation of 
transmission-blocking strategies.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-8-228
PMCID: PMC2770541
PMID: 19822012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Drug Discov Today. 2009 Dec;14(23-24):1123-9. doi:
10.1016/j.drudis.2009.09.009.  Epub 2009 Oct 12.

MicroRNAs: novel therapeutic targets in neurodegenerative diseases.

Roshan R(1), Ghosh T, Scaria V, Pillai B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Delhi, India.

The prevalence of neurodegenerative disorders is rising steadily as human life 
expectancy increases. However, limited knowledge of the molecular basis of 
disease pathogenesis is a major hurdle in the identification of drug targets and 
development of therapeutic strategies for these largely incurable disorders. 
Recently, differential expression of endogenous regulatory small RNAs, known as 
'microRNAs' (miRNAs), in patients of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease 
and models of ataxia suggest that they might have key regulatory roles in 
neurodegeneration. miRNAs that can target known mediators of neurodegeneration 
offer potential therapeutic targets. Our bioinformatic analysis suggests novel 
miRNA-target interactions that could potentially influence neurodegeneration. 
The recent development of molecules that alter miRNA expression promises 
valuable tools that will enhance the therapeutic potential of miRNAs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2009.09.009
PMID: 19822222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2009 Nov;15(11):1415-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2009.07.009. Epub 2009 Sep 1.

Decision analysis of peripheral blood versus bone marrow hematopoietic stem 
cells for allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation.

Pidala J(1), Anasetti C, Kharfan-Dabaja MA, Cutler C, Sheldon A, Djulbegovic B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Blood and Marrow Transplantation, Moffitt Cancer Center and 
Research Institute, Tampa, Florida 33612-9416, USA. joseph.pidala@moffitt.org

Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) and bone marrow (BM) hematopoietic stem 
cells represent therapeutic alternatives in allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplantation. Randomized controlled trials and an individual patient data 
meta-analysis (IPDMA) have demonstrated a decreased risk of disease relapse and 
an increased risk of acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD, cGVHD) 
in patients receiving PBSCs compared with those receiving BM stem cells. 
Decision modeling provides quantitative integration of the risks and benefits 
associated with these alternative treatments, incorporates survival discounts 
for lower quality of life in patients with aGVHD or cGVHD and 
post-transplantation relapse, and allows sensitivity analyses for all model 
assumptions. We have constructed an externally validated Markov model to 
represent and analyze the decision to use PBSC or BM, estimating 
post-transplantation state transition probabilities (eg, GVHD and relapse) and 
quality-of-life discounts from the IPDMA and relevant literature; importantly, 
this IPDMA synthesized data from primarily adult patients treated with 
myeloablative (MA) conditioning regimens with T cell-replete matched sibling 
donors. In this setting, the model demonstrates the superiority of PBSC over BM 
in both overall and quality-adjusted life expectancy, with a 7-month advantage 
for PBSC. Sensitivity analyses support this conclusion through a range of values 
for each variable supported by the IPDMA and quality-of-life discounts, as 
supported by the literature. However, BM is the optimal strategy in conditions 
in which the 1-year relapse probability is < 5%. PBSC is the optimal stem cell 
source in terms of both overall and quality-adjusted life expectancy, except in 
conditions with a very low relapse probability, in which BM provides optimal 
outcomes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2009.07.009
PMID: 19822301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2010 Nov;64(11):963-9. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2009.086967. Epub 2009 Oct 11.

Childhood socioeconomic status modifies the association between intellectual 
abilities at age 20 and mortality in later life.

Kajantie E(1), Räikkönen K, Henriksson M, Forsén T, Heinonen K, Pesonen AK, 
Leskinen JT, Laaksonen I, Paile-Hyvärinen M, Osmond C, Barker DJ, Eriksson JG.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Welfare, PL 30, Helsinki 00271, Finland. 
eero.kajantie@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: People who score poorly in intellectual ability tests have shorter 
life expectancy. A study was undertaken to determine whether this association is 
different in people from different socioeconomic backgrounds.
METHODS: The mortality of 2786 men born in Helsinki, Finland during 1934-1944 
who, as military conscripts, underwent a standardised intellectual ability test 
comprising verbal, visuospatial and arithmetic reasoning subtests was studied. 
Mortality data came from the Finnish Death Register.
RESULTS: Comparing men in the lowest and highest test score quartiles, HRs for 
all-cause mortality were 1.9 (95% CI 1.4 to 2.5) for verbal reasoning, 2.2 (95% 
CI 1.6 to 3.0) for visuospatial reasoning and 1.9 (95% CI 1.4 to 2.5) for 
arithmetic reasoning, corresponding to 2.6, 3.4 and 2.6 excess years of life 
lost, respectively. Associations were similar for cardiovascular and 
non-cardiovascular mortality. Intellectual ability scores were stronger 
predictors in men who grew up in middle-class families. Compared with 
middle-class men in the highest quartile of the visuospatial reasoning score, 
middle-class men in the lowest quartile lost 6.5 years of life while men from 
families of manual workers in the highest quartile lost 2.8 years and men in the 
lowest quartile lost 5.6 years.
CONCLUSIONS: High intellectual ability in men aged 20 protects them from 
mortality in later life. This effect is stronger in men who grew up in 
middle-class families than in those who grew up in manual worker families. This 
finding suggests that early life conditions that are unfavourable to the 
development of cognitive abilities negate the life expectancy benefits of being 
born into a more affluent family.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2009.086967
PMCID: PMC2976067
PMID: 19822561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


689. Eur J Public Health. 2010 Feb;20(1):47-51. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp118. Epub
2009  Oct 12.

Living longer, working longer? The impact of subjective life expectancy on 
retirement intentions and behaviour.

van Solinge H(1), Henkens K.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute (NIDI), Social Demography 
Department, The Hague, the Netherlands. solinge@nidi.nl

Erratum in
    Eur J Public Health. 2010 Aug;20(4):481.

BACKGROUND: Virtually all Western countries are seeking to bring retirement ages 
more in line with increases in longevity. The central question in this article 
is whether individuals choose a retirement age that fits their life expectancy. 
This would be ideal from a public policy perspective. The present study aims to 
test empirically whether retirement planning varies with expectations of 
survival among a sample of older employees in the Netherlands. Two questions are 
addressed: (i) what are older employees' expectations of their remaining 
lifetime, and what factors influence this subjective life expectancy? (ii) Are 
individuals who perceive longer life horizons (high subjective life expectancy) 
more inclined to retire later than people who expect to live shorter?
METHODS: Using data from a panel study on retirement behaviour in the 
Netherlands (N = 1621 older employees aged 50-60 years), regression and survival 
models are estimated to examine the effect of subjective life expectancy on 
retirement planning and behaviour.
RESULTS: The results indicate that subjective life expectancy is a factor that 
is taken into account in retirement decision making, at least as far as 
retirement intentions are concerned. Older employees with longer time horizons 
have a preference for later retirement. When it comes to actual behaviour, 
however, time horizon does not appear to play a role.
CONCLUSION: The results suggest that particularly employees with a high 
perceived life expectancy and an intention to work longer do not succeed in 
carrying their intentions into effect.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp118
PMID: 19822568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Am J Sports Med. 2010 Feb;38(2):363-8. doi: 10.1177/0363546509347542. Epub
2009  Oct 12.

Glenohumeral, scapular, and thoracic angles at maximum shoulder external 
rotation in throwing.

Miyashita K(1), Kobayashi H, Koshida S, Urabe Y.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Life and Health Sciences, Chubu University, 
Matsumoto-cho 1200, Kasugai City, Aichi, Japan 487-8501. 
kmiyashita@isc.chubu.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: Because a majority of throwing injuries occur near the maximum 
external rotation (MER) of the throwing shoulder, sports medicine practitioners 
and researchers have paid special attention to the shoulder kinematics at the 
MER in throwing. However, little is known about the individual kinematics of the 
glenohumeral, scapulothoracic, and thoracic joints at the MER. Purpose To 
demonstrate the glenohumeral, scapulothoracic, and thoracic joint movements and 
their contribution to the MER in throwing for baseball players.
STUDY DESIGN: Descriptive laboratory study.
METHODS: We collected throwing motion data for 20 collegiate baseball players by 
using 3 high-speed cameras and established 3-dimensional coordinates of each 
landmark with a direct linear translation method. We then obtained the MER of 
the shoulder complex, the external rotation angle of the glenohumeral joint, the 
posterior tipping angle of the scapula, and the thoracic extension angles at the 
MER in throwing.
RESULTS: The mean (+/- standard deviation) value of the MER was 144.2 degrees 
+/- 11.0 degrees . The mean (+/- standard deviation) values of the glenohumeral 
external rotation, the scapular posterior tipping, and the thoracic extension 
angles at the MER were 105.7 degrees +/- 15.5 degrees , 23.5 degrees +/- 13.9 
degrees , and 8.9 degrees +/- 7.3 degrees , respectively.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that not only the glenohumeral joint movement 
but also the scapular and thoracic movements make major contributions to the MER 
angle.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: To better understand the pathomechanics of the shoulder 
complex in throwing, we need to take into account the individual contributions 
of the glenohumeral, scapulothoracic, and thoracic extension movements to the 
MER.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546509347542
PMID: 19822769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Int J Obes (Lond). 2010 Jan;34(1):118-26. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2009.204. Epub
2009  Oct 13.

Adipocytokines and the risk of coronary heart disease in healthy middle aged 
men: the PRIME Study.

Luc G(1), Empana JP, Morange P, Juhan-Vague I, Arveiler D, Ferrieres J, Amouyel 
P, Evans A, Kee F, Bingham A, Machez E, Ducimetiere P.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U545, Faculté de Médecine, Pôle Recherche, University of Lille 2, bld 
Prof Leclerc, Lille 59037, France. gerald.luc@univ-lille2.f

BACKGROUND: Adipokines play an important role in glucose, lipid and lipoprotein 
metabolisms, as well as in coagulation and inflammatory processes. So far, 
studies have evaluated the association of individual adipokines with future 
coronary heart disease (CHD) event and provided mixed results.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to investigate the association of a set of adipocytokines, 
including total adiponectin, adipsin, resistin, leptin and plasminogen activator 
inihibitor-1 (PAI-1), with future CHD events in apparently healthy men.
METHODS: We built a nested case-control study within the PRIME Study, a 
multicenter prospective cohort of 9779 healthy European middle-aged men. Total 
adiponectin, adipsin, resistin, leptin and PAI-1 were measured in the baseline 
plasma sample of 617 men who developed a first CHD event (coronary death, 
myocardial infarction, stable or unstable angina) during 10 years of follow-up 
and in 1215 study-matched controls, by multiplex assays using commercial kits. 
HRs for CHD were estimated by conditional logistic regression analysis.
RESULTS: Median concentrations of total adiponectin, adipsin and resistin were 
similar in cases and in controls, whereas those of leptin and PAI-1 were higher 
in cases than in controls, 6.30 vs 5.40 ng ml(-1), and 10.09 vs 8.48 IU ml(-1), 
respectively. The risk of future CHD event increased with increasing quintiles 
of baseline leptin and PAI-1 concentrations only in unadjusted analysis (P-value 
for trend <0.003 and <0.0001, respectively). However, these associations were no 
longer significant after adjustment for usual CHD risk factors including 
hypertension, diabetes, smoking, total cholesterol, triglycerides and HDL 
cholesterol. Conversely, baseline CRP and IL-6 levels remained associated with 
CHD risk in multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In apparently healthy men, circulating total adiponectin, adipsin, 
resistin, leptin and PAI-1 were not independent predictors of future CHD event.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2009.204
PMID: 19823188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2009;159(17-18):431-8. doi: 10.1007/s10354-009-0701-9.

[Chances and limitations of patients' advance decisions at the end of life].

[Article in German]

Bauer AW(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachgebiet Geschichte, Theorie und Ethik der Medizin, Medizinische Fakultät 
Mannheim der Universität Heidelberg, Mannheim, Germany. awb@uni-hd.de

Death by "natural" causes is not appreciated in Western industrialized countries 
because it may be regarded as an obstacle against performance and consumption. 
In addition, life-saving therapies for patients with an infaust prognosis are 
often rather expensive and therefore classified as "futile". Utilitarian 
measures for the individual's quality of life (QALY's), which are allegedly 
objective, veil the fact that they can only reflect the parameters that have 
been considered during their construction. Caused by fear of a life in the 
nursing home, which is partially intensified by the media, many ethicists and 
lawyers propagate anticipating models of retaining patients' autonomy at the end 
of life. Apart from general considerations published by the former National 
Ethics Council in 2005, the German Parliament in 2009 will have to discuss three 
different bills concerning patients' advance decisions to refuse medical 
treatment. The illusion of "autonomous dying" is not a convincing model for the 
end of life debate.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-009-0701-9
PMID: 19823789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Rheumatol Int. 2010 Nov;30(12):1595-600. doi: 10.1007/s00296-009-1195-x.
Epub  2009 Oct 13.

Health-related quality of life (Nottingham Health Profile) in knee 
osteoarthritis: correlation with clinical variables and self-reported 
disability.

Yildiz N(1), Topuz O, Gungen GO, Deniz S, Alkan H, Ardic F.

Author information:
(1)Pamukkale University Medicine Faculty, Denizli, Turkey. necmi74tr@hotmail.com

The aims of this study were to assess the health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
in patients with knee osteoarthritis (OA) using the Nottingham Health Profile 
(NHP) and to determine its relationships with conventional clinical measures and 
self-reported disability. One hundred and forty patients with knee OA (104 
female, 36 male, mean age 59.39 ± 7.62 years, mean disease duration 58.56 ± 
56.78 months) and 40 sex and age-matched controls were included in the study. 
HRQoL, disability and pain were assessed using NHP, Western Ontario and McMaster 
Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), Visual Analog Scale (VAS), 
respectively. Results showed that the six subgroups of the NHP revealed higher 
scores in the knee OA patients compared with controls (p < 0.001). All subgroups 
of the NHP significantly correlated to VAS-rest, VAS-activity, 15-m walk test 
and WOMAC scores (p < 0.05, p < 0.01, p < 0.005, p < 0.001, respectively). The 
knee flexion or restricted extension range of motion was significantly 
correlated with the pain, energy and physical mobility subgroups of the NHP (p < 
0.05, p < 0.005). Although there were statistically significant correlations 
between the NHP pain, emotional reaction, and physical mobility subgroup scores 
and body mass index (BMI) (p < 0.01, p < 0.05, p < 0.05, respectively), there 
were no correlations between all the NHP scores and duration of disease (p > 
0.05). We conclude that patients with knee osteoarthritis undergo a significant 
impact on multiple dimensions of HRQoL, compared with healthy controls. The NHP 
is related to the clinical status and functional ability of patients with knee 
OA, and it can be used as a sensitive health status measure for clinical 
evaluation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-009-1195-x
PMID: 19823830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Value Health. 2009 Sep;12(6):899-908. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00562.x.

Cost-effectiveness of new-generation oral cholera vaccines: a multisite 
analysis.

Jeuland M(1), Cook J, Poulos C, Clemens J, Whittington D; DOMI Cholera Economics 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Maskery B, Lauria D, Stewart J, Lucas M, Islam Z, Malik R, Najib 
M, Chatterjee S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Sciences and Engineering, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599, USA. jeuland@email.unc.edu

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a low-cost cholera vaccine 
licensed and used in Vietnam, using recently collected data from four developing 
countries where cholera is endemic. Our analysis incorporated new findings on 
vaccine herd protective effects.
METHODS: Using data from Matlab, Bangladesh, Kolkata, India, North Jakarta, 
Indonesia, and Beira, Mozambique, we calculated the net public cost per 
disability-adjusted life year avoided for three immunization strategies: 1) 
school-based vaccination of children 5 to 14 years of age; 2) school-based 
vaccination of school children plus use of the schools to vaccinate children 
aged 1 to 4 years; and 3) community-based vaccination of persons aged 1 year and 
older.
RESULTS: We determined cost-effectiveness when vaccine herd protection was or 
was not considered, and compared this with commonly accepted cutoffs of gross 
domestic product (GDP) per person to classify interventions as cost-effective or 
very-cost effective. Without including herd protective effects, deployment of 
this vaccine would be cost-effective only in school-based programs in Kolkata 
and Beira. In contrast, after considering vaccine herd protection, all three 
programs were judged very cost-effective in Kolkata and Beira. Because these 
cost-effectiveness calculations include herd protection, the results are 
dependent on assumed vaccination coverage rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Ignoring the indirect effects of cholera vaccination has led to 
underestimation of the cost-effectiveness of vaccination programs with oral 
cholera vaccines. Once these effects are included, use of the oral killed whole 
cell vaccine in programs to control endemic cholera meets the per capita GDP 
criterion in several developing country settings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00562.x
PMID: 19824189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. BMC Public Health. 2009 Oct 13;9:386. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-386.

The burden of road traffic accidents in a French Departement: the description of 
the injuries and recent changes.

Lapostolle A(1), Gadegbeku B, Ndiaye A, Amoros E, Chiron M, Spira A, Laumon B.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U822, Secteur bleu - porte 26, 94276 Le Kremlin Bicêtre, France. 
annabelle.lapostolle@inserm.fr

BACKGROUND: A significant reduction in road traffic accidents has been observed 
since prevention measures were introduced by the French public authorities in 
2002. The goals of this study are to describe the burden of road traffic 
accidents in a French Departement, and to identify changes if any between the 
periods 1997-2001 and 2002-2006 on the basis of the disability adjusted life 
years (DALY).
METHODS: Years of lost life (YLL) and years lived with disability (YLD) were 
calculated for two periods using the mortality and incidence data in the Rhone 
Departement Registry of Road Traffic Accident Casualties.
RESULTS: YLD and YLL that are related to road traffic accidents are at their 
maximum value between 15 and 24 years of age. For men, intracranial fractures 
and intracranial injuries dominate, and for women it is spinal cord injuries 
that account for highest rates of YLD. A reduction in the rates of YLL and YLD 
has been observed for both genders and all age groups between 1997-2001 and 
2002-2006.
CONCLUSION: The reduction in DALY between the two periods is explained both by 
the reduction in the number of fatalities and injuries but also by an increase 
in the age at which they occur.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-386
PMCID: PMC2774692
PMID: 19825170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Soc Sci Res. 2009 Jun;38(2):458-76. doi: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2009.01.001.

Effects of household and neighborhood characteristics on children's exposure to 
neighborhood poverty and affluence.

Timberlake JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Cincinnati, P.O. Box 210378, 
Cincinnati, OH 45221-0378, USA. jeffrey.timberlake@uc.edu

I construct covariate-adjusted increment-decrement life tables to estimate 
racial differences in the duration of children's exposure to neighborhood 
poverty and affluence. Using geocoded data from the 1999 and 2001 waves of the 
Panel Study of Income Dynamics, I estimate that black children born in 1999 can 
expect to spend about 9 of their first 18 years in poor neighborhoods, compared 
to less than 2 years for white children. Bivariate inequality in childhood 
exposure is reduced by 16% after controlling for racial differences in household 
characteristics, by 39% after controlling for differences in the racial 
composition and spatial location of children's neighborhoods, and by 46% after 
controlling for both sets of factors. These findings indicate that household and 
especially urban ecological factors strongly affect the amount of time that 
black and white children can expect to spend in poor and nonpoor neighborhoods 
