replacement therapy needed to tackle cardiovascular diseases, such as acute 
coronary syndromes and nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, because these conditions 
will become more and more frequent challenges for the comprehensive treatment 
centers.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-07-215665
PMID: 19837978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2009 Dec;24(4):321-37. doi:
10.1007/s10823-009-9102-1.

Why Japanese workers remain in the labor force so long: lessons for the United 
States?

Williamson JB(1), Higo M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, MA 02467, USA. 
jbw@bc.edu

As part of the search for ways to increase labor force participation rates among 
older workers in the United States, it makes sense to take a close look at 
evidence from Japan, one of the few industrial countries with a substantially 
higher labor force participation rate among older workers, particularly men, 
than the United States. Based mainly on prior studies and original interview 
data, we first discuss five potential factors which help explain why Japanese 
workers remain in the labor force as long as they do: (1) perceived economic 
necessity; (2) the large fraction of workers who are self-employed; (3) a 
culture that puts a high value on remaining in the labor force throughout the 
life course; (4) the long healthy life expectancy; and (5) the government's role 
in facilitating the labor force participation of older workers. We suggest that 
the Japanese national cultural value on remaining economically productive well 
into old age clearly underlies the development of the government's legislative 
initiatives aiming to extend the working lives of older workers. We then outline 
three policy suggestions for those seeking to increase labor force participation 
rates among older U.S. workers: (1) increase the financial incentive to workers 
who remain in the labor force; (2) improve public programs designed to foster 
efforts by older workers to become self-employed; and (3) increase the extent of 
government efforts to link older workers to prospective employers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-009-9102-1
PMID: 19838781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Swiss Med Wkly. 2009 Oct 3;139(39-40):564-70. doi: 10.4414/smw.2009.12662.

Morbidity and mortality in HIV-infected individuals - a shift towards 
comorbidities.

Battegay M(1), Elzi L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases and Hospital Epidemiology, University 
Hospital Basel, Basel, Switzerland. mbattegay@uhbs.ch

Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has dramatically improved the 
prognosis of HIV-infected persons to a level close to a normal life expectancy 
in a significant proportion of treated individuals. On starting cART HIV-induced 
immune deficiency can be prevented or, if already present, reconstituted. 
Remaining morbidity and mortality is partly due to late presentation of 
patients, when CD4-T-cells have already fallen below 200 cells/microL often 
accompanied by symptomatic disease. However, at present morbidity and mortality 
are mainly related to comorbidities such as hepatitis and tumours at least 
partly associated with HIV infection. It should be noted that, as HIV-infected 
patients become older, long-term toxicity of antiretroviral drugs may play an 
important role in increasing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. The changing 
pattern of HIV-associated diseases may indicate the need for specific preventive 
measures in this population.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2009.12662
PMID: 19838874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2009;103(6):319-29. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2009.05.020.

[Prognostic value and clinical effectiveness of high sensitivity C-reactive 
protein as a marker in primary prevention of major cardiac events].

[Article in German]

Schwarzer R(1), Schnell-Inderst P, Grabein K, Göhler A, Stollenwerk B, Grandi N, 
Klauss V, Wasem J, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, Department of Public Health, Information Systems and Health 
Technology Assessment, UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical 
Informatics and Technology, Hall i.T., Osterreich.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the predictive value and the clinical effectiveness of 
additional high sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) screening as opposed to 
traditional risk factor screening alone as a strategy of primary prevention of 
coronary artery disease (CAD).
METHODS: Following a comprehensive search of 26 electronic databases by DAHTA 
DIMDI, a systematic review was performed in accordance with international 
standards of evidence based medicine. Eight publications on risk prediction and 
one study addressing clinical decision-analytic modelling were included in the 
assessment.
RESULTS: The adjusted relative risk of a high hs-CRP level (> 3 mg/L) for 
myocardial infarction, cardiac related death, and cardiovascular events ranged 
from 0.7 to 2.47 (p < 0.05 in 4 of 7 studies). The area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve (AUC) increased by 0.00 to 0.027 when hs-CRP was 
added to the prediction models (4 of 7 studies statistically significant with p 
< 0.05). Based on a published decision-analytic model examining hs-CRP 
screening, the gain in life expectancy due to statin therapy in individuals with 
elevated hs-CRP was similar when compared to patients with hyperlipidaemia. 
Nonetheless, evidence on many model parameters was limited.
CONCLUSION: Screening with hs-CRP in addition to traditional risk factors 
improves risk prediction. However, the incremental effect is moderate and the 
clinical relevance remains unclear.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2009.05.020
PMID: 19839204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Can J Public Health. 2009 Mar-Apr;100(2):93-5. doi: 10.1007/BF03405513.

The Chief Public Health Officer's report on health inequalities: what are the 
implications for public health practitioners and researchers?

Kirkpatrick SI(1), McIntyre L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. sharon.kirkpatrick@ucalgary.ca

The first annual report of the Chief Public Health Officer on the State of 
Public Health in Canada draws notable attention to health inequalities in 
Canada. This report provides a compelling presentation of our current health 
status and the uneven distribution of health across the population, noting 
persistent and sizeable gaps in life expectancy, infant mortality, self-reported 
health, prevalence of chronic diseases, and other health indicators between 
higher- and lower-income groups, as well as the extraordinary disadvantage 
experienced by Canada's Aboriginal peoples. However, the report falls short of 
offering a critical approach to addressing and reducing health inequalities. It 
fails to stimulate thinking about integrated strategies by profiling current 
responses that do little to address the underlying structural drivers of health 
inequalities and ignoring the population health framework's recognition of the 
complex interactions among the determinants of health. Despite its shortcomings, 
the report shines a light on major health inequalities in Canada, providing a 
foundation for further action. Public health workers in this country must build 
on this foundation, working together and with all sectors and levels of 
government to identify and implement integrated strategies to reduce health 
inequalities and inequities in Canada.

Le premier rapport annuel de l’administrateur en chef de la santé publique sur 
l’état de la santé publique au Canada a attiré l’attention sur les inégalités 
notables en matière de santé au Canada. Ce rapport présente de façon 
convaincante l’état de santé actuel et la distribution irrégulière de la santé 
parmi la population, indiquant les lacunes constantes et assez considérables en 
matière d’indicateurs pour l’espérance de vie, la mortalité infantile, l’état de 
santé déclaré, la prévalence des maladies chroniques, et autres indicateurs sur 
la santé entre les groupes à revenu plus élevé et les groupes à plus faible 
revenu, ainsi que le désavantage extraordinaire que connaissent les Autochtones. 
Toutefois, le rapport n’offre pas une approche critique pour traiter et réduire 
les inégalités en matière de santé. Il ne stimule pas la réflexion sur des 
stratégies intégrées en définissant les réactions actuelles qui n’aident que 
très peu à traiter les facteurs structurels des inégalités relatives à la santé 
et ne tient pas compte de la reconnaissance des interactions complexes du cadre 
de santé de la population parmi les déterminants de la santé. Malgré ses 
lacunes, le rapport met en lumière les principales inégalités relatives à la 
santé au Canada, fournissant ainsi un fondement pour d’autres mesures. Les 
travailleurs du réseau de la santé publique de ce pays doivent miser sur ce 
fondement, travailler ensemble et avec tous les secteurs et ordres de 
gouvernement afin de déterminer et de mettre en oeuvre des stratégies intégrées 
pour réduire les inégalités et les iniquités au Canada.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03405513
PMCID: PMC6973718
PMID: 19839281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Guang Pu Xue Yu Guang Pu Fen Xi. 2009 Aug;29(8):2196-8.

[A spectral analysis method for total volatile base nitrogen].

[Article in Chinese]

Yao Y(1), Zhang P, Chen YH, Tian CE, Liu WF, Wang ZC, Shen SB.

Author information:
(1)Schools of Life Science, Guangzhou University, Guangzhou 510006, China.

A new method for the determination of the total volatile basic nitrogen (TVB-N) 
by reflectance spectroscopy was developed. The method was based on the reaction 
of TVB-N with Nessler's reagent treated by molecular sieve and the 
reflectance-absorption value F(R), which is directly proportional to the amount 
of NH2 Hg IO in solid phase, was measured by the reflection spectrometer. The 
fundamental principle, effective factors and experimental conditions of the 
method were discussed. The special features of this method were its simplicity 
in operation, relatively high sensitivity of determination and the use of a 
small amount of reagent. Linear calibration graph was obtained in the range 1-8 
microg x mL(-1) with a detection limit of 0.1 microg x mL(-1). The method was 
applied to monitor the fresh degree of fish and pork. The result discovered that 
the total volatile basic nitrogen increased rapidly along with the time 
extension, indicating that the deterioration of fish and pork was an 
acceleration process, and the deterioration speed of fish was faster than that 
of pork.

PMID: 19839337


729. J Palliat Med. 2010 Jan;13(1):59-65. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2009.0220.

Treatment of malignant pleural effusion: PleuRx catheter or talc pleurodesis? A 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Olden AM(1), Holloway R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Ethics, Humanities, and Palliative Care, University of Rochester, 
Rochester, New York 14642, USA. aaron_olden@urmc.rochester.edu

INTRODUCTION: Malignant pleural effusions (MPEs) complicate many advanced 
malignancies and the median prognosis for those who develop MPEs is 6 months. 
These effusions lead patients to suffer from significant dyspnea, which may 
consequently impair mobility and lead to reduced quality of life. There are 
several treatment options for those with MPE. Thoracentesis may be quick and 
relatively easy to perform, but has a high recurrence rate; chest tube placement 
with talc slurry is quite effective at achieving pleurodesis, but this procedure 
can be quite painful and requires hospitalization. An alternative option is 
outpatient placement of the Pleurx catheter (Denver Biomedical Inc., Denver, CO) 
for home-based drainage of effusions.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the incremental cost effectiveness of treating MPE with 
talc pleurodesis versus placement of Pleurx catheter.
METHODS: We used decision analysis to compare treatments for the management of 
MPE. Cost data for Pleurx and talc treatments were obtained using Medicare 
reimbursement data for 2008, and outcome data (probability of treatment success 
and/or complication, and utility of health states) were obtained through 
literature review.
RESULTS: Under our base-case analysis, treatment with talc was less costly than 
Pleurx (talc, $8170.80; Pleurx, $9011.60) with similar effectiveness (talc, 
0.281 quality adjusted life years [QALYs]; Pleurx, 0.276 QALYs). Pleurx became 
more cost effective (<$100K/QALY) when life expectancy was 6 weeks or less.
CONCLUSION: The treatment choice (talc pleurodesis or Pleurx catheter) for those 
with an MPE and a prognosis of 6 months should be based on the clinical 
situation and patient preferences, as well as local expertise and success rates 
of the procedures. A prospective study specific to the palliative care 
population might help to clarify which treatment is more cost effective in this 
population in which optimizing quality of life is essential.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2009.0220
PMCID: PMC2939851
PMID: 19839739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Emerg Med Australas. 2009 Oct;21(5):414-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1742-6723.2009.01219.x.

Paediatric emergency medicine in the developing world: The Queen Elizabeth 
Central Hospital, Blantyre, Malawi.

Furyk JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, The Townsville Hospital, Douglas, 100 Angus 
Smith Drive, Douglas, Townsville, Qld 4814, Australia. 
Jeremy_Furyk@health.qld.gov.au

Malawi is a small, landlocked country in Southern Africa and is one of the 
poorest countries in the world. Life expectancy, infant and under five mortality 
statistics are appalling relative to the developed world. This article describes 
the experience of an emergency physician from Australia in a Paediatric Accident 
and Emergency department in Blantyre, Malawi.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-6723.2009.01219.x
PMID: 19840092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Paediatr Perinat Epidemiol. 2009 Nov;23(6):548-56. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-3016.2009.01071.x.

Relationships between birthweight and biomarkers of chronic disease in 
childhood: Aboriginal Birth Cohort Study 1987-2001.

Sayers S(1), Singh G, Mott S, McDonnell J, Hoy W.

Author information:
(1)Menzies School of Health Research, Institute of Advanced Studies, Charles 
Darwin University, Darwin, Northern Territory, Australia. 
sue.sayers@menzies.edu.au

Reports of relationships between lower birthweight and later chronic diseases 
are mainly from populations with low rates of low birthweight (LBW) and 
growth-restricted births. A prospective study of an Australian Aboriginal birth 
cohort with a mean birthweight of 3050 g (SD 630), 16% LBW and 28% fetal growth 
restriction was used to examine the relationships between birthweight and 
selected biomarkers of chronic adult disease. At a mean age of 11.4 years (range 
8.9-14), the mean weight was 35.7 kg (SD 11.8) and the mean height was 143.8 cm 
(SD 10.6). Using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 2000 
growth references, weight and height-for-age z-scores were -0.8 (SD 1.4) and 
-0.5 (SD 1.07) respectively and using World Health Organisation criteria, 19% of 
children were classified as underweight (weight for age Z-score <2.0). The 
relationships between birthweight and blood pressure (n = 475), total 
cholesterol (n = 461), Apolipoprotein A-1 (n = 343), Apolipoprotein B (n = 390), 
respiratory function tests (n = 427), kidney size determined by ultrasound (n = 
446), urinary albumin/creatinine ratio (n = 420) and fasting triglycerides (n = 
281), insulin (n = 272) and glucose (n = 279) were examined using regression 
models adjusted for sex, gestational age, current age and puberty status. In 
this population with high rates of fetal growth restriction at birth and an 
excess of under-nutrition at age 11 years we found that birthweight had a 
negative relationship with child blood pressure only, while current child weight 
was positively related to blood pressure, total cholesterol, Apolipoprotein B, 
respiratory function tests, kidney size, and fasting triglycerides, insulin and 
glucose.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3016.2009.01071.x
PMID: 19840291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Vaccine. 2009 Oct 23;27(45):6305-11. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.07.006.

Challenges in evaluating influenza vaccine effectiveness and the mortality 
benefits controversy.

Nichol KL(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Service (151), VA Medical Center, 1 Veterans Drive, Minneapolis, MN 
55417, USA. nicho014@umn.edu

Randomized, controlled trials are the gold standard study design. However, 
ethical constraints and practical considerations may necessitate other types of 
studies for evaluating influenza vaccine effectiveness in the elderly--a high 
priority group for annual vaccination in many countries. Observational studies 
therefore comprise the bulk of the vaccine effectiveness evidence in older 
persons, but these types of studies can be susceptible to selection bias and 
residual confounding. All observational studies should utilize strategies to 
minimize the impact of bias and confounding. Recent studies questioning the 
plausibility of reported mortality benefits among vaccinated elderly persons may 
themselves be based on assumptions that are susceptible to important limitations 
and multiple biases. Future studies that incorporate prospectively collected 
information on functional status, life expectancy, and other types of data may 
provide additional insights into these concerns. At present, even after taking 
into account the potential for residual bias and confounding, most studies 
confirm the benefits of vaccination among the elderly for reducing 
hospitalization and death.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.07.006
PMID: 19840665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Am J Prev Med. 2009 Nov;37(5):381-8. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.08.012.

Oseltamivir for influenza postexposure prophylaxis: economic evaluation for 
children aged 1-12 years in the U.S.

Talbird SE(1), Brogan AJ, Winiarski AP.

Author information:
(1)Research Triangle Institute (RTI), Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, 
NC 27709, USA. stalbird@rti.org

BACKGROUND: Postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) with oseltamivir (Tamiflu) has been 
shown to be effective and is approved in children exposed to a case of influenza 
in a household setting. Given limited healthcare budgets, it is important to 
understand the costs and cost effectiveness of PEP in children.
PURPOSE: This study aims to estimate the cost effectiveness of oseltamivir PEP 
for children aged 1-12 years in the U.S.
METHODS: A decision-tree model with a 1-year time horizon was used to assess the 
cost effectiveness of oseltamivir PEP for 10 days at approved doses compared 
with no prophylaxis for children aged 1-12 years who were exposed to a household 
index case of influenza from the U.S. societal and payer perspectives. Model 
inputs included U.S. influenza epidemiology data, efficacy data from oseltamivir 
PEP clinical trials, direct medical resource use and costs for PEP and influenza 
treatment derived from large U.S. databases, and indirect costs based on 
caregiver lost productivity. Base-case estimates were tested in extensive 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: For the societal perspective, the model estimated 12,184 fewer cases of 
influenza per 100,000 children exposed and an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of $41,452 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Results were most 
sensitive to the influenza attack rate, PEP protective efficacy, and prescribing 
patterns for initiating PEP. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses showed that 
oseltamivir PEP was likely to be cost effective for all willingness-to-pay 
threshold values above $34,300 per QALY gained. Results were similar for the 
payer perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there is no official cost-effectiveness threshold in the 
U.S., results from the current study show that when compared with no 
prophylaxis, oseltamivir PEP for children has cost-effectiveness ratios similar 
to those of vaccines for preventing influenza.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.08.012
PMID: 19840692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Feb;45(2):97-105. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.10.009. Epub
2009  Oct 17.

Drosophila foxo acts in males to cause sexual-dimorphism in tissue-specific p53 
life span effects.

Shen J(1), Tower J.

Author information:
(1)Molecular and Computational Biology Program, Department of Biological 
Sciences, University of Southern California-Los Angeles, 1050 Childs Way, Los 
Angeles, CA 90089-2910, USA.

Sex-specific selective pressures are hypothesized to lead to sexually 
antagonistic gene functions that contribute to phenotypes such as aging and 
cancer. However, relatively little is known about the identity of such genes and 
possible mechanisms. Here we report that nervous system-specific over-expression 
of wild-type p53 in Drosophila caused decreased life span in males and increased 
life span in females. In contrast, tissue-general over-expression produced the 
opposite pattern: increased life span in males and decreased life span in 
females. In a foxo null background, p53 life span effects in males were 
reversed, becoming similar to the effects in females. In contrast, a Sir2 null 
background tended to reduce the magnitude of p53 effects. The data demonstrate 
that wild-type p53 over-expression can regulate life span independent of foxo, 
and suggest that foxo acts in males to produce sexually antagonistic life span 
effects of p53.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2009.10.009
PMCID: PMC2814947
PMID: 19840842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Nov 3;106(44):18633-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0908016106. Epub 2009 Oct 19.

Water- and nutrient-dependent effects of dietary restriction on Drosophila 
lifespan.

Ja WW(1), Carvalho GB, Zid BM, Mak EM, Brummel T, Benzer S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biology, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, 
USA. billja@its.caltech.edu

Comment in
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2010 Apr 6;107(14):E54-6; author reply E57.

Dietary restriction (DR) is a widely conserved intervention leading to lifespan 
extension. Despite considerable effort, the mechanisms underlying DR remain 
poorly understood. In particular, it remains unclear whether DR prolongs life 
through conserved mechanisms in different species. Here, we show that, in the 
most common experimental conditions, lifespan extension by DR is abolished by 
providing Drosophila with ad libitum water, without altering food intake, 
indicating that DR, as conventionally studied in flies, is fundamentally 
different from the phenomenon studied in mammals. We characterize an alternative 
dietary paradigm that elicits robust lifespan extension irrespective of water 
availability, and thus likely represents a more relevant model for mammalian DR. 
Our results support the view that protein:carbohydrate ratio is the main dietary 
determinant of fly lifespan. These findings have broad implications for the 
study of lifespan and nutrition.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0908016106
PMCID: PMC2773996
PMID: 19841272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


736. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Feb 1;28(4):675-82. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2008.21.4684. Epub
2009  Oct 19.

Preventing future cancers by testing women with ovarian cancer for BRCA 
mutations.

Kwon JS(1), Daniels MS, Sun CC, Lu KH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, University of British Columbia, British 
Columbia, Canada. jkwon@post.harvard.edu

PURPOSE: Women with ovarian cancer have a 10% probability of carrying a BRCA 
mutation. If a mutation is identified, unaffected family members can undergo 
genetic testing and cancer risk-reducing strategies. We estimated the net health 
benefits and cost-effectiveness of different criteria for BRCA mutation testing 
in women with ovarian cancer, and the downstream benefits for their first-degree 
relatives (FDRs).
METHODS: We developed a Markov Monte Carlo simulation model to compare four 
criteria for BRCA testing in women with ovarian cancer: no testing (reference); 
only if personal history of breast cancer, family history of breast/ovarian 
cancer, or Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry; only if invasive serous cancer; any 
invasive nonmucinous epithelial cancer. Net health benefit was life expectancy 
for FDRs and primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER). The model estimated the number of future breast and ovarian cancer cases 
in FDRs.
RESULTS: BRCA testing based on personal/family history and ancestry could 
prevent future cases in FDRs with an ICER of $32,018 per year of life (LY) 
gained compared with the reference strategy. BRCA testing based on serous or any 
nonmucinous epithelial ovarian cancer could prevent more cancer cases, but at 
ICERs of $128,465 and $148,363 per LY gained, respectively.
CONCLUSION: BRCA testing of women with ovarian cancer based on personal/family 
history of cancer or Ashkenazi Jewish ancestry is a cost-effective strategy to 
prevent future breast and ovarian cancers among FDRs. More inclusive testing 
strategies prevent additional cancer cases but at significant cost.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2008.21.4684
PMID: 19841329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Ann Intern Med. 2009 Oct 20;151(8):I36. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-151-8-200910200-00002.

Summaries for patients. Cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination 
and cervical cancer screening in women older than 30 years in the United States.

[No authors listed]

Original report in
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Oct 20;151(8):538-45.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-151-8-200910200-00002
PMID: 19841439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Ann Intern Med. 2009 Oct 20;151(8):538-45. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-151-8-200910200-00007.

Cost-effectiveness of human papillomavirus vaccination and cervical cancer 
screening in women older than 30 years in the United States.

Kim JJ(1), Ortendahl J, Goldie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Center for Health Decision 
Science, Harvard School of Public Health, 718 Huntington Avenue, Boston, MA 
02115, USA.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Oct 20;151(8):I36.

BACKGROUND: Women older than 30 years are the main beneficiaries of improved 
cervical cancer screening with human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA testing. The role 
of vaccination against HPV types 16 and 18, which is recommended routinely for 
preadolescent girls, is unclear in this age group.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the health and economic outcomes of HPV vaccination in 
older U.S. women.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis with an empirically calibrated model.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature.
TARGET POPULATION: U.S. women aged 35 to 45 years.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: HPV vaccination added to screening strategies that differ by test 
(cytology or HPV DNA testing), frequency, and start age versus screening alone.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (2006 U.S. dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year [QALY] gained).
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: In the context of annual or biennial screening, 
HPV vaccination of women aged 35 to 45 years ranged from $116 950 to $272 350 
per QALY for cytology with HPV DNA testing for triage of equivocal results and 
from $193 690 to $381 590 per QALY for combined cytology and HPV DNA testing, 
depending on age and screening frequency.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The probability of HPV vaccination being 
cost-effective for women aged 35 to 45 years was 0% with annual or biennial 
screening and less than 5% with triennial screening, at thresholds considered 
good value for money.
LIMITATION: The natural history of the disease and the efficacy of the vaccine 
in older women are uncertain.
CONCLUSION: Given currently available information, the effectiveness of HPV 
vaccination for women older than 30 years who are screened seems to be small. 
Compared with current screening that uses sensitive HPV DNA testing, HPV 
vaccination is associated with less attractive cost-effectiveness ratios in this 
population than those for other, well-accepted interventions in the United 
States.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-151-8-200910200-00007
PMCID: PMC2779121
PMID: 19841455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Pharmacogenomics. 2009 Oct;10(10):1687-95. doi: 10.2217/pgs.09.125.

Genotype-guided dosing of coumarin derivatives: the European pharmacogenetics of 
anticoagulant therapy (EU-PACT) trial design.

van Schie RM(1), Wadelius MI, Kamali F, Daly AK, Manolopoulos VG, de Boer A, 
Barallon R, Verhoef TI, Kirchheiner J, Haschke-Becher E, Briz M, Rosendaal FR, 
Redekop WK, Pirmohamed M, Maitland van der Zee AH.

Author information:
(1)Utrecht University, Faculty of Science, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

The narrow therapeutic range and wide interpatient variability in dose 
requirement make anticoagulation response to coumarin derivatives unpredictable. 
As a result, patients require frequent monitoring to avert adverse effects and 
maintain therapeutic efficacy. Polymorphisms in VKORC1 and CYP2C9 jointly 
account for about 40% of the interindividual variability in dose requirements. 
To date, several pharmacogenetic-guided dosing algorithms for coumarin 
derivatives, predominately for warfarin, have been developed. However, the 
potential benefit of these dosing algorithms in terms of their safety and 
clinical utility has not been adequately investigated in randomized settings. 
The European Pharmacogenetics of Anticoagulant Therapy (EU-PACT) trial will 
assess, in a single-blinded and randomized controlled trial with a follow-up 
period of 3 months, the safety and clinical utility of genotype-guided dosing in 
daily practice for the three main coumarin derivatives used in Europe. The 
primary outcome measure is the percentage time in the therapeutic range for 
international normalized ratio. This report describes the design and protocol 
for the trial.

DOI: 10.2217/pgs.09.125
PMID: 19842940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Pigment Cell Melanoma Res. 2010 Feb;23(1):41-56. doi: 
10.1111/j.1755-148X.2009.00647.x. Epub 2009 Oct 19.

Dormancy of metastatic melanoma.

Ossowski L(1), Aguirre-Ghiso JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Mount Sinai 
School of Medicine, New York, NY, USA. liliana.ossowski@mssm.edu

Metastatic dormancy of melanoma has not received sufficient attention, most 
likely because once detectable, metastasis is almost invariably fatal and, 
understandably, the focus has been on finding ways to prolong life of patients 
with overt recurrences. Nevertheless, analysis of the published clinical and 
experimental data on melanoma indicates that some aspect of melanoma biology 
imitate traits recently associated with dormancy in other solid cancers. Among 
them the ability of some melanomas to disseminate early during primary tumor 
progression and once disseminated, to remain undetected (dormant) for years. 
Comparison of cutaneous and uveal melanoma indicates that, in spite of being of 
the same origin, they differ profoundly in their clinical progression. 
Importantly for this discussion, between 40 and 50% of uveal melanoma remain 
undetected for longer than a decade, while less than 5% of cutaneous melanoma 
show this behavior. Both types of melanoma have activating oncogene mutations 
that provide autonomous pro-proliferative signals, yet the consensus is that 
those are not sufficient for tumor progression. If that is the case, it is 
possible to envision that signals from outside the tumor cell, 
(microenvironment) shape the fate of an individual disseminated cell, regardless 
of an oncogene mutation, to progress or to pause in a state of dormancy. To 
stimulate further debate and inquiry we describe here a few examples of 
potential signals that might modify the fate of disseminated cell and provide 
brief description of the current knowledge on dormancy in other cancers. Our 
hope is to convince the reader that disseminated melanoma cells do enter periods 
of prolonged dormancy and that finding ways to induce it, or to prolong it, 
might mean an extension of symptoms-free life for melanoma patients. Ultimately, 
understanding the biology of dormancy and the mechanisms of dormant cell 
survival, might allow for their specific targeting and elimination.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-148X.2009.00647.x
PMCID: PMC2821074
PMID: 19843243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Sex Transm Infect. 2010 Apr;86(2):117-25. doi: 10.1136/sti.2009.036673. Epub
 2009 Oct 20.

Sex workers can be screened too often: a cost-effectiveness analysis in 
Victoria, Australia.

Wilson DP(1), Heymer KJ, Anderson J, O'Connor J, Harcourt C, Donovan B.

Author information:
(1)National Centre in HIV Epidemiology and Clinical Research, The University of 
New South Wales, Sydney, Australia. Dwilson@nchecr.unsw.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: Commercial sex is licensed in Victoria, Australia such that sex 
workers are required to have regular tests for sexually transmitted infections 
(STIs). However, the incidence and prevalence of STIs in sex workers are very 
low, especially since there is almost universal condom use at work. We aimed to 
conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of the financial cost of the testing 
policy versus the health benefits of averting the transmission of HIV, syphilis, 
chlamydia and gonorrhoea to clients.
METHODS: We developed a simple mathematical transmission model, informed by 
conservative parameter estimates from all available data, linked to a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: We estimated that under current testing rates, it costs over $A90,000 
in screening costs for every chlamydia infection averted (and $A600,000 in 
screening costs for each quality-adjusted life year (QALY) saved) and over 
$A4,000,000 for every HIV infection averted ($A10,000,000 in screening costs for 
each QALY saved). At an assumed willingness to pay of $A50,000 per QALY gained, 
HIV testing should not be conducted less than approximately every 40 weeks and 
chlamydia testing approximately once per year; in comparison, current 
requirements are testing every 12 weeks for HIV and every 4 weeks for chlamydia.
CONCLUSIONS: Mandatory screening of female sex workers at current testing 
frequencies is not cost-effective for the prevention of disease in their male 
clients. The current testing rate required of sex workers in Victoria is 
excessive. Screening intervals for sex workers should be based on local STI 
epidemiology and not locked by legislation.

DOI: 10.1136/sti.2009.036673
PMID: 19843534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Blood. 2010 Jan 7;115(1):21-8. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-06-195370. Epub 2009
Oct  20.

How I treat hairy cell leukemia.

Grever MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Ohio State University, Columbus, OH, USA. 
michael.grever@osumc.edu

The description of hairy cell leukemia as a specific clinical entity was 
published 50 years ago. The clinical outcome for patients was hampered by 
ineffective chemotherapy, and splenectomy was the major therapeutic approach to 
improve peripheral blood counts. The median survival after diagnosis was 4 
years. With the introduction of alpha-interferon in 1984, marked improvements in 
patient responses were observed. Shortly thereafter, the introduction of the 
purine nucleoside analogs transformed this disease into a highly treatable form 
of leukemia, and patients with the classic form of this rare leukemia now have a 
near-normal life expectancy. However, other clinical entities mimicking this 
disease do not respond; thus, accurate diagnosis is important. Immunophenotypic 
features in classic hairy cell leukemia show that the leukemic cells express 
CD11c, CD25, CD103, and CD123 and display bright CD20. Despite the high 
percentage of durable complete remissions with modern therapy, the long-term 
disease-free survival curves have not reached a plateau. Many patients who 
achieve a complete remission by morphologic criteria have minimal residual 
disease demonstrable by either flow cytometry or immunohistochemical staining, 
and this population may be at higher risk for earlier relapse. Continued 
clinical research is essential to optimize therapy for this disease.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-06-195370
PMCID: PMC2803689
PMID: 19843881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Feb;11(1):67-76. doi: 10.1007/s10198-009-0199-5.
Epub  2009 Oct 21.

Cost-effectiveness of infliximab for the treatment of acute exacerbations of 
ulcerative colitis.

Punekar YS(1), Hawkins N.

Author information:
(1)Schering-Plough Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, AL7 1TW, UK. 
Yogesh.punekar@spcorp.com

BACKGROUND: Infliximab has been shown to be efficacious in acute exacerbations 
of ulcerative colitis (UC).
AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of infliximab treatment in patients 
hospitalised with acute exacerbations of UC.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was constructed to simulate the progression 
of acute UC patients treated with infliximab induction regimen over 1 year. 
Infliximab treatment was compared with standard care, ciclosporin and surgery 
using transitions derived from infliximab and ciclosporin randomised trials. 
Costs and outcomes were discounted at 3.5%. Intermediate outcomes of colectomy 
and post-surgery complications were translated into the primary effectiveness 
measurement, which was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) estimated using 
EQ-5D. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to estimate 
the uncertainty around the results.
RESULTS: The incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) for infliximab was 
pound19,545 per QALY compared to ciclosporin, which in turn dominated standard 
care. Sensitivity analysis indicated patient body weight, utility estimates and 
treatment effect of alternative treatment strategies to be the most important 
factors affecting cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Infliximab induction regimen appears to be a cost-effective 
treatment option for UC patients hospitalised with an acute exacerbation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-009-0199-5
PMID: 19844750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. J Insur Med. 2009;41(2):102-6.

Minding your p's and q's--and m's too.

Wesley D(1).

Author information:
(1)Transamerica Reinsurance, 401 North Tryon Street, Suite 700, Charlotte, NC 
28202, USA. david.wesley.md@transamerica.com

PMID: 19845211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. J Insur Med. 2009;41(2):107-9.

A simple method for computer-based survival curve measurement.

Rigatti SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)MetLife, USA. srigatti@metlife.com

An easy-to-use method for generating tabular data from a survival curve is 
given. This technique measures a given survival curve in units of pixels, then 
converts the data to a table of cumulative survival (P) vs time utilizing 
software already present on most computer systems.

PMID: 19845212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. J Insur Med. 2009;41(2):110-6.

Cognitive impairment and mortality in the Cardiovascular Health Study.

Shavelle RM(1), Paculdo DR, Strauss DJ, Kush SJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, 1439 - 17th Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94122-3402, 
USA. Shavelle@LifeExpectancy.org

Comment in
    J Insur Med. 2009;41(2):100-1.

Cognitive impairment is associated with increased mortality, depending on the 
severity of impairment. We analyzed data from the Cardiovascular Health Study 
(CHS), using Cox proportional hazards regression models to quantify the effect 
of the impairment. After adjustment for age, sex, and medical risk factors, we 
found the resulting relative risks to range from 1.19 for mild impairment to 
1.98 for severe.

PMID: 19845213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. J Insur Med. 2009;41(2):117-26.

Relative survival in dilated cardiomyopathy: a stratification study of long-term 
outcome to evaluate life insurance cover.

Barbati G(1), Merlo M, Marocco P, Gregori D, Sabbadini G, Lattuada L, 
Ginanneschi U, Sinagra G, Di Lenarda A.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Public Health and Microbiology, University of Torino and 
Cardiovascular Department, AOU "Ospedali Riuniti", Trieste. 
giulia_barbati@yahoo.it

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to compare mortality of dilated 
cardiomyopathy (DCM) patients with the mortality in the background Italian 
population, taking into account demographic characteristics and clinical 
stratification of long-term outcome, ie, "reverse remodelling" within the first 
2 years of follow-up.
BACKGROUND: DCM is a myocardial disease, characterized by left and/or right 
ventricular dilation and dysfunction and poor outcome. Evidence-based treatment 
with ACE inhibitors, beta-blockers and, in the last decade, implantable 
cardioverter defibrillators have been demonstrated to improve significantly 
heart failure symptoms and prognosis. At present, DCM patients are unlikely to 
be accepted for life insurance.
METHODS: A cohort of 577 DCM patients consecutively enrolled from 1988 to 2004 
in the Heart Muscle Disease Registry of Trieste, Italy, was matched by sex, age 
and registry data entry with the mortality data of the Italian population. 
Relative survival has been estimated by means of Kaplan-Meier technique, and 
mortality ratios (MR) with corresponding 95% confidence intervals have been 
computed.
RESULTS: DCM patients who showed a significant reverse remodelling within the 
first 2 years of treatment showed comparable survival with respect to the 
control population, and therefore could be taken into consideration for life 
insurance coverage, at least for a short or medium-term of years.
CONCLUSIONS: The data illustrate that survival probability strongly depend on 
the individual treatment and evolution of the disease and could be easily 
measured within the first 2 years of follow-up. If this information is collected 
at the time of evaluation of an applicant for life cover, the insurance company 
could possibly improve its risk stratification.

PMID: 19845214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Nov 15;49(10):1579-81. doi: 10.1086/644773.

Paying the price for late starts and early stops: racial and sex disparities in 
HIV-related mortality.

Smith KY.

Comment on
    Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Nov 15;49(10):1570-8.

DOI: 10.1086/644773
PMID: 19845470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Nov 15;49(10):1570-8. doi: 10.1086/644772.

Racial and sex disparities in life expectancy losses among HIV-infected persons 
in the united states: impact of risk behavior, late initiation, and early 
discontinuation of antiretroviral therapy.

Losina E(1), Schackman BR, Sadownik SN, Gebo KA, Walensky RP, Chiosi JJ, 
Weinstein MC, Hicks PL, Aaronson WH, Moore RD, Paltiel AD, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of General Medicine, Department of Medicine, MA 02114, USA. 
elosina@partners.org

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Nov 15;49(10):1579-81.

BACKGROUND: Most persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in 
the United States present to care with advanced disease, and many patients 
discontinue therapy prematurely. We sought to evaluate sex and racial/ethnic 
disparities in life-years lost as a result of risk behavior, late presentation, 
and early discontinuation of HIV care, and we compared these survival losses for 
HIV-infected persons with losses attributable to high-risk behavior and HIV 
disease itself.
METHODS: With use of a state-transition model of HIV disease, we simulated 
cohorts of HIV-infected persons and compared them with uninfected individuals 
who had similar demographic characteristics. We estimated non-HIV-related 
mortality with use of risk-adjusted standardized mortality ratios, as well as 
years of life lost because of late presentation and early discontinuation of 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) for HIV infection. Data from the national HIV 
Research Network, stratified by sex and race/ethnicity, were used for estimating 
CD4+ cell counts at ART initiation.
RESULTS: For HIV-uninfected persons in the United States who have risk profiles 
similar to those of individuals with HIV infection, the projected life 
expectancy, starting at 33 years of age, was 34.58 years, compared with 42.91 
years for the general US population. Those with HIV infection lost an additional 
11.92 years of life if they received HIV care concordant with guidelines; late 
treatment initiation resulted in 2.60 additional years of life lost, whereas 
premature ART discontinuation led to 0.70 more years of life lost. Losses from 
late initiation and early discontinuation were greatest for Hispanic individuals 
(3.90 years).
CONCLUSIONS: The high-risk profile of HIV-infected persons, HIV infection 
itself, as well as late initiation and early discontinuation of care, all lead 
to substantial decreases in life expectancy. Survival disparities resulting from 
late initiation and early discontinuation of therapy are most pronounced for 
Hispanic HIV-infected men and women. Interventions focused on risk behaviors, as 
well as on earlier linkage to and better retention in care, will lead to 
improved survival for HIV-infected persons in the United States.

DOI: 10.1086/644772
PMCID: PMC2783631
PMID: 19845472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest. All authors: no 
conflicts.


750. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Oct;25(4):427-54. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990353.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions based on physical exercise in the treatment 
of various diseases: a systematic literature review.

Roine E(1), Roine RP, Räsänen P, Vuori I, Sintonen H, Saarto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Helsinki University Central Hospital, Helsinki, 
Finland. eija.roine@helsinki.fi

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to review studies reporting 
cost-effectiveness of exercise-based interventions in treatment of various 
diseases.
METHODS: Systematic literature search using several databases. Abstracts 
initially screened independently by two authors, full-text articles again 
evaluated by two authors, who decided whether an article should be included. 
Included were scientifically valid articles describing controlled studies that 
included an exercise-based intervention in the treatment of an established 
medical condition, and also reported on the cost-effectiveness of the 
intervention, or its effect on the utilization of health services. Quality was 
assessed with an established approach.
RESULTS: A total of 914 articles were identified, of them 151 were obtained for 
closer review. Sixty-five articles describing sixty-one studies were included. 
Most (82 percent) were randomized trials. Twenty-eight studies dealt with 
musculoskeletal disorders, fifteen with cardiology, four with rheumatic 
diseases, four with pulmonary diseases, three with urinary incontinence, and two 
with vascular disorders. There was one study each in the fields of oncology, 
chronic fatigue, endocrinology, psychiatry, and neurology. Exercise 
interventions in musculoskeletal disorders were deemed to be cost-effective in 
54 percent, in cardiology in 60 percent, and in rheumatic diseases in 75 percent 
of the cases. There was some evidence that exercise might be cost-effective in 
intermittent claudication, breast cancer patients, diabetes, and schizophrenia.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of studies assessing cost-effectiveness of exercise 
interventions in various diseases is still limited. The results show large 
variation but suggest that some exercise interventions can be cost-effective. 
Most convincing evidence was found for rehabilitation of cardiac and back pain 
patients; however, even in these cases, the evidence was partly contradictory.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990353
PMID: 19845974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Oct;25(4):470-8. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990407.

Systematic review of economic evidence for the detection, diagnosis, treatment, 
and follow-up of colorectal cancer in the United Kingdom.

Tappenden P(1), Chilcott J, Brennan A, Pilgrim H.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. p.tappenden@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the availability and 
consistency of economic evidence for the detection, diagnosis, treatment, and 
follow-up of colorectal cancer.
METHODS: A systematic review of UK economic evaluations of colorectal cancer 
interventions was undertaken. Searches were undertaken across ten electronic 
databases. Studies were critically appraised through reference to a conceptual 
model of UK colorectal cancer services.
RESULTS: Forty-seven studies met the inclusion criteria. There is a substantial 
economic evidence base surrounding population-level colorectal screening, 
surgical procedures, and cytotoxic therapies for the adjuvant and palliative 
treatment of colorectal cancer. There is limited evidence concerning the 
diagnosis of suspected colorectal cancer, curative treatments for metastatic 
disease and follow-up regimens for nonmetastatic disease. No studies were 
identified relating to the economics of radiotherapy, surveillance of 
increased-risk groups, end-of-life care, or the management of hereditary 
colorectal cancer. Where evidence is available, studies are subject to important 
differences concerning treatment options, decision criteria, and incongruent 
assumptions concerning the disease and its management.
CONCLUSIONS: Across many aspects of the colorectal cancer service, current 
practice appears to have emerged without the consideration or support of 
economic evidence. There is a need to develop a common understanding how 
colorectal cancer models should be structured and implemented.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990407
PMID: 19845977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
