AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To understand the challenges older people living with 
end-stage kidney disease and home haemodialysis face in their everyday life.
BACKGROUND: As the treatment of end-stage kidney disease has advanced, two 
aspects have emerged; increased life expectancy of end-stage kidney disease 
patients and psychosocial adaptation to a changed life. There is limited 
information regarding older peoples' experiences of adaptation to end-stage 
kidney disease and home haemodialysis.
DESIGN: This qualitative study took place in Australia and involved participants 
who were over 60 years of age and undergoing home haemodialysis.
METHODS: Four participants aged between 60-75 years, with end-stage kidney 
disease and currently enrolled in a programme of home haemodialysis took part. 
Data were collected via in-depth audio-recorded interviews and subjected to a 
qualitative thematic analysis.
RESULTS: Three themes were generated that provide insight into participants' 
everyday activities, significant relationships, challenges and hopes for the 
future.
CONCLUSION: Findings indicated a transformed care dynamic, positive appraisal 
and active everyday engagement by participants. A positive outlook on life in 
the present enabled participants to look to their future with purpose and hope. 
Outstanding systems of partnership significantly facilitated this view.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: Knowledge from the study may contribute to the 
development of patient-care partnerships that facilitate and promote 
independence for older people being treated for chronic illnesses.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2009.02901.x
PMID: 19886872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Ann Bot. 2010 Jan;105(1):57-69. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcp272.

Duplication of the class I cytosolic small heat shock protein gene and potential 
functional divergence revealed by sequence variations flanking the 
{alpha}-crystallin domain in the genus Rhododendron (Ericaceae).

Liao PC(1), Lin TP, Lan WC, Chung JD, Hwang SY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Pingtung University of Science and Technology, 
Pingtung 91201, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Positive selection in the -crystallin domain (ACD) of the 
chloroplast small heat shock protein (CPsHSP) gene was found in a previous study 
and was suggested to be related to the ecological adaptation of Rhododendron 
species in the subgenus Hymenanthes. Consequently, it was of interest to examine 
whether gene duplication and subsequent divergence have occurred in other sHSP 
genes, for example class I cytosolic sHSP genes (CT1sHSPs) in Rhododendron in 
Taiwan, where many endemic species have evolved as a result of habitat 
differentiation.
METHODS: A phylogeny of CT1sHSP amino acid sequences was built from 
Rhododendron, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis 
vinifera and other species for elucidation of the phylogenetic relationships 
among CT1sHSPs. Phylogenies of Rhododendron CT1sHSP nucleotide and amino acid 
sequences were generated for positive selection and functional divergence 
analysis, respectively. Positively selected sites and amino acid differences 
between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSPs were mapped onto the wheat sHSP16.9 
protein structure. Average genetic distance (Dxy) and dN/dS ratios between types 
of Rhododendron CT1sHSP genes were analysed using sliding window analysis. Gene 
conversion was also assessed between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSPs.
KEY RESULTS: Two types of Rhododendron CT1sHSP were identified. A high level of 
genetic similarity and diversity within and flanking the ACD, respectively, 
between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSP were found. Main differences between the 
two types of Rhododendron CT1sHSPs were: (1) increased hydrophobicity by two 
positively selected amino acid sites and a seven-amino-acid insertion in the 
N-terminal arm; and (2) increased structural flexibility and solubility by a 
seven-amino-acid insertion in the N-terminal arm and one positively selected 
amino acid site in the C-terminal extension.
CONCLUSIONS: Functional conservation of the ACD of Rhododendron CT1sHSP genes 
was inferred b

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcp272
PMCID: PMC2794073
PMID: 19887471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(11):903-17. doi:
10.2165/10899580-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness in low- and middle-income countries: a review of the debates 
surrounding decision rules.

Shillcutt SD(1), Walker DG, Goodman CA, Mills AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. samuel.shillcutt@gmail.com

Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) is increasingly important in public health 
decision making, including in low- and middle-income countries. The decision 
makers' valuation of a unit of health gain, or ceiling ratio (lambda), is 
important in CEA as the relative value against which acceptability is defined, 
although values are usually chosen arbitrarily in practice. Reference case 
estimates for lambda are useful to promote consistency, facilitate new 
developments in decision analysis, compare estimates against benefit-cost ratios 
from other economic sectors, and explicitly inform decisions about equity in 
global health budgets. The aim of this article is to discuss values for lambda 
used in practice, including derivation based on affordability expectations (such 
as $US150 per disability-adjusted life-year [DALY]), some multiple of gross 
national income or gross domestic product, and preference-elicitation methods, 
and explore the implications associated with each approach. The background to 
the debate is introduced, the theoretical bases of current values are reviewed, 
and examples are given of their application in practice. Advantages and 
disadvantages of each method for defining lambda are outlined, followed by an 
exploration of methodological and policy implications.

DOI: 10.2165/10899580-000000000-00000
PMCID: PMC2810517
PMID: 19888791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(11):963-73. doi:
10.2165/11318230-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of facility-based care, home-based care and mobile clinics 
for provision of antiretroviral therapy in Uganda.

Babigumira JB(1), Sethi AK, Smyth KA, Singer ME.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research & Policy Program, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195-7630, USA. babijo@u.washington.edu

Stakeholders in HIV/AIDS care currently use different programmes for provision 
of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in Uganda. It is not known which of these 
represents the best value for money. To compare the cost effectiveness of 
home-based care (HBC), facility-based care (FBC) and mobile clinic care (MCC) 
for provision of ART in Uganda. Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was 
performed using decision and Markov modeling of adult AIDS patients in WHO 
Clinical Stage 3 and 4 from the perspective of the Ugandan healthcare system. 
The main outcome measures were cost (year 2008 values), life expectancy in 
life-years (LY) and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) measured as 
cost per QALY or LY gained over 10 years. Ten-year mean undiscounted life 
expectancy was lowest for FBC (3.6 LY), followed by MCC (4.3 LY) and highest for 
HBC (5.3 LY), while the mean discounted QALYs were also lowest for FBC (2.3), 
followed by MCC (2.9) and highest for HBC (3.7). The 10-year mean costs per 
patient were lowest for FBC ($US3212), followed by MCC ($US4782) and highest for 
HBC ($US7033). The ICER was lower for MCC versus FBC ($US2241 per LY and $US2615 
per QALY) than for HBC versus MCC ($US2251 per LY and $US2814 per QALY). FBC 
remained cost effective in univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses. 
FBC appears to be the most cost-effective programme for provision of ART in 
Uganda. This analysis supports the implementation of FBC for scale-up and 
sustainability of ART in Uganda. HBC and MCC would be competitive only if there 
is increased access, increased adherence or reduced cost.

DOI: 10.2165/11318230-000000000-00000
PMCID: PMC3305803
PMID: 19888795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Helicobacter. 2009 Dec;14(6):536-44. doi: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2009.00721.x.

Cost-effectiveness of eradication of Helicobacter pylori in gastric cancer 
survivors after endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer.

Shin DW(1), Yun YH, Choi IJ, Koh E, Park SM.

Author information:
(1)National Cancer Control Research Institute & Hospital, National Cancer 
Center, Goyang, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Clinical effectiveness of Helicobacter pylori eradication in gastric 
cancer survivors after endoscopic resection of early gastric cancer (EGC) was 
recently established in a randomized controlled trial. We aimed to establish 
long-term cost-effectiveness in gastric cancer survivors after endoscopic 
resection of EGC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to compare the costs and 
outcomes of the two intervention strategies: (1) eradicate H. pylori after 
complete resection of EGC by endoscopy (2) do not eradicate. Estimates for 
variables in the model were obtained by extensive review of published reports. 
Analyses were made from the Korean public healthcare provider's perspective.
RESULTS: Base-case analysis indicated H. pylori eradication costs less (US$ 
29,780 vs. US$ 30,594) than no eradication, and save more lives (mean life 
expectancy from eradication: 13.60 years vs. 13.55 years). One-way and three-way 
sensitivity analyses showed the robustness of the cost-effectiveness results.
CONCLUSION: In this selective population with very high risk of developing 
gastric cancer, H. pylori eradication should be considered for reimbursement 
with priority to prevent subsequent cancer and also reduce health care cost.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1523-5378.2009.00721.x
PMID: 19889071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2010 Feb;33(2):226-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.2009.02597.x. Epub 2009 Nov 2.

Ethics in electrophysiology: a complaint from palliative care.

Beauregard LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Heart Specialists of Central Jersey, 100 Craig Road, Manalapan, NJ 07726, 
USA. drbeauregard@gmail.com

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.2009.02597.x
PMID: 19889184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. N Engl J Med. 2009 Nov 19;361(21):e46. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp0908269. Epub 2009
Nov  4.

Not "socialized medicine"--an Israeli view of health care reform.

Chernichovsky D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems Administration, Ben-Gurion University of the 
Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Feb 11;362(6):e17; author reply e17.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp0908269
PMID: 19890109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Top HIV Med. 2009 Sep-Oct;17(4):118-23.

Immune dysfunction, inflammation, and accelerated aging in patients on 
antiretroviral therapy.

Deeks SG(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Patients receiving long-term antiretroviral therapy are at increased risk of 
age-associated non-AIDS-related morbidity and mortality compared with 
HIV-seronegative persons. Despite suppressive antiretroviral treatment, 
inflammation remains elevated and CD4+ count often remains low, with both 
measures predicting age-associated events. Several factors likely contribute to 
persistent inflammation and suboptimal gains during therapy. These include 
residual HIV replication, persistent virus expression, loss of immunoregulatory 
cells, collagen deposition, microbial translocation, chronic coinfections, and 
thymic dysfunction. How these factors influence disease outcomes and how chronic 
inflammation should be managed during therapy are the focus of intense ongoing 
investigation. Currently, the most practical advice is to start antiretroviral 
therapy early and to manage traditional risk factors for non-AIDS-related 
conditions aggressively. This article summarizes a presentation made by Steven 
G. Deeks, MD, at the International AIDS Society-USA continuing medical education 
program in Chicago in May 2009.

PMID: 19890183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Top HIV Med. 2009 Sep-Oct;17(4):130-4.

Cost-effectiveness of HIV interventions: from cohort studies and clinical trials 
to policy.

Walensky RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios quantify the additional cost of an 
intervention relative to the additional benefit associated with its use. Whether 
an intervention is considered cost-effective depends largely on policy decisions 
regarding whether the additional benefit is worth the additional cost in the 
context of competing needs for resources. In the United States, 
costeffectiveness analyses have been instrumental in guiding changes in HIV 
policy supporting antiretroviral therapy, genotypic resistance testing, and 
expanded programs for HIV screening. The cost-effectiveness of HIV screening 
compares favorably with that of accepted screening practices for other chronic 
diseases. This article is a summary of a presentation made by Rochelle P. 
Walensky, MD, MPH, at the International AIDS Society-USA Chicago program held in 
May 2009. The original presentation is available as a Webcast at www.iasusa.org.

PMID: 19890185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Nature. 2009 Nov 5;462(7269):35. doi: 10.1038/462035a.

NICE should value real experiences over hypothetical opinions.

Dolan P.

Comment on
    Nature. 2009 Sep 17;461(7262):336-9.

DOI: 10.1038/462035a
PMID: 19890311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2009 Sep;56(9):633-44.

[Dietary intake and health behavior in relation to total and disease-specific 
mortality in Japan: an ecological analysis].

[Article in Japanese]

Hayashi F(1), Yokoyama T, Yoshiike N.

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Ecology, Kagawa Nutrition University.

PURPOSE: In order to improve population-based approaches in communities to 
extend healthy life expectancy of our population in the 21st century, it is 
essential to identify characteristics and risks thoroughly. This study assessed 
associations of dietary intake and health behavior with mortality from cancer, 
cardiovascular diseases, and all-causes in Japan at the prefectural level.
METHODS: By prefecture and sex, we calculated age-adjusted means for BMI, step 
counts, and nutrient and food intakes, as well as age-adjusted prevalence of 
smoking and alcohol drinking habits, using datasets of the 2001-05 National 
Health and Nutrition Survey. Age-adjusted total mortality rates (per 100,000 
population), as well as cancer and cardiovascular mortality rates were obtained 
from Vital Statistics (2007). Multivariate stepwise regression analysis was used 
to compute partial correlation coefficients.
RESULTS: In regard to BMI, mortality from myocardial infarction and cerebral 
hemorrhage showed significant positive correlations in both males and females, 
but significant negative correlations with mortality from stomach cancer in both 
sexes. The sodium chloride equivalent (salt) was positively correlated with 
mortality from cerebral hemorrhage in both males and females. In males, salt was 
also positively correlated with total mortality. In females, salt was also 
positively correlated with mortality from cerebral infarction and all types of 
stroke. Alcohol drinking was positively correlated with mortality from 
esophageal cancer in both genders and from cerebral infarction in males. Several 
other nutrients and food groups, as well as physical activity, were also 
associated with mortality risk.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this study is an ecological analysis, these findings 
highlight some factors of public health importance.

PMID: 19891363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Ren Care. 2009 Dec;35 Suppl 2:25-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1755-6686.2009.00123.x.

Is normalising haemoglobin in patients with CKD harmful and if so, why?

Littlewood TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Cancer and Haematology Centre, Churchill Hospital, 
Old Rd, Oxford OX37LJ, UK. tim.littlewood@chch.ox.ac.uk

Symptomatic anaemia is found in patients with chronic kidney disease. Correction 
of anaemia by erythropoiesis stimulating agents improves quality of life and 
life expectancy. Data from patients with both dialysis dependent and nondialysis 
dependent chronic kidney disease now show that the mortality from cardiovascular 
disease increases if the haemoglobin concentration is corrected above 13.0 g/dl. 
The mechanism for this increased risk is uncertain.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-6686.2009.00123.x
PMID: 19891682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Handb Clin Neurol. 2010;95:445-76. doi: 10.1016/S0072-9752(08)02130-1.

Chapter 30: historical aspects of the major neurological vitamin deficiency 
disorders: the water-soluble B vitamins.

Lanska DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Tomah, WI 54660, 
USA. douglas.lanska@med.va.gov

This historical review addresses major neurological disorders associated with 
deficiencies of water-soluble B vitamins: beriberi, Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, 
pellagra, neural tube defects, and subacute combined degeneration of the spinal 
cord. Beriberi: Beriberi was known for millennia in Asia, but was not described 
by a European until the 17th century when Brontius in the Dutch East Indies 
reported the progressive sensorimotor polyneuropathy. The prevalence of beriberi 
increased greatly in Asia with a change in the milling process for rice in the 
late 19th century. In the 1880s, Takaki demonstrated the benefits of dietary 
modification in sailors, and later instituted dietary reforms in the Japanese 
Navy, which largely eradicated beriberi from the Japanese Navy by 1887. In 1889 
Eijkman in Java serendipitously identified dietary factors as a major 
contributor to "chicken polyneuritis," which he took to be an animal model for 
beriberi; the polyneuritis could be cured or prevented by feeding the chickens 
either unpolished rice or rice polishings. By 1901, Grijns, while continuing 
studies of beriberi in Java, suggested a dietary deficiency explanation for 
beriberi after systematically eliminating deficiencies of known dietary 
components and excluding a toxic effect. Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome: In the 
late 1870s, Wernicke identified a clinicopathological condition with 
ophthalmoparesis, nystagmus, ataxia, and encephalopathy, associated with 
punctate hemorrhages symmetrically arranged in the grey matter around the third 
and fourth ventricles and the aqueduct of Sylvius. In the late 1880s, Korsakoff 
described a spectrum of cognitive disorders, including a confabulatory amnestic 
state following an agitated delirium, occurring in conjunction with peripheral 
polyneuropathy. Beginning around 1900, investigators recognized the close 
relationship between Korsakoff's psychosis, delirium tremens, and Wernicke's 
encephalopathy, but not until several decades later were Wernicke's 
encephalopathy, Korsakoff's psychosis, and beriberi all linked to the deficiency 
of a specific dietary factor, i.e. thiamin. Thiamin: Thiamin was crystallized 
from rice polishings by Jansen and Donath in 1926, and synthesized by Williams 
and Cline in 1936. In the late 1930s and early 1940s, characteristic 
pathological changes of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome were produced in animal 
models, the biochemical roles of thiamin in intermediary carbohydrate metabolism 
were elaborated by Peters and others, and the therapeutic benefits of thiamin 
for Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome and beriberi were demonstrated. By the 1950s 
synthetic forms of the vitamin were produced cheaply, allowing both therapeutic 
administration and prevention with food enrichment. Pellagra and niacin: 
Pellagra was unknown prior to the introduction of maize into Europe from the New 
World. In the 18th century, Casàl and Frapolli described the clinical features 
of pellagra in Europe, and linked it with poverty and subsistence on 
nutritionally marginal corn-based diets. In the United States, pellagra became 
epidemic among poor Southerners in the early 20th century, in part because of 
economically-driven reliance on monotonous, nutritionally inadequate diets, 
combined with new manufacturing methods that removed vitamins from processed 
grain. From 1914-1929, Goldberger completed well-designed epidemiologic 
investigations, tested theories with human experiments, and utilized an animal 
model ("black tongue" in dogs) - all strongly supporting a dietary deficiency 
explanation for pellagra over prevailing toxic and infectious theories. Initial 
prevention and treatment approaches proved inadequate because of complex social 
issues linked to poverty, even after Goldberger and colleagues established that 
dried brewer's yeast could cure or prevent pellagra less expensively than 
dietary modification. During the depression, the collapse of cotton as an 
economically viable crop facilitated crop diversification, which contributed to 
an abrupt decline in pellagra mortality in the early 1930s. In 1937 Elvehjem 
isolated the P-P (pellagra preventive) factor, identified it as nicotinic acid 
(niacin), and demonstrated that nicotinic acid and nicotinic acid amide cure 
black tongue in dogs. Although clinical trials soon confirmed dramatic 
therapeutic effects in individual people, therapeutic administration of niacin 
had relatively little impact on population-level morbidity and mortality. 
Vitamin fortification of foodstuffs during World War II ultimately eradicated 
endemic pellagra in the United States. In the 1940s and 1950s, with expanded 
biochemical knowledge, pellagra was reformulated as a deficiency disease due to 
inadequate niacin and its amino acid precursor tryptophan. Neural tube defects 
and folate: Folate deficiency was initially recognized clinically as a 
macrocytic anemia in the 1920s, and only clearly separated from pernicious 
anemia by the mid-20th century. When folic acid was isolated and synthesized in 
the 1940s, it was shown to correct the macrocytic anemia associated with 
pernicious anemia, while the neurological manifestations progressed. In the 
1950s and 1960s, the biochemical role of folates in transferring single carbon 
units was elucidated. Beginning in the 1960s, folate deficiency was increasingly 
recognized as the major cause of preventable neural tube defects. In the early 
1990s well-designed randomized trials established that folate supplementation 
could prevent neural tube defects. Trial data, collectively indicating that 
periconceptual folate administration reduces both the occurrence and recurrence 
risks of neural tube defects by at least 70%, helped establish governmental 
recommendations concerning folic acid intake and health policy concerning 
vitamin fortification of foodstuffs. When dietary modification and 
supplementation strategies proved inadequate, folic acid food fortification was 
legally mandated in the US in the late 1990s, which significantly improved 
population folate status and produced an abrupt decline (20%-27%) in the 
prevalence of neural tube defects at birth. Recent studies have established 
genetic predispositions for neural tube defects, including both infant and 
maternal gene polymorphisms for enzymes involved in folate-dependent 
homocysteine metabolism, which help explain how the genotype of the mother, the 
genotype of the unborn child, and environmental factors (e.g. folate intake) can 
all impact on the risk of neural tube defects. Subacute combined degeneration 
and B(12) deficiency: Pernicious anemia was recognized clinically in the 
mid-19th century by Addison, but the most important neurological manifestation - 
subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord - was not recognized 
clinically and linked with pernicious anemia until the end of the 19th century, 
particularly by Lichtheim, Putnam, and Dana. At the beginning of the 20th 
century, pernicious anemia and the associated subacute combined degeneration of 
the spinal cord were considered, by many investigators, to result from 
infectious or toxic causes. During the first quarter of the 20th century, 
various therapies were employed, but, with the possible exception of 
transfusion, were largely ineffective. In the 1920s, Minot and Murphy showed 
that large quantities of ingested liver could be used to effectively treat 
pernicious anemia, and specifically could improve or prevent progression of 
neurological manifestations, and could extend life expectancy beyond 2 years. 
Beginning in the late 1920s, Castle demonstrated that a substance elaborated by 
the gastric mucosa ("intrinsic factor") was essential for the absorption of a 
dietary factor ("extrinsic factor," later shown to be vitamin B(12)) needed to 
prevent pernicious anemia. Over two decades, from the late 1920s until the late 
1940s, increasingly potent liver extracts were manufactured that could be given 
either intramuscularly or intravenously. In 1947, vitamin B(12) was isolated by 
Folkers and colleagues, and nearly simultaneously by Smith. Shortly thereafter 
the therapeutic efficacy of vitamin B(12) on subacute combined degeneration was 
demonstrated by West and Reisner and others. By 1955, Hodgkin determined the 
molecular structure of cyanocobalamin using computer-assisted x-ray 
crystallography, allowing complete chemical synthesis of vitamin B(12) in 1960 
by an international consortium. Beginning in the late 1950s, the absorption and 
biochemistry of vitamin B(12) were elaborated, and several lines of evidence 
converged to support an autoimmune basis for pernicious anemia.

DOI: 10.1016/S0072-9752(08)02130-1
PMID: 19892133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Eur J Intern Med. 2009 Dec;20(8):779-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2009.08.006.
Epub  2009 Sep 18.

Application of HRV-CD for estimation of life expectancy in various clinical 
disorders.

Almoznino-Sarafian D(1), Sarafian G, Zyssman I, Shteinshnaider M, Tzur I, Kaplan 
BZ, Berman S, Cohen N, Gorelik O.

Author information:
(1)The Department of Internal Medicine F, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center 
(affiliated to the Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University), Zerifin, 
Israel. internal6@asaf.health.gov.il

BACKGROUND: Low heart rate variability (HRV) was found in various medical 
conditions including heart failure and acute myocardial infarction. Decreased 
HRV in these conditions predicted poor prognosis.
METHODS: HRV was estimated in 133 unselected inpatients with relevant clinical 
bedside conditions by non-linear analysis derived from chaos theory, which 
calculates the correlation dimension (CD) of the cardiac electrophysiologic 
system (HRV-CD).
RESULTS: Mean HRV-CD in the entire group was 3.75+/-0.45. Heart failure, 
coronary artery disease, cardiac arrhythmia, low serum potassium, renal 
dysfunction, and diabetes mellitus were significantly associated with reduced 
HRV-CD compared to their counterparts [3.6 vs. 3.9 (P<.001), 3.65 vs. 3.87 
(P=.005), 3.58 vs. 3.8 (P=.01), 3.38 vs. 3.81 (P=.02), 3.59 vs. 3.8 (P=.04), and 
3.66 vs. 3.82 (P=.04), respectively]. Stepwise logistic regression showed heart 
failure to be the condition most significantly associated with low HRV-CD (odds 
ratio 4.2, 95% confidence interval 1.90-9.28, P<.001). In the entire group, 
decreased HRV-CD (< or =3.75 vs. >3.75) was associated with lower survival 
(P=.01). Mortality of diabetic patients with HRV-CD < or =3.75 exceeded the 
mortality in patients with HRV-CD >3.75 (P=.02). Heart failure, renal 
dysfunction or age over 70 combined with HRV-CD < or =3.75 also appeared to be 
associated with augmented mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Diminished HRV-CD is associated with heart failure, coronary artery 
disease, cardiac arrhythmia, renal dysfunction, diabetes mellitus and low serum 
potassium. Among the latter, heart failure is most significantly associated with 
decreased HRV-CD. Decreased HRV-CD values, especially in diabetics, are also 
associated with lower survival.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2009.08.006
PMID: 19892308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Postgrad Med J. 2009 Nov;85(1009):569-72. doi: 10.1136/pgmj.2009.082990.

A doctor's experience of resuscitation decision making for older patients: 
coping with change.

Bowker L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine for the Elderly, Norfolk and Norwich University 
Foundation Trust Hospital, Norfolk, UK. lesley.bowker@nnuh.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Postgrad Med J. 2009 Nov;85(1009):561-3.

There has been a dramatic change in the way that resuscitation decisions are 
made for older hospital inpatients in the UK. In less than 20 years many 
geriatric medicine wards have moved from an "opt-in" policy (where the default 
position is not to provide resuscitation) to a position where resuscitation is 
widely available to older patients and clinicians are much more reluctant to 
make "do not attempt cardiopulmonary resuscitation" decisions on medical grounds 
alone. The drivers for this change are rooted in societal changes rather than 
scientific or legal advances. Older patients are increasingly educated and have 
higher expectations of health care, while doctors are more commonly criticised 
and have progressively less "power" in the doctor-patient relationship. Doctors 
in the UK are struggling with the growing volume and complexity of guidelines 
about resuscitation, which can prove very tricky to enact within current 
resources and priorities. Many are feeling stressed and under equipped to cope 
with the ethical and legal dilemmas of resuscitation decision making. The 
solution lies in better undergraduate and postgraduate training which enhances 
skills (such as consultation skills and ethical reasoning) and not just 
knowledge of laws, principles and guidelines.

DOI: 10.1136/pgmj.2009.082990
PMID: 19892890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2010 Aug;18(8):1585-92. doi: 10.1038/oby.2009.401.
Epub  2009 Nov 5.

The cost-effectiveness of Australia's Active After-School Communities program.

Moodie ML(1), Carter RC, Swinburn BA, Haby MM.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Public Health Research Evaluation and Policy 
Cluster, Deakin University, Burwood, Victoria, Australia. 
marj.moodie@deakin.edu.au

The objective of this study was to assess from a societal perspective the 
cost-effectiveness of the Active After-school Communities (AASC) program, a key 
plank of the former Australian Government's obesity prevention program. The 
intervention was modeled for a 1-year time horizon for Australian primary school 
children as part of the Assessing Cost-Effectiveness in Obesity (ACE-Obesity) 
project. Disability-adjusted life year (DALY) benefits (based on calculated 
effects on BMI post-intervention) and cost-offsets (consequent savings from 
reductions in obesity-related diseases) were tracked until the cohort reached 
the age of 100 years or death. The reference year was 2001, and a 3% discount 
rate was applied. Simulation-modeling techniques were used to present a 95% 
uncertainty interval around the cost-effectiveness ratio. An assessment of 
second-stage filter criteria ("equity," "strength of evidence," "acceptability 
to stakeholders," "feasibility of implementation," "sustainability," and 
"side-effects") was undertaken by a stakeholder Working Group to incorporate 
additional factors that impact on resource allocation decisions. The estimated 
number of children new to physical activity after-school and therefore receiving 
the intervention benefit was 69,300. For 1 year, the intervention cost is 
Australian dollars (AUD) 40.3 million (95% uncertainty interval AUD 28.6 
million; AUD 56.2 million), and resulted in an incremental saving of 450 (250; 
770) DALYs. The resultant cost-offsets were AUD 3.7 million, producing a net 
cost per DALY saved of AUD 82,000 (95% uncertainty interval AUD 40,000; AUD 
165,000). Although the program has intuitive appeal, it was not cost-effective 
under base-case modeling assumptions. To improve its cost-effectiveness 
credentials as an obesity prevention measure, a reduction in costs needs to be 
coupled with increases in the number of participating children and the amount of 
physical activity undertaken.

DOI: 10.1038/oby.2009.401
PMID: 19893504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2009 Jul-Aug;83(4):557-65. doi: 
10.1590/s1135-57272009000400007.

[Mortality associated to tobacco consumption in Galicia, Spain, 2001-2006].

[Article in Spanish]

Pérez-Ríos M(1), Santiago-Pérez MI, Caramés SC, Alonso de la Iglesia B, Pintos 
AM, Vidal XH.

Author information:
(1)Subdirección General de Epidemiología y Sistemas de Información, Dirección 
General de Salud Pública y Planificación, Consellería de Sanidade, Santiago de 
Compostela, Galicia, España. mónica.pérez.ríos@sergas.es

BACKGROUND: In developed countries tobacco smoke is the preventable risk factor 
that causes more deaths. The objective of this study was to assess the impact of 
tobacco in the Galician adult (aged 35 and over) population from 2001 to 2006.
METHODS: Attributable mortality was estimated by a prevalence-dependent method 
based on the population attributable fraction. Galician prevalence of tobacco 
consumption was estimated for the period 2001-2006 based on local population 
surveys and relative risks derived from the Cancer Prevention Study-II. Years of 
life expectancy lost related to tobacco consumption were calculated applying the 
method proposed by Arriaga.
RESULTS: In Galicia, among 2001 and 2006, 21.588 deaths were attributed to 
tobacco consumption in the 35-year-old population and above, which supposes 12,5 
% of the mortality happened across the period. The percentage of years of life 
expectancy lost as reason of the consumption of tobacco decreased from the first 
one to the second triennium in males (28,1 % vs 26,8 %) and it increased in 
females (9,9 % vs 10,9 %).
CONCLUSIONS: At general population level tobacco attributable mortality shows a 
stable pattern. This is probably related to a slight increase of mortality in 
young females and a decrease in males' mortality.

DOI: 10.1590/s1135-57272009000400007
PMID: 19893883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2009 Aug;53(6):783-90. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-27302009000600015.

[FRAX: building an idea to Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Pinheiro Mde M(1), Camargos BM, Borba VZ, Lazaretti-Castro M.

Author information:
(1)Escola Paulista de Medicina, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São Paulo, 
SP, Brasil. mpinheiro@uol.com.br

Genetic and racial background, body composition, bone mineral density (BMD), 
diet, physical activity and life style help to explain the wide difference 
observed in the world prevalence and incidence of osteoporosis. Recently, a 
fracture assessment tool, named FRAX TM, was developed to integrate clinical 
risk factors (genetic and environmental conditions) and BMD, in order to 
quantify the ten-year probability of an osteoporotic fracture. Shortly, it will 
be used to indicate treatment for high risk patients. However, this tool is now 
available only to those populations with known reliable and prospective 
epidemiologic data of the osteoporotic fractures - fact that does not include 
the Brazilian population. The aim of this paper was to review the main national 
and international epidemiologic studies to better understand the differences 
between the clinical risk factors, BMD and fracture probability of these 
populations. The authors concluded that, to use the FRAX TM tool, it is 
necessary more epidemiological data that could characterize the Brazilian 
population. The future studies should be prospective, evaluate the quality of 
life, mortality and morbidity after a fracture, as well the life expectancy of 
the population and the cost-effectiveness and utility related to the 
osteoporotic fracture. In fact, it is not recommended to use any of the 
populations available in the FRAX TM tool, as a substitute for the Brazilian 
population.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-27302009000600015
PMID: 19893924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Braz Oral Res. 2009 Jul-Sep;23(3):313-8. doi:
10.1590/s1806-83242009000300015.

Clinical status and detection of periodontopathogens and Streptococcus mutans in 
children with high levels of supragingival biofilm.

Cortelli SC(1), Cortelli JR, Aquino DR, Holzhausen M, Franco GC, Costa Fde O, 
Fine D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, University of Taubaté, SP, Brazil. 
cavalcacortelli@uol.com.br

Knowledge about the presence of some important oral pathogens is an important 
step in better identifying children at risk for periodontal and/or caries 
diseases in later life. The purpose of this study was to detect the presence of 
Streptococcus mutans (Sm), Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans (Aa), 
Campylobacter rectus (Cr), Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg), Prevotella intermedia 
(Pi), and Tannerella forsythia (Tf) in gingival biofilm samples from 196 
children, and to assess whether any of these pathogens are more associated with 
gingival inflammation extension and the Decayed/Missing/Filled teeth (DMFT/dmft) 
index. The subjects presented plaque index greater than 80% and were divided in 
3 groups according to the bleeding index (BI): I) Low bleeding (< 30%), II) 
Medium bleeding (31 - 59%) and III) High bleeding (> 60%). The presence of each 
pathogen was determined by PCR. The prevalence of Sm was 71.9% and the mean 
dmft/DMFT was 6.68. The prevalence in low, medium and high bleeding groups was 
43.5%, 34.5% and 46.7% for Aa; 43.5%, 37.9%, and 36.7% for Cr; 99.1%, 100%, and 
96.7% for Pg; 56.5%, 56.9%, and 66.7% for Pi; and 58.3%, 60.3%, and 56.7% for 
Tf, respectively. Pg (99.0%) was the most prevalent periodontal pathogen 
detected followed by Tf (58.7%), Pi (58.2%), Aa (41.3%) and Cr (40.8%). Our 
study indicated that in this high plaque index population studied, a high 
prevalence of Sm and high mean DMFT were observed. In addition, the presence of 
Pi was associated with the presence of inflammation (P < 0.05) whereas Cr was 
associated with periodontal health (P < 0.05).

DOI: 10.1590/s1806-83242009000300015
PMID: 19893968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Pediatr Pulmonol. 2009 Dec;44(12):1223-5. doi: 10.1002/ppul.21127.

Growth in children with cystic fibrosis-related diabetes.

Cheung MS(1), Bridges NA, Prasad SA, Francis J, Carr SB, Suri R, Balfour-Lynn 
IM.

Author information:
(1)Chelsea & Westminster Hospital, London, UK.

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) is associated with a shortened life 
expectancy and greater deterioration in lung function than in CF patients with 
normal glucose metabolism. There are few published data on how CFRD affects 
growth in childhood. We carried out a retrospective case controlled study of 
growth and lung function in 34 children with CFRD attending three specialist 
centers in London. We found that for the 2 years leading to CFRD diagnosis (at a 
mean age of 13.1 years), the mean height velocity was significantly less 
compared to controls: 4.9 (standard deviation-SD 1.6) cm/year vs. 6.0 (SD 1.9) 
cm/year (P = 0.005). For the 2 years following diagnosis, height velocity 
remained significantly lower (3.4 (SD 2.2) cm/year vs. 4.4 (SD 2.2) cm/year, P = 
0.02). Mean FEV(1) was reduced prior to diagnosis and at diagnosis, but was 
similar to controls 2 years after diagnosis. This study highlights the 
compromise in height velocity and lung function that occurs prior to diagnosis 
of CFRD in children with CF, and a reduction in height velocity should be 
considered an indicator of impaired glucose metabolism. It would be useful to 
know whether early treatment with insulin can help promote catch up growth.

DOI: 10.1002/ppul.21127
PMID: 19894249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Diagn Cytopathol. 2010 May;38(5):360-3. doi: 10.1002/dc.21212.

Vertebral osteomyelitis with a rare etiology diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration 
cytology.

B N N(1), Kini U, Alexander B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, St. John's Medical College and Hospital, 
Koramangala, Bangalore 560034, India.

Invasive fungal infections are rare in immunocompromised individuals, but are 
not uncommon in immunologically compromised patients. Bone involvement by these 
infections, though exceedingly rare, may occur due to direct extension of the 
infection from a neighboring organ or due to hematogenous dissemination in 
critically ill patients. Still rarer is the invasive aspergillosis involving 
either the vertebral body or the intervertebral disc with extension into the 
extradural space as an abscess. We report one such case of vertebral 
osteomyelitis due to Aspergillus diagnosed by FNAC in a well-controlled diabetic 
patient who presented with nonspecific symptoms and in whom a clinical and 
radiological diagnosis of Pott's spine was considered. The present case stresses 
the importance of early cytologic diagnosis of vertebral Aspergillus 
osteomyelitis, which in conjunction with appropriate timely medical and surgical 
treatment, offers good recovery without much sequelae or threat to life.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.21212
PMID: 19894265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. BioDrugs. 2009;23(6):399-406. doi: 10.2165/11201100-000000000-00000.

Human C1-esterase inhibitor concentrate (Berinert).

Keating GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, a Wolters Kluwer Business, 41 Centorian Drive, Private Bag 65901, 
Mairangi Bay, North Shore 0754, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Human C1-esterase inhibitor concentrate (C1-INH concentrate) is derived from 
human plasma and is indicated for the treatment of acute episodes of hereditary 
angioedema. Intravenous C1-INH concentrate provided rapid symptom relief in 
patients with acute abdominal or facial episodes associated with type I or II 
hereditary angioedema, according to the results of the randomized, double-blind, 
multicenter, placebo-controlled IMPACT-1 trial. The median time to the onset of 
symptom relief was significantly shorter with C1-INH concentrate 20 U/kg than 
with placebo (0.5 vs 1.5 hours). A subsequent noncomparative extension trial 
(IMPACT-2) showed the ongoing efficacy of 'on-demand' treatment with C1-INH 
concentrate; overall, the onset of symptom relief occurred in a median 30 
minutes. Several additional studies demonstrated the efficacy of intravenous 
C1-INH concentrate in patients with laryngeal edema, skin swellings, or 
abdominal episodes associated with type I or II hereditary angioedema. 
Self-administered home therapy with intravenous C1-INH concentrate significantly 
improved health-related quality of life in patients with hereditary angioedema. 
Dermatology Life Quality Index and Short Form 36-item Health Survey scores were 
significantly improved from baseline by self-administered home therapy with 
C1-INH concentrate. Intravenous C1-INH concentrate was well tolerated in 
patients with hereditary angioedema, with no confirmed cases of viral 
transmission.

DOI: 10.2165/11201100-000000000-00000
PMID: 19894781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Am J Manag Care. 2009 Nov;15(11):826-8; author reply 828-30.

A payer's perspective on the cost effectiveness of gastric bypass surgery.

Gandjour A.

Comment on
    Am J Manag Care. 2009 Sep;15(9):607-15.

PMID: 19895187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Evolution. 2010 Apr 1;64(4):1166-72. doi: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2009.00887.x.
Epub  2009 Nov 6.

Adaptation rates of lytic viruses depend critically on whether host cells 
survive the bottleneck.

Patwa Z(1), Wahl LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Western Ontario, London, 
Ontario, N6A 5B7, Canada.

We use a branching process approach to estimate the substitution rate, the rate 
at which beneficial mutations occur and fix, in populations of lytic viruses 
whose growth is controlled by periodic population bottlenecks. Our model 
predicts that substitution rates, and by extension adaptation rates, are 
profoundly affected by the survival of infected host cells at the bottleneck. In 
particular, we find that direct transfer (or environmental) bottlenecks, in 
which some fraction of both free virus and host cells are preserved, are 
associated with relatively slow adaptation rates for the virus. In contrast, 
viruses can adapt much more quickly when only free virus is transferred to a new 
host population, as is typical in an epidemiological setting. Finally, when 
premature lysis of the host-cell population is induced at the bottleneck, we 
predict that adaptation rates for the virus will, in general, be faster still. 
These results hold irrespective of the life-history trait affected by the 
beneficial mutation. The substitution rates in the presence of environmental 
bottlenecks are predicted to be as much as an order of magnitude lower than in 
the other two cases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1558-5646.2009.00887.x
PMID: 19895555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. J Hand Surg Am. 2009 Nov;34(9):1674-81.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.07.003.

Population-based utilities for upper extremity functions in the setting of 
tetraplegia.

Ram AN(1), Curtin CM, Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Plastic Surgery, University of Michigan 
Health System, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

PURPOSE: People with tetraplegia face substantial physical and financial 
hardships. Although upper extremity reconstruction has been advocated for people 
with tetraplegia, these procedures are markedly underused in the United States. 
Population-based preference evaluation of upper extremity reconstruction is 
important to quantify the value of these reconstructive procedures. This study 
sought to establish the preferences for 3 health states: tetraplegia, 
tetraplegia with corrected pinch function, and tetraplegia with corrected elbow 
extension function.
METHODS: A computer-based, time trade-off survey was administered to a cohort of 
81 able-bodied second-year medical students who served as a surrogate for the 
general public. This survey instrument has undergone pilot testing and has 
established face validity to evaluate the 3 health states of interest. Utilities 
were calculated based on an estimated 20 years of remaining life.
RESULTS: The mean utility for the tetraplegic health state was low. On average, 
respondents gave up 10.8 +/- 5.0 out of a hypothetical 20 years for perfect 
health, for a utility of tetraplegia equal to 0.46. For recovery of pinch 
function, respondents gave up an average of 6.5 +/- 4.3 years, with a 
corresponding health utility of 0.68. For recovery of elbow extension function, 
respondents gave up an average of 7.6 +/- 4.5 years, with a corresponding health 
utility of 0.74.
CONCLUSIONS: This study established the preferences for 2 upper extremity 
surgical interventions: tetraplegia with pinch and tetraplegia with elbow 
extension. The findings from this study place a high value on upper-limb 
reconstructive procedures with tetraplegia.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.07.003
PMCID: PMC4414024
PMID: 19896010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Pathol Biol (Paris). 2010 Jun;58(3):185-6. doi:
10.1016/j.patbio.2009.09.005.  Epub 2009 Nov 5.

Aging in the 21st century.

Robert L(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôtel-Dieu, université Paris-5, 1, place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, 75181 Paris 
cedex 04, France. lrobert5@wanadoo.fr

In this introductory article, a rapid overview is presented of the recent 
increase of life expectancy and its limitations mainly by unhealthy living 
habits: overeating, fast food, lack of exercise. The strong increase of obesity 
worldwide with its metabolic consequences might well limit or even decrease 
human life expectancy. The part of the population over 65 who have access to 
"anti-aging medicine" represents however another challenge to experimental and 
clinical gerontology, further discussed in later articles of this issue.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.patbio.2009.09.005
PMID: 19896290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Appetite. 2010 Feb;54(1):208-13. doi: 10.1016/j.appet.2009.11.002. Epub 2009
Nov  5.

Immediate pleasures and future consequences. A neuropsychological study of binge 
eating and obesity.

Davis C(1), Patte K, Curtis C, Reid C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Health Sciences, 343 Bethune College, York 
University, 4700 Keele Street, Toronto, ON M3J1P3, Canada. cdavis@yorku.ca

Longitudinal data indicate that our capacity for adaptive self-regulation is a 
relatively stable predisposition that appears in childhood and predicts future 
life successes. In 2004, we published the first study demonstrating 
decision-making deficits in overweight/obese adult women. The present study is 
an extension of these findings. We assessed obese women with (n=65) and without 
(n=73) binge-eating disorder (BED), and a group (n=71) of normal-weight women, 
on two neuropsychological tests: the Iowa Gambling Task and a Delay Discounting 
measure. The BED and obese groups had worse performance scores on both tasks 
compared to normal controls, but did not differ from each other. These findings 
suggest that adaptive decision-making and the ability to delay gratification may 
influence our eating behaviours, particularly in a food environment where 
effortful control of energy intake is essential for the maintenance of a healthy 
body weight. There were also group differences in education level with fewer BED 
and obese individuals having a post-secondary degree, in accord with established 
links between socioeconomic status and body weight. Interestingly, when 
education level was added to the models, those with a higher education performed 
better on both tasks, and the group differences were not significant.

2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.appet.2009.11.002
PMID: 19896515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Medicina (B Aires). 2009;69(5):571-5.

[FRAX: a new instrument for calculating 10-year absolute fracture risk].

[Article in Spanish]

Claus-Hermberg H(1), Bagur A, Messina OD, Negri AL, Schurman L, Sánchez A.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Endocrinología y Metabolismo, Hospital Alemán, Buenos Aires.

The efficacy of new pharmacological agents for the prevention of osteoporotic 
fractures and the clinical decision to intervene with that purpose in daily 
medical practice have been guided by the evaluation of bone mineral density 
(BMD). However, given the multifactorial nature of the proposed endpoint, a new 
calculator has been proposed: Fracture Risk Assessment Tool FRAX, which follows 
the same objectives of previous models, but integrates and combines several of 
those factors according to their relative weight. It can estimate absolute risk 
of hip fracture (or a combination of osteoporotic fractures) for the following 
10 years. The calculator could be adapted for use in any country by the 
incorporation of hip fracture incidence and age- and sex-adjusted life 
expectancy in the same country. This instrument has been presented as a new 
paradigm to assist in clinical and therapeutic decision-making. In the present 
review some of its characteristics are discussed, such as: the purported 
applicability to different populations, the convenience of using 10-year 
absolute fracture risk for the whole age range under consideration, and whether 
the efficacy of pharmacological treatment for the prevention of bone fractures 
in osteoporotic patients can be expected to be equally effective among patients 
selected for treatment on the basis of this model. Finally, we would like to 
call attention to the fact that risk thresholds for intervention are not yet 
clearly defined; those thresholds can obviously be expected to have a profound 
impact on the number of patients amenable to treatment.

PMID: 19897447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Rev Med Brux. 2009 Sep;30(4):270-8.

[Prostate cancer treatments in Belgium].

[Article in French]

Kaitouni MI(1), Roumeguère T.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, Hôpital Erasme, Bruxelles.

The authors present a flyover of current management of prostate cancer. The 
