Comment in
    Circulation. 2010 Aug 24;122(8):e436; author reply e437.

BACKGROUND: In patients with acute coronary syndromes and planned percutaneous 
coronary intervention, the Trial to Assess Improvement in Therapeutic Outcomes 
by Optimizing Platelet Inhibition With Prasugrel-Thrombolysis in Myocardial 
Infarction 38 (TRITON-TIMI 38) demonstrated that treatment with prasugrel versus 
clopidogrel was associated with reduced rates of cardiovascular death, MI, or 
stroke and an increased risk of major bleeding. We evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of prasugrel versus clopidogrel from the perspective of the 
US healthcare system by using data from TRITON-TIMI 38.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Detailed resource use data were prospectively collected for 
all patients recruited from 8 countries (United States, Australia, Canada, 
Germany, Italy, Spain, United Kingdom, and France; n=3373 prasugrel, n=3332 
clopidogrel). Hospitalization costs were estimated on the basis of 
diagnosis-related group and in-hospital complications. Cardiovascular medication 
costs were estimated by using net wholesale prices (clopidogrel=$4.62/d; 
prasugrel=$5.45/d). Life expectancy was estimated from in-trial cardiovascular 
and bleeding events with the use of statistical models of long-term survival 
from a similar population from the Saskatchewan Health Database. Over a median 
follow-up of 14.7 months, average total costs (including study drug) were $221 
per patient lower with prasugrel (95% confidence interval, -759 to 299), largely 
because of a lower rate of rehospitalization involving percutaneous coronary 
intervention. Prasugrel was associated with life expectancy gains of 0.102 years 
(95% confidence interval, 0.030 to 0.180), primarily because of the decreased 
rate of nonfatal MI. Thus, compared with clopidogrel, prasugrel was an 
economically dominant treatment strategy. If a hypothetical generic cost for 
clopidogrel of $1/d is used, the incremental net cost with prasugrel was $996 
per patient, yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $9727 per 
life-year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Among acute coronary syndrome patients with planned percutaneous 
coronary intervention, treatment with prasugrel versus clopidogrel for up to 15 
months is an economically attractive treatment strategy.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00097591.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.900704
PMID: 20026770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Circulation. 2010 Jan 5;121(1):14-9. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.882464.
 Epub 2009 Dec 21.

Open heart surgery in patients with sickle cell hemoglobinopathy.

Yousafzai SM(1), Ugurlucan M, Al Radhwan OA, Al Otaibi AL, Canver CC.

Author information:
(1)King Faisal Heart Institute, MBC-16, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and 
Research Center, PO Box 3354, Riyadh 11211, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

BACKGROUND: In patients with sickle cell trait or disease, reduced life 
expectancy and a tendency for complications are believed to negatively affect 
likelihood of survival after open heart surgery. The aim of this study was to 
review retrospectively the perioperative results of patients undergoing cardiac 
surgery at our institution.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between January 1995 and December 2006, 47 patients with 
either sickle cell disease or sickle cell trait underwent open heart surgery at 
our institution. The average age of the 29 male and 18 female patients was 20 
years. Patient outcomes were analyzed through the use of the institutional 
database. Clinical and echocardiographic follow-up was complete in all patients 
except 3, with a mean follow-up period of 46 months. Current status could be 
confirmed in 32 patients. The most common operations included the treatment of 
congenital and valvular heart diseases. There were no coronary artery bypass 
grafting procedures. Average weight of the patients was 45 kg. Exchange 
transfusion was performed both preoperatively and during surgery. Mean 
preoperative hemoglobin S concentration was 30.4 + or - 3.2% and decreased to 
8.1 + or - 2.6% while on pump. Average on-pump hematocrit value was 25.4 + or - 
3.7%; in the postoperative period, it increased to 32.7 + or - 4.9%. Mean 
cardiopulmonary bypass and cross-clamp times were 95 and 69 minutes, 
respectively. None of the patients had sickling crisis or acidosis. 
Postoperative complications included exploration for hemorrhage in 3 patients 
(6.4%), stroke in 2 patients (4.3%), renal failure in 2 patients (4.3%), and 
prolonged ventilation in 1 patient (2.1%). Average hospital stay was 8.3 days 
(range, 4 to 27 days). Early in-hospital death occurred in 1 patient (2.1%); 
currently, 31 patients (66%) remain alive and free of cardiac symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Heart valve surgery and surgery for congenital heart diseases can 
be performed safely in patients with sickle cell disease or sickle cell trait 
with acceptable outcome and survival rates.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.882464
PMID: 20026775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2009 Nov;104(7):964-9. doi: 
10.1590/s0074-02762009000700004.

Absonifibula estuarina sp. n. (Monogenea: Diclidophoridae) parasite of juvenile 
Cynoscion guatucupa (Osteichthyes) from southwestern Atlantic Ocean.

Santos CP(1), Tomás Timi J.

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Avaliação e Promoção da Saúde Ambiental, Instituto Oswaldo 
Cruz-Fiocruz, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil. cpsantos@ioc.fiocruz.br

Absonifibula estuarina sp. n. (Diclidophoridae, Absonifibulinae), is described 
from the gills of juvenile striped weakfish, Cynoscion guatucupa (Cuvier), from 
the southwestern Atlantic, Argentinean coast. This marine fish migrates to 
estuarine areas to spawn where exclusively juveniles are found parasitized; 
adult fish in marine water were never found to be parasitized by this 
monogenean. A. estuarina sp. n. is characterized mainly by the pedunculate 
clamps dissimilar in size, the shape of anterior jaw with sclerite 'a' attached 
to a sub-trapezoidal lamellate extension and fused to sclerites 'c' and 'd'. It 
differs from Absonifibula bychowskyi Lawler & Overstreet, 1976, the only known 
species of the genus, in the shape and arrangement of the genital corona, which 
is armed with six similar hooks disposed in circle and the sub-trapezoidal shape 
of lamellate extension ('b'). The restriction to juvenile sciaenids is a shared 
feature among the Absonifibulinae indicating an estuary-dependent life cycle.

DOI: 10.1590/s0074-02762009000700004
PMID: 20027461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Protein Sci. 2010 Mar;19(3):392-7. doi: 10.1002/pro.317.

A novel defensin-like peptide from salivary glands of the hard tick, 
Haemaphysalis longicornis.

Lu X(1), Che Q, Lv Y, Wang M, Lu Z, Feng F, Liu J, Yu H.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Microbiological Engineering of Agricultural Environment, 
Life Sciences College of Nanjing Agricultural University, Ministry of 
Agriculture, Nanjing, Jiangsu, 210095 China.

A novel defensin-like antimicrobial peptide named longicornsin was isolated from 
the salivary glands of the hard tick, Haemaphysalis longicornis, using a 10-kDa 
cut-off Centriprep filter and reversed-phase high-performance liquid 
chromatography (RP-HPLC). Its amino acid sequence was determined as 
DFGCGQGMIFMCQRRCMRLYPGSTGFCRGFRCMCDTHIPLRPPFMVG by Edman degradation. The cDNA 
encoding longicornsin was cloned by cDNA library screening. The predicted 
protein from the cDNA sequence was composed of 78 amino acids including a mature 
longicornsin. It showed similarity with defensin-like peptides from other ticks 
by BLAST search. Different from most other tick defensin-like peptides, 
longicornsin had a C-terminal extension. Purified longicornsin exerted potent 
antimicrobial activities against bacteria and fungi. Interestingly, it even 
showed strong antimicrobial ability against drug-resistant microorganisms and 
Helicobacter pylori. The results of this study indicated that longicornsin is a 
potential candidate for novel antimicrobial drug design.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.317
PMCID: PMC2866266
PMID: 20027626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Arch Cardiovasc Dis. 2009 Dec;102(12):829-45. doi:
10.1016/j.acvd.2009.09.004.

Consensus of the French Society of Gerontology and Geriatrics and the French 
Society of Cardiology for the management of coronary artery disease in older 
adults.

Hanon O(1), Baixas C, Friocourt P, Carrié D, Emeriau JP, Galinier M, Belmin J, 
de Groote P, Bénétos A, Jourdain P, Berrut G, Aupetit JF, Jondeau G, Danchin N, 
Forette F, Komajda M; French Society of Gerontology and Geriatrics; French 
Society of Cardiology.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, université Paris-Descartes, hôpital Broca, 54-56, 
rue Pascal, 75013 Paris, France. olivier.hanon@brc.ap-hop-paris.fr

Coronary heart disease is a common and serious condition in patients aged over 
80 years. The presenting clinical symptoms are all the more atypical and the 
prognosis poorer when it occurs in patients with multiple comorbid diseases. The 
presence of comorbidities dictates the need for a standardized geriatric 
assessment to screen for the existence of underlying frailty. The available 
scientific data were obtained during studies that included few subjects aged 
over 80 years. These recommendations are therefore mainly extrapolated from 
results obtained in younger populations. The pharmacological management and 
revascularization strategy for coronary heart disease in octogenarians is 
basically the same as in younger subjects. Epidemiological studies all concur 
that available therapies are underutilized despite the fact that this population 
has a high cardiovascular risk. Specific precautions for use must be respected 
because of the comorbidities and age-related changes in pharmacokinetics or 
pharmacodynamics. Generally, the therapeutic strategy in coronary heart disease 
is based not on the patient's real age, but rather on an individual analysis 
taking into account the severity of the coronary disease, comorbidities, the 
risk of drug misadventures, patient life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acvd.2009.09.004
PMID: 20027729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. BMJ. 2009 Dec 22;339:b5203. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b5203.

Screening for postnatal depression in primary care: cost effectiveness analysis.

Paulden M(1), Palmer S, Hewitt C, Gilbody S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York YO10 5DD. 
mike.paulden@theta.utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of routine screening for postnatal 
depression in primary care.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis with a decision model of alternative methods 
of screening for depression, including standardised postnatal depression and 
generic depression instruments. The performance of screening instruments was 
derived from a systematic review and bivariate meta-analysis at a range of 
instrument cut points; estimates of other relevant parameters were derived from 
literature sources and relevant databases. A decision tree considered the full 
treatment pathway from the possible onset of postnatal depression through 
identification, treatment, and possible relapse.
SETTING: Primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: A hypothetical population of women assessed for postnatal 
depression either via routine care only or supplemented by use of formal 
identification methods six weeks postnatally, as recommended in recent 
guidelines.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs expressed in 2006-7 prices and impact on health 
outcomes expressed in terms of quality adjusted life years (QALYs). The time 
horizon of the analysis was one year.
RESULTS: The routine application of either postnatal or general depression 
questionnaires did not seem to be cost effective compared with routine care 
only. The Edinburgh postnatal depression scale (at a cut point of 16) had an 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) of pound 41,103 (euro 45,398, 
$67,130) per QALY compared with routine care only. The ICER for all other 
strategies ranged from pound 49,928 to pound 272,463 per QALY versus routine 
care only, while the probability that no formal identification strategy was cost 
effective was 88% (59%) at a cost effectiveness threshold of pound 20,000 ( 
pound 30,000) per QALY. While sensitivity analysis indicated that the cost of 
managing incorrectly identified depression (false positive result) was an 
important driver of the model, formal identification approaches did not seem to 
be cost effective at any feasible estimate of this cost.
CONCLUSIONS: Formal identification methods for postnatal depression do not seem 
to represent value for money for the NHS. The major determinant of cost 
effectiveness seems to be the potential additional costs of managing women 
incorrectly diagnosed as depressed. Formal identification methods for postnatal 
depression do not currently satisfy the National Screening Committee's criteria 
for the adoption of a screening strategy as part of national health policy.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b5203
PMCID: PMC2797050
PMID: 20028779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


184. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2010 May;65B(3):381-9. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbp119. Epub 2009 Dec 22.

Measuring the impact of diabetes on life expectancy and disability-free life 
expectancy among older adults in Mexico.

Andrade FC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Community Health, University of Illinois at 
Urbana Champaign, 123 Huff Hall, 1206 South Fourth Street, Champaign, IL 61820, 
USA. fandrade@illinois.edu

OBJECTIVES. The aim of the present study is to investigate differences in total 
life expectancy (TLE), disability-free life expectancy (DFLE), disabled life 
expectancy (DLE), and personal care assistance between individuals with and 
without diabetes in Mexico.
METHODS: The sample was drawn from the nationally representative Mexican Health 
and Aging Study. Disability was assessed through a basic Activities of Daily 
Living (ADL) measure, the Instrumental Activities of Daily Living (IADL) scale, 
and the Nagi physical performance measure. The Interpolation of Markov Chains 
method was used to estimate the impact of diabetes on TLE and DFLE.
RESULTS: Results indicate that diabetes reduces TLE at ages 50 and 80 by about 
10 and 4 years, respectively. Diabetes is also associated with fewer years in 
good health. DFLE (based on ADL measures) at age 50 is 20.8 years (95% 
confidence interval [CI]: 19.2-22.3) for those with diabetes, compared with 29.9 
years (95% CI: 28.8-30.9) for those without diabetes. Regardless of diabetes 
status, Mexican women live longer but face a higher disability burden than men.
CONCLUSION: Among older adults in Mexico, diabetes is associated with shorter 
TLE and DFLE. The negative effect of diabetes on the number of years lived, 
particularly in good health, creates significant economic, social, and 
individual costs for elderly Mexicans.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbp119
PMCID: PMC2853602
PMID: 20028950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Public Health Policy. 2009 Dec;30(4):367-78. doi: 10.1057/jphp.2009.35.

The right to choose parenthood among HIV-infected women and men.

Mantell JE(1), Smit JA, Stein ZA.

Author information:
(1)HIV Center for Clinical and Behavioral Studies, New York State Psychiatric 
Institute, Columbia University, 1051 Riverside Drive, Unit 15, New York, NY 
10032, USA. jem57@columbia.edu

As life expectancy for HIV-infected persons improves, studies in sub-Saharan 
Africa show that a considerable proportion of HIV-positive women and men desire 
to have children. Integrating sexual and reproductive health care into HIV 
services has until now emphasized the right of women to make informed choices 
about their reproductive lives and the right of self-determination to reproduce, 
but this is often equated with avoidance of pregnancy. Here, we explore guidance 
and attention to safer conception for HIV-infected women and men. We find this 
right lacking. Current sexual and reproductive health guidelines are not 
proactive in supporting HIV-positive people desiring children, and are 
particularly silent about the fertility needs of HIV-infected men and uninfected 
men in discordant partnerships. Public health policymakers and providers need to 
engage the HIV-infected and uninfected to determine both the demand for and how 
best to address the need for safer conception services.

DOI: 10.1057/jphp.2009.35
PMCID: PMC2830745
PMID: 20029426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Health Econ. 2011 Jan;20(1):111-9. doi: 10.1002/hec.1578.

Discounting future health gains: an empirical enquiry into the influence of 
growing life expectancy.

Bobinac A(1), Brouwer W, van Exel J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

We tested the influence of the growth in life expectancy over time on social 
time preferences for health. Growing life expectancy of future generations 
should raise social discount rates for health because of diminishing marginal 
utility of additional health gains and equity reasons reflecting the desire for 
a more equitable distribution of benefits over generations. This influence has, 
however, been largely ignored in empirical studies. We provide a first 
comprehensive analysis of how time preferences for health gains vary with 
projected growth rates, indicating the importance of subjective expectations 
about the growth in life expectancy in the elicitation of social time 
preference. Six hundred and fifty-six respondents, representative of the Dutch 
population, completed one of four questionnaires, differing in the projected 
growth in life expectancy. Results showed that individuals discount future 
health gains at different rates, depending on the latency period and on the 
projected or expected growth in life expectancy. As hypothesized, discount rates 
increased with higher growth rates. The association between observed discount 
rates and expectations regarding future life expectancy was confirmed, 
suggesting that discount rates for health may depend on future life expectancy. 
In light of our results, specifying life expectancy of future generations in 
time preference exercises appears appropriate.

2009 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1578
PMID: 20029933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Am J Hematol. 2010 Jan;85(1):77-8. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21570.

The number of people with sickle-cell disease in the United States: national and 
state estimates.

Brousseau DC, Panepinto JA, Nimmer M, Hoffmann RG.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21570
PMID: 20029951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2009 Nov;49(11):910-2. doi:
10.5692/clinicalneurol.49.910.

[Genetic approach for understanding of the late-onset mechanisms of 
polyglutamine disease].

[Article in Japanese]

Kuranaga E(1), Tonoki A, Miura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University of Tokyo.

The intracellular accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins is believed to 
contribute to aging and age-related neurodegenerative diseases. However, the 
links between age-dependent proteotoxicity and cellular protein degradation 
systems remain poorly understood. Here, we show that 26S proteasome activity and 
abundance attenuate with age, which is associated with the impaired assembly of 
the 26S proteasome with the 19S regulatory particle (RP) and the 20S proteasome. 
In a genetic gain-of-function screen using Drosophila, we characterized Rpn11, 
which encodes a subunit of the 19S RP, as a suppressor of expanded 
polyglutamine-induced progressive neurodegeneration. Rpn11 overexpression 
suppressed the age-related reduction of the 26S proteasome activity, resulting 
in the extension of flies' life spans with suppression of the age-dependent 
accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins. On the other hand, the loss of function 
of Rpn11 caused an early onset of reduced 26S proteasome activity and a 
premature age-dependent accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins. It also caused a 
shorter life span and an enhanced neurodegenerative phenotype. Our results 
suggest that maintaining the 26S proteasome with age could extend the life span 
and suppress the age-related progression of polyglutamine diseases.

DOI: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.49.910
PMID: 20030246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2008 Sep;1(1):12-20. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.798462.

Cost-effectiveness of percutaneous coronary intervention in optimally treated 
stable coronary patients.

Weintraub WS(1), Boden WE, Zhang Z, Kolm P, Zhang Z, Spertus JA, Hartigan P, 
Veledar E, Jurkovitz C, Bowen J, Maron DJ, O'Rourke R, Dada M, Teo KK, Goeree R, 
Barnett PG; Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program No. 424 
(COURAGE Trial) Investigators and Study Coordinators.

Author information:
(1)Christiana Care Health System, Newark, DE 19718, USA. 
wweintraub@christianacare.org

BACKGROUND: The COURAGE (Clinical Outcomes Utilizing Revascularization and 
Aggressive druG Evaluations) trial compared the effect of percutaneous coronary 
intervention (PCI) plus optimal medical therapy with optimal medical therapy 
alone on cardiovascular events in 2287 patients with stable coronary disease. 
After 4.6 years, there was no difference in the primary end point of death or 
myocardial infarction, although PCI improved quality of life. The present study 
evaluated the relative cost and cost-effectiveness of PCI in the COURAGE trial.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Resource use was assessed by diagnosis-related group for 
hospitalizations and by current procedural terminology code for outpatient 
visits and tests and then converted to costs by use of 2004 Medicare payments. 
Medication costs were assessed with the Red Book average wholesale price. Life 
expectancy beyond the trial was estimated from Framingham survival data. 
Utilities were assessed by the standard gamble method. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was expressed as cost per life-year and cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. The added cost of PCI was approximately 
$10,000, without significant gain in life-years or quality-adjusted life-years. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio varied from just over $168,000 to just 
under $300,000 per life-year or quality-adjusted life-year gained with PCI. A 
large minority of the distributions found that medical therapy alone offered 
better outcome at lower cost. The costs per patient for a significant 
improvement in angina frequency, physical limitation, and quality of life were 
$154,580, $112,876, and $124,233, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The COURAGE trial did not find the addition of PCI to optimal 
medical therapy to be a cost-effective initial management strategy for 
symptomatic, chronic coronary artery disease.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.798462
PMID: 20031783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Jan;2(1):49-54. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.793406.

Cost, effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness.

Diamond GA(1), Kaul S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical 
Center, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles, 
CA, USA. gadiamond@pol.net

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.793406
PMID: 20031812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Jan;2(1):55-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.812321.

The limits of cost-effectiveness analysis.

Weintraub WS(1), Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)Christiana Care Health System, Newark, DE 19718, USA. 
wweintraub@christianacare.org

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.812321
PMID: 20031813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Sep;2(5):404-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.109.901249.

Cardiovascular disease surveillance in the comparative effectiveness landscape.

Roger VL.

Comment on
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Sep;2(5):414-20.
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Sep;2(5):475-83.
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Sep;2(5):508-13.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.109.901249
PMCID: PMC4123310
PMID: 20031869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Sep;2(5):421-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.839605. Epub 2009 Aug 4.

Cost-effectiveness of therapeutic hypothermia after cardiac arrest.

Merchant RM(1), Becker LB, Abella BS, Asch DA, Groeneveld PW.

Author information:
(1)Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Clinical Scholars program, the Center for 
Resuscitation Science and Department of Emergency Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA. raina.merchant@uphs.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2009 Sep;2(5):402-3.

BACKGROUND: Therapeutic hypothermia can improve survival and neurological 
outcomes in cardiac arrest survivors, but its cost-effectiveness is uncertain. 
We sought to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of treating comatose cardiac arrest 
survivors with therapeutic hypothermia.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A decision model was developed to capture costs and 
outcomes for patients with witnessed out-of-hospital ventricular fibrillation 
arrest who received conventional care or therapeutic hypothermia. The 
Hypothermia After Cardiac Arrest (HACA) trial inclusion criteria were assumed. 
Model inputs were determined from published data, cooling device companies, and 
consultation with resuscitation experts. Sensitivity analyses and Monte Carlo 
simulations were performed to identify influential variables and uncertainty in 
cost-effectiveness estimates. The main outcome measures were quality-adjusted 
survival after cardiac arrest, cost of hypothermia implementation, cost of 
posthospital discharge care, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. In our 
model, postarrest patients receiving therapeutic hypothermia gained an average 
of 0.66 quality-adjusted life years compared with conventional care, at an 
incremental cost of $31,254. This yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of $47,168 per quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity analyses 
demonstrated that poor neurological outcome postcooling and costs associated 
with posthypothermia care (in-hospital and long term) were the most influential 
variables in the model. Even at extreme estimates for costs, the 
cost-effectiveness of hypothermia remained less than $100,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year. In 91% of 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was less than $100,000 per quality-adjusted 
life year.
CONCLUSIONS: In cardiac arrest survivors who meet HACA criteria, therapeutic 
hypothermia with a cooling blanket improves clinical outcomes with 
cost-effectiveness that is comparable to many economically acceptable health 
care interventions in the United States.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.108.839605
PMID: 20031872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Rev Mal Respir. 2009 Dec;26(10):1146-58. doi: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)73532-6.

[Prolonged exposure to atmospheric air pollution and mortality from respiratory 
causes].

[Article in French]

Eilstein D(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut de veille sanitaire, Département santé environnement, 12 rue du Val 
d'Osne, 94415 Saint-Maurice cedex. d.eilstein@invs.sante.fr

Different designs can be used to analyze the relationships between respiratory 
mortality and long term exposure to atmospheric pollution: epidemiological 
studies (cohort, prevalence study) demonstrate the reality of the relationship 
and toxicological studies explain it. Cohort studies have the advantage of being 
able to take into account many confounding factors and thus avoid biases (which 
is not the case with prevalence studies), but require significant human and 
financial resources. They were first adopted in the US, but are now more often 
applied in Europe. The results are relatively consistent, as they all show a 
statistically significant association between an increase in particulate 
pollution and cardiopulmonary mortality. Mortality from lung cancer is also 
associated with long term exposition to particles and sometimes to ozone or 
nitrogen oxides. Cerebrovascular diseases and sudden death of young children 
have also been associated with particulate pollution. The relationships are more 
powerful for long term than short term exposure but are also linear and without 
threshold. In order to explain these effects (today the causality of the 
relationship is certain) there are many possible factors, particularly regarding 
particulate exposures: an increase in cardiovascular risk biomarkers 
(fibrinogen, white blood cells, and platelets), atherosclerosis, chronic 
inflammation of lung tissues increased by acute exposure, etc. More and more 
studies address the interaction between gene and environment and even epigenetic 
phenomena which could be responsible of these effects. Public Health impact 
could be quantified. The European E&H surveillance program Apheis, for example, 
estimated that if PM2.5 levels remained below 15 microg/m(3), a 30 year old 
person could see his life expectancy increased by 1 month to 2 years, depending 
on the studied city. Finally, mortality is not the only relevant indicator for 
health effects of air pollution. ISAAC studies address asthma, allergic rhinitis 
and eczema among children.

DOI: 10.1016/s0761-8425(09)73532-6
PMID: 20032841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2009 Dec 25;58(50):1412-6.

Coal workers' pneumoconiosis-related years of potential life lost before age 65 
years - United States, 1968-2006.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

Coal workers' pneumoconiosis (CWP) is a preventable, slowly progressive 
parenchymal lung disease caused by inhalation and deposition of coal mine dust 
in the lungs. The incidence and rate of CWP progression is related to the amount 
of respirable coal dust to which miners were exposed during their working 
lifetime. Early pneumoconiosis can be asymptomatic, but advanced disease often 
leads to disability and premature death. To characterize the impact of premature 
mortality attributed to CWP in the United States, CDC's National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) analyzed annual underlying cause of death 
data from 1968-2006, the most recent years for which complete data were 
available. Years of potential life lost before age 65 years (YPLL), and mean 
YPLL were calculated using standard methodology. This report describes the 
results of that analysis, which indicate that during 1968-2006, a total of 
22,625 YPLL were attributed to CWP (mean per decedent: 5.7). Annual YPLL 
attributed to CWP decreased 91.2%, from an average of 1,484 YPLL per year during 
1968-1972 to 154 per year during 2002-2006. However, annual YPLL from CWP have 
been increasing since 2002, from 135 in that year to 169 YPLL in 2006, 
suggesting a need for strengthening CWP prevention measures. CDC intends to 
maintain surveillance of CWP deaths to determine future trends and promote safer 
work environments.

PMID: 20032926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2009;109(11):53-7.

[Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder: the role of parent and teacher 
questionnaire in the assessment of patient's social-psychological adaptation].

[Article in Russian]

Zavadenko NN(1), Lebedeva TV, Schasnaia OV, Zavadenko AN, Zlobina OM, Semenova 
NA.

Author information:
(1)Kafedra nevrologii i neĭrokhirurgii pediatricheskogo fakul'teta Rossiĭskogo 
gosudarstvennogo meditsinskogo universiteta, Moskva. zavadenko@mail.ru

Parents and teachers of 342 school children, aged from 7 to 11 years, were 
questioned with the <<Strenghts and Difficulties Questionnaire>> (SDQ) using 
non-randomized method. The following comparative analysis of SDQ items measured 
in parents and teachers of children with ADHD and age-matched controls was 
carried out. It has been shown that the spectrum of disturbances characteristic 
of ADHD is not confined only to main symptoms of ADHD. The results of 
questionnaire of both parents and teachers indicated the marked intensity of 
emotional disturbances, behavioral problems and difficulties in interactions 
with peers as well as the underdevelopment of social trends in behavior in 
children with ADHD compared to the controls. The data obtained confirm the 
necessity of treatment extension beyond the core symptoms with considering more 
general parameters of the patients quality of life.

PMID: 20032955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Eur J Epidemiol. 2010 Feb;25(2):77-85. doi: 10.1007/s10654-009-9415-y. Epub
2009  Dec 22.

Mortality in 272 European regions, 2002-2004. An update.

Bonneux LG(1), Huisman CC, de Beer JA.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Interdisciplinary Demographic Institute, Den Haag, The 
Netherlands. bonneux@nidi.nl

This paper presents a comprehensive update of life expectancy and mortality in 
2002-2004 in the modern European Union (EU-27) and EFTA countries. We focus on 
causes of death at younger ages (0-64 year). EUROSTAT delivered updated 
population numbers and mortality data by sex, age and cause of death for 272 
NUTS-2 regions. We compared mortality by life tables, cause decomposition life 
tables and age standardized rates. Gini coefficients estimated inequity of death 
rates over the regions. Life expectancy at birth in the EU-27 was 75.1 years 
(men) and 81.3 years (women). The difference between the 10th and 90th 
percentile of 272 regions was 8.0 (men) and 5.6 years (women). Men lived 6.1 
years shorter in the new member states (NMS, new members since 2004) than in the 
EU-15 (members before 2004), women 3.9 years. 60% (men) and 33% (women) of the 
differences in life expectancy between EU 15 and NMS were explained by mortality 
under age 65. The main causes explaining differences in life expectancy were 
ischemic and other heart disease, stroke, alcohol related mortality, lung cancer 
and injuries. The fraction of ill defined causes of death was large and very 
variable between countries. Mortality differences in the EU-27 are dominated by 
smoking, alcohol, diseases related to diet and a sedentary lifestyle, unsafe 
roads and differences in health care performance. Closing the health gap is 
feasible and ought to be a major target of the European Union, but monitoring 
will need better registration of causes of death.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-009-9415-y
PMID: 20033259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Nucl Cardiol. 2010 Apr;17(2):310-5. doi: 10.1007/s12350-009-9182-x.

Prognostic role of myocardial single photon emission computed tomography in the 
elderly.

Perrone-Filardi P(1), Costanzo P, Dellegrottaglie S, Gargiulo P, Ruggiero D, 
Savarese G, Parente A, D'Amore C, Cuocolo A, Chiariello M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Cardiovascular and Immunological Sciences, 
Federico II University, Via S. Pansini 5, Naples, 80131, Italy. 
fpperron@unina.it

The increase in average life expectancy will move the burden of coronary artery 
disease (CAD) to older patients. Myocardial perfusion imaging by single photon 
emission computed tomography (SPECT) has been extensively validated for 
diagnosis and prognostic evaluation in large population series. Yet, its use is 
usually limited in elderly patients in whom, despite increased absolute 
cardiovascular risk, diagnostic and therapeutic work-up is often underperformed. 
American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association guidelines recommend 
exercise ECG testing as the initial noninvasive method for assessment of CAD in 
patients with a normal or near-normal resting ECG, regardless of age. However, a 
considerable proportion of elderly patients is unable to reach an adequate 
workload during the exercise test and the majority of those undergoing for 
standard exercise treadmill score are classified as intermediate risk. In 
elderly patients, SPECT imaging may provide valuable diagnostic and prognostic 
information for clinical management. In particular, normal or near normal SPECT 
identifies elderly patients at low risk of major adverse cardiac events at the 
short-term follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/s12350-009-9182-x
PMID: 20033857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. SADJ. 2009 Sep;64(8):352-4.

Tuberculosis part 3: HIV-tuberculosis co-infection.

Feller L(1), Wood NH, Chikte UM, Khammissa RA, Meyerov R, Lemmer J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology and Oral Medicine, School of Dentistry, 
University of Limpopo, Medunsa Campus, Pretoria, South Africa.

Tuberculosis is the most common opportunistic infection in HIV-seropositive 
persons. Tuberculosis may occur at any stage of HIV disease but the prevalence 
of TB increases with the progressive diminution of CD4+ T cell numbers. There is 
a synergistic relationship between tuberculosis and HIV infection as each 
accelerates the progression of the other.

PMID: 20034289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. BMC Public Health. 2009 Dec 24;9:487. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-487.

Living healthier for longer: comparative effects of three heart-healthy 
behaviors on life expectancy with and without cardiovascular disease.

Nusselder WJ(1), Franco OH, Peeters A, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
w.nusselder@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Non-smoking, having a normal weight and increased levels of physical 
activity are perhaps the three key factors for preventing cardiovascular disease 
(CVD). However, the relative effects of these factors on healthy longevity have 
not been well described. We aimed to calculate and compare the effects of 
non-smoking, normal weight and physical activity in middle-aged populations on 
life expectancy with and without cardiovascular disease.
METHODS: Using multi-state life tables and data from the Framingham Heart Study 
(n = 4634) we calculated the effects of three heart healthy behaviours among 
populations aged 50 years and over on life expectancy with and without 
cardiovascular disease. For the life table calculations, we used hazard ratios 
for 3 transitions (No CVD to CVD, no CVD to death, and CVD to death) by health 
behaviour category, and adjusted for age, sex, and potential confounders.
RESULTS: High levels of physical activity, never smoking (men), and normal 
weight were each associated with 20-40% lower risks of developing CVD as 
compared to low physical activity, current smoking and obesity, respectively. 
Never smoking and high levels of physical activity reduced the risks of dying in 
those with and without a history of CVD, but normal weight did not. 
Never-smoking was associated with the largest gains in total life expectancy 
(4.3 years, men, 4.1 years, women) and CVD-free life expectancy (3.8 and 3.4 
years, respectively). High levels of physical activity and normal weight were 
associated with lesser gains in total life expectancy (3.5 years, men and 3.4 
years, women, and 1.3 years, men and 1.0 year women, respectively), and slightly 
lesser gains in CVD-free life expectancy (3.0 years, men and 3.1 years, women, 
and 3.1 years men and 2.9 years women, respectively). Normal weight was the only 
behaviour associated with a reduction in the number of years lived with CVD (1.8 
years, men and 1.9 years, women).
CONCLUSIONS: Achieving high levels of physical activity, normal weight, and 
never smoking, are effective ways to prevent cardiovascular disease and to 
extend total life expectancy and the number of years lived free of CVD. 
Increasing the prevalence of normal weight could further reduce the time spent 
with CVD in the population.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-487
PMCID: PMC2813239
PMID: 20034381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2010 May;281(5):781-92. doi: 10.1007/s00404-009-1334-3.
 Epub 2009 Dec 25.

Human immunodeficiency virus and pregnancy.

Reshi P(1), Lone IM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, LD Hospital, GMC, Post Box 589, 
Srinagar, 190001, Jammu and Kashmir, India. reshiparveen@yahoo.com

Management of infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) dramatically 
improved during the 1990s. The advent of high-performance quantitative HIV 
assays and highly active anti-retroviral therapy (HAART) were the two most 
important developments in HIV medicine. As a result, HIV mortality and morbidity 
have significantly reduced. This improvement in life quality and expectancy 
through the use of HAART has led to an increase in the number of HIV-infected 
patients wishing to have children. The mother-to-child transmission which was of 
major concern previously can now be significantly reduced by newer management 
strategies. This review stresses on the management of pregnancy in HIV.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-009-1334-3
PMID: 20035338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Br J Surg. 2010 Feb;97(2):219. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6959.

Commentary on Cost- utility and value-of-information analysis of early versus 
delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis (Br J Surg 2010; 
97: 210- 219).

Clements WD.

Comment on
    ONS News. 1998 Dec;13(12):11.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6959
PMID: 20035544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Br J Surg. 2010 Feb;97(2):210-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6872.

Cost-utility and value-of-information analysis of early versus delayed 
laparoscopic cholecystectomy for acute cholecystitis.

Wilson E(1), Gurusamy K, Gluud C, Davidson BR.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, Faculty of Health, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2010 Jul;97(7):1149-50; author reply 1150-1.
    Can J Surg. 2012 Jun;55(3):204-6.

BACKGROUND: : A recent systematic review found early laparoscopic 
cholecystectomy (ELC) to be safe and to shorten total hospital stay compared 
with delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy (DLC) for acute cholecystitis. The 
cost-effectiveness of ELC versus DLC for acute cholecystitis is unknown.
METHODS: : A decision tree model estimating and comparing costs to the UK 
National Health Service (NHS) and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained 
following a policy of either ELC or DLC was developed with a time horizon of 1 
year. Uncertainty was investigated with probabilistic sensitivity analysis, and 
value-of-information analysis estimated the likely return from further 
investment in research in this area.
RESULTS: : ELC is less costly (approximately - pound820 per patient) and results 
in better quality of life (+0.05 QALYs per patient) than DLC. Given a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of pound20 000 per QALY gained, there is a 70.9 per 
cent probability that ELC is cost effective compared with DLC. Full 
implementation of ELC could save the NHS pound8.5 million per annum.
CONCLUSION: : The results of this decision analytic modelling study suggest that 
on average ELC is less expensive and results in better quality of life than DLC. 
Future research should focus on quality-of-life measures alone.

Copyright (c) 2009 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John 
Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6872
PMID: 20035545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Surg Oncol. 2010 Sep;19(3):131-9. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2009.11.005. Epub
2009  Dec 29.

Geriatric syndromes in peri-operative elderly cancer patients.

Cicerchia M(1), Ceci M, Locatelli C, Gianni W, Repetto L.

Author information:
(1)Oncologia medica I.N.R.C.A., I.R.C.C.S, Via Cassia 1167, 00189 Rome, Italy.

Due to the expanding geriatric population and the high incidence of cancer in 
this age group, there is an increased burden on clinical oncologists. Elderly 
patients suffer from one or more chronic diseases, especially cardiovascular 
diseases, COPD, or diabetes. Besides affecting life expectancy, comorbid 
conditions may complicate major surgery. Accurate prediction of surgical risk is 
of paramount importance. Numerous papers have documented that older patients can 
undergo surgery with similar cancer related survival to younger patients. It has 
been demonstrated that age related variables are associated with an increased 
risk in post-surgical complications. The term "geriatric syndrome" needs further 
clinical evaluation and understanding. It is used to capture those clinical 
conditions in older persons that do not fit into discrete disease categories. 
Geriatric syndromes including delirium, falls, frailty, dizziness, syncope and 
urinary incontinence, are among the most common conditions facing geriatricians. 
This article focuses on geriatric syndromes in post-surgical patients and their 
management.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2009.11.005
PMID: 20036531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Curr Biol. 2010 Jan 12;20(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2009.11.038. Epub 2009
Dec  31.

The shaping of male courtship posture by lateralized gustatory inputs to 
male-specific interneurons.

Koganezawa M(1), Haba D, Matsuo T, Yamamoto D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurogenetics, Tohoku University Graduate School of Life 
Sciences, Sendai 980-8578, Japan.

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2010 Jan 12;20(1):R25-8.

BACKGROUND: Unilateral wing vibration to generate "love songs" is a hallmark of 
male courtship posture in Drosophila melanogaster. In contrast, males of some 
other Drosophila species extend both wings simultaneously during courtship. 
Thus, the patterns of wing movement vary among species and are under stringent 
genetic control, although there are few variations among individuals within a 
single species. These observations prompted the postulation that the proper wing 
display by courting males of D. melanogaster does not require sensory inputs.
RESULTS: Here we show that when males of D. melanogaster are deprived of 
gustatory inputs mediated by the sensory neurons expressing the taste receptor 
gene Gr32a, a close relative to the pheromone receptor gene Gr68a, they often 
fail to perform unilateral wing extension during courtship because they become 
unable to keep a wing in the resting position while extending another wing. The 
tarsal amputation of a foreleg, but not other legs, increased the occurrence of 
simultaneous wing extension, indicating that Gr32a-expressing cells in this 
structure are involved in the regulation of courting posture. A similar 
simultaneous wing extension was also observed in males in which the putative 
pheromone-binding protein gene Obp57d was inactivated. The axons of 
Gr32a-expressing cells project to the subesophageal ganglion, where their 
terminals unilaterally contact mAL, which are male-specific fruitless 
(fru)-expressing interneurons that have bilateral branches.
CONCLUSIONS: Our observations strongly suggest that gustatory pheromone inputs 
ensure the correct laterality of wing vibration that conforms to the 
species-specific behavioral pattern.

2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2009.11.038
PMID: 20036540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Front Biosci (Schol Ed). 2010 Jan 1;2(2):468-82. doi: 10.2741/s79.

Bone remodeling, humoral networks and smart biomaterial technology for 
osteoporosis.

Fini M(1), Carpi A, Borsari V, Tschon M, Nicolini A, Sartori M, Mechanick J, 
Giardino R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Surgical and Preclinical Studies, Rizzoli Orthopaedic 
Institute, Bologna, Italy.

One of the unfortunate sequelae of increased life expectancy is a growing number 
of age-related degenerative diseases, a prime example being osteoporosis. This 
form of metabolic bone disease and related co-morbidities consume tremendous 
resources and costs from a nation's health care system. Osteoporosis results 
from genetic, age-related, and hormone-dependent causes as well as a compendium 
of secondary pathophysiological states. The presence of osteoporosis as a 
comorbidity confers a significant negative prognostic element following 
orthopedic procedures. In vitro and in vivo studies of osteoporotic bone 
implicate microarchitectural bone rarefaction, microenvironmental and functional 
disturbance of osteoblast-osteoclast coupling, and abnormal tissue and 
signalling molecule repertoires, each having detrimental effects on the 
regenerative and osteointegration processes. This review explores the 
pathophysiology of bone remodeling from a macro- and micro- systems biology 
standpoint with a focus on cytokine interactions. Furthermore, therapeutic 
interventions exploiting vulnerable nodes in these physiological networks will 
be posited. One exciting development in this area is the use of novel 
biomaterials.

DOI: 10.2741/s79
PMID: 20036962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2009;64(12):1187-93. doi:
10.1590/S1807-59322009001200008.

Effectiveness of radiation synovectomy with samarium-153 particulate 
hydroxyapatite in rheumatoid arthritis patients with knee synovitis: a 
controlled randomized double-blind trial.

Santos MF(1), Furtado RN, Konai MS, Castiglioni ML, Marchetti RR, Natour J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Escola Paulista 
de Medicina (UNIFESP) - São Paulo/SP, Brazil.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the present study was to investigate the effectiveness of 
Samarium(153)-particulate hydroxyapatite radiation synovectomy in rheumatoid 
arthritis patients with chronic knee synovitis.
METHODS: Fifty-eight rheumatoid arthritis patients (60 knees) with chronic knee 
synovitis participated in a controlled double-blinded trial. Patients were 
randomized to receive either an intra-articular injection with 40 mg 
triamcinolone hexacetonide alone (TH group) or 40 mg triamcinolone hexacetonide 
combined with 15 mCi Samarium(153)-particulate hydroxyapatite (Sm/TH group). 
Blinded examination at baseline (T0) and at 1 (T1), 4 (T4), 12 (T12), 32 (T32), 
and 48 (T48) weeks post-intervention were performed on all patients and included 
a visual analog scale for joint pain and swelling as well as data on morning 
stiffness, flexion, extension, knee circumference, Likert scale of improvement, 
percentage of improvement, SF-36 generic quality of life questionnaire, Stanford 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), Lequesne index, use of non-steroidal 
anti-inflammatory drugs or oral corticosteroids, events and adverse effects, 
calls to the physician, and hospital visits.
RESULTS: The sample was homogeneous at baseline, and there were no withdrawals. 
Improvement was observed in both groups in relation to T0, but no statistically 
significant differences between groups were observed regarding all variables at 
the time points studied. The Sm/TH group exhibited more adverse effects at T1 
(p<0.05), but these were mild and transitory. No severe adverse effects were 
reported during follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Intra-articular injection of Samarium(153)-particulate 
hydroxyapatite (15 mCi) with 40 mg of triamcinolone hexacetonide is not superior 
