
534. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2009 Dec;64(12):1207-11. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glp134. Epub 2009 Sep 23.

Transplantation of young ovaries to old mice increased life span in transplant 
recipients.

Mason JB(1), Cargill SL, Anderson GB, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Science, University of California, Davis, CA, USA. 
masonjef@vet.upenn.edu

Previously we reported that prepubertally ovariectomized mice that received 
young transplanted ovaries at a postreproductive age showed a 40% increase in 
life expectancy. To study this phenomenon in greater detail, 11-month-old 
ovariectomized and ovary-intact CBA/J mice underwent ovarian transplantation 
with 60-day-old ovaries or a sham surgery. Results from observations on 
transplant recipients in the current study extended our previous results. 
Whereas intact control mice lived an average of 726 days, transplant recipients 
lived an average of 770 days (i.e., 780 days for intact recipients and 757 days 
for ovariectomized recipients). If intact recipients had ceased reproductive 
cycling by the time of transplant, we observed a further increase in mean life 
span to 811 days. These results demonstrate that young ovaries enhanced 
longevity when transplanted to old mice and that ovarian status, examined by 
means of ovariectomy and ovarian transplantation, clearly influenced the 
potential of young transplanted ovaries to positively impact longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glp134
PMCID: PMC2773817
PMID: 19776215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2009 Sep 29;54(14):1271-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2009.05.060.

Cost effectiveness of enoxaparin in acute ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction: the ExTRACT-TIMI 25 (Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion for 
Acute Myocardial Infarction Treatment-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 25) 
study.

Marcoff L(1), Zhang Z, Zhang W, Ewen E, Jurkovitz C, Leguet P, Kolm P, Weintraub 
WS.

Author information:
(1)Christiana Care Center for Outcomes Research, Christiana Care Health System, 
Newark, Delaware 19718, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We used a U.S. model of health care costs to examine the cost 
effectiveness of enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin (UFH) as 
adjunctive therapy for fibrinolysis in patients with ST-segment elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI).
BACKGROUND: The ExTRACT-TIMI 25 (Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion for 
Acute Myocardial Infarction Treatment-Thrombolysis In Myocardial Infarction 25) 
study, a large, randomized, multinational trial, demonstrated a reduction in 
death or nonfatal myocardial infarction when enoxaparin was used instead of UFH 
as adjunctive therapy for fibrinolysis in patients with STEMI.
METHODS: We used patient-level clinical outcomes and resource use from the 
ExTRACT-TIMI 25 trial and estimates of life expectancy gains as a result of the 
prevention of the clinical events on the basis of the Framingham Heart Study.
RESULTS: Index hospitalization costs trended lower by $126 in the enoxaparin 
group (95% confidence interval [CI]: -$295 to $49). Thirty-day costs trended 
higher by $102 for enoxaparin (95% CI: $108 to $314). Patients receiving 
enoxaparin gained an average of 0.12 life-years relative to patients given UFH. 
Estimated total lifetime costs were $1,207 higher in the enoxaparin group (95% 
CI: $491 to $1,923). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of enoxaparin 
compared with UFH was $5,700 per life-year gained, with 99.9% of 
bootstrap-derived estimates <$50,000 per life-year gained. Using a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, there is a 90% probability that enoxaparin is cost 
effective for lifetime, provided that the willingness-to-pay value exceeds 
$50,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on a U.S. model of health care economics, the strategy of 
using enoxaparin instead of UFH as adjunctive therapy for fibrinolysis in 
patients with STEMI is cost effective according to commonly used benchmarks.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2009.05.060
PMID: 19778669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. BMJ. 2009 Sep 24;339:b3601. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3601.

Screening for prostate cancer remains controversial.

Stark JR(1), Mucci L, Rothman KJ, Adami HO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, 677 Huntington 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA. stark@hsph.harvard.edu

Comment in
    BMJ. 2009;339:b5336.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3601
PMID: 19778971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. N Engl J Med. 2009 Sep 24;361(13):1313-4; author reply 1314-5.

Clopidogrel plus aspirin in atrial fibrillation.

Lee YE, DeZee KJ.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2009 May 14;360(20):2066-78.

PMID: 19780215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Vojnosanit Pregl. 2009 Aug;66(8):639-44. doi: 10.2298/vsp0908639p.

Renal transplantation vs hemodialysis: cost-effectiveness analysis.

Perović S(1), Janković S.

Author information:
(1)Republic Health Insurance Institute, Belgrade, Serbia. spserb@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND/AIM: Chronic renal insufficiency (CRI), diabetes, hypertension, 
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) are the main reasons for 
starting dialysis treatment in patients having kidney function failure. At 
present, dialysis treatments are performed in about 4,100 patients at 46 
institutions in Serbia, out of which 90% are hemodialyses. At end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) the only correct selection is kidney transplantation. The basic 
aim of the planned research was to compare ratio of costs and effects (Cost 
Effectiveness Analysis - CEA) of hemodialysis and kidney transplantation in 
patients at ESRD.
METHODS: As the main issue of treatment in patients from both groups the life 
quality measured by the validated McGill Questionary, was used. The study 
included 150 patients totally, divided into two groups. The study group 
consisted of 50 patients with kidney transplantation performed at the Clinical 
Center of Serbia and the control group consisted of 100 patients on hemodialysis 
at Clinical Center of Serbia, Clinical Hospital Center Zemun, Clinical Hospital 
Center "Zvezdara", Clinical Center Kragujevac and Health Center "Studenica", 
Kraljevo, comparable with respect to sex, age and length of treatment with the 
study group.
RESULTS: Effect of kidney transplantation in relation to hemodialysis being 
selection of treatment is expressed in the form of incremental ratio of costs 
and effects (Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio - ICER). It is clear from the 
enclosed tables that the strategy of kidney transplantation is far more 
profitable considering the fact that it represents saving of EUR 132,256.25 per 
one year of contribution Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY) within the period of 
10 years. According to all aspects of live quality (physical symptoms and 
problems, physical well-being, phychological symptoms, existential well-being 
and support), difference is statistically important in favour of transplant 
patents.
CONCLUSION: The costs of patient therapy by hemodialysis at end-stage renal 
disease is far greater than by performing therapy of transplantation and 
maintenance, by almost three and a half times. Difference in total quality 
aspects of human life (physical, emotional, social, spiritual and financial) 
between dialysed and transplant patients is statistically significant and by 
18.12% greater in transplant patients than in patients on hemodialysis.

DOI: 10.2298/vsp0908639p
PMID: 19780419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Aging Cell. 2009 Dec;8(6):726-37. doi: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00525.x.
Epub  2009 Sep 24.

Ambient temperature influences aging in an annual fish (Nothobranchius 
rachovii).

Hsu CY(1), Chiu YC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Chang Gung University, 259 Wen-Hwa 1st Road, 
Kwei-Shan, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan. hsu@mail.cgu.edu.tw

Extending lifespan by lowering ambient temperature in the habitat has been shown 
in a variety of organisms. Its mechanism, however, remains elusive. In this 
study, we examined the survivorship and the aging process of the annual fish 
(Nothobranchius rachovii) reared under high (30 degrees C), moderate (25 degrees 
C) and low (20 degrees C) ambient temperatures. The results showed that low 
ambient temperatures prolong survivorship, whereas high ambient temperatures 
shorten survivorship. At low ambient temperature, expression of 
senescence-associated beta-galactosidase, lipofuscin, reactive oxygen species, 
lipid peroxidation, protein oxidation, mitochondrial density and ADP/ATP ratio 
were reduced compared with those reared at high and moderate temperatures, 
whereas catalase activity, Mn-superoxide dismutase activities, mitochondrial 
membrane potential and the levels of ATP, ADP, Sirt1 and Forkhead box O 
expression were elevated. The expression levels of Hsp70 and CIRP showed no 
significant difference under any of the ambient temperatures tested. We 
concluded that cellular metabolism, energy utilization and gene expression are 
altered at lower ambient temperature, which is associated with the extension of 
lifespan of the annual fish.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1474-9726.2009.00525.x
PMID: 19780720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Am J Ophthalmol. 2009 Dec;148(6):860-8.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.07.012.
Epub  2009 Sep 24.

Economic appraisal of the Boston Ocular Surface Prosthesis.

Shepard DS(1), Razavi M, Stason WB, Jacobs DS, Suaya JA, Cohen M, Rosenthal P.

Author information:
(1)Schneider Institutes for Health Policy, Heller School, Brandeis University, 
Waltham, Massachusetts 02454, USA.

PURPOSE: To perform an economic appraisal of the Boston Ocular Surface 
Prosthesis in patients with corneal ectasia, irregular astigmatism, or ocular 
surface disease.
DESIGN: Cost, incremental cost-effectiveness, and benefit-cost analyses in a 
prospective observational study.
METHODS: The effects of this scleral lens on visual functioning were measured in 
69 patients who received the prosthesis in 2006 and were reassessed 6 months 
after fitting the prosthesis. Benefits, based on improvements in visual 
functioning, were converted to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and economic 
values were derived using results from published studies. Costs were estimated 
from the provider organization's 2006 operating financial statement with 
additions for donated resources and future scale-up.
RESULTS: Mean scores on a 100-point visual functioning questionnaire (VFQ-25) 
improved from 57.0 to 77.8 (P < .0001). On average, each fitted patient cost 
$11,841 ($6001 for clinical services and $5840 to produce the prosthesis). 
Patients' quality of life improved by 0.10 QALYs per year. Assuming that 
benefits persist for an average of 5 years, the lifetime gain was 0.48 QALYs; 
the average cost-effectiveness of the prosthesis was $24,900 per QALY (95% 
confidence interval $19,100 to $29,600), and the average benefit-cost ratio was 
4.0 to 1. In patients with the lowest baseline scores (average VFQ score 38.6), 
results were even more favorable: cost-effectiveness $17,100 per QALY and 
benefit-cost ratio 5.6 to 1.
CONCLUSIONS: The Boston Ocular Surface Prosthesis is cost-effective and cost 
beneficial in patients with severely compromised visual function attributable to 
ectasia, irregular astigmatism, or ocular surface disease.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.07.012
PMID: 19781684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Med Clin (Barc). 2009 Nov 7;133(17):667-70. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2009.07.013.  Epub 2009 Sep 25.

[Octreotide long acting release for severe obscure gastrointestinal haemorrhage 
in elderly patients with serious comorbidities].

[Article in Spanish]

Molina Infante J(1), Pérez Gallardo B, Hernández Alonso M, Mateos Rodríguez JM, 
Dueñas Sadornil C, Fernández Bermejo M.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Aparato Digestivo, Hospital San Pedro de Alcántara, Cáceres, 
España. xavi_molina@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2011 Jan 29;136(2):85-6.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Octreotide LAR has shown preliminary promising results 
in the treatment of recurrent obscure gastrointestinal haemorrhage.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Eleven patients with severe comorbidities were treated 
with continuous octreotide LAR 20mg once a month. No changes were performed in 
concomitant drugs. Haemoglobin levels, blood transfusions, hospital admissions 
and adverse effects were recorded every three months.
RESULTS: Median age and follow-up were 74 yr (65-86) and 15 months (5-48). Five 
patients were on acenocoumarol therapy and other five on antiplatelet drugs. 
Eight patients (72%) had diffuse small bowel angiodysplasia and 4 patients died 
during follow-up. Only two patients (18%) remained free of transfusions but it 
resulted for the first year in an outstanding decrease in the need of red cell 
packets (14 (9-49) vs 4 (0-9), p=0,002) and in admission days related to 
gastrointestinal bleeding (27 (10-99) vs 7(0-23), p=0,001). No side effects were 
reported.
CONCLUSION: Octreotide LAR is an effective, safe and comfortable palliative 
therapy for severe obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. Medical resources saving 
and improved quality of life may warrant its use irrespective of comorbidities 
or life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2009.07.013
PMID: 19781724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Mol Cell. 2009 Sep 24;35(6):841-55. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2009.09.004.

Cullin mediates degradation of RhoA through evolutionarily conserved BTB 
adaptors to control actin cytoskeleton structure and cell movement.

Chen Y(1), Yang Z, Meng M, Zhao Y, Dong N, Yan H, Liu L, Ding M, Peng HB, Shao 
F.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science, Peking University, Beijing 100871, China.

Erratum in
    Mol Cell. 2011 Dec 23;44(6):1005.

Comment in
    Mol Cell. 2009 Sep 24;35(6):735-6.

Cul3, a Cullin family scaffold protein, is thought to mediate the assembly of a 
large number of SCF (Skp1-Cullin1-F-box protein)-like ubiquitin ligase complexes 
through BTB domain substrate-recruiting adaptors. Cul3 controls early embryonic 
development in several genetic models through mechanisms not understood. Very 
few functional substrate/adaptor pairs for Cul3 ubiquitin ligases have been 
identified. Here, we show that Cul3 knockdown in human cells results in abnormal 
actin stress fibers and distorted cell morphology, owing to impaired 
ubiquitination and degradation of small GTPase RhoA. We identify a family of 
RhoA-binding BTB domain adaptors conserved from insects to mammals, designated 
BACURDs. BACURDs form ubiquitin ligase complexes, which selectively ubiquitinate 
RhoA, with Cul3. Dysfunction of the Cul3/BACURD complex decreases cell migration 
potential and impairs RhoA-mediated convergent extension movements during 
Xenopus gastrulation. Our studies reveal a previously unknown mechanism for 
controlling RhoA degradation and regulating RhoA function in various biological 
contexts, which involves a Cul3/BACURD ubiquitin ligase complex.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2009.09.004
PMID: 19782033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Exp Neurol. 2010 Jun;223(2):326-33. doi: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.09.012.
Epub  2009 Sep 24.

The brain RAS and Alzheimer's disease.

Wright JW(1), Harding JW.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychology, Veterinary and Comparative, Anatomy, Pharmacology 
and Physiology, and Programs in Neuroscience and Biotechnology, Washington State 
University, Pullman, Pullman, WA 99164-4820, USA. wrightjw@wsu.edu

Alzheimer's disease (AD) has become a major world-wide health problem with ever 
rising costs associated with the treatment and care of afflicted individuals. As 
life expectancy has increased the occurrence of dementia has also increased. 
Hypertension during middle adulthood is correlated with a significantly elevated 
risk of cognitive impairment later in life. Treatment with antihypertensive 
drugs, particularly angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and 
angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), has been reported to reduce the likelihood 
and slow the progression of AD; however, the use of ACE inhibitors may be 
accompanied by an increase in amyloid beta protein(1-42) accumulation. This 
review summarizes available information regarding the brain renin-angiotensin 
system (RAS), and specifically the efficacy of ACE inhibitors as anti-dementia 
agents, and considers the recently discovered AT(4) receptor and associated 
agonist drugs as potential new therapeutic targets to treat memory impairments 
associated with AD. We conclude with a description of recent efforts by members 
of our laboratory to develop blood-brain barrier penetrant angiotensin IV 
analogue drugs that facilitate cognition in animal models of AD. These efforts 
have resulted in a small molecule with desirable hydrophobicity characteristics 
that shows promise with respect to memory facilitation when peripherally 
administered.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.expneurol.2009.09.012
PMID: 19782074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Eur J Intern Med. 2009 Oct;20(6):640-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2009.06.009.
Epub  2009 Aug 5.

How accurate are doctors, nurses and medical students at predicting life 
expectancy?

Clarke MG(1), Ewings P, Hanna T, Dunn L, Girling T, Widdison AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, Derriford Hospital, Plymouth 
PL6 8DH, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Predicted patient life expectancy, based on a patient's medical 
history, is an important component of medical decision making. This study 
therefore aimed to determine the consistency, accuracy and precision with which 
doctors, nurses and medical students predict life expectancy (LE).
METHODS: 20 doctors, 20 nurses and 20 medical students (4th and 5th year) 
independently examined 70 hypothetical patient case scenarios containing age, 
sex and comorbidity; this included 13 duplicate scenarios. Accuracy and 
consistency of prediction was assessed by comparison with statistical LE 
estimates generated using evidence-based actuarial and life insurance industry 
methods in collaboration with a team of professional actuaries.
RESULTS: Doctors, nurses and medical students underestimated LE by a mean (95% 
confidence interval) of -1.46 (-0.31 to -2.61), -1.79 (-0.52 to -3.06) and -2.24 
(-1.16 to -3.32) years with an equivalent root mean squared error (RMSE) of 
4.74, 5.49 and 5.08 years respectively. LE predictions were equal to actuarial 
LE in less than 10% of cases and accurate to within 25% of actuarial LE in less 
than 45% of cases. Intra-observer reliability was 91%, 85% and 87% for doctors, 
nurses and medical students respectively. Inter-observer reliability was 66%, 
57% and 57% for the three groups.
CONCLUSION: Doctors, nurses and medical students were inconsistent, inaccurate 
and imprecise in their prediction of LE with a tendency toward underestimation. 
This may lead to patients being managed inappropriately. There is a need for 
improved training and objective outcome prediction models.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2009.06.009
PMID: 19782929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2009 Nov;86(2):146-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2009.08.012. Epub 2009 Sep 23.

Improvements in life expectancy in type 1 diabetes patients in the last six 
decades.

Ioacara S(1), Lichiardopol R, Ionescu-Tirgoviste C, Cheta D, Sabau S, Guja C, 
Farcasiu E, Tiu C.

Author information:
(1)N Paulescu National Institute of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, 
Bucharest, Romania. drsorin@yahoo.com

AIMS: To investigate the survival with diabetes in patients treated with insulin 
from diagnosis.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: We analyzed 845 subjects, 55.9% males, registered at "I. 
Pavel" Bucharest Diabetes Centre, insulin-treated from diagnosis, aged <40 years 
and deceased between 1946 and 2005. We divided the subjects in two groups by age 
at diagnosis: group A <18 years and group B 18-39.99 years. We used 20 years 
time periods for year of death: 1946-1965, 1966-1985 and 1986-2005.
RESULTS: The mean age at diabetes onset was 30.36+/-8.04 years, disease duration 
at death 20.98+/-11.62 years and age at death 51.34+/-14.37 years. The mean 
increase in survival with diabetes was 19.3 years for group A and 15.9 years for 
group B. There was a significant decrease in infections in both groups. The 
increase in coronary heart diseases and stroke is evident only in group B.
CONCLUSIONS: We found no changes in age at onset, which combined with an 
increase in survival with diabetes lead to a significant increase in age at 
death over the six decades analyzed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2009.08.012
PMID: 19783316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Arch Clin Neuropsychol. 2009 Nov;24(7):681-8. doi: 10.1093/arclin/acp072.
Epub  2009 Sep 24.

Changes in intellectual functioning associated with normal aging.

Miller LJ(1), Myers A, Prinzi L, Mittenberg W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Eastern Mediterranean University, Famagusta, North 
Cyprus, Cyprus, Turkey. lori.miller@emu.edu.tr

Declines in IQ scores with advancing age have been observed in each successive 
revision of the Wechsler Intelligence Scales. This study examined age-related 
changes on the fourth edition of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale and 
compared these to the effects seen on the 1955, 1981, and 1997 standardizations 
of the scales. The most pronounced declines were in measures of processing speed 
and nonverbal reasoning. Declines in nonverbal reasoning were similar on timed 
and un-timed measures. Verbal abilities remained relatively stable across the 
life span. General intelligence as assessed by the Full Scale IQ was reduced 
about 1 SD by age 75 when corrections for age were removed. Age-related declines 
have become less pronounced since 1955, particularly on measures of processing 
speed. This effect was essentially linear, unrelated to concurrent IQ increases 
in the general population, and paralleled a 9-year increase in life expectancy 
during this time period.

DOI: 10.1093/arclin/acp072
PMID: 19783531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2010 Feb;25(2):605-10. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfp484.
Epub  2009 Sep 25.

Efficacy of peritoneal ultrafiltration in the treatment of refractory congestive 
heart failure.

Sánchez JE(1), Ortega T, Rodríguez C, Díaz-Molina B, Martín M, Garcia-Cueto C, 
Vidau P, Gago E, Ortega F.

Author information:
(1)Nephrology Service, Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias, Oviedo, 
Spain. jesastur@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) is a major health problem in developed countries. 
HF is a progressive, lethal disorder, even with adequate treatment. There exists 
a vicious circle in the pathophysiology of HF that perpetuates and magnifies the 
problem. Concomitant fluid accumulation may worsen the congestive HF, it is 
responsible for numerous hospitalizations and it is an important cause of 
mortality. In this situation, any means of fluid removal may aid in the 
management of these patients. The objective of this study was to evaluate the 
efficacy of peritoneal dialysis (PD) in the treatment of refractory HF in terms 
of functional status, hospitalization and mortality. We also determined the 
improvement in health-related quality of life with the use of PD, and examined 
the economic consequences of its use.
METHODS: We conducted a single centre, prospective, non-randomized study 
involving patients showing symptoms and signs of congestive HF refractory to 
maximum tolerable drug treatment. All of them were treated with PD. We analysed 
physical and biochemical determinations, functional status (according to the 
NYHA classification) and echocardiogram parameters. Also, to determine the 
efficacy of the technique we compared the perceived state of health (measured by 
the EQ5D) to PD patients respect to those reported with conservative therapies. 
Finally, we carried out a cost-utility evaluation measured by the incremental 
cost-utility ratio between these two options.
RESULTS: Seventeen patients (65% men, 64 +/- 9 years) were included in the 
study, and 12 were still undergoing PD treatment at the end of the follow-up 
period (15 +/- 9 months). All patients improved their NYHA functional status 
(65% two classes; the rest, one; P < 0.001), with an important improvement in 
their pulmonary artery systolic pressure (44 +/- 12 versus 27 +/- 9 mmHg; P = 
0.007), but no changes in left ventricular ejection fraction. Hospitalization 
rates underwent a dramatic reduction (from 62 +/- 16 to 11 +/- 5 
days/patient/year; P = 0.003) before and after PD treatment. PD treatment raised 
life expectancy of 82% after 12 months of treatment, and 70% and 56% after 18 
and 24 months, respectively, much better outcomes than those reported about 
conservative therapies, which only use diverse diuretic regimens. PD was 
associated with a higher perception state of health than the conservative 
therapy (0.6727 versus 0.4305; P < 0.01). Finally, we found that PD is 
cost-effective compared with the conservative therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate that congestive HF programmes should consider 
offering PD in hope of seeing better functional status, reduced morbidity and 
mortality, better quality of life as well as reduced health care costs.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfp484
PMID: 19783594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. FASEB J. 2010 Feb;24(2):383-92. doi: 10.1096/fj.09-142984. Epub 2009 Sep 25.

Life-span extension by dietary restriction is mediated by NLP-7 signaling and 
coelomocyte endocytosis in C. elegans.

Park SK(1), Link CD, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, Box 
447, Boulder, CO 80303, USA. sangkyu@colorado.edu

Recent studies have shown that the rate of aging can be modulated by diverse 
interventions. Dietary restriction is the most widely used intervention to 
promote longevity; however, the mechanisms underlying the effect of dietary 
restriction remain elusive. In a previous study, we identified two novel genes, 
nlp-7 and cup-4, required for normal longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans. nlp-7 
is one of a set of neuropeptide-like protein genes; cup-4 encodes an ion-channel 
involved in endocytosis by coelomocytes. Here, we assess whether nlp-7 and cup-4 
mediate longevity increases by dietary restriction. RNAi of nlp-7 or cup-4 
significantly reduces the life span of the eat-2 mutant, a genetic model of 
dietary restriction, but has no effect on the life span of long-lived mutants 
resulting from reduced insulin/IGF-1 signaling or dysfunction of the 
mitochondrial electron transport chain. The life-span extension observed in 
wild-type N2 worms by dietary restriction using bacterial dilution is prevented 
significantly in nlp-7 and cup-4 mutants. RNAi knockdown of genes encoding 
candidate receptors of NLP-7 and genes involved in endocytosis by coelomocytes 
also specifically shorten the life span of the eat-2 mutant. We conclude that 
two novel pathways, NLP-7 signaling and endocytosis by coelomocytes, are 
required for life extension under dietary restriction in C. elegans.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.09-142984
PMCID: PMC2812037
PMID: 19783783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Expert Opin Drug Metab Toxicol. 2009 Dec;5(12):1543-53. doi: 
10.1517/17425250903282781.

Apoptosis: a clinically useful measure of antiretroviral drug toxicity?

Hooker DJ(1), Cherry CL.

Author information:
(1)Burnet Institute, Centre for Virology, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 
dahoo@burnet.edu.au

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has improved life expectancy with HIV infection, 
but long-term toxicities associated with these medications are now a major 
global disease burden. There is a clear need to develop useful methods for 
monitoring patients on antiretroviral drugs for early signs of toxicity. Assays 
with predictive utility -- allowing therapy to be changed before serious end 
organ damage occurs -- would be ideal. Attempts to develop biochemical methods 
of monitoring ART toxicity have concentrated on the mitochondrial toxicity of 
nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors and have not generally lead 
to assays with widespread clinical applications. For example, plasma lactate and 
peripheral blood measurements of mitochondrial DNA associate with exposure to 
potentially toxic nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors but have 
not reliably predicted clinical toxicity. Better assays are needed, including 
markers of toxicity from additional drug classes. Apoptosis may be a potential 
marker of ART toxicity. Increased apoptosis has been demonstrated both in vitro 
and in vivo in association with various antiretroviral drug classes and a range 
of clinical toxicities. However, quantifying apoptosis on biopsy specimens of 
tissue (such as adipose tissue) is impractical for patient monitoring. Novel 
assays have been described that can quantify apoptosis using minute tissue 
samples and initial results from clinical samples suggest peripheral blood may 
have utility in predicting ART toxicities. The limitations and potential of such 
techniques for monitoring patients for drug side effects will be discussed.

DOI: 10.1517/17425250903282781
PMID: 19785516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2009;153:B382.

[Osteonecrosis as late complication in HIV-infected patients].

[Article in Dutch]

Hensgens MP(1), Mudrikova TT, van der Meer JT.

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum Utrecht, Afd. Interne Geneeskunde & 
Infectieziekten, Ultrecht, The Netherlands.

Osteonecrosis of the femoral head was diagnosed in a 22-year-old woman and a 
46-year-old man, both with HIV infection . Both had groin pain and impaired 
mobility. Conservative treatment did not relieve the pain. Both patients 
underwent a surgical procedure, i.e. core decompression and total hip 
replacement. In HIV-infected patients, osteonecrosis, i.e. avascular necrosis is 
an increasingly common problem in view of current longer life expectancy. The 
incidence of osteonecrosis is higher in HIV-infected patients than in the 
general population. Osteonecrosis should be included in differential diagnosis 
of groin or hip pain in HIV-positive patients. This may enable more rapid 
diagnosis and reduce the need for surgery.

PMID: 19785827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Gene. 2010 Jan 15;450(1-2):8-17. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2009.09.007.

The histone demethylase Dmel\Kdm4A controls genes required for life span and 
male-specific sex determination in Drosophila.

Lorbeck MT(1), Singh N, Zervos A, Dhatta M, Lapchenko M, Yang C, Elefant F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Drexel University, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Histone methylation plays an important role in regulating chromatin-mediated 
gene control and epigenetic-based memory systems that direct cell fate. Enzymes 
termed histone demethylases directly remove the methyl marks from histones, thus 
contributing to a dynamically regulated histone methylated genome; however, the 
biological functions of these newly identified enzymes remain unclear. The 
JMJD2A-D family belongs to the JmjC domain-containing family of histone 
demethylases (JHDMs). Here, we report the cloning and functional 
characterization of the Drosophila HDM gene Dmel\Kdm4A that is a homolog of the 
human JMJD2 family. We show that homologs for three human JHDM families, JHDM1, 
JHDM2, and JMJD2, are present in Drosophila and that each is expressed during 
the Drosophila lifecycle. Disruption of Dmel\Kdm4A results in a reduction of the 
male life span and a male-specific wing extension/twitching phenotype that 
occurs in response to other males and is reminiscent of an inter-male courtship 
phenotype involving the courtship song. Remarkably, certain genes associated 
with each of these phenotypes are significantly downregulated in response to 
Dmel\Kdm4A loss, most notably the longevity associated Hsp22 gene and the male 
sex-determination fruitless gene. Our results have implications for the role of 
the epigenetic regulator Dmel\Kdm4A in the control of genes involved in life 
span and male-specific sex determination in the fly.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2009.09.007
PMCID: PMC2795090
PMID: 19786080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Vaccine. 2009 Nov 23;27(50):7110-5. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.056. Epub
 2009 Sep 26.

The timing of influenza vaccination for older adults (65 years and older).

Lee BY(1), Tai JH, Bailey RR, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Decision Sciences and Clinical Systems Modeling, School of 
Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. BYL1@pitt.edu

While studies have found influenza vaccination to be cost-effective in older 
adults (65 years or older), they have not looked at how the vaccine's economic 
value may vary with the timing of vaccine administration. We developed a set of 
computer simulation models to evaluate the economic impact of vaccinating older 
adults at different months. Our models delineated the costs and utility losses 
in delaying vaccination past October and suggest that policy makers and payors 
may consider structuring incentives (< or =$2.50 per patient) to vaccinate in 
October. Our results also suggest that vaccination is still cost-effective 
through the end of February.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.056
PMCID: PMC2783217
PMID: 19786135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Vaccine. 2009 Nov 23;27(50):7105-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.057. Epub
 2009 Sep 26.

Cost-effectiveness of a 3-dose pneumococcal conjugate vaccine program in the 
province of Quebec, Canada.

Poirier B(1), De Wals P, Petit G, Erickson LJ, Pépin J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Sherbrooke, 
Sherbrooke, Canada.

In the province of Quebec, Canada, the pneumococcal 7-valent conjugate vaccine 
(PCV-7) was licensed in 2001 and a publicly funded program was implemented in 
2004, recommending 3 doses for healthy children. An economic analysis was 
performed both from a health care and societal perspective. Outcomes possibly 
prevented by PCV-7 and observed in 2006-2007 were compared to expected 
frequencies based on rates measured before PCV-7 use. Annual program costs were 
close to $21M for the health system and $23M for society. Approximately 20,000 
infections were prevented annually and estimated economic benefits were $5M for 
the health system and $23M for society, using a 3% per annum discounting rate. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $18,000 per QALY gained for the 
health system and the program was close to the break-even threshold in a 
societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.057
PMID: 19786137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Onkologie. 2009;32 Suppl 3:3-7. doi: 10.1159/000228647. Epub 2009 Sep 25.

[Political impact of demographic change in Germany. A summary view of the causes 
and consequences of demographic change in Germany and Europe].

[Article in German]

Birg H(1).

Author information:
(1)Emeritus, Fakultät für Gesundheitswissenschaften/AG 8 Demografie und 
Gesundheit, Universität Bielefeld, Deutschland. herwig.birg@uni-bielefeld.de

In Germany, the increase of life expectancy and the rapid decline of fertility 
started in the 19th century. The decline of the total fertility rate accelerated 
since the last decade of the 19th century when the social security system was 
established in the framework of the social reforms introduced by Bismarck. The 
process of population change is still going on. Its main demographic dimensions 
are demographic ageing, population decline, and the internationalisation of the 
population process by in-migration. The societal consequences are conflicts 
between the old and young generations as well as conflicts within each 
generation between the population groups with and without children. The economic 
impact of demographic change is a reduction of wealth, caused by a lower growth 
rate of the national product and by a reduction of the growth rate of the per 
capita income.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000228647
PMID: 19786813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Int J Obes (Lond). 2009 Dec;33(12):1410-8. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2009.176.

Mortality and disability: the effect of overweight and obesity.

Walter S(1), Kunst A, Mackenbach J, Hofman A, Tiemeier H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

CONTEXT: Prevalence of obesity is increasing globally. The effect of obesity on 
mortality and morbidity and its implication on the future prevalence of 
disability in the older population has not been conclusively analyzed.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the influence of overweight and obesity on mortality and 
disability by quantifying the effect in terms of disability-free life expectancy 
and years lost to disability (YLD) in the older people.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: For 5980 participants from the Rotterdam Study 
cohort, regression techniques were used to estimate the association of body mass 
index (BMI) and waist circumference (WC) separately with mortality, incident 
disability and recovery from disability. Disability was assessed using the 
Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index, an activity of daily 
living scale. Multistate life table methodology was used to calculate life 
expectancies.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: In total, 15-year mortality risk, 6-year disability 
incidence, total life expectancy, healthy life expectancy and years of disabled 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: We observed 2388 deaths. Our analysis revealed no association between 
body mass index, or WC and mortality in the healthy population. Body mass index 
and WC were related to disability ('overweight' 25 < or =BMI <30, odd ratio 
(OR)=1.33, 95% confidence interval (CI) (1.10; 1.61), 'obesity I' 30< or = BMI 
<35, OR=2.03, 95% CI (1.55; 2.65)) and negatively to recovery from disability. 
We observed an increase of years lost to disability with increasing weight for 
men ('normal weight'-4.69 years, 'overweight'-5.87 years and 'obesity I'-7.06 
years) and for women ('normal weight'-10.95 years, 'overweight'-12.82 years, 
'obesity I'-15.17 years and 'obesity II/III'-13.13 years).
CONCLUSION: Results do not support the hypothesis that an increased body weight 
reduces total life expectancy in the older people. Although increased body 
weight was associated with a higher risk of becoming and remaining disabled. 
These results remained using WC.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2009.176
PMID: 19786964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Cancer. 2009 Dec 1;115(23):5556-65. doi: 10.1002/cncr.24607.

Impact of socioeconomic status on prostate cancer diagnosis, treatment, and 
prognosis.

Rapiti E(1), Fioretta G, Schaffar R, Neyroud-Caspar I, Verkooijen HM, Schmidlin 
F, Miralbell R, Zanetti R, Bouchardy C.

Author information:
(1)Geneva Cancer Registry, Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine, 
University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The objective of the current study was to evaluate the impact of 
socioeconomic disparities on prostate cancer presentation, treatment, and 
prognosis in Geneva, Switzerland, in which healthcare costs, medical coverage, 
and life expectancy are considered to be among the highest in the world.
METHODS: This population-based study included all patients diagnosed with 
invasive prostate cancer among the resident population between 1995 and 2005. 
Patients were divided into 3 socioeconomic groups according to their last known 
occupation. Compared were patient and tumor characteristics and treatment 
patterns between socioeconomic groups. Cox multivariate regression analysis was 
used to assess and explain socioeconomic inequalities in prostate 
cancer-specific mortality.
RESULTS: Compared with patients of high socioeconomic class, those of low 
socioeconomic class were more often foreigners, were found less frequently to 
have screen-detected cancer, were found to have a more advanced stage of disease 
at diagnosis, and less often had information regarding disease characteristics 
and staging. These patients underwent prostatectomy less frequently and were 
more often managed with watchful waiting. The risk of dying as a result of 
prostate cancer (hazards ratio [HR]) in patients of a low versus high 
socioeconomic status was increased 2-fold (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 
1.5-2.6). After adjustment for patient and tumor characteristics and treatment, 
the mortality risk was no longer found to be significantly increased (HR, 1.2; 
95% CI, 0.8-1.6).
CONCLUSIONS: In the current study, patients of low socioeconomic class were 
found to be at increased risk of dying as a result of their prostate cancer. 
This increased mortality is largely attributable to delayed diagnosis, poor 
diagnostic workup, and less invasive treatments in these individuals.

(c) 2009 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.24607
PMID: 19787636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. IUBMB Life. 2009 Oct;61(10):1010-1. doi: 10.1002/iub.250.

Can resveratrol extend your life?

Azzi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Nutritional Immunology Laboratory, USDA Human Nutrition Research Center on 
Aging (HNRCA), Tufts University, Boston, MA 02111, USA. angelo.azzi@tufts.edu

Is There An Answer? is intended to serve as a forum in which readers to IUBMB 
Life may pose questions of the type that intrigue biochemists but for which 
there may be no obvious answer or one may be available but not widely known or 
easily accessible. Readers are invited to e-mail ascenzi@uniroma3.it if they 
have questions to contribute or if they can provide answers to questions that 
are provided here from time to time. In the latter case, instructions will be 
sent to interested readers. Answers should be, whenever possible, evidence-based 
and provide relevant references.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.250
PMID: 19787705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Br J Surg. 2009 Oct;96(10):1147-56. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6786.

Randomized controlled trial and cost-effectiveness analysis of silver-donating 
antimicrobial dressings for venous leg ulcers (VULCAN trial).

Michaels JA(1), Campbell B, King B, Palfreyman SJ, Shackley P, Stevenson M.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Vascular Institute, Northern General Hospital, Sheffield, UK. 
j.michaels@shef.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2010 Mar;97(3):459-60; author reply 460.
    Evid Based Nurs. 2010 Oct;13(4):120-1.

BACKGROUND: Antimicrobial silver dressings are used beneath graduated 
compression in the treatment of venous ulceration. There is little information 
on whether their use is effective. This was a prospective randomized trial and 
cost-effectiveness analysis of silver-donating versus non-silver low-adherence 
dressings in the treatment of venous leg ulcers.
METHODS: Patients were randomized between the two types of dressing. The primary 
outcome measure was complete ulcer healing at 12 weeks. Secondary outcomes 
included time to healing, quality of life and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: A total of 213 patients were recruited. There was no difference between 
the dressings in the proportion of ulcers healed at 12 weeks (59.6 per cent for 
silver and 56.7 per cent for control dressings). Mean utility scores for the 
EuroQol 5D and Short Form 6D were similar in both groups at 1, 3, 6 and 12 
months. Compared with the control group the antimicrobial group had an 
incremental cost of pounds sterling 97.85 and an incremental quality-adjusted 
life year gain of 0.0002, giving an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
pounds sterling 489 250 for the antimicrobial dressings.
CONCLUSION: No significant differences were found in either primary or secondary 
endpoints. There was no evidence to support the routine use of silver-donating 
dressings beneath compression for venous ulceration.
REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN 72485131 (http://www.controlled-trials.com).

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6786
PMID: 19787753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Head Neck. 2010 Jun;32(6):708-13. doi: 10.1002/hed.21238.

Role of postoperative irradiation for patients with bilateral cervical nodal 
metastases from cutaneous melanoma: a critical assessment.

Guadagnolo BA(1), Myers JN, Zagars GK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas, USA. aguadagn@mdanderson.org

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of regional nodal 
radiation therapy (RT) for patients with bilateral cervical nodal metastases 
from melanoma.
METHODS: Between 1998 and 2008, 16 patients with bilateral cervical metastases 
without distant metastases were treated with postoperative RT (30 Gy in 5 
fractions delivered twice weekly).
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 5 months (range, 1-34 months). Median survival was 
9 months (95% confidence interval [CI], 0-23 months). Overall survival was 68%, 
50%, and 27% at 6, 12, and 24 months, respectively. Regional nodal control was 
74% and 64% at 6 and 12 months, respectively. Rates of development of distant 
metastasis were 60%, 70%, and 90% at 6, 12, and 18 months, respectively. The 
actuarial rate of RT-related complications was 49% at 12 months.
CONCLUSION: The limited life expectancy of patients observed with this disease 
combined with the high rate of RT-related complications argue against the 
routine use of adjuvant RT for regional nodal disease in this setting.

(c) 2009 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Head Neck, 2010.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.21238
PMID: 19787786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Jun;6(2):107-11. doi: 10.1007/s10198-004-0265-y.

Time preference bias in time trade-off.

van der Pol M(1), Roux L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, Canada. 
m.vanderpol@abdn.ac.uk

This study examined whether time trade-off (TTO) values adjusted for time 
preferences are more consistent with individuals' preferences. This was carried 
out by testing the constant proportional trade-off (CPTO) assumption, and both 
individual specific and standard discount rates were used. The results show that 
the mean adjustment factor is around 0.03. This may influence relative 
cost-effectiveness in economic evaluations. The CPTO assumption holds with 
respect to both unadjusted TTO values and TTO values adjusted for 
individuals'time preference, and therefore no conclusions can be drawn as to 
whether the adjusted values are more consistent with individuals' preferences. 
However, the CPTO assumption is violated when standard discount rates are used. 
This clearly shows that the use of standard discount rates should be avoided. 
Further exploration of the time preference bias and other biases in TTO is 
identified as an important area of future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-004-0265-y
PMID: 19787847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Eur J Health Econ. 2005 Jun;6(2):124-30. doi: 10.1007/s10198-004-0264-z.

Validating the EQ-5D with time trade off for the German population.

Greiner W(1), Claes C, Busschbach JJ, von der Schulenburg JM.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Health System Research, University of 
Hanover, Hanover, Germany. wg@ivbl.uni-hannover.de

The aim of this survey study was to derive the societal values of the general 
public for the EuroQol EQ-5D. Using the same protocol as previously used in the 
United Kingdom, we compared the German values with the British. In face-to-face 
interviews a sample of 339 individuals in northern Germany valued 15 different 
health states from a sample of 36 states. Values were derived using the York MVH 
protocol for time trade-off (TTO) and a visual analogue scale (VAS). Values for 
all 243 health states of the EQ-5D were estimated by a regression model. The VAS 
values revealed close a resemblance to the British VAS results. German TTO 
values were higher than the British. This was especially the case for the worse 
health states. The results suggest that the TTO values are more related to 
national variables than values derived by VAS. The use of the TTO values of this 
investigation makes it possible to anticipate these cultural differences in 
studies carried out in Germany.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-004-0264-z
PMID: 19787848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2009 Apr 17;57(14):1-134.

Deaths: final data for 2006.

Heron M(1), Hoyert DL, Murphy SL, Xu J, Kochanek KD, Tejada-Vera B.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Health & Human Services, Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, National Center for Health Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, 
Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents final 2006 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant and maternal mortality, and trends by selected 
characteristics such as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, marital status, 
educational attainment, injury at work, state of residence, and cause of death. 
It also presents more detailed information than previously presented about the 
mortality experience of the American Indian or Alaska Native and the Asian or 
Pacific Islander populations.
METHODS: Information reported on death certificates, which are completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics. Causes of death 
are processed in accordance with the International Classification of Diseases, 
Tenth Revision (ICD-10).
RESULTS: In 2006, a total of 2,426,264 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 776.5 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, a decrease of 2.8 percent from the 2005 rate and a record low 
historical figure. Life expectancy at birth rose 0.3 years, from a revised 2005 
value of 77.4 years to a record 77.7 years in 2006. Age-specific death rates 
increased for those aged 25-34 years but decreased for most other age groups: 
5-14 years, 35-44 years, 45-54 years, 55-64 years, 65-74 years, 75-84 years, and 
85 years and over. The 15 leading causes of death in 2006 remained the same as 
in 2005. Heart disease and cancer continued to be the leading and second-leading 
causes of death, together accounting for almost half of all deaths. The infant 
mortality rate in 2006 was 6.69 deaths per 1,000 live births.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality patterns in 2006, such as the decline in the age-adjusted 
death rate to a record historical low, were generally consistent with long-term 
