PMCID: PMC2785467
PMID: 19997556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


96. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2009;159(21-22):521-8. doi: 10.1007/s10354-009-0697-1.

Prostate cancer in senior adults: over- or undertreated?

Berger I(1), Böhmer F, Ponholzer A, Madersbacher S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Andrology, Donauspital, Vienna, Austria.

Despite the widespread use of prostate specific antigen for early prostate 
cancer (PCa) detection in younger men, PCa is still as disease of the elderly as 
2/3 of incident cases are detected in men older than 65 years and 25% are older 
than 75 years at diagnosis. Opportunistic screening for PCa is not recommended 
for men with a life expectancy of less than 10 years. The therapeutic strategy 
for senior adults is driven by tumour stage/aggressiveness, co-morbidity and 
chronological age. Elderly patients with low/intermediate risk tumours - 
particularly those with a life expectancy of less than 10 years - are best 
managed by watchful waiting. Senior adults with intermediate/high risk tumours 
and a life expectancy of >10 years may benefit from curative local therapy such 
as radical prostatectomy or combined external beam irradiation/androgen ablation 
therapy. For elderly patients with metastatic disease, androgen deprivation 
remains the mainstay of therapy, intermittent androgen ablation is a promising 
approach.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-009-0697-1
PMID: 19997837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Cancer. 2010 Feb 1;116(3):586-91. doi: 10.1002/cncr.24771.

Life expectancy of screen-detected invasive breast cancer patients compared with 
women invited to the Nijmegen screening program.

Otten JD(1), Broeders MJ, Den Heeten GJ, Holland R, Fracheboud J, De Koning HJ, 
Verbeek AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and Health Technology Assessment, 
Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
j.otten@ebh.umcn.nl

BACKGROUND: Screening can lead to earlier detection of breast cancer and thus to 
an improvement in survival. The authors studied the life expectancy of women 
with screen-detected invasive breast cancer (patients) compared with women 
invited to the breast cancer screening program in Nijmegen, the Netherlands 
(comparison group).
METHODS: Each patient diagnosed between 1975 and 2006 was randomly age-matched 
with a woman invited in the same calendar year and free from breast cancer at 
the time of diagnosis of the patient. Survival analyses were performed to study 
differences in life expectancy.
RESULTS: The life expectancy for 858 patients was 6 years shorter than for the 
comparison group. However, for 360 patients with small (<15 mm) invasive breast 
cancer, life expectancy was similar to that of the comparison group. In 
contrast, for patients detected with larger tumors (> or = 15 mm) the life 
expectancy was 6 to 12 years shorter, depending on tumor size. Furthermore, life 
expectancy was modified by screening history. For patients who had a negative 
screening examination 2 years before the detection of their breast cancer, the 
difference in life expectancy from the comparison group became smaller for the 
larger tumor sizes (> or = 15 mm).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, about 40% (360 of 858) of all women with invasive 
screen-detected breast cancer have the same life expectancy as women from the 
comparison group (reflecting the general population). For women diagnosed with 
larger tumors at diagnosis, life expectancy diminishes with increasing tumor 
size and is modified by screening history.

Copyright 2009 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.24771
PMID: 19998346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Lakartidningen. 2009 Nov 4-12;106(45):2956-7.

[More and more live longer than 65 years. Fewer smokers and more people with 
healthy hearts probable explanations].

[Article in Swedish]

Nilsson G(1), Simonsson B.

Author information:
(1)Centrum för klinisk forskning, Centrallasarettet, Västerås. 
goran.nilsson@ltv.se

PMID: 19998816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Adv Nurse Pract. 2008 May;16(5):26.

Life span vs. healthy life expectancy. Where did men go wrong?

Tariman JD(1).

Author information:
(1)JD Tariman Consulting, USA.

PMID: 19999066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Ned Tijdschr Tandheelkd. 2009 Nov;116(11):609-14.

[Extension of (extremely) shortened dental arches by fixed or removable partial 
dentures].

[Article in Dutch]

Witter DJ(1), Hoefnagel RA, Snoek PA, Creugers NH.

Author information:
(1)Uit de afdeling Orale Functieleer van het Universitair Medisch Centrum St 
Radboud te Nijmegen. d.witter@dent.umcn.nl

Whether a shortened dental arch needs to be extended depends on the degree of 
the shortening. Four categories of shortened dental arches can be distinguished: 
1. slightly shortened dental arches; 2. moderately shortened dental arches; 3. 
extremely shortened dental arches; and 4. asymmetrical extremely shortened 
dental arches. Decision-making on extending a shortened dental arch should be 
based on oral function and the patient's perceived impact on oral health-related 
quality of life. According to this principle, there is no evidence for extending 
slightly shortened dental arches. Extending moderately shortened dental arches 
is indicated in exceptional cases, especially for aesthetic reasons. In the case 
of (asymmetrical) extremely shortened dental arches there are reasons for 
extension. The extension can be restricted to restoring the arch to the level of 
a moderately shortened dental arch. With this treatment strategy, it is possible 
in many cases to conform to the current trend of using fixed partial dentures 
rather than removable partial dentures.

PMID: 19999671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Am J Health Behav. 2010 May-Jun;34(3):349-61. doi: 10.5993/ajhb.34.3.10.

Subjective life expectancy and health behaviors among STD clinic patients.

Scott-Sheldon LA(1), Carey MP, Vanable PA, Senn TE.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health and Behavior, Syracuse University, Syracuse, NY 13244-2340, 
USA. lajss@syr.edu

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether people who expect to live longer engage in 
healthier behaviors relative to people who expect to live shorter lives.
METHODS: Patients (994 black Americans, 373 white Americans) from a publicly 
funded clinic estimated their expected survival age and reported their health 
behaviors (alcohol, tobacco, and drug use; sexual behaviors; physical activity; 
and sleep).
RESULTS: Subjective life expectancy (SLE) was a significant predictor of health 
behavior for both men and women. Race moderated the SLE-health behavior relation 
but only for alcohol and tobacco use.
CONCLUSIONS: Future research should explore the potential health benefits of 
shifting SLE from a more limited to an expansive perspective.

DOI: 10.5993/ajhb.34.3.10
PMCID: PMC2920613
PMID: 20001192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. J Med Econ. 2010 Mar;13(1):33-41. doi: 10.3111/13696990903508021.

Indirect cost-effectiveness analyses of abatacept and rituximab in patients with 
moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in the United States.

Yuan Y(1), Trivedi D, Maclean R, Rosenblatt L.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 777 Scudders 
Mill Road, Plainsboro, NJ 08536, USA. yong.yuan@bms.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) for abatacept and rituximab, in combination with methotrexate, relative 
to methotrexate alone in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
METHODS: A patient-level simulation model was used to depict the progression of 
functional disability over the lifetimes of women aged 55-64 years with active 
RA and inadequate response to a tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha antagonist 
therapy. Future health-state utilities and medical care costs were based on 
projected values of the Health Assessment Questionnaire Disability Index 
(HAQ-DI). Patients were assumed to receive abatacept or rituximab in combination 
with methotrexate until death or therapy discontinuation due to lack of efficacy 
or adverse events. HAQ-DI improvement at month 6, after adjustments for control 
drug (methotrexate) response, was derived from two clinical trials. Costs of 
medical care and biologic drugs, discounted at 3% annually, were from the 
perspective of a US third-party payer and expressed in 2007 US dollars.
RESULTS: Relative to methotrexate alone, abatacept/methotrexate and 
rituximab/methotrexate therapies were estimated to yield an average of 1.25 and 
1.10 additional QALYs per patient, at mean incremental costs of $58,989 and 
$60,380, respectively. The incremental cost-utility ratio relative to 
methotrexate was $47,191 (95% CI $44,810-49,920) per QALY gained for 
abatacept/methotrexate and $54,891 (95% CI $52,274-58,073) per QALY gained for 
rituximab/methotrexate. At an acceptability threshold of $50,000 per QALY, the 
probability of cost effectiveness was 90% for abatacept and 0.0% for rituximab.
CONCLUSION: Abatacept was estimated to be more cost effective than rituximab for 
use in RA from a US third-party payer perspective. However, head-to-head 
clinical trials and long-term observational data are needed to confirm these 
findings.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903508021
PMID: 20001596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Hemoglobin. 2009;33 Suppl 1:S136-8. doi: 10.3109/03630260903347898.

Osteopenia-osteoporosis syndrome in patients with thalassemia: understanding of 
type of bone disease and response to treatment.

Chatterjee R(1), Bajoria R.

Author information:
(1)Institute For Women's Health, University College London, University College 
Hospital, London, UK. r.chatterjee@ucl.ac.uk

With increased life expectancy, thalassaemic bone disease including osteopenia 
osteoporosis syndrome (OOS) is a major cause of bone pain and fragility 
fractures especially of the lumbar spine, which may be found in 70-80% adult 
patients with beta-thalassaemia worldwide, accounting for significant bone 
morbidity. The causes of OOS in thalassaemia syndromes are multifactorial, and 
the exact treatment is far from ideal. We undertook a prospective study of 34 
thalassaemic patients to evaluate the effect of pamidronate and hormone 
replacement therapy (if hypogonadal) on bone quantity by DXA scan quality by 
histomorphometry of bone biopsy and bone dynamics by biochemical markers of bone 
turnover.Our results show that all patients had osteopenia with abnormal bones 
on histomorphometry before commencement of treatment. Thalassaemia major 
patients had high turnover bone disease and all responded favourably to 
treatment whereas intermedia patients had low turnover bone disease and 
responded poorly to treatment. Our data also showed that ICTP and PICP is a 
discriminatory test but histomorphometry is the only test for characterisation 
of bone morphology.

DOI: 10.3109/03630260903347898
PMID: 20001617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Hemoglobin. 2009;33 Suppl 1:S160-9. doi: 10.3109/03630260903351619.

The hypercoagulable state in thalassemia intermedia.

Taher AT(1), Musallam KM, Inati A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hematology-Oncology Division, American 
University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut, Lebanon. ataher@aub.edu.lb

Erratum in
    Hemoglobin. 2010;34(1):121-2.

Although the life expectancy of beta-thalassemia patients has markedly improved 
over the last few years, patients still suffer from many complications of this 
congenital disease. The presence of a high incidence of thromboembolic events, 
mainly in beta-thalassemia intermedia, has led to the identification of a 
hypercoagulable state in these patients. In this review, the molecular and 
cellular mechanisms leading to hypercoagulability in beta-thalassemia are 
highlighted, with a special focus on thalassemia intermedia being the group with 
the highest incidence of thrombotic events as compared to other types of 
thalassemia. Recommendations for thrombosis prophylaxis in these patients are 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.3109/03630260903351619
PMID: 20001621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Hemoglobin. 2009;33 Suppl 1:S76-80. doi: 10.3109/03630260903347336.

Update on survival in thalassemia major.

Telfer P(1).

Author information:
(1)Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry, London, UK. 
paul.telfer@bartsandthelondon.nhs.uk

Long-term follow-up of cohorts of patients treated in high-income countries has 
shown a progressive improvement in life expectancy. Myocardial toxicity from 
iron overload has been the major cause of mortality; however, there has been a 
substantial decline in cardiac deaths in recent years, related to switching 
high-risk patients from subcutaneous desferrioxamine to chelation regimes which 
include the oral chelator deferiprone. The role of deferasirox in enhancing life 
expectancy is yet to be determined, but it is reasonable to expect an 
improvement compared with past experience with desferrioxamine. Other causes of 
mortality will become an increasingly important issue for older thalassemic 
patients: Surveillance, prophylaxis, and prompt treatment of infection remains 
essential, and chronic hepatitis virus infection should be managed with best 
available current therapies. More data on follow-up of thalassemic patients in 
middle income countries are needed to demonstrate a similar trend in improved 
survival. The life expectancy for those in low-income countries is similar to 
the situation 50 years ago in Europe and the United States. The global 
thalassemia and public health community should consider how to respond to this 
disparity.

DOI: 10.3109/03630260903347336
PMID: 20001636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2010 Aug 1;13(3):279-347. doi: 10.1089/ars.2009.2788.

Potential therapeutic benefits of strategies directed to mitochondria.

Camara AK(1), Lesnefsky EJ, Stowe DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, 53226, 
USA. aksc@mcw.edu <aksc@mcw.edu>

The mitochondrion is the most important organelle in determining continued cell 
survival and cell death. Mitochondrial dysfunction leads to many human maladies, 
including cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative disease, and cancer. These 
mitochondria-related pathologies range from early infancy to senescence. The 
central premise of this review is that if mitochondrial abnormalities contribute 
to the pathological state, alleviating the mitochondrial dysfunction would 
contribute to attenuating the severity or progression of the disease. Therefore, 
this review will examine the role of mitochondria in the etiology and 
progression of several diseases and explore potential therapeutic benefits of 
targeting mitochondria in mitigating the disease processes. Indeed, recent 
advances in mitochondrial biology have led to selective targeting of drugs 
designed to modulate and manipulate mitochondrial function and genomics for 
therapeutic benefit. These approaches to treat mitochondrial dysfunction 
rationally could lead to selective protection of cells in different tissues and 
various disease states. However, most of these approaches are in their infancy.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2009.2788
PMCID: PMC2936955
PMID: 20001744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Future Oncol. 2009 Dec;5(10):1555-84. doi: 10.2217/fon.09.121.

Critical review of prostate cancer predictive tools.

Shariat SF(1), Kattan MW, Vickers AJ, Karakiewicz PI, Scardino PT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Urology Service, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY 10021, USA.

Prostate cancer is a very complex disease, and the decision-making process 
requires the clinician to balance clinical benefits, life expectancy, 
comorbidities and potential treatment-related side effects. Accurate prediction 
of clinical outcomes may help in the difficult process of making decisions 
related to prostate cancer. In this review, we discuss attributes of predictive 
tools and systematically review those available for prostate cancer. Types of 
tools include probability formulas, look-up and propensity scoring tables, 
risk-class stratification prediction tools, classification and regression tree 
analysis, nomograms and artificial neural networks. Criteria to evaluate tools 
include discrimination, calibration, generalizability, level of complexity, 
decision analysis and ability to account for competing risks and conditional 
probabilities. The available predictive tools and their features, with a focus 
on nomograms, are described. While some tools are well-calibrated, few have been 
externally validated or directly compared with other tools. In addition, the 
clinical consequences of applying predictive tools need thorough assessment. 
Nevertheless, predictive tools can facilitate medical decision-making by showing 
patients tailored predictions of their outcomes with various alternatives. 
Additionally, accurate tools may improve clinical trial design.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.09.121
PMCID: PMC2933457
PMID: 20001796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement MWK and PTS are 
co-inventors of several patents and patent applications (20070111269 Method to 
predict positive repeat prostate biopsy; 20050282199 Method to predict prostate 
cancer; 20030235816 Method to determine outcome for patients with prostatic 
disease). SFS is co-inventor of two patent applications (20030235816 Method to 
determine outcome for patients with prostatic disease; 20030054419 Method to 
determine prognosis after therapy for prostate cancer).


108. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Nov;1181:192-216. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04828.x.

7. Mortality after the Chernobyl catastrophe.

Yablokov AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky Prospect 33, Office 319, 119071 Moscow, 
Russia. Yablokov@ecopolicy.ru

A detailed study reveals that 3.8-4.0% of all deaths in the contaminated 
territories of Ukraine and Russia from 1990 to 2004 were caused by the Chernobyl 
catastrophe. The lack of evidence of increased mortality in other affected 
countries is not proof of the absence of effects from the radioactive fallout. 
Since 1990, mortality among liquidators has exceeded the mortality rate in 
corresponding population groups. From 112,000 to 125,000 liquidators died before 
2005--that is, some 15% of the 830,000 members of the Chernobyl cleanup teams. 
The calculations suggest that the Chernobyl catastrophe has already killed 
several hundred thousand human beings in a population of several hundred million 
that was unfortunate enough to live in territories affected by the fallout. The 
number of Chernobyl victims will continue to grow over many future generations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04828.x
PMID: 20002047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2009 Nov;1181:255-80. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04833.x.

10. Chernobyl's radioactive impact on fauna.

Yablokov AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Russian Academy of Sciences, Leninsky Prospect 33, Office 319, 119071 Moscow, 
Russia. Yablokov@ecopolicy.ru

The radioactive shock when the Chernobyl reactor exploded in 1986 combined with 
chronic low-dose contamination has resulted in morphologic, physiologic, and 
genetic disorders in every animal species that has been studied--mammals, birds, 
amphibians, fish, and invertebrates. These populations exhibit a wide variety of 
morphological deformities not found in other populations. Despite reports of a 
"healthy" environment in proximity to Chernobyl for rare species of birds and 
mammals, the presence of such wildlife is likely the result of immigration and 
not from locally sustained populations. Twenty-three years after the catastrophe 
levels of incorporated radionuclides remain dangerously high for mammals, birds, 
amphibians, and fish in some areas of Europe. Mutation rates in animal 
populations in contaminated territories are significantly higher and there is 
transgenerational genomic instability in animal populations, manifested in 
adverse cellular and systemic effects. Long-term observations of both wild and 
experimental animal populations in the heavily contaminated areas show 
significant increases in morbidity and mortality that bear a striking 
resemblance to changes in the health of humans--increased occurrence of tumor 
and immunodeficiencies, decreased life expectancy, early aging, changes in blood 
and the circulatory system, malformations, and other factors that compromise 
health.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.04833.x
PMID: 20002052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2010 Feb;8(2):92-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1610-0387.2009.07330.x.  Epub 2009 Dec 14.

Lipodystrophy - a sign for metabolic syndrome in patients of the HIV-HEART 
study.

[Article in English, German]

Potthoff A(1), Brockmeyer NH, Gelbrich G, Neuhaus K, Esser S, Reinsch N, Hower 
M, Mostardt S, Neumann A, Neumann T; Competence Center Cardiac Insufficiency and 
the Competence Network HIV/AIDS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy, Ruhr University Bochum, Germany. 
a.potthoff@klinikum-bochum.de

BACKGROUND: After the introduction of antiretroviral therapy, the life 
expectancy of HIV patients has increased to more than 30 years after initial 
diagnosis. Cardiovascular disease now is an important cause of death in 
HIV-infected patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the multicenter, prospective HIV-HEART study, 222 (38 
%) patients suffered from lipodystrophy. Women were more often affected than men 
(41.5 % vs. 25.3 %). Patients with lipodystrophy were on average 5 years older 
and had been infected longer (10.4 vs. 6.6 years) then patients without 
lipodystrophy.
RESULTS: Lipodystrophy in HIV patients was a clinical sign of cardiovascular 
risk factors like hyperlipidemia (total cholesterol 19 mg/dl higher, HDL 2.8 
mg/dl lower, triglycerides 53 mg/dl higher) and type 2 diabetes (11.3 % vs. 2.8 
%). Patients with lipodystrophy were more likely to be co-infected with 
hepatitis B (34.7 % vs. 28.8 %, p = 0.122) or C (13.1 % vs. 9.3 %, p = 0.16) 
than patients without lipodystrophy. The quality of life was reduced in patients 
with lipodystrophy. In 6 of 8 scales of the SF-36 questionnaire, patients with 
lipodystrophy had lower scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Lipodystrophy syndrome is an early warning system for a number of 
illnesses which reduce life expectancy. Dermatologists must help insure that 
HIV-infected patients receive treatment for these disorders.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1610-0387.2009.07330.x
PMID: 20002869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Gastrointest Endosc. 2010 Mar;71(3):490-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2009.09.042.
Epub  2009 Dec 8.

Surgical gastrojejunostomy or endoscopic stent placement for the palliation of 
malignant gastric outlet obstruction (SUSTENT study): a multicenter randomized 
trial.

Jeurnink SM(1), Steyerberg EW, van Hooft JE, van Eijck CH, Schwartz MP, Vleggaar 
FP, Kuipers EJ, Siersema PD; Dutch SUSTENT Study Group.

Collaborators: Jeurnink SM, Kuipers EJ, Siersema PD, Steyerberg EW, Polinder S, 
Borsboom G, van Eijck CH, van Hooft JE, Fockens P, Gouma DJ, Schwartz MP, 
Vermeijden JR, van Ooijen B, Siersema PD, Vleggaar FP, Borel Rinkes IH, Grubben 
M, van Laarhoven CH, Peters FT, Porte RJ, Plukker JT, van Spreeuwel JP, 
Jakimowicz JJ, Boot H, Cats A, van Coevorden FV, van Hooft JE, Klaase JM, van 
der Waaij LA, Baas P, van der Schaar P, Sosef MN, Timmer R, van Ramshorts B, 
Nicolai JJ, Houben MH, Steup WH, Pahlplatz PV, Brouwers MA, Meijssen MA, 
Marinelli A, van der Linde K, Manusama E, ter Borg F, Eeftinck Schattenkerk M, 
Witteman B, Kruyt F, ten Hove R, Schmitz RF, Lesterhuis W, Oostenbroek R, 
Veenendaal R, Hartgrink HH, Tollenaar RA, Wahab P, Spillenaar Bilgen EJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC-University Medical 
Center Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Both gastrojejunostomy (GJJ) and stent placement are commonly used 
palliative treatments of obstructive symptoms caused by malignant gastric outlet 
obstruction (GOO).
OBJECTIVE: Compare GJJ and stent placement.
DESIGN: Multicenter, randomized trial.
SETTING: Twenty-one centers in The Netherlands.
PATIENTS: Patients with GOO.
INTERVENTIONS: GJJ and stent placement.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Outcomes were medical effects, quality of life, and 
costs. Analysis was by intent to treat.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients were randomized to GJJ and 21 to stent placement. 
Food intake improved more rapidly after stent placement than after GJJ (GOO 
Scoring System score > or = 2: median 5 vs 8 days, respectively; P < .01) but 
long-term relief was better after GJJ, with more patients living more days with 
a GOO Scoring System score of 2 or more than after stent placement (72 vs 50 
days, respectively; P = .05). More major complications (stent: 6 in 4 patients 
vs GJJ: 0; P = .02), recurrent obstructive symptoms (stent: 8 in 5 patients vs 
GJJ: 1 in 1 patient; P = .02), and reinterventions (stent: 10 in 7 patients vs 
GJJ: 2 in 2 patients; P < .01) were observed after stent placement compared with 
GJJ. When stent obstruction was not regarded as a major complication, no 
differences in complications were found (P = .4). There were also no differences 
in median survival (stent: 56 days vs GJJ: 78 days) and quality of life. Mean 
total costs of GJJ were higher compared with stent placement ($16,535 vs 
$11,720, respectively; P = .049 [comparing medians]). Because of the small study 
population, only initial hospital costs would have been statistically 
significant if the Bonferroni correction for multiple testing had been applied.
LIMITATIONS: Relatively small patient population.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite slow initial symptom improvement, GJJ was associated with 
better long-term results and is therefore the treatment of choice in patients 
with a life expectancy of 2 months or longer. Because stent placement was 
associated with better short-term outcomes, this treatment is preferable for 
patients expected to live less than 2 months. (
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN 06702358.).

2010 American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy. Published by Mosby, Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2009.09.042
PMID: 20003966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. J Health Econ. 2010 Mar;29(2):325-8; author reply 329-31. doi: 
10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.11.001. Epub 2009 Nov 11.

The additive utility assumption of the QALY model revisited.

Gandjour A(1), Gafni A.

Author information:
(1)James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy, Rice University, Houston, 
USA. afschin.gandjour@pbrc.edu

Comment on
    J Health Econ. 2008 Sep;27(5):1237-49.

Quality-adjusted life years are valid representations of the preferences of 
individuals for health outcomes only under a set of restrictive assumptions. One 
of the key assumptions is additive utility independence (AUI). Recently, 
Bleichrodt and Filko [Bleichrodt and Filko, 2008. Journal of Health Economics 27 
(5), 1237-1249] presented a new test for AUI, the test for generalized 
marginality (GM). Based on a student survey showing that violations observed at 
an individual level cancel out at the group level they concluded that use of the 
QALY model for economic evaluations in health care is supported. In this comment 
we argue that this conclusion is not warranted for 2 independent reasons: (i) 
the GM test is not sufficient to claim AUI both at an individual and group 
(i.e., aggregated) level and (ii) the student survey is not appropriate to make 
generalized statements about preferences at the population level.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.11.001
PMID: 20004033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Apr;1804(4):768-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.11.024. Epub 2009 Dec 11.

Cross-linking with bifunctional reagents and its application to the study of the 
molecular symmetry and the arrangement of subunits in hexameric protein 
oligomers.

Azem A(1), Tsfadia Y, Hajouj O, Shaked I, Daniel E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Tel-Aviv 
University, Tel-Aviv 69978, Israel.

Cross-linking with a bifunctional reagent and subsequent SDS gel electrophoresis 
is a simple but effective method to study the symmetry and arrangement of 
subunits in oligomeric proteins. In this study, theoretical expressions for the 
description of cross-linking patterns were derived for protein homohexamers 
through extension of the method used for tetramers by Hajdu et al. (1976). The 
derived equations were used for the analysis of cross-linking by 
glutardialdehyde of four protein hexamers: beef liver glutamate dehydrogenase 
(GDH), jack bean urease, hemocyanin from the spiny lobster Panulirus pencillatus 
(PpHc), Escherichia coli glutamate decarboxylase (GDC) and for analysis of 
published data on the cross-linking of hexameric E. coli rho by dimethyl 
suberimidate. Best fit models showed that the subunits in the first four 
proteins are arranged according to D(3) symmetry in two layers, each subunit 
able to cross-link to three neighboring subunits for GDH and urease, or to four 
for PpHc and GDC. The findings indicate a dimer-of-trimers eclipsed arrangement 
of subunits for GDH and urease and a trimer-of-dimers staggered one for PpHc and 
GDC. In rho, the subunits are arranged according to D(3) symmetry in a 
trimer-of-dimers ring. The conclusions from cross-linking of GDH and GDC, PpHc 
and rho are consistent with results from X-ray crystal structure, those for 
urease with findings from electron microscopy.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2009.11.024
PMID: 20005307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Transplant Proc. 2009 Dec;41(10):4197-201. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.08.082.

Renal cell carcinoma of native kidney after renal transplantation: clinical 
relevance of early detection.

Filocamo MT(1), Zanazzi M, Li Marzi V, Guidoni L, Villari D, Dattolo E, Nicita 
G.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Urologica II, University of Florence, Viale Pieraccini 18, 50139 
Florence, Italy. mariateresa.filocamo@unifi.it

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy after transplantation has improved, and cancer may 
soon be the leading cause of late death after transplantation. The guidelines of 
the American and European societies of nephrology and urology have not yet 
established the optimal frequency for screening for renal cell carcinoma (RCC) 
of native kidneys in patients who have undergone renal transplantation.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prevalence, prognosis, and risk factors of RCC in a 
series of patients followed up for 16 years in our transplantation unit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our study is a follow-up observational cohort study 
conducted in 694 consecutive renal transplant recipients admitted to our 
institution from July 1991 through July 2007. At our institution, ultrasound 
studies of the native kidneys were performed every 6 months after renal 
transplantation.
RESULTS: In the patient cohort studied, 10 patients developed a renal tumor 
(1.6% incidence). Three patients died of causes other than recurrence of RCC. 
Seven patients are alive with no evidence of RCC recurrence or metastatic 
disease after a mean (range) follow-up of 41 (12-96) months. Acquired cystic 
kidney disease and dialysis duration were positively associated with development 
of RCC.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of RCC in the literature varies between 0.3% and 
4.8%. The variability depends on the timing of follow-up, with a higher 
incidence in prospective studies with strict follow-up. We advise ultrasound 
studies performed by specialized physicians every 6 months after 
transplantation. More detailed guidelines designed by the major international 
transplantation societies are necessary.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.08.082
PMID: 20005368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Transplant Proc. 2009 Dec;41(10):4253-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.09.083.

Evaluation of Anti-HBs serum levels and pharmacokinetic profile after 
intravenous administration of Niuliva, a new hepatitis B immunoglobulin, 
following liver transplantation.

Mas A(1), Castells L, Abradelo M, Bernardos A, Páez A, Woodward MK, Sousa JM.

Author information:
(1)Servei d'Hepatologia, Hospital Clínic i Provincial de Barcelona, Villarroel 
170, E-08035 Barcelona, Spain. amas@clinic.ub.es

PURPOSE: We assessed whether trough anti-hepatitis B surface antigen (HBs) serum 
levels considered to be protective (>100 IU/L) were maintained in liver 
transplanted patients after 6 months of uninterrupted treatment with Niuliva, a 
new intravenous HBIg.
METHODS: Twenty patients, aged 18-70 years, who had undergone liver 
transplantation due to HBV-related liver disease at least 1 year before 
inclusion were enrolled in a prospective, open-label, uncontrolled, multicenter 
clinical study. A fixed monthly dose of 5,000 IU of study medication was 
administered intravenously for 6 months.
RESULTS: After the second infusion, all mean values of anti-HBs and 95% CIs were 
above the limit of 100 IU/L considered to be protective. The percentages of 
success ranged between 95% (95% CI 75.1%-99.9%) and 100% (95% CI 86.1%-100%). 
Mean values and 95% CI of in vivo recovery of anti-HBs at 15-30 minutes after 
each infusion showed overlaps between all intervals, which indicated that 
significant differences were not present in the recovery of post infusion 
anti-HBs in vivo. There were no recurrences of HBV infection during the study. 
There were no seroconversions in patients previously negative to hepatitis C 
virus or HIV. No serious adverse events related to the study medication were 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Serum levels of anti-HBs after using Niuliva in patients who had 
undergone liver transplantation were protective in 95%-100% of cases after the 
study period. This new HBIg showed the expected pharmacokinetic profile and was 
well tolerated and safe.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.09.083
PMID: 20005379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 Nov-Dec;51(3):260-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.11.013. Epub 2009 Dec 14.

Receptors and aging: dedicated to the memory of Paul Ehrlich for the 100th 
anniversary of his Nobel Prize.

Robert L(1), Labat-Robert J, Robert AM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de recherche ophtalmologique, Hôpital Hôtel Dieu, Université 
Paris 5, 1 place du Parvis, Notre Dame, 75181 Paris cedex 04, France. 
lrobert5@wanadoo.fr

The initiation and evolution of the receptor concept and its application in 
pharmacology can be traced back to Paul Ehrlich's original experiments. Since 
several decades the receptor concept is in the foreground of cell biology and 
pharmacology. We present here a short reminder of Ehrlich's concepts on receptor 
action, its evolution and modifications as a result of increasing life 
expectancy of human societies. Results obtained by several teams on the 
age-dependent modifications of receptor function are reviewed with special 
emphasis on the age-dependent loss of receptors and of uncoupling of receptors 
from their intracellular transmission pathway. As a special example we summarize 
our results on the elastin receptor and its age-dependent modifications. These 
modifications result in the loss of the physiologically helpful functions 
mediated by this receptor, such as vasodilation by coupling with the inducible 
nitric oxide synthase (iNOS)-inhibition of cellular cholesterol synthesis and 
modulation of free radical production by inhibition of the guanine nucleotide 
binding protein (Gi protein)-mediated transmission pathway. Only the harmful 
effects such as free radical release and up-regulation of elastase production 
remain in "old" cells. The age-dependent modifications of receptor function play 
an important role in the increasing frequency and severity of age-related 
diseases such as athero-arteriosclerosis and emphysema as well as the loss of 
hormone- and drug actions. These processes and their inhibition or correction 
represent a new challenge for cellular pharmacology.

Copyright © 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.11.013
PMID: 20005583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Dent. 2010 Mar;38(3):173-81. doi: 10.1016/j.jdent.2009.12.002. Epub 2010
Jan  6.

The influence of age on tooth supported fixed prosthetic restoration longevity. 
A systematic review.

Ioannidis G(1), Paschalidis T, Petridis HP, Anastassiadou V.

Author information:
(1)Kosma Etolou 11, Thessaloniki, Greece.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate the possible influence 
of age on the longevity of tooth supported fixed prosthetic restorations, using 
a systematic review process.
DATA SOURCES: To identify relevant papers an electronic search was made using 
various databases (MEDLINE via Pubmed, EMBASE, The Cochrane Register of RCTs, 
the database of abstracts of Reviews of Effects-DARE), augmented by hand 
searching of key prosthodontic journals (International Journal of 
Prosthodontics, Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry and Journal of Prosthodontics) 
and reference cross-check.
STUDY SELECTION: Assessment and selection of studies identified were conducted 
in a two phase procedure, by two independent reviewers utilizing specific 
inclusion and exclusion criteria. The minimum mean follow-up time was set at 5 
years.
RESULTS: The initial database search yielded 513 relevant titles. After the 
subsequent filtering process, 22 articles were selected for full-text analysis, 
finally resulting in 11 studies that met the inclusion criteria. All studies 
were classified as category C according to the strength of evidence. 
Meta-analysis was not possible due to the non-uniformity of the data available. 
The final studies were presented with conflicting results. The majority of the 
final studies did not report a statistically significant effect of age on fixed 
prostheses survival, whilst only one study reported poorer prognosis for elderly 
patients, and two studies reported poorer prognosis for middle-aged patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this systematic review showed that increased age of 
patients should not be considered as a risk factor for the survival of fixed 
prostheses. Although the majority of studies did not show any effect of age on 
the survival of fixed prostheses, there was some evidence that middle-aged 
patients may present with higher failure rates.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdent.2009.12.002
PMID: 20005915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Surg Oncol. 2010 Sep;19(3):117-23. doi: 10.1016/j.suronc.2009.11.008. Epub
2009  Dec 16.

Assessment and treatment of elderly patients with cancer.

Balducci L(1), Colloca G, Cesari M, Gambassi G.

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, 
MCC SA Program, Tampa, Florida, USA. Lodovico.Balducci@moffitt.org

In the US, the total projected cancer incidence will increase by 45% yearly from 
2010 to 2030. The majority of these neoplasms will affect the elderly. The 
National Institute on Aging has characterised the aging of our society as a 
"silver tsunami". Thus, the management of cancer in the older aged person 
represents a priority for health care delivery in the immediate future. Aging, 
age-related changes, frailty, prolongation of active life expectancy, prevention 
of Adverse Drugs Reactions (ADRs), Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment (CGA), and 
individualised treatment in the future will become the most widely used concepts 
in the management of cancer patients.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suronc.2009.11.008
PMID: 20006489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Biol Chem. 2010 Feb 5;285(6):4049-4059. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.059790. Epub
 2009 Dec 9.

Crystal structure of plant ferritin reveals a novel metal binding site that 
functions as a transit site for metal transfer in ferritin.

Masuda T(1), Goto F(2), Yoshihara T(2), Mikami B(3).

Author information:
(1)From the Laboratory of Food Quality Design and Development, Division of 
Agronomy and Horticultural Science, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto 
University, Gokasho, Uji, Kyoto 611-0011. Electronic address: 
masutaro@kais.kyoto-u.ac.jp.
(2)the Biotechnology Sector, Environmental Science Research Laboratory, Central 
Research Institute of Electric Power Industry, 1646 Abiko, Abiko, Chiba 
270-1194, Japan.
(3)the Laboratory of Applied Structural Biology, Division of Applied Life 
Sciences, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto University, Gokasho, Uji, Kyoto 
611-0011 and.

Ferritins are important iron storage and detoxification proteins that are widely 
distributed in living kingdoms. Because plant ferritin possesses both a 
ferroxidase site and a ferrihydrite nucleation site, it is a suitable model for 
studying the mechanism of iron storage in ferritin. This article presents for 
the first time the crystal structure of a plant ferritin from soybean at 1.8-A 
resolution. The soybean ferritin 4 (SFER4) had a high structural similarity to 
vertebrate ferritin, except for the N-terminal extension region, the C-terminal 
short helix E, and the end of the BC-loop. Similar to the crystal structures of 
other ferritins, metal binding sites were observed in the iron entry channel, 
ferroxidase center, and nucleation site of SFER4. In addition to these 
conventional sites, a novel metal binding site was discovered intermediate 
between the iron entry channel and the ferroxidase site. This site was 
coordinated by the acidic side chain of Glu(173) and carbonyl oxygen of 
Thr(168), which correspond, respectively, to Glu(140) and Thr(135) of human H 
chain ferritin according to their sequences. A comparison of the ferroxidase 
activities of the native and the E173A mutant of SFER4 clearly showed a delay in 
the iron oxidation rate of the mutant. This indicated that the glutamate residue 
functions as a transit site of iron from the 3-fold entry channel to the 
ferroxidase site, which may be universal among ferritins.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.059790
PMCID: PMC2823546
PMID: 20007325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Endocr Rev. 2010 Apr;31(2):194-223. doi: 10.1210/er.2009-0026. Epub 2009 Dec
9.

The secret life of NAD+: an old metabolite controlling new metabolic signaling 
pathways.

Houtkooper RH(1), Cantó C, Wanders RJ, Auwerx J.

Author information:
(1)Ecole Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne, Laboratory for Integrative and 
Systems Physiology, Building AI, Station 15, CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

A century after the identification of a coenzymatic activity for NAD(+), NAD(+) 
metabolism has come into the spotlight again due to the potential therapeutic 
relevance of a set of enzymes whose activity is tightly regulated by the balance 
between the oxidized and reduced forms of this metabolite. In fact, the actions 
of NAD(+) have been extended from being an oxidoreductase cofactor for single 
enzymatic activities to acting as substrate for a wide range of proteins. These 
include NAD(+)-dependent protein deacetylases, poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases, and 
transcription factors that affect a large array of cellular functions. Through 
these effects, NAD(+) provides a direct link between the cellular redox status 
and the control of signaling and transcriptional events. Of particular interest 
within the metabolic/endocrine arena are the recent results, which indicate that 
the regulation of these NAD(+)-dependent pathways may have a major contribution 
to oxidative metabolism and life span extension. In this review, we will provide 
an integrated view on: 1) the pathways that control NAD(+) production and 
cycling, as well as its cellular compartmentalization; 2) the signaling and 
transcriptional pathways controlled by NAD(+); and 3) novel data that show how 
modulation of NAD(+)-producing and -consuming pathways have a major 
physiological impact and hold promise for the prevention and treatment of 
metabolic disease.

DOI: 10.1210/er.2009-0026
PMCID: PMC2852209
PMID: 20007326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Nucleic Acids Res. 2010 Mar;38(5):1652-63. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkp1142. Epub
2009  Dec 10.

Insights into the structure, function and evolution of the radical-SAM 23S rRNA 
methyltransferase Cfr that confers antibiotic resistance in bacteria.

Kaminska KH(1), Purta E, Hansen LH, Bujnicki JM, Vester B, Long KS.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Bioinformatics and Protein Engineering, International Institute 
of Molecular and Cell Biology, Trojdena 4, 02-109 Warsaw, Poland.

The Cfr methyltransferase confers combined resistance to five classes of 
antibiotics that bind to the peptidyl tranferase center of bacterial ribosomes 
by catalyzing methylation of the C-8 position of 23S rRNA nucleotide A2503. The 
same nucleotide is targeted by the housekeeping methyltransferase RlmN that 
methylates the C-2 position. Database searches with the Cfr sequence have 
revealed a large group of closely related sequences from all domains of life 
that contain the conserved CX(3)CX(2)C motif characteristic of radical 
S-adenosyl-l-methionine (SAM) enzymes. Phylogenetic analysis of the Cfr/RlmN 
family suggests that the RlmN subfamily is likely the ancestral form, whereas 
the Cfr subfamily arose via duplication and horizontal gene transfer. A 
structural model of Cfr has been calculated and used as a guide for alanine 
mutagenesis studies that corroborate the model-based predictions of a 4Fe-4S 
cluster, a SAM molecule coordinated to the iron-sulfur cluster (SAM1) and a SAM 
molecule that is the putative methyl group donor (SAM2). All mutations at 
predicted functional sites affect Cfr activity significantly as assayed by 
antibiotic susceptibility testing and primer extension analysis. The 
investigation has identified essential amino acids and Cfr variants with altered 
reaction mechanisms and represents a first step towards understanding the 
structural basis of Cfr activity.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkp1142
PMCID: PMC2836569
PMID: 20007606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Philos Trans R Soc Lond B Biol Sci. 2010 Jan 12;365(1537):147-54. doi: 
10.1098/rstb.2009.0222.

The new biology of ageing.

Partridge L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing and GEE, UCL, London, UK. l.partridge@ucl.ac.uk

Human life expectancy in developed countries has increased steadily for over 150 
years, through improvements in public health and lifestyle. More people are 
hence living long enough to suffer age-related loss of function and disease, and 
there is a need to improve the health of older people. Ageing is a complex 
process of damage accumulation, and has been viewed as experimentally and 
medically intractable. This view has been reinforced by the realization that 
ageing is a disadvantageous trait that evolves as a side effect of mutation 
accumulation or a benefit to the young, because of the decline in the force of 
natural selection at later ages. However, important recent discoveries are that 
mutations in single genes can extend lifespan of laboratory model organisms and 
that the mechanisms involved are conserved across large evolutionary distances, 
including to mammals. These mutations keep the animals functional and 
pathology-free to later ages, and they can protect against specific 
ageing-related diseases, including neurodegenerative disease and cancer. 
Preliminary indications suggest that these new findings from the laboratory may 
well also apply to humans. Translating these discoveries into medical treatments 
poses new challenges, including changing clinical thinking towards 
broad-spectrum, preventative medicine and finding novel routes to drug 
development.

DOI: 10.1098/rstb.2009.0222
PMCID: PMC2842712
PMID: 20008392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Can Fam Physician. 2009 Dec;55(12):1182.

Belling the cat.

Weir JE.

Comment on
    Can Fam Physician. 2009 Oct;55(10):979.

PMCID: PMC2793217
PMID: 20008592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Arch Intern Med. 2009 Dec 14;169(22):2096-101. doi: 
10.1001/archinternmed.2009.414.

Combined effects of cardiorespiratory fitness, not smoking, and normal waist 
girth on morbidity and mortality in men.

Lee CD(1), Sui X, Blair SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise and Wellness, Arizona State University, Mesa, 85212, 
USA. Chong.Lee@asu.edu

Comment in
    Arch Intern Med. 2009 Dec 14;169(22):2124-7.

BACKGROUND: Physical inactivity, cigarette smoking, and abdominal obesity are 
key modifiable risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD). We investigated 
the combined effects of not having these risk factors on CHD events and 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and all-cause mortality in men.
METHODS: We followed up 23 657 men, aged 30 to 79 years, who completed a medical 
evaluation including a maximal treadmill exercise test and self-reported health 
habits. A low-risk profile was defined as not smoking, moderate or high fitness, 
and normal waist girth. There were 482 CHD events (nonfatal myocardial 
infarction or fatal CHD) and 1034 deaths (306 CVD, 387 cancers, and 341 others) 
during a mean 14.7 years of follow-up (348 811 man-years).
RESULTS: After adjustment for age, examination year, and multiple baseline risk 
factors, there was an inverse association between a greater number of low-risk 
factors and CHD events, and CVD and all-cause mortality in men (P value for 
