778. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2010 Jun;45(6):1014-21. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2009.305.
Epub  2009 Oct 26.

Autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for secondary progressive 
multiple sclerosis: an exploratory cost-effectiveness analysis.

Tappenden P(1), Saccardi R, Confavreux C, Sharrack B, Muraro PA, Mancardi GL, 
Kozak T, Farge-Bancel D, Madan J, Rafia R, Akehurst R, Snowden J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science (HEDS), School of Health and Related 
Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. 
p.tappenden@sheffield.ac.uk

Treatment options for secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (SPMS) are 
limited. Mitoxantrone is routinely used to stabilize disease progression; 
however, evolving evidence suggests clinical benefit from intensive treatment 
with autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Given 
differences in cost and outcomes, preliminary cost-effectiveness studies are 
warranted if this approach is to be developed for more widespread application in 
SPMS. We developed a decision-analytic Markov model to explore the potential 
cost-effectiveness of autologous HSCT versus mitoxantrone in SPMS, using 
patient-level data from registry sources. The model evaluates the lifetime costs 
and health outcomes associated with disability progression and relapse. 
Sensitivity analyses were undertaken to examine the uncertainty surrounding 
cost-effectiveness outcomes. In the absence of randomised controlled trial (RCT) 
evidence, conditions for comparative analysis were not ideal. Under optimistic 
assumptions, HSCT is estimated to cost below pound3000 per quality adjusted life 
year gained. However, when a strict 6-month sustained progression rule is 
adopted, HSCT may be less effective and more expensive than mitoxantrone. The 
model results were sensitive to reducing procedural costs and HSCT-related 
mortality. We conclude that HSCT could potentially achieve an acceptable level 
of cost-effectiveness. However, caution should be exercised as large, 
high-quality RCTs comparing HSCT versus mitoxantrone are necessary to validate 
these findings.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2009.305
PMID: 19855441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Oncology (Williston Park). 2009 Feb;23(2 Suppl Nurse Ed):40-50.

Social well-being and cancer survivorship.

Hara R(1), Blum D.

Author information:
(1)CancerCare, New York, New York, USA.

Comment in
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2009 Feb;23(2 Suppl Nurse Ed):51.

There are more than 11 million cancer survivors in the US today. While awareness 
is growing of physical and psychological effects of cancer and its treatment, 
the social impact of cancer is underappreciated. This article discusses the 
significant changes in interpersonal relationships that cancer survivors can 
experience, as well as financial, employment, insurance, and legal issues. Case 
examples are provided to put these challenges in the context of survivors' life 
stage and resources. Possible interventions to address the social well being of 
cancer survivors are suggested, and the implications for developing programs 
that help survivors to face psychosocial challenges are explored.

PMID: 19856588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Wiad Parazytol. 2009;55(3):195-200.

[Visceral leishmaniasis as a threat for non-endemic countries].

[Article in Polish]

Górski S(1), Wiercińska-Drapało A.

Author information:
(1)Szpitalny Oddział Ratunkowy, Szpital św. Anny w Miechowie, ul. Szpitalna 3, 
32-200 Miechów. kaspian10@yahoo.com

Global warming, globalisation, and constantly increasing number of people 
involved in long-distance tourism and travel to exotic destinations are likely 
to increase the number of cases of exotic diseases "imported" to nonendemic 
countries. One of the often forgotten and neglected diseases has been visceral 
leishmaniasis (VL or kala-azar). The disease is endemic to 62 countries, with 
India and Sudan accounting for the majority of the cases. It is typically fatal 
if left untreated. Each year about 500 000 new cases are reported worldwide, and 
50 000 die as a result of the disease. Kala-azar is present in the Mediterranean 
Europe and 70% of cases are imported to non-endemic countries of European Union 
from that area. Immunocompromised status of patients, like HIV carriers are the 
principal prospective target for kala-azar. HIV/VL-coinfected patients have 
significantly higher relapse rates and decreased life expectancy. There is no 
formal system of reporting imported cases in Europe, except from Germany. In 
non-endemic countries, including Poland, there is usually the substantial delay 
between the onset of symptoms and the final diagnosis, with an average exceeding 
3 months. This fact suggests that physicians are not familiar with leishmania 
infections. Despite progress in vaccine development, the only way to prevent the 
infection is avoiding sandfly bites. Mosquito nets, wearing appropriate clothes 
and repellents containing DEET (diethyl toluamide) can reduce number of bites 
and protect also from the other vector-borne diseases like malaria or dengue. 
Education concerning kala-azar risk and ways of the disease prevention is a 
needed for tourists and the other travelers.

PMID: 19856834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn. 2009 Nov;35(6):1586-93. doi: 10.1037/a0017256.

Anticipated reward enhances offline learning during sleep.

Fischer S(1), Born J.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Psychiatry, Innsbruck Medical University, Innsbruck, 
Austria. stefan.fischer@i-med.ac.at

Sleep is known to promote the consolidation of motor memories. In everyday life, 
typically more than 1 isolated motor skill is acquired at a time, and this 
possibly gives rise to interference during consolidation. Here, it is shown that 
reward expectancy determines the amount of sleep-dependent memory consolidation. 
Subjects were trained on 2 different sequences of a finger sequence motor task 
before 12-hr retention intervals of either nocturnal sleep or daytime 
wakefulness. After training was finished, reward expectancy was varied by 
announcing a monetary reward for performance improvement at retesting on either 
the first- or second-trained sequence. Before the retest, however, subjects were 
informed that reward would depend not on only 1 sequence but on the average 
performance for both sequences. Posttraining sleep enhanced overall finger 
sequence performance. The sleep-dependent gain in skill was significantly 
greater for the sequence that was associated with monetary reward after 
training, regardless of whether this sequence was the first or second to be 
trained. After wake retention intervals, no or only minor performance gains were 
observed. The data show that expectancy for a reward enhances offline learning 
of a skill during sleep.

DOI: 10.1037/a0017256
PMID: 19857029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2009 Oct;18(10):1669-77. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2008.1246.

Cost-effectiveness of hormone therapy in the United States.

Lekander I(1), Borgström F, Ström O, Zethraeus N, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. ingrid.lekander@i3innovus.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of 5 years of treatment with 
hormone therapy (HT) compared with no treatment for women with menopausal 
symptoms in the United States.
METHODS: A Markov cohort simulation model was used with tunnel techniques to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of HT in women aged 50 years, based on a societal 
perspective. Clinical data, where possible, used results taken from the Women 
Health Initiative (WHI). The model had a lifetime horizon with cycle lengths of 
1 year and contained the following disease states: hip fracture, vertebral 
fracture, wrist fracture, breast cancer, colorectal cancer, coronary heart 
disease, stroke, and venous thromboembolic events. An intervention was modelled 
by its impact on the disease risks during and after stopping treatment. The 
model required data on clinical effects, risks, mortality rates, quality of life 
weights, and costs. The main outcome of the model was cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained on HT compared with no treatment.
RESULTS: The results indicated that it was cost-effective to treat women with 
menopausal symptoms with HT in the United States. The severity of menopausal 
symptoms was the single most important determinant of cost-effectiveness, but HT 
remained cost-effective even where symptoms were mild or effects on symptom 
relief were small.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of women with menopausal symptoms with HT is 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2008.1246
PMID: 19857096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2009;153:B383.

[Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm; effectivity and cost-effectiveness].

[Article in Dutch]

van Gils PF(1), de Wit GA, Schuit AJ, van den Berg M.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. 
paul.van.gils@rivm.nl

OBJECTIVE: To review the current literature concerning the effectivity and 
cost-effectiveness of screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA).
DESIGN: Systematic review.
METHOD: A review of literature of evaluations of effectivity via meta-analyses 
and economic evaluations.
RESULTS: The short-term meta-analyses showed that screening for AAA leads to a 
significant reduction of AAA-related mortality. The average absolute risk 
reduction (ARR) was 0.12%. The long-term meta-analysis also showed a significant 
reduction of overall mortality. The ARR was in this case almost 1%. The five 
economic evaluations all resulted in cost-effectiveness ratios below euro 20,000 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY), a used threshold level in the 
Netherlands.
CONCLUSION: Based on the available literature, screening for AAA has appeared to 
be both effective and cost-effective. However, the economic evaluations did not 
always take into account the peri- and post-operative mortality and morbidity. 
Economic evaluations are only useful if all possible outcomes are included in 
the model. Therefore a good model analysis should be made for the Dutch 
situation, after which a decision may be taken on a possible pilot study and the 
optimal design thereof.

PMID: 19857301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Transplant Proc. 2009 Oct;41(8):3301-4. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.08.039.

Kidney transplantation in HIV-positive patients: report of our first 7 cases.

Billault C(1), Duvivier C, Valantin MA, Arzouk N, Mercadal L, Ourahma S, Fehri 
K, Van Glabeke E, Vaessen C, Barrou B.

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie et de Transplantation Rénale, Hôpital de la Pitié 
Salpêtrière, 75013 Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: Infection with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is associated 
with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Although many teams initially were 
reluctant to offer kidney transplantation as a therapeutic option in 
HIV-positive patients with ESRD, new drug regimens introduced in the late 1990s 
have dramatically improved the life expectancy in these patients.
OBJECTIVE: To report the results of the first 7 kidney transplantation 
procedures in HIV-positive patients at our institution.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients were selected to minimize the risks of HIV 
disease progression, opportunistic infections, and tumors. Protease-inhibitor 
therapies were suspended because of possible interaction with immunosuppression 
drugs. The induction regimen did not include lymphocyte-depleting drugs. After 
undergoing transplantation, patients were monitored by the transplantation and 
infectious disease teams.
RESULTS: To date, all patients are alive with functioning grafts. We did not 
observe any episodes of acute rejection, and there were few adverse events. Drug 
tolerance was good for both immunosuppression and antiretroviral therapies.
CONCLUSION: Kidney transplantation in HIV-positive patients with ESRD is 
warranted. Provided that patients are carefully selected, good results can be 
achieved with few adverse events, episodes of acute rejection, and drug 
interactions. Posttransplantation, these patients must be closely monitored by 
both the transplantation and infectious diseases teams to ensure optimal 
management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.08.039
PMID: 19857735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Waste Manag. 2010 Mar;30(3):483-91. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2009.09.024. Epub
2009  Oct 25.

Estimation of future outflows of e-waste in India.

Dwivedy M(1), Mittal RK.

Author information:
(1)Mechanical Engineering Group, BITS-Pilani, Pilani, Rajasthan 333 031, India. 
dwivedy_m@bits-pilani.ac.in

The purpose of this study is to construct an approach and a methodology to 
estimate the future outflows of electronic waste (e-waste) in India. 
Consequently, the study utilizes a time-series multiple lifespan end-of-life 
model proposed by Peralta and Fontanos for estimating the current and future 
quantities of e-waste in India. The model estimates future e-waste generation 
quantities by modeling their usage and disposal. The present work considers two 
scenarios for the approximation of e-waste generation based on user preferences 
to store or to recycle the e-waste. This model will help formal recyclers in 
India to make strategic decisions in planning for appropriate recycling 
infrastructure and institutional capacity building. Also an extension of the 
model proposed by Peralta and Fontanos is developed with the objective of 
helping decision makers to conduct WEEE estimates under a variety of assumptions 
to suit their region of study. During 2007-2011, the total WEEE estimates will 
be around 2.5 million metric tons which include waste from personal computers 
(PC), television, refrigerators and washing machines. During the said period, 
the waste from PC will account for 30% of total units of WEEE generated.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2009.09.024
PMID: 19857950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Eur J Public Health. 2009 Dec;19(6):567. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp151. Epub
2009  Oct 25.

Prevention and social constructivism.

Vlassov VV.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckp151
PMID: 19858090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Med Decis Making. 2010 May-Jun;30(3):341-54. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09349961.
Epub  2009 Oct 26.

Mapping the modified Rankin scale (mRS) measurement into the generic EuroQol 
(EQ-5D) health outcome.

Rivero-Arias O(1), Ouellet M, Gray A, Wolstenholme J, Rothwell PM, 
Luengo-Fernandez R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Department of Public Health, University of 
Oxford, UK. oliver.rivero@dphpc.ox.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Mapping disease-specific instruments into generic health outcomes or 
utility values is an expanding field of interest in health economics. This 
article constructs an algorithm to translate the modified Rankin scale (mRS) 
into EQ-5D utility values.
METHODS: mRS and EQ-5D information was derived from stroke or transient ischemic 
attack (TIA) patients identified as part of the Oxford Vascular study (OXVASC). 
Ordinary least squares (OLS) regression was used to predict UK EQ-5D tariffs 
from mRS scores. An alternative method, using multinomial logistic regression 
with a Monte Carlo simulation approach (MLogit) to predict responses to each 
EQ-5D question, was also explored. The performance of the models was compared 
according to the magnitude of their predicted-to-actual mean EQ-5D tariff 
difference, their mean absolute and mean squared errors (MAE and MSE), and 
associated 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Out-of-sample validation was carried 
out in a subset of coronary disease and peripheral vascular disease (PVD) 
patients also identified as part of OXVASC but not used in the original 
estimation.
RESULTS: The OLS and MLogit yielded similar MAE and MSE in the internal and 
external validation data sets. Both approaches also underestimated the 
uncertainty around the actual mean EQ-5D tariff producing tighter 95% CIs in 
both data sets.
CONCLUSIONS: The choice of algorithm will be dependent on the study aim. 
Individuals outside the United Kingdom may find it more useful to use the 
multinomial results, which can be used with different country-specific tariff 
valuations. However, these algorithms should not replace prospective collection 
of utility data.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09349961
PMID: 19858500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. BMJ. 2009 Oct 26;339:b4036. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b4036.

Mortality among residents of shelters, rooming houses, and hotels in Canada: 11 
year follow-up study.

Hwang SW(1), Wilkins R, Tjepkema M, O'Campo PJ, Dunn JR.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research on Inner City Health, Keenan Research Centre, Li Ka Shing 
Knowledge Institute, St Michael's Hospital, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
hwangs@smh.toronto.on.ca

OBJECTIVE: To examine mortality in a representative nationwide sample of 
homeless and marginally housed people living in shelters, rooming houses, and 
hotels.
DESIGN: Follow-up study.
SETTING: Canada 1991-2001.
PARTICIPANTS: 15 100 homeless and marginally housed people enumerated in 1991 
census.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Age specific and age standardised mortality rates, 
remaining life expectancies at age 25, and probabilities of survival from age 25 
to 75. Data were compared with data from the poorest and richest income fifths 
as well as with data for the entire cohort
RESULTS: Of the homeless and marginally housed people, 3280 died. Mortality 
rates among these people were substantially higher than rates in the poorest 
income fifth, with the highest rate ratios seen at younger ages. Among those who 
were homeless or marginally housed, the probability of survival to age 75 was 
32% (95% confidence interval 30% to 34%) in men and 60% (56% to 63%) in women. 
Remaining life expectancy at age 25 was 42 years (42 to 43) and 52 years (50 to 
53), respectively. Compared with the entire cohort, mortality rate ratios for 
men and women, respectively, were 11.5 (8.8 to 15.0) and 9.2 (5.5 to 15.2) for 
drug related deaths, 6.4 (5.3 to 7.7) and 8.2 (5.0 to 13.4) for alcohol related 
deaths, 4.8 (3.9 to 5.9) and 3.8 (2.7 to 5.4) for mental disorders, and 2.3 (1.8 
to 3.1) and 5.6 (3.2 to 9.6) for suicide. For both sexes, the largest 
differences in mortality rates were for smoking related diseases, ischaemic 
heart disease, and respiratory diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Living in shelters, rooming houses, and hotels is associated with 
much higher mortality than expected on the basis of low income alone. Reducing 
the excessively high rates of premature mortality in this population would 
require interventions to address deaths related to smoking, alcohol, and drugs, 
and mental disorders and suicide, among other causes.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b4036
PMCID: PMC2767481
PMID: 19858533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


789. Nestle Nutr Workshop Ser Clin Perform Programme. 2009;12:95-104. doi: 
10.1159/000235671. Epub 2009 Aug 20.

Cost-effectiveness analysis and health policy.

Torgerson DJ.

Economists have devised three main techniques to evaluate healthcare treatments: 
cost-benefit analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis and cost-utility analysis. 
Many countries have established regulatory authorities to examine the clinical 
safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of a product. Currently, economic 
evaluations play a limited role in decision-making but may increase in 
importance as healthcare costs continue to rise.

Copyright (c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000235671
PMID: 19858689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Am J Clin Oncol. 2010 Aug;33(4):420-3. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3181aacbbf.

Diagnosis and treatment of malignant pleural effusion: a systematic literature 
review and new approaches.

Lombardi G(1), Zustovich F, Nicoletto MO, Donach M, Artioli G, Pastorelli D.

Author information:
(1)Istituto Oncologico Veneto, IRCCS, Padova, Italy. bepigiuseppe@yahoo.it

Malignant pleural effusion is a frequent complication in many types of tumors, 
and its presence indicates short expected survival. This review updates the 
current knowledge about diagnosis and management of malignant pleural effusion. 
In recent years, progress has been made in diagnosis through the use of new 
pathologic and radiologic approaches, such as the introduction of positron 
emission tomography-computed tomography, immunohistochemical marker 
combinations, and genetic studies to identify malignant cells. Treatment is 
always palliative. New promising drugs have been tested, but, awaiting 
randomized studies, talc pleurodesis is still the treatment of choice, although 
doubts remain about its safety. A long-term indwelling pleural catheter could be 
a valid alternative to talc pleurodesis in selected patients with trapped lung 
syndrome (a lung that fails to reexpand after drainage of pleural effusion) and 
short life expectancy. However, the correct treatment depends on several factors 
such as performance status, expected survival, presence of lung reexpansion 
following pleural drainage and comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3181aacbbf
PMID: 19858695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. PLoS Med. 2009 Oct;6(10):e1000173. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000173. Epub
2009  Oct 27.

Cost-effectiveness of preventing loss to follow-up in HIV treatment programs: a 
Côte d'Ivoire appraisal.

Losina E(1), Touré H, Uhler LM, Anglaret X, Paltiel AD, Balestre E, Walensky RP, 
Messou E, Weinstein MC, Dabis F, Freedberg KA; ART-LINC Collaboration of 
International Epidemiological Databases to Evaluate AIDS (IeDEA); CEPAC 
International investigators.

Collaborators: Balestre E, Brinkhof M, Graber C, Keiser O, Seyler C, Touré H, 
Lewden C, Anastos K, Bangsberg D, Boulle A, Chisanga J, Delaporte E, Dickinson 
D, Ekong E, El Filali KM, Hosseinipour M, Kimaiyo S, Khongphatthanayothin M, 
Kumarasamy N, Laurent C, Luthy R, McIntyre J, Meade T, Messou E, Nash D, Mokaya 
WN, Pascoe M, Pepper L, Sow PS, Phiri S, Schechter M, Sidle J, Sprinz E, 
Tonwe-Gold B, Touré S, Van der Borght S, Weigel R, Wood R, Achmat Z, Bailey C, 
de Cock K, El-Sadr W, Freedberg K, Gayle H, Gilks C, Hankins C, Harries T, 
Katabira E, Sterne J, Wainberg M, Bender M, Chiosi J, Chu J, Chung S, Ciaranello 
A, Fofana MO, Freedberg KA, Hsu HE, Lu Z, Morris B, Morris B, Rhode E, Sloan C, 
Scott CA, Uhler L, Walensky RP, Losina E, Cotich K, Goldie SJ, Kimmel AD, 
Lipsitch M, Rydzak C, Seage GR 3rd, Weinstein MC, Yazdanpanah Y, Anglaret X, 
Salamon R, Danel C, N'Dri-Yoman T, Messou E, Moh R, Ouattara E, Touré S, Seyler 
C, Kumarasamy N, Ganesh AK, Wood R, Gray G, McIntyre J, Martinson NA, Mohapi L, 
Flanigan T, Mayer K, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2009 Oct;6(10):e1000174.

BACKGROUND: Data from HIV treatment programs in resource-limited settings show 
extensive rates of loss to follow-up (LTFU) ranging from 5% to 40% within 6 mo 
of antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation. Our objective was to project the 
clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of interventions to prevent LTFU from HIV 
care in West Africa.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used the Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS 
Complications (CEPAC) International model to project the clinical benefits and 
cost-effectiveness of LTFU-prevention programs from a payer perspective. These 
programs include components such as eliminating ART co-payments, eliminating 
charges to patients for opportunistic infection-related drugs, improving 
personnel training, and providing meals and reimbursing for transportation for 
participants. The efficacies and costs of these interventions were extensively 
varied in sensitivity analyses. We used World Health Organization criteria of 
<3x gross domestic product per capita (3x GDP per capita = US$2,823 for Côte 
d'Ivoire) as a plausible threshold for "cost-effectiveness." The main results 
are based on a reported 18% 1-y LTFU rate. With full retention in care, 
projected per-person discounted life expectancy starting from age 37 y was 144.7 
mo (12.1 y). Survival losses from LTFU within 1 y of ART initiation ranged from 
73.9 to 80.7 mo. The intervention costing US$22/person/year (e.g., eliminating 
ART co-payment) would be cost-effective with an efficacy of at least 12%. An 
intervention costing US$77/person/year (inclusive of all the components 
described above) would be cost-effective with an efficacy of at least 41%.
CONCLUSIONS: Interventions that prevent LTFU in resource-limited settings would 
substantially improve survival and would be cost-effective by international 
criteria with efficacy of at least 12%-41%, depending on the cost of 
intervention, based on a reported 18% cumulative incidence of LTFU at 1 y after 
ART initiation. The commitment to start ART and treat HIV in these settings 
should include interventions to prevent LTFU.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000173
PMCID: PMC2762030
PMID: 19859538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


792. Agric Hist. 2009 Fall;83(4):503-27. doi: 10.3098/ah.2009.83.4.503.

"So long as I can read": farm women's reading experiences in Depression-era 
South Dakota.

Lindell LR(1).

Author information:
(1)Hilton M. Briggs Library, South Dakota State Univ.

During the Great Depression, with conditions grim, entertainment scarce, and 
educational opportunities limited, many South Dakota farm women relied on 
reading to fill emotional, social, and informational needs. To read to any 
degree, these rural women had to overcome multiple obstacles. Extensive reading 
(whether books, farm journals, or newspapers) was limited to those who had 
access to publications and could make time to read. The South Dakota Free 
Library Commission was valuable in circulating reading materials to the state's 
rural population. In the 1930s the commission collaborated with the USDA's 
Extension Service in a popular reading project geared toward South Dakota farm 
women. This "Reading in the Home" program greatly increased reading 
opportunities and motivations. Of particular interest to rural women were tales 
of pioneer life featuring strong protagonists. Through these stories, farm women 
found validation and encouragement to persevere. Reading also broadened horizons 
and challenged assumptions. For the depression-era farm woman, reading books and 
other materials provided recreation, instruction, and inspiration in a 
discouraging time.

DOI: 10.3098/ah.2009.83.4.503
PMID: 19860030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Orv Hetil. 2009 Nov 1;150(44):2012-8. doi: 10.1556/OH.2009.28740.

[From lipid target values to the JUPITER study. Significance of achieving lipid 
levels specified by the guidelines and deficiencies in practice].

[Article in Hungarian]

Márk L(1), Katona A.

Author information:
(1)Békés Megyei Képviselo-testület Pándy Kálmán Kórház II. 
Belgyógyászat-Kardiológia, Gyula. mark@pandy.hu

In Hungary the life expectancy have increased by 4.14 years between 1993 and 
2006 and the improvement of cardiovascular mortality contributed to this with 
1.85 years. Lipid lowering therapy and achievement of target lipid levels have 
become recently a crucial point of cardiovascular prevention. Despite the 
improving tendency the rate of achieving LDL-cholesterol goal is not higher than 
1/3 and its main cause seems to be the fact that greater part of the physicians 
(56% of them in year 2007) - seeing the results with not convenient lipid levels 
- yield to it, do not modify the current treatment. However, there is growing 
evidence that the lower LDL-cholesterol level improves not only the clinical 
outcome but it is cost-effective as well. The most important trial performed 
recently using statin was the JUPITER study, in which patients with normal lipid 
levels and high hs-CRP level without known atherosclerotic disease were treated 
with 20 mg rosuvastatin or placebo. The primary endpoint (cardiovascular 
mortality, stroke, non fatal myocardial infarction, unstable angina and 
revascularization) decreased significantly by 44% and total mortality decreased 
by 20%. For the prevention of one primary event 23 patients for 5 years were 
necessary to be treated. The results raise the need for reconsidering principles 
and target levels of the primary prevention and warn that in the lipid lowering 
therapy a greater emphasis should be placed on the hs-CRP level.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2009.28740
PMID: 19861287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Mar 3;102(5):358; author reply 358. doi: 
10.1093/jnci/djp372. Epub 2009 Oct 27.

Re: Cost-effectiveness analysis of human papillomavirus vaccination in the 
Netherlands.

Coupé VM, Meijer CJ, Berkhof J.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Aug 5;101(15):1083-92.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp372
PMID: 19861306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Europace. 2009 Nov;11 Suppl 5:v93-7. doi: 10.1093/europace/eup274.

Is cardiac resynchronization therapy cost-effective?

Boriani G(1), Biffi M, Martignani C, Valzania C, Diemberger I, Bertini M, 
Domenichini G, Ziacchi M, Branzi A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, University of Bologna and Azienda Ospedaliera S. 
Orsola-Malpighi, Via Massarenti 9, 40138 Bologna, Italy. 
giuseppe.boriani@unibo.it

Cardiac resynchronization therapy (CRT) is a treatment of proven efficacy for 
selected patients with heart failure and associated conduction disturbances. The 
increasing financial burden that healthcare systems face has increased the 
interest in cost-effectiveness and cost-utility estimates, focused on devices 
with defibrillation capabilities (CRT-D), with a high upfront cost, as well as 
on simpler devices providing only biventricular pacing (CRT-P). Available 
economic estimates are largely dependent on data source, assumptions, modelling 
technique, time horizon, and perspective, leading to some variability in 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility estimates. As a whole, cost-effectiveness 
and cost-utility estimates of both CRT-P and CRT-D improve as the time horizon 
examined is lengthened and appear to be below US$50,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year, a threshold value commonly adopted for coverage of healthcare 
interventions in the USA and quite comparable with similar thresholds used 
within Europe. Limited data are available on the comparative cost-effectiveness 
or cost-utility of CRT-P and CRT-D devices. Moreover, more data on the 
effectiveness and long-term benefits of CRT-D and CRT-P are needed in order to 
estimate better the value of these treatments in the 'real world, as well as for 
attempts to improve cost-effectiveness through improved patient selection.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eup274
PMID: 19861398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Mol Ther. 2010 Jan;18(1):11-6. doi: 10.1038/mt.2009.247. Epub 2009 Oct 27.

Long-term rescue of a lethal murine model of methylmalonic acidemia using 
adeno-associated viral gene therapy.

Chandler RJ(1), Venditti CP.

Author information:
(1)Organic Acid Research Section, Genetics and Molecular Biology Branch, 
National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland 20893, USA.

Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is an organic acidemia caused by deficient activity 
of the mitochondrial enzyme methylmalonyl-CoA mutase (MUT). This disorder is 
associated with lethal metabolic instability and carries a poor prognosis for 
long-term survival. A murine model of MMA that replicates a severe clinical 
phenotype was used to examine the efficacy of recombinant adeno-associated virus 
(rAAV) serotype 8 gene therapy as a treatment for MMA. Lifespan extension, body 
weight, circulating metabolites, transgene expression, and whole animal 
propionate oxidation were examined as outcome parameters after gene therapy. 
One-hundred percent of the untreated Mut(-/-) mice (n = 58) died by day of life 
(DOL) 72, whereas >95% of the adeno-associated virus-treated Mut(-/-) mice (n = 
27) have survived for > or = 1 year. Despite a gradual loss of transgene 
expression and elevated circulating metabolites in the treated Mut(-/-) mice, 
the animals are indistinguishable from unaffected control littermates in size 
and activity levels. These experiments provide the first definitive evidence 
that gene therapy will have clinical utility in the treatment of MMA and support 
the development of gene therapy for other organic acidemias.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2009.247
PMCID: PMC2839224
PMID: 19861951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Autoimmunity. 2009 Nov;42(7):587-95. doi: 10.1080/08916930903002487.

Mechanisms of vascular damage in systemic sclerosis.

Müller-Ladner U(1), Distler O, Ibba-Manneschi L, Neumann E, Gay S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Rheumatology, Kerckhoff Clinic, 
Justus-Liebig University Giessen, Benekestrasse 2-8, D-61231, Bad Nauheim, 
Germany. u.mueller-ladner@kerckhoff-klinik.de

Although being classified as autoimmune connective tissue disease, dominant 
components of the pathophysiology of systemic sclerosis (SSc) consists of 
mechanisms of vascular damage, which can occur early in the course of the 
disease. Amongst them are abnormal vasoreactivity, hypoxia, insufficient 
neoangiogenesis and direct damage of vascular and perivascular cells. They 
result in a decreased capillary blood flow, and subsequently in clinically overt 
symptoms such as Raynaud's syndrome and fingertip ulcers. In addition, in active 
disease vascular pathology can affect various other organs, predominantly the 
lung, the kidney, the heart but also the gastrointestinal tract. Vascular 
pathology contributes also significantly to overall morbidity and mortality in 
SSc patients and reduces life expectancy by at least a decade. Fortunately, 
molecular biology has revealed a number of underlying pathways on the cellular 
and subcellular levels, including key factors of the aberrant function of 
(peri)vascular cells and autoimmune effector cells, the dysregulation of 
vasoconstrictive molecules and their receptors, the upregulation of 
intracellular signaling kinases and the altered balance of hypoxia-induced 
vascular growth factors. This increasing knowledge of vascular pathology in SSc 
has also resulted in novel therapeutic approaches ranging from endothelin 
antagonists to application of progenitor cells to counteract this aberrant 
vascular pathology and to support the repair of the dysfunctional vasculature.

DOI: 10.1080/08916930903002487
PMID: 19863377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Curr Urol Rep. 2009 Nov;10(6):453-9. doi: 10.1007/s11934-009-0072-1.

Testosterone therapy and prostate carcinoma.

Rhoden EL(1), Averbeck MA.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre, 288 Dr. Florencio 
Ygartua Street, Room 504, Porto Alegre, RS 90430-010, Brazil. 
ernanirh@terra.com.br

Hypogonadism is a clinical and biochemical syndrome associated with a range of 
disease states that has significant effects on morbidity and mortality and also 
affects quality of life. Because of the increase in life expectancy and prostate 
carcinoma (PCa) survival, a significant increase in the number of men with 
hypogonadism who have undergone presumably curative treatment of PCa is 
anticipated. Despite the widespread belief regarding contraindication of 
testosterone administration to men with known or suspected PCa, there is no 
convincing evidence that the normalization of testosterone serum levels in men 
with low levels presents a deleterious effect on the evolution of the disease. 
In the few available case series describing testosterone replacement therapy 
(TRT) after treatment of PCa, no case of clinical or biochemical progression was 
observed. The available data suggest that TRT can be cautiously considered in 
selected hypogonadal men previously treated for curative intent of low-risk PCa 
and without evidence of active disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11934-009-0072-1
PMID: 19863857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Radiology. 2009 Dec;253(3):734-44. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2533090507. Epub 2009
Oct  28.

CT coronary angiography in patients suspected of having coronary artery disease: 
decision making from various perspectives in the face of uncertainty.

Genders TS(1), Meijboom WB, Meijs MF, Schuijf JD, Mollet NR, Weustink AC, 
Pugliese F, Bax JJ, Cramer MJ, Krestin GP, de Feyter PJ, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Erasmus University Medical Center, PO Box 2040, 3000 
CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of computed tomographic (CT) 
coronary angiography as a triage test, performed prior to conventional coronary 
angiography, by using a Markov model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov model was used to analyze the cost-effectiveness 
of CT coronary angiography performed as a triage test prior to conventional 
coronary angiography from the perspective of the patient, physician, hospital, 
health care system, and society by using recommendations from the United 
Kingdom, the United States, and the Netherlands for cost-effectiveness analyses. 
For CT coronary angiography, a range of sensitivities (79%-100%) and 
specificities (63%-94%) were used to help diagnose significant coronary artery 
disease (CAD). Optimization criteria (ie, outcomes considered) were: revised 
posttest probability of CAD, life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Extensive sensitivity 
analysis was performed.
RESULTS: For a prior probability of CAD of less than 40%, the probability of CAD 
after CT coronary angiography with negative results was less than 1%. The Markov 
model calculations from the patient/physician perspective suggest that CT 
coronary angiography maximizes life-years respectively in 60-year-old men and 
women at a prior probability of less than 38% and 24% and maximizes QALYs at a 
prior probability of less than 17% and 11%. From the hospital/health care 
perspective, CT coronary angiography helps reduce health care and direct 
nonhealth care-related costs (according to UK/U.S. recommendations), regardless 
of prior probability, and lowers all costs, including production losses 
(Netherlands recommendations) at a prior probability of less than 87%-92%. 
Analysis performed from a societal perspective by using a willingness-to-pay 
threshold level of euro 80,000/QALY suggests that CT coronary angiography is 
cost-effective when the prior probability is lower than 44% and 37% in men and 
women, respectively. Sensitivity analyses showed that results changed across the 
reported range of sensitivity of CT coronary angiography.
CONCLUSION: The optimal diagnostic work-up depends on the optimization 
criterion, prior probability of CAD, and the diagnostic performance of CT 
coronary angiography.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2533090507
PMID: 19864509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Gerontology. 2010;56(2):217-9. doi: 10.1159/000253884. Epub 2009 Oct 28.

The grandmother effect and the uniqueness of the human aging phenotype.

Herndon JG(1), Walker LC.

Author information:
(1)Yerkes National Primate Research Center, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 30329, 
USA. james.herndon@emory.edu

Comment on
    Gerontology. 2010;56(1):73-9.
    Gerontology. 2010;56(2):214-6.

This issue of Gerontology includes a response by van Bodegom et al. to Herndon's 
recent article on the implications of the grandmother hypothesis for studies of 
aging and cognition. Although this hypothesis will doubtlessly continue to 
stimulate discussion, we focus here on our contention that human and non-human 
primate life histories have evolved essential differences and that these should 
be addressed in studies comparing aging in humans and chimpanzees.

2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000253884
PMCID: PMC2842168
PMID: 19864883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. J Monet Econ. 2007 Jan 1;54(1):92-114. doi: 10.1016/j.jmoneco.2006.12.004.

Demographic Change, Social Security Systems, and Savings.

Bloom DE(1), Canning D, Mansfield RK, Moore M.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health.

In theory, improvements in healthy life expectancy should generate increases in 
the average age of retirement, with little effect on savings rates. In many 
countries, however, retirement incentives in social security programs prevent 
retirement ages from keeping pace with changes in life expectancy, leading to an 
increased need for life-cycle savings. Analyzing a cross-country panel of 
macroeconomic data, we find that increased longevity raises aggregate savings 
rates in countries with universal pension coverage and retirement incentives, 
though the effect disappears in countries with pay-as-you-go systems and high 
replacement rates.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmoneco.2006.12.004
PMCID: PMC2768304
PMID: 19865594


802. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2009 Sep-Oct;24(5):927-35.

Outcomes assessment of patients treated with osseointegrated dental implants at 
the University of Washington Graduate Prosthodontic Program, 1988 to 2000.

Chung WE(1), Rubenstein JE, Phillips KM, Raigrodski AJ.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Prosthodontics Program, Department of Restorative Dentistry, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. willec@hotmail.com

PURPOSE: The purpose of this retrospective study was to review and assess the 
outcomes of subjects treated with dental implants at the University of 
Washington Graduate Prosthodontic Program from 1988 to 2000.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective review and an outcomes assessment were 
conducted of patients treated with osseointegrated implants between 1988 and 
2000 at the University of Washington Graduate Prosthodontic Program. Patients 
were treated by graduate students. All included patients had a prosthesis that 
had been in service for at least 5 years. Implants and prostheses were assessed 
by chart review, phone survey, and clinical review. Clinical review consisted of 
mobility testing, soft tissue evaluation, and occlusal evaluation. Specific 
success criteria were used and life table analyses of implants and prostheses 
were performed.
RESULTS: Of a total of 114 patients treated, 69 subjects (60.5% of those 
treated) participated in the assessment; 103 prostheses supported by 273 
implants were reviewed clinically. The estimated cumulative survival rate was 
96.3% for all implants and 85.4% for all prostheses.
CONCLUSIONS: A retrospective review of 69 subjects who were treated in the 
University of Washington Graduate Prosthodontic Program between the years 1988 
and 2000 showed an implant survival rate of 96.3% and a prosthesis survival rate 
of 85.4%. Prostheses showed higher failure rates than implants.

PMID: 19865634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci. 2010 Nov;17(6):782-7. doi: 
10.1007/s00534-009-0224-1. Epub 2009 Oct 29.

Parenchyma-sparing resections for pancreatic neoplasms.

Crippa S(1), Boninsegna L, Partelli S, Falconi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Chirurgia Generale B, Policlinico GB Rossi, University 
of Verona, Piazzale LA Scuro 10, 37134, Verona, Italy.

Comment in
    J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci. 2010 Mar;17(2):203.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: In recent years there has been an increase in the 
indications for pancreatic resection of benign or low-grade malignant lesions, 
especially in young patients with long life expectancy. In this setting, 
patients may benefit from parenchyma-sparing resections in order to decrease the 
risk of development of exocrine/endocrine insufficiency.
METHODS: A review of the literature and authors experience was undertaken.
RESULTS: Parenchyma-sparing resections of the pancreas including enucleation, 
middle pancreatectomy (MP) and middle-preserving pancreatectomy are described. 
Short and long-term outcomes after surgery are analyzed with special regard to 
postoperative morbidity/mortality, and oncological and functional long-term 
results.
CONCLUSIONS: Parenchyma-sparing resections are safe and effective procedures for 
treatment of benign and low-grade malignant neoplasms. Despite a significant 
postoperative morbidity they are associated with good long-term functional and 
oncological results. Enucleation should preferentially be performed 
laparoscopically whenever possible.

DOI: 10.1007/s00534-009-0224-1
PMID: 19865792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Lancet. 2009 Oct 24;374(9699):1407-8. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(09)61845-6.

European health systems face scrutiny in US debate.

Walgate R.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(09)61845-6
PMID: 19866517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Exp Med. 1899 May 1;4(3-4):425-50. doi: 10.1084/jem.4.3-4.425.

CULTURES FROM THE BLOOD In SEPTICAEMIA, PNEUMONIA, MENINGITIS AND CHRONIC 
DISEASES.

White FW(1).

Author information:
(1)Pathological Laboratory of the Massachusetts General Hospital.

OUR CONCLUSIONS FROM THE LITERATURE AND OUR OWN EXPERIMENTS MAY BE SUMMARIZED AS 
FOLLOWS: I. Blood for bacteriological examination during life should be taken 
directly from the veins and in considerable quantity. II. Resorption of toxines 
is the most important feature in cases of sepsis; pyogenie bacteria invade the 
general circulation in a rather small proportion even of severe eases, and, as a 
rule, late in the course of the disease. III. A general infection by the 
pnenmococcus can be demonstrated occasionally in the late stages of acute lobar 
pneumonia. IV. The value of blood cultures as a means of diagnosis in obscure 
cases of sepsis is limited by the fact that invasion of the blood by the 
specific organism cannot be demonstrated during life in the majority of cases. 
Positive cultures are very valuable; negative cultures do not exclude local 
septic infections. V. The detection of specific bacteria in the blood of cases 
of sepsis and of pneumonia gives a very unfavorable prognosis in most cases. VI. 
General terminal infections with pyogenic cocci occasionally occur as an 
immediate cause of death in chronic disease. Local infections processes play 
this part more frequently. VII. As far as our experiments have shown, invasion 
of the blood by bacteria during the death agony, with subsequent distribution of 
the genus to the organs by the circulation, is a rather uncommon occurrence. 
VIII. Owing to the relative infrequency of agonal invasion, we believe that in 
the majority of cases where the autopsy is performed promptly after death, the 
bacteria which are found in the organs succeeded in reaching these organs 
previously to the death agony, and are associated with the course of the 
disease. IX. The presence of bacteria in the organs of late autopsies is due in 
many cases to post-mortem extension from one organ to another, and in some cases 
to the post-mortem growth of small numbers of genus which were distributed to 
the organs by means of the circulation.

DOI: 10.1084/jem.4.3-4.425
PMCID: PMC2124488
PMID: 19866918


806. J Exp Med. 1911 Apr 1;13(4):455-75. doi: 10.1084/jem.13.4.455.

FURTHER OBSERVATIONS AND EXPERIMENTS ON THE SO-CALLED THYROID CARCINOMA OF THE 
BROOK TROUT (SALVELINUS FONTINALIS) AND ITS RELATION TO ENDEMIC GOITRE.

Marine D(1), Lenhart CH.

Author information:
(1)H. K. Cushing Laboratory of Experimental Medicine, Western Reserve 
University, Cleveland, in conjunction with the Pennsylvania State Fish 
Commission.

In a series of observations upon the thyroids of brook trout, extending from the 
time of hatching to fish of four or more years old, we have been able to follow 
step by step the development of thyroid hyperplasia. In these hatchery trout, 
thyroid overgrowth may be recognized anatomically at the end of the second month 
of extra-oval life. Under the conditions in which these fish live, the thyroid 
overgrowth progressively increases, at first filling the aortic space and then 
invading the surrounding bone and muscle. In our series, this extension into the 
adjacent tissues was not recognizable until the fourth month of extra-oval life. 
The time when invasion of the surrounding tissues is first noticed is, of 
course, subject to great variation in different years and different hatcheries, 
depending on the general hygienic conditions, food, water supply, etc. If the 
growth continues, as it usually does, throughout the rapid growing period of the 
fish, it may first be detected clinically by a reddening of the pharyngeal floor 
as the thyroid tissue spreads to the submucosa. Later, definite external goitres 
appear ventrally. These may be present as early as the sixth month of life. The 
thyroid being, as in mammals, most active during the growing period, the 
greatest number of visible goitres appear during the second and third years of 
life. In older fish the thyroid again becomes less active and there is a 
tendency toward spontaneous recovery. There is no noteworthy change in the 
anatomical appearance of the thyroid growth, whether seen in very young or in 
older fish, other than that clearly dependent on the age of the fish, mechanical 
factors, as size of the goitre, and complicating factors, as infection, 
hemorrhage, degeneration, etc. There exists, therefore, no anatomical basis for 
the diagnosis of cancer in the older fish that is not also present in the 
youngest fish with thyroid hyperplasia. All the appearances of invasion, 
atypical cell growth, etc. are the results of the progressive growth and 
consequent extension of a non-encapsulated epithelial tissue along the paths of 
least resistance. In many of the larger goitres there are more or less distinct 
areas of thyroid hyperplasia, histologically different from the surrounding 
thyroid tissue, which we look upon as benign tumors comparable to the benign 
tumors seen in human goitres. We class them as tumors because they do not react 
with iodin as does the ordinary hyperplasia. To call these tumors cancer is 
going beyond our present knowledge and is unjustified, even though analogy with 
mammalian tumors suggests that certain ones might proceed to true carcinomata. 
The most common type of the benign tumors is the arborescent-papillomatous form 
and its many modifications. Infection is a frequent complication in the larger 
goitres, for the reasons given. It is necessary to recognize this factor in 
interpreting the histological conditions met with, as otherwise, using mammalian 
standards, some of the appearances observed could easily be mistaken for 
sarcoma. The effect of iodin on the thyroid hyperplasia has been studied in the 
early, middle, and late stages. All stages react with iodin, the mild degrees 
seemingly more rapidly than the severer degrees. Thus the early stages undergo 
involution in from two to three weeks, while the late stages may require one to 
two months. The process, therefore, is slower than the iodin reaction time in 
mammalian hyperplasia. True tumors do not react with iodin as does ordinary 
hyperplasia. Infection or other complication modifies the reaction. The reaction 
with iodin is a specific test for functional hyperplasia of the thyroid. As we 
