proposition comes from research on mind perception, morality, and moral 
typecasting. Interestingly, although people perceive God as the author of 
salvation, suffering seems to evoke even more attributions to the divine.

DOI: 10.1177/1088868309350299
PMID: 19926831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2010 Feb;42(2):326-37. doi:
10.1249/MSS.0b013e3181b2ef8e.

Increased protein intake reduces lean body mass loss during weight loss in 
athletes.

Mettler S(1), Mitchell N, Tipton KD.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, 
United Kingdom.

PURPOSE: To examine the influence of dietary protein on lean body mass loss and 
performance during short-term hypoenergetic weight loss in athletes.
METHODS: In a parallel design, 20 young healthy resistance-trained athletes were 
examined for energy expenditure for 1 wk and fed a mixed diet (15% protein, 100% 
energy) in the second week followed by a hypoenergetic diet (60% of the habitual 
energy intake), containing either 15% (approximately 1.0 g x kg(-1)) protein 
(control group, n = 10; CP) or 35% (approximately 2.3 g x kg(-1)) protein 
(high-protein group, n = 10; HP) for 2 wk. Subjects continued their habitual 
training throughout the study. Total, lean body, and fat mass, performance 
(squat jump, maximal isometric leg extension, one-repetition maximum (1RM) bench 
press, muscle endurance bench press, and 30-s Wingate test) and fasting blood 
samples (glucose, nonesterified fatty acids (NEFA), glycerol, urea, cortisol, 
free testosterone, free Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), and growth 
hormone), and psychologic measures were examined at the end of each of the 4 wk.
RESULTS: Total (-3.0 +/- 0.4 and -1.5 +/- 0.3 kg for the CP and HP, 
respectively, P = 0.036) and lean body mass loss (-1.6 +/- 0.3 and -0.3 +/- 0.3 
kg, P = 0.006) were significantly larger in the CP compared with those in the 
HP. Fat loss, performance, and most blood parameters were not influenced by the 
diet. Urea was higher in HP, and NEFA and urea showed a group x time 
interaction. Fatigue ratings and "worse than normal" scores on the Daily 
Analysis of Life Demands for Athletes were higher in HP.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that approximately 2.3 g x kg(-1) or 
approximately 35% protein was significantly superior to approximately 1.0 g x 
kg(-1) or approximately 15% energy protein for maintenance of lean body mass in 
young healthy athletes during short-term hypoenergetic weight loss.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0b013e3181b2ef8e
PMID: 19927027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. MMW Fortschr Med. 2009 Oct 1;151(40):12-4.

[Medicine's progress in times of rising life expectancy. What waits for us in 
the near future?].

[Article in German]

Gross H.

PMID: 19927909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Masui. 2009 Nov;58(11):1384-92.

[Intrathecal morphine treatment in advanced cancer pain patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Hattori S(1), Sano H, Tanaka K, Yokota M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Service, The Cancer Institute Hospital 
of Japanese Foundation for Cancer Research, Tokyo 135-8550.

For more than 20 years morphine for spinal analgesia in patients with refractory 
cancer pain has been one of the cornerstones for the management of chronic, 
medically intractable pain. In general, most types of cancer pain are treatable 
following the guideline of Cancer Pain Relief well established by the WHO. 
However, some patient are unable to tolerate pain only following the guideline 
and often suffer with side-effects from high doses of opioid and from prescribed 
multiple adjuvant drugs. Due to the proximity to the receptor sites, the 
therapeutic efficacy of intrathecal opioid application lasts longer and also 
reduces systemic side effects. Intrathecal drug application is cost effective 
and can significantly improve the quality of life in selected patients with 
limited life expectancy. However, an intensive training of physicians, careful 
patient selection, awareness of specific complications, and arrangement of 
social back-up medical system are essential to commence intrathecal morphine 
application using implantable access port. This article introduces the basic 
idea of intrathecal morphine therapy with implantable access port (not pumps) as 
cost effective, alternative therapy for cancer patient suffering from 
intractable pain.

PMID: 19928505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2009;9(6):383-92. doi:
10.2165/11315730-000000000-00000.

The cost effectiveness and cost utility of valsartan in chronic heart failure 
therapy in Italy: a probabilistic markov model.

Pradelli L(1), Iannazzo S, Zaniolo O.

Author information:
(1)AdRes Srl, Turin, Italy. l.pradelli@adreshe.com

To evaluate the cost effectiveness and cost utility of the use of valsartan in 
addition to standard therapy for the treatment of patients with chronic heart 
failure with low left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF). The study was 
conducted by means of a cohort simulation based on a probabilistic Markov model 
and projecting the 23-month follow-up results of the Val-HeFT (Valsartan Heart 
Failure Trial) study over a 10-year time horizon. The model included four states 
(New York Heart Association [NYHA] classes II, III, IV, and death), and had a 
cycle duration of 1 month. Probabilistic simulations were performed using the 
WinBUGS software for Bayesian analysis. The distribution of patient parameters 
(sex, age, use of beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, and ACE inhibitors) in the 
simulated population were derived from the Italian heart failure patient 
population. Individual mortality data were derived from general mortality data 
by multiplying by a NYHA state-specific relative risk, while the probability of 
changing NYHA class was taken from the Val-HeFT data. Costs (2007 values) were 
calculated from the perspective of the Italian Health Service (IHS) and included 
costs for drugs and heart failure hospitalizations. Quality-of-life (QOL) 
weights were obtained by using published health-related QOL data for heart 
failure patients. A 3.5% annual discount rate was applied. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was performed on each parameter using original-source 95% 
confidence interval (CI) values, or a +/-10% range when 95% CI values were 
unavailable. For the 10-year time horizon, patients were estimated to live for 
an average of 2.3 years or 1.7 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), with slight 
increases in the valsartan group. In this group, hospitalizations for worsening 
heart failure were predicted to be significantly reduced and overall treatment 
costs per patient to decrease by about and U20AC;550. In subgroup analyses, 
valsartan lost dominance in patients in NYHA II, and in those receiving 
beta-adrenoceptor antagonists or ACE inhibitors; the mean incremental 
cost-utility ratio for these groups was 21 240, 129 200, and 36 500 and 
U20AC;/QALY, respectively. Valsartan in addition to standard therapy is 
predicted to dominate standard therapy alone in Italian patients with mild to 
severe heart failure and low LVEF. There are relevant differences among various 
patient subgroups, and valsartan is expected to be good value for money 
particularly in the treatment of the most severe and less intensively treated 
(no ACE inhibitors, no beta-adrenoceptor antagonist) heart failure patients.

DOI: 10.2165/11315730-000000000-00000
PMID: 19929036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Aging Male. 2010 Jun;13(2):93-9. doi: 10.3109/13685530903431597.

Aging male's symptoms in a Southern Brazil population: lifestyle effects after 
the age of 40.

CorrÃªa LQ(1), Rombaldi AJ, Da Silva MC, Domingues MR.

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Pelotas, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The interest of epidemiological research about male's aging 
increased in recent years along with the need to evaluate health-related quality 
of life. We conducted a population-based cross-sectional study to identify the 
prevalence of aging male's symptoms (AMS) and factors associated to this 
condition.
METHODS: The study included 421 men aged 40 years or older, living in the urban 
area of Pelotas, Southern Brazil. The questionnaire covered sociodemographic, 
behavioral, and health variables, and to verify the aging male's symptoms, the 
AMS Scale was used.
RESULTS: Moderate/severe male's symptoms was considered positive (AMS scores 
equal or above 37 points) in 20% of men (95% CI 16.1; 24.3). After controlling 
for confounders, the AMS was significantly associated with aging, self-perceived 
health status and smoking. The symptoms were more severe among physically 
inactive men.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings support the necessity to maintain healthy behaviors 
like not smoking and regular physical activity since such changeable behaviors 
could reduce the AMS acceleration and increase life quality and expectancy.

DOI: 10.3109/13685530903431597
PMID: 19929236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Rejuvenation Res. 2009 Oct;12(5):321-31. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0877.

Grape extract protects mitochondria from oxidative damage and improves locomotor 
dysfunction and extends lifespan in a Drosophila Parkinson's disease model.

Long J(1), Gao H, Sun L, Liu J, Zhao-Wilson X.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mitochondrial Biology and Medicine, Department of Biology and 
Engineering, The Key Laboratory of Biomedical Information Engineering of 
Ministry of Education, Xi'an Jiaotong University School of Life Science and 
Technology, Xi'an, China.

A botanical extract (Regrapex-R) prepared from whole grape (Vitis vinifera) and 
Polygonum cuspidatum, which contains polyphenols, including flavans, 
anthocyanins, emodin, and resveratrol, exhibited dose-dependent scavenging 
effects on reactive oxygen species (ROS). The extract inhibited increases of ROS 
and protein carbonyl in isolated rat liver mitochondria following exposure to 
2,2'-azobis (2-amidino propane) dihydrocholoride (AAPH), a potent lipid oxidant 
generator. The antioxidant effects of this extract were further demonstrated by 
protecting enzyme activities of the mitochondrial respiratory electron transport 
chain (complexes I and II) and pyruvate dehydrogenase in isolated liver 
mitochondria with AAPH insult. In human neuroblastoma cells (SKN-MC), 
pretreatment of extract protected cells against AAPH induced oxidation in 
maintaining cell viability and inhibiting excessive ROS generation. Extract was 
fed to transgenic Drosophila expressing human alpha-synuclein. This model for 
Parkinson disease recapitulates essential features of the disorder, including 
loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and a locomotor dysfunction 
that is displayed by a progressive loss of climbing ability measured using a 
geotaxis assay. Male transgenic flies fed the extract (0.16-0.64 mg/100 g of 
culture medium) showed a significant improvement in climbing ability compared to 
controls. Female transgenic flies showed a significant extension in average 
lifespan. These results suggest that Regrapex-R is a potent free radical 
scavenger, a mitochondrial protector, and a candidate for further studies to 
assess its ability to protect against neurodegenerative disease and potentially 
extend lifespan.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0877
PMID: 19929256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Rejuvenation Res. 2009 Oct;12(5):351-7. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0907.

Ethical, social, and personal implications of extended human lifespan identified 
by members of the public.

Partridge B(1), Lucke J, Bartlett H, Hall W.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. partridge.bradley@mayo.edu

There are a number of ethical, social, and personal implications generated by 
the potential development and use of technologies that may extend human 
longevity by intervening in aging. Despite speculations about likely public 
attitudes toward life extension, to date there have been few attempts to 
empirically examine the public's perspective of these issues. Using open-ended 
survey questions via telephone interviews, this study explored the attitudes of 
605 members of the Australian public toward the implications of life extension. 
Participants were asked to briefly describe in their own words what they 
believed would be the beneficial, as well as negative, implications arising from 
life extension (if there were any), both for themselves personally and for 
society as a whole. Participants were also asked to describe any ethical 
concerns they had about life extension, if they had any at all. All open-ended 
responses were collated and then underwent a thematic analysis to uncover 
commonly cited issues regarding personal benefits/negatives, societal 
benefits/negatives, and ethical concerns. A considerable number of participants 
envisioned at least some beneficial as well as negative implications for 
themselves and for society, and many claimed to have at least some ethical 
concerns. Some novel issues were raised as well as a number of those discussed 
within the bioethical literature. The results should encourage researchers, 
bioethicists, and policy makers to engage with members of the public about the 
goals of research surrounding life extension, the expected outcomes of such 
research, and the likely implications for individuals and society.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0907
PMID: 19929257 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Rejuvenation Res. 2009 Oct;12(5):371-4. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0979.

Interview with Leonid A. Gavrilov, Ph.D.and Natalia Gavrilova, Ph.D.

Gavrilov LA, Gavrilova N.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0979
PMCID: PMC6469515
PMID: 19929260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Telemed J E Health. 2009 Dec;15(10):949-53; discussion 954-5. doi: 
10.1089/tmj.2009.0077.

The role of cost in telemedicine evaluation.

Wang F(1).

Author information:
(1)Economics Department, National Cheng Kung University , Tainan, Taiwan. 
fmwang@mail.ncku.edu.tw

This study examined how health service provision via telemedicine and 
conventional medical systems affected a population's health status and whether 
the costs of health services play a deterministic role in allocating medical 
resources. Using the health indicator of the life expectancy at birth and 
applying the generalized methods of moments estimators in version 10.0 of the 
statistical software STATA by blending statistics and data with the survey data, 
the panel datasets of observations were covered over the period 1995-2004 for 
the Taiwan experience. Empirical evidence indicated that a 10% increase in the 
cost of each conventional health service increased the population life 
expectancy at birth by 0.12%. A 10% increase in gross domestic product per 
capita or the income level of the country increased the population's life 
expectancy at birth by 0.0023%. A 10% increase in population increased the 
population's life expectancy at birth by 0.0004%. A 10% increase in the ratio of 
telehealth services relative to conventional medical services increased the 
population's life expectancy at birth by 0.00019%. Interestingly, the cost of 
each telehealth service does not influence the population's health status. 
Furthermore, to reach the longevity at 76.25 years that is the current 
population's life expectancy at birth, an increase in health services via the 
telecommunications system of 243 times is able to reduce the cost of 
conventional health services by 69.5%. Accordingly, the cost of telehealth 
services does not play a deterministic role for guiding medical resource 
allocation and the provision of telemedicine is able to effectively save medical 
resources.

DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2009.0077
PMID: 19929429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Feb;26(2):253-61. doi: 10.1185/03007990903438295.

Short- and long-term efficacy and safety of duloxetine in women with predominant 
stress urinary incontinence.

Cardozo L(1), Lange R, Voss S, Beardsworth A, Manning M, Viktrup L, Zhao YD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urogynecology, King's College Hospital, London, UK. 
CoLCardozo@compuserve.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate short- and long-term safety and efficacy of duloxetine in 
women with predominant stress urinary incontinence (SUI).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: The study was a 6-week, double-blind, randomised, 
parallel, placebo-controlled study followed by an uncontrolled open-label 
extension (OLE) run in 342 study centres in 16 European countries. Women with 
predominant SUI were randomly assigned to placebo (n = 1380) or duloxetine 40 mg 
twice daily (n = 1378) for 6 weeks. Completers of the acute phase were enrolled 
in the OLE, which had a minimum duration of 6 weeks and ended, based on the 
approval status of duloxetine in the participating country.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measure was the change in 
incontinence episode frequency (IEF) over 6 weeks. Secondary outcome measures 
were the long-term maintenance of effect on IEF and Patient Global Impression of 
Improvement (PGI-I), the short- and long-term impact on quality of life using 
the King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ), and the long-term safety of duloxetine.
RESULTS: After 6 weeks, the decrease in weekly IEF was significantly greater 
with duloxetine treatment compared to placebo (-50.0 vs. -29.9%; p < 0.001). The 
percentage of responders (defined as > or =50% decrease in IEF) was 
significantly higher with duloxetine treatment than with placebo (50.6 vs. 
31.2%; p < 0.001). Duloxetine treatment was associated with improvements in 
weekly pad use (-31.4%), PGI-I ratings (63.6%), and KHQ score (-6.25) compared 
to placebo (-12.5%, 48.5% and -3.13, respectively, all p < 0.001). 
Treatment-emergent adverse events were significantly more common during 
duloxetine treatment (48.3%) than placebo (33.3%), (p < 0.001). Of the 2290 
patients continuing into the OLE, 1165 (42.2%) completed the available duration, 
and 592 (21.5%) discontinued because of an adverse event (percentages relative 
to total randomised patients). Long-term efficacy in the OLE was assessed over a 
72-week period and was maintained over that time. However, the results should be 
interpreted within the context that better responding patients are more likely 
to remain on duloxetine, while patients responding poorly are more likely to 
discontinue over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Duloxetine seems to be an efficacious treatment with an acceptable 
safety profile for women with SUI. Achieved improvement is maintained over the 
longer term in those women who remain on therapy.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903438295
PMID: 19929591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Curr HIV Res. 2009 Nov;7(6):634-8. doi: 10.2174/157016209789973619.

AIDS-related Kaposi's sarcoma: state of the art and therapeutic strategies.

Martellotta F(1), Berretta M, Vaccher E, Schioppa O, Zanet E, Tirelli U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Institute, Aviano (PN), 
Italy. fmartellotta@cro.it

In the HAART era Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) remains the second most frequent tumor in 
HIV-infected patients worldwide, and it has become the most common cancer in 
Sub-Saharan Africa. In western countries the risk for KS in men having sex with 
men (MSM) is 5 to 10 times higher compared to other groups of individuals 
practicing other HIV-risk behaviors. Patients with KS in Sub-Saharan Africa have 
very high tumor burdens and rapid disease progression with a diminished life 
expectancy of less than 6 months. KS lesions are comprised of both distinctive 
spindle cells of endothelial origin and a variable inflammatory infiltrate, 
which suggests that KS may result from reactive hyperproliferation induced by 
chronic inflammation, and therefore it is not a true neoplasm. KS has a variable 
clinical course ranging from very indolent forms, requiring no or minimal 
therapy, to a rapidly progressive disease. Treatment decisions must take into 
consideration the extent and the rate of tumor growth, patient's symptoms, 
immune system conditions and concurrent HIV-related complications. Several 
different therapeutic options are available but the optimal therapy is still 
unclear. Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) including protease 
inhibitors (PI) may represent the first treatment step for slowly progressive 
disease; chemotherapy (CT) plus HAART is indicated for visceral and/or rapidly 
progressive disease, whereas maintenance (M)-HAART after systemic chemotherapy 
may be an effective anti-KS measure after debulking CT. The angiogenic nature of 
KS makes it particularly suitable for therapies based on targeted agents such as 
metalloproteinase inhibitors, angiogenesis inhibitors and tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors. The aim of this article is to provide an up-to-date review of the 
current status and perspectives of AIDS-related KS in the HAART era.

DOI: 10.2174/157016209789973619
PMID: 19929800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Vox Sang. 2010 May;98(4):517-24. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2009.01283.x. Epub
 2009 Nov 18.

In vitro comparison of platelet storage in plasma and in four platelet additive 
solutions, and the effect of pathogen reduction: a proposal for an in vitro 
rating system.

van der Meer PF(1), Kerkhoffs JL, Curvers J, Scharenberg J, de Korte D, Brand A, 
de Wildt-Eggen J.

Author information:
(1)Sanquin Blood Bank North West Region, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
p.vandermeer@sanquin.nl

BACKGROUND: The introduction of platelet (PLT) additive solutions (PASs) and 
pathogen reduction (PR) technologies possibly allow extension of PLT shelf life. 
It was our aim to compare in vitro quality of leucocyte-reduced PLT concentrates 
(PCs) stored in various PASs, including PR, with those in plasma during 8 days 
of storage. The study was performed in four blood centres where each tested four 
conditions.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: In paired experiments (n = 12), buffy coat pools were 
made to which various storage media were added. Plasma served as reference; two 
centres used InterSol followed by PR (InterSol+PR) and InterSol without PR; 
T-sol, SSP+ and Composol were also studied.
RESULTS: All PCs fulfilled release criteria (pH(37 degrees C)>6.6; swirl 
present) until Day 8. Marked differences were seen for other parameters, 
including CD62P expression: 28 +/- 5; 31 +/- 7; and 39 +/- 9% for T-sol, 
Intersol+PR and without PR, respectively, which were higher as found for 
Composol (12 +/- 3%), SSP+ (15 +/- 5%) and plasma (15 +/- 6%). Three parameters 
(CD62P, Annexin A5, and lactate concentration) were collapsed into one rating 
value (6 = good quality, 0 = poor quality); PLTs in plasma had a rating of 2.8 
+/- 1.0, which was higher as for T-Sol (1.5 +/- 0.5), InterSol+PR (1.3 +/- 0.6) 
and without PR (1.7 +/- 0.5). PLTs in potassium- and magnesium-containing PASs 
showed higher ratings as plasma, 4.3 +/- 0.5 for Composol and 3.8 +/- 0.8 for 
SSP+.
CONCLUSION: PLT concentrates in plasma, SSP+ and Composol scored better using an 
arbitrary rating system as PLTs stored in T-Sol or InterSol; PR further impaired 
rating parameters. The applicability of these differences in rating for clinical 
effects needs a clinical study.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2009.01283.x
PMID: 19930144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Acta Anaesthesiol Scand. 2010 Apr;54(4):479-84. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-6576.2009.02170.x. Epub 2009 Nov 23.

Impact of the post-World War II generation on intensive care needs in Norway.

Laake JH(1), Dybwik K, Flaatten HK, Fonneland IL, KvÃ¥le R, Strand K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anaesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine, Rikshospitalet Medical 
Centre, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
jon.henrik.laake@rikshospitalet.no

BACKGROUND: A high birth rate during the first two decades following World War 
II has increased the proportion of elderly people in present-day society and, 
consequently, the demand for health-care services. The impact on intensive care 
services may become dramatic because the age distribution of critically ill 
patients is skewed towards the elderly. We have used registry data and 
population statistics to forecast the demand for intensive care services in 
Norway up until the year 2025.
METHODS: Data collected by the Norwegian intensive care registry (NIR), showing 
the age distribution in Norwegian intensive care units (ICU) during the years 
2006 and 2007, were used with three different Norwegian prognostic models of 
population growth for the years 2008-2025 to compute the expected increase in 
intensive care unit bed-days (ICU bed-days).
RESULTS: The elderly were overrepresented in Norwegian ICUs in 2006-2007, with 
patients from 60 to 79 years of age occupying 44% of ICU bed-days. Population 
growth from 2008 to 2025 was estimated to be from 11.1 to 26.4%, depending on 
the model used. Growth will be much larger in the age group 60-79 years. Other 
factors kept unchanged, this will result in an increase in the need for 
intensive care (ICU bed-days) of between 26.1 and 36.9%.
CONCLUSION: The demand for intensive care beds will increase markedly in 
Norwegian hospitals in the near future. This will have serious implications for 
the planning of infrastructure, education of health care personnel, as well as 
financing of our health care system.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-6576.2009.02170.x
PMID: 19930244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Int J Clin Pract. 2009 Dec;63(12):1669. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02250.x.

Men's health left hung out to dry: why men die earlier and suffer more.

Jackson G.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02250.x
PMID: 19930325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Aquat Toxicol. 2010 Jan 21;96(1):2-26. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2009.09.019.
Epub  2009 Oct 30.

Olfactory toxicity in fishes.

Tierney KB(1), Baldwin DH, Hara TJ, Ross PS, Scholz NL, Kennedy CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, 
Canada.

Olfaction conveys critical environmental information to fishes, enabling 
activities such as mating, locating food, discriminating kin, avoiding predators 
and homing. All of these behaviors can be impaired or lost as a result of 
exposure to toxic contaminants in surface waters. Historically, teleost 
olfaction studies have focused on behavioral responses to anthropogenic 
contaminants (e.g., avoidance). More recently, there has been a shift towards 
understanding the underlying mechanisms and functional significance of 
contaminant-mediated changes in fish olfaction. This includes a consideration of 
how contaminants affect the olfactory nervous system and, by extension, the 
downstream physiological and behavioral processes that together comprise a 
normal response to naturally occurring stimuli (e.g., reproductive priming or 
releasing pheromones). Numerous studies spanning several species have shown that 
ecologically relevant exposures to common pollutants such as metals and 
pesticides can interfere with fish olfaction and disrupt life history processes 
that determine individual survival and reproductive success. This represents one 
of the pathways by which toxic chemicals in aquatic habitats may increasingly 
contribute to the decline and at-risk status of many commercially and 
ecologically important fish stocks. Despite our emerging understanding of the 
threats that pollution poses for chemical communication in aquatic communities, 
many research challenges remain. These include: (1) the determination of 
specific mechanisms of toxicity in the fish olfactory sensory epithelium; (2) an 
understanding of the impacts of complex chemical mixtures; (3) the capacity to 
assess olfactory toxicity in fish in situ; (4) the impacts of toxins on 
olfactory-mediated behaviors that are still poorly understood for many fish 
species; and (5) the connections between sublethal effects on individual fish 
and the long-term viability of wild populations. This review summarizes and 
integrates studies on fish olfaction-contaminant interactions, including metrics 
ranging from the molecular to the behavioral, and highlights directions for 
future research.

2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2009.09.019
PMID: 19931199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Gac Sanit. 2010 Jan-Feb;24(1):59-65. doi: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2009.08.004.

[Cost-benefit analysis of concomitant atrial fibrillation management in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

LÃ³pez Gude MJ(1), RodrÃ­guez Bezos D, RodrÃ­guez Barrios JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de CirugÃ­a Cardiaca, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, EspaÃ±a.

OBJECTIVES: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia in clinical 
practice; this disorder is a risk factor for stroke and is associated with 
substantial morbidity and mortality. Our objective was to develop a cost-utility 
analysis of the different treatment alternatives in patients aged 40 years old 
or more with concomitant AF with valve disease in Spain, from the National 
Health System perspective.
METHODS: An economic evaluation through a Markov model with four health states 
(sinus rhythm, AF, dependent stroke, death) was developed to simulate the 
evolution of a cohort of 1,000 patients receiving each treatment alternative in 
addition to mitral valve surgery (drug therapy, surgical ablation and catheter 
ablation). The time horizon was 5 years, with a cycle length of 3 months. Data 
on costs and effects were obtained from the published literature and expert 
opinion and were discounted at 3.5%. A sensitivity analysis was developed to 
determine the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained were 3.29, 3.89, and 
3.83, respectively, for the alternatives of no ablation, surgical ablation and 
catheter ablation. The costs per patient were 5,770euro, 10,034euro and 
11,289euro, respectively. The surgical ablation cost/QALY rate compared with no 
ablation was 7,145euro. Surgical ablation was dominant versus catheter ablation. 
The probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the results were robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical ablation is a cost-effective treatment option in patients 
with concomitant AF, with a cost-effectiveness ratio under the efficiency 
threshold commonly accepted in Spain.

Copyright 2009 SESPAS. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaceta.2009.08.004
PMID: 19931216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Pharmacol Ther. 2010 Jan;125(1):169-79. doi:
10.1016/j.pharmthera.2009.10.010.  Epub 2009 Nov 17.

Metabolic side effects of antipsychotic drug treatment--pharmacological 
mechanisms.

Reynolds GP(1), Kirk SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast BT9 7BL, UK. 
g.reynolds@qub.ac.uk

Obesity and metabolic syndrome, with increased risk of eventual cardiovascular 
disease and type II diabetes, are significant problems for patients receiving 
antipsychotic drugs and are likely contribute to their decreased life 
expectancy. Several drug-related mechanisms may contribute to these problems, 
including effects both influencing food intake and on glucose and lipid 
metabolism. The metabolic consequences of different antipsychotic drugs vary 
substantially; these variations reflect differences in receptor pharmacology and 
provide clues as to the underlying pharmacological mechanisms. The two drugs 
with the greatest effects on body weight, olanzapine and clozapine, also have 
high affinity for the 5-HT2C and histamine H1 receptors, which implicate these 
receptors in antipsychotic-induced weight gain, while peripheral M3 muscarinic 
receptor antagonism as well as central 5-HT2C effects may contribute to 
obesity-independent diabetes. Other receptor mechanisms may have additive or 
synergistic effects; dopamine D2 receptor antagonism can enhance 5-HT2C-mediated 
effects on food intake, as well as influencing lipid and glucose metabolism via 
disinhibition of prolactin secretion. Pharmacogenetic associations of 
drug-induced weight gain with 5-HT2C receptor and leptin gene polymorphisms, 
among others, have provided further clues. Elevated leptin secretion in the 
absence of a decrease in food intake indicates drug-induced leptin insensitivity 
in the hypothalamus. The minimal weight gain seen with ziprasidone and 
aripiprazole may reflect their having further pharmacological effects that 
protect against changes in food intake and related metabolic factors. 
Understanding the pharmacology of metabolic consequences of current 
antipsychotic drug treatment is clearly the key to developing improved 
pharmacotherapies that avoid these problematic and limiting adverse effects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharmthera.2009.10.010
PMID: 19931306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. BMJ. 2009 Nov 23;339:b4956. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b4956.

NICE rules that drug used in advanced liver cancer is not cost effective for the 
NHS.

Mayor S.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b4956
PMID: 19933742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Diabetes Care. 2010 Feb;33(2):258-63. doi: 10.2337/dc09-1232. Epub 2009 Nov
23.

Cost-effectiveness of the diabetes care protocol, a multifaceted computerized 
decision support diabetes management intervention that reduces cardiovascular 
risk.

Cleveringa FG(1), Welsing PM, van den Donk M, Gorter KJ, Niessen LW, Rutten GE, 
Redekop WK.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands. f.g.w.cleveringa@umcutrecht.nl

OBJECTIVE: The Diabetes Care Protocol (DCP), a multifaceted computerized 
decision support diabetes management intervention, reduces cardiovascular risk 
of type 2 diabetic patients. We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of DCP 
from a Dutch health care perspective.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A cluster randomized trial provided data of DCP 
versus usual care. The 1-year follow-up patient data were extrapolated using a 
modified Dutch microsimulation diabetes model, computing individual lifetime 
health-related costs, and health effects. Incremental costs and effectiveness 
(quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) were estimated using multivariate 
generalized estimating equations to correct for practice-level clustering and 
confounding. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were created. Stroke costs were 
calculated separately. Subgroup analyses examined patients with and without 
cardiovascular disease (CVD+ or CVD- patients, respectively).
RESULTS: Excluding stroke, DCP patients lived longer (0.14 life-years, P = NS), 
experienced more QALYs (0.037, P = NS), and incurred higher total costs (euro 
1,415, P = NS), resulting in an ICER of euro 38,243 per QALY gained. The 
likelihood of cost-effectiveness given a willingness-to-pay threshold of euro 
20,000 per QALY gained is 30%. DCP had a more favorable effect on CVD+ patients 
(ICER = euro 14,814) than for CVD- patients (ICER = euro 121,285). Coronary 
heart disease costs were reduced (euro-587, P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: DCP reduces cardiovascular risk, resulting in only a slight 
improvement in QALYs, lower CVD costs, but higher total costs, with a high 
cost-effectiveness ratio. Cost-effective care can be achieved by focusing on 
cardiovascular risk factors in type 2 diabetic patients with a history of CVD.

DOI: 10.2337/dc09-1232
PMCID: PMC2809259
PMID: 19933991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Proc Am Thorac Soc. 2009 Dec 1;6(7):607-13. doi: 10.1513/pats.200908-087RM.

Transforming growth factor-beta signaling across ages: from distorted lung 
development to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Morty RE(1), KÃ¶nigshoff M, Eickelberg O.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Pneumology Center, Ludwig Maximilians University Munich and 
Helmholtz Zentrum MÃ¼nchen, Institute of Lung Biology and Disease (iLBD), 
IngolstÃ¤dter Landstrasse 1, Neuherberg/Munich, Germany.

The transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta superfamily of secreted growth factors 
consists of more than 40 members, including the TGF-beta isoforms themselves, 
bone morphogenetic proteins, and activins. Most of these factors have been shown 
to be essential for proper organ development, a process often recapitulated in 
chronic diseases. Importantly, TGF-beta superfamily members are key regulators 
of extracellular matrix composition and alveolar epithelial cell and fibroblast 
function in the lung. Both during lung development and disease, TGF-betas 
therefore control lung homeostasis by providing the structural requirements and 
functional micromilieu needed for physiological epithelial cell function and 
proper gas exchange. Prolonged alterations of TGF-beta signaling have been shown 
to result in structural changes in the lung that compromise gas exchange and 
lung function, as seen in arrested lung development, a feature of 
bronchopulmonary dysplasia, lung fibrosis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. All these syndromes share a loss of functional alveolar structures, 
which ultimately leads to a decreased life expectancy. In this review, we cover 
our current understanding of the impact of TGF-beta signaling on chronic lung 
disease. We focus on distorted TGF-beta signaling in bronchopulmonary dysplasia 
and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease as prototype diseases of the premature 
and matured lung, respectively, which are both characterized by functional and 
structural loss of alveolar units.

DOI: 10.1513/pats.200908-087RM
PMID: 19934357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Aging Health. 2010 Feb;22(1):120-40. doi: 10.1177/0898264309351932. Epub
2009  Nov 24.

Changes in the prevalence of mobility limitations and mobile life expectancy of 
older adults in Singapore, 1995-2005.

Yong V(1), Saito Y, Chan A.

Author information:
(1)Nihon University Population Research Institute, 12-5 Goban-cho, Chiyoda-ku, 
Tokyo 102-8251, Japan. vanessa.yong@nihon-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: To examine changes in the prevalence of mobility limitations and 
mobile life expectancy of Singaporeans aged 55+.
METHOD: Data came from the cross-sectional 1995 and 2005 National Survey of 
Senior Citizens (NSSC; n = 4,750 and n = 4,591, respectively). The 
prevalence-based Sullivan method was used to disaggregate total life expectancy 
into expected life time without and with mobility limitations.
RESULTS: Increases in life expectancy in the city-state were accompanied by 
increases in the prevalence of mobility limitations-from 3.0% to 5.7% for men 
and 5.1% to 9.7% for women. The impairments mostly began after age 65 and 
increased with age particularly at ages 85+. The proportion of life expectancy 
without mobility limitations declined over time, at all ages, and for both 
genders, with women still experiencing a higher proportion with mobility 
problems compared to men.
DISCUSSION: The overall results provided support for the expansion of morbidity 
hypothesis, and we discussed some possible reasons. From a policy perspective, 
the findings could suggest a need to develop infrastructures that would enable 
older Singaporeans to remain mobile in a highly urban setting.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264309351932
PMID: 19934444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. J Craniofac Surg. 2009 Nov;20(6):2251-6. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3181bfc3a7.

Nasopharyngeal encephalocele: report of transcranial and transpalatal repair 
with a 25-year follow-up.

Lesavoy MA(1), Nguyen DT, Yospur G, Dickinson BP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, UCLA School of Medicine, 16311 
Ventura Blvd, Suite 550, Encino CA 91426-4314, USA. Drlesavoy@aol.com

BACKGROUND: : Encephaloceles are an extension or protrusion of any intracranial 
matter through a cranial bone defect. The sphenoethmoidal encephalocele is often 
fatal. For those who survive long enough, expeditious repair is critical. We 
report a case that was repaired successfully via a combined transcranial and 
transpalatal approach, and because of successful repair, the patient underwent 
multiple secondary reconstructions resulting in a 25-year follow-up.
CLINICAL REPORT: : A 3960-g, term male infant from a normal gestation was 
delivered via cesarean delivery for breech position. Initial examination 
revealed a 2 x 3-cm gray intraoral nasopharyngeal mass with smooth mucosal 
covering extruding through a midline palatal cleft. At 4 weeks of life, 
extradural and intradural exploration of the encephalocele was performed via a 
bifrontal craniotomy. At 15 months of age, the patient underwent median cleft 
lip repair. At 6 years of age, hypertelorism was corrected by wedge resection of 
the frontal and nasal bones and medial mobilization of the orbits. Follow-up was 
continued until 25 years of age, which revealed excellent maintenance of 
correction.
CONCLUSION: : Sphenoethmoidal encephalocele is a rare sporadic congenital 
cranial floor defect associated with typical facial and cerebral anomalies. 
Encephaloceles extending into the nasopharynx may cause airway obstruction and 
feeding difficulty and present a potential pathway for central nervous system 
infection. Repair of the encephalocele should then be performed as soon as 
possible. Care of patients with nasopharyngeal encephaloceles requires a 
lifetime of reconstructive surgery. Care of these patients can be rewarding to 
both families and surgeons.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3181bfc3a7
PMID: 19934685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2009 Oct 1;34(21):2318-23. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181adb296.

Posterior spinal fusion versus anterior/posterior spinal fusion for adolescent 
idiopathic scoliosis: a decision analysis.

Davis MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Grace Cottage Hospital, Townshend, VT 05353, USA. mdavis@gracecottage.org

STUDY DESIGN: Decision analysis.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the optimum surgical strategy for skeletally immature 
females with large idiopathic spinal curves.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Curve progression after posterior instrumentation is 
a concern for skeletally immature patients with large scoliotic curves. 
Anterior/posterior spinal fusion is preferred by some surgeons to treat this 
specific population. Combined fusions carry higher inherent risk of pulmonary 
and neurologic complication. Large data sets of complication rates have only 
recently become available. To date no direct comparison between the 2 approaches 
has been made using the most recent data.
METHODS: A model was constructed to compare the effectiveness of the 2 surgical 
approaches. Rates of complications and revisions were acquired from the surgical 
literature. Utilities were obtained from earlier studies and conversion of SF-36 
data for the health states included the model. Effectiveness was measured by 
quality-adjusted life years. Sensitivity analysis was used to test the 
robustness of the model and identify variables that impact the clinical 
decision.
RESULTS: The results of our model showed anterior/posterior spinal fusion to be 
the preferred surgical approach for treating scoliosis in skeletally immature 
females. Anterior/posterior spinal fusion resulted in a net gain of 6.17 
quality-adjusted life years. Variables that impacted the results of the model 
were the probability of curve progression for the 2 surgical approaches and the 
surgical mortality of anterior/posterior spinal fusion. Curve progression rates 
vary considerably in the literature and are based on small samples and dated 
surgical techniques.
CONCLUSION: Our model favors anterior/posterior spinal fusion for surgical 
correction of large thoracic curves in skeletally immature females. The 
probability of curve progression after spinal fusion is the main variable that 
dictates the optimal surgical approach and rates in the literature are based on 
outdated surgical instrumentation. Future observational studies are warranted to 
acquire more accurate curve progression rates.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181adb296
PMID: 19934812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 May;105(5):1087-93. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2009.660. Epub
 2009 Nov 24.

Severe complications limit long-term clinical success of self-expanding metal 
stents in patients with obstructive colorectal cancer.

FernÃ¡ndez-Esparrach G(1), Bordas JM, GirÃ¡ldez MD, GinÃ¨s A, PellisÃ© M, Sendino O, 
MartÃ­nez-PallÃ­ G, Castells A, Llach J.

Author information:
(1)Endoscopy Unit, Hospital Clinic, IDIBAPS, CIBEREHD, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain. mgfernan@clinic.ub.es

Comment in
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 May;105(5):1209; author reply 1209-10.
    Am J Gastroenterol. 2010 Jul;105(7):1670; author reply 1670-1.

OBJECTIVES: Self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) are increasingly being used to 
treat malignant colorectal obstruction. However, complications have been 
reported in up to 50% of patients. There is limited information on long-term 
outcomes of these patients. The aim of this study was to retrospectively assess 
the long-term clinical success of SEMS in patients with malignant colorectal 
obstruction in a single tertiary center and to identify possible predictive 
factors of developing complications.
METHODS: A total of 47 attempts to insert colorectal SEMS were made in 47 
patients during a 5-year period. Stents of 9-cm length were placed under 
endoscopic and radiologic monitoring. After 24 h, all patients underwent 
abdominal X-ray to verify correct positioning of the stent. Patients were 
followed at the outpatient clinic.
RESULTS: Insertion success was achieved in 44 (94%) patients. Acceptable initial 
colonic decompression was observed in 44 out of 47 (94%) attempts and in all 
(100%) successfully inserted stents. The stents were placed in the rectum (n=7, 
15%), sigmoid (n=33, 70%), left colon (n=4, 9%), or anastomosis (n=3, 6%). The 
majority of patients had stage IV disease (n=40, 85%). SEMS served as a bridge 
to scheduled surgery in 9 (20%) patients and as a palliative definitive 
treatment in 38 (80%) cases. Three patients were lost to follow-up, so the 
outcome was evaluated in 41 patients. Long-term clinical failure occurred in 21 
(51%) patients and was due to complications such as: migration (n=9, 22%), 
obstruction (n=7, 17%), perforation (n=3, 7%), and tenesmus (n=2, 5%). 
Perforations occurred 3, 4, and 34 days after insertion, and all patients died. 
In the bridge-to-surgery group, primary anastomosis was possible in only four of 
nine patients (44%). Clinical failure was not associated with any tumor-related 
factor. However, eight of nine patients with stent migration and two of three 
patients with perforation had been previously treated with chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Placement of SEMS does not seem to be as effective as suggested 
because of late complications. For patients with potentially curable lesions, 
the use of colonic stents for malignant obstruction should only be considered 
when surgery is scheduled shortly after the stent insertion. Moreover, in 
patients with incurable obstructing colorectal cancer eligible for chemotherapy 
and a long life expectancy, palliative treatments other than SEMS should be 
considered.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2009.660
PMID: 19935785 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. J Headache Pain. 2010 Feb;11(1):23-31. doi: 10.1007/s10194-009-0169-4.

Safety and efficacy of deep brain stimulation in refractory cluster headache: a 
randomized placebo-controlled double-blind trial followed by a 1-year open 
extension.

Fontaine D(1), Lazorthes Y, Mertens P, Blond S, GÃ©raud G, Fabre N, Navez M, 
Lucas C, Dubois F, Gonfrier S, Paquis P, LantÃ©ri-Minet M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Nice, Nice, 
France. fontaine.d@chu-nice.fr

Comment in
    J Headache Pain. 2010 Feb;11(1):21-2.

Chronic cluster headache (CCH) is a disabling primary headache, considering the 
severity and frequency of pain attacks. Deep brain stimulation (DBS) has been 
used to treat severe refractory CCH, but assessment of its efficacy has been 
limited to open studies. We performed a prospective crossover, double-blind, 
multicenter study assessing the efficacy and safety of unilateral hypothalamic 
DBS in 11 patients with severe refractory CCH. The randomized phase compared 
active and sham stimulation during 1-month periods, and was followed by a 1-year 
open phase. The severity of CCH was assessed by the weekly attacks frequency 
(primary outcome), pain intensity,sumatriptan injections, emotional impact (HAD) 
and quality of life (SF12). Tolerance was assessed by active surveillance of 
behavior, homeostatic and hormonal functions.During the randomized phase, no 
significant change in primary and secondary outcome measures was observed 
between active and sham stimulation. At the end of the open phase, 6/11 
responded to the chronic stimulation(weekly frequency of attacks decrease [50%), 
including three pain-free patients. There were three serious adverse events, 
including subcutaneous infection, transient loss of consciousness and 
micturition syncopes. No significant change in hormonal functions or 
electrolytic balance was observed. Randomized phase findings of this study did 
not support the efficacy of DBS in refractory CCH, but open phase findings 
suggested long-term efficacy in more than 50% patients, confirming previous 
data, without high morbidity. Discrepancy between these findings justifies 
additional controlled studies (clinicaltrials.gov number NCT00662935).

DOI: 10.1007/s10194-009-0169-4
PMCID: PMC3452182
PMID: 19936616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. J Neurooncol. 2010 May;98(1):109-16. doi: 10.1007/s11060-009-0069-0. Epub
2009  Nov 24.

Antiepileptics in brain metastases: safety, efficacy and impact on life 
expectancy.

Maschio M(1), Dinapoli L, Gomellini S, Ferraresi V, Sperati F, Vidiri A, Muti P, 
Jandolo B.

Author information:
(1)Center for Tumor-Related Epilepsy, Department of Neuroscience and 
Cervical-Facial Pathology, National Institute for Cancer Regina Elena, Via Elio 
Chianesi 53, 00144, Rome, Italy. maschio@ifo.it

The aim of the study was to evaluate efficacy, safety and impact on life 
expectancy of levetiracetam (LEV), oxcarbazepine (OXC) and topiramate (TPM) 
monotherapy in patients with seizures related to brain metastases. We conducted 
a prospective observational study on 70 patients with brain metastases. Thirteen 
patients were excluded because they were in prophylactic therapy with 
antiepileptics, nine patients did not return to our Center. A total of 48 
patients with epilepsy related to brain metastases were enrolled. Patients were 
treated with LEV, OXC and TPM in monotherapy and followed until their death. 
Eighteen patients dropped out. Therefore, we followed 30 patients. Mean duration 
of follow-up was 6.1 months. Upon visiting the patients prior to their death 
(i.e. last visit preceding the death of the patients), we observed a significant 
reduction (P < 0.001) in the mean monthly seizure frequency; with 19 patients 
(63.3%) obtaining complete seizure control in the whole population. A 
significant improvement of seizure frequency was also observed considering each 
antiepileptic treatment group separately. Median survival time was similar among 
the three groups of patients and was similar to Class I of prognostic factors of 
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Logistic regression showed that systemic 
treatments did not influence the antiepileptics' efficacy on seizure control (P 
= 0.614). In conclusion, regarding the use of newer antiepileptics in patients 
with seizures related to brain metastases, our data indicate that LEV, OXC and 
TPM significantly reduce seizure frequency (independently of systemic 
treatment), produce few side effects and appear not to affect life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-009-0069-0
PMID: 19937087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Osteoporos Int. 2010 Sep;21(9):1573-84. doi: 10.1007/s00198-009-1114-8. Epub
 2009 Nov 24.

Cost-effectiveness of multifaceted evidence implementation programs for the 
prevention of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis.

Beukelman T(1), Saag KG, Curtis JR, Kilgore ML, Pisu M.

Author information:
(1)University of Alabama at Birmingham, Deep South Musculoskeletal Center for 
Education and Research on Therapeutics, Birmingham, AL 35294-3408, USA. 
tbeukelman@peds.uab.edu

SUMMARY: Using a computer simulation model, we determined that an intervention 
aimed at improving the management of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis is 
likely to be cost-effective to third-party health insurers only if it focuses on 
individuals with very high fracture risk and the proportion of prescriptions for 
generic bisphosphonates increases substantially.
INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study is to determine whether an evidence 
implementation program (intervention) focused on increasing appropriate 
management of glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP) might be cost-effective 
compared with current practice (no intervention) from the perspective of a 
third-party health insurer.
METHODS: We developed a Markov microsimulation model to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of the intervention. The hypothetical patient cohort was of 
current chronic glucocorticoid users 50-65 years old and 70% female. Model 
parameters were derived from published literature, and sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: The intervention resulted in incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) of $298,000 per quality adjusted life year (QALY) and $206,000 per hip 
fracture averted. If the cohort's baseline risk of fracture was increased by 50% 
