South Asia, were reviewed along with information regarding processes involved in 
the production and possible reduction of trans fats.

PMID: 19916365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Bioconjug Chem. 2009 Dec;20(12):2286-92. doi: 10.1021/bc9002772.

New strategy for the extension of the serum half-life of antibody fragments.

Tr√ºssel S(1), Dumelin C, Frey K, Villa A, Buller F, Neri D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Applied Biosciences, Institute of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, and Philochem AG, ETH Zurich, Wolfgang-Pauli-Str. 10, CH-8093 Zurich, 
Switzerland.

Antibody fragments can recognize their cognate antigen with high affinity and 
can be produced at high yields, but generally display rapid blood clearance 
profiles. For pharmaceutical applications, the serum half-life of antibody 
fragments is often extended by chemical modification with polymers or by genetic 
fusion to albumin or albumin-binding polypeptides. Here, we report that the 
site-specific chemical modification of a C-terminal cysteine residue in scFv 
antibody fragments with a small organic molecule capable of high-affinity 
binding to serum albumin substantially extends serum half-life in rodents. The 
strategy was implemented using the antibody fragment F8, specific to the 
alternatively spliced EDA domain of fibronectin, a tumor-associated antigen. The 
unmodified and chemically modified scFv-F8 antibody fragments were studied by 
biodistribution analysis in tumor-bearing mice, exhibiting a dramatic increase 
in tumor uptake for the albumin-binding antibody derivative. The data presented 
in this paper indicate that the chemical modification of the antibody fragment 
with the 2-(3-maleimidopropanamido)-6-(4-(4-iodophenyl)butanamido)hexanoate 
albumin-binding moiety may represent a general strategy for the extension of the 
serum half-life of antibody fragments and for the improvement of their in vivo 
targeting performance.

DOI: 10.1021/bc9002772
PMID: 19916518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Acta Orthop. 2009 Oct;80(5):525-30. doi: 10.3109/17453670903316835.

Loss of life years after a hip fracture.

Vestergaard P(1), Rejnmark L, Mosekilde L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Aarhus University Hospital, 
Aarhus, Denmark. p-vest@post4.tele.dk

BACKGROUND: Patients with a hip fracture have a high mortality; however, it is 
not clear how large the loss of life-years is over an extended observation 
period.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: This was a cohort study involving all patients in Denmark 
who suffered a hip fracture between 1977 and 2001 (n = 169,145). The survival 
rate for these patients was compared to that for age- and sex-matched subjects 
without a hip fracture (n = 524,010).
RESULTS: There was a substantial degree of excess mortality, with a pronounced 
variation in age and sex. The absolute number of life-years lost compared to 
age-matched subjects without a hip fracture was larger in younger subjects than 
in older subjects (men aged 51-60 years lived 7.5 years less on average while 
men over 80 years of age lived 3 years less). Expressed as a percentage, 
however, older subjects had the largest relative loss of expected remaining 
years of life. Men < or = 50 years of age lost 18% of their expected remaining 
years of life, as opposed to men > 80 years of age who lost as much as 58% of 
their expected remaining years of life. In women, the trend was similar but less 
pronounced (27% loss in women < or = 50 years of age vs. 38% in women > 80 years 
of age).
INTERPRETATION: A large proportion of the estimated remaining life is lost after 
a hip fracture, even in younger patients. Prevention may save life years, 
although not all of the years lost after a hip fracture may be due to the hip 
fracture per se.

DOI: 10.3109/17453670903316835
PMCID: PMC2823336
PMID: 19916683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Jan;26(1):109-19. doi: 10.1185/03007990903433528.

Contribution of impaired mobility to patient burden in multiple sclerosis.

Sutliff MH(1).

Author information:
(1)Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis Treatment and Research, The Cleveland 
Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. sutlifm@ccf.org

BACKGROUND: Multiple sclerosis (MS) is frequently diagnosed during a person's 
most productive years, and because life expectancy for patients with MS 
approaches that of the general population, MS is associated with a considerable 
economic burden from medical costs and lost productivity. In addition, there is 
a substantial negative impact on quality of life (QOL) and activities of daily 
living (ADL). While change in walking ability often is the most visible sign of 
MS, and the classic clinical manifestation, few studies have evaluated the 
relationship between mobility impairment and patient-reported outcomes like ADL 
and QOL. The purpose of this article is to review the contribution of mobility 
impairment to patient-reported outcomes in persons with MS.
METHODS: Searches of PubMed were performed to identify studies from the MS 
literature, from January 1980 through November 2008, that evaluated the 
contribution of mobility to the patient burden of disease. Abstracts identified 
using the search terms 'multiple sclerosis AND (walking OR mobility)' in 
combination with the terms 'burden,' 'costs,' 'quality of life,' 'activities of 
daily living,' 'independence,' and 'productivity' were reviewed for relevancy 
for inclusion.
FINDINGS: Although impaired mobility is more apparent with greater disease 
duration and at higher levels of disability, it may be present even in the early 
stages of MS. Maintaining mobility is ranked as one of the highest priorities 
among patients with MS, regardless of disease duration or disability level. 
Several studies have demonstrated that loss of mobility contributes to a 
substantial patient burden. The statistical technique of path analysis has shown 
how difficulty walking significantly affects physical activity in patients with 
MS. Impaired mobility is associated with reductions in QOL, ADL, and 
productivity. The primary concern related to patient independence among persons 
with MS, regardless of their status, is loss of mobility. It should be noted 
that limitations inherent in some of the studies, including heterogeneity in 
methodology and MS populations, may limit their generalizability.
CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the need for more comprehensive assessments 
of walking impairment in patients with MS and further evaluation from the 
patient's perspective.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903433528
PMID: 19916707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Transplant Proc. 2009 Nov;41(9):3743-6. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.06.232.

Predictors of hypertension following successful renal transplantation: a 
population-based study.

Bohlke M(1), Barcellos FC, Rocha M, Gomes RH, Terhorst L, Marini SS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology Universidade Catolica de Pelotas, Pelotas, Rio 
Grande do Sul, Brazil. mbohlke.sul@terra.com.br

INTRODUCTION: Hypertension is common following renal transplantation. It is 
associated with poorer graft survival as well as reduced expectancy and quality 
of life among transplant recipients. This study sought to evaluate the 
prevalence of hypertension and its predictors among a representative sample of 
the population of adult kidney transplant recipients in southern Brazil.
METHODS: This cross-sectional, multicenter study evaluated 272 adult kidney 
transplant recipients. The patients were classified as hypertensive if there was 
a previous diagnosis of high blood pressure and/or they were receiving 
antihypertensive drugs. The analysis used multivariate linear regression with 
the number of antihypertensive agents as a dependent variable.
RESULTS: The final regression model showed that patient age (beta 0.23; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.04-0.43; P = .02), nonwhite skin color (beta 0.32; 
95% CI, 0.09-0.54; P = .005), serum creatinine reciprocal square root (beta 
0.15; 95% CI, 0.0001-0.30; P = .05), steroid use (beta 0.62; 95% CI, 0.28-0.95; 
P < .001), and cyclosporine prescription (beta 0.39; 95% CI, 0.19-0.59; P < 
.001) were independent predictors of a greater number of antihypertensive drugs.
CONCLUSIONS: This study analyzed high blood pressure predictors among a 
representative sample of a kidney transplant population. Its findings confirmed 
previous reports that cyclosporine and steroid use are independent predictors of 
high blood pressure after kidney transplantation, as are older age, nonwhite 
skin color, and reduced allograft function. The association of cyclosporine and 
steroid use with the need for a greater number of antihypertensive agents after 
kidney transplantation must be considered in the choice of an immunosuppressive 
regimen.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.06.232
PMID: 19917378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Transplant Proc. 2009 Nov;41(9):3796-9. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.06.186.

Antiretroviral and immunosuppressive drug-drug interactions in human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected liver and kidney transplant recipients.

Marfo K(1), Greenstein S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy and Transplant Surgery, Montefiore Medical Center, 
Bronx, NY, USA.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly reduced 
mortality, and prolonged life expectancy of human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)-positive patients. Such improvements have led to increasing numbers of 
HIV-infected patients with end-stage organ disease as potential candidates for 
transplantation. A HAART regimen usually consists of a combination of nucleoside 
reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI), non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors (NNRTI), and/or protease inhibitors (PI). PI are known to strongly 
inhibit the cytochrome P450 3A (CYP3A) enzyme system that is responsible for the 
metabolism of immunosuppressive drugs, such as tacrolimus, sirolimus, and 
cyclosporine. Besides these pharmacokinetic drug-drug interactions, potential 
pharmacodynamic drug-drug interactions may also occur with concomitant HAART and 
antimetabolites, such as mycophenolate mofetil. An approach to immunosuppressive 
management in HIV-infected organ transplant recipients requires attention to 
such complexities as unique drug-drug interactions and increased drug-related 
toxicities.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2009.06.186
PMID: 19917390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2010 Mar;10(3):389-93. doi: 
10.1510/icvts.2009.210567. Epub 2009 Nov 16.

Short- and medium-term survival following coronary artery bypass surgery in 
British Indo-Asian and white Caucasian individuals: impact of diabetes mellitus.

Hadjinikolaou L(1), Klimatsidas M, Maria Iacona G, Spyt T, Samani NJ.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, Leicester, UK. 
leonidas.hadjinikolaou@uhl-tr.nhs.uk

Previous studies have suggested that South Asian (SA) ethnicity is a predictor 
of poorer outcome after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Our aim was to 
identify potential reasons for the higher postoperative mortality in SA patients 
and investigate all these reasons. All individuals undergoing isolated CABG in a 
tertiary cardiac centre from April 2002 to September 2007. In total, there were 
2897 subjects (2623 white subjects; 274 SA subjects) who were included in an 
observational study showing the effect of ethnicity on the medium-term survival 
following CABG. Survival at 30 days and survival up to five years (median 2.7 
years) were measured. SA subjects undergoing CABG were younger (62+/-9 vs. 
66+/-9 years, P<0.001), less obese [body mass index (BMI) 26+/-4 vs. 28+/-4 
kg/m(2), P<0.001] and had a higher prevalence of diabetes mellitus (58% vs. 33%, 
P<0.001) compared with white subjects. Thirty-day mortality was higher in SA 
subjects (2.6% vs. 1.0%, P=0.02). Non-diabetic SA had similar 30-day mortality, 
five-year survival and life expectancy compared to non-diabetic white subjects. 
In contrast, diabetic SA had a higher 30-day mortality (3.8% vs. 1.4%, P=0.01) 
and worse life expectancy compared to diabetic white subjects. The higher early 
postoperative mortality observed in SA patients is related to higher incidence 
of diabetes among them. SA diabetics have a significantly higher postoperative 
mortality and worse overall life expectancy. Ethnicity per se is not an 
independent predictor of short- or medium-term survival after CABG.

DOI: 10.1510/icvts.2009.210567
PMID: 19917552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2010 Jan;44(1):5-13. doi: 10.1177/1538574409344225.
Epub  2009 Nov 16.

Diagnosis and management of aortic mycotic aneurysms.

Leon LR Jr(1), Mills JL Sr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Tucson Medical Center, Tucson, AZ, USA. 
chrisandluis@yahoo.com

We reviewed all papers most recently reported in the literature 
(January-December 2008) with regard to infected arterial aneurysms (IAAs) 
affecting the aorta. Most of the recently reported knowledge is limited to case 
reports and small series of aortic mycotic aneurysms. Most patients are elderly 
men and have comorbidities at presentation. Aneurysms were most commonly 
associated to Salmonella and Staphylococcus. However, several cases of aortic 
IAAs caused by atypical pathogens were also reported, likely due to an increase 
in immunosuppressive illnesses, increased life expectancy, improved diagnostic 
methods, and increasing medical awareness. Open surgical therapy of IAAs remains 
the gold standard. Some have reported successful outcomes with endovascular 
methodologies for patients medically compromised or for particular challenging 
clinical or anatomical scenarios. However, at this time, conclusive evidence is 
lacking and it should be in general considered a bridge to open repair. The 
latter should be planned at the earliest possible, when medically permissible.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574409344225
PMID: 19917561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Jan 1;28(1):99-104. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.23.5051. Epub
2009  Nov 16.

Tubular carcinoma of the breast: further evidence to support its excellent 
prognosis.

Rakha EA(1), Lee AH, Evans AJ, Menon S, Assad NY, Hodi Z, Macmillan D, Blamey 
RW, Ellis IO.

Author information:
(1)FRCPath, Molecular Medical Sciences, University of Nottingham, Department of 
Histopathology, Nottingham City Hospital National Health Service Trust, Hucknall 
Rd, Nottingham, NG5 1PB, United Kingdom. Emad.rakha@nuh.nhs.uk

Comment in
    Eur J Surg Oncol. 2016 Jun;42(6):911-2.

PURPOSE Although tubular carcinoma (TC) is known to have a favorable prognosis, 
it is still unknown whether this subtype represents a distinct type of breast 
carcinoma or whether it behaves like other low-grade luminal A-type breast 
carcinomas. METHODS In this study, we performed a retrospective analysis of a 
large well-characterized series of breast cancers (2,608 carcinomas) to assess 
the clinicopathologic and molecular features and prognostic value of TC compared 
with grade 1 ductal carcinomas of the breast. Results When compared with grade 1 
ductal carcinoma (n = 212), TC (n = 102) was more likely to be detected on 
mammographic screening, had smaller median size, and less frequently showed 
lymphovascular invasion. Compared with grade 1 ductal carcinoma, TC was 
associated with longer disease-free survival (chi(2) = 13.25, P < .001) and 
breast cancer-specific survival (chi(2) = 8.8, P = .003). In this study, none of 
the patients with TC developed distant metastasis or died from the disease 
without an intervening recurrence as invasive carcinoma of different histologic 
type. CONCLUSION We conclude that the biologic behavior of TC is excellent and 
is more favorable than that of grade 1 ductal carcinoma. Patients with TC may be 
at risk of developing second primary carcinomas in the contralateral breast, 
which may be of higher grade and poorer potential prognostic outcome. In 
addition, patients with TC seem to have a close to normal life expectancy, and 
as a consequence, adjuvant systemic therapy may not be justified in their 
routine management.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.23.5051
PMID: 19917872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Rev Assoc Med Bras (1992). 2009 Sep-Oct;55(5):535-40. doi: 
10.1590/s0104-42302009000500015.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of adjuvant anastrozol in post-menopausal women 
with breast cancer].

[Article in Portuguese]

Sasse AD(1), Sasse EC.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ci√™ncias M√©dicas, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, 
SP.

OBJECTIVES: Carry out an economic analysis of the incorporation of anastrozole 
as adjuvant hormone therapy in postmenopausal women with breast cancer in a 
Brazilian setting.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness estimate comparing anastrozole to tamoxifen was 
made from the perspectives of the patient, private health insurance, and 
government. A Markov model was designed based on data from ATAC trial after 100 
months follow-up in a hypothetical cohort of 1000 postmenopausal women in 
Brazil, using outcomes projections for a 25-year period. Resource utilization 
and associated costs were obtained from preselected sources and specialists' 
opinions. Treatment costs varied according to the perspective used. The 
incremental benefit was inserted in the model to obtain the cost of 
quality-adjusted life-year gained (QALY).
RESULTS: Benefit extrapolations for a 25-year time line showed an estimate of 
0.29 QALY gained with anastrozole compared to tamoxifen. The cost-effectiveness 
ratio per QALY gained depended on which perspective was used. There was an 
increment of R$ 32.403,00/QALY in the public health system/government, R$ 
32.230,00/QALY for private health system, and R$ 55.270,00/QALY for patients.
CONCLUSION: The benefit from adjuvant anastrozole in postmenopausal patients 
with breast cancer is associated to major differences in cost-effectiveness 
ratio and varies with the different perspectives. According to current WHO 
parameters, the increment is considered acceptable under public and private 
health system perspectives, but not from that of the patient.

DOI: 10.1590/s0104-42302009000500015
PMID: 19918652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Jan;26(1):151-62. doi: 10.1185/03007990903400071.

Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) for type 2 diabetes patients treated 
with oral anti-diabetes drugs and with a recent history of monitoring: 
cost-effectiveness in the US.

Tunis SL(1), Minshall ME.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Inc., Falls Church, VA 22046, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Stakeholders in the US and elsewhere are interested in 
country-specific and cohort-specific information with which to assess the 
long-term value of self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) for patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) on oral anti-diabetes drugs (OADs). This study 
modeled the cost-effectiveness of SMBG at frequencies of once, twice, or three 
times per day for this population, and included those who had used SMBG in the 
prior year.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Based on clinical findings of a longitudinal Kaiser 
Permanente study, a validated model was used to project 40-year clinical and 
economic outcomes for SMBG at (averages of) once, twice, or three times per day 
versus no SMBG. Baseline HbA1c (7.6%), age and gender represented the Kaiser 
study 'prevalent' SMBG users cohort. Unit costs came primarily from a 2003 
published article; inflated to US$2006. Outcomes were discounted at 3% per 
annum, with sensitivity analyses on discount rates and time horizons. Analyses 
were conducted from a third-party payer perspective in the US, including only 
direct costs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcomes were differences in total costs, 
cumulative incidence of complications, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs); and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: For patients using SMBG once, twice, or three times per day, relative 
risks over 40 years were lower for 14 of 16 complications and slightly higher 
for 2 complications. Compared to 'no SMBG,' QALYs increased with SMBG frequency: 
0.047, 0.116, and 0.132 QALYs for SMBG once, twice, and three times per day, 
respectively. Some increased costs with SMBG were offset by reductions in costs 
for several diabetes-related complications. Corresponding ICERs were $26,206, 
$18,572 and $25,436/QALY gained. Results were most sensitive to time horizon, 
with SMBG not cost-effective over a 5-year simulation period.
CONCLUSIONS: Study limitations include the use of relatively short-term 
observational data, unknown levels of patient adherence, and assumptions 
regarding the duration of clinical effects. Results showed that compared to no 
SMBG, base case ICERs for each of the three SMBG frequencies examined were below 
$30,000, and that a portion of the increased costs associated with SMBG were 
offset by reductions in complication costs, and by modest increases in QALYs. 
Results add to the literature addressing the cost-effectiveness of SMBG as a 
component of care for T2DM patients on OADs, and in particular those with 
monitoring experience within the previous year.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903400071
PMID: 19919376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Jan;26(1):163-75. doi: 10.1185/03007990903429765.

Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) in patients with type 2 diabetes on oral 
anti-diabetes drugs: cost-effectiveness in France, Germany, Italy, and Spain.

Tunis SL(1), Willis WD, Foos V.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Inc. Falls Church, VA 22046, USA. stunis@us.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVE: Stakeholders in Europe remain interested in assessments of 
country-specific value of self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) for patients 
with type 2 diabetes treated with oral anti-diabetes drugs (OADs). This study 
used the IMS-CORE Diabetes Model to project the long-term (40-year) 
cost-effectiveness of SMBG at once, twice, or three times per day (vs. no SMBG) 
for this population from national reimbursement system perspectives in France, 
Germany, Italy, and Spain.
METHODS: SMBG input costs (strips, lancets, meters, nurse training) were 
supplied by LifeScan in 2007 euro values and applied as appropriate for each 
country's reimbursement policy. Cohort characteristics and assumed Hb(A1c) 
effects came from a US Kaiser Permanente longitudinal analysis of new SMBG 
users. Country-specific estimations for use of screening programs and several 
concomitant medications, as well as mortality rates were used. Country-specific 
complication costs from published sources were inflated to 2007 euro. Base case 
outcomes were discounted at 3% per annum for France, Germany, and Italy; 6% for 
Spain. Sensitivity analyses varied time horizon and discount rates for each 
country. They also included a -0.036 dis-utility for SMBG in year 1.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcomes included total direct costs, gains in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) over 40 years.
RESULTS: ICERs were largest in France (with meter costs included), and in Italy 
(with highest reimbursed costs for strips/lancets). ICERs for SMBG once, twice, 
and three times per day were 12,114 euros, 6282 euros, and 7958 euros 
(respectively) in France; and 12,694 euros, 11,934 euros, and 15,368 euros in 
Italy. ICERs for SMBG once or twice per day were <2000 euros in Germany and 
<4000 euros in Spain. ICERs for SMBG three times per day were <6000 euros/QALY 
in both countries. Results were most sensitive to the 5-year time horizon, 
although ICERs for SMBG once per day were below 50,000 euros/QALY in all 
countries but Italy (ICER = 77,064 euros). Five-year ICERs for SMBG twice per 
day were below 40,000 euros/QALY for all four countries, and those for SMBG 
three times per day were below 45,000 euros/QALY. With the SMBG dis-utility, 
ICERs increased modestly (321 euros- 2264 euros/QALY) in all scenarios except 
SMBG once per day in France (9578 euros increase) and Italy (5979 euros 
increase). Study limitations include the use of relatively short-term data from 
a single US observational study for SMBG clinical effects, unknown levels of 
patient adherence, and assumptions regarding the duration of clinical effects.
CONCLUSIONS: With cost assumptions reflecting current reimbursement levels in 
France, Germany, Italy, and Spain, SMBG was found to be cost-effective across a 
40-year time horizon, with all base case ICERs <16,000/QALY. This study adds to 
the literature on the country-specific, long-term value of SMBG for type 2 
diabetes patients treated with OADs. Under current model assumptions, variations 
in cost-effectiveness results stemmed primarily from payer reimbursement 
practices for SMBG within each country.

DOI: 10.1185/03007990903429765
PMID: 19919377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Clin Neuropathol. 2009 Nov-Dec;28(6):440-4. doi: 10.5414/npp28440.

Intracranial cholesteatoma - case report and critical review.

Habesoglu TE(1), Balak N, Habesoglu M, Zemheri E, Isik N, Elmaci I, Egeli E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Haydarpasa Numune Education and Research 
Hospital, Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Chronic otitis media is a potentially serious disease because of its 
complications, most of which are common in conjunction with cholesteatomas. 
There is variance in the terminology used by neurosurgeons, 
otorhinolaryngologists and neuropathologists. Synonyms for cholesteatoma found 
in the literature include epidermoid tumor, epidermoid cysts and epithelial 
inclusion cyst. Intracranial extension of an acquired cholesteatoma is a rarely 
documented occurrence.
PATIENTS/MATERIAL AND METHODS: A 47-year-old woman who had undergone a right 
tympanomastoidectomy 20 years previously, presented with a long history of mild 
headaches that had become progressively more severe over the last 3 years. 
Clinical and radiological evaluation of the patient raised the suspicion of an 
intracranial cholesteatoma.
RESULTS: A right temporal craniotomy was performed. The mass was completely 
excised and histopathological study revealed the tumor to be a cholesteatoma. 
The patient's post-operative recovery was uneventful.
CONCLUSIONS: Cholesteatomas possess the capacity for eroding bone and can have 
an insidious onset, but once established, grows relentlessly and destroys 
neighboring structures. Since a gradual intracranial involvement does not 
usually cause acute symptoms of increased intracranial pressure, the correct 
diagnosis may be difficult. Detailed clinical and radiographic studies in 
particular are diagnostically helpful. Because of the high incidence of delayed 
recurrence, life-long follow-up is required. The inconsistency in the 
histopathological classification of intracranial cholesteatomas should be 
clarified.

DOI: 10.5414/npp28440
PMID: 19919818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Circ Heart Fail. 2009 Nov;2(6):616-23. doi:
10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.109.869743.  Epub 2009 Sep 24.

Association of blood pressure at hospital discharge with mortality in patients 
diagnosed with heart failure.

Lee DS(1), Ghosh N, Floras JS, Newton GE, Austin PC, Wang X, Liu PP, Stukel TA, 
Tu JV.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Ontario, Canada. dlee@ices.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Higher blood pressure in acute heart failure has been associated 
with improved survival; however, the relationship between blood pressure and 
survival in stabilized patients at hospital discharge has not been established.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In 7448 patients with heart failure (75.2+/-11.5 years; 
49.9% men) discharged from the hospital in Ontario, Canada, we examined the 
association of systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure with 
long-term survival. Parametric survival analysis was performed, and survival 
time ratios were determined according to discharge blood pressure group. A total 
of 25 427 person-years of follow-up were examined. In those with left 
ventricular ejection fraction < or =40%, median survival was decreased by 17% 
(survival time ratio, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.71 to 0.98; P=0.029) when discharge SBP 
was 100 to 119 mm Hg and decreased by 23% (survival time ratio, 0.77; 95% CI, 
0.62 to 0.97; P=0.024) when discharge SBP was <100 mm Hg, compared with those in 
the reference range of 120 to 139 mm Hg. Survival time ratios were 0.75 (95% CI, 
0.60 to 0.92; P=0.007) and 0.75 (95% CI, 0.53 to 1.07; P=0.12) when discharge 
SBPs were 140 to 159 and > or =160 mm Hg, respectively. In those with left 
ventricular ejection fraction >40%, survival time ratios were 0.69 (95% CI, 0.51 
to 0.93), 0.83 (95% CI, 0.71 to 0.99), 0.95 (95% CI, 0.80 to 1.14), and 0.76 
(95% CI, 0.61 to 0.95) for discharge SBPs <100, 100 to 119, 140 to 159, and > or 
=160 mm Hg, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In this long-term population-based study of patients with heart 
failure, the association of discharge SBP with mortality followed a U-shaped 
distribution. Survival was shortened in those with reduced or increased values 
of discharge SBP.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.109.869743
PMID: 19919987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Ann Pharmacother. 2009 Dec;43(12):2088-92. doi: 10.1345/aph.1M580. Epub 2009
Nov  17.

Healthcare reform 2009 and its implications for pharmacists.

Matzke GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Virginia Commonwealth University-Medical College of Virginia Campus, 215 
McGuire Hall, 1112 E. Clay St., PO Box 980533, Richmond, VA 23298, USA. 
gmatzke@vcu.edu

The US healthcare system has been widely criticized by many and praised by 
others for many reasons that are not mutually exclusive. There is no doubt that, 
compared with our peer industrialized countries, the US ranks near the bottom in 
many of the benchmark criteria such as life expectancy, infant mortality, and 
mortality of the population that is amenable to health care. Despite these 
shortcomings, the US has been a major innovator in healthcare technology 
including the development of biological and pharmacological drugs. The 
shortcomings of our system are often focused on the fact that a significant 
portion of the population lacks access to these cutting-edge resources and 
therapies. In this commentary, the healthcare reform proposals that have been 
introduced in 2008-2009, with a focus on the 3 leading plans that have been put 
forward by the House of Representatives and Senate, are reviewed. The inclusion 
of pharmacist-delivered medication therapy management (MTM) as well as 
medication reconciliation (MedRec) is specifically stated in 2 of the 3 plans. 
Integrated care delivery models (ie, community health teams, or "medical homes") 
are also directed to provide MedRec and MTM during transitions of care. Finally, 
in the Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions language, there is a 
directive that health insurers implement a payment schedule for MTM and care 
compliance. The many other ways in which each of these evolving reform proposals 
may impact pharmacists and the care they deliver to their communities are also 
highlighted.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1M580
PMID: 19920155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2009 Feb 6;2:71-85. doi: 10.2147/dddt.s2377.

Modafinil in the treatment of excessive sleepiness.

Schwartz JR(1).

Author information:
(1)INTEGRIS Sleep Disorders Center and University of Oklahoma Health Sciences 
Center, 4200 S. Douglas Avenue, Oklahoma City, OK 73109, USA. 
schwjr@integris-health.com

The wake-promoting agent modafinil is approved for the treatment of excessive 
sleepiness associated with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), shift work disorder 
(SWD), and narcolepsy. In OSA, modafinil is recommended for use as an adjunct to 
standard therapies that treat the underlying airway obstruction. This article 
reviews the literature on modafinil (pharmacology, pharmacokinetics, efficacy, 
tolerability, and abuse potential), with emphasis on use of modafinil in the 
treatment of excessive sleepiness in patients with OSA, SWD, and narcolepsy. In 
large-scale, double-blind, placebo-controlled studies, modafinil improved 
objectively determined sleep latency, improved overall clinical condition 
related to severity of sleepiness, and reduced patient-reported sleepiness. 
Improvements in wakefulness were accompanied by improvements in behavioral 
alertness, functional status, and health-related quality of life. In patients 
with SWD, diary data showed modafinil reduced the maximum level of sleepiness 
during night shift work, level of sleepiness during the commute home, and 
incidence of accidents or near-accidents during the commute home when compared 
with placebo. Modafinil was well tolerated, without adversely affecting 
cardiovascular parameters or scheduled sleep. These findings and those of 
extension studies which reported improvements were maintained suggest modafinil 
has a beneficial effect on daily life and well-being in patients with excessive 
sleepiness associated with OSA, SWD, or narcolepsy.

DOI: 10.2147/dddt.s2377
PMCID: PMC2761173
PMID: 19920895


952. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2009 Feb 6;2:151-61. doi: 10.2147/dddt.s3474.

Maraviroc in the treatment of HIV infection.

Ray N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, University of Pennsylvania, 3610 Hamilton Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA, USA. nray@mail.med.upenn.edu

While a successful HIV vaccine will likely take several more years to become a 
reality, many anti-retroviral (ARV) drugs are currently available to treat HIV 
infection, and their efficacious use has improved the quality of life and life 
expectancy of millions of HIV-infected individuals. A recent addition to these 
ARVs is a new class of drug that targets the HIV entry process by interfering 
with the action of the CCR5 coreceptor. The first licensed member of this class 
is a drug called maraviroc, which is also the first ARV that targets a cellular 
rather than a viral protein. Several other CCR5 antagonists with varied 
mechanisms of action are being developed. Key issues with the use of these drugs 
include determining their potential for use in treatment-na√Øve versus 
treatment-experienced patients, the development of sensitive coreceptor 
phenotyping assays to determine patient eligibility, and finally monitoring the 
emergence of resistant viruses and their mechanisms of resistance. This review 
summarizes the preclinical and clinical development of maraviroc as well as 
studies of HIV resistance to this drug both in vitro and in patients. In 
addition, a range of diverse CCR5 antagonists currently under development, are 
also discussed.

DOI: 10.2147/dddt.s3474
PMCID: PMC2761192
PMID: 19920903


953. Trials. 2009 Nov 17;10:103. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-103.

Cost-effectiveness of postural exercise therapy versus physiotherapy in computer 
screen-workers with early non-specific work-related upper limb disorders 
(WRULD); a randomized controlled trial.

van Eijsden MD(1), Gerhards SA, de Bie RA, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University Hospital 
Maastricht, Maastricht, the Netherlands. mdf_van_eijsden@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Exercise therapies generate substantial costs in computer workers 
with non-specific work-related upper limb disorders (WRULD).
AIMS: To study if postural exercise therapy is cost-effective compared to 
regular physiotherapy in screen-workers with early complaints, both from health 
care and societal perspective.
METHODS: Prospective randomized trial including cost-effectiveness analysis; one 
year follow-up.
PARTICIPANTS: Eighty-eight screen-workers with early non-specific WRULD; six 
drop-outs.
INTERVENTIONS: A ten week postural exercise program versus regular 
physiotherapy.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Effectiveness measures: Pain: visual analogous scale (VAS), 
self-perceived WRULD (yes/no). Functional outcome: Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder 
and Hand- Dutch Language Version (DASH-DLV). Quality of life outcome: 
EQ-5D.Economic measures: health care costs including patient and family costs 
and productivity costs resulting in societal costs. Cost-effectiveness measures: 
health care costs and societal costs related to the effectiveness measures. 
OUTCOME MEASURES were assessed at baseline; three, six and twelve months after 
baseline.
RESULTS: At baseline both groups were comparable for baseline characteristics 
except scores on the Pain Catastrophizing Scale and comparable for costs. No 
significant differences between the groups concerning effectiveness at one year 
follow-up were found. Effectiveness scores slightly improved over time. After 
one year 55% of participants were free of complaints. After one year the 
postural exercise group had higher mean total health care costs, but lower 
productivity costs compared to the physiotherapy group. Mean societal costs 
after one year (therefore) were in favor of postural exercise therapy [- 
euro622; 95% CI -2087; +590)]. After one year, only self- perceived WRULD seemed 
to result in acceptable cost-effectiveness of the postural exercise strategy 
over physiotherapy; however the probability of acceptable cost-effectiveness did 
not exceed 60%.Considering societal costs related to QALYs, postural exercise 
therapy had a probability of over 80% to be cost-effective over a wide range of 
cost-effectiveness ceiling ratios; however based on a marginal QALY-difference 
of 0.1 over a 12 month time frame.
CONCLUSION: Although our trial failed to find significant differences in VAS, 
QALYs and ICERs based on VAS and QALYs at one-year follow-up, CEACs suggest that 
postural exercise therapy according to Mensendieck/Cesar has a higher 
probability of being cost-effective compared to regular physiotherapy; however 
further research is required.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN 15872455.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-10-103
PMCID: PMC2785778
PMID: 19922603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. BMC Public Health. 2009 Nov 18;9 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S3. doi: 
10.1186/1471-2458-9-S1-S3.

The impact of HIV/AIDS on human development in African countries.

Boutayeb A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sciences, University Mohamed Ier, Boulevard Mohamed VI BP: 717, 
Oujda-Morocco. x.boutayeb@menara.ma

BACKGROUND: In the present paper, we consider the impact of HIV/AIDS on human 
development in African countries, showing that, beyond health issues, this 
disease should and must be seen as a global development concern, affecting all 
components of human development. Consequently, we stress the necessity of 
multidisciplinary approaches that model, estimate and predict the real impact of 
HIV/AIDS on human development of African countries in order to optimise the 
strategies proposed by national countries, international institutions and their 
partners.
METHODS: In our search strategy, we relied on secondary information, mainly 
through National Human Development Reports of some African countries and regular 
publications released by the United Nations (UN), United Nations Development 
Programme (UNDP), World Health Organization (WHO) and the World Bank. We 
restricted ourselves to reports dealing explicitly with the impact of HIV/AIDS 
on human development in African countries.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: HIV/AIDS is affecting the global human development of 
African countries through its devastating impact on health and demographic 
indicators such as life expectancy at birth, healthcare assistance, age and sex 
distribution, economic indicators like income, work force, and economic growth, 
education and knowledge acquisition and other indicators like governance, gender 
inequality and human rights.
CONCLUSION: On the basis of the national reports reviewed, it appears clearly 
that HIV/AIDS is no longer a crisis only for the healthcare sector, but presents 
a challenge to all sectors. Consequently, HIV/AIDS is a development question and 
should be viewed as such. The disease is impeding development by imposing a 
steady decline in the key indicators of human development and hence reversing 
the social and economic gains that African countries are striving to attain. 
Being at the same time a cause and consequence of poverty and underdevelopment, 
it constitutes a challenge to human security and human development by 
diminishing the chances of alleviating poverty and hunger, achieving universal 
primary education, promoting gender equality, reducing child and maternal 
mortality, and ensuring environmental sustainability.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-S1-S3
PMCID: PMC2779505
PMID: 19922687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Clin Ther. 2009 Oct;31(10):2189-203; discussion 2150-1. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.10.015.

Results of a Markov model analysis to assess the cost-effectiveness of a single 
tablet of fixed-dose amlodipine and atorvastatin for the primary prevention of 
cardiovascular disease in Korea.

Liew D(1), Park HJ, Ko SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, St. Vincent's Hospital, University of Melbourne, 
Fitzroy, Victoria, Australia. dliew@medstv.unimelb.edu.au

BACKGROUND: In Korea, the treatment of hypertension and dyslipidemia constitutes 
an important strategy for the prevention of cardiovascular disease (CVD).
OBJECTIVE: This study sought to investigate the cost-effectiveness (from the 
Korean health care system perspective) of prescribing a proprietary formulation 
single-tablet fixed-dose combination of amlodipine and atorvastatin (at weighted 
mean doses of 5 mg and 10.25 mg, respectively) to all eligible patients aged > 
or = 45 years for the primary prevention of CVD (ie, coronary heart disease and 
ischemic stroke) in Korea, compared with currently observed patterns of 
blood-pressure and lipid-lowering medication prescription and use.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed with 4 health states: alive without CVD, 
alive with CVD, dead from CVD, and dead from non-CVD causes. The model 
population comprised 244 Koreans aged >/=45 years from the 2005 Korean National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHNES) without a history of myocardial 
infarction (MI) or stroke who met current criteria for both blood-pressure and 
lipid-lowering treatment. From a 2008 baseline, follow-up was simulated for 40 
years. Cardiovascular risk was estimated for each subject individually using a 
multivariate, Asian population-specific equation, and updated with ongoing 
cycles. Decision analysis compared the effects of prescribing the fixed-dose 
combination to all subjects versus currently observed patterns of treatment. 
Data regarding the blood-pressure and lipid-lowering efficacies of combination 
therapy were drawn from the Respond trial. Costs of the fixed-dose combination 
tablet and CVD were sourced from pharmaceutical pricing lists and Korean Health 
Insurance Review and Assessment Services estimates, respectively. Utility values 
for CVD were obtained from a large Korean utility study.
RESULTS: In the model, of the 244 treatment-eligible subjects, 126 (51.6%) and 
13 (5.3%) were taking blood-pressure and lipid-lowering therapy, respectively. 
Use of single-tablet fixed-dose combination amlodipine and atorvastatin by all 
subjects was associated with estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 
7,773,063 Korean won (KRW) per quality-adjusted life-year gained and 10,378,230 
KRW per overall life-year gained (1300 KRW approximately US $1). Sensitivity and 
uncertainty analyses indicated these results to be robust.
CONCLUSIONS: In this model, based on data from the 2005 KNHNES, hypertension and 
dyslipidemia were undertreated among Koreans aged > or = 45 years without a 
history of MI or stroke. The administration of single-tablet fixed-dose 
combination amlodipine and atorvastatin to all such individuals was likely to 
represent a cost-effective means of preventing first-onset CVD (ie, coronary 
heart disease and ischemic stroke) in this subgroup, compared with current 
patterns of treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.10.015
PMID: 19922890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. PLoS One. 2009 Nov 16;4(11):e7791. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007791.

A C. elegans model for mitochondrial fatty acid synthase II: the 
longevity-associated gene W09H1.5/mecr-1 encodes a 2-trans-enoyl-thioester 
reductase.

Gurvitz A(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Physiology of Lipid Metabolism, Institute of Physiology, Center 
for Physiology, Pathophysiology and Immunology, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria. aner.gurvitz@meduniwien.ac.at

Our recognition of the mitochondria as being important sites of fatty acid 
biosynthesis is continuously unfolding, especially in light of new data becoming 
available on compromised fatty acid synthase type 2 (FASII) in mammals. For 
example, perturbed regulation of murine 17beta-HSD8 encoding a component of the 
mitochondrial FASII enzyme 3-oxoacyl-thioester reductase is implicated in 
polycystic kidney disease. In addition, over-expression in mice of the Mecr gene 
coding for 2-trans-enoyl-thioester reductase, also of mitochondrial FASII, leads 
to impaired heart function. However, mouse knockouts for mitochondrial FASII 
have hitherto not been reported and, hence, there is a need to develop alternate 
metazoan models such as nematodes or fruit flies. Here, the identification of 
Caenorhabditis elegans W09H1.5/MECR-1 as a 2-trans-enoyl-thioester reductase of 
mitochondrial FASII is reported. To identify MECR-1, Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
etr1Delta mutant cells were employed that are devoid of mitochondrial 
2-trans-enoyl-thioester reductase Etr1p. These yeast mutants fail to synthesize 
sufficient levels of lipoic acid or form cytochrome complexes, and cannot 
respire or grow on non-fermentable carbon sources. A mutant yeast strain 
ectopically expressing nematode mecr-1 was shown to contain reductase activity 
and resemble the self-complemented mutant strain for these phenotype 
characteristics. Since MECR-1 was not intentionally targeted for 
compartmentalization using a yeast mitochondrial leader sequence, this inferred 
that the protein represented a physiologically functional mitochondrial 
2-trans-enoyl-thioester reductase. In accordance with published findings, 
RNAi-mediated knockdown of mecr-1 in C. elegans resulted in life span extension, 
presumably due to mitochondrial dysfunction. Moreover, old mecr-1(RNAi) worms 
had better internal organ appearance and were more mobile than control worms, 
indicating a reduced physiological age. This is the first report on RNAi work 
dedicated specifically to curtailing mitochondrial FASII in metazoans. The 
availability of affected survivors will help to position C. elegans as an 
excellent model for future pursuits in the emerging field of mitochondrial FASII 
research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007791
PMCID: PMC2774161
PMID: 19924289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


957. Actas Urol Esp. 2009 Oct;33(9):960-4. doi: 10.1016/s0210-4806(09)72894-3.

[Perioperative morbidity of radical prostatectomy in patients over 70 years of 
age].

[Article in Spanish]

Tarrag√≥n Gabarr√≥ S(1), Lorente Gar√≠n JA, del Canto Aguirre M, Rijo Mora E, 
Bielsa Gal√≠ O, Arango Toro O.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urolog√≠a, Hospital del Mar, Barcelona, Espa√±a. 97526@imas.imim.es

INTRODUCTION: Increased life expectancy has made possible radical treatment of 
localized prostate cancer in patients over 70 years of age. Perioperative 
morbidity of radical prostatectomy in elderly patients depending on surgical 
procedure has not been adequately analyzed.
OBJECTIVES: To comparatively analyze the incidence, severity, and management of 
perioperative complications of retropubic versus laparoscopic radical 
prostatectomy in patients older than 70 years.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A retrospective review was made of 68 patients over 70 
years of age (of whom 42 underwent retropubic and 26 laparoscopic radical 
prostatectomy) taken from a series of 500 patients. The modified Clavien 
classification was used to study complications from both surgical procedures.
RESULTS: The overall complication rate was 59.5% for the retropubic and 23% for 
the laparoscopic procedure (P=.003). Three grade I, 2 grade Id, 19 grade II, and 
1 grade IId complications were seen with retropubic surgery, as compared to 2 
grade I and 5 grade Id complications with the laparoscopic procedure. The most 
common complications included intraoperative bleeding (38%) and urinaryi fistula 
(15%) respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Radical prostatectomy is a procedure that is not free from 
complications in patients older than 70 years, though these are usually mild. 
The advantages usually attributed to laparoscopy also apply to elderly patients, 
and should therefore be considered as the procedure of choice.

Copyright 2009 AEU. Published by Elsevier Espa√±a, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/s0210-4806(09)72894-3
PMID: 19925755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Vaccine. 2009 Nov 27;27(51):7167-72. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.027.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of rabies post-exposure prophylaxis: a case 
study in Tanzania.

Shim E(1), Hampson K, Cleaveland S, Galvani AP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, Yale University School of 
Medicine, 60 College Street, New Haven, CT 06510, USA. eunha.shim@yale.edu

Although fatal if untreated, human rabies can be prevented through post-exposure 
prophylaxis (PEP), which involves a course of vaccination and immunoglobulin 
administered immediately after exposure. However, high costs and frequent lack 
of rabies vaccine and immunoglobulin lead to about 55,000 deaths per year 
worldwide. Using data from a detailed study of rabies in Tanzania, we calculate 
a cost-effectiveness ratio for PEP when the WHO-recommended Essen regimen, a 
5-dose intramuscular vaccination schedule, is adopted. Our analyses indicate a 
cost-effectiveness ratio for PEP of $27/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) from a 
health care perspective and $32/QALY from a societal perspective in Tanzania. 
From both perspectives, it is "very cost-effective" to administer PEP to 
patients bitten by an animal suspected to be rabid. Moreover, PEP remains "very 
cost-effective" provided that at least 1% of doses are administered to people 
who were actually exposed to rabies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.09.027
PMCID: PMC3272373
PMID: 19925948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Eur Psychiatry. 2010 May;25(4):220-9. doi: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2009.09.001.
Epub  2009 Nov 18.

Establishing remission and good clinical functioning in schizophrenia: 
predictors of best outcome with long-term risperidone long-acting injectable 
treatment.

Lambert M(1), De Marinis T, Pfeil J, Naber D, Schreiner A.

Author information:
(1)Psychosis Centre, Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Centre for 
Psychosocial Medicine, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf Hamburg, 
Martinistreet 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany. lambert@uke.de

OBJECTIVE: To measure symptomatic and functional remission in patients treated 
with risperidone long-acting injectable (RLAI).
METHODS: Stable patients with psychotic disorders requiring medication change 
were switched to open-label RLAI in the switch to risperidone microspheres 
(StoRMi) trial. In this post-hoc analysis of the trial extension, follow-up was 
<or=18 months. Symptomatic remission was based on improvement in positive and 
negative syndrome scale (PANSS) scores and global remission (best outcome) was 
based on symptomatic remission, functional level, and mental-health quality of 
life. Predictive factors were evaluated.
RESULTS: Among 529 patients from seven European countries, mean participation 
duration was 358.7+/-232.4 days, with 18 months completed by 39.9% of patients. 
Symptomatic remission lasting >or=6 months occurred at some point during 
treatment in 33% of patients; predictors included comorbid disease, country, 
baseline symptom severity, baseline functioning, type of antipsychotic before 
switching, and duration of untreated psychosis. Best outcome occurred in 21% of 
patients; predictors included baseline symptom severity, baseline functioning, 
country, schizophrenia type, and early positive treatment course.
CONCLUSIONS: One in three patients with stable schizophrenia switching to RLAI 
experienced symptomatic remission, with combined symptomatic, functional, and 
quality-of-life remission in one in five patients. Symptomatic remission was 
predicted by better baseline symptom severity and country of origin, with a 
significantly greater likelihood of remission occurring among patients in 
Estonia/Slovenia compared with Portugal. Relapse was predicted by higher mode 
doses of RLAI, additional use of psychoactive medications, male gender, and 
country of origin, with relapse occurring most frequently in France and least 
frequently in Portugal. RLAI dose, additional use of psychoactive medications, 
and country of origin predicted best outcome, with best outcome occurring most 
frequently in Estonia/Slovenia and least frequently in Portugal.

(c) 2009. Published by Elsevier SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eurpsy.2009.09.001
PMID: 19926263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Pers Soc Psychol Rev. 2010 Feb;14(1):7-16. doi: 10.1177/1088868309350299.
Epub  2009 Nov 19.

Blaming god for our pain: human suffering and the divine mind.

Gray K(1), Wegner DM.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA. kurtgray@fas.harvard.edu

Believing in God requires not only a leap of faith but also an extension of 
people's normal capacity to perceive the minds of others. Usually, people 
perceive minds of all kinds by trying to understand their conscious experience 
(what it is like to be them) and their agency (what they can do). Although 
humans are perceived to have both agency and experience, humans appear to see 
God as possessing agency, but not experience. God's unique mind is due, the 
authors suggest, to the uniquely moral role He occupies. In this article, the 
authors propose that God is seen as the ultimate moral agent, the entity people 
blame and praise when they receive anomalous harm and help. Support for this 
