

752. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Oct;25(4):497-504. doi: 
10.1017/S026646230999050X.

Economic evaluation of a minimal psychological intervention in chronically ill 
elderly patients with minor or mild to moderate depression: a randomized trial 
(the DELTA-study).

Jonkers CC(1), Lamers F, Evers SM, Bosma H, Metsemakers JF, Van Eijk JT.

Author information:
(1)School for Public Health and Primary Care (Caphri), Department of Social 
Medicine, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. jonkers@zonmw.nl

OBJECTIVES: Depression is associated with high healthcare utilization and 
related costs. Effective treatments might reduce the economic burden. The 
objective of this study was to establish the cost-utility of a minimal 
psychological intervention (MPI) aimed at reducing depression and improving 
quality of life in elderly persons with diabetes or chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease and co-occurring minor, mild, or moderate depression.
METHODS: Trial-based cost-utility analysis was used to compare the MPI with 
usual care. Annual costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) based on the 
Euroqol (EQ5D) and on depression-free days were calculated.
RESULTS: Annual costs and effects were not significantly different for the MPI 
group and care as usual. Bootstrap analysis indicated a dominant intervention, 
with a probability of 63 percent that the MPI is less costly and more effective 
than usual care.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness analysis does not support dissemination of 
the MPI in its current form. The economic evaluation study showed limited 
probability that MPI is cost-effective over usual care. Further adjustments to 
the MPI are needed to make the intervention suitable for dissemination in 
regular care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: isrctn.org, identifier: ISRCTN92331982.

DOI: 10.1017/S026646230999050X
PMID: 19845979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Oct;25(4):537-45. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990444.

Complementing the net benefit approach: a new framework for Bayesian 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hernández MA(1), Vázquez-Polo FJ, González-Torre FJ, Bas EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Methods, Faculty of Economics, University of Las 
Palmas de Gran Canaria, Canary Islands, Spain. mnegrin@dmc.ulpgc.es

OBJECTIVES: The aim of cost-effectiveness analysis is to maximize health 
benefits from a given budget, taking a societal perspective. Consequently, the 
comparison of alternative treatments or technologies is solely based on their 
expected effectiveness and cost. However, the expectation, or mean, poses 
important limitations as it might be a poor summary of the underlying 
distribution, for instance when the effectiveness is a categorical variable, or 
when the distributions of either effectiveness or cost present a high degree of 
asymmetry. Clinical variables often present these characteristics.
METHODS: In this study, we present a framework for cost-effectiveness analysis 
based on the whole posterior distribution of effectiveness and cost.
RESULTS: An application with real data is included to illustrate the analysis. 
Decision-making measures such as the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, 
incremental net-benefit, and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves, can also 
be defined under the new framework.
CONCLUSIONS: This framework overcomes limitations of the mean and offers 
complementary information for the decision maker.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990444
PMID: 19845984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2009 Oct;25(4):588-95. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990432.

Self-report versus care provider registration of healthcare utilization: impact 
on cost and cost-utility.

Hoogendoorn M(1), van Wetering CR, Schols AM, Rutten-van Mölken MP.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus MC/University, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. hoogendoorn@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to compare the impact of two different sources of 
resource use, self-report versus care provider registrations, on cost and cost 
utility.
METHODS: Data were gathered for a cost-effectiveness study performed alongside a 
2-year randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of an INTERdisciplinary 
COMmunity-based management program (INTERCOM) for patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The program was offered by 
physiotherapists, dieticians and respiratory nurses. During the 2-year period, 
patients reported all resource use in a cost booklet. In addition, data on 
hospital admissions and outpatient visits, visits to the physiotherapist, 
dietician or respiratory nurse, diet nutrition, and outpatient medication were 
obtained from administrative records. The cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) was calculated in two ways, using data from the cost booklet or 
registrations.
RESULTS: In total, 175 patients were included in the study. Agreement between 
self-report and registrations was almost perfect for hospitalizations (rho = 
0.93) and physiotherapist visits (rho = 0.86), but above 0.55, moderate, for all 
other types of care. The total cost difference between the registrations and the 
cost booklet was 464 euros with the highest difference for hospitalizations 386 
euro. Based on the cost booklet the cost difference between the treatment group 
and usual care was 2,444 euros (95 percent confidence interval [CI], -819 to 
5,950), which resulted in a cost-utility of 29,100 euro/QALY. For the 
registrations, the results were 2,498 euros (95 percent CI, -88 to 6,084) and 
29,390 euro/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study showed that the use of self-reported data or data from 
registrations effected within-group costs, but not between-group costs or the 
cost utility.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990432
PMID: 19845991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Oct;13 Suppl 3:37-42. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl3/06.

Febuxostat for the treatment of hyperuricaemia in people with gout: a single 
technology appraisal.

Stevenson M(1), Pandor A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK. 
m.d.stevenson@shef.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of febuxostat for the management 
of hyperuricaemia in patients with gout based upon a review of the 
manufacturer's submission to the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The 
submission's evidence came from two randomised controlled trials comparing the 
efficacy and safety of febuxostat with allopurinol. The trials were of 
reasonable methodological quality and measured a clinically relevant range of 
outcomes. A pooled clinical efficacy analysis showed that a daily dose of 80 mg 
or 120 mg of febuxostat was significantly more effective than fixed-dose 
allopurinol (300/100 mg/day) at lowering serum uric acid (sUA) levels to 
therapeutic targets (< 6 mg/dl); however, a large percentage of febuxostat 
patients did not achieve the primary end point and the fixed-dose allopurinol 
regimen may have introduced bias. There were no differences between treatments 
in more clinically important outcomes such as gout flares and tophi resolution 
after 52 weeks of treatment. No subgroup analyses were conducted for patients 
with renal impairment, non-responders to allopurinol or patients with severe 
disease. Supplementary data from a 2-year open-label extension study were also 
provided, but were difficult to interpret and poorly reported. The incidence of 
adverse events was similar between treatments, although more febuxostat 
recipients discontinued treatment prematurely. A decision tree model was 
developed to determine the cost-effectiveness of febuxostat. The scope was 
limited to the comparison of continual febuxostat treatment with continual 
allopurinol treatment. Switching between treatments or withdrawing treatment in 
patients whose sUA levels had not decreased was not permitted. The model 
predicted a cost-effectiveness of 16,324 pounds [95% confidence interval (CI) 
6281 pounds to 239,928 pounds] per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained for 
febuxostat compared with allopurinol after 2 years of treatment. The incremental 
cost per QALY was below 20,000 pounds in 63% of the simulations undertaken. 
Changes in the time horizon did not materially affect the results. The ERG 
believes that the modelling structure employed was not appropriate to estimate 
the cost-effectiveness of febuxostat within a treatment algorithm. In addition, 
there were concerns about the methodology used for collecting data on key model 
inputs. Given these reservations the cost-effectiveness of febuxostat could not 
be determined. The guidance issued by NICE in August 2008 as a result of the STA 
states that febuxostat is recommended as an option for the management of chronic 
hyperuricaemia in gout only for people who are intolerant of allopurinol or for 
whom allopurinol is contraindicated.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl3/06
PMID: 19846027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Med Hypotheses. 2010 Mar;74(3):534-41. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2009.09.047. Epub
 2009 Oct 28.

Gold, coal and oil.

Dani SU(1).

Author information:
(1)Medawar Institute for Medical and Environmental Research, Acangaú Valley, CXP 
123, 38600-000 Paracatu, MG, Brazil. srgdani@gmail.com

Jared Diamond has hypothesized that guns, germs and steel account for the fate 
of human societies. Here I propose an extension of Diamond's hypothesis and put 
it in other terms and dimensions: gold, coal and oil account not only for the 
fate of human societies but also for the fate of mankind through the bodily 
accumulation of anthropogenic arsenic, an invisible weapon of mass extinction 
and evolutionary change. The background is clear; arsenic species fulfill seven 
criteria for a weapon of mass extinction and evolutionary change: (i) 
bioavailability to all living organisms; (ii) imperceptibility; (iii) acute 
toxicity; (iv) bioaccumulation and chronic toxicity; (v) adverse impact on 
reproductive fitness and reproductive outcomes and early-age development and 
growth in a wide range of microbial, plant and animal species including man; 
(vi) widespread geographical distribution, mobility and ecological persistence 
on a centennial to millennial basis and (vii) availability in necessary and 
sufficient amounts to exert evolutionarily meaningful effects. The proof is 
becoming increasingly feasible as human exploitation of gold, coal and oil 
deposits cause sustainable rises of arsenic concentrations in the biosphere. 
Paradoxically, humans are among the least arsenic-resistant organisms because 
humans are long-lived, encephalized and complex social metazoans. An arsenic 
accumulation model is presented here to describe how arsenic accumulates in the 
human body with increasing age and at different provisionally safe exposure 
levels. Arsenic accumulates in the human body even at daily exposure levels 
which are within the lowest possible WHO provisional tolerance limits, yielding 
bodily arsenic concentrations which are above WHO provisional limits. Ongoing 
consequences of global scale arsenic poisoning of mankind include age-specific 
rises in morbidity and mortality followed by adaptive changes. The potential 
rise of successful forms of inborn resistance to arsenic in humans will make it 
certain that a number of other hardly won, nicely balanced human-specific 
adaptednesses will decline. These include a decline of encephalization and 
life-span, and consequentially intelligence and longevity. These changes are 
likely to have far-reaching impacts on biological and cultural evolution of 
mankind. The only efficient way of reducing chronic global exposure to arsenic 
and avoiding further human losses is the inactivation of important sources of 
anthropogenic arsenic such as hard rock mining and burning of fossil fuels.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2009.09.047
PMID: 19846256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Behav Neurol. 2009;21(1):101-15. doi: 10.3233/BEN-2009-0228.

Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease with [18F]PET in mild and asymptomatic stages.

Drzezga A(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Athinoula A. Martinos 
Center for Biomedical Imaging, Charlestown, MA, USA. 
a.drzezga@lrz.tu-muenchen.de

With longer life expectancy, dementia based on the age-related Alzheimers' 
disease (AD) has turned into one of the most prevalent disorders of older age, 
representing a serious medical and socio-economic issue. There has been growing 
interest in early diagnosis of this disease, particularly regarding the 
initiation of new treatment strategies ahead of the onset of irreversible 
neuronal damage. It is accepted that the pathologic changes underlying AD appear 
in the brain years to decades before the symptomatic stages. Consequently, 
clinical measures of cognitive impairment, as used for definition of dementia, 
will not allow early diagnosis of AD-pathology in the mild or asymptomatic 
stages. Thus, a need for complementary sensitive biomarkers is apparent. Brain 
imaging markers are among the most promising candidates for this diagnostic 
challenge. Particularly, [18F]FDG PET as a marker of regional neuronal function 
has been demonstrated to represent a most sensitive and specific method for 
early identification of AD-pathology and thus for prediction of dementia of the 
Alzheimer type (DAT), even in the mild and asymptomatic stages. Currently, 
systematic data of comparable quality are hardly available for any other imaging 
procedure. The purpose of this article is to describe the typical findings of 
[18F]FDG PET in different stages of AD and to demonstrate its value for early 
and reliable diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, particularly ahead of the stage 
of dementia of the Alzheimer's type.

DOI: 10.3233/BEN-2009-0228
PMCID: PMC5444274
PMID: 19847049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Restor Neurol Neurosci. 2009;27(5):551-65. doi: 10.3233/RNN-2009-0512.

Cognition and equilibrium regulation in development and aging.

Labouvie-Vief G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland. 
gisela.vief@unige.ch

PURPOSE: Changes in emotion-cognition relationships in later life comprise a 
pattern of both vulnerabilities and strengths. To integrate this pattern of 
diversity, I propose a neo-Piagetian extension of the concepts of equilibrium 
and disequilibrium processes to the relationship beyond cognition to encompass 
emotional activation and arousal, and beyond youth to the full life span.
CONTENT: Beginning with a simple, Cannon-type equilibrium based on the response 
to increasing deviation from ideal end states of correcting through tension 
reduction, a more complex model is outlined that additionally uses tension 
amplification aimed at enlargement of the range over which stability is 
maintained, i.e., permits processes of developmental progression. Parallel to 
cognitive development, emotional development is described as the emergence of 
more complex cognitive-affective structures out of original automatic, 
biologically based ones. In that process, tension thresholds are raised, and the 
functional range over which equilibrium can be maintained is widened, as 
higher-order representations become part of the regulatory network. These 
progressive movements provide well automated emotion regulation whose 
effectiveness increases well into middle and late life.
CONCLUSIONS: In contrast to development, aging is ultimately characterized by a 
lowering of tension thresholds similar to developmental regression. However, as 
in the purely intellectual realm, that process is offset by the previous 
automatization and crystallization of cognitive-affective schemas becomes 
evident only as a result of increasing constraints on fluid capacities, as in 
advancing age and/or high load of cognitive effort and/or emotional activation.

DOI: 10.3233/RNN-2009-0512
PMID: 19847076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2010 Feb;281(2):269-72. doi: 10.1007/s00404-009-1172-3.

Delayed-interval delivery of an in vitro-fertilized triplet pregnancy with 
premature rupture of membranes in the second trimester.

Ali Yuce M(1), Aybatli A, Kaplan PB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, Trakya 
University, Edirne, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of multiple pregnancies is increasing with the 
availability of assisted reproductive techniques. Preterm labor and preterm 
rupture of membranes are major complications in such pregnancies. Preterm 
delivery of the first fetus is often followed by delivery of the remaining 
fetuses. However, conservative management in such circumstances might allow for 
fetal lung maturity in the remaining fetuses.
CASE: We present a case of conservative management of an in vitro-fertilized 
triplet pregnancy with early loss of the leading triplet. A 33-year-old woman in 
the 21st week of a triplet pregnancy delivered her one of the fetuses, 4 days 
after the preterm rupture of membranes. To save the surviving fetuses, ligation 
of the umbilical cord at the cervical level was performed. Patient received 
antibiotics, tocolytics and corticosteroids after then. The second and the third 
fetuses were successfully delivered by cesarean section in the 28th week of 
pregnancy, 43 days after the first fetus was born.
CONCLUSION: We can improve the life expectancy of the retained fetuses by 
conservative management using tocolytics, antenatal steroids to stimulate lung 
maturation and antibiotics following the delivery of the first fetus.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-009-1172-3
PMID: 19847453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Br J Surg. 2009 Nov;96(11):1365-70. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6720.

Cost-effectiveness and quality-of-life analysis of physician-staffed helicopter 
emergency medical services.

Ringburg AN(1), Polinder S, Meulman TJ, Steyerberg EW, van Lieshout EM, Patka P, 
van Beeck EF, Schipper IB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery-Traumatology, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. a.ringburg@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: The long-term health outcomes and costs of helicopter emergency 
medical services (HEMS) assistance remain uncertain. The aim of this study was 
to investigate the cost-effectiveness of HEMS assistance compared with emergency 
medical services (EMS).
METHODS: A prospective cohort study was performed at a level I trauma centre. 
Quality-of-life measurements were obtained at 2 years after trauma, using the 
EuroQol-Five Dimensions (EQ-5D) as generic measure to determine health status. 
Health outcomes and costs were combined into costs per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY).
RESULTS: The study population receiving HEMS assistance was more severely 
injured than that receiving EMS assistance only. Over the 4-year study interval, 
HEMS assistance saved a total of 29 additional lives. No statistically 
significant differences in quality of life were found between assistance with 
HEMS or with EMS. Two years after trauma the mean EQ-5D utility score was 0.70 
versus 0.71 respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for HEMS 
versus EMS was 28,327 Euro per QALY. The sensitivity analysis showed a 
cost-effectiveness ratio between 16,000 and 62,000 Euro.
CONCLUSION: In the Netherlands, the costs of HEMS assistance per QALY remain 
below the acceptance threshold. HEMS should therefore be considered as cost 
effective.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6720
PMID: 19847879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Rev Invest Clin. 2009 Jul-Aug;61(4):327-36.

[Inflammaging. Aging inflammatory origin].

[Article in Spanish]

Navarrete-Reyes AP(1), Montaña-Alvarez M.

Author information:
(1)Clinica de Geriatría del Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y Nutrición 
Salvador Zubirán. ap_navarrete09@hotmail.com

The association between the increase in life expectancy in humans and 
age-related changes in the immune system promotes that individuals are exposed 
longer to endogenous and environment antigens which allows an activation of the 
innate immune system and the subsequent establishment of a low grade chronic 
inflammation state with an increased expression of proinflammatory cytokines 
(tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 6, etc.). This inflammatory state 
referred as inflammaging is characterized by a inflammatory origin of aging 
given by the activation of cellular systems responsible of gene promotion and 
suppression as the nuclear factor kappa B, sirtuins, forkhead box O and KLOTHO, 
who are directly or indirectly involved in cellular mechanisms of resistance to 
oxidative stress, apoptosis and nucleic acids transcriptional mistakes repair. 
The activation of these cellular systems is associated with the pathogenesis of 
several chronic and degenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, 
late-onset diabetes or cardiovascular diseases. However, we are placed in a 
crossroad because we can not establish whether this inflammatory state observed 
in the aging process is responsible of development of degenerative diseases or 
if the presences of these chronic diseases are responsible for this inflammatory 
state of aging. Evidence in centenarians who are healthy and have preserved 
functional status has shown that there is a chronic inflammatory state present 
among them but is balanced by a higher expression of anti-inflammatory 
molecules.

PMID: 19848310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Drugs Aging. 2009;26(11):973-80. doi: 10.2165/11318750-000000000-00000.

Health state values during the first year of drug treatment in early-stage 
Parkinson's disease: a prospective, population-based, cohort study.

Vossius C(1), Nilsen OB, Larsen JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Stavanger University Hospital, Stavanger, Norway. 
voco@sus.no

BACKGROUND: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder in 
the elderly that may lead to both motor and non-motor symptoms with consequent 
severe impairment of quality of life. PD also represents a substantial economic 
burden on society because of the patient's decreased ability to work, increased 
need for care and need for costly treatment. Evaluation of quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) is an important tool in cost-effectiveness analyses. To date, 
however, few data have become available about the utility gains or losses 
associated with the disease and its management.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the changes in health state values in patients with 
newly diagnosed PD during their first year of drug treatment, and to calculate 
the gain in QALYs and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for this 
patient group.
METHODS: In this prospective, population-based, cohort study, 199 patients with 
incident PD and 172 controls were followed over 1 year. Clinical data, drug use 
and utility scores obtained from the Short Form 6D (SF-6D) health state 
questionnaire were documented.
RESULTS: Patients with PD had lower SF-6D utility scores than controls at 
baseline. Patients started on antiparkinsonian drugs had an improvement in mean 
utility scores of 0.039 from 0.667 to 0.706 (p < 0.05). The ICER was euros 
45,259 (2007 values) per QALY, of which two-thirds consisted of the costs of 
drugs and one-third represented the costs of clinical consultations.
CONCLUSION: Drug treatment in patients with early-stage PD increases health 
state values, but the ICER is high. Further investigations will be necessary to 
capture the full consequences of treatment of PD and to evaluate the efficacy of 
disease management in this setting.

DOI: 10.2165/11318750-000000000-00000
PMID: 19848442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Oct;13(48):1-189, 215-318, iii. doi: 
10.3310/hta13480.

Endovascular stents for abdominal aortic aneurysms: a systematic review and 
economic model.

Chambers D(1), Epstein D, Walker S, Fayter D, Paton F, Wright K, Michaels J, 
Thomas S, Sculpher M, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) of infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms 
(AAAs) in patients at varying levels of risk.
DATA SOURCES: The following bibliographic databases were searched (2005-February 
2007): BIOSIS Previews, CINAHL, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, 
EMBASE, ISI Proceedings, MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed 
Citations, Science Citation Index and Zetoc Conferences.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness of EVAR was 
performed using standard methods. Meta-analysis was employed to estimate a 
summary measure of treatment effect on relevant outcomes based on intention to 
treat analyses. A second systematic review was undertaken to identify existing 
cost-effectiveness analyses of EVAR compared with open surgery and non-surgical 
interventions. Two new decision models were developed to inform the review.
RESULTS: Six RCTs were included in the clinical effectiveness review. 
Thirty-four studies evaluated the role of patients' baseline characteristics in 
predicting risks of particular outcomes after EVAR. The majority were based on 
data relating to devices in current use from the EUROSTAR registry. Compared 
with open repair EVAR reduces operative mortality (odds ratio 0.35, 95% CI 0.19 
to 0.63) and medium-term aneurysm-related mortality (hazard ratio 0.49, 95% CI 
0.29 to 0.83) but offers no significant difference in all-cause mortality. EVAR 
is associated with increased rates of complications and reinterventions, which 
are not offset by any increase in health-related quality of life. EVAR trial 2 
comparing EVAR with non-surgical management in patients unfit for open repair 
found no differences in mortality between groups; however, substantial numbers 
of patients randomised to non-surgical management crossed over to receive 
surgical repair of their aneurysm. The cost-effectiveness systematic review 
identified six published decision models. Both models considered relevant for 
the decision in the UK concluded that EVAR was not cost-effective on average 
compared with open repair at a threshold of 20,000 pounds per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY). Another model concluded that EVAR would be on average more 
cost-effective than no surgical intervention in unfit patients at this 
threshold. The Medtronic model concluded that EVAR was more cost-effective than 
open repair for fit patients at this threshold. The York economic evaluations 
found that EVAR is not cost-effective compared with open repair on average at a 
threshold of 30,000 pounds per QALY, with the results very sensitive to model 
assumptions and the baseline risk of operative mortality. Exploratory analysis 
to evaluate management options in patients unsuitable for open surgery suggested 
that the cost-effectiveness of EVAR may be sensitive to aneurysm size and 
patient's age at operation. Indicative modelling suggests that EVAR may be 
cost-effective for small aneurysms in some patient groups. Ongoing RCTs will 
provide further evidence relating to these patients.
CONCLUSION: Open repair is more likely to be cost-effective than EVAR on average 
in patients considered fit for open surgery. EVAR is likely to be more 
cost-effective than open repair for a subgroup of patients at higher risk of 
operative mortality. These results are based on extrapolation of mid-term 
results of clinical trials. Evidence does not currently support EVAR for the 
treatment of ruptured aneurysms. Further follow-up of the existing UK trials 
should be undertaken and the relative costs of procedures and devices should be 
investigated further.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13480
PMID: 19849958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2010 Feb;24(1):87-100. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2009.09.003. Epub 2009 Oct 21.

Ovarian tissue cryopreservation and transplantation in cancer patients.

Donnez J(1), Jadoul P, Squifflet J, Van Langendonckt A, Donnez O, Van Eyck AS, 
Marinescu C, Dolmans MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Université Catholique de Louvain, 1200 Brussels, 
Belgium. donnez@gyne.ucl.ac.be <donnez@gyne.ucl.ac.be>

Advances in the diagnosis and treatment of childhood, adolescent and adult 
cancer have greatly increased the life expectancy of premenopausal women with 
cancer. The ovaries are very sensitive to cytotoxic treatment, especially to 
alkylating agents. The only established method of fertility preservation is 
embryo cryopreservation according to the Ethics Committee of the American 
Society for Reproductive Medicine (2005), but this option requires the patient 
to be of pubertal age, have a partner or use donor sperm and be able to undergo 
a cycle of ovarian stimulation, which is not possible when the chemotherapy has 
to be initiated immediately or when stimulation is contraindicated, according to 
the type of cancer. For patients who need immediate chemotherapy, 
cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is the only possible alternative. This 
article reports the techniques and results of orthotopic transplantation of 
cryopreserved ovarian tissue. Among almost 30 cases reported in the literature, 
six live births have been achieved to date.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2009.09.003
PMID: 19850531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. PLoS Genet. 2009 Oct;5(10):e1000700. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000700. Epub
 2009 Oct 23.

Bruchpilot in ribbon-like axonal agglomerates, behavioral defects, and early 
death in SRPK79D kinase mutants of Drosophila.

Nieratschker V(1), Schubert A, Jauch M, Bock N, Bucher D, Dippacher S, Krohne G, 
Asan E, Buchner S, Buchner E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Neurobiology, Julius-Maximilians-University, 
Würzburg, Germany.

Defining the molecular structure and function of synapses is a central theme in 
brain research. In Drosophila the Bruchpilot (BRP) protein is associated with 
T-shaped ribbons ("T-bars") at presynaptic active zones (AZs). BRP is required 
for intact AZ structure and normal evoked neurotransmitter release. By screening 
for mutations that affect the tissue distribution of Bruchpilot, we have 
identified a P-transposon insertion in gene CG11489 (location 79D) which shows 
high homology to mammalian genes for SR protein kinases (SRPKs). SRPKs 
phosphorylate serine-arginine rich splicing factors (SR proteins). Since 
proteins expressed from CG11489 cDNAs phosphorylate a peptide from a human SR 
protein in vitro, we name CG11489 the Drosophila Srpk79D gene. We have 
characterized Srpk79D transcripts and generated a null mutant. Mutation of the 
Srpk79D gene causes conspicuous accumulations of BRP in larval and adult nerves. 
At the ultrastructural level, these correspond to extensive axonal agglomerates 
of electron-dense ribbons surrounded by clear vesicles. Basic synaptic structure 
and function at larval neuromuscular junctions appears normal, whereas life 
expectancy and locomotor behavior of adult mutants are significantly impaired. 
All phenotypes of the mutant can be largely or completely rescued by panneural 
expression of SRPK79D isoforms. Isoform-specific antibodies recognize 
panneurally overexpressed GFP-tagged SRPK79D-PC isoform co-localized with BRP at 
presynaptic active zones while the tagged -PB isoform is found in spots within 
neuronal perikarya. SRPK79D concentrations in wild type apparently are too low 
to be revealed by these antisera. We propose that the Drosophila Srpk79D gene 
characterized here may be expressed at low levels throughout the nervous system 
to prevent the assembly of BRP containing agglomerates in axons and maintain 
intact brain function. The discovery of an SR protein kinase required for normal 
BRP distribution calls for the identification of its substrate and the detailed 
analysis of SRPK function for the maintenance of nervous system integrity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1000700
PMCID: PMC2759580
PMID: 19851455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


766. Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Jan;1(1):38-48. doi: 10.18632/aging.100001.

dSir2 and Dmp53 interact to mediate aspects of CR-dependent lifespan extension 
in D. melanogaster.

Bauer JH(1), Morris SN, Chang C, Flatt T, Wood JG, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Brown University Providence, RI 02912, USA.

Comment in
    Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Jan;1(1):6-8.

Calorie Restriction (CR) is a well established method of extending life span in 
a variety of organisms. In the fruit fly D. melanogaster, CR is mediated at 
least in part by activation of dSir2. In mammalian systems, one of the critical 
targets of Sir2 is the tumor suppressor p53. This deacetylation of p53 by Sir2 
leads to inhibition of p53's transcriptional activity. We have recently shown 
that inhibition of Dmp53 activity in the fly brain through the use of 
dominant-negative (DN) constructs that inhibit DNA-binding can extend life span. 
This life span extension appears to be related to CR, as CR and DN-Dmp53 donot 
display additive effects on life span. Here we report that life span extension 
by DN-Dmp53 expression is highly dynamic and can be achieved even when DN-Dmp53 
is expressed later in life. In addition, we demonstrate that life span extension 
by activation of dSir2 and DN-Dmp53 expression are not additive. Furthermore, we 
show that dSir2 physically interacts with Dmp53 and can deacetylate 
Dmp53-derived peptides. Taken together, our data demonstrate that Dmp53 is a 
down stream target of dSir2 enzymatic activity and mediates some aspects of the 
life span extending effects of CR.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100001
PMCID: PMC2765060
PMID: 19851477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interests to 
declare.


767. Cien Saude Colet. 2009 Sep-Oct;14(5):1903-9. doi: 
10.1590/s1413-81232009000500032.

[Healthy life expectancy to Brazilian elders, 2003].

[Article in Portuguese]

Camargos MC(1), Rodrigues Rdo N, Machado CJ.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Demografia, Centro de Desenvolvimento e Planejamento 
Regional, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Belo Horizonte, MG. 
mirela@cedeplar.ufmg.br

The increase of the percentage of elderly population in Brazil and the increase 
in longevity incite a demand for information on the quantity of years spent in 
good health. The aim of the present study is to measure the life expectancy for 
the elderly of 60 years and above, by sex and age, in the year of 2003. The 
Sullivan method was used, which combined the life-table with the current 
experience of mortality and the self-perceived health. The mortality information 
was obtained from the life tables published by the IBGE (Brazilian Institute of 
Geography and Statistics), 2003. The self-perceived health was used and it was 
dichotomized in good and bad. This information came from the National Research 
of Household Sample (PNAD), 2003. The results indicate that women live longer, 
but spend a higher number of years perceiving their health as bad, as compared 
to men. The results also highlights to the need of considering the differences 
between sexes in relation to the demand for health care. It is also important to 
consider the need to have policies designed to allow the increase in the number 
of years that the elderly can live in good health conditions.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-81232009000500032
PMID: 19851603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Oct;25(10):2159-67. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2009001000007.

Health related quality of life among the elderly: a population-based study using 
SF-36 survey.

Lima MG(1), Barros MB, César CL, Goldbaum M, Carandina L, Ciconelli RM.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências Médicas, Universidade Estadual de Campinas, Campinas, 
Brasil.

As life expectancy continues to rise, one of the greatest challenges of public 
health is to improve the quality of later years of life. The aim of this present 
study was to analyze the quality of life profile of the elderly across different 
demographic and socioeconomic factors. A cross-sectional study was carried out 
in two stages, involving 1,958 individuals aged 60 years or more. Health related 
quality of life (HRQOL) was assessed using the SF-36 questionnaire. The lowest 
scores were found among measures for vitality, mental health and general health 
and the highest among factors including social functioning and role limitations 
due to emotional and physical factors. HRQOL was found to be worse among women, 
in individuals at advanced ages, those who practiced evangelical religions and 
those with lower levels of income and schooling. The greatest differences in 
SF-36 scores between the categories were observed in functional capacity and 
physical factors. The results suggest that healthcare programs for the elderly 
should take into account the multi-dimensionality of health and social 
inequalities so that interventions can target the most affected elements of 
HRQOL as well as the most vulnerable subgroups of the population.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009001000007
PMID: 19851616 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Rev Saude Publica. 2009 Oct;43(5):733-42. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102009000500001.

Homicide and impunity: an ecological analysis at state level in Brazil.

Nadanovsky P(1), Celeste RK, Wilson M, Daly M.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Epidemiologia, Instituto de Medicina Social, Universidade do 
Estado do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brasil. nadanovsky@ims.uerj.br

OBJECTIVE: To assess a new impunity index and variables that have been found to 
predict variation in homicide rates in other geographical levels as predictive 
of state-level homicide rates in Brazil.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional ecological study. Data from the mortality 
information system relating to the 27 Brazilian states for the years 1996 to 
2005 were analyzed. The outcome variables were taken to be homicide victim rates 
in 2005, for the entire population and for men aged 20-29 years. Measurements of 
economic and social development, economic inequality, demographic structure and 
life expectancy were analyzed as predictors. An 'impunity index', calculated as 
the total number of homicides between 1996 and 2005 divided by the number of 
individuals in prison in 2007, was constructed. The data were analyzed by means 
of simple linear regression and negative binomial regression.
RESULTS: In 2005, state-level crude total homicide rates ranged from 11 to 51 
per 100,000; for young men, they ranged from 39 to 241. The impunity index 
ranged from 0.4 to 3.5 and was the most important predictor of this variability. 
From negative binomial regression, it was estimated that the homicide victim 
rate among young males increased by 50% for every increase of one point in this 
ratio.
CONCLUSIONS: Classic predictive factors were not associated with homicides in 
this analysis of state-level variation in Brazil. However, the impunity index 
indicated that the greater the impunity, the higher the homicide rate.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102009000500001
PMID: 19851630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Acta Cir Bras. 2009 Sep-Oct;24(5):423-5. doi:
10.1590/s0102-86502009000500015.

Is animal experimentation fundamental?

d'Acampora AJ(1), Rossi LF, Ely JB, de Vasconcellos ZA.

Author information:
(1)Head of Operative Technique and Experimental Surgery, UNISUL, 
Surgeon-in-chief, General Surgery Unit, Florianopolis Hospital, Santa Catarina, 
Brazil.

The understanding about the utilization of experimental animals in scientific 
research and in teaching is many times a complex issue. Special attention needs 
to be paid to attain the understanding by the general public of the importance 
of animal experimentation in experimental research and in undergraduate medical 
teaching. Experimental teaching and research based on the availability of 
animals for experimentation is important and necessary for the personal and 
scientific development of the physician-to-be. The technological arsenal which 
intends to mimic experimentation animals and thus fully replace their use many 
times does not prove to be compatible with the reality of the living animal. The 
purpose of this paper is to discuss aspects concerning this topic, bringing up 
an issue which is complex and likely to arouse in-depth reflections.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-86502009000500015
PMID: 19851698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Popul Stud (Camb). 2009 Nov;63(3):203-13. doi: 10.1080/00324720903165456.

Trends in senescent life expectancy.

Bongaarts J(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Council, One Dag Hammarjskold Plaza, New York, NY 10017, USA. 
jbongaarts@popcouncil.org

The distinction between senescent and non-senescent mortality proves to be very 
valuable for describing and analysing age patterns of death rates. 
Unfortunately, standard methods for estimating these mortality components are 
lacking. The first part of this paper discusses alternative methods for 
estimating background and senescent mortality among adults and proposes a simple 
approach based on death rates by causes of death. The second part examines 
trends in senescent life expectancy (i.e., the life expectancy implied by 
senescent mortality) and compares them with trends in conventional longevity 
indicators between 1960 and 2000 in a group of 17 developed countries with low 
mortality. Senescent life expectancy for females rises at an average rate of 
1.54 years per decade between 1960 and 2000 in these countries. The shape of the 
distribution of senescent deaths by age remains relatively invariant while the 
entire distribution shifts over time to higher ages as longevity rises.

DOI: 10.1080/00324720903165456
PMCID: PMC2772142
PMID: 19851933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Med J Malaysia. 2009 Mar;64(1):46-50.

How should Malaysia respond to its ageing society?

Forsyth DR(1), Chia YC.

Author information:
(1)Box 135, Department of Medicine for the Elderly, Addenbrooke's Hospital, 
Cambridge University Hospitals Foundation Trust, Hills Road, Cambridge, CB2 2QQ, 
England.

As Malaysia ages its health and social care systems will have to adapt to a 
changing pattern of disease and dependency. Improved public health measures 
extend life expectancy at the relative expense of increased prevalence of 
currently incurable conditions such as dementia and Parkinson's disease. In this 
article we discuss how these demographic changes will impact and suggest 
possible means of coping with the altered epidemiology of disease and 
disability. Malaysia will need to swiftly develop sufficient expertise in acute 
Geriatric Medicine, rehabilitation of older people; the management of long-term 
conditions in older people with multiple complex problems within Primary Care; 
as well as an infrastructure for home and institutional care.

PMID: 19852321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Arch Med Res. 2009 Aug;40(6):503-13. doi: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2009.08.004.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a quadrivalent human papilloma virus vaccine in 
Mexico.

Reynales-Shigematsu LM(1), Rodrigues ER, Lazcano-Ponce E.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, Mexico.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Cervical cancer is one of the main causes of death in women 
in low- and middle-income countries. Despite technological and scientific 
advances that allow an early detection of precancerous lesions and curative 
treatment of cervical cancer, Mexico and other Latin American countries have 
only been able to obtain a small decrease in the mortality rates for this kind 
of cancer. How to implement and sustain effective public health strategies for 
cervical cancer prevention, such as increasing cytology-based screening program 
coverage and implementing HPV-DNA testing and vaccination, are important 
questions. The aim of this study is to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
the introduction of a quadrivalent (HPV 6/11/16/18) HPV vaccine into the public 
health system and evaluate the epidemiological and economic benefits on 
prevention of cervical cancer in Mexico.
METHODS: A Markov model is used to simulate the natural history of HPV infection 
in a cohort of Mexican women to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the cervical 
cancer screening strategy used in Mexico as well as the benefits of other 
potential strategies such as 1) vaccination only, 2) conventional cytology-based 
screening program only and 3) vaccination followed by screening. For the 
strategies that involve screening we have chosen screening intervals of 3 and 5 
years. The model produces results that are reasonably close to the 
epidemiological data related to HPV and cervical cancer in Mexico.
RESULTS: The quadrivalent HPV vaccine could reduce the probability of persistent 
HPV-16/18 infection by at least 60%, which would result in a near-proportional 
reduction in HPV-16/18-associated invasive cervical cancer and CIN 3.
CONCLUSIONS: The strategy of using only vaccination ($45 USD for three doses) as 
a preventive measure was a very cost-effective strategy in Mexico ($68USD/LYS). 
The strategy of vaccination with traditional screening of Pap test every 3 years 
produced higher cost by a lower performance of cervical cytology in Mexico, at a 
cost of $15,935 USD per life-year. The cost-effectiveness of the vaccination 
strategy was highly sensitive to age of vaccination, duration of vaccine 
efficacy, and cost of vaccination. The Mexican model predicts that a 
quadrivalent HPV vaccine will reduce the incidence of high- and 
low-risk-associated cervical cancer. A program of vaccination as a preventive 
strategy is likely cost effective. The results of this study could be of great 
value in decision-making for the implementation of an HPV vaccine as a public 
health policy in Mexico provided that the cost of each dose will be, at most, 
$15 dollars (USD) dollars, combined with HPV testing, the new strategy of 
national secondary prevention program.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arcmed.2009.08.004
PMID: 19853192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Patient Educ Couns. 2009 Nov;77(2):149-50. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2009.09.037.

Giving and using information: what we know and don't know.

Butow PN.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2009.09.037
PMID: 19853789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Lancet. 2009 Nov 7;374(9701):1606-16. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61375-1.
Epub  2009 Oct 23.

Effects of liraglutide in the treatment of obesity: a randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled study.

Astrup A(1), Rössner S, Van Gaal L, Rissanen A, Niskanen L, Al Hakim M, Madsen 
J, Rasmussen MF, Lean ME; NN8022-1807 Study Group.

Collaborators: Van Gaal L, Svacina S, Kunesova M, Astrup A, Richelsen B, 
Hermansen K, Madsbad S, Rissanen A, Niskanen L, Savolainen M, al Hakim M, 
Cuatrecasas Cambra G, Sádaba B, Carraro R, Moreno B, Rössner S, Ridderstrale M, 
Lean M, Finer N, Sampson M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Nutrition, Faculty of Life Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark. ast@life.ku.dk

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2010 Mar 20;375(9719):984.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2009 Nov 7;374(9701):1570-1.
    Lancet. 2010 Feb 13;375(9714):551; author reply 552-3.
    Lancet. 2010 Feb 13;375(9714):551-2; author reply 552-3.
    Evid Based Med. 2010 Apr;15(2):46-7.

BACKGROUND: The frequency of obesity has risen dramatically in recent years but 
only few safe and effective drugs are currently available. We assessed the 
effect of liraglutide on bodyweight and tolerability in obese individuals 
without type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: We did a double-blind, placebo-controlled 20-week trial, with 
open-label orlistat comparator in 19 sites in Europe. 564 individuals (18-65 
years of age, body-mass index 30-40 kg/m2) were randomly assigned, with a 
telephone or web-based system, to one of four liraglutide doses (1.2 mg, 1.8 mg, 
2.4 mg, or 3.0 mg, n=90-95) or to placebo (n=98) administered once a day 
subcutaneously, or orlistat (120 mg, n=95) three times a day orally. All 
individuals had a 500 kcal per day energy-deficit diet and increased their 
physical activity throughout the trial, including the 2-week run-in. Weight 
change analysed by intention to treat was the primary endpoint. An 84-week 
open-label extension followed. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, 
number NCT00422058.
FINDINGS: Participants on liraglutide lost significantly more weight than did 
those on placebo (p=0.003 for liraglutide 1.2 mg and p<0.0001 for liraglutide 
1.8-3.0 mg) and orlistat (p=0.003 for liraglutide 2.4 mg and p<0.0001 for 
liraglutide 3.0 mg). Mean weight loss with liraglutide 1.2-3.0 mg was 4.8 kg, 
5.5 kg, 6.3 kg, and 7.2 kg compared with 2.8 kg with placebo and 4.1 kg with 
orlistat, and was 2.1 kg (95% CI 0.6-3.6) to 4.4 kg (2.9-6.0) greater than that 
with placebo. More individuals (76%, n=70) lost more than 5% weight with 
liraglutide 3.0 mg that with placebo (30%, n=29) or orlistat (44%, n=42). 
Liraglutide reduced blood pressure at all doses, and reduced the prevalence of 
prediabetes (84-96% reduction) with 1.8-3.0 mg per day. Nausea and vomiting 
occurred more often in individuals on liraglutide than in those on placebo, but 
adverse events were mainly transient and rarely led to discontinuation of 
treatment.
INTERPRETATION: Liraglutide treatment over 20 weeks is well tolerated, induces 
weight loss, improves certain obesity-related risk factors, and reduces 
prediabetes.
FUNDING: Novo Nordisk A/S, Bagsvaerd, Denmark.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61375-1
PMID: 19853906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Nucleic Acids Res. 2010 Jan;38(1):e5. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkp872. Epub 2009 Oct
23.

'RNA walk' a novel approach to study RNA-RNA interactions between a small RNA 
and its target.

Lustig Y(1), Wachtel C, Safro M, Liu L, Michaeli S.

Author information:
(1)The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.

In this study we describe a novel method to investigate the RNA-RNA interactions 
between a small RNA and its target that we termed 'RNA walk'. The method is 
based on UV-induced AMT cross-linking in vivo followed by affinity selection of 
the hybrid molecules and mapping the intermolecular adducts by RT-PCR or 
real-time PCR. Domains carrying the cross-linked adducts fail to efficiently 
amplify by PCR compared with non-cross-linked domains. This method was 
calibrated and used to study the interaction between a special tRNA-like 
molecule (sRNA-85) that is part of the trypanosome signal recognition particle 
(SRP) complex and the ribosome. Four contact sites between sRNA-85 and rRNA were 
identified by 'RNA walk' and were further fine-mapped by primer extension. Two 
of the contact sites are expected; one contact site mimics the interaction of 
the mammalian Alu domain of SRP with the ribosome and the other contact sites 
include a canonical tRNA interaction. The two other cross-linked sites could not 
be predicted. We propose that 'RNA walk, is a generic method to map target RNA 
small RNAs interactions in vivo.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkp872
PMCID: PMC2800229
PMID: 19854950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Transplantation. 2009 Oct 27;88(8):970-5. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181b997de.

The UK scheme for mandatory continuous monitoring of early transplant outcome in 
all kidney transplant centers.

Collett D(1), Sibanda N, Pioli S, Bradley JA, Rudge C.

Author information:
(1)Statistics and Clinical Audit, NHS Blood and Transplant, Bristol, United 
Kingdom. dave.collett@nhsbt.nhs.uk

Mandatory continuous monitoring of early transplant outcome with centralized 
oversight was introduced in 2004 for all 23 UK adult kidney transplant units. 
Risk-adjusted cumulative sum charts are used to assess 30-day graft and patient 
survival against past performance for each center, and change in transplant 
center performance is assessed by tabular cumulative sum charts. The monitoring 
scheme has performed as predicted from simulations used to establish outcome 
thresholds and has been validated by comparison with 1- and 5-year outcome data 
for all UK transplant centers. The value and limitations of the scheme are 
discussed along with changes that may improve its utility as a tool for 
self-assessment and central oversight.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3181b997de
PMID: 19855240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


