
42. J Rheumatol. 2010 Feb;37(2):385-92. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.090242. Epub 2009 Dec
1.

Impact of age, sex, physical function, health-related quality of life, and 
treatment with adalimumab on work status and work productivity of patients with 
ankylosing spondylitis.

Maksymowych WP(1), Gooch KL, Wong RL, Kupper H, van der Heijde D.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Alberta, Canada. walter.maksymowych@ualberta.ca

OBJECTIVE: To determine factors associated with work in patients with ankylosing 
spondylitis (AS).
METHODS: Three hundred fifteen patients with AS were enrolled in a 24-week, 
randomized controlled study of adalimumab with a longterm, open-label, 
adalimumab extension phase. Patient-reported outcome (PRO) measures included the 
Medical Outcome Study Short Form 36 Health Survey (SF-36), AS Quality of Life 
Questionnaire (ASQOL), Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI-3), and Work 
Productivity and Activity Impairment-Specific Health Problem Questionnaire 
(WPAI-SHP). Multivariate logistic regression was used to analyze differences 
between working and nonworking patients. The relationships between PRO and 
WPAI-SHP scores were assessed using Pearson correlation coefficients. 
Multivariate modeling was applied to determine factors associated with 
productivity while at work. WPAI-SHP was assessed through 3 years of adalimumab 
exposure.
RESULTS: Younger age (p = 0.002) and male sex (p < 0.001) were significantly and 
independently associated with working patients with AS. The SF-36 Physical 
Component Summary score (p < 0.001), ASQOL score (p < 0.001), HUI-3 scores (p < 
0.001), and both patient's global assessment of disease activity (p < 0.001) and 
nocturnal pain (p < 0.001) scores were independently associated with working 
status. Work absenteeism due to AS was weakly correlated with all PRO scores. 
WPAI-SHP components of work presenteeism (lack of productivity at work), 
activity impairment, and overall work productivity loss due to AS were 
moderately correlated with quality of life as measured by the ASQOL, the SF-36 
Physical Component Summary score, and the SF-36 Bodily Pain domain. Linear 
multivariate analyses indicated that work presenteeism was significantly 
associated with pain, functioning, and disease activity. Longterm adalimumab 
treatment was associated with sustained improvements in WPAI-SHP scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Quality of life and the physical consequences associated with AS 
have a direct relationship with a patient's ability to work. Adalimumab sustains 
improvements in work outcomes in patients with AS.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.090242
PMID: 19955052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Ann Oncol. 2010 Jul;21(7):1529-1536. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdp560. Epub 2009
Dec  2.

Economic evaluation of zoledronic acid for the prevention of osteoporotic 
fractures in postmenopausal women with early-stage breast cancer receiving 
aromatase inhibitors in the UK.

Logman JFS(1), Heeg BMS(2), Botteman MF(3), Kaura S(4), van Hout BA(2).

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit Europe, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
flogman@pharmerit.com.
(2)Pharmerit Europe, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Pharmerit North America LLC, Bethesda, MD.
(4)Department of Health Economics, Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Florham 
Park, NJ, USA.

BACKGROUND: Aromatase inhibitors are used as adjuvant therapy for breast cancer 
(BC) and are associated with accelerated bone loss. Zoledronic acid (ZOL) 
prevents aromatase inhibitor-associated bone loss (AIBL) in postmenopausal women 
with BC. This analysis assessed the cost-effectiveness of ZOL for prevention of 
fractures in postmenopausal women with BC.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov model was developed to project lifetime 
incidence of fractures, quality-adjusted life years (QALY), and costs as a 
function of bone mineral density (BMD) for women with early-stage BC receiving 
letrozole alone or with ZOL. Two strategies of ZOL therapy were compared with no 
treatment: starting ZOL treatment only when BMD levels decreased ('delayed ZOL') 
and starting ZOL simultaneously with letrozole therapy ('upfront ZOL').
RESULTS: Delayed ZOL therapy was estimated to cost 16,069 pounds per QALY, when 
compared with not administering bisphosphonates for AIBL prevention. The 
corresponding cost per QALY gained for upfront ZOL versus no treatment was 
estimated at 21,973 pounds. The cost-effectiveness ratio for upfront versus 
delayed therapy was estimated at 24,868 pounds per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Both delayed and upfront therapy with ZOL for the prevention of AIBL 
and fractures in BC patients in the UK appear to result in highly acceptable 
cost-effectiveness ratios.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdp560
PMID: 19955334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. N Engl J Med. 2009 Dec 3;361(23):2252-60. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa0900459.

Forecasting the effects of obesity and smoking on U.S. life expectancy.

Stewart ST(1), Cutler DM, Rosen AB.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University Interfaculty Program for Health Systems Improvement, 
Boston, MA, USA. sstewart@nber.org

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Mar 4;362(9):855-6; author reply 856-7.

BACKGROUND: Although increases in obesity over the past 30 years have adversely 
affected the health of the U.S. population, there have been concomitant 
improvements in health because of reductions in smoking. Having a better 
understanding of the joint effects of these trends on longevity and quality of 
life will facilitate more efficient targeting of health care resources.
METHODS: For each year from 2005 through 2020, we forecasted life expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for a representative 18-year-old, assuming a 
continuation of past trends in smoking (based on data from the National Health 
Interview Survey for 1978 through 1979, 1990 through 1991, 1999 through 2001, 
and 2004 through 2006) and past trends in body-mass index (BMI) (based on data 
from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey for 1971 through 1975, 
1988 through 1994, 1999 through 2002, and 2003 through 2006). The 2003 Medical 
Expenditure Panel Survey was used to examine the effects of smoking and BMI on 
health-related quality of life.
RESULTS: The negative effects of increasing BMI overwhelmed the positive effects 
of declines in smoking in multiple scenarios. In the base case, increases in the 
remaining life expectancy of a typical 18-year-old are held back by 0.71 years 
or 0.91 quality-adjusted years between 2005 and 2020. If all U.S. adults became 
nonsmokers of normal weight by 2020, we forecast that the life expectancy of an 
18-year-old would increase by 3.76 life-years or 5.16 quality-adjusted years.
CONCLUSIONS: If past obesity trends continue unchecked, the negative effects on 
the health of the U.S. population will increasingly outweigh the positive 
effects gained from declining smoking rates. Failure to address continued 
increases in obesity could result in an erosion of the pattern of steady gains 
in health observed since early in the 20th century.

2009 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa0900459
PMCID: PMC4394736
PMID: 19955525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


45. J Spinal Disord Tech. 2009 Dec;22(8):578-85. doi:
10.1097/BSD.0b013e31818da3fe.

Biomechanical assessment of bilateral C1 laminar hook and C1-2 transarticular 
screws and bone graft for atlantoaxial instability.

Guo X(1), Ni B, Zhao W, Wang M, Zhou F, Li S, Ren Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, The Second Affiliated Hospital, The Second 
Military Medical University, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.

STUDYDESIGN: In vitro biomechanical test was conducted to compare the stability 
of 5 different atlantoaxial posterior fusion techniques.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the biomechanical stability of an atlas laminar hook 
combined with transarticular (TA) screws relative to 4 different conventional 
fusion techniques.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The atlantoaxial instability caused by fractures, 
rheumatoid arthritis, congenital deformity, or traumatic lesions of the 
transverse ligament often result in acute or chronic spinal cord compression, a 
possible threat to a patient's life. Posterior atlantoaxial fixations are used 
to reconstruct the stability of atlantoaxial articulation. Conventional 
posterior atlantoaxial fixations are associated with high rates of 
pseudoarthrosis and carry the potential risk of neurologic complication. TA 
screw fixation can provide an excellent biomechanical stability. As a modified 
3-point fixation technique, the bilateral C1-2 TA screws have been combined with 
C1 laminar hook and bone grafts. This modified technique had carried good 
clinical outcomes.
METHODS: Eight human specimens (C0-C4) were loaded nondestructively with pure 
moments and the range of motion at the level of C1-C2 was measured. Eight 
specimens were implanted with each of the following techniques, respectively: 
Gallie fixation, C1-2 TA screw fixation combined with Gallie fixation, C1-2 TA 
screw fixation, C1 laminar hook combined with C1-2 TA screw fixation plus bone 
grafts, and the C1 lateral mass screws in the atlas combined with C2 isthmic 
screws in axis.
RESULTS: Although the C1-2 TA screws best restricted lateral bending and axial 
rotation, the modified 3-point fixation technique additionally restricted 
flexion-extension and provided the excellent stability. Differences in axial 
rotation and lateral bending (with + or - 1.5 Nm load) were observed when the 
3-point fixation techniques (TA + Gallie and TA + hook) were compared with atlas 
lateral mass screws in the atlas combined with isthmic screws in axis.
CONCLUSIONS: The modified C1 laminar hook combined with C1-2 TA screws and bone 
graft fixation provided the best biomechanical stability. The C1 lateral mass 
screws in the atlas combined with isthmic screws in axis fixation is a sound 
alternative when the C1-2 TA screw fixation is not feasible.

DOI: 10.1097/BSD.0b013e31818da3fe
PMID: 19956032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):1061-4. doi: 10.1038/nature08619. Epub 2009 Dec
2.

Amino-acid imbalance explains extension of lifespan by dietary restriction in 
Drosophila.

Grandison RC(1), Piper MD, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Department of Genetics Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, UK.

Comment in
    Nature. 2009 Dec 24;462(7276):989-90.

Dietary restriction extends healthy lifespan in diverse organisms and reduces 
fecundity. It is widely assumed to induce adaptive reallocation of nutrients 
from reproduction to somatic maintenance, aiding survival of food shortages in 
nature. If this were the case, long life under dietary restriction and high 
fecundity under full feeding would be mutually exclusive, through competition 
for the same limiting nutrients. Here we report a test of this idea in which we 
identified the nutrients producing the responses of lifespan and fecundity to 
dietary restriction in Drosophila. Adding essential amino acids to the dietary 
restriction condition increased fecundity and decreased lifespan, similar to the 
effects of full feeding, with other nutrients having little or no effect. 
However, methionine alone was necessary and sufficient to increase fecundity as 
much as did full feeding, but without reducing lifespan. Reallocation of 
nutrients therefore does not explain the responses to dietary restriction. 
Lifespan was decreased by the addition of amino acids, with an interaction 
between methionine and other essential amino acids having a key role. Hence, an 
imbalance in dietary amino acids away from the ratio optimal for reproduction 
shortens lifespan during full feeding and limits fecundity during dietary 
restriction. Reduced activity of the insulin/insulin-like growth factor 
signalling pathway extends lifespan in diverse organisms, and we find that it 
also protects against the shortening of lifespan with full feeding. In other 
organisms, including mammals, it may be possible to obtain the benefits to 
lifespan of dietary restriction without incurring a reduction in fecundity, 
through a suitable balance of nutrients in the diet.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08619
PMCID: PMC2798000
PMID: 19956092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Dig Dis Sci. 2010 Mar;55(3):684-97. doi: 10.1007/s10620-009-1049-0. Epub 2009
 Dec 3.

Long-term tegaserod treatment for dysmotility-like functional dyspepsia: results 
of two identical 1-year cohort studies.

Chey WD(1), Howden CW, Tack J, Ligozio G, Earnest DL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Michigan Health System, 3912 
Taubman Center, SPC 0362, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0362, USA. wchey@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: Functional dyspepsia (FD) is a chronic disorder that adversely 
affects health-related quality of life (HRQoL). Published information on its 
long-term management is minimal and treatment options are limited.
AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate safety, efficacy and HRQoL with 
tegaserod 6 mg twice daily over 1 year in women with FD who completed one of two 
6-week, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind studies.
METHODS: About 780 patients received tegaserod 6 mg twice daily in two identical 
1-year extension studies. Scheduled assessments included adverse events, the 
Short-Form Nepean Dyspepsia Index (SF-NDI), Work Productivity and Activity 
Impairment-Dyspepsia (WPAI-Dyspepsia) questionnaire, and patient perceptions of 
treatment efficacy.
RESULTS: Mean tegaserod treatment duration in the two studies was 236 and 222 
days. Most adverse events occurred in the first 6 months, were similar to 
previous reports (commonly diarrhea), and were transient and well tolerated. 
SF-NDI, WPAI-Dyspepsia scores and perceived symptom relief improved from 
baseline over the 1-year evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term safety profile of tegaserod in women with FD was 
consistent with that of short-term treatment and accompanied by improvements in 
HRQoL, work productivity and symptom relief. These long-term results add to the 
clinical experience with FD and support the potential value of a 5-HT(4) agonist 
in the management of FD.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-009-1049-0
PMID: 19957035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Lik Sprava. 2009 Jan-Feb;(1-2):80-94.

[Intellectual activity and longevity (to memory of academician Vladimir 
Frol'kis)].

[Article in Russian]

Rozenbaum MD, Grechenkova LN, Grechenkov SV.

The article presents results of studies. These results show dependence of life 
expectancy from the social status and intellectual activity. Quality of life of 
scientists of advanced age in comparison with other pensioners has been 
analyzed. Continuation of scientific activity became guarantee of their health 
and longevity.

PMID: 19957399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Jul;30(7):679-83.

[Estimation on disease burden related to hepatitis B virus infection in Shandong 
province of China].

[Article in Chinese]

Qi WT(1), Sun JD, Xu AQ, Zhang L, Li RP, Ma JX, Guo XL, Fan QY, Yang H.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Shandong University, Jinan, China.

OBJECTIVE: To comprehensively measure the burden of hepatitis B, liver cirrhosis 
and liver cancer in Shandong province, using disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) to estimate the disease burden attribute to hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
infection.
METHODS: Based on the mortality data of hepatitis B, liver cirrhosis and liver 
cancer derived from the third National Sampling Retrospective Survey for Causes 
of Death during 2004 and 2005, the incidence data of hepatitis B and the 
prevalence and the disability weights of liver cancer gained from the Shandong 
Cancer Prevalence Sampling Survey in 2007, we calculated the years of life lost 
(YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs) and DALYs of three diseases following 
the procedures developed for the global burden of disease (GBD) study to ensure 
the comparability.
RESULTS: The total burden for hepatitis B, liver cirrhosis and liver cancer were 
211,616 (39,377 YLLs and 172,239 YLDs), 16,783 (13,497 YLLs and 3286 YLDs) and 
247,795 (240,236 YLLs and 7559 YLDs) DALYs in 2005 respectively, and men were 
2.19, 2.36 and 3.16 times as that for women, respectively in Shandong province. 
The burden for hepatitis B was mainly because of disability (81.39%). However, 
most burden on liver cirrhosis and liver cancer were due to premature death 
(80.42% and 96.95%). The burden of each patient related to hepatitis B, liver 
cirrhosis and liver cancer were 4.8, 13.73 and 11.11 respectively.
CONCLUSION: Hepatitis B, liver cirrhosis and liver cancer caused considerable 
burden to the people living in Shandong province, indicating that the control of 
hepatitis B virus infection would bring huge potential benefits.

PMID: 19957589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Environ Sci Technol. 2010 Jan 1;44(1):204-9. doi: 10.1021/es9017865.

Spatial- and time-explicit human damage modeling of ozone depleting substances 
in life cycle impact assessment.

Struijs J(1), van Dijk A, Slaper H, van Wijnen HJ, Velders GJ, Chaplin G, 
Huijbregts MA.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Ecological Risk Assessment, National Institute for Public 
Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

Depletion of the stratospheric ozone layer is mainly caused by emissions of 
persistent halocarbons of anthropogenic origin. The resulting increase of solar 
ultraviolet radiation at the Earth's surface is associated with increased 
exposure of humans and increased human health damage. Here we assessed the 
change in human health damage caused by three types of skin cancer and cataract 
in terms of (healthy) years of life lost per kiloton emission reduction of an 
ozone-depleting substance (ODS). This so-called characterization factor is used 
in Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs). Characterization factors are provided for the 
emissions of five chlorofluorocarbons, three hydrochlorofluorocarbons, three 
(bromine-containing) halons, carbon tetrachloride, methyl chloroform, and 
anthropogenic emissions of methyl bromide. We employed dynamic calculations on a 
global scale for this purpose, taking physical and social geographic data into 
account such as skin tones, population density, average age, and life 
expectancy. When emission rates of all ODSs in 2007 are multiplied by our 
characterization factors, the resulting number of years of life lost may be a 
factor of 5 higher than reported previously. This increase is merely explained 
through the global demographic development until 2100 we took into account.

DOI: 10.1021/es9017865
PMID: 19958022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Br J Haematol. 2010 Feb;148(4):522-33. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2009.08005.x.
 Epub 2009 Dec 1.

Co-morbidities and quality of life in elderly persons with haemophilia.

Franchini M(1), Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Immunohaematology and Transfusion Centre, Department of Pathology and 
Laboratory Medicine, University Hospital of Parma, Italy.

The life expectancy and quality of life of persons with haemophilia has 
dramatically increased since the 1970s, with the exception of the increased rate 
of deaths observed during the 1980s and the 1990s due to blood-borne viral 
infections. Improvements of factor replacement therapy, treatment of infectious 
diseases and comprehensive health care provided by specialised haemophilia 
centres are the main determinants of the increasing age of the haemophilia 
population. As a consequence, a growing number of these patients develop 
age-related co-morbidities, such as cardiovascular disease and cancer. The care 
of these previously rare conditions is a new challenge for caregivers in 
haemophilia centres. This review focuses on co-morbidities in the ageing 
haemophilia patients, their impact on quality of life and their complex 
management.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2141.2009.08005.x
PMID: 19958358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2010 Mar;38(2):118-27. doi: 
10.1111/j.1442-9071.2009.02180.x. Epub 2009 Nov 30.

Anterior lamellar keratoplasty: 'Back to the Future'- a review.

Tan DT(1), Anshu A.

Author information:
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, 11 Third Hospital Avenue, Singapore 168751. 
snecdt@pacific.net.sg

Newer forms of lamellar keratoplasty techniques have emerged in the last decade 
or so revolving around the concept of targeted replacement of diseased corneal 
layers. These include anterior lamellar keratoplasty (ALK) techniques that aim 
to selectively replace diseased corneal stroma and, endothelial keratoplasty 
techniques aiming to replaced damaged endothelium in endothelial disorders. ALK 
surgery has a distinct advantage over penetrating keratoplasty (PK) in that it 
minimizes unnecessary replacement of the unaffected healthy endothelial layer 
thereby almost eliminating the risk of endothelial rejection, a major cause of 
graft failure in PK. Overall it provides increased life expectancy to the graft 
and with advancements in the surgical technique and instrumentation for ALK, the 
visual outcomes are now comparable if not better to standard PK. There are 
several forms of ALK procedures that have evolved to cater to a wide range of 
stromal disorders. This article reviews the various emerging techniques of 
anterior lamellar surgery, its indications and visual outcomes, to emphasize the 
shift from PK to ALK for stromal disorders with a healthy endothelium.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1442-9071.2009.02180.x
PMID: 19958371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2010 Mar;21(3):255-61. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0501.2009.01820.x. Epub 2009 Dec 4.

Diagnosis of implant stability and its impact on implant survival: a prospective 
case series study.

Rodrigo D(1), Aracil L, Martin C, Sanz M.

Author information:
(1)Facultad de Odontología, Clinic of Graduate Periodontology, Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the predictability of implant stability assessment either 
clinically or by resonance frequency analysis (RFA).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This prospective case series study evaluated 4114 
consecutive SLA Straumann implants in two private clinics. Primary stability was 
classified in four categories, depending on the degree of implant rotation when 
tightening the healing cap: A (no rotation at all), B (light rotation with a 
feeling of resistance), C (rotation without resistance) and D (rotation and 
lateral oscillation). In one clinic (n=542 implants), RFA method was also used 
the day of the surgery (Osstell 1) and at restoration placement (Osstell 2). 
Survival rates were stratified according to the clinical classification 
categories using life table analysis. The association between Osstell 1 and 2 
and the clinical classification was tested with ANOVA.
RESULTS: 3899 implants were classified as stable (A) and 213 as unstable (B-D). 
Their survival rates were 99.1% and 97.2%, respectively. The unstable implants 
were further classified in B (158), C (51) and D (4), with survivals of 98.1%, 
94.1% and 100%, respectively, being these differences statistically significant 
(P<0.009). Using Osstell, implants were stratified in two groups according to a 
predefined threshold of implant stability quotient (>or=60). At the Osstell 1 
measurement there was no significant association between primary stability and 
implant survival (P<0.753). In Osstell 2, however, the association was 
significant (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Only secondary stability RFA values were able to significantly 
predict implant outcomes, but not primary stability values. There was a good 
correlation between RFA and the proposed clinical classification of primary 
stability.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0501.2009.01820.x
PMID: 19958375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. J Vector Borne Dis. 2009 Dec;46(4):295-8.

Life table analysis of Anopheles gambiae (diptera: culicidae) in relation to 
malaria transmission.

Olayemi IK(1), Ande AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Technology, Minna, 
Nigeria. kaylatiyemi@yahoo.com

PMID: 19959856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2009 Aug-Oct;21(4-5):369-71. doi: 10.1007/BF03324931.

Life review with older women: an intervention to reduce depression and improve 
autobiographical memory.

Gonçalves DC(1), Albuquerque PB, Paul C.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, University of Minho, Portugal. 
d.goncalves@uqconnect.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: As life expectancy rises worldwide and the population grows 
older, psychopathology in older adults becomes a significant public health 
concern and intervention methods acquire renewed importance. The aim of the 
present study was to assess the efficacy of Life Review as an intervention 
strategy in working with older women with depressive symptoms, specifically 
through promotion of the specificity of autobiographical memories.
METHODS: Twenty-two participants were randomly assigned to experimental or 
control conditions. Intervention consisted of four individual sessions of Life 
Review, structured along 14 questions aimed at prompting autobiographical memory 
specificity. Participants in the control condition did not receive intervention.
RESULTS: Results indicated a significant change in the experimental group, 
appearing as the reduction of depressive symptoms (t(20)=3.58, p<0.05) and an 
increase in life satisfaction (t(20)=-3.83, p<0.05), as well as a significant 
increase in the specificity (t(20)=-3.46, p<0.05) and positivity (t(20)=-4.23, 
p<0.05) of autobiographical memories. All variables reached high effect sizes, 
with an effect size of r=0.64 regarding depressive symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that Life Review is a valuable tool for use with 
older adults, and that promotion of specific autobiographical memories is a 
mechanism through which the strategy attains its effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03324931
PMID: 19959930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Can J Cardiol. 2009 Dec;25(12):e399-405. doi: 10.1016/s0828-282x(09)70532-x.

Cost-effectiveness of enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin in ST 
elevation myocardial infarction patients undergoing pharmacological reperfusion: 
a Canadian analysis of the Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion for Acute 
Myocardial Infarction Treatment - Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 
(ExTRACT-TIMI) 25 trial.

Welsh RC(1), Sauriol L, Zhang Z, Kolm P, Weintraub WS, Theroux P.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta and Mazankowski Alberta Heart Institute, Edmonton, 
Canada. rwelsh@cha.ab.ca

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of enoxaparin versus 
unfractionated heparin in conjunction with fibrinolysis in ST elevation 
myocardial infarction patients within Canada.
DESIGN: Based on the Enoxaparin and Thrombolysis Reperfusion for Acute 
Myocardial Infarction Treatment - Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 
(ExTRACT-TIMI) 25 trial, a model was created to analyze the cost-effectiveness 
of enoxaparin compared with unfractionated heparin in conjunction with 
fibrinolysis among ST elevation myocardial infarction patients within Canada. 
Clinical outcomes were derived from published results of the main trial. 
Resource use costs were first assessed based on United States Diagnosis-Related 
Group values for hospitalizations and Current Procedural Terminology codes for 
outpatient visits and tests. Both were then converted using Canadian local 
costs. Survival and life expectancy were estimated from Framingham survival 
data. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was expressed as cost per life 
year gained.
RESULTS: Through 30 days after random assignment, the primary composite end 
point favoured the enoxaparin group over the unfractionated heparin group (death 
or recurrent myocardial infarction rate 9.9% versus 12.0%, P<0.001), and was 
associated with a modest increased cost of $169.50 ($8,757.00 versus $8,587.50, 
respectively). Life years gained as a result of treatment with enoxaparin was 
increased by 0.11 years (P<0.05). Enoxaparin was found to be cost-effective, as 
indicated by an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $4,930 with a 99% 
probability of costing less than $20,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Although associated with modest increased direct medication costs, 
enoxaparin following fibrinolysis improved the clinical efficacy in STEMI 
patients and increased the life years gained.

OBJECTIF : Évaluer la rentabilité de l’enoxaparine par rapport à l’héparine non 
fractionnée associée à la fibrinolyse chez des patients du Canada ayant subi un 
infarctus du myocarde avec élévation du segment ST.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : D’après l’essai sur l’enoxaparine et la reperfusion de la 
thrombolyse dans le traitement de l’infarctus aigu du myocarde – thrombolyse en 
cas d’infarctus du myocarde ExTRACT-TIMI 25, on a créé un modèle pour analyser 
la rentabilité de l’enoxaparine par rapport à l’héparine non fractionnée 
associée à la fibrinolyse chez les patients du Canada ayant subi un infarctus du 
myocarde avec élévation du segment ST. Les issues cliniques étaient dérivées des 
résultats publiés de l’essai principal. On a d’abord évalué les coûts 
d’utilisation des ressources d’après les valeurs du groupe lié au diagnostic des 
États-Unis pour les hospitalisations et les codes courants de terminologie des 
interventions à l’égard des consultations et des tests ambulatoires. On a 
ensuite converti les deux résultats au moyen des coûts canadiens locaux. On a 
évalué la survie et l’espérance de vie d’après les données de survie de 
Framinghan. Le ratio de rentabilité incrémentielle était exprimé par le coût par 
année de vie gagnée.
RÉSULTATS : Dans les 30 jours suivant la répartition aléatoire, le paramètre 
ultime composite primaire favorisait le groupe prenant de l’enoxaparine par 
rapport au groupe prenant de l’héparine non fractionnée (taux de décès ou 
d’infarctus du myocarde récurrent de 9,9 % par rapport à 12,0 %, P<0,001) et 
s’associait à une modeste augmentation des coûts de 169,50 $ (8 757,00 $ par 
rapport à 8 587,50 $, respectivement). Les années de vie gagnées grâce au 
traitement à l’enoxaparine augmentaient de 0,11 an (P<0,05). On a déterminé que 
l’enoxaparine était rentable, tel que l’indique le ratio coût-efficacité 
incrémentiel de 4 930 $ et la probabilité à 99 % que les coûts soient inférieurs 
à 20 000 $.
CONCLUSIONS : Quoiqu’elle s’associe à une augmentation modeste des coûts directs 
de médicaments, l’enoxaparine après la fibrinolyse améliorait l’efficacité 
clinique chez les patients ayant subi un infarctus du myocarde avec élévation du 
segment ST et accroissait les années de vie gagnées.

DOI: 10.1016/s0828-282x(09)70532-x
PMCID: PMC2807835
PMID: 19960133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Sarcoidosis Vasc Diffuse Lung Dis. 2009 Jul;26(1):47-53.

Serum KL-6 as a novel disease marker in adolescent and adult cystic fibrosis.

Ohshimo S(1), Bonella F, Grammann N, Starke K, Cui A, Bauer PC, Teschler H, 
Kohno N, Guzman J, Costabel U.

Author information:
(1)Medical Faculty, University of Duisburg-Essen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a chronic progressive disease leading to 
obstructive pulmonary impairment, fibrosis and shortened life expectancy. Serum 
levels of KL-6, high molecular weight human MUC1 mucin, are increased in the 
majority of patients with various interstitial lung disorders. Whether they are 
also elevated in CF has not been investigated before.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether serum KL-6 levels are elevated and correlate with 
pulmonary function variables in CF.
DESIGN: Serum KL-6, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and C-reactive protein (CRP) 
levels were measured in 72 consecutive CF and 80 age- and sex-matched healthy 
control subjects. The relationship between serum KL-6 levels and pulmonary 
function variables was analyzed.
RESULTS: Serum KL-6 levels in CF patients were significantly increased compared 
to healthy subjects. Receiver operating characteristic curve analysis revealed 
that the diagnostic accuracy of KL-6 was better than that of LDH and CRP. Serum 
KL-6 levels showed an inverse relationship with vital capacity (VC) % predicted 
and forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) % predicted.
CONCLUSIONS: Serum KL-6 levels are elevated and appear to be correlated with 
pulmonary function variables in CF. These results suggest that KL-6 may be a 
useful noninvasive marker to monitor disease severity.

PMID: 19960788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):278-88. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00675.x.  Epub 2009 Dec 4.

A median model for predicting United States population-based EQ-5D health state 
preferences.

Shaw JW(1), Pickard AS, Yu S, Chen S, Iannacchione VG, Johnson JA, Coons SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Pharmacoeconomic Research, Department of Pharmacy Administration, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL 60612, USA. jwshaw@uic.edu

OBJECTIVE: The D1 model that was developed to predict US societal preferences 
for EQ-5D health states addressed several important conceptual and statistical 
issues. However, it has been criticized for being too complex, failing to 
account for the nonnormal distribution of health state values, and the 
transformation of preferences for worse-than-death health states before 
estimation. This research was conducted to develop an improved model for 
predicting median preferences for EQ-5D health states for the US population.
METHODS: Probability-weighted least absolute deviations regression was used to 
fit models to the time trade-off data collected in the US Valuation of the EQ-5D 
Health States study. No transformation was applied to the values for states 
considered worse than death. Several model specifications that differed with 
respect to explanatory variables were evaluated using two-sample 
cross-validation.
RESULTS: The best-fitting model included only fixed effects for moderate or 
severe problems in each of the 5 EQ-5D dimensions and excluded a constant. This 
specification yielded rank correlations between observed and predicted values 
and median observed and predicted values of 0.635 and 0.991, respectively, as 
well as a median absolute error of 0.026. The predicted median preferences 
ranged from 1.00 for full health, to -0.81 for the worst possible health state.
CONCLUSIONS: Due to its simplicity and robustness, a median model is superior to 
other models for predicting US population preferences for EQ-5D health states. 
The predictions of this model are suggested for use in applications that require 
US societal health state values.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00675.x
PMID: 19961566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Can J Psychiatry. 2009 Nov;54(11):777-82. doi: 10.1177/070674370905401108.

Recurrence rates in Ontario physicians monitored for major depression and 
bipolar disorder.

Albuquerque J(1), Deshauer D, Fergusson D, Doucette S, MacWilliam C, Kaufmann 
IM.

Author information:
(1)Ontario Medical Association Physician Health Program, Toronto, Ontario.

OBJECTIVE: Physicians with recurrent conditions that may affect job performance 
are sometimes referred for monitoring to help ensure compliance with treatment, 
ongoing remission of illness, and patient safety. Little is known about 
recurrence rates among doctors monitored for mood disorders. Our primary 
objective was to describe recurrence rates among Ontario physicians monitored 
for recurrent unipolar depression and bipolar disorder (BD). Our secondary 
objective was to explore predictors of recurrence.
METHOD: We used a retrospective cohort design to describe the time to 
recurrence, defined as either stopping work owing to symptoms or any 
re-emergence of symptoms meeting a pre-established clinical threshold. Our 
exploratory analysis of recurrence predictors included age, sex, psychiatric 
diagnosis, psychiatric comorbidity, medical comorbidity, number of past 
episodes, past hospitalizations, and family history of psychiatric disorder.
RESULTS: During a median observation of 24 months, 36% (18 of 50) of physicians 
stopped work owing to recurrence of symptoms, with the median time to stopping 
work being 11 months. As well, 52% (26 of 50) had a re-emergence of clinical 
symptoms, with the median time to any level of symptom re-emergence being 13 
months. Physicians with psychiatric comorbidity stopped work sooner (hazard 
ratio [HR] 3.53; 95% CI 1.24 to 10.03, P = 0.01) and had more rapid symptom 
re-emergence (HR 2.96; 95% CI 1.34 to 6.52, P = 0.004) than those without 
comorbidity. The most common psychiatric comorbidity was a Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, anxiety disorder.
CONCLUSION: Recurrence rates are high among Ontario physicians referred for 
formal monitoring of recurrent unipolar depression and BD, and are markedly 
hastened by the presence of psychiatric comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1177/070674370905401108
PMID: 19961666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Z Med Phys. 2009;19(4):236-50. doi: 10.1016/j.zemedi.2009.08.002. Epub 2009
Sep  11.

Phenomenological modelling of second cancer incidence for radiation treatment 
planning.

Pfaffenberger A(1), Schneider U, Poppe B, Oelfke U.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Medizinische Physik in der Strahlentherapie, Deutsches 
Krebsforschungszentrum, Heidelberg, Germany. a.pfaffenberger@dkfz.de

It is still an unanswered question whether a relatively low dose of radiation to 
a large volume or a higher dose to a small volume produces the higher cancer 
incidence. This is of interest in view of modalities like IMRT or rotation 
therapy where high conformity to the target volume is achieved at the cost of a 
large volume of normal tissue exposed to radiation. Knowledge of the shape of 
the dose response for radiation-induced cancer is essential to answer the 
question of what risk of second cancer incidence is implied by which treatment 
modality. This study therefore models the dose response for radiation-induced 
second cancer after radiation therapy of which the exact mechanisms are still 
unknown. A second cancer risk estimation tool for treatment planning is 
presented which has the potential to be used for comparison of different 
treatment modalities, and risk is estimated on a voxel basis for different 
organs in two case studies. The presented phenomenological model summarises the 
impact of microscopic biological processes into effective parameters of mutation 
and cell sterilisation. In contrast to other models, the effective 
radiosensitivities of mutated and non-mutated cells are allowed to differ. Based 
on the number of mutated cells present after irradiation, the model is then 
linked to macroscopic incidence by summarising model parameters and modifying 
factors into natural cancer incidence and the dose response in the lower-dose 
region. It was found that all principal dose-response functions discussed in the 
literature can be derived from the model. However, from the investigation and 
due to scarcity of adequate data, rather vague statements about likelihood of 
dose-response functions can be made than a definite decision for one response. 
Based on the predicted model parameters, the linear response can probably be 
rejected using the dynamics described, but both a flattening response and a 
decrease appear likely, depending strongly on the effective cell sterilisation 
of the mutated cells. Thus insights could be gained into the impact of 
parameters describing the effective mutation or cell sterilisation of 
non-mutated as well as of mutated cells, which constitute precursors of cancer. 
The biggest drawbacks in the estimation of second cancer incidence remain the 
low statistical power of clinical studies on radiation induction of cancer and 
the inability to isolate the effect due to radiation alone - if the latter is 
possible at all. We conclude that at the present stage of knowledge, further 
investigations have to be carried out in order to really compare treatment 
modalities with respect to the second cancer risk they imply.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zemedi.2009.08.002
PMID: 19962082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Mol Immunol. 2010 Feb;47(5):1091-7. doi: 10.1016/j.molimm.2009.10.036. Epub
2009  Dec 3.

Design, synthesis and evaluation of high-affinity binders for the celiac disease 
associated HLA-DQ2 molecule.

Kapoerchan VV(1), Wiesner M, Hillaert U, Drijfhout JW, Overhand M, Alard P, van 
der Marel GA, Overkleeft HS, Koning F.

Author information:
(1)Leiden Institute of Chemistry, Gorlaeus Laboratories, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.

Celiac disease is caused by uncontrolled CD4 T-cell responses directed to 
wheat-derived gluten peptides bound to the disease predisposing HLA-DQ 
molecules. The only available treatment is a life-long gluten-free diet which is 
complicated by the widespread use of wheat-derived gluten in the food industry. 
As the binding of gluten-derived peptides is a prerequisite for the induction of 
the inflammatory T-cell response, blockers that would prevent gluten peptide 
binding to the HLA-DQ molecules might be used as an alternative to the 
gluten-free diet. In the present study we have analyzed the binding properties 
of a set of previously identified natural ligands for HLA-DQ2, the primary 
disease predisposing allele. An in silico method, Epibase, ranked these peptides 
and the top one, a peptide with a nine amino acid core FVAEYEPVL, was measured 
among these peptides as the peptide with the highest binding affinity for 
HLA-DQ2. In a stepwise approach we subsequently tested the impact of N-terminal 
extensions and systematic single amino acid substitutions within the core of 
this peptide which revealed that an N-terminal extension with the tripeptide 
sequence ADA increased binding affinity 5- to 6-fold. In addition the 
substitution analysis indicated which amino acids were most preferred at anchor 
residues in the lead peptide, generally leading to an increase of binding 
affinity with a factor of 2. Next we tested which combinations of such preferred 
amino acids yielded the best results. The combined results indicate that a 
peptide with sequence ADAYDYESEELFAA (core in bold) had superior binding 
properties. This peptide was chosen as a lead peptide for further optimization 
with non-natural amino acids at the p1 position, since molecular modeling 
indicated that none of the natural amino acids is able to optimally occupy the 
p1 pocket. A set of 8 non-proteinogenic amino acids was designed, synthesized 
and incorporated in the lead peptide (and in two control peptides) and tested 
for binding to HLA-DQ2. The results indicate that the effect of the 
incorporation of these non-proteinogenic amino acids depended on the peptide in 
which they were incorporated and that the maximum increase in binding affinity 
obtained was approximately 2-fold. Altogether lead sequences were obtained that 
have a binding affinity for HLA-DQ2 that is 100- to 200-fold higher compared to 
that of the gluten-derived peptide that has the highest affinity for HLA-DQ2. 
Such peptides are candidate lead peptides for further optimization. Our results, 
however, also indicate that in order to obtain further significant increases in 
binding affinity alternative approaches will have to be explored.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molimm.2009.10.036
PMID: 19962195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Am Soc Echocardiogr. 2010 Jun;23(6):682.e1-4. doi:
10.1016/j.echo.2009.10.007.  Epub 2009 Dec 3.

Real-time three dimensional echocardiography in the postoperative follow-up of 
type-A aortic dissection--a case report.

Muraru D(1), Badano LP, Del Mestre L, Gianfagna P, Proclemer A, Livi U.

Author information:
(1)Prof Dr C. C. Iliescu Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Bucharest, 
Romania.

Aortic dissection is a fearful complication with extremely high mortality in 
young patients with Marfan syndrome. Successful aortic emergency surgery 
increases the life expectancy of these patients, yet it does not prevent disease 
progression and late complications. Therefore, long-term imaging follow-up of 
both reconstructed and chronically dissected aortic segments is mandatory. This 
case report illustrates the potential role of real-time three-dimensional 
echocardiography as a supplement to conventional postoperative follow-up in 
aortic dissection that provides valuable spatial and functional information.

Copyright 2010 American Society of Echocardiography. Published by Mosby, Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.echo.2009.10.007
PMID: 19962274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Res Social Adm Pharm. 2009 Dec;5(4):305-18. doi:
10.1016/j.sapharm.2009.01.003.  Epub 2009 Apr 25.

The corporatization of community pharmacy: implications for service provision, 
the public health function, and pharmacy's claims to professional status in the 
United Kingdom.

Bush J(1), Langley CA, Wilson KA.

Author information:
(1)School of Life and Health Sciences, Aston University, Aston Triangle, 
Birmingham, B4 7ET, UK. j.bush2@aston.ac.uk

Comment in
    Res Social Adm Pharm. 2009 Dec;5(4):299-301.

BACKGROUND: Pharmacy has experienced both incomplete professionalization and 
deprofessionalization. Since the late 1970s, a concerted attempt has been made 
to re-professionalize pharmacy in the United Kingdom (UK) through role 
extension-a key feature of which has been a drive for greater pharmacy 
involvement in public health. However, the continual corporatization of the UK 
community pharmacy sector may reduce the professional autonomy of pharmacists 
and may threaten to constrain attempts at reprofessionalization.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives of the research: to examine the public health 
activities of community pharmacists in the UK; to explore the attitudes of 
community pharmacists toward recent relevant UK policy and barriers to the 
development of their public health function; and, to investigate associations 
between activity, attitudes, and the type of community pharmacy worked in (eg, 
supermarket, chain, independent).
METHODS: A self-completion postal questionnaire was sent to a random sample of 
practicing community pharmacists, stratified for country and sex, within Great 
Britain (n=1998), with a follow-up to nonresponders 4 weeks later. Data were 
analyzed using SPSS (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA) (v12.0). A final response rate 
of 51% (n=1023/1998) was achieved.
RESULTS: The level of provision of emergency hormonal contraception on a patient 
group direction, supervised administration of medicines, and needle-exchange 
schemes was lower in supermarket pharmacies than in the other types of pharmacy. 
Respondents believed that supermarkets and the major multiple pharmacy chains 
held an advantageous position in terms of attracting financing for service 
development despite suggesting that the premises of such pharmacies may not be 
the most suitable for the provision of such services.
CONCLUSIONS: A mixed market in community pharmacy may be required to maintain a 
comprehensive range of pharmacy-based public health services and provide maximum 
benefit to all patients. Longitudinal monitoring is recommended to ensure that 
service provision is adequate across the pharmacy network.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sapharm.2009.01.003
PMID: 19962674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. J Comp Pathol. 2010 Jan;142 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S10-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcpa.2009.10.024. Epub 2009 Dec 4.

Methusaleh's Zoo: how nature provides us with clues for extending human health 
span.

Austad SN(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center San Antonio, Barshop Institute for 
Longevity and Aging Studies, Department of Cellular and Structural Biology, 
15355 Lambda Drive, STCBM Rm. 3.100, San Antonio, TX 78245, USA. 
austad@uthscsa.edu

As impressive as the accomplishments of modern molecular biologists have been in 
finding genetic alterations that lengthen life in short-lived model organisms, 
they pale in comparison to the remarkable diversity of lifespans produced by 
evolution. Some animal species are now firmly documented to live for more than 
four centuries and even some mammals, like the bowhead whale, appear to survive 
200 years or more. Another group of species may not be as absolutely long-lived, 
but they are remarkably long-lived for their body size and metabolic rate. These 
species include a number of bats, some of which live for at least 40 years in 
the wild, as well as the naked mole-rat, which is the same size, but lives 
nearly 10 times as long as the laboratory mouse. Together these exceptionally 
long-lived organisms have important roles to play in our future understanding of 
the causal mechanisms and modulation of ageing. Bats and naked mole-rats in 
particular have already contributed in the following ways: (1) they have 
contributed to the abandonment of the rate-of-living theory and weakened 
enthusiasm for the oxidative stress hypothesis of ageing, (2) they have helped 
evaluate how the tumour-suppressing role of cellular senescence is affected by 
the evolution of diverse body sizes as well as diverse longevities, (3) they 
have shed light on the relationship between specific types of DNA repair and 
ageing and (4) they have yielded insight into new processes, specifically the 
maintenance of the proteome and hypotheses concerning how evolution shapes 
ageing. The continuing acceleration of progress in genome sequencing and 
development of more and more cross-species investigatory techniques will 
facilitate even more contributions of these species in the near future.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcpa.2009.10.024
PMCID: PMC3535457
PMID: 19962715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Statement The author was an 
invited speaker at the Merial European Comparative Vaccinology Symposium and 
received travel expenses and an honorarium for this presentation.


65. Chir Main. 2010 Feb;29(1):10-5. doi: 10.1016/j.main.2009.10.003. Epub 2009
Nov  13.

Proximal row carpectomy: long-term results.

Richou J(1), Chuinard C, Moineau G, Hanouz N, Hu W, Le Nen D.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, faculté de médecine, 
hôpital de Cavale-Blanche, CHU de Brest, boulevard Tanguy-Prigent, 29200 Brest, 
France. julrichou@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate long-term clinical outcome of proximal carpectomy. Our 
assumption was that this intervention should result in long-term benefit, making 
a wrist painless, mobile, and functional, compatible with social and 
professional life, whatever the initial etiology of the degenerative wrist.
METHODS: We report a continuous single centre retrospective series of 24 
patients. Objective (mobility, strength, radiographic evaluation) and subjective 
(pain, subjective wrist value, functional scores) functions were assessed by an 
independent observer. Surgery was performed mainly for Kienbock's disease, 
scapholunate advanced collapse (SLAC) and scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse 
(SNAC) wrists.
RESULTS: The follow-up lasted 116 months in average, during which pain was 
improved in all cases; 83% of the patients were satisfied with a mean score of 
1.2 on a visual analogue scale (VAS) and 76% subjective wrist value (SWV) 
(disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand [DASH]: 31). Wrist flexion-extension 
arc averaged 76 degrees , and the grip strength equivalent to 78% of the 
contralateral limb. Radiographic modification developed in 52% without any 
clinical impact. Three patients required arthrodesis and never felt comfortable 
with their carpectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows a long-term efficacy of proximal row carpectomy. 
This treatment must be considered in the therapeutic arsenal for a degenerative 
and painful wrist, and it should no longer be regarded as a salvage procedure. 
Advantages of this intervention are obvious: technical simplicity, short 
rehabilitation, immediate functionality of the wrist and few complications.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.main.2009.10.003
PMID: 19963425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2009;2009:2963-6. doi: 
10.1109/IEMBS.2009.5332500.

Measurement of rectus femoris muscle velocities during patellar tendon jerk 
using vector tissue doppler imaging.

Sikdar S(1), Lebiedowska M, Eranki A, Garmirian L, Damiano D.

Author information:
(1)George Mason University, Fairfax, VA 22030, USA. ssikdar@gmu.edu

We have developed a vector tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) system based on a 
clinical scanner that can be used to measure muscle velocities independent of 
the direction of motion. This method overcomes the limitations of conventional 
Doppler ultrasound, which can only measure velocity components along the 
ultrasound beam. In this study, we utilized this method to investigate the 
rectus femoris muscle velocities during a patellar tendon jerk test. Our goal 
was to investigate whether the muscle elongation velocities during a brisk 
tendon tap fall within the normal range of velocities that are expected due to 
rapid stretch of limb segments. In a preliminary study, we recruited six healthy 
volunteers (three men and three women) following informed consent. The stretch 
reflex response to tendon tap was evaluated by measuring: (1) the tapping force 
using an accelerometer instrumented to the neurological hammer (2) the angular 
velocities of the knee extension and flexion using a electrogoniometer (3) 
