plus intensive treatment of diabetes had an ICER of $A13,781 per QALY gained. 
Primary care screening for hypertension (between ages 50 and 69 years) plus 
intensive blood pressure management had an ICER of $A491 per QALY gained. 
Primary care screening for proteinuria (between ages 50 and 69 years) combined 
with prescription of an ACE inhibitor for all persons showing proteinuria and 
all known diabetics had an ICER of $A4793 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Strategies combining primary care screening of 50- to 69-year-olds 
for proteinuria, diabetes, and hypertension followed by the routine use of ACE 
inhibitors, and optimal treatment of diabetes and hypertension, respectively, 
have the potential to reduce death and end-stage kidney disease and are likely 
to represent good value for money.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00668.x
PMID: 19878493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):215-21. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00667.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 29.

A rapid-response economic evaluation of the UK NHS Cancer Reform Strategy breast 
cancer screening program extension via a plausible bounds approach.

Madan J(1), Rawdin A, Stevenson M, Tappenden P.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Primary Health Care, University of Bristol, Cotham House, 
Bristol, UK. jason.madan@bris.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: The 2007 National Health Service Cancer Reform Strategy includes a 
proposed extension of the UK breast screening program to women aged 47 to 49 
years. The aim of this study is to undertake a preliminary assessment of this 
proposal to identify the key factors determining its cost-effectiveness and to 
determine whether there is sufficient uncertainty that requires more thorough 
analyses.
METHODS: An economic model was constructed. For simplicity, the health impact of 
screening was estimated by calculating the lives saved through shifts in 
prognostic group. A "plausible bounds" approach was used to derive distributions 
for model parameters for probabilistic sensitivity analysis. UK data were used 
to populate the model.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of the extension is estimated to be pound27,400 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) with a 29% probability of 
cost-effectiveness at a threshold of pound20,000 per QALY. The deterministic 
estimate of benefit becomes negative if the anxiety due to a false-positive 
result is set at 0.028 QALYs. Including a small positive benefit from a negative 
screen has a dramatic impact on the cost-effectiveness of screening. The impact 
of other factors appears less marked.
CONCLUSIONS: Because the vast majority of women aged 47 to 49 years will test 
negative when screened for breast cancer and most of those who test positive 
will actually be free of the disease, the psychological impacts of screening are 
likely to drive cost-effectiveness for this age group. Therefore, a research 
priority should be to better understand and quantify these effects.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00667.x
PMID: 19878494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. BMC Public Health. 2009 Oct 31;9:401. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-401.

A cost-utility analysis of cervical cancer vaccination in preadolescent Canadian 
females.

Anonychuk AM(1), Bauch CT, Merid MF, Van Kriekinge G, Demarteau N.

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
andrea.anonychuk@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Despite the fact that approximately 70% of Canadian women undergo 
cervical cancer screening at least once every 3 years, approximately 1,300 women 
were diagnosed with cervical cancer and approximately 380 died from it in 2008. 
This study estimates the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of vaccinating 
12-year old Canadian females with an AS04-adjuvanted cervical cancer vaccine. 
The indirect effect of vaccination, via herd immunity, is also estimated.
METHODS: A 12-health-state 1-year-cycle Markov model was developed to estimate 
lifetime HPV related events for a cohort of 12-year old females. Annual 
transition probabilities between health-states were derived from published 
literature and Canadian population statistics. The model was calibrated using 
Canadian cancer statistics. From a healthcare perspective, the 
cost-effectiveness of introducing a vaccine with efficacy against HPV-16/18 and 
evidence of cross-protection against other oncogenic HPV types was evaluated in 
a population undergoing current screening practices. The base-case analysis 
included 70% screening coverage, 75% vaccination coverage, $135/dose for 
vaccine, and 3% discount rate on future costs and health effects. Conservative 
herd immunity effects were taken into account by estimated HPV incidence using a 
mathematical model parameterized by reported age-stratified sexual mixing data. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed to address parameter uncertainties.
RESULTS: Vaccinating 12-year old females (n = 100,000) was estimated to prevent 
between 390-633 undiscounted cervical cancer cases (reduction of 47%-77%) and 
168-275 undiscounted deaths (48%-78%) over their lifetime, depending on whether 
or not herd immunity and cross-protection against other oncogenic HPV types were 
included. Vaccination was estimated to cost $18,672-$31,687 per QALY-gained, the 
lower range representing inclusion of cross-protective efficacy and herd 
immunity. The cost per QALY-gained was most sensitive to duration of vaccine 
protection, discount rate, and the correlation between probability of screening 
and probability of vaccination.
CONCLUSION: In the context of current screening patterns, vaccination of 12-year 
old Canadian females with an ASO4-ajuvanted cervical cancer vaccine is estimated 
to significantly reduce cervical cancer and mortality, and is a cost-effective 
option. However, the economic attractiveness of vaccination is impacted by the 
vaccine's duration of protection and the discount rate used in the analysis.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-401
PMCID: PMC2777872
PMID: 19878578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. J Cataract Refract Surg. 2009 Nov;35(11):1860-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcrs.2009.05.047.

Laser in situ keratomileusis versus long-term contact lens wear: decision 
analysis.

McGee HT(1), Mathers WD.

Author information:
(1)Casey Eye Institute, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon 
97239-4197, USA.

PURPOSE: To compare the risk for vision loss from laser in situ keratomileusis 
(LASIK) versus long-term contact lens wear using decision analysis.
SETTING: Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon, USA.
METHODS: Based on previously published data, a decision tree was constructed 
using Markov modeling to calculate the probability of vision loss from LASIK 
versus contact lenses over time. An outcome variable, visual acuity-adjusted 
life-year (VALY), was defined to account for timing and severity of vision loss. 
The VALYs were tallied over a 30-year simulation to determine whether the risk 
for vision loss with contacts exceeded that with LASIK. Sensitivity analyses 
were performed to test the effect of changes in key variables including 
probability of contact lens-related keratitis, probability of ectasia after 
LASIK, and probability of early post-LASIK vision loss.
RESULTS: The model's conclusions were highly sensitive to changes in several 
variables tested, especially risk for post-LASIK ectasia, risk for early vision 
loss after LASIK, and risk for contact lens-related keratitis (which correlated 
with type of lenses worn). Rigid gas-permeable lenses were safer than LASIK in 
every analysis. The safety of LASIK exceeded that for daily-wear soft lenses 
only when assumptions were most favorable to LASIK, whereas the safety of LASIK 
always exceeded that for extended-wear lenses except when assumptions were least 
favorable to LASIK.
CONCLUSION: This decision analysis found that the risk for vision loss 
associated with LASIK and with long-term contact lens wear might be closer than 
generally assumed.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2009.05.047
PMID: 19878816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Gastroenterology. 2010 Feb;138(2):522-30. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2009.10.039.
 Epub 2009 Oct 29.

Screening and early treatment of migrants for chronic hepatitis B virus 
infection is cost-effective.

Veldhuijzen IK(1), Toy M, Hahn√© SJ, De Wit GA, Schalm SW, de Man RA, Richardus 
JH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease Control, Municipal Public Health Service 
Rotterdam-Rijnmond, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. veldhuijzeni@ggd.rotterdam.nl

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Persons with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection are at 
risk of developing cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Early detection of 
chronic HBV infection through screening and treatment of eligible patients has 
the potential to prevent these sequelae. We assessed the cost-effectiveness in 
The Netherlands of systematically screening migrants from countries that have 
high and intermediate HBV infection levels.
METHODS: Epidemiologic data of the expected numbers of patients with active 
chronic HBV infection in the target population and information about the costs 
of a screening program were used in a Markov model and used to determine costs 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALY) for patients who were and were not 
treated.
RESULTS: Compared with the status quo, a 1-time screen for HBV infection can 
reduce mortality of liver-related diseases by 10%. Using base case estimates, 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of screening, compared with not 
screening, is euros (euro) 8966 per QALY gained. The ICER ranged from euro7936 
to euro11,705 based on univariate sensitivity analysis, varying parameter values 
of HBV prevalence, participation rate, success in referral, and treatment 
compliance. Using multivariate sensitivity analysis for treatment effectiveness, 
the ICER ranged from euro7222 to euro15,694; for disease progression, it ranged 
from euro5568 to euro60,418.
CONCLUSIONS: Early detection and treatment of people with HBV infection can have 
a large impact on liver-related health outcomes. Systematic screening for 
chronic HBV infection among migrants is likely to be cost-effective, even using 
low estimates for HBV prevalence, participation, referral, and treatment 
compliance.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2009.10.039
PMID: 19879275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Contemp Clin Trials. 2010 Jan;31(1):12-7. doi: 10.1016/j.cct.2009.10.003.
Epub  2009 Oct 29.

Bias analysis of the instrumental variable estimator as an estimator of the 
average causal effect.

Chiba Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine and Behavioral Science, Kinki University 
School of Medicine, 377-2 Ohno-higashi, Osakasayama, Osaka 589-8511, Japan. 
chibay@med.kindai.ac.jp

Noncompliance is a common problem in drawing causal inference in randomized 
trials. The instrumental variable (IV) method estimates the average causal 
effect in randomized trials with noncompliance. However, the IV estimator 
generally yields a biased estimate under a non-null hypothesis, although it can 
yield an unbiased estimate under a null hypothesis. Therefore, it is important 
to evaluate the potential bias of the IV estimate quantitatively. This paper 
provides such a quantitative method, which is an extension of bias analysis for 
unmeasured confounders using the confounding risk difference in the context of 
observational studies. The proposed method will help investigators to provide a 
realistic picture of the potential bias of the IV estimate. It is illustrated 
using a field trial for coronary heart disease.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cct.2009.10.003
PMID: 19879376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Urol Oncol. 2009 Nov-Dec;27(6):633-42. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.08.006.

Cancer chemotherapy in the older cancer patient.

Carreca I(1), Balducci L.

Author information:
(1)University of Palermo School of Medicine, Palermo, Italy.

This article reviews the principles of systemic cancer treatment in older 
individuals. These include: assessment of physiologic age with a comprehensive 
geriatric assessment (CGA), adjustment of chemotherapy doses to the patient's 
renal function, and prevention of myelotoxicity with hemopoietic growth factors. 
Other complications that become more common with age include mucositis, 
peripheral neuropathy and cardiomyopathy. Two chronic complications of 
chemotherapy become more common with age, including myelodysplasia and chronic 
cardiomyopathy. The goal of systemic cancer treatment in the older person should 
include prolongation of active life-expectancy and compression of morbidity in 
addition to prolongation of survival and symptom management.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.08.006
PMID: 19879474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Urol Oncol. 2009 Nov-Dec;27(6):653-67. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.07.020.

Bladder cancer in the elderly.

Shariat SF(1), Milowsky M, Droller MJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Sidney Kimmel Center for Prostate and Urologic Cancer, 
Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY 10065, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Age is now widely accepted as the greatest single risk factor for 
developing bladder cancer, and bladder cancer is considered as primarily a 
disease of the elderly. Because of the close link between age and incidence of 
bladder cancer, it can be expected that this disease will become an enormous 
challenge with the growth of an aging population in the years ahead.
METHODS: Using MEDLINE, a search of the literature between January 1966 and July 
2007 was performed to describe normative physiologic changes associated with 
aging, elucidate genetic and epigenetic alterations that associate aging with 
bladder cancer and its phenotypes; and to characterize how aging influences 
efficacies, risks, side effects, and potential complications of the treatments 
needed for the various stages of bladder cancer.
RESULTS: We discuss influence of aging on host physiology, genetic and 
epigenetic changes, environmental influences, and host factors in the 
development and treatment of bladder cancer. Treatments with intravesical 
bacille Calmette Guerin, radical cystectomy, and perioperative chemotherapy are 
less well tolerated and have poorer response in elderly patients compared with 
their younger counterparts. Elderly patients face both clinical and broader 
institutional barriers to appropriate treatment and may receive less aggressive 
treatment and sub-therapeutic dosing. However, when appropriately selected, 
elderly patients tolerate and respond well to cancer treatments.
CONCLUSIONS: The decision to undergo treatment for cancer is a tradeoff between 
loss of function and/or independence and extension of life, which is complicated 
by a host of concomitant issues such as comorbid medical conditions, functional 
declines and "frailty", family dynamics, and social and psychologic issues. 
Chronological age should not preclude definitive surgical therapy. It is 
imperative that healthcare practitioners and researchers from disparate 
disciplines collectively focus efforts towards gaining a better understanding of 
what the consequences of bladder cancer and its treatments are for older adults 
and how to appropriately meet the multifaceted medical and psychosocial needs of 
this growing population.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.07.020
PMCID: PMC4225777
PMID: 19879476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Urol Oncol. 2009 Nov-Dec;27(6):668-72. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.07.015.

Prostate cancer in the elderly.

Heinzer H(1), Steuber T.

Author information:
(1)Martini-Klinik, Prostate Cancer Center, University Medical Center 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. heinzer@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Prostate cancer is the most frequent malignancy in men and predominantly in 
elderly men. The issue of prostate cancer is likely to assume greater importance 
with progressive aging of the population. With frequent use of PSA testing most 
patients were diagnosed with localized cancer even in senior adults. 
Cancer-specific mortality is low in elderly men with prostate cancer and is 
dependent on the aggressiveness of the tumor. Currently, no established 
guidelines for the management of prostate cancer in the elderly exist, and 
treatment of senior adults with localized cancer is not optimal. While elderly 
men with indolent disease will not benefit from curative treatment, some 
patients with aggressive cancers will progress if not adequately treated. 
Comorbidity is the main predictor of life expectancy in the elderly. In everyday 
clinical practice, treatment decisions are much more influenced by age than by 
comorbidity. Curative treatment is an effective treatment option for selected 
elderly with localized prostate cancer. Conversely, most elderly men with 
prostate cancer received hormonal therapy, although the benefit of hormonal 
therapy in localized cancer is not clear and is associated with severe 
toxicities in some patients. In conclusion, there is a need for more risk 
stratified approaches for the management of prostate cancer in the elderly to 
avoid unnecessary intervention in men who unlikely benefit from such 
intervention, and allow treatment in those who might benefit from it.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.07.015
PMID: 19879477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Urol Oncol. 2009 Nov-Dec;27(6):673-6. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.07.016.

Kidney cancer in the elderly.

Kirkali Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Dokuz Eylul University School of Medicine, Izmir, 
Turkey. ziya.kirkali@deu.edu.tr

Kidney cancer in the elderly patient is a real challenge for the oncologic 
urologist. With the aging population, we will face more patients with renal cell 
carcinoma in senior adults. There is evidence that elderly patients with RCC 
have more aggressive disease and lower cancer-specific survival. Proper 
assessment of the general status and comorbidity of the patient is essential for 
treatment planning. Most patients can be operated on by surgery or by minimally 
invasive techniques and methods. Elderly patients with metastatic kidney cancer 
can benefit from systemic therapy; however, they should be closely monitored for 
serious adverse events.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.07.016
PMID: 19879478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Maturitas. 2010 Feb;65(2):98-105. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.09.021. Epub
 2009 Oct 30.

Associations between childhood intelligence (IQ), adult morbidity and mortality.

Kilgour AH(1), Starr JM, Whalley LJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh Centre for Cognitive Ageing and Cognitive 
Epidemiology, Geriatric Medicine Unit, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

Intelligence is a life-long trait that exerts powerful influences on educational 
success, occupational status, use of health services, life style and 
recreational choices. Until recently, the influence of cognitive performance on 
time to death was thought largely to be based on failing cognition in the time 
immediately before death or because lower mental ability was associated with low 
socioeconomic status and socioeconomic disadvantage. Children who were 
systematically IQ tested early in the twentieth century have now completed most 
of their life expectancy and permit evaluation of a possible link between 
childhood IQ and survival. This link is discussed as it affects people with 
intellectual disability and as a possible contributor to the acquisition of a 
healthy life style or use of health services. Studies on the topic are affected 
by many methodological pitfalls. Recently, as cohorts IQ tested as adolescents 
have completed middle age, new relevant data have become available. These 
suggest that earlier attempts to tease out the confounding effects of 
socioeconomic status on the relationship between childhood IQ and mortality did 
not take account of the full effects of childhood adversity on IQ and disease 
risk. When statistical models that include childhood adversity are tested, these 
attenuate and sometimes remove the contribution of IQ to morbidity and premature 
death.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.09.021
PMID: 19879703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Eur J Med Genet. 2010 Jan-Feb;53(1):35-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2009.10.006.
Epub  2009 Oct 30.

Radicular dysfunction due to spinal deformities in Marfan syndrome at older age: 
three case reports.

Voermans NC(1), Hosman AJ, van Alfen N, Bartels RH, de Kleuver M, op den Akker 
JW, van Engelen BG.

Author information:
(1)Donders Centre for Neuroscience, Department of Neurology, Radboud University 
Nijmegen Medical Centre, The Netherlands. n.voermans@neuro.umcn.nl

Marfan syndrome is a inherited connective tissue disorder due to mutations in 
fibrillin-1. It presents with cardiovascular, ocular, skeletal, pulmonary and 
dural signs and symptoms. Some of the symptoms of later onset are those 
associated with scoliosis and dural ectasia. This is the enlargement of the 
neural canal especially in the lower lumbar and sacral region and occurs in over 
90% of Marfan patients. We here report three patients with lumbar and/or sacral 
radiculopathy due to (kypho)scoliosis and dural ectasia with spinal meningeal 
cysts. The pain, muscle weakness, muscle atrophy, and sensory disturbances 
illustrate the severe neurological complications which may occur in Marfan 
syndrome, especially at later age. Awareness of these complications and 
development of management protocols is essential since life expectancy of Marfan 
patients has increased. Marfan syndrome might gradually become recognized as an 
inherited connective tissue disorder with potentially severe neurological 
complications during ageing.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejmg.2009.10.006
PMID: 19879983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Jan;70(2):169-74. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.10.009.
Epub  2009 Oct 31.

From a different angle: a novel approach to health valuation.

Craig BM(1), Oppe M.

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes & Behavior, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida, USA. 
benjamin.craig@moffitt.org

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2010 Aug;71(3):429-30.

The value of a health state is typically described relative to the value of an 
optimal state, specifically as a ratio ranging from unity (equal to optimal 
health) to negative infinity. Incorporating potentially infinite values is a 
challenging issue in the econometrics of health valuation. In this paper, we 
apply a directional statistics approach based on the assumption of wavering 
preference. Unlike ratio statistics, directional statistics are based on polar 
coordinates (angle, radius). The range of angles is bounded between 45 degrees 
(unity) and negative 90 degrees (i.e., negative infinity); therefore, mean 
angles are well behaved and negate the impetus behind arbitrary data 
manipulations. Using time trade-off (TTO) responses from the seminal Measurement 
and Valuation of Health study, we estimate 243 EQ-5D health state values by 
minimizing circular variance with and without radial weights. For states with 
published values greater than zero (i.e., better-than-death), the radially 
weighted estimates are nearly identical to the published values (Mean Absolute 
Difference 0.07; Lin's rho 0.94). For worse-than-death states, the estimates are 
substantially lower than the published values (Mean Absolute Difference 0.186; 
Lin's rho 0.576). For the worst EQ-5D state (33333), the published value is 
-0.59 and the directional estimate is -1.11. By taking a directional statistics 
approach, we circumvent problems inherent to ratio statistics and the systematic 
bias introduced by arbitrary data manipulations. The predictions suggest that 
published estimates overvalue severe states. This paper examines TTO responses; 
however, it may be extended to all forms of health valuation.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.10.009
PMCID: PMC2808428
PMID: 19880235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. J Med Ethics. 2009 Nov;35(11):701-8. doi: 10.1136/jme.2009.029686.

The acceptability among French lay persons of ending the lives of damaged 
newborns.

Teisseyre N(1), Duarte dos Reis I, Sorum PC, Mullet E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Universit√© du Mirail, Toulouse, France.

BACKGROUND: Lay persons' judgements of the acceptability of the not uncommon 
practice of ending the life of a damaged neonate have not been studied.
METHODS: A convenience sample of 1635 lay people in France rated how acceptable 
it would be for a physician to end a neonate's life-by withholding care, 
withdrawing care, or active euthanasia-in 54 scenarios in which the neonate was 
diagnosed either with perinatal asphyxia or a genetic abnormality. The scenarios 
were all combinations of four factors: three levels of maturity or immaturity, 
three levels of severity of the health problem, three levels of parents' 
preference concerning prolonging care and two levels of decision-making (with or 
without consulting the other caregivers).
ANALYSES: Analyses of variance of the participants' responses were performed to 
determine the importance of each factor; the interactions among factors, with 
methods of ending life and with other patient characteristics; and the 
differences between asphyxia and genetic abnormality. A cluster analysis was 
performed to look for groups with different patterns of responses.
RESULTS: Lay people assigned most importance to the parents' request and to the 
severity of the problem. Except for a small group (12%) always opposed to ending 
life, they used a simple additive-type rule in integrating the information.
IMPLICATIONS: Most of this sample of French lay people are not categorically for 
or against ending the life of a damaged neonate, but judge its degree of 
acceptability by adding up those factors that seem most salient to them.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2009.029686
PMID: 19880709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Europace. 2009 Dec;11(12):1721. doi: 10.1093/europace/eup327. Epub 2009 Oct
31.

Cost-effectiveness of cardioverter-defibrillators in heart failure patients.

Gandjour A.

Comment on
    Europace. 2009 Jun;11(6):716-26.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eup327
PMID: 19880854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Curr Genomics. 2009 May;10(3):169-83. doi: 10.2174/138920209788185289.

Estrogen Regulation of MicroRNA Expression.

Klinge CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry & Molecular Biology, Center for Genetics and 
Molecular Medicine, University of Louisville School of Medicine, Louisville, KY 
40292, USA.

Women outlive men, but life expectancy is not influenced by hormone replacement 
(estrogen + progestin) therapy. Estrogens appear to protect brain, 
cardiovascular tissues, and bone from aging. Estrogens regulate genes directly 
through binding to estrogen receptors alpha and beta (ERalpha and ERbeta) that 
are ligand-activated transcription factors and indirectly by activating plasma 
membrane-associated ER which, in turns, activates intracellular signaling 
cascades leading to altered gene expression. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short (19-25 
nucleotides), naturally-occurring, non-coding RNA molecules that base-pair with 
the 3' untranslated region of target mRNAs. This interaction either blocks 
translation of the mRNA or targets the mRNA transcript to be degraded. The human 
genome contains ~ 700-1,200 miRNAs. Aberrant patterns of miRNA expression are 
implicated in human diseases including breast cancer. Recent studies have 
identified miRNAs regulated by estrogens in human breast cancer cells, human 
endometrial stromal and myometrial smooth muscle cells, rat mammary gland, and 
mouse uterus. The decline of estradiol levels in postmenopausal women has been 
implicated in various age-associated disorders. The role of estrogen-regulated 
miRNA expression, the target genes of these miRNAs, and the role of miRNAs in 
aging has yet to be explored.

DOI: 10.2174/138920209788185289
PMCID: PMC2705850
PMID: 19881910


839. Int J Cancer. 2010 Jul 1;127(1):190-4. doi: 10.1002/ijc.25021.

Premature mortality due to cancer in Japan, 1995 and 2005.

Pham TM(1), Fujino Y, Matsuda S, Yoshimura T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Community Health, School of Medicine, 
University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu, Japan. 
ptrminh@med.uoeh-u.ac.jp

To better understand premature mortality due to cancer, we estimated years of 
life lost (YLL) and average years of life lost (AYLL) due to cancer for the 
years 1995 and 2005, based on data from the Vital Statistic of Japan. In men, we 
identified a total of 159,623 cancer deaths in 1995 and 196,603 in 2005. Total 
YLL were 2,342,560.4 and 2,724,066.0 years, respectively. Averaged for all 
cancers, people died 14.7 years earlier than life expectancy in 1995 and 13.9 
years in 2005. AYLL was longest for brain cancer deaths, at 26.3 years earlier 
than expected in 1995 and 22.8 years in 2005, followed by leukemia. In women, a 
total of 103,399 cancer deaths occurred in 1995 and 129,338 in 2005. Total YLL 
were 1,818,960.4 years in 1995 and 2,160,706.5 years in 2005, corresponding to 
AYLL for all cancer combined of 17.6 and 16.7 years. The AYLL of brain cancer 
deaths was also the longest, at 29.4 years in 1995 and 27.8 in 2005, followed by 
leukemia and female sex-related cancers. Results showed that cancer of the 
stomach, colorectum, liver and lung were the most frequent cancers in both sexes 
in both 1995 and 2005 and responsible for a remarkable number of YLL. Further, 
AYLL was greatest for brain cancer and leukemia in both sexes and for 
sex-related cancers in women, namely breast, cervix and ovarian cancer.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.25021
PMID: 19882711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Exp Psychol Gen. 2009 Nov;138(4):517-34. doi: 10.1037/a0017351.

Linda is not a bearded lady: configural weighting and adding as the cause of 
extension errors.

Nilsson H(1), Winman A, Juslin P, Hansson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden. 
hakan.nilsson@psyk.uu.se

This article explores the configural weighted average (CWA) hypothesis 
suggesting that extension biases, like conjunction and disjunction errors, occur 
because people estimate compound probabilities by taking a CWA of the 
constituent probabilities. The hypothesis suggests a process consistent with 
well-known cognitive constraints, which nonetheless achieves high robustness and 
bounded rationality in noisy real-life environments. Predictions by the CWA 
hypothesis are that in error-free data, conjunction and disjunction errors 
should be the rule rather than the exception when pairs of statements are 
randomly sampled from an environment, the rate of extension errors should 
increase when noise in data is decreased, and that adding a likely component 
should increase the probability of a conjunction. Four experiments generally 
verify the predictions by the hypothesis, demonstrating that extension errors 
are frequent also when tasks are selected according to representative design.

Copyright 2009 APA

DOI: 10.1037/a0017351
PMID: 19883134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. Value Health. 2010 Jan-Feb;13(1):46-54. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00666.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 26.

The impact of fewer hip fractures with risedronate versus alendronate in the 
first year of treatment: modeled German cost-effectiveness analysis.

Thompson M(1), Pasquale M, Grima D, Moehrke W, Kruse HP.

Author information:
(1)Cornerstone Research Group Inc., Burlington, Ontario, Canada. 
mthompson@cornerstone-research.com

BACKGROUND: The Risedronate and Alendronate (REAL) cohort study provides unique 
comparative effectiveness data for real world bisphosphonate treatment of 
osteoporosis.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to assess the cost-effectiveness 
of risedronate compared to generic alendronate in Germany applying the REAL 
effectiveness data.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A validated Markov model of osteoporosis was populated 
with REAL effectiveness data and German epidemiological, cost, and utility data. 
To estimate the impact of therapy on hip fractures, costs, and quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs), the analysis included women>or=65 years, treated with 
risedronate or alendronate and followed for 4 additional years. Country-specific 
data included population mortality, fracture costs, and annual drug costs, using 
a German social insurance perspective. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 3%. 
A differential hip fracture relative risk reduction of 43% was applied to 
risedronate vs. alendronate.
RESULTS: The model predicted that treatment with risedronate would result in 
fewer hip fractures and more QALYs at a reduced cost (savings of euro278 per 
treated woman) compared to treatment with generic alendronate. Sensitivity 
analysis assuming 2 years of treatment and equivalence of effect after 1 year 
show cost savings as well (euro106 per treated woman).
DISCUSSION: Whereas previous economic evaluations involving bisphosphonates have 
mainly relied on efficacy data from noncomparative clinical trials, this study's 
strength is in the use of comparative effectiveness data from one data source. 
The magnitude of the cost savings observed were sensitive to alternative 
assumptions regarding treatment duration, therapy discontinuation and cost of 
generic alendronate.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on "real world" data the analysis supports the first line use 
of risedronate for the treatment of osteoporotic women in Germany.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00666.x
PMID: 19883401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):188-95. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00658.x.  Epub 2009 Oct 26.

Cost-effectiveness of scheduled maintenance treatment with infliximab for 
pediatric Crohn's disease.

Punekar YS(1), Sunderland T, Hawkins N, Lindsay J.

Author information:
(1)Schering-Plough Ltd., Hertfordshire, UK. yogesh.punekar@spcorp.com

BACKGROUND: Infliximab recently became the only biologic approved for use in 
pediatric patients with severe active Crohn's disease (CD).
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of scheduled maintenance 
treatment with infliximab compared with standard care in children suffering from 
severe active CD over 5 years from the UK National Health Service perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to simulate the progression of a 
hypothetical cohort of CD children through predefined health states on scheduled 
maintenance treatment with infliximab (5 mg/kg). The data to populate the model 
came from infliximab trials from Targan et al., ACCENT I, and REACH. The health 
states included in the model were remission, responding active disease, 
nonresponding active disease, surgery, postsurgery remission, postsurgery 
complications, and death. Standard care, comprising immunomodulators, and/or 
corticosteroids were used as a comparator. The primary outcome was 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) estimated using the EuroQol (EQ-5D) from a 
European CD population. To account for the weight-based dosing of infliximab, a 
baseline patient weight of 40 kg that increased by 5 kg/year up to 60 kg was 
used. The costs and outcomes were discounted at 3.5% over a period of 5 years. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed by varying the infliximab 
efficacy estimates, costs, and utilities.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for infliximab 
treatment was pound14,607 compared with standard care. The sensitivity analyses 
revealed the treatment effect of infliximab to be the most influential parameter 
with ICERs ranging from pound10,480 to pound37,017. Assuming a willingness to 
pay of pound30,000 per QALY, the probability of infliximab being cost-effective 
is 78.6%.
CONCLUSION: Scheduled maintenance treatment with infliximab (5 mg/kg) is likely 
to be a cost-effective treatment in children suffering from severe active CD 
under an 8-week maintenance program.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00658.x
PMID: 19883407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. J Soc Integr Oncol. 2009 Fall;7(4):137-45.

Systematic evaluation of the clinical effects of supportive mistletoe treatment 
within chemo- and/or radiotherapy protocols and long-term mistletoe application 
in nonmetastatic colorectal carcinoma: multicenter, controlled, observational 
cohort study.

Friedel WE(1), Matthes H, Bock PR, Z√§nker KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Oncology, Hospital Bad Bocklet, Bad 
Bocklet, Germany.

In Europe, patients with colorectal carcinoma (CRC) frequently receive mistletoe 
extracts to improve quality of life and survival. This study was designed to 
evaluate supportive treatment with mistletoe extract Iscador (ISC) in 
nonmetastatic CRC patients under routine clinical conditions and to create 
well-founded hypotheses for future prospective clinical studies. The design of a 
multicenter, controlled, retrospective, observational cohort study with parallel 
groups met the Good Epidemiological Practice rules. Anonymous unselected 
standardized data from eligible patients with surgically treated stage I-III CRC 
and adjuvant therapy (AT) or conventional aftercare were included. End points 
were adjuvant therapy-related adverse reactions (AT-ADRs), symptoms, and 
disease-free survival (DFS). The results were adjusted for confounder effects. 
Eight hundred four (429 ISC vs 375 control) CRC patients from 26 centers were 
observed for a median of 58 versus 51 months; the median ISC therapy lasted 52 
months. ISC patients showed fewer AT-ADRs (19% vs 48%, p < .001) and fewer 
persisting symptoms (p < .001). The DFS hazard ratio of 0.60 (p = .013) suggests 
a survival benefit in ISC patients versus controls. ISC was well tolerated 
without life-threatening ADRs, drug interactions, or tumor enhancement. These 
results suggest a beneficial effect of supportive care ISC therapy within AT 
protocols and long-term ISC treatment in stage I-III CRC patients, particularly 
improvement in AT-ADRs and symptoms and possible extension of DFS.

PMID: 19883529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2009 Nov;91(11):2617-21. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.H.01201.

Survivorship of a Charnley total hip arthroplasty. A concise follow-up, at a 
minimum of thirty-five years, of previous reports.

Callaghan JJ(1), Bracha P, Liu SS, Piyaworakhun S, Goetz DD, Johnston RC.

Author information:
(1)University of Iowa and VA Medical Center, 200 Hawkins Drive, UIHC, 01029 JPP, 
Iowa City, IA 52242, USA. john-callaghan@uiowa.edu

The purpose of this study was to update the results, at a minimum of thirty-five 
years, in a single-surgeon series of primary Charnley total hip arthroplasties 
performed with cement. Twelve patients (fifteen hips) were alive, 249 patients 
(314 hips) had died, and one patient (one hip) had been lost to follow-up. Seven 
of the hips in the living patients had required at least one revision; 290 (88%) 
of the original group of total hip prostheses either continued to function or 
were in patients who had died. Since the time of a thirty-year study of this 
cohort, one hip that had previously been revised because of acetabular loosening 
required an additional revision because of acetabular loosening and two 
additional hips had evidence of radiographic loosening (of one acetabular and 
one femoral component). The survival rate with revision for any reason as the 
end point was 78%. This end result study should provide a benchmark for 
subsequent procedures and designs with the caveat that patient life expectancy 
will likely continue to increase and modern-design implants are being used in 
younger patients.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.H.01201
PMID: 19884436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Ann Intern Med. 2009 Nov 3;151(9):612-21. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-151-9-200911030-00006.

Treatment of very early rheumatoid arthritis with symptomatic therapy, 
disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs, or biologic agents: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Finckh A(1), Bansback N, Marra CA, Anis AH, Michaud K, Lubin S, White M, Sizto 
S, Liang MH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Department of Internal Medicine, University of 
Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2009 Nov 3;151(9):668-9.

BACKGROUND: Long-term control or remission of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) may be 
possible with very early treatment. However, no optimal first therapeutic 
strategy has been determined.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the potential cost-effectiveness of major therapeutic 
strategies for very early RA.
DESIGN: Decision analytic model with probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
DATA SOURCES: Published data, the National Data Bank for Rheumatic Diseases, and 
actual 2007 hospital costs.
TARGET POPULATION: U.S. adults with very early RA (symptom duration <or=3 
months).
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Health care provider and societal.
INTERVENTION: 3 management strategies were compared: a symptomatic or "pyramid" 
strategy with initial nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, patient education, 
pain management, and low-dose glucocorticoids, and disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) at 1 year for nonresponders; early DMARD therapy 
with methotrexate; and early therapy with biologics and methotrexate.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: By reducing the progression of joint erosions and 
subsequent functional disability, both early intervention strategies increase 
quality-adjusted life more than the pyramid strategy and save long-term costs. 
When the cost of very early intervention is factored in, the cost-effectiveness 
ratio of the early DMARD strategy is $4849 per QALY (95% CI, $0 to $16 354 per 
QALY) compared with the pyramid strategy, whereas the benefits gained through 
the early biologic strategy come at a substantial incremental cost. The early 
DMARD strategy maximizes the effectiveness of early DMARDs and reserves the use 
of biologics for patients with more treatment-resistant disease of longer 
duration, for which the incremental benefit of biologics is greater.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: The early biologic strategy becomes more 
cost-effective if drug prices are reduced, risk for death is permanently lowered 
through biologic therapy, patients experience drug-free remission, responders 
can be selected before therapy initiation, or effective alternative 
antirheumatic agents are available for patients for whom several biologics have 
failed.
LIMITATIONS: Data on the long-term effect of very early therapeutic 
interventions on the natural progression in disability and joint erosions are 
limited. The study considered only tumor necrosis factor inhibitors and not the 
newer biologics.
CONCLUSION: According to the most objective measures of RA progression, very 
early intervention with conventional DMARDs is cost-effective. The 
cost-effectiveness of very early intervention with biologics remains uncertain.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-151-9-200911030-00006
PMID: 19884622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Ann Intern Med. 2009 Nov 3;151(9):662-7. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-151-9-200911030-00011.

Much cheaper, almost as good: decrementally cost-effective medical innovation.

Nelson AL(1), Cohen JT, Greenberg D, Kent DM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, and Tufts University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Under conditions of constrained resources, cost-saving innovations may improve 
overall outcomes, even when they are slightly less effective than available 
options, by permitting more efficient reallocation of resources. The authors 
systematically reviewed all MEDLINE-cited cost-utility analyses written in 
English from 2002 to 2007 to identify and describe cost- and quality-decreasing 
medical innovations that might offer favorable "decrementally" cost-effective 
tradeoffs-defined as saving at least $100 000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
lost. Of 2128 cost-effectiveness ratios from 887 publications, only 9 
comparisons (0.4% of total) described 8 innovations that were deemed to be 
decrementally cost-effective. Examples included percutaneous coronary 
intervention (instead of coronary artery bypass graft) for multivessel coronary 
disease, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (instead of 
electroconvulsive therapy) for drug-resistant major depression, watchful waiting 
for inguinal hernias, and hemodialyzer sterilization and reuse. On a per-patient 
basis, these innovations yielded savings from $122 to almost $12 000 but losses 
of 0.001 to 0.021 quality-adjusted life-years (approximately 8 hours to 1 week). 
These findings demonstrate the rarity of decrementally cost-effective 
innovations in the medical literature.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-151-9-200911030-00011
PMID: 19884627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Ann Afr Med. 2009 Jul-Sep;8(3):192-5. doi: 10.4103/1596-3519.57248.

HIV-associated neurosyphilis: report of a fatal case due to fear of work-place 
stigma.

Salami AK(1), Isa MB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Ilorin Teaching Hospital, Ilorin, 
Ilorin-Kwara State, Nigeria. salkaz2000@yahoo.com

Syphilis and HIV infection are two STI diseases that have bidirectional 
influence on the clinical course of each other. There is a high risk of 
neurological extension if syphilis is not diagnosed early or if the patient has 
a co-infection with HIV. Both diseases have stigma associated with them and 
could affect the compliance to treatment, as was the case with this young 
employee of the medical department of a Nigerian tertiary hospital. He was 
diagnosed with HIV/ neurosyphilis co-infection and responded to penicillin 
therapy, but the fear of stigma at his workplace has made him to abandon 
hospital treatment for unorthodox therapy, which unfortunately cost him his 
life.

DOI: 10.4103/1596-3519.57248
PMID: 19884699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Am J Clin Oncol. 2010 Aug;33(4):393-7. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3181b2043f.

A phase I study of flavopiridol in combination with gemcitabine and irinotecan 
in patients with metastatic cancer.

Fekrazad HM(1), Verschraegen CF, Royce M, Smith HO, Chyi Lee F, Rabinowitz I.

Author information:
(1)University of New Mexico Cancer Center, Albuquerque, USA.

BACKGROUND: Flavopiridol (HMR 1275) is a synthetic flavone with antineoplastic 
properties through inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor. Flavopiridol 
synergizes in a sequence-dependent fashion with chemotherapy. Major adverse 
events of flavopiridol in single agent phase I studies are secretory diarrhea, 
neutropenia, thrombosis, and fatigue.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with advanced solid tumors were treated with 
gemcitabine 800 mg/m and irinotecan 80 mg/m on day 1, followed by flavopiridol, 
starting dose of 30 mg/m on day 2 with increment of 15 mg/m per dose level, 
repeated on days 8 and 9 for the first 6 patients (3-week cycle), and then 
repeated on days 15 and 16 for the remainder patients (4-week cycle). The 
protocol had to be amended for inability to redose after 1 week.
RESULTS: Fourteen women and 7 men with advanced solid tumors were enrolled. The 
median age was 51 years and the median number of prior chemotherapies was 3 
(0-9). Neutropenic sepsis (1 patient), grade 3 diarrhea (1 patient), and 
neutropenia (2 patients) preventing retreatment on day 8 were observed among the 
6 subjects treated on the first schedule. The recommended phase II dose of 
flavopiridol was 45 mg/m in combination with irinotecan and gemcitabine every 2 
weeks. Dose-limiting toxicities were electrolyte imbalance with fatigue (1 
patient), and renal failure and dyspnea with hypoxia (1 patient each), seen at 
45 and 60 mg/m doses, respectively. The most common side effects were fatigue 
(81%), nausea (71%), diarrhea (67%), transient myelosuppression (43%), and 
vomiting (24%).
CONCLUSIONS: The every 2 week dosing is well tolerated with a phase II 
recommended dose of 45 mg/m of flavopiridol in combination with irinotecan (80 
mg/m) and gemcitabine (800 mg/m).

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e3181b2043f
PMID: 19884803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Korean J Radiol. 2009 Nov-Dec;10(6):641-4. doi: 10.3348/kjr.2009.10.6.641.

Percutaneous osteoplasty for the management of a femoral head metastasis: a case 
report.

Wang WG(1), Wu CG, Gu YF, Li MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, The Sixth People's Hospital Shanghai, No. 600, Yi 
Shan Road, Shanghai, 200233 China.

Percutaneous osteoplasty (POP) as a technical extension of percutaneous 
vertebroplasty (PVP) has been used to treat malignant disease that affects the 
skeletal system. POP has demonstrated good outcome for pain relief and 
functional improvement. Few studies have reported on the efficiency of POP to 
treat malignancies located in the femoral head. We designed a pilot study with 
the use of POP to treat intractable pain caused by a femoral head metastatic 
tumor in a 43-year-old man. During the follow-up period, the patient experienced 
sustained pain relief and improvement of quality of life that persisted for more 
than three months.

DOI: 10.3348/kjr.2009.10.6.641
PMCID: PMC2770831
PMID: 19885322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Ecology. 2009 Oct;90(10):2766-78. doi: 10.1890/08-1645.1.

A time to grow and a time to die: a new way to analyze the dynamics of size, 
light, age, and death of tropical trees.

Metcalf CJ(1), Horvitz CC, Tuljapurkar S, Clark DA.

Author information:
(1)Duke Population Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina 
27707, USA. cjm53@psu.edu

In tropical rain forests, rates of forest turnover and tree species' 
life-history differences are shaped by the life expectancy of trees and the time 
taken by seedlings to reach the canopy. These measures are therefore of both 
theoretical and applied interest. However, the relationship between size, age, 
and life expectancy is poorly understood. In this paper, we show how to obtain, 
in a dynamic environment, age-related population parameters from data on size 
and light transitions and survival of individuals over single time steps. We 
accomplish this goal by combining two types of analysis (integral projection 
modeling and age-from-stage analysis for variable environments) in a new way. 
The method uses an index of crown illumination (CI) to capture the key tree 
life-history axis of movement through the light environment. We use this method 
to analyze data on nine tropical tree species, chosen to sample two main 
gradients, juvenile recruitment niche (gap/nongap) and adult crown position 
niche (subcanopy, canopy-emergent). We validate the method using independent 
estimates of age and size from growth rings and 14C from some of the same 
species at the same site and use our results to examine correlations among 
age-related population parameters. Finally, we discuss the implications of these 
new results for life histories of tropical trees.

DOI: 10.1890/08-1645.1
PMID: 19886486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Clin Nurs. 2010 Feb;19(3-4):547-55. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2009.02901.x.
 Epub 2009 Nov 3.

Living with home-based haemodialysis: insights from older people.

Namiki S(1), Rowe J, Cooke M.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing & Midwifery, Griffith University, Brisbane, Old, Australia.

