
Data from the National Vital Statistics System, Mortality In 2007, the 
age-adjusted death rate for the United States reached a record low of 760.3 per 
100,000 population. Life expectancy at birth reached a record high of 77.9 
years. States in the southeast region have higher death rates than those in 
other regions of the country. In 2007, the five leading causes of death were 
heart disease, cancer, stroke, chronic lower respiratory diseases, and 
accidents. These accounted for over 64 percent of all deaths in the United 
States. White females have the longest life expectancy (80.7 years), followed by 
black females (77.0 years). The gap in life expectancy between white persons and 
black persons declined by 35 percent between 1989 and 2007. The race 
differential was 4.6 years in 2007.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 20018136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Dec;13(62):1-71, 97-181, iii. doi:
10.3310/hta13620.

Are adverse effects incorporated in economic models? An initial review of 
current practice.

Craig D(1), McDaid C, Fonseca T, Stock C, Duffy S, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)CRD/CHE Technology Assessment Group (Centre for Reviews and 
Dissemination/Centre for Health Economics), University of York, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To identify methodological research on the incorporation of adverse 
effects in economic models and to review current practice.
DATA SOURCES: Major electronic databases (Cochrane Methodology Register, Health 
Economic Evaluations Database, NHS Economic Evaluation Database, EconLit, 
EMBASE, Health Management Information Consortium, IDEAS, MEDLINE and Science 
Citation Index) were searched from inception to September 2007. Health 
technology assessment (HTA) reports commissioned by the National Institute for 
Health Research (NIHR) HTA programme and published between 2004 and 2007 were 
also reviewed.
REVIEW METHODS: The reviews of methodological research on the inclusion of 
adverse effects in decision models and of current practice were carried out 
according to standard methods. Data were summarised in a narrative synthesis.
RESULTS: Of the 719 potentially relevant references in the methodological 
research review, five met the inclusion criteria; however, they contained little 
information of direct relevance to the incorporation of adverse effects in 
models. Of the 194 HTA monographs published from 2004 to 2007, 80 were reviewed, 
covering a range of research and therapeutic areas. In total, 85% of the reports 
included adverse effects in the clinical effectiveness review and 54% of the 
decision models included adverse effects in the model; 49% included adverse 
effects in the clinical review and model. The link between adverse effects in 
the clinical review and model was generally weak; only 3/80 (< 4%) used the 
results of a meta-analysis from the systematic review of clinical effectiveness 
and none used only data from the review without further manipulation. Of the 
models including adverse effects, 67% used a clinical adverse effects parameter, 
79% used a cost of adverse effects parameter, 86% used one of these and 60% used 
both. Most models (83%) used utilities, but only two (2.5%) used solely 
utilities to incorporate adverse effects and were explicit that the utility 
captured relevant adverse effects; 53% of those models that included utilities 
derived them from patients on treatment and could therefore be interpreted as 
capturing adverse effects. In total, 30% of the models that included adverse 
effects used withdrawals related to drug toxicity and therefore might be 
interpreted as using withdrawals to capture adverse effects, but this was 
explicitly stated in only three reports. Of the 37 models that did not include 
adverse effects, 18 provided justification for this omission, most commonly lack 
of data; 19 appeared to make no explicit consideration of adverse effects in the 
model.
CONCLUSIONS: There is an implicit assumption within modelling guidance that 
adverse effects are very important but there is a lack of clarity regarding how 
they should be dealt with and considered in modelling. In many cases a lack of 
clear reporting in the HTAs made it extremely difficult to ascertain what had 
actually been carried out in consideration of adverse effects. The main 
recommendation is for much clearer and explicit reporting of adverse effects, or 
their exclusion, in decision models and for explicit recognition in future 
guidelines that 'all relevant outcomes' should include some consideration of 
adverse events.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13620
PMID: 20018146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Mar;1802(3):313-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2009.12.003. Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Host proteins involved in HIV infection: new therapeutic targets.

Arhel N(1), Kirchhoff F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Virology, Universitätsklinikum Ulm, 
Albert-Einstein-Allee 11, 81089 Ulm, Germany. nathalie.arhel@pasteur.fr

Current treatment of HIV/AIDS consists of a combination of three to five agents 
targeting different viral proteins, i.e. the reverse transcriptase, protease, 
integrase and envelope, and aims to suppress viral replication below detectable 
levels. This "highly active antiretroviral therapy" (HAART) has brought an 
enormous benefit for life expectancy and quality in HIV-1-infected individuals, 
at least in industrialized countries. However, significant limitations with 
regard to efficiency, drug resistance, side effect and costs still exist. Recent 
data suggest that cellular factors also represent useful targets for therapy. 
Here, we summarize findings from several genome-wide screens that identified a 
large number of cellular factors exploited by HIV-1 at each step of its life 
cycle. Furthermore, we discuss the evidence that humans are equipped with 
powerful intrinsic defense mechanisms against retroviruses but that HIV-1 has 
evolved elaborate ways to counteract or evade them. Preventing the use of host 
cell proteins obligatory for viral replication or strengthening the cellular 
defense mechanisms may help to reduce viral replication to harmless levels. A 
better understanding of the host factors that promote or restrict HIV-1 
replication may thus lead to the development of novel therapeutics against 
HIV/AIDS.

2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2009.12.003
PMID: 20018238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Antiviral Res. 2010 Jan;85(1):25-33. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2009.10.007.
Epub  2009 Dec 16.

Current status and challenges of antiretroviral research and therapy.

Esté JA(1), Cihlar T.

Author information:
(1)Retrovirology Laboratory IrsiCaixa, Hospital Germans Trias i Pujol, 
Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Badalona, Spain. jaeste@irsicaixa.es

Twenty-five years after the discovery of the therapeutic activity of 
azidothymidine (AZT), the first antiretroviral drug used in the clinic, 
infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has become, at least in 
the industrialized world, a manageable chronic disease with a significant 
improvement in life expectancy and quality. Nevertheless, the number of new 
infections worldwide continues to rise, particularly in women, and effective 
drug treatments have not yet reached the vast majority of infected individuals 
in resource-limited countries. The current status of antiretroviral therapy is 
therefore encouraging, but significant challenges remain. Although highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) provides durable control of virus replication in 
many patients, it is not devoid of unwanted secondary effects, some of which are 
now surfacing in aging populations under long-term treatment. The emergence of 
multidrug resistance and transmission of drug-resistant HIV strains limit the 
clinical efficacy of current therapy. Further simplification of treatment and 
identification of more effective drug combinations are needed to improve patient 
adherence, the most significant cause of treatment failure. Finding new drugs 
and novel drug targets may lead to redefining the goals of antiretroviral 
therapy, with an attempt to achieve the ultimate objective: the eradication of 
infection. Preclinical and clinical biomedical research, rational drug design 
and a close collaboration with regulatory agencies to set standards for the 
transition of new treatment concepts into the clinic will be the cornerstones of 
future progress. This special issue of Antiviral Research [85(1), 2010] 
highlights the principal milestones of antiretroviral research over 25 years of 
drug discovery and development and offers a comprehensive analysis by leading 
experts of the efforts being made to meet the challenges of effective control of 
HIV infection. This article forms part of a special issue of Antiviral Research 
marking the 25th anniversary of antiretroviral drug discovery and development, 
vol. 85, issue 1, 2010.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2009.10.007
PMID: 20018390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010 Apr;65(4):365-8. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glp200.  Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Low serum free triiodothyronine levels mark familial longevity: the Leiden 
Longevity Study.

Rozing MP(1), Westendorp RG, de Craen AJ, Frölich M, Heijmans BT, Beekman M, 
Wijsman C, Mooijaart SP, Blauw GJ, Slagboom PE, van Heemst D; Leiden Longevity 
Study (LLS) Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gerontology and Geriatrics, Leiden University Medical Center, 
PO Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2010 Nov;65(11):1250-1; author reply 1252-3.

BACKGROUND: The hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis has been widely implicated in 
modulating the aging process. Life extension effects associated with low thyroid 
hormone levels have been reported in multiple animal models. In human 
populations, an association was observed between low thyroid function and 
longevity at old age, but the beneficial effects of low thyroid hormone 
metabolism at middle age remain elusive.
METHODS: We have compared serum thyroid hormone function parameters in a group 
of middle-aged offspring of long-living nonagenarian siblings and a control 
group of their partners, all participants of the Leiden Longevity Study.
RESULTS: When compared with their partners, the group of offspring of 
nonagenarian siblings showed a trend toward higher serum thyrotropin levels 
(1.65 vs157 mU/L, p = .11) in conjunction with lower free thyroxine levels (15.0 
vs 15.2 pmol/L, p = .045) and lower free triiodothyronine levels (4.08 vs 4.14 
pmol/L, p = .024).
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with their partners, the group of offspring of 
nonagenarian siblings show a lower thyroidal sensitivity to thyrotropin. These 
findings suggest that the favorable role of low thyroid hormone metabolism on 
health and longevity in model organism is applicable to humans as well.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glp200
PMID: 20018826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. Am J Public Health. 2010 Sep;100(9):1758-64. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.165019.
Epub  2009 Dec 17.

The relative health burden of selected social and behavioral risk factors in the 
United States: implications for policy.

Muennig P(1), Fiscella K, Tancredi D, Franks P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, 600 W 168th St, 6th Floor, New York, NY 10032, USA. 
pm124@columbia.edu

OBJECTIVES: We sought to quantify the potential health impact of selected 
medical and nonmedical policy changes within the United States.
METHODS: Using data from the 1997-2000 National Health Interview Surveys (linked 
to mortality data through 2002) and the 1996-2002 Medical Expenditure Panel 
Surveys, we calculated age-specific health-related quality-of-life scores and 
mortality probabilities for 8 social and behavioral risk factors. We then used 
Markov models to estimate the quality-adjusted life years lost.
RESULTS: Ranked quality-adjusted life years lost were income less than 200% of 
the poverty line versus 200% or greater (464 million; 95% confidence interval 
[CI]=368, 564); current-smoker versus never-smoker (329 million; 95% CI=226, 
382); body mass index 30 or higher versus 20 to less than 25 (205 million; 95% 
CI=159, 269); non-Hispanic Black versus non-Hispanic White (120 million; 95% 
CI=83, 163); and less than 12 years of school relative to 12 or more (74 
million; 95% CI=52, 101). Binge drinking, overweight, and health insurance have 
relatively less influence on population health.
CONCLUSIONS: Poverty, smoking, and high-school dropouts impose the greatest 
burden of disease in the United States.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.165019
PMCID: PMC2920959
PMID: 20019300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Chirurg. 2010 May;81(5):454-71. doi: 10.1007/s00104-009-1829-2.

[Survival, mortality and quality of life after pylorus-preserving or classical 
Whipple operation. A systematic review with meta-analysis].

[Article in German]

Fitzmaurice C(1), Seiler CM, Büchler MW, Diener MK.

Author information:
(1)Studienzentrum der Deutschen Gesellschaft für Chirurgie, Heidelberg.

BACKGROUND: Two surgical procedures are mainly performed for the treatment of 
pancreatic head cancer and periampullary carcinoma: the classical Whipple 
operation and the pylorus-preserving Whipple operation.
METHODS: This manuscript represents an extension of a systematic review and 
meta-analysis previously published in the Annals of Surgery. A systematic 
literature search was performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE and the Cochrane Library 
(central) to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and observational 
studies. A meta-analysis based on a random-effects model was performed for the 
hazard ratios (HR) of survival and the odds ratios (OR) of postoperative 
mortality. The results of the different studies on quality of life (QoL) could 
not be summarized quantitatively in a meta-analysis and were therefore 
summarized qualitatively. Subgroup analyses were performed by study type, RCTs, 
prospective cohort studies (PSs), retrospective cohort studies (RSs), study 
quality and tumor localization (pancreatic head cancer versus periampullary 
carcinoma).
RESULTS: The systematic literature search retrieved 4,503 studies of which 4,460 
did not fulfill the inclusion criteria. The remaining 43 studies (6 RCTs, 12 PSs 
and 25 RSs) representing 3,893 patients were finally included in the review. 
There was neither a significant survival difference for patients with pancreatic 
head cancer in the pooled estimate of the RCTs (HR 0.80; 95% CI 0.53-1.22; 
p=0.16) nor in the pooled estimate of the PSs (HR 0.84; 95% CI 0.7-1.0; p=0.95) 
or the RSs (HR 0.84; 95% CI 0.7-1.01; p=0.21). Survival of patients with 
periampullary carcinoma was not significantly different in the RCTs (HR 1.02; 
95% CI 0.49-2.13; p=0.3), the PSs (HR 1.26; 95% CI 0.46-3.42; p=0.65) or the RSs 
(HR 0.86; 95% CI 0.6-1.24; p=0.33). Postoperative mortality was not 
significantly different after both types of operations (RCTs: HR 0.49; 95% CI 
0.17-1.4; p=0.18; PSs: HR 0.63; 95% CI 0.34-1.18; p=0.15; RSs: HR 0.7; 95% CI 
0.37-1.31; p=0.27). QoL was reported as either the same in both groups or in 
favor of the pylorus-preserving Whipple operation.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality, survival and QoL were not significantly different 
between the classical Whipple and the pylorus-preserving Whipple operations. 
Given the poor quality of the underlying trials a pragmatic RCT is recommended 
to prove the findings of this systematic review.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-009-1829-2
PMID: 20020091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Zentralbl Chir. 2009 Dec;134(6):532-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1224643. Epub
2009  Dec 17.

[Bariatric surgery in children and adolescents].

[Article in German]

Boehm R(1), Stroh C, Blueher S, Till H, Wolff S, Manger T, Lippert H.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Leipzig AöR, Klinik und Poliklinik für Kinderchirurgie, 
Leipzig, Deutschland. roland.boehm@medizin.unileipzig.de

Obesity in childhood and adolescents has gained epidemic proportions; in Germany 
15-20 % of boys and girls are overweight, more than 6 % are known to be obese. 
By now, 25 % of relevant people show a pathological glucose intolerance, 4-5 % 
are developing type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). In addition, metabolic disorders 
leading to hypertension and cardiac, renal or ophthalmological complications 
could be named as serious comorbidities. Medical and behavioural intervention as 
treatment for obesity in childhood remains largely ineffective: 5-10 % weight 
loss within 2 years rarely results in significant durable success. In adults, 
bariatric surgery is being used increasingly as an effective approach to achieve 
weight loss and to improve serious medical comorbidities, in particular T2DM. 
Enhancement of quality of life and explicit extension of survival are 
concomitant phenomenons. To date, a range of different types of bariatric 
procedures has been performed in adolescents, but studies evaluating and 
analysing preoperative data, postoperative course and follow-up in a 
representative number of patients younger than 18 years are still lacking. 
Nevertheless, current experience suggests significant weight loss and improving 
obesity-related medical comorbidities after bariatric surgery in adolescents 
too. Moreover, bariatric surgery in adolescents seems to induce less 
complications and a shorter hospital stay than in adults. Al-though surgical 
therapy for obesity in this group of patients remains an individual decision, 
even though explicit guidelines have been published specifying inclusion and 
exclusion criterias. Analysis of our own patient group and results of the study 
of the quality assurance "surgical treatment of morbid obesity" are appropriate 
tools to evaluate surgical techniques and to provide long-term follow-up.

Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart-New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1224643
PMID: 20020385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. Toxicol Mech Methods. 2005;15(3):227-34. doi: 10.1080/15376520590945658.

Protective Role of a Novel Curcuminoid on Alcohol and PUFA-Induced 
Hyperlipidemia.

Rukkumani R(1), Aruna K, Varma PS, Viswanathan P, Rajasekaran KN, Menon VP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, Annamalai University, 
Annamalainagar, Tamilnadu, India.

Alcohol use is contributing to an unprecedented decline in life expectancy. It 
induces hyperlipidemia when taken at higher concentrations. Alcoholics usually 
after a heavy binge of alcohols take fried food items normally made up of 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). The combined ingestion of alcohol and PUFAs 
is considered to be dangerous and known to result in hyperlipidemic conditions. 
Previous studies have shown that curcumin, an active principle of turmeric 
(Curcuma longa), has antihyperlipidemic properties. So in the present work we 
have synthesized an analog of curcumin and tested the protective role of that 
synthetic curcuminoid on alcohol and thermally oxidized sunflower oil-induced 
hyperlipidemia. Male Albino rats of Wistar strain were used for the experimental 
study. Antihyperlipidemic activity of the synthetic curcuminoid was evaluated by 
analyzing the levels of lipids (cholesterol, triglycerides [TGs], phospholipids 
[PLs], and free fatty acids [FFAs]) in different tissues and histopathological 
changes in the liver. The results showed that the levels of cholesterol, TGs, 
and FFAs were increased significantly in alcohol, thermally oxidized sunflower 
oil (Delta PUFA), and alcohol + Delta PUFAs treated groups. Administration of 
synthetic curcuminoid effectively reduced these levels. The phospholipid (PL) 
levels, which were decreased in the liver and kidney and increased in the heart 
in the alcohol, Delta PUFA, and alcohol + Delta PUFA groups, were positively 
modulated by treatment with synthetic curcuminoid (CA). Our histopathological 
observations were also in correlation with the biochemical parameters. From the 
results obtained, we could conclude that the synthetic curcuminoid effectively 
protects the system against alcohol and Delta PUFA-induced hyperlipidemia and 
may become an effective therapeutic agent for the treatment of hyperlipidemia.

DOI: 10.1080/15376520590945658
PMID: 20021087


161. Curr Aging Sci. 2008 Jul;1(2):84-100. doi: 10.2174/1874609810801020084.

Dietary habits of Mongolian people, and their influence on lifestyle-related 
diseases and early aging.

Komatsu F(1), Kagawa Y, Kawabata T, Kaneko Y, Purvee B, Otgon J, Chimedregzen U.

Author information:
(1)High Technology Research Center, Kagawa Nutrition University, Sakado, 
Saitama, Japan. komatsu@eiyo.ac.Jp

Mongolians are known to have relatively short life expectancy. In order to 
examine the role of dietary habits in the early aging of Mongolians, the food 
intake inquiry, anthropometric measurements and blood clinical tests were 
performed for 365 healthy inhabitants in Murun, a northern Mongolia city, and 
compared to those of Japanese. Murun inhibitants were found to have a 
characteristic dietary habit of taking large amounts of meat, milk, dairy 
products and wheat flour products, in contrast little vegetables, fruits and 
fishes. The daily calorie intake of the adults was estimated to be 2,525 kcal, 
and the fat/total calorie ratio was calculated 33.7%, about 1.3-fold higher than 
that of Japanese. The intake ratio of fatty acid from the Mongolian foods, 
saturated : mono-unsaturated : poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) ratio, was 
10.3 : 7.8 : 3.0. Results of blood clinical tests showed significantly higher 
levels of serum triglycerides, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL) and 
homocysteine, and lower levels of high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL), 
n-3 PUFA, folic acid and adiponectin, in comparison with those of Japanese. In 
addition, the Mongolians were also found to have significantly high levels of 
oxidative stress markers, such as serum malondialdehyde-modified LDL (MDA-LDL), 
urinary 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG) and serum reactive oxygen 
metabolites (ROM). The serum ROM level in the Mongolians seemed to associate 
with their body fat ratio (p<0.05), and was significantly inverse-correlated to 
handgrip strength (p<0.001). Obesity was observed at a high incidence in the 
subjects over 30-year old, and over 40-year old their handgrip ability was 
markedly decreased. These findings suggest that in the Mongolians the dietary 
habits associate with their lifestyle-related diseases and early aging, and the 
improvement of dietary habits is an effective strategy for health promotion of 
the inhabitants.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609810801020084
PMID: 20021377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Curr Aging Sci. 2008 Dec;1(3):182-91. doi: 10.2174/1874609810801030182.

Human skeletal muscle aging and the oxidative system: cellular events.

Rossi P(1), Marzani B, Giardina S, Negro M, Marzatico F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological and Pharmacological Cellular and Molecular 
Sciences, University of Pavia, Italy.

As we age, the aerobic and functional capacities of our major physiological 
systems progressively decline. In the case of the neuromuscular system, 
reductions in strength and mobility cause a deterioration in motor performance 
and in turn a greater tendency to fall (with increased risk of fractures), 
impaired mobility, disability and loss of independence in the elderly. Given the 
increase in our life expectancy and the consequent growth in the elderly 
population, these conditions will have an increasing impact on modern healthcare 
systems, and their prevention and attenuation needs to be addressed. Several 
intervention strategies have been used to improve motor performance among the 
aging. At the cellular level, aging is caused by a progressive decline in 
mitochondrial function that results in the accumulation of reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) generated by the addition of a single electron to the oxygen 
molecule As the level of oxidative stress in skeletal muscle increases with age, 
the production of some antioxidant enzymes increases adaptively to compensate in 
part. The aging process is characterized by an imbalance between an increase in 
the production of reactive oxygen species in the organism and the antioxidant 
defences as a whole. The goal of this review is to examine the results of 
existing studies on oxidative stress in aging human skeletal muscles, taking 
into account different physiological factors (sex, fiber composition, muscle 
type and function).

DOI: 10.2174/1874609810801030182
PMID: 20021391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Curr Aging Sci. 2008 Dec;1(3):202-12. doi: 10.2174/1874609810801030202.

Prematurely aged children: molecular alterations leading to Hutchinson-Gilford 
progeria and Werner syndromes.

Domínguez-Gerpe L(1), Araújo-Vilar D.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Enfermedades Tiroideas e Metabólicas (UETeM), Departamento de 
Medicina, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, Spain. 
ml.dominguez.gerpe@usc.es

Ageing is thought to be a polygenic and stochastic process in which multiple 
mechanisms operate at the same time. At the level of the individual organism 
ageing is associated with a progressive deterioration of health and quality of 
life, sharing common features such as: alopecia and grey hair, loss of audition, 
macular degeneration, neurodegeneration, cardiovascular diseases, osteoporosis, 
cataract formation, type-2 diabetes, lipodystrophies; a generally increased 
susceptibility to infection, autoimmune disorders and diseases such as cancer; 
and an impaired ability to cope with stress. Recent studies of mechanisms 
involved in the ageing process are contributing to the identification of genes 
involved in longevity. Monogenic heritable disorders causing premature ageing, 
and animal models have contributed to the understanding of some of the 
characteristic organism-level features associated with human ageing. Werner 
syndrome and Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome are the best characterized 
human disorders. Werner syndrome patients have a median life expectancy of 47 
years with clinical conditions from the second decade of life. 
Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome patients die at a median age of 11-13 years 
with clinical conditions appearing soon after birth. In both syndromes, 
alterations in specific genes have been identified, with mutations in the WRN 
and LMNA genes respectively being the most closely associated with each 
syndrome. Results from molecular studies strongly suggest an increase in DNA 
damage and cell senescence as the underlying mechanism of pathological premature 
ageing in these two human syndromes. The same general mechanism has also been 
observed in human cells undergoing the normal ageing process. In the present 
article the molecular mechanisms currently proposed for explaining these two 
syndromes, which may also partly explain the normal ageing process, are 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609810801030202
PMID: 20021393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Curr Aging Sci. 2009 Dec;2(3):165-73. doi: 10.2174/1874609810902030165.

Aging, mitochondria and male reproductive function.

Amaral S(1), Ramalho-Santos J.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, Department of Zoology, School of 
Science and Technology, University of Coimbra, 3004-517 Coimbra, Portugal.

The rise in life expectancy over the last century, together with higher maternal 
and paternal ages and have highlighted the issue of reduced fertility with 
advancing age. Aging of the male reproductive system is incited by 
multi-factorial changes at molecular, cellular and regulatory levels, and 
individual characteristics are highly variable, although strongly influenced by 
lifestyle and environmental factors. Damage accumulated with age leads to 
progressive deregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis and of local 
auto/paracrine interactions, thereby inducing changes in target organs such as 
the testis, penis and prostate. Elderly human males produce less testosterone, 
have fewer motile sperm and a higher incidence of erectile dysfunction and 
prostate disorders, all of which contribute to lower fertility. Cellular aging 
can manifest itself at several levels. Aging cells progressively accumulate 
"waste" products, resulting in a decreased functionally. Changes to mitochondria 
are among the most remarkable features observed in aging cells and several 
theories place mitochondria at the hub of cellular events related to aging, 
namely in terms of the accumulation of oxidative damage to cells and tissues, a 
process in which these organelles may play a prominent role, although 
alternative theories have also emerged. Furthermore, mitochondrial energy 
metabolism is also crucial for male reproductive function and mitochondria may 
therefore constitute a common link between aging and fertility loss.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609810902030165
PMID: 20021411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Milbank Q. 2009 Dec;87(4):842-62. doi: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2009.00581.x.

Aging in America in the twenty-first century: demographic forecasts from the 
MacArthur Foundation Research Network on an Aging Society.

Olshansky SJ(1), Goldman DP, Zheng Y, Rowe JW.

Author information:
(1)University of Illinois at Chicago, USA. sjayo@uic.edu

CONTEXT: The aging of the baby boom generation, the extension of life, and 
progressive increases in disability-free life expectancy have generated a 
dramatic demographic transition in the United States. Official government 
forecasts may, however, have inadvertently underestimated life expectancy, which 
would have major policy implications, since small differences in forecasts of 
life expectancy produce very large differences in the number of people surviving 
to an older age. This article presents a new set of population and life 
expectancy forecasts for the United States, focusing on transitions that will 
take place by midcentury.
METHODS: Forecasts were made with a cohort-components methodology, based on the 
premise that the risk of death will be influenced in the coming decades by 
accelerated advances in biomedical technology that either delay the onset and 
age progression of major fatal diseases or that slow the aging process itself.
FINDINGS: Results indicate that the current forecasts of the U.S. Social 
Security Administration and U.S. Census Bureau may underestimate the rise in 
life expectancy at birth for men and women combined, by 2050, from 3.1 to 7.9 
years.
CONCLUSIONS: The cumulative outlays for Medicare and Social Security could be 
higher by $3.2 to $8.3 trillion relative to current government forecasts. This 
article discusses the implications of these results regarding the benefits and 
costs of an aging society and the prospect that health disparities could 
attenuate some of these changes.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1468-0009.2009.00581.x
PMCID: PMC2888016
PMID: 20021588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Aug;43(8):655-8.

[Cause-excluded health adjusted life expectancy: a new indicator in measuring 
the burden of diseases].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang JS(1), Jin SG.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Public Health Surveillance and Information Service, 
Chinese Center for Diseases Control and Prevention, Beijing 100050, China.

Based on the integration of concept and methods of cause-eliminated life 
expectancy (CELE), health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) and 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY), a new index named cause-excluded health 
adjusted life expectancy (CEHALE) was developed in this study to evaluate the 
health impact(both fetal and non-fetal) of single disease. In order to include 
the impact of both premature death and health problems among those who are 
alive, the concept of suppositional death was introduced to calculate CEHALE. 
Cause-excluded health adjusted life expectancy developed in this study, should 
be not only easy to understand in concept, but also has theoretical support and 
be not affected by age structure, and be more suitable to use in comparison 
among different diseases and different population. Moreover, the new index is 
easy to calculate. So, CEHALE should be an ideal index to evaluate the impact of 
disease to population health.

PMID: 20021841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Health Econ. 2010 Mar;29(2):205-12. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.11.014.
Epub  2009 Nov 26.

Do red herrings swim in circles? Controlling for the endogeneity of time to 
death.

Felder S(1), Werblow A, Zweifel P.

Author information:
(1)Duisburg-Essen University, Health Economics, 45117 Essen, Germany. 
stefan.felder@uni-due.de

Studies on the effect of ageing on health care expenditure (HCE) have revealed 
the importance of controlling for time-to-death (TTD). These studies, however, 
are subject to possible endogeneity if HCE influences the remaining life 
expectancy. This paper introduces a 10-year observation period on monthly HCE, 
socioeconomic characteristics and survivor status to first predict TTD and then 
use the predicted values as an instrument in the regression for HCE. While 
exogeneity of TTD has to be rejected, core results concerning the role of TTD 
rather than age as a determinant of HCE (the 'red herring' hypothesis) are 
confirmed.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2009.11.014
PMID: 20022392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. J Epidemiol. 2010;20(2):97-105. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20090011. Epub 2009 Dec
19.

The epidemiology of appendicitis and appendectomy in South Korea: national 
registry data.

Lee JH(1), Park YS, Choi JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, 
Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Appendicitis is one of the most frequent acute surgical conditions 
of the abdomen, and appendectomy is one of the most commonly performed 
operations in the world. However, epidemiological data on appendicitis have not 
been reported for South Korean or East Asian populations.
METHODS: We analyzed the epidemiological features and lifetime risk of 
appendicitis and appendectomy in South Korea using data collected for the 
national health insurance database from 2005 through 2007.
RESULTS: Appendectomy was performed in 59.70% of inpatients diagnosed with 
appendicitis. The overall incidences of appendicitis, total appendectomy, and 
perforated appendectomy were 22.71, 13.56, and 2.91 per 10 000 population per 
year, respectively. The incidence of appendicitis and appendectomy showed clear 
seasonality, with a peak in summer. The standardized lifetime risks of 
appendicitis and appendectomy were constant from 2005 through 2007. A life table 
model suggests that the lifetime risk of appendicitis is 16.33% for males and 
16.34% for females, and that the lifetime risk of appendectomy is 9.89% for 
males and 9.61% for females.
CONCLUSIONS: As compared to results obtained in research on Western populations, 
appendicitis and appendectomy had a similar perforation rate and seasonality, 
but a higher overall incidence, in South Koreans. Between 2005 and 2007, the 
incidence of appendicitis and appendectomy was constant. Overall, an estimated 
15 incidental appendectomies are performed to prevent 1 inpatient with suspected 
appendicitis, and 26 incidental appendectomies are performed to prevent 1 
appendectomy. Incidental appendectomy may have greater preventive value in 
Koreans.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20090011
PMCID: PMC3900807
PMID: 20023368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. AIDS Care. 2009 Nov;21(11):1425-31. doi: 10.1080/09540120902814403.

Self-fulfillment despite barriers: volunteer work of people living with HIV.

Samson A(1), Lavigne RM, MacPherson P.

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa, Ottawa, ON, Canada. asamson@uottawa.ca

With the decline in the morbidity and mortality associated with HIV infection, 
the majority of people living with HIV (PWHIV) experience a higher quality of 
life and longer life expectancy. Since this diagnosis no longer prevents an 
active lifestyle, many PWHIV are re-integrating into the workplace or are 
contemplating this possibility. Despite the multiple advantages associated with 
a return to work, research has identified barriers related to work and HIV 
infection. These barriers could prevent an important minority of PWHIV who wish 
to return to work from re-integrating into this environment. In this context, 
volunteering could be an alternate way to regain an active lifestyle. This 
research found that volunteer work allowed participants to enrich their social 
lives, to regain a sense of psychological well-being, and to apply their 
abilities to the benefit of others. However, participants are restricted by 
their preference to volunteer for HIV-related organizations in order to avoid 
social stigma and rejection.

DOI: 10.1080/09540120902814403
PMID: 20024720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Med Trop (Mars). 2009 Oct;69(5):520-4.

[Impact of access to antiretroviral therapy in Côte d'Ivoire].

[Article in French]

Eholié SP(1), Tanon KA, Folquet-Amorissani M, Ouattara I, Aba YT, 
Traoré-Ettiegne V, Kakou AR, Aoussi E, Anglaret X, Bissagnéné E.

Author information:
(1)Département des maladies infectieuses et tropicales, , Ministère de la santé, 
Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire. speholie@afnet.net

In 1998 UNAIDS implemented the national drug access initiative (DAI) in Côte 
d'Ivoire. The Ivorian government took the DAI over in 2000 with the support of 
the Global Fund and Presidential Emergency Program For AIDS Relief (PEPFAR). The 
ensuing affordability of antiretroviral therapy (ART), medical staff training, 
and healthcare equipment allowed Ministry of Health to improve HIV care 
throughout the country. Since 2008 ART and follow-up monitoring have been free 
of charge for people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). In January 2009 a total of 
57,833 PLWHA received ART and follow-up at 274 HIV care centers. Use of ART has 
improved the life expectancy of PLWHA. However morbidity and mortality remained 
high during the first year of ART implementation with respective frequencies of 
5-10% person-year (PY) and 2-3% PY. Morbidity was mainly related to infectious 
disease (tuberculosis and bacteriaemia) and earlier onset of adverse events 
(AE). In most cases ART has been well tolerated. The main adverse effects have 
been anemia, neuropathy, skin toxicity and liver enzyme elevation. The incidence 
of stage 3/4 AE has been low (< 2 %PY). Although overall compliance has been 
good (<80%), data among children and adults suggest the need for further work to 
reinforce support mechanisms. Convincing results have been obtained in the 
management of PLWHA. Nevertheless greater funding and commitment must be given 
to management of opportunistic infections and side effects and to development of 
nutrition support services.

PMID: 20025190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. BMC Public Health. 2009 Dec 21;9:481. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-481.

Protocol for an experimental investigation of the roles of oxytocin and social 
support in neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, and subjective responses to stress 
across age and gender.

Kubzansky LD(1), Mendes WB, Appleton A, Block J, Adler GK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Society, Human Development, and Health, Harvard School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA USA. lkubzans@hsph.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Substantial empirical evidence has demonstrated that individuals who 
are socially isolated or have few positive social connections seem to age at a 
faster rate and have more chronic diseases. Oxytocin is a neurohypophyseal 
hormone hypothesized to coordinate both the causes and effects of positive 
social interactions, and may be involved in positive physiological adaptations 
such as buffering the deleterious effects of stress and promoting resilience. 
The proposed research will examine whether and how oxytocin influences responses 
to stress in humans and will consider effects in relation to those of social 
support.
METHODS/DESIGN: Experimental research will be used to determine whether 
exogenously administered oxytocin (intranasal) influences psychological and 
physiological outcomes under conditions of stress across gender and age in 
adulthood. Hypotheses to be tested are: 1) Oxytocin ameliorates the deleterious 
neuroendocrine, cardiovascular, and subjective effects of stress; 2) Oxytocin 
and social support have similar and additive stress-buffering effects; 3) 
Oxytocin effects are stronger in women versus men; and 4) Oxytocin effects are 
similar across a range of adult ages. Hypotheses will be tested with a 
placebo-controlled, double-blind study using a sample of healthy men and women 
recruited from the community. Participants are randomly assigned to receive 
either oxytocin or placebo. They undergo a social stress manipulation with and 
without social support (randomly assigned), and outcome measures are obtained at 
multiple times during the procedure.
DISCUSSION: Understanding the determinants of healthy aging is a major public 
health priority and identifying effective measures to prevent or delay the onset 
of chronic diseases is an important goal. Experimental research on oxytocin, 
social relationships, and health in adulthood will contribute to the scientific 
knowledge base for maximizing active life and health expectancy. At conclusion 
of the study we will have solid evidence concerning the effects of oxytocin on 
stress response and whether it has similar effects across age and gender groups. 
A neurobiological understanding of resilience can inform efforts for both 
prevention and intervention of diseases or problems common in later life.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-9-481
PMCID: PMC2805640
PMID: 20025778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J Virol Methods. 2010 Apr;165(1):9-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2009.12.009.
Epub  2009 Dec 21.

A novel real-time PCR assay for determination of viral loads in person infected 
with hepatitis B virus.

Li G(1), Li W, Guo F, Xu S, Zhao N, Chen S, Liu L.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Northeast Normal University, Changchun 130024, 
China.

A novel LUX (Light Upon eXtension) primer-based real-time PCR assay was 
developed and evaluated in this study, which was designed to provide a 
cost-effective, specific and highly sensitive method for viral load 
determination of hepatitis B virus (HBV). The assay employed an effective and 
rapid nucleic acid extraction system based on magnetic beads. To evaluate its 
efficacy, this new viral DNA preparation method was compared with QIAamp Blood 
Mini Kit and the results showed a good correlation (r=0.971; P<0.001). The 
performance of the LUX real-time assay was validated by testing serial dilutions 
of HBV plasmid DNA (5 to 5 x 10(8)copies/reaction) and a good linear 
relationship was obtained between the Ct values and the log(10) concentration of 
the HBV DNA. The assay possessed high sensitivity and the detection limit of 
this system was as few as 25 copies/ml of serum. A total of 91 positive serum 
samples were detected to evaluate further the assay and the high specificity was 
confirmed by melting curve analysis. This assay provides an ideal tool for 
monitoring the treatment efficacy and studying the relationship between HBV 
viral load and the stage of disease.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviromet.2009.12.009
PMID: 20026193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. Mech Ageing Dev. 2010 Jan;131(1):60-8. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2009.12.002. Epub
2009  Dec 22.

Calorie restriction causes healthy life span extension in the filamentous fungus 
Podospora anserina.

van Diepeningen AD(1), Maas MF, Huberts DH, Goedbloed DJ, Engelmoer DJ, 
Slakhorst SM, Koopmanschap AB, Krause F, Dencher NA, Sellem CH, Sainsard-Chanet 
A, Hoekstra RF, Debets AJ.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Genetics, Department of Plant Sciences, Wageningen University, 
Arboretumlaan 4, 6703BD Wageningen, The Netherlands. anne.vandiepeningen@wur.nl

Although most fungi appear to be immortal, some show systemic senescence within 
a distinct time frame. Podospora anserina for example shows an irreversible 
growth arrest within weeks of culturing associated with a destabilization of the 
mitochondrial genome. Here, we show that calorie restriction (CR), a regimen of 
under-nutrition without malnutrition, increases not only life span but also 
forestalls the aging-related decline in fertility. Similar to respiratory chain 
deficiencies the life span extension is associated with lower levels of 
intracellular H(2)O(2) measurements and a stabilization of the mitochondrial 
genome. Unlike respiratory chain deficiencies, CR cultures have a wild-type-like 
OXPHOS machinery similar to that of well-fed cultures as shown by native 
electrophoresis of mitochondrial protein complexes. Together, these data 
indicate that life span extension via CR is fundamentally different from that 
via respiratory chain mutations: Whereas the latter can be seen as a pathology, 
the former promotes healthy life span extension and may be an adaptive response.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2009.12.002
PMID: 20026344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Biol Psychol. 2010 Mar;83(3):169-75. doi: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2009.12.005.
Epub  2009 Dec 22.

Maternal trait anxiety, emotional distress, and salivary cortisol in pregnancy.

Pluess M(1), Bolten M, Pirke KM, Hellhammer D.

Author information:
(1)Institute for the Study of Children, Families and Social Issues, Birkbeck 
University of London, United Kingdom.

Animal models suggest that stress-induced hormonal changes in the mother during 
pregnancy lead to enduring changes in the fetus and empirical links between 
prenatal maternal stress and negative child development have been discerned 
repeatedly in human studies. But the role of heritable personality traits has 
received little attention in the latter work. The goal of the current study was 
to investigate the relationship between maternal personality, psychological 
measures of maternal distress and maternal salivary cortisol during pregnancy. 
Maternal reports of personality (16 PF) and stress-related psychological 
measures (depression, pregnancy-related anxiety, perceived stress, negative life 
events) as well as salivary cortisol samples of 66 healthy pregnant women were 
collected in early and late pregnancy. Maternal trait anxiety proved related to 
all stress-related psychological measures and high anxiety predicted low 
baseline cortisol awakening levels in early pregnancy. Maternal trait anxiety is 
related to both psychological and biological stress measures during pregnancy.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biopsycho.2009.12.005
PMID: 20026376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. Pediatrics. 2010 Jan;125(1):4-15. doi: 10.1542/peds.2009-2416. Epub 2009 Dec
21.

Annual summary of vital statistics: 2007.

Heron M(1), Sutton PD, Xu J, Ventura SJ, Strobino DM, Guyer B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health Statistics, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA. 
mheron@cdc.gov

The number of births in the United States increased between 2006 and 2007 
(preliminary estimate of 4,317,119) and is the highest ever recorded. Birth 
rates increased among all age groups (15 to 44 years); the increase among 
teenagers is contrary to a long-term pattern of decline during 1991-2005. The 
total fertility rate increased 1% in 2007 to 2122.5 births per 1000 women. This 
rate was above replacement level for the second consecutive year. The proportion 
of all births to unmarried women increased to 39.7% in 2007, up from 38.5% in 
2006, with increases noted for all race and Hispanic-origin groups and within 
each age group of 15 years and older. In 2007, 31.8% of all births occurred by 
cesarean delivery, up 2% from 2006. Increases in cesarean delivery were noted 
for most age groups and for non-Hispanic white, non-Hispanic black, and Hispanic 
women. Multiple-birth rates, which rose rapidly over the last several decades, 
did not increase during 2005-2006. The 2007 preterm birth rate was 12.7%, a 
decline of 1% from 2006. The low-birth-weight rate also declined in 2007 to 
8.2%. The infant mortality rate was 6.77 infant deaths per 1000 live births in 
2007, which is not significantly different from the 2006 rate. Non-Hispanic 
black infants continued to have much higher rates than non-Hispanic white and 
Hispanic infants. States in the southeastern United States had the highest 
infant and fetal mortality rates. The United States continues to rank poorly in 
international comparisons of infant mortality. Life expectancy at birth reached 
a record high of 77.9 years in 2007. Crude death rates for children aged 1 to 19 
years decreased by 2.5% between 2006 and 2007. Unintentional injuries and 
homicide were the first and second leading causes of death, respectively, 
accounting for 53.7% of all deaths to children and adolescents in 2007.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2009-2416
PMID: 20026491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2010 Mar;65(3):386-9. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkp460. Epub
2009  Dec 21.

Risk of cardiovascular disease in HIV-infected patients.

Das S(1).

Author information:
(1)HIV & GU Medicine, Coventry Community Health Services, Stoney Stanton Road, 
Coventry CV1 4FH, UK. satyajit.das@coventrypct.nhs.uk

The life expectancy of people living with HIV infection has improved 
dramatically since the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). Now 
that patients with HIV infection are living longer, the focus of its treatment 
should shift to long-term management spanning decades. Diseases of ageing, 
including cardiovascular disease (CVD), have now become more important. The 
evidence of cardiovascular risk associated with HIV infection and antiretroviral 
therapy is explored and discussed in this article.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkp460
PMID: 20026610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Med Ethics. 2010 Jan;36(1):24-9. doi: 10.1136/jme.2009.030155.

Physicians' labelling of end-of-life practices: a hypothetical case study.

Buiting HM(1), van der Heide A, Onwuteaka-Philipsen BD, Rurup ML, Rietjens JA, 
Borsboom G, van der Maas PJ, van Delden JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. h.buiting@erasmusmc.nl

OBJECTIVES: To investigate why physicians label end-of-life acts as either 
'euthanasia/ending of life' or 'alleviation of symptoms/palliative or terminal 
sedation', and to study the association of such labelling with intended 
reporting of these acts.
METHODS: Questionnaires were sent to a random, stratified sample of 2100 Dutch 
physicians (response: 55%). They were asked to label six hypothetical 
end-of-life cases: three 'standard' cases and three cases randomly selected (out 
of 47), that varied according to (1) type of medication, (2) physician's 
intention, (3) type of patient request, (4) patient's life expectancy and (5) 
time until death. We identified the extent to which characteristics of cases are 
associated with physician's labelling, with multilevel multivariable logistic 
regression.
RESULTS: The characteristics that contributed most to labelling cases as 
'euthanasia/ending of life' were the administration of muscle relaxants (99% of 
these cases were labelled as 'euthanasia/ending of life') or disproportional 
morphine (63% of these cases were labelled accordingly). Other important factors 
were an intention to hasten death (54%) and a life expectancy of several months 
(46%). Physicians were much more willing to report cases labelled as 
'euthanasia' (87%) or 'ending of life' (56%) than other cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Similar cases are not uniformly labelled. However, a physicians' 
label is strongly associated with their willingness to report their acts. 
Differences in how physicians label similar acts impede complete societal 
control. Further education and debate could enhance the level of agreement about 
what is physician-assisted dying, and thus should be reported, and what not.

DOI: 10.1136/jme.2009.030155
PMID: 20026689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Circulation. 2010 Jan 5;121(1):71-9. doi: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.900704.
 Epub 2009 Dec 21.

Cost-effectiveness of prasugrel versus clopidogrel in patients with acute 
coronary syndromes and planned percutaneous coronary intervention: results from 
the trial to assess improvement in therapeutic outcomes by optimizing platelet 
inhibition with Prasugrel-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction TRITON-TIMI 38.

Mahoney EM(1), Wang K, Arnold SV, Proskorovsky I, Wiviott S, Antman E, Braunwald 
E, Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, 4401 Wornall Rd, Kansas City, MO 
64111, USA. emahoney1@saint-lukes.org

