CONCLUSIONS: Shortened life expectancy reduces 5-year risk of developing 
glaucoma. Thus, mortality risk is another factor clinicians should consider when 
deciding whether to initiate treatment of glaucoma suspects.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2009.07.010
PMCID: PMC2830147
PMID: 19800612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2009 Nov;44 Suppl 2:2-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2009.05.009. Epub 2009 Oct 2.

[Dementia, a progressive disease: severe dementia. Identification of end-stage 
dementia].

[Article in Spanish]

Formiga F(1), Robles MJ, Fort I.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Geriatría, Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, Barcelona, Spain. fformiga@bellvitgehospital.cat

Because of the aging population, the incidence and prevalence of dementia has 
increased. The most common form of dementia is Alzheimer's disease. The present 
review focuses on the progression and prognosis of this disease, although many 
of the issues discussed can be extrapolated to other types of dementia. Despite 
public education efforts in recent years, dementia continues to have a 
tremendous impact on the patient, the primary caregiver and/or family and 
society in general. A diagnosis of dementia shortens life expectancy. Mean 
survival time is generally about 10 years but varies from person to person, 
depending on several factors. Through various scales, such as the Global 
Deterioration Scale (GDS), complemented by Functional Assessment Staging (FAST), 
disease progression can be monitored and patients who are terminally ill can be 
identified in the absence of factors of poor outcome. Thus, the correct measures 
can be implemented to ensure an appropriate end of life in patients with 
dementia.

Copyright © 2009 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2009.05.009
PMID: 19800713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Insect Physiol. 2010 Jan;56(1):88-92. doi: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2009.09.007.

Associative learning in ants: conditioning of the maxilla-labium extension 
response in Camponotus aethiops.

Guerrieri FJ(1), d'Ettorre P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Social Evolution, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen, 
Universitetsparken 15, 2100 Copenhagen, Denmark. guerrier@cict.fr

Associative learning has been studied in many vertebrates and invertebrates. In 
social insects, the proboscis extension response conditioning of honey bees has 
been widely used for several decades. However, a similar paradigm has not been 
developed for ants, which are advanced social insects showing different 
morphological castes and a plethora of life histories. Here we present a novel 
conditioning protocol using Camponotus aethiops. When the antennae of a 
harnessed ant are stimulated with sucrose solution, the ant extends its 
maxilla-labium to absorb the sucrose. We term this the "maxilla-labium extension 
response" (MaLER). MaLER could be conditioned by forward pairing an odour 
(conditioned stimulus) with sucrose (unconditioned stimulus) in the course of 
six conditioning trials (absolute conditioning). In non-rewarded tests following 
conditioning, ants gave significantly higher specific responses to the 
conditioned stimulus than to a novel odour. When trained for differential 
conditioning, ants discriminated between the odour forward-paired with sucrose 
and an odour forward-paired with quinine (a putative aversive stimulus). In both 
absolute and differential conditioning, memory lasted for at least 1h. MaLER 
conditioning allows full control of the stimulation sequence, inter-stimulus and 
inter-trial intervals and satiety, which is crucial for any further study on 
associative learning in ants.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2009.09.007
PMID: 19800887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Lancet. 2009 Oct 3;374(9696):1186-95. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61334-9.

Health reform in central and eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.

Rechel B(1), McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, London, UK. 
bernd.rechel@lshtm.ac.uk

In the two decades since the fall of the Berlin Wall, former communist countries 
in Europe have pursued wide-ranging changes to their health systems. We describe 
three key aspects of these changes-an almost universal switch to health 
insurance systems, a growing reliance on out-of-pocket payments (both formal and 
informal), and efforts to strengthen primary health care, often with a model of 
family medicine delivered by general practitioners. Many decisions about health 
policy, such as the introduction of health insurance systems or general 
practice, took into account political issues more than they did evidence. 
Evidence for whether health reforms have achieved their intended results is 
sparse. Of crucial importance is that lessons are learnt from experiences of 
countries to enable development of health systems that meet present and future 
health needs of populations.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61334-9
PMID: 19801097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Lancet. 2009 Oct 3;374(9696):1196-208. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61460-4.

Ageing populations: the challenges ahead.

Christensen K(1), Doblhammer G, Rau R, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Danish Ageing Research Centre, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark. kchristensen@health.sdu.dk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Jan 2;375(9708):25; author reply 26-7.
    Lancet. 2010 Jan 2;375(9708):25-6; author reply 26-7.
    Lancet. 2010 Jan 2;375(9708):25; author reply 26-7.
    Lancet. 2010 Jan 2;375(9708):26; author reply 26-7.
    Lancet. 2010 Jan 2;375(9708):27; author reply 26-7.
    Acta Orthop. 2016 Jun;87(3):296-300.

If the pace of increase in life expectancy in developed countries over the past 
two centuries continues through the 21st century, most babies born since 2000 in 
France, Germany, Italy, the UK, the USA, Canada, Japan, and other countries with 
long life expectancies will celebrate their 100th birthdays. Although trends 
differ between countries, populations of nearly all such countries are ageing as 
a result of low fertility, low immigration, and long lives. A key question is: 
are increases in life expectancy accompanied by a concurrent postponement of 
functional limitations and disability? The answer is still open, but research 
suggests that ageing processes are modifiable and that people are living longer 
without severe disability. This finding, together with technological and medical 
development and redistribution of work, will be important for our chances to 
meet the challenges of ageing populations.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61460-4
PMCID: PMC2810516
PMID: 19801098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest We declare that we have no 
conflicts of interest.


594. Orv Hetil. 2009 Oct 11;150(41):1903-8. doi: 10.1556/OH.2009.28704.

[Is religiosity a protective factor? Social epidemiologic study of adolescent 
psychological health].

[Article in Hungarian]

Pikó B(1), Kovács E.

Author information:
(1)Szegedi Tudományegyetem, Altalános Orvostudományi Kar, Magatartástudományi 
Intézet, Szeged. pikobettina@yahoo.com

One of the important tasks of epidemiological analyses is mapping protective 
factors for health promotion. Religiosity is a protective factor which has an 
impact on all of the three dimensions of health status, among others, it goes 
together with a longer lifetime, better indicators of health status indicators 
and quality of life, less anxiety, depression and suicide, more effective coping 
strategies. In relation to adolescent health, less investigation has been 
available thus far.
OBJECTIVE: The main goal of the present study was to investigate the 
relationship between religiosity and psychological health among adolescents. 
Regarding religiosity, religious affiliation, religiousness (subjective level of 
religiosity) and religious participation were assessed. Among health status 
indicators, occurrence of depressive symptomatology, level of satisfaction with 
life and self-perceived health were determined.
METHODS: Data collection of the questionnaire survey was going on among 881 high 
school students in Szeged (age range between 14-20 years, mean = 16.6 years, 
S.D. = 1.3 years of age, 44.6% of the sample was female). Associations between 
health status indicators (as dependent variables) and religiosity factors (as 
independent variables) were assessed using Odds Ratios calculated by logistic 
regression analyses.
RESULTS: Our findings suggest that youth's religiosity had the least effect on 
depressive symptomatology, whereas youth defined themselves as religious and 
those who actually participated at religious events perceived their own health 
better and they were more satisfied with their life. Girls tended to belong more 
to a religious community and their religiosity was more associated with life 
satisfaction and self-perceived health.
CONCLUSIONS: Religiosity is a determinant factor in adolescent psychological 
health except for depression. Further research is needed to analyze protective 
factors related to adolescents' health status.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2009.28704
PMID: 19801357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. J Epidemiol. 2009;19(6):311-8. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20090039. Epub 2009 Oct 3.

Model of life expectancy of chronic hepatitis B carriers in an endemic region.

Wang T(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada. 
wang.tao@mail.com

BACKGROUND: Chronic infection with hepatitis B (HBV) is a known risk factor for 
increased mortality from hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and chronic liver 
disease (CLD). However, the specific effects of chronic HBV infection on life 
expectancy have not been adequately studied. Taiwan is endemic for HBV 
infection, and thus provides sufficient information for such estimates.
METHODS: Population mortality statistics, combined with data on the contribution 
of HBV to HCC and CLD deaths, were used to model carrier mortality by sex and e 
antigen status. An abridged life table was used to calculate carrier life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: Among both males and females, those who are e antigen-positive are more 
likely to die from HCC than from CLD. When e antigen status remains positive, 
absolute liver mortality rates climb significantly after age 40 years. CLD is a 
proportionally higher threat for e antigen-negative females than for other 
subgroups. Males have higher liver-related mortality at all ages. A small 
decrease in life expectancy, from 82.0 to 80.1 years, was found for female 
noncarriers versus female carriers; a larger discrepancy was observed for 
males-from 76.2 to 71.8 years. In comparison to noncarriers, the lifetime 
relative risk of mortality is 1.35 for male carriers and 1.16 for female 
carriers.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that chronic HBV infection results in 
significant liver-related mortality; however, carriers retain a satisfactory 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20090039
PMCID: PMC3924100
PMID: 19801886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Curr Top Microbiol Immunol. 2009;335:1-32. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-00302-8_1.

An overview of the molecular mechanism of autophagy.

Yang Z(1), Klionsky DJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute and Departments of Molecular, Cellular and 
Developmental Biology and Biological Chemistry, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-2216, USA.

Autophagy is a highly conserved cellular degradation process in which portions 
of cytosol and organelles are sequestered into a double-membrane vesicle, an 
autophagosome, and delivered into a degradative organelle, the vacuole/lysosome, 
for breakdown and eventual recycling of the resulting macromolecules. This 
process relieves the cell from various stress conditions. Autophagy plays a 
critical role during cellular development and differentiation, functions in 
tumor suppression, and may be linked to life span extension. Autophagy also has 
diverse roles in innate and adaptive immunity, such as resistance to pathogen 
invasion. Substantial progress has been made in the identification of many 
autophagy-related (ATG) genes that are essential to drive this cellular process, 
including both selective and nonselective types of autophagy. Identification of 
the ATG genes in yeast, and the finding of orthologs in other organisms, reveals 
the conservation of the autophagic machinery in all eukaryotes. Here, we 
summarize our current knowledge about the machinery and molecular mechanism of 
autophagy.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-00302-8_1
PMCID: PMC2832191
PMID: 19802558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Chromosome Res. 2009;17(5):699-717. doi: 10.1007/s10577-009-9055-9.

Gene and genome duplications: the impact of dosage-sensitivity on the fate of 
nuclear genes.

Edger PP(1), Pires JC.

Author information:
(1)371 Bond Life Sciences Center, Division of Biological Sciences, University of 
Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.

Whole genome duplications (WGDs) followed by diploidization, which includes gene 
loss, have been an important recurrent process in the evolution of higher 
eukaryotes. Gene retention is biased to specific functional gene categories 
during diploidization. Dosage-sensitive genes, which include transcription 
factors, are significantly over-retained following WGDs. By contrast, these same 
functional gene categories exhibit lower retention rates following smaller scale 
duplications (e.g., local and tandem duplicates, segmental duplicates, 
aneuploidy). In light of these recent observations, we review current theories 
that address the fate of nuclear genes following duplication events (i.e., Gain 
of Function Hypothesis, Subfunctionalization Hypothesis, Increased Gene Dosage 
Hypothesis, Functional Buffering Model, and the Gene Balance Hypothesis). We 
broadly review different mechanisms of dosage-compensation that have evolved to 
alleviate harmful dosage-imbalances. In addition, we examine a recently proposed 
extension of the Gene Balance Hypothesis to explain the shared single copy 
status for a specific functional class of genes across the flowering plants. We 
speculate that the preferential retention of dosage-sensitive genes (e.g., 
regulatory genes such as transcription factors) and gene loss following WGDs has 
played a significant role in the development of morphological complexity in 
eukaryotes and facilitating speciation, respectively. Lastly, we will review 
recent findings that suggest polyploid lineages had increased rates of survival 
and speciation following mass extinction events, including the 
Cretaceous-Tertiary (KT) extinction.

DOI: 10.1007/s10577-009-9055-9
PMID: 19802709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Environ Sci (China). 2009;21(6):842-8. doi: 10.1016/s1001-0742(08)62350-5.

Prolonged manganese exposure induces severe deficits in lifespan, development 
and reproduction possibly by altering oxidative stress response in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Xiao J(1), Rui Q, Guo Y, Chang X, Wang D.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 210046, China. 
jing_xiao939@yahoo.com.cn

We examined the possible multiple defects induced by acute and prolonged 
exposure to high levels of manganese (Mn) solution by monitoring the endpoints 
of lifespan, development, reproduction, and stress response. Our data suggest 
that acute exposure (6 h) to Mn did not cause severe defects of life span, 
development, and reproduction, similarly, no significant defect could be found 
in animals exposed to a low concentration of Mn (2.5 micromol/L) for 48 h. In 
contrast, prolonged exposure (48 h) to high Mn concentrations (75 and 200 
micromol/L) resulted in significant defects of life span, development, and 
reproduction, as well as the increase of the percentage of population with 
hsp-16.2::gfp expression indicating the obvious induction of stress responses in 
exposed animals. Moreover, prolonged exposure (48 h) to high concentrations (75 
and 200 micromol/L) of Mn decreased the expression levels of antioxidant genes 
of sod-1, sod-2, sod-3, and sod-4 compared to control. Therefore, prolonged 
exposure to high concentrations of Mn will induce the severe defects of life 
span, development, and reproduction in nematodes possibly by affecting the 
stress response and expression of antioxidant genes in Caenorhabditis elegans.

DOI: 10.1016/s1001-0742(08)62350-5
PMID: 19803092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Acta Chir Belg. 2009 Jul-Aug;109(4):436-43. doi:
10.1080/00015458.2009.11680458.

Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR): does it fulfil all its promises?

Van Damme H(1), Creemers E, Defraigne JO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital of Liège, Liège, 
Belgium. hvandamme@chu.ulg.ac.be

In the trend of the endovascular revolution for occlusive arterial disease, 
management of aneurysmal disease has known an analogous change in the nineties. 
Elective endo-aneurysmal stentgrafting (EVAR or endovascular aneurysm repair) is 
nowadays of widespread application in contemporary practice all over the world, 
sometimes by over-enthusiast proponents. There is a burden of recent 
publications on that topic. Critical analysis of relevant data reveal compelling 
evidence that elective EVAR is a safe procedure with a threefold reduced 30-day 
morbidity-mortality, when compared to conventional open aneurysm repair. EVAR 
also deemed efficace in terms of AAA rupture prevention. At the other hand, 
mid-term follow-up revealed that EVAR does not endure at the long-term in any 
late survival benefit, compared to open AAA repair. The major concern and 
drawback of EVAR is its higher cost and the need for indefinite, life-long 
surveillance, with a 20% reintervention rate (almost catheter-based 
endovascularly) at 5-year follow-up. In this review-paper, short-term gains of 
EVAR are balanced against the inherent disadvantages and long-term losses. 
According best available evidence, EVAR should not longer be the first choice 
for high-risk patients, judged unfit for open aneurysm repair. There also exist 
doubt on the use of EVAR in young fit patients with an anticipated long life 
expectancy. In approximately half of the AAA patients, EVAR can be considered as 
the appropriate treatment option.

DOI: 10.1080/00015458.2009.11680458
PMID: 19803253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(10):829-46. doi:
10.2165/11313800-000000000-00000.

A cost-effectiveness model comparing rivaroxaban and dabigatran etexilate with 
enoxaparin sodium as thromboprophylaxis after total hip and total knee 
replacement in the irish healthcare setting.

McCullagh L(1), Tilson L, Walsh C, Barry M.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, St James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland. 
lmccullagh@stjames.ie

BACKGROUND: It has been estimated that major orthopaedic surgery has the highest 
risk of venous thromboembolism (deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism) 
when compared with other surgery. Two new orally active anticoagulants have 
recently become licensed in Ireland for the primary prevention of venous 
thromboembolism in adult patients undergoing elective total hip replacement 
(THR) or total knee replacement (TKR). Rivaroxaban (Xarelto) is a direct factor 
Xa inhibitor and dabigatran etexilate (Pradaxa) is a prodrug of the active 
compound dabigatran, which inhibits thrombin.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of rivaroxaban and dabigatran 
etexilate compared with enoxaparin sodium for the prophylaxis of venous 
thromboembolism in patients undergoing elective THR and TKR in the Irish 
healthcare setting.
METHODS: The evaluation was conducted from the Irish health-payer perspective. A 
static decision-tree model was developed with a 180-day post-surgery time 
horizon. Separate models for the disease states THR and TKR were run to 
accommodate the different venous thromboembolism risks associated with each 
procedure. Outcome measures were QALYs and life-years gained (LYG). Costs were 
valued in euro, year 2008 values. One-way sensitivity analysis of all 
probabilities in the model was performed. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
using second-order Monte Carlo simulation was performed to determine the 
probability of cost effectiveness at euro 45,000 per QALY threshold.
RESULTS: In the THR base-case model, rivaroxaban dominated both dabigatran 
etexilate and enoxaparin sodium. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for 
dabigatran etexilate relative to enoxaparin were euro 23,934 per LYG and euro 
17,835 per QALY. In the TKR base-case model, rivaroxaban dominated both 
dabigatran etexilate and enoxaparin sodium. Dabigatran etexilate also dominated 
enoxaparin sodium. In the one-way sensitivity analysis, the THR model was robust 
to all but four probability variations; the TKR model was robust to all 
variations. At a cost-effectiveness threshold of euro 45,000 per QALY, the 
probability that rivaroxaban was the most cost-effective strategy after THR was 
39%, followed by dabigatran etexilate at 32% and enoxaparin sodium at 29%. The 
probability that rivaroxaban was the most cost-effective strategy after TKR was 
46%, followed by dabigatran etexilate at 30% and enoxaparin sodium at 24%.
CONCLUSION: Base-case analysis indicates that when both rivaroxaban and 
dabigatran etexilate are compared with enoxaparin sodium, rivaroxaban is the 
less costly and more effective option after THR and TKR. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis indicates that rivaroxaban is the most cost-effective 
strategy at a cost-effectiveness threshold of euro 45,000 per QALY; however, 
there is uncertainty regarding this strategy being more cost effective than 
dabigatran etexilate when both are compared with enoxaparin sodium.

DOI: 10.2165/11313800-000000000-00000
PMID: 19803538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(10):847-59. doi:
10.2165/10899510-000000000-00000.

An economic evaluation of docetaxel and paclitaxel regimens in metastatic breast 
cancer in the UK.

Benedict A(1), Cameron DA, Corson H, Jones SE.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, London, UK. agnes.benedict@unitedbiosource.com

Paclitaxel and docetaxel have been available for the treatment of metastatic 
breast cancer (MBC) since the 1990s. However, until very recently, comparisons 
between these two drugs have been difficult due to lack of direct comparative 
clinical evidence and differences in trial patient populations. To conduct a 
cost-effectiveness analysis comparing docetaxel with paclitaxel regimens in the 
treatment of MBC previously treated with an anthracycline from the perspective 
of the UK NHS. A cost-utility analysis was performed using a Markov model to 
compare taxanes in MBC patients who had progressed after treatment with an 
anthracycline-containing chemotherapy regimen: docetaxel 100 mg/m2 1-hour 
intravenous (IV) infusion every 21 days versus paclitaxel 175 mg/m2 3-hour IV 
infusion every 21 days (Pac3w). In parallel, additional analyses were performed 
versus paclitaxel administered in 1-weekly cycles (Pac1w), and a nano 
albumin-bound form of paclitaxel (Nab-P) given every 3 weeks. Progression-free 
survival (PFS), overall survival (OS) and adverse events used in the model were 
derived from a randomized trial directly comparing docetaxel with Pac3w; the 
comparisons of docetaxel versus the other two paclitaxel regimens were indirect, 
using patient-level data from a trial comparing Pac3w with Pac1w, and from the 
published literature comparing Pac3w with Nab-P. Utility values for response, 
progression and adverse events were derived from the literature. Direct 
treatment costs related to progression, best supportive care and adverse events 
were estimated using clinical trials data, published literature, NHS reference 
costs and published drug prices. The estimated costs of growth 
colony-stimulating factors and blood transfusion were also included in the 
model. The model was used to predict the expected total costs ( pound, year 
2005-6 values), QALYs gained, incremental cost/life-year gained (LY) and 
cost/QALY over a 10-year time period. In the base-case analysis, docetaxel 
improved QALYs by 0.33, 0.29 and 0.22 compared with Pac3w, Pac1w and Nab-P, 
respectively. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for docetaxel 
were pound 12 032/QALY versus Pac3w, pound 4583/QALY versus Pac1w and pound 14 
,694/QALY versus Nab-P. The ICER was sensitive to the hazard ratios for PFS and 
OS between the comparators, the drug cost of initial treatment and the treatment 
costs after progression. Taking into account parameter uncertainty, and 
comparing all four treatments simultaneously, at a willingness to pay of pound 
20,000 per QALY gained, the probability of docetaxel being the most 
cost-effective treatment was around 70%. In the base-case scenario, docetaxel 
compared with Pac3w is estimated to have a cost-effectiveness ratio that falls 
within the acceptable threshold in the UK. The study also suggests that 
docetaxel may be cost effective versus Pac1w and Nab-P, although there is more 
uncertainty around these findings.

DOI: 10.2165/10899510-000000000-00000
PMID: 19803539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(10):861-72. doi:
10.2165/11312720-000000000-00000.

30 years of pharmaceutical cost-utility analyses: growth, diversity and 
methodological improvement.

Neumann PJ(1), Fang CH, Cohen JT.

Author information:
(1)The Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, USA. pneumann@tuftsmedicalcenter.orh

To review and critically evaluate published cost-utility analyses (CUAs) 
pertaining to pharmaceuticals for the past 3 decades. We examined data from the 
Tufts Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry (www.cearegistry.org), 
which contains detailed information on English-language CUAs and their ratios 
(in $US, year 2008 values) published in peer-reviewed journals. We summarized 
study features using descriptive statistics for articles published from 1976 to 
2006. Changes in study methodology over time were analysed by trend test. 
Analysis of ratios was restricted to those published from 2000 to 2006 from 
studies that correctly discounted future costs and benefits. Factors associated 
with having a favourable value (defined to be more than the median for all 
included ratios) were identified by logistic regression. Of 1393 CUAs published 
through 2006, 640 (45.9%) pertained to pharmaceuticals. The proportion of CUAs 
that focussed on pharmaceuticals increased from 34% for the period 1990-5 to 47% 
for the period 2001-5. Investigations with a US perspective accounted for 51% of 
all CUAs, although this proportion has decreased over time. The UK perspective 
investigations accounted for nearly 16% of all studies, and this portion has 
increased over time. About 24% of all CUAs were sponsored by industry, 48% were 
sponsored by non-industry sources, and 28% did not disclose their funding. 
Adherence to good methodological practices is roughly similar for studies with 
industry and non-industry sponsorship. Adherence to these practices has 
increased over time. Among the 1969 ratios meeting our inclusion criteria, the 
median value was $US22 000 per QALY. Logistic regression revealed that, while 
controlling for the intervention category (e.g. pharmaceutical, medical device, 
screening), ratios were more likely to be favourable if they were from studies 
sponsored by a pharmaceutical or device manufacturer (OR 1.53; 95% CI 1.07, 
2.19). Ratios for pharmaceutical CUAs were less favourable than other ratios 
while controlling for sponsorship (OR 0.66; 95% CI 0.44, 0.98). The number of 
published pharmaceutical CUAs has grown steadily and accounts for almost half of 
all published CUAs. Adherence to good methodological practices does not appear 
to differ by study sponsor. Ratios from industry-sponsored studies are more 
favourable than other ratios. The results highlight that there are many 
opportunities for efficient healthcare investment, among pharmaceutical and 
non-pharmaceutical interventions, just as there are many investments that are 
inefficient.

DOI: 10.2165/11312720-000000000-00000
PMID: 19803540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(10):873-86. doi:
10.2165/11314750-000000000-00000.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of adjuvant therapy for operable breast cancer from 
a Chinese perspective: doxorubicin plus cyclophosphamide versus docetaxel plus 
cyclophosphamide.

Liubao P(1), Xiaomin W, Chongqing T, Karnon J, Gannong C, Jianhe L, Wei C, Xia 
L, Junhua C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, People's Republic China. pengliubao@126.com

An oncology trial compared four cycles of doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide (AC) with 
four cycles of docetaxel/cyclophosphamide (TC) in operable breast cancer 
patients (71% were diagnosed with hormone receptor positive and 48% with 
node-negative breast cancer). The objective of this study was to estimate the 
lifetime cost effectiveness of AC versus TC, from a Chinese healthcare provider 
perspective, based on a clinical trial. A lifetime cost-effectiveness analysis 
was performed using a Markov model. Events rates and utilities in the Markov 
model were derived from published papers. Data on cost of breast cancer care 
were obtained from the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, 
Changsha, PR China. One-way sensitivity analysis and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis were undertaken. Cost estimates were valued in Chinese yuan (Y), year 
2008 values. All costs and outcomes were discounted at 3% per annum. Patients 
receiving TC gained 14.45 QALYs, 0.41 QALYs more than patients receiving AC. The 
lifetime costs of patients receiving TC were Y93 511, Y10 116 more than that of 
AC patients. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were Y26 742 per 
life-year gained ( pound 2719.8 per year) and Y24 305 per QALY gained ( 
pound2471.9 per QALY). The most sensitive parameter in the model was the cost of 
primary cancer treatments in the TC arm. At a threshold willingness to pay of 
Y86 514 per QALY, the probability of TC being cost effective was 90%. Our model 
suggests that TC may be considered cost effective from a Chinese healthcare 
provider perspective, according to the threshold defined by the WHO.

DOI: 10.2165/11314750-000000000-00000
PMID: 19803541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Future Cardiol. 2008 Jan;4(1):85-96. doi: 10.2217/14796678.4.1.85.

Diagnosis and management of Marfan syndrome.

von Kodolitsch Y(1), Rybczynski M, Detter C, Robinson PN.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Hamburg, Centre of Cardiology & Cardiovascular Surgery, 
Department of Cardiology/Angiology, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg Martinistrasse 52, 20246 Hamburg, Germany. kodolitsch@uke.uni-hamburg.de

Marfan syndrome is a disorder of the connective tissue that is inherited in an 
autosomal-dominant fashion and is caused by mutations in the gene coding for 
fibrillin-1, FBN1. Although complications of the syndrome may involve the eye, 
the lung and the skeleton, the high mortality of untreated cases results almost 
exclusively from cardiovascular complications, including aortic dissection and 
rupture. Recently, a series of experiments has begun to elucidate the complex 
molecular etiology of Marfan syndrome, and a number of new heritable syndromes 
with an associated risk for aortic complications, such as Loeys-Dietz syndrome 
types I and II, have been described. The multiorgan involvement of many of these 
syndromes requires multidisciplinary expert centers that can increase the 
average life expectancy of affected patients from only 32 years to over 60 
years. The present article both reviews classical standards of managing 
cardiovascular manifestations and outlines significant advances in recent 
research with focus on their impact on future diagnostic and therapeutic 
options.

DOI: 10.2217/14796678.4.1.85
PMID: 19804274


605. Value Health. 2010 Jan-Feb;13(1):61-8. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00617.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 25.

Cost-effectiveness of temsirolimus for first line treatment of advanced renal 
cell carcinoma.

Hoyle M(1), Green C, Thompson-Coon J, Liu Z, Welch K, Moxham T, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Medical School, University of Plymouth, Plymouth, UK. 
martin.hoyle@pms.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of temsirolimus compared to 
interferon-alpha for first line treatment of patients with advanced, poor 
prognosis renal cell carcinoma, from the perspective of the UK National Health 
Service.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of temsirolimus. The clinical effectiveness of temsirolimus 
compared with interferon-alpha and the utility values (using EQ-5D tariffs) were 
taken from a recent phase III randomized clinical trial. Cost data were obtained 
from published literature and based on current UK practice. The effect of 
parameter uncertainty on cost-effectiveness was explored through extensive 
one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Compared to interferon-alpha, temsirolimus treatment resulted in an 
incremental cost per QALY gained of pound94,632; based on an estimated mean gain 
of 0.24 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) per patient, at a mean additional 
cost of pound22,331 (inflated to 2007/8). The cost per QALY for patient 
subgroups ranged from pound74,369 to pound154,752. The probability that 
temsirolimus is cost-effective compared to interferon-alpha at a willingness to 
pay threshold of pound30,000 per QALY for all patient groups is expected to be 
close to zero. The cost per QALY was sensitive to the clinical effectiveness 
parameters, health state utilities, drug costs and the cost of administration of 
temsirolimus.
CONCLUSIONS: Temsirolimus has been shown to be clinically effective compared to 
interferon-alpha offering additional health benefits, however, with a cost per 
QALY in excess of pound90,000, it may not be regarded as a cost-effective use of 
resources in some health care settings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00617.x
PMID: 19804430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Value Health. 2010 Jan-Feb;13(1):55-60. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00616.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 25.

Cost-effectiveness of sorafenib for second-line treatment of advanced renal cell 
carcinoma.

Hoyle M(1), Green C, Thompson-Coon J, Liu Z, Welch K, Moxham T, Stein K.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Medical School, University of Plymouth, Plymouth, UK. 
martin.hoyle@pms.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of sorafenib (Nexavar, Bayer, 
Leverkusen, Germany) versus best supportive care (BSC) for second-line treatment 
of advanced renal cell carcinoma from the perspective of the UK National Health 
Service.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was developed to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of sorafenib. The clinical effectiveness of sorafenib versus 
BSC was taken from a recent randomized phase III trial. Utility values were 
taken from a phase II trial of sunitinib, using EQ-5D tariffs. Cost data were 
obtained from published literature and were based on current UK practice. The 
effect of parameter uncertainty on cost-effectiveness was explored through 
extensive one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Compared to BSC, sorafenib treatment resulted in an incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of pound75,398, based on an 
estimated mean gain of 0.27 QALYs per patient, at a mean additional cost of 
pound20,063 (inflated to 2007/2008). The probability that sorafenib is 
cost-effective compared to BSC at a willingness to pay threshold of pound30,000 
per QALY is 0.0%. In sensitivity analysis, estimates of cost per QALY were 
sensitive to changes in the clinical effectiveness parameters, and to health 
state utilities and drug costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Sorafenib has been shown to be clinically effective compared to 
BSC, offering additional health benefits; however, with a cost per QALY in 
excess of pound70,000, it may not be regarded as a cost-effective use of 
resources in some health-care settings.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00616.x
PMID: 19804431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):298-305. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00614.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 25.

In or out? Income losses in health state valuations: a review.

Tilling C(1), Krol M, Tsuchiya A, Brazier J, Brouwer W.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, Department of Economics, University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. c.tilling@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: In 1996 the Washington Panel controversially recommended valuing 
productivity costs (PC) in terms of quality-adjusted life years. The Panel's 
assumption that respondents in health state valuation (HSV) exercises take 
income losses into account could not be countered since there was no evidence 
regarding what people consider in HSV exercises. If they do consider income 
losses and if this changes HSVs, then all economic evaluations that have 
included PC in the numerator may have double-counted these costs. Alternatively, 
if respondents do not consider income losses then all past economic evaluations 
that have not included PC in the numerator have failed to account for sizeable 
societal costs.
OBJECTIVES: Through a review we aim to recapture the debate surrounding the 
appropriate method for including PC in health economic evaluations, to identify 
empirical evidence addressing the assumptions of the Panel, and recommend a 
future research agenda.
METHODS: Through a review we identify, outline, and critically appraise the 
existing empirical studies that attempt to address whether respondents include 
income effects in HSV exercises.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Seven empirical studies were identified. Overall, it 
seems that not explicitly mentioning the inclusion of income will induce a 
minority of respondents to include these effects and this appears not to 
influence results. More empirical work is needed, using generic instruments, 
larger samples, and using the interview method of administration.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00614.x
PMID: 19804433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):328-34. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00613.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 25.

Impact of the 1997 Canadian guidelines on the conduct of Canadian-based economic 
evaluations in the published literature.

Lim ME(1), Bowen JM, O'Reilly D, McCarron CE, Blackhouse G, Hopkins R, Goeree R, 
Tarride JE.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health (PATH) Research Institute, 
St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Hamilton, ON, Canada. limme@mcmaster.ca

OBJECTIVE: To assess the impact of the 1997 Canadian guidelines on the methods 
and presentation of economic evaluations conducted from a Canadian perspective 
in the published literature.
METHODS: A systematic literature review was conducted to identify health 
technology economic evaluations conducted from a Canadian perspective published 
in peer-reviewed journals between 2001 and 2006. To investigate the impact of 
the 1997 Canadian Coordinating Office of Health Technology Assessment 
guidelines, each included study was assessed against 17 of the 25 
recommendations.
RESULTS: Of the 153 included studies, a base set of 9 methodological standards, 
as outlined by the 1997 guidelines, were followed by over 50% of the studies 
including: indications, outcomes for cost utility analysis, outcomes for cost 
benefit analysis, discounting future cost and outcomes, cost identification and 
valuation, evaluating uncertainty and disclosing funding relationships. Main 
divergences from the guidelines were found for analytic technique (38%), study 
perspective (23%), source of preferences (8%), equity (7%), and cost measurement 
(24%).
CONCLUSION: The current assessment has shown that the 1997 Canadian guidelines 
have set a minimum methodological standard within the community of "doers" 
conducting economic analyses from a Canadian perspective. Although there was 
divergence from some of the recommendations, the majority were reflected as 
changes in the 2006 Canadian guidelines.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00613.x
PMID: 19804434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):230-41. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00612.x.  Epub 2009 Sep 25.

Crossing borders: factors affecting differences in cost-effectiveness of smoking 
cessation interventions between European countries.

Vemer P(1), Rutten-van Mölken MP.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. vemer@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVES: Many different factors affect the transferability of 
cost-effectiveness results between countries. The objective is to quantify the 
impact of nine potential causes of variation in cost-effectiveness of 
pharmacological smoking cessation therapies (SCTs) between The Netherlands 
(reference case), Germany, Sweden, UK, Belgium, and France.
METHODS: The life-time benefits of smoking cessation were calculated using the 
Benefits of Smoking Cessation on Outcomes model, following a cohort of smokers 
making an unaided quit attempt, or using nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), 
bupropion, or varenicline. We investigated the impact of between-country 
differences in nine factors-demography, smoking prevalence, mortality, 
epidemiology and costs of smoking-related diseases, resource use and unit costs 
of SCTs, utility weights and discount rates-on the incremental net monetary 
benefit (INMB), using a willingness-to-pay (WTP) of euro20,000 per quality 
adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: The INMB of 1000 quit attempts with NRT versus unaided, varies from 
euro0.39 million (Germany) to euro1.47 million (France). The differences between 
the countries were primarily due to differences in discount rates, causing the 
INMB to change between -65% to +62%, incidence and mortality rates 
(epidemiology) of smoking-related diseases (-43% to +35%) and utility weights. 
Impact also depended on the WTP for a QALY and time horizon: at a low WTP or a 
short time horizon, the resource use and unit costs of SCTs had the highest 
impact on INMB.
CONCLUSIONS: Although all INMBs were positive, there were significant 
differences across countries. These were primarily related to choice of discount 
rate and epidemiology of diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00612.x
PMID: 19804435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. BMC Endocr Disord. 2009 Oct 5;9:19. doi: 10.1186/1472-6823-9-19.

The consequences of delaying insulin initiation in UK type 2 diabetes patients 
failing oral hyperglycaemic agents: a modelling study.

Goodall G(1), Sarpong EM, Hayes C, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Allschwil, Switzerland. ggoodall@ch.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: Recent data have shown that type 2 diabetes patients in the UK delay 
initiating insulin on average for over 11 years after first being prescribed an 
oral medication. Using a published computer simulation model of diabetes we used 
UK-specific data to estimate the clinical consequences of immediately initiating 
insulin versus delaying initiation for periods in line with published estimates.
METHODS: In the base case scenario simulated patients, with characteristics 
based on published UK data, were modelled as either initiating insulin 
immediately or delaying for 8 years. Clinical outcomes in terms of both life 
expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy and also diabetes-related 
complications (cumulative incidence and time to onset) were projected over a 35 
year time horizon. Treatment effects associated with insulin use were taken from 
published studies and sensitivity analyses were performed around time to 
initiation of insulin, insulin efficacies and hypoglycaemia utilities.
RESULTS: For patients immediately initiating insulin there were increases in 
(undiscounted) life expectancy of 0.61 years and quality-adjusted life 
expectancy of 0.34 quality-adjusted life years versus delaying initiation for 8 
years. There were also substantial reductions in cumulative incidence and time 
to onset of all diabetes-related complications with immediate versus delayed 
insulin initiation. Sensitivity analyses showed that a reduced delay in insulin 
initiation or change in insulin efficacy still demonstrated clinical benefits 
for immediate versus delayed initiation.
CONCLUSION: UK type 2 diabetes patients are at increased risk of a large number 
of diabetes-related complications due to an unnecessary delay in insulin 
initiation. Despite clear guidelines recommending tight glycaemic control this 
failure to begin insulin therapy promptly is likely to result in needlessly 
reduced life expectancy and compromised quality of life.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6823-9-19
PMCID: PMC2761913
PMID: 19804622


611. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:1-7. doi: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/01.

Gemcitabine for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.

Jones J(1), Takeda A, Tan SC, Cooper K, Loveman E, Clegg A.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Southampton, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
evidence for the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of gemcitabine 
with paclitaxel for the first-line treatment of metastatic breast cancer (MBC) 
in patients who have already received chemotherapy treatment with an 
anthracycline, compared with current standard of care, based upon the 
manufacturer's submission to the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The 
clinical evidence for gemcitabine as a treatment for MBC comes from the 
unpublished JHQG trial (some data commercial-in-confidence): overall survival 
was 3 months longer for the gemcitabine/paclitaxel arm (18.5 months) than for 
the paclitaxel arm (15.8 months) (p = 0.0489); gemcitabine/paclitaxel also 
improved tumour response and time to documented progression of disease compared 
with paclitaxel monotherapy, but haematological serious adverse events were more 
common. In the absence of any formal methods of indirect comparison there is 
insufficient robust evidence to compare the relative effectiveness of 
gemcitabine/paclitaxel with docetaxel monotherapy or docetaxel/capecitabine 
combination therapy. The manufacturers used a Markov state transition model to 
estimate the effect of treatment with five different chemotherapy regimes, 
adopting a 3-year time horizon with docetaxel monotherapy as the comparator. 
Health state utilities for different stages of disease progression and for 
patients experiencing treatment-related toxicity are used to derive 
quality-adjusted life expectancy with each treatment. The base-case 
cost-effectiveness estimate for gemcitabine/paclitaxel versus docetaxel is 
17,168 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). When longer survival with 
docetaxel is assumed in a sensitivity analysis, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) is 30,000 pounds per QALY. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis estimates a 70% probability of gemcitabine/paclitaxel being 
cost-effective relative to docetaxel at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 35,000 
pounds. There is considerable uncertainty over the results because of the lack 
of formal quality assessment or assessment of the comparability of the 15 trials 
included in the input data, and the questionable validity of the indirect 
comparison method adopted. An illustrative analysis using a different method for 
indirect comparison carried out by the ERG produces an ICER of 45,811 pounds per 
QALY for gemcitabine/paclitaxel versus docetaxel. The guidance issued by NICE in 
November 2006 as a result of the STA states that gemcitabine in combination with 
paclitaxel, within its licensed indication, is recommended as an option for the 
treatment of MBC only when docetaxel monotherapy or docetaxel plus capecitabine 
is also considered appropriate.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/01
PMID: 19804683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:9-13. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/02.

Varenicline in the management of smoking cessation: a single technology 
appraisal.

Hind D(1), Tappenden P, Peters J, Kenjegalieva K.

Author information:
(1)ScHARR Technology Assessment Group, University of Sheffield, UK. 
d.hind@sheffield.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the submission's evidence for the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of varenicline for smoking cessation 
included four studies of varenicline (one of which was commercial-in-confidence) 
and a meta-analysis of varenicline versus nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), 
bupropion and placebo. Two controlled trials of 12 weeks of varenicline versus 
sustained-release bupropion and placebo suggested that varenicline results in a 
statistically significant improvement in the odds of quitting at 12 weeks [odds 
ratio (OR) for quit rate during last 4 weeks of the study: 1.90-1.93 (p < 0.001) 
varenicline versus bupropion; 3.85 (p < 0.001) varenicline versus placebo). The 
ORs for sustained abstinence (weeks 9-52) for varenicline versus bupropion were 
1.77 (p = 0.004) and 1.46 (p = 0.057), and for varenicline versus placebo were 
2.66-3.09 (p < 0.01). A placebo-controlled maintenance trial examined whether a 
further 12 weeks of varenicline would maintain the rate of abstinence among 
those successfully treated on one 12-week course [OR = 2.48 at week 24 for 
varenicline versus placebo (p < 0.001)]. The meta-analysis suggested that 
varenicline was superior to placebo and bupropion at 1 year and 3 months. Based 
on indirect comparisons, varenicline was reported to be superior to NRT when 
compared with placebo or all controls at 1 year and 3 months. The submission 
presented a state transition model to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of varenicline compared with bupropion, NRT and placebo. The 
model suggests that varenicline dominates bupropion, NRT and placebo.Treatment 
efficacy was based on a pooled analysis of 1-year quit rates from the 
varenicline clinical trials. Assuming a willingness-to-pay threshold range of 
20,000-30,000 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year gained, the probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis suggests that the probability that varenicline produces the 
greatest amount of net benefit is 0.70. Weaknesses of the manufacturer's 
submission include the assumption that only a single quit attempt using a single 
smoking cessation intervention is made, the presence of multiple computational 
errors and a limited sensitivity analysis. In conclusion, varenicline is likely 
to be clinically and cost-effective for smoking cessation assuming that each 
user makes a single quit attempt. The key area of uncertainty concerns the 
long-term experience of subjects who have remained abstinent from smoking beyond 
12 months. The guidance issued by the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence in July 2007 states that varenicline is recommended within its 
licensed indications as an option for smokers who have expressed a desire to 
quit smoking and that varenicline should normally be prescribed only as part of 
a programme of behavioral support.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/02
PMID: 19804684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:15-21. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/03.

Alteplase for the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke: a single technology 
appraisal.

Jones ML(1), Holmes M.

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, Sheffield, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of alteplase for the treatment of 
acute ischaemic stroke, in accordance with the licensed indication, based upon 
the evidence submission from the manufacturer to the National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal 
(STA) process. The submitted clinical evidence included several randomised 
controlled trials indicating that, in highly selected patients, alteplase 
administered at a licensed dose within 3 hours of the onset of acute ischaemic 
stroke is associated with a statistically significant reduction in the risk of 
death or dependency at 3 months compared with placebo, despite a significantly 
increased risk of symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage within the first 7-10 
days. Data from the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
(NINDS) trial suggest that the benefit of treatment is sustained at 6 and 12 
months. However, data from observational studies suggest that few patients with 
acute ischaemic stroke will be eligible for alteplase therapy under the terms of 
the current licensing agreement. In particular, many patients will be excluded 
by virtue of their age, and many more by the restriction of therapy to patients 
in whom treatment can be initiated within 3 hours of symptom onset. The 
manufacturer's submission included a state transition model evaluating the 
impact of treatment with alteplase within 3 hours of onset of stroke symptoms 
compared to standard treatment reporting that, in the base-case analysis, 
alteplase was both less costly and more effective than standard treatment. This 
increased to a maximum of approximately 4000 pounds upon one-way sensitivity 
analysis of the parameters. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis presented 
within the submission suggests that the probability that alteplase has a 
cost-effectiveness ratio greater than 20,000 pounds per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained is close to 1 (0.99). The results of the short-term 
model demonstrate that alteplase is cost-effective over a 12-month period, with 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 14,026 pounds per QALY gained. This 
increased to a maximum of 50,000 pounds upon one-way sensitivity analysis of the 
parameters. At 12 months, the probabilistic sensitivity analysis presented 
within the submission suggests that the probability that alteplase has a 
cost-effectiveness ratio greater than 20,000 pounds per QALY gained is 
approximately 0.7. The guidance issued by NICE in April 2007 as a result of the 
STA states that alteplase is recommended for the treatment of acute ischaemic 
stroke only when used by physicians trained and experienced in the management of 
acute stroke and in centres with the required facilities.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/03
