throughout childhood. I conclude by discussing some policy implications of the 
findings.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2009.01.001
PMID: 19827184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2009;110(9):536-43.

Why is pulmonary hypertension so frustrating?

Kaldararova M(1).

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Cardiovascular Diseases, Children's Cardiac Center 
Bratislava, Slovakia. kaldararova@dkc-sr.sk

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a relatively uncommon but on the other hand all 
too frequently fatal disorder of the pulmonary arteries with diverse etiology. 
Vascular remodeling leads to increased pulmonary vascular resistance and this 
again to right ventricular overload and failure. Discussed are the current 
classification, pathogenesis and particularly treatment possibilities and 
contemporary trends, as well as the impact on the natural history of this 
disorder. The effect of conventional PH management of the past decades was 
insufficient. Understanding the pathophysiological mechanisms of the disease 
development was the greatest progress made in the last years. Targeting the 
pathogenic pathways of endothelial function is now being utilized in the so 
called specific therapy, which to some point improves patients' clinical course 
and life expectancy. The therapy of PH today seems to have the potential to slow 
down the progression of the disease and with some new promising molecules on the 
horizon there might be hope even to reverse the entire disease process. On the 
whole though, PH treatment remains frustrating because the majority of 
up-to-date managed and treated patients have still low exercise tolerance, 
unacceptable hemodynamics, suboptimal life quality and their mortality stays 
high. Despite all the advances, still the most important goal remains a 
wide-spread early detection of PH patients and associated conditions leading to 
PH (e.g. congenital heart defects and connective tissue diseases) and a 
centralized management of the disease in highly specialized expert centers (Tab. 
1, Fig. 4, Ref. 36).

PMID: 19827336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. MMW Fortschr Med. 2009 May 7;151(19):41-2.

[New therapeutic strategies against resistant hypertension].

[Article in German]

Aumiller J.

PMID: 19827445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2009 Aug;56(8):513-24.

[Two-dimensional classification of prefectures by life expectancy and weighted 
disability prevalence (WDP) with a comparison of regional characteristics].

[Article in Japanese]

Kurimori S(1), Fukuda Y, Ota H.

Author information:
(1)Ibaraki Prefectural Health Plaza.

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of the present study were to classify 47 prefectures 
into clusters using mortality and disability data concerning elderly people in 
Japan, and to identify regional characteristics of each group using community 
healthcare welfare indicators.
METHODS: Weighted disability prevalence (WDP) was computed using determined 
utilities and prevalence of long-term care insurance. Prefectures were 
classified by hierarchical cluster analysis of life expectancy at age 65 years 
and age-adjusted WDP at the ages of 65-89 years, and discrimination of community 
healthcare welfare among clusters was examined using ANOVA and the Games-Howell 
pairwise comparison test. The characteristics of each group were then compared 
by means of differences among identified clusters.
RESULTS: Four clusters were identified: a long life expectancy low disability 
group, a long life expectancy high disability group, a short life expectancy low 
disability group, and a short life expectancy high disability group. For men, 
health expenditures for the elderly, long-term care insurance benefits and the 
number of doctors were significantly higher in the long life expectancy high 
disability group than in the short life expectancy low disability group (in 
order of indicators: P<0.01, P<0.05, P<0.01). Age-adjusted mortality rates from 
heart disease and stroke in men were significantly lower in the long life 
expectancy high disability group than in the short life expectancy low 
disability group (in order of indicators: P<0.01, P<0.001). For women, health 
expenditures for the elderly and long-term care insurance benefits were 
significantly higher in the long life high disability group than in the short 
life expectancy low disability group (both indicators: P<0.05). Cancer and heart 
disease mortality in women were significantly lower in the long life expectancy 
low disability group than in the short life expectancy high disability group (in 
order of indicators: P<0.05, P<0.01).
CONCLUSION: Classification of prefectures in groups with similar regional 
characteristics, comparison among regions, and identification of group 
characteristics are useful for objective assessment of the present state of the 
regions, establishing policy goals, and objectively evaluating policy 
effectiveness.

PMID: 19827612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Adv Gerontol. 2009;22(1):104-16.

[Mechanisms of free radical oxidation and its role in aging].

[Article in Russian]

Arutiunian AV, Kozina LS.

The review covers enormous literature data arguing that oxidative stress is a 
reliable marker of aging. The role of mitochondrial and non-mitochondrial 
sources of free radical species in physiological aging and in pathogenesis of 
age-dependent diseases is discussed. The state of antioxidant systems of an 
organism in aging is described; special attention is paid to the studies of the 
interrelation between antioxidant enzyme activities and life expectancy, which 
becomes more apparent with transgenic animals. Data are presented on low 
molecular weight compounds that have antioxidant properties and serve their 
purpose as geroprotectors.

PMID: 19827681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Patient Educ Couns. 2009 Dec;77(3):421-9. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2009.09.011.
Epub  2009 Oct 13.

Preferences of advanced lung cancer patients for patient-centred information and 
decision-making: a prospective multicentre study in 13 hospitals in Belgium.

Pardon K(1), Deschepper R, Stichele RV, Bernheim J, Mortier F, Deliens L; 
EOLIC-consortium.

Author information:
(1)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Laarbeeklaan 
103, 1090 Brussels, Belgium. koen.pardon@vub.ac.be

OBJECTIVE: To identify preferences of advanced lung cancer patients for 
receiving information and participating in decision-making concerning treatment 
options, health-care-setting transfers and end-of-life decision-making.
METHODS: Over the course of 1 year, pulmonologists and oncologists in 13 
hospitals in Flanders, Belgium, invited patients with an initial diagnosis of 
non-small-cell lung cancer IIIb/IV to participate in the study. Shortly after 
inclusion, the patients were interviewed with a structured questionnaire.
RESULTS: One-hundred and twenty-eight patients with a median estimated survival 
time of 10 months participated. Almost all wanted information on diagnosis, 
treatment and cure rate and slightly fewer on life expectancy (88.2%). 
Information about palliative care was desired by 63.5% of patients and 
information about end-of-life decisions by 56.8%. The percentage of patients who 
preferred personal control over medical decision-making increased to 14.8% for 
treatment, 25.0% for transfer and 49.2% for end-of-life decisions, all of which 
were higher than for medical decisions in general (9.3%).
CONCLUSION: Information and participation preferences of advanced lung cancer 
patients differ depending on the type of information or decision.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: As part of a patient-centred approach, physicians should 
not only check the general but also the specific information and participation 
preferences of their patients.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2009.09.011
PMID: 19828279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Am J Clin Nutr. 2010 Jan;91(1):7-15. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.2009.28136. Epub 2009
Oct  14.

Racial differences in abdominal depot-specific adiposity in white and African 
American adults.

Katzmarzyk PT(1), Bray GA, Greenway FL, Johnson WD, Newton RL Jr, Ravussin E, 
Ryan DH, Smith SR, Bouchard C.

Author information:
(1)Pennington Biomedical Research Center, Louisiana State University System, 
Baton Rouge, LA 70808-4124, USA. peter.katzmarzyk@pbrc.edu

Comment in
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2010 Jan;91(1):1-2.

BACKGROUND: There is increasing interest in understanding racial differences in 
adiposity in specific body depots as a way to explain differential health risks 
associated with obesity.
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to examine the differences in abdominal visceral adipose 
tissue (VAT) and subcutaneous adipose tissue (SAT) between white and African 
American adults.
DESIGN: The sample included 1967 adults aged 18-84 y, including 790 white women, 
435 African American women, 606 white men, and 136 African American men. Total 
body fat was measured by using dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry, whereas 
abdominal VAT and SAT cross-sectional areas (L4-L5 level) were measured by using 
computed tomography. Sex-specific differences in SAT and VAT between racial 
groups were analyzed by the use of general linear models, which controlled for 
age and total body fat. Additional models tested for racial differences in VAT 
and SAT and controlled for age, total body fat, smoking, and menopausal status. 
Statistical significance was accepted at P < 0.05.
RESULTS: Abdominal VAT was significantly higher in white than in African 
American men and women, even after adjustment for covariates. White women had 
significantly lower SAT than did African American women, both before and after 
adjustment for covariates. White men had significantly higher SAT than did 
African American men, but after adjustment for covariates, their SAT was lower 
than that of African American men.
CONCLUSIONS: Abdominal visceral adiposity is significantly greater in white men 
and women. After adjustment for covariates, white men and women had 
significantly lower SAT than did African American men and women. The results of 
this study highlight the heterogeneity of human body fat distribution across 
racial groups.This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov as NCT00959270.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.2009.28136
PMCID: PMC6443262
PMID: 19828714 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Med Decis Making. 2010 May-Jun;30(3):388-97. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09344750.
Epub  2009 Oct 14.

Changes of heart: the switch-value method for assessing value uncertainty.

John LK(1), Fischhoff B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Decision Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213-3890, USA. lkjohn@andrew.cmu.edu

BACKGROUND: Medical choices often evoke great value uncertainty, as patients 
face difficult, unfamiliar tradeoffs. Those seeking to aid such choices must be 
able to assess patients' ability to reduce that uncertainty, to reach stable, 
informed choices.
OBJECTIVE: The authors demonstrate a new method for evaluating how well people 
have articulated their preferences for difficult health decisions. The method 
uses 2 evaluative criteria. One is internal consistency, across formally 
equivalent ways of posing a choice. The 2nd is compliance with principles of 
prospect theory, indicating sufficient task mastery to respond in predictable 
ways.
METHOD: Subjects considered a hypothetical choice between noncurative surgery 
and palliative care, posed by a brain tumor. The choice options were 
characterized on 6 outcomes (e.g., pain, life expectancy, treatment risk), using 
a drug facts box display. After making an initial choice, subjects indicated 
their willingness to switch, given plausible changes in the outcomes. These 
changes involved either gains (improvements) in the unchosen option or losses 
(worsening) in the chosen one. A 2 x 2 mixed design manipulated focal change 
(gains v. losses) within subjects and change order between subjects.
RESULTS: In this demonstration, subjects' preferences were generally consistent 
1) with one another: with similar percentages willing to switch for gains and 
losses, and 2) with prospect theory, requiring larger gains than losses, to make 
those switches.
CONCLUSION: Informed consent requires understanding decisions well enough to 
articulate coherent references. The authors' method allows assessing 
individuals' success in doing so.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09344750
PMID: 19828775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Gerontology. 2010;56(3):241-9. doi: 10.1159/000248761. Epub 2009 Oct 13.

The elderly patient and cardiac surgery - a mini-review.

Wiedemann D(1), Bernhard D, Laufer G, Kocher A.

Author information:
(1)University Clinic of Cardiac Surgery, Innsbruck Medical University, Austria. 
dominik.wiedemann@i-med.ac.at

INTRODUCTION: Due to the increase in average life expectancy and the higher 
incidence of cardiovascular disease with advancing age, more elderly patients 
present for cardiac surgery nowadays. Advances in pre- and postoperative care 
mean that more elderly patients can be operated on safely and with a 
satisfactory outcome. Currently, coronary artery bypass surgery, aortic and 
mitral valve surgery and surgery of the ascending aorta are performed in elderly 
patients.
OBJECTIVE: In this review, we summarize the outcome of elderly patients 
undergoing various cardiac surgical procedures and give future perspectives for 
the treatment of elderly patients with cardiac surgery.
METHODS: A PubMed search for the period from 1980 to February 2009 was conducted 
with the following key words: 'elderly patient', 'cardiac surgery', 'CABG aortic 
surgery', 'mitral valve surgery' and 'endocarditis'. Additional information 
concerning population demographics was obtained from the World Health 
Organization homepage.
RESULTS: More and more cardiac surgical procedures are offered to elderly 
patients. The short- and long-term survival rates of elderly patients are 
comparable to those of younger patients. Nevertheless, the risk for these 
patients is only acceptable in the absence of comorbidities. In particular, 
renal dysfunction, cerebrovascular disease and a poor clinical state are 
associated with a worse outcome in elderly patients.
CONCLUSION: The data available show that most cardiac surgical procedures can be 
performed in elderly patients with a satisfactory outcome. Careful patient 
selection, flawless surgery, meticulous hemostasis, perfect anesthesia and 
myoacardial protection are basic requirements for the success of cardiac surgery 
in elderly patients.

2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000248761
PMID: 19828936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Front Oral Biol. 2009;13:3-8. doi: 10.1159/000242381. Epub 2009 Sep 21.

Phylogeny, life history and the timing of molar crown formation in two archaic 
ungulates, Meniscotherium and Phenacodus (Mammalia, 'Condylarthra').

Dirks W, Anemone RL, Holroyd PA, Reid DJ, Walton P.

The condylarths, or archaic ungulates, are a paraphyletic mammalian group 
including a number of fossil taxa whose relationships are unresolved. Included 
are two genera from the Paleocene and Eocene of North America, Meniscotherium 
and Phenacodus. Some workers place both genera in the family Phenacodontidae, 
while others exclude the highly dentally derived Meniscotherium. In this study, 
we use growth increments in histological thin sections to examine the timing of 
crown formation in five molars of Meniscotherium and one each of 
Phenacodusintermedius and Phenacodus trilobatus. We also use perikymata counts 
on an additional six molars of Meniscotherium. Although estimated body mass and 
molar dimensions in Meniscotherium are smaller than in either species of 
Phenacodus, molar formation times are longer, ranging from 0.71 to 1.44 years. 
Both Phenacodus molars take less than a year to form. Crown extension rates, the 
rate at which the crown grows in height, are as low as 3-15 microm per day in 
Meniscotherium, but range from 13 to 54 microm per day in Phenacodus. Although 
striae periodicities and daily enamel secretion rate are similar in both genera, 
the differences in the crown extension rate and overall timing of crown 
formation suggest differences in life histories and raise questions about the 
phylogenetic relationship of the two genera.

Copyright (c) 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000242381
PMID: 19828961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. PLoS One. 2009 Oct 14;4(10):e7455. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007455.

Cost-effectiveness of an intervention to reduce emergency re-admissions to 
hospital among older patients.

Graves N(1), Courtney M, Edwards H, Chang A, Parker A, Finlayson K.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, 
Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Australia. n.graves@qut.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The objective is to estimate the cost-effectiveness of an 
intervention that reduces hospital re-admission among older people at high risk. 
A cost-effectiveness model to estimate the costs and health benefits of the 
intervention was implemented.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The model used data from a randomised controlled 
trial conducted in an Australian tertiary metropolitan hospital. Participants 
were acute medical admissions aged >65 years with at least one risk factor for 
re-admission: multiple comorbidities, impaired functionality, aged >75 years, 
recent multiple admissions, poor social support, history of depression. The 
intervention was a comprehensive nursing and physiotherapy assessment and an 
individually tailored program of exercise strategies and nurse home visits with 
telephone follow-up; commencing in hospital and continuing following discharge 
for 24 weeks. The change to cost outcomes, including the costs of implementing 
the intervention and all subsequent use of health care services, and, the change 
to health benefits, represented by quality adjusted life years, were estimated 
for the intervention as compared to existing practice. The mean change to total 
costs and quality adjusted life years for an average individual over 24 weeks 
participating in the intervention were: cost savings of $333 (95% Bayesian 
credible interval $ -1,932:1,282) and 0.118 extra quality adjusted life years 
(95% Bayesian credible interval 0.1:0.136). The mean net-monetary-benefit per 
individual for the intervention group compared to the usual care condition was 
$7,907 (95% Bayesian credible interval $5,959:$9,995) for the 24 week period.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The estimation model that describes this intervention 
predicts cost savings and improved health outcomes. A decision to remain with 
existing practices causes unnecessary costs and reduced health. Decision makers 
should consider adopting this program for elderly hospitalised patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0007455
PMCID: PMC2759083
PMID: 19829702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


707. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2009 Sep-Oct;85(5):379-84. doi: 10.2223/JPED.1929.

Long-term management of children with neuromuscular disorders.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Strehle EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, North Tyneside General Hospital, Rake Lane, North 
Shields, United Kingdom. strehle@doctors.org.uk

OBJECTIVE: Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the commonest genetic myopathy but 
there exist a large number of inherited neuromuscular diseases which 
individually are very rare and where clinical information is not widely 
available. This review is based on the author's experience in a pediatric muscle 
clinic and provides practical guidance and treatment plans for frequently 
encountered problems.
SOURCES: A MEDLINE search was conducted to retrieve recent articles relevant to 
the management of children with inherited myopathies and neuropathies. A patient 
cohort (n = 200) was evaluated using descriptive statistics.
SUMMARY OF THE FINDINGS: Duchenne muscular dystrophy accounted for almost half 
of the diagnoses, followed by spinal muscular atrophy (12%), Becker muscular 
dystrophy and myotonic dystrophy (7% each). Sixteen patients (9%) had an unknown 
myopathy.
CONCLUSIONS: As with other chronic illnesses, these patients should be regularly 
reviewed by health professionals from an early age to increase life expectancy 
and improve quality of life. It is useful for physicians to take a structured 
approach when looking after children with neuromuscular disorders and to monitor 
all affected organ systems.

DOI: 10.2223/JPED.1929
PMID: 19830355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Ther Umsch. 2009 Oct;66(10):707-11. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930.66.10.707.

[Type 2 diabetes among elderly people].

[Article in German]

Noth D(1), Sahli R, Imboden PE, Christ E.

Author information:
(1)Universitätspoliklinik für Endokrinologie, Diabetologie und Klinische 
Ernährung, Inselspital, Universität Bern.

Type 2 Diabetes is frequent among elderly people. The appropriate target for 
HbA1c in elderly patients ( > 70 years or life expectancy < 10 years) should be 
around 7.0% (maximally 8%). In patients with multiple co-morbidities, the goal 
must be an improvement of symptoms and preservation of weight, especially muscle 
mass. In the setting of an uncontrolled symptomatic diabetes with concomitant 
catabolism, insulin is the most effective therapy and, therefore, the treatment 
of choice. The prevention of hypoglycemia must be a major aim. A balanced and 
regular food intake facilitates therapy and improves quality of life. The 
priorities of the management of cardiovascular risk factors should be based upon 
the individual's overall health condition.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930.66.10.707
PMID: 19830678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. MMW Fortschr Med. 2009 Sep 24;151(39):12-4.

[Which exams are appropriate for the elderly patient? "65 year plus check-up"].

[Article in German]

Fischer A.

PMID: 19831185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2009 Dec;86(3):225-32. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2009.09.017. Epub 2009 Oct 14.

Improvements in risk factor control among persons with diabetes in the United 
States: evidence and implications for remaining life expectancy.

Hoerger TJ(1), Zhang P, Segel JE, Gregg EW, Narayan KM, Hicks KA.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA. tjh@rti.org

AIMS: To examine whether A1c, blood pressure, and cholesterol values changed for 
U.S. adults with diagnosed diabetes between 1988-1994 and 2005-2006. We then 
project the impact of these changes on life expectancy and diabetes-related 
complications.
METHODS: We estimated changes in hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, and total 
cholesterol between 1988-1994 and 2005-2006 using regression analysis and data 
from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. We projected the 
potential effects on life expectancy and complications using the CDC-RTI 
Diabetes Cost-Effectiveness Model.
RESULTS: A1c fell by 0.68 percentage points (P=0.001) among U.S. adults with 
diagnosed diabetes. Among those with diabetes and hypertension, systolic and 
diastolic blood pressure fell by 5.66 and 8.15mmHg, respectively (P=0.005 and 
P=0.001). Among those with diabetes and high cholesterol, total cholesterol fell 
by 36.41mg/dL (P=0.001). These improvements were projected to increase life 
expectancy for persons with newly diagnosed diabetes by 1.0 year.
CONCLUSIONS: Risk factor control has improved in the United States. Persons 
newly diagnosed with type 2 diabetes in 2005 have a better prognosis than 
persons diagnosed with diabetes 11 years earlier.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2009.09.017
PMID: 19833403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2010 Oct;64(10):913-20. doi: 
10.1136/jech.2008.081737. Epub 2009 Oct 14.

Educational inequalities in avoidable mortality in Europe.

Stirbu I(1), Kunst AE, Bopp M, Leinsalu M, Regidor E, Esnaola S, Costa G, 
Martikainen P, Borrell C, Deboosere P, Kalediene R, Rychtarikova J, Artnik B, 
Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The magnitude of educational inequalities in mortality avoidable by 
medical care in 16 European populations was compared, and the contribution of 
inequalities in avoidable mortality to educational inequalities in life 
expectancy in Europe was determined.
METHODS: Mortality data were obtained for people aged 30-64 years. For each 
country, the association between level of education and avoidable mortality was 
measured with the use of regression-based inequality indexes. Life table 
analysis was used to calculate the contribution of avoidable causes of death to 
inequalities in life expectancy between lower and higher educated groups.
RESULTS: Educational inequalities in avoidable mortality were present in all 
countries of Europe and in all types of avoidable causes of death. Especially 
large educational inequalities were found for infectious diseases and conditions 
that require acute care in all countries of Europe. Inequalities were larger in 
Central Eastern European (CEE) and Baltic countries, followed by Northern and 
Western European countries, and smallest in the Southern European regions. This 
geographic pattern was present in almost all types of avoidable causes of death. 
Avoidable mortality contributed between 11 and 24% to the inequalities in 
Partial Life Expectancy between higher and lower educated groups. Infectious 
diseases and cardiorespiratory conditions were the main contributors to this 
difference.
CONCLUSIONS: Inequalities in avoidable mortality were present in all European 
countries, but were especially pronounced in CEE and Baltic countries. These 
educational inequalities point to an important role for healthcare services in 
reducing inequalities in health.

DOI: 10.1136/jech.2008.081737
PMID: 19833607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. J Rheumatol. 2009 Dec;36(12):2819-29. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.081284. Epub 2009
Oct  15.

The localized scleroderma skin severity index and physician global assessment of 
disease activity: a work in progress toward development of localized scleroderma 
outcome measures.

Arkachaisri T(1), Vilaiyuk S, Li S, O'Neil KM, Pope E, Higgins GC, Punaro M, 
Rabinovich EC, Rosenkranz M, Kietz DA, Rosen P, Spalding SJ, Hennon TR, Torok 
KS, Cassidy E, Medsger TA Jr; Localized Scleroderma Clinical and Ultrasound 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh and University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. 
thaschawee.arkachaisri@kkh.com.sg

OBJECTIVE: To develop and evaluate a Localized Scleroderma (LS) Skin Severity 
Index (LoSSI) and global assessments' clinimetric property and effect on quality 
of life (QOL).
METHODS: A 3-phase study was conducted. The first phase involved 15 patients 
with LS and 14 examiners who assessed LoSSI [surface area (SA), erythema (ER), 
skin thickness (ST), and new lesion/extension (N/E)] twice for inter/intrarater 
reliability. Patient global assessment of disease severity (PtGA-S) and 
Children's Dermatology Life Quality Index (CDLQI) were collected for intrarater 
reliability evaluation. The second phase was aimed to develop clinical 
determinants for physician global assessment of disease activity (PhysGA-A) and 
to assess its content validity. The third phase involved 2 examiners assessing 
LoSSI and PhysGA-A on 27 patients. Effect of training on improving 
reliability/validity and sensitivity to change of the LoSSI and PhysGA-A was 
determined.
RESULTS: Interrater reliability was excellent for ER [intraclass correlation 
coefficient (ICC) 0.71], ST (ICC 0.70), LoSSI (ICC 0.80), and PhysGA-A (ICC 
0.90) but poor for SA (ICC 0.35); thus, LoSSI was modified to mLoSSI. Examiners' 
experience did not affect the scores, but training/practice improved 
reliability. Intrarater reliability was excellent for ER, ST, and LoSSI 
(Spearman's rho = 0.71-0.89) and moderate for SA. PtGA-S and CDLQI showed good 
intrarater agreement (ICC 0.63 and 0.80). mLoSSI correlated moderately with 
PhysGA-A and PtGA-S. Both mLoSSI and PhysGA-A were sensitive to change following 
therapy.
CONCLUSION: mLoSSI and PhysGA-A are reliable and valid tools for assessing LS 
disease severity and show high sensitivity to detect change over time. These 
tools are feasible for use in routine clinical practice. They should be 
considered for inclusion in a core set of LS outcome measures for clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.081284
PMCID: PMC3690503
PMID: 19833758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Ann Oncol. 2010 May;21(5):1072-7. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdp405. Epub 2009 Oct
15.

Cost-effectiveness of CT and PET-CT for determining the need for adjuvant neck 
dissection in locally advanced head and neck cancer.

Sher DJ(1), Tishler RB, Annino D, Punglia RS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. dsher@lroc.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Patients with node-positive head and neck squamous cell carcinomas 
(HNC) have a significant risk of residual disease (RD) in the neck after 
treatment, despite optimal chemoradiotherapy (CRT). Adjuvant neck dissection 
(ND) after CRT has been considered standard treatment, but its morbidity has led 
investigators to consider using post-CRT imaging to determine the need for 
surgery. We analyzed the cost-effectiveness of computed tomography (CT) and 
positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) as predictors of the 
need for ND compared with ND for all patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a Markov model to describe health states in 
the 5 years after CRT for HNC in a 50-year-old man. We compared three 
strategies: dissect all patients, dissect patients with RD on CT, and dissect 
patients with RD on PET-CT. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were carried out 
to model uncertainty in PET-CT performance, up-front and salvage dissection 
costs, and patient utilities.
RESULTS: ND only for patients with RD on PET-CT was the dominant strategy over a 
wide range of realistic and exaggerated assumptions. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses confirmed that the PET-CT strategy was almost certainly cost-effective 
at a societal willingness-to-pay threshold of $500,000/quality-adjusted life 
year.
CONCLUSION: Adjuvant ND reserved for patients with RD on PET-CT is the dominant 
and cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdp405
PMCID: PMC2895302
PMID: 19833820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Am J Ther. 2011 Mar-Apr;18(2):117-52. doi: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e3181afbf51.

Advances in the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Israili ZH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA 
30303, USA. zisrail@emory.edu

There is a rising worldwide prevalence of diabetes, especially type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM), which is one of the most challenging health problems in the 
21st century. The associated complications of diabetes, such as cardiovascular 
disease, peripheral vascular disease, stroke, diabetic neuropathy, amputations, 
renal failure, and blindness result in increasing disability, reduced life 
expectancy, and enormous health costs. T2DM is a polygenic disease characterized 
by multiple defects in insulin action in tissues and defects in pancreatic 
insulin secretion, which eventually leads to loss of pancreatic 
insulin-secreting cells. The treatment goals for T2DM patients are effective 
control of blood glucose, blood pressure, and lipids (if elevated) and, 
ultimately, to avert the serious complications associated with sustained tissue 
exposure to excessively high glucose concentrations. Prevention and control of 
diabetes with diet, weight control, and physical activity has been difficult. 
Treatment of T2DM has centered on increasing insulin levels, either by direct 
insulin administration or oral agents that promote insulin secretion, improving 
sensitivity to insulin in tissues, or reducing the rate of carbohydrate 
absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. This review presents comprehensive 
and up-to-date information on the mechanism(s) of action, efficacy, 
pharmacokinetics, pleiotropic effects, drug interactions, and adverse effects of 
the newer antidiabetic drugs, including (1) peroxisome 
proliferator-activated-receptor-γ agonists (thiazolidinediones, pioglitazone, 
and rosiglitazone); (2) the incretin, glucagon-like peptide-) receptor agonists 
(incretin-mimetics, exenatide. and liraglutide), (3) inhibitors of 
dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (incretin enhancers, sitagliptin, and vildagliptin), (4) 
short-acting, nonsulfonylurea secretagogue, meglitinides (repaglinide and 
nateglinide), (5) amylin anlog-pramlintide, (6) α-glucosidase inhibitors 
(miglitol and voglibose), and (7) colesevelam (a bile acid sequestrant). In 
addition, information is presented on drug candidates in clinical trials, 
experimental compounds, and some plants used in the traditional treatment of 
diabetes based on experimental evidence. In the opinion of this reviewer, 
therapy based on orally active incretins and incretin mimetics with long 
duration of action that will be efficacious, preserve the β-cell 
number/function, and block the progression of diabetes will be highly desirable. 
However, major changes in lifestyle factors such as diet and, especially, 
exercise will also be needed if the growing burden of diabetes is to be 
contained.

DOI: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e3181afbf51
PMID: 19834322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Nat Rev Drug Discov. 2009 Nov;8(11):879-91. doi: 10.1038/nrd2972. Epub 2009
Oct  16.

New medicines to improve control and contribute to the eradication of malaria.

Wells TN(1), Alonso PL, Gutteridge WE.

Author information:
(1)Medicines for Malaria Venture, 20 Route de Pré-Bois, 1215 Geneva, 
Switzerland. wellst@mmv.org

Despite being one of the most prevalent tropical diseases, for many years 
malaria was not a commercial priority for the pharmaceutical industry. However, 
in response to the emergence and spread of resistance to the available 
antimalarial drugs, there has been a renaissance in the discovery and 
development of new medicines to control the disease in the last few years. The 
persistent threat of resistance means that new molecules with novel mechanisms 
of action are continually required. Furthermore, the recent call for the 
elimination and eradication of malaria has prompted an extension of the stages 
of the life cycle of malaria parasites that should be targeted by new molecules. 
Recent advances in genome-based technologies and in in vitro screening of whole 
parasites have broadened the range of therapeutic targets and are accelerating 
the development of a new generation of treatments for both malaria control and 
eradication.

DOI: 10.1038/nrd2972
PMID: 19834482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Open Ophthalmol J. 2009 Sep 17;3:67-9. doi: 10.2174/1874364100903020067.

Stepping up glaucoma management: when and how?

Goldberg I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Sydney, Australia.

Glaucoma management aims to preserve patients' quality of life by halting 
progressive visual loss. Intraocular pressure reduction is the pivotal strategy: 
we establish a "target" pressure based on extent of visual damage, threat to 
visual performance, risk profile for further damage, pre-treatment pressure 
levels, family history and a patient's life expectancy. Once an acceptable 
treatment regimen has been instituted, review ascertains whether damage has 
advanced and/or the risk of progressive damage has changed. Increased damage 
and/or increased risk of progressive damage suggest accelerated treatment, and 
lowered target pressures.When should management be stepped up? When a glaucoma 
patient, or a glaucoma suspect is getting worse and it matters, and when an 
individual is at increased risk of getting worse and it matters.AT EACH REVIEW, 
THE OPHTHALMOLOGIST SEEKS CHANGE IN DISEASE STATUS: is it stable, uncertain 
whether or not it is stable, or progressing? Equally, the level of risk of 
further damage is assessed: is it unchanged, uncertain whether it is unchanged, 
or increased? If both disease status and risk are stable, the patient continues 
as is; if either or both have changed, treatment either can be initiated for 
suspects, or accelerated for patients. This means, intervene to reduce the 
perceived risk of further damage, and this means reducing or further reducing 
pressure.

DOI: 10.2174/1874364100903020067
PMCID: PMC2760861
PMID: 19834561


717. Vertex. 2008 Sep-Oct;19(81):280-91.

[The medicalization of feminine suffering: premenstrual dysphoric disorder].

[Article in Spanish]

Matusevich D(1), Pieczanski P.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires.

In this paper we'll try to show some of the tensions existing in our field 
related to gender issue, focusing on the premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). 
We'll try to give some examples of the difficulties Psychiatry has when trying 
to understand what it is called a mental illness and which are its internal and 
external determinants from a gender perspective. We will display two different 
approximations. First of all, the official PMDD story will be narrated, the one 
told by medical journals, that basing on a positivist side of the scientific 
knowledge evolution, avoids gender issues. Then we'll describe a critical 
perspective, which far from denying the medical model it tries to complement it 
with social sciences contributions , so female suffering can be appreciated in 
its own singularity and extension. This only can be possible by including gender 
perspective in Psychiatry practice. We can't expect gender perspective to be 
fully spread out in the Psychiatry field when in the whole social life there is 
a big difficulty in visualizing gender concept among the different areas of 
every day life.

PMID: 19835030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Vector Borne Zoonotic Dis. 2009 Oct;9(5):569-72. doi:
10.1089/vbz.2009.1500.int.

Interview with the expert: William E. Collins, Ph.D. Interviewed by Vicki 
Glaser.

Collins WE.

William Collins, Ph.D., received his B.S. and M.Sc. degrees in entomology from 
Michigan State University. He completed his Ph.D. at Rutgers University in two 
years, just before being inducted into the Army to serve in the Korean War. He 
was assigned to Fort Detrick at the Biological Warfare Research Laboratories and 
after three years returned to Rutgers as an extension entomologist. He accepted 
a position in 1959 with the U.S. Public Health Service, with which he has worked 
for the last 50 years. In 1963, the Public Health Service laboratory moved to 
Atlanta and Dr. Collins' group began working with non-human primates following 
the discovery that monkey malarias were transmissible to humans. Parasites from 
monkeys or apes isolated in Asia, South America, and Africa were sent to the 
laboratory in Chamblee, Georgia, where they were adapted and transmitted to 
laboratory-maintained primates and their life cycles described and 
characterized. Transmissions to human volunteers were also attempted. In 1973, 
the laboratory operation was transferred to the CDC, and the emphasis changed 
from the study of monkey malaria in monkeys to that of human malaria in monkeys. 
During the last 25 to 30 years, different isolates of human malaria parasites 
have been adapted to New World monkeys to characterize the isolates for the 
development and testing of drugs and vaccines. Dr. Collins' task has been to 
identify and choose the best combination of vector-parasite-host combinations 
for testing each vaccine candidate. He has co-authored more than 450 manuscripts 
and has been awarded the U.S. Public Health Service Superior Service Award, The 
Joseph A. LaPrince Medal for Malariology from the American Society of Tropical 
Medicine and Hygiene, The Distinguished Service Award of the Department of 
Health and Human Services, the William Watson Medal of Excellence from the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Hoogstraal Medal from the 
American Committee of Medical Entomology.

DOI: 10.1089/vbz.2009.1500.int
PMID: 19835479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2009;49 Suppl 1:237-43. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.09.035.

Life expectancy in Alzheimer's disease (AD).

Zanetti O(1), Solerte SB, Cantoni F.

Author information:
(1)UO Alzheimer-Memory Clinic, IRCCS Centra S. Giovanni di Dio Fatebenefratelli, 
Brescia, Italy. ozanetti@fatebenefratelli.it

Survival following a diagnosis of AD is important information for health 
planners, caregivers, patients, and their families. AD is associated with 
variable, but shortened life expectancy. Knowing the expected survival time may 
empower people with AD and their families, but clinicians currently have limited 
predictive information. A better knowledge about prognosis in patients affected 
by AD and related disorders should be of paramount importance in order to 
improve care plans and assist in medical decisions, above all for patients in 
the moderate-severe stages of the disease. Life expectancy for patients with AD 
can vary between 3 to 10 years. Many studies have tried to identify predictive 
factors that can be of help for clinicians. The main predictor of life 
expectancy is the age. Therefore caregivers, patients, and their families could 
plan on a median life span as long as 7 to 10 years for patients whose 
conditions are diagnosed when they are in their 60s and early 70s, to only about 
3 years or less for patients whose conditions are diagnosed when they are in 
their 90s. Dementias with prominent psychiatric-behavioral manifestations and 
gait impairment have a faster progression compared to AD. However the many 
variables that influence life expectancy make difficult to define prognosis at 
the bedside and more studies are needed to assist clinicians in they daily 
routine with patients and caregivers.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.09.035
PMID: 19836639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2010 Jan;73(1):68-91. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.09.005.

Background for the proposal of SIOG guidelines for the management of prostate 
cancer in senior adults.

Droz JP(1), Balducci L, Bolla M, Emberton M, Fitzpatrick JM, Joniau S, Kattan 
MW, Monfardini S, Moul JW, Naeim A, van Poppel H, Saad F, Sternberg CN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Léon-Bérard, 69008 Lyon, France. 
jpdroz@orange.fr

BACKGROUND: The incidence of prostate cancer increases with age, with a median 
age at diagnosis of 68 years. Owing to increased life expectancy, the management 
of prostate cancer in senior adult men (i.e., aged 70 years or older) represents 
an important public health concern and a major challenge for the future. No 
specific guidelines have previously been published on the management of prostate 
cancer in older men. The SIOG has developed a proposal of recommendations in 
this setting.
METHODS: A systematic bibliographical search focused on screening, diagnostic 
procedures, treatment options for localised, locally advanced and metastatic 
prostate cancer in senior adults was performed. Specific aspects of the 
geriatric approach were emphasised, including evaluation of health status 
(nutritional, cognitive, thymic, physical and psycho-social) and screening for 
vulnerability and frailty. Attention was drawn to the consequences of androgen 
deprivation and complications of local treatment, mainly incontinence. The 
collected material has been reviewed and discussed by a scientific panel 
including urologists, radiation oncologists, medical oncologists and 
geriatricians from both Europe and North America.
RESULTS: The consensus is to use either European Association of Urology or 
National Comprehensive Cancer Network clinical recommendations for prostate 
cancer treatment and to adapt them to health status based on instrumental 
activities of daily living (IADL) and activities daily living (ADL), comorbidity 
evaluation by Cumulative Illness Scoring Rating-Geriatrics and screening for 
malnutrition. Patients in Group 1 (no abnormality) are 'fit' and should receive 
the same treatment as younger patients; patients in Group 2 (one impairment in 
IADL or one uncontrolled comorbidity or at risk of malnutrition) are 
'vulnerable' and should receive standard treatment after medical intervention; 
patients in Group 3 (one impairment in ADL or more than one uncontrolled 
comorbidity or severe malnutrition) are 'frail' and should receive adapted 
treatment; patients in Group 4 (dependent) should receive only symptomatic 
palliative treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment of prostate cancer in senior adults should be adapted to 
health status. Specific prospective studies in this setting are warranted.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.09.005
PMID: 19836968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Vasc Surg. 2010 Jan;51(1):27-32; discussion 32. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvs.2009.08.004. Epub 2009 Oct 17.

Cost-effectiveness of abdominal aortic aneurysm repair based on aneurysm size.

Young KC(1), Awad NA, Johansson M, Gillespie D, Singh MJ, Illig KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Rochester School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Rochester, NY, USA. kate_young@urmc.rochester.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of endovascular repair (EVAR) for 
small abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA).
METHODS: We developed a Markov model of a hypothetical 68-year-old cohort to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of early EVAR for "small" AAAs (4.0 cm-5.4 cm) 
compared with elective repair (open or endovascular) at the traditional cut-off 
of 5.5 cm. Repair options for 5.5-cm AAAs include both endovascular and open 
procedures. Probabilities were obtained from the literature. Costs reflected 
direct costs in 2007 dollars. Outcomes were reported as quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The model demonstrated that early EVAR for 4.0 cm-5.4 cm AAAs led to 
fewer QALYs at greater costs when compared with observational management with 
elective repair at 5.5 cm. Sensitivity analyses suggested that early EVAR of 4.6 
cm-4.9 cm AAAs can be cost-effective if the long-term mortality rate after EVAR 
is <or=1.91% per year or if the quality of life after EVAR is improved. 
Likewise, if the quality of life before repair is low, EVAR for AAAs >or=4.6 cm 
may be cost-effective. With a >70% probability, observational management until 
AAA diameter is 5.5 cm will be the cost-effective option.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis demonstrated that early EVAR for AAAs <5.5 cm is not 
likely to be cost-effective compared with elective repair at 5.5 cm. However, 
EVAR for small AAAs may become cost-effective when differences in quality of 
life and mortality are considered.

Copyright 2010 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2009.08.004
PMID: 19837537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. BMJ. 2009 Oct 16;339:b3723. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3723.

The PRaCTICaL study of nurse led, intensive care follow-up programmes for 
improving long term outcomes from critical illness: a pragmatic randomised 
controlled trial.

Cuthbertson BH(1), Rattray J, Campbell MK, Gager M, Roughton S, Smith A, Hull A, 
Breeman S, Norrie J, Jenkinson D, Hernández R, Johnston M, Wilson E, Waldmann C; 
PRaCTICaL study group.

Collaborators: McDonald A, McPherson G, Ramsay CR, Vale L, Pflanz-Sinclair C, 
Wildsmith JA, Rose S, Williams B, Walsh T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 
Toronto. brian.cuthbertson@sunnybrook.ca

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2009;339. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b4445.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2009;339:b3921.

OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that nurse led follow-up programmes are 
effective and cost effective in improving quality of life after discharge from 
intensive care.
DESIGN: A pragmatic, non-blinded, multicentre, randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Three UK hospitals (two teaching hospitals and one district general 
hospital).
PARTICIPANTS: 286 patients aged >or=18 years were recruited after discharge from 
intensive care between September 2006 and October 2007.
INTERVENTION: Nurse led intensive care follow-up programmes versus standard 
care. Main outcome measure(s) Health related quality of life (measured with the 
SF-36 questionnaire) at 12 months after randomisation. A cost effectiveness 
analysis was also performed.
RESULTS: 286 patients were recruited and 192 completed one year follow-up. At 12 
months, there was no evidence of a difference in the SF-36 physical component 
score (mean 42.0 (SD 10.6) v 40.8 (SD 11.9), effect size 1.1 (95% CI -1.9 to 
4.2), P=0.46) or the SF-36 mental component score (effect size 0.4 (-3.0 to 
3.7), P=0.83). There were no statistically significant differences in secondary 
outcomes or subgroup analyses. Follow-up programmes were significantly more 
costly than standard care and are unlikely to be considered cost effective.
CONCLUSIONS: A nurse led intensive care follow-up programme showed no evidence 
of being effective or cost effective in improving patients' quality of life in 
the year after discharge from intensive care. Further work should focus on the 
roles of early physical rehabilitation, delirium, cognitive dysfunction, and 
relatives in recovery from critical illness. Intensive care units should review 
their follow-up programmes in light of these results.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN 24294750.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3723
PMCID: PMC2763078
PMID: 19837741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


723. Blood. 2009 Dec 17;114(26):5256-63. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-07-215665. Epub
2009  Oct 16.

How I treat age-related morbidities in elderly persons with hemophilia.

Mannucci PM(1), Schutgens RE, Santagostino E, Mauser-Bunschoten EP.

Author information:
(1)Angelo Bianchi Bonomi Hemophilia and Thrombosis Center, Department of 
Medicine and Medical Specialties, Istituto di Ricovero e Cura a Carattere 
Scientifico Maggiore Hospital, Mangiagalli and Regina Elena Foundation, Milan, 
Italy. pmmannucci@libero.it

In persons with hemophilia, life expectancy is now approaching that of the 
general male population, at least in countries that can afford regular 
replacement therapy with coagulation factor concentrates. The new challenges for 
comprehensive treatment centers are thus to provide optimal health care for this 
aging population of patients, who often present not only with the comorbidities 
typically associated with hemophilia (arthropathy, chronic pain, blood-borne 
infections), but also with common age-related illnesses such as cardiovascular 
disease and cancer. There are no evidence-based guidelines for the management of 
these conditions, which often require drugs that interfere with hemostasis, 
enhance the bleeding tendency, and warrant more intensive replacement therapy. 
At the moment, elderly patients with hemophilia affected by other diseases 
should be managed like their age-group peers without hemophilia, provided 
replacement therapy is tailored to the heightened risk of bleeding associated 
with the need for invasive procedures and drugs that further compromise the 
deranged hemostasis. More detailed advice is provided on the schedules of 
