PMID: 19804685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:23-9. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/04.

Rituximab for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.

Bagust A(1), Boland A, Hockenhull J, Fleeman N, Greenhalgh J, Dundar Y, 
Proudlove C, Kennedy T, Moots R, Williamson P, Dickson R.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group's critical review of 
the evidence for the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of rituximab 
for the treatment of severe rheumatoid arthritis (RA) following failure of 
previous therapy, including one or more tumour necrosis factor-alpha inhibitors 
(TNFi), compared with current standards of care, based upon the manufacturer's 
submission to the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The submission's 
clinical evidence came from one randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blind 
trial (REFLEX--Random Evaluation of Long-term Efficacy of Rituximab in 
Rheumatoid Arthritis) comparing rituximab plus methotrexate (MTX) with placebo 
plus MTX in 517 patients with long-standing refractory RA. Rituximab plus MTX 
was more effective than placebo plus MTX across a range of primary and secondary 
outcome measures, e.g. American College of Rheumatology (ACR) responses, Health 
Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ). However, this evidence cannot be used directly 
to address the manufacturer's analysis of the decision problem because, in the 
REFLEX trial, rituximab was not compared with a relevant comparator (e.g. 
leflunomide or second or third TNFi). Long-term efficacy data for retreatment 
with rituximab are favourable, with an estimated mean time to retreatment of 307 
days (n = 164). Evidence from a further five trials is presented as the basis 
for indirect comparisons with other disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs 
(DMARDs); however, it is not clear that all relevant clinical studies have been 
included in the indirect comparison exercise, the rationale for the choice of 
indirect comparison method adopted is unclear and the indirect comparison method 
used to adjust the ACR responses only uses a single value for the reference 
placebo. The submitted microsimulation Markov model was based upon the REFLEX 
trial. For the 'NICE-recommended' scenario and the 'sequential TNFi' scenario, 
the original submission reports incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of 
14,690 pounds and 11,601 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained 
respectively. After model assumptions were adjusted to more realistic estimates 
by the ERG, the ICERs for the NICE-recommended scenario and the sequential use 
of TNFi range from 37,002 pounds to 80,198 pounds per QALY gained and from 
28,553 pounds to 65,558 pounds per QALY gained respectively. The guidance issued 
by NICE in August 2007 states that rituximab in combination with methotrexate is 
recommended as an option for the treatment of adults with severe active 
rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to or intolerance of 
other DMARDs including treatment with at least one TNFi therapy.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/04
PMID: 19804686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:31-9. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/05.

Omalizumab for the treatment of severe persistent allergic asthma.

Jones J(1), Shepherd J, Hartwell D, Harris P, Cooper K, Takeda A, Davidson P.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Wessex Institute for Health 
Research and Development, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of omalizumab for the treatment of 
chronic severe persistent allergic asthma, in accordance with the licensed 
indication, based upon the evidence submission from Novartis to the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single 
technology appraisal (STA) process. The clinical evidence comes from a 
randomised controlled trial comparing omalizumab as an add-on to standard 
therapy with placebo and standard therapy over a 28-week treatment period. For 
the primary outcome of the rate of clinically significant asthma exacerbations, 
there was no statistically significant difference between treatment groups. 
However, after making a post hoc adjustment for a suggested 'clinically 
relevant' imbalance between trial arms in baseline exacerbation rate, the 
difference became marginally statistically significant. In terms of secondary 
outcomes, there were statistically significant differences favouring omalizumab 
over placebo in total emergency visits, Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire 
scores, total symptom scores and lung function. Adverse events appeared to be 
similar between the trial arms. Results from three other publications are 
included in the manufacturer's submission as supporting evidence for the 
effectiveness of omalizumab, despite not meeting the inclusion criteria which 
adhere strictly to the licensed indication. The ERG checked and provided 
commentary on the manufacturer's model using standard checklists as well as 
undertook one-way sensitivity analysis, scenario analysis and a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis. The cost-effectiveness analysis estimates the incremental 
costs and consequences of omalizumab as an add-on to standard therapy. The 
base-case analysis of the trial's primary intention-to-treat population 
estimates a cost per quality-adjusted life-year of 30,647 pounds. The ERG 
conducted one-way sensitivity analyses for parameters omitted from the 
manufacturer's submission sensitivity analysis. The results were most sensitive 
to variation in the utility values for omalizumab responders, and the unit cost 
of omalizumab. The guidance issued by NICE in November 2007 as a result of the 
STA states that omalizumab is recommended as a possible treatment for adults and 
young people over 12 years with severe persistent allergic asthma when their 
asthma meets certain conditions. Omalizumab treatment should be given along with 
the person's current asthma medicines. It should be prescribed by a doctor who 
is experienced in asthma and allergy medicine at a specialist centre. If 
omalizumab does not control the asthma after 16 weeks, treatment should be 
stopped.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/05
PMID: 19804687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:41-8. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/06.

Rituximab for the treatment of relapsed or refractory stage III or IV follicular 
non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

Boland A(1), Bagust A, Hockenhull J, Davis H, Chu P, Dickson R.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, Sherrington Buildings, University 
of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of rituximab for the treatment of 
relapsed or refractory stage III or IV follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL), 
in accordance with the licensed indication, based upon the evidence submission 
from Roche Products Ltd to the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The 
submitted clinical evidence included two randomised controlled trials [European 
Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) and German Low Grade 
Lymphoma Study Group - Fludarabine, Cyclophosphamide and Mitoxantrone and 
(GLSG-FCM)] comparing the clinical effects of chemotherapy with or without 
rituximab in the induction of remission at first or second relapse and the 
clinical benefits of rituximab maintenance therapy versus the NHS's current 
clinical practice of observation for follicular lymphoma (FL) patients. Both 
trials showed that in patients with relapsed FL the addition of rituximab to 
chemotherapy induction treatment increased overall response rates. Furthermore, 
rituximab maintenance therapy increased the median length of remission when 
compared with observation only. Safety data from the two trials showed that 
while the majority of patients reported some adverse events, the number of 
patients withdrawing from treatment in the EORTC trial was low, with rates not 
being reported for the GLSG-FCM trial. The most commonly reported adverse events 
were blood/bone marrow toxicity, skin rashes and allergies. The ERG reran the 
manufacturer's economic model after altering several of the assumptions and 
parameter values in order to recalculate the cost-utility ratios, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and estimates of benefits. The manufacturer 
reported that maintenance therapy with rituximab was cost-effective compared 
with observation against commonly applied thresholds, with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 7721 pounds per QALY gained. The greatest clinical 
effectiveness is achieved by R-CHOP followed by rituximab maintenance (R-CHOP>R) 
and this treatment strategy had the greatest probability of being cost-effective 
for a QALY of approximately 18,000 pounds or greater. The guidance issued by 
NICE as a result of the STA states that in people with relapsed stage III or IV 
follicular NHL, rituximab is now an option in combination with chemotherapy to 
induce remission or alone as maintenance therapy during remission. Rituximab 
monotherapy is also an option for people with relapsed or refractory disease 
when all alternative treatment options have been exhausted.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/06
PMID: 19804688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:49-54. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/07.

Adalimumab for the treatment of psoriasis.

Turner D(1), Picot J, Cooper K, Loveman E.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, Wessex Institute for Health 
Research and Development, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical and cost-effectiveness of adalimumab for the treatment of moderate to 
severe plaque psoriasis based upon a review of the manufacturer's submission to 
the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the 
single technology appraisal (STA) process. The submission's clinical evidence 
came from three randomised controlled trials comparing adalimumab with placebo, 
two extension studies and one ongoing open-label extension study. The studies 
were of reasonable quality and measured a range of clinically relevant outcomes. 
A higher proportion of patients on 40 mg adalimumab every other week achieved an 
improvement on the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) of at least 75% 
(PASI 75) compared with placebo groups after 12 or 16 weeks of treatment, and 
there was a statistically significant difference in favour of adalimumab for the 
proportion of patients achieving a PASI 50 and a PASI 90. In a mixed treatment 
comparison, for each PASI outcome the probability of a response was greater for 
infliximab than for adalimumab, but the probability of response with adalimumab 
was greater than that with etanercept, efalizumab and non-biological systemic 
therapies. Adverse event rates were similar in the treatment and placebo arms 
and discontinuations because of adverse events were low and comparable between 
groups. The submission's economic model presents treatment effectiveness for 
adalimumab versus other biological therapies based upon utility values obtained 
from two clinical trials. The model is generally internally consistent and 
appropriate to psoriasis in terms of structural assumptions and the methods used 
are appropriate. The base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
adalimumab compared with supportive care for patients with severe psoriasis was 
30,538 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year. Scenario analysis shows that the 
model was most sensitive to the utility values used. Weaknesses of the clinical 
evidence included not undertaking a systematic review of the comparator trials, 
providing very little in the way of a narrative synthesis of outcome data from 
the key trials and not performing a meta-analysis so that the overall treatment 
effect of adalimumab achieved across the trials is unknown. Weaknesses of the 
economic model included that the assumptions made to estimate the 
cost-effectiveness of intermittent etanercept used inconsistent methodology for 
costs and benefits and there were no clear data on the amount of inpatient care 
required under supportive care. The NICE guidance issued as a result of the STA 
states that adalimumab is recommended as a treatment option for adults with 
plaque psoriasis in whom anti-tumour necrosis factor treatment is being 
considered and when the disease is severe and when the psoriasis has not 
responded to standard systemic therapies or the person is intolerant to or has a 
contraindication to these treatments.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/07
PMID: 19804689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:55-62. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/08.

Dabigatran etexilate for the prevention of venous thromboembolism in patients 
undergoing elective hip and knee surgery: a single technology appraisal.

Holmes M(1), Carroll C, Papaioannou D.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Regents 
Court, Sheffield, UK. m.w.holmes@shef.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate (DBG) for 
the prevention of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients undergoing elective 
hip and knee surgery based upon a review of the manufacturer's submission to the 
NICE as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) process. The submission's 
evidence came from three reasonable-quality trials comparing DBG with 
enoxaparin, and a comparison of DBG with fondaparinux based on the relative 
efficacy and safety as derived from a mixed treatment comparison (MTC) 
meta-analysis. DBG (220 mg and 150 mg once daily) is not inferior to enoxaparin 
(40 mg once daily and 30 mg twice daily) in terms of major VTE or VTE-related 
events (secondary outcome). Meta-analysis shows that 220 mg DBG is not inferior 
to enoxaparin (40 mg once daily or 30 mg twice daily) in reducing total VTE and 
all-cause mortality (primary outcome) in total hip or knee replacement, whereas 
there is uncertainty around the clinical effectiveness of 150 mg DBG for this 
outcome. In the MTC analysis DBG compared favourably with the other 
interventions, with the exception of extended enoxaparin and fondaparinux. The 
adverse event profile was not significantly different in those receiving DBG and 
those receiving enoxaparin. The submitted two-phase economic model compares DBG 
with enoxaparin and fondaparinux in total hip and knee replacement. The model 
structure is appropriate and the model assumptions are reasonable. The health 
states, costs, utilities and recurrence rates used are considered to be 
appropriate for the required analysis. The model estimated that at the licensed 
dose of 220 mg once daily DBG dominates enoxaparin in both total hip replacement 
and total knee replacement and that at the lower dose of 150 mg once daily DBG 
dominates enoxaparin in total hip replacement and enoxaparin dominates DBG in 
total knee replacement. DBG is less cost-effective than fondaparinux in total 
hip replacement at both doses; the cost per quality-adjusted life-year of 
fondaparinux versus DBG is 11,111 pounds and 6857 pounds for the higher and 
lower doses of DBG respectively. In total knee replacement, both DBG doses are 
dominated by fondaparinux. For DBG versus all comparators in all cases the 
cost-effectiveness results are based on small incremental cost and health 
benefits. Weaknesses of the submitted evidence include that methods used for 
screening studies, data extraction and applying quality assessment criteria to 
included studies, as well as key details of trials included in the MTC, were not 
adequately described. In addition, some input parameters into the modelling 
process are incorrect. The ERG was unable to correct all of these mistakes and 
the impact on the model results is therefore unknown. The National Institute for 
Health and Clinical Excellence guidance issued as a result of the STA states 
that DBG is recommended as an option for the primary prevention of VTE events in 
adults who have undergone elective total hip or knee replacement surgery.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/08
PMID: 19804690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:63-8. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/09.

Romiplostim for the treatment of chronic immune or idiopathic thrombocytopenic 
purpura: a single technology appraisal.

Mowatt G(1), Boachie C, Crowther M, Fraser C, Hernández R, Jia X, Ternent L.

Author information:
(1)Aberdeen Health Technology Assessment Group, University of Aberdeen, 
Forresterhill, Aberdeen AB25 2ZD, UK. g.mowatt@abdn.ac.uk

This paper presents a summary of the evidence review group (ERG) report into the 
clinical and cost-effectiveness of romiplostim for the treatment of adults with 
chronic immune or idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) based upon a review 
of the manufacturer's submission to the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) as part of the single technology appraisal (STA) 
process. The submission's evidence came from two relatively high-quality 
randomised controlled trials (RCTs). The ERG found no evidence that any 
important data were missed or that data extraction was inaccurate. In both RCTs 
more patients in the romiplostim than in the placebo group achieved a durable 
platelet response [non-splenectomised patients: romiplostim 25/41 (61%), placebo 
1/21 (5%), odds ratio (OR) 24.45, 95% confidence interval (CI) 3.34 to 179.18; 
splenectomised patients: romiplostim 16/42 (38%), placebo 0/21 (0%), OR 8.5 (95% 
CI 1.15 to 372)] and an overall platelet response [non-splenectomised patients: 
romiplostim 36/41 (88%), placebo 3/21 (14%), OR 34.74, 95% CI 7.77 to 155.38; 
splenectomised patients: romiplostim 33/42 (79%), placebo 0/21 (0%), OR 16.6 
(95% CI 2.37 to 706]. The difference in mean period with a platelet response was 
13.9 weeks (95% CI 10.5 to 17.4) in favour of romiplostim in the RCT of 
non-splectomised patients and 12.1 weeks (95% CI 8.7 to 15.6) in favour of 
romiplostim in the RCT of splectomised patients. The manufacturer's economic 
model evaluated the cost-effectiveness of romiplostim compared with standard 
care. The ERG had concerns about the way the decision problem was addressed in 
the economic model and about the non-adjustment of findings for confounding 
factors. In non-splenectomised patients, using romiplostim as a first option 
treatment, the base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 14,840 
pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). In splenectomised patients the 
ICER was 14,655 pounds per QALY. Additional sensitivity analyses performed by 
the ERG identified two issues of importance: whether individuals entered the 
model on watch and rescue or on active therapy in the comparator arm (ICER 
21,674 pounds per QALY for non-splenectomised patients, 29,771 pounds per QALY 
for splenectomised patients); whether it was assumed that any unused medicine 
would be wasted. Combining all of the separate sensitivity analyses, and 
assuming that watch and rescue was not the first-line treatment, increased the 
ICERs further (non-splenectomised 37,290 pounds per QALY; splenectomised 131,017 
pounds per QALY). In conclusion, the manufacturer's submission and additional 
work conducted by the ERG suggest that romiplostim has short-term efficacy for 
the treatment of ITP, but there is no robust evidence on long-term effectiveness 
or cost-effectiveness of romiplostim compared with relevant comparators.

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/09
PMID: 19804691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Health Technol Assess. 2009 Sep;13 Suppl 2:69-74. doi:
10.3310/hta13suppl2/10.

Sunitinib for the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumours: a critique of 
the submission from Pfizer.

Bond M(1), Hoyle M, Moxham T, Napier M, Anderson R.

Author information:
(1)PenTAG, Peninsula Medical School, Universities of Exeter and Plymouth, 
Exeter, UK. mary.bond@pms.ac.uk

The submission's evidence for the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of sunitinib for the treatment of gastrointestinal stromal tumours (GISTs) is 
based on a randomised controlled trial (RCT) comparing sunitinib with placebo 
for people with unresectable and/or metastatic GIST after failure of imatinib 
and with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) progression status 0-1, and 
an ongoing, non-comparative cohort study of a similar population but with ECOG 
progression status 0-4. The searches are appropriate and include all relevant 
studies and the RCT is of high quality. In the RCT sunitinib arm overall 
survival was 73 median weeks [95% confidence interval (CI) 61 to 83] versus 75 
median weeks (95% CI 68 to 84) for the cohort study. However, time to tumour 
progression in the cohort study was different from that in the RCT sunitinib arm 
[41 (95% CI 36 to 47) versus 29 (95% CI 22 to 41) median weeks respectively]. 
Median progression-free survival with sunitinib was 24.6 weeks (95% CI 12.1 to 
28.4) versus 6.4 weeks (95% CI 4.4 to 10.0) on placebo (hazard ratio 0.333, 95% 
CI 0.238 to 0.467, p < 0.001). The manufacturer used a three-state Markov model 
to model the cost-effectiveness of sunitinib compared with best supportive care 
for GIST patients; the modelling approach and sources and justification of 
estimates are reasonable. The base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) was 27,365 pounds per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) with the first 
cycle of sunitinib treatment not costed; when we included the cost of the first 
treatment cycle we estimated a base-case ICER of 32,636 pounds per QALY. 
Pfizer's sensitivity analysis produced a range of ICERs from 15,536 pounds per 
QALY to 59,002 pounds per QALY. Weaknesses of the manufacturer's submission 
include that the evidence is based on only one published RCT; that 84% of the 
RCT control population crossed over to the intervention group, giving rise to 
the use of unusual rank preserved structural failure time (RPSFT) analysis to 
correct for possible bias; and that a number of errors and omissions were made 
in the probabilistic sensitivity analysis, meaning that it is not possible to 
come to firm conclusions about the cost-effectiveness of sunitinib for GIST in 
this patient population. In conclusion, during the blinded phase of the RCT, 
overall survival was significantly longer in the sunitinib arm than in the 
placebo arm (hazard ratio 0.491, 95% CI 0.290 to 0.831, p <0.007). However, 
intention-to-treat analysis of the entire study showed no statistically 
significant difference in overall survival for those who received sunitinib (73 
weeks) versus those who received placebo (65 weeks) (hazard ratio 0.876, 95% CI 
0.679 to 1.129, p = 0.306).

DOI: 10.3310/hta13suppl2/10
PMID: 19804692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2009 Oct 13;106(41):17290-5. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0904491106. Epub 2009 Sep 28.

Life and death during the Great Depression.

Tapia Granados JA(1), Diez Roux AV.

Author information:
(1)Social Environment and Health (SEH/SRC) Program, Institute for Social 
Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48106-1248, USA. 
jatapia@umich.edu

Recent events highlight the importance of examining the impact of economic 
downturns on population health. The Great Depression of the 1930s was the most 
important economic downturn in the U.S. in the twentieth century. We used 
historical life expectancy and mortality data to examine associations of 
economic growth with population health for the period 1920-1940. We conducted 
descriptive analyses of trends and examined associations between annual changes 
in health indicators and annual changes in economic activity using correlations 
and regression models. Population health did not decline and indeed generally 
improved during the 4 years of the Great Depression, 1930-1933, with mortality 
decreasing for almost all ages, and life expectancy increasing by several years 
in males, females, whites, and nonwhites. For most age groups, mortality tended 
to peak during years of strong economic expansion (such as 1923, 1926, 1929, and 
1936-1937). In contrast, the recessions of 1921, 1930-1933, and 1938 coincided 
with declines in mortality and gains in life expectancy. The only exception was 
suicide mortality which increased during the Great Depression, but accounted for 
less than 2% of deaths. Correlation and regression analyses confirmed a 
significant negative effect of economic expansions on health gains. The 
evolution of population health during the years 1920-1940 confirms the 
counterintuitive hypothesis that, as in other historical periods and market 
economies, population health tends to evolve better during recessions than in 
expansions.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.0904491106
PMCID: PMC2765209
PMID: 19805076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


622. BMJ. 2009 Oct 5;339:b3926. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b3926.

Meeting the challenge of population ageing.

Doyle Y(1), McKee M, Rechel B, Grundy E.

Author information:
(1)NHS South East Coast, Horley, Surrey RH6 7DE. 
yvonne.doyle@southeastcoast.nhs.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b3926
PMID: 19805472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Genetics. 2009 Dec;183(4):1373-84. doi: 10.1534/genetics.109.107797. Epub
2009  Oct 5.

Deleting the 14-3-3 protein Bmh1 extends life span in Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
by increasing stress response.

Wang C(1), Skinner C, Easlon E, Lin SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Biological Sciences, University of 
California, Davis, California 95616, USA.

Enhanced stress response has been suggested to promote longevity in many 
species. Calorie restriction (CR) and conserved nutrient-sensing target of 
rapamycin (TOR) and protein kinase A (PKA) pathways have also been suggested to 
extend life span by increasing stress response, which protects cells from 
age-dependent accumulation of oxidative damages. Here we show that deleting the 
yeast 14-3-3 protein, Bmh1, extends chronological life span (CLS) by activating 
the stress response. 14-3-3 proteins are highly conserved chaperone-like 
proteins that play important roles in many cellular processes. bmh1Delta-induced 
heat resistance and CLS extension require the general stress-response 
transcription factors Msn2, Msn4, and Rim15. The bmh1Delta mutant also displays 
a decreased reactive oxygen species level and increased 
heat-shock-element-driven transcription activity. We also show that BMH1 
genetically interacts with CR and conserved nutrient-sensing TOR- and 
PKA-signaling pathways to regulate life span. Interestingly, the level of 
phosphorylated Ser238 on Bmh1 increases during chronological aging, which is 
delayed by CR or by reduced TOR activities. In addition, we demonstrate that PKA 
can directly phosphorylate Ser238 on Bmh1. The status of Bmh1 phosphorylation is 
therefore likely to play important roles in life-span regulation. Together, our 
studies suggest that phosphorylated Bmh1 may cause inhibitory effects on 
downstream longevity factors, including stress-response proteins. Deleting Bmh1 
may eliminate the inhibitory effects of Bmh1 on these longevity factors and 
therefore extends life span.

DOI: 10.1534/genetics.109.107797
PMCID: PMC2787426
PMID: 19805817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2010 Jun;121(3):771-6. doi:
10.1007/s10549-009-0564-1.  Epub 2009 Oct 6.

Reliable data on 5- and 10-year survival provide accurate estimates of 15-year 
survival in estrogen receptor-positive early-stage breast cancer.

Herold CI(1), Djulbegovic B, Hozo I, Lyman GH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Duke University School of Medicine and the Duke 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, 2424 Erwin Road, Suite 205, Durham NC, 27705, USA.

There are few studies of model-based survival projections using early empirical 
results for estimating long-term survival. Utilizing Early Breast Cancer 
Trialists' Collaborative Group (EBCTCG) data, a Markov model was generated to 
compare empirical results with those modeled beyond the empirical result time 
horizon in estrogen receptor (ER)-positive early-stage breast cancer (ESBC). 
Modeling 15-year survival based on 5- and 10-year EBCTCG data resulted in an 
average error estimate in breast cancer mortality of 0.75% [range -0.83 to 
2.19%]. Although modeling life expectancy differences ranged from an 
underestimate of -7.93% to an overestimate of 12.64%, over the span of 15 years 
this corresponded to a loss of 18 days or a gain of 40 days of life. Reliable 
early survival data may be used to generate models that accurately estimate 
15-year survival in ER-positive ESBC. Whether early survival data can be 
employed over the lifetime horizon remains to be demonstrated.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-009-0564-1
PMID: 19806449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Semin Reprod Med. 2009 Nov;27(6):472-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1241057. Epub
2009  Oct 5.

Frozen-thawed ovarian tissue retransplants.

Donnez J(1), Squifflet J, Dolmans MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Université Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, 
Belgium. jacques.donnez@uclouvain.be

Advances in the diagnosis and treatment of childhood, adolescent, and adult 
cancer have greatly increased the life expectancy of premenopausal women with 
cancer. The ovaries are very sensitive to cytotoxic treatment, especially to 
alkylating agents. The only established method of fertility preservation is 
embryo cryopreservation according to the Ethics Committee of the American 
Society for Reproductive Medicine (2005), but this option requires the patient 
to be of pubertal age, have a partner or use donor sperm, and be able to undergo 
a cycle of ovarian stimulation, which is not possible when the chemotherapy has 
to be initiated immediately or when stimulation is contraindicated according to 
the type of cancer. For patients who need immediate chemotherapy, 
cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is the only possible alternative. This 
article reports the techniques and results of orthotopic transplantation of 
cryopreserved ovarian tissue. Among almost 30 cases reported in the literature, 
6 live births have been achieved to date.

Thieme Medical Publishers.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1241057
PMID: 19806516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Int J Eat Disord. 2010 Nov 1;43(7):596-602. doi: 10.1002/eat.20754.

Cost-utility of treatment of bulimia nervosa.

Pohjolainen V(1), Räsänen P, Roine RP, Sintonen H, Wahlbeck K, Karlsson H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Helsinki and Uusimaa Hospital District, Helsinki, 
Finland. veera.pohjolainen@fimnet.fi

OBJECTIVE: The costs of treating eating disorders are high. Our objective was to 
perform a cost-utility analysis of treatment of bulimia nervosa.
METHOD: 72 patients entering treatment of bulimia nervosa (ICD-10 diagnosis) 
completed the 15D health-related quality of life (HRQoL) questionnaire and the 
Eating Disorder Inventory (EDI) before and 6 months after the start of 
treatment. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained were calculated and 
cost-utility was assessed within the time horizon of 10 years.
RESULTS: Baseline HRQoL was severely impaired in the patients. As a consequence 
of treatment, mean HRQoL improved clinically and statistically significantly. 
The cost per QALY gained varied from €1,455 to €16,481 (from €4,428 to €19,663 
discounted at 5%) depending on the assumptions used in the analysis.
DISCUSSION: HRQoL of bulimia nervosa patients is severely impaired, but 
treatment has a clear positive effect on HRQoL. The cost per QALY gained is 
comparable to many other treatments.

© 2009 by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/eat.20754
PMID: 19806609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Hastings Cent Rep. 2009 Sep-Oct;39(5):14-5.

Case study. Dirty blood. Commentary.

Gordon EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Healthcare Studies, Department of Surgery, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, USA.

Comment on
    Hastings Cent Rep. 2009 Sep-Oct;39(5):13.

PMID: 19806772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Indian J Public Health. 2009 Jan-Mar;53(1):22-7.

Universalizing access to primary health care in India.

Kumar R(1), Kaur M, Jha P.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh. dr.rajeshkumar@gmail.com

Life expectancy is improving steadily but India needs rapid gains in health. 
Communicable diseases, maternal, perinatal and nutritional deficiencies continue 
to be important causes of deaths; non-communicable diseases and injuries are 
also taking a substantial toll of human lives. A basic health care package based 
on a core set of cost-effective health interventions can address existing 
disease burden. Its implementation requires increased investment and enhanced 
health care delivery capacity. Large diversity in India calls for local 
adaptation of the basic health care package and its delivery mechanism. To 
encourage accountability, access should be monitored at district level by an 
independent agency.

PMID: 19806824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. J Palliat Med. 2009 Oct;12(10):869-70. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2009.0155.

Humeral metastasis in patients with stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer portends 
a short life expectancy.

Ampil F, Baluna R.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2009.0155
PMID: 19807231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2001 Oct;1(1):47-58. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.1.1.47.

Economic evaluations of adult pneumococcal vaccination strategies.

Beutels P(1), Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Evaluation of Vaccination, Epidemiology and Community 
Medicine, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1,2610 Antwerp, Belgium. 
pbeutels@uia.ua.ac.be

We performed an extensive search for full economic evaluations on pneumococcal 
vaccination in adults. We included 11 North American and 9 European studies for 
review. There was a clear preference for cost-effectiveness and cost-utility 
versus cost-benefit analysis. In general, pneumococcal vaccination of the 
elderly <75 years and of particular risk groups is found to be relatively 
cost-effective and potentially cost-saving to the health care sector and to 
society. However, there is substantial uncertainty about the effectiveness of 
the intervention in these target groups. From 1997 on most analysts have taken 
this partly into account by distinguishing between invasive and non-invasive 
pneumococcal disease. In order to be relevant, future analyses should use 
quality adjusted life-years, adapt life-expectancy for people at risk of 
infection, narrow the targeted age groups, include realistic programme costs and 
discuss the potential influence of unrelated future costs. Finally, estimating 
the impact of antimicrobial resistance (not included in any of the analyses) 
seems particularly challenging for the future.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.1.1.47
PMID: 19807507


631. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2004 Apr;4(2):215-26. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.4.2.215.

Quality of life issues in non-small cell lung cancer.

Stephens R(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council, Cancer Division, Medical Research Council Clinical 
Trials Unit, 222 Euston Road, London NW1 2DA. rs@ctu.mrc.ac.uk

For most patients with non-small cell lung cancer, maintaining or improving the 
quality of their remaining life may be as (or more) important than a small 
extension of survival. Thus, the assessment of quality of life should be a key 
component of treatment trials to inform future clinical decision-making. 
However, only a small percentage of randomized trials in non-small cell lung 
cancer have included quality of life and many of these may be criticized for 
poor design, inadequate sample size and/or complex analyses. A radical rethink 
over the way in which quality of life is included in trials is required. Much 
larger sample sizes, predefined quality of life hypotheses, innovative methods 
to improve compliance rates and standard methods of analysis are required. Until 
trialists begin to take note of these messages, information on quality of life 
from trials will continue to be largely distrusted and disregarded by doctors 
and patients.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.4.2.215
PMID: 19807526


632. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2004 Oct;4(5):495-504. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.4.5.495.

Cost-effectiveness of pegylated IFN-alpha2b and -2a and ribavirin for chronic 
hepatitis C treatment.

Orlewska E(1).

Author information:
(1)Poland Medical University of Warsaw, Centre for Pharmacoeconomics, 02-969 
Warsaw, Kremowa 13, Poland. ewaorlewska@go2.pl

Pegylated interferon-alpha(2a) (Pegasys, Roche) and pegylated 
interferon-alpha(2b) (Peg-Intron, Schering-Plough) with ribavirin (Copegus, 
Roche; Rebetol, Schering-Plough) is now acknowledged as the therapy of choice 
for chronic hepatitis C. This article reviews the existing evidence concerning 
the cost-effectiveness of pegylated interferon and ribavirin versus nonpegylated 
interferon and ribavirin for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C and highlights 
key issues for future research. Recently published cost-effectiveness analyses 
suggest that use of pegylated interferon and ribavirin should reduce the 
cumulative incidence of liver complications, increase life expectancy, improve 
quality of life, and be cost-effective in comparison with nonpegylated 
interferon and ribavirin. The cost and benefits of the treatment depend on 
factors such as patient age, sex, viral load, histological severity and viral 
genotype. Studies of the natural history of chronic hepatitis C and randomized 
clinical trials of pegylated interferon and ribavirin versus other therapies 
need to be performed in special populations of patients to provide valuable data 
that could be incorporated into future cost-effectiveness analyses. The direct 
comparison of two marketed pegylated interferons in terms of cost-effectiveness 
is needed. The cost-effectiveness analyses of the two pegylated combination 
products should be preceded by a head-to-head clinical trial that would provide 
evidence of comparative efficacy.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.4.5.495
PMID: 19807543


633. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2005 Feb;5(1):59-63. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.5.1.59.

Towards a healthier discount procedure.

Klock RM(1), Brouwer WB, Annemans LJ, Bos JM, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, Groningen University, Institute for Drug 
Exploration, Research Institute of Pharmacy (GUIDE/GRIP), Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

Most national guidelines for pharmacoeconomic research prescribe discounting, 
mostly of money and health against the same rate. There is much debate on 
whether this is adequate. Two theoretical arguments, the consistency argument of 
Weinstein and Stason, and the paralyzing paradox of Keeler and Cretin, are 
mostly responsible for the current standards. However, more recently, several 
authors have indicated that the basis to claim the necessity of using similar 
discount rates is rather weak, both practically and theoretically. In terms of 
finding a new theoretical basis on which to base discount rates for money and, 
in particular, health, Van Hout has made an important suggestion arguing that 
the discount rate for health could be based on the expected growth in life 
expectancy and the diminishing marginal utility related to such additional 
health. Similarly, Gravelle and Smith argue that if the value of health grows 
over time, discount rates that are used for costs cannot directly be applied to 
effects, but should be adjusted downwards.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.5.1.59
PMID: 19807560


634. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2005 Apr;5(2):125-30. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.5.2.125.

In the long run, healthcare costs appear to be related to overweight and obesity 
at younger ages.

Daviglus ML(1), Pirzada A.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Department of Preventive 
Medicine, 680 North Lake Shore Drive, Suite 1102, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. 
daviglus@northwestern.edu

Overweight and obesity are associated with a higher risk of cardiovascular 
disease and noncardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality, and shorter life 
expectancy. Despite declines in prevalence of other key major cardiovascular 
disease risk factors, the prevalence of overweight and obesity has reached 
epidemic proportions and it continues to rise. This has implications for future 
Medicare expenditures. Recent findings indicate that irrespective of interim 
changes in weight, being overweight or obese in young adulthood and middle age 
is significantly and positively associated with higher average annual and 
cumulative cardiovascular disease-related and total Medicare charges in older 
age. However, the prevention and control of overweight and obesity has proven 
difficult due to overconsumption of calorie-dense foods, sedentary lifestyles, 
and insufficient and ineffective treatment options. Clinicians should emphasize 
weight management strategies for all patients and public health authorities 
should implement policies that promote maintenance and achievement of healthy 
weight through systemic environmental changes. Emphasis on the primary 
prevention of weight gain from early life onwards by adoption of healthy 
lifestyles, and prevention and control of excess weight at all ages are urgently 
required to contain and end the obesity epidemic and to reduce healthcare costs 
incurred by older people.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.5.2.125
PMID: 19807567


635. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2005 Apr;5(2):205-14. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.5.2.205.

Socioeconomic disparities in health: the impact of pharmacotherapy.

Fiscella K(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Rochester School of Medicine & Dentistry, Department of Family 
Medicine and Community, Research Programs, 1381 South Av., Rochester, NY 14620, 
USA. Kevin_Fiscella@urmc.rochester.edu

Along with age and gender, socioeconomic status is a fundamental driver of 
health. This review discusses the meaning of socioeconomic status and how it 
influences health across a person's life. Particular attention is paid to the 
role of psychosocial stress and self-determination. Through various pathways, 
socioeconomic status may affect biologic aging. This review also discusses the 
implications of the socioeconomic status-health relationship for understanding 
international differences in population health such as differences in life 
expectancy. The review concludes with a discussion of the implications of these 
findings for national policies and the potential impact of pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.5.2.205
PMID: 19807575


636. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2005 Jun;5(3):271-5. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.5.3.271.

Disease-related conditions in elderly patients with multiple sclerosis.

Klewer J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Applied Sciences Zwickau, Department of Public Health and 
Healthcare Sciences, Dr.-Friedrichs-Ring 2A, 08056 Zwickau Germany. 
Joklewer@aol.com

Improved therapies have increased life expectancy in multiple sclerosis 
patients, resulting in a group of patients aged 65 years and older. Nowadays, 
health professionals are caring for more and more elderly multiple sclerosis 
patients, but little is known about the specific problems of these individuals. 
A review including relevant papers on problems reported by elderly multiple 
sclerosis patients revealed that the number of studies addressing this topic is 
still very limited. Most of these studies included only small patient sample 
sizes (27-169 patients), and were not originally designed to investigate elderly 
multiple sclerosis patients. Information on the clinical course of multiple 
sclerosis in elderly patients revealed proportions of 62-90% with 
relapsing-remitting courses. Main problems reported included disabilities in 
mobility and activities of daily living. The findings on depressive symptoms and 
suicidal tendencies were inconsistent. Specific recommendations for treatment of 
multiple sclerosis in elderly patients were not found. The studies highlight the 
problem that health professionals should be aware of an increasing group of 
elderly multiple sclerosis patients with many specific needs, avoiding nursing 
home admissions being a particular challenge. Furthermore, studies on the 
problems of elderly multiple sclerosis patients are required.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.5.3.271
PMID: 19807597


637. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2005 Jun;5(3):277-86. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.5.3.277.

Socioeconomic relevance of selected treatment strategies in patients with 
chronic heart failure.

Rychlik R(1), Rulhoff H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Empirical Health Economics, Am Ziegelfeld 28, 51 399 Burscheid, 
Germany. reinhard.rychlik@ifeg.de

More than 2.8% of the population in the USA suffer from chronic heart failure, a 
condition that primarily afflicts people above the age of 60 years, and results 
in major expenses for social and health care of affected patients, their 
caregivers and families. The mainstay of treatment is drug therapy, complemented 
by comprehensive rehabilitation, invasive procedures, palliative treatment and 
monitoring. While sufficient health economic evidence exists on the 
cost-effectiveness of certain standard drugs, such as angiotensin converting 
enzyme inhibitors or beta-blockers, little or no information exists on the cost 
effectivty of diuretics or aldosterone antagonists. Recently, introduced 
treatment strategies such as ventricular assistance devices or telemonitoring 
have yet to be evaluated for their cost-effectiveness in terms of risk of 
hospitalization, life expectancy and quality of life. With respect to the aging 
population and the drastically increasing costs of healthcare for heart failure 
patients, the goal is a more conscious and cost-effective resource allocation. 
This can help reduce the incidence of over and under treatment, diminish side 
effects and consequently improve symptoms, quality of life and life expectancy 
in the affected population. Further clinical trials and health economic analyses 
are necessary to optimize recommendations for healthcare of patients with 
chronic heart failure.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.5.3.277
PMID: 19807598


638. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2005 Dec;5(6):791-806. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.5.6.791.

Optimizing treatment policies and improving care: impact on outcome in patients 
with cystic fibrosis.

Conway SP(1), Peckham DG, Denton M, Brownlee KG.

Author information:
(1)St James's University Hospital, Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust, St James' 
University Hospital, Beckett Street, Leeds LS9 7TF, UK. 
steven.conway@leedsth.nhs.uk

There is no cure for cystic fibrosis but recent advances in care have increased 
the average life expectancy to over 30 years. However, patients may find 
themselves prescribed over seven to eight different medications a day, some of 
which are laborious and time consuming to administer. The physician should 
balance potential benefits from treatments against quality-of-life requirements. 
In this review, the authors examine the place in the overall treatment regimen 
of recently available, and often expensive, drugs. The review concentrates on 
eradication regimens for early or recurrent Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection; 
inhaled tobramycin therapy; regular versus on-demand intravenous antibiotics; 
treatment of respiratory methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection; 
the role of macrolide antibiotics and the role of inhaled dornase alfa in early 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.5.6.791
PMID: 19807621


639. Public Health Nutr. 2010 Jun;13(6):771-8. doi: 10.1017/S1368980009991704.
Epub  2009 Oct 7.

Association between breast-feeding and anthropometry and CVD risk factor status 
in adolescence and young adulthood: the Young Hearts Project, Northern Ireland.

Holmes VA(1), Cardwell C, McKinley MC, Young IS, Murray LJ, Boreham CA, Woodside 
JV.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK. 
v.holmes@qub.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To examine the association between breast-feeding and blood pressure, 
anthropometry and plasma lipid profile in both adolescence and young adulthood.
DESIGN: Longitudinal study of biological and behavioural risk factors for CVD.
SETTING: The Young Hearts Project, Northern Ireland.
SUBJECTS: Schoolchildren aged 12 years and 15 years who participated in a 
cross-sectional study of lifestyle and health, and who were followed up as young 
adults aged 20-25 years.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference in height, weight, BMI, skinfold 
thickness measurements, blood pressure or plasma lipid profile in adolescents 
who had been breast-fed compared with those who had not been breast-fed. 
However, by the time these adolescents had reached adulthood, those who had been 
breast-fed were significantly taller than those who had not been breast-fed 
(standing height, P = 0.013; leg length, P = 0.035). Specifically, the 
breast-fed group was on average taller by 1.7 cm (95 % CI 0.4, 3.0 cm) and had 
longer legs by 1.0 cm (95 % CI 0.1, 1.9 cm). There was no significant difference 
in other anthropometric measures, blood pressure or plasma lipid profile in 
adults who had been breast-fed compared with those who had not been breast-fed.
CONCLUSIONS: Compared with those who had not been breast-fed, individuals who 
had been breast-fed were taller in adulthood. Given the known association of 
increased adult height with improved life expectancy, the results from the 
present study support a beneficial effect of breast-feeding.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980009991704
PMID: 19807938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Cell Metab. 2009 Oct;10(4):247-8. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2009.09.004.

Translate this ... during dietary restriction.

Kennedy BK(1), Mackay VL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. 
bkenn@u.washington.edu

Several studies indicate that reduced TOR signaling underlies life span 
extension by dietary restriction. Recently, Zid et al. (Zid et al., 2009) linked 
the benefits of dietary restriction in flies to increased levels of the 
downstream TOR target 4E-BP1 and corresponding changes in the relative 
translation rates of classes of mRNAs.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2009.09.004
PMID: 19808017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Circ Arrhythm Electrophysiol. 2009 Aug;2(4):362-9. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCEP.108.837294. Epub 2009 Apr 17.

Cost-effectiveness of radiofrequency catheter ablation compared with 
antiarrhythmic drug therapy for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.

Reynolds MR(1), Zimetbaum P, Josephson ME, Ellis E, Danilov T, Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Mass 02215, USA. 
mreynold@bidmc.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFA) has emerged as an important 
treatment strategy for atrial fibrillation (AF). The potential 
cost-effectiveness of RFA for AF, relative to antiarrhythmic drug (AAD) therapy, 
has not been fully explored from a US perspective.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We constructed a Markov disease simulation model for a 
hypothetical cohort of patients with drug-refractory paroxysmal AF, treated 
either with RFA with/without AAD or AAD alone. Costs and quality-adjusted 
life-years were projected over 5 years. Model inputs were drawn from published 
clinical trial and registry data, from new registry and trial data analysis, and 
from data prospectively collected from patients with AF treated with RFA at our 
institution. We assumed no benefit from ablation on stroke, heart failure or 
death, but did estimate changes in quality-adjusted life expectancy using data 
from several AF cohorts. In the base case scenario, cumulative costs with the 
RFA and AAD strategies were $26,584 and $19,898, respectively. Over 5 years, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy was 3.51 quality-adjusted life-years with RFA 
versus 3.38 for the AAD group. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for RFA 
versus AAD was thus $51,431 per quality-adjusted life-year. Model results were 
