Najafzadeh M(1), Marra CA, Galanis E, Patrick DM.

Author information:
(1)Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation (CORE), Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Herpes zoster (HZ), or shingles, results from reactivation of latent 
varicella zoster virus in the sensory ganglia of adults, and results in 
significant morbidity in the elderly, including the development of post-herpetic 
neuralgia (PHN). The lifetime risk of HZ is about 20-30% and the incidence 
increases with age. The protective effect of the HZ vaccine has been shown in a 
large clinical trial; however, the effectiveness of the vaccine decreased with 
age of vaccination.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to compare the incremental cost and health benefits of HZ 
vaccine over status quo (no HZ vaccine) from the perspective of the Canadian 
healthcare payer.
METHODS: We developed a discrete-event simulation model comparing the costs and 
QALYs accrued to patients receiving HZ vaccine to those who did not. The effect 
of the vaccine on the (i) incidence of severe, moderate or mild HZ; (ii) 
severity and duration of HZ; (iii) incidence of PHN among patients with HZ; (iv) 
duration of PHN; and (v) costs associated with treating HZ and PHN were 
modelled. Data from published literature, including the Shingle Prevention 
Study, were used for transition probabilities. Health resource utilizations were 
estimated using administrative data retrieved from the British Columbia Medical 
Services Plan and hospital separation databases in British Columbia from 1994 to 
2003. Utility estimates were obtained from various published sources. Canadian 
2008 costs were used and both cost and QALYs were discounted at a 5% annual rate 
in the base-case analyses.
RESULTS: On average, receiving the vaccination lowered mean direct medical costs 
(excluding the vaccine costs) by $Can35 per person. The incremental cost and 
QALYs per person receiving the vaccine versus no vaccination were $Can115 and 
0.0028 QALYs, respectively, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $Can41 709 per QALY gained for a cohort of elderly subjects aged >or=60 
years. Results were robust in probabilistic and univariate sensitivity analyses. 
Expected value of perfect information was estimated at $Can47.72 per person, 
reflecting the expected monetary losses that could be avoided by having perfect 
information on all model parameters.
CONCLUSION: HZ vaccination of adults, especially for individuals aged 60-75 
years, seems to be a cost-effective intervention and might be considered by 
Canadian decision makers.

DOI: 10.2165/11314010-000000000-00000
PMID: 19908924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(12):1005-16. doi:
10.2165/11314000-000000000-00000.

Willingness to pay for a QALY based on community member and patient preferences 
for temporary health states associated with herpes zoster.

Lieu TA(1), Ray GT, Ortega-Sanchez IR, Kleinman K, Rusinak D, Prosser LA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ambulatory Care and Prevention, Harvard Pilgrim Health Care and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02215, USA. 
tracy_lieu@harvardpilgrim.org

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: A clear sense of what society is willing to pay for a 
QALY could enhance the usefulness of cost-effectiveness analysis as a field. 
Scant information exists on willingness to pay (WTP) for a QALY based on direct 
elicitation of preferences from community members or patients. We had the 
opportunity to evaluate WTP per QALY using data from a survey on temporary 
health outcomes related to herpes zoster. Our aims were to (i) describe how much 
community members are willing to pay to save a QALY based on scenarios 
describing temporary health states; (ii) evaluate how WTP per QALY varies based 
on experience with the disease being described and with demographic variables; 
and (iii) evaluate how the duration and intensity of pain in a scenario 
influences WTP per QALY.
METHODS: Community members drawn from a nationally representative survey 
research panel (n = 478) completed an Internet-based survey using time trade-off 
(TTO) and WTP questions to value a series of scenarios that described herpes 
zoster cases of varying pain intensity (on a scale of 0-10) and duration (30 
days to 1 year). Patients with shingles (n = 354) or postherpetic neuralgia 
(PHN; n = 120) [defined as having symptoms for 90 days or more] from two large 
healthcare systems completed telephone interviews with similar questions. Mean 
and median WTP per QALY values were calculated by dividing the WTP amount by the 
discounted time traded for each scenario. Responses with a WTP value of more 
than zero and a TTO value of zero (which would have resulted in an undefined 
value) were excluded. TTO values were discounted by 3% per year. WTP per QALY 
means were calculated after trimming the top and bottom 2.5% of responses. 
Multivariate analyses were conducted using generalized linear mixed models that 
assumed a negative binomial distribution.
RESULTS: Among all respondents, the WTP per QALY ranged from a median of $US7000 
to $US11,000 and a trimmed mean of $US26 000 to $US45,000 (year 2005 values), 
depending on the scenario described. WTP per QALY values varied significantly 
with respondent characteristics, as well as among respondents with similar 
characteristics. In multivariate analyses, the mean WTP per QALY was higher 
among respondents who were younger, male or had higher educational or income 
levels. After adjusting for these demographic variables, patients who had 
experienced shingles gave responses with the highest WTP per QALY values. 
Patients who had experienced PHN gave the lowest values, and community members 
gave values intermediate to the shingles and PHN groups. In multivariate models 
that evaluated the effects of pain and duration of the hypothetical zoster 
scenario, lower duration was associated with higher WTP per QALY. This effect 
appeared to be due to people increasing the amounts of time they would be 
willing to trade as duration increased, without proportional increases in the 
amounts of money they would be willing to pay.
CONCLUSIONS: Community members and patients gave mean WTP per QALY values that 
varied significantly based on age, sex, socioeconomic status, experience with 
shingles and duration of the health state evaluated. The variability in WTP per 
QALY suggests that it may be difficult to define a unitary threshold of dollars 
per QALY for policy making based on cost-effectiveness analyses.

DOI: 10.2165/11314000-000000000-00000
PMID: 19908925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(12):1031-44. doi:
10.2165/11319900-000000000-00000.

Healthcare costs and obesity prevention: drug costs and other sector-specific 
consequences.

Rappange DR(1), Brouwer WB, Hoogenveen RT, Van Baal PH.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus University Medical Centre, Department of Health Policy & Management 
and Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Rotterdam, the Netherlands. 
rappange@bmg.eur.nl

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a major contributor to the overall burden of disease 
(also reducing life expectancy) and associated with high medical costs due to 
obesity-related diseases. However, obesity prevention, while reducing 
obesity-related morbidity and mortality, may not result in overall healthcare 
cost savings because of additional costs in life-years gained. Sector-specific 
financial consequences of preventing obesity are less well documented, for 
pharmaceutical spending as well as for other healthcare segments.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the effect of obesity prevention on annual and lifetime 
drug spending as well as other sector-specific expenditures, i.e. the hospital 
segment, long-term care segment and primary healthcare.
METHODS: The RIVM (Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the 
Environment) Chronic Disease Model and Dutch cost of illness data were used to 
simulate, using a Markov-type model approach, the lifetime expenditures in the 
pharmaceutical segment and three other healthcare segments for a hypothetical 
cohort of obese (body mass index [BMI] >or=30 kg/m2), non-smoking people with a 
starting age of 20 years. In order to assess the sector-specific consequences of 
obesity prevention, these costs were compared with the costs of two other 
similar cohorts, i.e. a 'healthy-living' cohort (non-smoking and a BMI >or=18.5 
and <25 kg/m2) and a smoking cohort. To assert whether preventing obesity 
results in cost savings in any of the segments, net present values were 
estimated using different discount rates. Sensitivity analyses were conducted 
across key input values and using a broader definition of healthcare.
RESULTS: Lifetime drug expenditures are higher for obese people than for 
'healthy-living' people, despite shorter life expectancy for the obese. Obesity 
prevention results in savings on drugs for obesity-related diseases until the 
age of 74 years, which outweigh additional drug costs for diseases unrelated to 
obesity in life-years gained. Furthermore, obesity prevention will increase 
long-term care expenditures substantially, while savings in the other healthcare 
segments are small or non-existent. Discounting costs more heavily or using 
lower relative mortality risks for obesity would make obesity prevention a 
relatively more attractive strategy in terms of healthcare costs, especially for 
the long-term care segment. Application of a broader definition of healthcare 
costs has the opposite effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Obesity prevention will likely result in savings in the 
pharmaceutical segment, but substantial additional costs for long-term care. 
These are important considerations for policy makers concerned with the future 
sustainability of the healthcare system.

DOI: 10.2165/11319900-000000000-00000
PMID: 19908927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Pharmacoeconomics. 2009;27(12):1045-56. doi:
10.2165/11310080-000000000-00000.

Accounting for the development of antibacterial resistance in the cost 
effectiveness of ertapenem versus piperacillin/tazobactam in the treatment of 
diabetic foot infections in the UK.

Jansen JP(1), Kumar R, Carmeli Y.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, Boston, Massachusetts 02114, USA. Jeroen.jansen@mapivalues.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Increased antibacterial use is associated with a 
greater likelihood of reduced effectiveness as a result of resistance 
development in the future. The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost 
effectiveness of ertapenem versus piperacillin/tazobactam in the treatment of 
diabetic foot infections (DFIs) from the UK NHS perspective, accounting for the 
development of antibacterial resistance over time.
METHODS: A decision-tree model was developed to estimate the cost effectiveness 
of ertapenem versus piperacillin/tazobactam at different timepoints in the 36 
months following introduction of treatment. Development of antibacterial 
resistance was incorporated in the analysis using a previously published 
compartment (susceptible-infected-susceptible) model. The development of 
resistance was a function of the clearance rate of pathogens and the size of the 
proportion of the population prescribed the antibacterial. The microbiological 
clearance rate and clinical success rates were assumed to be related and were 
obtained from the SIDESTEP study. These data included resistant pathogens 
(either acquired or intrinsic resistance) such as Enterobacteriaceae, 
meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, enterococci and Pseudomonas 
aeruginosa. Model outcomes over time included lifetime QALYs, direct medical 
costs (year 2006 values) and cost per QALY saved. Clinical efficacy of 
second-line treatment, direct medical costs and utilities were derived from 
other existing studies. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were undertaken to 
estimate the uncertainty of model outcomes. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 
3.5% per annum.
RESULTS: The model suggested savings of pound407 (95% uncertainty interval [UI] 
-337, 1501) per patient when DFIs were treated with ertapenem instead of 
piperacillin/tazobactam after 1 month's treatment. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis suggested a 91% probability of the incremental cost per QALY saved 
being within a threshold for cost effectiveness of pound20,000. After 3 years it 
is expected that the antibacterial resistance profile with 
piperacillin/tazobactam would increase at a greater rate than with ertapenem. As 
a result, the cost savings with ertapenem are expected to increase to pound3465 
(95% UI 2502, 4564), and ertapenem will additionally result in greater clinical 
success rates and lifetime QALY savings (1.16; 95% UI 0.46, 2.06).
CONCLUSION: Ertapenem appears to be a cost-saving and possibly an economically 
dominant therapy over piperacillin/tazobactam for the treatment of patients with 
DFIs from the UK NHS perspective.

DOI: 10.2165/11310080-000000000-00000
PMID: 19908928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Cancer Invest. 2009 Dec;27(10):953-9. doi: 10.3109/07357900903275217.

Economic analysis of gene expression profile data to guide adjuvant treatment in 
women with early-stage breast cancer.

Cosler LE(1), Lyman GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Albany College of Pharmacy and Health 
Sciences, Albany, New York 12208-3492, USA.

DOI: 10.3109/07357900903275217
PMID: 19909009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. AIDS Patient Care STDS. 2009 Dec;23(12):1009-16. doi: 10.1089/apc.2009.0175.

Prevalence and correlates of elevated body mass index among HIV-positive and 
HIV-negative women in the Women's Interagency HIV Study.

Boodram B(1), Plankey MW, Cox C, Tien PC, Cohen MH, Anastos K, Karim R, Hyman C, 
Hershow RC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Illinois, Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 60612, USA. bboodram@uic.edu

Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and the 
subsequent increased life expectancy in HIV-infected persons, non-HIV-related 
diseases have become an important cause of morbidity and mortality. This 
cross-sectional study reports the prevalence of overweight and obesity, and 
sociodemographic, psychological, and substance use-related risk factors for 
elevated body mass index (BMI) among 2157 HIV-seropositive (HIV+) in comparison 
to 730 HIV-seronegative (HIV-) participants in the Women's Interagency HIV Study 
(WIHS). Separate univariable and multivariate linear regression analyses were 
completed for HIV+ and HIV- women. Our study revealed a similar proportion of 
obesity (body mass index [BMI] >or=30) among HIV+ (33%) and HIV- women (29%) (p 
= 0.12), as well as comparable median BMI (HIV+: 26.1 versus HIV-: 26.7, p = 
0.16). HIV+ compared to HIV- women, respectively, were significantly (p < 0.01) 
older (median = 35.6 versus. 32.5), but similar (p = 0.97) by race/ethnicity 
(57% African American, 28% Hispanic, and 15% white for both). In multivariate 
models for both HIV+ and HIV- women, African American race/ethnicity was 
significantly (p < 0.05) associated with higher BMI, while higher quality of 
life score and illicit hard drug use were associated with lower BMI. 
Additionally, smoking, alcohol use, markers of advanced HIV infection (AIDS 
diagnosis, elevated HIV viral load, low CD4 count), and a history of 
antiretroviral therapy use (ART) were also associated with lower BMI among HIV+ 
women. In conclusion, risk factors for elevated BMI were similar for HIV+ and 
HIV- women in the WIHS. For HIV+ women, all markers of advanced HIV infection 
and ART use were additionally associated with lower BMI.

DOI: 10.1089/apc.2009.0175
PMCID: PMC2832643
PMID: 19909168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2010 Feb;39(2):165-70. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2009.10.015. Epub 2009 Nov 11.

Bypass surgery for the treatment of upper limb chronic ischaemia.

Spinelli F(1), Benedetto F, Passari G, La Spada M, Carella G, Stilo F, De Caridi 
G, Lentini S.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Unit, Policlinico G. Martino University Hospital, University 
of Messina, Messina, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to evaluate the results and complications of 
surgical arterial revascularisation of the upper limb for treatment of chronic 
ischaemia using infrabrachial bypass. Results of limb salvage and follow-up with 
graft patency are analysed.
DESIGN: This study is a retrospective analysis of 23 patients affected by 
chronic upper limb ischaemia and treated by surgical bypass.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively analysed 23 patients with upper limb 
ischaemia treated between January 1998 and January 2008, by means of bypass 
graft revascularisation. After surgical revascularisation, eight patients (35%) 
with digital gangrene underwent minor amputations during the same surgical 
session, or within the following few days. Postoperatively, patients were 
followed up at regular intervals of 1, 3 and 6 months, and every 6 months 
thereafter, both clinically and with a duplex ultrasound scan.
RESULTS: The mean 34 months' follow-up was 96% complete. Life table analysis 
revealed a primary patency of 82.6% and secondary patency of 91.3%. Limb salvage 
was 100%. During the follow-up period, four patients sustained graft occlusion 
and, of these, two underwent re-do revascularisation with success.
CONCLUSIONS: We believe upper limb bypass surgery represents a valid treatment 
in this clinical setting, both for limb salvage and for relief of symptoms.

Copyright (c) 2009 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2009.10.015
PMID: 19910221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Am J Public Health. 2010 Jan;100(1):165-70. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.159004.

Quality-adjusted life-years and helmet use among motorcyclists sustaining head 
injuries.

Lee HY(1), Chen YH, Chiu WT, Hwang JS, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, Room 719, No. 17, Xu-Zhou Road, Taipei 
10055, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVES: We estimated loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) among 
motorcyclists in Taiwan who sustained head injuries while wearing or not wearing 
a helmet.
METHODS: Patients with head injuries (n=3328) were grouped into categories 
representing good and poor outcomes (moderate disability or death) at discharge. 
After linkage with the National Mortality Registry, survival functions were 
determined and extrapolated over a 50-year period on the basis of the survival 
ratio between patients and age- and gender-matched reference populations, as 
calculated from available Taiwan vital statistics. Survival functions were then 
multiplied by scores from quality-of-life measures.
RESULTS: Percentages of good and poor outcomes were 87.2% and 12.8%, 
respectively, in the helmeted group and 66.4% and 33.6% in the nonhelmeted 
group. The mean QALE for helmeted motorcyclists, calculated by weighting 
percentages of good and poor outcomes, was 31.7 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), with an average loss of 5.8 QALYs. For nonhelmeted motorcyclists, the 
mean QALE was 25.9 QALYs, with a loss of 10.7 QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Helmet use could save approximately 5 QALYs among motorcyclists 
sustaining head injuries. Future cost-effectiveness analysis can calculate the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for regulation of helmet use.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.159004
PMCID: PMC2791254
PMID: 19910346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Feb;125(2):727-735. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181c91501.

Fundamental principles of conducting a surgery economic analysis study.

Kotsis SV(1), Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Ann Arbor, Mich. From the Section of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
University of Michigan Health System.

The use of economic evaluation in surgery is scarce. Economic evaluation is used 
even less so in plastic surgery, in which health-related quality of life is of 
particular importance. This article, part of a tutorial series on evidence-based 
medicine, focuses on the fundamental principles of conducting a surgery economic 
analysis. The authors include the essential aspects of conducting a surgical 
cost-utility analysis by considering perspectives, costs, outcomes, and 
utilities. The authors also describe and give examples of how to conduct the 
analyses (including calculating quality-adjusted life-years and discounting), 
how to interpret the results, and how to report the results. Although economic 
analyses are not simple to conduct, a well-conducted one provides many rewards, 
such as recommending the adoption of a more effective treatment. For comparing 
and interpreting economic analysis publications, it is important that all 
studies use consistent methodology and report the results in a similar manner.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181c91501
PMCID: PMC4414117
PMID: 19910842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Feb;125(2):589-598. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181c82eb6.

An economic analysis of hand transplantation in the United States.

Chung KC(1), Oda T, Saddawi-Konefka D, Shauver MJ.

Author information:
(1)Ann Arbor, Mich. From the Section of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
The University of Michigan Health System, and Transitional Year Program, Saint 
Joseph Mercy Hospital System of Ann Arbor.

Comment in
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Feb;125(2):599-600.

BACKGROUND: Hand transplantation has received international attention in recent 
years; however, the economic impact of this innovative treatment is uncertain. 
The aim of this study was to assess the utility and estimate the costs of hand 
transplantation and the use of hand prostheses for forearm amputations.
METHODS: One hundred medical students completed a time trade-off survey to 
assess the utilities of single and double hand transplantation and the use of 
hand prostheses. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated for each 
outcome to create decision trees. Cost data for medical care were estimated 
based on Medicare fee schedules using the Current Procedural Terminology code 
for forearm replantation. The cost of immunosuppressive therapy was estimated 
based on the wholesale price of drugs. The incremental cost-utility ratio was 
calculated from the differences in costs and utilities between transplantation 
and prosthesis. Sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the robustness of 
the results.
RESULTS: For unilateral hand amputation, prosthetic use was favored over hand 
transplantation (30.00 QALYs versus 28.81 QALYs; p = 0.03). Double hand 
transplantation was favored over the use of prostheses (26.73 QALYs versus 25.20 
QALYs; p = 0.01). The incremental cost-utility ratio of double transplantation 
when compared with prostheses was $381,961/QALY, exceeding the traditionally 
accepted cost-effectiveness threshold of $50,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Prosthetic adaption is the dominant strategy for unilateral hand 
amputation. For bilateral hand amputation, double hand transplantation exceeds 
the societally acceptable threshold for general adoption. Improvements in 
immunosuppressive strategies may change the incremental cost-utility ratio for 
hand transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181c82eb6
PMCID: PMC4387885
PMID: 19910847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Minerva Med. 2009 Oct;100(5):401-13.

Cryopreservation of ovarian tissue: an overview.

Donnez J(1), Dolmans MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Catholic University of Louvain, Brussels, Belgium. 
jacques.donnez@uclouvain.be

Advances in the diagnosis and treatment of childhood, adolescent and adult 
cancer have greatly increased the life expectancy of premenopausal women with 
cancer. The ovaries are very sensitive to cytotoxic treatment, especially to 
alkylating agents. The only established method of fertility preservation is 
embryo cryopreservation according to the Ethics Committee of the American 
Society for Reproductive Medicine (2005), but this option requires the patient 
to be of pubertal age, have a partner or use donor sperm, and be able to undergo 
a cycle of ovarian stimulation, which is not possible when the chemotherapy has 
to be initiated immediately or when stimulation is contraindicated according to 
the type of cancer. For patients who need immediate chemotherapy, 
cryopreservation of ovarian tissue is the only possible alternative. This 
manuscript reports the techniques and results of orthotopic transplantation of 
cryopreserved ovarian tissue. Among almost 30 cases reported in the literature, 
seven live births have been achieved to date.

PMID: 19910892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. Sci China C Life Sci. 2009 Oct;52(10):935-41. doi:
10.1007/s11427-009-0134-0.  Epub 2009 Nov 13.

Efficient expression of codon-adapted human acetaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 cDNA 
with 6xHis tag in Pichia pastoris.

Zhao Y(1), Lei M, Wu Y, Zhang Z, Wang C.

Author information:
(1)State key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, College of Life Science 
and Technology, Huazhong Agriculture University, Wuhan, 430070, China.

Human mitochondrial acetaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2) catalyzes the oxidation 
of acetaldehyde to acetic acid. Therefore, ALDH2 has therapeutic potential in 
detoxification of acetaldehyde. Furthermore, ALDH2 catalyzes nitroglycerin to 
nitrate and 1, 2-glyceryldinitrate during therapy for angina pectoris, 
myocardial infarction, and heart failure. Large quantities of ALDH2 will be 
needed for potential clinical practice. In this study, Pichia pastoris was used 
as a platform for expression of human ALDH2. Based on the ALDH2*1 cDNA sequence, 
we designed ALDH2 cDNA by choosing the P. pastoris preferred codons and by 
decreasing the G + C content level. The sequence was synthesized using the 
overlap extension PCR method. The cDNA and 6xHis tags were subcloned into the 
plasmid pPIC9K. The recombinant protein was expressed in P. pastoris GS115 and 
purified using Ni(2+)-Sepharose affinity chromatography. The amount of secreted 
protein in the culture was 80 mg/L in shake-flask cultivation and 260 mg/L in 
high-density bioreactor fermentation. Secreted ALDH2 was easily purified from 
the culture supernatant by using Ni(2+)-Sepharose affinity chromatography. After 
purification of the fermentation supernatant, the enzyme had a specific activity 
of 1.2 U/mg protein. The yield was about 16 mg/L in a shake flask culture of P. 
pastoris GS115 which contained the original human ALDH2*1 cDNA.

DOI: 10.1007/s11427-009-0134-0
PMID: 19911129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Community Health. 2010 Feb;35(1):18-26. doi: 10.1007/s10900-009-9199-8.

Caring for the Uninsured with Prostate Cancer: A Comparison of Four Policy 
Alternatives in California.

Bergman J(1), Logan S, Fink A, Ganz DA, Peterson MA, Litwin MS.

Author information:
(1)UCLA Department of Urology, Box 951738, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1738, USA. 
jbergman@mednet.ucla.edu

The IMPACT Program seeks to improve access to prostate cancer care for 
low-income, uninsured men. The objective of the current study was to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of four policy alternatives in treating this population. We 
analyzed the cost-effectiveness of four policy alternatives for providing care 
to low-income, uninsured men with prostate cancer: (1) IMPACT as originally 
envisioned, (2) a version of IMPACT with reduced physician fees, (3) a 
hypothetical Medicaid prostate cancer treatment program, and (4) the existing 
county safety net. We calculated cost-effectiveness based on incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) with the formula ICER = (Cost(alternative 
strategy) - Cost(baseline strategy)) / (QALY(alternative strategy) - 
QALY(baseline strategy)). We measured outcomes as quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs). "Best-case" scenarios assumed timely access to care in 50% of cases in 
the county system and 70% of cases in any system that reimbursed providers at 
Medicaid fee-for-service rates. "Worst-case" scenarios assumed timely access in 
35 and 50% of corresponding cases. In fiscal year 2004-2005, IMPACT allocated 
11% of total expenditures to administrative functions and 23% to fixed clinical 
costs, with an overall budget of $5.9 million. The ICERs ($/QALY) assuming 
"best-case" scenarios for original IMPACT, modified IMPACT, and a hypothetical 
Medicaid program were $32,091; $64,663; and $10,376; respectively. ICERs 
assuming "worst-case" scenarios were $27,189; $84,236; and $10,714; 
respectively. County safety net was used as a baseline. In conclusion, IMPACT 
provides underserved Californians with prostate cancer care and value-added 
services with only 11% of funds allocated to administrative fixed costs. Both 
the original IMPACT program and the hypothetical Medicaid prostate cancer 
program were cost-effective compared to the county safety net, while the 
reduced-fees version of IMPACT was not.

DOI: 10.1007/s10900-009-9199-8
PMID: 19911260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Value Health. 2009 Jan-Feb;12(1):80-7. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00401.x.

An empiric estimate of the value of life: updating the renal dialysis 
cost-effectiveness standard.

Lee CP(1), Chertow GM, Zenios SA.

Author information:
(1)Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. 
cpclee@wharton.upenn.edu

OBJECTIVES: Proposals to make decisions about coverage of new technology by 
comparing the technology's incremental cost-effectiveness with the traditional 
benchmark of dialysis imply that the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
dialysis is seen a proxy for the value of a statistical year of life. The 
frequently used ratio for dialysis has, however, not been updated to reflect 
more recently available data on dialysis.
METHODS: We developed a computer simulation model for the end-stage renal 
disease population and compared cost, life expectancy, and quality adjusted life 
expectancy of current dialysis practice relative to three less costly 
alternatives and to no dialysis. We estimated incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios for these alternatives relative to the next least costly alternative and 
no dialysis and analyzed the population distribution of the ratios. Model 
parameters and costs were estimated using data from the Medicare population and 
a large integrated health-care delivery system between 1996 and 2003. The 
sensitivity of results to model assumptions was tested using 38 scenarios of 
one-way sensitivity analysis, where parameters informing the cost, utility, 
mortality and morbidity, etc. components of the model were by perturbed +/-50%.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of dialysis of current 
practice relative to the next least costly alternative is on average $129,090 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) ($61,294 per year), but its distribution 
within the population is wide; the interquartile range is $71,890 per QALY, 
while the 1st and 99th percentiles are $65,496 and $488,360 per QALY, 
respectively. Higher incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were associated with 
older age and more comorbid conditions. Sensitivity to model parameters was 
comparatively small, with most of the scenarios leading to a change of less than 
10% in the ratio.
CONCLUSIONS: The value of a statistical year of life implied by dialysis 
practice currently averages $129,090 per QALY ($61,294 per year), but is 
distributed widely within the dialysis population. The spread suggests that 
coverage decisions using dialysis as the benchmark may need to incorporate 
percentile values (which are higher than the average) to be consistent with the 
Rawlsian principles of justice of preserving the rights and interests of 
society's most vulnerable patient groups.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00401.x
PMID: 19911442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Value Health. 2009 Jan-Feb;12(1):146-52. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00391.x.

Using conjoint analysis to estimate healthy-year equivalents for acute 
conditions: an application to vasomotor symptoms.

Johnson FR(1), Hauber AB, Ozdemir S.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, RTP, NC 27709-2194, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Conventional standard gamble and time trade-off methods may be 
inappropriate for eliciting preferences for some health states because both 
require subjects to make trade-offs between a morbid health state and death. 
Thus, the objective of this study is to demonstrate the use of conjoint analysis 
to obtain time trade-off estimates of healthy-year equivalents (HYEs) for 
clinically relevant durations and severities of acute, self-limiting, or 
nonfatal conditions such as vasomotor symptoms.
METHODS: A self-administered, web-enabled, graded-pairs conjoint-analysis survey 
was developed to elicit women's preferences for reducing the frequency and 
severity of vasomotor symptoms (daytime hot flushes and night sweats). Observed 
trade-offs between symptom duration and symptom relief were used to calculate 
HYEs for different severities and durations of vasomotor symptoms.
RESULTS: A total of 523 women with a mean age of 52 years completed the survey. 
For these women, an improvement from severe to moderate vasomotor symptoms 
yields a gain of 4.44 HYEs, and an improvement from moderate to mild vasomotor 
symptoms over 1 year yields a gain of 4.62 HYEs over a period of 7 years. HYE 
gains for symptom relief are larger for younger women than for older women.
CONCLUSIONS: Conjoint analysis is a feasible method for estimating HYEs for 
acute, self-limiting, or nonfatal conditions. This approach may provide an 
alternative utility-elicitation method when conventional standard gamble and 
time trade-off methods are inappropriate to the decision context.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2008.00391.x
PMID: 19911445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Clin Infect Dis. 2009 Dec 15;49(12):1784-92. doi: 10.1086/649013.

Economic value of seasonal and pandemic influenza vaccination during pregnancy.

Beigi RH(1), Wiringa AE, Bailey RR, Assi TM, Lee BY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Infectious Diseases, Department of Obstetrics, 
Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, Magee-Womens Hospital of University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, USA. 
rbeigi@mail.magee.edu

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of maternal influenza immunization against 
laboratory-confirmed influenza has never been studied. The current 2009 H1N1 
influenza pandemic provides a timely opportunity to perform such analyses. The 
study objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of maternal influenza 
vaccination using both single- and 2-dose strategies against 
laboratory-confirmed influenza secondary to both seasonal epidemics and pandemic 
influenza outbreaks.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness decision analytic model construct using epidemic 
and pandemic influenza characteristics from both the societal and third-party 
payor perspectives. A comparison was made between vaccinating all pregnant women 
in the United States versus not vaccinating pregnant women. Probabilistic (Monte 
Carlo) sensitivity analyses were also performed. The main outcome measures were 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Maternal influenza vaccination using either the single- or 2-dose 
strategy is a cost-effective approach when influenza prevalence > or =7.5% and 
influenza-attributable mortality is > or =1.05% (consistent with epidemic 
strains). As the prevalence of influenza and/or the severity of the outbreak 
increases the incremental value of vaccination also increases. At a higher 
prevalence of influenza (> or =30%) the single-dose strategy demonstrates 
cost-savings while the 2-dose strategy remains highly cost-effective (ICER, < or 
=$6787.77 per quality-adjusted life year).
CONCLUSIONS: Maternal influenza immunization is a highly cost-effective 
intervention at disease rates and severity that correspond to both seasonal 
influenza epidemics and occasional pandemics. These findings justify ongoing 
efforts to optimize influenza vaccination during pregnancy from an economic 
perspective.

DOI: 10.1086/649013
PMCID: PMC2887606
PMID: 19911967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No other authors have any conflicts of interest 
to report.


925. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):159. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00665.x.
 Epub 2009 Nov 12.

Health state survey-derived utilities in cost-utility analysis--a call to 
action.

Geisler BP.

Comment on
    Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):222-9.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00665.x
PMID: 19912598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Value Health. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):209-14. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00672.x.  Epub 2009 Nov 13.

The cost-effectiveness of an extended course (12+12 weeks) of varenicline 
compared with other available smoking cessation strategies in the United States: 
an extension and update to the BENESCO model.

Knight C(1), Howard P, Baker CL, Marton JP.

Author information:
(1)Heron Evidence Development Ltd., Luton, UK. chris.knight@heronhealth.com

OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of an extended 
(12+12 weeks) course of varenicline using the (Benefits of Smoking Cessation on 
Outcomes) BENESCO smoking cessation model.
METHODS: Data on the efficacy of 12+12 weeks varenicline therapy in aiding 
smoking cessation were analyzed in conjunction with the efficacy data for 12 
weeks of varenicline, bupropion, and placebo previously included in the BENESCO 
model, by using a mixed treatment comparison. This analysis provided updated 
efficacy estimates for all the interventions, and these were used to update the 
model to estimate the relative cost-effectiveness of all smoking cessation 
interventions considered, now including 12+12 weeks of varenicline.
RESULTS: The updated 1-year abstinence estimates derived from the mixed 
treatment comparison were, for 12+12 weeks of varenicline, 12 weeks of 
varenicline, 12 weeks of bupropion, and 12 weeks of placebo, respectively: 
27.7%, 22.9%, 15.9%, and 9.3%. The average cost of the course of 12+12 weeks of 
varenicline was estimated at $603.89, based on a 12-week course followed by a 
further 12 weeks for successful quitters. Over all subjects' lifetimes, 12+12 
weeks of varenicline is less costly and more effective than (dominates) all 
other strategies compared in the updated BENESCO model, with the exception of 12 
weeks of varenicline. In this comparison, 12+12 weeks of varenicline is a very 
cost-effective alternative to the 12-week course, with an incremental cost of 
less than $1000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
CONCLUSIONS: A total of 12 weeks of varenicline followed by a further 12-week 
course for successful quitters is a highly cost-effective alternative compared 
with currently available smoking cessation options.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00672.x
PMID: 19912599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Global Health. 2009 Nov 14;5:15. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-5-15.

Exceptional epidemics: AIDS still deserves a global response.

Whiteside A(1), Smith J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Division (HEARD), University of KwaZulu-Natal, 
Westville Campus, Private Bag X54001 Durban, 4001, South Africa. 
a.whitesid@ukzn.ac.za

There has been a renewed debate over whether AIDS deserves an exceptional 
response. We argue that as AIDS is having differentiated impacts depending on 
the scale of the epidemic, and population groups impacted, and so responses must 
be tailored accordingly. AIDS is exceptional, but not everywhere. Exceptionalism 
developed as a Western reaction to a once poorly understood epidemic, but 
remains relevant in the current multi-dimensional global response. The attack on 
AIDS exceptionalism has arisen because of the amount of funding targeted to the 
disease and the belief that AIDS activists prioritize it above other health 
issues. The strongest detractors of exceptionalism claim that the AIDS response 
has undermined health systems in developing countries. We agree that in 
countries with low prevalence, AIDS should be normalised and treated as a public 
health issue--but responses must forcefully address human rights and tackle the 
stigma and discrimination faced by marginalized groups. Similarly, AIDS should 
be normalized in countries with mid-level prevalence, except when life-long 
treatment is dependent on outside resources--as is the case with most African 
countries--because treatment dependency creates unique sustainability 
challenges. AIDS always requires an exceptional response in countries with high 
prevalence (over 10 percent). In these settings there is substantial morbidity, 
filling hospitals and increasing care burdens; and increased mortality, which 
most visibly reduces life expectancy. The idea that exceptionalism is somehow 
wrong is an oversimplification. The AIDS response can not be mounted in 
isolation; it is part of the development agenda. It must be based on human 
rights principles, and it must aim to improve health and well-being of societies 
as a whole.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-5-15
PMCID: PMC2780407
PMID: 19912658


928. Lancet. 2010 Jan 16;375(9710):179-81. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61293-9.
Epub  2009 Nov 11.

Czech health two decades on from the Velvet Revolution.

Antonova P(1), Jacobs DI, Bojar M, Cerný R, Ciharová K, Frick MA, Fintel B, 
DeHovitz J, Bennett CL.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Centre, University Hospital Motol, Prague, Czech Republic.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Jun 12;375(9731):2071-2.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61293-9
PMCID: PMC2925692
PMID: 19913289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Food Microbiol. 2010 Feb;27(1):115-21. doi: 10.1016/j.fm.2009.09.002. Epub
2009  Sep 15.

Combined effects of salting, oregano oil and vacuum-packaging on the shelf-life 
of refrigerated trout fillets.

Frangos L(1), Pyrgotou N, Giatrakou V, Ntzimani A, Savvaidis IN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Food Microbiology, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

The present study evaluated the effect of salt, oregano essential oil (EO) and 
packaging on fresh rainbow trout fillets during storage at 4 degrees C. 
Treatments included the following: A1 (control samples, unsalted: air packaged), 
A2 (salted: air packaged), VP1 (salted, vacuum packaged), VP2 (salted, vacuum 
packaged with added oregano EO 0.2% v/wt), and VP3 salted, vacuum packaged with 
added oregano EO 0.4% v/wt). Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) (to a greater extent), 
followed by H(2)S-producing bacteria (including Shewanella putrefaciens), 
Pseudomonas spp. and Enterobacteriaceae reached higher populations in A1, A2 (as 
compared to VP1, VP2 and VP3) trout samples. Treatments VP1, VP2 and VP3 
produced significantly lower (P < 0.05) total volatile basic nitrogen (TVBN) and 
trimethylamine nitrogen (TMAN) values as compared to the A1 and A2 samples after 
day 6 and until end of storage period. Changes in thiobarbituric acid values 
(TBA) values for A1, A2, VP1, VP2 and VP3 samples were variable, indicative of 
no specific trend in trout samples, irrespective of packaging in the absence 
and/or presence of salt and oregano EO. As determined by sensory analysis 
(overall acceptability attribute) the observed shelf-life of trout fillets was 
longest for VP2 (16-17 days) followed by VP1 (14 days), A2 (8 days) and control 
(A1) samples (5 days). The presence of salt and oregano oil (0.2%) in cooked VP1 
trout samples produced a distinct but sensorially acceptable pleasant odor, well 
received by the panellists, in contrast to the combined effect of salt and 
oregano oil at the higher concentrations (0.4% v/wt) used. Addition of salt 
(treatment VP1) extended the product's shelf-life by 9 days, whereas the 
combination of salt, oregano EO (0.2% v/wt) under VP conditions (treatment VP2) 
resulted in a significant shelf-life extension of trout fillets (11-12 days) 
according to sensory data, as compared to the control sample, kept under aerobic 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fm.2009.09.002
PMID: 19913701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2010 Mar 18;62(4-5):458-77. doi:
10.1016/j.addr.2009.11.017.  Epub 2009 Nov 12.

Nanotechnology-based systems for the treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS.

das Neves J(1), Amiji MM, Bahia MF, Sarmento B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Technology, Faculty of Pharmacy, University of 
Porto, Rua Aníbal Cunha, Porto, Portugal.

The HIV/AIDS pandemic is an increasing global burden with devastating 
health-related and socioeconomic effects. The widespread use of antiretroviral 
therapy has dramatically improved life quality and expectancy of infected 
individuals, but limitations of currently available drug regimens and dosage 
forms, alongside with the extraordinary adapting capacity of the virus, have 
impaired further success. Alongside, circumventing the escalating number of new 
infections can only be attained with effective and practical preventative 
strategies. Recent advances in the field of drug delivery are providing evidence 
that engineered nanosystems may contribute importantly for the enhancement of 
current antiretroviral therapy. Additionally, groundwork is also being carried 
out in the field nanotechnology-based systems for developing preventative 
solutions for HIV transmission. This manuscript reviews recent advances in the 
field of nanotechnology-based systems for the treatment and prevention of 
HIV/AIDS. Particular attention is given to antiretroviral drug targeting to HIV 
reservoirs and the usefulness of nanosystems for developing topical microbicides 
and vaccines.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2009.11.017
PMID: 19914314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. Curr Opin Lipidol. 2010 Feb;21(1):38-43. doi: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e3283346ccc.

The distinction of metabolically 'healthy' from 'unhealthy' obese individuals.

Blüher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany. 
bluma@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The prevalence and severity of obesity are dramatically 
increasing throughout the world. Obesity causes a decline in life expectancy due 
to its associated metabolic and cardiovascular comorbid disorders. Therefore, it 
will become more important to distinguish obese individuals at high risk for 
obesity-related metabolic diseases from those who are metabolically 'healthy'. 
This review focuses on recent evidence suggesting that normal adipose tissue 
function contributes to the healthy obese phenotype.
RECENT FINDINGS: The majority of individuals with obesity develop insulin 
resistance, type 2 diabetes, dyslipidemia, gout, hypertension and cardiovascular 
disease. However, approximately 10-25% of obese individuals are metabolically 
healthy most likely due to preserved insulin sensitivity. Recent studies suggest 
that inflammation of visceral adipose tissue, ectopic fat deposition and adipose 
tissue dysfunction mediate insulin resistance in human obesity independently of 
total body fat mass. This suggests that mechanisms beyond a positive caloric 
balance such as inflammation and adipokine release determine the pathological 
metabolic consequences in patients with obesity.
SUMMARY: Recommendations for obesity treatment should distinguish the 
metabolically 'healthy' from 'unhealthy' obese phenotype to identify early the 
obese person who will benefit the most from losing weight. In addition, novel 
antiobesity treatment strategies targeting adipose tissue dysfunction are 
needed.

DOI: 10.1097/MOL.0b013e3283346ccc
PMID: 19915462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2010 Jun;136(6):821-7. doi:
10.1007/s00432-009-0722-1.  Epub 2009 Nov 15.

A new staging system is more discriminant than conventional staging systems for 
unresectable hepatocellular carcinoma.

Zhang BH(1), Wang XH, Yue HY, Ling CQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, General Hospital of People's Liberation Army, 730050 
Lanzhou, China. bhzhang1999@126.com

BACKGROUND: Prediction of the life expectancy of a patient with unresectable 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains difficult. The aims of the study were to 
construct a new staging scheme for patients with unresectable HCC and to compare 
the discriminatory ability of the staging scheme with the Okuda and CLIP score 
and TNM staging system in a cohort of patients with unresectable HCC.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of unresectable HCC cases from 1999 to 2003 
was performed. The Cox model was used for multivariate analyses. The final model 
was derived from 10 randomly chosen training samples and the prognostic validity 
of the new staging scheme was assessed on the corresponding testing samples. 
Moreover, 54 cases with unresectable HCC were enrolled and prospectively 
followed up. The new staging, named the China integrated score (CIS), Okuda, TNM 
and CLIP systems were determined for each case. Comparisons of the survival rate 
between each stage were performed to evaluate their discriminatory ability.
RESULTS: A simple scoring system was constructed, assigning linear scores 
(0/1/2) to the three covariates (TNM, alpha-fetoprotein and Child-Pugh) of the 
final model. The CIS system was more discriminant than the Okuda or TNM staging 
system, as confirmed by the Kaplan-Meier comparison of survival curves and by 
the Cox's regression analysis, with a median survival rate of 9.0, 2.3, 2.1 and 
0.6 months in patients with CIS 2, 3, 4 and 5, respectively. The CIS system was 
performed as well as the CLIP score.
CONCLUSION: The new staging system, accounting for both liver function and tumor 
characteristics, can accurately identify patients with different prognoses, 
particularly in the advanced phases of HCC. It should be useful as the only tool 
that can be applied for patients with unresectable HCC.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-009-0722-1
PMID: 19916022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Med Klin (Munich). 2009 Nov 15;104(11):837-40. doi:
10.1007/s00063-009-1187-3.

[Evolution of medicine as a continuing challenge: opening address of the 115th 
annual meeting of the German Society of Internal Medicine 19 April 2009 in 
Kurhaus Wiesbaden].

[Article in German]

Kolloch R.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-009-1187-3
PMID: 19916072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Psychiatr Prax. 2009 Nov;36(8):401-3. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1242896. Epub 2009
Nov  13.

[Update of the British schizophrenia guideline (2009): not light fare, but a 
milestone].

[Article in German]

Steinert T(1).

Author information:
(1)tilman.steinert@zfp-zentrum.de

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1242896
PMID: 19916140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Minn Med. 2009 Oct;92(10):4.

Unfolding story.

Meyer CR.

PMID: 19916264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J AOAC Int. 2009 Sep-Oct;92(5):1277-83.

Levels of trans fats in diets consumed in developing economies.

Butt MS(1), Sultan MT.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Food Science and Technology, University of Agriculture, 
Faisalabad, Pakistan. drmsbutt@yahoo.com

Cardiovascular complications are a leading cause of mortality worldwide, and 
dietary patterns and lifestyle are key factors responsible for their 
progression. Sedentary lifestyle and transient changes in nutrition have led to 
drastic increases in such maladies during the last few decades, and dietary 
changes are significant, as they are coupled with high fat intake, especially 
trans fats. In developed countries, legislations and monitoring systems have 
resulted in reduced consumption of these metabolites. The developing world, 
especially South Asia, is also facing the menace of trans fats; lack of 
governmental interest and ignorance among consumers are the main reasons. In 
these regions, the use of hydrogenated vegetable oil (ghee) and shortening in 
deep-fat frying of culinary items, such as samosa, paratha, bhatura, poori, and 
tikkies, results in increased consumption of trans fats. Research investigations 
and cohort studies showed a positive correlation between consumption of trans 
fats and cardiovascular disorders. In this article, trans fats intake and its 
level in different products available in developing countries, particularly in 
