
515. Reumatismo. 2009 Oct-Dec;61(4):244-53. doi: 10.4081/reumatismo.2009.244.

[Cardiac involvement in rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Italian]

Turiel M(1), Sitia S, Tomasoni L, Cicala S, Atzeni F, Gianturco L, Longhi M, De 
Gennaro Colonna V, Sarzi-Puttini P.

Author information:
(1)Università di Milano, Dipartimento di Tecnologie per la Salute, Milano, 
Italia. maurizio.turiel@unimi.it

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic disease of unknown etiology 
characterized by a chronic inflammatory process mainly leading to destruction of 
synovial membrane of small and major diarthrodial joints. The prevalence of RA 
within the general adult population is about 1% and female subjects in fertile 
age result mostly involved. It's an invalidating disease, associated with 
changes in life quality and a reduced life expectancy. Moreover, we can observe 
an increased mortality rate in this population early after the onset of the 
disease. The mortality excess can be partially due to infective, 
gastrointestinal, renal or pulmonary complications and malignancy (mainly lung 
cancer and non-Hodgkin lymphoma). Among extra-articular complications, 
cardiovascular (CV) involvement represents one of the leading causes of 
morbidity and mortality. Every cardiac structure can be affected by different 
pathogenic pathways: heart valves, conduction system, myocardium, endocardium, 
pericardium and coronary arteries. Consequently, different clinical 
manifestations can be detected, including: pericarditis, myocarditis, myocardial 
fibrosis, arrhythmias, alterations of conduction system, coronaropathies and 
ischemic cardiopathy, valvular disease, pulmonary hypertension and heart 
failure. Considering that early cardiac involvement negatively affects the 
prognosis, it is mandatory to identify high CV risk RA patients to better define 
long-term management of this population.

DOI: 10.4081/reumatismo.2009.244
PMID: 20143001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Zh Vopr Neirokhir Im N N Burdenko. 2009 Oct-Dec;(4):7-12; discussion 12-3.

[Clinical and cytogenetic factors of prognosis in glial tumors of the brain].

[Article in Russian]

Dreval' ON, Belokhvostov AS, Feniksov VM.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study is to assess clinical, morphofunctional 
and molecular factors of prognosis in patients with malignant cerebral gliomas.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of follow-up of surgical and 
complex treatment of 95 patients with cerebral gliomas was performed. The series 
included 81 primary case and 14 recurrent cases. In all patients age, sex, 
clinical, topographic, morphological and therapeutic factors were analyzed. In 
47 patients molecular and genetic prognostic factors including p51, MGMT, p16, 
PTEN and hyperproduction of miRNA21 in tumor cells were investigated.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: We established significant prognostic factors for 
cerebral gliomas. They include: histological nature, age, sex, comorbidity. 
Complex treatment of glial tumors (surgical resection + radiation therapy) 
correlated with longer life expectancy in comparison with patients who received 
only surgical treatment. Patients wish mutations in tumor cells had longer 
survival period in comparison with mutation-free patients. This finding allows 
application of molecular and genetic tumor markers as independent prognostic 
factors in glial cerebral tumors.

PMID: 20143607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Biosystems. 2010 May;100(2):87-93. doi: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2010.02.001.
Epub  2010 Feb 6.

Characterization of the norepinephrine-activation of adenylate cyclase suggests 
a role in memory affirmation pathways. Overexposure to epinephrine inactivates 
adenylate cyclase, a causal pathway for stress-pathologies.

Bennun A(1).

Author information:
(1)The State University of New Jersey, United States. alfr9@hotmail.com 
<alfr9@hotmail.com>

Incubation with noradrenaline (norepinephrine) of isolated membranes of rat's 
brain corpus striatum and cortex, showed that ionic-magnesium (Mg(2+)) is 
required for the neurotransmitter activatory response of adenylate cyclase [ATP 
pyrophosphate-lyase (cyclizing) (EC 4.6.1.1)], AC. An Mg(2+)-dependent response 
to the activatory effects of adrenaline, and subsequent inhibition by calcium, 
suggest capability for a turnover, associated with cyclic changes in membrane 
potential and participation in a short-term memory pathway. In the cell, the 
neurotransmitter by activating AC generates intracellular cyclic AMP. Calcium 
entrance in the cell inhibits the enzyme. The increment of cyclic AMP activates 
kinase A and their protein phosphorylating activity, allowing a long-term memory 
pathway. Hence, consolidating neuronal circuits, related to emotional learning 
and memory affirmation. The activatory effect relates to an enzyme-noradrenaline 
complex which may participate in the physiology of the fight or flight response, 
by prolonged exposure. However, the persistence of an unstable enzyme complex 
turns the enzyme inactive. Effect concordant, with the observation that 
prolonged exposure to adrenaline, participates in the etiology of stress 
triggered pathologies. At the cell physiological level AC responsiveness to 
hormones could be modulated by the concentration of chelating metabolites. These 
ones produce the release of free ATP(4-), a negative modulator of AC and the 
Mg(2+) activated insulin receptor tyrosine kinase (IRTK), thus, allowing an 
integration of the hormonal response of both enzymes by ionic controls. This 
effect could supersede the metabolic feedback control by energy charge. 
Accordingly, maximum hormonal response of both enzymes, to high Mg(2+) and low 
free ATP(4-), allows a correlation with the known effects of low caloric intake 
increasing average life expectancy.

2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biosystems.2010.02.001
PMID: 20144684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):425-34. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9600-1. Epub
2010  Feb 10.

Psychometric properties of the EQ-5D in a study of people with mild to moderate 
dementia.

Kunz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health 
(GmbH), Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Ingolstaedter 
Landstr. 1, 85764, Neuherberg, Germany. simone.kunz@helmholtz-muenchen.de

PURPOSE: Due to their cognitive impairment, the health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) of patients with dementia is often rated by proxies. This study aims to 
analyse the psychometric properties of the EQ-5D applied to patients with mild 
to moderate dementia and their family caregivers.
METHODS: Three hundred and ninety patients and their caregivers were asked to 
assess the patients' HRQoL using the EQ-5D. The German population-based time 
trade-off values were used to calculate utility weights. Acceptance, 
discriminative ability, construct validity, inter-rater agreement and 
responsiveness were tested. Factors that could have an impact on inter-rater 
agreement were analysed using a multivariate regression.
RESULTS: Five per cent of patients did not fill out the EQ-5D. The response rate 
of caregivers and of patients with mild dementia was higher than that of 
patients with moderate dementia. There were no floor or ceiling effects. The 
test results of the caregivers concerning construct validity and responsiveness 
were better than those of the patients. The inter-rater reliability was not 
satisfactory either on the dimension level or on the utility score level. 
Caregivers gave the patients' HRQoL significantly lower ratings than did the 
patients themselves. Better abilities of the patient to perform activities of 
daily living and a lower subjective burden of the caregiver were associated with 
a higher inter-rater agreement.
CONCLUSIONS: The study showed that the EQ-5D is especially applicable to 
patients with mild dementia and their caregivers as proxies. However, there are 
important differences between patient and proxy ratings, even in cases of mild 
dementia, at the dimension level as well as utility score level, which should be 
considered in the interpretation of quality of life scores.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9600-1
PMID: 20146008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):371-9. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9599-3. Epub
2010  Feb 10.

Assessing the use of health-related quality of life measures in the routine 
clinical care of lung-transplant patients.

Santana MJ(1), Feeny D, Johnson JA, McAlister FA, Kim D, Weinkauf J, Lien DC.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta Hospital, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. 
msantana@ualberta.ca

PURPOSE: This randomized controlled clinical trial examined the usefulness of 
including an assessment of health-related quality of life (HRQL) in the routine 
clinical care of lung-transplant patients. We hypothesized that the inclusion of 
HRQL in routine clinical care would improve patient-clinician communication, 
affect clinical management, and improve patients' HRQL.
METHODS: At the outpatient clinic, University of Alberta Hospital, patients were 
randomly assigned to intervention (completion of Health Utilities Index Mark 2 
(HUI2) and Mark 3 (HUI3) on touch-screen computer with feedback to clinicians) 
and control group (completion of HUI2 and HUI3 on touch-screen computer without 
feedback). Feedback involved a graphical representation included in patients' 
chart. All clinical encounters were audio-taped. Changes in clinical management 
(medication changes, number of referrals and test ordered) were summed to 
produce an overall management composite. At the end of every visit, patients 
completed the EQ-5D.
RESULTS: Two hundred and thirteen patients were randomized (108 to intervention 
and 105 to control groups). There were statistically significant differences 
between the groups in mean number of issues discussed per encounter (P = 0.003; 
Cohen's d = 0.03) and mean management composite score (P = 0.001; Cohen's d = 
0.41). EQ-5D index was not statistically significant different between the 
groups (P = 0.48).
CONCLUSIONS: We detected very small effects on patient-clinician communication 
and small effects on patient management, without detecting improvement in 
patient outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9599-3
PMID: 20146009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. J Occup Environ Hyg. 2010 Apr;7(4):216-23. doi: 10.1080/15459621003597488.

Stoffenmanager exposure model: company-specific exposure assessments using a 
Bayesian methodology.

van de Ven P(1), Fransman W, Schinkel J, Rubingh C, Warren N, Tielemans E.

Author information:
(1)Business Unit Quality & Safety, TNO Quality of Life, Zeist, The Netherlands.

The web-based tool "Stoffenmanager" was initially developed to assist small- and 
medium-sized enterprises in the Netherlands to make qualitative risk assessments 
and to provide advice on control at the workplace. The tool uses a mechanistic 
model to arrive at a "Stoffenmanager score" for exposure. In a recent study it 
was shown that variability in exposure measurements given a certain 
Stoffenmanager score is still substantial. This article discusses an extension 
to the tool that uses a Bayesian methodology for quantitative 
workplace/scenario-specific exposure assessment. This methodology allows for 
real exposure data observed in the company of interest to be combined with the 
prior estimate (based on the Stoffenmanager model). The output of the tool is a 
company-specific assessment of exposure levels for a scenario for which data is 
available. The Bayesian approach provides a transparent way of synthesizing 
different types of information and is especially preferred in situations where 
available data is sparse, as is often the case in small- and medium 
sized-enterprises. Real-world examples as well as simulation studies were used 
to assess how different parameters such as sample size, difference between prior 
and data, uncertainty in prior, and variance in the data affect the eventual 
posterior distribution of a Bayesian exposure assessment.

DOI: 10.1080/15459621003597488
PMID: 20146134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. BMJ. 2010 Feb 10;340:c392. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c392.

The influence of preoperative use of ventricular assist devices on survival 
after heart transplantation: propensity score matched analysis.

Shuhaiber JH(1), Hur K, Gibbons R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical 
Center, University of Cincinnati, MLC 2004, Cincinnati, OH 45229-0309, USA. 
jeffrey.shuhaiber@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine the influence of the preoperative placement of a left 
ventricular assist device on survival after heart transplantation.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Organ sharing database with patient level data on heart transplants in 
the United States.
PARTICIPANTS: 2786 adults aged 18 or older in status 1A or 1B (highest priority 
for heart transplantation with either some form of ventricular assist device, 
intravenous inotrope, or life expectancy of less than seven days), based on the 
United Network for Organ Sharing Registry, 1996-2004.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Survival after heart transplantation in patients who did 
and did not receive a left ventricular assist device.
RESULTS: The left ventricular assist device was not associated with decreased 
survival, even after the data were stratified by propensity score (the odds of 
being a treated patient). Inspection of the strata showed no difference in 
survival between patients who received the device and those who did not. The 
hazard ratios in strata 1 to 5 were 0.69, 1.37, 1.55, 0.75, and 1.19, 
respectively, and none was statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Overall, survival after heart transplantation in patients who 
received a left ventricular assist device before transplantation was comparable 
to those who did not receive the device.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c392
PMCID: PMC2820162
PMID: 20147346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


522. Am J Public Health. 2010 Apr 1;100 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S186-96. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2009.166082. Epub 2010 Feb 10.

Socioeconomic disparities in health in the United States: what the patterns tell 
us.

Braveman PA(1), Cubbin C, Egerter S, Williams DR, Pamuk E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, 3333 California St, Suite 365, San Francisco, CA 94118, USA. 
braveman@fcm.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to describe socioeconomic disparities in the United States 
across multiple health indicators and socioeconomic groups.
METHODS: Using recent national data on 5 child (infant mortality, health status, 
activity limitation, healthy eating, sedentary adolescents) and 6 adult (life 
expectancy, health status, activity limitation, heart disease, diabetes, 
obesity) health indicators, we examined indicator rates across multiple income 
or education categories, overall and within racial/ethnic groups.
RESULTS: Those with the lowest income and who were least educated were 
consistently least healthy, but for most indicators, even groups with 
intermediate income and education levels were less healthy than the wealthiest 
and most educated. Gradient patterns were seen often among non-Hispanic Blacks 
and Whites but less consistently among Hispanics.
CONCLUSIONS: Health in the United States is often, though not invariably, 
patterned strongly along both socioeconomic and racial/ethnic lines, suggesting 
links between hierarchies of social advantage and health. Worse health among the 
most socially disadvantaged argues for policies prioritizing those groups, but 
pervasive gradient patterns also indicate a need to address a wider 
socioeconomic spectrum-which may help garner political support. Routine health 
reporting should examine socioeconomic and racial/ethnic disparity patterns, 
jointly and separately.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.166082
PMCID: PMC2837459
PMID: 20147693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. N Z Med J. 2009 Dec 11;122(1307):10-7.

Gender inequality in New Zealand life expectancy: decomposition by age and 
cause.

Sandiford P(1).

Author information:
(1)Waitemata District Health Board, Private Bag 93-5031, Takapuna, Auckland, New 
Zealand. peter@sandifords.net

AIM To quantify gender inequality in life expectancy at birth (LEB) in New 
Zealand and the contribution to it made by different age groups and causes of 
death. To examine the response of the health sector.METHOD Determination of the 
trend in sex differences in LEB. Multiple decrement decomposition of LEB 
differences into components ages and causes. Review of the gender equity 
policies and priorities of New Zealand's main health sector stakeholders.RESULTS 
A difference between the sexes in LEB of 4.7 years for Māori and 4.0 years for 
non-Māori, reverses the historically lower gender disparity among the Māori. 
Over half of the sex difference in LEB is accounted for by heart disease and all 
types of cancer and almost a quarter by accidents and suicide but male survival 
disadvantage is evident in many other causes of death. The health sector is 
beginning to acknowledge the survival disadvantage of men as inequitable, and 
reducing disparity as a legitimate goal for health policy.CONCLUSION Although 
gender inequality in LEB is declining among the non-Māori it remains high among 
the Māori. Smoking habits may explain some of the difference in LEB but policies 
must also address the causes of sex differences in accidental death and suicide.

PMID: 20148040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Am J Manag Care. 2010 Jan;16(1):49-54.

Is there a survival benefit within a German primary care-based disease 
management program?

Miksch A(1), Laux G, Ose D, Joos S, Campbell S, Riens B, Szecsenyi J.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice and Health Services Research, University of 
Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany. antje.miksch@med.uniheidelberg.de

OBJECTIVE: To compare the mortality rate of patients with type 2 diabetes who 
were enrolled in the German diabetes disease management program (DMP) with the 
mortality rate of those who were not enrolled.
STUDY DESIGN: This observational study was part of the ELSID study (Evaluation 
of a Large Scale Implementation of disease management programs) in Germany.
METHODS: Participants had type 2 diabetes and were either enrolled or not 
enrolled in the DMP. The DMP provides systems-based, multifaceted, and 
patient-centered interventions. To reduce imbalances between the groups, a 
matched sample was created using sex, age, retirement status, federal state, 
pharmacy-based cost groups, and diagnostic-cost groups as matching criteria. Cox 
proportional hazards regression model and the Kaplan-Meier method were used to 
assess overall mortality. The observation period was 3 years beginning on 
January 1, 2006.
RESULTS: A total of 11,079 patients were included in the analysis. As of January 
1, 2006, 2300 patients were enrolled in the DMP and 8779 were receiving routine 
care. There were 1927 matched pairs of patients in the DMP group and the non-DMP 
group. The overall mortality rate was 11.3% in the DMP and 14.4% in the non-DMP 
group (log-rank test P <.01).
CONCLUSIONS: We found an association between participation in the German 
diabetes DMP and reduced mortality. This reduced mortality cannot be attributed 
directly to the DMP. However, further research should evaluate whether a primary 
care-based DMP contributes to increased life expectancy in patients with 
diabetes.

PMID: 20148605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. J Interprof Care. 2010 Mar;24(2):131-8. doi: 10.3109/13561820903417426.

Interprofessional education and collaborative practice.

Ramsammy L(1).

Author information:
(1)Minister of Health, Lot 1 Brickdam, Georgetown, Guyana, South America.

DOI: 10.3109/13561820903417426
PMID: 20148620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Allergy. 2010 Sep;65(9):1141-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2010.02336.x. Epub
2010  Feb 10.

The costs and consequences of omalizumab in uncontrolled asthma from a USA payer 
perspective.

Campbell JD(1), Spackman DE, Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Colorado Denver, Aurora, CO, 
USA. Jon.Campbell@ucdenver.edu

BACKGROUND: Omalizumab, an anti-immunoglobulin E antibody, reduces exacerbations 
and symptoms in uncontrolled allergic asthma. The study objective was to 
estimate the costs and consequences of omalizumab compared to usual care from a 
US payer perspective.
METHODS: We estimated payer costs, quality-adjusted survival (QALYs), and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of omalizumab compared to usual care 
using a state-transition simulation model that included sensitivity analyses. 
Every 2 weeks, patients could transition between chronic asthma and exacerbation 
health states. The best available evidence informed the clinical and cost input 
estimates. Five years of omalizumab treatment followed by usual care was assumed 
to estimate a lifetime horizon. Omalizumab responders (60.5% of treated) were 
modeled as a separate scenario where nonresponders reverted back to usual care 
after 16 weeks of active treatment.
RESULTS: The mean lifetime discounted costs and QALYs were $83,400 and 13.87 for 
usual care and $174,500 and 14.19 for omalizumab plus usual care resulting in 
$287 200/QALY (95% interval: $219,300, $557, 900). The ICER was $172 300/QALY 
when comparing omalizumab to usual care in the responder scenario. One-way 
sensitivity analyses indicated that the results were sensitive to the difference 
in treatment-specific utilities for the chronic state, exacerbation-associated 
mortality, omalizumab price, exacerbation rates, and response definition.
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that adding omalizumab to usual care improves 
QALYs at an increase in direct medical costs. The cost-effectiveness of 
omalizumab is similar to other chronic disease biologics. The value increases 
when omalizumab response is used to guide long-term treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1398-9995.2010.02336.x
PMID: 20148804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Haemophilia. 2010 May;16(3):437-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02188.x.
Epub  2010 Feb 9.

Mortality and causes of death in Italian persons with haemophilia, 1990-2007.

Tagliaferri A(1), Rivolta GF, Iorio A, Oliovecchio E, Mancuso ME, Morfini M, 
Rocino A, Mazzucconi MG, Franchini M; Italian Association of Hemophilia Centers; 
Ciavarella N, Scaraggi A, Valdrè L, Tagariello G, Radossi P, Muleo G, Iannaccaro 
PG, Biasoli C, Vincenzi D, Serino ML, Linari S, Molinari C, Boeri E, La 
Pecorella M, Carloni MT, Santagostino E, Di Minno G, Coppola A, Rocino A, Zanon 
E, Spiezia L, Di Perna C, Marchesini M, Marcucci M, Dragani A, Macchi S, 
Albertini P, D'Incà M, Santoro C, Biondo F, Piseddu G, Rossetti G, Barillari G, 
Gandini G, Giuffrida AC, Castaman G.

Author information:
(1)Regional Reference Centre for Inherited Bleeding Disorders, University 
Hospital, Parma, Italy.

Although a number of studies have analysed so far the causes of death and the 
life expectancy in haemophilic populations, no investigations have been 
conducted among Italian haemophilia centres. Thus, the aim of this study was to 
investigate mortality, causes of deaths, life expectancy and co-morbidities in 
Italian persons with haemophilia (PWH). Data pertaining to a total of 443 PWH 
who died between 1980 and 2007 were retrospectively collected in the 30 centres 
who are members of the Italian Association of Haemophilia Centres that chose to 
participate. The mortality rate ratio standardized to the male Italian 
population (SMR) was reduced during the periods 1990-1999 and 2000-2007 such 
that during the latter, death rate overlapped that of the general population 
(SMR 1990-1999: 1.98 95% CI 1.54-2.51; SMR 2000-2007: 1.08 95% CI 0.83-1.40). 
Similarly, life expectancy in the whole haemophilic population increased in the 
same period (71.2 years in 2000-2007 vs. 64.0 in 1990-1999), approaching that of 
the general male population. While human immunodeficiency virus infection was 
the main cause of death (45%), 13% of deaths were caused by hepatitis 
C-associated complications. The results of this retrospective study show that in 
Italian PWH improvements in the quality of treatment and global medical care 
provided by specialized haemophilia centres resulted in a significantly 
increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02188.x
PMID: 20148978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Feb 11;8:21. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-21.

Exploring the validity of estimating EQ-5D and SF-6D utility values from the 
health assessment questionnaire in patients with inflammatory arthritis.

Harrison MJ(1), Lunt M, Verstappen SM, Watson KD, Bansback NJ, Symmons DP.

Author information:
(1)The arc Epidemiology Unit, The University of Manchester, Manchester, M13 9PT, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Utility scores are used to estimate Quality Adjusted Life Years 
(QALYs), applied in determining the cost-effectiveness of health care 
interventions. In studies where no preference based measures are collected, 
indirect methods have been developed to estimate utilities from clinical 
instruments. The aim of this study was to evaluate a published method of 
estimating the EuroQol-5D (EQ-5D) and Short Form-6D (SF-6D) (preference based) 
utility scores from the Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in patients with 
inflammatory arthritis.
METHODS: Data were used from 3 cohorts of patients with: early inflammatory 
arthritis (<10 weeks duration); established (>5 years duration) stable 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA); and RA being treated with anti-TNF therapy. Patients 
completed the EQ-5D, SF-6D and HAQ at baseline and a follow-up assessment. EQ-5D 
and SF-6D scores were predicted from the HAQ using a published method. 
Differences between predicted and observed EQ-5D and SF-6D scores were assessed 
using the paired t-test and linear regression.
RESULTS: Predicted utility scores were generally higher than observed scores 
(range of differences: EQ-5D 0.01 - 0.06; SF-6D 0.05 - 0.10). Change between 
predicted values of the EQ-5D and SF-6D corresponded well with observed change 
in patients with established RA. Change in predicted SF-6D scores was, however, 
less than half of that in observed values (p < 0.001) in patients with more 
active disease. Predicted EQ-5D scores underestimated change in cohorts of 
patients with more active disease.
CONCLUSION: Predicted utility scores overestimated baseline values but 
underestimated change. Predicting utility values from the HAQ will therefore 
likely underestimate the QALYs of interventions, particularly for patients with 
active disease. We recommend the inclusion of at least one preference based 
measure in future clinical studies.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-21
PMCID: PMC2829532
PMID: 20149253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Surgery. 2010 Jul;148(1):119-28. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2009.12.013. Epub 2010
Feb  10.

Infrapopliteal arterial reconstructions for limb salvage in patients aged > or 
=80 years according to preoperative ambulatory function and residential status.

Ballotta E(1), Gruppo M, Mazzalai F, Martella B, Terranova O, Da Giau G.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Section, Geriatric Surgery Clinic, Department of Surgical 
and Gastroenterological Sciences, University of Padua, Padova, Italy. 
enzo.ballotta@unipd.it

BACKGROUND: Although numerous studies have addressed peripheral 
revascularizations for critical limb ischemia (CLI) in patients aged > or =80 
years, few have focused exclusively on infrapopliteal arterial reconstructions. 
This study aimed to analyze early and long-term outcomes in very elderly 
patients who underwent surgical infrapopliteal revascularization for CLI 
according to their pre-operative ambulatory function and residential status.
METHODS: Over an 18-year period, all consecutive patients aged > or =80 years 
referred to our institution for CLI requiring primary infrapopliteal or 
inframalleolar arterial reconstruction were enrolled in the study. All 
procedures were completed by the same surgeon with patients under regional 
anesthesia. Patency, limb salvage, amputation-free survival, and cumulative 
survival rates were assessed by Kaplan-Meier analysis. The patient's pre- and 
postoperative ambulatory function and residential status (at home vs in a 
nursing home) were also analyzed. The mean follow-up was 6.2 years (range, 
0.1-11.5) and was obtained for 98% of patients.
RESULTS: In all, 197 patients (134 men; mean +/- SD age, 82.8 +/- 1.7 years) 
with 201 critically ischemic limbs were enrolled in the study. No deaths or 
fatal major complications occurred in the peri-operative period (first 30 days); 
the local complication rate was 6%. After 1 and 7 years, the primary patency 
rates were 88% and 68%, the limb salvage rates were 96% and 87%, the 
amputation-free survival rates were 88% and 39%, and the survival rates were 91% 
and 44%, respectively. At last follow-up or death, 80% of the patients were 
ambulatory and 20% were not; 80% lived at home and were independent, another 9% 
lived at home with assistance, and 76% of the sample lived at home and were 
ambulatory.
CONCLUSION: Infrapopliteal arterial revascularization in the very elderly with 
CLI proved safe, effective, and durable, confirming that age per se and 
concomitant comorbidities do not necessarily affect technical and clinical 
outcomes. Ambulatory function and independent living status are well preserved 
because, despite a relatively short life expectancy, the majority of very 
elderly revascularized CLI patients can be expected to spend their remaining 
years ambulatory and at home. In contrast, patients with poor ambulatory 
function or who required assistance pre-operatively were less likely to improve 
their status after limb revascularization despite a successful technical result.

Copyright 2010 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2009.12.013
PMID: 20149403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Stroke. 2010 Apr;41(4):739-44. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.573543. Epub 2010
Feb  11.

Quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) and loss of QALE for patients with 
ischemic stroke and intracerebral hemorrhage: a 13-year follow-up.

Lee HY(1), Hwang JS, Jeng JS, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Few studies have evaluated the long-term health impact 
of stroke as categorized into different subtypes. The aim of this study is to 
quantify the loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy related to ischemic stroke 
and intracerebral hemorrhage.
METHODS: The hospital-based cohort, which consisted of 13,194 patients with 
first-ever stroke onset dates between 1995 and 2007, was classified into lacunar 
and nonlacunar infarctions and intracerebral hemorrhages. After linking with the 
National Mortality Registry, survival functions were determined and extrapolated 
over a 50-year period based on the survival ratio between the patients' survival 
and age- and sex-matched reference population's as calculated from the vital 
statistics of Taiwan. The survival functions were then multiplied by the quality 
of life assessed under the EuroQol 5-dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaire based on a 
sample of 486 patients with stroke.
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted life expectancy for a patient with ischemic stroke 
was 8.7 quality-adjusted life-years with an average loss of 8.3 quality-adjusted 
life-years, and there appeared to be no difference between lacunar and 
nonlacunar infarctions. Patients with intracerebral hemorrhage had a similar 
quality-adjusted life expectancy as those with ischemic stroke but with a 
significantly greater loss relative to the reference population (14.1 
quality-adjusted life-years) because of younger ages.
CONCLUSION: The lifelong health burden due to stroke was approximately 9.5 
quality-adjusted life-years and should be considered in future 
cost-effectiveness analyses for prevention.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.573543
PMID: 20150543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Neuropsychopharmacol Hung. 2009 Dec;11(4):217-25.

[Slowing the age-induced decline of brain function with prophylactic use of 
(-)-deprenyl (Selegiline, Jumex). Current international view and conclusions 25 
years after the Knoll's proposal].

[Article in Hungarian]

Miklya I(1).

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, AOK, Farmakológiai és Farmakoterápiás Intézet, Budapest, 
Hungary. mikild@hotmail.com

Due primarily to developments in immunology, chemotherapy and hygiene the 
estimated life expectancy at birth increased during the last century from about 
55 years to 80 years. Since the human Technical Life Span (TLSh) is about 120 
years and life expectancy is today steadily increasing by about 2.2 months/year, 
a life span of 100 years may appear quite soon. Knoll developed (-)-deprenyl, 
the first anti-aging drug, the prophylactic administration of which increased 
significantly the average life span of animals. (-)-Deprenyl became a world-wide 
used experimental tool as the first selective inhibitor of B-type MAO and being 
the unique MAO inhibitor free of the cheese effect was introduced to treat 
Parkinson's disease, because it could be administered in combination with 
levodopa without side effects. However, Knoll demonstrated in his later work 
that (-)-deprenyl has enhancing qualities already in femto-picomolar 
concentrations, which leave MAO-B activity unchanged, and the activity of the 
catecholaminergic neurons in the brain stem and this previously unknown 
'enhancer effect' is responsible for the peculiar therapeutic benefits caused by 
(-)-deprenyl. Knoll proposed 25 years ago to slow the aging of the brain, the 
decay of behavioral performance, prolong life, and prevent or delay the onset of 
age-related neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's via 
the prophylactic daily administration of 1 mg (-)-deprenyl. At present 
(-)-deprenyl belongs to the best known anti-aging drugs and a rapidly growing 
number of people are already trying to slow the aging of their brain by taking 
(-)-deprenyl as a prophylactic agent. Nevertheless, up to the present, an exact 
analysis with placebo control of the capacity of (-)-deprenyl to prevent or 
delay the onset of neurodegenerative diseases is still missing. It is already 
very much on the map to perform such a study with this world-wide highly 
esteemed Hungarian drug.

PMID: 20150659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. Qual Life Res. 2010 May;19(4):489-97. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9605-9. Epub
2010  Feb 12.

On the (not so) constant proportional trade-off in TTO.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University Rotterdam, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. attema@bmg.eur.nl

PURPOSE: The linear and power QALY models require that people in Time Trade-off 
(TTO) exercises sacrifice the same proportion of lifetime to obtain a health 
improvement, irrespective of the absolute amount. However, evidence on these 
constant proportional trade-offs (CPTOs) is mixed, indicating that these 
versions of the QALY model do not represent preferences. Still, it may be the 
case that a more general version of the QALY model represents preferences. This 
version has the property that people want to sacrifice the same proportion of 
utilities of lifetime for a health improvement, irrespective of the amount of 
this lifetime.
METHODS: We use a new method to correct TTO scores for utility of life duration 
and test whether decision makers trade off utility of duration and quality at 
the same rate irrespective of duration.
RESULTS: We find a robust violation of CPTO for both uncorrected and corrected 
TTO scores. Remarkably, we find higher values for longer durations, contrary to 
most previous studies. This represents the only study correcting for utility of 
life duration to find such a violation.
CONCLUSIONS: It seems that the trade-off of life years is indeed not so 
constantly proportional and, therefore, that health state valuations depend on 
durations.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9605-9
PMCID: PMC2852526
PMID: 20151207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Lakartidningen. 2009 Dec 22;106(52):3489-91.

[Soon more and more Swedish centenarians. Increased 10 times since 1970].

[Article in Swedish]

Marmstål A(1), Rosén M, Rosenqvist M.

Author information:
(1)Södersjukhuset, Stockholm.

PMID: 20151505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Biochemistry. 2010 Mar 23;49(11):2475-82. doi: 10.1021/bi901457e.

Replacement of Val3 in human thymidylate synthase affects its kinetic properties 
and intracellular stability.

Huang X(1), Gibson LM, Bell BJ, Lovelace LL, Peña MM, Berger FG, Berger SH, 
Lebioda L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of South Carolina, 
Columbia, South Carolina 29208, USA.

Human and other mammalian thymidylate synthase (TS) enzymes have an N-terminal 
extension of approximately 27 amino acids that is not present in bacterial TSs. 
The extension, which is disordered in all reported crystal structures of TSs, 
has been considered to play a primary role in protein turnover but not in 
catalytic activity. In mammalian cells, the variant V3A has a half-life similar 
to that of wild-type human TS (wt hTS) while V3T is much more stable; V3L, V3F, 
and V3Y have half-lives approximately half of that for wt hTS. Catalytic 
turnover rates for most Val3 mutants are only slightly diminished, as expected. 
However, two mutants, V3L and V3F, have strongly compromised dUMP binding, with 
K(m,app) values increased by factors of 47 and 58, respectively. For V3L, this 
observation can be explained by stabilization of the inactive conformation of 
the loop of residues 181-197, which prevents substrate binding. In the crystal 
structure of V3L, electron density corresponding to a leucine residue is present 
in a position that stabilizes the loop of residues 181-197 in the inactive 
conformation. Since this density is not observed in other mutants and all other 
leucine residues are ordered in this structure, it is likely that this density 
represents Leu3. In the crystal structure of a V3F.FdUMP binary complex, the 
nucleotide is bound in an alternative mode to that proposed for the catalytic 
complex, indicating that the high K(m,app) value is caused not by stabilization 
of the inactive conformer but by substrate binding in a nonproductive, 
inhibitory site. These observations show that the N-terminal extension affects 
the conformational state of the hTS catalytic region. Each of the mechanisms 
leading to the high K(m,app) values can be exploited to facilitate design of 
compounds acting as allosteric inhibitors of hTS.

DOI: 10.1021/bi901457e
PMCID: PMC2856444
PMID: 20151707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(3):171-4. doi: 10.2165/11530990-000000000-00000.

Measuring quality of life for certain events versus pre-specified points in 
time.

Neyt M(1).

Author information:
(1)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre, Brussels, Belgium. 
mattias.neyt@kce.fgov.be

DOI: 10.2165/11530990-000000000-00000
PMID: 20151723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(3):201-16. doi: 10.2165/11313990-000000000-00000.

Estimation of a valuation function for a diabetes mellitus-specific 
preference-based measure of health: the Diabetes Utility Index.

Sundaram M(1), Smith MJ, Revicki DA, Miller LA, Madhavan S, Hobbs G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Systems and Policy, School of Pharmacy, West 
Virginia University, Morgantown, West Virginia 26506-9510, USA. 
doctormurali@gmail.com

Preference-based measures of health (PBMH) provide 'preference' or 'utility' 
weights that enable the calculation of QALYs for the economic evaluations of 
interventions. The Diabetes Utility Index (DUI) was developed as a brief, 
self-administered, diabetes mellitus-specific PBMH that can efficiently estimate 
patient-derived health state utilities. To describe the development of the 
valuation function for the DUI, and to report the validation results of the 
valuation function. Multi-Attribute Utility Theory (MAUT) was used as the 
framework to develop a valuation function for the DUI. Twenty of 768 possible 
health states of the DUI classified as anchor states, single-attribute level 
states including corner states, and marker states were selected and described 
for preference elicitation interviews. Visual analogue scale and standard gamble 
(SG) exercises were used to measure preferences from individuals with diabetes 
recruited from primary care and community settings in and around Morgantown, WV, 
USA for the 20 health states defined by combinations of DUI attributes and 
severity levels. Data collected in the interviews were used to develop a 
valuation function that calculates utilities for the DUI health states and 
calculates attribute-level utilities. A validation survey of the valuation 
function was conducted in collaboration with the West Virginia University (WVU) 
Diabetes Institute. A total of 100 individuals with diabetes were interviewed 
and their preferences for various DUI health states measured. From data 
generated in the interviews, a DUI valuation function was developed on a scale 
where 1.00 = perfect health (PH) and 0.00 = the all worse 'pits' state, and 
adjusted to yield utilities on the conventional scale 1.00 = PH and 0.00 = dead. 
A total of 396 patients with diabetes who received care at WVU clinics completed 
a DUI mail validation survey (response rate = 33%). Clinical data consisting of 
International Classification of Diseases, 9th edition, diagnosis codes and 
glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA(1c)) values for the respondents were merged with 
their responses to the DUI. The utilities calculated by the scoring function of 
the DUI compared favourably to cardinal SG utilities for three DUI health states 
for which both assessments were available. The DUI utility function slightly 
underestimated actual SG utilities for mild and moderate health states (mean 
absolute difference = 0.05). There was a small but significant correlation 
between DUI utility scores and average past year HbA(1c) values (r = -0.30; p < 
0.001). Respondents with two or more complications had significantly lower DUI 
utilities than those with no complications (p < 0.001) or one complication (p = 
0.015). Insulin users had significantly lower DUI utilities than non-users (p < 
0.001), and those with HbA(1c) values <7% had significantly higher DUI utilities 
than those with HbA(1c) values of >or=7% (p < 0.001). No significant association 
was found between DUI scores and age or sex. These results show evidence of the 
feasibility and validity of the DUI. Further research is suggested to 
demonstrate the generalizability of these findings, to study the responsiveness 
of the DUI, and to examine the clinical meaningfulness of DUI change scores.

DOI: 10.2165/11313990-000000000-00000
PMID: 20151725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Feb 12;8:23. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-23.

Using qualitative methods to inform the trade-off between content validity and 
consistency in utility assessment: the example of type 2 diabetes and 
Alzheimer's disease.

McGrath C(1), Rofail D, Gargon E, Abetz L.

Author information:
(1)Health Technology Assessment Policy, Medical Division, Worldwide 
Pharmaceutical Operations, 3-1-60 Walton Oaks, Tadworth, Surrey KT20 7NS, UK.

BACKGROUND: Key stakeholders regard generic utility instruments as suitable 
tools to inform health technology assessment decision-making regarding 
allocation of resources across competing interventions. These instruments 
require a 'descriptor', a 'valuation' and a 'perspective' of the economic 
evaluation. There are various approaches that can be taken for each of these, 
offering a potential lack of consistency between instruments (a basic 
requirement for comparisons across diseases). The 'reference method' has been 
proposed as a way to address the limitations of the Quality-Adjusted Life Year 
(QALY). However, the degree to which generic measures can assess patients' 
specific experiences with their disease would remain unresolved. This has been 
neglected in the discussions on methods development and its impact on the QALY 
values obtained and resulting cost per QALY estimate underestimated. This study 
explored the content of utility instruments relevant to type 2 diabetes and 
Alzheimer's disease (AD) as examples, and the role of qualitative research in 
informing the trade-off between content coverage and consistency.
METHOD: A literature review was performed to identify qualitative and 
quantitative studies regarding patients' experiences with type 2 diabetes or AD, 
and associated treatments. Conceptual models for each indication were developed. 
Generic- and disease-specific instruments were mapped to the conceptual models.
RESULTS: Findings showed that published descriptions of relevant concepts 
important to patients with type 2 diabetes or AD are available for consideration 
in deciding on the most comprehensive approach to utility assessment. While the 
15-dimensional health related quality of life measure (15D) seemed the most 
comprehensive measure for both diseases, the Health Utilities Index 3 (HUI 3) 
seemed to have the least coverage for type 2 diabetes and the EuroQol-5 
Dimensions (EQ-5D) for AD. Furthermore, some of the utility instruments 
contained items that could not be mapped onto either of the proposed conceptual 
models.
CONCLUSIONS: Content of the utility measure has a significant impact on the 
treatment effects that can be observed. This varies from one disease to the next 
and as such contributes to lack of consistency in observable utility effects and 
incremental utility scores. This observation appears to have been omitted from 
the method development considerations such as reference methods. As a result, we 
recommend that patients' perspectives obtained via qualitative methods are taken 
into consideration in the ongoing methods development in health state 
descriptions for generic utility instruments. Also, as a more immediate 
contribution to improving decision making, we propose that a content map of the 
chosen utility measure with patient-reported domains be provided as standard 
reporting in utility measurement in order to improve the transparency of the 
trade-offs in relation to patient relevance and consistency.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-23
PMCID: PMC2844366
PMID: 20152041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Structure. 2010 Jan 13;18(1):94-105. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2009.10.018.

Crystal structures of dehydratase domains from the curacin polyketide 
biosynthetic pathway.

Akey DL(1), Razelun JR, Tehranisa J, Sherman DH, Gerwick WH, Smith JL.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute and Department of Biological Chemistry, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Modular polyketide synthases (PKS) make novel natural products through a series 
of preprogrammed chemical steps catalyzed by an assembly line of multidomain 
modules. Each assembly-line step involves unique extension and modification 
reactions, resulting in tremendous diversity of polyketide products. Dehydratase 
domains catalyze formation of an alpha,beta-double bond in the nascent 
polyketide intermediate. We present crystal structures of the four dehydratase 
domains from the curacin A PKS. The catalytic residues and substrate binding 
site reside in a tunnel within a single monomer. The positions of the catalytic 
residues and shape of the substrate tunnel explain how chirality of the 
substrate hydroxyl group may determine the configuration of the product double 
bond. Access to the active site may require opening the substrate tunnel, 
forming an open trench. The arrangement of monomers within the dimer is 
consistent among PKS dehydratases and differs from that seen in the related 
mammalian fatty acid synthases.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2009.10.018
PMCID: PMC3102235
PMID: 20152156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Am J Cardiol. 2010 Feb 15;105(4):570-6. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2009.10.027.

Renal sympathetic denervation and systemic hypertension.

Doumas M(1), Faselis C, Papademetriou V.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Medical Center and George Washington University, Washington, 
District of Columbia, USA.

Hypertension represents a major health problem, with an appalling annual toll. 
Despite the plethora of antihypertensive drugs, hypertension remains resistant 
in a considerable number of patients, thus creating the need for alternative 
strategies, including interventional approaches. Recently, renal sympathetic 
denervation (RSD) using a very elegant, state-of-the-art technique 
(percutaneous, catheter-based radiofrequency ablation) was shown to be 
beneficial in patients with resistant hypertension. The pathophysiology of 
kidney function justifies the use of RSD in the treatment of hypertension. Data 
from older studies have shown that sympathectomy has efficiently lowered blood 
pressure and prolonged the life expectancy of patients with hypertension, but at 
considerable cost. RSD is devoid of the adverse effects of sympathectomy because 
of its localized nature, is minimally invasive, and provides short procedural 
and recovery times. In conclusion, this review outlines the pathophysiologic 
background of RSD, describes the past and the present of this interventional 
approach, and considers several future potential applications.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2009.10.027
PMID: 20152255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Health Policy. 2010 Jul;96(2):170-7. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2010.01.014.
Epub  2010 Feb 13.

The clinical and economic burden of non-adherence with oral bisphosphonates in 
osteoporotic patients.

Hiligsmann M(1), Rabenda V, Bruyère O, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)HEC-School of Management, Department of Economics, University of Liège, 
Boulevard du Rectorat 7, Liège 1, Belgium. m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to estimate the clinical and economic burden of 
non-adherence with oral bisphosphonates in osteoporotic patients and the 
potential cost-effectiveness of adherence-enhancing interventions.
METHODS: A validated Markov microsimulation model estimated costs and outcomes 
(i.e. the number of fractures and the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY)) for 
three adherence scenarios: no treatment, real-world adherence and full adherence 
over 3 years. The real-world adherence scenario employed data from a published 
observational study. The incremental cost per QALY gained was estimated and 
compared across the three adherence scenarios.
RESULTS: The number of fractures prevented and the QALY gain obtained at 
real-world adherence levels represented only 38.2% and 40.7% of those expected 
with full adherence, respectively. The cost per QALY gained of real-world 
adherence compared with no treatment was estimated at euro 10279, and full 
adherence was found to be cost-saving compared with real-world adherence.
CONCLUSIONS: This study suggests that more than half of the potential clinical 
benefits from oral bisphosphonates in patients with osteoporosis are lost due to 
poor adherence with treatment. Depending on their cost, interventions with 
improved adherence to therapy have the potential to be an attractive use of 
resources.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2010.01.014
PMID: 20153543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Vet Rec. 2010 Feb 13;166(7):199-202. doi: 10.1136/vr.b4756.

Malignant histiocytosis and other causes of death in Bernese mountain dogs in 
Denmark.

Nielsen L(1), Andreasen SN, Andersen SD, Kristensen AT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Small Animal Clinical Studies, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, Dyrlaegevej 16, 1870 Frederiksberg C, Denmark.

To determine the causes of death in Bernese mountain dogs, to assess the 
prevalence of malignant histiocytosis in the Danish Bernese mountain dog 
population, and to assess whether a hereditary pattern for this disease exists, 
756 questionnaires were sent to members of the Danish Bernese Mountain Dog Club 
requesting information regarding the life span and causes of death of their 
dogs. A response rate of 57.7 per cent was achieved, giving information for 812 
dogs, of which 290 had died. The average life span was 7.1 years. The most 
prevalent causes of death were neoplasia (42.1 per cent), old age (10.3 per 
cent), kidney disease (6.9 per cent), infection (5.9 per cent), skeletal 
problems (5.2 per cent), heart disease (3.8 per cent) and behavioural causes 
(3.5 per cent). Thirteen dogs were diagnosed with malignant histiocytosis, 11 of 
which were genealogically related.

