DOI: 10.1136/vr.b4756
PMID: 20154310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Aging Clin Exp Res. 2009 Dec;21(6):470-4. doi: 10.1007/BF03327440.

Particularities of suicide in the elderly. A population-based study.

Biermann T(1), Sperling W, Bleich S, Kornhuber J, Reulbach U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University Hospital of Erlangen, 
D-91054 Erlangen, Germany. Teresa.Biermann@uk-erlangen.de.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Suicide in later life stages is of growing concern as the 
life expectancy of Western populations is rising. Therefore, a population- based 
study concerning elderly suicide was undertaken.
METHODS: The study included 1008 suicides in Middle Franconia (Bavaria/Germany) 
between 2004 and 2007. Data was analyzed regarding gender, method chosen, 
initiating motive and chronobiological factors at the time of death.
RESULTS: Higher rates of suicides were observed in the population at risk over 
65 years old, in both sexes (age-adjusted suicide rate per 100,000 inhabitants 
for men: 42.52; 95% CI 8.64- 37.47; for women: 8.64; 95% CI 6.81-10.96). There 
were significant differences regarding the method chosen (chi2=21.3; df=6; 
p=0.002) and the underlying motive, "mental/physical illness", was the 
predominant stressor (chi2=73.0; df=6; p<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Suicide in the elderly population differs significantly from that 
in younger people. Understanding of this phenomenon must be further elucidated, 
since suicide is difficult to prevent, and its risk is expected to increase 
still further among the elderly.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03327440
PMID: 20154518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Biotechnol Lett. 2010 Jun;32(6):733-42. doi: 10.1007/s10529-010-0221-0. Epub
 2010 Feb 13.

Cell encapsulation using biopolymer gels for regenerative medicine.

Hunt NC(1), Grover LM.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, B15 2TT, 
UK.

There has been a consistent increase in the mean life expectancy of the 
population of the developed world over the past century. Healthy life 
expectancy, however, has not increased concurrently. As a result we are living a 
larger proportion of our lives in poor health and there is a growing demand for 
the replacement of diseased and damaged tissues. While traditionally tissue 
grafts have functioned well for this purpose, the demand for tissue grafts now 
exceeds the supply. For this reason, research in regenerative medicine is 
rapidly expanding to cope with this new demand. There is now a trend towards 
supplying cells with a material in order to expedite the tissue healing process. 
Hydrogel encapsulation provides cells with a three dimensional environment 
similar to that experienced in vivo and therefore may allow the maintenance of 
normal cellular function in order to produce tissues similar to those found in 
the body. In this review we discuss biopolymeric gels that have been used for 
the encapsulation of mammalian cells for tissue engineering applications as well 
as a brief overview of cell encapsulation for therapeutic protein production. 
This review focuses on agarose, alginate, collagen, fibrin, hyaluronic acid and 
gelatin since they are widely used for cell encapsulation. The literature on the 
regeneration of cartilage, bone, ligament, tendon, skin, blood vessels and 
neural tissues using these materials has been summarised.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-010-0221-0
PMID: 20155383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Nutr Cancer. 2009;61(6):756-66. doi: 10.1080/01635580903285007.

Selected aspects of Mediterranean diet and cancer risk.

Pelucchi C(1), Bosetti C, Rossi M, Negri E, La Vecchia C.

Author information:
(1)Istituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, Milan, Italy. 
claudio.pelucchi@marionegri.it

European Mediterranean populations have a high life expectancy. Several aspects 
of their diet are considered favorable on health. We considered the role of 
various aspects of the Mediterranean diet on cancer risk in a series of Italian 
case-control studies including about 10,000 cases of cancer at 13 different 
sites and over 17,000 controls. For most epithelial cancers, the risk decreased 
with increasing vegetable consumption. Allium vegetables were also favorably 
related to cancer risk. Fruit intake was inversely associated with digestive 
tract and laryngeal cancers. For digestive tract cancers, the population 
attributable risks for low intake of vegetables and fruit ranged between 15% and 
40%. Olive oil and unsaturated fats, which are typical aspects of the 
Mediterranean diet, were inversely related to the risk of several cancers, 
particularly of the upper aerodigestive tract. Whole grain food (and hence 
possibly fiber) intake was also related to reduced risk of various cancers. In 
contrast, refined grains and, consequently, glycemic load and index were 
associated to increased risks. Several micronutrients and food components 
(including folate, flavonoids, and carotenoids) showed inverse relations with 
cancer risk, but the main component(s) responsible for the favorable effect of a 
diet rich in vegetables and fruit remain undefined.

DOI: 10.1080/01635580903285007
PMID: 20155613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. J Vasc Access. 2010 Apr-Jun;11(2):143-9. doi: 10.1177/112972981001100211.

Proximalization of the arterial inflow (PAI) in patients with dialysis 
access-induced ischemic syndrome: first report on long-term clinical results.

Thermann F(1), Wollert U, Ukkat J, Dralle H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, St. Elisabeth and St. Barbara University 
Teaching Hospital, Halle, Germany. florian.thermann@medizin.uni-halle.de

PURPOSE: Proximalization of the arterial inflow (PAI) is a promising technique 
which was introduced several years ago as a treatment option for patients with 
dialysis access-induced ischemic syndrome (DAIIS). In our institutions we have 
been performing PAI since 2003 and have seen positive clinical results. The aim 
of this prospective survey is to present the long-term results of PAI.
METHODS: Between 2003 and 2008, forty PAI operations were performed in our 
institutions: 4 patients had acute pain and sensorimotor dysfunction with no 
lesions, 33 had small acral lesions, and 3 had extended lesions following the 
creation of autogenous fistulas. In 22 cases a heparinized graft was used and in 
18 cases a regular PTFE-graft. Criteria for successful treeatment of the disease 
course were evaluated by clinical and ultrasound examinations.
RESULTS: In 36 cases (90%), PAI led to clinical success which was permanent in 
33 patients (82%) seen in the follow-up period of 9 to 40 months. Primary 
patency was 62% after 12 months and secondary patency was 75% after 18 months. 
Heparinized grafts led to better patency rates. In 3 out of the 4 patients with 
large acral lesions, graft explantation was necessary due to infection or 
failing success.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our experience, clinical long-term results are successful 
in certain patients with DAIIS. The aim for the near future should be a better 
patency rate to minimize the need for reoperations. In cases of extended limb 
necrosis/gangrene results were poor. In such patients primary closure of the 
access must be discussed.

DOI: 10.1177/112972981001100211
PMID: 20155715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2010 Mar;19(3):381-9. doi: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1550.

Identification of ovarian cancer symptoms in health insurance claims data.

Devlin SM(1), Diehr PH, Andersen MR, Goff BA, Tyree PT, Lafferty WE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington 98195-9455, USA. devlin@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Women with ovarian cancer have reported abdominal/pelvic pain, 
bloating, difficulty eating or feeling full quickly, and urinary 
frequency/urgency prior to diagnosis. We explored these findings in a general 
population using a dataset of insured women aged 40-64 and investigated the 
potential effectiveness of a routine review of claims data as a prescreen to 
identify women at high risk for ovarian cancer.
METHODS: Data from a large Washington State health insurer were merged with the 
Seattle-Puget Sound Surveillance, Epidemiology and End Results (SEER) cancer 
registry for 2000-2004. We estimated the prevalence of symptoms in the 36 months 
prior to diagnosis for early and late-stage ovarian cancer cases and for two 
comparison groups. The potential performance of a passive screener that would 
flag women with two or more visits for any of the symptoms in the previous 
2-month period was examined.
RESULTS: Of the 223,903 insured women, 161 had incident cases of ovarian cancer. 
Both early and late-stage patients had a higher prevalence of abdominal/pelvic 
pain and bloating than the comparison groups, primarily in the 3 months before 
diagnosis. The passive screener had a sensitivity of 0.31 and specificity of 
0.83 and usually identified women right before diagnosis. Assuming an average 
cost of $500 per false positive, the screener would be considered cost-effective 
if the true positives had an average increase of 8.5 years of life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: These results support previous findings that ovarian cancer 
symptoms were reported in health insurance claims and were more prevalent before 
diagnosis, but the symptoms may occur too close to the diagnosis date to provide 
useful diagnostic information. The passive screening approach should be 
reevaluated in the future using electronic medical records; if found to be 
effective, the method may be potentially useful for other incident diseases.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1550
PMCID: PMC2867625
PMID: 20156131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. Clin Transplant. 2011 Mar-Apr;25(2):283-91. doi: 
10.1111/j.1399-0012.2010.01212.x.

Cost-effectiveness of screening for recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma after 
liver transplantation.

Ladabaum U(1), Cheng SL, Yao FY, Roberts JP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0538, USA. uri.ladabaum@stanford.edu

The effectiveness of screening and treatment of recurrent hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) after liver transplantation (LT) remains undefined. Our aim was 
to evaluate the potential cost-effectiveness of screening for recurrent HCC 
after LT. We constructed a Markov model of the natural history after LT for HCC. 
We superimposed screening with computed tomography, alpha-fetoprotein, and chest 
X-ray every six months for 1-5 yr after LT, with resection for treatable 
recurrence. Screening only those whose explant pathology exceeded Milan Criteria 
(MC) for two yr cost $ 138,000/life-yr gained, and the incremental cost of 
screening all patients was $ 340,000/life-yr gained. Screening for longer than 
two yr incurred progressively higher incremental costs/life-yr gained. The most 
critical variable in sensitivity analyses was the survival benefit of finding a 
resectable recurrence. With the most favorable assumptions for a two-yr 
screening duration, screening those whose explant pathology exceeded MC cost $ 
91,000/life-yr gained. In conclusion, screening for HCC recurrence after LT 
would probably yield most of its benefit in the first two yr, but at a 
relatively high cost/life-yr gained. Screening for two yr in only those whose 
explant pathology exceeds MC may be relatively cost-effective depending on the 
survival benefit of resection.

© 2010 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1399-0012.2010.01212.x
PMID: 20156221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. J Biol. 2010;9(1):7. doi: 10.1186/jbiol215. Epub 2010 Feb 10.

Regulation of metabolism in Caenorhabditis elegans longevity.

Gallo M(1), Riddle DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, 263-2185 East Mall, The 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T1Z4, Canada.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is a favorite model for the study of aging. 
A wealth of genetic and genomic studies show that metabolic regulation is a 
hallmark of life-span modulation. A recent study in BMC Biology identifying 
metabolic signatures for longevity suggests that amino-acid pools may be 
important in longevity.

DOI: 10.1186/jbiol215
PMCID: PMC2871526
PMID: 20156326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Can J Urol. 2010 Feb;17(1):4975-84.

Feasibility of using guidelines to choose treatment for prostate cancer.

Mohan R(1), Beydoun H, Davis J, Lance R, Schellhammer P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine, Eastern Virginia Medical School, 
Norfolk, Virginia, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Treatment for localized prostate cancer (LPC) may not improve 
survival and commonly impairs health related quality of life. National 
guidelines provide algorithms to choose between treatment or observation for 
LPC, but the algorithms require the factoring of the patient's baseline 
comorbidity adjusted life expectancy (CALE). However, no method is available to 
estimate CALE of 10 or more years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A mailed survey was completed by newly diagnosed 
untreated LPC patients. Their baseline CALE was estimated by weighting their age 
based life expectancy by quartiles of comorbidity scores, and a national 
guideline was used to find if treatment or observation was recommended for each 
patient. Demographic, health and cancer characteristics, and beliefs were 
compared in patients who chose treatment or observation concordant with the 
guideline, and those who chose under treatment or over treatment.
RESULTS: Of 184 survey participants, 10 chose under treatment, 144 chose 
concordant treatment, and 30 chose over treatment. Under treatment patients had 
similar sociodemographic and health characteristics to patients who were 
concordant. In comparison to concordant patients, over treatment patients were 
older, had a lower Gleason grade or PSA level, a higher comorbidity score, a 
lower CALE, and lower scores on the Fear of Cancer Recurrence scale.
CONCLUSION: Comorbidity scores can be used to estimate CALE in LPC patients, and 
estimation of CALE allows the use of guidelines in the choice of treatment. In 
our study, over treatment occurred more frequently than under treatment. Factors 
known to limit the survival benefit of treatment were associated with over 
treatment. Over treatment patients also had lower fear of cancer recurrence.

PMID: 20156376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. Urology. 2010 Aug;76(2):480-5. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2009.10.076. Epub 2010
Feb  13.

Nephrocutaneous bypass in ureteral obstruction.

Gerullis H(1), Ecke TH, Schwartmann K, Heuck CJ, Eimer C, Bagner JW, Kocheril S, 
Otto T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Lukas Hospital, Neuss, Germany. 
holger.gerullis@gmx.net

Comment in
    Urology. 2010 Aug;76(2):485; discussion 485-6.
    Urology. 2010 Aug;76(2):486-7; discussion 487.

OBJECTIVES: To describe our experiences with nephrocutaneous bypass and to 
assess the role of this procedure as a mean of urinary diversion in patients 
with incurable ureteral obstruction who are not appropriate candidates for 
subcutaneous pyelovesical bypass.
METHODS: Nephrocutaneous bypass was performed on 15 (12 male, 3 female) patients 
with incurable ureteral obstruction of malignant (n = 13; 87%) or benign (n = 2; 
13%) etiology. Only patients with a significant disturbance of the 
bladder/sphincter-system were eligible for the procedure.
RESULTS: In total, 29 stents were applied using this technique. No major 
complications were observed perioperatively. The operating time for bilateral 
nephrocutaneous bypass was 74 (46-102) minutes and for unilateral bypass (1 
patient) 38 minutes. Time of indwelling percutaneous nephrostomy before 
application of nephrocutaneous bypass was 190 (40-870) days. The patients who 
survived have a mean follow-up of 27 months, whereas for those patients who died 
the mean follow-up was 7.8 months. Nephrocutaneous bypass resulted in an 
improved renal function in all patients. Quality of life improvement was 
reported by all patients, and the objective criteria of "useful life" were met 
by 13 patients (87%).
CONCLUSIONS: Nephrocutaneous bypass is a safe and feasible method to provide 
effective pyelovesical drainage of urine in patients who have a short-term life 
expectancy, who are in poor general conditions, or otherwise would need a 
permanent nephrostomy drainage. The technique offers patients a higher mobility, 
increased independence resulting in higher quality of life during their final 
period of life, and may also be applied in nonmalignant patients after careful 
consideration of alternative urinary diversions.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2009.10.076
PMID: 20156649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Apr 2;1(4):372-81. doi: 10.18632/aging.100036.

Aging of the inceptive cellular population: the relationship between stem cells 
and aging.

Symonds CE(1), Galderisi U, Giordano A.

Author information:
(1)Sbarro Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine, Center of 
Biotechnology, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, USA.

The average life expectancy worldwide has about doubled and the global 
population has increased six fold over the past century. With improving health 
care in the developed world there is a proportional augmentation in the 
treatment necessary for elderly patients occasioning the call for increased 
research in the area of aging and age-related diseases. The manifestation of 
this research has been focalized on the causative cellular processes and 
molecular mechanisms involved. Here we will discuss the efforts of this research 
in the area of stem cells, delving into the regulatory mechanisms and how their 
de-regulation could be attributed to aging and age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100036
PMCID: PMC2806020
PMID: 20157525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interests.


552. Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Nov 19;1(11):937-48. doi: 10.18632/aging.100103.

The circadian clock gene period extends healthspan in aging Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Krishnan N(1), Kretzschmar D, Rakshit K, Chow E, Giebultowicz JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331 USA.

There is increasing evidence that aging is affected by biological (circadian) 
clocks - the internal mechanisms that coordinate daily changes in gene 
expression, physiological functions and behavior with external day/night cycles. 
Recent data suggest that disruption of the mammalian circadian clock results in 
accelerated aging and increased age-related pathologies such as cancer; however, 
the links between loss of daily rhythms and aging are not understood. We sought 
to determine whether disruption of the circadian clock affects lifespan and 
healthspan in the model organism Drosophila melanogaster. We examined effects of 
a null mutation in the circadian clock gene period (per(01)) on the fly 
healthspan by challenging aging flies with short-term oxidative stress (24h 
hyperoxia) and investigating their response in terms of mortality hazard, levels 
of oxidative damage, and functional senescence. Exposure to 24h hyperoxia during 
middle age significantly shortened the life expectancy in per(01) but not in 
control flies. This homeostatic challenge also led to significantly higher 
accumulation of oxidative damage in per(01) flies compared to controls. In 
addition, aging per(01) flies showed accelerated functional decline, such as 
lower climbing ability and increased neuronal degeneration compared to 
age-matched controls. Together, these data suggest that impaired stress defense 
pathways may contribute to accelerated aging in the per mutant. In addition, we 
show that the expression of per gene declines in old wild type flies, suggesting 
that the circadian regulatory network becomes impaired with age.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100103
PMCID: PMC2815745
PMID: 20157575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interests to 
declare.


553. Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Jan 15;1(1):109-21. doi: 10.18632/aging.100011.

SIRT6 stabilizes DNA-dependent protein kinase at chromatin for DNA double-strand 
break repair.

McCord RA(1), Michishita E, Hong T, Berber E, Boxer LD, Kusumoto R, Guan S, Shi 
X, Gozani O, Burlingame AL, Bohr VA, Chua KF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 
94305, USA.

Comment in
    Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Jan;1(1):12-6.

The Sir2 chromatin regulatory factor links maintenance of genomic stability to 
life span extension in yeast. The mammalian Sir2 family member SIRT6 has been 
proposed to have analogous functions, because SIRT6-deficiency leads to 
shortened life span and an aging-like degenerative phenotype in mice, and SIRT6 
knockout cells exhibit genomic instability and DNA damage hypersensitivity. 
However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these defects are not fully 
understood. Here, we show that SIRT6 forms a macromolecular complex with the DNA 
double-strand break (DSB) repair factor DNA-PK (DNA-dependent protein kinase) 
and promotes DNA DSB repair. In response to DSBs, SIRT6 associates dynamically 
with chromatin and is necessary for an acute decrease in global cellular 
acetylation levels on histone H3 Lysine 9. Moreover, SIRT6 is required for 
mobilization of the DNA-PK catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) to chromatin in response 
to DNA damage and stabilizes DNA-PKcs at chromatin adjacent to an induced 
site-specific DSB. Abrogation of these SIRT6 activities leads to impaired 
resolution of DSBs. Together, these findings elucidate a mechanism whereby 
regulation of dynamic interaction of a DNA repair factor with chromatin impacts 
on the efficiency of repair, and establish a link between chromatin regulation, 
DNA repair, and a mammalian Sir2 factor.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100011
PMCID: PMC2815768
PMID: 20157594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interests to declare.


554. Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Jan 28;1(1):131-45. doi: 10.18632/aging.100016.

Extension of chronological life span by reduced TOR signaling requires 
down-regulation of Sch9p and involves increased mitochondrial OXPHOS complex 
density.

Pan Y(1), Shadel GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven CT 
06520, USA.

Comment in
    Aging (Albany NY). 2009 Jan;1(1):9-11.

The nutrient-sensing target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway appears to have a 
conserved role in regulating life span. This signaling network is complex, with 
many downstream physiological outputs, and thus the mechanisms underlying its 
age-related effects have not been elucidated fully. We demonstrated previously 
that reduced TOR signaling (intor1Delta strains) extends yeast chronological 
life span (CLS) by increasing mitochondrial oxygen consumption, in part, by 
up-regulating translation of mtDNA-encoded oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) 
subunits. Here, we have examined in greater detail how TOR signaling influences 
mitochondrial function and CLS and the role of the Sch9p kinase in the 
TOR-mitochondria pathway. As is the case for oxygen consumption, mitochondrial 
translation is elevated in tor1Delta strains only during active growth and early 
stationary phase growth points. This is accompanied by a corresponding increase 
in the abundance of both mtDNA-encoded and nucleus-encoded OXPHOS subunits per 
mitochondrial mass. However, this increased OXPHOS complex density is not 
associated with more mitochondria/cell or cellular ATP and leads to an overall 
decrease in membrane potential, suggesting that TOR signaling may influence 
respiration uncoupling. Finally, we document that the Sch9p kinase is a key 
downstream effector of OXPHOS, ROS and CLS in the TOR-mitochondria pathway. 
Altogether, our results demonstrate that TOR signaling has a global role in 
regulating mitochondrial proteome dynamics and function that is important for 
its role in aging and provide compelling evidence for involvement of a 
"mitochondrial pre-conditioning" effect in CLS determination.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100016
PMCID: PMC2815770
PMID: 20157595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflict of interests to 
declare.


555. Vet Clin North Am Exot Anim Pract. 2010 Jan;13(1):15-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvex.2009.09.003.

Reptile geriatrics.

Paré JA(1), Lentini AM.

Author information:
(1)Animal Health Centre, Toronto Zoo, 361A Old Finch Avenue, Scarborough, ON M1B 
5K7, Canada. jpare@torontozoo.ca

Although basic notions, such as life expectancy, and thus what constitutes old 
age, remain to be determined in the vast majority of reptile species, there is a 
tendency at least for captive reptiles to live longer now than in the past. 
Clinicians are expected to recognize signs of senescence or old age in reptile 
patients, to acquire a heightened index of suspicion for diseases likely to 
affect older individuals of a given species or taxon, and to provide sound 
advice on geriatric care of such patients. Reptiles are stoic and show few signs 
of aging, but subtle changes in behavior, mobility, reproduction, weight, or 
appetite may all signal the onset of senescence to the vigilant caregiver. 
Serial, for example, yearly or biannual physical examination, blood sampling, 
and imaging initiated at maturity or earlier are probably the most powerful 
tools in diagnosing, monitoring, and managing geriatric issues.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvex.2009.09.003
PMID: 20159540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Vet Clin North Am Exot Anim Pract. 2010 Jan;13(1):27-49. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvex.2009.10.002.

Geriatric psittacine medicine.

Lightfoot TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Avian and Exotics Department, Florida Veterinary Specialists, 3000 Busch Lake 
Boulevard, Tampa, FL 33614, USA. lightfoott@aol.com

This article investigates geriatric psittacine medicine; it identifies how to 
recognize and treat pain, and describes disease conditions by system, 
administration of medicine, and examination techniques.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvex.2009.10.002
PMID: 20159541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Vet Clin North Am Exot Anim Pract. 2010 Jan;13(1):51-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvex.2009.10.001.

The aging raptor.

Tristan T(1).

Author information:
(1)VCA Oso Creek Animal Hospital, 7713 South Staples, Corpus Christi, TX 78413, 
USA. exoticvet@yahoo.com

There is little information available in the literature regarding geriatric 
raptor medicine. Estimating the life span of birds of prey and evaluating 
factors that influence longevity are continuing to be explored. Identifying 
disease conditions that arise with advancing age may involve various body 
systems including the musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, and others. Falconry, 
exhibit, and wildlife raptors are reviewed with regard to factors that affect 
their mortality, life expectancy, and age evaluation. In addition, medical 
conditions that are frequently seen in geriatric raptors are covered in this 
article.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvex.2009.10.001
PMID: 20159542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Vet Clin North Am Exot Anim Pract. 2010 Jan;13(1):95-105. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvex.2009.09.001.

The ancient rat.

Haines VL(1).

Author information:
(1)Texas A&M Institute for Preclinical Studies, Texas A&M University, Mail Stop 
44748, College Station, TX 77843-44748, USA. vhaines@tamu.edu

The past decade has seen an increase in the number of rodents being kept as pets 
and subsequently in the number of rodent owners seeking veterinary services. The 
common rat, (Rattus norvegicus) has become increasingly popular, particularly as 
novel varieties have been introduced to the pet market. The average laboratory 
or domestic pet rat has a life expectancy of approximately 2.5 to 3 years 
although 4 years and longer have been reported. As an increasing pet rat 
population ages, more owners are seeking veterinary consultation on various 
geriatric rat diseases. This article is an introduction to common rat geriatric 
diseases.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvex.2009.09.001
PMID: 20159544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Vet Clin North Am Exot Anim Pract. 2010 Jan;13(1):107-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvex.2009.12.002.

The senior ferret (Mustela putorius furo).

Hoppes SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Small Animal Sciences, Texas A&M University, College 
of Veterinary Medicine, 4474 TAMU, College Station, TX 77843-4474, USA. 
shoppes@cvm.tamu.edu

Ferrets are an increasingly popular pet in the United States. They are active, 
gregarious pets that delight their owners with playful antics. One of the issues 
that ferret owners and veterinarians have had to deal with is their shortened 
life span. Although literature cites the life span of the ferret as 8 to 10 
years, most veterinarians see ferrets as "old" at as early as 3 years of age. 
Most information on senior ferrets has focused on neoplastic diseases. This 
article discusses husbandry and nutritional issues of the aging ferret, more 
commonly seen geriatric diseases, and diagnostic and treatment options.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvex.2009.12.002
PMCID: PMC7129291
PMID: 20159545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Vet Clin North Am Exot Anim Pract. 2010 Jan;13(1):123-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.cvex.2009.09.002.

Care of the geriatric rabbit.

Lennox AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Avian and Exotic Animal Clinic, 9330 Waldemar Road, Indianapolis, IN 46268, 
USA. birddr@aol.com

The average life span reported in laboratory and lay literature for the domestic 
rabbit is 5 to 10 years. The author and other veterinarians are now regularly 
seeing rabbits living to 9 or 10 years, the oldest reported in the author's 
practice being 14 years. Rabbits are herbivorous prey species with continually 
growing (elodont) teeth. This feature allows the geriatric rabbit to possess 
teeth that are essentially "new", a distinct advantage over geriatric 
carnivores. Expanded longevity, while generally desirable, necessarily 
accompanies an increase in geriatric disorders. This article examines the 
spectrum of disease that can affect the geriatric rabbit as well as crucial 
factors concerning the clinical management of the animal up to the end of its 
life. An improved understanding of geriatric disorders in pet rabbits allows 
early recognition and the opportunity to improve quality of life.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cvex.2009.09.002
PMCID: PMC7129804
PMID: 20159546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Bull Cancer. 2010 Mar;97(3):397-402. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2010.1050.

[Contribution of economic evaluation and budget impact analysis to public 
decision in health: the example of breast cancer].

[Article in French]

Perrier L(1), Philip T.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon ; Centre régional de lutte contre le cancer Léon-Bérard, 
Département cancer et environnement, GATE-UMR 5824-CNRS axe économie de la 
santé, 28, rue Laënnec, 69008 Lyon, France.

The aim of this paper is to draw the reader's attention to the problem of 
dissemination of costly innovations, particularly in the field of oncology, in a 
context of scarce resources.Comparison of five economic aggregates related to 
health and the gross domestic product captures the weight of this sector in the 
national economy but also its cost to the community. A focus on oncology shows 
that during the year 2004, the cost of cancer in France, all sites being taken 
into account, amounted to 10.9 billion euros and the societal cost to 32 billion 
euros (2% of gross domestic product). The cost of breast cancer (36% of all 
female cancers) reached 1.5 billion euros for treatment and 3.5 billion euros 
for societal expenses (0.2% of gross domestic product). Due to the significant, 
rapid expansion of these costs (+19.2% in 2006 and 18.5% in 2007 for 
diagnosis-related group outliers) but also to the scarcity of resources, the 
development of costly innovations remains problematic. This article, based on 
concrete examples of breast cancer treatment, provides information on the 
contribution of health technology assessment (particularly cost-utility and 
budget impact analyses) to public decision. Economic evaluation, in particular, 
cost-utility assessment, allows comparison of costs and consequences (generic 
result usually expressed in quality-adjusted life years) in order to prioritize 
diagnostic and/or therapeutic strategies and to make choices based on social 
acceptability. Budget impact analysis, without consideration of efficacy, makes 
it possible to balance the financing needs arising from the adoption of a costly 
innovation with the paying capabilities of a given institution.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2010.1050
PMID: 20159674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. J Am Stat Assoc. 2009 Jun 1;104(486):803-815. doi: 10.1198/jasa.2009.0130.

A Class of Transformed Mean Residual Life Models With Censored Survival Data.

Sun L(1), Zhang Z.

Author information:
(1)Professor, Institute of Applied Mathematics, Academy of Mathematics and 
Systems Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100080, P.R. China 
(E-mail: slq@amt.ac.cn ).

The mean residual life function is an attractive alternative to the survival 
function or the hazard function of a survival time in practice. It provides the 
remaining life expectancy of a subject surviving up to time t. In this study, we 
propose a class of transformed mean residual life models for fitting survival 
data under right censoring. To estimate the model parameters, we make use of the 
inverse probability of censoring weighting approach and develop a system of 
estimating equations. Efficiency and robustness of the estimators are also 
studied. Both asymptotic and finite sample properties of the proposed estimators 
are established and the approach is applied to two real-life datasets collected 
from clinical trials.

DOI: 10.1198/jasa.2009.0130
PMCID: PMC2744430
PMID: 20161093


563. Am J Lifestyle Med. 2009 Jul 1;3(1):27S-31S. doi: 10.1177/1559827609334504.

Physical Activity Transitions and Chronic Disease.

Heath GW(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor, Health and Human Performance, University of Tennessee at 
Chattanooga and Professor of Medicine, University of Tennessee College of 
Medicine, Chattanooga.

The 20(th) century in the United States (U.S.) has experienced a dramatic 
increase in life expectancy among adult men and women, an increase unprecedented 
in the history of this country. As a result, the pattern of disease and 
conditions most responsible for death in the U.S. shifted during the past 
century from infectious diseases and unintentional injuries to the current array 
of the leading causes of mortality dominated by the chronic diseases. During 
this same period, daily lifestyle dramatically shifted from a life full of 
active living to one of inactivity. The argument has been made that in the case 
of human beings, there has been little or no change in our genotype within the 
past 50 years. However, there have been major changes documented in the living 
environment among economically developed societies during this same time period. 
Through the collection of epidemiologic, clinical, and experimental findings, 
evidence exists to suggest that physical inactivity is associated with the onset 
of chronic diseases of our day. Trends in physical inactivity evident through 
the monitoring of transport, recreational, sport, and purposeful activity have 
demonstrated that the current lifestyle of the 21(st) century has contributed 
substantially to the chronic disease burden in the U.S. and elsewhere. By 
addressing the domains that influence physical activity behaviors including the 
environment (both physical and social/cultural), health systems access, and 
behavioral correlates of physical activity and inactivity, the current chronic 
disease crisis can potentially be addressed.

DOI: 10.1177/1559827609334504
PMCID: PMC2777671
PMID: 20161359


564. Am J Lifestyle Med. 2009 Jul 1;3(1 Suppl):19S-26S. doi: 
10.1177/1559827609335350.

The Epidemiologic Transition: Changing Patterns of Mortality and Population 
Dynamics.

McKeown RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Arnold School of Public Health, 
Director, Health Sciences Research Core, University of South Carolina, Columbia, 
SC 29208, rmckeown@mailbox.sc.edu .

The epidemiologic transition describes changing patterns of population age 
distributions, mortality, fertility, life expectancy, and causes of death. A 
number of critiques of the theory have revealed limitations, including an 
insufficient account of the role of poverty in determining disease risk and 
mortality, a failure to distinguish adequately the risk of dying from a given 
cause or set of causes from the relative contributions of various causes of 
death to overall mortality, and oversimplification of the transition patterns, 
which do not fit neatly into either historical periods or geographic locations. 
Recent developments in epidemiologic methods reveal other limitations. A life 
course perspective prompts examination of changes in causal pathways across the 
life span when considering shifts in the age distribution of a population as 
described by the epidemiologic transition theory. The ecological model assumes 
multiple levels of determinants acting in complex and interrelated ways, with 
higher level determinants exhibiting emergent properties. Development, testing, 
and implementation of innovative approaches to reduce the risks associated with 
the sedentary lifestyle and hyper nutrition in developed countries should not 
overshadow the continuing threat from infectious diseases, especially resistant 
strains or newly encountered agents. Interventions must fit populations and the 
threats to health they experience, while anticipating changes that will emerge 
with success in some areas. This will require new ways of thinking that go 
beyond the epidemiologic transition theory.

DOI: 10.1177/1559827609335350
PMCID: PMC2805833
PMID: 20161566


565. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2009 Nov-Dec;24(6):1129-37.

The use of extraoral implants for distal-extension removable dentures: a 
clinical evaluation up to 8 years.

Minoretti R(1), Triaca A, Saulacic N.

Author information:
(1)Dental Clinic Am Opernhaus, Zurich, Switzerland.

PURPOSE: This retrospective study reports the clinical outcome following 
placement of extraoral implants in severely resorbed posterior ridges to support 
distal-extension removable dentures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Consecutively treated patients with partially or 
completely edentulous ridges, with available bone height in the posterior region 
of 6 mm or less, were included in the study. Implants originally intended for 
extraoral use (Straumann) were placed in second molar regions and allowed to 
heal for 4 to 6 months before abutment connection. At recall appointments, the 
peri-implant hard and soft tissues were evaluated. Complications with implant 
components, as well as mechanical and structural failures of the prostheses, 
were recorded. Two-year survival rates were calculated and life table analyses 
undertaken.
RESULTS: Twenty-nine patients (19 women and 10 men; average age 61.2 years, 
range, 44 to 75 years) were included in the study. Forty-seven extraoral 
implants in 26 patients were placed in the second molar site of the mandible. 
Two extraoral implants in 2 patients failed during the osseointegration phase, 
yielding an 8-year cumulative success rate of 91.8%. The mean distance from the 
extraoral implants to the most distal tooth/implant was 28.1 mm (range, 16.7 to 
39.2 mm). Twenty-three extraoral implants were restored with magnets, 18 with 
ball anchors, and 4 with conical cylinders. Replacement of abutments and 
retention elements was necessary in 2 patients. Four abutments in 2 patients 
were disconnected from the restorations.
CONCLUSIONS: Within the limits of the employed research design, extraoral 
implants may be used successfully to provide support for distal-extension 
removable dentures in severely resorbed posterior alveolar ridges.

PMID: 20162119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2010 Jan 6;99(1):3-4. doi: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000001.

[Good news and bad news regarding obesity].

[Article in German]

Keller U.

Comment on
    Praxis (Bern 1994). 2010 Jan 6;99(1):17-25.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000001
PMID: 20162851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Refuat Hapeh Vehashinayim (1993). 2009 Apr;26(2):9-12, 46.

Prosthetic care for a mentally ill patient.

Pietrokovski Y(1), Zini A, Pietrokovski J.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Oral Rehabilitation, The Hebrew University-Hadassah Faculty of 
Dental Medicine, Jerusalem.

A manic-depressive 64 old female arrived to the clinic for prosthetic treatment. 
She was fully edentulous and wore an old poor set of complete dentures. Her 
general attitude was apathy, nonattached and almost indifferent to the general 
environment as well as to the proposed oral care. This behavior can change for 
the worse at any stage during treatment, especially after the delivery stage, 
with the possibility of a change from an indifferent to a hostile, non 
cooperative attitude. The intended care was explained in detail to the patient 
and her accompanying daughter. After their approval, we were able to perform 
successfully a new set of complete dentures with improved esthetics and 
functional capabilities. Flat bony ridges with shallow mucosal coverage 
precluded vertical mandibular denture extension at the lingual surface. 
Consequently the resulting prosthesis had reduced lateral lingual flanges with 
limited support and retation.

PMID: 20162982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. Biomed Environ Sci. 2009 Oct;22(5):430-41. doi:
10.1016/S0895-3988(10)60022-0.

Evaluation of impact of major causes of death on life expectancy changes in 
China, 1990-2005.

Wang YH(1), Li LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Peking 
University Health Science Center, Beijing 100191, China. wyhong826@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of major causes of death on changes of life 
expectancy in China.
METHODS: Life expectancy was calculated by standard life table techniques using 
mortality data from the national censuses in 1990 and 2000 and the 1% National 
Population Sampling Surveys in 1995 and 2005. Mortality data about the major 
causes of death from VR-MOH were used as reference values to estimate their 
death proportions of the specific age groups by sex and regions, as well as 
all-cause mortality and age-specific mortality rates of major causes of death. 
Decomposition method was used to quantitatively evaluate the impact.
RESULTS: Three key findings were identified in our study. First, China's health 
challenge was shifted from diseases related to living conditions to those 
related to behavior and lifestyle, with rural areas relatively lagged behind 
urban areas. Second, the impacts of cardiovascular diseases and neoplasm on the 
middle aged and elderly population were stressed. Third, compared to the urban 
population, the rural population tended to have increasing mortality of neoplasm 
and cardiovascular diseases, especially in adults at the age of 15-39 years.
CONCLUSION: Further efforts should be made to reduce the incidence of neoplasm 
and cardiovascular diseases, especially in rural areas, by promoting healthy 
behavior and lifestyle and providing appropriate therapies for all patients in 
need.

DOI: 10.1016/S0895-3988(10)60022-0
PMID: 20163069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2010 Mar;11(4):571-7. doi:
10.1517/14656560903468710.

Treatment of chronic hepatitis C in elderly patients.

Horsmans Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Université catholique de Louvain, Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc, 
Department of Gastroenterology, 10, avenue Hippocrate, 1200 Brussels, Belgium. 
Yves.Horsmans@uclouvain.be

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: The issue of age in cases of chronic hepatitis C (HCV) 
in the West is a major problem; the average age of patients with HCV is 
increasing and its prevalence increases with advancing age.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This review is devoted to the analysis of the 
limited number of clinical studies performed to treat HCV in elderly patients.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: The importance of the age factor is outlined in 
nearly all the studies done in the field. Advanced age is associated with a 
lower sustained virologic response (SVR) rate. Moreover, in elderly patients, 
these studies also tend to suggest that, before initiating an antiviral 
treatment, the physician should not only take into account the classical 
parameters associated with SVR but also the presence of co-morbidities and life 
expectancy. TAKE-HOME MESSAGES: Antiviral therapy should be used in selected 
elderly HCV patients with advanced fibrosis and more studies are required in 
this population to better define the parameters associated with SVR. As age is 
an important factor in the success of antiviral therapy, starting antiviral 
treatment at a young age should be favored.

DOI: 10.1517/14656560903468710
PMID: 20163268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Int J Cardiol. 2011 Jun 2;149(2):205-210. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2010.01.010.
 Epub 2010 Feb 16.

Prognosis and outcomes of elderly (75-84 years) patients with acute myocardial 
infarction 1-2 years after the event: AMI-elderly study of the MONICA/KORA 
Myocardial Infarction Registry.

Kuch B(1), Wende R(2), Barac M(2), von Scheidt W(2), Kling B(2), Greschik C(3), 
Meisinger C(3).

Author information:
(1)I. Medizinische Klinik, Hospital of Augsburg, teaching hospital of the Ludwig 
Maximilians University München, Augsburg, Germany. Electronic address: 
bernhard.kuch@klinikum-augsburg.de.
(2)I. Medizinische Klinik, Hospital of Augsburg, teaching hospital of the Ludwig 
Maximilians University München, Augsburg, Germany.
(3)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Institute of Epidemiology, Neuherberg, Germany; Hospital of Augsburg, 
MONICA/KORA Myocardial Infarction Registry, Augsburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy the management of acute myocardial 
infarction (AMI) in patients of an older age is of growing importance. However, 
long-term data are limited regarding 'hard' endpoints and quality of life in 
unselected elderly patients in 'real world' settings.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From March 2005 to March 2006 all 75-84-year old patients 
consecutively hospitalised due to an incident AMI in a large community teaching 
hospital were analyzed (N=235). Evidence-based therapy included the treatment 
with aspirin (93%), clopidogrel (65%), betablockers (93%), 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors/angiotensin receptor blockers (84%), 
and statins (83%). Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was performed in 
45.5% and bypass grafting (CABG) in 10.2%. The 28-day-case fatality was 17.4%. 
Long-term follow-up was obtained in 95.9% of all hospital survivors at a mean of 
18.7 ± 6.4 months; during this time 19.9% of patients died. After multivariate 
analysis the only significantly negative predictor for survival and MACCE was 
diabetes, and the only significantly positive predictor was revascularisation 
during hospital stay. Patients with PCI/CABG had lower NYHA class (81% vs. 48%; 
p<0.04). Patients with PCI also had a higher EQ-5D index score (75 ± 18 vs. 67 ± 
17, p<0.04) compared to patients not receiving PCI.
CONCLUSION: The positive long-time effect of revascularisation procedures during 
hospitalisation, not only on 'hard' endpoints but also on functional outcome and 
quality of life emphasizes that invasive therapies should not be considered less 
valuable in elderly people and that age alone should not preclude aggressive 
treatment during AMI.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2010.01.010
PMID: 20163883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Health (London). 2010 Mar;14(2):213-31. doi: 10.1177/1363459309347479.

Review: Taking care of yourself in later life: a qualitative study into the use 
of non-prescription medicines by people aged 60+.

Leontowitsch M(1), Higgs P, Stevenson F, Rees Jones I.
