Celje General Hospital: devoted to life for 120 years.

Pocivavsek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Museum of Recent History Celje, Presernova ulica 17, 3000 Celje, Slovenia. 
marija.pocivavsek@guest.arnes.si.

The path that led to the formal opening of Celje Hospital 120 years ago had its 
beginnings in a medieval town almshouse. Years of commitment to 
institutionalising inpatient treatment finally led to results in 1887 when the 
new Giselle's Hospital, named after the emperor's daughter, was solemnly opened 
by the heir to the throne, Archduke Rudolph. Since its establishment- in 
addition to the promotion of healthy life-styles and health management, changes 
in methods of financing and problems such as floods- the hospital's primary 
value has been caring for the sick. This has been reflected in the work of 
physicians, nurses, female caregivers abnd other personnel; as the years passed, 
this attitude on the part of medical professionals toward patients increased the 
sense of confidence in the hospital. The local environment knew how to return 
such confidence, when it first supported the project of the extension and then 
also modernisation of the hospital, which is still underway. Today, Celje 
General Hospital holds an important position in the Slovenian public health 
system: as the third largest hospital in Slovenia, it includes 1600 employees 
and annually treats 35,000 inpatients and 260,000 people as part of the 
specialist and outpatient system. Within its period of growth the hospital has 
developed in almost every medical field. Today, we are committed to gaining the 
status of a clinical hospital, strengthening research activities and constantly 
improving quality. The motto that represents the mission of the employees of 
Celje Hospital also embodies the same spirit: "Devoted to life".

PMID: 20102241


401. Value Health. 2010 Jun-Jul;13(4):394-401. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00687.x.  Epub 2010 Jan 21.

Cost-effectiveness of osteoporosis screening followed by treatment: the impact 
of medication adherence.

Hiligsmann M(1), Gathon HJ, Bruyère O, Ethgen O, Rabenda V, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)HEC-ULg Management School, University of Liège, Liège, Belgium. 
m.hiligsmann@ulg.ac.be

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the impact of medication adherence on the 
cost-effectiveness of mass-screening by bone densitometry followed by 
alendronate therapy for women diagnosed with osteoporosis.
METHODS: A validated Markov microsimulation model with a Belgian health-care 
payer perspective and a lifetime horizon was used to assess the cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained of the screening/treatment strategy 
compared with no intervention. Real-world adherence to alendronate therapy and 
full adherence over 5 years were both investigated. The real-world adherence 
scenario employed adherence data from published observational studies, and 
medication adherence was divided into persistence, compliance, and primary 
adherence. Uncertainty was investigated using one-way and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: At 65 years of age, the costs per QALY gained because of the 
screening/treatment strategy versus no intervention are euro32,008 and 
euro16,918 in the real-world adherence and full adherence scenarios, 
respectively. The equivalent values are euro80,836 and euro40,462 at the age of 
55 years, and they decrease to euro10,600 and euro1229 at the age of 75 years. 
Sensitivity analyses show that the presence of the upfront cost of case finding 
has a substantial role in the impact of medication adherence on 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: This study indicates that nonadherence with osteoporosis medications 
substantially increases the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of osteoporosis 
screening strategies. All aspects of medication adherence (i.e., compliance, 
persistence, and primary adherence) should therefore be reported and included in 
pharmacoeconomic analyses, and especially in the presence of the upfront cost of 
case finding (such as screening cost).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00687.x
PMID: 20102558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Ann Cardiol Angeiol (Paris). 2009 Dec;58 Suppl 1:S17-8. doi: 
10.1016/S0003-3928(09)73392-X.

[Atrial fibrillation: clinical end-points, morbidity and mortality, life 
expectancy].

[Article in French]

Copie X(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre cardiologique du Nord, rue des Moulins Gémeaux, Saint-Denis, France. 
x.copie@ccncardio.com

Atrial fibrillation (AF) shortens life expectancy in patients with 
cardiovascular disease. Lone atrial fibrillation is not associated with an 
excess in mortality. However, lone atrial fibrillation decreases life expectancy 
when associated with comorbidities during its evolution.

DOI: 10.1016/S0003-3928(09)73392-X
PMID: 20103172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2010 Jan;91(1):20-9. doi: 10.1016/j.apmr.2009.08.151.

Mortality after discharge from acute care hospitalization with traumatic brain 
injury: a population-based study.

Ventura T(1), Harrison-Felix C, Carlson N, Diguiseppi C, Gabella B, Brown A, 
Devivo M, Whiteneck G.

Author information:
(1)MSPH/MPH Program, Colorado School of Public Health, University of Colorado 
Denver, Denver, CO, USA.

Ventura T, Harrison-Felix C, Carlson N, DiGuiseppi C, Gabella B, Brown A, DeVivo 
M, Whiteneck G. Mortality after discharge from acute care hospitalization with 
traumatic brain injury: a population-based study.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize mortality after acute hospitalization with traumatic 
brain injury (TBI) in a socioeconomically diverse population.
DESIGN: Population-based retrospective cohort study.
SETTING: Statewide TBI surveillance program.
PARTICIPANTS: Colorado residents with TBI discharged alive from acute 
hospitalization between 1998 and 2003 (N=18,998).
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Vital status at the end of the study period (December 31, 
2005) and statewide population mortality rates were used to calculate all-cause 
and cause-specific standardized mortality ratios (SMRs) and life expectancy 
compared with population mortality rates. The influence of demographics, injury 
severity, and comorbid conditions on time until death was investigated using 
age-stratified Cox proportional hazards modeling.
RESULTS: Patients with TBI carried about 2.5 times the risk of death compared 
with the general population (SMR=2.47; 95% confidence interval [CI], 2.31-2.65). 
Life expectancy reduction averaged 6 years. SMRs were largest for deaths caused 
by mental/behavioral (SMR=3.84; 95% CI, 2.67-5.51) and neurologic conditions 
(SMR=2.79; 95% CI, 2.07-3.77) and were smaller but significantly higher than 1.0 
for an array of other causes. Injury severity and older age increased mortality 
among young people (age <20y). However, risk factors for mortality among adults 
age 20 and older involved multiple domains of demographics (eg, metropolitan 
residence), injury-related measures (eg, falls versus vehicular incidents), and 
comorbidity (eg, > or =3 comorbid health conditions versus none).
CONCLUSIONS: TBI confers an increased risk of mortality in the months and years 
after hospital discharge. Although life expectancy is reduced across the 
population, the excess in mortality lessens as time since injury increases. 
Specific risk factors (eg, high injury severity, poor general health) pose an 
especially high threat to survival and should prompt an increased vigilance of 
health status, especially among younger patients.

Copyright (c) 2010 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2009.08.151
PMID: 20103393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Med Decis Making. 2010 Jan-Feb;30(1):143. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09350078.

Comment on Petrou and Kupek: use unadjusted HUI3 scores, not adjusted 
disutilities.

Russell LB.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2009 May-Jun;29(3):291-303.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09350078
PMID: 20103690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Biosci Trends. 2007 Aug;1(1):38-42.

Are health inequalities increasing in Japan? The trends of 1955 to 2000.

Fukuda Y(1), Nakao H, Yahata Y, Imai H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, National Institute of Public Health, 2-3-6 
Minami, Wako, Saitama, Japan. fukuday@niph.go.jp

This study aimed to elucidate trends in socioeconomic inequalities in health 
during the past half century in Japan. Association of life expectancy and 
age-adjusted mortality with per capita income was examined using data on 
prefectures and municipalities in Japan of 1955 to 2000 via the slope index of 
inequality (SII) and Poisson regression. Although there were a few differences 
among health indicators and sex, health inequalities by prefecture, measured by 
the SII, decreased from 1955 to 1995. However, health inequalities increased 
from 1995 to 2000 both for life expectancy and mortality. Similar trends were 
found in municipal analyses: the association between income and mortality, 
measured by the rate ratio from Poisson regression, decreased until 1995 but 
increased from 1995 to 2000. In the past half century, and especially until 
1995, geographical health inequalities decreased in Japan, while from 1995 to 
2000 health inequalities appeared to increase. Recent social conditions 
including the possible increase in social inequalities may have contributed to 
this increase. Careful monitoring and elimination of social and health 
inequalities should be encouraged.

PMID: 20103865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2010;10(1):55-63. doi:
10.2165/11319940-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of eplerenone in patients with heart failure after acute 
myocardial infarction who were taking both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers: 
subanalysis of the EPHESUS.

Zhang Z(1), Mahoney EM, Kolm P, Spertus J, Caro J, Willke R, Weintraub WS.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Nantong University, Nantong, P.R. China. 
zefengzh@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The EPHESUS (Eplerenone Post-Acute Myocardial Infarction Heart 
Failure and Survival Study) showed that the use of aldosterone blockade with 
eplerenone decreased mortality in patients with heart failure after acute 
myocardial infarction, and a subsequent analysis showed eplerenone to be highly 
cost effective in this population.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of eplerenone in an EPHESUS subgroup 
population who were taking both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers 
(beta-adrenoceptor antagonists) at baseline. In the EPHESUS, a total of 6632 
patients were randomized to receive eplerenone 25-50 mg/day (n = 3319) or 
placebo (n = 3313) concurrently with standard therapy and were followed for up 
to 2.5 years. Of these, 4265 (64.3%) patients (eplerenone: n = 2113; placebo: n 
= 2152) were taking both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers at baseline.
METHODS AND MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Resource use after the initial 
hospitalization included additional hospitalizations, outpatient services, 
emergency room visits, and medications. Eplerenone was priced at an average 
wholesale price of $US3.60 per day (year 2004 value). Bootstrap methods were 
used to estimate the fraction of the joint distribution of the cost and 
effectiveness. A net-benefit regression model was used to derive the propensity 
score-adjusted cost-effectiveness curve. The incremental cost effectiveness of 
eplerenone in cost per life-year gained (LYG) and cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained beyond the trial period was estimated using data from 
the Framingham Heart Study, the Saskatchewan Health database, and the Worcester 
Heart Attack Registry. Both costs and effectiveness were discounted at 3%. 
Although not all resource use could be accounted for, the overall perspective 
was societal.
RESULTS: As in the overall EPHESUS population, the total direct treatment costs 
were higher in the eplerenone arm than the placebo arm for patients who were 
taking both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers ($US14,563 vs $US12,850, difference 
= $US1713; 95% CI 721, 2684). The number of LYGs with eplerenone compared with 
placebo was 0.1665 based on the Framingham data, 0.0979 using the Saskatchewan 
data, and 0.2172 using the Worcester data. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) was $US10,288/LYG with the Framingham data, $US17,506/LYG with the 
Saskatchewan data, and $US7888/LYG with the Worcester data (99% <$US50,000/LYG 
for all three sources). The ICERs were systematically higher when calculated as 
the cost per QALY gained ($US14,926, $US25,447, and $US11,393, respectively) as 
the utilities were below 1 with no difference between the treatment arms.
CONCLUSION: As for the overall EPHESUS population, aldosterone blockade with 
eplerenone is effective in reducing mortality and is cost effective in 
increasing years of life for the EPHESUS subgroup of patients who were taking 
both ACE inhibitors and beta-blockers.

DOI: 10.2165/11319940-000000000-00000
PMID: 20104935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Drugs Aging. 2010 Feb 1;27(2):87-94. doi: 10.2165/11316430-000000000-00000.

ACE inhibitor and angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist therapies in elderly 
patients with diabetes mellitus: are they underutilized?

Pappoe LS(1), Winkelmayer WC.

Author information:
(1)Renal Division, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02120, USA.

Diabetes mellitus is highly prevalent in older adults in the industrialized 
world. These patients are at high risk of complications from diabetes, including 
diabetic kidney disease. ACE inhibitors and their newer cousins, angiotensin II 
type 1 receptor antagonists (angiotensin receptor blockers [ARBs]), are powerful 
medications for the prevention of progression of diabetic renal disease. 
Unfortunately, among the elderly, these medications have been underutilized. The 
reasons for this include physician concerns regarding patient age and limited 
life expectancy and potential complications of ACE inhibitor or ARB use, 
specifically an increase in creatinine levels and hyperkalaemia. As discussed in 
this article, there have been several studies that show that the effects of 
inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system can be beneficial for the treatment 
of cardiovascular disease and renal disease among elderly patients with diabetes 
and that the potential risks mentioned above are no greater in this group than 
in the general population. For these reasons, several professional societies 
recommend that elderly patients with diabetes and hypertension (systolic blood 
pressure >or=140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure >or=90 mmHg) be treated with 
an ACE inhibitor or ARB (as is recommended for younger diabetics). Use of ACE 
inhibitors or ARBs is also recommended for those with cardiovascular disease or 
those who are at risk of cardiovascular disease. Furthermore, in the management 
of diabetic kidney disease in elderly patients, treatment with ACE inhibitors or 
ARBs is also recommended to reduce the risk or slow the progression of 
nephropathy. Renal function and potassium levels should be monitored within the 
first 12 weeks of initiation of these medications, with each dose increase, and 
on a yearly basis thereafter. This article summarizes the current guidelines on 
the use of ACE inhibitors and ARBs in older adults with diabetes, reviews the 
evidence for their use in the elderly population, and suggests potential reasons 
for the observed underuse of these powerful drugs in this vulnerable population.

DOI: 10.2165/11316430-000000000-00000
PMID: 20104936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Physiol Biochem Zool. 2010 Mar-Apr;83(2):239-51. doi: 10.1086/648434.

Exercising for life? Energy metabolism, body composition, and longevity in mice 
exercising at different intensities.

Vaanholt LM(1), Daan S, Garland T Jr, Visser GH.

Author information:
(1)Behavioural Biology, University of Groningen, Haren, The Netherlands. 
l.vaanholt@abdn.ac.uk

Studies that have found a positive influence of moderate, nonexhaustive exercise 
on life expectancy contradict the rate-of-living theory, which predicts that 
high energy expenditure in exercising animals should shorten life. We 
investigated effects of exercise on energy metabolism and life span in male mice 
from lines that had been selectively bred for high voluntary wheel-running 
activity and from the nonselected control lines. Mice were divided into the 
following three groups (n = 100 per group): active high-runner mice (housed with 
wheels; HR+), sedentary high-runner mice (no wheels provided; HR-), and active 
control mice (C+). Sixty animals from each group were left undisturbed 
throughout their lives to create survival curves. In the remaining 40 animals in 
each group, energy metabolism and body composition was measured at 2, 10, 18, or 
26 mo of age. Wheel-running activity was increased by approximately 50% 
throughout life in HR+ mice compared with C+ mice, and mass-specific daily 
energy expenditure was increased by approximately 30% in HR+ mice compared with 
both C+ mice and HR- mice. Median life span was similar in HR+ mice and HR- mice 
(740 and 733 d, respectively), and it was significantly shorter in these mice 
than it was in C+ mice (828 d). Thus, increasing the amount of voluntary aerobic 
exercise (as a result of selective breeding or housing with wheels) did not 
result in extended life span in mice, and we found no evidence for a direct link 
between energy expenditure and life span.

DOI: 10.1086/648434
PMID: 20105070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Jan 27;8:12. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-12.

A review of health utilities across conditions common in paediatric and adult 
populations.

Tarride JE(1), Burke N, Bischof M, Hopkins RB, Goeree L, Campbell K, Xie F, 
O'Reilly D, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Programs for Assessment of Technology in Health (PATH) Research Institute, St 
Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. tarride@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Cost-utility analyses are commonly used in economic evaluations of 
interventions or conditions that have an impact on health-related quality of 
life. However, evaluating utilities in children presents several challenges 
since young children may not have the cognitive ability to complete measurement 
tasks and thus utility values must be estimated by proxy assessors. Another 
solution is to use utilities derived from an adult population. To better inform 
the future conduct of cost-utility analyses in paediatric populations, we 
reviewed the published literature reporting utilities among children and adults 
across selected conditions common to paediatric and adult populations.
METHODS: An electronic search of Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, and the Cochrane Library 
up to November 2008 was conducted to identify studies presenting utility values 
derived from the Health Utilities Index (HUI) or EuroQoL-5Dimensions (EQ-5D) 
questionnaires or using time trade off (TTO) or standard gamble (SG) techniques 
in children and/or adult populations from randomized controlled trials, 
comparative or non-comparative observational studies, or cross-sectional 
studies. The search was targeted to four chronic diseases/conditions common to 
both children and adults and known to have a negative impact on health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL).
RESULTS: After screening 951 citations identified from the literature search, 77 
unique studies included in our review evaluated utilities in patients with 
asthma (n = 25), cancer (n = 23), diabetes mellitus (n = 11), skin diseases (n = 
19) or chronic diseases (n = 2), with some studies evaluating multiple 
conditions. Utility values were estimated using HUI (n = 33), EQ-5D (n = 26), 
TTO (n = 12), and SG (n = 14), with some studies applying more than one 
technique to estimate utility values. 21% of studies evaluated utilities in 
children, of those the majority being in the area of oncology. No utility values 
for children were reported in skin diseases. Although few studies provided 
comparative information on utility values between children and adults, results 
seem to indicate that utilities may be similar in adolescents and young adults 
with asthma and acne. Differences in results were observed depending on methods 
and proxies.
CONCLUSIONS: This review highlights the need to conduct future research 
regarding measurement of utilities in children.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-12
PMCID: PMC2828427
PMID: 20105304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. J Neurosci. 2010 Jan 27;30(4):1426-34. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4902-09.2010.

Variability in nucleus accumbens activity mediates age-related suboptimal 
financial risk taking.

Samanez-Larkin GR(1), Kuhnen CM, Yoo DJ, Knutson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, California 
94305-2130, USA. glarkin@stanford.edu

Comment in
    J Neurosci. 2010 Jun 9;30(23):7755-7.

As human life expectancy continues to rise, financial decisions of aging 
investors may have an increasing impact on the global economy. In this study, we 
examined age differences in financial decisions across the adult life span by 
combining functional neuroimaging with a dynamic financial investment task. 
During the task, older adults made more suboptimal choices than younger adults 
when choosing risky assets. This age-related effect was mediated by a neural 
measure of temporal variability in nucleus accumbens activity. These findings 
reveal a novel neural mechanism by which aging may disrupt rational financial 
choice.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.4902-09.2010
PMCID: PMC2821055
PMID: 20107069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Feb 3;102(3):144-6. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djq015. Epub
2010  Jan 27.

Researchers consider value-of-information theory for selecting trials.

Schmidt C.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djq015
PMID: 20107161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. PLoS One. 2010 Jan 25;5(1):e8660. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008660.

Natural killer cells in obesity: impaired function and increased susceptibility 
to the effects of cigarette smoke.

O'Shea D(1), Cawood TJ, O'Farrelly C, Lynch L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, St. Vincent's University Hospital, Dublin, 
Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Obese individuals who smoke have a 14 year reduction in life 
expectancy. Both obesity and smoking are independently associated with increased 
risk of malignancy. Natural killer cells (NK) are critical mediators of 
anti-tumour immunity and are compromised in obese patients and smokers. We 
examined whether NK cell function was differentially affected by cigarette smoke 
in obese and lean subjects.
METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Clinical data and blood were collected from 
40 severely obese subjects (BMI>40 kg/m(2)) and 20 lean healthy subjects. NK 
cell levels and function were assessed using flow cytometry and cytotoxicity 
assays. The effect of cigarette smoke on NK cell ability to kill K562 tumour 
cells was assessed in the presence or absence of the adipokines leptin and 
adiponectin. NK cell levels were significantly decreased in obese subjects 
compared to lean controls (7.6 vs 16.6%, p = 0.0008). NK function was also 
significantly compromised in obese patients (30% +/- 13% vs 42% +/-12%, p = 
0.04). Cigarette smoke inhibited NK cell ability to kill tumour cell lines 
(p<0.0001). NK cells from obese subjects were even more susceptible to the 
inhibitory effects of smoke compared to lean subjects (33% vs 28%, p = 0.01). 
Cigarette smoke prevented NK cell activation, as well as perforin and 
interferon-gamma secretion upon tumour challenge. Adiponectin but not leptin 
partially reversed the effects of smoke on NK cell function in both obese (p = 
0.002) and lean controls (p = 0.01).
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Obese subjects have impaired NK cell activity that is 
more susceptible to the detrimental effects of cigarette smoke compared to lean 
subjects. This may play a role in the increase of cancer and infection seen in 
this population. Adiponectin is capable of restoring NK cell activity and may 
have therapeutic potential for immunity in obese subjects and smokers.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008660
PMCID: PMC2801590
PMID: 20107494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


413. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2009 Nov;26(5):412-8.

[The burden of disease from cancer in Cuba, 1990-2002].

[Article in Spanish]

Alonso ED(1), Jo AH, Galán Y.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Metodología de la Investigación, Instituto Nacional de 
Endocrinología, Ciudad de La Habana, Cuba. inen@infomed.sld.cu

OBJECTIVE: To describe the burden of disease, using morbidity and mortality in 
Cuba from 1990-2002, by cancer type and location.
METHODS: A descriptive study of the disease burden in the years 1990, 1995, 
2000, and 2002, by Cuba's most frequently associated cancer types and locations. 
Official Cuban sources were used to calculate years of potential life lost 
(YPLL) due to mortality (based on life expectancy) and morbidity (based on the 
incidence, average duration, and severity of the disease), as well as years of 
potential life lost per death (YPLL/D) and the disability-adjusted life years 
(DALY), for each cancer type and location, by sex and age group.
RESULTS: The locations with higher YPLL were also those with the greatest total 
burden: lung, breast, prostate, colon and rectum, and cervix, and showed an 
upward trend for all cancer types and locations, except leukemia. The 
morbidity-related YPLL were concentrated in: breast, lung, prostate, colon and 
rectum, and cervix. In men, the highest mortality-related YPLL values were in 
the oral cavity and oropharynx, esophagus, stomach, lung, bladder, melanoma, 
lymphoma, and leukemia; women were more affected by cancer of the colon and 
rectum. The highest YPLL/D values were observed for cervix, breast, ovaries, 
leukemia, and lymphoma. The cancer types and locations with more DALYs were: 
lung, breast, prostate, colon and rectum, cervix, and endometrium.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of disease from cancer increased in Cuba from 1990-2002, 
mostly due to a rise in the mortality burden.

PMID: 20107692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Eur J Health Econ. 2011 Jun;12(3):193-203. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0218-6.
Epub  2010 Jan 28.

Analysis of physicians' perspectives versus patients' preferences: direct 
assessment and discrete choice experiments in the therapy of multiple myeloma.

Mühlbacher AC(1), Nübling M.

Author information:
(1)Institut Gesundheitsökonomie und Medizinmanagement (IGM), Hochschule 
Neubrandenburg, Brodaer Strasse 2, 17033, Neubrandenburg, Germany. 
muehlbacher@hs-nb.de

BACKGROUND: Against the background of patient involvement, understanding 
patients' preferences for treatments is crucial: Do physicians have the same or 
a different perception of the patients' preferences? As there is currently no 
cure for patients with multiple myeloma, primary objectives of treatment are to 
extend survival at the best possible quality of life. In this study, physicians' 
beliefs about patients' preferences regarding the treatment of multiple myeloma 
(MM) were explored in a direct assessment and a discrete choice experiment 
(DCE), and were compared to the previously explored patients' views. How much do 
physicians know about their patients' preferences?
METHODS: In a preceding study with German multiple myeloma patients, relevant 
attributes of an ideal multiple myeloma treatment were collected by reviewing 
the literature and by conducting a qualitative study with focus groups. The 
attributes were analyzed using both a direct measurement (16 items on a 
five-point Likert scale) and a DCE (eight pairs with eight characteristics). For 
the present study, 30 German physicians reviewed the treatment attributes from 
the previous study for completeness. A total of 243 physicians participated in 
the study (including the 30 participants in the pre-test). The direct assessment 
and the DCE covered four major preference dimensions that both the literature 
review and the focus groups revealed: Aspects of medical effectiveness 
(including prolonged life expectancy, effectiveness and long duration of 
effect), side effects, quality of life (including social, physical and emotional 
quality of life) and flexibility (breaks in therapy and further treatment 
options).
RESULTS: In the direct measurement of patients' preferences, physicians rated 
physical quality of life (specified as "reduced mobility or good mobility"), 
rare side effects and effectiveness aspects (duration of effect, maximal 
prolonged life expectancy and effectiveness) as the most important attributes 
from the patients' perspective, followed by emotional quality of life (specified 
as "Not always think of the disease") and therapy-free intervals. Especially 
further treatment options and dosage were more important to patients than 
physicians believed. In this case, the physicians had quite obviously 
underestimated the importance of these attributes from the perspective of those 
affected. Physicians ranked prolonged life expectancy as relatively the most 
important and significantly more important than all other treatment attributes. 
Further treatment options were the second most important attribute and 
significant compared to the attributes breaks in therapy and physical quality of 
life, whereas the patients ordered these two attributes in reverse order. 
Similarly, the patients gave the opposite relative importance to the next two 
priorities: self-application of treatment and emotional quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Asking patients or physicians about the multiple myeloma patients' 
treatment preferences, the combination of direct assessment and DCE proves to be 
a valid survey technique. Over a broad range of treatment attributes, the 
physicians' perceptions of preferences were very close to those of multiple 
myeloma patients. Both the direct assessment of importance in order to rank the 
patient perceptions and the DCE provide important insights into the preference 
structure of patients with multiple myeloma. The findings can subsequently be 
used as a basis for tailoring health care services for multiple myeloma patients 
in reference to their preferences.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0218-6
PMID: 20107856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):381-90. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9591-y. Epub
2010  Jan 28.

Factors determining utility measured with the EQ-5D in patients with atrial 
fibrillation.

Berg J(1), Lindgren P, Nieuwlaat R, Bouin O, Crijns H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska Institute, Solna, Sweden. 
jenny.berg@ki.se

PURPOSE: Although atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with increased 
morbidity and mortality from heart failure, stroke and other thromboembolic 
complications, there are limited data on its health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) effects. The objective was to analyse the factors determining utility in 
patients with all types of AF, both at baseline and after 1 year from inclusion, 
based on data from the Euro heart survey.
METHODS: HRQoL was measured with the EQ-5D questionnaire. At baseline, 5,050 
patients had completed all five dimensions of the EQ-5D and 3,045 had done so 
after 1 year. We used Powell's censored least absolute deviations estimator for 
inference and ordinary least squares regressions for prediction.
RESULTS: Regardless of time point, utility and change in utility were 
significantly correlated with age, gender, AF type and symptoms. At baseline, 
utility was also determined by domestic status, regular exercise habits, 
diabetic disease and comorbidities. At follow-up, additional determinants 
included underlying heart disease and utility at baseline, and adverse events.
CONCLUSION: Utility in patients with AF and change over time are influenced by 
demographic and disease-specific variables. Our results can provide useful 
information on the effect of AF on QoL and input for economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9591-y
PMID: 20108048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. J Med Life. 2008 Apr-Jun;1(2):148-56.

Models for the indices of thermal comfort.

Streinu-Cercel A(1), Costoiu S, Mârza M, Streinu-Cercel A, Mârza M.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine Bucuresti and Institute for Infectious Disease IBI, 
Romania. secretariat@mateibals.ro

The current paper propose the analysis and extension formulation required for 
establishing decision in the management of the medical national system from the 
point of view of quality and efficiency such as: conceiving models for the 
indices of thermal comfort, defining the predicted mean vote (on the thermal 
sensation scale) "PMV", defining the metabolism "M", heat transfer between the 
human body and the environment, defining the predicted percent of dissatisfied 
people "PPD", defining all indices of thermal comfort.

PMCID: PMC5654073
PMID: 20108461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Med Life. 2008 Jul-Sep;1(3):239-46.

Geriatric surgery--present and perspective.

Popa F(1), Mihai P.

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania.

PMCID: PMC5654301
PMID: 20108500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Health Rep. 2009 Dec;20(4):31-51.

Mortality of Métis and registered Indian adults in Canada: an 11-year follow-up 
study.

Tjepkema M(1), Wilkins R, Senécal S, Guimond E, Penney C.

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division, Statistics, Canada. Michael.Tjepkema@statcan.gc.ca

BACKGROUND: Little information has been published about the mortality of the 
Métis people of Canada. This study describes mortality patterns among Métis and 
Registered Indian adults, compared with the non-Aboriginal population.
DATA SOURCE AND METHODS: The 1991 to 2001 Canadian census mortality followup 
study tracked mortality among a 15% sample of respondents aged 25 or older, 
including 11,800 Métis, 56,700 Registered Indians and 2,624,300 non-Aboriginal 
adults, all of whom were enumerated by the 1991 census long-form questionnaire. 
Age-specific and age-standardized mortality rates and period life tables based 
on the number of person-years at risk were calculated across the various groups. 
Métis were defined by ethnic origin (ancestry).
RESULTS: Compared with non-Aboriginal members of the cohort, life expectancy at 
age 25 was 3.3 and 5.5 years shorter for Métis men and women, respectively, and 
4.4 and 6.3 years shorter for Registered Indians. For both Aboriginal groups, 
mortality rate ratios were highest at younger ages. Mortality rate differences 
among Métis men were particularly elevated for external causes and circulatory, 
respiratory and digestive system diseases; among Métis women, for circulatory 
system diseases, cancers, and digestive and respiratory system diseases. 
Generally, rate differences for Registered Indian men and women were further 
elevated.
CONCLUSIONS: Métis adults had higher mortality rates compared with 
non-Aboriginal members of the cohort, but lower rates than did Registered 
Indians.

PMID: 20108604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Health Rep. 2009 Dec;20(4):55-64.

Income disparities in health-adjusted life expectancy for Canadian adults, 1991 
to 2001.

McIntosh CN(1), Finès P, Wilkins R, Wolfson MC.

Author information:
(1)Public Safety Canada. Cameron.Mclntosh@ps.sp.gc.ca

Erratum in
    Health Rep. 2010 Dec;21(4):101.

BACKGROUND: Health-adjusted life expectancy is a summary measure of population 
health that combines mortality and morbidity data into a single index. This 
article profiles differences in health-adjusted life expectancy across income 
categories for a representative sample of the Canadian population.
DATA AND METHODS: Mortality data were obtained from the 1991-2001 Canadian 
census mortality follow-up study, which linked a 15% sample of the 1991 adult 
non-institutional population with 11 years of death records from the Canadian 
Mortality Data Base. Information on morbidity was obtained from the Health 
Utilities Index Mark 3 instrument on the 2000/2001 Canadian Community Health 
Survey. The Sullivan method was used to compute health-adjusted life expectancy 
for national deciles of population ranked by income.
MAIN RESULTS: For both sexes, and with few exceptions, a nearly linear gradient 
across income deciles emerged for health-adjusted life expectancy at age 25. 
Compared with people in higher-income deciles, those in lower-income deciles had 
fewer years of health-adjusted life expectancy. These disparities were 
substantially larger than those revealed by life expectancy alone.
INTERPRETATION: These findings highlight the generally worse health-related 
quality of life of lower-income groups. The results demonstrate that assessments 
of socio-economic disparities in health should include the effects of both 
mortality and morbidity.

PMID: 20108606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Health Rep. 2009 Dec;20(4):85-94.

A comparison of individual and area-based socio-economic data for monitoring 
social inequalities in health.

Pampalon R(1), Hamel D, Gamache P.

Author information:
(1)Unité des etudes et analyses de l'état de santé de la population, Institut 
national de santé publique du Québec, 945 Wolfe Avenue, Quebec, Quebec, G1V 5B3. 
robert.pampalon@inspq.qc.ca

BACKGROUND: Area-based indicators are commonly used to measure and track health 
outcomes by socioeconomic group. This is largely because of the absence of 
socio-economic information about individuals in health administrative databases. 
The literature shows that the magnitude of differences in health outcomes varies 
depending on whether the socio-economic indicators are at the individual level 
or are area-based. This study compares the two types of indicators.
DATA AND METHODS: The data are from a file linking the results of the 1991 
Census with deaths that occurred from 1991 to 2000--a 15% sample of the Canadian 
population aged 25 or older. The socio-economic indicator used for comparison is 
a material and social deprivation index, in individual and area-based versions. 
The health indicators are life expectancy and disability-free life expectancy, 
and risks of mortality and disability.
RESULTS: The individual version of the deprivation index yields wider gaps in 
life expectancy and disability-free life expectancy than does the area-based 
version. These gaps vary by sex and geographic setting. However, both versions 
are associated with inequalities in mortality and disability, independent of 
each other.
INTERPRETATION: Despite some limitations, area-based socioeconomic indicators 
are useful in assessing inequalities in health. The inequalities that they 
identify are significant, consistent and reliable and can be tracked through 
time and for different geographic settings.

PMID: 20108609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. AANA J. 2009 Dec;77(6):451-60.

AANA Journal course. Update for nurse anesthetists. Evaluation of older adults.

Talley HC(1), Talley CH.

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University Nurse Anesthesia Program, College of Nursing, East 
Lansing, Michigan, USA. henry.talley@hc.msu.edu

As life expectancy increases, the anesthetic management of older surgical 
patients has received increased attention. Current estimates suggest that 
approximately 20% or more of the surgical procedures performed in the United 
States are on persons 65 years or older, and if current trends continue, the 
number of older patients requiring anesthesia for surgical procedures is likely 
to increase. A thorough evaluation is required when planning for the anesthetic 
management of older adults. Older adults have specific management needs, and 
these demands continue to pose challenges to anesthesia providers. These 
challenges relate to the accrual of numerous and diverse anatomic and 
physiologic changes that occur in older adults throughout the course of aging.

PMID: 20108733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. J Med Life. 2009 Oct-Dec;2(4):350-60.

Neuroprotective and consequent neurorehabilitative clinical outcomes, in 
patients treated with the pleiotropic drug cerebrolysin.

Onose G(1), Mureşanu DF, Ciurea AV, Daia Chendreanu C, Mihaescu AS, Mardare DC, 
Andone I, Spânu A, Popescu C, Dumitrescu A, Popescu M, Grigorean V, Ungur B, 
Marinescu F, Colibbeanu I, Onose L, Haras M, Sandu A, Spircu T.

Author information:
(1)Bagdasar-Arseni Teaching Emergency Hospital, Bucharest, Romania.

BACKGROUND: Discovery of neurotrophic factors--emblematic: the nerve growth 
factor (NGF)--resulted in better approaching central nervous system (CNS) 
lesions. Recently, another crucial property has been unveiled: their rather 
unique pleiotropic effect. Cerebrolysin is a peptide mixture that penetrates the 
blood-brain barrier in significant amounts and mimics the effects of NGF.
METHODS: Comparative analysis: Cerebrolysin treated (10 ml x 2/day, i.v. x 3 
weeks) vs. non-treated, in patients (all received aside, a rather equivalent 
complementary, pharmacological and physical, therapy). Two lots of patients, 
admitted in our Physical & Rehabilitation (neural-muscular) 
Medical-PR(n-m)M-Clinic Division, during 2007-2009: 69 treated with Cerebrolysin 
(22 F, 47 M; Average: 59.333; Mean of age: 61.0 Years old; Standard deviation 
16.583) and 70 controls (41 F, 29 M; A: 70.014; M.o.a.: 70.5 Y.o.; S.d.: 6.270) 
were studied. The total number of assessed items was 13: most contributive in 
relation with the score of Functional Independence Measure at discharge (d FIM), 
were: admission (a FIM), number of physical therapy days (PT), number of 
hospitalization days (H), age (A) and--relatively--days until the first knee 
functional extension (KE). Concomitantly, the main/key, focused on neuro-motor 
rehabilitative outcomes, functional/analytical parameters, have been assessed 
regarding the speed in achieving their functional recovery.
RESULTS: Concerning d FIM, there have not been objectified significant 
differences between the two lots (p=0.2453) but regarding key, focused on 
neuro-motor rehabilitative outcomes, functional/analytical parameters: KE 
(p=0.0007) and days until the first time recovery of the ability to walk between 
parallel bars (WPB--p=0.0000)--highly significant differences in favor of 
Cerebrolysin lot resulted.
CONCLUSION: Cerebrolysin administration, as neurorehabilitative outcomes, proved 
to hasten, statistically significant, especially the recovery of some critical, 
for standing and walking, parameters. Thus encouraged, we have now initiated a 
comprehensive national, 5 year retrospective, multi-centre--based on unitary 
data acquisition frame and mathematical apparatus--study, to evaluate the 
results of the treatment with Cerebrolysin in traumatic brain injuries (TBI).

PMCID: PMC3019019
PMID: 20108748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. BMC Cancer. 2010 Jan 28;10:24. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-10-24.

A multilevel study of the determinants of area-level inequalities in colorectal 
cancer survival.

Baade PD(1), Turrell G, Aitken JF.

Author information:
(1)Viertel Centre for Research in Cancer Control, Cancer Council Queensland, PO 
Box 201, Spring Hill QLD 4004, Australia. peterbaade@cancerqld.org.au

BACKGROUND: In Australia, associations between geographic remoteness, 
socioeconomic disadvantage, and colorectal cancer (CRC) survival show that 
survival rates are lowest among residents of geographically remote regions and 
those living in disadvantaged areas. At present we know very little about the 
reasons for these inequalities, hence our capacity to intervene to reduce the 
inequalities is limited.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study, the first of its type in Australia, examines the 
association between CRC survival and key area- and individual-level factors. 
Specifically, we will use a multilevel framework to investigate the possible 
determinants of area- and individual-level inequalities in CRC survival and 
quantify the relative contribution of geographic remoteness, socioeconomic and 
demographic factors, disease stage, and access to diagnostic and treatment 
services, to these inequalities. The multilevel analysis will be based on 
survival data relating to people diagnosed with CRC in Queensland between 1996 
and 2005 (n = 22,723) from the Queensland Cancer Registry (QCR), area-level data 
from other data custodians such as the Australian Bureau of Statistics, and 
individual-level data from the QCR (including extracting stage from pathology 
records) and Queensland Hospitals. For a subset of this period (2003 and 2004) 
we will utilise more detailed, individual-level data (n = 1,966) covering a 
greater range of risk factors from a concurrent research study. Geo-coding and 
spatial technology will be used to calculate road travel distances from 
patients' residence to treatment centres. The analyses will be conducted using a 
multilevel Cox proportional hazards model with Level 1 comprising 
individual-level factors (e.g. occupation) and level 2 area-level indicators of 
remoteness and area socioeconomic disadvantage.
DISCUSSION: This study focuses on the health inequalities for rural and 
disadvantaged populations that have often been documented but poorly understood, 
hence limiting our capacity to intervene. This study utilises and develops 
emerging statistical and spatial technologies that can then be applied to other 
cancers and health outcomes. The findings of this study will have direct 
implications for the targeting and resourcing of cancer control programs 
designed to reduce the burden of colorectal cancer, and for the provision of 
diagnostic and treatment services.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-10-24
PMCID: PMC2837617
PMID: 20109230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Thromb Res. 2009 Dec;124 Suppl 2:S6-8. doi: 10.1016/S0049-3848(09)70157-4.

Half-life extension through albumin fusion technologies.

Schulte S(1).

Author information:
(1)CSL Behring GmbH, Marburg, Germany. Stefan.schulte@cslbehring.com

Haemophilia B is characterized by a deficiency of coagulation factor IX (FIX), a 
protein that is important in the process of haemostasis and normal blood 
clotting. Recurrent bleeding into joints and soft tissues is the hallmark of 
severe haemophilia B. The goal of treatment is to prevent and manage haemorrhage 
and thereby reduce disabling joint and tissue damage, improve quality of life, 
and extend life expectancy. Current treatment with FIX replacement concentrates 
often requires repeated, frequent infusions, owing to the relatively short 
terminal half-life of FIX in the circulation. We have developed a unique 
technology for improving the biological characteristics of FIX in vivo. For this 
approach, recombinant FIX (rFIX) was genetically fused to albumin via a 
cleavable peptide linker. Constructs of the fusion protein were expressed in 
mammalian cells and characterized following purification. In vitro activation 
studies demonstrated that cleavage of the linker occurred in parallel with FIX 
activation. The molar specific clotting activity of the cleavable fusion protein 
(rIX-FP) was 10- to 30-fold greater than that of the fusion protein with 
non-cleavable linkers. In rats, rabbits, and FIX-deficient mice, the 
pharmacokinetics of rIX-FP were significantly improved compared with rFIX. Using 
the tail-clip bleeding model in FIX-deficient mice, rIX-FP effectively corrected 
the bleeding time and blood loss. These findings suggest that rIX-FP may be a 
promising therapy for the treatment of patients with haemophilia B.

DOI: 10.1016/S0049-3848(09)70157-4
PMID: 20109653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Lancet. 2010 Jan 2;375(9708):25; author reply 26-7. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(09)62177-2.

Ageing and health.

Olshansky SJ, Carnes BA.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 Oct 3;374(9696):1196-208.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)62177-2
PMID: 20109852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Curr Probl Cardiol. 2010 Feb;35(2):72-115. doi:
10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2009.10.002.

Growing epidemic of coronary heart disease in low- and middle-income countries.

Gaziano TA, Bitton A, Anand S, Abrahams-Gessel S, Murphy A.

Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the single largest cause of death in the 
developed countries and is one of the leading causes of disease burden in 
developing countries. In 2001, there were 7.3 million deaths due to CHD 
worldwide. Three-fourths of global deaths due to CHD occurred in the low- and 
middle-income countries. The rapid rise in CHD burden in most of the low- and 
middle-income countries is due to socio-economic changes, increase in lifespan, 
and acquisition of lifestyle-related risk factors. The CHD death rate, however, 
varies dramatically across the developing countries. The varying incidence, 
prevalence, and mortality rates reflect the different levels of risk factors, 
other competing causes of death, availability of resources to combat 
cardiovascular disease, and the stage of epidemiologic transition that each 
country or region finds itself. The economic burden of CHD is equally large but 
solutions exist to manage this growing burden.

Copyright 2010 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2009.10.002
PMCID: PMC2864143
PMID: 20109979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


427. Clin Ther. 2009 Dec;31(12):2919-30; discussion 2916-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.12.013.

Results of a Markov model analysis to assess the cost-effectiveness of statin 
therapy for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in Korea: the 
Korean Individual-Microsimulation Model for Cardiovascular Health Interventions.

Kang HY(1), Ko SK, Liew D.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health, Institute of Health Services Research, 
Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea. hykang@yuhs.ac

BACKGROUND: Although hyperlipidemia is well recognized as a risk factor for 
cardiovascular disease (CVD), there has been no appraisal of the economic impact 
of statin therapy in Korea.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this model analysis was to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of statin therapy versus no treatment for the primary 
prevention of CVD over a lifetime in Korea, from a health care system 
perspective.
METHODS: We developed the Korean Individual-Microsimulation Model for 
Cardiovascular Health Interventions (KIMCHI), an epidemiologic and economic 
Markov model of first-onset CVD in Korea in which all individuals began the 
simulation in the health state alive without CVD, and moved among the 4 health 
states (alive without CVD, alive with CVD, dead from CVD, and dead from non-CVD 
causes) in yearly cycles for any specified time horizon, up to 40 years. KIMCHI 
was populated with 372 subjects from the 2005 Korean National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey (KNHNES) who were aged > or =45 years, did not have 
a history of myocardial infarction or ischemic stroke, and met current Korean 
reimbursement criteria for treatment with lipid-lowering medications. The 
probability of first-onset CVD was estimated for each study participant 
individually, based on an Asian population-specific risk equation that relied on 
an individual's sex, age, serum total cholesterol, systolic blood pressure, 
current smoking status, diabetes mellitus status, and body mass index. Statin 
treatment was represented by a hybrid of atorvastatin and simvastatin (the most 
popular statins in Korea), the lipid-modifying effects of which were de rived 
from a published meta-analysis. Data regarding utilities and costs of CVD (both 
those covered and not covered by insurance) were derived from published local 
sources.
RESULTS: In the base case, the estimated incremental costutility ratio was 
15,134,284 Korean won (KRW) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, and 
the estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 20,657,829 KRW per 
life-year gained (LYG) (1200 KRW approximately US $1). Based on a 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of 30 million KRW per QALY saved, there was a 
93.7% probability that statin therapy would be cost-effective. Given a WTP 
threshold of 20 million KRW per QALY, there was a 53.8% probability of being 
cost-effective. The probabilities at WTP thresholds of 30 and 20 million KRW per 
LYG were 62.4% and 25.8%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on this analysis using data from the 2005 KNHNES and the 
KIMCHI model, statin therapy is likely to be cost-effective for the primary 
prevention of CVD among Koreans aged > or =45 years. The probability of being 
