Macrophage migration inhibitory factor (MIF) affects inflammation, glucose 
homeostasis, and cellular proliferation in mammals. Previously, we found that 
MIF was significantly elevated in multiple long-lived mouse models, including 
calorie restriction (CR), which led us to hypothesize that MIF might be 
important in the control of mammalian life span and be necessary for the 
life-extending effects of CR. To test this hypothesis, we examined the life span 
of mice with a targeted deletion of the Mif gene on a segregating B6 x 129/Sv 
background (MIF-KO) under ad libitum (AL) feeding and CR conditions. Control 
mice were generated by mating C57BL/6J females with 129/SvJ males to make an F1 
hybrid, and crossing F1 males to F1 females to produce segregating F2 mice 
homozygous for the normal MIF allele. Not only did MIF-KO mice show a life span 
extension in response to CR, they were, unexpectedly, longer lived than controls 
under standard AL conditions. MIF-KO mice were significantly protected against 
lethal hemangiosarcoma, but more likely than controls to die of disseminated 
amyloid, an age-related inflammatory syndrome. Overall, these data refute the 
suggestion that MIF is required for the CR effect on life span, but raise the 
possibility that MIF may limit life span in normal mice.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.09-152223
PMCID: PMC2887269
PMID: 20219983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. J Clin Pharmacol. 2011 Feb;51(2):128-52. doi: 10.1177/0091270010362904. Epub
 2010 Mar 10.

Novel avenues of drug discovery and biomarkers for diabetes mellitus.

Maiese K(1), Chong ZZ, Shang YC, Hou J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, 8C-1 UHC, Wayne State University School of Medicine, 
4201 St. Antoine, Detroit, MI 48201, USA. kmaiese@med.wayne.edu

Globally, developed nations spend a significant amount of their resources on 
health care initiatives that poorly translate into increased population life 
expectancy. As an example, the United States devotes 16% of its gross domestic 
product to health care, the highest level in the world, but falls behind other 
nations that enjoy greater individual life expectancy. These observations point 
to the need for pioneering avenues of drug discovery to increase life span with 
controlled costs. In particular, innovative drug development for metabolic 
disorders such as diabetes mellitus becomes increasingly critical given that the 
number of diabetic people will increase exponentially over the next 20 years. 
This article discusses the elucidation and targeting of novel cellular pathways 
that are intimately tied to oxidative stress in diabetes mellitus for new 
treatment strategies. Pathways that involve wingless, β-nicotinamide adenine 
dinucleotide (NAD(+)) precursors, and cytokines govern complex biological 
pathways that determine both cell survival and longevity during diabetes 
mellitus and its complications. Furthermore, the role of these entities as 
biomarkers for disease can further enhance their utility irrespective of their 
treatment potential. Greater understanding of the intricacies of these unique 
cellular mechanisms will shape future drug discovery for diabetes mellitus to 
provide focused clinical care with limited or absent long-term complications.

DOI: 10.1177/0091270010362904
PMCID: PMC3033756
PMID: 20220043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Dose Response. 2009 Dec 7;8(1):48-52. doi:
10.2203/dose-response.09-031.Olsen.

Stress to the rescue: is hormesis a 'cure' for aging?

Kahn A(1), Olsen A.

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Age Research, Novato, CA, USA.

Despite the fact that the phenomenon of hormesis has been known for many years 
it is still very much an area of controversy just how useful hormetic treatments 
are in preventing age-related human diseases and increasing life expectancy. 
Since there are no data in humans demonstrating hormesis as an effective 
anti-ageing strategy we turn to a simple model organism for insight. In this 
review we explore what can be predicted about the usefulness of hormetic 
treatments in humans based upon studies conducted in the soil nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

DOI: 10.2203/dose-response.09-031.Olsen
PMCID: PMC2836152
PMID: 20221288


707. P R Health Sci J. 2010 Mar;29(1):70-5.

AIDS-related malignancies: revisited.

Cáceres W(1), Cruz-Amy M, Díaz-Meléndez V.

Author information:
(1)UPR School of Medicine, San Juan. wcjn@prtc.net

Since the first reports between the association of Human Immunodeficiency Virus 
(HIV) infection and neoplasia, there has been a dramatic change in the incidence 
and epidemiology of AIDS-related malignancies. Kaposi sarcoma (KS), 
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL), and cervical cancer are classified by the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) as AIDS-defining malignancies. However, 
since the availability of highly active combination antiretroviral therapy 
(cART), especially protease inhibitors, there has been a steady increase in non- 
AIDS defining malignancies, such as Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), lung cancer, 
hepatocellular cancer, anal cancer and others and a decline in AIDS-defining 
neoplasias. Although the emergence of non-AIDS defining cancers could be a 
result of longer life expectancy and due to a better control of HIV, toxic 
habits and co-infection with other viruses such as hepatitis B, hepatitis C and 
human papilloma virus (HPV) could play an important role. The interactions of 
cART and incomplete immune reconstitution could be other factors explaining the 
increase in non-AIDS defining cancers. These emerging non-AIDS defining 
malignancies present a new challenge in the care of patients with HIV infection, 
and require optimal treatment protocols that take into consideration the 
interaction between cART and systemic chemotherapy. We review the current status 
of AIDS-related malignancies, its pathophysiology, epidemiology and management 
with emphasis in the changing patterns of presentation.

PMID: 20222338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(4):295-306. doi:
10.2165/11530530-000000000-00000.

Does the funding source influence the results in economic evaluations? A case 
study in bisphosphonates for the treatment of osteoporosis.

Fleurence RL(1), Spackman DE, Hollenbeak C.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, 7101 Wisconsin Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814, USA. 
rachael.fleurence@unitedbiosource.com

Research sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry is often assumed to be more 
likely to report favourable cost-effectiveness results. To determine whether 
there was a relationship between the source of funding and the reporting of 
positive results. We conducted a systematic review of the literature to identify 
economic evaluations of bisphosphonates for the treatment of osteoporosis. We 
extracted the source of funding, region of study, the journal name and impact 
factor, and all reported incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs). We 
identified which ICERs were under the thresholds of $US20 000, $US50 000 and 
$US100 000 per QALY. A quality score between 0 and 7 was also given to each of 
the studies. We used generalized estimating equations for the analysis. The 
systematic review yielded 532 potential abstracts; 17 of these met our final 
eligibility criteria. Ten studies (59%) were funded by non-industry sources. A 
total of 571 ICERs were analysed. There was no significant difference between 
the number of industry- and non-industry-funded studies reporting ICERs below 
the thresholds of $US20 000 and $US50 000. However, industry-sponsored studies 
were more likely to report ICERs below $US100 000 (odds ratio = 4.69, 95% CI 
1.77, 12.43). Studies of higher methodological quality (scoring >4.5 of 7) were 
less likely to report ICERs below $US20 000 and $US50 000 than studies of lower 
methodological quality (scores <4). Methodological quality was not significantly 
different between studies reporting ICERs under $US100 000. In this relatively 
small sample of studies of bisphosphonates, the funding source (industry vs 
non-industry) did not seem to significantly affect the reporting of ICERs below 
the $US20 000 and $US50 000 thresholds. We hypothesize that methodological 
quality might be a more significant factor than the source of funding in 
differentiating which studies are likely to report favourable ICERs, with the 
higher-quality studies significantly less likely to report ICERs below $US20 000 
and $US50 000 per QALY. Further research should explore this finding.

DOI: 10.2165/11530530-000000000-00000
PMID: 20222753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(4):323-44. doi: 10.2165/11314690-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of etoricoxib versus celecoxib and non-selective NSAIDS in 
the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis.

Jansen JP(1), Gaugris S, Choy EH, Ostor A, Nash JT, Stam W.

Author information:
(1)Mapi Values, 133 Portland Street, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
jeroen.jansen@mapivalues.com

To evaluate the cost effectiveness of etoricoxib (90 mg/day) relative to 
celecoxib (200 or 400 mg/day), and the non-selective NSAIDs naproxen (1000 
mg/day) and diclofenac (150 mg/day) in the initial treatment of ankylosing 
spondylitis (AS) from the UK NHS perspective. A Bayesian cost-effectiveness 
model was developed to estimate the costs and benefits associated with 
initiating AS treatment with etoricoxib, celecoxib, diclofenac or naproxen. 
Efficacy, safety and medical resource and cost data were obtained from the 
literature. The obtained efficacy estimates were synthesized with a mixed 
treatment comparison meta-analysis. Treatment benefit and degree of disease 
activity, as reflected with Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI) 
and Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Disease Activity Index (BASDAI) scores, were 
related to QALYs and AS-specific costs (related to BASDAI). Other cost outcomes 
related to drug acquisition, and gastrointestinal and cardiovascular safety. 
Uncertainty in the source data was translated into uncertainty in 
cost-effectiveness estimates and therefore decision uncertainty. Costs and 
outcomes were discounted at 3.5% per annum. There was a >98% probability that 
treatment with etoricoxib results in greater QALYs than the other interventions. 
Over a 30-year time horizon, starting AS treatment with etoricoxib was 
associated with about 0.4 more QALYs than the other interventions. At 2 years 
there was a 77% probability that etoricoxib had the lowest cost. This increased 
to >99% at 30 years. Etoricoxib is expected to save 13 620 UK pounds (year 2007 
values) relative to celecoxib (200/400 mg), 9957 UK pounds relative to 
diclofenac and 9863 UK pounds relative to naproxen. For a willingness-to-pay 
ceiling ratio of 20 000 UK pounds per QALY, there was a >97% probability that 
etoricoxib was the most cost-effective treatment. Additional analysis with 
different assumptions, including celecoxib 200 mg, and ignoring cost-offsets 
associated with improvements in disease activity, supported these findings. This 
economic evaluation suggests that, from the UK NHS perspective, etoricoxib is 
the most cost-effective initial NSAID treatment for AS patients.

DOI: 10.2165/11314690-000000000-00000
PMID: 20222755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Mar 11;8:26. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-26.

An instrument to assess quality of life in relation to nutrition: item 
generation, item reduction and initial validation.

Schünemann HJ(1), Sperati F, Barba M, Santesso N, Melegari C, Akl EA, Guyatt G, 
Muti P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University at Buffalo, State University of New York, 
Buffalo, New York, USA. schuneh@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: It is arguable that modification of diet, given its potential for 
positive health outcomes, should be widely advocated and adopted. However, food 
intake, as a basic human need, and its modification may be accompanied by 
sensations of both pleasure and despondency and may consequently affect to 
quality of life (QoL). Thus, the feasibility and success of dietary changes will 
depend, at least partly, on whether potential negative influences on QoL can be 
avoided. This is of particular importance in the context of dietary intervention 
studies and in the development of new food products to improve health and well 
being. Instruments to measure the impact of nutrition on quality of life in the 
general population, however, are few and far between. Therefore, the aim of this 
project was to develop an instrument for measuring QoL related to nutrition in 
the general population.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We recruited participants from the general population and 
followed standard methodology for quality of life instrument development 
(identification of population, item selection, n = 24; item reduction, n = 81; 
item presentation, n = 12; pretesting of questionnaire and initial validation, n 
= 2576; construct validation n = 128; and test-retest reliability n = 20). Of 
187 initial items, 29 were selected for final presentation. Factor analysis 
revealed an instrument with 5 domains. The instrument demonstrated good 
cross-sectional divergent and convergent construct validity when correlated with 
scores of the 8 domains of the SF-36 (ranging from -0.078 to 0.562, 19 out of 40 
tested correlations were statistically significant and 24 correlations were 
predicted correctly) and good test-retest reliability (intra-class correlation 
coefficients from 0.71 for symptoms to 0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: We developed and validated an instrument with 29 items across 5 
domains to assess quality of life related to nutrition and other aspects of food 
intake. The instrument demonstrated good face and construct validity as well as 
good reliability. Future work will focus on the evaluation of longitudinal 
construct validity and responsiveness.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-26
PMCID: PMC2847551
PMID: 20222983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Epidemiol Infect. 2010 Nov;138(11):1650-6. doi: 10.1017/S0950268810000531.
Epub  2010 Mar 12.

Disease burden of post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome in The Netherlands.

Haagsma JA(1), Siersema PD, De Wit NJ, Havelaar AH.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Zoonoses and Environmental Microbiology, Centre for Infectious 
Disease Control, National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, 
Bilthoven, The Netherlands. j.haagsma@erasmusmc.nl

Post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome (PI-IBS) has been established as a 
sequel of infectious intestinal disease (IID). The aim of this study was to 
estimate the burden of PI-IBS caused by the pathogens Campylobacter, Salmonella 
and Shigella, and to compare this with other outcomes associated with these 
pathogens. The attributable risk of PI-IBS due to bacterial pathogens was 
calculated and linked to national data on gastroenteritis incidence and measures 
for severity and duration of illness in order to estimate the burden of PI-IBS. 
One year post-infection, IBS developed in 9% of patients with bacterial IID. The 
burden of PI-IBS adds over 2300 disability adjusted life years to the total 
annual disease burden for the selected pathogens. PI-IBS is a frequent sequel of 
IID, resulting in a considerable disease burden compared to other outcomes. If 
this relationship is not considered, this will result in an underestimation of 
the disease burden of IID.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268810000531
PMID: 20223049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2010 Jan;63 Suppl 1:132-49. doi:
10.1016/s0300-8932(10)70146-9.

[Current status of heart transplantation in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Almenar L(1), Delgado J, Crespo M, Segovia J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario La Fe, Valencia, España. lu.almenarb5@comv.es

Both the prevalence and incidence of heart failure are high in developed 
countries. The number of patients suffering from the condition is continuing to 
grow as life-expectancy increases and, consequently, the population ages. In 
Spain, the number of deaths due to heart failure is similar to that due to 
cancer. Various treatments for heart failure, including specific drugs, 
implantable devices (i.e. cardioverters and defibrillators) and temporary or 
permanent ventricular assist devices, have been shown to improve survival and 
are now used regularly. Nevertheless, some patients with heart failure, though 
small in number, will benefit from heart transplantation. The procedure clearly 
improves quality of life and prolongs survival for many years. However, heart 
transplantation is not a routine procedure. It can result in a variety of 
problems, most of which must be tackled using a multidisciplinary approach. The 
aim of this update was to provide a broad overview of current practices employed 
by heart transplantation teams in Spain.

DOI: 10.1016/s0300-8932(10)70146-9
PMID: 20223185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. J Vasc Surg. 2010 Jun;51(6):1550-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2009.12.063. Epub
2010  Mar 11.

Technique of interventional repair in adult aortic coarctation.

Kische S(1), Schneider H, Akin I, Ortak J, Rehders TC, Chatterjee T, Nienaber 
CA, Ince H.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University Hospital Rostock, Rostock School of 
Medicine, Rostock, Germany.

Surgical treatment of aortic coarctation has increased life expectancy and 
reduced mortality. Unfortunately, the average lifespan after repair remains only 
35 to 50 years, and significant morbidity persists as a result of aneurysm 
formation, hypertension, accelerated coronary disease, and stroke. Follow-up 
studies have revealed restenosis rates of 30% and persistent hypertension at 
rest and during exercise, sometimes with compromised cardiac function. The less 
invasive nature of nonsurgical repair using transcatheter therapies has led to 
balloon angioplasty and, recently, stent implantation as an emerging concept for 
the treatment of aortic coarctation. This review focuses on advances in the 
management, current indication, and techniques of interventional repair in 
aortic coarctation.

Copyright (c) 2010 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2009.12.063
PMID: 20223618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Anal Bioanal Chem. 2010 Aug;397(7):2685-91. doi: 10.1007/s00216-010-3568-0.
Epub  2010 Mar 12.

FT-Raman spectroscopic analysis of pigments from an Augustinian friary.

Edwards HG(1), Newton EM, O'Connor S, Evans D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Chemical & Forensic Sciences, School of Life Sciences, University 
of Bradford, Bradford BD7 1DP, UK. h.g.m.edwards@bradford.ac.uk

The Raman spectroscopic analysis of several stone samples with applied red 
pigments obtained from an archaeological excavation of an Augustinian friary 
discovered during the construction of an extension to Hull Magistrates Court in 
1994 has revealed a surprising diversity of composition. Cinnabar, red lead and 
haematite have all been identified alone or in admixture; the cinnabar is 
exceptional in that it has only been found heavily adulterated with red ochre 
and red lead, as the other two pigments are found alone. There are signatures of 
limewash putty, which has been applied to the stone substrate prior to the 
painting, which is characteristic of the Roman method of wall painting, and 
there are no traces of gypsum found in the specimens studied. This evidence 
indicates an early mediaeval method of stone decoration.

DOI: 10.1007/s00216-010-3568-0
PMID: 20225060


715. Rev Prat. 2010 Feb 20;60(2):205-11.

[Prostate cancer screening and early diagnosis].

[Article in French]

Mottet N(1), Bourmaud A, Droz JP.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, Clinique mutualiste de la Loire, 42013 Saint-Etienne 
Cedex. nmottet@mutualite-loire.com

Prostate cancer is the first cancer by incidence in men. However, the mortality 
rate is only around 15% of the new cases. There is a great heterogeneity of 
prognosis based on stage serum PSA and pathological prognostic score. The 
disease occurs in elderly patients (34% are older than 75 years). Patients' 
population life expectancy and individual chance of surviving is heterogeneous 
due to very different health status. Therefore decision must take into account 
both disease severity and health status. This decision making strategy is also 
true for screening and early diagnosis. To date there is no definite conclusion 
from randomized trials which support the indication of mass screening. The 
current recommendation is an individual early diagnosis procedure based on the 
measure of serum PSA level and Digital Rectal Examination. This procedure may 
only be proposed after an evaluation of person's health status and full 
information on consequences of such a procedure.

PMID: 20225559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Biochemistry. 2010 Apr 13;49(14):3156-60. doi: 10.1021/bi1000239.

An exposed cysteine residue of human angiostatic mini tryptophanyl-tRNA 
synthetase.

Wakasugi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, 3-8-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. 
wakasugi@bio.c.u-tokyo.ac.jp

Human tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (TrpRS) catalyzes the aminoacylation of 
tRNA(Trp). Human TrpRS exists in two forms: a major form that is the full-length 
protein and a truncated form (mini TrpRS) in which most of the N-terminal 
extension is absent. Human mini, but not full-length, TrpRS has angiostatic 
activity. Because the full-length protein, which lacks angiostatic activity, has 
all of the amino acid determinants of the mini form, which has activity, I 
searched for conformational differences between the two proteins. Using a 
disulfide cross-linking assay, I showed that the molecular environment around 
Cys62 is significantly different between the two proteins. This difference can 
be explained by inspection of the three-dimensional structure of the full-length 
protein. These results give a clear demonstration of a significant difference, 
around a specific residue (Cys62), between a potent angiostatic and 
nonangiostatic version of human TrpRS.

DOI: 10.1021/bi1000239
PMID: 20225827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Am J Manag Care. 2010 Mar;16(3):200-6.

Cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine among healthcare 
workers during an influenza pandemic.

Smith KJ(1), Raymund M, Nowalk MP, Roberts MS, Zimmerman RK.

Author information:
(1)Section of Decision Sciences and Clinical Systems Modeling, University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. smithkj2@upmc.edu

OBJECTIVE: To assess the usefulness and cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine (PPV) among healthcare workers compared with nonuse of 
PPV during an influenza pandemic.
STUDY DESIGN: Markov modeling was used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of PPV 
in previously unvaccinated healthcare workers during an influenza pandemic.
METHODS: Invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD) incidence rates were incorporated 
into the model, which assumed that IPD events occurred at twice the usual rate 
during a year of pandemic influenza. Societal and hospital perspectives were 
examined. Assumptions were that pneumococcal disease transmission from 
healthcare worker to patient did not occur, heightened IPD risk occurred for 
only 1 year, and PPV did not prevent noninvasive pneumonia, all of which 
potentially bias against vaccination.
RESULTS: From a societal standpoint, PPV of healthcare workers during an 
influenza pandemic is economically reasonable, costing $2935 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained; results were robust to variation in multiple 
sensitivity analyses. However, from the hospital perspective, vaccinating 
healthcare workers was expensive, costing $1676 per employee absence day 
avoided, given an IPD risk that (although increased) would remain less than 1%.
CONCLUSIONS: Vaccinating all healthcare workers to protect against pneumococcal 
disease during a pandemic influenza outbreak is likely to be economically 
reasonable from the societal standpoint. However, PPV is expensive from the 
hospital perspective, which might prevent implementation of a PPV program unless 
it is externally subsidized.

PMCID: PMC2918289
PMID: 20225915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Mar 12;8:27. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-27.

Evaluation of internal reliability in the presence of inconsistent responses.

Fong DY(1), Ho SY, Lam TH.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, Pokfulam Road, Hong Kong. dytfong@hku.hk

BACKGROUND: We aimed to assess the impact of inconsistent responses on the 
internal reliability of a multi-item scale by developing a procedure to adjust 
Cronbach's alpha.
METHODS: A procedure for adjusting Cronbach's alpha when there are inconsistent 
responses was developed and used to assess the impact of inconsistent responses 
on internal reliability by evaluating the standard Chinese 12-item Short Form 
Health Survey in adolescents.
RESULTS: Contrary to common belief, random responses may inflate Cronbach's 
alpha when their mean differ from that of the true responses. Fixed responses 
inflate Cronbach's alpha except in scales with both positive and negative 
polarity items. In general, the bias in Cronbach's alpha due to inconsistent 
responses may change from negative to positive with an increasing number of 
items in a scale, but the effect of additional items beyond around 10 becomes 
small. The number of response categories does not have much influence on the 
impact of inconsistent responses.
CONCLUSIONS: Cronbach's alpha can be biased when there are inconsistent 
responses, and an adjustment is recommended for better assessment of the 
internal reliability of a multi-item scale.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-27
PMCID: PMC2842254
PMID: 20226019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2010 Mar 12;8:28. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-28.

Preferences for health outcomes associated with Group A Streptococcal disease 
and vaccination.

Lee GM(1), Salomon JA, Gay C, Hammitt JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Medicine, Harvard Medical School and Harvard Pilgrim 
Health Care Institute, 133 Brookline Avenue, Boston, MA 02215, USA. 
grace_lee@hphc.org

BACKGROUND: A 26-valent Group A Streptococcus (GAS) vaccine candidate has been 
developed that may provide protection against pharyngitis, invasive disease and 
rheumatic fever. However, recommendations for the use of a new vaccine must be 
informed by a range of considerations, including parents' preferences for 
different relevant health outcomes. Our objectives were to: (1) describe parent 
preferences for GAS disease and vaccination using willingness-to-pay (WTP) and 
time trade-off (TTO) methods; and (2) understand how parents' implied WTP for a 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained might vary depending on the particular 
health outcome considered (e.g. averted GAS disease vs. vaccine adverse events).
METHODS: Telephone interviews were conducted with parents of children diagnosed 
with GAS pharyngitis at 2 pediatric practice sites in the Boston metropolitan 
area. WTP and TTO (trading parental longevity for child's health) questions for 
2 vaccine and 4 disease-associated health states were asked using a randomly 
selected opening bid, followed by a 2nd bid and a final open-ended question 
about the amount willing to pay or trade. Descriptive analyses included medians 
and interquartile ranges for WTP and TTO estimates. The Wilcoxon signed-rank 
test was used to assess differences in WTP/QALY values for vaccine adverse 
events vs. disease states.
RESULTS: Of 119 respondents, 100 (84%) and 96 (81%) provided a complete set of 
responses for WTP and TTO questions, respectively. The median WTP and discounted 
(at 3% per year) TTO values to avoid each health state were as follows: local 
reaction, $30, 0.12 days; systemic reaction, $50, 0.22 days; impetigo, $75, 1.25 
days; strep throat, $75, 2.5 days; septic arthritis, $1,000, 6.6 days; and toxic 
shock syndrome, $3,000, 31.0 days. The median WTP/QALY was significantly higher 
for vaccine adverse events (approximately $60,000/QALY) compared to disease 
states ($18,000 to $36,000/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Parents strongly prefer to prevent GAS disease in children compared 
to vaccine adverse events. However, implied WTP/QALY ratios were higher for the 
prevention of vaccine adverse events. Regret for errors of commission vs. 
omission may differ and should be considered by vaccine policymakers.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-8-28
PMCID: PMC2848145
PMID: 20226042 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Gastroenterology. 2010 Jun;138(7):2292-9, 2299.e1. doi: 
10.1053/j.gastro.2010.03.004. Epub 2010 Mar 10.

Surveillance colonoscopy is cost-effective for patients with adenomas who are at 
high risk of colorectal cancer.

Saini SD(1), Schoenfeld P, Vijan S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Michigan Medical School, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA. sdsaini@umich.edu

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Guidelines recommend that patients with colon adenomas 
undergo periodic surveillance colonoscopy. The purpose of this study was to 
estimate the cost-effectiveness of these recommendations.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to study various surveillance strategies 
from the perspective of a long-term payer. We modeled a cohort of 50-year-old 
patients with newly diagnosed adenomas, following them until death. Thirty 
percent of the population was assumed to be at high risk for colorectal cancer. 
Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were measured.
RESULTS: Performing colonoscopies every 3 years in high-risk patients and every 
10 years in low-risk patients (3/10 strategy) was more costly but also more 
effective than no surveillance, with an ICER of $5,743 per QALY gained. Compared 
with this 3/10 strategy, a 3/5 strategy was considerably more costly but only 
marginally more effective, with an ICER of $296,266 per QALY. A 3/3 strategy was 
more costly and less effective than a 3/5 strategy (dominated). Results were 
most sensitive to the annual probability of advanced adenoma formation and the 
relative risk (RR) of advanced adenoma formation in high-risk versus low-risk 
patients. Assuming that the probability of advanced adenoma formation was 1.3% 
per year (base: 0.5%), the ICER of the 3/5 strategy was <$50,000 per QALY gained 
if the RR of advanced adenoma formation was <2.4 (base: 3.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance colonoscopy is cost-effective for patients who are at 
high risk for developing colorectal cancer. Aggressive surveillance can be 
expensive or even harmful; efforts should be made to improve risk models for 
colonic neoplasia.

Copyright 2010 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2010.03.004
PMID: 20226186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2010 Mar;125(3):643-50, 650.e1-650.e12. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2009.12.984.

Cost-effectiveness of school-based asthma screening in an urban setting.

Gerald JK(1), Grad R, Bailey WC, Gerald LB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Community, Environment and Policy, Mel and Enid Zuckerman College 
of Public Health, University of Arizona, Tucson, Ariz 85724, USA. 
geraldj@email.arizona.edu

Comment in
    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2010 Mar;125(3):651-2.

BACKGROUND: Much has been done to promote population-based childhood asthma 
screening; however, concerns remain regarding its cost-effectiveness.
OBJECTIVES: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of school-based asthma 
screening strategies.
METHODS: A 5 health state Markov approach (symptom-free, symptom, exacerbation 
recovery, emergency department, and hospitalization day) was used to evaluate 
school-based screening in a simulated population of urban elementary-age school 
children. Two questionnaire and 2 multistage strategies incorporating spirometry 
or spirometry with exercise testing were evaluated from the societal perspective 
by using 365 daily cycles. The outcome was 2006 dollars per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY).
RESULTS: The most efficient strategy identified children with previously 
diagnosed but poorly controlled asthma at a cost of $150,000 per QALY (95% CI, 
$65,800-$318,000). Uncertainty surrounding the cost-effectiveness estimate was 
primarily a result of the symptom day preference weight estimate (44%), the 
probability of confirmation after screening (17%), the adequacy of asthma 
control in the population (9%), and the estimated treatment effect on symptoms 
(6%). Screening generated an additional 21 symptom-free day equivalents per 
child identified with previously diagnosed but not well controlled asthma and 
led to $85.55, $12.36, and $2.58 in additional screening, daily treatment, and 
indirect costs and $5.01 less in emergency department and hospitalization costs.
CONCLUSION: Population-based asthma screening is not cost-effective at $50,000 
per QALY and has only a 20% chance of being cost-effective at $100,000 per QALY. 
The most efficient approach is to screen for previously diagnosed but poorly 
controlled asthma. Linking screening with better treatment, and long-term 
adherence strategies might yield future cost-effective approaches.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2009.12.984
PMID: 20226298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2010 Mar;125(3):651-2. doi:
10.1016/j.jaci.2010.01.029.

The opportunity costs of screening children for asthma.

McElligott S, Polsky D.

Comment on
    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2010 Mar;125(3):643-50, 650.e1-650.e12.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2010.01.029
PMID: 20226299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. J Biosci Bioeng. 2010 Apr;109(4):331-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2009.10.014.
Epub  2009 Nov 6.

Enhancement of the thermostability and activity of mesophilic Clostridium 
cellulovorans EngD by in vitro DNA recombination with Clostridium thermocellum 
CelE.

Lee CY(1), Yu KO, Kim SW, Han SO.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 136-713, 
Republic of Korea.

The thermal stability and catalytic activity of endoglucanase (EngD) from 
mesophilic Clostridium cellulovorans were improved by evolutionary molecular 
engineering. Thermostable mutants were isolated after staggered extension 
process (StEP) with celE from thermophilic Clostridium thermocellum performed to 
conduct family shuffling and overlay screening of the resultant mutant library. 
The relative activity of the best-evolved clone has been improved of about 2 
times higher at 50 degrees C and showed a higher k(cat)/K(m) value than its engD 
parental clone. We determined that these variants had two amino acid 
substitutions (L157N, Q158E) and confirmed their effects by substituting these 
amino acids in the parental gene by site-directed mutagenesis. These 
substitutions resulted in an increase in hydrophilic or charged residues. Our 
results demonstrate that in vitro recombination is an effective approach to 
improve the thermostability and enzymatic activity of a mesophilic enzyme.

Copyright 2009 The Society for Biotechnology, Japan. Published by Elsevier B.V. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiosc.2009.10.014
PMID: 20226372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Eur J Cancer. 2010 Jun;46(9):1502-13. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.02.022. Epub
2010  Mar 12.

EORTC elderly task force position paper: approach to the older cancer patient.

Pallis AG(1), Fortpied C, Wedding U, Van Nes MC, Penninckx B, Ring A, Lacombe D, 
Monfardini S, Scalliet P, Wildiers H.

Author information:
(1)European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer, Elderly Task 
Force, EORTC Headquarters, Avenue E. Mounierlaan, 83/11, B-1200 Brussels, 
Belgium. agpallis@gmail.com

As a result of an increasing life expectancy, the incidence of cancer cases 
diagnosed in the older population is rising. Indeed, cancer incidence is 11-fold 
higher in persons over the age of 65 than in younger ones. Despite this high 
incidence of cancer in older patients, solid data regarding the most appropriate 
approach and best treatment for older cancer patients are still lacking, mostly 
due to under-representation of these patients in prospective clinical trials. 
The clinical behaviour of common malignant diseases, e.g. breast, ovarian and 
lung cancers, lymphomas and acute leukaemias, may be different in older patients 
because of intrinsic variation of the neoplastic cells and the ability of the 
tumour host to support neoplastic growth. The decision to treat or not these 
patients should be based on patients' functional age rather than the 
chronological age. Assessment of patients' functional age includes the 
evaluation of health, functional status, nutrition, cognition and the 
psychosocial and economic context. The purpose of this paper is to focus on the 
influence of age on cancer presentation and cancer management in older cancer 
patients and to provide suggestions on clinical trial development and 
methodology in this population.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2010.02.022
PMID: 20227872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Mol Hum Reprod. 2010 Jun;16(6):411-7. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gaq015. Epub 2010
Mar  11.

Endothelial progenitor cells as a new cardiovascular risk factor in 
Klinefelter's syndrome.

Di Mambro A(1), Ferlin A, De Toni L, Selice R, Caretta N, Foresta C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Histology, Microbiology and Medical Biotechnologies, Section of 
Clinical Pathology and Centre for Male Gamete Cryopreservation, University of 
Padova, Via Gabelli 63, Padova 35121, Italy.

Klinefelter syndrome (KS) is associated with a significant reduced life 
expectancy (2.1 years) including greater mortality from cardiovascular diseases. 
Underlying causes that may involve low levels of testosterone as well as the 
extra X chromosome are not fully understood. Low testosterone may have a direct 
affect on vascular tissue or act indirectly via metabolic effects. Testosterone 
levels may act genomically on cardiac function via the androgen receptor (AR) or 
non-genomically. Recently, it has been demonstrated that a reduced number of 
circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) is an independent predictor of 
morbidity and mortality from cardiovascular diseases. Because EPCs have never 
been studied in KS, we evaluated the number of circulating EPCs in 68 adult 
47,XXY Klinefelter men and 46 healthy males. Patients and controls were divided 
into two groups, according to the absence or presence of cardiovascular risk 
factors (CRFs). Controls without CRFs had significantly higher levels of EPCs 
than controls with CRFs; on the contrary, KS patients without CRFs had EPCs 
levels similar to KS men with risk factors and significantly lower with respect 
to controls without CRFs. The number of EPCs in patients with hypogonadism was 
not different from that of those with normal testosterone levels. Twenty-two 
hypogonadal patients were re-evaluated after 6 months of androgen therapy, but 
we did not observe any modification in the number of EPCs. These primary 
hypothesis-generating data suggest that factors involved in KS, whether 
hypogonadism, CRFs or other genetically determined factors related to the 
supernumerary X chromosome might contribute to a reduction in EPCs number and 
that this could be considered another CRF contributing to the increased 
mortality of these subjects.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gaq015
PMID: 20228052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Med Decis Making. 2010 Sep-Oct;30(5):536-43. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10362106.
Epub  2010 Mar 12.

Cost-effectiveness analysis: discount the placebo at your peril.

Hawkins N(1), Scott DA.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd., Oxford, UK. neil.hawkins@oxfordoutcomes.com

INTRODUCTION: The authors consider alternative mechanisms that might explain 
placebo responses and their implications for cost-effectiveness modeling. Three 
alternative placebo mechanisms are examined: a ''regression to the mean'' effect 
arising from natural variation and the preferential selection of patients with 
acutely severe disease into clinical trials, a patient expectancy effect 
specific to the clinical trial setting (Hawthorne effect), and a patient 
expectancy effect generalizable to routine clinical practice (true placebo 
effect).
METHODS: To estimate cost-effectiveness, the authors needed to generalize from 
trial data to estimate responses to treatment that they would see in routine 
clinical practice. They use an example analysis of the cost-effectiveness of 
adjunct epilepsy treatments to illustrate the potential effects of these 
different placebo mechanisms on this generalization and subsequent 
cost-effectiveness estimates and adoption decisions.
RESULTS: If an acceptable willingness-to-pay threshold of 30,000 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) is assumed, then each of the placebo effect 
scenarios identifies a different treatment alternative as being optimum.
DISCUSSION: Estimated cost-effectiveness ratios and associated policy decisions 
may be sensitive to assumptions regarding the mechanism underlying placebo 
responses. These assumptions should, if possible, be investigated through 
analysis of trial or observational data and, in the absence of other evidence, 
sensitivity analysis.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10362106
PMID: 20228282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Med Decis Making. 2010 May-Jun;30(3):320-7. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09360066.
Epub  2010 Mar 12.

A bibliometric review of cost-effectiveness analyses in the economic and medical 
literature: 1976-2006.

Greenberg D(1), Rosen AB, Wacht O, Palmer J, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA. dangr@bgu.ac.il

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) presenting a cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) ratio is frequently used to determine ''value 
for money'' in health care. Despite the proliferation of CEA research, there has 
been no detailed study focusing on the bibliometric properties of this 
literature.
OBJECTIVES: To describe and analyze trends in publications and coauthorship in 
the CEA literature from 1976 to 2006 and to identify the most prolific authors 
and research groups conducting CEAs.
METHODS: The authors used the Tufts Medical Center Registry of original CEAs 
published through 2006 (www.cearegistry.org). For each article, they recorded 
the year of publication, the journal title, and the number of contributing 
authors and their names. Authors were assigned credit based on their weighted 
contribution to the study (1 credit point for the first and last authors, (1/2) 
point for the second author, and ( 1)=(n) credit points for all other authors, 
where n reflects the number of coauthors).
RESULTS: Approximately 1400 CEAs presenting a cost/QALY ratio were published in 
420 journals through 2006. The mean number of contributing authors was 4.7 +/- 
2.4. Medical journals were characterized by a higher number of coauthors, as 
compared with the economic and health policy journals: 4.8 +/- 2.4 v. 4.2 +/- 
2.0, P < 0.001. The lowest average number of coauthors was in Medical Decision 
Making (3.6) and the highest in the Journal of the American College of 
Cardiology (8.2). The most prolific authors were affiliated with Harvard and 
Tufts Universities and their affiliated hospitals. The authors identified 4 
major research groups that contributed substantially to the field of 
cost-effectiveness analysis but did not find any substantial academic 
relationships across these groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The CEA literature continues to proliferate. Coauthorship trends 
appear to follow the rapid increase in the mean number of authors found in other 
publication types.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09360066
PMID: 20228286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Aging (Albany NY). 2010 Dec 11;2(1):7-27. doi: 10.18632/aging.100116.

Effect of feeding regimens on circadian rhythms: implications for aging and 
longevity.

Froy O(1), Miskin R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Food Science and Nutrition, Robert H. Smith 
Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environment, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel. froy@agri.huji.ac.il

Increased longevity and improved health can be achieved in mammals by two 
feeding regimens, caloric restriction (CR), which limits the amount of daily 
calorie intake, and intermittent fasting (IF), which allows the food to be 
available ad libitum every other day. The precise mechanisms mediating these 
beneficial effects are still unresolved. Resetting the circadian clock is 
another intervention that can lead to increased life span and well being, while 
clock disruption is associated with aging and morbidity. Currently, a large body 
of evidence links circadian rhythms with metabolism and feeding regimens. In 
particular, CR, and possibly also IF, can entrain the master clock located in 
the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the brain hypothalamus. These findings raise 
the hypothesis that the beneficial effects exerted by these feeding regimens 
could be mediated, at least in part, through resetting of the circadian clock, 
thus leading to synchrony in metabolism and physiology. This hypothesis is 
reinforced by a transgenic mouse model showing spontaneously reduced eating 
alongside robust circadian rhythms and increased life span. This review will 
summarize recent findings concerning the relationships between feeding regimens, 
circadian rhythms, and metabolism with implications for ageing attenuation and 
life span extension.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100116
PMCID: PMC2837202
PMID: 20228939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this manuscript have no conflict 
of interest to declare.


729. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2010 Jan;160(1-2):3-7. doi: 10.1007/s10354-010-0744-y.

[Diabetes and cardiovascular complications].

[Article in German]

Resl M(1), Clodi M.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Endokrinologie und Stoffwechsel, Universitätsklinik für Innere 
Medizin III, Medizinische Universität Wien, Wien, Osterreich.

The prevalence of obesity and diabetes is increasing dramatically. Currently, 
800,000 patients are suffering from diabetes mellitus in Austria. Chronic 
hyperglycemia results in micro- and macrovascular complications, which reduce 
life expectancy up to 8 years. Furthermore, diabetes is among the most important 
risk factors for premature atherosclerosis and coronary artery disease. The 
incidence of coronary artery disease in diabetics is relatively high with about 
146 cases per 10,000 patient years. Apart, it could be demonstrated that the 
presence of diabetes mellitus worsens the prognosis after an acute coronary 
syndrome. Considering ischemic stroke, the situation is nearly the same, as it 
is known that diabetes mellitus increases the risk for ischemic stroke events up 
to 5 times. Beside the macrovascular complications, microvascular complications 
like diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy and diabetic neuropathy also 
play a critical role. Retinopathy can be detected in nearly every patient after 
a diabetes duration of 20 years. Diabetic nephropathy, which is a major 
complication of diabetes mellitus, accounts for 19% of end stage renal disease. 
Microalbuminuria, which is an early marker of diabetic nephropathy, can be found 
in 30% of the patients after 10 years of diabetes. Due to the severity of the 
diabetic complications an early intensified antidiabetic treatment is highly 
important for the prevention of micro- and macrovascular events.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-010-0744-y
PMID: 20229155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Sci China C Life Sci. 1997 Oct;40(5):463-9. doi: 10.1007/BF03183583.

Study on gene sensor based on primer extension.

Chen Y(1), Song J, Li D.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Cell Biology, Ministry of Public Health of China, China 
Medical University, 110001, Shenyang, China.

Based on the fact that the resonant frequency of a piezoelectric crystal is the 
function of its surface deposit, and that the primer extends after it hybridizes 
with the template, the primer extension gene sensor technique was developed. The 
prominent feature of the technique is that fast and sensitive frequency signals 
are used as the monitoring system of gene hybridization and primer strand 
extension. Results show that this technique may be used in homologous analysis 
of nucleic acid, trace DNA detection, and determining the integration of DNA. It 
may also be used for isolation of target gene, gene mutation analysis, and 
predicting the location of a gene in its genome.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03183583
PMID: 20229296


731. AIDS Care. 2010 May;22(5):614-22. doi: 10.1080/09540120903311466.

Predicting quality of life for people living with HIV: international evidence 
from seven cultures.

Skevington SM(1), Norweg S, Standage M; WHOQOL HIV Group.

Collaborators: Saxena S, Billington R, Orley J, Lotfy M, O'Connell K, Bartos M, 
Chandra P, Bhargava R, Starace F, Fleck M, Meesapya K, Pkhidenko S.

Author information:
(1)WHO Centre for the Study of Quality of Life, University of Bath, Bath, BA2 
7AY, UK. s.m.skevington@bath.ac.uk

The need for a validated quality of life (QOL) model focussing on people living 
with HIV/AIDS has led to an international re-evaluation and extension of the 
Chronic Illness Quality of Life model using complex latent modelling techniques. 
After reoperationalising six model variables and including independence and 
sex-life, the WHOQOL-HIV was administered to 1281 people with asymptomatic-HIV 
(42%), symptomatic-HIV (40%) or AIDS (18%; 34 years; 62% male) living in 
Australia, Brazil, India (north & south), Italy, Thailand and Ukraine. The 
overall model fit was acceptable. Social inclusion did not directly improve QOL, 
but increased positive feelings, social support and perceived improvements of 
access to health and social care; all three improved QOL. Social inclusion 
increased perceived physical health indirectly through positive feelings. Better 
physical health improved sex-life and gave greater independence; both improved 
QOL. Gender and disease stage models were acceptable, fitting best for men and 
asymptomatic-HIV. Similar aspects of QOL were depleted for women and some 
disease stages. Increased social support did not consistently improve 
independence or positive feelings. Positive feelings improved the sex-life of 
men and those with asymptomatic-HIV. This cross-cultural approach combining 
assessment with theory, could guide future international interventions and 
practice.

DOI: 10.1080/09540120903311466
PMID: 20229378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):W6-7. doi: 10.1080/15265161003708607.

The secret of caring for Mr. Golubchuk.

Jotkowitz A(1), Glick S, Zivotofsky AZ.

Author information:
(1)Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. 
ajotkowitz@hotmail.com

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):50-3.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161003708607
PMID: 20229404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
