DOI: 10.1001/jama.2009.1937
PMID: 20051568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Gerontology. 2010;56(4):378-84. doi: 10.1159/000271602. Epub 2009 Dec 23.

Cardiac surgery in nonagenarians: single-centre series and review.

Guilfoyle MR(1), Drain AJ, Khan A, Ferguson J, Large SR, Nashef SA.

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cardiac surgery is widely believed to be an excessively high-risk 
intervention for very elderly patients with coronary artery or valvular disease. 
However, as life expectancy and the prospect of sustained quality of life into 
older age increase, this assumption should be challenged so that surgery is not 
denied to patients who may derive significant symptomatic benefit with 
acceptable levels of operative risk.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate outcomes from cardiac surgery in nonagenarian patients.
DESIGN: Analysis of prospectively collected single-centre data and review of 
outcomes reported in the literature.
RESULTS: Twenty-three patients (13 males) aged 90 years or more underwent open 
cardiac surgery between 1998 and 2007. Four patients died within 30 days of 
surgery (surgical mortality 17.4%) and all-cause in-hospital morbidity was 74%. 
Actuarial survival at 1 and 5 years was estimated at 72 and 54%, respectively. 
Comparison of patients' survival against age-matched life tables for the English 
population found a standardised mortality ratio of 0.57 (95% CI: 0.24-0.99; 
one-sample log-rank test chi(2) = 3.93; p < 0.05) representing a significant 
survival benefit associated with surgery. The majority of patients reported 
symptomatic improvement reflected by significant decreases in angina and 
dyspnoea scores. Six single-centre series of nonagenarians and 3 reviews from 
national databases in the US and UK were identified in the literature. Pooled 
surgical mortality was 12.7% (95% CI: 8.7-17.3%) with no significant 
heterogeneity (chi(2) = 4.12; p = 0.77; I(2) = 0).
CONCLUSION: Cardiac surgery in the elderly carries higher operative risk than in 
younger patients. However, in selected nonagenarians, surgery can be performed 
with acceptable morbidity and early mortality, and patients gain significant 
symptomatic relief and survival benefit.

Copyright 2009 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000271602
PMID: 20051660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Rev Med Suisse. 2009 Nov 18;5(226):2317-21.

[Early detection and treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension].

[Article in French]

Lador F(1), Beghetti M, Rochat T.

Author information:
(1)Service de pneumologie, HUG, 1211 Genève 14. frederic.lador@hcuge.ch

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare clinical condition characterized 
by a progressive increase in pulmonary vascular resistance leading to right 
heart failure. The detection of this disease is limited by the accessibility of 
pulmonary vessels and rough initial symptoms, sometimes consisting only 
exertional dyspnea. In most cases, the patient presents a severe damage with a 
limited life expectancy at the time of diagnosis. This diagnosis, however, can 
be facilitated by the recognition of risk factors for the disease. The challenge 
of this early detection is to allow the establishment of a specific treatment 
which aims to improve the prognosis of patients by limiting the progression of 
the vasculopathy.

PMID: 20052863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Hum Mol Genet. 2010 Apr 1;19(7):1174-89. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddp588. Epub 2010
Jan  6.

Pkd1 transgenic mice: adult model of polycystic kidney disease with extrarenal 
and renal phenotypes.

Kurbegovic A(1), Côté O, Couillard M, Ward CJ, Harris PC, Trudel M.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Genetics and Development, Faculte de Medecine, Institut de 
Recherches Cliniques de Montreal, Universite de Montreal, Montreal, QC, Canada.

While high levels of Pkd1 expression are detected in tissues of patients with 
autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), it is unclear whether 
enhanced expression could be a pathogenetic mechanism for this systemic 
disorder. Three transgenic mouse lines were generated from a Pkd1-BAC modified 
by introducing a silent tag via homologous recombination to target a sustained 
wild-type genomic Pkd1 expression within the native tissue and temporal 
regulation. These mice specifically overexpressed the Pkd1 transgene in 
extrarenal and renal tissues from approximately 2- to 15-fold over Pkd1 
endogenous levels in a copy-dependent manner. All transgenic mice reproducibly 
developed tubular and glomerular cysts leading to renal insufficiency. 
Interestingly, Pkd1(TAG) mice also exhibited renal fibrosis and calcium deposits 
in papilla reminiscent of nephrolithiasis as frequently observed in ADPKD. 
Similar to human ADPKD, these mice consistently displayed hepatic fibrosis and 
approximately 15% intrahepatic cysts of the bile ducts affecting females 
preferentially. Moreover, a significant proportion of mice developed cardiac 
anomalies with severe left-ventricular hypertrophy, marked aortic arch 
distention and/or valvular stenosis and calcification that had profound 
functional impact. Of significance, Pkd1(TAG) mice displayed occasional cerebral 
lesions with evidence of ruptured and unruptured cerebral aneurysms. This 
Pkd1(TAG) mouse model demonstrates that overexpression of wild-type Pkd1 can 
trigger the typical adult renal and extrarenal phenotypes resembling human 
ADPKD.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddp588
PMCID: PMC4081642
PMID: 20053665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. N Engl J Med. 2010 Feb 4;362(5):460-5. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsb0911104. Epub 2010
Jan  6.

Comparative effectiveness and health care spending--implications for reform.

Weinstein MC(1), Skinner JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2010 May 13;362(19):1845-6.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsb0911104
PMCID: PMC2819079
PMID: 20054039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Qual Health Res. 2010 Mar;20(3):340-51. doi: 10.1177/1049732309358328. Epub
2010  Jan 6.

Working with children to develop dimensions for a preference-based, generic, 
pediatric, health-related quality-of-life measure.

Stevens KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United Kingdom. 
k.stevens@sheffield.ac.uk

Use of preference-based measures (PBM) of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
is increasing. PBMs allow the calculation of quality-adjusted life years, which 
can be used in decision making. Research in the field of pediatric PBMs is 
lacking. This work is the first stage in the development of a new generic, 
pediatric PBM of HRQoL. Seventy-four qualitative interviews were undertaken with 
children to find out how health affects their lives. Sampling was purposive, 
balancing primarily for health within age, with gender and ethnicity as 
secondary criteria. Interviews covered a wide range of health conditions, and 
children were successfully able to articulate how their health affected their 
lives. Eleven dimensions of HRQoL were identified, covering social, emotional, 
and physical aspects, in common with other generic pediatric HRQoL measures, but 
differ by including feeling jeal'ous and feeling tired/weak and not including 
dimensions related to parental, family, or behavioral issues.

DOI: 10.1177/1049732309358328
PMID: 20054040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Obes Facts. 2008;1(4):176-82. doi: 10.1159/000145930. Epub 2008 Aug 14.

Fat tissue and long life.

Bluher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Leipzig, Germany. 
bluma@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

Studies over the last several years have revealed important roles of the body 
fat content, caloric intake and nutrition, insulin/IGF-1 signaling systems, and 
pathways involved in oxidative stress and control of protein acetylation on life 
span. Although the discovery of longevity genes supports the concept that life 
span is genetically determined, adipose tissue seems to be a pivotal organ in 
the aging process and in the determination of life span. Leanness and caloric 
restriction have been shown to increase longevity in organisms ranging from 
yeast to mammals. Increased longevity in mice with a fat-specific disruption of 
the insulin receptor gene (FIRKO) suggests that reduced adiposity, even in the 
presence of normal or increased food intake, leads to an extended life span. 
Reduced fat mass has an impact on longevity in a number of other model 
organisms. In Drosophila, a specific reduction in the fat body through 
overexpression of forkhead type transcription factor (dFOXO) extends life span. 
Sirtuin 1 (SIRT1), the mammalian ortholog of the life-extending yeast gene 
silent information regulator 2 (SIR2), was proposed to be involved in the 
molecular mechanisms linking life span to adipose tissue. Moreover, in the 
control of human aging and longevity, one of the striking physiological 
characteristics identified in centenarians is their greatly increased insulin 
sensitivity even compared with younger individuals. On the other hand, 
overweight and obesity seem to be associated with decreased life span in humans. 
In addition, it was recently shown that modifiable risk factors during the later 
years of life, including smoking, obesity, and hypertension, are associated not 
only with lower life expectancy, but also with poor health and function during 
older age. There is growing evidence that the effect of reduced adipose tissue 
mass on life span could be due to the prevention of obesity-related metabolic 
disorders including type 2 diabetes and atherosclerosis.

Copyright (c) 2008 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000145930
PMCID: PMC6452107
PMID: 20054178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Parassitologia. 2008 Dec;50(3-4):221-5.

The Sergent brothers and the antimalarial campaigns in Algeria (1902-1948).

Dedet JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Université Montpellier 1, CHU de Montpellier, Laboratoire de Parasitologie, 
Montpellier, France. parasito@univ-montp1.fr

Edmond and Etienne Sergent, "the Sergent brothers", were both born in Algeria. 
They both studied medicine at the Algiers Medical School and then followed the 
Course of Microbiology of Emile Roux at the Institut Pasteur in Paris 
(1899-1900). From 1900, they were put in charge of a permanent mission aimed at 
antimalarial control in Algeria, which was supervised by the Institut Pasteur. 
The first campaign was carried out during the summer of 1902 at a station of the 
East Algerian Railway Company. The success of this mission lead to the creation 
of the Antimalaric Department of Algeria in 1904, which was directed by Etienne 
Sergent for the duration his life. This antimalarial programme was progressively 
extended to many other locations. The programme was optimized between 1927 and 
1947, in the experimental field study of the Ouled Mendil Marsh, where global 
environmental measures and drainage lead to settlement of farms, the families of 
which did not suffered from malaria. At a time when neither insecticides nor 
synthetic antimalarial drug existed, antimalarial control measures that were 
developed tended to target human reservoirs and the mosquito vectors. The 
extension of the programme across the Algerian territory lead to a decrease of 
both malaria endemicity and extension of affected areas.

PMID: 20055231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Maturitas. 2010 Feb;65(2):87-91. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.12.008. Epub
2010  Jan 6.

The molecular basis of longevity, and clinical implications.

Marques FZ(1), Markus MA, Morris BJ.

Author information:
(1)Basic & Clinical Genomics Laboratory, School of Medical Sciences and Bosch 
Institute, Building F13, The University of Sydney, NSW 2006, Australia.

The determinants of length of life are multifactorial and involve complex 
processes, most of which are not as yet understood completely. Tremendous 
advances have, however, been made in recent times in understanding some of the 
key molecular mechanisms that influence ageing and lifespan. Herein we highlight 
many of the more important findings and their potential clinical implications. 
Most of the intracellular factors involved in the ageing process, such as 
members of the sirtuin family, as well as insulin and insulin-like growth 
factor-I and their genes, are part of interconnected pathways. The manipulation 
of these and other genes in animal models can increase or decrease lifespan. 
Transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms, some of which 
involve microRNAs, as well as modifications to chromatin and histones, can 
influence longevity. A decline in the function of stem cells might also be 
responsible for some aspects of mammalian ageing. Calorie restriction, 
polyphenols such as resveratrol, rapamycin, spermidine and angiotensin I 
converting enzyme inhibitor, are able to increase lifespan by modulation of 
branches of the longevity pathways. Molecular genetic studies of long-lived 
subjects have identified several potential candidate genes, but genetic research 
on ageing is in its infancy. Large genome-wide association studies should 
provide insights. Although new biomarkers for ageing and health, such as ones 
that might reveal telomere dysfunction, have been described, advances in the 
genetics and molecular biology of longevity will require interdisciplinary 
approaches if the much-hoped for success in alleviating the diseases of ageing, 
and an extension of both lifespan and healthspan is to be achieved.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2009.12.008
PMID: 20056361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Clin Neurosci. 2010 Feb;17(2):205-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2009.06.012. Epub
 2010 Jan 6.

Phrenic nerve stimulation: the Australian experience.

Khong P(1), Lazzaro A, Mobbs R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, New South 
Wales 2031, Australia. petekhong@yahoo.com

Phrenic nerve stimulation is a technique whereby a nerve stimulator provides 
electrical stimulation of the phrenic nerve to cause diaphragmatic contraction. 
The most common indications for this procedure are central alveolar 
hypoventilation and high quadriplegia. This paper reviews the available data on 
the 19 patients treated with phrenic nerve stimulation in Australia to date. Of 
the 19 patients, 14 required pacing due to quadriplegia, one had congenital 
central hypoventilation syndrome and one had brainstem encephalitis. Information 
was unavailable for the remaining three patients. Currently, 11 of the pacers 
are known to be actively implanted, with the total pacing duration ranging from 
1 to 21 years (mean 13 years). Eight of the 19 patients had revision surgeries. 
Four of these were to replace the original I-107 system (which had a 3-5-year 
life expectancy) with the current I-110 system, which is expected to perform 
electrically for the patient's lifetime. Three patients had revisions due to 
mechanical failure. The remaining patients' notes were incomplete. These data 
suggest that phrenic nerve stimulation can be used instead of mechanical 
ventilators for long-term ongoing respiratory support.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2009.06.012
PMID: 20056422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. J Biol Chem. 2010 Feb 26;285(9):6145-52. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.062067. Epub
2010  Jan 7.

N-terminal extension of the cholera toxin A1-chain causes rapid degradation 
after retrotranslocation from endoplasmic reticulum to cytosol.

Wernick NL(1), De Luca H, Kam WR, Lencer WI.

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Cell Biology Laboratory, Children's Hospital, and Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA.

Cholera toxin travels from the plasma membrane to the endoplasmic reticulum of 
host cells, where a portion of the toxin, the A1-chain, is unfolded and targeted 
to a protein-conducting channel for retrotranslocation to the cytosol. Unlike 
most retrotranslocation substrates, the A1-chain escapes degradation by the 
proteasome and refolds in the cytosol to induce disease. How this occurs remains 
poorly understood. Here, we show that an unstructured peptide appended to the N 
terminus of the A1-chain renders the toxin functionally inactive. Cleavage of 
the peptide extension prior to cell entry rescues toxin half-life and function. 
The loss of toxicity is explained by rapid degradation by the proteasome after 
retrotranslocation to the cytosol. Degradation of the mutant toxin does not 
follow the N-end rule but depends on the two Lys residues at positions 4 and 17 
of the native A1-chain, consistent with polyubiquitination at these sites. Thus, 
retrotranslocation and refolding of the wild-type A1-chain must proceed in a way 
that protects these Lys residues from attack by E3 ligases.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.062067
PMCID: PMC2825409
PMID: 20056601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Blood. 2010 Jan 7;115(1):150-1. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-10-249979.

WHO subvariants of indolent mastocytosis: clinical details and prognostic 
evaluation in 159 consecutive adults.

Pardanani A, Lim KH, Lasho TL, Finke CM, McClure RF, Li CY, Tefferi A.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2009-10-249979
PMID: 20056798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Diabetes Care. 2010 Apr;33(4):695-700. doi: 10.2337/dc09-1488. Epub 2010 Jan
7.

Costs and consequences associated with newer medications for glycemic control in 
type 2 diabetes.

Sinha A(1), Rajan M, Hoerger T, Pogach L.

Author information:
(1)Center for Healthcare KnowledgeManagement, Veterans Health Administration New 
Jersey, East Orange, New Jersey, USA. sinhaan1@umdnj.edu

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2010 Apr;15(2):40-1.

OBJECTIVE: Newer medications offer more options for glycemic control in type 2 
diabetes. However, they come at considerable costs. We undertook a health 
economic analysis to better understand the value of adding two newer medications 
(exenatide and sitagliptin) as second-line therapy to glycemic control 
strategies for patients with new-onset diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis for the 
U.S. population aged 25-64. A lifetime analytic horizon and health care system 
perspective were used. Costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
discounted at 3% annually, and costs are presented in 2008 U.S. dollars. We 
compared three glycemic control strategies: 1) glyburide as a second-line agent, 
2) exenatide as a second-line agent, and 3) sitagliptin as a second-line agent. 
Outcome measures included QALYs gained, incremental costs, and the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio associated with each strategy.
RESULTS: Exenatide and sitagliptin conferred 0.09 and 0.12 additional QALYs, 
respectively, relative to glyburide as second-line therapy. In base case 
analysis, exenatide was dominated (cost more and provided fewer QALYs than the 
next most expensive option), and sitagliptin was associated with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of 169,572 dollars per QALY saved. Results were 
sensitive to assumptions regarding medication costs, side effect duration, and 
side effect-associated disutilities.
CONCLUSIONS: Exenatide and sitagliptin may confer substantial costs to health 
care systems. Demonstrated gains in quality and/or quantity of life are 
necessary for these agents to provide economic value to patients and health care 
systems.

DOI: 10.2337/dc09-1488
PMCID: PMC2845008
PMID: 20056950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):8-22. doi: 10.12927/hcpap.2009.21076.

Getting what we pay for? The value-for-money challenge.

McGrail K(1), Zierler A, Ip I.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Services and Policy Research, University of British 
Columbia.

Comment in
    Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):24-8; discussion 52-5.
    Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):29-31; discussion 52-5.
    Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):32-5; discussion 52-5.
    Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):36-40; discussion 52-5.
    Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):41-6; discussion 52-5.
    Healthc Pap. 2009;9(4):47-50; discussion 52-5.

In 2008, Canada spent $172 billion on healthcare, more than $5,000 for every 
man, woman and child in the country. Canada has one of the longer life 
expectancies in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and 
relatively low (and declining) amenable mortality rates. This suggests that the 
healthcare system is having some positive effect; but how well do we know what 
is "right" and what needs improvement? What do we get for the money we spend on 
healthcare? This paper proposes that there are some basic issues to address 
before these value-for-money questions can be answered. What do we value, or 
what do we want to achieve with our healthcare spending? Are we using inputs 
such as human resources well to provide services? Are we using services well to 
promote health? How would we know? The paper ends with a series of challenges to 
healthcare managers and decision-makers: to re-establish a broad information 
strategy, to include research as an integral part of healthcare delivery, to 
develop new data that can tell us something about outcomes of care and to 
articulate more formally objectives for the healthcare system.

DOI: 10.12927/hcpap.2009.21076
PMID: 20057203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. AIDS Behav. 2010 Apr;14(2):237-47. doi: 10.1007/s10461-009-9654-7.

AIDS denialism and public health practice.

Chigwedere P(1), Essex M.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health AIDS Initiative and Department of Immunology 
and Infectious Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, FXB 402, 651 
Huntington Ave, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

In this paper, we respond to AIDS denialist arguments that HIV does not cause 
AIDS, that antiretroviral drugs are not useful, and that there is no evidence of 
large-scale deaths from AIDS, and discuss the key implications of the 
relationship between AIDS denialism and public health practice. We provide a 
brief history of how the cause of AIDS was investigated, of how HIV fulfills 
Koch's postulates and Sir Bradford Hil's criteria for causation, and of the 
inconsistencies in alternatives offered by denialists. We highlight clinical 
trials as the standard for assessing efficacy of drugs, rather than anecdotal 
cases or discussions of mechanism of action, and show the unanimous data 
demonstrating antiretroviral drug efficacy. We then show how statistics on 
mortality and indices such as crude death rate, life expectancy, child 
mortality, and population growth are consistent with the high mortality from 
AIDS, and expose the weakness of statistics from death notification, quoted by 
denialists. Last we emphasize that when denialism influences public health 
practice as in South Africa, the consequences are disastrous. We argue for 
accountability for the loss of hundreds of thousands of lives, the need to 
reform public health practice to include standards and accountability, and the 
particular need for honesty and peer review in situations that impact public 
health policy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-009-9654-7
PMID: 20058063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Med J Malaysia. 2009 Jun;64(2):140-5.

Proportion of dementia and its associated factors among elderly patients 
attending outpatient clinics of Universiti Sains Malaysia Hospital.

Norlaily H(1), Azidah AK, Asrenee AR, Rohayah H, Juwita S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains 
Malaysia, Kubang Kerian, 16150 Kelantan, Malaysia.

The increase in life expectancy observed over the last decade has particular 
relevance for conditions such as cognitive decline and dementia. This is a cross 
sectional study to determine the rate of dementia and to identify its associated 
factors among 399 elderly patients attending outpatient clinics of Universiti 
Sains Malaysia Hospital. This study was conducted in 2 phases. In the first 
phase, the literate subjects were screened using validated Malay version of Mini 
Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the illiterate subjects with Malay version 
of Elderly Cognitive Assessment Questionnaire (ECAQ). All subjects suspected to 
have dementia were selected for further evaluation in phase 2 of this study. The 
second phase involved full clinical examination in order to establish clinical 
diagnosis of dementia. The proportion of dementia in this study was 2.5% (10). 
Although history of exposure to pesticide (p < 0.05) and history of stroke (p < 
0.05) were significant, they were not significant factors. These were because 
vast discrepancy in number between those exposed to pesticide and having stroke 
between dementia and non dementia.

PMID: 20058574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2010 Aug 1;13(3):269-78. doi: 10.1089/ars.2009.2952.

Women live longer than men: understanding molecular mechanisms offers 
opportunities to intervene by using estrogenic compounds.

Viña J(1), Borrás C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University of Valencia, Spain. jose.vina@uv.es 
<jose.vina@uv.es>

Women live longer than men. Moreover, females live longer than males in some, 
but not all, experimental animals. The differences in longevity between genders 
are related to free radical production. Indeed, females produce less radicals 
only in animal species in which they live longer than males. This is because 
estrogens upregulate antioxidant longevity-related genes. These considerations 
have led us to postulate an extended concept of antioxidant in biology: an 
antioxidant is any nutritional, physiological, or pharmacological manipulation 
that increases the expression and activity of antioxidant genes or proteins. 
Phytoestrogens or other selective estrogen receptor modulators lower age-related 
diseases and prolong life span, at least in experimental animals. This provides 
rational bases to study their action in humans further.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2009.2952
PMID: 20059401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2010 Aug;52(8):695. doi:
10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03563.x.  Epub 2010 Jan 5.

Evidence-based life expectancy.

Strauss D(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2010 Aug;52(8):749-53.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1469-8749.2009.03563.x
PMID: 20059509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. Haemophilia. 2010 Jan;16 Suppl 1:2-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02155.x.

Longer-acting factor VIII to overcome limitations in haemophilia management: the 
PEGylated liposomes formulation issue.

Di Minno G(1), Cerbone AM, Coppola A, Cimino E, Di Capua M, Pamparana F, Tufano 
A, Di Minno MN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Federico II University, Reference Centre for 
Hemophilia and Thrombosis, Naples, Italy. dario.diminno@hotmail.it

Injected factor VIII (FVIII), the current treatment for haemophilia A, leads to 
major improvements in the quality of life and life expectancy of individuals 
with this disorder. However, because injected FVIII has a short half-life in 
vivo, this strategy has major limitations for highly demanding regimens (e.g. 
prophylaxis, immune tolerance induction, surgery). Newer formulations of 
longer-acting FVIII are presently under investigation. The use of low molecular 
weight polyethylene glycol (PEG)-containing liposomes as carriers for 
recombinant FVIII (rFVIII) results in the prolongation of haemostatic efficacy. 
Data from preclinical experiments in mice, early clinical evaluations, and 
pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics results indicate that an rFVIII pegylated 
liposomal formulation may provide potential clinical benefit to patients with 
severe haemophilia A by prolonging the protection from bleeding. In light of 
this potential clinical benefit, a multicentre, randomized, active-controlled, 
non-inferiority phase II trial with two parallel treatment arms and equal 
randomization after stratification for the presence or absence of target joints 
in patients and for ages >/=18 years vs. <18 years is currently being conducted. 
The study will test the hypothesis that rFVIII-Lip once-weekly prophylaxis is 
not inferior to rFVIII-water for injection thrice-weekly prophylaxis. A total of 
250 patients will be enrolled with severe haemophilia A (<1% FVIII) on on-demand 
or secondary prophylaxis treatment and with documented bleeds or injections 
during the 6 months before study entry. Sixty-four centres in 14 different 
countries are involved in the study; recruitment is underway. In Italy, six 
centres have already included 15 patients (no screening failure). Eight of these 
patients have completed the run-in phase and have begun the home treatment. No 
unexpected serious adverse events have been reported thus far. Data emerging 
from this phase II study will help collect relevant data to overcome current 
limitations in haemophilia management by employing treatment with longer-acting 
rFVIII.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2516.2009.02155.x
PMID: 20059562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Vox Sang. 2010 Apr;98(3 Pt 1):e201-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2009.01297.x.
 Epub 2010 Jan 4.

Blood product collection and supply: a matter of money?

de Kort W(1), Wagenmans E, van Dongen A, Slotboom Y, Hofstede G, Veldhuizen I.

Author information:
(1)Sanquin Blood Bank Southeast Region, Nijmegen, the Netherlands. 
w.dekort@sanquin.nl

BACKGROUND: Previous studies have shown that countries with a low or medium 
Human Development Index (HDI) transfuse far fewer blood products than countries 
with a high HDI. HDI comprises both economical and non-economical elements. We 
considered the hypothesis that non-economical, cultural differences may be 
additional factors in understanding blood donation and blood supply differences.
METHODS: We quantified the explained variance, r(2), in: the number of donors, 
the number of whole blood collections and the number of red blood cell units 
supplied to hospitals for 25 European countries. Candidate predictors were 
Hofstede's cultural dimensions, the demographic factor Old Age Dependency Ratio 
and the three components of HDI: Gross National Income, Life Expectancy and the 
Educational Development Index.
RESULTS: The cultural dimension Power Distance was the best sole predictor of 
whole blood collection (r(2) = 56.8%) and the number of donors (r(2) = 25.1%). 
The Educational Development Index best predicted the number of red blood cell 
units (r(2) = 45.0%). Multivariable models including the cultural dimension 
Power Distance and the Educational Development Index gave the best results in 
predicting the number of whole blood collections and red blood cell units 
supplied and, to a lesser extent, the number of donors, with adjusted r(2) 
values of 63.6%, 51.9% and 28.6%, respectively. In contrast, Gross National 
Income made no significant predictive contribution to any of the multivariable 
models. Neither did the other cultural dimensions, Life Expectancy or Old Age 
Dependency Ratio.
CONCLUSION: The effects of education level and cultural aspects should be taken 
into account as influencers on donation behaviour. The concept of power 
distance, in particular, presents a challenge to blood donor managers in 
cross-cultural and multi-cultural donor management contexts.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1423-0410.2009.01297.x
PMID: 20059758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):3-10. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990791.

A cost-utility analysis of psychoanalysis versus psychoanalytic psychotherapy.

Berghout CC(1), Zevalkink J, Hakkaart-van Roijen L.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Psychoanalytic Institute and VU University, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. berghout@npsai.nl

OBJECTIVES: Despite the considerable and growing body of research about the 
clinical effectiveness of long-term psychoanalytic treatment, relatively little 
attention has been paid to economic evaluations, particularly with reference to 
the broader range of societal effects. In this cost-utility study, we examined 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of psychoanalysis versus 
psychoanalytic psychotherapy.
METHODS: Incremental costs and effects were estimated by means of 
cross-sectional measurements in a cohort design (psychoanalysis, n = 78; 
psychoanalytic psychotherapy, n = 104). Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were 
estimated for each treatment strategy using the SF-6D. Total costs were 
calculated from a societal perspective (treatment costs plus other societal 
costs) and discounted at 4 percent. Psychoanalysis was more costly than 
psychoanalytic psychotherapy, but also more effective from a health-related 
quality of life perspective. The ICER--that is, the extra costs to gain one 
additional QALY by delivering psychoanalysis instead of psychoanalytic 
psychotherapy--was estimated at 52,384 euros per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show that the cost-utility ratio of psychoanalysis 
relative to psychoanalytic psychotherapy is within an acceptable range. More 
research is needed to find out whether cost-utility ratios vary with different 
types of patients. We also encourage cost-utility analyses comparing 
psychoanalytic treatment to other forms of (long-term) treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990791
PMID: 20059775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):11-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990845.

Cost-utility of a cardiovascular prevention program in highly educated adults: 
intermediate results of a randomized controlled trial.

Jacobs N(1), Evers S, Ament A, Claes N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Business Economics, Patient Safety, Hasselt University, 
Diepenbeek, Belgium. nele.jacobs@uhasselt.be

OBJECTIVES: Little is known about the costs and the effects of cardiovascular 
prevention programs targeted at medical and behavioral risk factors. The aim was 
to evaluate the cost-utility of a cardiovascular prevention program in a general 
sample of highly educated adults after 1 year of intervention.
METHODS: The participants were randomly assigned to intervention (n = 208) and 
usual care conditions (n = 106). The intervention consisted of medical 
interventions and optional behavior-change interventions (e.g., a tailored Web 
site). Cost data were registered from a healthcare perspective, and 
questionnaires were used to determine effectiveness (e.g., quality-adjusted 
life-years [QALYs]). A cost-utility analysis and sensitivity analyses using 
bootstrapping were performed on the intermediate results.
RESULTS: When adjusting for baseline utility differences, the incremental cost 
was 433 euros and the incremental effectiveness was 0.016 QALYs. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was 26,910 euros per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention was cost-effective compared with usual care in 
this sample of highly educated adults after 1 year of intervention. Increased 
participation would make this intervention highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990845
PMID: 20059776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):20-9. doi: 
10.1017/S026646230999081X.

Willingness to pay for allergy-vaccination among Danish patients with 
respiratory allergy.

Petersen KD(1), Gyrd-Hansen D, Linneberg A, Dahl R, Larsen JN, Løwenstein H, 
Kronborg C.

Author information:
(1)University of Southern Denmark, Denmark. Karin.Petersen@stab.rm.dk

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to elicit willingness to pay (WTP) for 
allergen-specific subcutaneous injection immunotherapy (SCIT) in a cohort of 
respondents suffering from allergic-rhinoconjunctivitis (a-RC)/asthma, and to 
investigate how patients self-select to SCIT according to need.
METHODS: A random sample of the general population was screened for a-RC/asthma 
and asked if they were willing to consider SCIT. They were asked to state their 
WTP for SCIT by way of a discrete choice question (DC-q), an open-ended WTP 
question (o-WTP-q), and questions relating to their sociodemographic background 
and the severity of their a-RC/asthma. The characteristics of respondents 
demanding SCIT were compared with the characteristics of respondents who have 
actually received SCIT to establish possible barriers to demand.
RESULTS: Our results suggest that respondents do well in self-selecting 
themselves to SCIT on the basis of need according to disease burden measured in 
terms of a-RC classification, number of contacts with a general practitioner, 
number of sick days, and potential quality-adjusted life-year loss. Mean WTP for 
SCIT was estimated at 655 euros (median, 267 euros) (o-WTP-q) and 903 euros (95 
percent confidence limit, 348-1,459) (DC-q).
CONCLUSION: Characteristics of respondents, who consider SCIT and are willing to 
pay for SCIT, suggest that allergy sufferers select themselves appropriately 
according to need and not according to other characteristics, such as income or 
education. There is a significant discrepancy between those who hypothetically 
consider SCIT and those demanding SCIT in real life. This study suggests that 
there are barriers to entry related to age and education, but not to income.

DOI: 10.1017/S026646230999081X
PMID: 20059777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):30-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990870.

Prognostic value, clinical effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness of 
high-sensitivity C-reactive protein as a marker for major cardiac events in 
asymptomatic individuals: a health technology assessment report.

Schnell-Inderst P(1), Schwarzer R, Göhler A, Grandi N, Grabein K, Stollenwerk B, 
Manne J, Klauss V, Siebert U, Wasem J.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Management, University for Health Sciences, Medical 
Informatics and Technology and University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany. 
petra.schnell-inderst@umit.at

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to compare the predictive value, clinical 
effectiveness, and cost-effectiveness of high-sensitivity C-reactive protein 
(hs-CRP)-screening in addition to traditional risk factor screening in 
apparently healthy persons as a means of preventing coronary artery disease.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The systematic review was performed according to 
internationally recognized methods. Seven studies on risk prediction, one 
clinical decision-analytic modeling study, and three decision-analytic 
cost-effectiveness studies were included. The adjusted relative risk of high 
hs-CRP-level ranged from 0.7 to 2.47 (p < .05 in four of seven studies). Adding 
hs-CRP to the prediction models increased the areas under the curve by 0.00 to 
0.027. Based on the clinical decision analysis, both individuals with elevated 
hs-CRP-levels and those with hyperlipidemia have a similar gain in life 
expectancy following statin therapy. One high-quality economic modeling study 
suggests favorable incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for persons with 
elevated hs-CRP and higher risk. However, many model parameters were based on 
limited evidence.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding hs-CRP to traditional risk factors improves risk prediction, 
but the clinical relevance and cost-effectiveness of this improvement remain 
unclear.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990870
PMID: 20059778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):54-61. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990596.

Cost-effectiveness of real-world infliximab use in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis in Sweden.

Lekander I(1), Borgström F, Svarvar P, Ljung T, Carli C, van Vollenhoven RF.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus and MMC, LIME, Stockholm, Sweden. ingrid.lekander@i3innovus.com

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness 
of infliximab use in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in Swedish clinical 
practice, based on patient-level data from the Stockholm TNF-alpha follow-up 
registry (STURE).
METHODS: Real-world patient-level data on infliximab use from the STURE registry 
were implemented in a Markov cohort model, in which health states of functional 
status were classified according to the Health Assessment Questionnaire 
Disability Index (HAQ-five categories) and twenty-eight joint count Disease 
Activity Score (DAS28). The transition probabilities between HAQ and DAS28 
states during treatment, as well as discontinuation rates were modeled based on 
data from the registry for patients using infliximab as their first-line 
biological treatment. The transition probabilities in the comparator arm, that 
is, disease progression without biologic treatment, as well as mortality rates, 
costs, and utilities were based on published literature. The analysis had a 
societal cost perspective.
RESULTS: Infliximab was associated with an incremental gain in quality-adjusted 
life-years of 1.02 and an incremental cost of 23,264 euros per patient compared 
with progression without biologic treatment, producing an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 22,830 euros (SEK211,136 or US$31,230). 
Sensitivity analyses of input parameters and model assumptions produced ICERs in 
the range from 18,000 euros to 47,000 euros.
CONCLUSIONS: Results from base-case and sensitivity analyses fell well below 
established benchmarks for cost-effectiveness in Sweden. The results, therefore, 
indicated that infliximab treatment for RA has provided good societal value for 
money in Swedish clinical practice, compared with a scenario of no biological 
treatment.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990596
PMID: 20059781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):117-23. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990869.

Do the 15D scores and time trade-off (TTO) values of hospital patients' own 
health agree?

Honkalampi T(1), Sintonen H.

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Finland. tarja.honkalampi@tehy.fi

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to estimate an empirical relationship and 
degree of agreement between the TTO values of patients' own health and their 15D 
scores.
METHODS: A total of 863 hospital patients aged 18-93 years filled in the 15D 
questionnaire to establish their 15D score and valued their present health with 
TTO. Wilcoxon signed rank test, the Spearman rank correlation coefficient and 
Tobit models were used to analyze the relation between the 15D and TTO scores.
RESULTS: The null hypothesis of no tendency for one set of scores to be higher 
or lower than the other set could not be rejected. Apart from dummies for few 
patients groups, no additional information to the 15D score was found that would 
have explained significantly the variance in the TTO valuations of patients' own 
health. The agreement between these to sets of scores turned out quite good at 
the aggregate level.
CONCLUSIONS: To the extent that mean TTO valuations of patients own health are 
valid for QALY calculations as they at least theoretically should be, and if 
experience of health states to be valued counts, the 15D scores are also valid 
without any transformation in a large group of heterogeneous patients. However, 
in certain patient groups, the agreement was not as good as overall.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990869
PMID: 20059789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2010 Jan;26(1):124-30. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462309990821.

Relative effectiveness assessment of listed drugs (REAL): a new method for an 
early comparison of the effectiveness of approved health technologies.

Falissard B(1), Izard V, Xerri B, Bouvenot G, Meyer F, Degos L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, South Paris University, Bicêtre, France. 
falissard_b@wanadoo.fr

OBJECTIVES: Post-listing assessment of pharmaceuticals depends on national 
habits. In England, the assessment is based on estimates of cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year. These are made some considerable time after listing 
(negative list). In France, effectiveness, and then efficiency, is assessed 
immediately after listing (positive list). We propose a new formal method--the 
REAL method--that can help make early comparisons of the effectiveness of 
medical treatments.
METHODS: Relative efficacies are first obtained from randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs). Members of the Transparency Committee (French National Authority 
for Health) are then consulted by questionnaire on the transposability of these 
results to real life. The RCT results and experts' ratings are entered into an 
effect model to obtain estimates of relative effectiveness, using unidimensional 
scaling, and bootstrap procedures.
RESULTS: Application of the REAL method to the example of a new drug to treat 
Parkinson's disease and three comparators used in the same indication provided 
graphs of the distributions of their relative efficacy and relative 
effectiveness. The new drug was found to provide no added value.
CONCLUSIONS: The REAL method is a rational, transparent, and practical procedure 
for comparing the effectiveness of pharmaceuticals in an immediate post-listing 
setting.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462309990821
PMID: 20059790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Public Health Nutr. 2010 Sep;13(9):1403-9. doi: 10.1017/S1368980009992990.
Epub  2010 Jan 11.

Flavonoid intake and disability-adjusted life years due to Alzheimer's and 
related dementias: a population-based study involving twenty-three developed 
countries.

Beking K(1), Vieira A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Research & Education, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, 
British Columbia, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Dietary flavonoids and their metabolites may have neuroprotective 
effects against age-associated neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's 
and related dementias (dementia). There is a lack of population studies, 
however, on correlations between flavonoid intake and dementia. The main 
objective of the present study was to analyse such a relationship at a 
large-scale population level.
DESIGN: Based on global data (FAO, WHO), databases were generated for: (i) 
flavonoid content of foods; (ii) per capita national dietary intakes of 
flavonoids and other dietary factors; and (iii) disability-adjusted life years - 
a measure of burden and death - due to dementia. Five major flavonoid subclasses 
were examined. To minimize influences due to accuracy and reliability of the 
disease source data, twenty-three developed countries were selected after 
statistical evaluation.
RESULTS: Flavonols and combined flavonoids (all five combined) intakes were the 
only two parameters with significant (P < 0.05) negative dementia correlations. 
Multiple linear regression models confirmed this relationship, and excluded 
confounding from some other dietary and non-dietary factors. Similar analyses 
with non-dementia, neurological/psychiatric diseases did not yield significant 
correlations.
CONCLUSIONS: At a global level, and in the context of different genetic 
backgrounds, our results suggest that higher consumption of dietary flavonoids, 
especially flavonols, is associated with lower population rates of dementia in 
these countries.

DOI: 10.1017/S1368980009992990
PMID: 20059796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Prague Med Rep. 2009;110(4):278-89.

Education in and the practice of dental public health in the United kingdom and 
Finland.

Eaton KA(1), Widström E, Broukal Z.

Author information:
(1)UCL Eastman Dental Institute, London, KCL Dental Institute, London, UK.

This paper describes and compares the education in and practice of dental public 
health in Finland and the United Kingdom. A brief introduction describes the 
populations of the two countries in terms of their geography, mean per capita, 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP), life expectancy, recent oral epidemiological data, 
oral health needs and the dental workforce. This is followed by a description of 
education in Dental Public Health in each country at undergraduate, postgraduate 
and continuing levels. The practice of Dental Public Health is then outlined. In 
both countries it includes: leadership and management of health organisations, 
teaching, training, research, advising and evaluating. A discussion follows. It 
considers the need for the provision of Dental Public Health at a time of 
changing oral health need and gives examples of problems that have arisen when 
such advice has not been sought or has been ignored. Finally, the paper 
considers how education in Dental Public Health could be developed to provide 
more flexible training whilst ensuring that the quality of knowledge and skills 
of specialists is maintained or improved.

PMID: 20059880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Prof Inferm. 2009 Jul-Sep;62(3):149-60.

[EU-Project "healthPROelderly" - evidence-based guidelines on health promotion 
for older people: social determinants, inequality and sustainability].

[Article in Italian]

Sansoni J(1), Talamonti A, Marucci AR, Di Foggia F, De Caro W, Mitello L.

Author information:
(1)Prof.ssa Med 45, Area Infermieristica, Dipartimento Scienze di Sanità 
Pubblica, Sapienza Università di Roma.

In this phase of rapid demographic change and low birth rate , coupled with an 
increasing life expectancy , the challenge for the future consists of being able 
to age in good health . European policies should therefore be aimed at promoting 
healthiness in the elderly and, although some CEE countries have introduced 
various projects and schemes, the majority are of a national or local nature and 
do not take into account the European context. The healthPROelderly project, on 
the other hand , is aimed at collecting information in the countries who 
participate in the project to pinpoint the best schemes for promoting 
healthiness in the elderly. This study focuses on the models that have a 
sustainable approach as far as socio-economical, environmental and lifestyle 
aspects are concerned. The specific aim of the project is to identify the 
criteria that have the highest impact on health schemes for the elderly and to 
establish relative guidelines at local, national and European level.

PMID: 20059894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Med Clin (Barc). 2010 Apr 24;134(12):544-6. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2009.11.009.  Epub 2010 Jan 7.

[Beta-blocking agents in the perioperative period of the non-cardiac surgery].

[Article in Spanish]

Cartoafa M(1), Agustí MA.
