

827. Behav Genet. 2010 Nov;40(6):759-67. doi: 10.1007/s10519-010-9350-4. Epub
2010  Mar 21.

A three-stage genome-wide association study of general cognitive ability: 
hunting the small effects.

Davis OS(1), Butcher LM, Docherty SJ, Meaburn EL, Curtis CJ, Simpson MA, 
Schalkwyk LC, Plomin R.

Author information:
(1)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, 
King's College London, London, UK. Oliver.Davis@iop.kcl.ac.uk.

Childhood general cognitive ability (g) is important for a wide range of 
outcomes in later life, from school achievement to occupational success and life 
expectancy. Large-scale association studies will be essential in the quest to 
identify variants that make up the substantial genetic component implicated by 
quantitative genetic studies. We conducted a three-stage genome-wide association 
study for general cognitive ability using over 350,000 single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) in the quantitative extremes of a population sample of 
7,900 7-year-old children from the UK Twins Early Development Study. Using two 
DNA pooling stages to enrich true positives, each of around 1,000 children 
selected from the extremes of the distribution, and a third individual 
genotyping stage of over 3,000 children to test for quantitative associations 
across the normal range, we aimed to home in on genes of small effect. 
Genome-wide results suggested that our approach was successful in enriching true 
associations and 28 SNPs were taken forward to individual genotyping in an 
unselected population sample. However, although we found an enrichment of low P 
values and identified nine SNPs nominally associated with g (P < 0.05) that show 
interesting characteristics for follow-up, further replication will be necessary 
to meet rigorous standards of association. These replications may take advantage 
of SNP sets to overcome limitations of statistical power. Despite our large 
sample size and three-stage design, the genes associated with childhood g remain 
tantalizingly beyond our current reach, providing further evidence for the small 
effect sizes of individual loci. Larger samples, denser arrays and multiple 
replications will be necessary in the hunt for the genetic variants that 
influence human cognitive ability.

DOI: 10.1007/s10519-010-9350-4
PMCID: PMC2992848
PMID: 20306291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. J Pastoral Care Counsel. 2009 Fall-Winter;63(3-4):8-1-6.

Hospital chaplains' involvement in a randomized controlled multidisciplinary 
trial: implications for spiritual care and research.

Piderman KM(1), Johnson ME.

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic College of Medicine, Department of Chaplain Services, USA. 
piderman.katherine@mayo.edu

Chaplains' involvement in spirituality and health research can contribute 
something vital and unique to these investigations. It can also provide 
opportunity for professional growth and increased effectiveness. This article 
describes the authors' experience as co-investigators in a randomized controlled 
trial involving patients with a life expectancy of less than five years 
receiving radiation therapy for advanced cancer. It also discusses the 
application to clinical settings and other research.

PMID: 20306937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Mar;14(14):1-210, iii-iv. doi: 10.3310/hta14140.

Multicentre randomised controlled trial of the clinical and cost-effectiveness 
of a bypass-surgery-first versus a balloon-angioplasty-first revascularisation 
strategy for severe limb ischaemia due to infrainguinal disease. The Bypass 
versus Angioplasty in Severe Ischaemia of the Leg (BASIL) trial.

Bradbury AW(1), Adam DJ, Bell J, Forbes JF, Fowkes FG, Gillespie I, Raab G, 
Ruckley CV.

Author information:
(1)College of Medical and Dental Sciences, University of Birmingham and Heart of 
England NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare a 'bypass-surgery-first' with a 
'balloon-angioplasty-first' revascularisation strategy in patients with severe 
limb ischaemia (SLI) due to infrainguinal disease requiring immediate/early 
revascularisation.
DESIGN: A stratified randomised controlled trial. A Delphi consensus study of 
vascular surgeons' and interventional radiologists' views on SLI treatment was 
performed before the trial.
SETTING: Twenty-seven UK hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients presenting with SLI as the result of infrainguinal 
atherosclerosis and who, in the opinion of the responsible consultant vascular 
surgeon and interventional radiologist, required and were suitable for both 
surgery and angioplasty.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients were randomised to either 'bypass-surgery-first' or 
'balloon-angioplasty-first' revascularisation strategies.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary end point was amputation-free survival (AFS); 
secondary end points were overall survival (OS), health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) and cost-effective use of hospital resources.
RESULTS: AFS at 1 and 3 years was not significantly different for surgery and 
angioplasty. Interim analysis showed that surgery was associated with 
significantly lower immediate failure, higher 30-day morbidity and lower 
12-month reintervention rates than angioplasty; 30-day mortality was similar. 
Beyond 2 years from randomisation, hazard ratios (HRs) were significantly 
reduced for both AFS (adjusted HR 0.37; 95% CI 0.17 to 0.77; p = 0.008) and OS 
(HR 0.34; 95% CI 0.17 to 0.71; p = 0.004) for surgery relative to angioplasty. 
By 2008 all but four patients had been followed for 3 years, some for over 7 
years: 250 (56%) were dead, 168 (38%) were alive without amputation and 30 (7%) 
were alive with amputation. Considering the follow-up period as a whole, AFS and 
OS did not differ between treatments but for patients surviving beyond 2 years 
from randomisation, bypass was associated with reduced HRs for AFS (HR 0.85; 95% 
CI 0.50 to 1.07; p = 0.108) and OS (HR 0.61; 95% CI 0.50 to 0.75; p = 0.009), 
equating to an increase in restricted mean OS of 7.3 months (p = 0.02) and AFS 
of 5.9 months (p = 0.06) during the subsequent follow-up period. Vein bypasses 
and angioplasties performed better than prosthetic bypasses. HRQoL was 
non-significantly better in the surgery group; amputation was associated with a 
significant reduction in HRQoL. Over the first year, hospital costs for bypass 
were significantly higher (difference 5420 pounds; 95% CI 1547 pounds to 9294 
pounds) than for angioplasty. However, by 3 and at 7 years the differences in 
cost between the two strategies were no longer significant. Patients randomised 
to surgery lived, on average, 29 days longer at an additional average cost of 
2310 pounds. A 36-month perspective showed not significantly different mean 
quality-adjusted life times for angioplasty and surgery. The Delphi study 
revealed substantial disagreement between and among surgeons and radiologists on 
the appropriateness of bypass surgery or balloon angioplasty.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of our study suggest that in patients with SLI due to 
infrainguinal disease the decision whether to perform bypass surgery or balloon 
angioplasty first appears to depend upon anticipated life expectancy. Patients 
expected to live less than 2 years should usually be offered balloon angioplasty 
first as it is associated with less morbidity and cost, and such patients are 
unlikely to enjoy the longer-term benefits of surgery. By contrast, those 
patients expected to live beyond 2 years should usually be offered bypass 
surgery first, especially where a vein is available as a conduit. Many patients 
who could not undergo a vein bypass would probably have been better served by a 
first attempt at balloon angioplasty than prosthetic bypass. The failure rate of 
angioplasty in SLI is high (c. 25%) and patients who underwent bypass after 
failed angioplasty fared significantly worse than those who underwent surgery as 
their first procedure. The interests of a significant proportion of BASIL 
patients may have been best served by primary amputation followed by 
high-quality rehabilitation. Further research is required to confirm or refute 
the BASIL findings and recommendations; validate the BASIL survival prediction 
model in a separate cohort of patients with SLI; examine the clinical and 
cost-effectiveness of new endovascular techniques and devices; and compare 
revascularisation with primary amputation and with best medical and nursing care 
in those SLI patients with the poorest survival prospects.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN45398889.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14140
PMID: 20307380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Biotechnol Adv. 2010 Jul-Aug;28(4):489-99. doi: 
10.1016/j.biotechadv.2010.03.001. Epub 2010 Mar 20.

Nitric oxide in fruit ripening: trends and opportunities.

Manjunatha G(1), Lokesh V, Neelwarne B.

Author information:
(1)Plant Cell Biotechnology Department, Central Food Technological Research 
Institute, Mysore-570 020, India.

Monitoring ethylene is crucial in regulating post-harvest life of fruits. The 
concept of nitric oxide (NO) involvement in antagonizing ethylene is new. NO 
mediated physiologies casted through regulation of plant hormones are widely 
reported during developmental and stress chemistry having no direct link with 
ripening. Research in NO biology and understanding its interplay with other 
signal molecules in ripening fruits suggest ways of achieving greater synergies 
with NO applications. Experiments focused at convincingly demonstrating the 
involvement of NO in altering ripening-related ethylene profile of fruits, would 
help develop new processes for shelf life extension. This issue being the 
central theme of this review, the putative mechanisms of NO intricacies with 
other primary and secondary signals are hypothesized. The advantage of eliciting 
NO endogenously may open up various biotechnological opportunities for its 
precise delivery into the target tissues.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biotechadv.2010.03.001
PMID: 20307642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Pediatr Clin North Am. 2010 Feb;57(1):181-205. doi:
10.1016/j.pcl.2010.01.003.

Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for hemoglobinopathies: current practice 
and emerging trends.

Smiers FJ(1), Krishnamurti L, Lucarelli G.

Author information:
(1)Leiden University Medical Center, Department of Pediatrics, Hematology 
Oncology and BMT unit, Postbus 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands. 
f.j.smiers@lumc.nl

Despite improvements in the management of thalassemia major and sickle cell 
disease, treatment complications are frequent and life expectancy remains 
diminished for these patients. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is 
the only curative option currently available. Existing results for HSCT in 
patients with hemoglobinopathy are excellent and still improving. New 
conditioning regimens are being used to reduce treatment-related toxicity and 
new donor pools accessed to increase the number of patients who can undergo 
HSCT.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcl.2010.01.003
PMID: 20307718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Maturitas. 2010 Jul;66(3):223-30. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2010.02.011. Epub
 2010 Mar 21.

Preventing and treating the accelerated ageing of obesity.

Kral JG(1), Otterbeck P, Touza MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, Brooklyn, NY 11203, 
USA. jkral@downstate.edu

Advances in the molecular biology of ageing, insulin resistance, inflammation, 
carcinogenesis and caloric restriction have elucidated commonalities relevant to 
the chronic overnutrition syndrome termed obesity. Not until the expanded 
acceptance and availability of surgical treatment of obesity ("bariatric 
surgery") has it been possible to explore the beneficial effects of sustained 
voluntary weight loss through controlled undernutrition in freely living people. 
Bariatric surgery is 58 years old and has undergone dramatic improvements 
recently becoming significantly safer and more accessible owing to the 
development of minimally invasive approaches and other advances. Furthermore, it 
is cost-effective compared to all forms of non-operative treatment. Thus older 
candidates, with more numerous and severe comorbidities are being recruited, 
increasing the pool of patients who have had operations which extend the 
otherwise shorter lives of the obese. Here we describe two mechanistically 
different operations, gastric restrictive and diversionary, and address their 
risks, complications, side-effects and beneficial outcomes, in aggregate 
increasing longevity, reducing morbidity and most important: improving 
health-related quality-adjusted life years.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2010.02.011
PMID: 20307945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Mol Hum Reprod. 2010 Jun;16(6):375-85. doi: 10.1093/molehr/gaq024. Epub 2010
Mar  21.

Animal models for Klinefelter's syndrome and their relevance for the clinic.

Wistuba J(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproductive and Regenerative Biology, Centre of Reproductive 
Medicine and Andrology, University Clinics, Domagkstrasse 11, 48149 Münster, 
Germany. joachim.wistuba@ukmuenster.de

In mammals, the contribution of the Y chromosome is paramount for male sexual 
determination; however, the presence of a single functional X chromosome is also 
of importance. In contrast to females where X inactivation is seen; the X 
chromosome of the male stays active. When, due to meiotic non-disjunction 
events, males are born with a supernumerary X chromosome, the resulting 47, XXY 
karyotype is referred to as Klinefelter's syndrome. This frequent genetic 
condition is most commonly associated with infertility, hypogonadism, 
gynecomastia and cognitive impairments. The condition has also been associated 
with a reduced life expectancy, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, increased body 
fat mass and reduced bone mineral content. In a variety of species, male animals 
with karyotypes resembling Klinefelter's syndrome arise and develop a subset of 
features similar to those seen in humans. The availability of these animals is 
driving efforts to experimentally address the pathophysiology of the condition. 
To date, two models, 41, XXY and 41, XX(Y)* (mutated Y chromosome) male mice, 
have been established which resemble aspects of the pathophysiology of 
Klinefelter's syndrome. Experiments performed in these models confirm that the 
presence of a supernumerary X chromosome causes germ cell loss, cognitive 
deficits, Leydig cell hyperplasia, and that their Sertoli cells are capable of 
supporting germ cells of normal karyotype. This review summarizes the generation 
and characterization of the animal models for Klinefelter's syndrome and 
suggests experimental strategies to improve our understanding of the mechanisms 
underlying the pathophysiology of Klinefelter's syndrome.

DOI: 10.1093/molehr/gaq024
PMID: 20308053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2010 Jul;15(3):143-9. doi:
10.1258/jhsrp.2009.009032.  Epub 2010 Mar 22.

Cost-effectiveness of a programme to detect and provide better care for female 
victims of intimate partner violence.

Norman R(1), Spencer A, Eldridge S, Feder G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economic Research and Evaluation, University of Technology, 
Sydney, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Primary care clinicians often fail to detect women who are victims of 
intimate partner violence (IPV). Our aim was to investigate the 
cost-effectiveness of a programme in primary care to detect and support such 
women.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
education and support for primary care clinicians to increase their 
identification of survivors of IPV and to refer them to a specialist advocacy 
agency or a psychologist with specialist skills. The programme was implemented 
in three general practices in the United Kingdom (with an additional practice 
acting as a control) and provided cost data and rates of identification and 
referral. Other cost data and the effectiveness of IPV advocacy came from 
published sources.
RESULTS: The model gave an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
approximately pounds sterling 2,450 per quality adjusted life year (QALY). 
Although the ratio increased in some of the sensitivity analyses, most were 
under a conventional willingness to pay threshold (pounds sterling 30,000/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: While there is considerable uncertainty in the underlying 
parameters, a training programme for primary care teams to increase 
identification and referral of women experiencing IPV is likely to be 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1258/jhsrp.2009.009032
PMID: 20308226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Pain Physician. 2010 Mar-Apr;13(2):151-6.

Intrathecal catheter-syringe adaptor for short-term intrathecal analgesia with 
an externalized pump: a case report.

Wilkes D(1), Cook M, Solanki D.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas 77555, USA. 
dwilkes@utmb.edu

BACKGROUND: In most patients, cancer pain is effectively treated with 
conservative medical management consisting of oral and/or transdermal 
analgesics. Cancer patients tend to fail conservative medical management near 
the end of their life expectancy, thus requiring alternative routes of analgesia 
such as intravenous, epidural, or intrathecal. The intrathecal route provides 
the most effective analgesia due to the close proximity of the opioid receptors 
in the spinal cord. Though there are many techniques that exist for intrathecal 
drug delivery, complications can limit effectiveness such as infection, 
bleeding, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) leaks, post-dural puncture headaches (PDPH), 
pump and/or catheter malfunctions, or limitations of technical expertise. 
Therefore, an important goal in palliative cancer pain therapy is to use 
equipment that is going to have the fewest number of complications and will be 
the most familiar to the health care providers. We describe the combination of 
the Medtronic Indura 1P catheter, which has the least catheter-related 
complications and can be used with any external drug infusion pump. These are 
regular infusion pumps that the health care workers are familiar with so they 
can provide excellent and efficient service to the patient.
METHODS: In an operating room, the intrathecal catheter was placed using sterile 
technique under fluoroscopic guidance. The epidural space was identified with 
loss of resistance technique. Then the introducer needle (supplied in the Indura 
1P catheter kit) was advanced until free-flowing CSF was obtained. The spinal 
catheter was advanced into the intrathecal space through the introducer needle 
to lumbar 2-3 level. The catheter was tunneled subcutaneously 10 cm lateral to 
the catheter exit site. A syringe filling device was inserted into the catheter 
opening and was secured with silk suture. A luer lock syringe was attached to 
the syringe filling device and CSF was aspirated. The syringe filling device was 
capped and later attached to an external drug infusion pump.
RESULTS: We report the successful use of the Medtronic Indura 1P, one piece 
intrathecal catheter, connected to the external drug pump for a 3 week period in 
a patient with metastatic cervical cancer for palliative pain control.
LIMITATIONS: Case report only.
CONCLUSION: This technique is simple to perform by pain specialists. The 
catheter modification allows the use of the Medtronic intrathecal catheter with 
standard external drug infusion pumps. This facilitates the patient's care in 
the hospice setting.

PMID: 20309381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Br J Surg. 2010 Jun;97(6):872-6. doi: 10.1002/bjs.6968.

Self-expanding metal stents as an alternative to surgical bypass for malignant 
gastric outlet obstruction.

Shaw JM(1), Bornman PC, Krige JE, Stupart DA, Panieri E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cape Town Health Sciences Faculty and 
Surgical Gastroenterology Unit, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa. 
John.Shaw@uct.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Gastroduodenal obstruction due to malignancy can be difficult to 
palliate. Self-expanding metal stents (SEMS) are gaining acceptance as an 
effective alternative to surgical bypass.
METHODS: Patients not suitable for surgical bypass, with complete gastric outlet 
obstruction as a result of malignancy, were offered palliation with SEMS from 
November 2004 to December 2008. The procedure was performed under fluoroscopic 
guidance and conscious sedation. Data were collected prospectively.
RESULTS: Seventy patients underwent SEMS placement (hepatobiliary and pancreatic 
malignancy, 44; antral gastric carcinoma, 19; other, seven). Follow-up was 
complete in 69 patients (99 per cent). Technical and clinical success rates were 
93 and 95 per cent respectively. Median hospital stay was 2 (range 1-18) days, 
median survival was 1.8 (0.1-19.0) months, and 87 per cent had improved intake 
after SEMS placement, as determined by Gastric Outlet Obstruction Severity Score 
before and after stenting (P < 0.001). Complications included two episodes of 
minor bleeding.
CONCLUSION: The use of SEMS to alleviate complete malignant gastric outlet 
obstruction in patients with limited life expectancy is successful in 
re-establishing enteral intake in most patients, with minimal morbidity, no 
mortality and a short hospital stay.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.6968
PMID: 20309895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Can Med Assoc J. 1961 Jul 8;85(2):73-7.

Late Causes of Death and Life Expectancy in Paraplegia.

Breithaupt DJ, Jousse AT, Wynn-Jones M.

PMCID: PMC1848102
PMID: 20326820


838. Can Med Assoc J. 1966 Jun 11;94(24):1249-56.

The mucolytic activity of amides: a new approach to mucus dispersion.

Waldron-Edward D, Skoryna SC.

A method which will reduce significantly the viscosity of epithelial mucus is 
essential to the physiological mechanisms involved in the mobilization and 
removal of such secretions. The life expectancy of patients with chronic 
pulmonary conditions and cystic fibrosis has been considerably increased and 
consequently the problem of liquefying mucin acquires new importance. In view of 
these considerations, as well as to facilitate research into the structural 
relationship of the glycoprotein macromolecule, a systematic investigation of 
mucolysis was undertaken using gastric mucin. Three amides, carbamide, acetamide 
and formamide, were found to dissolve gastric gel mucin with minimal 
degradation, and rapidly disperse the viscous secretions produced in 
pathological conditions of the tracheobronchial tree. Their effect on secretions 
from patients with cystic fibrosis and bronchiectasis is dramatic, and within 
five minutes of adding the reagent the flow time was reduced by at least 95%. 
Clinical studies were carried out with carbamide (urea in anhydrous, 
lyophilized, sterile powder form) in 32 patients with a variety of bronchial 
conditions, including chronic bronchitis, cystic fibrosis, asthma, 
bronchiectasis and emphysema. With the concentrations used, no irritant, 
bronchospastic or other reactions were observed.IT IS CONCLUDED THAT AMIDES OF 
THIS TYPE HAVE AT LEAST TWO ACTIONS ON THE EPITHELIAL MUCOUS SECRETION: (1) 
breakage of the three-dimensional gel structure and (2) a slower reduction in 
viscosity followed by solution of the solid material.

PMCID: PMC1936680
PMID: 20328563


839. Biochemistry. 2010 Apr 27;49(16):3445-55. doi: 10.1021/bi902180m.

Molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying neural tube defects in the 
loop-tail mutant mouse.

Gravel M(1), Iliescu A, Horth C, Apuzzo S, Gros P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Complex Traits Program, McGill University, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 0B1.

Loop-tail (Lp) mice show a very severe neural tube defect (craniorachischisis) 
caused by mutations in the Vangl2 gene (D255E, S464N). Mammalian Vangl1 and 
Vangl2 are membrane proteins that play critical roles in development such as 
establishment of planar cell polarity (PCP) in epithelial layers and convergent 
extension movements during neurogenesis and cardiogenesis. Vangl proteins are 
thought to assemble with other PCP proteins (Dvl, Pk) to form membrane-bound PCP 
signaling complexes that provide polarity information to the cell. In the 
present study, we show that Vangl1 is expressed exclusively at the plasma 
membrane of transfected MDCK cells, where it is targeted to the basolateral 
membrane. Experiments with an inserted exofacial HA epitope indicate that the 
segment delimited by the predicted transmembrane domains 1 and 2 is exposed to 
the extracellular milieu. Comparative studies of the Lp-associated pathogenic 
mutation D255E indicate that the targeting of the mutant variant at the plasma 
membrane is greatly reduced; the mutant variant is predominantly retained 
intracellularly in endoplasmic reticulum (ER) vesicles colocalizing with the ER 
marker calreticulin. In addition, the D255E variant shows drastically reduced 
stability with a half-life of approximately 2 h, compared to >9 h for its wild 
type counterpart and is rapidly degraded in a proteasome-dependent and MG132 
sensitive pathway. These findings highlight a critical role for D255 for normal 
folding and processing of Vangl proteins, with highly conservative substitutions 
not tolerated at that site. Our study provide an experimental framework for the 
analysis of human VANGL mutations recently identified in familial and sporadic 
cases of spina bifida.

DOI: 10.1021/bi902180m
PMID: 20329788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Manag Care Pharm. 2010 Apr;16(3):217-30. doi: 10.18553/jmcp.2010.16.3.217.

Prophylaxis of cervical cancer and related cervical disease: a review of the 
cost-effectiveness of vaccination against oncogenic HPV types.

Armstrong EP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice and Science, University of Arizona College of 
Pharmacy, 1295 N. Martin Ave., P.O. Box 210202, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA. 
armstrong@pharmacy.arizona.edu

BACKGROUND: Vaccines have demonstrated cost-effectiveness in managed care 
through the prevention of disease. As new vaccines for previously untargeted 
conditions are developed, pharmacoeconomic modeling is becoming even more 
critical for the quantification of value in the health care industry. Two 
recently developed vaccines aimed at prevention of infection from human 
papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18 have proven to be highly efficacious. HPV 
16 and 18 are the 2 most common oncogenic strains of HPV and are responsible for 
70% of cervical cancer cases worldwide. Persistent infection with an oncogenic 
HPV type is a known cause of cervical cancer. Therefore, prevention of cervical 
cancer via HPV vaccination may have a significant financial impact.
OBJECTIVE: To qualitatively review existing mathematical models of the cost 
effectiveness of prophylactic HPV vaccination, with an emphasis on the impact on 
managed care in the United States.
METHODS: Mathematical models of the cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination based 
on U.S. data were reviewed. A search of the PubMed database was conducted using 
the search terms "HPV," "vaccine," and "cost-effectiveness" for articles 
published before February 22, 2010. Studies employing mathematical models to 
estimate the cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination in healthy subjects from the 
United States were included. Models based on data or populations from outside of 
the United States were excluded. Outcomes were measured with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), typically in units of quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs] gained). Most studies included 
in this review modeled vaccination of a cohort or population of females aged 12 
years. Assessment of catch-up vaccination in females (through aged 24 to 26 
years) was included in a couple of reports. One study examined vaccination in 
older females (aged 35, 40, and 45 years). Models typically compared a strategy 
of HPV vaccination with the current practice of cervical screening (sampling of 
cervical cells for disease detection) alone.
RESULTS: 11 studies of cost-effectiveness modeling of HPV vaccination were 
included in this review. A direct quantitative comparison of model results is 
challenging due to the utilization of different model types as well as 
differences in variables selected within the same model type. Each model 
produced a range of cost-effectiveness ratios, dependent on variables included 
in sensitivity analyses and model assumptions. Sensitivity analyses revealed the 
lowest ICER to be $997 per QALY gained and the highest ICER to be $12,749,000 
per QALY gained. This enormous range highlights the need to clarify what model 
assumptions are being made. The 2 studies that included modeling of catch-up 
vaccination scenarios in females older than age 12 years also produced a wide 
range of ICERs. One study, assuming 90% efficacy, 100% coverage, and lifelong 
immunity, modeled catch-up vaccination in all females aged 12 to 24 years and 
yielded an ICER of $4,666 per QALY. If the duration of protection was limited to 
10 years, then costs increased to $21,121 per QALY. The other study modeling 
catch-up HPV vaccination assumed 100% efficacy, 75% coverage, and lifelong 
immunity. ICERs in this study for outcomes relating to cervical cancer ranged 
from $43,600 per QALY in the base model vaccinating only 12 year olds with no 
catch-up vaccination, to $152,700 in a model including catch-up vaccination 
through age 26 years. Although catch-up to age 21 years resulted in a cost of 
$120,400 per QALY, the ICER decreased to $101,300 per QALY if model outcomes 
related to prevention of genital warts were also included. The lone study 
modeling vaccination in women aged 35 to 45 years resulted in an ICER range of 
$116,950 to $272,350 per QALY when compared with annual and biennial cytological 
screening. Cost-effectiveness was defined as an ICER at or below $100,000 per 
QALY gained. All models of female adolescent vaccination were able to produce 
vaccination strategies that would be cost-effective according to this definition 
in addition to many strategies that would be cost-prohibitive. Variables 
influential in determining cost-effectiveness of HPV vaccination included the 
frequency of accompanying cervical screening, the age at which screening is 
initiated, vaccination efficacy, duration of vaccine protection, and the age 
range of females to be vaccinated. The actual effectiveness of HPV vaccination 
in the female population will also depend on levels of vaccine uptake or 
coverage and compliance in completing all vaccine doses.
CONCLUSION: Clinical studies have shown HPV vaccination to be highly efficacious 
and potentially lifesaving if administered to females naive or unexposed to 
vaccine HPV types. Modeling studies have also shown that HPV vaccination can be 
cost-effective with an ICER of $100,000 or less per QALY gained if administered 
to females aged 12 years in the context of cervical screening intervals 
typically greater than 1 year. Catch-up vaccination through 21 years of age 
increases the cost per QALY to more than $100,000. Until real-world coverage 
rates increase, cost-effectiveness modeling of HPV vaccination underestimates 
the actual cost per QALY.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2010.16.3.217
PMCID: PMC10437588
PMID: 20331326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Card Surg. 2010 May;25(3):309-17. doi: 10.1111/j.1540-8191.2010.01017.x.
Epub  2010 Mar 10.

Health-related quality of life after coronary artery bypass grafting: a review 
of randomized controlled trials.

Jokinen JJ(1), Hippeläinen MJ, Turpeinen AK, Pitkänen O, Hartikainen JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Helsinki University Hospital, 
Haartmaninkatu 4, PO Box 340, FI-00029 Helsinki, Finland. 
janne.jokinen@helsinki.fi

Objective outcome measures (i.e., survival, mortality, morbidity, complication 
rate, symptom recurrence, and need for re-interventions) have long been used as 
benchmarks for successful cardiac surgery, including coronary artery bypass 
grafting (CABG). Along with these objectively measurable outcome indicators, 
acquired improvement by cardiac surgery in subjectively experienced 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) has gained importance during the last 
decade in cardiac surgical research. If an increasing proportion of adult 
patients referred for CABG are elderly, octogenarians or even nonagenarians, the 
acquired HRQoL benefit from bypass surgery should be considered to be at least 
as important an outcome measure as potentially marginal improvement in life 
expectancy or longevity alone. To achieve the maximal HRQoL benefit and to 
optimize patient selection, a comprehensive analysis and understanding of 
contributors that affect pre- and postoperative self-perceived HRQoL is 
essential. These include patient-related characteristics (e.g., demographics and 
underlying comorbidities), surgical technique-related factors, and 
healthcare-related attributes. In this paper we review the randomized controlled 
trials published during the last ten years to analyze the effect of CABG on 
HRQoL. Specifically, we focus on the differences between the on-pump and 
off-pump (OPCAB) bypass techniques, investigate the factors that contribute to 
post-CABG HRQoL, and study post-CABG HRQoL in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8191.2010.01017.x
PMID: 20331485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Mol Ecol. 2010 Mar;19 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):277-84. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04482.x.

mlRho - a program for estimating the population mutation and recombination rates 
from shotgun-sequenced diploid genomes.

Haubold B(1), Pfaffelhuber P, Lynch M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Genetics, Max-Planck-Institute for Evolutionary 
Biology, Plön, Germany. haubold@evolbio.mpg.de

Improvements in sequencing technology over the past 5 years are leading to 
routine application of shotgun sequencing in the fields of ecology and 
evolution. However, the theory to estimate evolutionary parameters from these 
data is still being worked out. Here we present an extension and implementation 
of part of this theory, mlRho. This program can efficiently compute the 
following three maximum likelihood estimators based on shotgun sequence data 
obtained from single diploid individuals: the population mutation rate 
(4N(e)mu), the sequencing error rate, and the population recombination rate 
(4N(e)c). We demonstrate the accuracy of mlRho by applying it to simulated data 
sets. In addition, we analyse the genomes of the sea squirt Ciona intestinalis 
and the water flea Daphnia pulex. Ciona intestinalis is an obligate outcrosser, 
while D. pulex is a cyclic parthenogen, and we discuss how these contrasting 
life histories are reflected in our parameter estimates. The program mlRho is 
freely available from http://guanine.evolbio.mpg.de/mlRho.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-294X.2009.04482.x
PMCID: PMC4870015
PMID: 20331786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement The authors have 
no conflict of interest to declare and note that the sponsors of the issue had 
no role in the study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish 
or preparation of the manuscript.


843. Am J Prev Med. 2010 Apr;38(4 Suppl):S482-8. doi:
10.1016/j.amepre.2009.12.016.

Burden of disease resulting from hemophilia in the U.S.

Siddiqi AE(1), Ebrahim SH, Soucie JM, Parker CS, Atrash HK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Blood Disorders, National Center on Birth Defects and 
Developmental Disabilities, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, USA. Asiddiqi@cdc.gov

BACKGROUND: Hemophilia is a hereditary bleeding disorder. Its complications can 
result in substantial morbidity, but few efforts have been made to quantify the 
disease burden.
PURPOSE: The objective of this analysis was to estimate the burden of disease 
due to hemophilia (A and B) in the U.S., using disability-adjusted life years 
(DALY).
METHODS: The approach taken by the WHO in its Global Burden of Disease study was 
followed. Assumptions were drawn from published literature, and population 
estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau for the Year 2007 were used. Estimations 
of years of life lost resulting from mortality (YLL) and years of life lost 
resulting from morbidity (YLD) were done separately by gender, 5-year age 
intervals, and severity of disease (morbidity only) with their sum representing 
DALYs. Disability weights were derived from the quality-of-life tool EuroQol 
(EQ-5D). The stability of burden estimates was tested by performing sensitivity 
analyses, changing one assumption at a time.
RESULTS: In the U.S. in 2007, hemophilia resulted in 110,095 DALYs, composed of 
13,418 YLLs and 96,677 YLDs. Large differences between men/boys (107,346) and 
women/girls (2749) were observed, given that females are genetic carriers of the 
disorder and rarely present with disease. Sensitivity analyses revealed a 
relatively robust estimate with a maximum variation of 4.49%.
CONCLUSIONS: This first estimate of hemophilia-related DALYs in the U.S. 
indicates that control of hemophilia can potentially result in a gain of 1 
healthy year of life for every 2700 people in the population.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.12.016
PMID: 20331947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Diabetes Care. 2010 Jun;33(6):1269-74. doi: 10.2337/dc09-2042. Epub 2010 Mar
23.

The cost-effectiveness of continuous glucose monitoring in type 1 diabetes.

Huang ES(1), O'Grady M, Basu A, Winn A, John P, Lee J, Meltzer D, Kollman C, 
Laffel L, Tamborlane W, Weinzimer S, Wysocki T; Juvenile Diabetes Research 
Foundation Continuous Glucose Monitoring Study Group.

Author information:
(1)1Section of General Internal Medicine, University of Chicago, USA. 
ehuang@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu

Erratum in
    Diabetes Care. 2010 Sep;33(9):2129.

OBJECTIVE: Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has been found to improve glucose 
control in type 1 diabetic patients. We estimated the cost-effectiveness of CGM 
versus standard glucose monitoring in type 1 diabetes. RESEARCH DESIGN AND 
METHODS This societal cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) was conducted in trial 
populations in which CGM has produced a significant glycemic benefit (A1C 
>or=7.0% in a cohort of adults aged >or=25 years and A1C <7.0% in a cohort of 
all ages). Trial data were integrated into a simulation model of type 1 diabetes 
complications. The main outcome was the cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained.
RESULTS: During the trials, CGM patients experienced an immediate 
quality-of-life benefit (A1C >or=7.0% cohort: 0.70 quality-adjusted life-weeks 
[QALWs], P = 0.49; A1C <7.0% cohort: 1.39 QALWs, P = 0.04) and improved glucose 
control. In the long-term, CEA for the A1C >or=7.0% cohort, CGM was projected to 
reduce the lifetime probability of microvascular complications; the average gain 
in QALYs was 0.60. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 
$98,679/QALY (95% CI -60,000 [fourth quadrant] to -87,000 [second quadrant]). 
For the A1C <7.0% cohort, the average gain in QALYs was 1.11. The ICER was 
$78,943/QALY (15,000 [first quadrant] to -291,000 [second quadrant]). If the 
benefit of CGM had been limited to the long-term effects of improved glucose 
control, the ICER would exceed $700,000/QALY. If test strip use had been two per 
day with CGM long term the ICER for CGM would improve significantly.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term projections indicate that CGM is cost-effective among 
type 1 diabetic patients at the $100,000/QALY threshold, although considerable 
uncertainty surrounds these estimates.

DOI: 10.2337/dc09-2042
PMCID: PMC2875436
PMID: 20332354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2010 Apr;67(7 Suppl 2):S10-4; quiz S16. doi: 
10.2146/ajhp090654.

Iron chelation therapy in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Fausel CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Oncology Pharmacy Services, Division of Hematology/Oncology, School of 
Medicine, Simon Cancer Center, Indiana University, Indianapolis 46202, USA. 
cfausel@iupui.edu

PURPOSE: To understand how to appropriately recognize and manage iron overload 
with iron chelation therapy (ICT) in patients with myelodysplastic syndromes 
(MDS), evaluation of the role of different agents available for management of 
iron overload, including efficacy, safety, and economic considerations for 
transfusion-dependent patients with MDS, is provided.
SUMMARY: Patients with MDS have a high incidence of anemia, which often requires 
treatment. Supportive care measures such as red blood cell transfusions and 
erythroid colony stimulating factors are mainstays of therapy. Use of long-term 
transfusion therapy has limitations in patients with MDS due to the risk of 
developing iron overload. Strategies to manage iron overload include phlebotomy 
and ICT with agents such as deferoxamine and deferasirox. Data evaluating 
pharmacologic therapy for treatment of iron overload in patients with MDS 
suggest timely intervention can mitigate the morbidity associated with this 
clinical syndrome.
CONCLUSION: Development of practical management strategies to implement and 
optimize ICT using deferoxamine and deferasirox will be important to provide 
optimal care for transfusion-dependent patients with MDS.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp090654
PMID: 20332500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2010 Mar;37(3):547-50.

[Successful management of a patient with pain and dyspnea from bone metastasis 
and lymphangitis carcinomatosa after surgery for non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) in whom optimal dosages of transdermal fentanyl were determined by 
titration with fentanyl injection, and oxycodone hydrochloride].

[Article in Japanese]

Gika M(1), Eguchi K, Inoue Y, Izawa N, Takeuchi K, Nakayama M.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of General Thoracic Surgery and Palliative Care Team, Saitama Medical 
Center.

With recent progress in disease-modifying treatments for cancer, patients who 
have recurrences during a period of several years before entering the terminal 
stage are encountered frequently. Despite improved life expectancy with cancer 
therapy, for patients this means prolongation of the period in which various 
symptoms such as cancer pain and adverse reactions are undergone. In these 
conditions, although the recognition is not yet sufficient, the importance of 
palliative care along with disease-modifying treatment is recognized in Japan. 
We treated a 50s female with pain and dyspnea from bone metastasis and 
lymphangitis carcinomatosa after surgery for NSCLC in whom the optimal dosages 
of transdermal fentanyl (Durotep Patch) were determined by titration with 
fentanyl injection, and oxycodone hydrochloride (OxyContin) in a short period. 
The dosages after titration were transdermal fentanyl 35 mg, oxycodone 
hydrochloride 60 mg, and betamethasone 4 mg. Before her death, she was able to 
stay at home with her family for 3 days without severe symptoms. In the present 
study we describe the clinical course of this case, the difference of 
characteristics in these opioids, and the titration method with fentanyl 
injection.

PMID: 20332702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Pediatr Med Chir. 2009 Nov-Dec;31(6):246-51.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 clinical features and management.

Scalzone M(1), Coccia P, Ruggiero A, Riccardi R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Oncology, Catholic University of Rome, Rome, Italy.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) or von Recklinghausen's disease is one of the 
most common genetic disorder. It is characterized by a wide variability and 
unpredictability of clinical manifestations involving multiple organ systems. 
Several complications affecting life expectancy can occur in affected patients. 
We reviewed genetic mechanisms, clinical aspects of the syndrome and 
multidisciplinary management required for NF1 patients.

PMID: 20333883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Expert Opin Ther Targets. 2010 May;14(5):497-511. doi: 
10.1517/14728221003730434.

Targeting mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative disease: Part II.

Burchell VS(1), Gandhi S, Deas E, Wood NW, Abramov AY, Plun-Favreau H.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Neurology, Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Queen 
Square, London WC1N 3BG, UK.

IMPORTANCE OF THE FIELD: With improvements in life expectancy over the past 
decades, the incidence of neurodegenerative disease has dramatically increased 
and new therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. One possible approach is to 
target mitochondrial dysfunction, which has been implicated in the pathogenesis 
of numerous neurodegenerative disorders.
AREAS COVERED IN THIS REVIEW: This review examines the role of mitochondrial 
dysfunction in neurodegeneration, drawing examples from common diseases such as 
Alzheimer's disease and rarer familial disorders such as Charcot-Marie-Tooth. 
The review is provided in two parts. In part I we discussed the mitochondrial 
defects which have been most extensively researched (oxidative stress, 
bioenergetic dysfunction, calcium mishandling). We focus now on those defects 
which have more recently been implicated in neurodegeneration; in mitochondrial 
fusion/fission, protein import, protein quality control, kinase signalling and 
opening of the permeability transition pore.
WHAT THE READER WILL GAIN: An examination of mitochondrial defects observed in 
neurodegeneration, and existing and possible future therapies to target these 
defects.
TAKE HOME MESSAGE: The mitochondrially-targeted therapeutics that have reached 
clinical trials so far have produced encouraging but largely inconclusive 
results. Increasing understanding of mitochondrial dysfunction has, however, led 
to preclinical work focusing on novel approaches, which has generated exciting 
preliminary data.

DOI: 10.1517/14728221003730434
PMID: 20334487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. N Engl J Med. 2010 Mar 25;362(12):1061-3. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp0912931.

Global climate change and infectious diseases.

Shuman EK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, University 
of Michigan, Ann Arbor, USA.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp0912931
PMID: 20335580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Apr;125(4):1279-1287. doi: 
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181d0ae58.

Quality-adjusted life-year as a surgical outcome measure: a primer for plastic 
surgeons.

Thoma A(1), McKnight LL.

Author information:
(1)Hamilton, Ontario, Canada From the Department of Clinical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics and the Surgical Outcomes Research Center, McMaster University, 
and the Department of Surgery, Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 
St. Joseph's Healthcare.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181d0ae58
PMID: 20335880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Nature. 2010 Mar 25;464(7288):529-35. doi: 10.1038/nature08983.

Neural mechanisms of ageing and cognitive decline.

Bishop NA(1), Lu T, Yankner BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, 
USA.

During the past century, treatments for the diseases of youth and middle age 
have helped raise life expectancy significantly. However, cognitive decline has 
emerged as one of the greatest health threats of old age, with nearly 50% of 
adults over the age of 85 afflicted with Alzheimer's disease. Developing 
therapeutic interventions for such conditions demands a greater understanding of 
the processes underlying normal and pathological brain ageing. Recent advances 
in the biology of ageing in model organisms, together with molecular and 
systems-level studies of the brain, are beginning to shed light on these 
mechanisms and their potential roles in cognitive decline.

DOI: 10.1038/nature08983
PMCID: PMC2927852
PMID: 20336135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. BMC Public Health. 2010 Mar 25;10(1):161. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-161.

Sex, age, deprivation and patterns in life expectancy in Quebec, Canada: a 
population-based study.

Auger N(1), Alix C, Zang G, Daniel M.

Author information:
(1)Etudes et analyses de l'état de santé de la population, Institut national de 
santé publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada. nathalie.auger@inspq.qc.ca

BACKGROUND: Little research has evaluated disparities in life expectancy 
according to material deprivation taking into account differences across the 
lifespan between men and women. This study investigated age- and sex-specific 
life expectancy differentials related to area-level material deprivation for the 
province of Québec, Canada from 1989-2004.
METHODS: Age- and sex-specific life expectancy across the lifespan was 
calculated for three periods (1989-1992, 1995-1998, and 2001-2004) for the 
entire Québec population residing in 162 community groupings ranked according to 
decile of material deprivation. Absolute and relative measures were calculated 
to summarize differences between the most and least deprived deciles.
RESULTS: Life expectancy differentials between the most and least deprived 
deciles were greatest for men. Over time, male differentials increased for age 
20 or more, with little change occurring at younger ages. For women, 
differentials increased across the lifespan and were comparable to men at 
advanced ages. Despite gains in life expectancy among men relative to women, 
differentials between men and women were greater for most deprived relative to 
least deprived deciles.
CONCLUSIONS: Similar to the US, differentials in life expectancy associated with 
area-level material deprivation increased steadily in Québec from 1989-2004 for 
males and females of all ages. Differentials were comparable between men and 
women at advanced ages. Previous research indicating that life expectancy 
differentials between most and least deprived areas are greater in men may be 
due to a focus on younger age groups.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-161
PMCID: PMC2859396
PMID: 20338059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Lancet. 2010 Apr 17;375(9723):1355-64. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60058-X.
Epub  2010 Mar 24.

Estimated effect of alcohol pricing policies on health and health economic 
outcomes in England: an epidemiological model.

Purshouse RC(1), Meier PS, Brennan A, Taylor KB, Rafia R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Automatic Control and Systems Engineering, University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. r.purshouse@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Apr 17;375(9723):1322-4.

BACKGROUND: Although pricing policies for alcohol are known to be effective, 
little is known about how specific interventions affect health-care costs and 
health-related quality-of-life outcomes for different types of drinkers. We 
assessed effects of alcohol pricing and promotion policy options in various 
population subgroups.
METHODS: We built an epidemiological mathematical model to appraise 18 pricing 
policies, with English data from the Expenditure and Food Survey and the General 
Household Survey for average and peak alcohol consumption. We used results from 
econometric analyses (256 own-price and cross-price elasticity estimates) to 
estimate effects of policies on alcohol consumption. We applied risk functions 
from systemic reviews and meta-analyses, or derived from attributable fractions, 
to model the effect of consumption changes on mortality and disease prevalence 
for 47 illnesses.
FINDINGS: General price increases were effective for reduction of consumption, 
health-care costs, and health-related quality of life losses in all population 
subgroups. Minimum pricing policies can maintain this level of effectiveness for 
harmful drinkers while reducing effects on consumer spending for moderate 
drinkers. Total bans of supermarket and off-license discounting are effective 
but banning only large discounts has little effect. Young adult drinkers aged 
18-24 years are especially affected by policies that raise prices in pubs and 
bars.
INTERPRETATION: Minimum pricing policies and discounting restrictions might 
warrant further consideration because both strategies are estimated to reduce 
alcohol consumption, and related health harms and costs, with drinker spending 
increases targeting those who incur most harm.
FUNDING: Policy Research Programme, UK Department of Health.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

