young-adult general population is associated with improved QALYs and is a cost 
effectiveness strategy. Shortening of the time-delay to diagnosis by heightened 
awareness of health-care professionals may be a valid alternative to screening.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04242.x
PMID: 20096017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2010 Apr;31(8):911-21. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04244.x. Epub 2010 Jan 20.

Methylnaltrexone bromide for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation in 
patients with advanced illness--a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Earnshaw SR(1), Klok RM, Iyer S, McDade C.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA. 
searnshaw@rti.org

BACKGROUND: Opioid-induced constipation is a common adverse event in patients 
with advanced illness and has a significant negative impact on patients' quality 
of life and costs.
AIM: To examine the cost-effectiveness of treating opioid-induced constipation 
with methylnaltrexone bromide (MNTX) plus standard care compared with standard 
care alone in patients with advanced illness who receive long-term opioid 
therapy from a third-party payer perspective in the Netherlands.
METHODS: A decision-analytical model was created in which advanced-illness 
patients with constipation were treated with MNTX plus standard care or standard 
care alone. Clinical efficacy in terms of percentage of patients with 
rescue-free laxation and time to rescue-free laxation were obtained from a 
randomized, controlled clinical study. Resource use, costs, utilities and 
mortality were obtained from published literature and supplemented with data 
from clinical experts.
RESULTS: Treatment with MNTX plus standard care results in more days without 
constipation symptoms. Cost of MNTX was mostly offset by reduction in other 
constipation-related costs. Thus, treating with MNTX plus standard care is 
cost-effective, with an incremental cost per QALY of 40,865 euro. Results were 
robust to changes in all parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Although using MNTX may increase total costs, MNTX plus standard 
care is cost-effective in treating advanced-illness patients with opioid-induced 
constipation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04244.x
PMID: 20096019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. J Dtsch Dermatol Ges. 2010 Jan;8(1):45-56; quiz 57-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1610-0387.2009.07098_supp.x.

Current therapy of HIV.

[Article in English, German]

Potthoff AV(1), Brockmeyer NH.

Author information:
(1)St. Josef Hospital, Ruhr University Clinic, Department of Dermatology and 
Allergology, Bochum, Germany. a.potthoff@klinikum-bochum.de

Antiretroviral therapy has improved continuously. Almost every year a new drug 
has been approved. Nucleoside analogs still build the backbone of antiretroviral 
therapy. They inhibit reverse transcriptase and thus the transcription of RNA to 
DNA. They are combined with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors or 
protease inhibitors. New therapeutic approaches are attachment or entry 
inhibitors, integrase inhibitors and maturation inhibitors. Multiple prospective 
multicenter studies have proven the life prolonging effect of antiretroviral 
therapy. With the optimal therapy life expectancy of HIV patients is only 
slightly reduced, similar to that of those with chronic diseases such as 
diabetes mellitus. One result of the higher age of HIV patients is an increase 
in concomitant diseases and medications. Drug interactions have to be considered 
and avoided. There has been a long discussion about the best time point to start 
antiretroviral therapy. In the late 1990s, every infected patient was treated 
hoping to eliminate the virus, ignoring the CD4+ cell count and viral load. This 
caused multiple (long-term) side effects and a rising resistance problem. The 
guidelines now recommend starting therapy at about 350/microl CD4 lymphocytes. 
Due to its complexity antiretroviral therapy should be initiated and monitored 
in specialized centers.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1610-0387.2009.07098_supp.x
PMID: 20096060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2009 Dec;100 Suppl 2:22-7. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-7310(09)73374-5.

Managing comorbidities in psoriasis.

Boehncke WH(1), Boehncke S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Section of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, 
Clinic of the Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University, Frankfurt am Main, Germany. 
Boehncke@em.uni-frankfurt.de

Psoriasis is a common inflammatory skin condition, often associated with other 
diseases. Around 25 % of patients develop joint involvement in the form of 
psoriatic arthritis as well. Recent epidemiologic studies demonstrated an 
increased cardiovascular morbidity among psoriasis patients, which contributes 
to their reduced life expectancy. High prevalence of the metabolic syndrome as 
well as adverse effects of systemic anti-psoriatic therapies may contribute to 
the observed association. The consequences for the management of psoriasis at 
this point are three-fold: As comorbidity goes along with comedication, 
potential drug interactions need to be kept in mind when choosing a systemic 
anti-psoriatic therapy. Moreover, as psoriasis itself is a risk factor for 
cardiovascular morbidity, patients must avoid other known risk factors such as 
obesity or smoking. Dermatologists need to communicate this additional risk to 
their patients and support them accordingly. Finally, dermatologists serve as 
sentinels when it comes to the early diagnosis of developing comorbidities in 
general and psoriatic arthritis in particular, thus opening the door to early 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-7310(09)73374-5
PMID: 20096158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Actas Dermosifiliogr. 2009 Nov;100 Suppl 1:52-65. doi: 
10.1016/s0001-7310(09)73168-0.

[Advances in molecular biology and their application in the diagnosis and 
treatment of melanoma].

[Article in Spanish]

Martorell-Calatayud A(1), Requena C, Botella-Estrada R, Sangüeza OP.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Dermatología, Instituto Valenciano de Oncologia, Valencia, 
España.

Even though malignant melanoma accounts for 4 % of all skin cancers, it is the 
type responsible for most deaths. The pathogenesis of melanoma is currently not 
well understood, although an interaction of environmental and genetic factors 
doubtlessly plays a role. Molecular biology in medicine has progressed 
increasingly rapidly in recent years. In dermatology, application of molecular 
biology techniques to the study of malignant melanoma has led to important 
advances in our knowledge of the main molecular pathways implicated in its 
development. These findings not only can improve our knowledge of the 
pathogenesis of the disease but may also have practical implications. Thus, 
molecular characterization of malignant melanoma may be of great help in 
differentiating between benign and malignant melanocytic lesions when 
histopathological features prove insufficient as is the case, for example, in 
Spitz nevus and spitzoid melanoma. In addition, knowledge of the abnormal 
molecular pathways in different malignant melanoma lesions can point to new 
therapeutic targets for treating patients with melanomas with distant 
metastases, in whom current chemotherapy has failed to extend life expectancy. 
At present, lack of availability is the main barrier to use of these techniques 
in dermatology--they are often limited to research, so not generally available 
in most hospitals. This problem will, however, be overcome when the molecular 
patterns become standardized, allowing a prognostic and therapeutic 
characterization of this important disease.

DOI: 10.1016/s0001-7310(09)73168-0
PMID: 20096197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Aug;45(7-8):543-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.01.012. Epub
 2010 Jan 22.

Deletion of the mitochondrial NADH kinase increases mitochondrial DNA stability 
and life span in the filamentous fungus Podospora anserina.

El-Khoury R(1), Sainsard-Chanet A.

Author information:
(1)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Centre de Génétique 
Moléculaire, Gif-sur-Yvette, France.

In the filamentous fungus Podospora anserina, aging is systematically associated 
with mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) instability. A causal link between deficiency of 
the cytochrome respiratory pathway and lifespan extension has been demonstrated. 
Knock out of the cytochrome respiratory pathway induces the expression of an 
alternative oxidase and is associated with a reduction in free radical 
production. The question of the links between mtDNA stability, ROS generation 
and lifespan is therefore clearly raised in this organism. NADPH lies at the 
heart of many anti-oxidant defenses of the cell. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 
the mitochondrial NADPH is largely provided by the Pos5 NADH kinase. We show 
here that disruption of PaNdk1 encoding the potential mitochondrial NADH kinase 
of P. anserina leads to severe somatic and sexual defects and to 
hypersensitivity to hydrogen peroxide and paraquat. Surprisingly, it also leads 
to a spectacular increase of mtDNA stability and lifespan. We propose that an 
adaptative metabolic change including the induction of the alternative oxidase 
can account for these results.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.01.012
PMID: 20096769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2010 Feb 26;393(1):73-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.01.081. Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Overexpression of SIRT5 confirms its involvement in deacetylation and activation 
of carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1.

Ogura M(1), Nakamura Y, Tanaka D, Zhuang X, Fujita Y, Obara A, Hamasaki A, 
Hosokawa M, Inagaki N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes and Clinical Nutrition, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Kyoto University, Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto 606-8507, Japan.

SIR2 protein, an NAD-dependent deacetylase, is localized to nucleus and is 
involved in life span extension by calorie restriction in yeast. In mammals, 
among the seven SIR2 homologues (SIRT1-7), SIRT3, 4, and 5 are localized to 
mitochondria. As SIRT5 mRNA levels in liver are increased by fasting, the 
physiological role of SIRT5 was investigated in liver of SIRT5-overexpressing 
transgenic (SIRT5 Tg) mice. We identified carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1 
(CPS1), a key enzyme of the urea cycle that catalyzes condensation of ammonia 
with bicarbonate to form carbamoyl phosphate, as a target of SIRT5 by 
two-dimensional electrophoresis comparing mitochondrial proteins in livers of 
SIRT5 Tg and wild-type mice. CPS1 protein was more deacetylated and activated in 
liver of SIRT5 Tg mice than in wild-type. In addition, urea production was 
upregulated in hepatocytes of SIRT5 Tg mice. These results agree with those of a 
previous study using SIRT5 knockout (KO) mice. Because ammonia generated during 
fasting is toxic, SIRT5 protein might play a protective role by converting 
ammonia to non-toxic urea through deacetylation and activation of CPS1.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2010.01.081
PMID: 20097174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Respir Med. 2010 Apr;104(4):612-4. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2009.12.014. Epub
2010  Jan 25.

Thoracic ultrasound for pleural effusion: delays and cost associated with 
departmental scanning.

Bateman K(1), Downey DG, Teare T.

Author information:
(1)North Bristol Lung Centre, Southmead Hospital, Westbury-on-Trym, Bristol BS10 
5NB, UK. kmbateman@virginmedia.com

Comment in
    Respir Med. 2010 Jul;104(7):1077-8.

Pleural effusion is a common clinical condition on medical wards and the 
majority of cases undergo pleural aspiration or chest drain insertion as a 
diagnostic or therapeutic procedure. The use of a thoracic ultrasound scan (USS) 
improves diagnostic yield for pleural fluid aspiration and reduces complications 
and USS is increasingly recommended prior to all pleural aspirations or drains 
and 'real time' scanning which, as well as potentially reducing delays, enhances 
the safety of the procedure. In many U.K hospitals a thoracic USS is still 
routinely performed in the radiology department. We reviewed radiology records 
and case notes from hospital in-patients to assess potential delays and 
associated costs with departmental thoracic USS and to identify cases where 
physician-led portable USS would potentially have improved the patient's 
journey. We demonstrated delays resulting in significant financial costs to the 
hospital of an estimated pound17, 880 per annum. However, the cost to the 
patient is also significant, both in terms of patient experience (many of whom 
will have an underlying diagnosis of metastatic carcinoma and with a limited 
life expectancy) but also patient safety. Respiratory physicians are 
increasingly recognising the importance of portable thoracic USS to guide 
pleural procedures and there has been increasing use of physician-led portable 
thoracic USS. Hospitals should be encouraged to fund both portable thoracic USS 
equipment but it is also crucial that training in this area is properly 
supported.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2009.12.014
PMID: 20097552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. FASEB J. 2010 Jun;24(6):1997-2009. doi: 10.1096/fj.09-142943. Epub 2010 Jan
22.

Identification of a novel proapoptotic function of resveratrol in fat cells: 
SIRT1-independent sensitization to TRAIL-induced apoptosis.

Mader I(1), Wabitsch M, Debatin KM, Fischer-Posovszky P, Fulda S.

Author information:
(1)University Children's Hospital, Ulm, Germany.

The phytochemical resveratrol has recently gained attention for its protection 
against metabolic disease and for extension of life span, which have been linked 
to its metabolic effects and SIRT1 activation in fat cells. However, little is 
known about the effect of resveratrol on fat cell apoptosis. Here, we identify a 
novel, SIRT1-independent mechanism by which resveratrol regulates fat cell 
numbers. We demonstrate for the first time that resveratrol enhances TNF-related 
apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL)- or CD95-induced apoptosis of human 
preadipocytes in a highly synergistic manner (EC(50) at 72 h: resveratrol, >300 
microM; TRAIL, >100 ng/ml; combination: 30 microM resveratrol and 10 ng/ml 
TRAIL, combination index 0.4). Similar results in primary human preadipocytes 
prepared from subcutaneous white adipose tissue and mature human adipocytes 
underline the relevance to human physiology. Mechanistic studies reveal that 
resveratrol inhibits PI3K-driven phosphorylation of Akt, leading to increased 
Bax activation, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, cytochrome c release, 
and caspase-dependent apoptosis. The synergistic interaction of resveratrol and 
TRAIL depends on the intrinsic apoptosis pathway and caspases, since Bcl-2 
overexpression and the caspase inhibitor zVAD.fmk inhibit apoptosis, whereas 
knockdown of SIRT1 by RNA interference has no effect. The discovery of this 
novel activity of resveratrol significantly advances the knowledge of fat tissue 
regulation by resveratrol and has important implications for its use in 
metabolic and age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1096/fj.09-142943
PMID: 20097879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Cornea. 2010 Mar;29(3):283-9. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e3181b7658d.

Salzmann nodular degeneration.

Graue-Hernández EO(1), Mannis MJ, Eliasieh K, Greasby TA, Beckett LA, Bradley 
JC, Schwab IR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science, UC Davis Health System Eye 
Center, University of California, Davis, Davis, CA, USA.

Comment in
    Cornea. 2010 Dec;29(12):1469; author reply 1469.

PURPOSE: To describe the characteristic, clinical, and epidemiological features 
of Salzmann nodular degeneration.
METHODS: Retrospective review of cases. All patients with diagnosis of Salzmann 
nodular degeneration examined on the Cornea and External Disease Service in the 
Department of Ophthalmology and Vision Science at the University of California, 
Davis, were included in this review. Demographic features, clinical 
characteristics, treatment regimens, surgical procedures, and outcomes were 
recorded. Descriptive statistics, correlation statistics in bilateral cases, and 
simple regression models were constructed to assess the effect of potential 
indicators of severity.
RESULTS: One hundred eighty eyes of 108 patients were included in this review. 
Seventy-nine patients (72.2%) were female and 29 (27.8%) were male. Seventy-two 
patients had bilateral disease. The mean age for all patients was 60.8 (13-92) 
years, and the mean follow-up time was 61.2 months (0-357 months). 76.1% of all 
eyes were from White. Mean logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution 
best-corrected visual acuity was 0.24 (Snellen equivalent 20/35, range -0.12 to 
2.60, SD 0.44). Decreased visual acuity was the most common symptom in 30.6% of 
patients. The visual axis was affected in 30% of the cases. Meibomian gland 
dysfunction was the most common coexistent condition, identified in 41.7% of the 
cases. For bilateral cases, Spearman correlations for best-corrected visual 
acuity, magnitude of astigmatism, spherical equivalent, and disease extension 
were statistically significant (P = 0.001). The number of quadrants affected was 
found to be a significant predictor for astigmatism (P = 0.01). Surgery was 
indicated in 41 eyes of 30 patients. Decreased visual acuity was the most common 
indication for superficial keratectomy. Patients with more than 1 quadrant of 
the cornea affected or those in which the central visual axis was involved were 
more likely to require surgery (P = 0.015 and 0.0001, respectively). The 
surgical outcome was satisfactory in 90.2% of the cases; 9 eyes (21.9%) 
developed recurrences.
CONCLUSIONS: Salzmann nodular degeneration is a disease of uncertain etiology in 
which inflammation of the ocular surface may play a role. It predominantly 
affects women in the sixth decade of life. Management with conservative therapy 
is generally adequate, and in cases that require surgical intervention, simple 
nodulectomy is usually effective.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e3181b7658d
PMID: 20098304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. PLoS Med. 2010 Jan 19;7(1):e1000211. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000211.

Male circumcision at different ages in Rwanda: a cost-effectiveness study.

Binagwaho A(1), Pegurri E, Muita J, Bertozzi S.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health, Kigali, Rwanda. abinagwaho@gmail.com

Comment on
    PLoS Med. 2010 Jan;7(1):e1000219.

BACKGROUND: There is strong evidence showing that male circumcision (MC) reduces 
HIV infection and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). In Rwanda, where 
adult HIV prevalence is 3%, MC is not a traditional practice. The Rwanda 
National AIDS Commission modelled cost and effects of MC at different ages to 
inform policy and programmatic decisions in relation to introducing MC. This 
study was necessary because the MC debate in Southern Africa has focused 
primarily on MC for adults. Further, this is the first time, to our knowledge, 
that a cost-effectiveness study on MC has been carried out in a country where 
HIV prevalence is below 5%.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: A cost-effectiveness model was developed and applied to 
three hypothetical cohorts in Rwanda: newborns, adolescents, and adult men. 
Effectiveness was defined as the number of HIV infections averted, and was 
calculated as the product of the number of people susceptible to HIV infection 
in the cohort, the HIV incidence rate at different ages, and the protective 
effect of MC; discounted back to the year of circumcision and summed over the 
life expectancy of the circumcised person. Direct costs were based on interviews 
with experienced health care providers to determine inputs involved in the 
procedure (from consumables to staff time) and related prices. Other costs 
included training, patient counselling, treatment of adverse events, and 
promotion campaigns, and they were adjusted for the averted lifetime cost of 
health care (antiretroviral therapy [ART], opportunistic infection [OI], 
laboratory tests). One-way sensitivity analysis was performed by varying the 
main inputs of the model, and thresholds were calculated at which each 
intervention is no longer cost-saving and at which an intervention costs more 
than one gross domestic product (GDP) per capita per life-year gained.
RESULTS: Neonatal MC is less expensive than adolescent and adult MC (US$15 
instead of US$59 per procedure) and is cost-saving (the cost-effectiveness ratio 
is negative), even though savings from infant circumcision will be realized 
later in time. The cost per infection averted is US$3,932 for adolescent MC and 
US$4,949 for adult MC. Results for infant MC appear robust. Infant MC remains 
highly cost-effective across a reasonable range of variation in the base case 
scenario. Adolescent MC is highly cost-effective for the base case scenario but 
this high cost-effectiveness is not robust to small changes in the input 
variables. Adult MC is neither cost-saving nor highly cost-effective when 
considering only the direct benefit for the circumcised man.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that Rwanda should be simultaneously scaling up 
circumcision across a broad range of age groups, with high priority to the very 
young. Infant MC can be integrated into existing health services (i.e., neonatal 
visits and vaccination sessions) and over time has better potential than 
adolescent and adult circumcision to achieve the very high coverage of the 
population required for maximal reduction of HIV incidence. In the presence of 
infant MC, adolescent and adult MC would evolve into a "catch-up" campaign that 
would be needed at the start of the program but would eventually become 
superfluous. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000211
PMCID: PMC2808207
PMID: 20098721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Agnes Binagwaho is an Editorial Board member of 
PLoS Medicine.


385. ScientificWorldJournal. 2010 Jan 21;10:161-77. doi: 10.1100/tsw.2010.8.

Insulin/IGF-I and related signaling pathways regulate aging in nondividing 
cells: from yeast to the mammalian brain.

Parrella E(1), Longo VD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurogerontology Andrus Gerontology Center and Department of 
Biological Sciences, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA, USA. 
parrella@usc.edu

Mutations that reduce glucose or insulin/insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) 
signaling increase longevity in organisms ranging from yeast to mammals. Over 
the past 10 years, several studies confirmed this conserved molecular strategy 
of longevity regulation, and many more have been added to the complex mosaic 
that links stress resistance and aging. In this review, we will analyze the 
similarities that have emerged over the last decade between longevity regulatory 
pathways in organisms ranging from yeast, nematodes, and fruit flies to mice. We 
will focus on the role of yeast signal transduction proteins Ras, Tor, Sch9, 
Sir2, their homologs in higher organisms, and their association to oxidative 
stress and protective systems. We will discuss how the "molecular strategy" 
responsible for life span extension in response to dietary and genetic 
manipulations appears to be remarkably conserved in various organisms and cells, 
including neuronal cells in different organisms. Taken together, these studies 
indicate that simple model systems will contribute to our comprehension of aging 
of the mammalian nervous system and will stimulate novel neurotherapeutic 
strategies in humans.

DOI: 10.1100/tsw.2010.8
PMCID: PMC4405166
PMID: 20098959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Clin Rheumatol. 2010 Jun;29(6):583-91. doi: 10.1007/s10067-009-1363-0. Epub
2010  Jan 23.

Evaluation of abatacept in biologic-naïve patients with active rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Schiff M(1), Bessette L.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado School of Medicine, 5400 South Monaco Street, 
Greenwood Village, CO 80111, USA. Lmschiff@aol.com

This article reviews the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of abatacept plus 
methotrexate in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and an inadequate 
response to methotrexate who are naïve to biologic disease-modifying 
antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Data from the randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled Abatacept in Inadequate Responders to Methotrexate, Abatacept 
or Infliximab vs Placebo, a Trial for Tolerability, Efficacy, and Safety in 
Treating Rheumatoid Arthritis, and phase IIb dose-finding trials and their 
long-term extensions are reviewed. Abatacept plus methotrexate significantly 
improved clinical responses, physical function, and health-related quality of 
life compared with methotrexate alone. More patients receiving abatacept plus 
methotrexate than methotrexate monotherapy achieved a low disease activity state 
or remission. Radiographic progression of the disease was significantly slowed 
in the abatacept plus methotrexate arms. Abatacept plus methotrexate was 
generally well tolerated with no clinically significant safety issues 
identified. The beneficial effects of abatacept plus methotrexate were sustained 
long term in extension studies, and no new tolerability or safety issues were 
evident. Abatacept in combination with methotrexate is an effective, safe, and 
well-tolerated long-term therapy in biologic-naïve patients with active RA and 
an inadequate response to methotrexate. Abatacept could be considered as a 
first-line biologic DMARD in the treatment of RA.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-009-1363-0
PMID: 20099018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Ann Surg Oncol. 2010 Jun;17(6):1589-96. doi: 10.1245/s10434-010-0916-4. Epub
 2010 Jan 23.

Effect of age on surgical outcomes of extended gastrectomy with D2 lymph node 
dissection in gastric carcinoma: prospective cohort study.

Jeong O(1), Park YK, Ryu SY, Kim YJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterologic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Chonnam 
National University Hwasun Hospital, Jeollanam-do, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: As a life expectancy increases, the proportion of aged 
patients diagnosed with gastric cancer has increased over the past decades, but 
the optimal surgical approach to these patients remains a dilemma because of the 
presumed risk associated with extended surgery.
METHODS: A total of 383 consecutive patients who underwent gastrectomy with D2 
lymph node dissection in 2008 and 2009 were enrolled onto this study. Patients 
were divided into two age groups (<70 vs. > or =70 years) and were prospectively 
evaluated with respect to postoperative complications and hospital courses.
RESULTS: The cohort consisted of 101 elderly and 282 nonelderly patients. No 
statistically significant differences were evident between the two groups with 
respect to clinicopathological parameters and operations performed, except for 
preoperative comorbidity rates and mean American Society of Anesthesiologists 
scores. Surgical complication rates in the elderly and nonelderly groups were 
18.8 and 17.4%, respectively (P = 0.746), and medical complication rates were 
5.0 and 1.8%, respectively (P = 0.137). The two groups were not statistically 
significantly different in terms of mean length of hospital stays, times to diet 
start, or required transfusion. Multivariate analysis showed that body mass 
index, male sex, and distal pancreatectomy were independent risk factors of a 
surgical complication, and that comorbidity and operating time were 
independently associated with a medical complication.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that age neither increased postoperative morbidity 
nor negatively affected hospital courses after gastrectomy with D2 lymph node 
dissection. Accordingly, chronologic age alone should not preclude standard 
gastrectomy with extended lymph node dissection in gastric carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-010-0916-4
PMID: 20099039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Int Surg. 2009 Jan-Feb;94(1):88-94.

Vaginal paravaginal repair using porcine or human cadaveric dermal implant: a 
survival analysis.

Novi JM(1), Mulvihil BH, Arya L.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urogynecology and Reconstructive Pelvic Surgery, Riverside 
Methodist Hospital, Columbus, Ohio 43214, USA. jnovi@ohiohealth.com

Comment in
    Int Surg. 2010 Jan-Mar;95(1):94.

This study was designed to compare the objective failure rate after vaginal 
paravaginal repair for anterior vaginal wall prolapse using either porcine or 
human cadaveric dermal implants. A retrospective, repeated-measures cohort study 
compared 72 women who underwent repair using porcine tissue implants with 45 
women using cadaveric dermal implants. Anterior vaginal wall prolapse was staged 
preoperatively and every 6 months postoperatively. Objective failure was defined 
as recurrent anterior vaginal wall prolapse, stage II or greater. Life table 
analysis was performed. The median length of follow-up was 25 months in the 
cadaveric and 21 months in the porcine dermal group. The relative risk for 
objective failure for the porcine dermal group was 0.45 (95% confidence 
interval, 0.1-0.8) compared with the cadaveric dermal group. The rate of 
postoperative complications was similar in the two groups. The risk of 
recurrence of anterior vaginal prolapse is lower after surgical repair using 
porcine compared with cadaveric dermal implants.

PMID: 20099435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Heart Valve Dis. 2009 Sep;18(5):514-23.

Outcome of aortic valve replacement with bioprostheses in the elderly.

Suojaranta-Ylinen RT(1), Soisalon-Soininen S, Kaartinen M, Maasilta PK, Vainikka 
TL, Vento AE, Salminen US.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesia and Intensive Care Medicine, Helsinki University 
Hospital, Helsinki, Finland. raili.suojaranta-ylinen@hus.fi

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Today, the elderly population continues to 
increase worldwide, and rates of aortic stenosis (AS) climb with age. Since 
aortic valve replacement (AVR) is the current treatment for elderly patients 
with symptomatic AS, the number of patients undergoing AVR is expected to grow.
METHODS: Among patients operated on at Helsinki University Hospital between 1992 
and 1997, a cohort (n = 145) was followed after AVR with a bioprosthesis. The 
patients were allocated to three groups, based on their age at the time of 
surgery: > or = 80 years (n = 30), < 80 to > or = 70 years (n = 94), and < or = 
70 years (n = 21). All data relating to preoperative risk factors were 
collected. A control examination, which included echocardiography, was performed 
at least five years after surgery, and the follow up was continued until July 
2006. The number of deaths and causes of death, as well as valve-related 
complications, were noted.
RESULTS: The 30-day mortality rates were 3.3% in the oldest (> or = 80-year) 
group, 6.4% in the middle (< 80 to > or = 70-year) group, and zero in the 
youngest (< or = 70-year) group. The mean age at death was 88 and 81 years in 
the oldest and middle groups, respectively. In the oldest and youngest groups, 
there were no reoperations, but five valve-related reoperations were performed 
during follow up in the middle group. At the control visit, the left ventricular 
ejection fraction was > 60% in all groups. In the oldest and middle groups the 
aortic valve gradient was lower than the preoperative level, while the left 
ventricular diameters and wall dimensions were smaller (p < 0.05). Valve 
calcification was observed in one patient in the youngest group.
CONCLUSION: Elderly patients who had undergone AVR with a bioprosthesis had a 
good outcome after more than 10 years of follow up, with an improved cardiac 
function being preserved for at least seven years after surgery. Despite a 
severely impaired preoperative aortic valve function, octogenarians especially 
had a good life expectancy, possibly due to their low comorbidity rates. Hence, 
AVR with a bioprosthesis proved to be an excellent treatment in this patient 
group.

PMID: 20099692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Cultur Divers Ethnic Minor Psychol. 2010 Jan;16(1):87-93. doi:
10.1037/a0013455.

Ethnic identity and maladaptive eating: expectancies about eating and thinness 
in African American women.

Henrickson HC(1), Crowther JH, Harrington EF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology at Kent State, OH, USA. heathercarmela@hotmail.com

This research investigated cultural factors and expectancies about eating and 
thinness among 93 African American women. Participants completed the Multigroup 
Ethnic Identity Measure (MEIM), Eating Expectancy Inventory and Thinness and 
Restricting Expectancy Inventory (EEI, TREI), and Eating Attitudes Test (EAT). 
The MEIM assessed affective and developmental aspects of one's own cultural 
identity, along with attitudes toward other groups. Further, expectancies that 
eating manages negative affect and thinness leads to life improvement were 
examined using the EEI and TREI. As hypothesized, those with strong expectancies 
about eating and thinness showed a significant negative relationship between 
ethnic identity and maladaptive eating patterns, whereas those with strong 
expectancies regarding thinness showed a significant positive relationship 
between other group orientation and maladaptive eating patterns. The results 
suggest one's identification with their own culture versus another culture is 
important to developing maladaptive eating patterns, if they feel that eating 
and thinness play a role in their affect management and life improvement. These 
factors may help understand who is more vulnerable to the development of 
disordered eating patterns, and therefore direct treatment among African 
American women.

(c) 2009 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0013455
PMID: 20099968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):961-8. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.033.
Epub  2010 Jan 25.

Methuselah's medicine: pharmaceutical innovation and mortality in the United 
States, 1960-2000.

Schnittker J(1), Karandinos G.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6299, 
USA. jschnitt@soc.upenn.edu

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):972-3; discussion 974-5.
    Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):969-71; discussion 974-5.

Although there is a good deal of speculation surrounding the role of 
pharmaceutical innovation in late 20th century mortality improvements in the 
United States, there is little empirical evidence on the topic and there remains 
a good deal of doubt regarding whether pharmaceuticals matter at all for 
mortality. Using a reliable indicator of pharmaceutical innovation-yearly 
approvals of new molecular entities (NMEs) by the Food and Drug Administration, 
along with information on priority status and disease-category indication-this 
study examines the relationship between pharmaceutical innovation and life 
expectancy between 1960 and 2000. The study demonstrates a significant 
relationship between pharmaceutical innovation and life expectancy at birth, 
which is robust to controls for gross domestic product, as well as controls for 
various forms of medical spending. The relationship with life expectancy is 
robust, in part, because pharmaceutical innovation has a stronger relationship 
with early-life mortality (between 20 and 50) than with later-life mortality (65 
and over), even though older persons consume more pharmaceuticals and many 
recently approved drugs target conditions more common in later life. There is, 
to be sure, another side to the results. There is some evidence, for example, 
that the relationship between pharmaceutical innovation and mortality has 
declined over time, suggesting a change in the kind of innovations now entering 
the market. Nevertheless, there is more to contemporary pharmaceutical 
innovation than the development of mere "halfway" technologies. The overall 
relationship between innovation and mortality is sufficiently strong to warrant 
further consideration as a key determinant of trends in mortality.

(c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.033
PMID: 20100632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Cancer Treat Rev. 2010 Apr;36(2):91-100. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.06.006.
Epub  2010 Jan 25.

Management of prostate cancer recurrence after definitive radiation therapy.

Boukaram C(1), Hannoun-Levi JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Therapy, Maisonneuve-Rosemont Hospital, 5415 Bd. de 
l'Assomption, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. boukaram@hotmail.com

The management of prostate cancer (PC) recurrence after definitive radiation 
therapy (RT) is shifting and there is no consensus regarding the optimal 
strategy. The major challenge is determining the anatomical site of relapse. In 
case of biochemical relapse (BR), androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is a 
non-curative option commonly used, while patients with a local PC recurrence 
could be managed through a curative intent. Based on a Pubmed data search, this 
manuscript focused on the management of post-RT local PC recurrences. In case of 
BR (nadir+2 ng/ml), classical imaging work-up is not contributive for PSA levels 
<10 ng/ml while new imaging investigations (diffusion MRI, 11C-choline PET) are 
more sensitive to detect local and distant recurrences at lower PSA levels. 
Positive prostate biopsies are the only method for confirming local recurrence, 
although this technique presents limitations. Primary PC presentation as well as 
PSA-related features (interval to failure, PSA kinetic) and patient features 
(life expectancy, urinary, sexual status) are important to consider. Results of 
curative salvage options (radical prostatectomy, cryotherapy, brachytherapy and 
high-intensity focused ultrasound-HIFU) are analyzed and discussed. Each of 
these therapies appears feasible and has its own set of experience and toxicity 
profile. Other therapeutic options (photodynamic therapy, ADT, observation) are 
discussed. Longer follow-up and mature series are needed to evaluate the optimal 
strategy and prospective trials are warranted. Each clinical situation should be 
discussed in a multidisciplinary setting. Different options should be explained 
to the patient and decision should be taken after balancing treatment outcomes 
with life expectancy.

Copyright (c) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.06.006
PMID: 20100637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Ann Oncol. 2010 Jul;21(7):1455-1461. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdp535. Epub 2010
Jan  25.

Clinical and economic impact of infusion reactions in patients with colorectal 
cancer treated with cetuximab.

Foley KA(1), Wang PF(2), Barber BL(2), Long SR(3), Bagalman JE(3), Wagner V(2), 
Song X(4), Zhao Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Jefferson School of Population Health, Health Economics and Outcomes 
Research, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA.
(2)Global Health Economics, Amgen, Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA.
(3)Healthcare Division, Thomson Reuters, Cambridge, MA, USA.
(4)Healthcare Division, Thomson Reuters, Cambridge, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
xue.song@thomsonreuters.com.

Comment in
    Ann Oncol. 2010 Aug;21(8):1731-2; author reply 1732-3.

BACKGROUND: Systemic agents in cancer treatment were often associated with 
possible infusion reactions (IRs). This study estimated the incidence of IRs 
requiring medical intervention and assessed the clinical and economic impacts of 
IRs in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC) treated with cetuximab.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Details on patients with CRC receiving cetuximab in 
2004-2006 were extracted from a large USA administrative claims database. IRs 
were identified based on the occurrence of outpatient treatment, emergency room 
(ER) visit, and/or hospitalization for hypersensitivity and allergic reactions. 
Multivariate regressions were used to examine potential risk factors and 
quantify the economic impact of IRs.
RESULTS: A total of 1122 CRC patients receiving cetuximab were identified. The 
incidence of IRs requiring medical intervention was 8.4%. Sixty-eight percent of 
the patients had treatment disruptions and 34% discontinued cetuximab treatment. 
Mean adjusted costs were $13,863 for cetuximab administrations with an IR 
requiring ER visit or hospitalization and $6280 for those with an IR requiring 
outpatient treatment, compared with $4555 for those without an IR.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence rate of cetuximab-related IRs requiring medical 
intervention in clinical practice was found to be higher than rates reported in 
the product label and clinical trials. The clinical and economic impacts of 
these IRs are substantial.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdp535
PMCID: PMC2890318
PMID: 20100773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2010 Apr;49(4):767-77. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kep425.  Epub 2010 Jan 25.

Cost-utility of different treatment strategies after the failure of tumour 
necrosis factor inhibitor in rheumatoid arthritis in the Finnish setting.

Hallinen TA(1), Soini EJ, Eklund K, Puolakka K.

Author information:
(1)ESiOR Oy, Kuopio, Finland. taru.hallinen@esior.fi

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-utility of different treatment strategies in 
severe RA after TNF-inhibitor failure.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of treatment strategies was compared in a group 
of hypothetical Finnish RA patients. Initially, the patients received either 
best supportive care (BSC) or one of the following treatments before BSC: 
adalimumab (ADAL), abatacept (ABAT), etanercept (ETAN), infliximab (INFL) or 
rituximab (RTX). Further treatments were added to the most cost-effective 
strategy in a stepwise manner. The analysis was performed on an Excel-based 
Markov state transition model using the probabilistic approach. The clinical 
outcomes related to treatments were estimated from published clinical trials. 
The gained quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were estimated based on Health 
Utilities Index (HUI-3) and disease severity scores (HAQ). The resource use and 
costs were obtained from the Finnish treatment practice, one published study, 
the Finnish Unit Cost list and Finnish Medicine Tariffs.
RESULTS: Treatment with RTX was more effective and less costly than treatment 
with ADAL, ABAT or ETAN after TNF-inhibitor failure. An additional QALY gained 
with RTX costs 30,248 euros compared with BSC. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) are 50,941, 50,372, 36,121 and 67,003 euros 
per QALY gained for adding ADAL, ETAN, INFL and ABAT to the RTX strategy, 
respectively. According to the cost-effectiveness acceptability frontier (CEAF), 
only BSC or treatments with RTX or RTX followed by INFL should be considered 
after TNF-inhibitor failure, if willingness to pay is between 0 and 50,000 euros 
per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with RTX is a cost-effective treatment strategy in RA 
patients in Finland.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kep425
PMCID: PMC2838414
PMID: 20100793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Orthop Trauma. 2010 Feb;24(2):65-74. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181b01dce.

Is prophylactic fixation a cost-effective method to prevent a future 
contralateral fragility hip fracture?

Faucett SC(1), Genuario JW, Tosteson AN, Koval KJ.

Author information:
(1)Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, 
Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756, USA. Scott.faucett@hitchcock.org

Comment in
    J Orthop Trauma. 2010 Jun;24(6):e65; author reply e65.

OBJECTIVE: : A previous hip fracture more than doubles the risk of a 
contralateral hip fracture. Pharmacologic and environmental interventions to 
prevent hip fracture have documented poor compliance. The purpose of this study 
was to examine the cost-effectiveness of prophylactic fixation of the uninjured 
hip to prevent contralateral hip fracture.
METHODS: : A Markov state-transition model was used to evaluate the cost and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for unilateral fixation of hip fracture 
alone (including internal fixation or arthroplasty) compared with unilateral 
fixation and contralateral prophylactic hip fixation performed at the time of 
hip fracture or unilateral fixation and bilateral hip pad protection. 
Prophylactic fixation involved placement of a cephalomedullary nail in the 
uninjured hip and was initially assumed to have a relative risk of a 
contralateral fracture of 1%. Health states included good health, 
surgery-related complications requiring a second operation (infection, 
osteonecrosis, nonunion, and malunion), fracture of the uninjured hip, and 
death. The primary outcome measure was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
estimated as cost per QALY gained in 2006 US dollars with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios below $50,000 per QALY gained considered 
cost-effective. Sensitivity analyses evaluated the impact of patient age, annual 
mortality and complication rates, intervention effectiveness, utilities, and 
costs on the value of prophylactic fixation.
RESULTS: : In the baseline analysis, in a 79-year-old woman, prophylactic 
fixation was not found to be cost-effective (incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio = $142,795/QALY). However, prophylactic fixation was found to be a 
cost-effective method to prevent contralateral hip fracture in: 1) women 71 to 
75 years old who had 30% greater relative risk for a contralateral fracture; and 
2) women younger than age 70 years. Cost-effectiveness was greater when the 
additional costs of prophylaxis were less than $6000. However, for most 
analyses, the success of prophylactic fixation was highly sensitive to the 
effectiveness and the relative morbidity and mortality of the additional 
procedure.
CONCLUSION: : Prophylactic fixation with a cephalomedullary nail was not found 
to be cost-effective for the average older woman who sustained a hip fracture. 
However, it may be appropriate for select patient populations. The study 
supports the need for basic science and clinical trials investigating the 
effectiveness of prophylactic fixation for patient populations at higher 
lifetime risk for contralateral hip fracture.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e3181b01dce
PMID: 20101129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Lifetime Data Anal. 2010 Jul;16(3):385-408. doi: 10.1007/s10985-010-9152-2.
Epub  2010 Jan 26.

Goodness-of-fit tests for additive mean residual life model under right 
censoring.

Zhang Z(1), Zhao X, Sun L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer 
Center, New York, NY 10065, USA. zhangz@mskcc.org

The mean residual life (MRL) measures the remaining life expectancy and is 
useful in actuarial studies, biological experiments and clinical trials. To 
assess the covariate effect, an additive MRL regression model has been proposed 
in the literature. In this paper, we focus on the topic of model checking. 
Specifically, we develop two goodness-of-fit tests to test the additive MRL 
model assumption. We explore the large sample properties of the test statistics 
and show that both of them are based on asymptotic Gaussian processes so that 
resampling approaches can be applied to find the rejection regions. Simulation 
studies indicate that our methods work reasonably well for sample sizes ranging 
from 50 to 200. Two empirical data sets are analyzed to illustrate the 
approaches.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-010-9152-2
PMID: 20101457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Hepatology. 2010 Feb;51(2):720; author reply 720-1. doi: 10.1002/hep.23452.

From liver markers to life expectancy.

Wang CC, Kao JH.

Comment on
    Hepatology. 2009 Nov;50(5):1403-11.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.23452
PMID: 20101756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Adv Tech Stand Neurosurg. 2010;35:113-57. doi: 10.1007/978-3-211-99481-8_5.

Present day's standards in microsurgery of low-grade gliomas.

Bello L(1), Fava E, Carrabba G, Papagno C, Gaini SM.

Author information:
(1)Neurosurgery, Department of Neurological Sciences, Università degli Studi di 
Milano, Milano, Italy.

Low-grade gliomas are slow growing intrinsic lesions that induces a progressive 
functional reshaping of the brain. Surgical removal of these lesions requires 
the combined efforts of a multidiscipinary team of neurosurgeon, 
neuroradiologist, neuropsychologist, neurophysiologist, and neurooncologists 
that all together contribute in the definition of the location, extension, and 
extent of functional involvement that a specific lesion has induced in a 
particular patient. Each tumor has induced particular and specific changes of 
the functional network, that varies among patients. This requires that each 
treatment plan should be tailored to the tumor and to the patient. When this is 
reached, surgery should be accomplished according to functional and anatomical 
boundaries, and has to aim to the maximal resection with the maximal patient 
functional preservation. This can be reached at the time of the initial surgery, 
depending on the functional organization of the brain, or may require additional 
surgeries, eventually intermingled with adjuvant treatments. The use of so 
called brain mapping techniques extend surgical indications, improve extent of 
resection with greater oncological impact, minimization of morbidity and 
increase in quality of life. To achieve the goal of a satisfactory tumor 
resection associated with the full preservation of the patients abilities, a 
series of neuropsychological, neurophysiological, neuroradiological and 
intraoperative investigations have to be performed. In this chapter, we will 
describe the rationale, the indications and the modality for performing a safe 
and rewarding surgical removal of low-grade gliomas by using these techniques, 
as well as the functional and oncological results.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-211-99481-8_5
PMID: 20102113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Adv Tech Stand Neurosurg. 2010;35:213-35. doi: 10.1007/978-3-211-99481-8_8.

Health-related quality of life aspects in patients with low-grade glioma.

Klein M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

Standard therapeutic options for brain tumors include surgery, radiotherapy, and 
chemotherapy. Unfortunately, these same therapies pose risks of neurotoxicity, 
the most common long-term complications being radiation necrosis, 
chemotherapy-associated leukoencephalopathy, and cognitive deficits. Currently, 
there is no consensus on the treatment strategy for these tumors. Because of the 
relatively slow growth rate of low-grade gliomas, patients have a relatively 
long expected survival. Compared to traditional outcome measures like 
(progression-free) survival, evaluation of health-related quality of life may be 
time-consuming and burdensome for both the patient and the doctor. Besides, 
given the relatively low incidence of brain tumors and the ultimately fatal 
outcome of the disease, the interest in HRQOL emerged relatively late in these 
patients. Moreover, the notion that the disease itself may affect the patient's 
ability to judge his or her own functioning may hinder the use of patient 
self-reported measures. The studies presented in this chapter describe outcomes 
of both single dimensional and multidimensional methods of studying HRQOL. 
Although only few studies incorporated HRQOL as outcome measure, most studies 
have embraced the notion that an accurate assessment of HRQOL must be based on 
patient self-report. HRQOL instruments from other cancer groups are adapted for 
use with brain tumor patients. The multidimensional scales used to study changes 
in HRQOL studies in brain tumor patients provide a more comprehensive view of 
what is important to the patient concerning living with their disease and 
receiving treatment. In future trials, more sensitive measures of long-term 
cognitive, functional, and HRQOL outcomes on LGG patients at important time 
points over the disease trajectory are needed to better understand the changing 
needs that take place over time.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-211-99481-8_8
PMID: 20102116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Acta Med Hist Adriat. 2008;6(2):181-96.

