

733. Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):50-3. doi: 10.1080/15265160903581700.

The case of Samuel Golubchuk and the right to live.

Jotkowitz A(1), Glick S, Zivotofsky AZ.

Author information:
(1)Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. 
ajotkowitz@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):W6-7.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):54-6.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):56-7.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):58-9.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):59-61.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):61-3.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):64-5.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):65-6.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):67-8.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):69-70.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):71-3.
    Am J Bioeth. 2010 Mar;10(3):73-4.

Samuel Golubchuk was unwittingly at the center of a medical controversy with 
important ethical ramifications. Mr. Golubchuk, an 84-year-old patient whose 
precise neurological level of function was open to debate, was being 
artificially ventilated and fed by a gastrostomy tube prior to his death. 
According to all reports he was neither brain dead nor in a vegetative state. 
The physicians directly responsible for his care had requested that they be 
allowed to remove the patient from life support against the wishes of the 
patient's family. Concurrently the Manitoba College of Physicians and Surgeons 
released a statement which states that the final decision to withdraw life 
support lies with the physician. In our opinion the statement is ethically 
problematic for a number of reasons. 1. It is an affront to the guiding 
principles of Western medical ethics: patient autonomy and human freedom. 2. The 
position of Samuel Golubchuk's physicians and the new statement lack cultural 
sensitivity towards other traditions. 3. In modern society there exists an 
erosion of a basic attitude towards the value of life. 4. The ability of 
physicians to predict life expectancy in terminally ill patients has been shown 
repeatedly to be quite limited.

DOI: 10.1080/15265160903581700
PMID: 20229421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Gesundheitswesen. 2010 Apr;72(4):e16-21. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1249077. Epub
2010  Mar 12.

[From absolute necessity of dying to preventive planning of dying? The change of 
social and medicine debates on dying in the 1980s].

[Article in German]

Jordan I(1).

Author information:
(1)Abteilung Geschichte, Ethik und Philosophie der Medizin, Medizinische 
Hochschule Hannover. Jordan.Isabella@mh-hannover.de

International euthanasia debates focussing on "autonomous dying" in the 1980s 
corresponded with a general change in the health-care system: availability of 
new technical means with an analogous medical-ethic understanding of human 
suffering and dying. This change is part of a general development from "passive 
health consumption" to "active prevention" in our society.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart, New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1249077
PMID: 20229456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2010 Mar 3;102(5):358-9; author reply 359-60. doi: 
10.1093/jnci/djp519.

Response: Re: Cost-effectiveness analysis of human papillomavirus vaccination in 
the Netherlands.

Rozenbaum MH, Boersma C.

Comment on
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2009 Aug 5;101(15):1083-92.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djp519
PMID: 20229619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Nagoya J Med Sci. 2010 Feb;72(1-2):13-21.

Survival and ambulatory function after endoprosthetic replacement for metastatic 
bone tumor of the proximal femur.

Nakashima H(1), Katagiri H, Takahashi M, Sugiura H.

Author information:
(1)Department Orthopedic Surgery, Aichi Hospital, Aichi Cancer Center, 18 
Kuriyado, Kake-machi, Okazaki 444-0011, Japan. hnakasima@acc-aichi.com

The purpose of this study was to clarify the ambulatory functional and 
oncological outcomes of tumor excision and endoprosthetic reconstruction for a 
metastatic lesion of the proximal femur. Subjects comprised 40 patients (18 
women, 22 men; average age 63.4 years). The mean follow-up periods were 15.2 
months for patients dying of the disease, and 38.7 months for survivors. Seven 
patients were lost to follow-up for 1.9 to 13.1 months. Endoprosthesis was 
performed after intralesional aggressive curettage in 20 patients and following 
excision of the lesion with a clear margin, in another 20. Postoperative 
radiation therapy was carried out on 27 limbs (intralesional 13, marginal 6, 
wide 8). Chemotherapy was administered to 19 patients after discussion with the 
medical oncologist. The cumulative survival rates at 6 and 12 months were 60% 
and 35%, respectively, while the rates with ambulant status were 48% at 6 months 
and 34% at 12 months. An analgesic effect was achieved for all patients. 
Ambulatory function was restored in 34 patients with a mean ambulant period of 
17.8 months; however, the other 6 patients remained non-ambulatory. The ambulant 
period expressed as a percentage of survival time averaged 75.9%. Though there 
was local recurrence in 4 of 40 patients, ambulant function was not affected. 
Postoperative ambulatory function was inferior in patients with a short life 
expectancy; those with moderate or long life expectancy are good candidates for 
endoprosthetic replacement after tumor excision and can regain ambulant function 
for as long as nearly 80% of the survival period.

PMID: 20229699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Rev Med Suisse. 2010 Feb 17;6(236):347-52.

[Expansion of the sphere of crisis: the question of the intrusiveness of the 
disease].

[Article in French]

Dufour O(1), Hazeghi C, Vuagnat H, Schnider A, Andreoli A.

Author information:
(1)Département de psychiatrie, HUG, 1211 Genève 14. Olivier.Dufour@hcuge.ch

The passage to ambulatory care of a patient with a long hospital stay due to a 
wrenching disease is not something obvious. The doctor and the care staff will 
have to take up the challenge of dealing with an important amount of care. The 
quality of life of the patient and his caregivers is influenced by the 
neuropsychiatric disorders, the illness intrusiveness and the depression that 
come along with them. The chronic disease intruding causes a crisis in their 
lives. In order to better evaluate these factors we are using the Illness 
Intrusiveness Rating Scale developed by Devins. This article addresses the high 
complexity of clinical situations handled in an environment of rehabilitation 
care with the support of the consultants, nurses and doctors, of the liaison 
psychiatry.

PMID: 20229726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Afr J Med Med Sci. 2009 Jun;38 Suppl 2:49-53.

Leadership in Nigerian health system for cancer prevention and control.

Ogbimi RI(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Administration and Extension Services, Ekenwan Campus, 
University of Benin, Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria. ogbirose@yahoo.com

Unacceptable health system outcomes are often related to problems with 
leadership because the ultimate responsibility for assigned work rests on 
leadership. In this paper, proper leadership at micro and macro-levels can have 
positive impact on the health and well being of citizens. While this may be 
readily obvious in other spheres, it has not been addressed adequately in the 
context of health care systems and its impact on health outcomes. In this paper, 
I discuss types of work and leadership systems in order to highlight the 
importance of leadership and leadership training in collaborative training and 
research for cancer management. The complexity of health systems highlight the 
expanded role of leadership in terms of capacity and capability to control the 
environmental risk factors for cancer, deploy adequate resources for the 
management of cancers, and ensure fruitful and productive post treatment life 
for citizens. Improved community awareness, better training of health care 
workers, improved working environment based on better interpersonal 
relationships between all cadres of health care workers, environmental health 
and safety initiatives and research on cancer are some of the areas where 
improved leadership can lead to better health outcomes. Effective leadership 
requires a set of skills that can be acquired with requisite operating 
environment, political will and adequate funding in order to generate the 
expected improvements in outcome.

PMID: 20229738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Nihon Rinsho. 2010 Mar;68(3):512-9.

[Recent development of novel reverse transcriptase inhibitors and protease 
inhibitors against HIV-1 infection].

[Article in Japanese]

Koh Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Kumamoto University Graduate School of Medical and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences.

Currently available combinational therapies based on the use of reverse 
transcriptase inhibitors (RTIs), protease inhibitors (PIs) and other new class 
drugs such as CCR5 inhibitors and integrase inhibitors for HIV-1 infection and 
AIDS have been shown to suppress virus replication and extend the life 
expectancy of HIV-1-infected individuals. Despite this undeniable success, there 
are limitations associated with current treatment regimens including emergence 
of drug resistance, complicated dosing protocols, adverse side effects, and 
increasing cost. Consequently, the development of new RTIs and PIs, including 
new class drugs, remains essential to the future management of HIV/AIDS. In this 
paper, the current status of drug development of novel RTIs and PIs is briefly 
reviewed.

PMID: 20229800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Biochemistry. 2010 Apr 20;49(15):3261-72. doi: 10.1021/bi100144m.

Development of a proteolytically stable retro-inverso peptide inhibitor of 
beta-amyloid oligomerization as a potential novel treatment for Alzheimer's 
disease.

Taylor M(1), Moore S, Mayes J, Parkin E, Beeg M, Canovi M, Gobbi M, Mann DM, 
Allsop D.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomedical and Life Sciences, School of Health and Medicine, 
Lancaster University, Lancaster LA1 4YQ, UK.

The formation of beta-amyloid (Abeta) deposits in the brain is likely to be a 
seminal step in the development of Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies support 
the hypothesis that Abeta soluble oligomers are toxic to cells and have potent 
effects on memory and learning. Inhibiting the early stages of Abeta aggregation 
could, therefore, provide a novel approach to treating the underlying cause of 
AD. We have designed a retro-inverso peptide (RI-OR2, 
H(2)N-r<--G<--k<--l<--v<--f<--f<--G<--r-Ac), based on a previously described 
inhibitor of Abeta oligomer formation (OR2, H(2)N-R-G-K-L-V-F-F-G-R-NH(2)). 
Unlike OR2, RI-OR2 was highly stable to proteolysis and completely resisted 
breakdown in human plasma and brain extracts. RI-OR2 blocked the formation of 
Abeta oligomers and fibrils from extensively deseeded preparations of 
Abeta(1-40) and Abeta(1-42), as assessed by thioflavin T binding, an immunoassay 
method for Abeta oligomers, SDS-PAGE separation of stable oligomers, and atomic 
force microscopy, and was more effective against Abeta(1-42) than Abeta(1-40). 
In surface plasmon resonance experiments, RI-OR2 was shown to bind to 
immobilized Abeta(1-42) monomers and fibrils, with an apparent K(d) of 9-12 muM, 
and also acted as an inhibitor of Abeta(1-42) fibril extension. In two different 
cell toxicity assays, RI-OR2 significantly reversed the toxicity of Abeta(1-42) 
toward cultured SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Thus, RI-OR2 represents a strong 
candidate for further development as a novel treatment for Alzheimer's disease.

DOI: 10.1021/bi100144m
PMID: 20230062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Psychol Assess. 2010 Mar;22(1):108-20. doi: 10.1037/a0017662.

Assessing adult leisure activities: an extension of a self-report activity 
questionnaire.

Jopp DS(1), Hertzog C.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
jopp@fordham.edu

Everyday leisure activities in adulthood and old age have been investigated with 
respect to constructs such as successful aging, an engaged lifestyle, and 
prevention of age-related cognitive decline. They also relate to mental health 
and have clinical value, as they can inform diagnosis and interventions. In the 
present study, the authors enhanced the content validity of the Victoria 
Longitudinal Study activity questionnaire by adding items on physical and social 
activities and validated a shortened version of the questionnaire. The proposed 
leisure activity model included 11 activity categories: 3 types of social 
activities (i.e., activities with close social partners, group-centered public 
activity, religious activities), physical activities, developmental activities, 
experiential activities, crafts, game playing, TV watching, travel, and 
technology use. Confirmatory factor analyses validated the proposed factor 
structure in 2 independent samples. A higher order model with a general activity 
factor fitted the activity factor correlations with relatively little loss of 
fit. Convergent and discriminant validity for the activity scales were supported 
by patterns of their correlations with education, health, depression, cognition, 
and personality. In sum, the scores derived from of the augmented Victoria 
Longitudinal Study activity questionnaire demonstrate good reliability, and 
validity evidence supports their use as measures of leisure activities in young, 
middle-aged, and older individuals.

PsycINFO Database Record (c) 2010 APA, all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1037/a0017662
PMCID: PMC2841313
PMID: 20230157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2010 Aug;33(8):981-7. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8159.2010.02729.x. Epub 2010 Mar 8.

Predictors of early mortality in patients age 80 and older receiving implantable 
defibrillators.

Ertel D(1), Phatak K, Makati K, Holland M, Baig S, Kim MH, Link M, Passman R.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Department of Medicine, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA.

BACKGROUND: There are no upper age restrictions for implantable defibrillators 
(ICDs) but their benefit may be limited in patients > or = 80 years with strong 
competing risks of early mortality. Risk factors for early (1-year) mortality in 
ICD recipients > or = 80 years of age have not been established.
METHODS: Two-center retrospective cohort study to assess predictors of one-year 
mortality in ICD recipients > or = 80 years of age.
RESULTS: Of 2,967 ICDs implanted in the two centers from 1990-2006, 225 (7.6%) 
patients were > or =80 years of age and followed-up at one of the two centers. 
Mean age was 83.3 +/- 3.1 years and follow-up time 3.3 +/- 2.6 years. Median 
survival was 3.6 years (95% confidence interval 2.3-4.9). Multivariate 
predictors of 1-year mortality included ejection fraction (EF) < or = 20% and 
the absence of beta-blocker use. Actuarial 1-year mortality of ICD recipients > 
or = 80 with an EF < or = 20% was 38.2% versus 13.1% in patients 80+ years with 
an EF > 20% and 10.6% for patients < 80 years with an EF < or = 20% (P < 0.001 
for both). There was no significant difference in the risk of appropriate ICD 
therapy between those patients 80+ years with EF above and below 20%.
CONCLUSION: In general, patients > or = 80 years of age who meet current 
indications for ICD implantation live sufficiently long to warrant device 
implantation based on anticipated survival alone. However, those with an EF < or 
= 20% have a markedly elevated 1-year mortality with no observed increase in 
appropriate ICD therapy, thus reducing the benefit of device implantation in 
this population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8159.2010.02729.x
PMID: 20230459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):624-30. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00701.x.
Epub  2010 Mar 10.

A Portuguese value set for the SF-6D.

Ferreira LN(1), Ferreira PL, Pereira LN, Brazier J, Rowen D.

Author information:
(1)School of Management, Hospitality and Tourism, University of the Algarve, 
Faro, Portugal. Lnferrei@ualg.pt

Erratum in
    Value Health. 2015 Dec;18(8):1162.

OBJECTIVES: The SF-6D is a preference-based measure of health derived from the 
SF-36 that can be used for cost-effectiveness analysis using cost-per-quality 
adjusted life-year analysis. This study seeks to estimate a system weight for 
the SF-6D for Portugal and to compare the results with the UK system weights.
METHODS: A sample of 55 health states defined by the SF-6D has been valued by a 
representative random sample of the Portuguese population, stratified by sex and 
age (n = 140), using the Standard Gamble (SG). Several models are estimated at 
both the individual and aggregate levels for predicting health-state valuations. 
Models with main effects, with interaction effects and with the constant forced 
to unity are presented. Random effects (RE) models are estimated using 
generalized least squares (GLS) regressions. Generalized estimation equations 
(GEE) are used to estimate RE models with the constant forced to unity. 
Estimations at the individual level were performed using 630 health-state 
valuations. Alternative functional forms are considered to account for the 
skewed distribution of health-state valuations.
RESULTS: The models are analyzed in terms of their coefficients, overall fit, 
and the ability for predicting the SG-values. The RE models estimated using GLS 
and through GEE produce significant coefficients, which are robust across model 
specification. However, there are concerns regarding some inconsistent 
estimates, and so parsimonious consistent models were estimated. There is 
evidence of under prediction in some states assigned to poor health. The results 
are consistent with the UK results.
CONCLUSION: The models estimated provide preference-based quality of life 
weights for the Portuguese population when health status data have been 
collected using the SF-36. Although the sample was randomly drowned findings 
should be treated with caution, given the small sample size, even knowing that 
they have been estimated at the individual level.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00701.x
PMID: 20230545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Value Health. 2010 Aug;13(5):509-18. doi: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00700.x.
Epub  2010 Mar 10.

Populating an economic model with health state utility values: moving toward 
better practice.

Ara R(1), Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)University of Shefield, Shefield, UK. r.m.ara@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The methods used to estimate health-state utility values (HSUV) for 
multiple health conditions can produce very different values. Economic results 
generated using baselines of perfect health are not comparable with those 
generated using baselines adjusted to reflect the HSUVs associated with the 
health condition. Despite this, there is no guidance on the preferred techniques 
and little research describing the effect on cost per quality adjusted life-year 
(QALY) results when using the different methods.
METHODS: Using a cardiovascular disease (CVD) model and cost per QALY 
thresholds, we assess the consequence of using different baseline health-state 
utility profiles (perfect health, no history of CVD, general population) in 
conjunction with models (minimum, additive, multiplicative) frequently used to 
approximate scores for health states with multiple health conditions. HSUVs are 
calculated using the EQ-5D UK preference-based algorithm.
RESULTS: Assuming a baseline of perfect health ignores the natural decline in 
quality of life associated with age, overestimating the benefits of treatment. 
The results generated using baselines from the general population are comparable 
to those obtained using baselines from individuals with no history of CVD. The 
minimum model biases results in favor of younger-aged cohorts. The additive and 
multiplicative models give similar results.
CONCLUSION: Although further research in additional health conditions is 
required to support our findings, our results highlight the need for analysts to 
conform to an agreed reference case. We demonstrate that in CVD, if data are not 
available from individuals without the health condition, HSUVs from the general 
population provide a reasonable approximation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00700.x
PMID: 20230546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Value Health. 2010 Jun-Jul;13(4):487-94. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00695.x.  Epub 2010 Mar 10.

Analysis of health utility data when some subjects attain the upper bound of 1: 
are Tobit and CLAD models appropriate?

Pullenayegum EM(1), Tarride JE, Xie F, Goeree R, Gerstein HC, O'Reilly D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada. pullena@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Health utility data often show an apparent truncation effect, where 
a proportion of individuals achieve the upper bound of 1. The Tobit model and 
censored least absolute deviations (CLAD) have both been used as analytic 
solutions to this apparent truncation effect. These models assume that the 
observed utilities are censored at 1, and hence that the true utility can be 
greater than 1.We aimed to examine whether the Tobit and CLAD models yielded 
acceptable results when this censoring assumption was not appropriate.
METHODS: Using health utility (captured through EQ5D) data from a diabetes 
study, we conducted a simulation to compare the performance of the Tobit, CLAD, 
ordinary least squares (OLS), two-part and latent class estimators in terms of 
their bias and estimated confidence intervals. We also illustrate the 
performance of semiparametric and nonparametric bootstrap methods.
RESULTS: When the true utility was conceptually bounded above at 1, the Tobit 
and CLAD estimators were both biased. The OLS estimator was asymptotically 
unbiased and, while the model-based and semiparametric bootstrap confidence 
intervals were too narrow, confidence intervals based on the robust standard 
errors or the nonparametric bootstrap were acceptable for sample sizes of 100 
and larger. Two-part and latent class models also yielded unbiased estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: When the intention of the analysis is to inform an economic 
evaluation, and the utilities should be bounded above at 1, CLAD, and Tobit 
methods were biased. OLS coupled with robust standard errors or the 
nonparametric bootstrap is recommended as a simple and valid approach.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2010.00695.x
PMID: 20230549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Adv Pharmacol. 2009;57:419-64. doi: 10.1016/S1054-3589(08)57011-6. Epub 2009
Nov  27.

New developments in the therapy of pulmonary fibrosis.

Scriabine A, Rabin DU.

Fibrosis is a normal response to injury. When it becomes excessive, however, it 
can interfere with the normal function of various organs. In the lungs fibrosis 
can lead to interstitial pneumonias. Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a 
chronic interstitial pneumonia of unknown cause and poor prognosis. It is 
characterized by clinical, radiologic, and histologic criteria. The frequently 
used therapy of steroids (e.g. prednisolone) and immunosuppressants (e.g. 
azathioprine) has not been shown to be effective. No drugs for the therapy of 
IPF are approved in the United States. Bosentan, pirfenidone, and N-acetyl 
cysteine are currently in clinical trials with preliminary results suggesting 
they may prolong the life expectancy of patients with IPF. New approaches to the 
treatment of IPF have been proposed. They include endothelial and cytokine 
antagonists, and antioxidants. Preclinical and clinical studies with these drugs 
in IPF are reviewed in this chapter. Their antifibrotic activity has been 
demonstrated in cell culture as well as in vivo in bleomycin-induced fibrosis in 
mice or rats. Better translation of preclinical findings to clinical medicine 
will help in the discovery and development of new drugs for the treatment of 
IPF.

2009 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1054-3589(08)57011-6
PMID: 20230768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Anal Biochem. 2010 Jul 1;402(1):47-53. doi: 10.1016/j.ab.2010.03.015. Epub
2010  Mar 15.

Study on an amperometric immunosensor based on Nafion-cysteine composite 
membrane for detection of carcinoembryonic antigen.

Liao Y(1), Yuan R, Chai Y, Zhuo Y, Yang X.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory on Luminescence and Real-Time Analysis, Ministry of Education, 
College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Southwest University, Chongqing 
400715, People's Republic of China.

In this work, protonated L-cysteine was entrapped in Nafion (Nf) membrane by 
cation exchange function, forming Nf-Cys (cysteine) composite membrane, which 
was more stable, compact, biocompatible, and favorable for mass and electron 
transfer compared with Nf film solely. Then gold (Au) nanoparticles were 
adsorbed onto the electrode surface by thiol groups on the composite membrane. 
After that, nano-Au monolayer was formed, onto which carcinoembryonic antibody 
was loaded to prepare carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) immunosensor. The results 
indicated that the immunosensor had good current response for CEA using 
potassium ferricyanide as the redox probe. A linear concentration range of 0.01 
to 100 ng/ml with a detection limit of 3.3 pg/ml (signal/noise=3) was observed. 
Moreover, the morphology of the modified Au substrates was investigated with 
atomic force microscopy, and the electrochemical properties and performance of 
modified electrodes were investigated by cyclic voltammograms and 
electrochemical impedance spectroscopy. The results exhibited that the 
immunosensor has advantages of simple preparation, high sensitivity, good 
stability, and long life expectancy. Thus, the method can be used for CEA 
analysis.

2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ab.2010.03.015
PMID: 20230773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. J Rheumatol. 2010 Jun;37(6):1203-10. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.091042. Epub 2010
Mar  15.

A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of low dose infliximab in ankylosing 
spondylitis.

Inman RD(1), Maksymowych WP; CANDLE Study Group.

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, Toronto Western Hospital, 1E-423, 399 Bathurst Street, 
Toronto, Ontario M5T 2S8, Canada. robert.inman@uhn.on.ca

Comment in
    J Rheumatol. 2010 Jun;37(6):1089-90.

OBJECTIVE: The tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) inhibitor infliximab 
(IFX) has been proven effective for the treatment of ankylosing spondylitis 
(AS). The primary objective of this double-blind, placebo-controlled study was 
to assess the safety and efficacy of low-dose (3 mg/kg q8w) IFX therapy in AS.
METHODS: In the 12-week double-blind phase of the study, patients (N = 76) were 
randomized to infusions of placebo or IFX (3 mg/kg) at Weeks 0, 2, and 6. The 
primary endpoint was 20% improvement in ASsessments in Ankylosing Spondylitis 
criteria (ASAS20) at 12 weeks. In the open-label extension phase, all patients 
received scheduled IFX infusions (q 8 weeks) up to 46 weeks. Patients who did 
not meet target response criteria (i.e., BASDAI score did not improve by at 
least 50% and was > 3) at Weeks 22 or 38 had a dose increase to IFX 5 mg/kg.
RESULTS: At 12 weeks, 53.8% of IFX-treated patients achieved ASAS20, compared 
with 30.6% of placebo-treated patients (p = 0.042). IFX-treated patients showed 
significant improvement in measures of disease activity, spinal mobility, and 
quality of life over the course of the study. During the extension phase, 68% of 
patients in the IFX group did not meet the clinical target and had an increase 
in the dose of IFX to 5 mg/kg by 38 weeks. In general, IFX was safe and well 
tolerated. Ten patients withdrew from the study for various reasons, with only 2 
(2.6%) attributed to adverse events.
CONCLUSION: IFX 3 mg/kg was effective in reducing the signs and symptoms of 
active AS, and was generally safe and well tolerated. Dose escalation to 5 mg/kg 
every 8 weeks was warranted in most patients to achieve the target clinical 
response of the study.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.091042
PMID: 20231198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. J Cell Biol. 2010 Mar 22;188(6):891-903. doi: 10.1083/jcb.200907174. Epub
2010  Mar 15.

Focal adhesions are sites of integrin extension.

Askari JA(1), Tynan CJ, Webb SE, Martin-Fernandez ML, Ballestrem C, Humphries 
MJ.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell-Matrix Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, England, UK.

Integrins undergo global conformational changes that specify their activation 
state. Current models portray the inactive receptor in a bent conformation that 
upon activation converts to a fully extended form in which the integrin subunit 
leg regions are separated to enable ligand binding and subsequent signaling. To 
test the applicability of this model in adherent cells, we used a fluorescent 
resonance energy transfer (FRET)-based approach, in combination with engineered 
integrin mutants and monoclonal antibody reporters, to image integrin 
alpha5beta1 conformation. We find that restricting leg separation causes the 
integrin to adopt a bent conformation that is unable to respond to agonists and 
mediate cell spreading. By measuring FRET between labeled alpha5beta1 and the 
cell membrane, we find extended receptors are enriched in focal adhesions 
compared with adjacent regions of the plasma membrane. These results demonstrate 
definitely that major quaternary rearrangements of beta1-integrin subunits occur 
in adherent cells and that conversion from a bent to extended form takes place 
at focal adhesions.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.200907174
PMCID: PMC2845069
PMID: 20231384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Mar 16;152(6):380-90. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-152-6-201003160-00008.

Meta-analysis: excess mortality after hip fracture among older women and men.

Haentjens P(1), Magaziner J, Colón-Emeric CS, Vanderschueren D, Milisen K, 
Velkeniers B, Boonen S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Outcomes Research and Laboratory for Experimental Surgery, 
Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel, Jette, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Elsene, 
Belgium. patrick.haentjens@uzbrussel.be

BACKGROUND: Although an increased risk for death after hip fracture is well 
established, whether this excess mortality persists over time is unclear.
PURPOSE: To determine the magnitude and duration of excess mortality after hip 
fracture in older men and women.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic search of MEDLINE and EMBASE for English and 
non-English articles from 1957 to May 2009 and manual search of article 
references.
STUDY SELECTION: Prospective cohort studies were selected by 2 independent 
reviewers. The studies had to assess mortality in women (22 cohorts) or men (17 
cohorts) aged 50 years or older with hip fracture, carry out a life-table 
analysis, and display the survival curves of the hip fracture group and age- and 
sex-matched control groups.
DATA EXTRACTION: Survival curve data and items relevant to study validity and 
generalizability were independently extracted by 2 reviewers.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Time-to-event meta-analyses showed that the relative hazard for 
all-cause mortality in the first 3 months after hip fracture was 5.75 (95% CI, 
4.94 to 6.67) in women and 7.95 (CI, 6.13 to 10.30) in men. Relative hazards 
decreased substantially over time but did not return to rates seen in age- and 
sex-matched control groups. Through use of life-table methods, investigators 
estimated that white women having a hip fracture at age 80 years have excess 
annual mortality compared with white women of the same age without a fracture of 
8%, 11%, 18%, and 22% at 1, 2, 5, and 10 years after injury, respectively. Men 
with a hip fracture at age 80 years have excess annual mortality of 18%, 22%, 
26%, and 20% at 1, 2, 5, and 10 years after injury, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Cohort studies varied, sometimes markedly, in size, duration of 
observation, selection of control populations, ascertainment of death, and 
adjustment for comorbid conditions. Only published data that displayed findings 
with survival curves were examined. Publication bias was possible.
CONCLUSION: Older adults have a 5- to 8-fold increased risk for all-cause 
mortality during the first 3 months after hip fracture. Excess annual mortality 
persists over time for both women and men, but at any given age, excess annual 
mortality after hip fracture is higher in men than in women.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Fund for Scientific Research and Willy Gepts Foundation, 
Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-152-6-201003160-00008
PMCID: PMC3010729
PMID: 20231569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest: Disclosures can 
be viewed at 
www.acponline.org/authors/icmje/ConflictOfInterestForms.do?msNum=M09-0450.


751. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2010 Sep;468(9):2301-12. doi:
10.1007/s11999-010-1301-0.

Do the potential benefits of metal-on-metal hip resurfacing justify the 
increased cost and risk of complications?

Bozic KJ(1), Pui CM, Ludeman MJ, Vail TP, Silverstein MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
500 Parnassus, MU 320W, San Francisco, CA 94143-0728, USA. evin.bozic@ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: Metal-on-metal hip resurfacing arthroplasty (MoM HRA) may offer 
potential advantages over total hip arthroplasty (THA) for certain patients with 
advanced osteoarthritis of the hip. However, the cost effectiveness of MoM HRA 
compared with THA is unclear.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: The purpose of this study was to compare the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of MoM HRA to THA.
METHODS: A Markov decision model was constructed to compare the quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and costs associated with HRA versus THA from the healthcare 
system perspective over a 30-year time horizon. We performed sensitivity 
analyses to evaluate the impact of patient characteristics, clinical outcome 
probabilities, quality of life and costs on the discounted incremental costs, 
incremental clinical effectiveness, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of HRA compared to THA.
RESULTS: MoM HRA was associated with modest improvements in QALYs at a small 
incremental cost, and had an ICER less than $50,000 per QALY gained for men 
younger than 65 and for women younger than 55. MoM HRA and THA failure rates, 
device costs, and the difference in quality of life after conversion from HRA to 
THA compared to primary THA had the largest impact on costs and quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: MoM HRA could be clinically advantageous and cost-effective in 
younger men and women. Further research on the comparative effectiveness of MoM 
HRA versus THA should include assessments of the quality of life and resource 
use in addition to the clinical outcomes associated with both procedures.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level I, economic and decision analysis. See Guidelines for 
Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-010-1301-0
PMCID: PMC2914258
PMID: 20232182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Health Econ. 2011 Apr;20(4):379-400. doi: 10.1002/hec.1597.

Exploring the influence of proximity to death on disease-specific hospital 
expenditures: a carpaccio of red herrings.

Wong A(1), van Baal PH, Boshuizen HC, Polder JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Mathematical Modeling, Expertise Centre for 
Methodology and Information Services, National Institute for Public Health and 
the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands. albert.wong@rivm.nl

It has been demonstrated repeatedly that time to death is a much better 
predictor of health care expenditures than age. This is known as the 'red 
herring' hypothesis. In this article, we investigate whether this is also the 
case regarding disease-specific hospital expenditures. Longitudinal data samples 
from the Dutch hospital register (n=11 253 455) were used to estimate 94 
disease-specific two-part models. Based on these models, Monte Carlo simulations 
were used to assess the predictive value of proximity to death and age on 
disease-specific expenditures. Results revealed that there was a clear effect of 
proximity of death on health care expenditures. This effect was present for most 
diseases and was strongest for most cancers. However, even for some less fatal 
diseases, proximity to death was found to be an important predictor of 
expenditures. Controlling for proximity to death, age was found to be a 
significant predictor of expenditures for most diseases. However, its impact is 
modest when compared to proximity to death. Considering the large variation in 
the degree to which proximity to death and age matter for each specific disease, 
we may speak not only of age as a 'red herring' but also of a 'carpaccio of red 
herrings'.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1597
PMID: 20232289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Am J Hematol. 2010 May;85(5):367-70. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21670.

Pain as an emergent issue in thalassemia.

Trachtenberg F, Foote D, Martin M, Carson S, Coates T, Beams O, Vega O, 
Merelles-Pulcini M, Giardina PJ, Kleinert DA, Kwiatkowski J, Thompson AA, 
Neufeld EJ, Schilling L, Thayalasuthan V, Pakbaz Z, Yamashita R; Thalassemia 
Clinical Research Network.

Collaborators: Neufeld E, Braunstein J, Smith A, Lashley L, Quinn C, Boger D, 
Adix L, Richardson S, Boudreaux J, Hassen L, Mueller B, Dino B, Giardina P, 
Evans E, Weinblatt M, Skelly L, Kwiatkowski J, Martin M, Beams O, Thompson A, 
Beatty J, Drinkwater T, Vichinsky E, Foote D, Sweeters N, Vega O, Coates T, 
Carson S, Pang EH, Khanna R, Jeng M, Bakshi K, Wu J, McCartney H, Fitzgerald C, 
Badour S, Olivieri NF, Thayalasuthan V, Odame I, Merelles-Pulcini M, Porter J, 
Bhagwandin C, Shah F, Hassel K, McKinlay S, Virzi L, Trachtenberg F.

Thalassemia is a congenital blood disorder often requiring chronic blood 
transfusions and iron chelation therapy [1,2]. While advances in treatment have 
resulted in increased life expectancy [3], extended life spans have exposed 
previously unidentified issues, including bodily pain. The aim of this study was 
to examine the prevalence, severity, predictors, and effects of pain in 265 
adults/adolescents and 103 children with thalassemia. Overall, 69% of 
adults/adolescents reported bodily pain on the SF-36v2 health survey, with 28% 
reporting at least moderate pain. Parents reported pain in 56% of children using 
the PF-28 child health questionnaire, with only 11% reporting pain fairly often. 
There were no significant differences in pain in children with thalassemia 
compared with the general population. In adults/adolescents, pain increased 
significantly with age (P = 0.005), more so than in the general population. This 
study highlights the fact that children and young adults with thalassemia 
experience pain comparable to the general population, whereas older adults (aged 
35+) experience greater pain. Our findings show that increased pain is 
associated with decreased quality of life and increased anxiety and depression.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21670
PMCID: PMC5753761
PMID: 20232403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Nothing to report.


754. Verh K Acad Geneeskd Belg. 2009;71(6):335-71.

Cardiovascular characteristics in Marfan syndrome and their relation to the 
genotype.

De Backer J(1).

Author information:
(1)Dienst Cardiologie, Centrum voor Medische Genetica Vakgroep Pediatrie en 
Genetica, Fac. Geneeskunde en Gezondheidswetenschappen, UGent De Pintelaan 185, 
B 9000 Gent.

Marfan syndrome (MFS) is a systemic disorder of connective tissue with autosomal 
dominant inheritance. The diagnosis of MFS is based on the identification of a 
combination of clinical manifestations in the ocular, musculoskeletal, and 
cardiovascular organ systems defined in the Ghent Nosology (De Paepe et al, 
1996). Confirmation of the diagnosis in an individual requires the presence of 
major clinical manifestations in at least two organ systems associated with 
involvement of a third organ system. In relatives of an affected proband, major 
involvement of one organ system and involvement of a second organ system 
confirms the diagnosis. Major clinical criteria are very specific for MFS and 
include a combination of (4 out of 8) skeletal manifestations, ectopia lentis, 
dural ectasia and dilatation or dissection of the ascending aorta. The 
prevalence of- and the guidelines for the assessment of each of these major 
criteria are well established. Minor clinical criteria are less typical, but 
their importance in the diagnostic process should not be underestimated. 
Unfortunately, figures on the prevalence as well as practical guidelines for the 
assessment of most minor criteria are lacking, especially for those involving 
the cardiovascular system. The major cardiovascular manifestation in MFS is a 
progressive dilatation of the ascending aorta, leading to aortic aneurysm 
formation and eventually to fatal aortic rupture or dissection. Aortic 
dissection in early adult life is the leading cause of death in MFS. Early 
diagnosis of individuals at risk of the disease is extremely important as timely 
treatment of cardiovascular complications has greatly improved life expectancy 
in MFS. Despite progress in medical and surgical treatment of aortic aneurysms, 
MFS continues to be associated with significant morbidity and mortality. This 
may be related to inadequate diagnosis or treatment, but also to the occurrence 
of cardiovascular problems in ageing MFS patients that were unrecognised until 
now, such as left ventricular (LV) dysfunction.This thesis is focused on the 
study of cardiovascular manifestations of MFS which localize beyond the aortic 
root and on the presently unknown relationship between the severity of the 
cardiovascular phenotype and the genotype. In the first part, we have studied 
the prevalence and diagnostic value of the following cardiovascular 
manifestations of MFS: mitral valve prolapse (MVP) and calcification of the 
mitral valve annulus, dilatation of the main pulmonary artery (MPA) and 
dilatation or dissection of the descending aorta. We found a significantly 
higher prevalence of MVP in MFS patients compared to normal controls, indicating 
that this feature is useful in the diagnostic evaluation of the condition. In 
contrast, calcification of the mitral valve annulus appears to be very uncommon, 
difficult to quantify and therefore not useful in the diagnosis of MFS. We also 
studied the dimension of the MPA in a series of MFS patients and defined a 
cut-of value that can be used in the diagnostic evaluation of adult MFS 
patients. In addition, we showed that diameters of the aorta measured at 
different levels beyond the aortic root are increased in MFS patients compared 
to controls. Unfortunately, there was too much overlap with the values obtained 
in the normal control population to provide cut-off values for the descending 
aorta. Based on these findings, we developed practical guidelines for the 
cardiovascular evaluation of patients referred for MFS. In the second part, we 
studied LV function in MFS patients free of valvular heart disease using a 
combination of echocardiography (both conventional echocardiography and tissue 
Doppler imaging) and Magnetic Resonance Imaging. We could demonstrate that MFS 
patients present a combination of systolic and diastolic dysfunction that is not 
related to valvular heart disease. This may be attributed to a primary 
contractile dysfunction of the myocardium and is likely related to the 
underlying alterations in the elastic features of the myocardium, resulting from 
the microfibrillar defect. This observation is important in the development of 
new therapeutic strategies for MFS. Affected individuals may benefit from a 
treatment with agents that support myocardial function such as angiotensin 
converting enzyme--inhibitors or angiotensin II type-1 receptor blockers. 
Furthermore, since MFS patients survive longer thanks to improved medical and 
surgical treatments, LV dysfunction may become an important issue in the 
follow-up of these patients. In the third part, we have studied aspects of local 
and global wave reflection in the aorta of MFS patients. Early return of 
reflected waves boosts systolic pressure and presents an extra load for the 
heart and the central vessels. As such, these wave reflections are regarded as 
one of the important determinants of central blood pressure and can contribute 
to the development of aortic dilatation in MFS. However, we were unable to 
demonstrate clear differences in both local and global parameters of wave 
reflection between MFS patients and normal controls. This could be explained by 
the fact that increased length of the aorta on the one hand and increased aortic 
stiffness on the other hand counterbalance each other in MFS patients without 
yielding any net effect on wave reflection. In the last part of this thesis, we 
investigated the correlation between the severity of the cardiovascular 
phenotype in MFS and the type of FBN1 mutation. First, we investigated the 
correlation between parameters of aortic stiffness (distensibility and pulse 
wave velocity measured by Magnetic Resonance Imaging) and the type of FBN1 
mutation (missense or in-frame deletions/insertions versus nonsense or 
out-of-frame deletions/insertions). We could not demonstrate any significant 
differences between these different mutation types, indicating that the FBN1 
genotype is not the sole determinant of aortic stiffness. Second, we provided a 
detailed description of clinical findings in three unrelated MFS families in 
which an FBN1 mutation was identified and which demonstrate striking 
intrafamilial phenotypic variability as another illustration of the absence of 
genotype/phenotype correlations in MFS. This study also illustrated several 
important issues in MFS. First, repeated clinical examination of suspected 
patients can be necessary in order to establish a correct and final diagnosis. 
Second, extensive family history taking and clinical examination of first degree 
relatives can be highly contributory to the diagnosis. Third, patients with an 
'atypical' MFS phenotype may show substantial clinical overlap with other 
connective tissue disorders such as Weill-Marchesani syndrome or Ehlers-Danlos 
syndrome and represent a diagnostic challenge. We demonstrated that additional 
mutational analysis of the FBN1 gene can be a valuable aid to the diagnosis and 
help to outline medical management options in these challenging cases. In 
conclusion, we have refined diagnostic guidelines for the assessment of minor 
cardiovascular manifestations in MFS, shown that LV dysfunction is part of the 
cardiovascular spectrum and should be followed in the management of MFS 
patients, and demonstrated that aortic wave reflection is not elevated in MFS. 
In this work, we also investigated genotype/phenotype correlations, illustrated 
the marked (intrafamilial) variability in phenotypic expression of the 
condition, and the value of molecular testing in the diagnosis of MFS. Overall, 
this thesis nicely illustrates that close interaction and collaboration between 
cardiology and genetics is an added value to the study of disease pathogenesis 
of MFS and aortic aneurysms in general.

PMID: 20232788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. BMC Public Health. 2010 Mar 16;10:135. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-135.

Socio-economic differences in life expectancy among persons with diabetes 
mellitus or myocardial infarction: results from the German MONICA/KORA study.

Perna L(1), Thien-Seitz U, Ladwig KH, Meisinger C, Mielck A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum 
München, German Research Centre for Environmental Health, Neuherberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Differences in life expectancy (LE) between social groups in a 
specific country are a fundamental measure of health inequalities within that 
country. Constant monitoring of these differences provides important information 
on the population's general health. The purpose of the present study is to 
explore and quantify the socio-economic differences in LE in Germany, focussing 
on a topic rarely assessed in other studies, the dependency of these LE 
differences on the presence of myocardial infarction or diabetes mellitus.
METHODS: The dataset consists of 13,427 participants (6,725 men, 6,702 women) 
aged 25-74 years, recruited in the region of Augsburg in Germany through three 
independent cross-sectional representative surveys conducted in 1984/85, 
1989/90, 1994/95, with a mortality follow up in 1998 and 2002. We use a 
parametric model for the survival function based on the Weibull distribution, in 
which the hazard function is described in terms of two parameters. We estimate 
these parameters with a maximum likelihood method that takes into account 
censoring and data truncation.
RESULTS: The difference in LE between the lowest and the highest socio-economic 
group is estimated to be 3.79 years for men and 4.10 years for women. Diabetes 
mellitus reduces LE of men from the upper three income quartiles by 4.88 years, 
and LE of men belonging to the lowest income quartile by 7.97 years. For women, 
the corresponding figures are 5.79 and 5.72 years. Myocardial infarction reduces 
LE of men and women from the upper three income quartiles by 3.65 and 3.75 
years, respectively, and LE of men and women belonging to the lowest income 
quartile by 5.11 and 10.95 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that in Germany the differences in LE by 
socio-economic status are comparable to those found in other European countries, 
and that these differences seem to increase when diabetes mellitus or myocardial 
infarction is present. The statistical method used allows estimates of LE with 
relatively small datasets.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-135
PMCID: PMC2858114
PMID: 20233394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Hered Cancer Clin Pract. 2004 Nov 15;2(4):185-91. doi: 
10.1186/1897-4287-2-4-185.

Contribution of the Defective BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 Genes to the Familial 
Aggregation of Breast Cancer: a Simulation Study Based on the Swedish 
Family-Cancer Database.

Bermejo JL(1), Pérez AG, Hemminki K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Molecular Genetic Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Centre 
(DKFZ), Heidelberg, Germany. J.Lorenzo@dkfz.de.

The known breast cancer susceptibility genes only account for 20% to 25% of the 
excess familial risk of the disease 1. The present study assessed the 
contribution of BRCA1/2 mutations and CHEK2 variants to the relative risk of 
breast cancer for women with affected mothers or sisters. The familial relative 
risks were estimated by Poisson regression based on the Swedish Family-Cancer 
Database. The Database was also used to calculate the distribution of life 
expectancy, the number of daughters per family and the age specific cumulative 
risk of female breast cancer. This information, together with the penetrances of 
BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 from the literature, was used to simulate the familial 
clustering of breast cancer under different scenarios. The excess risk explained 
by BRCA1, BRCA2 and CHEK2 decreased steeply with the age at diagnosis of the 
cancers. Around 40% of the familial risk for cases diagnosed before the age of 
50 years was associated with BRCA1/2 mutations. In contrast, roughly 85% of the 
familial risk of breast cancer diagnosed before the age of 69 years remained 
unexplained. The contribution of CHEK2 to familial breast cancer was small.

DOI: 10.1186/1897-4287-2-4-185
PMCID: PMC2840005
PMID: 20233462


757. J Int Med Res. 2010 Jan-Feb;38(1):9-21. doi: 10.1177/147323001003800102.

Cost-effectiveness of erlotinib versus docetaxel for second-line treatment of 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer in the United Kingdom.

Lewis G(1), Peake M, Aultman R, Gyldmark M, Morlotti L, Creeden J, de la Orden 
M.

Author information:
(1)Roche Products Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, UK.

This study was designed to assess the cost-effectiveness of erlotinib compared 
with docetaxel in the second-line management of advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC) within the UK National Health Service (NHS). A health-state 
transition model, based on two randomized phase III studies of erlotinib or 
docetaxel versus best supportive care, was used to estimate total direct costs, 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and the subsequent net monetary benefit. 
Erlotinib was associated with a reduction in total costs ( pound13 730 versus 
pound13 956) and improved outcomes (total QALYs of 0.238 versus 0.206) compared 
with docetaxel. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated the robustness of this 
analysis. In summary, erlotinib appeared to generate similar overall survival, 
an increase in QALYs and a small reduction in total NHS costs compared with 
docetaxel, due to lower adverse event and drug administration costs. 
Consequently, from a health economics perspective for the treatment of relapsed 
stage III - IV NSCLC patients in the UK, erlotinib has advantages over 
docetaxel.

DOI: 10.1177/147323001003800102
PMID: 20233509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
