CONCLUSION: Annual combined screening provides the greatest life expectancy and 
is likely cost-effective when the value placed on gaining an additional QALY is 
in the range of $50000-$100000.
SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL: 
http://radiology.rsna.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10.1148/radiol.09091086/-/DC1.

(c) RSNA, 2010

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.09091086
PMCID: PMC2826703
PMID: 20177093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Radiology. 2010 Mar;254(3):801-8. doi: 10.1148/radiol.09090349.

Cost-effectiveness of coronary CT angiography versus myocardial perfusion SPECT 
for evaluation of patients with chest pain and no known coronary artery disease.

Min JK(1), Gilmore A, Budoff MJ, Berman DS, O'Day K.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and Radiology, Weill Medical College of Cornell 
University and the New York Presbyterian Hospital, 520 E 70th St, Room K415, New 
York, NY 10021, USA. jkm2001@med.cornell.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of diagnostic strategies for 
individuals with chest pain without known coronary artery disease (CAD) in the 
Assessment by Coronary Computed Tomographic Angiography of Individuals 
Undergoing Invasive Coronary Angiography-eligible population.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision analysis was performed in which the following 
were compared: coronary computed tomographic (CT) angiography followed by 
invasive coronary angiography for positive or equivocal findings (coronary CT 
angiography only), coronary CT angiography followed by invasive coronary 
angiography for positive findings and myocardial perfusion single photon 
emission computed tomography (SPECT) for equivocal findings (coronary CT 
angiography first), myocardial perfusion SPECT followed by invasive coronary 
angiography for positive/equivocal findings (myocardial perfusion SPECT only), 
myocardial perfusion SPECT followed by invasive coronary angiography for 
positive findings and coronary CT angiography for equivocal findings (myocardial 
perfusion SPECT first), and invasive coronary angiography. Analyses were 
conducted from the payer perspective for a near-term diagnostic period and a 
long-term lifetime period. The base case was a 55-year-old man with 30% risk of 
obstructive CAD.
RESULTS: By using the base case for near-term cost per correct diagnosis, a 
coronary CT angiography-first strategy was the least expensive, followed by 
coronary CT angiography only (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] = 
$17516). For long-term cost-effectiveness, a coronary CT angiography-only 
strategy demonstrated a favorable ICER of $20429 per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) relative to the least expensive coronary CT angiography-first strategy. 
Both myocardial perfusion SPECT-only and myocardial perfusion SPECT-first 
strategies were more costly and less effective than either coronary CT 
angiographic strategy. Long-term results were sensitive to coronary CT 
angiographic sensitivity, myocardial perfusion SPECT sensitivity, and CAD 
prevalence. Coronary CT angiography-first and coronary CT angiography-only 
strategies remained dominant up to a baseline coronary CT angiography test cost 
of $1100 and 80% CAD prevalence.
CONCLUSION: With a $20000 threshold level for cost per correct diagnosis and 
$50000 per QALY, a coronary CT angiography-only approach is the most 
cost-effective diagnostic strategy for evaluation of patients who have stable 
chest pain without known CAD with intermediate CAD prevalence.
SUPPLEMENTAL MATERIAL: 
http://radiology.rsna.org/lookup/suppl/doi:10.1148/radiol.09090349/-/DC1.

(c) RSNA, 2010

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.09090349
PMID: 20177094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2010 Jan;122(1-2):45-9. doi:
10.1007/s00508-009-1295-3.

Attitudes towards palliative care in primary metastatic cancer: a survey among 
oncologists.

Kierner KA(1), Gartner V, Bartsch R, Hladschik-Kermer B, Gruber A, Hassler M, 
Watzke HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Medical University, Vienna, Austria.

Oncologists differ widely in their attitudes towards palliative care and 
services. These attitudes depend on a number of individual and society-based 
variables. It is recommended that palliative care be started early in the 
disease trajectory of patients with a life-threatening disease but in Austria we 
lack data on oncologists' adherence to this recommendation. We surveyed 785 
oncologists in Austria by presenting the clinical course of a hypothetical 
patient with primary metastatic breast cancer from diagnosis until death. The 
majority of oncologists would involve palliative care services when the 
patient's Karnofsky index (KI) was < 50, and hospice services when the KI was < 
40. Special training in palliative care was significantly associated with early 
use of hospice services. Reasons for not involving palliative care and hospice 
services earlier than indicated were systematically evaluated and included, 
among others, "fear of destroying the patient's hopes" (36% of respondents with 
regard to palliative services, 57% with regard to hospices). Overall, 67% of the 
oncologists would inform the patient about the malignant nature of her disease 
and the anticipated limitation of her life expectancy at the time of diagnosis. 
Issuing an advance directive would be discussed by only 25% at that time. Our 
data show that oncologists involve palliative care services at an advanced stage 
of disease in patients with primary metastatic cancer and that information about 
malignancy and the incurable nature of the disease is not uniformly provided at 
the time of diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-009-1295-3
PMID: 20177859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Handchir Mikrochir Plast Chir. 2010 Apr;42(2):81-9. doi:
10.1055/s-0029-1239590.  Epub 2010 Feb 22.

[Proven and innovative operative techniques for reanimation of the paralyzed 
face].

[Article in German]

Frey M(1), Michaelidou M, Tzou CH, Hold A, Pona I, Placheta E.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universität Wien, Klinische Abteilung für Plastische und 
Rekonstruktive Chirurgie, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, Vienna, Austria. 
manfred.frey@meduniwien.ac.at

This overview on the currently most effective reconstructive techniques for 
reanimation of the unilaterally or bilaterally paralysed face includes all 
important techniques of neuromuscular reconstruction as well as of supplementary 
static procedures, which contribute significantly to the efficiency and quality 
of the functional overall result. Attention is paid to the best indications at 
the best time since onset of the facial palsy, depending on the age of the 
patient, the cause of the lesion, and the compliance of the patient for a 
long-lasting and complex rehabilitation programme. Immediate neuromuscular 
reconstruction of mimic function is favourable by nerve suture or nerve grafting 
of the facial nerve, or by using the contralateral healthy facial nerve via 
cross-face nerve grafting as long as the time since onset of the irreversible 
palsy is short enough that the paralysed mimic muscles can still be 
reinnervated. For the most frequent indication, the unilateral irreversible and 
complete palsy, a three-stage concept is described including cross-face nerve 
grafting, free functional gracilis muscle transplantation, and several 
supplementary procedures. In patients with limited life expectancy, 
transposition of the masseteric muscles is favoured. Bilateral facial palsy is 
treated by bilateral free gracilis muscle transplantation with the masseteric 
nerve branches for motor reinnervation. Functional upgrading in incomplete 
lesions is achieved by cross-face nerve grafting with distal end-to-side 
neurorrhaphy or by functional muscle transplantation with ipsilateral facial 
nerve supply.

(c) Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart-New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1239590
PMID: 20178074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Schweiz Monatsschr Zahnmed. 2010;120(1):35-50.

[Zygoma implants--an option for the treatment of severe atrophy of the maxilla? 
Case report].

[Article in French, German]

Otto T(1), Held U, Rohner D.

Author information:
(1)praxis.otto@bluewin.ch

The reconstruction of the severe atrophy of the maxilla using dental implants 
requires extensive surgical treatments. Sinus lift procedure, ridge augmentation 
with free bone grafts or free vascularized bone transfers represent the common 
techniques. With regard to a higher life expectancy the number of patients 
suffering from limited chewing function based on atrophic bone conditions will 
increase. In addition to a higher number of failed implants in elderly people 
ask for other treatment strategies to regain proper oral function with limited 
surgical effort. This case report presents the failed treatment of maxilla, 
using disc implants and shows the new maxillary reconstruction using 
Brånemark-Zygoma implants combined with standard Nobel Replace implants in order 
to avoid extensive augmentation procedure.

PMID: 20178151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Percept Mot Skills. 2009 Dec;109(3):733-6. doi: 10.2466/pms.109.3.733-736.

Suicide rates, national intelligence estimates, and differential K theory.

Voracek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Psychological Research, School of Psychology, University 
of Vienna, Liebiggasse 5, Rm 03-46, A-1010 Vienna, Austria. 
martin.voracek@univie.ac.at

In a nation sample of 75 countries around the world, higher suicide rates of the 
total male, and female population corresponded to higher levels on the 
superordinate K factor from differential K theory, thought to reflect a set of 
mutually interrelated life history and reproductive strategy traits. Countries 
ranking high on suicide rates concurrently ranked high on national intelligence 
estimates, longevity, and affluence, whilst low on rates of births, infant 
mortality, HIV/AIDS, and crimes (rape, serious assault, and homicide). These 
findings integrate previously reported positive population-level associations 
between suicide rates and cognitive ability variables into the conceptual space 
of differential K theory. The propensity toward suicidal behavior is a positive 
correlate of the K superfactor.

DOI: 10.2466/pms.109.3.733-736
PMID: 20178273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Curr Med Res Opin. 2010 Apr;26(4):965-75. doi: 10.1185/03007991003600271.

Cost effectiveness of pregabalin in the treatment of fibromyalgia from a UK 
perspective.

Choy E(1), Richards S, Bowrin K, Watson P, Lloyd A, Sadosky A, Zlateva G.

Author information:
(1)King's Musculoskeletal Clinical Trials Unit, Academic Department of 
Rheumatology, King's College London, London, UK. ernest.choy@kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition associated with widespread pain, 
sleep disturbance and disability. Disease related costs are high and effective 
treatment options few.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of pregabalin in the treatment of 
fibromyalgia.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed comparing pregabalin 300 mg or 
450 mg against placebo, duloxetine 60 mg or 120 mg, gabapentin, tramadol and 
amitriptyline. After a 12 week treatment phase patients who responded to 
treatment entered an ongoing treatment phase using a Markov model in which 
patients maintained response, lost response or dropped out. The base case 
considered patients with severe fibromyalgia defined as a Fibromyalgia Impact 
Questionnaire score of >or=59 and a pain score of >or=6.5 at baseline. Response 
rates for pregabalin and placebo were taken from three randomised trials, and a 
1 year open-label extension study was used for long-term parameters. Response 
was defined as a >or=30% improvement over baseline in pain score and a patient 
global impression of change rating of much improved or very much improved. 
Relative rates of response for other comparators over placebo were extracted 
from a systematic review of published randomised controlled studies. The primary 
effectiveness endpoint was Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). Utilities gained 
over baseline were estimated by applying the SF-6D utility algorithm to SF-36 
data collected in the pregabalin trials. Resource use associated with 
fibromyalgia management was estimated from published studies and costs were 
estimated from the UK NHS perspective at 2008 prices. Costs and QALYs were 
discounted at 3.5%. Non-parametric bootstrapping analysis was used to generate 
confidence intervals.
RESULTS: In the base case, pregabalin 300 mg and 450 mg increased cost per 
patient by pound601 (95% CI: 532, 669) and pound653 (587, 727) and improved 
QALYs per patient by 0.03 (-0.03, 0.06) and 0.03 (-0.04, 0.08) respectively 
compared to placebo. The cost per QALY gained (CQG) was pound23,166 and 
pound22,533. In the base case population CQG for pregabalin 450 mg against 
duloxetine 60 mg and 120 mg was pound19,224 and pound14,096, against gabapentin 
pound35,737, against tramadol pound98,072, and was dominated by amitriptyline. 
Sensitivity analysis found the cost effectiveness of pregabalin to be most 
sensitive to drug price and response rates. Limitations of the analysis include 
different definitions of response used and lack of subgroup data reported in the 
published studies synthesised, and limited data on long-term effect of therapies 
in fibromyalgia. Although the analysis was based on the best available evidence, 
the comparisons against amitriptyline and tramadol rely on old studies that were 
not designed to meet current quality criteria.
CONCLUSION: This model found pregabalin 300 mg and 450 mg to be cost effective 
compared with placebo and, within the limits of available evidence, against 
duloxetine using standard UK criteria in patients with fibromyalgia experiencing 
severe pain.

DOI: 10.1185/03007991003600271
PMID: 20178405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Dev Biol. 2010 Apr 15;340(2):605-12. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2010.02.022. Epub
2010  Feb 21.

Functional divergence of dafachronic acid pathways in the control of C. elegans 
development and lifespan.

Dumas KJ(1), Guo C, Wang X, Burkhart KB, Adams EJ, Alam H, Hu PJ.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, 210 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Steroid hormone and insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling (IIS) pathways 
control development and lifespan in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans by 
regulating the activity of the nuclear receptor DAF-12 and the FoxO 
transcription factor DAF-16, respectively. The DAF-12 ligands Delta(4)- and 
Delta(7)-dafachronic acid (DA) promote bypass of the dauer diapause and proper 
gonadal migration during larval development; in adults, DAs influence lifespan. 
Whether Delta(4)- and Delta(7)-DA have unique biological functions is not known. 
We identified the 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (3betaHSD) family member 
HSD-1, which participates in Delta(4)-DA biosynthesis, as an inhibitor of 
DAF-16/FoxO activity. Whereas IIS promotes the cytoplasmic sequestration of 
DAF-16/FoxO, HSD-1 inhibits nuclear DAF-16/FoxO activity without affecting 
DAF-16/FoxO subcellular localization. Thus, HSD-1 and IIS inhibit DAF-16/FoxO 
activity via distinct and complementary mechanisms. In adults, HSD-1 was 
required for full lifespan extension in IIS mutants, indicating that HSD-1 
interactions with IIS are context-dependent. In contrast to the Delta(7)-DA 
biosynthetic enzyme DAF-36, HSD-1 is dispensable for proper gonadal migration 
and lifespan extension induced by germline ablation. These findings provide 
insights into the molecular interface between DA and IIS pathways and suggest 
that Delta(4)- and Delta(7)-DA pathways have unique as well as overlapping 
biological functions in the control of development and lifespan.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2010.02.022
PMCID: PMC4511482
PMID: 20178781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Exp Gerontol. 2010 Aug;45(7-8):621-31. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.02.008.
Epub  2010 Feb 21.

Gene regulatory changes in yeast during life extension by nutrient limitation.

Wang J(1), Jiang JC, Jazwinski SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and the Tulane Center for Aging, Tulane University 
Health Sciences Center, 1430 Tulane Avenue, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA.

Genetic analyses aimed at identification of the pathways and downstream 
effectors of calorie restriction (CR) in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
suggest the importance of central metabolism for the extension of replicative 
life span by CR. However, the limited gene expression studies to date are not 
informative, because they have been conducted using cells grown in batch culture 
which markedly departs from the conditions under which yeasts are grown during 
life span determinations. In this study, we have examined the gene expression 
changes that occur during either glucose limitation or elimination of 
nonessential-amino acids, both of which enhance yeast longevity, culturing cells 
in a chemostat at equilibrium, which closely mimics conditions they encounter 
during life span determinations. Expression of 59 genes was examined 
quantitatively by real-time, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction 
(qRT-PCR), and the physiological state of the cultures was monitored. Extensive 
gene expression changes were detected, some of which were common to both CR 
regimes. The most striking of these was the induction of tricarboxylic acid 
(TCA) cycle and retrograde response target genes, which appears to be at least 
partially due to the up-regulation of the HAP4 gene. These gene regulatory 
events portend an increase in the generation of biosynthetic intermediates 
necessary for the production of daughter cells, which is the measure of yeast 
replicative life span.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2010.02.008
PMCID: PMC2879456
PMID: 20178842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Clin Biochem Rev. 2010 Feb;31(1):3-8.

The diagnosis and management of hereditary haemochromatosis.

Clark P(1), Britton LJ, Powell LW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Princess Alexandra Hospital, 
Brisbane, Australia.

Hereditary haemochromatosis (HH) is a common genetic disorder of iron metabolism 
in individuals of Northern European ancestry which leads to inappropriate iron 
absorption from the intestine and iron overload in susceptible individuals. Iron 
overload is suggested by elevations in serum ferritin and transferrin 
saturation. The majority of patients with clinically significant iron overload 
are homozygous for the C282Y mutation of the HFE gene, however only a minority 
of C282Y homozygotes fully express the disease clinically. Those with a high 
serum ferritin (>1000 microg/L) and additional hepatic insults from cofactors 
are more likely to develop cirrhosis and its complications. The mainstay of 
treatment is venesection. Those without cirrhosis who undergo appropriate 
venesection have a normal life expectancy. Family screening is recommended for 
all first degree relatives of an individual with the disease.

PMCID: PMC2826266
PMID: 20179792


608. Urologe A. 2010 Feb;49(2):181-9. doi: 10.1007/s00120-010-2234-7.

[Problems, objective, and substance of early detection of prostate cancer].

[Article in German]

Börgermann C(1), Loertzer H, Hammerer P, Fornara P, Graefen M, Rübben H.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Uroonkologie und Kinderurologie, 
Universitätsklinik Essen. christof.boergermann@krankenhaus-dueren.de

The current S3 guideline for early detection of prostate cancer initiates a 
change to the paradigm in early detection from the detection of all prostate 
cancers to the identification of aggressive prostate cancers. Early detection is 
performed annually and starts at the age of 40 years; it should be terminated at 
a life expectancy of less then 10 years. The choice of the frequency of early 
detection should be risk adapted. The digital rectal examination is supplemented 
by determination of PSA. Previous to the first PSA test the patient has to be 
informed concerning possible consequences such as biopsy recommendation and 
treatment options. A threshold of 4 ng/ml is defined as an indication for 
prostate biopsy for the first administration. In the following early detections 
the PSA velocity should be considered. Today imaging methods do not play a major 
role in early detection of prostate cancer. Early detection identifies many 
latent prostate cancers and patients may receive overtreatment. The recent S3 
guideline for early detection is discussed against this background on the basis 
of the recent literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-010-2234-7
PMID: 20180057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2010 Mar;135(9):385-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1249174.
Epub  2010 Feb 23.

[Pegfilgrastim vs filgrastim in primary prophylaxis of febrile neutropenia in 
patients with breast cancer after chemotherapy: a cost-effectiveness analysis 
for Germany].

[Article in German]

Sehouli J(1), Goertz A, Steinle T, Dubois R, Plesnila-Frank C, Lalla A, von 
Minckwitz G.

Author information:
(1)Charité/Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Klinik für Gynäkologie, Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin.

OBJECTIVE: Febrile neutropenia (FN) is a common toxic side effect of 
myelosuppressive chemotherapy. The cost-effectiveness of primary prophylaxis 
(PP) of FN with granulocyte colony stimulating growth factor (G-CSF) filgrastim 
for six or eleven days was compared to single dose pegfilgrastim in patients 
with early breast cancer receiving chemotherapy (>or= 20 % FN risk) as simulated 
in a model.
METHODS: Based on a decision-analytical model we conducted a cost-effectiveness 
analysis (CEA) and a cost-utility analysis (CUA) from the perspective of the 
Statutory Health Insurance (SHI) in Germany. The model simulated three clinical 
alternatives being built on each other, that pegfilgrastim and filgrastim had 
differential impact on (1) the risk of FN, (2) on FN-related mortality, and (3) 
on the achieved chemotherapy relative dose intensity (RDI) leading to gain in 
long-term survival.
RESULTS: Assuming a 5.5 % lower risk of FN for PP with pegfilgrastim than an 
11-day course of filgrastim provided - from the perspective of the SHI - a cost 
saving of Euro 2,229. A gain of 0.039 quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) 
resulted when the third alternative was used. Assuming a 10.5 % lower risk of FN 
for PP with pegfilgrastim than a 6-day filgrastim course, the third alternative 
showed an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of Euro 17.165 per 
life-year gained (LYG) and Euro 18.324 per QALY with 0.074 QALYs gained.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate that PP with pegfilgrastim is cost saving 
compared to 11-day use of filgrastim and cost-effective compared to 6-day use of 
filgrastim in patients with breast cancer treated in Germany.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1249174
PMID: 20180162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Lakartidningen. 2009 Dec 9-21;106(50-51):3424-9.

[Resistance against tyrosine kinase inhibitors in the treatment of GIST. New 
therapeutic possibilities appear].

[Article in Swedish]

Ahlman H(1), Nilsson O, Nilsson B.

Author information:
(1)Sektionen för endokrin kirurgi, Sahlgrenska universitetssjukhuset, Göteborg. 
hakan.ahlman@surgery.gu.se

PMID: 20180446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Public Health. 2010 Feb;124(2):86-9. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2010.01.001. Epub
2010  Feb 23.

Women's health: explaining the trend in gender ratio in Iran over half a century 
(1956-2006).

Farzadi F(1), Ahmadi B, Shariati B, Alimohamadian M, Mohamad K.

Author information:
(1)Iranian Institute for Health Science Research, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Changes in gender ratio generally reflect differences in mortality 
rates in men and women. Female mortality rates, on the other hand, can be used 
as an index of the trends in women's health. This study looks at the trend in 
the population gender ratio from 1956 to 2006, with a focus on analysing 
mortality rates and hence the overall health of Iranian women over the last 50 
years.
STUDY DESIGN: Cohort-type analysis using data from the last five population 
censuses in Iran.
METHODS: Data were used to calculate gender ratios and analyse their trends over 
the 50-year period from 1956 to 2006.
RESULTS: According to the 1956 Census, there were 98 men for every 100 women in 
the 25-34 years age group (male:female ratio=0.98). In the next census, 
conducted 10 years later (1966), the gender ratio increased to 121 in the 39-44 
years age group. The discrepancy increased in later censuses; this trend 
indicates that mortality in the 25-34 years age group was significantly higher 
in 1956-1966 compared with subsequent decades. The social and economic crises of 
the 1940s probably left women of reproductive age exceptionally vulnerable to a 
wide range of adverse health outcomes. The fact that the trend ceased in 1976 
with no further increase in the gender ratio may be due to improving social 
conditions and greater effectiveness of healthcare programmes directed at women.
CONCLUSION: As life expectancy is calculated on the basis of the conditional 
probability of death over specific intervals, the apparent discrepancy between 
the current gender ratios and life expectancy data may be due to higher female 
death rates before 1976.

Copyright 2010 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2010.01.001
PMID: 20181368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. J Pharm Belg. 2009 Dec;(4):119-30.

[Statins under fire: justified or not?].

[Article in French]

Declerck E(1), De Loof H, De Meyer GR.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire de Pharmacologie, Université d'Anvers, Campus Drie Eiken, 
Universiteitsplein 1, Antwerpen, Wilrijk.

Statins inhibit the synthesis of cholesterol in the liver resulting in a 
decrease of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides, and a limited increase in HDL 
cholesterol. Statins also have pleiotropic effects, such as stabilisation of 
atherosclerotic plaques. The 4S-study was the first trial that demonstrated a 
significant benefit with statins in secondary prevention. The WOSCOPS-study was 
the first to prove the efficacy of statins in primary prevention. diseases 
approximately 10 years later than men. Therefore, it looks as if women are 
protected against cardiovascular diseases. Hence, they were underrepresented in 
large clinical trials. If there is no limited life expectancy, elderly--even 
older than 85 years--do not have to be treated differently for the secondary 
prevention than younger people. For primary prevention, the situation of the 
patient has to be evaluated, paying attention to additional risk factors. Type 2 
diabetic patients that already have had a cardiovascular incident are considered 
to be at high risk and are eligible for an intensive therapy. Primary prevention 
in diabetic patients is often compared with secondary prevention in non-diabetic 
patients. The use of statins in children is controversial due to possible 
interference with the development of the child. New guidelines decrease the age 
for starting a therapy from 10 years old to 8 years old. For all patients a good 
safety profile is very important, given the long duration of therapy. Statins 
are used increasingly in high dose and accordingly the risk of adverse effects 
increases. Muscle toxicity is the most frequent side effect. The risk is 
strongly intensified by drug interactions through CYP3A4 (for simvastatin and 
atorvastatin), high doses, and combination therapy with fibrates. The use of 
statins during pregnancy is contra-indicated. Pharmacists are well placed to 
give advice about the risks of the use, or non-use, of statins. A high 
cholesterol level and the accompanied risk of cardiovascular disease, is 
something that one cannot really sense. The well-established effects of statins 
have to be explained to patients, together with a healthy life style. It is 
important to mention that the effects of statins in high--risk patients are 
largely proven. For primary prevention the risk factors have to be evaluated 
individually. Compliance is often low and pharmacists can play a major role in 
the pharmaceutical care of cardiovascular patients.

PMID: 20183988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Rev Invest Clin. 2009 Sep-Oct;61(5):354-63.

[Clinical characteristics of the late-onset epilepsy in Mexico to the beginning 
of the new millennium: 455 cases].

[Article in Spanish]

Suástegui R(1), Gutiérrez J, Ramos R, Bouchan S, Navarrete H, Ruiz J, Plascencia 
N, Jauri S, León C, Castillo V, Ojeda EA.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Neurología y Neurocirugía Manuel Velasco Suárez. 
suastero@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Epilepsy is a multifactorial disorder, and several factors can 
modify its prevalence in different regions. Among these, local culture, public 
health policies and survival rate can be cited. Alongside, the cause of epilepsy 
may be different according to time and geographic registries. In Mexico, 
neurocysticercosis remains a leading cause of seizures. Nonetheless, lifestyle 
changes and the increase in life expectancy have fostered the incidence of 
stroke. Both diseases are the main underlying disorders causing epilepsy in 
Mexico. Lately, their respective incidence is being reversed, and therefore 
their role is gradually interchanging.
OBJECTIVES: To describe and assess the epidemiological and clinical features of 
a sample of Mexican patients with late-onset seizures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A group of 455 patients aged over 20 years old was 
recruited from ten different centers nationwide. The study included patients 
with onset of epilepsy from year 2000 on, and clinical features of seizures were 
recorded for every patient, electroencephalogram (EEG) and brain computed 
tomography (CT) were performed.
RESULTS: No gender-related differences were observed. Age distribution was as 
follows: the highest incidence occurred in the third decade of life and 18% of 
the patients were aged above 60 years old. Generalized seizures were recorded in 
49% of the patients. Pharmacological management used a single drug in 83% of the 
patients and the most frequently used drug was diphenylhydantoine (PHT) and the 
second was carbamazepine (CBZ). Abnormal electroencephalographic findings were 
recoded in 66% of the cases. Concerning etiologies, the first cause was 
neurocysticerosis in 21% of the cases, followed by stroke in 17% of them. No 
cause could be found in 49% of the patients. These findings slightly differ from 
those of other centers in developed countries.
CONCLUSIONS: In the last decades, the societal changes in the country have 
greatly influence the shift in the underlying causes of late-onset seizures. 
Even if neurocysticercosis stands still as the first cause, its frequency has 
declined by more than 50% while the increase of stroke incidence has boosted its 
etiological role and their difference is now statistically non-significant.

PMID: 20184094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Brain Inj. 2010;24(3):560-7. doi: 10.3109/02699051003601705.

Effect of recombinant growth hormone replacement in a growth hormone deficient 
subject recovering from mild traumatic brain injury: A case report.

Bhagia V(1), Gilkison C, Fitts RH, Zgaljardic DJ, High WM Jr, Masel BE, Urban 
RJ, Mossberg KA.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effects of growth hormone (GH) replacement in an 
individual who sustained mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI) as an adult and was 
found to have GH deficiency by glucagon stimulation testing.
PARTICIPANT: A 43-year old woman who sustained a mild TBI at age 37 years. She 
was 6.8 years post-injury when she began supplementation.
INTERVENTION: Recombinant human GH (rhGH) subcutaneously per day for 1 year.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Single fibre muscle function was evaluated from muscle 
biopsies. Body composition, muscle strength and peak aerobic capacity were also 
measured. In addition, neuropsychological tests of memory, processing speed and 
motor dexterity and speed, as well as a self-report depression inventory were 
administered. All assessments were performed at baseline and after 6 and 12 
months of rhGH replacement therapy.
RESULTS: Single muscle fibre changes were greatest at 6 months. Body composition 
showed continuous improvement. Muscle strength improved for knee extension. Peak 
oxygen consumption increased at 6 months and total work and ventilatory 
equivalents continued to improve at 12 months. Significant improvements in 
neuropsychological test performance were not found, with the exception of 
performance on a test of motor dexterity and speed.
CONCLUSION: rhGH replacement in a subject with GH deficiency after mild TBI 
improves muscle force production, body composition and aerobic capacity. 
Reliable improvements on tests of cognition were not found in this subject.

DOI: 10.3109/02699051003601705
PMID: 20184413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Sante. 2009 Jul-Sep;19(3):121-32. doi: 10.1684/san.2009.0170.

[HIV/AIDS in South Africa and Haiti: the failure of epidemic governance and 
achievement of the MDGs].

[Article in French]

Thelot FL(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre d'enseignement et de recherche en action humanitaire (CERAH), Institut 
de hautes études internationales et du développement (IHEID), Université de 
Genève 24, rue du Général-Dufour CH-1211 Genève 4, Suisse. 
Fils.Thelot@graduateinstitute.ch

Since their adoption in 2000 by the United Nations, the Millennium Development 
Goals set for 2015 appear to have become a part of the policy agenda of all of 
the member states. Three of these eight objectives deal with health issues. 
"Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases": this is the formulation of the 
sixth MDG. Observing that in many countries strongly affected by poverty and 
inequalities, the epidemic continues to spread, without really reversing at all, 
and that access to antiretrovirals is possible for only a small proportion of 
the patient who need them, we consider the problems of global governance in the 
field of health. Our intention is to explain that the failure to deal with the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic may constitute an obstacle to the achievement of the MDGs by 
2015. Proposing a comprehensive sociology of HIV/AIDS, this article pays special 
attention to the dimension of the meaning of the disease, simultaneously as a 
policy issue, a social construction, and an object of study in the social 
sciences. Looking at the two countries most affected by the epidemic in Africa 
and in the Caribbean, we examine the different aspects that have determined the 
failure of governance and the effects of this failure on the populations 
concerned. The excessive conflictuality in South Africa and the biopolitics of 
"let them die" and the fragmentation of the networks involved in the combat in 
Haiti are considered to have contributed to a crisis in the epidemic's 
governance. In both cases, the consequences have been expressed by a reduced 
life expectancy, insufficient access to antiretroviral drugs, reinforcement of 
the socioeconomic inequalities of health, the production of new pockets of 
poverty, more fragile household and national economies, an increase in maternal 
and child mortality ... The failure of the governance of the HIV/AIDS epidemic 
in countries such as Haiti and South Africa appears to foretell the 
impossibility of achieving the MDGs by 2015.

DOI: 10.1684/san.2009.0170
PMID: 20185388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Diabetes Care. 2010 May;33(5):1086-9. doi: 10.2337/dc09-1428. Epub 2010 Feb
25.

Mortality associated with acute Charcot foot and neuropathic foot ulceration.

van Baal J(1), Hubbard R, Game F, Jeffcoate W.

Author information:
(1)Foot Ulcer Trials Unit, Nottingham University Hospitals Trust, City Hospital 
Campus, Nottingham, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the mortality of patients with an acute Charcot foot with 
a matched population with uninfected neuropathic foot ulcers (NFUs).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Data were extracted from a specialist departmental 
database, supplemented by hospital records. The findings were compared with the 
results of earlier populations with Charcot foot and uninfected NFUs managed 
from 1980. Finally, the results of all patients with acute Charcot foot and all 
control subjects managed between 1980 and 2007 were compared with normative 
mortality data for the U.K. population.
RESULTS: A total of 70 patients presented with an acute Charcot foot (mean age 
57.4 +/- 12.0 years; 48 male [68.6%]) between 2001 and 2007; there were 66 
matched control subjects. By 1 October 2008, 13 (eight male; 18.6%) patients 
with a Charcot foot had died, after a median of 2.1 years (interquartile range 
1.1-3.3). Twenty-two (20 male; 33.3%) control subjects had also died after a 
median of 1.3 years (0.6-2.5). There was no difference in survival between the 
two groups (log-rank P > 0.05). Median survival of all 117 patients with acute 
Charcot foot managed between 1980 and 2007 was 7.88 years (4.0-15.4) and was not 
significantly different from the control NFU patients (8.43 years [3.4-15.8]). 
When compared with normative U.K. population data, life expectancy in the two 
groups was reduced by 14.4 and 13.9 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: These data confirm that the mortality in patients presenting to our 
unit with either an acute Charcot foot and an uninfected neuropathic ulcer was 
unexpectedly high.

DOI: 10.2337/dc09-1428
PMCID: PMC2858181
PMID: 20185744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2010 Feb 23;4(2):e608. doi:
10.1371/journal.pntd.0000608.

Field validation of a transcriptional assay for the prediction of age of uncaged 
Aedes aegypti mosquitoes in Northern Australia.

Hugo LE(1), Cook PE, Johnson PH, Rapley LP, Kay BH, Ryan PA, Ritchie SA, O'Neill 
SL.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia.

BACKGROUND: New strategies to eliminate dengue have been proposed that 
specifically target older Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, the proportion of the vector 
population that is potentially capable of transmitting dengue viruses. 
Evaluation of these strategies will require accurate and high-throughput methods 
of predicting mosquito age. We previously developed an age prediction assay for 
individual Ae. aegypti females based on the transcriptional profiles of a 
selection of age responsive genes. Here we conducted field testing of the method 
on Ae. aegypti that were entirely uncaged and free to engage in natural 
behavior.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We produced "free-range" test specimens by 
releasing 8007 adult Ae. aegypti inside and around an isolated homestead in 
north Queensland, Australia, and recapturing females at two day intervals. We 
applied a TaqMan probe-based assay design that enabled high-throughput 
quantitative RT-PCR of four transcripts from three age-responsive genes and a 
reference gene. An age prediction model was calibrated on mosquitoes maintained 
in small sentinel cages, in which 68.8% of the variance in gene transcription 
measures was explained by age. The model was then used to predict the ages of 
the free-range females. The relationship between the predicted and actual ages 
achieved an R(2) value of 0.62 for predictions of females up to 29 days old. 
Transcriptional profiles and age predictions were not affected by physiological 
variation associated with the blood feeding/egg development cycle and we show 
that the age grading method could be applied to differentiate between two 
populations of mosquitoes having a two-fold difference in mean life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The transcriptional profiles of age responsive genes 
facilitated age estimates of near-wild Ae. aegypti females. Our age prediction 
assay for Ae. aegypti provides a useful tool for the evaluation of mosquito 
control interventions against dengue where mosquito survivorship or lifespan 
reduction are crucial to their success. The approximate cost of the method was 
US$7.50 per mosquito and 60 mosquitoes could be processed in 3 days. The assay 
is based on conserved genes and modified versions are likely to support similar 
investigations of several important mosquito and other disease vectors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0000608
PMCID: PMC2826399
PMID: 20186322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


618. Psychooncology. 2010 Nov;19(11):1221-8. doi: 10.1002/pon.1691.

Direct communication, the unquestionable ideal? Oncologists' accounts of 
communication of bleak prognoses.

Rogg L(1), Aasland OG, Graugaard PK, Loge JH.

Author information:
(1)Oslo University Hospital Ulleval HF, Department of Oncology, Kirkeveien 166, 
0407 Oslo, Norway. l.v.rogg@usit.uio.no

OBJECTIVE: To explore the factors that influence the clinical practice of 
oncologists concerning disclosure of prognostic information.
METHODS: Focus group interviews with oncologists in three Norwegian university 
hospitals. Interview guide consisting of three patient cases where challenging 
aspects of prognostic information delivery were presented to the participants. 
Each group consisted of six participants, all groups with a mix of men and 
women, and ranging from very experienced consultants to relatively inexperienced 
residents in oncology. Transcribed interviews were qualitatively analyzed 
through categorization and condensation.
RESULTS: The importance of openness when dealing with prognostic information 
towards the end of life was strongly advocated by all participants. However, 
there was a reluctance to give tangible information regarding survival, and a 
feeling that this part of clinical practice was a challenge. Skills in how to 
communicate negative prognostic information were attained primarily by observing 
colleagues, but also from personal experience. Existing guidelines for 
communication were not perceived as useful.
CONCLUSION: Primarily focusing on open communication regarding bleak prospects 
of life expectancy entails a risk of overrunning the information needs of 
individual patients. Oncologists still see communication skills primarily as 
personal, and are at risk of not exploring and responding to the individual 
patient's wish for information.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.1691
PMID: 20186873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2009 Nov-Dec;104(6):663-8.

[Portal vein thrombosis after laparoscopy--an underestimated complication].

[Article in Romanian]

Vasilescu C(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinica Chirurgie Generală, Institutul de Boli Digestive şi Transplant 
Hepatic Fundeni, Bucureşti. catvasilescu@gmail.com

Portal vein thrombosis after laparoscopy became an issue of interest with the 
technological progress in surgery (the expanding use of minimally invasive 
approach) and imaging (the higher availability of Doppler ultrasonography and 
spiral computer tomography). Along with the extensive interest for laparoscopy 
in our country, a guideline for the prophylaxis and treatment of this 
potentially deadly complication seems necessary. Portal vein thrombosis (PVT) 
should be promptly diagnosed and treated to prevent its extension to the 
superior mesenteric venous system, as it may sometime trigger a potentially 
life-threatening complication, the entero-mesenteric venous infarction. It is 
acknowledged that the increasing use of laparoscopy in the last decades 
represents a major therapeutical progress. The effects of this approach are 
still to be explored.

PMID: 20187463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2009 Nov-Dec;104(6):723-30.

[Esophageal stenting: techniques and effectiveness].

[Article in Romanian]

Constantinescu G(1), Crăciun E, Balahura C, Doraş I, Oprita R, Bruckx D.

Author information:
(1)Clinica de Gastroenterologie, Spitalul de Urgenţă Floreasca, Bucureşsti. 
gabrielconstantinescu63@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is a prospective evaluation of the ease of 
implantation, long-term patency, indication of good oesophageal stent placement 
and related complications in patients due to obstructive malignant diseases. The 
clinical efficacy of these techniques is also examined.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 123 patients with severe oesophageal 
obstruction diagnosed between 1999 and 2008 were selected for stent placement. 
The following stents were used: Wallstent; Ultraflex; Medwark; Endotechnik; 
Wilson Cook (plastic); and Z stents.
RESULTS: The stent was successfully placed in the diseased oesophagus in all 123 
patients. The stent implantation was more than 95% effective but the stent 
patency and the patients' life quality was low due to both progression of the 
disease and stent performance. Stents did increase life expectancy but 
performance was limited.
CONCLUSIONS: Stent placement is safe and effective for the primary palliation of 
patients with inoperable malignant oesophageal obstruction. Even if the stent 
price is relatively high the costs are offset due to earlier patient discharged 
from hospital. Stent and patient related problems persist and may require 
additional intervention. New innovations in stent design are needed to reduce 
the risk of stent-related complications.

PMID: 20187472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Int Surg. 2009 Jul-Sep;94(3):189-95.

Clinicopathological analysis of colorectal cancers in the elderly.

Goi T(1), Kawasaki M, Inoue T, Fujioka M, Hirono Y, Katayama K, Yamaguchi A.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Surgery, University of Fukui, Yoshida-gun, Fukui, Japan. 
tgoi@fmsrsa.fukui-med.ac.jp

The average life expectancy of Japanese is 78 years for males and 85 years for 
females, being the longest in the world. In this study, elderly patients with 
colorectal cancer who underwent surgery and their non-elderly counterparts were 
compared to characterize the elderly patients. Of 387 colorectal cancer 
patients, 98 were over 75 years old, and 106 were between 45 and 60 years of 
age. These two groups of patients were analyzed for clinicopathological 
parameters, prognosis, and the expression of matrix metalloprotease 9 (MMP-9) 
and E-cadherin molecules as indicators of the invasive and metastatic ability of 
colorectal cancer. The elderly and non-elderly groups did not significantly 
differ in the clinicopathological findings. Molecular genetic analysis showed 
that the rates of MMP-9 or E-cadherin protein expression in the elderly and 
non-elderly groups were not significantly different. Considering that colorectal 
cancers in the elderly do not significantly differ from those in the non-elderly 
in tumor stage or malignancy grade, treatment policies should be comprehensively 
based on individual coexisting diseases and the general condition including 
physiological age.

PMID: 20187509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Am J Vet Res. 2010 Mar;71(3):275-80. doi: 10.2460/ajvr.71.3.275.

Relevance of management and feeding regimens on life expectancy in captive deer.

Müller DW(1), Lackey LB, Streich WJ, Hatt JM, Clauss M.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Zoo Animals, Exotic Pets, and Wildlife, Vetsuisse Faculty, 
University of Zurich, Winterthurerstr 260, CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. 
dmueller@vetclinics.uzh.ch

OBJECTIVE: To establish a demographic approach to facilitate the comparison of 
husbandry success for deer species in zoos and to test for factors that 
influence the performance of deer species in captivity.
SAMPLE POPULATION: Data collected from 45,736 zoo-kept deer that comprised 31 
species.
PROCEDURES: Data had been collected by the International Species Information 
System during the last 3 decades on zoo-kept deer around the world. The relative 
life expectancy (rLE) of a species (ie, mean life expectancy as a proportion of 
the maximum recorded life span for that species) was used to describe zoo 
populations. The rLE (values between 0 and 1) was used to reflect the husbandry 
success of a species.
RESULTS: A significant positive correlation was found between the rLE of a 
species and the percentage of grass in the natural diet of the species, 
suggesting that there are more problems in the husbandry of browsing than of 
grazing species. The 4 species for which a studbook (ie, record of the lineage 
of wild animals bred in captivity) was maintained had a high rLE, potentially 
indicating the positive effect of intensive breeding management.
CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The rLE facilitated the comparison of 
husbandry success for various species and may offer the possibility of 
correlating this quotient with other biological variables. Ultimately, 
identifying reasons for a low husbandry success in certain species may form the 
basis for further improvements of animal welfare in captivity.

DOI: 10.2460/ajvr.71.3.275
PMID: 20187828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2010 Mar;11(3):194-203. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2009.08.007.

Cognitive bias and planning error: nullification of evidence-based medicine in 
the nursing home.

Miles RW(1).

Author information:
(1)richardwmiles@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Medical error is common, and has a large impact on our national 
healthcare budget. The elderly and chronically ill are among the largest 
consumers of the Medicare budget fueling interest in avoiding unnecessary 
hospitalizations among nursing home residents. In addition to preventive 
measures involving care coordination and better implementation of advanced 
directives, this article argues that many nursing home residents have a greatly 
inflated risk of hospitalization and would benefit from more intensive medical 
management.
METHODS: Reflective practice is used to analyze why nullification error 
(inappropriately omitting evidence-based treatments) regularly occurred among 
nursing home residents over an 8-year period. The study frames the root causes 
of clinical inertia and nullification error using terms from cognitive 
psychology and contemporary philosophy.
RESULTS: Unrecognized biases and cognitive pitfalls are the basis for why 
competent physicians reject evidence-based medicine (EBM) in the nursing home. 
Six common recurring nullification errors are discussed with the proposed root 
causes. A glossary of unfamiliar terms is included.
CONCLUSIONS: The uncertainty over the appropriateness of EBM for the nursing 
home patient has led to a widespread bias toward undertreatment that has reached 
alarming proportions. It is true that most elderly patients do not wish to 
extend their life expectancy, but most do wish to avoid medical complications 
and unnecessary hospitalizations. Rejecting treatments that extend life 
expectancy often results in rejection of the very treatments that would improve 
the probability of achieving their wish to retain fair health. Practitioners do 
not reject meaningful treatments because of lack of knowledge or lack of 
concern. They do so because of an incomplete education regarding the biases and 
cognitive pitfalls that are encountered when planning care for the elderly.

(c) 2010 American Medical Directors Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2009.08.007
PMID: 20188317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. J Dent. 2010 Jun;38(6):451-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jdent.2010.02.004. Epub 2010
Feb  25.

Randomised trial of resin-based restorations in Class I and Class II beveled 
preparations in primary molars: 48-month results.

Alves dos Santos MP(1), Luiz RR, Maia LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Dentistry and Orthodontics, School of Dentistry, 
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
