modelling is routinely used to predict the cost-effectiveness of new 
pharmaceuticals for reimbursement purposes. Accuracy of cost-effectiveness 
estimates depends on the quality of input variables; validity of surrogate end 
points; and appropriateness of modelling assumptions, including model structure, 
time horizon and sophistication of the model to differentiate clinically and 
economically meaningful outcomes. These economic evaluation methods are not 
mutually exclusive; in practice, economic analyses often combine data collection 
alongside clinical trials or observational studies with modelling. The need for 
pharmacoeconomic evidence has fundamentally changed the strategic imperatives of 
research and development (R&D). Therefore, professionals in pharmaceutical R&D 
have to be familiar with the principles of pharmacoeconomics, including the 
selection of health policy-relevant comparators, analytical techniques, 
measurement of health gain by quality-adjusted life-years and strategic pricing 
of pharmaceuticals.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1476-5381.2009.00550.x
PMCID: PMC2850394
PMID: 20132213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. J Cardiovasc Electrophysiol. 2010 Jul;21(7):791-8. doi: 
10.1111/j.1540-8167.2009.01696.x. Epub 2010 Feb 1.

Optimal timing of implantable cardioverter-defibrillator implantation after 
myocardial infarction: a decision analysis.

Piccini JP(1), Al-Khatib SM, Myers ER, Anstrom KJ, Buxton AE, Peterson ED, 
Sanders GD.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute and the Duke University School of Medicine, 
Durham, North Carolina 27705, USA. jonathan.piccini@duke.edu

BACKGROUND: The optimal timing of implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) 
placement for the primary prevention of sudden cardiac death after myocardial 
infarction (MI) remains unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a Markov model to investigate the optimal 
timing of ICD implantation after MI (no ICD, ICD at 60 days, 6 months, and 1 
year) in patients who meet current guidelines. Estimates of arrhythmic death 
(baseline risk 6%, range 1-20% per year), nonarrhythmic death, and ICD efficacy 
were based upon MADIT-II and other contemporary post-MI clinical trials. We used 
both deterministic and stochastic modeling processes in our analysis. After 10 
years follow-up, the baseline probability of survival was higher in those 
treated with ICD implantation versus not (42% vs 30%, P < 0.001). Survival was 
highest with ICD implantation at 60 days versus 6 months versus 1 year: 42.4%, 
42.3%, and 42.0% (P = 0.0028). ICD implantation at 60 days provided a mean 
incremental survival of 0.28 months and 0.84 months per patient (compared with 
implantation at 6 months and 1 year). In sensitivity analyses, patients' 
competing risk for nonarrhythmic death was the primary determinant of benefit 
from ICD implantation. Overall, ICD implantation at 60 days resulted in the 
greatest life expectancy over a wide range of plausible nonarrhythmic and 
arrhythmic death rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The benefits of early ICD implantation are modest when compared 
with delayed implantation at 6 months/1 year. Our results suggest that making 
sure a patient receives an ICD, when appropriate, may be more important than the 
timing of the implantation procedure.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8167.2009.01696.x
PMID: 20132397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Mol Biol Evol. 2010 Jul;27(7):1538-45. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msq038. Epub 2010
Feb  4.

Characterization of periplastidal compartment-targeting signals in 
chlorarachniophytes.

Hirakawa Y(1), Gile GH, Ota S, Keeling PJ, Ishida K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba, 
Tsukuba, Japan.

Secondary plastids are acquired by the engulfment and retention of eukaryotic 
algae, which results in an additional surrounding membrane or pair of membranes 
relative to the more familiar primary plastids of land plants. In most cases, 
the endocytosed alga loses its eukaryotic genome as it becomes integrated, but 
in two algal groups, the cryptophytes and chlorarachniophytes, the secondary 
plastids retain a vestigial nucleus in the periplastidal compartment (PPC), the 
remnant eukaryotic cytoplasm between the inner and the outer membrane pairs. 
Many essential housekeeping genes are missing from these reduced genomes, 
suggesting that they are now encoded in the host nucleus and their products are 
targeted to the PPC. One such nucleus-encoded, PPC-targeted protein, the 
translation elongation factor like (EFL) was recently identified in 
chlorarachniophytes. It bears an N-terminal-targeting sequence comprising a 
signal peptide and a transit peptide-like sequence (TPL) similar to the 
plastid-targeted proteins of chlorarachniophytes as well as a hydrophilic 
C-terminal extension rich in lysine and aspartic acid. Here, we characterize the 
function of the N- and C-terminal extensions of PPC-targeted EFL in transformed 
chlorarachniophyte cells. Using green fluorescent protein as a reporter 
molecule, we demonstrate that several negatively charged amino acids within the 
TPL are essential for accurate targeting to the PPC. Our findings further reveal 
that the C-terminal extension functions as a PPC retention signal in combination 
with an N-terminal plastid-targeting peptide, which suggests that plastid and 
PPC proteins may be sorted in the PPC.

DOI: 10.1093/molbev/msq038
PMID: 20133351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Stroke. 2010 Mar;41(3):471-7. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.571083. Epub 2010
Feb  4.

Years of disability-adjusted life gained as a result of thrombolytic therapy for 
acute ischemic stroke.

Hong KS(1), Saver JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Clinical Research Center, Ilsan Paik Hospital, Inje 
University, Goyang, Korea.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Disability-adjusted life year (DALY) metric reflects 
years of healthy life lost because of living with disability and years of life 
lost because of premature mortality. Widely used in epidemiological analyses, 
DALY has not been applied to acute stroke trials.
METHODS: From previous studies, we derived, for each modified Rankin Scale 
level, disability weights, disability-linked mortality hazard ratios, and 
age-specific life expectancies. We then analyzed patient level data from the 2 
publicly available National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke 
(NINDS) recombinant tissue plasminogen activator trials. For each subject, we 
abstracted age, treatment assignment, and 3-month modified Rankin Scale outcome 
and calculated the DALYs lost resulting from the qualifying stroke.
RESULTS: The disability-linked hazard ratios for premature annual mortality for 
a modified Rankin Scale score of 0 to 5 were 1.53, 1.52, 2.17, 3.18, 4.55, and 
6.55, respectively. In the NINDS recombinant tissue plasminogen activator 
trials, DALYs (mean+/-SE) lost as a result of the qualifying stroke were 
substantially less with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator than with 
placebo (4.64+/-0.17 versus 5.91+/-0.21; P<0.0001), a finding that remained 
robust after adjustment for baseline prognostic factors. When DALYs gained were 
apportioned to the 29% of patients experiencing any benefit from lytic therapy, 
each patient gained an average of 4.4 DALYs. DALY analysis showed greater power 
than dichotomized modified Rankin Scale analysis in discriminating treatment 
effects overall and in patients >or=70 years of age.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients who benefit from treatment, <3-hour thrombolytic 
therapy adds the equivalent of 4.4 years of healthy life, free of disability. 
The DALY metric provides a continuous scale that increases statistical power, is 
intuitively understandable, and is applicable to a wide range of conditions and 
treatments.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.571083
PMID: 20133917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Gerontology. 2011;57(1):37-43. doi: 10.1159/000281883. Epub 2010 Feb 4.

PGC-1α and myokines in the aging muscle - a mini-review.

Arnold AS(1), Egger A, Handschin C.

Author information:
(1)Biozentrum, Division of Pharmacology/Neurobiology, University of Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland.

Aging is associated with far-reaching changes in physiological functions 
resulting in morbidity and ultimately death. Age-related frailty, insecurity and 
reduced physical activity contribute to a progressive loss of muscle mass and 
function, commonly referred to as sarcopenia. Due to the increase in life 
expectancy in many countries, loss of muscle mass and its consequences gain in 
relevance for public health. At the same time, the molecular mechanisms that 
underlie sarcopenia are poorly understood and therefore, therapeutic approaches 
are limited. Interestingly though, endurance, strength and stretching exercise 
is significantly superior to all known pharmacological, nutritional and hormonal 
interventions for stabilizing, alleviating and reversing sarcopenia. Thus, 
increased knowledge about the plastic changes of skeletal muscle after physical 
activity and the signaling factors that mediate the beneficial effects of 
exercise on other organs might yield a better understanding of the disease and 
open new avenues for treatment. Here, we discuss how current discoveries about 
the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ coactivator-1α (PGC-1α), a key 
exercise factor in muscle, and myokines, factors produced and secreted by active 
muscle fibers, expand our view of the pathological changes and the therapeutic 
options for sarcopenia.

2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000281883
PMID: 20134150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Oecologia. 1999 Jan;118(1):59-68. doi: 10.1007/s004420050703.

Intra- and interspecific host discrimination by host-seeking larvae of 
coleopteran parasitoids.

Royer L(1), Fournet S, Brunel E, Boivin G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural Resource Sciences (Entomology), Macdonald Campus of 
McGill University, 21 111 Lakeshore Road, Ste-Anne-de-Bellevue, PQ H9X 3V9, 
Canada, , , , , , CA.

Intraspecific host discrimination is widespread in solitary parasitoids whose 
adult females forage for and evaluate host suitability, whereas interspecific 
discrimination is less common. In some parasitoid species, mostly Diptera and 
Coleoptera, the larva performs the last step of host searching. It has been 
suggested that host discrimination will rarely occur in such host-seeking larvae 
because their low mobility results in a low host encounter rate. We determined 
the extent to which the larvae of Aleochara bilineata Gyllenhal (Coleoptera: 
Staphylinidae), a solitary parasitoid of aggregated Diptera pupae: (1) 
discriminated between unparasitized hosts and hosts parasitized by conspecifics; 
(2) used semiochemical cues to discriminate; (3) were influenced by life 
expectancy, presence of conspecifics and host availability in their host 
acceptance decision; and the extent to which (4) A. bilineata and A. bipustulata 
L., a species exploiting the same hosts and occurring sympatrically, showed 
interspecific host discrimination. A. bilineata larvae were able to discriminate 
between unparasitized hosts and hosts parasitized by conspecifics in a choice 
experiment. Such behavior has never previously been described for a coleopteran 
parasitoid or for a parasitoid species whose larvae perform host searching. Host 
discrimination in this species was not based on the presence of visual or 
tactile cues (e.g., entrance holes) but rather on chemical cues. The life 
expectancy of A. bilineata larvae was significantly shorter in the presence than 
in absence of hosts, and older larvae had lower parasitism success than young 
larvae in a 24-h experiment. However, the host acceptance decision of A. 
bilineata larvae was not influenced by larval age or the presence of 
conspecifics when the ratio of hosts per larva was greater than or equal to 1. 
When hosts were scarce, the degree of superparasitism increased significantly 
with the number of foraging conspecifics and the age of the larvae. Both species 
of Aleochara showed intra- and interspecific host discrimination in a choice 
experiment. In contrast to A. bipustulata, A. bilineata larvae more frequently 
parasitized hosts parasitized by A. bipustulata than those parasitized by 
conspecifics. We suggest that host discrimination will be frequent in solitary 
parasitoids with host-seeking larvae when hosts are aggregated.

DOI: 10.1007/s004420050703
PMID: 20135161


491. Gig Sanit. 2009 Nov-Dec;(6):66-9.

[Monitoring of the medicodemographic situation in Moscow].

[Article in Russian]

Filatov NN, Glitsenko VM, Fokin SG, Shakhanina IL, Efimov MV, Muratov VV, 
Balakireva AS.

There has been recently a trend in declining mortality rates in all population 
groups. Higher birth rates and lower mortality have been responsible for a 
reduction in natural population loss in Moscow. At the same time, 14 of the 123 
Moscow municipal districts show a positive natural population growth largely due 
to higher birth rates. Better social and economic living conditions, the 
effective activities of health care bodies and sanitary and epidemiological 
well-being services of the city have caused recent positive changes in the 
demographic situation.

PMID: 20135872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Klin Med (Mosk). 2009;87(12):14-9.

[Pathophysiological and therapeutic aspects of bone lesions in patients with 
multiple myelomas].

[Article in Russian]

Gel'tser BI, Zhilkova NN, Anufrieva ND, Kochetkova EA.

Multiple myeloma (MM) is an uncontrolled malignant proliferation of plasma 
cells. Today, it is the best studied form of hemoblastomas, but many 
pathophysiological and therapeutic aspects of this condition await a deeper 
insight. The medico-social significance of the disease is emphasized by its 
continuous growth, variable clinical manifestations, low quality of the 
patients" life, mean life expectancy of 3-5 years, and numerous complications. 
One clinical feature of MM is bone lesions that occur in all patients as 
osteolysis (OL), osteoporosis (OP), hypercalcemia, and combination of these 
disorders. Progressive degeneration of bone tissue even in patients responding 
to chemotherapy results in severe pain, pathological fractures, and neurologic 
problems. Molecular mechanisms of OL and OP in MM have recently attracted much 
attention. This review summarizes data on the role of cytokines, growth factors, 
osteopontin, OPG-RANK-RANK system, macrophage inflammatory proteins, and matrix 
metalloproteinases in MM-related osteodestruction. Iatrogenic origin of bone 
lesions is considered. Treatment of MM using thalidomide (lenlalidomide), 
proteasome inhibitors (bortesamide), and biphosphonates (pamidronate, zoledronic 
acid) is discussed as the most promising therapeutic strategy promoting plasma 
cell apoptosis, inhibition of bone resorption, stabilization of osteoblast 
function, and pain alleviation.

PMID: 20135879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Drugs Aging. 2009 Dec;26 Suppl 1:53-62. doi:
10.2165/11534660-000000000-00000.

Antidiabetic oral treatment in older people: does frailty matter?

Abbatecola AM(1), Paolisso G, Corsonello A, Bustacchini S, Lattanzio F.

Author information:
(1)Italian National Research Centre on Aging (INRCA), Ancona, Italy. 
angela_abbatecola@libero.it

Life expectancy has significantly increased over the past 30 years, with a 
greater prevalence of diverse disease states, especially type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. As older persons are a very heterogeneous group with an increased 
prevalence of comorbidities and a relative inability to tolerate the adverse 
effects of oral antidiabetic agents, the treatment of type 2 diabetes is 
particularly demanding. The principles of its management are similar to those in 
younger patients, but with special considerations linked to comorbidities and 
clinical status. The available oral antidiabetic drugs include insulin 
secretagogues (meglitinides and sulfonylureas), biguanides (metformin), 
alpha-glucosidase inhibitors, thiazolidinediones and newly introduced inhibitors 
of glucagon-like peptide 1 degrading enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4). In 
addition, clinical aspects complicate diabetes care in the elderly, including 
cognitive disorders, physical disability and geriatric syndromes, such as 
frailty. The European Diabetes Working Party for Older Persons has increased 
glycaemic recommendations for target haemoglobin A(1c) from <7% to <or=8% in the 
presence of frailty. This working party updated their guidelines in 2008 and 
their aim is to ensure that older Europeans with type 2 diabetes have 
high-quality diabetes care throughout their lives. The working party has created 
guidelines for the use of many drugs, and we will discuss some of these 
guidelines on the use of oral antidiabetic agents and their importance in the 
presence of frailty. Furthermore, as type 2 diabetes progresses in older 
persons, polypharmacy intensification is usually required to reach adequate 
glycaemic control, with the risk of adverse effects. In particular, clinical 
evidence shows that the use of sulfonylureas is associated with a greater risk 
of hypoglycaemica, whereas metformin and alpha-glucosidase inhibitors are 
associated with an increased risk of adverse gastrointestinal effects. The 
adverse effects of the recently introduced DPP-4 inhibitors are nasopharyngitis 
and/or upper respiratory tract infections. The literature suggests that oral 
antidiabetic agents are suitable for older persons; however, underappreciated 
risk factors, such as cognitive decline in frail individuals, have an important 
impact on oral antidiabetic treatment options.

DOI: 10.2165/11534660-000000000-00000
PMID: 20136169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. J Med Econ. 2010 Mar;13(1):168-78. doi: 10.3111/13696991003652248.

The cost-effectiveness of somatropin treatment for short children born small for 
gestational age (SGA) and children with growth hormone deficiency (GHD) in 
Sweden.

Christensen T(1), Fidler C, Bentley A, Djurhuus C.

Author information:
(1)Novo Nordisk A/S, Hummeltoftevej 49, Virum, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Reduction in health-related quality of life is common in children 
born small for gestational age (SGA) or children with growth hormone deficiency 
(GHD). Growth hormone treatment with somatropin in these children leads to 
normalisation of height. The aim of this study was to determine whether 
somatropin is a cost-effective treatment option for short children born SGA and 
GHD children in Sweden.
METHODS: A Markov decision-tree model was used to calculate the relative costs 
and health benefits associated with somatropin treatment over the lifetime of 
SGA and GHD children, compared with no treatment. The analysis was undertaken 
from a Swedish Health Service perspective. As quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
data were not obtained directly in the clinical studies, a degree of uncertainty 
is related to these results. Sensitivity analyses assessed the degree of 
uncertainty surrounding central parameters.
RESULTS: For short children born SGA, somatropin treatment was associated with 
an additional 3.29 QALYs at an incremental cost of 792,489 SEK (Swedish Krona), 
compared with no treatment. For GHD, somatropin treatment resulted in 3.25 
additional QALYs at an incremental cost of 391,291 SEK. This equates to an 
incremental cost per QALY of 240,831 SEK and 120,494 SEK for SGA and GHD, 
respectively, below a cost-effectiveness threshold of 500,000-600,000 SEK/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Somatropin is a cost-effective treatment strategy in Sweden for 
children with GHD and SGA. To overcome present study limitations future clinical 
research should incorporate appropriate quality of life questionnaires.

DOI: 10.3111/13696991003652248
PMID: 20136580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2010 Feb;8(2):251-8. doi: 10.1586/erc.10.3.

Systolic and diastolic left ventricular dysfunction: from risk factors to overt 
heart failure.

Kuznetsova T(1), Herbots L, Jin Y, Stolarz-Skrzypek K, Staessen JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hypertension and Cardiac Rehabilitation, Department of 
Cardiovascular Diseases, University of Leuven, Campus Sint Rafaël, 
Kapucijnenvoer 35, Block D, B-3000 Leuven, Belgium. 
tatiana.kouznetsova@med.kuleuven.be

Because life expectancy and the prevalence of risk factors such as hypertension, 
obesity and diabetes are rising globally, heart failure (HF) is growing into a 
major health problem. Impairment of left ventricular (LV) diastolic function as 
well as systolic function appear very early in the course of heart disease. 
Recent HF guidelines, therefore, place special emphasis on the detection of 
subclinical LV dysfunction and the timely identification of risk factors for HF. 
Conventional echocardiography combined with new imaging techniques such as 
tissue Doppler and tissue tracking are sensitive tools to detect early 
subclinical deterioration of LV function. Community-based studies revealed a 
higher prevalence of LV systolic and diastolic dysfunction using the new 
echocardiographic imaging techniques. Future prospective studies will clarify 
the hitherto unknown prognosis associated with early symptom-free LV 
dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1586/erc.10.3
PMID: 20136611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Risk Anal. 2010 Feb;30(2):175-82. doi: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2009.01349.x.
Epub  2010 Feb 2.

The use of surrogate species in risk assessment: using life history data to 
safeguard against false negatives.

Banks JE(1), Ackleh AS, Stark JD.

Author information:
(1)Environmental Science Program, Interdisciplinary Arts and Sciences, 
University of Washington, Tacoma, WA 98402, USA. banksj@uw.edu

The use of surrogate species is an important tool in predicting the effects of 
management decisions or the establishment of protective measures for 
endangered/threatened species. While relying on a handful of model species to 
predict the fate of scores of distantly related target species has been 
criticized, a quantitative measure linking life history traits and population 
predictions has been sorely missing. We derive here a closed-form expression 
aimed at determining conditions under which sublethal effects of a toxicant on 
surrogate species population outcomes will reliably predict outcomes of target 
(listed) species. We develop a critical threshold in fecundity reduction above 
which the surrogate species outcomes indicate positive population growth, while 
the listed species is driven to extinction. Thus we have established a means of 
determining conditions under which we are prone to making a "Type II" error in 
assessing ecological risk using surrogate species. Finally, we use the derived 
expression and life history data to compare outcomes from four different 
commonly used fish surrogate species (round goby, fathead minnow, smallmouth 
bass, cutthroat trout) and their target listed species (Chinook and Coho 
salmon). We illustrate that all four surrogate species fail to predict 
population outcomes for the listed species in cases of as little as 15% 
fecundity reduction due to toxicant exposure. Furthermore, surrogate species 
reliability is a function of toxicant level, so that some species are reliable 
at some levels but not at others. We discuss the implications of these findings, 
and outline further analyses that occur as a natural extension of the criteria 
developed here.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1539-6924.2009.01349.x
PMID: 20136742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. Int J Food Microbiol. 2010 Apr 30;139(1-2):23-30. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2010.01.010. Epub 2010 Jan 20.

Antimicrobial activities of tapioca starch/decolorized hsian-tsao leaf gum 
coatings containing green tea extracts in fruit-based salads, romaine hearts and 
pork slices.

Chiu PE(1), Lai LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology, National Chung Hsing 
University, 250 Kuo-Kuang Road, Taichung, 402, Taiwan, ROC.

The antimicrobial activities of edible coatings based on a tapioca 
starch/decolorized hsian-tsao leaf gum (dHG) matrix with various green tea 
extracts (GTEs) were evaluated. Its effect on the shelf-life extension of 
fruit-based salads, romaine hearts, and pork slices were investigated as well. 
Three types of GTEs from hot water (80 degrees C) (W), 40% (E4) and 80% (E8) 
ethanol were prepared. It was found that all GTEs showed pronounced inhibition 
on Gram positive bacteria in agar media, including Staphylococcus aureus BCRC 
10781, Bacillus cereus BCRC 11778 and Listeria monocytogenes BCRC 14848, but not 
on Gram negative bacteria, such as Escherichia coli DH10beta and Salmonella 
enteria BCRC 10747. The antimicrobial activities increased with increasing GTEs 
concentration (1, 2 and 5%), but did not differentiate significantly in terms of 
the effect of extraction solvents. When various GTEs (1%) were added to an 
edible coating formulation based on 1.35% tapioca starch +0.15% dHG +0.225% 
glycerol, pronounced antimicrobial activity on Gram positive bacteria was also 
observed as evaluated by using cylinder diffusion and antimicrobial migration 
tests. It was believed that the active compounds in green tea extracts could 
leave the coating matrix and migrate to increase the non-growth area. When being 
sprayed on various real food models, all tapioca starch/dHG coatings containing 
GTEs could successfully reduce the aerobic counting and growth of yeasts/molds 
by 1 to 2 log cycles in fruit-based salads, as compared to the control sample. 
Furthermore, during refrigerated storage of romaine hearts and pork slices for 
48h, tapioca starch/dHG coatings with E4 extracts demonstrated pronounced 
antimicrobial activity against Gram positive bacteria (4-6 log cycles 
reduction), followed by W extracts and E8 extracts in a decreasing order. Such 
results implied the high efficacy of antimicrobial migration of tapioca 
starch/dHG coatings containing GTEs and their application potentials on foods.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2010.01.010
PMID: 20138382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Stat Methods Med Res. 2010 Feb;19(1):3-4. doi: 10.1177/0962280209105018.

Recent developments in survival analysis.

Andersen PK.

DOI: 10.1177/0962280209105018
PMID: 20139135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2010 Apr;95(4):1672-80. doi: 10.1210/jc.2009-1803.
Epub  2010 Feb 5.

To stimulate or withdraw? A cost-utility analysis of recombinant human 
thyrotropin versus thyroxine withdrawal for radioiodine ablation in patients 
with low-risk differentiated thyroid cancer in the United States.

Wang TS(1), Cheung K, Mehta P, Roman SA, Walker HD, Sosa JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
53226, USA. tswang@mcw.edu

CONTEXT: Use of recombinant human TSH (rhTSH) prior to radioactive iodine 
remnant ablation for patients with differentiated thyroid cancer avoids the 
hypothyroid state and improves quality of life. European studies have shown that 
use of rhTSH vs. thyroid hormone withdrawal is a cost-effective method for 
preparing patients for ablation.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the study was to determine the cost-utility of rhTSH 
prior to ablation in the United States.
DESIGN/SETTING/SUBJECTS: A Markov decision model was developed for a 
hypothetical group of adult patients with low-risk differentiated thyroid cancer 
who were prepared for ablation by either rhTSH or thyroid hormone withdrawal. 
Patients entered the model after initial thyroidectomy; follow-up was in 
accordance with current American Thyroid Association guidelines. Input data were 
obtained from the literature, Medicare reimbursement schedule, and U.S. Bureau 
of Labor Statistics. Sensitivity analyses were performed for all clinically 
relevant inputs.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-utility, measured in U.S. dollars per 
quality-adjusted life-year ($/QALY), was measured.
RESULTS: Use of rhTSH yielded an incremental cost-utility of $52,554/QALY (95% 
confidence interval $52,058-53,050/QALY) (incremental societal cost of 
$1,365/patient; incremental benefit of 0.026 QALY/patient). The majority of cost 
and benefit occurs during the preablation, ablation, and postablation period; 
differences in cost are due to cost of rhTSH and differences in productivity 
loss (days off work). The model was most sensitive to changes in time off work, 
cost of rhTSH, and differences in utilities of health states.
CONCLUSIONS: In the United States, the cost-effectiveness of rhTSH for ablation 
in patients with low-risk differentiated thyroid cancer is highly dependent on 
potential variations in cost of rhTSH, rates of remnant ablation, time off work, 
and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2009-1803
PMID: 20139234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Br J Radiol. 2010 Feb;83(986):152-8. doi: 10.1259/bjr/29879495.

Radiation dose and cancer risk in retrospectively and prospectively ECG-gated 
coronary angiography using 64-slice multidetector CT.

Huang B(1), Li J, Law MW, Zhang J, Shen Y, Khong PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.

Comment in
    Br J Radiol. 2010 Jun;83(990):541.

This study aimed to estimate the radiation dose and cancer risk to adults in 
England, the USA and Hong Kong associated with retrospectively and prospectively 
electrocardiogram (ECG)-gated coronary computed tomography angiography (CTA) 
using currently practised protocols in Hong Kong. The doses were simulated using 
the ImPACT spreadsheet. For retrospectively ECG-gated CTA with pitches of 0.2, 
0.22 and 0.24, the effective doses were 27.7, 23.6 and 20.7 mSv, respectively, 
for males and 23.6, 20.0 and 18.8 mSv, respectively, for females. For 
prospectively ECG-gated CTA, the effective dose was 3.7 mSv for both males and 
females. A table of lifetime attributable risks (LAR) of cancer incidence was 
set up for the English population for the purpose of estimating cancer risk 
induced by low-dose radiation exposure, as previously reported for US and Hong 
Kong populations. From the tables, the LAR of cancer incidence for a 
representative 50-year-old subject was calculated for retrospectively ECG-gated 
CTA to be 0.112% and 0.227% for English males and females, respectively, 0.103% 
and 0.228% for US males and females, respectively, and was comparatively higher 
at 0.137% and 0.370% for Hong Kong males and females, respectively; for 
prospectively ECG-gated CTA, the corresponding values were calculated to be 
0.014% and 0.035% for English males and females, respectively, and 0.013% and 
0.036% for US males and females, respectively, and again were higher at 0.017% 
and 0.060% for Hong Kong males and females, respectively. Our study shows that 
prospectively ECG-gated CTA reduces radiation dose and cancer risks by up to 87% 
compared with retrospectively ECG-gated CTA.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr/29879495
PMCID: PMC3473541
PMID: 20139263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2010 Apr;76(7):2181-91. doi: 10.1128/AEM.02430-09.
Epub  2010 Feb 5.

Probabilistic model for Listeria monocytogenes growth during distribution, 
retail storage, and domestic storage of pasteurized milk.

Koutsoumanis K(1), Pavlis A, Nychas GJ, Xanthiakos K.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Microbiology and Hygiene, Department of Food Science and 
Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, 
Thessaloniki 54124, Greece. kkoutsou@agro.auth.gr

A survey on the time-temperature conditions of pasteurized milk in Greece during 
transportation to retail, retail storage, and domestic storage and handling was 
performed. The data derived from the survey were described with appropriate 
probability distributions and introduced into a growth model of Listeria 
monocytogenes in pasteurized milk which was appropriately modified for taking 
into account strain variability. Based on the above components, a probabilistic 
model was applied to evaluate the growth of L. monocytogenes during the chill 
chain of pasteurized milk using a Monte Carlo simulation. The model predicted 
that, in 44.8% of the milk cartons released in the market, the pathogen will 
grow until the time of consumption. For these products the estimated mean total 
growth of L. monocytogenes during transportation, retail storage, and domestic 
storage was 0.93 log CFU, with 95th and 99th percentiles of 2.68 and 4.01 log 
CFU, respectively. Although based on EU regulation 2073/2005 pasteurized milk 
produced in Greece belongs to the category of products that do not allow the 
growth of L. monocytogenes due to a shelf life (defined by law) of 5 days, the 
above results show that this shelf life limit cannot prevent L. monocytogenes 
from growing under the current chill chain conditions. The predicted percentage 
of milk cartons-initially contaminated with 1 cell/1-liter carton-in which the 
pathogen exceeds the safety criterion of 100 cells/ml at the time of consumption 
was 0.14%. The probabilistic model was used for an importance analysis of the 
chill chain factors, using rank order correlation, while selected intervention 
and shelf life increase scenarios were evaluated. The results showed that simple 
interventions, such as excluding the door shelf from the domestic storage of 
pasteurized milk, can effectively reduce the growth of the pathogen. The door 
shelf was found to be the warmest position in domestic refrigerators, and it was 
most frequently used by the consumers for domestic storage of pasteurized milk. 
Furthermore, the model predicted that a combination of this intervention with a 
decrease of the mean temperature of domestic refrigerators by 2 degrees C may 
allow an extension of pasteurized milk shelf life from 5 to 7 days without 
affecting the current consumer exposure to L. monocytogenes.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.02430-09
PMCID: PMC2849245
PMID: 20139308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Public Health (Oxf). 2010 Jun;32(2):277-82. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdp129.
Epub  2010 Feb 6.

Research into practice: 10 years of international public health partnership 
between the UK and Swaziland.

Wright J(1), Walley J, Philip A, Petros H, Ford H.

Author information:
(1)Bradford Institute for Health Research, Bradford Royal Infirmary, Duckworth 
Lane, Bradford, UK. carolyn.clover@bradfordhospitals.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: There is increasing interest in global health partnerships. However, 
evidence of benefit remains weak. We report on the impact of a 10-year public 
health partnership between the UK and Swaziland. Swaziland has the highest rates 
of TB and HIV in the world. Health services are being overwhelmed and patients 
suffer the cost and inconvenience of centralized services. Our international 
health partnership was set up to promote the translation of public health 
research into practice.
METHODS: The partnership is based on six principles: sustainability; robust 
measurement; evidence-based practice; patient-centred improvement; systems 
approach and researchers as implementers. Based on rigorous health needs 
assessments and informed by international evidence, we have achieved a number of 
successful changes.
RESULTS: The partnership has been successful in the development of a community 
TB service; a chronic disease programme for epilepsy; implementation of 
guidelines; implementation of ART programmes; nurse-led community ART clinics; 
innovations to improve follow-up and expert patients.
CONCLUSION: Global inequalities are increasing rapidly and international 
partnership has an important role in tackling this threat. Partnerships should 
be based on sustainable, long-term links with a strong foundation of trust and 
mutual support. Effective leadership, good communication, clinical engagement 
and interagency collaboration are pre-requisites for the successful 
implementation of success.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdp129
PMID: 20139438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Rev Saude Publica. 2010 Feb;44(1):148-58. doi:
10.1590/s0034-89102010000100016.

Time orientation and executive functions in the prediction of mortality in the 
elderly: Epidoso study.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Xavier AJ(1), d'Orsi E, Sigulem D, Ramos LR.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Informática em Saúde, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brasil. andre.xavier@unifesp.br

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the predictive ability of a functional cognitive index of 
mortality in the elderly.
METHODS: Cohort study performed with 1,667 elderly individuals aged more than 65 
years and living in the city of São Paulo, Southeastern Brazil, between 1991 and 
2001. Functional cognitive index was constructed from time orientation and 
executive functions (going shopping and taking medication), controlled by 
sociodemographic variables, life habits, morbidity, self-perception of health, 
hospitalization, edentulism and social support. Deaths occurred during this 
period were analyzed with family members in home interviews, notary public 
offices and records from the Fundação Seade (State System of Data Analysis 
Foundation), until 2003. Crude and adjusted relative risks were calculated with 
their respective 95% confidence intervals, using bivariate and multiple analysis 
with Poisson regression and p<0.05.
RESULTS: In the final multivariate model, the following independent risk factors 
were identified by the index: partial loss of time orientation or executive 
functions (RR=1.37; 95% CI: 1.03;1.83); total loss of orientation and partial 
loss of functions (RR=1.71; 95% CI: 1.24;2.37); partial loss of orientation and 
total loss of functions (RR=1.76; 95% CI: 1.35;2.28); and total loss of 
orientation and functions (RR=1.64; 95% CI: 1.30;2.06). As regards health 
conditions, the following were observed: hospitalization (RR=1.45; 95% CI: 
1.22;1.73); diabetes (RR=1.20; 95% CI: 1.00;1.44); and total edentulism 
(RR=1.34; 95% CI: 1.09;1.66). Monthly contact with relatives was identified as a 
protective factor (RR=0.83; 95% CI: 0.69;1.00).
CONCLUSIONS: The Functional Cognitive Index can help clinicians and health 
planners to make decisions on strategies for follow-up and prevention of 
treatable causes of cognitive deficit and functional loss to reduce mortality in 
the elderly.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-89102010000100016
PMID: 20140339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. S Afr J Surg. 2009 Nov;47(4):131-3.

Osteopetrosis--a challenge for the orthopaedic surgeon.

Cadosch D(1), Gautschi OP, Brockamp T, Zellweger R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, 
School of Anatomy and Human Biology, University of Western Australia, Australia.

Osteopetrosis (OP) is a rare heterogeneous group of inherited skeletal 
dysplasias characterised by osteoclast dysfunction, impaired bone resorption and 
poor bone remodelling. Three groups can be categorised on the basis of clinical 
findings. These include neurological symptoms, haematological abnormalities and 
renal tubular acidosis in the first group. Increased bone density, osteomyelitis 
and frequent fractures are the clinical findings in the second group, and the 
third group have normal life expectancy but may develop cranial nerve 
compression and osteomyelitis. Fractures in patients with OP are common and 
require appropriate pre-, peri- and postoperative management. The long bones are 
most frequently affected, fractures of the femoral neck and proximal (upper 
third) shaft being particularly common. This case report proposes possible 
operative fracture treatment in a patient with OP and highlights the potential 
perioperative pitfalls in this rare surgical population.

PMID: 20141071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. J Med Econ. 2010 Mar;13(1):148-61. doi: 10.3111/13696990903562861.

A cost-effectiveness analysis of MMX mesalazine compared with mesalazine in the 
treatment of mild-to-moderate ulcerative colitis from a UK perspective.

Brereton N(1), Bodger K, Kamm MA, Hodgkins P, Yan S, Akehurst R.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), The University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, UK. nbrereton@bresmed.co.uk

OBJECTIVES: To perform a cost-utility analysis of a new formulation of 
mesalazine (Mezavant XL, MMX mesalazine) versus an existing oral mesalazine 
(Asacol; mesalazine) from the UK National Health Service perspective.
METHODS: A 5-year Markov cohort model was developed. Costs were obtained from 
the literature and utilities from an independent study. Uncertainty was 
evaluated using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA). The 
potential effect of dosing frequency on adherence and possible long-term effects 
of remission maintenance on colorectal cancer (CRC) rates were also 
investigated.
RESULTS: The model suggested that 5-year therapy with MMX mesalazine was likely 
to generate gains when compared with mesalazine, including a gain of 0.011 QALYs 
per patient, 19 more remission days, and 12% fewer hospitalizations and surgical 
episodes. These gains came at an increase in total NHS direct cost of £8, 
resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £749. The PSA 
suggested that MMX mesalazine had a 62% chance of resulting in cost savings, and 
a 74% chance of being cost-effective (£20,000 threshold). Extended analysis 
including adherence and CRC effects suggested further incremental benefit of MMX 
mesalazine over mesalazine could be expected. Limitations include uncertainty in 
extrapolation to a 5-year time horizon and impact of adherence and drug 
acquisition costs on outcomes.
CONCLUSION: The pharmacoeconomic analysis suggested that MMX mesalazine is 
likely to produce small, but worthwhile, increases in total NHS direct cost 
while increasing time in remission and associated quality of life, when compared 
with mesalazine. Advantages in adherence to treatment with MMX mesalazine 
relative to mesalazine suggested that further health gains and cost savings can 
be obtained. Overall, these results suggest that MMX mesalazine is a 
cost-effective treatment for UC.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903562861
PMID: 20141380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Prosthet Orthot Int. 2010 Mar;34(1):10-9. doi: 10.3109/03093640903051808.

The combined effect of Dynamic splinting and Neuromuscular electrical 
stimulation in reducing wrist and elbow contractures in six children with 
Cerebral palsy.

Postans N(1), Wright P, Bromwich W, Wilkinson I, Farmer SE, Swain I.

Author information:
(1)The Robert Jones & Agnes Hunt (RJAH) Orthopaedic and District Hospital NHS 
Trust, Orthotic Research & Locomotor Assessment Unit (ORLAU), Oswestry, 
Shropshire, UK. neil.postans@rjah.nhs.uk

The aim of this pilot study was to investigate the feasibility of applying the 
combination of Dynamic splinting (DS) and Neuromuscular electrical stimulation 
(NMES) in order to improve wrist and elbow function, and range of motion, in 
children with upper limb contractures due to Cerebral palsy (CP). Six children 
aged seven to 16, with contractures at the wrist or elbow, were recruited. 
Following a 12-week baseline period all participants underwent a 12-week 
treatment period where DS was used for one hour per day and combined with NMES 
for the second half of the 1-h treatment. A 12-week follow-up period then 
ensued. Upper limb function was assessed with the Melbourne assessment, physical 
disability with the Paediatric Evaluation of Disability Index and the Activity 
Scale for Kids, and quality of life with the Pediatric Quality of Life Scale. 
Passive and active range of motion at the wrist and elbow were measured using 
manual and electrical goniometers. The technique of using combined NMES and DS 
was demonstrated to be feasible and compliance with the intervention was good. 
There was an increase in passive elbow extension in two participants treated for 
elbow contractures, although no accompanying change in upper limb function was 
demonstrated. Wrist range of movement improved in one participant treated for 
wrist contracture.

DOI: 10.3109/03093640903051808
PMID: 20141494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2010 Feb;8(2):148-54. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2010.0011.

A method for using life tables to estimate lifetime risk for prostate cancer 
death.

Kim HL(1), Puymon MR, Qin M, Guru K, Mohler JL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, California 
90048, USA. kimhl@cshs.org

Prostate cancer can have a long and indolent course, and management without 
curative therapy should be considered in select patients. When counseling 
patients, a useful way to convey the risk for death from competing causes is to 
estimate their lifetime risk for dying from prostate cancer. Double-decrement 
life tables were constructed to calculate age-specific death rates using the 
death probabilities from the Social Security Administration life tables and 
Gleason score-specific mortality rates reported from a pre-PSA cohort study. The 
lifetime risk for prostate cancer death was calculated. Life tables provided 
life expectancy and risk for prostate cancer death based on age at diagnosis. 
For example, a 60-year-old patient with a Gleason score 6, 7, or 8 tumor had an 
overall life expectancy of 14.4, 10.2, or 6.6 years, respectively. The risk for 
prostate cancer death during the expected years of life was 33%, 49%, or 57%, 
respectively. If a 10-year lead-time bias was assumed for PSA detection, the 
risks for death from prostate cancer decreased to 16%, 26%, or 37%, 
respectively. If the patient was in the bottom quartile for overall health and 
disease was detected by prostate examination, the risk for death from prostate 
cancer was 21%, 32%, or 40%, respectively. A Web-based tool for performing these 
calculations is available at 
http://www.roswellpark.org/Patient_Care/Specialized_Services/Prostate_Cancer_Estimator.html. 
Life tables can be created to estimate overall life expectancy and risk for 
prostate cancer death, and to assist with decision-making when considering 
management without curative therapy.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2010.0011
PMID: 20141675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2010 Feb;8(2):162-200. doi: 10.6004/jnccn.2010.0012.

NCCN clinical practice guidelines in oncology: prostate cancer.

Mohler J, Bahnson RR, Boston B, Busby JE, D'Amico A, Eastham JA, Enke CA, George 
D, Horwitz EM, Huben RP, Kantoff P, Kawachi M, Kuettel M, Lange PH, Macvicar G, 
Plimack ER, Pow-Sang JM, Roach M 3rd, Rohren E, Roth BJ, Shrieve DC, Smith MR, 
Srinivas S, Twardowski P, Walsh PC.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2010.0012
PMID: 20141676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Presse Med. 2009 Dec;38 Suppl 1:1S18-22. doi: 10.1016/S0755-4982(09)73420-7.

[Eisenmenger syndrome. Specific treatments].

[Article in French]

Acar P(1).

Author information:
(1)Hôpital des Enfants, Toulouse, France. acar.p@chu-toulouse.fr

DOI: 10.1016/S0755-4982(09)73420-7
PMID: 20141997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. J Card Fail. 2010 Feb;16(2):106-13. doi: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2009.09.003.
Epub  2009 Nov 4.

Patient expectations from implantable defibrillators to prevent death in heart 
failure.

Stewart GC(1), Weintraub JR, Pratibhu PP, Semigran MJ, Camuso JM, Brooks K, 
Tsang SW, Anello MS, Nguyen VT, Lewis EF, Nohria A, Desai AS, Givertz MM, 
Stevenson LW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 
02115, USA. gcstewart@partners.org

BACKGROUND: Indications for implantable cardioverter-defibrillators (ICDs) in 
heart failure (HF) are expanding and may include more than 1 million patients. 
This study examined patient expectations from ICDs for primary prevention of 
sudden death in HF.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Study participants (n = 105) had an EF <35% and symptomatic 
HF, without history of ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation or syncope. Subjects 
completed a written survey about perceived ICD benefits, survival expectations, 
and circumstances under which they might deactivate defibrillation. Mean age was 
58, LVEF 21%, 40% were New York Heart Association Class III-IV, and 65% already 
had a primary prevention ICD. Most patients anticipated more than10 years 
survival despite symptomatic HF. Nearly 54% expected an ICD to save >or=50 lives 
per 100 during 5 years. ICD recipients expressed more confidence that the device 
would save their own lives compared with those without an ICD (P < .001). 
Despite understanding the ease of deactivation, 70% of ICD recipients indicated 
they would keep the ICD on even if dying of cancer, 55% even if having daily 
shocks, and none would inactivate defibrillation even if suffering constant 
dyspnea at rest.
CONCLUSIONS: HF patients anticipate long survival, overestimate survival 
benefits conferred by ICDs, and express reluctance to deactivate their devices 
even for end-stage disease.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2009.09.003
PMCID: PMC4497779
PMID: 20142021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests: None.


511. EuroIntervention. 2010 Feb;5(7):763-7. doi: 10.4244/eijv5i7a128.

Cost effectiveness of coronary revascularisation.

Birim O, Bogers AJ, Kappetein AP.

DOI: 10.4244/eijv5i7a128
PMID: 20142188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. EuroIntervention. 2010 Feb;5(7):826-32. doi: 10.4244/eijv5i7a138.

Cost-effectiveness of the Endeavor stent in de novo native coronary artery 
lesions updated with contemporary data.

Remak E(1), Manson S, Hutton J, Brasseur P, Olivier E, Gershlick A.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, London, United Kingdom.

AIMS: The Endeavor zotarolimus-eluting coronary stent has been shown to reduce 
the restenosis rate compared to bare metal stents and has impacted other 
clinical measures such as mortality, acute myocardial infarctions (AMI) and 
target vessel revascularisation (TVR).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Using pooled efficacy data from the Endeavor clinical trial 
programme, a model was developed to compare the cost effectiveness of the 
Endeavor drug eluting stent (DES) with the Driver bare meal stent (BMS) over a 
four year time period. Endeavor was more costly but had an improved clinical 
outcome compared to Driver BMS over four years with a 4% reduction in deaths, 
33% reduction in AMI and a 45% reduction in TVR. Late stent thrombosis was the 
only event showing an increased incidence for Endeavor of 0.2% compared to 0% 
for Driver. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio was pound3,757/quality 
adjusted life years (QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: Although much controversy has surrounded the appropriate way to 
assess the cost effectiveness of DES technology, a comprehensive analysis is 
presented and this suggests that by using extended clinical trial data out to 
four years, the Endeavor DES in particular, but DES technologies in general, are 
cost-effective approaches to percutaneous coronary intervention.

DOI: 10.4244/eijv5i7a138
PMID: 20142198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. CMAJ. 2010 Feb 9;182(2):176. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.110-2014.

What did the doctor say?

Hashimoto SA.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2009 Nov 24;181(11):868.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.110-2014
PMCID: PMC2817332
PMID: 20142391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. CMAJ. 2010 Feb 9;182(2):176. doi: 10.1503/cmaj.110-2013.

Prediction versus prognosis.

Workman SR.

Comment on
    CMAJ. 2009 Nov 24;181(11):868.

DOI: 10.1503/cmaj.110-2013
PMCID: PMC2817331
PMID: 20142392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

