
OBJECTIVE: This randomised clinical trial evaluated the survival rate of 
resin-based restorations in Class I and Class II beveled preparations in primary 
molars, over 48 months.
METHODS: Forty-eight children received 141 restorations in beveled cavosurface 
margin preparations in primary molars randomly assigned by a lottery method: 46 
received treatment with Vitremer Tri-Cure Glass Ionomer System (33 Class I and 
13 Class II restorations); 51 received treatment with Freedom (36 Class I and 15 
Class II restorations); 44 received treatment with TPH Spectrum (30 Class I and 
14 Class II restorations). Two calibrated examiners (weight kappa> or =0.85) 
evaluated the restorations using the modified USPHS criteria and visible plaque 
index score at baseline and after 12, 24, 36 and 48 months. Cox regression with 
survival analysis and logistic regression evaluated the clinical performance of 
restorations.
RESULTS: After 48 months, 11 teeth had exfoliated, 16 restorations were 
dropouts, 83 restorations were clinically successful of which 26 had used 
Vitremer, 32 had used Freedom and 25 had used TPH Spectrum. Thirty-one 
restorations failed because of secondary caries, fractures and loss of 
retention. The cumulative survival was 73.9%, 83.4% and 79.6%, respectively for 
Vitremer, Freedom and THP Spectrum with no differences among materials (Log Rank 
Mantel-Cox, p>0.05). However, the Class II cavity preparation reduced the 
survival of the restorations (OR=5.1) for all materials evaluated (p>0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The life expectancy of Vitremer, Freedom and THP Spectrum in Class 
I and Class II restorations could be comparable after 48 months.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdent.2010.02.004
PMID: 20188783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Reprod Biomed Online. 2010 May;20(5):667-74. doi:
10.1016/j.rbmo.2009.12.015.  Epub 2009 Dec 16.

Saviour embryos? Preimplantation genetic diagnosis as a therapeutic technology.

Sparrow R(1), Cram D.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Bioethics, Faculty of Arts, Monash University, Vic 3800, 
Australia. Robert.Sparrow@arts.monash.edu.au

Comment in
    Reprod Biomed Online. 2010 May;20(5):569-71.

The creation of 'saviour siblings' is one of the most controversial uses of 
preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD). This paper outlines and invites ethical 
discussion of an extension of this technology, namely, the creation of 'saviour 
embryos' to serve as a source of stem cells to be used in potentially 
life-saving therapy for an existing child. A number of analogies between this 
hypothetical use of PGD and existing uses of IVF are offered and, in addition, 
between saviour embryos and proposed therapeutic applications of stem cell 
technology. The ethical significance of a number of disanalogies between these 
cases are explored and investigated. While the creation of saviour embryos would 
involve a significant shift in the rationale for IVF and PGD, it is suggested 
here that the urgent need of an existing individual should be prioritised over 
any obligations that might exist in relation to the creation or destruction of 
human embryos.

Copyright (c) 2009 Reproductive Healthcare Ltd. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rbmo.2009.12.015
PMID: 20189455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Med Decis Making. 2010 May-Jun;30(3):E12-9. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09357476.
Epub  2010 Feb 26.

Time lost by driving fast in the United States.

Redelmeier DA(1), Bayoumi AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, 
Department of Health Policy, Management, & Evaluation University of Toronto, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. dar@ices.on.ca

BACKGROUND: Motor vehicle drivers make decisions about speed while traveling and 
thereby trade off a potential saving from shorter travel time (if the trip is 
uneventful) against a potential loss of time (if the trip results in a crash).
METHODS: The authors used computerized modeling based on national data to 
examine the benefits from small changes in average driver speed on public health 
in the United States. Lost time due to both travel and crashing was calculated, 
along with optimal speed to minimize net time lost.
RESULTS: The baseline analysis suggested that 1 hour spent driving was 
associated with approximately 20 minutes of additional lost time in life 
expectancy due to the potential of a crash. A approximately 1-km/h (0.6-mph) 
increase in speed for the average driver yielded a approximately 26-second 
approximate increase (not decrease) in total expected lost time because the 
savings from reduced travel time were more than offset by the increased prospect 
of a crash. A 3.0-km/h (1.8-mph) decrease in average driving speed yielded the 
least amount of total time lost (95% confidence interval [CI]: 2.5-4.1 km/ h 
[1.5-2.5 mph]). This speed yielded about 11,000 fewer crashes each day, saved 
about 3.6 hours per year for the average driver (95% CI: 2.0-6.2 hours), and 
conserved about 199 cumulative life years for society annually.
CONCLUSIONS: As a nation, drivers in the United States travel slightly too fast 
and could improve overall life expectancy by decreasing their average speed 
slightly.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09357476
PMID: 20190187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Age Ageing. 2010 May;39(3):289-94. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afq009. Epub 2010 Feb
26.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in older people.

Pratt G(1), Gascoyne K, Cunningham K, Tunbridge A.

Author information:
(1)Northern General Hospital, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Herries Road, Sheffield, UK. gary.pratt@live.co.uk

The number of older people living with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in the 
UK is rising. Older people are at risk of acquiring HIV infection for a 
multitude of reasons. This, combined with effective HIV treatment which has 
significantly prolonged life expectancy, means that health care professionals 
working in the UK can expect to see increasing numbers of older people with HIV 
infection. In this review article, we summarise the epidemiology of HIV amongst 
older people, including data from our local cohort in the city of Sheffield, UK. 
We discuss specific and practical issues in older patients including why older 
people are at risk, how to make a diagnosis and the importance of doing so 
early, guidelines for HIV testing and an update on anti-retroviral therapy 
including drug interactions and side effects.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afq009
PMID: 20190230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Horm Res Paediatr. 2010;73(1):15-24. doi: 10.1159/000271912. Epub 2010 Jan
15.

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes in childhood.

O'Riordan SM(1), Dattani MT, Hindmarsh PC.

Author information:
(1)Developmental Endocrinology Research Group, Clinical and Molecular Genetics 
Unit, Institute of Child Health, University College London, London, UK. 
s.oriordan@ich.ucl.ac.uk

Since the early 1990s the management of children with cystic fibrosis (CF) has 
come a long way and advances in both nutritional and medical care have resulted 
in a median age of survival of 30-35 years, as compared with a life expectancy 
of <1 year in the 1950s. The first definitive reports of glucose intolerance or 
diabetes in CF are from 1955. The combination of CF and related diabetes (CFRD) 
has a negative impact on survival. CFRD is now the most common complication of 
CF (50% of the CF patients will develop diabetes by the age of 30 years), and is 
associated with a 6-fold increase in morbidity and mortality. CFRD is usually 
asymptomatic and can remain undetected for up to 4 years prior to diagnosis. The 
objective of this report was to review the current literature (Medline and 
Pubmed searches) on CFRD in children and adolescents and provide a comprehensive 
report of incidence, prevalence and pathophysiology of insulin deficiency and 
insulin insensitivity. Along with survival and prognosis in CFRD the current 
management strategies in the diagnosis, monitoring and treatment of CFRD will 
also be addressed.

DOI: 10.1159/000271912
PMID: 20190536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2010 Aug;16(1):4-8.

Heart valve replacement for patients with end-stage renal disease in Japan.

Misawa Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Jichi Medical University, Shimotsuke, 
Tochigi, Japan.

There is some controversy regarding the choice of prosthetic valves in patients 
with heart disease and concomitant end-stage renal disease requiring chronic 
dialysis. Dialysis patients tend to have a short life expectancy. In Japan, the 
1-year survival of the dialysis patients was 80% in the 1980s, but exceeds 85% 
in the 2000s. The 5-year survival has been 54%-60% for the past 20 years. In 
addition, the 10-year and 15-year survivals have been 35%-42% and 23%-31%, 
respectively. However, in the United States, the 5-year survival had only 
improved to 35% among patients who started dialysis between 1996 and 2000, and 
the life expectancies of chronic dialysis patients in their sixth, seventh and 
eighth decades is 5.3-6.2 years, 3.8-4.5 years, and 2.7-3.2 years, respectively. 
The life expectancy of dialysis patients in Japan is thus better than that of 
patients in the United States. Some surgeons prefer to use bioprosthetic valves 
because of a high rate of hemorrhagic complications in dialysis patients. They 
are hesitant to use anticoagulation therapy in dialysis patients with mechanical 
valves. Others prefer mechanical valves because of the potential for early 
structural dysfunction of bioprosthetic valves implanted in the dialysis 
patients with abnormal calcium metabolism, which can cause calcium deposition on 
the bioprosthetic valves during the early postoperative period. The life 
expectancy of dialysis patients in Japan is relatively high. The potential risk 
of early calcification of bioprosthetic valves should be taken into account when 
choosing prosthetic heart valves for these patients in Japan.

PMID: 20190702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Dec;25(12):2543-52. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2009001200002.

[Economic evaluation in health: applications in infectious diseases].

[Article in Portuguese]

Vanni T(1), Luz PM, Ribeiro RA, Novaes HM, Polanczyk CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, U.K.

The rise in healthcare expenditures due to the incorporation of new diagnostic 
and therapeutic technologies and increasing life expectancy is a major concern, 
particularly in developing countries. The role of economic evaluation in health 
is to optimize the benefits of available resources. This article aims to allow 
readers to identify the basic characteristics and types of economic evaluation 
in health and understand its methods, with an emphasis on infectious diseases. 
We thus review the following concepts: study perspective, analytic scope, costs, 
and discount rate. We also focus on characteristics of cost-minimization, 
cost-effectiveness, cost-utility, and cost-benefit analyses, with examples. The 
article describes the most popular study designs for economic evaluation, 
discusses different models, and examines the importance of sensitivity analysis. 
Our final comments address the importance of adopting economic evaluations in 
health in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009001200002
PMID: 20191146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Cad Saude Publica. 2009 Dec;25(12):2672-82. doi: 
10.1590/s0102-311x2009001200014.

[Gender differences in avoidable mortality in Brazil (1983-2005)].

[Article in Portuguese]

Abreu DM(1), César CC, França EB.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais, Av. Alfredo 
Balena 190, Belo Horizonte, MG, Brazil. dmxa@medicina.ufmg.br

The aim of the article was to analyze gender differences in mortality in 117 
Brazilian municipalities from 1983 to 2005, based on three groups of causes of 
avoidable death: (1) avoidable through early diagnosis and treatment, (2) 
avoidable by improvements in quality of treatment and medical care, and (3) 
ischemic heart disease. The association between avoidable mortality and 
demographic and socioeconomic conditions and healthcare variables was analyzed 
through negative binomial regression. The multiple decrement technique was used 
to evaluate the impact of avoidable causes on life expectancy for men and women. 
Men showed a higher risk of death for all three groups of avoidable causes, 
after controlling for selected variables. Women would gain more than men, with 
an increase of up to five years in life expectancy, if avoidable causes were 
eliminated by diagnosis and early treatment. Further research is needed in 
gender-related factors, which may be related to differential mortality rates in 
men and women.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-311x2009001200014
PMID: 20191158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Braz J Infect Dis. 2009 Jun;13(3):191-9. doi:
10.1590/s1413-86702009000300007.

Cost effectiveness of peginterferon alfa-2B combined with ribavirin for the 
treatment of chronic hepatitis C in Brazil.

Fonseca MC(1), Araújo GT, Araújo DV.

Author information:
(1)Federal University of São Paulo, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

The treatment of chronic hepatitis C (CHC) with peginterferon alpha-2b/ribavirin 
(PegIFN + Rib) produced larger sustained viral response (SVR) compared to the 
conventional (non-pegylated) interferon/ribavirin (IFN + Rib), but its 
cost-effectiveness was not assessed in Brazil. We developed a Markov model to 
mirror the natural disease history and cohorts of patients with hepatitis C 
virus (HCV), that received PegIFN + Rib or IFN + Rib treatment for 48 or 24 
weeks, according to viral genotype and liver histology. The SVRs for the 
treatments PegIFN + Rib and IFN + Rib were respectively 48% and 34% (genotype 
1), and 88% and 80% (genotype non-1). Three Delphi panels were conducted with 
hepatologists and intensivists, and another one with oncologists. The costs are 
expressed in 2006 Brazilian Reais (R$) and the benefits were discounted at 3%. 
In genotype 1 HCV patients, PegIFN + Rib increases the life expectancy (LE) in 
0.51 year, and the quality-adjusted life years (QALY) in 0.78, as compared to 
IFN + Rib. In genotype non-1 HCV patients, PegIFN + Rib increases the LE in 0.29 
years and the QALY in 0.44 years, as compared to IFN + Rib. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness rate, considering all the genotypes, was of R$19,848.34 per 
QALY. Peginterferon alpha-2b with ribavirin is a cost-effective therapy for the 
treatment of naïve CHC adult patients compared to the interferon alpha-2b and 
ribavirin regime, irrespective of the viral genotype.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-86702009000300007
PMID: 20191195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Int J Methods Psychiatr Res. 2010 Mar;19(1):18-33. doi: 10.1002/mpr.300.

Valuation of health states in the US study to establish disability weights: 
lessons from the literature.

Rehm J(1), Frick U.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
jtrehm@aol.com

The metric of disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) has become the global 
standard of measuring burden of disease. DALYs are comprised of years of life 
lost due to premature mortality and years of healthy life lost due to living 
with disability. In order to calculate the second part of the DALY equation, 
disease specific disability weights have to be established, i.e. measures for 
the decline of health associated with these disease states, which vary between 
zero for perfect health and one for death. Although these disability weights are 
key for estimating DALYs, there have not been many comprehensive studies with 
empirical determinations of them. This article describes a systematic review on 
the state of the art with respect to empirically determining disability weights. 
Based on this review, a multi-method approach is outlined, which has also been 
implemented in a US study to measure burden of disease. This approach involves 
the use of psychometric methodology as well as economic trade-off methods for 
determining the value of health states. It is conceptualized as a disaggregated 
approach, where the disability weight of any health state can be calculated if 
the attributes of this health state are known. The US study received the 
collaboration of experts from more than 20 institutes of the National Institutes 
of Health and of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. First results 
will be available by the end of this year.

Copyright 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mpr.300
PMCID: PMC3306052
PMID: 20191661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Rev Esp Cardiol. 2010 Feb;63(2):156-60. doi: 10.1016/s1885-5857(10)70033-5.

Effectiveness of catheter ablation of ventricular tachycardia in elderly 
patients with structural heart disease.

Viana-Tejedor A(1), Merino JL, Pérez-Silva A, León RC, Reviriego SM, Caraballo 
ED, Peinado RP, López-Sendón JL.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Investigación de Arritmias y Electrofisiología, Servicio de 
Cardiología, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, Spain.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: The implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) is 
a well-recognized means of providing effective treatment for patients with 
ventricular tachycardia (VT) and structural heart disease. However, the benefits 
of these devices in patients with limited life-expectancy have been questioned. 
Moreover, the long-term efficacy of catheter ablation of VT in this setting is 
unknown.
METHODS: This study involved 33 consecutive patients aged over 75 years with 
structural heart disease who underwent catheter ablation of VT. We investigated 
the efficacy of the procedure and its complications, and evaluated patient 
outcomes during follow-up.
RESULTS: The patients' mean age at the time of the procedure was 79.7 (3.7) 
years. Twenty-seven had ischemic heart disease and 6 had dilated cardiomyopathy. 
Their mean left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was 35.9 (8.9%). Ablation 
of clinical VT was successful in 28 patients (84.8%). There were no 
statistically significant differences in the efficacy of ablation between 
patients with post-infarction scars (88.9%) and those with dilated 
cardiomyopathy (66.7%; P=.17). An ICD was implanted after the procedure in 4 
patients. Complications associated with the procedure occurred in only 3 
patients. Twenty patients were contacted later, after a mean follow-up period of 
38.5 (27.7) months. Nine (mean age, 82.2 [4.6] years) were still alive and 
reported a good quality of life, without recurrent arrhythmias.
CONCLUSIONS: Catheter ablation of VT in elderly patients with structural heart 
disease appeared to be effective and relatively safe. It could provide an 
alternative to ICD implantation in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1016/s1885-5857(10)70033-5
PMID: 20191699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2009 Jul-Sep;113(3):874-8.

[Analysis of premature deaths in the Iaşi district].

[Article in Romanian]

Munteanu L(1), Duma O.

Author information:
(1)Direcţia de Sănătate Publică Iaşi.

Potential years of life lost (PYLL) represent an indicator of premature or 
untimely death and take into account the age at which deaths occur by giving 
greater weight to deaths at younger age and lower weight to death at older age.
AIM: This study represents a descriptive analysis of PYLL in district of Iaşi 
compared to country-wide level, during 2006 year.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Premature deaths have been assessed using following 
indicators: PYLL per 1000 population (male, female, total); male : female PYLL 
ratio; average PYLL per a premature death; average PYLL per death. Confidence 
interval CI95 has been used for an accurate comparison district of Iaşi - 
Romania.
RESULTS: The recorded number of PYLL was 67.65 per 1000 population at national 
level and 54.02 per 1000 population in district of Iaşi (CI95 = 67.55-67.75). 
The average number of PYLL per a premature death was 18.21 in Iaşi compared to 
20.71 for Romania (CI95 = 19.75-21.66), whereas the average number of PYLL per 
death was 5.6 for both levels. The values of PYLL by gender pointed out 74.59 
per 1000 male population and 33.99 per 1000 female population in district of 
Iaşi.
CONCLUSION: The analysis of the premature deaths in Iasi revealed a lower loss 
of potential life years compared to values reported at national level. PYLL were 
twice more frequent among male than women. The favourable findings in Iaşi may 
be related to a decrease of infant mortality rate, with a significant 
contribution to PYLL values in this district.

PMID: 20191848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. J Natl Med Assoc. 2010 Feb;102(2):108-17. doi:
10.1016/s0027-9684(15)30498-3.

Racial disparities in urologic health care.

Klein JB(1), Nguyen CT, Saffore L, Modlin C 3rd, Modlin CS Jr.

Author information:
(1)Minority Men's Health Center/Center for Health Equity, Glickman Urological 
and Kidney Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio 44195, USA.

In the United States, disparities in health care delivery and access are 
apparent between different racial and ethnic groups. Minorities, including 
African Americans, often suffer disproportionately from disease compared to 
Caucasians. In the urologic arena, this is apparent in urologic cancer 
screening, treatment choices, and survival, as well as in the arena of chronic 
kidney disease, transplant allocation, and transplant outcomes. Latino men also 
seem to be affected more often by erectile dysfunction than Caucasian 
counterparts. Disparities such as these have been identified as a problem in the 
delivery of health care in the United States, and resources have been allocated 
to help allay the disparity. Through organizations such as the Cleveland Clinic 
Minority Men's Health Center, policy initiatives, and increased cultural 
awareness by physicians, steps can be made to reduce and eliminate health care 
disparities.

DOI: 10.1016/s0027-9684(15)30498-3
PMID: 20191923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Aug;30(8):860-2.

[The evolvement of health expectancy].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang ZY(1), Tang Z, Feng M.

Author information:
(1)Xuanwu Hospital, Captial Medical University, Beijing 100053, China.

PMID: 20193215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Sep;30(9):907-10.

[Study on the relations between smoking and the risk of age-specific lung cancer 
deaths in urban and rural areas of China].

[Article in Chinese]

Zou XN(1), Jiang JM, Liu BQ, Zeng XJ, Wu YP, Chen YL, Zhao P, Li JY.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Institute, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing 100021, China.

OBJECTIVE: To study the association between smoking and lung cancer mortality of 
residents living in the urban and rural areas of China.
METHODS: Using the national census data on causes of death and case-control 
studies, stratified analysis was conducted by parameters as geography and age, 
to calculate the risk ratios, excess risks, average years lost for life 
expectancy by smoking in males and females in 103 cities/counties in China.
RESULTS: Smoking increased the risks for lung cancer death in all ages older 
than 35 years of age, in urban and rural areas, through data analysis on 52 193 
cases died from lung cancer in 1986 - 1988 and 307 934 matched controls in 
China. The risk ratio was 3.0 (95%CI: 2.9 - 3.1) with 53.0% excess for lung 
cancer deaths in the male smokers. The years lost for life expectancy were 18.5 
in urban, and 17.7 in rural male smokers aged 35 to 69 years. Similarly, the 
risk ratio was 3.0 (95%CI: 2.9 - 3.1), with 26.0% excess for lung cancer deaths 
in female smokers. The life-expectancy lost was 13.0 and 20.4 for female smokers 
aged 35 to 69 years in urban and rural areas, respectively.
CONCLUSION: In both urban and rural areas, risk on lung cancer deaths caused by 
smoking in all males and females aged at 35 years and older had been 
significantly increased. Control of smoking prevalence should play a vital role 
in the prevention of the lung cancer death risks in China.

PMID: 20193225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Sep;30(9):927-32.

[Using general growth balance method and synthetic extinct generations methods 
to evaluate the underreporting of death at disease surveillance points from 1991 
to 1998].

[Article in Chinese]

Wan X(1), Zhou MG, Wang LJ, Chen AP, Yang GH.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100005, China.

OBJECTIVE: Using both general growth balance (GGB) and synthetic extinct 
generations (SEG) methods to evaluate the underreporting of deaths in disease 
surveillance points (DSP) from 1991 to 1998.
METHODS: We used those two methods to estimate the underreport rate in DSP from 
1991-1998. According to GGB method, death rate and the difference between entry 
rate and growth rate were regarded as independent and dependent variable, 
respectively, to fit a one-dimensional linear equation n(*)(x) - r(*)(x+) = 
[ln(k(1)/k(2))]/t + [(k(1)k(2))(0.5)/c]d(*)(x+). About SEG method, it was 
calculated by life expectancy at age 85 of national census in 2000 and an 
equation N(x) = integral(x)(infinity)D(a).exp[integral(x)(a)r(u)du]d(a). Then we 
drew scatter diagram to evaluate underreporting of average intercensal 
age-specific mortality rates, and made adjustment.
RESULTS: By GGB method, the population count in 1998 was 87.29 percent as 
complete as the count in 1991. For the period of 1991 - 1998, the number of 
underreporting of deaths was 11.7 percent. The underreporting of average 
intercensal age-specific mortality rates was not high. However, when SEG method 
was used, the underreport rate became 48.0 percent. The underreporting of 
average intercensal age-specific mortality rates decreased significantly from 
younger to older age groups.
CONCLUSION: GGB and SEG could reduce more cost than other underreporting-related 
survey, and evaluate the underreporting in a defined time period. GGB could also 
evaluate the underreporting rate of population and death. However, both these 
two methods had some limitations. There was big difference between the results 
when using SEG and GGB, suggesting that we should try to combine GGB and SEG 
methods to get the better results.

PMID: 20193230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2009 Dec;43(12):1100-4.

[Period survival analysis of esophageal cancer in Linzhou city of Henan 
province].

[Article in Chinese]

Ma YT(1), Lian SY, Liu ZC, Cheng LP, Li BY, Quan PL, Lu JB, Sun XB.

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450001, China.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the survival level and variation of esophageal cancer in 
Linzhou city of Henan province from 1988 to 2004, and evaluate the effects of 
diagnosis and treatments on esophageal cancer in this area.
METHODS: All incidence and death records for esophageal cancer during 1988 to 
2004 were collected from Linzhou Tumor Registry. Cases with duplicate 
information or death certificate only were excluded. A total of 12,160 cases of 
esophageal cancer were collected, of which, 6914 cases were male, and 5246 cases 
were female. The sex-specific and age-specific probabilities of survival in 
1992, 1997 and 2002 were calculated and linked to the data of incidence and 
death on esophageal cancer in this area. Five-year observed survival rate and 
five-year relative survival rate during 1990 to 1994, 1995 to 1999, 2000 to 2004 
were calculated respectively using period survival analysis and cohort survival 
analysis and Z test.
RESULTS: The 5-year relative survival rates among the three-episode were 28.24%, 
35.24% and 40.76% respectively during 1988 to 2004. This showed an increasing 
trend by periods (Z values were 3.94 and 3.07, P < 0.05). The 5-year observed 
survival rates in men among the three-episode were 13.67%, 18.08% and 22.46% 
respectively, the 5-year relative survival rates were 29.94%, 36.96% and 38.40%. 
The 5-year observed survival rates in women among the three-episode were 15.56%, 
19.29% and 28.01% respectively, the 5-year relative survival rates were 26.78%, 
33.12% and 43.70%. During the two former periods, there was no significant 
difference in the 5-year observed survival rate and relative survival rate 
between men and women (Z values of observed survival rate were 1.48 and 0.88, P 
> 0.05. Z values of relative survival rate were 1.27 and 1.50, P > 0.05). In the 
third period, the 5-year observed survival rate and relative survival rate in 
women was higher than that in men (observed survival rate Z = 3.56, P < 0.05; 
relative survival rate Z = 2.09, P < 0.05). The relative survival rate that 
calculated using period method (respectively 35.24% and 40.76%) was higher than 
that using cohort method (respectively 28.77% and 33.35%) from 1995 to 1999, and 
from 2000 to 2004.
CONCLUSION: The survival rate on esophageal cancer in Linzhou city was 
increasing in the three different periods. This indicated a rising status in the 
secondary prevention and clinical diagnosis and treatments on esophageal cancer.

PMID: 20193508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Hand Surg Am. 2010 Mar;35(3):379-391.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.12.013.

A cost-utility analysis of nonsurgical management, total wrist arthroplasty, and 
total wrist arthrodesis in rheumatoid arthritis.

Cavaliere CM(1), Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Section of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

PURPOSE: Management of end-stage rheumatoid wrist disease remains controversial. 
Total wrist arthrodesis provides reliable pain relief and stability and is the 
most commonly applied management strategy. Total wrist arthroplasty is a 
motion-preserving alternative that is gaining popularity. The purpose of this 
study was to perform a cost-utility analysis comparing nonsurgical management, 
total wrist arthroplasty, and total wrist arthrodesis for the rheumatoid wrist.
METHODS: A time trade-off utility survey was developed to investigate patient 
and physician preferences for the potential outcomes of total wrist arthroplasty 
and total wrist arthrodesis. The study sample consisted of rheumatoid patients 
(N = 49) recruited as part of an ongoing prospective study and a national random 
sample of hand surgeons and rheumatologists (N = 109). A decision tree was 
created using utility values derived from the survey, and the expected 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for each procedure were determined. Using 
the societal perspective, costs were based on the Medicare fee schedules for the 
Current Procedural Terminology codes associated with total wrist arthroplasty 
and total wrist arthrodesis and their potential complications. Costs per QALY 
were calculated and compared.
RESULTS: Patients and physicians both showed a preference for surgical 
management over nonsurgical management. Application of cost data indicated that 
the incremental cost per additional QALY gained for total wrist arthroplasty 
over nonsurgical management was $2,281 and the incremental cost per QALY gained 
with total wrist arthroplasty over total wrist arthrodesis was $2,328, which is 
substantially less than the national standard of $50,000/QALY deemed acceptable 
for adoption.
CONCLUSIONS: In the absence of rigorous outcome data, cost-utility analysis is a 
useful tool to guide treatment decisions. Total wrist arthroplasty and total 
wrist arthrodesis are both extremely cost-effective procedures. This study 
incorporated patient and physician utilities to demonstrate that total wrist 
arthroplasty has only a small incremental cost over the traditional total wrist 
arthrodesis procedure. Based on this economic model, total wrist arthroplasty 
may be worthy of further consideration, and cost should not be considered 
prohibitive.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Decision Analysis II.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2009.12.013
PMCID: PMC2909683
PMID: 20193858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 20;152(8):481-7, W170-3. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-152-8-201004200-00212. Epub 2010 Mar 1.

Population strategies to decrease sodium intake and the burden of cardiovascular 
disease: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Smith-Spangler CM(1), Juusola JL, Enns EA, Owens DK, Garber AM.

Author information:
(1)Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Healthcare System, Palo Alto, California, USA. 
smith-spangler@stanford.edu

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 20;152(8):526-7, W182.
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Apr 20;152(8):I27.
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Aug 17;153(4):276; author reply 277.
    Ann Intern Med. 2010 Aug 17;153(4):276; author reply 277.

BACKGROUND: Sodium consumption raises blood pressure, increasing the risk for 
heart attack and stroke. Several countries, including the United States, are 
considering strategies to decrease population sodium intake.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of 2 population strategies to reduce 
sodium intake: government collaboration with food manufacturers to voluntarily 
cut sodium in processed foods, modeled on the United Kingdom experience, and a 
sodium tax.
DESIGN: A Markov model was constructed with 4 health states: well, acute 
myocardial infarction (MI), acute stroke, and history of MI or stroke.
DATA SOURCES: Medical Panel Expenditure Survey (2006), Framingham Heart Study 
(1980 to 2003), Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension trial, and other 
published data.
TARGET POPULATION: U.S. adults aged 40 to 85 years.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs (2008 U.S. dollars), quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and MIs and strokes averted.
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: Collaboration with industry that decreases mean 
population sodium intake by 9.5% averts 513 885 strokes and 480 358 MIs over the 
lifetime of adults aged 40 to 85 years who are alive today compared with the 
status quo, increasing QALYs by 2.1 million and saving $32.1 billion in medical 
costs. A tax on sodium that decreases population sodium intake by 6% increases 
QALYs by 1.3 million and saves $22.4 billion over the same period.
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Results are sensitive to the assumption that 
consumers have no disutility with modest reductions in sodium intake.
LIMITATION: Efforts to reduce population sodium intake could result in other 
dietary changes that are difficult to predict.
CONCLUSION: Strategies to reduce sodium intake on a population level in the 
United States are likely to substantially reduce stroke and MI incidence, which 
would save billions of dollars in medical expenses.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Department of Veterans Affairs, Stanford University, and 
National Science Foundation.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-152-8-201004200-00212
PMID: 20194225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2009 Dec;12(4):195-204.

Cost-effectiveness of a psychoeducational relapse prevention program for 
depression in primary care.

Stant AD(1), TenVergert EM, Kluiter H, Conradi HJ, Smit A, Ormel J.

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Groningen, Department of Epidemiology, University 
of Groningen, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB Groningen, the Netherlands, 
a.d.stant@epi.umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Major depression is a prevalent mental disorder with a high risk of 
relapses and recurrences, which are associated with considerable burden for 
patients and high costs for society. Despite these negative consequences, only 
few studies have focused on interventions aimed at the prevention of recurrences 
in primary care patients with depression.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: To assess the cost-effectiveness of a psychoeducational 
prevention program (PEP) aimed at improving the long-term outcome of depression 
in primary care.
METHODS: Recruitment took place in the northern part of the Netherlands, 
patients were referred by general practitioners. In total 267 patients were 
included in the study and randomly assigned to usual care (UC) or UC with one of 
three forms of PEP; PEP alone, psychiatric consultation followed by PEP 
(psychiatrist-enhanced PEP), and cognitive behavioral therapy followed by PEP 
(CBT-enhanced PEP). Costs and health outcomes were registered at three month 
intervals during the 36 months follow-up of the study. Primary outcome measure 
was the proportion of depression-free time.
RESULTS: Mean total costs during the 36 months of the study were 8200 euros in 
the UC group, 9816 euros in the PEP group, 9844 euros in the 
psychiatrist-enhanced PEP group, and 9254 euros in the CBT-enhanced PEP group. 
Costs of productivity losses, hospital admissions, contacts with regional 
institutions for mental healthcare, and medication use contributed substantially 
to the total costs in each group. Results of the primary outcome measure were 
less positive for PEP than for UC, but slightly better in the enhanced PEP 
groups. If decision-makers are willing to pay up to 300 euros for an additional 
proportion of depression-free time, UC is most likely to be the optimal 
intervention. For higher willingness to pay, CBT-enhanced PEP seems most 
efficient.
DISCUSSION: The basic PEP intervention was not cost-effective in comparison with 
UC. The economic impact of productivity losses associated with depression, and 
the importance of including these costs in economic studies, was illustrated by 
the findings of this study. Due to the drop-out of patients during the 36 months 
follow-up period, economic analyses had to account for missing data, which may 
complicate the interpretation of the results. Although Quality-Adjusted Life 
Years (QALYs) could not be assessed for all the patients, the results of 
analyses focusing on QALYs supported the overall conclusion that PEP is not 
cost-effective. IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROVISION AND POLICIES: Results 
indicated that PEP should not be implemented in the Dutch healthcare system. 
Furthermore, is seems highly unlikely that PEP could be cost-effective in other 
(comparable) European healthcare systems.
IMPLICATIONS FOR FURTHER RESEARCH: The relatively positive economic results for 
CBT-enhanced PEP imply that UC enriched with CBT (but without PEP) might be 
cost-effective in preventing relapses in primary care patients with depression. 
The actual consequences of CBT for relapse prevention will have to be studied in 
further detail, both from a clinical and economic point of view.

PMID: 20195007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2009 Dec;12(4):205-13.

Cost-effectiveness of integrated care for elderly depressed patients in the 
PRISM-E study.

Wiley-Exley E(1), Domino ME, Maxwell J, Levkoff SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, The University of North Carolina 
at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7411, USA.

BACKGROUND: One proposed strategy to improve outcomes associated with depression 
and other behavioral health disorders in primary care settings is to strengthen 
collaboration between primary care and specialty mental health care through 
integrated care (IC).
AIMS: We compare the cost-effectiveness of IC in primary care to enhanced 
specialty referral (ESR) for elders with behavioral health disorders from the 
Primary Care Research in Substance Abuse and Mental Health study, which was a 
randomized trial conducted between 2000 and 2002, using a societal perspective.
METHODS: The IC model had a behavioral health professional co-located in the 
primary care setting, and the primary care provider continued involvement in the 
mental health/substance abuse care of the patient. The comparison model, 
enhanced specialty referral (ESR), required referral to a behavioral health 
provider outside the primary care setting, and the behavioral health provider 
had primary responsibility for the mental health/substance abuse needs of the 
patient. Costs and clinical outcomes for 840 elders with depression were 
analyzed using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, the net benefits 
framework, cost-effectiveness planes, and acceptability curves. Outcomes were 
measured by the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) and 
converted to depression-free days and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALY). A 
variation on depression free days was proposed as an improvement on current 
methods. Separate analyses were conducted for Veteran's Affairs (n=365; n=175 in 
IC and n=190 in ESR) and non-Veteran's Affairs (n=475; n=242 in IC and n=233 in 
ESR) settings.
RESULTS: ESR participants in the non-VA sample exhibited lower average CES-D 
scores (i.e., an improvement in depressive symptoms) than did IC participants 
(beta = 2.8, p < 0.01), no such difference was noted in the VA sample (p > 
0.05). Mean costs were $D6,338 for VA IC participants; $7,007 for VA ESR 
participants; $3,657 for non-VA IC participants; and $3,673 for non-VA ESR 
participants. Although the cost-effectiveness planes suggest some uncertainty 
about the cost-effectiveness of the intervention, more than 75% of the bootstrap 
draws were considered cost-effective due to a decrease in total costs for IC in 
the full Veteran's Affairs sample.
DISCUSSION: The findings indicate that IC is likely to be a cost-effective 
intervention in contrast with ESR in the Veteran's Affairs setting. In the 
non-Veteran's Affairs settings, IC is not a more cost-effective intervention in 
comparison with ESR. In the VA setting, the greater clinical improvement 
associated with IC coupled with the variation in costs and outcomes were such 
that IC was determined to be more cost-effective than ESR with a probability of 
73-80%. Among non-VA participants, the lower clinical outcomes combined with no 
discernable differences in costs translated with a low probability that IC was 
more cost-effective than ESR, at any of the estimated values of clinical 
improvements. This suggests the importance of clinical setting in determining 
the clinical and cost effectiveness of IC for mental health.
LIMITATIONS: Our analyses were restricted to a six-month period, based on 
self-report, and did not include societal costs related to lost productivity and 
future costs.
IMPLICATIONS: These results suggest that general integration has its advantages 
and, when such integration exists, further integrating behavioral health care 
into primary care might be considered as one way to improve depression in 
elders. The finding that ESR may be cost effective in some settings is also 
policy relevant. Further research is needed to analyze the components of the 
costs of ESR in non-VA settings and the effectiveness of IC in VA settings.

PMID: 20195008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2010 Jun;67(11):1871-9. doi: 10.1007/s00018-010-0297-7.
Epub  2010 Feb 27.

Evidence for a novel cytoplasmic processing event in ribosome maturation in the 
sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus.

Bellavia D(1), Barbieri R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Cellulare e dello Sviluppo, Università degli Studi 
di Palermo, V.le delle Scienze, Edificio 16, 90128, Palermo, Italy.

In this paper we demonstrate the existence of a cytoplasmic processing step, 
never before described, involving both the pre-ribosomal subunits in the sea 
urchin Paracentrotus lividus. Northern-blot hybridization, primer extension, S1 
mapping experiments and in situ hybridizations allowed us to demonstrate that 
cytoplasmic processed particles are successively re-imported into the nucleus 
where maturation of their RNAs is completed prior to being exported to the 
cytoplasm. Our findings lead to the proposal of a new model of ribosome 
maturation and shuttling.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-010-0297-7
PMID: 20195698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Gen Intern Med. 2010 Jun;25(6):549-55. doi: 10.1007/s11606-010-1288-y.
Epub  2010 Mar 2.

Validation of the group-based medical mistrust scale among urban black men.

Shelton RC(1), Winkel G, Davis SN, Roberts N, Valdimarsdottir H, Hall SJ, 
Thompson HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological Science/Cancer Prevention and Control, Mount Sinai 
School of Medicine, 1425 Madison Avenue, Box 1130, New York, NY 10029, USA. 
rshelton@post.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Socioculturally relevant measures of medical mistrust are needed to 
better address health disparities, especially among Black men, a group with 
lower life expectancy and higher death rates compared to other race/gender 
groups.
OBJECTIVES: The study aim was to investigate the psychometric properties of the 
Group-Based Medical Mistrust Scale (GBMMS) in a Black male sample.
DESIGN: Data were collected as part of a randomized controlled trial testing 
educational strategies to support Black men's decisions about prostate cancer 
screening.
PARTICIPANTS: Participants included 201 Black men ages 40-75 years recruited in 
New York City during 2006-2007.
MAIN MEASURES: The primary measures included: race-based medical mistrust, 
health care participation, avoidance of health care, perceived access to health 
care, health care satisfaction, racial identity, residential racial segregation, 
attitudes towards prostate cancer screening, and past prostate cancer screening 
behavior.
KEY RESULTS: An exploratory factor analysis suggested a three-factor structure. 
Confirmatory factor analysis supported the three-factor model. Internal 
consistency was high for the total GBMMS and the three sub-scales: Suspicion, 
Discrimination, and Lack of Support. Construct validity was supported by: 
significant positive correlations between GBMMS and avoidance of health care and 
racial identity as well as significant negative correlations with health care 
access, health care satisfaction, and attitudes about prostate cancer screening. 
ANOVA showed that the GBMMS was associated with greater residential racial 
segregation. Higher total GBMMS scores were associated with not visiting a 
physician in the last year and not having a regular physician.
CONCLUSIONS: The present findings provide strong additional evidence that the 
GBMMS is a valid and reliable measure that may be used among urban Black men.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-010-1288-y
PMCID: PMC2869405
PMID: 20195782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Am J Hematol. 2010 Apr;85(4):255-60. doi: 10.1002/ajh.21655.

Determinants of the optimal first-line therapy for follicular lymphoma: a 
decision analysis.

Olin RL(1), Kanetsky PA, Ten Have TR, Nasta SD, Schuster SJ, Andreadis C.

Author information:
(1)University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Combination immunochemotherapy is the most common approach for initial therapy 
of patients with advanced-stage follicular lymphoma, but no consensus exists as 
to the optimal selection or sequence of available regimens. We undertook this 
decision analysis to systematically evaluate the parameters affecting the choice 
of early therapy in patients with this disease. We designed a Markov model 
incorporating the three most commonly utilized regimens (RCVP, RCHOP, and RFlu) 
in combinations of first- and second-line therapies, with the endpoint of number 
of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) until disease progression. Data sources 
included Phase II and Phase III trials and literature estimates of long-term 
toxicities and health state utilities. Meta-analytic methods were used to derive 
the values and ranges of regimen-related parameters. Based on our model, the 
strategy associated with the greatest number of expected quality-adjusted life 
years was treatment with RCHOP in first-line therapy followed by treatment with 
RFlu in second-line therapy (9.00 QALYs). Strategies containing RCVP either in 
first- or second-line therapy resulted in the lowest number of QALYs (range 
6.24-7.71). Sensitivity analysis used to determine the relative contribution of 
each model parameter identified PFS after first-line therapy and not short-term 
QOL as the most important factor in prolonging overall quality-adjusted life 
years. Our results suggest that regimens associated with a longer PFS provide a 
greater number of total QALYs, despite their short-term toxicities. For patients 
without contraindications to any of these regimens, use of a more active regimen 
may maximize overall quality of life.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.21655
PMCID: PMC2932442
PMID: 20196173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: Nothing to report.


648. Time. 2010 Feb 22;175(7):68-9.

The map of health. Geography it seems is destiny, at least when it comes to 
numbering our years. A global look at longevity.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20196379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(6):489-505. doi:
10.2165/11531780-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of 5-alpha reductase inhibitors for the prevention of 
prostate cancer in multiple patient populations.

Earnshaw SR(1), McDade CL, Black LK, Bell CF, Kattan MW.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709, USA. 
searnshaw@rti.org

Comment in
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Oct;10(5):505-8.

BACKGROUND: Although 5-alpha reductase inhibitors (5ARIs) have demonstrated that 
they reduce the risk of prostate cancer (PCa), they have not demonstrated cost 
effectiveness in the patient populations in which they have been examined.
OBJECTIVE: A decision-analytic model was created to explore economic benefits 
from a third-party payer perspective of the use of 5ARIs in preventing PCa in 
men with different risk factors for developing the disease.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate a cohort of men annually 
through health states (e.g. healthy male, benign prostatic hyperplasia [BPH], 
PCa, PCa recurrence) over a man's lifetime. Men with risk factors were treated 
with a 5ARI and compared with patients given no chemoprevention. Men from the 
general population were examined along with higher-risk men who had been 
referred to a PCa centre. Baseline risk was estimated via published risk data, 
risk factor analyses and risk equations. Clinical efficacy, morality, costs and 
utilities were obtained from published literature. Outcomes of the model 
included number of prostate cancers, incremental costs, incremental QALYs, 
incremental cost per QALY and number needed to treat. Along with sensitivity and 
scenario analyses, a validation of outcomes was performed. All costs were valued 
in $US, year 2009 values. Costs were discounted at 3% per annum.
RESULTS: Men receiving 5ARIs benefited through a reduction in the number of 
PCas. Assuming a cost-effectiveness threshold of $US50 000 per QALY, 
chemoprevention with 5ARIs was cost effective ($US37 900 per QALY) in men from 
the general population who were aged 50 years with elevated prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA), and who were aged 50 years with PCa family history and elevated 
PSA ($US31 065 per QALY). Chemoprevention with 5ARIs was not cost effective in 
men aged 50 years with no additional risk factors, men aged 50 years with 
abnormal digital rectal examinations (DREs), and men aged 50 years with a family 
history ($US86 511, $US85 577 and $US84 950 per QALY, respectively). In 
higher-risk men, chemoprevention could be expected to be cost effective ($US18 
490 to $US11 816 per QALY, depending on risk scenario). Results were sensitive 
to changes in utilities, assumed PCa risk reduction with 5ARIs, and patient age.
CONCLUSION: When considering common risk factors associated with PCa, prevention 
with 5ARIs is expected to be cost effective in 50-year-old men with elevated 
PSA. As a man's risk increases, the cost effectiveness of 5ARI chemoprevention 
improves.

DOI: 10.2165/11531780-000000000-00000
PMID: 20196623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Crit Care Resusc. 2010 Mar;12(1):62-6.

Expensive care - a rationale for economic evaluations in intensive care.

Higgins AM(1), Pettila V, Bellomo R, Harris AH, Nichol AD, Morrison SS.

Author information:
(1)Australian and New Zealand Intensive Care Research Centre, School of Public 
