Cleveland, OH 44195, USA. srivass@ccf.org

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the surgical management of 
carotid artery aneurysms (CAAs) presenting to a tertiary care center over a 
10-year period of time.
METHODS: The medical records of patients undergoing repair of CAA between 1998 
and 2008 were reviewed. Demographics, clinical presentation, and operative 
interventions were recorded. Postoperative outcomes were assessed, and patency 
and survival rates were calculated using life-table analysis.
RESULTS: Two patients (11%) had a history of neck dissection, one (5%) neck 
irradiation, and three (16%) a combination of neck dissection and irradiation 
for cancer. Five (26%) had previous carotid endarterectomy, while three (16%) 
had prior carotid artery stenting for occlusive disease. Eight (42%) patients 
presented with neurologic symptoms, all transient in nature. Aneurysms were 
isolated to the internal carotid artery in eight (42%) cases, the common carotid 
artery in one (5%) case, and both regions in the remaining 53%. The etiologies 
of the aneurysms were divided among atherosclerotic aneurysms (36.8%), mycotic 
pseudoaneurysms (36.8%), and patch aneurysms (26.3%).Twelve (63%) underwent 
resection and interposition grafting, six underwent aneurysm resection and patch 
repair, and one (5%) had end-to-end reconstruction. Postoperative complications 
included one transient ischemic attach (5%), two strokes (10%), and one cranial 
nerve deficit (5%). Primary patency at 30 months was 90% (standard error [SE] = 
0.10), and survival at 48 months was 92% (SE = 0.10). Assisted primary patency 
was maintained at 90% at 30 months (SE = 0.10).
CONCLUSION: CAA surgery, while rare, can be performed safely and with durable 
patency. Future studies will be necessary to assess the efficacy of endovascular 
therapy for this disease.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2009.09.006
PMID: 20122464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Eur J Intern Med. 2010 Feb;21(1):30-4. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2009.09.012.

Predictors of mortality within three months in the patients with malignant 
pleural effusion.

Ozyurtkan MO(1), Balci AE, Cakmak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Firat University Medical Faculty, Elaziğ, 
Turkey. moozyurtkan@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) has a limited life expectancy (3-12 
months). We investigated the predictors of the early mortality (EM) within three 
months.
METHODS: The patients were retrospectively grouped according to the death within 
three months (Group I) and survival more than three months (Group II). 
Demographical, clinical, and biochemical parameters in the fluid were analysed 
to determine their effects on the EM. The 30-day response rate of talc 
pleurodesis was investigated.
RESULTS: The study included 85 patients (Group I/Group II=40/45). The patients 
in Group I died within a median of 28 days. Twenty-six patients in Group II died 
in a median of 205, but 19 were still alive (median 200 days). The median 
survival was longer in renal cell, colorectal, breast, liver, ovarian and 
oropharynx carcinoma, and mesothelioma. Sixty-two patients (63%) underwent talc 
pleurodesis, which prevented the fluid reaccumulation (p=0.04). The significant 
factors of the EM in the univariate analysis were the presence of high-risk 
tumors (lung, stomach, soft tissue, bladder, esophagus, prostate, cervix, and 
lymphoma), the low Karnofsky performance score (KPS) (p<0.0001), the low pH 
value of the fluid (p=0.05), and the low concentration of glucose (p=0.01), 
total protein (p<0.0001), and albumin (p<0.0001) in the fluid. According to the 
multivariate analysis high-risk tumors (p=0.03), a lower KPS (p<0.001), and 
glucose value (p=0.04) were the predictors of the EM.
CONCLUSION: Talc pleurodesis prevents the fluid reaccumulation. High-risk 
tumors, a poor performance status, and lower pleural fluid glucose concentration 
are predictors of the EM within three months in the patients with a MPE.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2009.09.012
PMID: 20122610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Prog Urol. 2009 Nov;19 Suppl 3:S116-23. doi: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73356-1.

[Do ablative treatments modify the management of kidney tumors in the elderly?].

[Article in French]

Long JA(1), Neuzillet Y, Poissonnier L, Lang H, Paparel P, Escudier B, 
Rioux-Leclercq N, Correas JM, Mejean A, Baumert H, Soulié M, Patard JJ.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, CHU de Grenoble, 38043 Grenoble cedex 9, France. 
jalong@chu-grenoble.fr

The development of ablative techniques in renal oncology has profoundly changed 
treatment of small renal tumors. The objective of this review of the literature 
was to assess the arguments for treating localized kidney tumors with these 
techniques in the elderly patient. The two techniques retained because of their 
recognized use, for all approaches, are radiofrequency and cryotherapy. The data 
in the literature report more frequent local recurrence with these techniques 
than with surgical excision and an advantage to cryotherapy over radiofrequency. 
There seems to be no difference in terms of metastatic progression. Morbidity is 
not insignificant, with major complications in slightly less than 10% of cases. 
Given the need to consider small tumors (<4 cm), the advantage in terms of life 
expectancy is challenged by series studying active monitoring of the oldest 
patients who present co-morbidities. At present, the indications should 
therefore be measured and based on a general assessment of the patient, with 
particular consideration of the existing co-morbidities so as not to treat a 
patient while imposing undue complications.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73356-1
PMID: 20123494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Prog Urol. 2009 Nov;19 Suppl 3:S124-8. doi: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73357-3.

[The place of laparoscopic nephrectomy in the elderly subject].

[Article in French]

Paparel P(1), Long JA, Neuzillet Y, Escudier B, Rioux-Leclercq N, Correas JM, 
Lang H, Poissonnier L, Baumert H, Mejean A, Soulié M, Patard JJ.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud, 165, chemin du grand 
revoyez, 69495 Pierre Benite cedex, France. philippe.paparel@chu-lyon.fr

The concomitant increase in life expectancy and the incidence of kidney cancers 
will result in an increase in kidney cancers in subjects over 75 years of age in 
the coming years. A wait-and-see attitude in cases of voluminous tumors, 
particularly symptomatic tumors, may well alter the quality of life of these 
patients through chronic abdominal pain, macroscopic hematuria, or alteration of 
the general condition due to metastatic progression. Curative or palliative 
surgical management can be envisioned and should be discussed in the 
multidisciplinary consensus meeting. Before validating the indication for 
nephrectomy in the elderly patient, a preoperative geriatric assessment should 
be made. Moreover, preoperative renal function should be carefully evaluated to 
measure the risk of terminal renal failure. The reduction in the mean duration 
of the hospital stay provided by laparoscopic surgery allows patients to return 
home or to their institution more quickly, an important consideration in the 
rehabilitation of these patients, who are very sensitive to such changes. 
Laparoscopic nephrectomy, with evidence in the literature of reduced morbidity 
and satisfactory oncological results, could therefore be superior to open 
surgery when indicated and technically feasible.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73357-3
PMID: 20123495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Prog Urol. 2009 Nov;19 Suppl 3:S156-9. doi: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73364-0.

[The role and principles of radiotherapy in prostate cancer in the elderly 
subject].

[Article in French]

Richaud P(1), Salomon L, Mongiat-Artus P, Gaschignard N, Beuzeboc P, Peyromaure 
M, Bastide C, Cornud F, Molinié V, Rozet F, Staerman F, Soulié M.

Author information:
(1)Département de Radiothérapie, Institut Bergonié, 229, Cours de l'Argonne, 
33076 Bordeaux cedex, France. richaud@bergonie.org

The aging of the population has resulted in an increase in the number of elderly 
patients with prostate cancer. Among the curative treatment options in the 
elderly subject, external radiotherapy is the most frequently chosen option. 
Combined treatment including radiotherapy and hormone therapy should be 
preferred to hormonal therapy alone, including in elderly patients, whenever 
life expectancy surpasses 4-5 years. The indications for this radiotherapy 
should be defined in an attempt to prevent excessive or insufficient treatment, 
to adapt the treatment modalities to the patient's age by assessing its 
potential toxicity, and to discuss the possible alternatives. In cases of 
localized prostate cancer in men who are aging well, a standard treatment should 
be proposed, preferring radiotherapy possibly associated with hormone therapy in 
cases with negative prognostic factors. Patients with a reversible health 
problems can also receive standard treatment, notably in cases with aggressive 
prognostic factors.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73364-0
PMID: 20123502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Prog Urol. 2009 Nov;19 Suppl 3:S96-9. doi: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73352-4.

[Urological cancers of the elderly subject: the role of radiotherapy].

[Article in French]

Hennequin C(1), Quéro L.

Author information:
(1)Service de Cancérologie-Radiothérapie, Hôpital Saint-Louis, 1, avenue Claude 
Vellefeaux, 75475 Paris, France. christophe.hennequin@sls.aphp.fr

Urologic cancers are now usually found in elderly patients and the value of 
curative treatment is frequently asked. Life expectancy must not be 
underestimated with its consequence of undertreatment. Geriatric assessment is a 
good tool to make the right decision. For bladder and prostatic carcinomas, 
external beam radiation therapy is often the treatment of choice, if a curative 
option has been choose, because its toxicity is low in this population. In fact, 
many retrospectives studies have demonstrated that toxicity is equivalent in 
young and old patients. In prostate cancer, a recent randomised trial 
demonstrated that combination of irradiation and hormonal treatment increased 
biochemical control and overall survival over hormonal treatment alone. 
Hypofractionated schedules, more convenient to old patients, have been regularly 
reported for bladder cancers, but new techniques in radiation therapy seem to 
allow the use of this type of treatment schedules in prostate carcinomas.

(c) 2009 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1166-7087(09)73352-4
PMID: 20123510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Pediatrics. 2010 Feb;125(2):e286-94. doi: 10.1542/peds.2009-0605.

Projected costs, risks, and benefits of expanded newborn screening for MCADD.

Prosser LA(1), Kong CY, Rusinak D, Waisbren SL.

Author information:
(1)University of Michigan Health System, Division of General Pediatrics, Child 
Health Evaluation and Research Unit, 300 N Ingalls St, Room 6E14, Ann Arbor, MI 
48109, USA. lisapros@med.umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of newborn screening for 
medium-chain acyl-coenzyme A dehydrogenase deficiency (MCADD) incorporating 
quality-of-life effects for false-positive newborn screens and recommended 
dietary treatment.
METHODS: A computer simulation model was developed to predict costs and health 
outcomes for expanded newborn screening for MCADD compared with clinical 
identification. The modeled target population was a hypothetical cohort of 100 
000 newborns in the United States. Probabilities, costs, and quality-of-life 
weights were derived from a long-term follow-up study of newborn screening 
compared with clinical identification, primary data collection, published data, 
and expert opinion. We used a lifetime time horizon and the societal 
perspective. The main outcome measure was the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio in dollars per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Secondary 
outcomes included averted deaths and hospitalizations.
RESULTS: Using base-case assumptions, the cost-effectiveness of newborn 
screening for MCADD was $21 273 per QALY gained. The cost-effectiveness ratio 
increased to $21 278/QALY when the loss in quality of life associated with 
false-positive test results was incorporated and to $27 423/QALY when the 
quality of life associated with lifelong dietary recommendations for treating 
MCADD was incorporated. Results were sensitive to the false-positive rate for 
the newborn screening test and the cost of the initial screen.
CONCLUSIONS: Expanded newborn screening for MCADD is cost-effective compared 
with well-accepted pediatric health interventions. Losses in quality of life 
associated with dietary treatment for MCADD, however, may offset some of the 
gains in QALYs from newborn screening. Consideration of new disorders for 
expanded newborn screening panels should include the potential reduction in 
quality of life associated with treatments.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2009-0605
PMID: 20123779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Palliat Med. 2010 Jul;24(5):473-9. doi: 10.1177/0269216309360118. Epub 2010
Feb  1.

Caring for someone with high-grade glioma: a time of rapid change for 
caregivers.

McConigley R(1), Halkett G, Lobb E, Nowak A.

Author information:
(1)Western Australian Centre for Cancer and Palliative Care and Curtin Health 
Innovation Research Institute, Curtin University of Technology, Perth, 
Australia. r.mcconigley@curtin.edu.au

Patients diagnosed with high-grade gliomas have a poor prognosis and limited 
life expectancy, and often experience rapid decline in function. Caring for a 
patient with high-grade glioma is particularly stressful because caregivers are 
faced not only with cancer-related caregiving issues, but also issues relating 
to caring for someone with cognitive impairment. This study aimed to articulate 
the experiences of family caregivers of people diagnosed with high-grade glioma 
and to describe their information and support needs. A grounded theory method 
was adopted. Twenty-one family caregivers of people with high-grade glioma were 
interviewed using a semi-structured interview guide. A constant comparison 
method of data analysis was employed. A central theme, A Time of Rapid Change 
and two sub-themes, Renegotiating Relationships and Learning to be a Caregiver, 
emerged to describe the experiences of participants. Caregiving was 
characterised by numerous role and life changes from the moment of diagnosis. 
Caregivers in this study reported experiences similar to those described by 
caregivers of people with other cancers. What differed for this group was the 
rapidity of change and the need for immediate information and support to assist 
with caring for a person with high-grade glioma.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216309360118
PMID: 20123944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Clin Oncol. 2010 Mar 1;28(7):1175-80. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2009.25.9812. Epub
2010  Feb 1.

Decision model of segmental compared with total abdominal colectomy for colon 
cancer in hereditary nonpolyposis colorectal cancer.

Maeda T(1), Cannom RR, Beart RW Jr, Etzioni DA.

Author information:
(1)MSHS, Department of Surgery/Division of Colorectal Surgery, Keck School of 
Medicine/University of Southern California, 1441 Eastlake Ave, Ste 7418, Los 
Angeles, CA 90033, USA.

PURPOSE: In choosing the appropriate surgical option for patients with colon 
cancer and Lynch syndrome, goals of treatment are to maximize life expectancy 
while preserving quality of life. This study constructs a decision model that 
encompasses these two related considerations.
METHODS: We constructed a state-transition (Markov) model based on assumptions 
obtained from available data sources and published literature. Two strategies 
were considered for the treatment of colon cancer in a patient with Lynch 
syndrome: segmental colectomy (SEG) and total abdominal colectomy (TAC) with 
ileorectal anastomosis. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated 
based on utility states for patients based on the colectomy they received. 
Multiple sensitivity analyses were planned to examine the impact of each 
assumption on model results.
RESULTS: For young (30-year-old) patients with Lynch syndrome, mean survival was 
slightly better with TAC than with SEG (34.8 v 35.5 years). When QALYs were 
considered, the two strategies were approximately equivalent, with QALYs per 
patient of 21.5 for SEG and 21.2 for TAC. With advancing age, SEG becomes a more 
favorable strategy. Results of our model were most sensitive to the utility 
state of TAC (relative to SEG), rates of metachronous occurrence, and stage of 
cancer at the time of such occurrence.
CONCLUSION: SEG and TAC are approximately equivalent strategies for patients 
with colon cancer and Lynch syndrome. The decision regarding which operation is 
preferable should be made on the basis of patient factors and preferences, with 
special emphasis on age and the ability of the patient to utilize intensive 
surveillance.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2009.25.9812
PMID: 20124166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Feb;125(2):599-600. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181c831e5.

Discussion: An economic analysis of hand transplantation in the United States.

Concannon MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia, Mo.

Comment on
    Plast Reconstr Surg. 2010 Feb;125(2):589-98.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3181c831e5
PMID: 20124845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2009 Dec;107:325-42.

The Ahmed glaucoma valve in neovascular glaucoma (An AOS Thesis).

Netland PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Virginia School of Medicine, 
Charlottesville, USA.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the results of Ahmed glaucoma valve surgery in neovascular 
glaucoma and control patients.
METHODS: In this retrospective comparative study, we reviewed 76 eyes of 76 
patients, comparing the surgical outcomes in control patients (N=38) to matched 
neovascular glaucoma patients (N=38). Success was defined as intraocular 
pressure (IOP) > or =6 mm Hg and < or =21 mm Hg, without further glaucoma 
surgery, and without loss of light perception.
RESULTS: Average follow-up for control and neovascular glaucoma patients was 
18.4 and 17.4 months, respectively (P = .550). At last follow-up, mean IOP was 
16.2 +/- 5.2 mm Hg and 15.5 +/- 12.5 mm Hg (P = .115) in control and neovascular 
glaucoma patients, respectively. Life-table analysis showed a significantly 
lower success for neovascular glaucoma patients compared with controls (P = 
.0096), with success at 1 year of 89.2% and 73.1%, at 2 years of 81.8% and 
61.9%, and at 5 years of 81.8% and 20.6% for control and neovascular glaucoma 
eyes, respectively. Cox proportional hazards regression analysis showed 
neovascular glaucoma as a risk factor for surgical failure (odds ratio, 5.384, 
95% CI, 1.22-23.84, P = .027). Although IOP control and complications were 
comparable between the two groups, visual outcomes were worse in neovascular 
glaucoma patients, with 9 eyes (23.7%) with neovascular glaucoma compared with 
no controls losing light perception vision (P = .002). The majority with loss of 
vision (5 of 9) had successful control of IOP during the postoperative period.
CONCLUSION: Neovascular glaucoma patients have greater risk of surgical failure 
after Ahmed glaucoma valve surgery compared with controls. Despite improved mean 
IOP with drainage implants, visual outcomes may be poor, possibly due to 
progression of underlying disease.

PMCID: PMC2814575
PMID: 20126506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Arq Bras Endocrinol Metabol. 2009 Nov;53(8):956-62. doi: 
10.1590/s0004-27302009000800008.

[Prostate carcinoma and testosterone: risks and controversies].

[Article in Portuguese]

Rhoden EL(1), Averbeck MA.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre, Brasília, DF, 
Brasil. ernanirh@terra.com.br

Hypogonadism is a clinical and biochemical syndrome which may cause significant 
detriment in the quality of life. With the increase in life expectancy and 
prostate cancer survival a significant increase in the number of men with 
hypogonadism who have undergone presumably curative treatment for PCa is 
anticipated. Despite the widespread contraindication of testosterone in men with 
known or suspected prostate cancer, there is no convincing evidence that the 
normalization of testosterone serum levels in men with low, but not castrate 
levels, is deleterious. Although further studies are necessary before definitive 
conclusions can be drawn, the available evidence suggests that testosterone 
replacement therapy can be cautiously considered in selected hypogonadal men 
treated with curative intent for low risk prostate cancer and without evidence 
of active disease.

DOI: 10.1590/s0004-27302009000800008
PMID: 20126847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):445-53. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9594-8. Epub
2010  Feb 3.

Cross-cultural adaptation and psychometric validation of a Spanish version of 
the Quality of Life in Late-Stage Dementia Scale.

Garre-Olmo J(1), Planas-Pujol X, López-Pousa S, Weiner MF, Turon-Estrada A, 
Juvinyà D, Ballester D, Vilalta-Franch J.

Author information:
(1)Research Unit, Institut d'Assistència Sanitària, C/Dr Castany s/n, 17190, 
Salt, Girona, Spain. josep.garre@ias.scs.es

PURPOSE: The aim of the study was to develop a cross-cultural adaptation and to 
evaluate the validity and reliability of a Spanish version of the Quality of 
Life in Late-Stage Dementia (QUALID) scale.
METHODS: Observational and cross-sectional validation study. The QUALID was 
translated according to standardised procedures. Internal consistency was 
assessed using Cronbach's alpha. The QUALID structure was assessed using a 
Principal Component Analysis (PCA). Inter-respondent (one rater asking two 
respondents) and inter-rater (two raters asking one respondent) reliability was 
assessed using the Intraclass Correlation Coefficient (ICC). The criterion 
validity (concurrent) was assessed by Spearman's correlation between the QUALID 
score and the QoL-Visual Analogue Scale (QoL-VAS) score. The construct validity 
(convergent) was assessed by Spearman's correlations between QUALID score and 
scores on the Pain-Visual Analogue Scale (Pain-VAS), on the Mini-Mental State 
Examination (MMSE) and on the Neuropsychiatric Inventory-Nursing Home (NPI-NH).
RESULTS: A total of 160 elderly residents and 152 respondents at 8 long-term 
care centres in the province of Girona (Spain) participated in the study. 
Results showed satisfactory levels of internal consistency (Cronbach's alpha 
coefficients 0.74) and evidenced the multidimensionality of the scale. Three 
factors were identified (behavioural signs of discomfort, behavioural signs of 
social interaction and signs of negative affective mood). Acceptable 
inter-respondent reliability (ICC = 0.74) and high inter-rater reliability (ICC 
= 0.95) were found. The QUALID score was associated with the QoL-VAS score, 
suggesting a good concurrent criterion validity, and also with the Pain-VAS, the 
MMSE and the NPI-NH scores, suggesting good construct validity.
CONCLUSIONS: Our evaluation of the psychometric properties of the Spanish 
version of the QUALID indicates that it is a reliable and valid instrument with 
an adequate capacity to distinguish between different clinical status.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9594-8
PMID: 20127183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Internist (Berl). 2010 Mar;51 Suppl 1:277-88. doi:
10.1007/s00108-009-2527-3.

[Cystic fibrosis in adults].

[Article in German]

Pletz MW(1), Sauer-Heilborn A, Köhnlein T, Seidler U, Lamprecht G.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Pneumologie, Medizinische Hochschule Hannover, 
Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 1, 30625, Hannover, Deutschland. 
pletz.mathias@mh-hannover.de

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common autosomal-recessive inherited disease, which 
often results in premature death. Due to treatment advances, life expectancy has 
however continuously improved in recent years. Currently about half of all 
patients are adults. There are also "atypical" variants of CF with symptoms 
occurring in late adulthood. CF is caused by a mutation in the gene coding for a 
chloride ion channel, known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance 
regulator (CFTR). This mutation results in abnormally viscous mucosal 
secretions, leading to multi-organ disease with particular emphasis in the 
respiratory and digestive tracts. Impaired mucociliary clearance results in 
bacterial colonization of the airways (e. g. Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and 
consequently in chronic pulmonary inflammation, inevitably leading to 
progressive bronchiectasis and combined ventilatory disorders. Typical acute 
complications are infective exacerbations - the most frequent cause of death in 
cystic fibrosis - along with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, 
haemoptyses and pneumothoraces. Involvement of the gastrointestinal tract 
generally manifests as exo- and later endocrine pancreatic insufficiency with 
diabetes mellitus, malabsorption and sometimes biliary liver cirrhosis. Typical 
acute complications are pancreatitis and ileus. The article describes 
epidemiology and pathophysiology of CF and focuses on the signs and symptoms, as 
well as the diagnostic and multi-modal therapeutic strategies used in adult 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-009-2527-3
PMID: 20127304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):435-43. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9597-5. Epub
2010  Feb 4.

Psychometric comparisons of the Stroke Impact Scale 3.0 and Stroke-Specific 
Quality of Life Scale.

Lin KC(1), Fu T, Wu CY, Hsieh YW, Chen CL, Lee PC.

Author information:
(1)The School of Occupational Therapy, College of Medicine, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan. kehchunglin@ntu.edu.tw

PURPOSE: This study compared the responsiveness and criterion-related validity 
of the Stroke Impact Scale (SIS) and Stroke-Specific Quality of Life Scale 
(SS-QOL) for patients after stroke rehabilitation.
METHODS: The SIS and SS-QOL, along with five criterion measures-the Fugl-Meyer 
Assessment, the Motor Activity Log, the Functional Independence Measure, the 
Frenchay Activities Index, and the Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily 
Living Scale-were administered to 74 patients with stroke before and after a 
3-week intervention. Responsiveness was examined using the Wilcoxon signed rank 
test and standardized response mean (SRM). Criterion-related validity was 
investigated using the Spearman correlation coefficient (rho).
RESULTS: Whereas the SS-QOL subscales were nonresponsive to changes, the SIS 
hand function showed medium responsiveness (SRM = .52, Wilcoxon Z = 4.24, P < 
.05). Responsiveness of the SIS total also was significantly larger than that of 
the SS-QOL total (SRM difference, .36; 95% confidence interval, .02-.71). 
Criterion validity of the SIS hand function was good (rho = .51-.68; P < .01), 
but that of the SS-QOL was only fair (rho = .25-.31; P < .05).
CONCLUSION: Because the SIS had better overall responsiveness and the SIS hand 
function showed medium responsiveness and good criterion validity, the SIS 
appears to be more suited for assessing changes after stroke rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9597-5
PMID: 20127418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2010 Feb 3;99(3):175-82. doi: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000021.

[Wilson's Disease].

[Article in German]

Ramseier SP(1), Jung HH.

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universitätsspital, 8091 Zürich. 
simon.ramseier@usz.ch

Wilson's disease is a rare inherited disorder of copper metabolism. If left 
untreated, the disorder has a fatal course within a few years after symptom 
onset. If discovered early, effective treatment is available, preventing further 
clinical deterioration and leading to a normal life expectancy. Accumulation of 
copper in liver and brain can lead to a variety of unspecific hepatic, 
neurologic and psychiatric symptoms such as jaundice, tremor, ataxia or 
depression. In patients under the age of 40 with unexplained hepatic, neurologic 
or psychiatric symptoms, Wilson's disease must be considered. Diagnosis can be 
made by measurement of urinary copper excretion and other tests as required. 
Lifelong decoppering treatment must be maintained. For the detection of 
deterioration of the disease or adverse effects of the medication as well as for 
the assessment of therapeutic compliance, regular clinical controls are 
necessary.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a000021
PMID: 20127637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. US News World Rep. 2010 Feb;147(2):18-20, 22.

Get ready for the age wave.

Kotz D.

PMID: 20128398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Med Econ. 2010 Mar;13(1):129-35. doi: 10.3111/13696990903584436.

Quality of life in relation to constipation among opioid users.

Penning-van Beest FJ(1), van den Haak P, Klok RM, Prevoo YF, van der Peet DL, 
Herings RM.

Author information:
(1)PHARMO Institute for Drug Outcomes Research, Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
fernie.penning@pharmo.nl

OBJECTIVE: Opioid users often experience constipation. In this study the impact 
of constipation on QoL was assessed in patients using opioids either for 
non-advanced illness or advanced illness.
METHODS: Patients using opioids, recruited via public pharmacies, were asked to 
complete questionnaires on opioid use, constipation and the EuroQol 
five-dimension questionnaire (EQ-5D). Patients with a severe non-curable disease 
and relatively short life-expectancy were classified as having an advanced 
illness; a disabling yet not directly life-threatening condition was defined as 
non-advanced illness. Constipation was assessed based on questions on opioid 
side-effects and laxative use. EQ-5D index scores were compared between patients 
with and without constipation using Wilcoxon two-samples test.
RESULTS: Questionnaires were returned by 588 patients with non-advanced illness, 
of whom 326 (55%) were classified as having constipation and by 113 patients 
with advanced illness, of whom 76 (67%) were classified as having constipation. 
The median EQ-5D index, a weighted health state index score with 1 = full 
health, was lower in patients with constipation than in patients without 
constipation (0.31 vs. 0.65, p< 0.01 for non-advanced illness and 0.41 vs. 0.61, 
p=0.12 for advanced illness).
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that, in patients using opioids 
either for non-advanced illness or advanced illness, constipation negatively 
influences QoL. By separately analysing patients with advanced illness and 
patients with non-advanced illness, possible selective non-response and 
confounding was accounted for, but not completely solved.

DOI: 10.3111/13696990903584436
PMID: 20128662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2009 Dec;23 Suppl 1:S31-8. doi: 
10.1016/S1521-690X(09)70006-5.

5 Long-term acromegaly and associated cardiovascular complications: a case-based 
review.

Colao A(1).

Author information:
(1)Università degli Studi di Napoli Federico II, Department of Molecular and 
Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Via S. Pansini 5, 80131 Napoli, Italy. 
colao@unina.it

Because growth hormone and IGF-1 both have regulatory roles in the 
cardiovascular system, patients with acromegaly often present with abnormalities 
of heart structure and function and the vascular system, which if left unmanaged 
can reduce life expectancy. Early symptoms of acromegalic cardiomyopathy 
(hyperkinetic syndrome) can be characterized by cardiac hypertrophy, increased 
heart rate, and increased systolic output. When left untreated, more pronounced 
hypertrophy, signs of diastolic dysfunction and insufficient systolic function 
on exertion arise, and can lead to systolic dysfunction at rest, and eventually 
heart failure with signs of dilative cardiomyopathy. Increasingly, evidence 
suggests that early diagnosis and treatment of acromegaly (before the age of 40 
years) can help prevent the progression of cardiovascular disease, improve 
quality of life, and reduce the risk of premature mortality. This review focuses 
on management strategies for newly diagnosed patients with acromegaly and 
evidence of cardiovascular disease. The roles of surgery and medical treatment 
are discussed in the context of using optimal treatment strategies to help 
reverse cardiac hypertrophy and normalize other cardiac risk factors.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1521-690X(09)70006-5
PMID: 20129192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Am J Geriatr Pharmacother. 2009 Dec;7(6):324-42. doi: 
10.1016/j.amjopharm.2009.12.002.

Pharmacologic management of the older patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Neumiller JJ(1), Setter SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, College of Pharmacy, Washington State 
University/Elder Services, Spokane, Washington 99217-6131, USA. 
jneumiller@wsu.edu

BACKGROUND: Pharmacologic options for the treatment of elderly patients with 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are the same as in younger adults; however, 
treatment considerations differ in the elderly due to changes in renal and 
hepatic function, life expectancy, and various other clinical and practical 
considerations.
OBJECTIVE: This article discusses geriatric considerations in the pharmacologic 
management of T2DM and reviews the potential clinical advantages and 
disadvantages of pharmacologic agents currently available for the treatment of 
T2DM, including oral and injectable medications.
METHODS: A search of MEDLINE was conducted for articles published in English 
between January 1966 and September 2009 using the terms type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, elderly, geriatric, treatment, insulin, metformin, sulfonylurea, 
thiazolidinedione, alpha-glucosidase inhibitor, meglitinide, DPP-4 inhibitor, 
colesevelam, exenatide, and pramlintide. Meta-analyses, randomized controlled 
trials of pharmacologic treatment, and evidence-based reviews and/or expert 
opinions regarding the treatment of T2DM in the elderly were selected for 
review.
RESULTS: In overweight patients, metformin has been associated with reductions 
in risk for all-cause mortality and stroke compared with insulin and 
sulfonylureas. Older patients who are frail, anorexic, or underweight and those 
with congestive heart failure (CHF), renal or hepatic insufficiency, or 
dehydration may not be appropriate candidates for metformin therapy. The 
substantial risk of hypoglycemia with insulin secretagogues is increased by 36% 
in the elderly compared with younger adults; however, this risk is 
counterbalanced by the extensive clinical experience with these agents in the 
geriatric population. Thiazolidinediones should generally be avoided in patients 
with CHF and are absolutely contraindicated in patients with class II-IV heart 
failure. They have been associated with peripheral edema, as well as with 
decreases in bone mineral density in women. There is limited information on the 
use of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors in the elderly, although dose 
adjustment is required in patients with renal compromise. In practice, 
substantial gastrointestinal adverse effects limit the use of alpha-glucosidase 
inhibitors in older patients. Colesevelam is associated with numerous drug 
interactions and can cause new or worsening constipation. There are limited data 
on the use of exenatide in the elderly. It may be beneficial in older patients 
with limited mobility who could benefit from weight loss, whereas it may not be 
a good option for frail, underweight adults. Use of exenatide is not recommended 
in patients with a creatinine clearance <30 mL/min. Given the increased 
monitoring required to avoid hypoglycemic events with pramlintide, this agent 
should be used with caution in older adults, particularly the frail elderly. 
Most patients with T2DM eventually require insulin; however, due to the risk of 
hypoglycemia and related morbidity, careful use of insulin is warranted in the 
geriatric population.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, there is a scarcity of data regarding the use of 
pharmacologic agents in older adults with T2DM, and clinical guidance is largely 
based on data obtained from younger populations. The selection of appropriate 
drug regimens for these patients remains challenging.

Copyright 2009 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjopharm.2009.12.002
PMID: 20129254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Atheroscler Suppl. 2009 Dec 29;10(5):44-8. doi:
10.1016/S1567-5688(09)71809-4.

A single lipid apheresis does not modulate pulse wave reflection in 
hypercholesterolemic patients.

Passauer J(1), Herbrig K, Fischer S, Bornstein S, Julius U.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Internal Medicine III, University 
Hospital Carl Gustav Carus at the Technische Universität, Dresden, Germany. 
passauer@rcs.urz.tu-dresden.de

BACKGROUND: Lipid apheresis (LA) is instituted to increase life expectancy in 
patients with previous cardiovascular events and severe and otherwise 
untreatable hypercholesterolemia. Studies have demonstrated that even a single 
LA markedly improves endothelial and micro-vascular function in patients. It is 
unknown whether these changes also impact pulse wave reflection and established 
parameters of arterial stiffness.
METHODS: In 20 patients on regular LA (8 treated by immunoadsorption, 7 by lipid 
filtration, 5 by direct adsorption of lipids) we measured peripheral blood 
pressure, heart rate, central systolic pressure (CSP), central pulse pressure 
(CPP), augmentation index (AIX) and pulse wave velocity by applanation tonometry 
(SphygmoCor, Atcor Medical) before and after a single treatment.
RESULTS: Peripheral blood pressure and heart rate were comparable pre- and post 
treatment. CSP, CPP, AIX and PWV did not significantly change during LA 
independent of treatment modality although LDL-cholesterol levels were markedly 
reduced (in average from 3.5+/-0.9 to 0.9+/-0.3 mmol/L).
CONCLUSION: The well-documented effects of a single LA on microvascular function 
are not associated with measurable changes in pulse wave reflection. Future 
studies are required in order to evaluate long-term effects of LA in this 
context.

Copyright © 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1567-5688(09)71809-4
PMID: 20129373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2009 Dec;2(12):1199-207. doi: 
10.1016/j.jcin.2009.10.009.

Long-term clinical and economic analysis of the Endeavor zotarolimus-eluting 
stent versus the cypher sirolimus-eluting stent: 3-year results from the 
ENDEAVOR III trial (Randomized Controlled Trial of the Medtronic Endeavor Drug 
[ABT-578] Eluting Coronary Stent System Versus the Cypher Sirolimus-Eluting 
Coronary Stent System in De Novo Native Coronary Artery Lesions).

Eisenstein EL(1), Leon MB, Kandzari DE, Mauri L, Edwards R, Kong DF, Cowper PA, 
Anstrom KJ; ENDEAVOR III Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute, Durham, North Carolina 27705, USA. 
eric.eisenstein@duke.edu

Comment in
    JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2009 Dec;2(12):1236-9.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate clinical and economic outcomes 
for subjects receiving zotarolimus-eluting (ZES) (n = 323) versus 
sirolimus-eluting stents (SES) (n = 113) in the ENDEAVOR III (Randomized 
Controlled Trial of the Medtronic Endeavor Drug [ABT-578] Eluting Coronary Stent 
System Versus the Cypher Sirolimus-Eluting Coronary Stent System in De Novo 
Native Coronary Artery Lesions) clinical trial.
BACKGROUND: Although previous clinical trials have evaluated long-term clinical 
outcome for drug-eluting stents, none considered their economic implications.
METHODS: We analyzed case report form information with quality-of-life 
adjustment and Medicare cost weights applied from secondary sources; compared 
differences in clinical outcomes, quality-adjusted survival, medical resource 
use, and medical costs; and evaluated cost-effectiveness through 3-year 
follow-up.
RESULTS: The use of ZES versus SES reduced the 3-year rates/100 subjects of 
death or myocardial infarction (3.9 vs. 10.8; difference, -6.9; 95% confidence 
interval [CI]: -13.0 to 0.8; p = 0.028), with no difference in target vessel 
revascularization rates (17.9 vs. 12.2; difference, 5.7; 95% CI: -3.7 to 15.1; p 
= 0.23) but greater use of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery (3.5 vs. 
0.0; difference 3.5; 95% CI: 1.3 to 5.7; p = 0.002). After discounting at 3% per 
annum, total medical costs for ZES versus SES were similar ($23,353 vs. $21,657; 
difference, $1,696; 95% CI: -$1,089 to $4,482, p = 0.23), and the 3-year 
cost-effectiveness ratio was $57,002/quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite a reduction in death or myocardial infarction and no 
difference in total revascularizations, medical costs were not decreased due to 
increased CABG repeat revascularization procedures for subjects receiving ZES 
versus SES. If future trials observe similar differences, improved safety with 
no difference in medical costs, the use of ZES versus SES will be a clinically 
and economically attractive treatment strategy. (The Medtronic Endeavor III Drug 
Eluting Coronary Stent System Clinical Trial [ENDEAVOR III]; NCT00217256).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcin.2009.10.009
PMID: 20129546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2009 Dec;2(12):1208-18. doi:
10.1016/j.jcin.2009.10.008.

Late safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of a zotarolimus-eluting stent 
compared with a paclitaxel-eluting stent in patients with de novo coronary 
lesions: 2-year follow-up from the ENDEAVOR IV trial (Randomized, Controlled 
Trial of the Medtronic Endeavor Drug [ABT-578] Eluting Coronary Stent System 
Versus the Taxus Paclitaxel-Eluting Coronary Stent System in De Novo Native 
Coronary Artery Lesions).

Leon MB(1), Kandzari DE, Eisenstein EL, Anstrom KJ, Mauri L, Cutlip DE, Nikolsky 
E, O'Shaughnessy C, Overlie PA, Kirtane AJ, McLaurin BT, Solomon SL, Douglas JS 
Jr, Popma JJ; ENDEAVOR IV Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University Medical Center and the Cardiovascular Research 
Foundation, New York, New York 10032, USA. mleon@crf.org

Comment in
    JACC Cardiovasc Interv. 2009 Dec;2(12):1236-9.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess, after 2 years of follow-up, the 
safety, efficacy, and cost-effectiveness of a zotarolimus-eluting stent (ZES) 
compared with a paclitaxel-eluting stent (PES) in patients with native coronary 
lesions.
BACKGROUND: Early drug-eluting stents were associated with a small but 
significant incidence of very late stent thrombosis (VLST), occurring >1 year 
after the index procedure. The ZES has shown encouraging results in clinical 
trials.
METHODS: The ENDEAVOR IV trial (Randomized, Controlled Trial of the Medtronic 
Endeavor Drug [ABT-578] Eluting Coronary Stent System Versus the Taxus 
Paclitaxel-Eluting Coronary Stent System in De Novo Native Coronary Artery 
Lesions), a randomized (1:1), single-blind, controlled trial (n = 1,548) 
compared ZES versus PES in patients with single de novo coronary lesions. 
Two-year follow-up was obtained in 96.0% of ZES and 95.4% of PES patients. The 
primary end point was target vessel failure (TVF), and safety end points 
included Academic Research Consortium-defined stent thrombosis. Economic end 
points analyzed included quality-adjusted survival, medical costs, and relative 
cost-effectiveness of ZES and PES.
RESULTS: The TVF at 2 years was similar in ZES and PES patients (11.1% vs. 
13.1%, p = 0.232). There were fewer myocardial infarctions (MIs) in ZES patients 
(p = 0.022), due to fewer periprocedural non-Q-wave MIs and fewer late MIs 
between 1 and 2 years. Late MIs were associated with increased VLST (PES: 6 vs. 
ZES: 1; p = 0.069). Target lesion revascularization was similar comparing ZES 
with PES (5.9% vs. 4.6%; p = 0.295), especially in patients without planned 
angiographic follow-up (5.2% vs. 4.9%; p = 0.896). The cost-effectiveness of ZES 
and PES was similar.
CONCLUSIONS: After 2 years of follow-up, ZES demonstrated efficacy and 
cost-effectiveness comparable to PES, with fewer MIs and a trend toward less 
VLST. (The ENDEAVOR IV Clinical Trial: A Trial of a Coronary Stent System in 
Coronary Artery Lesions; NCT00217269).

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcin.2009.10.008
PMID: 20129547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Stat Methods Med Res. 2010 Oct;19(5):547-55. doi: 10.1177/0962280209358140.
Epub  2010 Feb 3.

Modelling the likely effect of the increase of the upper age limit from 70 to 73 
for breast screening in the UK National Programme.

Duffy SW(1), Sasieni P, Olsen AH, Cafferty FH.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK Centre for Epidemiology, Mathematics and Statistics, 
Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine, Barts and the London School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse Square, 
London EC1M 6BQ, UK. stephen.duffy@cancer.org.uk

The UK National Breast Screening Programme is planned to have the age range for 
invitation to screening expanded from 50-70 to 47-73. At the upper limit, this 
represents one additional screen taking place in the early 70s. We aimed to 
estimate the likely effect of this on breast cancer mortality and on 
overdiagnosis of breast cancer. We used estimates of breast cancer incidence and 
survival by detection mode (screening or symptomatic), screening lead time and 
mortality from competing causes to estimate the likely numbers of breast cancer 
deaths prevented per 1000 women screened, using both a stochastic continuous 
time model and a semi-deterministic discrete time model. In the continuous 
model, we estimated that per 1000 women screened 1.2 deaths would be prevented 
and in the discrete model 0.91 deaths. In the latter model, we also estimated 
that there would be around 6.8 years of life saved per 1000 women screened and 
an additional two diagnoses of breast cancer. These results suggest that the 
expansion of the upper age limit will be cost-effective. They remain to be 
confirmed by evaluation of the age extension. They provide prior estimates that 
may inform the evaluation of the age extension.

DOI: 10.1177/0962280209358140
PMID: 20130109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2010 Jan;20(1):34-40. doi:
10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181c10c04.

Primary radical surgery in elderly patients with epithelial ovarian cancer: 
analysis of surgical outcome and long-term survival.

Fotopoulou C(1), Savvatis K, Steinhagen-Thiessen E, Bahra M, Lichtenegger W, 
Sehouli J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Campus Virchow Clinic, Charité 
University Hospital, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353 Berlin, Germany. 
christina.fotopoulou@charite.de

OBJECTIVE: Geriatric population life expectancy is increasing and so is the 
incidence of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) in elderly women. The aim of our 
study was to determine the impact of radical cytoreductive surgery, the 
cornerstone of clinical management in primary EOC, in this population with 
special regard to the associated morbidity.
METHODS: Through a pooled data analysis, cancer-related patient characteristics, 
intraoperative tumor pattern, and surgical and clinical outcomes were evaluated 
according to a validated documentation data collection tool. Kaplan-Meier curves 
were calculated for overall survival (OS). The Cox regression analysis was 
performed to identify independent predictors of mortality.
RESULTS: One hundred one EOC patients older than 69 years (mean [SD] age, 75.54 
[4.49] years) were evaluated. The mean (SD) follow-up period was 22.63 (22.92) 
months. Advanced International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics stage III 
(60.4%) was the most common tumor stage. A complete tumor resection was achieved 
in 45 patients (44.6%) with an associated complication rate of 40.6%. The 
postoperative mortality was 6%. The mean OS was 47.29 months (95% confidence 
interval, 36.24-58.34). The multivariate analysis identified age older than 75 
years, incomplete tumor resection, and absence of adjuvant chemotherapy to 
negatively affect OS.
CONCLUSIONS: Radical surgery for primary EOC obtaining complete tumor resection 
is associated with a significantly prolonged OS in elderly patients (> or =70 
years). The increased postoperative morbidity must be considered, underlining 
the high requirement for special interdisciplinary postoperative management in 
this special collective.

DOI: 10.1111/IGC.0b013e3181c10c04
PMID: 20130501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Health Serv J. 2009 Nov 19;119(6183):suppl 5.

New figures are a clarion call for increased activity on health inequalities.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20131464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Health Serv J. 2009 Nov 19;119(6183):suppl 15.

Life expectancy in Europe.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20131470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. J N J Dent Assoc. 2009;80(4):8.

Pain, dignity and death.

Dubman R.

Comment on
    J N J Dent Assoc. 2007 Fall;78(4):4-5.

PMID: 20131712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Br J Pharmacol. 2010 Apr;159(7):1367-73. doi:
10.1111/j.1476-5381.2009.00550.x.  Epub 2010 Feb 2.

Principles of pharmacoeconomics and their impact on strategic imperatives of 
pharmaceutical research and development.

Bodrogi J(1), Kaló Z.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Centre, Faculty of Social Sciences, Eötvös Loránd 
University, Budapest, Hungary.

The importance of evidence-based health policy is widely acknowledged among 
health care professionals, patients and politicians. Health care resources 
available for medical procedures, including pharmaceuticals, are limited all 
over the world. Economic evaluations help to alleviate the burden of scarce 
resources by improving the allocative efficiency of health care financing. 
Reimbursement of new medicines is subject to their cost-effectiveness and 
affordability in more and more countries. There are three major approaches to 
calculate the cost-effectiveness of new pharmaceuticals. Economic analyses 
alongside pivotal clinical trials are often inconclusive due to the suboptimal 
collection of economic data and protocol-driven costs. The major limitation of 
observational naturalistic economic evaluations is the selection bias and that 
they can be conducted only after registration and reimbursement. Economic 
