
Author information:
(1)Division of Community Health Sciences, St George's, University of London. 
mleontow@sgul.ac.uk

The last 40 years have witnessed substantial changes to the experience of later 
life. Health and life expectancy have improved and the emergence of a putative 
third age has allowed post-working life to move beyond being a residual social 
category to become an arena in which later life lifestyles can be constructed. 
Greater emphasis is now placed on expectations of self-agency and choice. Allied 
to this is the growing role of consumerism as a way of organizing key aspects of 
social life. Not only do these changes place increased emphasis on individual 
responsibility for health, but they also engage individuals in various forms of 
health consumerism.This study draws on these aspects of contemporary society to 
provide an explanatory framework for understanding older people's engagement 
with, and consumption of non-prescription medicines. We present a qualitative 
study in which we interviewed 22 men and women aged 60 plus who were purchasing 
or interested in purchasing non-prescription medicines, including complementary 
and alternative medicines. Our findings suggest that the use of non-prescription 
medicines is both pluralistic and makeshift. Moreover, while this pluralism led 
to tensions with conventional bio-medicine, conventional bio-medicine still 
maintained the legitimacy of its knowledge base. Self-care using 
non-prescription medicines appeared more governed by hope than by evidence or 
knowledge of the treatments concerned.We conclude that such pluralism of 
approach reflects the growing consumerism in health and self-care and that older 
people may in fact be similar to other age groups in terms of their approach to 
such commodification.

DOI: 10.1177/1363459309347479
PMID: 20164167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Onkologie. 2010;33 Suppl 1:5-9. doi: 10.1159/000265688. Epub 2010 Jan 22.

[First-line therapy of metastatic renal cell carcinoma--update 2009].

[Article in German]

Miller K(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Charité Berlin.

Several molecular therapies have recently become available in first-line therapy 
of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC), thus marginalizing cytocine-based 
therapy. The primary aim of treatment in this situation is to delay progression 
with an increase in long-term life expectancy along with enhanced quality of 
life. At present, three new substances are available: Sunitinib, Temsirolimus, 
and - in combination with Interferon-alpha - Bevacizumab. To date, sufficient 
data is at hand for all drugs, which has resulted in a consolidation of 
therapeutic strategy. Selecting the best therapy is highly relevant in everyday 
practice, depending, among other things, on clinical evidence, guidelines, and 
the respective approval status. The prognostic score according to Motzer (MSKCC) 
plays a major role. It covers three prognostically relevant risk groups which 
are important for the preferential application of the new substances. Current 
recommendations suggest the application of Sunitinib and Bevacizumab plus 
Interferon-alpha for good and medium prognoses, with Sunitinib being regarded to 
be one therapy of first choice. It is the most frequently applied substance for 
this indication in Germany. The efficacy of Temsirolimus has been documented for 
patients with poor prognosis and it has been approved for this indication only. 
Hence, the mTor inhibitor should be the standard for this group of patients.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000265688
PMID: 20164669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Onkologie. 2010;33 Suppl 1:15-7. doi: 10.1159/000265685. Epub 2010 Jan 22.

[Monitoring of metastatic renal cell carcinoma--standards and challenges].

[Article in German]

Jäger E(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Onkologie und Hämatologie, Krankenhaus Nordwest, Frankfurt/M.

The introduction of targeted therapies has led to a novel situation regarding 
monitoring of metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC): patients treated with 
these new drugs have a significantly longer life expectancy than just a few 
years ago. In order to maximize the treatment benefit, new demands have come up 
on the assessment of tumor progression: timing and interpretation of imaging 
studies are crucial for optimal therapeutic management. Detailed knowledge of 
the new compounds' mode of action is important as it is different from that of 
classic cytotoxic drugs. The RECIST criteria constitute the standard for 
evaluation. Following recommendations made by the German Cancer Society's (DKG) 
interdisciplinary task force, targeted therapies should strive for a sufficient 
treatment duration in each line of therapy in order to achieve the best 
therapeutic outcome. Treatment is continued until clinical progression occurs. 
Assessing therapeutic efficacy with adequate imaging techniques 6-9 weeks after 
the beginning of therapy is recommended. Subsequent follow-up examinations 
should be repeated using identical imaging modalities every 2-3 months. For 
cyclically applied drugs such as Sunitinib, examinations should be carried out 
at identical time points within the treatment cycle.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000265685
PMID: 20164672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. J Glaucoma. 2010 Dec;19(9):581-6. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181ca7f7f.

The Ahmed Glaucoma Valve in patients with and without neovascular glaucoma.

Netland PA(1), Ishida K, Boyle JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Hamilton Eye Institute, University of Tennessee 
Health Science Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA. pnetland@virginia.edu

PURPOSE: To evaluate the results of Ahmed Glaucoma Valve surgery in neovascular 
glaucoma and control patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In this retrospective comparative study, we reviewed 76 
eyes of 76 patients, comparing the surgical outcomes in control patients (N=38) 
to matched neovascular glaucoma patients (N=38). Success was defined as 
intraocular pressure (IOP) ≥6 mm Hg and ≤21 mm Hg, without further glaucoma 
surgery, and without loss of light perception.
RESULTS: Average follow-up for control and neovascular glaucoma patients was 
18.4 and 17.4 months, respectively (P=0.550). The mean IOPs were 17.9±8.4 mm Hg 
and 16.5±15.8 mm Hg at 1-year (P=0.150), and 18.4±11.2 mm Hg and 9.9±6.3 mm Hg 
at 2 years (P=0.057) in controls and eyes with neovascular glaucoma, 
respectively. Life-table analysis showed a significantly lower success for 
neovascular glaucoma patients compared with controls (P=0.0096), with success at 
1 year=89.2% and 73.1%, 2 years=81.8% and 61.9%, and 5 years=81.8% and 20.6% for 
control and neovascular glaucoma eyes, respectively. Cox proportional hazard 
regression analysis showed neovascular glaucoma as a risk factor for surgical 
failure (odds ratio=5.384, 95% CI=1.22-23.84, P=0.027). Although IOP control and 
complications were comparable between the 2 groups, visual outcomes were worse 
in neovascular glaucoma patients, with 9 (23.7%) eyes with neovascular glaucoma 
compared with no controls losing light perception vision (P=0.002). The majority 
with loss of vision (5 of 9) had successful control of IOP during the 
postoperative period.
CONCLUSIONS: Neovascular glaucoma patients have greater risk of surgical failure 
after Ahmed Glaucoma Valve surgery compared with controls. Despite improved IOP 
with drainage implants, visual outcomes may be poor, probably owing to 
progression of underlying disease.

DOI: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e3181ca7f7f
PMID: 20164790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. Demogr Res. 2008 Jul 1;19:1323. doi: 10.4054/DemRes.2008.19.35.

An integrated approach to cause-of-death analysis: cause-deleted life tables and 
decompositions of life expectancy.

Beltrán-Sánchez H(1), Preston SH, Canudas-Romo V.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, 3718 Locust Walk, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104-6298.

This article integrates two methods that analyze the implications of various 
causes of death for life expectancy. One of the methods attributes changes in 
life expectancy to various causes of death; the other method examines the effect 
of removing deaths from a particular cause on life expectancy. This integration 
is accomplished by new formulas that make clearer the interactions among causes 
of death in determining life expectancy. We apply our approach to changes in 
life expectancy in the United States between 1970 and 2000. We demonstrate, and 
explain analytically, the paradox that cancer is responsible for more years of 
life lost in 2000 than in 1970 despite the fact that declines in cancer 
mortality contributed to advances in life expectancy between 1970 and 2000.

DOI: 10.4054/DemRes.2008.19.35
PMCID: PMC2822405
PMID: 20165568


576. Lifetime Data Anal. 2011 Apr;17(2):321-32. doi: 10.1007/s10985-010-9153-1.
Epub  2010 Feb 18.

Quadratic fractional age assumption revisited.

Hossain SA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Nebraska, Kearney, NE 
68849, USA. hossains@unk.edu

This paper introduces a quadratic fractional age assumption which makes the 
force of mortality and survival function continuous at all ages. The necessary 
and sufficient condition for the assumption to be valid is derived. Important 
life table parameters are estimated and applications are shown using several 
life table data.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-010-9153-1
PMID: 20165913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Drugs. 2010 Feb 12;70(3):241-59. doi: 10.2165/11316160-000000000-00000.

Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator modulators for personalized 
drug treatment of cystic fibrosis: progress to date.

Becq F(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Physiology and Cellular Biology, University of Poitiers, 
National Centre of Scientific Research, Poitiers, France. 
frederic.becq@univ-poitiers.fr

This article considers the issue of personalized drug discovery for the orphan 
disease cystic fibrosis (CF) to deliver a candidate for therapeutic development. 
CF is a very complicated disease due to numerous anomalies of the gene leading 
to progressive severity and morbidity. Despite extensive research efforts, 20 
years after the cloning of the CF gene, CF patients are still waiting for a 
curative treatment as prescribed medications still target the secondary 
manifestations of the disease rather than the gene or the CF transmembrane 
conductance regulator (CFTR) protein. New therapeutics aimed at improving mutant 
CFTR functions, also known as 'protein repair therapy' are nevertheless hoped 
and predicted to replace some of the currently used therapy, while improving the 
quality of life as well as life expectancy of CF patients. Although there is 
substantial variability in the cost of treating CF between countries, a protein 
repair therapy should also alleviate the financial burden of medical costs for 
CF patients and their families. Finding new drugs or rediscovering old ones for 
CF is critically dependent on the delivery of molecular and structural 
information on the CFTR protein, on its mutated version and on the network of 
CFTR-interacting proteins. The expertise needed to turn compounds into 
marketable drugs for CF will depend on our ability to provide biological 
information obtained from pertinent models of the disease and on our success in 
transferring safe molecules to clinical trials. Predicting a drug-induced 
response is also an attractive challenge that could be rapidly applied to 
patients.

DOI: 10.2165/11316160-000000000-00000
PMID: 20166764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. Infect Disord Drug Targets. 2010 Apr;10(2):76-83. doi: 
10.2174/187152610790963483.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and stroke: targets for intervention.

Connor M(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of Edinburgh, and Queen 
Margaret Hospital, Dunfermline, UK. mconnor@staffmail.ed.ac.uk

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection causes stroke through several 
mechanisms. Stroke results from opportunistic infection and neoplasia, HIV 
induced cardiac disease, HIV associated cerebral vasculopathy, and perhaps of 
HIV induced facilitation of some forms of systemic vasculitis and prothrombotic 
haematological conditions. HIV causes more ischaemic stroke than cerebral 
haemorrhage. Although stroke is currently a relatively infrequent manifestation 
of HIV infection, the incidence of stroke in HIV infected individuals is likely 
to increase with current combination antiretroviral therapy. HIV infection per 
se induces endothelial activation and dyslipidaemia, predisposing to accelerated 
atherosclerosis. Antiretroviral therapy, which increases life expectancy and 
therefore inherently increases ischaemic stroke risk with advancing age and 
length of exposure to traditional risk factors, also causes pro-atherosclerotic 
metabolic and endothelial dysfunction. Antiretroviral induced vascular 
dysfunction together with pre-existing HIV induced vascular disease has the 
potential to increase atherosclerotic causes of ischaemic stroke. New 
antiretroviral agents should ideally eradicate the human immunodeficiency virus 
thereby reducing vascular risk and HIV related causes of stroke without inducing 
metabolic or endothelial dysfunction. Future studies of vascular disease in HIV 
infected individuals, particularly studies investigating the impact of current 
and future antiretroviral agents, should ideally assess stroke as a specific 
outcome, and provide data by pathological stroke type and ischaemic stroke 
subtype, to clarify the mechanisms of stroke and guide the approach to treatment 
and prevention of stroke.

DOI: 10.2174/187152610790963483
PMID: 20166974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2010 Feb;69(1):38-49. doi:
10.3402/ijch.v69i1.17429.

Causes and contributions to differences in life expectancy for Inuit Nunangat 
and Canada, 1994-2003.

Peters PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Analysis Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, K1A 0T6, 
Canada. paul.a.peters@statcan.gc.ca

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this article is to measure the contributions of age 
groups and causes of death to differences in mortality and life expectancy 
between residents of Inuit Nunangat and the rest of Canada.
STUDY DESIGN: The geographic area of coverage includes communities within Inuit 
Nunangat, with the addition of Inuvik in the Northwest Territories. Deaths were 
compiled for 2 5-year periods, 1994 through 1998 and 1999 through 2003, with the 
mid-year centred on the 1996 and 2001 censuses.
METHODS: Abridged life tables were constructed according to the revised Chiang 
method. Age decomposition of differences in life expectancy and cause-deleted 
life tables were calculated using a discrete approach. The age groups and causes 
contributing to differences in life expectancy between Inuit Nunangat and the 
rest of Canada were calculated.
RESULTS: Specific age groups contribute more to the difference in life 
expectancy between Inuit Nunangat and the rest of Canada. For males, over 50% of 
the difference in life expectancy is due to excess mortality before 25 years of 
age, while for females nearly 65% is due to excess mortality after the age of 
60.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer is a major contributor to the difference in life expectancy 
between residents of Inuit Nunangat and the rest of Canada; reduction in cancer 
rates would make the greatest contribution to gains in life expectancy. There 
are clear gender differences in life expectancy and mortality, with the total 
effect of mortality being greatest for males between 15 and 25 years of age and 
for females over the age of 60.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v69i1.17429
PMID: 20167155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):969-71; discussion 974-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.037. Epub 2010 Feb 12.

Pharmaceutical innovation and mortality in the United States, 1960-2000. A 
commentary on Schnittker and Karandinos.

Lichtenberg F(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, 504 Uris Hall, 3022 
Broadway, New York, NY 10027, USA. frl1@columbia.edu

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):961-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.037
PMID: 20167408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Am J Public Health. 2010 Apr;100(4):590-5. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.185652.
Epub  2010 Feb 18.

A framework for public health action: the health impact pyramid.

Frieden TR(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA. 
txf2@cdc.gov

Comment in
    Am J Public Health. 2010 Oct;100(10):1824-5.

A 5-tier pyramid best describes the impact of different types of public health 
interventions and provides a framework to improve health. At the base of this 
pyramid, indicating interventions with the greatest potential impact, are 
efforts to address socioeconomic determinants of health. In ascending order are 
interventions that change the context to make individuals' default decisions 
healthy, clinical interventions that require limited contact but confer 
long-term protection, ongoing direct clinical care, and health education and 
counseling. Interventions focusing on lower levels of the pyramid tend to be 
more effective because they reach broader segments of society and require less 
individual effort. Implementing interventions at each of the levels can achieve 
the maximum possible sustained public health benefit.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2009.185652
PMCID: PMC2836340
PMID: 20167880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2010 Mar;32(2):e50-3. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0b013e3181c5ab68.

Osteogenic sarcoma in a child with familial expansile osteolysis syndrome: an 
accidental association?

Bacri D(1), Arush MW, Vlodavsky E, Kollander Y, Militianu D, Postovsky S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Hematology Oncology, Meyer Children's Hospital, 
Sourasky Medical Center, Tel Aviv, Israel.

We present the first reported case of a child with familial expansile osteolysis 
syndrome (FEO) who developed osteogenic sarcoma (OS) of the iliac bone. A 
17-year-old adolescent presented with pain and a mass on the left pelvis. He was 
from a family with several members who had been diagnosed with FEO, from which 
he also suffered. The median life expectancy of affected members of the family 
was reported as 25 to 30 years, with death ensuing as a result of various 
respiratory and cardiac complications of severe skeletal deformations, 
characteristic of increased bone turnover as seen in FEO. Biopsy of the 
patient's mass revealed chondroblastic OS. He was treated according to the P9754 
protocol for patients with newly diagnosed nonmetastatic OS. Chemotherapy 
consisted of HD-MTX, ifosfomide, doxorubicin, and cisplatin. Complete resection 
of the tumor was carried out, but the patient subsequently developed metastatic 
disease and died (histologic response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy-85%). The 
patient's alkaline phosphatase level that was highly elevated before the start 
of chemotherapy, dropped significantly during treatment, with repeated elevation 
soon after definitive surgery, while he was recuperating and not on treatment. 
We speculate that chemotherapy affected not only the malignant cells of OS but 
normal osteoblasts as well, with a decreasing level of alkaline phosphatase even 
in the absence of any clinical and radiographic signs of OS. We also think that 
increased bone turnover, characteristic of a condition such as FEO, may 
facilitate de novo development of OS.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0b013e3181c5ab68
PMID: 20168251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. PLoS Med. 2010 Feb 16;7(2):e1000234. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000234.

Can broader diffusion of value-based insurance design increase benefits from US 
health care without increasing costs? Evidence from a computer simulation model.

Braithwaite RS(1), Omokaro C, Justice AC, Nucifora K, Roberts MS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Value and Comparative Effectiveness, New York University School of 
Medicine, New York, New York, United States of America. 
Scott.Braithwaite@nyumc.org

BACKGROUND: Evidence suggests that cost sharing (i.e.,copayments and 
deductibles) decreases health expenditures but also reduces essential care. 
Value-based insurance design (VBID) has been proposed to encourage essential 
care while controlling health expenditures. Our objective was to estimate the 
impact of broader diffusion of VBID on US health care benefits and costs.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used a published computer simulation of costs and life 
expectancy gains from US health care to estimate the impact of broader diffusion 
of VBID. Two scenarios were analyzed: (1) applying VBID solely to pharmacy 
benefits and (2) applying VBID to both pharmacy benefits and other health care 
services (e.g., devices). We assumed that cost sharing would be eliminated for 
high-value services (<$100,000 per life-year), would remain unchanged for 
intermediate- or unknown-value services ($100,000-$300,000 per life-year or 
unknown), and would be increased for low-value services (>$300,000 per 
life-year). All costs are provided in 2003 US dollars. Our simulation estimated 
that approximately 60% of health expenditures in the US are spent on low-value 
services, 20% are spent on intermediate-value services, and 20% are spent on 
high-value services. Correspondingly, the vast majority (80%) of health 
expenditures would have cost sharing that is impacted by VBID. With prevailing 
patterns of cost sharing, health care conferred 4.70 life-years at a per-capita 
annual expenditure of US$5,688. Broader diffusion of VBID to pharmaceuticals 
increased the benefit conferred by health care by 0.03 to 0.05 additional 
life-years, without increasing costs and without increasing out-of-pocket 
payments. Broader diffusion of VBID to other health care services could increase 
the benefit conferred by health care by 0.24 to 0.44 additional life-years, also 
without increasing costs and without increasing overall out-of-pocket payments. 
Among those without health insurance, using cost saving from VBID to subsidize 
insurance coverage would increase the benefit conferred by health care by 1.21 
life-years, a 31% increase.
CONCLUSION: Broader diffusion of VBID may amplify benefits from US health care 
without increasing health expenditures.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000234
PMCID: PMC2821897
PMID: 20169114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


584. Can J Neurol Sci. 2010 Jan;37(1):28-35. doi: 10.1017/s0317167100009616.

Disability and survival of multiple sclerosis in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.

Hader WJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of 
Saskatchewan, Saskatoon City Hospital, Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, Canada.

BACKGROUND: A population-based prevalent group of 150 clinical definite patients 
ascertained on 1 January 1977, in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, was followed for 30 
years.
OBJECTIVES: To outline the clinical characteristics, determine the levels of 
disability at 15, 25, 35, 40, and 45 years after onset, to estimate the survival 
after onset and life expectancy.
METHODS: Clinical records were maintained, and the cohort reviewed each decade 
for 30 years. The disability levels according to the Kurtzke Extended Disability 
Status Scale were recorded and survival times were estimated. SPSS and 
Kaplan-Meier methods were used for analysis.
RESULTS: On prevalence day, 1 January 1977, there were 48 (32%) men and 102 
(68%) women, with an average age of onset of 32.2 +/- 10 years and 28.4 +/- 8.6 
years. The average duration of disease was 15.7 years. On 1 January 2007, 39 
(26%) patients were living, 105 (70%) deceased, and 6 (4%) were missing The 
disability levels recorded in 1977 and 2007, at 15 and 45 years after onset, 
were mild (EDSS < or = 2.5), 33.3% and 8.0%; moderate (EDSS3-5.5), 17.3% and 
2.7%; severe (EDSS6-7.5), 6.6% and 4.7%; maximum (EDSS8-9.5), 22.7% and 10.7%. 
The median survival time after onset was 33 (95% CI: 27.3-38.6) years for men 
and 38 (95% CI: 34.1-41.9) years for women. The median duration of life was 68.9 
years for men and 69.5 years for women, and a decreased life expectancy of 7.7 
and 12.8 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Multiple sclerosis is a progressive neurological disorder and 
long-term survival is associated with moderate to severe disability and 
decreased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1017/s0317167100009616
PMID: 20169770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. Ann Ig. 2009 Nov-Dec;21(6):555-63.

[Managing the hospitalizations for older patients in University Hospital of 
Pisa].

[Article in Italian]

Cristofano M(1), Miccoli M, Furlan M, Torracca F, Costa A, Benvenuti D, 
Tomassini CR, Baggiani A.

Author information:
(1)Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Pisana.

We have analyzed hospitalizations of older people (> 64) from 2002 to 2005. 
Patients, discharges and stay in hospital have increased, the variation has been 
statistically significant. We have noticed the same trend about the 
rehospitalizations. Patients and discharges coming from ASL 5 and zone 4 have 
decreased in relation with all the elderly people. The reduction of stay in 
hospital and the decrease of rehospitalizations have been statistically 
significant.

PMID: 20169827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. Nurs Times. 2009 Dec 15-2010 Jan 11;105(49-50):9.

Health promotion could help us all grow old gracefully.

Nazarko L(1).

Author information:
(1)Ealing and Harrow Community Services.

PMID: 20169847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. Enferm Intensiva. 2010 Jan-Mar;21(1):28-33. doi: 10.1016/j.enfi.2009.11.001.
 Epub 2010 Jan 25.

[Pressure monitoring in continuous renal replacement therapy].

[Article in Spanish]

Guirao Moya A(1), Esteban Sánchez ME, Fernández Gaute N, Murga González A, 
Vergara Diez L, Martínez García MP, Domínguez Domínguez JE, Frade Mera MJ, Cruz 
Ramos AM, Molano Alvarez E.

Author information:
(1)UCI Polivalente, Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital Universitario 12 de 
Octubre, Madrid, España. ameliaguirao@yahoo.es

INTRODUCTION: Continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) has experienced 
significant advances that have lead to an increase of its indications and 
improved the technology used in continued pressures monitoring.
AIM: This study has aimed to discover if there are any associations between the 
increase of the circuit pressures and their duration.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A prospective, longitudinal analytic pilot study was 
conducted in an Intensive Care Unit of a university hospital from October 2008 
to April 2009. The study analyzed the patient's information with CRRT and the 
hourly values of entry pressure (EP), comeback pressure (CP), transmembrane 
pressure (TMP) and pre-filter pressure (PFP). The Spearman correlation and the 
Student's T test were used.
RESULTS: The study analyzed 44 sets corresponding to 11 patients (45.5% men and 
54.5% women) with a life expectancy of 62 years. The same light catheter GamCath 
(11 French) and Continuous Venovenous Hemodiafiltration (CVVHDF) therapy were 
used in all patients. The mean duration of the circuits was 39 h. Mean, median, 
maximum and minimum values of the sample pressures were: EP:-52.17; -52.57; 160; 
-256 (millimeters of mercury) mmHg]; CP: (98.6; 95.3; 323; -2 mmHg); TMP: 
(58.57; 58.52; 245; -20 mmHg) and PFP: (161.76; 159.42; 375; -13 mmHg), 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A negative correlation was demonstrated between the duration of the 
sets and the mean CP and PFP. The sample obtained circuits withdrawn due to 
finished treatment (72 h), and by coagulation or changes in pressures.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier España, S.L. y SEEIUC. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enfi.2009.11.001
PMID: 20170833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Soc Sci Med. 2010 May;70(9):1373-80. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.01.003.
Epub  2010 Feb 12.

Racial and social class gradients in life expectancy in contemporary California.

Clarke CA(1), Miller T, Chang ET, Yin D, Cockburn M, Gomez SL.

Author information:
(1)Northern California Cancer Center, Surveillance Research, 2201 Walnut Ave, 
Fremont, CA 94538, United States. tina@nccc.org

Life expectancy, or the estimated average age of death, is among the most basic 
measures of a population's health. However, monitoring differences in life 
expectancy among sociodemographically defined populations has been challenging, 
at least in the United States (US), because death certification does not include 
collection of markers of socioeconomic status (SES). In order to understand how 
SES and race/ethnicity independently and jointly affected overall health in a 
contemporary US population, we assigned a small-area-based measure of SES to all 
689,036 deaths occurring in California during a three-year period (1999-2001) 
overlapping the most recent US census. Residence at death was geocoded to the 
smallest census area available (block group) and assigned to a quintile of a 
multifactorial SES index. We constructed life tables using mortality rates 
calculated by age, sex, race/ethnicity and neighborhood SES quintile, and 
produced corresponding life expectancy estimates. We found a 19.6 (+/-0.6) year 
gap in life expectancy between the sociodemographic groups with the longest life 
expectancy (highest SES quintile of Asian females; 84.9 years) and the shortest 
(lowest SES quintile of African-American males; 65.3 years). A positive SES 
gradient in life expectancy was observed among whites and African-Americans but 
not Hispanics or Asians. Age-specific mortality disparities varied among groups. 
Race/ethnicity and neighborhood SES had substantial and independent influences 
on life expectancy, underscoring the importance of monitoring health outcomes 
simultaneously by these factors. African-American males living in the poorest 
20% of California neighborhoods had life expectancy comparable to that reported 
for males living in developing countries. Neighborhood SES represents a 
readily-available metric for ongoing surveillance of health disparities in the 
US.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.01.003
PMCID: PMC2849870
PMID: 20171001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Ultramicroscopy. 2010 Mar;110(4):366-74. doi:
10.1016/j.ultramic.2010.01.016.  Epub 2010 Feb 10.

Immunolocalization of multiple membrane proteins on a carbon replica with STEM 
and EDX.

Loukanov A(1), Kamasawa N, Danev R, Shigemoto R, Nagayama K.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, The Graduate University for Advanced Studies 
Sokendai, Okazaki 444-8787, Japan. alexandre_loukanov@yahoo.com

We present a method for immunolabeling of multiple species of membrane proteins 
with high spatial resolution. It allows differentiation of equally sized very 
small markers with different chemical compositions, which leads to high labeling 
efficiency and reduces steric hindrance of closely spaced immunolabeled 
biomolecules. Markers such as CdSe/ZnS semiconductor quantum dots and colloidal 
gold particles are distinguished by differential contrast in high-angle annular 
detector dark-field STEM mode or by EDX microanalysis of their elemental 
contents. This method was tested by observation of labeled AMPA- and NMDA-type 
glutamate receptors on sodium-dodecyl-sulfate-digested replica prepared from rat 
hippocampus. To improve particle visibility and detectability, the replica films 
were made exclusively with carbon to avoid the high background of conventional 
platinum/carbon replica. Extension of the method is suggested by detection of 
1.4 nm nanogold particles and its potential application in the biological 
imaging research.

(c) 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultramic.2010.01.016
PMID: 20171011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. J Clin Epidemiol. 2010 Aug;63(8):892-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2009.11.002.
 Epub 2010 Feb 20.

The Global Activity Limitation Index measured function and disability similarly 
across European countries.

Jagger C(1), Gillies C, Cambois E, Van Oyen H, Nusselder W, Robine JM; EHLEIS 
Team.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, United 
Kingdom. carol.jagger@ncl.c.uk

OBJECTIVE: This work aims to validate and increase understanding of the Global 
Activity Limitation Index (GALI), an activity limitation measure from which the 
new structural indicator Healthy Life Years is generated.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Data from the Survey of Health and Retirement in 
Europe, covering 11 European countries and 27,340 individuals older than 50 
years, was used to investigate how the GALI was associated with other existing 
measures of function and disability and whether the GALI was consistent or 
reflected different levels of health in different countries.
RESULTS: The GALI was significantly associated with the two subjective measures 
of activities of daily living score and instrumental activities of daily living 
(IADL) score, and the two objective measures of maximum grip strength and 
walking speed (P<0.001 in all cases). The GALI did not differ significantly 
between countries in terms of how it reflected three of the health measures, 
with the exception being IADL.
CONCLUSION: The GALI appears to satisfactorily reflect levels of function and 
disability as assessed by long-standing objective and subjective measures, both 
across Europe and in a similar way between countries.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2009.11.002
PMID: 20171842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Dig Liver Dis. 2010 Apr;42(4):272-82. doi: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.01.021. Epub
2010  Feb 19.

Practice guidelines for the diagnosis and management of nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease. A decalogue from the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver 
(AISF) Expert Committee.

Loria P(1), Adinolfi LE, Bellentani S, Bugianesi E, Grieco A, Fargion S, 
Gasbarrini A, Loguercio C, Lonardo A, Marchesini G, Marra F, Persico M, Prati D, 
Baroni GS; NAFLD Expert Committee of the Associazione Italiana per lo studio del 
Fegato.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Interna, Endocrinologia, Metabolismo e Geriatria, 
Università di Modena e Reggio Emilia, Nuovo Ospedale Sant'Agostino Estense di 
Baggiovara, Via del Pozzo 71, Modena, MO, Italy.

We report the evidence-based Italian Association for the Study of Liver 
guidelines for the appropriate diagnosis and management of patients with 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in clinical practice and its related research 
agenda. The prevalence of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease varies according to 
age, gender and ethnicity. In the general population, the prevalence of 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is about 25% and the incidence is of two new 
cases/100 people/year. 2-3% of individuals in the general population will suffer 
from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Uncomplicated steatosis will usually follow a 
benign course. Individuals with nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, however, have a 
reduced life expectancy, mainly owing to vascular diseases and liver-related 
causes. Moreover, steatosis has deleterious effects on the natural history of 
HCV infection. Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease is usually diagnosed in 
asymptomatic patients prompted by the occasional discovery of increased liver 
enzymes and/or of ultrasonographic steatosis. Medical history, complete physical 
examination, etiologic screening of liver injury, liver biochemistry tests, 
serum lipids and insulin sensitivity tests should be performed in every patient. 
Occult alcohol abuse should be ruled out. Ultrasonography is the first-line 
imaging technique. Liver biopsy, the gold standard in diagnosis and prognosis of 
nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, is an invasive procedure and its results will 
not influence treatment in most cases but will provide prognostic information. 
Assessment of fibrosis by composite scores, specific laboratory parameters and 
transient elastography might reduce the number of nonalcoholic fatty liver 
disease patients requiring liver biopsy. Dieting and physical training 
reinforced by behavioural therapy are associated with improved nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease. Diabetes and the metabolic syndrome should be ruled out at 
timed intervals in nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. Nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis patients should undergo periodic evaluation of cardiovascular 
risk and of advancement of their liver disease; those with nonalcoholic 
steatohepatitis-cirrhosis should be evaluated for early diagnosis of 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Copyright (c) 2010 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2010.01.021
PMID: 20171943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2009 Sep;27 Suppl 1:10-6. doi: 
10.1016/S0213-005X(09)73440-8.

[Patient-related cardiovascular risk factors in the HIV-infected population].

[Article in Spanish]

Portilla J(1).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Hospital General Universitario de 
Alicante, Alicante, España. portilla_joa@gva.es

The pathogenesis of arteriosclerosis in HIV-infected patients is complex. Both 
patient-related cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) established for the general 
population and those related to highly-active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and 
HIV infection per se are involved. Some traditional CVRF are more frequent in 
HIV infected patients than in the general population. In developed countries, 
HIV infection is more frequent among men and, due to HAART, their life 
expectancy has significantly increased. The prevalence of smoking (37-72%) is 
higher than in the general population, as is that of diabetes mellitus (17%), 
insulin resistance (17-51%), dyslipidemia (22-49%) and hypertriglyceridemia 
(34%). The higher prevalence in these patients is probably due to lifestyle and 
length of exposure to HAART, especially to certain antiretroviral drugs. 
Although overall cardiovascular risk in patients with HIV remains low, CVRF 
established for the general population become more important with increasing 
age. Longitudinal cohort studies indicate the magnitude of the association of 
these risk factors with cardiovascular disease in patients with HIV infection. 
In view of all the factors that intervene in HIV infection, specific 
mathematical models should be designed for this population that would allow 
individual cardiovascular risk to be calculated in each patient and measures for 
cardiovascular prevention to be established.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier España S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0213-005X(09)73440-8
PMID: 20172410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Soc Sci Med. 2010 May;70(9):1350-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.12.012.
Epub  2010 Feb 12.

National independence, women's political participation, and life expectancy in 
Norway.

Nobles J(1), Brown R, Catalano R.

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin, Madison, Department of Sociology and Center for 
Demography and Ecology, 1180 Observatory Drive, Madison, WI 53706, United 
States. jnobles@ssc.wisc.edu

This study investigates the role of national independence and women's political 
participation on population health using historical lifespan data from Norway. 
We use time-series methods to analyze data measuring the actual length of time 
lived by Norwegian birth cohorts spanning a 61 year period surrounding the 
political emancipation of Norway from Sweden in 1905 and the establishment of a 
Norwegian monarchy in 1906. The use of a discrete, historical event improves our 
ability to interpret the population health effects of national independence and 
women's political participation as causal. We find a large and significant 
positive effect on the lifespan of Norwegian females born in the 1906 cohort. 
Interestingly, the effect does not extend to all living females during the 
Norwegian drive toward sovereignty. We conclude that the beneficial effects were 
likely conferred through intrauterine biological transfers and/or neonatal 
investments specific to the first year of life.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.12.012
PMCID: PMC3408232
PMID: 20172639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. J Health Care Poor Underserved. 2010 Feb;21(1):161-76. doi:
10.1353/hpu.0.0258.

Cost-effectiveness of treating hypertension, hyperglycemia, and hyperlipidemia 
in African Americans and the general population with type 2 diabetes.

Tasosa J(1), Schuster R, McAlearney JS.

Author information:
(1)University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA. 
jtasosa@uchicago.edu

Disparate access to health care makes African Americans especially susceptible 
to diabetes and associated risk factors. This study analyzes the 
cost-effectiveness of aggressive treatment of hypertension, hyperglycemia, and 
hyperlipidemia in an adult population of African Americans and general 
population with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to simulate the progression of 
cardiovascular disease among a cohort of African Americans and general 
population with newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes. Data from published studies was 
used to construct the model. Patients in simulation either received aggressive 
treatment or treatment as usual. Lifetime costs, incremental costs, incremental 
quality adjusted life years (QALY) and incremental costs per QALY gained 
($/QALY) were assessed.
CONCLUSION: Aggressive treatment was more cost-effective in African Americans 
than in the general population for all ages under 65 years. The study highlights 
the economic and health benefits of providing comprehensive diabetes care to all 
groups, especially African Americans.

DOI: 10.1353/hpu.0.0258
PMID: 20173262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Gesundheitswesen. 2010 Dec;72(12):859-65. doi: 10.1055/s-0029-1246120. Epub
2010  Feb 19.

[Death in seclusion - a worldwide phenomenon illustrated on fringe groups in 
Munich].

[Article in German]

Fieseler S(1), Pfandzelt S, Zinka B, Kunz S, Gabriel H, Eisenmenger W, Graw M.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Rechtsmedizin der Universität München, München. 
Sybille.Fieseler@med.uni-muenchen.de

100 randomised cases where a person lived and died in isolation in Munich were 
analysed. Factors such as social background, living situation, education, 
physiological and psychological state of health were evaluated. Personal 
isolation (=seclusion) seems to depend on various social, financial, 
psychological or physical reasons. Lack of contact with other people not only 
leads to psychological problems, but isolation also contributes to increased 
illness and early death. In order to improve the present social situation in 
Munich preventive social measures are necessary to achieve increase in health 
status for the elder and a decrease in mortality rate.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0029-1246120
PMID: 20175048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. J Vasc Access. 2010 Apr-Jun;11(2):138-42. doi: 10.1177/112972981001100210.

Insertion of tunneled hemodialysis catheters without fluoroscopy.

Motta Elias R(1), da Silva Makida SC, Abensur H, Martins Castro MC, Affonso 
Moysés RM, Pereira BJ, Bueno de Oliveira R, Luders C, Romão JE Jr.

Author information:
(1)Hospital das Clínicas, University of São Paulo School of Medicine, São Paulo, 
Brazil. rosilenemotta@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: The tunneled cuffed catheter (TCC) is used as a bridge access for 
hemodialysis. Few prospective studies have been designed to evaluate conversion 
from non-tunneled to TCC without the use of fluoroscopy when performed by 
nephrologists.
METHODS: We performed an observational prospective cohort in incident patients 
receiving hemodialysis through a non-tunneled right jugular vein catheter.
RESULTS: 130 procedures were performed in 122 patients (51+/-18 years). The 
success rate was 100%. There was a total of 26,546 catheter days. Ninety-one of 
the 130 catheters were removed during the study period. Life table analysis 
revealed primary patency rates of 92%, 82%, and 68% at 30, 60, and 120 days, 
respectively. Infection requiring catheter removal occurred at a frequency of 
0.09 per 100 catheter days. Catheter malfunction requiring intervention occurred 
at a rate of 0.03 per 100 catheter days. Hypertension and duration of existing 
non-tunneled catheter of less than 2 weeks were independently associated with 
better TCC survival.
CONCLUSION: The conversion from non-tunneled to TCC performed by nephrologists 
and without fluoroscopy may be safe by using the internal right jugular vein. 
The ideal time to do this procedure is within less than 2 weeks of existing 
non-tunneled catheter.

DOI: 10.1177/112972981001100210
PMID: 20175069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2010 Oct;140(4):784-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2009.11.014. Epub 2010 Feb 21.

Role of age in acute type A aortic dissection outcome: report from the 
International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection (IRAD).

Trimarchi S(1), Eagle KA, Nienaber CA, Rampoldi V, Jonker FH, De Vincentiis C, 
Frigiola A, Menicanti L, Tsai T, Froehlich J, Evangelista A, Montgomery D, 
Bossone E, Cooper JV, Li J, Deeb MG, Meinhardt G, Sundt TM, Isselbacher EM; 
International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection Investigators.

Collaborators: Eagle KA, Isselbacher EM, Nienaber CA, Bossone E, Braverman A, 
Demertzis S, DiBenedetto G, Ehrlich M, Evangelista A, Fattori R, Froehlich J, 
Tsai T, Gilon D, Hirsch A, Harris K, Hughes GC, Hutchison S, Januzzi JL, Llovet 
A, Myrmel T, Oberwalder P, O'Gara P, Beckman J, Oh JK, Pape LA, Pyeritz R, 
Sechtem U, Meinhardt G, Steg PG, Suzuki T, Trimarchi S.

Author information:
(1)Policlinico San Donato IRCCS, San Donato Milanese, Italy. 
santi.trimarchi@unimi.it

OBJECTIVE: The increasing life expectancy of the population will likely be 
accompanied by a rise in the incidence of acute type A aortic dissection. 
However, because of an increased risk of cardiac surgery in an elderly 
population, it is important to define when, if at all, the risks of aortic 
repair outweigh the risk of death from unoperated type A aortic dissection.
METHODS: We analyzed 936 patients with type A aortic dissection enrolled in the 
International Registry of Acute Aortic Dissection from 1996 to 2004. Patients 
with type A aortic dissection were categorized according to patient age by 
decade and by surgical versus medical management, and outcomes of both 
management types were investigated in the different age groups.
RESULTS: The rate of surgical aortic repair decreased progressively with age, 
whereas surgical mortality significantly increased with age. Age 70 years or 
more was an independent predictor for mortality (38.2% vs 26.0%; P < .0001, odds 
ratio 1.73). The in-hospital mortality rate was significantly lower after 
surgical management compared with medical management until the age of 80 years. 
For patients aged 80 to 90 years, the in-hospital mortality appeared to be lower 
after surgical management (37.9% vs 55.2%; P = .188); however, this failed to 
reach clinical significance owing to the limited patient number in this age 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the surgical mortality significantly increased with 
increased age, surgical management was still associated with significantly lower 
in-hospital mortality rates compared with medical management until the age of 80 
years. Surgery may decrease the in-hospital mortality rate for octogenarians 
with type A aortic dissection and might be considered in all patients with type 
A aortic dissection regardless of age.

Copyright © 2010 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2009.11.014
PMID: 20176372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Radiology. 2010 Mar;254(3):793-800. doi: 10.1148/radiol.09091086.

Cost-effectiveness of breast MR imaging and screen-film mammography for 
screening BRCA1 gene mutation carriers.

Lee JM(1), McMahon PM, Kong CY, Kopans DB, Ryan PD, Ozanne EM, Halpern EF, 
Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Institute for Technology Assessment, Division of 
Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 
Merrimac St, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. jlee45@partners.org

PURPOSE: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
screening strategies in which MR imaging and screen-film mammography were used, 
alone and in combination, in women with BRCA1 mutations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Because this study did not involve primary data 
collection from individual patients, institutional review board approval was not 
needed. By using a simulation model, we compared three annual screening 
strategies for a cohort of 25-year-old BRCA1 mutation carriers, as follows: (a) 
screen-film mammography, (b) MR imaging, and (c) combined MR imaging and 
screen-film mammography (combined screening). The model was used to estimate 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and lifetime costs. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated. Input parameters were obtained from 
the medical literature, existing databases, and calibration. Costs (2007 U.S. 
dollars) and quality-of-life adjustments were derived from Medicare 
reimbursement rates and the medical literature. Sensitivity analysis was 
performed to evaluate the effect of uncertainty in parameter estimates on model 
results.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, annual combined screening was most effective 
(44.62 QALYs), and had the highest cost ($110973), followed by annual MR imaging 
alone (44.50 QALYs, $108641), and annual mammography alone (44.46 QALYs, 
$100336). Adding annual MR imaging to annual mammographic screening cost $69125 
for each additional QALY gained. Sensitivity analysis indicated that, when the 
screening MR imaging cost increased to $960 (base case, $577), or breast cancer 
risk by age 70 years decreased below 58% (base case, 65%), or the sensitivity of 
combined screening decreased below 76% (base case, 94%), the cost of adding MR 
imaging to mammography exceeded $100000 per QALY.
