conditions that significantly change within the time scale comparable with human 
lifespan, whereas the correct decomposition is possible only for strictly 
homogenous populations under strictly stationary conditions. The comparison of 
this situation with animal experiments suggesting possible interferences that 
may decrease aging rate and/or increase lifespan reveals that the main factors 
of reduced mortality and increased lifespan in humans are limited to one's 
personal commitment to follow longstanding traditional recommendation for 
healthy life, which may help to bring one's lifespan about 10 ten years closer 
to the reliably recorded maximum of 122 years. The bottleneck for the 
realization of this reserve resides not in science but rather in public and 
individual mentality.

PMID: 20210188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Adv Gerontol. 2009;22(3):459-62.

[Geriatric properties of a bioantioxidant complex ginseng on model of the 
accelerated radioactive aging].

[Article in Russian]

Kostyl'eva VV, Borts MS, Nikolaeva EG, Beliakova AV, Ryzhok GA.

The work starts studying the geriatric properties of the bioantioxidant complex 
"Neovitin" received from a biomass of ginseng, on model of accelerated 
radioactive aging. The preparation was applied before radioactive irradiation to 
study its preventive effect, and after irradiation to study the therapeutic 
effect. Efficiency of the complex was estimated by the survival rate of animals 
after irradiation in the experimental model. The increase in life expectancy of 
experimental animals as a result of preparation use is proved.

PMID: 20210196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Adv Gerontol. 2009;22(3):516-21.

[Life expectancy at older ages and alternative approach to aging measurement 
(the case of St. Petersburg)].

[Article in Russian]

Kozlov LV, Safarova GL, Lisenenkov FI, Mikhaĭlova ON.

St. Petersburg Institute of Bioregulation and Gerontology, NWB of RAMS, 3 pr. 
Dinamo, St. Petersburg 197110; For St. Petersburg, aging issues are of great 
importance as values of many aging indicators for St. Petersburg are higher than 
for Russia as a whole. Taper aims at analyzing the dynamics of life expectancy 
at older ages and comparing traditional (proportion of the elderly, average age, 
median age) and new (proportion of population with a remaining life expectancy 
15 years or less, population average remaining years of life) aging indicators 
for St. Petersburg in 1990-2006.

PMID: 20210208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. J Pediatr Ophthalmol Strabismus. 2010 Nov-Dec;47(6):338-46. doi: 
10.3928/01913913-20100218-03. Epub 2010 Feb 23.

Termination of amblyopia treatment: when to stop follow-up visits and risk 
factors for recurrence.

De Weger C(1), Van Den Brom HJ, Lindeboom R.

Author information:
(1)Orthoptic Unit, Wilhelmina Ziekenhuis, Assen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: This study estimated when it is safe to stop follow-up visits after 
cessation of amblyopia treatment and to identify factors associated with 
deterioration of visual acuity.
METHODS: Study patients included 282 patients aged 7 to 13 years who were 
monitored for deterioration after cessation of amblyopia treatment (median 
follow-up: 3.9 years).
RESULTS: Six (2.1%) patients lost 2 or more logarithm of the minimum angle of 
resolution levels of visual acuity and 77 (27.3%) patients lost 1 or more 
Snellen lines of visual acuity. Good compliance with re-treatment stopped 
further deterioration and lost visual acuity was regained (average follow-up 
after re-treatment: 3.3 years). Life table analysis indicated that 95% of the 
cases that deteriorated occurred within 24 months after cessation of treatment. 
Multivariable analysis corrected for duration of treatment uncovered factors 
independently associated with deterioration.
CONCLUSION: A clinically important risk of deterioration of visual acuity was 
found during the first 2 years after cessation of amblyopia treatment. Follow-up 
time longer than 2 years is recommended in the presence of a developing risk 
factor such as increasing anisometropia. With prompt re-treatment and good 
compliance, deterioration can be stopped and visual acuity can be restored.

Copyright 2010, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/01913913-20100218-03
PMID: 20210280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Aquat Toxicol. 2010 Jun 10;98(2):204-10. doi: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2010.02.010.
 Epub 2010 Feb 17.

Novel antifouling agent--zinc pyrithione: short- and long-term effects on 
survival and reproduction of the marine polychaete Dinophilus gyrociliatus.

Marcheselli M(1), Conzo F, Mauri M, Simonini R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia Animale, Università degli Studi di Modena e Reggio 
Emilia, via Campi, 213/D, 41125 Modena, Italy. marco_marcheselli@yahoo.it 
<marco_marcheselli@yahoo.it>

The recent ban on TBT in boat antifouling paints has resulted in a large 
employment of the biocide zinc pyrithione (ZnPT) as substitute. Despite concerns 
of its environmental toxicity at ultra-trace concentrations, ZnPT has received 
little attention, as it was assumed to photo-degrade easily. However, recent 
evidence has suggested that ZnPT degrades only partially, and persists in the 
marine environment, especially where the influence of light is limited, such as 
in harbours. Short-term acute toxicity tests and life table response experiments 
(LTREs) were performed to evaluate the effects of ZnPT on the polychaete 
Dinophilus gyrociliatus at both individual and population level. The 96h-LC(50) 
values for ZnPT on D. gyrociliatus were 7.8 and 11.5nM under dark and 12h 
light/12h dark conditions, respectively. In LTREs, laboratory cultured cohorts 
of D. gyrociliatus were exposed to sublethal concentrations of ZnPT (0.5 and 
1nM) and compared to a control cohort. The survival among individuals exposed to 
the highest concentration decreased already during the 2nd week of life with 
respect to the control. The effects of the biocide on fecundity were even more 
evident: ZnPT caused a considerable reduction in both the exposed groups. The 
demographic approach applied here succeeded in identifying ZnPT effects both on 
the biological cycle and on the growth potential of polychaete D. gyrociliatus. 
The net growth rate (R(0)) appeared to be the demographic parameter most 
sensitive to ZnPT, as the biocide exposure was associated with a sharp decline 
of R(0) in both the 0.5 and the 1nM groups (-41% and -63%, respectively) in 
comparison to the control cohort. The population growth rate lambda (often used 
as an index of population fitness) and the life expectancy e(0) were also 
significantly reduced, while ZnPT exposure did not affect the generation time T. 
These results highlight the potential ecological threat posed by the biocide 
ZnPT, even at the very low tested concentrations, which are already detectable 
in some European marinas.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aquatox.2010.02.010
PMID: 20211499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2010 Aug;1801(8):791-8. doi:
10.1016/j.bbalip.2010.02.011.  Epub 2010 Mar 6.

Docosahexaenoic acid and synaptic protection in Alzheimer's disease mice.

Oster T(1), Pillot T.

Author information:
(1)Laboratoire Lipidomix (EA 4422), PRES de l'Université de Lorraine, ENSAIA - 
INPL, 54505 Vandoeuvre-lès-Nancy, France. thierry.oster@ensaia.inpl-nancy.fr

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a major public health concern due to longer life 
expectancy in the Western countries. Amyloid-beta (Abeta) oligomers are 
considered the proximate effectors in the early stages of AD. AD-related 
cognitive impairment, synaptic loss and neurodegeneration result from 
interactions of Abeta oligomers with the synaptic membrane and subsequent 
activation of pro-apoptotic signalling pathways. Therefore, membrane structure 
and lipid status appear determinant in Abeta-induced toxicity. Numerous 
epidemiological studies have highlighted the beneficial influence of 
docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, C22:6 n-3) on the preservation of synaptic function 
and memory capacities in aged individuals or upon Abeta exposure, whereas its 
deficiency is presented as a risk factor for AD. An elevated number of studies 
have been reporting the beneficial effects of dietary DHA supplementation on 
cognition and synaptic integrity in various AD models. In this review, we 
describe the important potential of DHA to preserve neuronal and brain functions 
and classified its numerous molecular and cellular effects from impact on 
membrane lipid content and organisation to activation of signalling pathways 
sustaining synaptic function and neuronal survival. DHA appears as one of the 
most valuable diet ingredients whose neuroprotective properties could be crucial 
for designing nutrition-based strategies able to prevent AD as well as other 
lipid- and age-related diseases whose prevalence is progressing in elderly 
populations.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbalip.2010.02.011
PMID: 20211757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Arch Intern Med. 2010 Mar 8;170(5):410-9. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2009.472.

Triple-class virologic failure in HIV-infected patients undergoing 
antiretroviral therapy for up to 10 years.

Pursuing Later Treatment Options II (PLATO II) Project Team for the 
Collaboration of Observational HIV Epidemiological Research Europe (COHERE); 
Lodwick R, Costagliola D, Reiss P, Torti C, Teira R, Dorrucci M, Ledergerber B, 
Mocroft A, Podzamczer D, Cozzi-Lepri A, Obel N, Masquelier B, Staszewski S, 
García F, De Wit S, Castagna A, Antinori A, Judd A, Ghosn J, Touloumi G, Mussini 
C, Duval X, Ramos J, Meyer L, Warsawski J, Thorne C, Masip J, Pérez-Hoyos S, 
Pillay D, van Sighem A, Lo Caputo S, Günthard H, Paredes R, De Luca A, 
Paraskevis D, Fabre-Colin C, Kjaer J, Chêne G, Lundgren JD, Phillips AN.

Collaborators: Weller I, Costagliola D, Ledergerber B, Lundgren J, Chêne G, 
Touloumi G, Warszawski J, Meyer L, Dabis F, Kraus MM, Leport C, de Wolf F, Reiss 
P, Dorrucci M, Sabin C, Gibb D, Fätkenheuer G, Del Amo J, Obel N, Thorne C, 
Mocroft A, Kirk O, Staszewski S, Pérez-Hoyos S, Almeda J, Antinori A, Monforte 
d'Arminio A, Ridolfo A, Tovo PA, de Martino M, Brockmeyer NH, Ramos J, Battegay 
M, Mussini C, Tookey P, Casabona J, Miró JM, Castagna A, De Wit S, Torti C, 
Teira R, Garrido M, Dabis F, Egger M, Furrer H, Kirk O, Lewden C, Newell ML, 
Phillips A, Sabin C, Sterne J, Telenti A, Collin-Filleul F, Ellefson M, 
Fabre-Colin C, Kjaer J, Dedes N.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy of people with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is 
now estimated to approach that of the general population in some successfully 
treated subgroups. However, to attain these life expectancies, viral suppression 
must be maintained for decades.
METHODS: We studied the rate of triple-class virologic failure (TCVF) in 
patients within the Collaboration of Observational HIV Epidemiological Research 
Europe (COHERE) who started antiretroviral therapy (ART) that included a 
nonnucleoside reverse-transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) or a ritonavir-boosted 
protease inhibitor (PI/r) from 1998 onwards. We also focused on TCVF in patients 
who started a PI/r-containing regimen after a first-line NNRTI-containing 
regimen failed.
RESULTS: Of 45 937 patients followed up for a median (interquartile range) of 
3.0 (1.5-5.0) years, 980 developed TCVF (2.1%). By 5 and 9 years after starting 
ART, an estimated 3.4% (95% confidence interval [CI], 3.1%-3.6%) and 8.6% (95% 
CI, 7.5%-9.8%) of patients, respectively, had developed TCVF. The incidence of 
TCVF rose during the first 3 to 4 years on ART but plateaued thereafter. There 
was no significant difference in the risk of TCVF according to whether the 
initial regimen was NNRTI or PI/r based (P = .11). By 5 years after starting a 
PI/r regimen as second-line therapy, 46% of patients had developed TCVF.
CONCLUSIONS: The rate of virologic failure of the 3 original drug classes is 
low, but not negligible, and does not appear to diminish over time from starting 
ART. If this trend continues, many patients are likely to need newer drugs to 
maintain viral suppression. The rate of TCVF from the start of a PI/r regimen 
after NNRTI failure provides a comparator for studies of response to second-line 
regimens in resource-limited settings.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2009.472
PMCID: PMC3319528
PMID: 20212176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Circulation. 2010 Mar 23;121(11):1329-37. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.901256. Epub 2010 Mar 8.

Modeled economic evaluation of alternative strategies to reduce sudden cardiac 
death among children treated for attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder.

Denchev P(1), Kaltman JR, Schoenbaum M, Vitiello B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Services and Intervention Research, National Institute of Mental 
Health, 6001 Executive Blvd, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. denchevp@mail.nih.gov

Comment in
    Circulation. 2010 Mar 23;121(11):1283-5.

BACKGROUND: Stimulants are widely used to treat children with attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder and may increase the risk for sudden cardiac 
death (SCD). We examined the cost-effectiveness of pretreatment screening with 
ECG for reducing SCD risk in children diagnosed with attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder who are candidates for stimulant medication. 
Method and Results- We constructed a state-transition Markov model with 10 
annual cycles spanning 7 to 17 years of age. Taking a societal perspective, we 
compared the cost-effectiveness of 3 screening strategies: (1) performing a 
history and physical examination with cardiology referral if abnormal (current 
standard of care); (2) performing a history and physical examination plus ECG 
after negative history and physical examination, with cardiology referral if 
either is abnormal; and (3) performing a history and physical examination plus 
ECG, with cardiology referral only if ECG is abnormal. Children identified with 
SCD-associated cardiac abnormalities would be restricted from stimulants and 
from playing competitive sports. The expected incremental cost-effectiveness 
over strategy 1 was $39,300 and $27,200 per quality-adjusted life-year for 
strategies 2 and 3, respectively. Monte Carlo simulation found that the chance 
of incremental cost-effectiveness was 55% for strategy 2 and 71% for strategy 3 
(willingness to pay < or =$50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year). Both 
strategies 2 and 3 would avert 13 SCDs per 400,000 children seeking stimulant 
treatment for ADHD, for a cost of $1.6 million per life for strategy 2 and $1.2 
million per life for strategy 3.
CONCLUSIONS: Relative to current practice, adding ECG screening to history and 
physical examination pretreatment screening for children with attention 
deficit/hyperactivity disorder has borderline cost-effectiveness for preventing 
SCD. Relative cost-effectiveness may be improved by basing cardiology referral 
on ECG alone. Benefits of ECG screening arise primarily by restricting children 
identified with SCD risk from competitive sports.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.109.901256
PMID: 20212277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Circulation. 2010 Mar 23;121(11):1280-2. doi: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e3181d98478.
Epub  2010 Mar 8.

Is acute myocardial infarction disappearing?

Luepker RV, Berger AK.

Comment on
    Circulation. 2010 Mar 23;121(11):1322-8.

Following a peak in the mid 1960s, there has been a steady decline in coronary 
heart disease (CHD) mortality in the United States of 2.8%/y to 5.1%/y., This 
shift in mortality patterns is most dramatic in the age-adjusted rates. Age 
adjustment compensates for the transition of CHD in older age groups and the 
increase in the aged population. The absolute number of total CHD deaths showed 
little change until recently (Figure 1). Life expectancy of adults dramatically 
increased, largely as a result of these improved CHD outcomes. However, the 
reduction in mortality was not associated with a decline in hospital morbidity 
as CHD was pushed into the older age groups. Prevalence actually increased with 
more individuals diagnosed, treated, and surviving. CHD hospitalizations for 
those >65 years of age increased from 1965 to 2000 while declining in younger 
age groups.

DOI: 10.1161/CIR.0b013e3181d98478
PMCID: PMC5654719
PMID: 20212286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Mol Cells. 2010 Apr;29(4):379-85. doi: 10.1007/s10059-010-0033-z. Epub 2010
Mar  4.

An expansin-like protein from Hahella chejuensis binds cellulose and enhances 
cellulase activity.

Lee HJ(1), Lee S, Ko HJ, Kim KH, Choi IG.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul, 136-713, 
Korea.

Molecular function of the expansin superfamily has been highlighted for 
cellulosic biomass conversion. In this report, we identified a new bacterial 
expansin subfamily by analysis of related bacterial sequences and biochemically 
examined a member of this new subfamily from Hahella chejuensis (HcEXLX2). Among 
the various complex polysaccharides tested, HcEXLX2 bound most efficiently to 
cellulose. The relative binding constant (K( r )) against Avicel was 2.1 L g(-1) 
at pH 6.0 and 4 degrees C. HcEXLX2 enhanced the activity of cellulase, producing 
about 4.6 times more hydrolysis product after a 36 h reaction relative to when 
only cellulase was used. The extension strength test on filter paper indicated 
that HcEXLX2 has a texture loosening effect on filter paper, which was 53% of 
that observed for 8 M urea treatment. These activities, compared with a 
cellulose binding domain from Clostridium thermocellum, implied that the 
synergistic effect of HcEXLX2 comes from not only binding to cellulose but also 
disrupting the hydrogen bonds in cellulose. Based on these results, we suggest 
that the new bacterial expansin subfamily functions by binding to cell wall 
polysaccharides and increasing the accessibility of cell wall degrading enzymes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10059-010-0033-z
PMID: 20213317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Laryngoscope. 2010 Apr;120(4):783-90. doi: 10.1002/lary.20819.

Management of patients with acoustic neuromas: a Markov decision analysis.

Morrison D(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Otolaryngology, Dartmouth Medical School, Dartmouth-Hitchcock 
Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756, USA. daniel.morrison@hitchcock.org

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: The management of patients with small (<1.5 cm) acoustic 
neuromas is controversial. Immediate treatment via microsurgical resection or 
radiosurgery is often advocated. A period of observation is sometimes advised 
followed by microsurgery or radiosurgery for tumors that demonstrate growth 
during the observation period. The purpose of this study is to calculate 
quality-adjusted life expectancy for the most commonly applied management 
strategies in hypothetical cohorts of patients of various ages.
STUDY DESIGN: Markov decision analysis; societal perspective.
METHODS: Assumptions used in creating this model and event probabilities were 
obtained from a thorough literature review. Key parameters were identified and 
defined by the best available evidence. The main outcome measure is the benefit 
derived from each management strategy in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Sensitivity analysis was used to define benchmark performance information for 
these parameters.
RESULTS: The benefit of a period of observation followed by radiosurgery, if 
needed, for significant tumor growth is greater then all other strategies for 
all age groups and both sexes. When compared to observation followed by 
microsurgery, the additional benefit is small. QALY totals for the two immediate 
treatment groups were significantly lower than that for the observation groups.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients of all ages, a period of observation during which 
tumor growth and hearing thresholds are closely monitored is the superior 
strategy. For tumors that grow substantially or when hearing deteriorates, 
definitive management via radiosurgery is recommended.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.20819
PMID: 20213657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. East Mediterr Health J. 2009 Sep-Oct;15(5):1174-9.

Prevalence, patterns and knowledge of effects on health of smoking among medical 
students in Pakistan.

Minhas HM(1), Rahman A.

Author information:
(1)Rawalpindi Medical College, Rawalpindi, Pakistan. hassanminhas@gmail.com

A questionnaire survey was conducted among all medical students with at least 2 
years of medical education studying at 3 medical colleges in Punjab, Pakistan. 
Of the 1529 respondents (544 males and 985 females), 21.5% were ever smokers 
(smoked at least once in their lifetime): 9.1% current smokers (including 5.7% 
daily smokers), 0.7% ex-smokers and 11.7% occasional smokers. The proportions of 
ever smokers among males and females were 48.3% and 6.7% respectively, and of 
current smokers were 23.2% and 1.3%. The proportion of males and females smoking 
daily was 14.7% and 0.7%. The proportion of nonsmokers who knew about the 
addictive and harmful nature of cigarette smoking was higher than that among the 
smokers.

PMID: 20214131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2010 Nov 1;13(9):1417-28. doi: 10.1089/ars.2010.3147.

The Lifespan-regulator p66Shc in mitochondria: redox enzyme or redox sensor?

Gertz M(1), Steegborn C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiological Chemistry, Ruhr-University Bochum, Germany.

Mitochondria contribute to various diseases and aging phenotypes. Reactive 
oxygen species (ROS), mainly formed by the respiratory chain, were long thought 
to cause these effects by damaging proteins, DNA, and lipids. The emerging 
understanding that ROS act not only destructively but also as dedicated 
signaling molecules, and that aging processes are regulated by specific 
signaling networks has stimulated research on mitochondrial signaling systems 
and the regulation of mitochondrial ROS metabolism. p66Shc is a 
lifespan-regulating protein contributing to mitochondrial ROS metabolism and 
regulating the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. It was found to participate in 
aging processes and has been implicated in several pathologies. Considerable 
progress has been made recently concerning the molecular function of p66Shc. It 
appears that p66Shc responds to a variety of proapoptotic stimuli by increasing 
ROS levels in the mitochondrial intermembrane space through an inherent 
ROS-producing activity, and that this ROS formation might trigger initiation of 
the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway. In this review, we will discuss the current 
knowledge on the molecular architecture of the p66Shc protein, its role in ROS 
metabolism and apoptosis regulation in the mitochondrial intermembrane space, 
the regulation of its mitochondrial transport, and the molecular mechanisms and 
interactions involved in these processes.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2010.3147
PMID: 20214499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Age Ageing. 2010 May;39(3):337-42. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afq015. Epub 2010 Mar
8.

Trends in disability prevalence over 10 years in older people living in 
Gloucestershire.

Donald IP(1), Foy C, Jagger C.

Author information:
(1)Gloucestershire Royal Hospital, Great Western Road, Gloucester GL1 3NN, UK. 
Ian.Donald@glos.nhs.uk

INTRODUCTION: life expectancy in the UK appears to be growing faster than 
healthy life expectancy, which may imply that there are increasing years of 
disability. There are few sequential studies examining changes in disability 
amongst older people within a defined locality.
METHODS: the population aged 75 and over of 10 general practices in 
Gloucestershire was surveyed using a validated postal questionnaire for 
disability called the Elderly At Risk Rating Scale. Surveys were carried out in 
1998 and 2008. Age-adjusted disability prevalences were measured. Care home 
residents were under-represented in the 1998 survey, and missing data was 
supplied from a countywide census of care home residents in 2000.
RESULTS: response rates of 81 and 74% were achieved. Reductions in disability 
prevalence were found for mobility, vision and self-care, but there was no 
significant change in a measure of self-rated health. Higher rates of 
independence were found in both genders and across the age range in 2008. The 
improvements suggested that the latter sample was equivalent to subjects being 
3.8 years 'younger' than 10 years before and entering dependency on care 2.1 
years later.
DISCUSSION: the prevalence of disability affecting activities of daily living 
appears to have reduced over 10 years in older people in Gloucestershire. If 
generalisable, these results provide some optimism for current trends in ageing 
in England.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afq015
PMID: 20215122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2010 Apr;65 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):ii35-ii40. doi: 
10.1093/jac/dkq014.

Responding to pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza: the role of oseltamivir.

Reddy D(1).

Author information:
(1)F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Grenzacherstrasse 124, Basel, Switzerland. 
david.reddy@roche.com

Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza is affecting countries in all five continents, 
with most cases so far having been reported in North and South America and 
Europe, and children and young adults being the most susceptible age groups. To 
date, the clinical course of disease is typically mild, with low hospitalization 
and mortality rates. Pandemic (H1N1) 2009 is susceptible to oseltamivir and, 
although few clinical data are yet available, current information suggests that 
treatment with oseltamivir appears to be beneficial. Only isolated cases of 
resistance to the drug have been reported to date, in keeping with the low 
frequency observed in clinical studies involving patients infected with seasonal 
influenza viruses. Current health authority guidelines recommend the use of 
oseltamivir in infected adults and children who have or are at elevated risk for 
severe disease, including pregnant women; use during the pandemic in infants < 1 
year has also been authorized in Europe and a number of other countries, 
including the USA and Canada. Before the onset of the current pandemic, F. 
Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd expanded annual production capacity for oseltamivir to 400 
million treatment courses per year to meet anticipated demand. However, during 
an influenza pandemic, and despite increased production capabilities, resources 
are nonetheless likely to be initially in short supply. For this reason, Roche, 
in line with WHO recommendations, has advocated advance stockpiling of 
antivirals by governments as a pandemic preparedness measure. Between 2004 and 
December 2009, 350 million treatment courses were supplied to governments 
worldwide. Support for developing countries has been a priority. Roche has 
established a cluster of initiatives aimed at increasing access to Tamiflu for 
the world's developing economies, including, making donations to the WHO, 
establishing the Tamiflu Reserves Program (TRP) and sub-licensing and 
manufacturing contracts with local companies in Asia and Africa. Furthermore, 
Roche has published a document outlining how it would allocate limited supplies 
of Tamiflu during a pandemic, which are in line with WHO recommendations stating 
that 'resources should be used to provide the maximum possible health benefit'. 
Roche is also offering support such as reprocessing of expiring capsule stocks 
(in development) and shelf-life extension to support governments in the 
management of their stockpiles. Clinical studies, either sponsored by or 
supported by Roche, are in progress. These trials are designed to investigate 
the effectiveness of oseltamivir in patients infected with the pandemic virus in 
greater depth, and include high-dose studies, assessment of natural and 
drug-induced resistance, and response to treatment in high-risk populations such 
as young infants, immunocompromised patients and the severely ill.

DOI: 10.1093/jac/dkq014
PMCID: PMC2835510
PMID: 20215134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. BMJ. 2010 Mar 9;340:c810. doi: 10.1136/bmj.c810.

Sex, health, and years of sexually active life gained due to good health: 
evidence from two US population based cross sectional surveys of ageing.

Lindau ST(1), Gavrilova N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Chicago, 5841 S 
Maryland Avenue, MC2050, Chicago, IL 60637, USA. slindau@uchicago.edu

Comment in
    BMJ. 2010;340:c850.

OBJECTIVES: To examine the relation between health and several dimensions of 
sexuality and to estimate years of sexually active life across sex and health 
groups in middle aged and older adults.
DESIGN: Cross sectional study.
SETTING: Two samples representative of the US population: MIDUS (the national 
survey of midlife development in the United States, 1995-6) and NSHAP (the 
national social life, health and ageing project, 2005-6).
PARTICIPANTS: 3032 adults aged 25 to 74 (1561 women, 1471 men) from the midlife 
cohort (MIDUS) and 3005 adults aged 57 to 85 (1550 women, 1455 men) from the 
later life cohort (NSHAP).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Sexual activity, quality of sexual life, interest in sex, 
and average remaining years of sexually active life, referred to as sexually 
active life expectancy.
RESULTS: Overall, men were more likely than women to be sexually active, report 
a good quality sex life, and be interested in sex. These gender differences 
increased with age and were greatest among the 75 to 85 year old group: 38.9% of 
men compared with 16.8% of women were sexually active, 70.8% versus 50.9% of 
those who were sexually active had a good quality sex life, and 41.2% versus 
11.4% were interested in sex. Men and women reporting very good or excellent 
health were more likely to be sexually active compared with their peers in poor 
or fair health: age adjusted odds ratio 2.2 (P<0.01) for men and 1.6 (P<0.05) 
for women in the midlife study and 4.6 (P<0.001) for men and 2.8 (P<0.001) for 
women in the later life study. Among sexually active people, good health was 
also significantly associated with frequent sex (once or more weekly) in men 
(adjusted odds ratio 1.6 to 2.1), with a good quality sex life among men and 
women in the midlife cohort (adjusted odds ratio 1.7), and with interest in sex. 
People in very good or excellent health were 1.5 to 1.8 times more likely to 
report an interest in sex than those in poorer health. At age 30, sexually 
active life expectancy was 34.7 years for men and 30.7 years for women compared 
with 14.9 to 15.3 years for men and 10.6 years for women at age 55. This gender 
disparity attenuated for people with a spouse or other intimate partner. At age 
55, men in very good or excellent health on average gained 5-7 years of sexually 
active life compared with their peers in poor or fair health. Women in very good 
or excellent health gained 3-6 years compared with women in poor or fair health.
CONCLUSION: Sexual activity, good quality sexual life, and interest in sex were 
higher for men than for women and this gender gap widened with age. Sexual 
activity, quality of sexual life, and interest in sex were positively associated 
with health in middle age and later life. Sexually active life expectancy was 
longer for men, but men lost more years of sexually active life as a result of 
poor health than women.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.c810
PMCID: PMC2835854
PMID: 20215365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at http://www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare that (1) no 
company has had involvement in the submitted work; (2) no authors have 
relationships with any companies that might have an interest in the submitted 
work in the previous 3 years; (3) their spouses, partners, or children have no 
financial relationships that may be relevant to the submitted work; and (4) no 
authors have any non-financial interests that may be relevant to the submitted 
work.


693. Urol Int. 2010;84(2):164-73. doi: 10.1159/000277593. Epub 2010 Mar 4.

Long-term outcome of patients with high-risk prostate cancer following radical 
prostatectomy and stage-dependent adjuvant androgen deprivation.

Spahn M(1), Weiss C, Bader P, Ströbel P, Gerharz EW, Kneitz B, Frohneberg D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Städtisches Klinikum Karlsruhe, Karlsruhe, Germany.

PURPOSE: To present the long-term outcome of high-risk prostate cancer patients 
treated by radical retropubic prostatectomy (RRP) and stage-dependent adjuvant 
androgen deprivation therapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1989 and 2005, 2,655 patients underwent RRP by 9 
surgeons. All cases (n = 372) with high-risk prostate cancer (serum PSA >20 
ng/ml, and/or clinical stage T2c or greater, and/or biopsy Gleason score 8 or 
greater) were identified and analyzed retrospectively.
RESULTS: At 5 and 10 years, cancer-specific survival was 91.3 and 87.2%; overall 
survival was 84.3 and 72.1%; biochemical progression-free survival (BPFS) was 
76.6 and 56.2%; clinical progression-free survival was 86.2 and 79.9%. 
Kaplan-Meier analysis showed significant differences with respect to 
pathological stage and Gleason score for cancer-specific survival, BPFS and 
clinical progression-free survival. In multiple analysis, the only preoperative 
predictor of BPFS at the 5% level was clinical stage (p = 0.0055).
CONCLUSION: In patients with high-risk prostate cancer and a life expectancy of 
more than 10 years, RRP with stage-dependent adjuvant androgen deprivation 
therapy is a viable alternative to radiation therapy.

Copyright (c) 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000277593
PMID: 20215820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Crit Pathw Cardiol. 2010 Mar;9(1):14-8. doi: 10.1097/HPC.0b013e3181c9e731.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of short-term clopidogrel therapy for ST elevation 
myocardial infarction.

Gibler KB(1), Huskamp HA, Sabatine MS, Murphy SA, Cohen DJ, Cannon CP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA.

Clopidogrel improves outcomes in patients with ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction (STEMI) and is recommended in the guidelines. We sought to determine 
the incremental cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel therapy in this patient 
population. We used primary patient-level resource use and clinical outcomes 
data from 3491 STEMI patients treated with fibrinolysis and either clopidogrel 
or placebo prior to a diagnostic coronary angiogram in the Clopidogrel as 
Adjunctive Reperfusion Therapy-Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction 28 
(CLARITY-TIMI 28) trial. Costs for each patient were calculated based on 
diagnosis-related groups-specific Medicare reimbursement rates for all 
hospitalizations and the average wholesale price of clopidogrel. Cost per event 
prevented and cost per life year gained (LYG) were calculated using standard 
methods. The estimate of LYG due to clopidogrel therapy was based on recurrent 
myocardial infarction and death outcomes. The bootstrap method was used to 
produce bias-corrected confidence intervals for cost and efficacy estimates as 
well as the cost per LYG ratio. Total costs and resource use were not 
significantly different for the clopidogrel and placebo groups ($8128 vs. 
$8134), indicating that short-term clopidogrel therapy is an economically 
dominant treatment strategy. Even in a sensitivity analysis accounting for 
higher long-term medical costs due to greater life expectancy, clopidogrel 
remained under $6000 per LYG. Clopidogrel therapy was dominant in 35% of the 
bootstrap simulations and cost less than $50,000 per LYG in 67% of simulations. 
In conclusion, this analysis finds short-term clopidogrel therapy to be a highly 
economically attractive therapy, improving patient outcomes at no increase in 
costs.

DOI: 10.1097/HPC.0b013e3181c9e731
PMID: 20215905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2010 Aug;67(15):2533-50. doi: 10.1007/s00018-010-0318-6.
Epub  2010 Mar 9.

The neonatal Fc receptor as therapeutic target in IgG-mediated autoimmune 
diseases.

Sesarman A(1), Vidarsson G, Sitaru C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of Freiburg, Hauptstrasse 7, Freiburg, 
Germany.

Therapy approaches based on lowering levels of pathogenic autoantibodies 
represent rational, effective, and safe treatment modalities of autoimmune 
diseases. The neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) is a major factor regulating the serum 
levels of IgG antibodies. While FcRn-mediated half-life extension is beneficial 
for IgG antibody responses against pathogens, it also prolongs the serum 
half-life of IgG autoantibodies and thus promotes tissue damage in autoimmune 
diseases. In the present review article, we examine current evidence on the 
relevance of FcRn in maintaining high autoantibody levels and discuss 
FcRn-targeted therapeutic approaches. Further investigation of the FcRn-IgG 
interaction will not only provide mechanistic insights into the receptor 
function, but should also greatly facilitate the design of therapeutics 
combining optimal pharmacokinetic properties with the appropriate antibody 
effector functions in autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-010-0318-6
PMID: 20217455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Health Econ. 2011 Mar;20(3):306-22. doi: 10.1002/hec.1590.

The relationship between health and GDP in OECD countries in the very long run.

Swift R(1).

Author information:
(1)Griffith Business School, Griffith University, Brisbane, Queensland, 
Australia. r.swift@griffith.edu.au

This paper uses Johansen multivariate cointegration analysis to examine the 
relationship between health and GDP for 13 OECD countries over the last two 
centuries, for periods ranging from 1820-2001 to 1921-2001. A similar, long run, 
cointegrating relationship between life expectancy and both total GDP and GDP 
per capita was found for all the countries estimated. The relationships have a 
significant influence on both total GDP and GPD per capita in most of the 
countries estimated, with 1% increase in life expectancy resulting in an average 
6% increase in total GDP in the long run, and 5% increase in GDP per capita. 
Total GDP and GDP per capita also have a significant influence on life 
expectancy for most countries. There is no evidence of changes in the 
relationships for any country over the periods estimated, indicating that shifts 
in the major causes of illness and death over time do not appear to have 
influenced the link between health and economic growth.

Copyright © 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1590
PMID: 20217835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Scand J Surg. 2009;98(4):229-33. doi: 10.1177/145749690909800407.

Effectiveness of superficial venous surgery in terms of quality-adjusted life 
years and costs.

Eskelinen E(1), Räsänen P, Albäck A, Lepäntalo M, Eskelinen A, Peltonen M, Roine 
RP.

Author information:
(1)Helsinki University Central Hospital, Department of Vascular Surgery, 
Helsinki, Finland. elina.eskelinen@fimnet.fi

AIMS: To assess the impact of superficial venous surgery (SVS) on health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) and to explore the cost-utility of venous surgery.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: 143 patients (110 female and 33 male) enrolled for SVS 
between 2003 and 2005 in Helsinki University Central Hospital filled in the 15D 
survey before and six months after operation. Direct hospital costs were 
obtained from a patient administration database and were examined from the 
perspective of secondary care provider.
RESULTS: After SVS, the HRQoL score improved in 71% of the patients, and the 
mean score increased from 0.919 (on a 0-1 scale) preoperatively to 0.933 
postoperatively at 6 months (p < 0.001). Patients with a clinically important 
result from SVS (> or = 0.03 increase in the HRQoL score) had significantly 
worse HRQoL at baseline. At 6 months postoperatively, the mean (SD) hospital 
costs were 1637 euros (693) and the mean quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain 
0.504 (1.674), respectively. Thus, the mean cost per QALY gained during a 
6-month period was 3248 euros for SVS.
CONCLUSIONS: Superficial venous surgery improves HRQoL, and is a cost-effective 
treatment of symptomatic superficial venous insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1177/145749690909800407
PMID: 20218420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Patient Educ Couns. 2011 Jan;82(1):30-5. doi: 10.1016/j.pec.2010.02.008.
Epub  2010 Mar 12.

Communicating consequences of risky behaviors: Life expectancy versus risk of 
disease.

Galesic M(1), Garcia-Retamero R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Adaptive Behavior and Cognition, Max Planck Institute for Human 
Development, Berlin, Germany. galesic@mpib-berlin.mpg.de

OBJECTIVE: we investigate (1) whether presenting consequences of health-related 
behaviors in terms of life expectancy, rather than risk of disease, improves 
recall and (2) if yes, through which underlying mechanisms; (3) whether these 
effects hold for both low- and high-numeracy people and (4) in two countries 
with different cultural environments and medical systems.
METHODS: experiment within a computerized survey on probabilistic samples in the 
United States (n=513) and Germany (n=534).
RESULTS: when consequences of health-related behaviors were presented in terms 
of changes in life expectancy, recall was better than when they were presented 
in terms of risks of a disease both after 10min, Cohen's h=.51, F(1,543)=34.12, 
p=.001, and after 3 weeks, h=.62, F(1,543)=48.98, p=.001. This was so for 
participants of both high and low numeracy, and in both countries. The improved 
recall seems to be due to better imaginability of changes in life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: consequences of health-related behaviors are easier to imagine and 
are recalled better when expressed as changes in life expectancy rather than as 
changes in risk of diseases.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: when communicating with patients about medical risks, we 
recommend using concepts that they can readily relate to their own everyday 
experiences.

2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pec.2010.02.008
PMID: 20219316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Presse Med. 2010 Apr;39(4):482-6. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2009.07.030. Epub 2010
Mar  10.

[Sturge-Weber syndrome].

[Article in French]

Maruani A(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de dermatologie, hôpital Trousseau, CHRU de Tours, université 
François-Rabelais Tours, 37044 Tours cedex, France. annabel-maruani@wanadoo.fr

Facial port-wine stains are capillary malformations, which can reveal, very 
rarely, Sturge-Weber syndrome (SWS). SWS is a severe neurocutaneous syndrome, 
which involves a facial port-wine stain reaching the first branch of trigeminal 
nerve (V1), ophthalmologic abnormalities (especially congenital glaucoma) and 
neurologic signs (seizure, mental retardation, hemiparesis). Neuroimaging 
(CT-scan/angio-magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) provides the diagnosis of SWS, 
when it shows ipsilateral leptomeningeal angioma; the best age to perform the 
exam is not established. Extension to superior eyelid, to other territories of 
trigeminal nerve (V2, V3) or to the contralateral hemiface is statistically 
associated to SWS. When a new-born has a facial port-wine stain reaching V1, 
ophthalmologic examination must be performed in the first months of life, as 
well as neuroimaging (at the age of 6-12 months, earlier in case of neurologic 
signs); a treatment of the port-wine stain by pulsed dye laser must also be 
considered.

(c) 2010. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2009.07.030
PMID: 20219318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Mech Ageing Dev. 2010 Apr;131(4):261-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.02.007. Epub
 2010 Feb 26.

Resveratrol, sirtuins, and the promise of a DR mimetic.

Baur JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Diabetes, Obesity, and Metabolism, Department of Physiology, 
University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA. 
baur@mail.med.upenn.edu

Dietary restriction (DR) delays or prevents age-related diseases and extends 
lifespan in species ranging from yeast to primates. Although the applicability 
of this regimen to humans remains uncertain, a proportional response would add 
more healthy years to the average life than even a cure for cancer or heart 
disease. Because it is unlikely that many would be willing or able to maintain a 
DR lifestyle, there has been intense interest in mimicking its beneficial 
effects on health, and potentially longevity, with drugs. To date, such efforts 
have been hindered primarily by our lack of mechanistic understanding of how DR 
works. Sirtuins, NAD(+)-dependent deacetylases and ADP-ribosyltransferases that 
influence lifespan in lower organisms, have been proposed to be key mediators of 
DR, and based on this model, the sirtuin activator resveratrol has been proposed 
as a candidate DR mimetic. Indeed, resveratrol extends lifespan in yeast, worms, 
flies, and a short-lived species of fish. In rodents, resveratrol improves 
health, and prevents the early mortality associated with obesity, but its 
precise mechanism of action remains a subject of debate, and extension of normal 
lifespan has not been observed. This review summarizes recent work on 
resveratrol, sirtuins, and their potential to mimic beneficial effects of DR.

(c) 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.02.007
PMCID: PMC2862768
PMID: 20219519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Urol Oncol. 2010 Mar-Apr;28(2):197-204. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.08.015.

Clinical significance of the positive surgical margin based upon location, 
grade, and stage.

Fleshner NE(1), Evans A, Chadwick K, Lawrentschuk N, Zlotta A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University Health Network and Department of Surgery, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. neil.fleshner@utoronto.ca

Comment in
    Urol Oncol. 2011 Mar-Apr;29(2):115-6; author reply 116-7.

Prostate cancer remains a challenge due to its incidence and radical 
prostatectomy continues to be a major treatment option for men with potentially 
curable disease who have a life expectancy over a decade. This article will 
address the common problem of positive surgical margins and the impact of them 
on patient outcome. Through these we can examine relevant clinical trials that 
have attempted to address this issue and offer some guided to therapy among men 
with this clinical problem. Close margins are probably of no significance and 
will not be addressed. Our recommendations take into account the current level 
of medical evidence, and are balanced with anticipated adverse effects of 
treatment. They may change over time once definitive clinical trials are 
completed. In brief we believe those with positive margins and PT2 we advocate 
close observation with the aim of early salvage radiotherapy if necessary. Those 
with PT3a and focally positive margins with low/intermediate grade tumors are at 
moderate risk of biochemical failure so should be managed like PT2 patients. 
However those with high-grade disease should be offered adjuvant radiotherapy. 
Similarly those with PT3a margin positive extensive or multiple site disease 
should have adjuvant radiotherapy. PT3B margin positive patients should be 
offered radiotherapy. PT4 with bladder neck only margin positive can probably be 
observed.

Copyright 2010. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2009.08.015
PMID: 20219559 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Adv Chronic Kidney Dis. 2010 Mar;17(2):173-80. doi:
10.1053/j.ackd.2010.01.003.

Extrarenal manifestations of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.

Pirson Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Cliniques Universitaires St Luc, Bruxelles, 
Belgium. yves.pirson@uclouvain.be

Although asymptomatic in most patients, extrarenal manifestations of ADPKD may 
become more clinically relevant with the increasing life expectancy of affected 
patients. They mainly encompass cysts in other organs than the kidney (liver: 
94%, seminal vesicle: 40%, pancreas: 9%, arachnoid membrane: 8%, and spinal 
meningeal, 2%) and connective tissue abnormalities (mitral valve prolapse: 25%, 
intracranial aneurysms: 8%, and abdominal hernia: 10%). Their recognition may 
spare the patient from other, useless investigations (eg, when an arachnoid cyst 
is incidentally found) or lead to the implementation of prophylactic or 
therapeutic measures (eg, screening, sometimes followed by the treatment of an 
asymptomatic intracranial aneurysm in at-risk patients, or, in the presence of a 
severe polycystic liver disease, avoidance from estrogens and treatment aimed to 
slow cyst growth).

2010 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ackd.2010.01.003
PMID: 20219620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Eur J Public Health. 2010 Oct;20(5):569-75. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq019. Epub
 2010 Mar 10.

A case-control analysis of socio-economic and marital status differentials in 
alcohol- and non-alcohol-related mortality among working-age Russian males.

Pridemore WA(1), Tomkins S, Eckhardt K, Kiryanov N, Saburova L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Criminal Justice, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47401, 
USA. wpridemo@indiana.edu

BACKGROUND: We examined the role of socio-economic status (SES) and marital 
status in premature mortality among working-age Russian males. Life expectancy 
among this group dropped sharply following the collapse of the Soviet Union and 
has yet to recover despite the relative economic and political stability of the 
last decade.
METHODS: We employed individual-level data from a large-scale, population-based, 
case-control study (n = 3500). Adjusting for age group, hazardous drinking and 
smoking status, we estimated mortality odds ratios to determine the impact of 
SES and marital status on premature mortality due to all, alcohol- and 
non-alcohol-related causes of death.
RESULTS: Results revealed clear protective effects of SES and marital status 
against premature mortality. Although the effects for marital status were 
significant across alcohol- and non-alcohol-related causes of death, the effects 
of SES were largely limited to non-alcohol-related causes of death. When heavy 
drinkers were excluded from the analysis, however, SES was found to protect 
against premature mortality for alcohol-related causes.
CONCLUSION: While hazardous drinking is known to be a leading cause of premature 
mortality among working-age Russian males, it is unwise to ignore other factors. 
Given the substantial social and economic impacts in Russia of the dissolution 
of the Soviet Union, it is important to examine the health effects of SES and 
marital status and other social forces in the nation. Our results reveal that 
while Russia has a very different past in terms of medicine, public health and 
economic institutions, it currently faces public health threats that follow 
similar patterns to those found in Western nations.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckq019
PMCID: PMC2943507
PMID: 20219866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. FASEB J. 2010 Jul;24(7):2436-42. doi: 10.1096/fj.09-152223. Epub 2010 Mar
10.

Macrophage migration inhibitory factor-knockout mice are long lived and respond 
to caloric restriction.

Harper JM(1), Wilkinson JE, Miller RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, USA. jmharper@umich.edu

