(1)IRRCS, San Camillo, Viale Alberoni 70, Venice, Italy. angelo3000@yahoo.com

Levodopa is the most effective treatment for Parkinson's disease (PD) signs and 
symptoms, and patients invariably will require it during the course of the 
disease. It also provides benefits in activities of daily living, quality of 
life and life expectancy. However, after a few years of levodopa treatment the 
majority of patients will experience motor fluctuations and dyskinesia. Initial 
use of a dopamine receptor agonist may delay the emergence of motor fluctuations 
but at the cost of reduced symptomatic control compared with the use of levodopa 
in some cases. Adequate management of motor fluctuations and dyskinesia is 
essential to maintaining satisfactory quality of life at the advanced stage of 
disease. Various levodopa-based strategies are currently available that aim to 
control motor complications (wearing-off and dyskinesia) in PD and each approach 
has its own unique benefit and risk profile. Strategies such as dose 
fragmentation (smaller, more frequent dosing) or the use of orally administered, 
liquid levodopa formulations or melevodopa can reduce off-time intervals or 
facilitate absorption. More recently introduced, continuous delivery of 
dopaminergic medications may represent a more effective approach to treat motor 
complications in advanced PD and its effect can be perceived from improvement in 
clinical scales, as well as in health-related items. Indeed, continuous levodopa 
delivery by duodenal infusion may stabilize and significantly improve motor 
function as well as patients' quality of life. We propose a treatment algorithm 
that takes into account all currently available levodopa-based treatment 
strategies for motor complications in patients with PD.

DOI: 10.2165/11310940-000000000-00000
PMID: 20088619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2010 Jan;19(1):71-6. doi: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1444.

Empowerment of women and its association with the health of the community.

Varkey P(1), Mbbs, Kureshi S, Lesnick T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Preventive, Occupational and Aerospace Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA. varkey.prathibha@mayo.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Empowerment and opportunities to experience power and 
control in one's life contribute to health and wellness. Although studies have 
assessed specific factors related to women's empowerment and their influence on 
health outcomes, there is a dearth of published literature assessing the 
relationship of the empowerment of women with the overall health of a community. 
By means of this article, we aim to assess the relationship of women's 
empowerment with health in 75 countries.
METHODS: We used the gender empowerment measure (GEM), a composite index 
measuring gender inequality in economic participation and decision making, 
political participation and decision making, and power over economic resources. 
All 75 countries with GEM values in the 2006 Human Development Report (HDR) were 
included in the study. Association between the GEM values and seven health 
indicators was evaluated using descriptive statistics, scatter plots, and simple 
and multiple linear regression models. We also controlled for gross domestic 
product (GDP) as a possible confounding factor and included this variable in the 
multiple regression models.
RESULTS: When GDP was not considered, GEM had a statistically significant 
association with all health indicator variables except for proportion of 
1-year-olds immunized against measles (correlation coefficient 0.063, p = 
0.597). After adjusting for GDP, GEM was significantly associated with low birth 
weight, fertility rate, infant mortality, and age <or=5 mortality; the strongest 
correlation was found to be between GEM and infant mortality (R(2) = 0.601).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that the empowerment of women is 
associated with several key health indicators at a national level. Further 
research is necessary to determine the cause-effect relationship of these 
factors, confounding factors that may influence the relationship, and specific 
aspects of empowerment of women that effectively influence the health of the 
larger community.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1444
PMID: 20088661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. J Womens Health (Larchmt). 2010 Jan;19(1):147-60. doi:
10.1089/jwh.2009.1404.

Pelvic floor consequences of cesarean delivery on maternal request in women with 
a single birth: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Xu X(1), Ivy JS, Patel DA, Patel SN, Smith DG, Ransom SB, Fenner D, Delancey JO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan 48109, USA. xiaox@med.umich.edu

BACKGROUND: The potential benefit in preventing pelvic floor disorders (PFDs) is 
a frequently cited reason for requesting or performing cesarean delivery on 
maternal request (CDMR). However, for primigravid women without 
medical/obstetric indications, the lifetime cost-effectiveness of CDMR remains 
unknown, particularly with regard to lifelong pelvic floor consequences. Our 
objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness of CDMR in comparison to trial of 
labor (TOL) for primigravid women without medical/obstetric indications with a 
single childbirth over their lifetime, while explicitly accounting for the 
management of PFD throughout the lifetime.
METHODS: We used Monte Carlo simulation of a decision model containing 249 
chance events and 101 parameters depicting lifelong maternal and neonatal 
outcomes in the following domains: actual mode of delivery, emergency 
hysterectomy, transient maternal morbidity and mortality, perinatal morbidity 
and mortality, and the lifelong management of PFDs. Parameter estimates were 
obtained from published literature. The analysis was conducted from a societal 
perspective. All costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were discounted 
to the present value at childbirth.
RESULTS: The estimated mean cost and QALYs were $14,259 (95% confidence interval 
[CI] $8,964-$24,002) and 58.21 (95% CI 57.43-58.67) for CDMR and $13,283 (95% CI 
$7,861-$23,829) and 57.87 (95% CI 56.97-58.46) for TOL over the combined 
lifetime of the mother and the child. Parameters related to PFDs play an 
important role in determining cost and quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: When a woman without medical/obstetric indications has only one 
childbirth in her lifetime, cost-effectiveness analysis does not reveal a 
clearly preferable mode of delivery.

DOI: 10.1089/jwh.2009.1404
PMCID: PMC2828240
PMID: 20088671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Womens Health (Lond). 2010 Jan;6(1):51-7. doi: 10.2217/whe.09.82.

Gender differences in patients with acute ischemic stroke.

Caso V(1), Paciaroni M, Agnelli G, Corea F, Ageno W, Alberti A, Lanari A, 
Micheli S, Bertolani L, Venti M, Palmerini F, Billeci AM, Comi G, Previdi P, 
Silvestrelli G.

Author information:
(1)Stroke Unit, Division of Cardiovascular Medicine, University of Perugia, 
Italy. vcaso@hotmail.com

Stroke has a greater effect on women than men owing to the fact that women have 
more stroke events and are less likely to recover. Age-specific stroke rates are 
higher in men; however, because of women's longer life expectancy and the much 
higher incidence of stroke at older ages, women have more stroke events than men 
overall. The aims of this prospective study in consecutive patients were to 
assess whether there are gender differences in stroke risk factors, treatment or 
outcome. Consecutive patients with ischemic stroke were included in this 
prospective study at four study centers. Disability was assessed using a 
modified Rankin Scale score (>or=3 indicating disabling stroke) in both genders 
at 90 days. Outcomes and risk factors in both genders were compared using the 
chi(2) test. Multiple logistic regression analysis was used to identify any 
independent predictors of outcome. A total of 1136 patients were included in 
this study; of these, 494 (46%) were female. Women were statistically older 
compared with men: 76.02 (+/- 12.93) and 72.68 (+/- 13.27) median years of age, 
respectively. At admission, females had higher NIH Stroke Scale scores compared 
with males (9.4 [+/- 6.94] vs 7.6 [+/- 6.28] for men; p = 0.0018). Furthermore, 
females tended to have more cardioembolic strokes (153 [30%] vs 147 [23%] for 
men; p = 0.004). Males had lacunar and atherosclerotic strokes more often (146 
[29%] vs 249 [39%] for men; p = 0.002, and 68 [13%] vs 123 [19%] for men; p = 
0.01, respectively). The mean modified Rankin Scale score at 3 months was also 
significantly different between genders, at 2.5 (+/- 2.05) for women and 2.1 
(+/- 2.02) for men (p = 0.003). However, at multivariate analysis, female gender 
was not an indicator for negative outcome. It was concluded that female gender 
was not an independent factor for negative outcome. In addition, both genders 
demonstrated different stroke pathophysiologies. These findings should be taken 
into account when diagnostic workup and treatment are being planned.

DOI: 10.2217/whe.09.82
PMID: 20088729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. J Sex Med. 2010 Apr;7(4 Pt 1):1336-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1743-6109.2009.01677.x.  Epub 2010 Jan 15.

The relative health benefits of different sexual activities.

Brody S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Sciences, University of the West of Scotland, High Street, 
Paisley PA1 2BE, UK. stuartbrody@hotmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Although many studies examine purported risks associated with 
sexual activities, few examine potential physical and mental health benefits, 
and even fewer incorporate the scientifically essential differentiation of 
specific sexual behaviors.
AIMS: This review provides an overview of studies examining potential health 
benefits of various sexual activities, with a focus on the effects of different 
sexual activities.
METHODS: Review of peer-reviewed literature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Findings on the associations between distinct sexual 
activities and various indices of psychological and physical function.
RESULTS: A wide range of better psychological and physiological health indices 
are associated specifically with penile-vaginal intercourse. Other sexual 
activities have weaker, no, or (in the cases of masturbation and anal 
intercourse) inverse associations with health indices. Condom use appears to 
impair some benefits of penile-vaginal intercourse. Only a few of the research 
designs allow for causal inferences.
CONCLUSIONS: The health benefits associated with specifically penile-vaginal 
intercourse should inform a new evidence-based approach to sexual medicine, sex 
education, and a broad range of medical and psychological consultations.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1743-6109.2009.01677.x
PMID: 20088868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Value Health. 2010 Jun-Jul;13(4):375-80. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00683.x.  Epub 2010 Jan 15.

Transferability of model-based economic evaluations: the case of trastuzumab for 
the adjuvant treatment of HER2-positive early breast cancer in the Netherlands.

Essers BA(1), Seferina SC, Tjan-Heijnen VC, Severens JL, Novák A, Pompen M, Oron 
UH, Joore MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
brigitte.essers@mumc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Geographic transferability of model-based cost-effectiveness 
results may facilitate and shorten the reimbursement process of new 
pharmaceuticals. This study provides a real world example of transferring a 
cost-effectiveness study of trastuzumab for the adjuvant treatment of 
HER2-positive early breast cancer from the United Kingdom to The Netherlands.
METHODS: Three successive steps were taken. Step 1: Collect available 
information with regard to the original model, and assess transferability using 
existing checklists. Step 2: Adapt transferability-limiting factors. Step 3: 
Obtain a country-specific estimate of cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The structure of the UK model was transferable, although some of the 
model inputs needed adaptation. From a health-care perspective, the Dutch 
estimate amounted to euro5828/quality-adjusted life-year gained. From a societal 
perspective, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was dominant.
CONCLUSION: Transferability of a model-based UK-study in three steps proved to 
be an efficient method to provide an early indication of the cost-effectiveness 
of trastuzumab and has led to the provisional reimbursement of the treatment.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00683.x
PMID: 20088894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. N Engl J Med. 2010 Feb 18;362(7):590-9. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa0907355. Epub
2010  Jan 20.

Projected effect of dietary salt reductions on future cardiovascular disease.

Bibbins-Domingo K(1), Chertow GM, Coxson PG, Moran A, Lightwood JM, Pletcher MJ, 
Goldman L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Feb 18;362(7):650-2.
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Jun 10;362(23):2224; author reply 2225-6.
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Jun 10;362(23):2224-5; author reply 2225-6.
    N Engl J Med. 2010 Jun 10;362(23):2225; author reply 2225-6.

BACKGROUND: The U.S. diet is high in salt, with the majority coming from 
processed foods. Reducing dietary salt is a potentially important target for the 
improvement of public health.
METHODS: We used the Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) Policy Model to quantify the 
benefits of potentially achievable, population-wide reductions in dietary salt 
of up to 3 g per day (1200 mg of sodium per day). We estimated the rates and 
costs of cardiovascular disease in subgroups defined by age, sex, and race; 
compared the effects of salt reduction with those of other interventions 
intended to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease; and determined the 
cost-effectiveness of salt reduction as compared with the treatment of 
hypertension with medications.
RESULTS: Reducing dietary salt by 3 g per day is projected to reduce the annual 
number of new cases of CHD by 60,000 to 120,000, stroke by 32,000 to 66,000, and 
myocardial infarction by 54,000 to 99,000 and to reduce the annual number of 
deaths from any cause by 44,000 to 92,000. All segments of the population would 
benefit, with blacks benefiting proportionately more, women benefiting 
particularly from stroke reduction, older adults from reductions in CHD events, 
and younger adults from lower mortality rates. The cardiovascular benefits of 
reduced salt intake are on par with the benefits of population-wide reductions 
in tobacco use, obesity, and cholesterol levels. A regulatory intervention 
designed to achieve a reduction in salt intake of 3 g per day would save 194,000 
to 392,000 quality-adjusted life-years and $10 billion to $24 billion in health 
care costs annually. Such an intervention would be cost-saving even if only a 
modest reduction of 1 g per day were achieved gradually between 2010 and 2019 
and would be more cost-effective than using medications to lower blood pressure 
in all persons with hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: Modest reductions in dietary salt could substantially reduce 
cardiovascular events and medical costs and should be a public health target.

2010 Massachusetts Medical Society

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa0907355
PMCID: PMC3066566
PMID: 20089957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Indian J Med Res. 2009 Nov;130(5):570-2.

Health outcomes in Indians in comparison with other countries: India specific 
summary findings based on World Health Statistics (2008).

Jeemon P, Stephen M.

PMID: 20090108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Gerontology. 2010;56(3):345-7. doi: 10.1159/000274381. Epub 2009 Dec 31.

Further thoughts on gender and lifetime health.

Månsdotter A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Science, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, 
Sweden. anna.mansdotter@ki.se

Comment in
    Gerontology. 2010;56(3):348-50.

Comment on
    Gerontology. 2010;56(2):208-13.

DOI: 10.1159/000274381
PMID: 20090296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. PLoS One. 2010 Jan 18;5(1):e8723. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008723.

Cost-effectiveness of newborn circumcision in reducing lifetime HIV risk among 
U.S. males.

Sansom SL(1), Prabhu VS, Hutchinson AB, An Q, Hall HI, Shrestha RK, Lasry A, 
Taylor AW.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral 
Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: HIV incidence was substantially lower among circumcised versus 
uncircumcised heterosexual African men in three clinical trials. Based on those 
findings, we modeled the potential effect of newborn male circumcision on a U.S. 
male's lifetime risk of HIV, including associated costs and quality-adjusted 
life-years saved.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Given published estimates of U.S. males' 
lifetime HIV risk, we calculated the fraction of lifetime risk attributable to 
heterosexual behavior from 2005-2006 HIV surveillance data. We assumed 60% 
efficacy of circumcision in reducing heterosexually-acquired HIV over a 
lifetime, and varied efficacy in sensitivity analyses. We calculated differences 
in lifetime HIV risk, expected HIV treatment costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) among circumcised versus uncircumcised males. The main outcome 
measure was cost per HIV-related QALY saved. Circumcision reduced the lifetime 
HIV risk among all males by 15.7% in the base case analysis, ranging from 7.9% 
for white males to 20.9% for black males. Newborn circumcision was a cost-saving 
HIV prevention intervention for all, black and Hispanic males. The net cost of 
newborn circumcision per QALY saved was $87,792 for white males. Results were 
most sensitive to the discount rate, and circumcision efficacy and cost.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Newborn circumcision resulted in lower expected 
HIV-related treatment costs and a slight increase in QALYs. It reduced the 1.87% 
lifetime risk of HIV among all males by about 16%. The effect varied 
substantially by race and ethnicity. Racial and ethnic groups who could benefit 
the most from circumcision may have least access to it due to insurance coverage 
and state Medicaid policies, and these financial barriers should be addressed. 
More data on the long-term protective effect of circumcision on heterosexual 
males as well as on its efficacy in preventing HIV among MSM would be useful.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008723
PMCID: PMC2807456
PMID: 20090910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


358. PLoS One. 2010 Jan 18;5(1):e8758. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008758.

Metformin induces a dietary restriction-like state and the oxidative stress 
response to extend C. elegans Healthspan via AMPK, LKB1, and SKN-1.

Onken B(1), Driscoll M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology and Biochemistry, Rutgers University, 
Piscataway, New Jersey, United States of America.

Metformin, a biguanide drug commonly used to treat type-2 diabetes, has been 
noted to extend healthspan of nondiabetic mice, but this outcome, and the 
molecular mechanisms that underlie it, have received relatively little 
experimental attention. To develop a genetic model for study of biguanide 
effects on healthspan, we investigated metformin impact on aging Caenorhabditis 
elegans. We found that metformin increases nematode healthspan, slowing 
lipofuscin accumulation, extending median lifespan, and prolonging youthful 
locomotory ability in a dose-dependent manner. Genetic data suggest that 
metformin acts through a mechanism similar to that operative in eating-impaired 
dietary restriction (DR) mutants, but independent of the insulin signaling 
pathway. Energy sensor AMPK and AMPK-activating kinase LKB1, which are activated 
in mammals by metformin treatment, are essential for health benefits in C. 
elegans, suggesting that metformin engages a metabolic loop conserved across 
phyla. We also show that the conserved oxidative stress-responsive transcription 
factor SKN-1/Nrf2 is essential for metformin healthspan benefits in C. elegans, 
a mechanistic requirement not previously described in mammals. skn-1, which 
functions in nematode sensory neurons to promote DR longevity benefits and in 
intestines for oxidative stress resistance lifespan benefits, must be expressed 
in both neurons and intestines for metformin-promoted healthspan extension, 
supporting that metformin improves healthy middle-life aging by activating both 
DR and antioxidant defense longevity pathways. In addition to defining molecular 
players operative in metformin healthspan benefits, our data suggest that 
metformin may be a plausible pharmacological intervention to promote healthy 
human aging.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0008758
PMCID: PMC2807458
PMID: 20090912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


359. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Jan 20;(1):CD007130. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007130.pub2.

Home-based versus centre-based cardiac rehabilitation.

Taylor RS(1), Dalal H, Jolly K, Moxham T, Zawada A.

Author information:
(1)PenTAG, Peninsula Medical School, University of Exeter, Noy Scott House, 
Barrack Road, Exeter, UK, EX2 5DW.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;8:CD007130.

BACKGROUND: The burden of cardiovascular disease world-wide is one of great 
concern to patients and health care agencies alike. Traditionally centre-based 
cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programmes are offered to individuals after cardiac 
events to aid recovery and prevent further cardiac illness. Home-based cardiac 
rehabilitation programmes have been introduced in an attempt to widen access and 
participation.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of home-based cardiac rehabilitation 
programmes compared with supervised centre-based cardiac rehabilitation on 
mortality and morbidity, health-related quality of life and modifiable cardiac 
risk factors in patients with coronary heart disease.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We updated the search of a previous review by searching the 
Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library 
(2007, Issue 4), MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL from 2001 to January 2008. We 
checked reference lists and sought advice from experts. No language restrictions 
were applied.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared 
centre-based cardiac rehabilitation (e.g. hospital, gymnasium, sports centre) 
with home-based programmes, in adults with myocardial infarction, angina, heart 
failure or who had undergone revascularisation.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Studies were selected independently by two 
reviewers, and data extracted by a single reviewer and checked by a second one. 
Authors were contacted where possible to obtain missing information.
MAIN RESULTS: Twelve studies (1,938 participants) met the inclusion criteria. 
The majority of studies recruited a lower risk patient following an acute 
myocardial infarction (MI) and revascularisation. There was no difference in 
outcomes of home- versus centre-based cardiac rehabilitation in mortality risk 
ratio (RR) was1.31 (95% confidence interval (C) 0.65 to 2.66), cardiac events, 
exercise capacity standardised mean difference (SMD) -0.11 (95% CI -0.35 to 
0.13), as well as in modifiable risk factors (systolic blood pressure; diastolic 
blood pressure; total cholesterol; HDL-cholesterol; LDL-cholesterol) or 
proportion of smokers at follow up or health-related quality of life. There was 
no consistent difference in the healthcare costs of the two forms of cardiac 
rehabilitation.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Home- and centre-based cardiac rehabilitation appear to be 
equally effective in improving the clinical and health-related quality of life 
outcomes in acute MI and revascularisation patients. This finding, together with 
an absence of evidence of difference in healthcare costs between the two 
approaches, would support the extension of home-based cardiac rehabilitation 
programmes such as the Heart Manual to give patients a choice in line with their 
preferences, which may have an impact on uptake of cardiac rehabilitation in the 
individual case.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007130.pub2
PMCID: PMC4160096
PMID: 20091618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010 Jan 20;(1):CD007169. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD007169.pub2.

Music therapy for end-of-life care.

Bradt J(1), Dileo C.

Author information:
(1)The Arts and Quality of Life Research Center, Boyer College of Music and 
Dance, Temple University, Presser Hall, 2001 North 13 Street, Philadelphia, USA.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014;3:CD007169.

BACKGROUND: Music therapy in end-of-life care aims to improve a person's quality 
of life by helping relieve symptoms, addressing psychological needs, offering 
support, facilitating communication, and meeting spiritual needs. In addition, 
music therapists assist family and caregivers with coping, communication, and 
grief/bereavement.
OBJECTIVES: To examine effects of music therapy with standard care versus 
standard care alone or standard care combined with other therapies on 
psychological, physiological, and social responses in end-of-life care.
SEARCH STRATEGY: We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, CINAHL, EMBASE, PSYCINFO, LILACS, 
CancerLit, Science Citation Index, www.musictherapyworld.de, CAIRSS for Music, 
Proquest Digital Dissertations, ClinicalTrials.gov, Current Controlled Trials, 
and the National Research Register to September 2009. We handsearched music 
therapy journals and reference lists, and contacted experts to identify 
unpublished manuscripts. There was no language restriction.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included all randomized and quasi-randomized controlled 
trials that compared music interventions and standard care with standard care 
alone or combined with other therapies in any care setting with a diagnosis of 
advanced life-limiting illness being treated with palliative intent and with a 
life expectancy of less than two years.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Data were extracted, and methodological quality 
was assessed, independently by review authors. Additional information was sought 
from study authors when necessary. Results are presented using weighted mean 
differences for outcomes measured by the same scale and standardized mean 
differences for outcomes measured by different scales. Posttest scores were 
used. In cases of statistically significant baseline difference, we used change 
scores.
MAIN RESULTS: Five studies (175 participants) were included. There is 
insufficient evidence of high quality to support the effect of music therapy on 
quality of life of people in end-of-life care. Given the limited number of 
studies and small sample sizes, more research is needed.No strong evidence was 
found for the effect of music therapy on pain or anxiety.These results were 
based on two small studies. There were insufficient data to examine the effect 
of music therapy on other physical, psychological, or social outcomes.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: A limited number of studies suggest there may be a benefit 
of music therapy on the quality of life of people in end-of-life care. However, 
the results stem from studies with a high risk of bias. More research is needed.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD007169.pub2
PMID: 20091619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Health Econ. 2011 Feb;20(2):212-24. doi: 10.1002/hec.1586.

Dangerous omissions: the consequences of ignoring decision uncertainty.

Griffin SC(1), Claxton KP, Palmer SJ, Sculpher MJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, UK. scg3@york.ac.uk

Institutions with the responsibility for making adoption (reimbursement) 
decisions in health care often lack the remit to demand or commission further 
research: adoption decisions are their only policy instrument. The decision to 
adopt a technology also influences the prospects of acquiring further evidence 
because the incentives to conduct research are reduced and the ethical basis of 
further clinical trials maybe undermined. In these circumstances the decision 
maker must consider whether the benefits of immediate access to a technology 
exceeds the value of the evidence which maybe forgone for future patients. We 
outline how these expected opportunity losses can be established from the 
perspective of a societal decision maker with and without the remit to 
commission research, and demonstrate how these considerations change the 
appropriate decision rules in cost-effectiveness analysis. Importantly, we 
identify those circumstances in which the approval of a technology that is 
expected to be cost-effective should be withheld, i.e. when an 'only in 
research' recommendation should be made. We demonstrate that a sufficient 
condition for immediate adoption of a technology can provide incentives for 
manufacturers to reduce the price or provide additional supporting evidence. 
However, decisions based solely on expected net benefit provide no such 
incentives, may undermine the evidence base for future clinical practice and 
reduce expected net health benefits for the patient population.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1586
PMID: 20091763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Angiol Sosud Khir. 2009;15(3):73-6.

[Transluminal balloon angioplasty in treatment of lower limb critical 
ischaemia].

[Article in Russian]

Kaputin MIu.

Currently, there is no doubt that transluminal balloon angioplasty (TLBAP) is a 
method of choice in treatment of patients suffering from lower limb critical 
ischaemia (LLCI) either accompanied by severe pathology or associated with low 
life expectancy, as well as under the circumstances rendering no anatomical 
conditions for performing a by-pass grafting operation. However, it is necessary 
to perform a repeat scrutiny of the comparative outcomes of endovascular and 
surgical management of LLCI in those patients equally eligible for either method 
of revascularization with due regard for the present-day possibilities of TLBAP.

PMID: 20092186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2010 Jan 21;10:3. doi: 10.1186/1471-2393-10-3.

Cost-effectiveness of external cephalic version for term breech presentation.

Tan JM(1), Macario A, Carvalho B, Druzin ML, El-Sayed YY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Stony Brook University Medical Center, Stony 
Brook, New York 11794-8480, USA. jonathan.tan@stonybrook.edu

BACKGROUND: External cephalic version (ECV) is recommended by the American 
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists to convert a breech fetus to vertex 
position and reduce the need for cesarean delivery. The goal of this study was 
to determine the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, from society's 
perspective, of ECV compared to scheduled cesarean for term breech presentation.
METHODS: A computer-based decision model (TreeAge Pro 2008, Tree Age Software, 
Inc.) was developed for a hypothetical base case parturient presenting with a 
term singleton breech fetus with no contraindications for vaginal delivery. The 
model incorporated actual hospital costs (e.g., $8,023 for cesarean and $5,581 
for vaginal delivery), utilities to quantify health-related quality of life, and 
probabilities based on analysis of published literature of successful ECV trial, 
spontaneous reversion, mode of delivery, and need for unanticipated emergency 
cesarean delivery. The primary endpoint was the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio in dollars per quality-adjusted year of life gained. A threshold of 
$50,000 per quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) was used to determine 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of ECV, assuming a baseline 58% 
success rate, equaled $7,900/QALY. If the estimated probability of successful 
ECV is less than 32%, then ECV costs more to society and has poorer QALYs for 
the patient. However, as the probability of successful ECV was between 32% and 
63%, ECV cost more than cesarean delivery but with greater associated QALY such 
that the cost-effectiveness ratio was less than $50,000/QALY. If the probability 
of successful ECV was greater than 63%, the computer modeling indicated that a 
trial of ECV is less costly and with better QALYs than a scheduled cesarean. The 
cost-effectiveness of a trial of ECV is most sensitive to its probability of 
success, and not to the probabilities of a cesarean after ECV, spontaneous 
reversion to breech, successful second ECV trial, or adverse outcome from 
emergency cesarean.
CONCLUSIONS: From society's perspective, ECV trial is cost-effective when 
compared to a scheduled cesarean for breech presentation provided the 
probability of successful ECV is > 32%. Improved algorithms are needed to more 
precisely estimate the likelihood that a patient will have a successful ECV.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2393-10-3
PMCID: PMC2826287
PMID: 20092630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. Lancet. 2010 Feb 20;375(9715):614-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)62030-4.
Epub  2010 Jan 19.

Long-term survival of children born with congenital anomalies.

Stone DH(1).

Author information:
(1)Paediatric Epidemiology and Community Health (PEACH) Unit, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G3 8SJ, UK. d.h.stone@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

Comment on
    Lancet. 2010 Feb 20;375(9715):649-56.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)62030-4
PMID: 20092885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Mar;70(6):886-95. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.018.
Epub  2010 Jan 21.

Gender and health outcomes: the impact of healthcare systems and their financing 
on life expectancies of women and men.

Asiskovitch S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Political Science and the Mosse/Weinstein Center for Jewish 
Studies at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, USA. s_asiskovitch@hotmail.com

The paper considers the impact of healthcare systems and how they are financed 
on the life expectancies (LEs) of women and men in 19 OECD countries during the 
period 1990-2005 using OECD Health Data 2009. There is a gap in life expectancy 
(LE) between men and women, with women living longer than men, and most studies 
point to socio-economic variables and lifestyle and health-related behaviors. 
The role of healthcare systems and access to medical services is still disputed. 
This article proposes a number of adjustments to previous studies. First, it 
uses several variables broken down according to gender. Second, it considers 
healthcare systems by measuring their national expenditure as well as their 
public and private sources of funding. Third, it includes factors indirectly 
affecting health as expenditures on other realms of social policy. Fourth, it 
examines the factors impacting LEs of women and men at birth and at 65. Using a 
hierarchical model of panel-data regressions, the study finds: (1) there is a 
marginal impact on LEs at birth for both genders and greater impact on LEs at 65 
for both genders; (2) a public mode of funding has greater effect than private; 
(3) the findings that men benefit more from access to medical services might be 
the result of the variables controlled in the analysis.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.018
PMID: 20092922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Cancer Treat Rev. 2010 Aug;36(5):436-41. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.12.013.
Epub  2010 Jan 25.

Is age a negative prognostic factor for the treatment of advanced/metastatic 
non-small-cell lung cancer?

Pallis AG(1), Gridelli C.

Author information:
(1)EORTC-Elderly Task Force Member and Department of Medical Oncology, 
University General Hospital of Heraklion, Greece. agpallis@gmail.com

As a result of an increasing life expectancy, the incidence of non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) in the older population is rising. As a consequence 
oncologists and their older patients commonly face the dilemma of whether or not 
to give/receive treatment for NSCLC. The current evidence supports the safety 
and efficacy of treatment for NSCLC cancer in fit older patients and 
demonstrates that treatment outcome can be similar to that of their younger 
counterparts and that chronological age per se is not a negative prognostic 
factor. However, it should be noted that these data are derived from 
retrospective studies which are likely to suffer from selection bias. 
Prospective data support the use of third generation single-agent (vinorelbine, 
gemcitabine, docetaxel) as first-line treatment for older NSCLC patients. 
Although cisplatin-based doublets represent the cornerstone of chemotherapy 
treatment for advanced/metastatic NSCLC their role in the treatment of older 
patients needs to be further elucidated. Despite a growing body of data, further 
work is still needed to establish optimal strategies to care for this special 
population and prospective specific trials for older NSCLC patients are clearly 
needed.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2009.12.013
PMID: 20092951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2010 Apr;23(4):271-8. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzp091. Epub
 2010 Jan 21.

Anti-serum albumin domain antibodies in the development of highly potent, 
efficacious and long-acting interferon.

Walker A(1), Dunlevy G, Rycroft D, Topley P, Holt LJ, Herbert T, Davies M, Cook 
F, Holmes S, Jespers L, Herring C.

Author information:
(1)Biopharm R&D, Domantis Ltd, Cambridge, UK. Adam.Walker@Domantis.com

Serum albumin-binding domain antibodies (AlbudAbs) have previously been shown to 
greatly extend the serum half-life of the interleukin-1 receptor antagonist 
IL-1ra. We have subsequently extended this approach to look at the in vitro 
activity, in vivo efficacy and pharmacokinetics of an agonist molecule, 
interferon (IFN)-alpha2b, fused to an AlbudAb. Here we describe this molecule 
and show that in this format AlbudAb half-life extension technology displays 
significant advantages in comparison with other methods of half-life extension, 
in particular genetic fusion to serum albumin. When compared directly 
IFN-alpha2b fused to an Albudab shows higher potency, increased serum half-life 
and greater efficacy than human serum albumin fused to IFN-alpha2b. AlbudAbs are 
therefore an ideal platform technology for creation of therapeutics with agonist 
activity and long serum half-lives.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzp091
PMID: 20093262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Med Care Res Rev. 2010 Jun;67(3):251-74. doi: 10.1177/1077558709356357. Epub
 2010 Jan 21.

Review: the net benefits of depression management in primary care.

Glied S(1), Herzog K, Frank R.

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. sag1@columbia.edu

Depression is often diagnosed and treated in primary care settings. 
Organizational and systems interventions that restructure primary care practices 
and train staff have been shown to be cost-effective strategies for treating 
depression. Funders are increasingly calling for a cost-benefit assessment of 
such programs. In this study, the authors review existing cost-effectiveness 
studies of primary care depression treatments, classify them into categories, 
translate the results into net benefit terms, and assess whether more costly 
programs generate greater net benefit. The authors find that interventions that 
provide training to primary care teams in how to manage depression most 
consistently produce net benefits, with more costly interventions of this type 
generating larger net benefits than less costly interventions. Collaborative 
care interventions, which add specialized staff to primary care practices, and 
therapy interventions, in which clinicians are trained to provide therapy, also 
generate net social benefits at conventional valuations of quality-adjusted life 
years.

DOI: 10.1177/1077558709356357
PMID: 20093400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Radiology. 2010 Feb;254(2):532-40. doi: 10.1148/radiol.2541081672.

Minor head injury: CT-based strategies for management--a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Smits M(1), Dippel DW, Nederkoorn PJ, Dekker HM, Vos PE, Kool DR, van Rijssel 
DA, Hofman PA, Twijnstra A, Tanghe HL, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Erasmus MC-University Medical Center Rotterdam, PO 
Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of using selective computed 
tomographic (CT) strategies with that of performing CT in all patients with 
minor head injury (MHI).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The internal review board approved the study; written 
informed consent was obtained from all interviewed patients. Five strategies 
were evaluated, with CT performed in all patients with MHI; selectively 
according to the New Orleans criteria (NOC), Canadian CT head rule (CCHR), or CT 
in head injury patients (CHIP) rule; or in no patients. A decision tree was used 
to analyze short-term costs and effectiveness, and a Markov model was used to 
analyze long-term costs and effectiveness. n-Way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses and value-of-information (VOI) analysis were performed. Data from the 
multicenter CHIP Study involving 3181 patients with MHI were used. Outcome 
measures were first-year and lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life-years, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Study results showed that performing CT selectively according to the 
CCHR or the CHIP rule could lead to substantial U.S. cost savings ($120 million 
and $71 million, respectively), and the CCHR was the most cost-effective at 
reference-case analysis. When the prediction rule had lower than 97% sensitivity 
for the identification of patients who required neurosurgery, performing CT in 
all patients was cost-effective. The CHIP rule was most likely to be 
cost-effective. At VOI analysis, the expected value of perfect information was 
$7 billion, mainly because of uncertainty about long-term functional outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Selecting patients with MHI for CT renders cost savings and may be 
cost-effective, provided the sensitivity for the identification of patients who 
require neurosurgery is extremely high. Uncertainty regarding long-term 
functional outcomes after MHI justifies the routine use of CT in all patients 
with these injuries.

(c) RSNA, 2010

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.2541081672
PMID: 20093524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Stroke. 2010 Mar;41(3):563-5. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.572339. Epub 2010
Jan  21.

Trends in survival and recovery from stroke: evidence from the National 
Long-Term Care Survey/Medicare data.

Yashin A, Akushevich I, Ukraintseva S, Akushevich L, Arbeev K, Kulminski A.

Comment in
    Stroke. 2010 Mar;41(3):415-6.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Improvements in recovery rates may contribute to an 
increase in healthy life expectancy. It is unclear, however, whether such 
changes take place because health researchers traditionally deal with changes in 
incidence and survival from diseases. The purpose of this study was to test for 
the presence of time trends in the recovery rate from stroke.
METHODS: We compared age patterns of recovery rates from stroke evaluated in 2 
subcohorts represented in the National Long-Term Care Survey data linked with 
the Medicare service use files.
RESULTS: We found a statistically significant increase in recovery rate between 
1994 and 1999 for females but not for males.
CONCLUSIONS: Time trends in recovery rate from stroke exist and can be detected 
from available data. The roles of influential factors and causes of sex 
difference in recovery improvement deserve further studies.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.109.572339
PMCID: PMC2847575
PMID: 20093634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest/Disclosures None


371. J Trauma. 2010 Jun;68(6):1459-63. doi: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3181bb8d89.

Biomechanical evaluation of peri- and interprosthetic fractures of the femur.

Lehmann W(1), Rupprecht M, Hellmers N, Sellenschloh K, Briem D, Püschel K, 
Amling M, Morlock M, Rueger JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma, Hand, and Reconstructive Surgery, University Medical 
Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistrasse 52, Hamburg 20246, Germany. 
wlehmann@uke.uni-hamburg.de

BACKGROUND: Because of an increasing life expectancy of patients and the rising 
number of joint replacements, peri- and interprosthetic femoral fractures are a 
common occurrence in most trauma centers. This study was designed to answer two 
primary questions. First, whether the fracture risk increases with two 
intramedullary implants in one femur; and second, whether a compression plate 
osteosynthesis is sufficient for stabilizing an interprosthetic fracture.
METHODS: Twenty-four human cadaveric femurs were harvested and four groups were 
matched based on the basis of bone density using a peripher quantitative 
computer tomography (pQCT). All groups-(I) hip prosthesis with a cemented 
femoral stem; (II) hip prosthesis and retrograde femoral nail; (III) hip 
prosthesis, retrograde femoral nail, and lateral compression plate; (IV) all 
three implants with an additional simulated interprosthetic fracture-were 
biomechanically tested in a four-point bending in lateral-medial direction.
RESULTS: The second group with two intramedullary implants exhibited 20% lower 
fracture strength in comparison with group 1 with proximal femoral stem only. 
The stabilization of an interprosthetic fracture with a lateral compression 
plate (group IV) resulted in a fracture strength similar to femur with 
prosthesis only.
CONCLUSION: Two intramedullary implants reduce the fracture strength 
significantly. If an interprosthetic fracture occurs, sufficient stability can 
be achieved by a lateral compression plate. Because two intramedullary implants 
in the femur may decrease the fracture strength, the treatment of supracondylar 
femoral fractures with a retrograde nail in cases with preexisting ipsilateral 
hip prosthesis should be reconsidered.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3181bb8d89
PMID: 20093986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Prim Care Respir J. 2010 Mar;19(1):68-74. doi: 10.4104/pcrj.2010.00001.

Economic analyses comparing tiotropium with ipratropium or salmeterol in UK 
patients with COPD.

Gani R(1), Griffin J, Kelly S, Rutten-van Mölken M.

Author information:
(1)Market Access, Pricing and Outcomes Research, Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd, 
Berkshire, UK. ray.gani@boehringer-ingelheim.com

AIMS: This study presents a cost-effectiveness and budget impact analysis 
comparing cost and outcomes for UK patients with COPD treated with either 
tiotropium, ipratropium or salmeterol.
METHODS: A previously-published COPD cost-effectiveness model was adapted for 
the UK, then used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of tiotropium compared to 
salmeterol and ipratropium. Additional epidemiological data were used to 
estimate the budget impact of switching patients from ipratropium or salmeterol 
to tiotropium.
RESULTS: In England, the estimated annual cost per patient on tiotropium was 
pound1350, on salmeterol was pound1404, and on ipratropium was pound1427; in 
Scotland/Wales/Northern Ireland (S/W/NI) these costs were pound1439, pound1565, 
and pound1631, respectively. Tiotropium patients experienced better 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) across all comparisons, and this option was 
therefore dominant compared to salmeterol and ipratropium. The probability of 
tiotropium being dominant ranged from 72% to 87% across comparisons. At a 
willingness to pay threshold of pound20,000 per QALY, tiotropium had at least a 
97% chance of being cost-effective. The estimated annual saving per primary care 
trust (PCT) of switching patients from salmeterol and ipratropium to tiotropium 
in England was pound230,000 and in S/W/NI was pound160,000.
CONCLUSIONS: Tiotropium is a cost-effective alternative to ipratropium and 
salmeterol, and switching COPD patients from ipratropium and salmeterol to 
tiotropium could result in considerable cost savings for PCTs along with 
improvements in quality-of-life.

DOI: 10.4104/pcrj.2010.00001
PMCID: PMC6602207
PMID: 20094687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Jane Griffin and Ray Gani are employees of 
Boehringer Ingelheim who manufacture and co-promote tiotropium. Steve Kelly is 
an employee of Pfizer who co-promote tiotropium. Maureen Rutten-van Mölken is a 
consultant who has received fees for work carried out for Boehringer Ingelheim 
and Pfizer.


373. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):323-31. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9590-z. Epub
2010  Jan 22.

Exploring the impact of changes in neurogenic urinary incontinence frequency and 
condition-specific quality of life on preference-based outcomes.

Hollingworth W(1), Campbell JD, Kowalski J, Ravelo A, Girod I, Briggs A, 
Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, University of Bristol, Canynge Hall, 39 
Whatley Rd, Bristol, BS8 2PS, UK. william.hollingworth@bristol.ac.uk

PURPOSE: Many trials do not measure quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Therefore, decision analysts often map condition-specific outcomes to preference 
scores. We estimated the relationship between changes in preference scores and 
commonly reported condition-specific outcomes in patients with urinary 
incontinence (UI) due to neurogenic detrusor overactivity.
METHODS: In 59 patients recruited to a neurogenic UI trial, clinical outcomes 
(UI episodes), condition-specific quality of life (Incontinence Quality of Life 
Instrument (I-QOL)), and SF-6D preference scores were measured at enrollment and 
24 weeks. We used multiple linear regression to estimate the impact on SF-6D 
scores of 50; 50-99 and 100% reductions in UI episodes and a 10-point 
improvement in I-QOL.
RESULTS: By 24 weeks, mean (95% CI) daily UI episodes fell by 0.85 (0.04, 1.3) 
and mean I-QOL scores improved by 18 (12, 24). SF-6D scores increased by 0.03 
(0.003, 0.058), due to improvements in role limitations. A > or = 50% reduction 
in UI episodes was achieved by 49% of patients and corresponded to a 0.09 (0.02, 
0.16) SF-6D increase. A > or = 10-point increase in I-QOL was attained by 65% of 
patients and was associated with a 0.05 (-0.02, 0.12) SF-6D increase.
CONCLUSIONS: These estimates provide preliminary data for decision analysts 
wishing to map neurogenic UI outcomes to preference scores.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9590-z
PMID: 20094804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2010 Apr;31(8):901-10. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04242.x. Epub 2010 Jan 19.

Cost effectiveness of mass screening for coeliac disease is determined by 
time-delay to diagnosis and quality of life on a gluten-free diet.

Hershcovici T(1), Leshno M, Goldin E, Shamir R, Israeli E.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Department, Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center, 
Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Coeliac disease is frequently diagnosed after a long delay resulting 
in increased morbidity and mortality.
AIMS: To define the parameters which have the highest impact on the 
cost-effectiveness of mass screening for coeliac disease.
METHODS: A Markov model examined a coeliac disease screening programme of the 
healthy young-adult general population compared with a no-screening strategy. 
The main outcome measures were quality adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Effects of variables were examined 
using sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The screening strategy resulted in a gain of 0.0027 QALYs. The ICER of 
screening vs. no-screening strategy was US$48,960/QALYs. The variables with the 
largest impact on cost effectiveness were: the time delay from symptom onset to 
diagnosis, the utility of adherence to a gluten-free diet (GFD) and the 
prevalence of coeliac disease. Screening would be cost-effective if the time 
delay to diagnosis is longer than 6 years and utility of GFD adherence is 
greater than 0.978.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model suggests that mass screening for coeliac disease of the 
