

758. Arch Intern Med. 2010 Mar 22;170(6):537-42. doi:
10.1001/archinternmed.2010.36.  Epub 2010 Mar 16.

The value of new chemotherapeutic agents for metastatic colorectal cancer.

Howard DH(1), Kauh J, Lipscomb J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Emory University, Atlanta, GA 
30030, USA. david.howard@emory.edu

BACKGROUND: New chemotherapeutic agents for patients diagnosed with metastatic 
colorectal cancer have been singled out as examples of high-cost/low-value 
medical care. We measure trends in life expectancy and lifetime medical costs in 
this patient population between January 1, 1995, and December 31, 2005.
METHODS: Using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare 
database, we constructed a sample of 4665 patients aged 66 and older diagnosed 
with metastatic colorectal cancer between January 1, 1995, and December 31, 
2005, who received chemotherapeutic agents. We estimated life expectancy and 
lifetime medical costs based on observed short-term survival rates and costs.
RESULTS: Life expectancy increased by 6.8 months and lifetime costs by $37 100 
(2006 dollars). The implied cost per life-year gained is $66 200 (95% confidence 
interval, $48 100-$84 200). After discounting life-years and costs and adjusting 
for patients' health utility and out-of-pocket payments, the cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained is $99 100 (95% confidence interval, $72 
300-$125 900).
CONCLUSIONS: New chemotherapeutic agents are associated with improvements in 
survival time but also with substantial costs. The cost-effectiveness ratio for 
these drugs as a group is below commonly cited estimates of the 
willingness-to-pay for a life-year. However, open-ended coverage policies for 
new chemotherapeutic agents may prove difficult to sustain as costs continue to 
rise.

DOI: 10.1001/archinternmed.2010.36
PMID: 20233802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Am Coll Nutr. 2009 Aug;28 Suppl:500S-516S. doi: 
10.1080/07315724.2009.10718117.

The Okinawan diet: health implications of a low-calorie, nutrient-dense, 
antioxidant-rich dietary pattern low in glycemic load.

Willcox DC(1), Willcox BJ, Todoriki H, Suzuki M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Welfare, Okinawa International University, 2-6-1 Ginowan, 
Ginowan City, Okinawa, Japan. d.willcox@okiu.ac.jp

Residents of Okinawa, the southernmost prefecture of Japan, are known for their 
long average life expectancy, high numbers of centenarians, and accompanying low 
risk of age-associated diseases. Much of the longevity advantage in Okinawa is 
thought to be related to a healthy lifestyle, particularly the traditional diet, 
which is low in calories yet nutritionally dense, especially with regard to 
phytonutrients in the form of antioxidants and flavonoids. Research suggests 
that diets associated with a reduced risk of chronic diseases are similar to the 
traditional Okinawan diet, that is, vegetable and fruit heavy (therefore 
phytonutrient and antioxidant rich) but reduced in meat, refined grains, 
saturated fat, sugar, salt, and full-fat dairy products. Many of the 
characteristics of the diet in Okinawa are shared with other healthy dietary 
patterns, such as the traditional Mediterranean diet or the modern DASH (Dietary 
Approaches to Stop Hypertension) diet. Features such as the low levels of 
saturated fat, high antioxidant intake, and low glycemic load in these diets are 
likely contributing to a decreased risk for cardiovascular disease, some 
cancers, and other chronic diseases through multiple mechanisms, including 
reduced oxidative stress. A comparison of the nutrient profiles of the three 
dietary patterns shows that the traditional Okinawan diet is the lowest in fat 
intake, particularly in terms of saturated fat, and highest in carbohydrate 
intake, in keeping with the very high intake of antioxidant-rich yet 
calorie-poor orange-yellow root vegetables, such as sweet potatoes, and green 
leafy vegetables. Deeper analyses of the individual components of the Okinawan 
diet reveal that many of the traditional foods, herbs, or spices consumed on a 
regular basis could be labeled "functional foods" and, indeed, are currently 
being explored for their potential health-enhancing properties.

DOI: 10.1080/07315724.2009.10718117
PMID: 20234038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. J Clin Invest. 2010 Apr;120(4):1253-64. doi: 10.1172/JCI41615. Epub 2010 Mar
15.

CNS-targeted gene therapy improves survival and motor function in a mouse model 
of spinal muscular atrophy.

Passini MA(1), Bu J, Roskelley EM, Richards AM, Sardi SP, O'Riordan CR, Klinger 
KW, Shihabuddin LS, Cheng SH.

Author information:
(1)Genzyme Corporation, 49 New York Avenue, Room 2410, Framingham, MA 01701, 
USA. marco.passini@genzyme.com

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neuromuscular disease caused by a deficiency 
of survival motor neuron (SMN) due to mutations in the SMN1 gene. In this study, 
an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector expressing human SMN (AAV8-hSMN) was 
injected at birth into the CNS of mice modeling SMA. Western blot analysis 
showed that these injections resulted in widespread expression of SMN throughout 
the spinal cord, and this translated into robust improvement in skeletal muscle 
physiology, including increased myofiber size and improved neuromuscular 
junction architecture. Treated mice also displayed substantial improvements on 
behavioral tests of muscle strength, coordination, and locomotion, indicating 
that the neuromuscular junction was functional. Treatment with AAV8-hSMN 
increased the median life span of mice with SMA-like disease to 50 days compared 
with 15 days for untreated controls. Moreover, injecting mice with SMA-like 
disease with a human SMN-expressing self-complementary AAV vector - a vector 
that leads to earlier onset of gene expression compared with standard AAV 
vectors - led to improved efficacy of gene therapy, including a substantial 
extension in median survival to 157 days. These data indicate that CNS-directed, 
AAV-mediated SMN augmentation is highly efficacious in addressing both neuronal 
and muscular pathologies in a severe mouse model of SMA.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI41615
PMCID: PMC2846065
PMID: 20234094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2010 Mar;135(12):582-5. doi: 10.1055/s-0030-1249215.
Epub  2010 Mar 16.

[Should IQWiG revise its methods of cost-effectiveness analysis in order to 
comply with more widely accepted health economical evaluation standards?].

[Article in German]

Lübbe W(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Philosophie, Universität Regensburg. 
weyma.luebbe@psk.uniregensburg.de

IQWiG, Germany's equivalent to Britain's National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE), has adopted an unorthodox method of 
cost-effectiveness analysis. The method does not use QALYs (quality adjusted 
life years). Its main point is that it tries to avoid comparative judgement on 
the relative value of treatment effects in different medical areas. The present 
contribution assesses the controversy that has arisen over IQWiG's methods by 
discussing a) whether comparative judgements will at least implicitly be made 
anyway as soon as the IQWiG makes reimbursement recommendations in more than one 
medical area, and b) whether the well-known fairness objections against QALY 
maximization can plausibly be dealt with by equity weigthing or, generally, by 
moving on to "societal value" maximization, which tries to include fairness 
values in addition to cost-effectiveness. It is concluded that the answer is 
"No" for both points, which leads to a "No" for the title question as well.

Copyright Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart . New York

DOI: 10.1055/s-0030-1249215
PMID: 20234995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Hosp Med. 2010 Mar;5(3):E14-5. doi: 10.1002/jhm.512.

A fatal case of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis.

Mathews EZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Lutheran General Hospital, Park Ridge, Illinois 
60068, USA. emily.mathews-do@advocatehealth.com

Heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is a significant, potentially 
life-threatening immune-mediated adverse event that occurs several days after 
commencement of therapy with unfractionated or low-molecular weight heparin. We 
present a 51-year-old female treated with unfractionated heparin for acute deep 
venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE). She developed extension of 
her thrombosis and was promptly diagnosed with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia 
and thrombosis (HITT). She did not, however, develop thrombocytopenia until 5 
days after the extension of her thrombosis. The possible diagnosis of HITT is 
important for clinicians to keep in mind for all patients that are receiving any 
form of heparin, not only those patients who present with thrombocytopenia but 
also those with otherwise unexplainable thrombosis regardless of the platelet 
count.

DOI: 10.1002/jhm.512
PMID: 20235296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2009;69(4):311-25. doi: 10.2190/AG.69.4.d.

Grandparent-grandchild relationships: from families in contexts to families as 
contexts.

Davey A(1), Savla J, Janke M, Anderson S.

Author information:
(1)College of Health Professions, Temple University, Philadelphia, PA 19122, 
USA. adavey@temple.edu

Relationships between grandparents and grandchildren provide an excellent 
framework for integrating family theory and family methodology. Systematic 
differences as a function of age, gender, life expectancy, and health as played 
out through generations suggest some topics are best studied by disentangling 
variability between and within families. Using data from 1,345 grandchildren 
(52% girls, mean age 13.69 years, range 9 to 20) reporting on 3,664 
grandparents, we compare results obtained from studying grandparent-grandchild 
relationships individually and at the family level. Results suggest important 
predictors of relationship quality at the within-subject and between-subject 
levels. Future research should more carefully integrate each level into theory 
and design.

DOI: 10.2190/AG.69.4.d
PMID: 20235470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Biochem J. 2010 Apr 28;428(1):103-11. doi: 10.1042/BJ20091604.

C-terminal domain phosphorylation of ERK3 controlled by Cdk1 and Cdc14 regulates 
its stability in mitosis.

Tanguay PL(1), Rodier G, Meloche S.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche en Immunologie et Cancérologie, Université de Montréal, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3C 3J7.

ERK3 (extracellular-signal-regulated kinase 3) is an atypical MAPK 
(mitogen-activated protein kinase) that is suggested to play a role in 
cell-cycle progression and cellular differentiation. However, it is not known 
whether the function of ERK3 is regulated during the cell cycle. In the present 
paper, we report that ERK3 is stoichiometrically hyperphosphorylated during 
entry into mitosis and is dephosphorylated at the M-->G1 transition. The 
phosphorylation of ERK3 is associated with the accumulation of the protein in 
mitosis. In vitro phosphorylation of a series of ERK3-deletion mutants by 
mitotic cell extracts revealed that phosphorylation is confined to the unique 
C-terminal extension of the protein. Using MS analysis, we identified four novel 
phosphorylation sites, Ser684, Ser688, Thr698 and Ser705, located at the extreme 
C-terminus of ERK3. All four sites are followed by a proline residue. We have 
shown that purified cyclin B-Cdk1 (cyclindependent kinase 1) phosphorylates 
these sites in vitro and demonstrate that Cdk1 acts as a major Thr698 kinase in 
vivo. Reciprocally, we found that the phosphatases Cdc14A and Cdc14B (Cdc is 
cell-division cycle) bind to ERK3 and reverse its C-terminal phosphorylation in 
mitosis. Importantly, alanine substitution of the four C-terminal 
phosphorylation sites markedly decreased the half-life of ERK3 in mitosis, 
thereby linking phosphorylation to the stabilization of the kinase. The results 
of the present study identify a novel regulatory mechanism of ERK3 that operates 
in a cell-cycle-dependent manner.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20091604
PMID: 20236090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. J Interv Cardiol. 2010 Apr;23(2):179-87. doi:
10.1111/j.1540-8183.2010.00530.x.  Epub 2010 Mar 2.

Defining patients at high risk for gastrointestinal hemorrhage after 
drug-eluting stent placement: a cost utility analysis.

Gupta N(1), Nayak R, Grisolano SW, Buckles DC, Tadros PN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology/Hepatology, University of Kansas Medical Center, 
Kansas City, KS 66160, USA. ngupta@kumc.edu

INTRODUCTION: The study goal was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
drug-eluting stent (DES) placement with consideration of gastrointestinal (GI) 
bleeding risk. DES reduce the need for future coronary revascularization, but 
require prolonged dual anti-platelet (DAT) therapy, which may increase the risk 
for GI bleeding. While DES have been found to be cost-effective in patients at 
average risk for GI bleeding, they may not be the most cost-effective strategy 
in higher risk patients.
METHODS: A Markov model was created to compare DES with bare metal stents (BMS). 
Patients were a hypothetical cohort of 60-year-old individuals with coronary 
artery stenosis that required nonemergent percutaneous coronary 
revascularization (PCI). The primary outcomes were the threshold incremental 
risks of GI bleeding from DAT based on willingness to pay (WTP) of $50,000, 
$100,000, and $150,000 per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: For a WTP of $100,000, the relative risk of GI bleeding from DAT could 
be as high as 10.8 (when compared to aspirin alone) before DES would no longer 
be cost-effective. In patients with two risk factors for GI bleeding, the 
threshold relative risk could be as low as 1.6.
CONCLUSION: In average-risk patients, the risk of GI bleeding from DAT can be 
substantial without affecting the cost-effectiveness of DES. However, DES are 
unlikely to be cost-effective in patients with two or more risk factors for GI 
bleeding.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-8183.2010.00530.x
PMID: 20236217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Crit Care. 2010;14(2):126. doi: 10.1186/cc8881. Epub 2010 Mar 1.

Patients with diabetes in the intensive care unit; not served by treatment, yet 
protected?

Siegelaar SE(1), Devries JH, Hoekstra JB.

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Centre, Department of Internal Medicine, Meibergdreef 9, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. s.e.siegelaar@amc.uva.nl

Comment on
    Crit Care. 2010;14(1):R12.

Diabetes is associated with severe complications and decreased life expectancy. 
However, in the previous issue of Critical Care, Vincent and colleagues report 
no difference in mortality between patients with insulin-treated diabetes and 
patients without diabetes in the intensive care unit (ICU), despite larger 
severity of illness in the diabetes group at admission. This study contributes 
to the growing evidence that diabetes in itself is not a risk factor for ICU 
mortality, although the mechanisms are not yet fully understood. On the other 
hand, patients with diabetes seem not to benefit from tight glycemic control 
during their ICU stay. Different treatment approaches may be needed for patients 
with diabetes and patients with stress hyperglycemia.

DOI: 10.1186/cc8881
PMCID: PMC2887115
PMID: 20236468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Am J Clin Nutr. 2010 May;91(5):1497S-1498S. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.2010.28701A.
Epub  2010 Mar 17.

National Conference on Childhood Obesity. Preface.

Wien M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Loma Linda University, Loma Linda, CA.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.2010.28701A
PMID: 20237135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Am J Epidemiol. 2010 Apr 15;171(8):917-23. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwq003. Epub
2010  Mar 17.

Increased mortality risk for workers with a compensated, permanent occupational 
disability of the upper or lower extremities: a 21-year follow-up study.

Lin SH(1), Lee HY, Chang YY, Jang Y, Chen PC, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, National Taiwan University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

This 1986-2006 study sought to determine whether specific causes led to 
increased mortality risks for Taiwanese workers with an approved compensation 
claim for permanent occupational disability (ACCPOD) of the upper or lower 
extremities. All cases of ACCPOD between 1986 and 2006 were collected from the 
database of compensation claims at the Bureau of Labor Insurance. Standardized 
mortality ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated for different 
causes of death among workers with an ACCPOD of the upper or lower extremities. 
A total of 800,047 person-years were accrued for 71,001 workers with a single 
type of disability. Standardized mortality ratios were significantly increased 
for all causes, including liver cirrhosis, injuries, and intentional self-harm. 
Standardized mortality ratios for workers with amputations of the lower 
extremities increased to 7.66 (95% confidence interval (CI): 5.36, 10.61), 2.40 
(95% CI: 1.44, 3.75), 2.07 (95% CI: 1.03, 3.70), and 5.09 (95% CI: 2.20, 10.03) 
for those with diabetes mellitus, cerebrovascular disease, liver cirrhosis, and 
chronic renal failure, respectively. The authors concluded that workers with 
occupational disabilities involving an upper or lower extremity should be 
assisted to prevent further injuries or intentional self-harm, whereas those 
with lower limb amputations should be provided care related to proactive control 
of diabetes mellitus and associated complications during rehabilitation.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwq003
PMID: 20237152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Clin Rehabil. 2010 May;24(5):471-8. doi: 10.1177/0269215509358944. Epub 2010
Mar  17.

Standardizing the intensity of upper limb treatment in rehabilitation medicine.

Wallace AC(1), Talelli P, Dileone M, Oliver R, Ward N, Cloud G, Greenwood R, Di 
Lazzaro V, Rothwell JC, Marsden JF.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Neurology, Sobell Department, London, UK. 
a.wallace@ion.ucl.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To describe a treatment protocol for the upper limb that standardizes 
intensity of therapy input regardless of the severity of presentation.
DESIGN: The protocol is described (Part 1) and feasibility and effect explored 
(Part 2).
SUBJECTS: Participants (n = 11) had a single ischaemic stroke in the middle 
cerebral artery territory more than one year previously, and had residual 
weakness of the hand with some extension present at the wrist and the ability to 
grasp.
INTERVENTIONS: Following two baseline assessments, participants attended therapy 
for 1 hour a day for 10 consecutive working days. Treatment consisted of a 
combination of strength and functional task training. Outcomes were measured 
immediately after training, at one month and three months.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Intensity was measured with Borg Rating of Perceived Exertion. 
Secondary outcome measures included Action Research Arm Test (ARAT), nine-hole 
peg test, and Goal Attainment Scale.
RESULTS: Borg scores indicated that the level of intensity was appropriate and 
similar across all participants despite individual differences in the severity 
of their initial presentation (median (interquartile range) = 14 (13-15)). The 
mean ARAT score significantly increased by 6.8 points (chi(2)(3) = 15.618, 
P<0.001), and was maintained at three-month follow-up (z = - 2.384, P = 0.016). 
The nine-hole peg test also showed a main effect of time and 88% of goals set 
were achieved.
CONCLUSIONS: The physiotherapy protocol standardized intensity of treatment by 
grading exercise and task-related practice according to the person's residual 
ability, rather than simply standardizing treatment times. It was feasible and 
well tolerated in this group.

DOI: 10.1177/0269215509358944
PMCID: PMC2994273
PMID: 20237174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Oncologist. 2010;15 Suppl 1:36-42. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-S1-36.

Ethical and value issues in insurance coverage for cancer treatment.

Brock DW(1).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts 02115, USA. 
dan_brock@hms.harvard.edu

Many new cancer drugs provide only limited benefits, but at very great cost, for 
example, $200,000-$300,000 per quality-adjusted life year produced. By most 
standards of value or cost-effectiveness, this does not represent good value. I 
first review several of the causes of this value failure, including monopoly 
patents, prohibitions on Medicare's negotiating on drug prices, health insurance 
protecting patients from costs, and financial incentives of physicians to use 
these drugs. Besides value or cost-effectiveness, the other principal aim in 
health care resource allocation should be equity among the population served. I 
examine several equity considerations-priority to the worse off, aggregation and 
special priority to life extension, and the rule of rescue-and argue that none 
justifies greater priority for cancer treatment on the grounds of equity. 
Finally, I conclude by noting two recent policy changes that are in the wrong 
direction for achieving value in cancer care, and suggesting some small steps 
that could take us in the right direction.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2010-S1-36
PMID: 20237216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. Arterioscler Thromb Vasc Biol. 2010 Apr;30(4):669-74. doi: 
10.1161/ATVBAHA.109.200766.

Indications for catheter-directed thrombolysis in the management of acute 
proximal deep venous thrombosis.

Patterson BO(1), Hinchliffe R, Loftus IM, Thompson MM, Holt PJ.

Author information:
(1)St. George's Vascular Institute, St. George's Hospital NHS Trust, Blackshaw 
Road, London SW17 OQT, United Kingdom.

Deep vein thromboses (DVTs) cause significant morbidity and mortality in the 
general population. Oral anticoagulation therapy may reduce thrombus propagation 
but does not cause clot lysis and therefore does not prevent postthrombotic 
syndrome (PTS). Catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) can be used to treat DVTs 
as an adjunct to medical therapy, but there is no consensus defining exact 
indications. Current evidence suggests that CDT can reduce clot burden and DVT 
recurrence and consequently prevents the formation of PTS compared with systemic 
anticoagulation. Appropriate indications include younger individuals with acute 
proximal thromboses, a long life expectancy, and relatively few comorbidities. 
Limb-threatening thromboses may also be treated with CDT, although the 
subsequent mortality remains high. A number of randomized controlled trials are 
currently under way comparing the longer-term outcomes of CDT compared with 
anticoagulation alone. Initial reports suggest that venous patency and valvular 
function are better maintained after CDT. The effectiveness of combined 
pharmacomechanical thrombectomy and the role of vena cava filters need to be 
investigated further before strong recommendations can be made. The reported 
short-term outcomes following catheter-based intervention for DVT are 
encouraging in selected patients. Further evidence is required to establish 
long-term benefits and cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1161/ATVBAHA.109.200766
PMID: 20237328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Ann Nucl Med. 2010 May;24(4):261-7. doi: 10.1007/s12149-010-0342-5. Epub
2010  Mar 18.

Evaluation of the risk of radiation exposure from new 18FDG PET/CT plans versus 
conventional X-ray plans in patients with pediatric cancers.

Murano T(1), Tateishi U, Iinuma T, Shimada N, Daisaki H, Terauchi T, Moriyama N, 
Inoue T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Screening, National Cancer Center, 5-1-1 Tsukiji, Chuo-ku, 
Tokyo, 104-0045, Japan. tamurano@ncc.go.jp

OBJECTIVE: Unnecessary radiological examination should be avoided, particularly 
for children, who are more vulnerable to radiation than adults. Replacement of 
X-ray examination with 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (18FDG) positron emission 
tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) is a potential option for reduction of 
radiation exposure, and thus improvement in the quality of life (QOL) of 
patients. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate new plans integrating 18FDG 
PET/CT versus current conventional imaging (CI) plans for patients with 
pediatric cancers. The effects of radiation exposure from the two kinds of plans 
were compared using shortening of the average life expectancy as an index, and 
the related findings and effects of radiation exposure are discussed.
METHODS: Effective radiation doses from CT scanning were calculated using the 
ImPACT CT Patient Dosimetry Calculator software. Radiation doses in different 
organs and tissues from radiopharmaceuticals were obtained from the 
International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP) publication 80. 
Shortening of average life expectancy was calculated using software in which the 
linear non-threshold model (LNT) by the ICRP was adopted.
RESULTS: In current CI plans, the mean effective dose was 168.8 mSv (range 
50.5-513.4 mSv) for males and 127 mSv (range 54-239.7 mSv) for females. The mean 
shortening of average life expectancy was 177 days (range 53.3-542 days) for 
males and 185 days (range 80.4-371 days) for females. In new plans, the mean 
effective dose was 64.1 mSv (range 54.1-84.5 mSv) for males and 68.2 mSv (range 
58.1-88.0 mSv) for females. The mean shortening of life expectancy was 67.6 days 
(range 57.1-89.2 days) for males and 102.5 days (range 86.8-132.6 days) for 
females.
CONCLUSIONS: New 18FDG PET/CT plans may relieve the patient's physical burden 
and contribute to improvement of the patient's QOL. These plans may also reduce 
medical costs because the number of examinations to be performed is reduced. 
Although deterministic effects are not observed in the CI plan, careful 
attention should be paid to other potential effects. Because the effective dose 
resulting from this plan is over 100 mSv, at which stochastic effects are known 
to occur, radiation-induced cancers may be expected.

DOI: 10.1007/s12149-010-0342-5
PMID: 20237874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Eur J Health Econ. 2010 Aug;11(4):419-26. doi: 10.1007/s10198-010-0228-4.
Epub  2010 Mar 18.

Modeling stroke management: a qualitative review of cost-effectiveness analyses.

Guilhaume C(1), Saragoussi D, Cochran J, François C, Toumi M.

Author information:
(1)Global Outcomes Research Division, H. Lundbeck A/S, 37-45 Quai du Président 
Roosevelt, 92445, Issy-les-Moulineaux Cedex, France.

OBJECTIVE: To review recent economic analyses and determine if means of 
improving methodology used in modeling stroke management may exist.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: The Medline database was searched for pharmacoeconomic 
models of treatments or interventions in acute, non-transitory ischemic stroke. 
Search terms were: stroke, cost, cost-effectiveness, cost analysis, stroke 
management, model, modeling, and economic. All English-language articles 
published from January 1997 to January 2008 were reviewed.
RESULTS: Ten Markov models and three decision analytical models were identified. 
All models had a societal perspective and all but one had lifetime horizons. 
They were all based on common patient states of disability, mortality and 
recurrence of stroke. Inputs used in the models were transparent and valid. 
Intracranial hemorrhage, cardiovascular events and data closely related to local 
settings were not systematically considered. One-way sensitivity analyses were 
the most common, but few parameters were tested and these varied between models. 
Consensus key drivers were therefore difficult to determine.
CONCLUSION: The overall structure of the models reviewed was sound. However, 
they should include more systematically cardiovascular events and intracranial 
hemorrhage, as well as local epidemiological data. Further multi-way sensitivity 
analyses would help to identify key cost drivers with greater precision and 
robustness.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-010-0228-4
PMID: 20238137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Popul Index. 1947 Apr;13(2):88-96.

CURRENT life tables.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20243669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Vital Stat Spec Rep. 1947 Apr 15;23(11):243-9.

United States abridged life tables, 1945.

GREVILLE TN.

PMID: 20249134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Vital Stat Spec Rep. 1947;23:263-78.

UNITED STATES life tables 1930-1939 (preliminary) for white or nonwhite by sex.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20256650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Vital Stat Spec Rep. 1947;23:279-95.

UNITED STATES abridged life tables 1930-1939 (preliminary) by geographic 
divisions, color, and sex.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20256651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Vital Stat Spec Rep. 1947;23:297-316.

UNITED STATES abridged life tables, 1939, urban and rural by regions, color, and 
sex.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20256652 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Trained Nurse Hosp Rev. 1947 Aug;119(2):102-5.

Reasons for life extension.

SCHWEISHEIMER W.

PMID: 20260295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Proc Annu Meet Cent Soc Clin Res U S. 1947;20:60.

The effect of choline, methionine, and low fat diet on the life expectancy of 
patients with cirrhosis of the liver.

WADE L.

PMID: 20272822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Gastroenterology. 1947 Feb;8(2):185-90.

Laennec's cirrhosis; the effect of therapy in increasing life expectancy.

KIMBALL S, CHAPPLE WA.

PMID: 20288007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Connect Tissue Res. 2010 Oct;51(5):388-96. doi: 10.3109/03008200903537097.

Mammalian arylsulfatase A functions as a novel component of the extracellular 
matrix.

Fujita K(1), Teramura N, Hattori S, Irie S, Mitsunaga-Nakatsubo K, Akimoto Y, 
Sakamoto N, Yamamoto T, Akasaka K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Life Sciences, Graduate School of Science, 
Hiroshima University, Higashihiroshima, Hiroshima, Japan.

Inherited deficiency for arylsulfatase (Ars) leads to lysosomal storage of 
sulfated compounds and to serious diseases such as growth retardation, heart 
failure, and demyelination in the central nervous system. Ars has been regarded 
as a lysosomal enzyme because of its hydrolytic activity on synthetic aromatic 
substrates and the lysosomal localization of its enzymatic activity. We 
previously demonstrated that a large portion of the mammalian arylsulfatase A 
(ArsA) protein exists on the cell surface of vascular endothelial cells, 
suggesting that ArsA plays a role in the components of the extracellular matrix. 
Here we show that ArsA functions as a substrate on which cells adhere and form 
protrusions. Coating culture plates with recombinant mouse ArsA (rmArsA) 
stimulates adhesion of human microvascular endothelial cells to the plate 
followed by the formation of cell protrusions as well as lamellipodia. rmArsA 
affects the architecture of the cytoskeleton, with a high density of actin 
filaments localized to peripheral regions of the cells and the extension of 
bundles of microtubules into the tips of cellular protrusions. rmArsA also 
affects the distribution pattern of the cell adhesion-associated proteins, 
integrin α2β1, and paxillin. rmArsA seems to modulate signaling of basic 
fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) stimulating cytoskeletal rearrangement. We also 
show that rmArsA tightly binds to sulfated polysaccharides. We suggest that 
mammalian ArsA plays a role as a novel component of the extracellular matrix. 
This viewpoint of Ars could be very useful for clarifying the mechanisms 
underpinning syndromes caused by the deficiency of the function of Ars genes.

DOI: 10.3109/03008200903537097
PMID: 20297902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2010 Jun;31(12):1296-309. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04304.x. Epub 2010 Mar 18.

Adalimumab sustains clinical remission and overall clinical benefit after 2 
years of therapy for Crohn's disease.

Panaccione R(1), Colombel JF, Sandborn WJ, Rutgeerts P, D'Haens GR, Robinson AM, 
Chao J, Mulani PM, Pollack PF.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, AB, Canada. rpanacci@ucalgary.ca

BACKGROUND: In the randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled CHARM trial, 
adalimumab was more effective than placebo in maintaining clinical remission for 
patients with moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease (CD) through 56 weeks.
AIM: To substantiate the long-term safety and clinical benefits of adalimumab 
through 2 years of therapy in CHARM and its open-label extension (ADHERE).
METHODS: Patients entering ADHERE on blinded therapy received adalimumab 40 mg 
every other week (eow). Patients who had already moved to open-label adalimumab 
eow or weekly in CHARM continued their regimens. Data were analysed by 
originally randomized treatment group at CHARM baseline (adalimumab 40 mg eow, 
adalimumab 40 mg weekly, or placebo), regardless of whether patients entered 
ADHERE or received open-label adalimumab (eow or weekly).
RESULTS: After up to 2 years of therapy, 37.6%, 41.9% and 49.8% of patients 
originally randomized to placebo, adalimumab eow and adalimumab weekly, 
respectively, were in clinical remission. All groups experienced sustained 
improvements on the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Questionnaire. Decreasing hazard 
rates for both all-cause and CD-related hospitalizations were observed over 
time. Over a 2-year period, the rates of serious adverse events and malignancies 
(33.3 and 1.1 events/100-patient-years respectively) were similar to those 
observed during the overall adalimumab CD clinical development programme.
CONCLUSIONS: Adalimumab demonstrated sustained maintenance of clinical 
remission, improvements in quality of life and reductions in hospitalization 
during long-term treatment for CD, with no new safety concerns identified.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2036.2010.04304.x
PMID: 20298496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2010 Oct;140(4):816-22, 822.e1-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2009.11.042. Epub 2010 Mar 17.

Fourteen years' experience with 501 subcoronary Ross procedures: surgical 
details and results.

Sievers HH(1), Stierle U, Charitos EI, Hanke T, Gorski A, Misfeld M, Bechtel M.

Author information:
(1)University of Lübeck, Department of Cardiac and Thoracic Vascular Surgery, 
Lübeck, Germany. sievers@medinf.mu-luebeck.de

OBJECTIVE: During the past decade the Ross procedure using the full root has 
become the predominant surgical technique. However, progressive autograft 
dilatation and eventual failure remain a concern. Here we report on the surgical 
techniques and results of the subcoronary technique over a 14-year period.
METHODS: A total of 501 patients (mean age, 44.9 ± 12.9 years; 117 female; 384 
male) were operated on from June 1994 to December 2007. The follow-up database, 
with a completeness of 98.2%, was closed on December 2008, comprising of 2931 
patient-years with a mean follow-up of 5.9 ± 3.6 years (range, 0.1-14.1 years).
RESULTS: Surgical details are presented. Early and late mortality were 0.4% (n = 
2) and 4% (n = 20), respectively, valve-related mortality was 1.2% (n = 6), 
whereas the overall survival did not differ from that of the normal population. 
Neurologic events occurred in 22 patients, major bleeding in 9, autograft 
endocarditis in 8, and homograft endocarditis in 10. Freedom from autograft and 
homograft reoperation was 91.9% at 10 years. For the majority of patients, 
hemodynamics was excellent and no root dilatation was observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Midterm results after the original subcoronary Ross procedure are 
excellent, including normal survival and low risk of valve-related morbidity. 
Longer-term results are necessary for continuous judgment of the subcoronary 
technique.

Copyright © 2010 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2009.11.042
PMID: 20299029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Urol. 2010 May;183(5):1798-802. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2010.01.002. Epub 2010
Mar  17.

Prostate cancer screening in men 75 years old or older: an assessment of 
self-reported health status and life expectancy.

Hoffman KE(1), Nguyen PL, Ng AK, D'Amico AV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas M.D. Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. khoffman1@mdanderson.org

Comment in
    J Urol. 2011 May;185(5):1982; author reply 1983.

PURPOSE: Opinions vary regarding the appropriate age at which to stop prostate 
specific antigen screening. Some groups recommend screening men with a greater 
than 10-year life expectancy while the United States Preventive Services Task 
Force recommends against screening men 75 years old or older. In this study we 
evaluated the influence of health status and life expectancy on prostate 
specific antigen screening in older men in the United States before the 2008 
United States Preventive Services Task Force guidelines.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study cohort comprised 718 men age 75 years or older 
without a history of prostate cancer who responded to the 2005 National Health 
Interview Survey, representing an estimated 4.47 million noninstitutionalized 
men in the United States. Life expectancy was estimated from age and 
self-reported health status.
RESULTS: Overall 19% of the men were 85 years old or older and 27% reported fair 
or poor health. In the previous 2 years 52% had a prostate specific antigen 
screening test. After adjustment for age, race, education and physician access, 
men with fair or poor health were less likely to receive prostate specific 
antigen screening than those with excellent or very good health (adjusted OR 
0.51, 95% CI 0.33-0.80, p = 0.003). Overall 42% of the men predicted to live 
less than 5 years and 65% of those predicted to live more than 10 years reported 
having recent prostate specific antigen screening.
CONCLUSIONS: Before the United States Preventive Services Task Force 
recommendation, health status and life expectancy were used to select older men 
for prostate specific antigen screening. However, many men expected to live less 
than 5 years were screened. A strict age cutoff of 75 years reduces over 
screening but also prohibits screening in healthy older men with a long life 
expectancy who may benefit from screening.

2010 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2010.01.002
PMID: 20299039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Urol. 2010 May;183(5):1803-7. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2010.01.016. Epub 2010
Mar  17.

Robotic radical prostatectomy for elderly patients: probability of achieving 
continence and potency 1 year after surgery.

Shikanov S(1), Desai V, Razmaria A, Zagaja GP, Shalhav AL.

Author information:
(1)Section of Urology, Department of Surgery, University of Chicago Medical 
Center, Chicago, Illinois, USA. sergeyshikanov@gmail.com

Comment in
    J Urol. 2010 May;183(5):1671-2.

PURPOSE: We assessed the probability of achieving continence and potency after 
robotic radical prostatectomy in elderly patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The cohort included 1,436 robotic radical prostatectomy 
cases performed at our institution between 2003 and 2008. Continence (pad-free) 
and potency (erection sufficient for intercourse) at baseline and 1 year after 
surgery were evaluated by the UCLA-PCI questionnaire. Point estimates of the 
predicted probabilities of continence and potency for age 65, 70 and 75 years 
were calculated from multivariate logistic regression models adjusting for age, 
nerve sparing status, baseline International Prostate Symptom Score and baseline 
Sexual Health Inventory for Men score. Patients who were impotent before surgery 
or those who received hormones or radiation within 1 year after surgery were 
censored.
RESULTS: Mean patient age was 60 years (range 38 to 85) with 25% older than 65 
years and 77 (5%) 70 years old or older. Age (OR 0.97, p = 0.002), baseline 
I-PSS (OR 0.98, p = 0.02) and Sexual Health Inventory for Men scores (OR 1.02, p 
= 0.005) were independently associated with being pad-free. Age (OR 0.92, p 
<0.0001), baseline Sexual Health Inventory for Men score (OR 1.1, p <0.0001) and 
bilateral nerve sparing (OR 2.92, p <0.0001) were independently associated with 
achieving potency. Predicted probabilities (95% CI) of postoperative 1-year 
continence at age 65, 70 and 75 years were 0.66 (0.63, 0.69), 0.63 (0.57, 0.68) 
and 0.59 (0.52, 0.66), respectively. The corresponding probabilities of 
postoperative 1-year potency after bilateral nerve sparing were 0.66 (0.62, 
0.71), 0.56 (0.49, 0.64) and 0.46 (0.36, 0.56).
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience there is an acceptable probability of achieving 
continence and potency after robotic radical prostatectomy in selected elderly 
patients.

2010 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2010.01.016
PMID: 20299041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. Clin Nutr. 2010 Oct;29(5):586-91. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2010.02.007. Epub 2010
Mar  17.

Determinants of hand grip strength, knee extension strength and functional 
status in cancer patients.

Norman K(1), Stobäus N, Smoliner C, Zocher D, Scheufele R, Valentini L, Lochs H, 
Pirlich M.

Author information:
(1)Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin Campus Mitte, Dept. of Gastroenterology, 
Germany. kristina.norman@charite.de

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Decreased functionality and muscle weakness are prominent 
features in cancer patients. We investigated determinants of muscle function 
assessed by hand grip and knee extension strength as well as functional status 
in cancer patients.
METHODS: 189 consecutively admitted cancer patients (age 60.8 ± 12.7 years, 96 
male) were recruited. Muscle function was assessed by hand grip and knee 
extension strength, and percentage of anticipated peak expiratory flow (%PEF). 
Functional status was determined by the EORTC questionnaire of quality of life. 
Nutritional status was assessed with Subjective Global Assessment (SGA). Age, 
gender, SGA, body mass index, clinical variables such as cancer location, 
presence of distant metastases, tumour burden according to TNM stage, UICC 
stage, number of drugs per day, number of comorbidities, type of treatment and 
depression were investigated as potential risk factors for muscle weakness and 
impaired functional status in a multiple regression analysis.
RESULTS: 80 patients (39 male) were classified moderately or severely 
malnourished. Malnutrition also emerged as an independent determinant for hand 
grip (estimated effect size 11%, p < 0.01), knee extension strength (estimated 
effect size 12%, p < 0.001), and peak expiratory flow (estimated effect size 
30%, p < 0.008) and functional status (estimated effect size 19.4%, p < 0.001) 
next to age and gender, which were the strongest predictors. Among the disease 
parameters, only amount of daily medication exhibited a significant influence on 
knee extension strength.
CONCLUSIONS: Malnutrition is a disease independent risk factor for reduced 
muscle strength and functional status in cancer patients. Treatment of 
malnutrition might therefore also restore muscle strength.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2010.02.007
PMID: 20299136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Soc Sci Med. 2010 May;70(10):1550-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.01.015.
Epub  2010 Feb 12.

Social disparities and cause-specific mortality during economic development.

Schooling CM(1), Lau EW, Tin KY, Leung GM.

Author information:
(1)Li Ka Shing Faculty of Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, School of 
Public Health, Pokfulam, Hong Kong.

Social patterning of disease is pervasive and persistent. Disease patterns 
change with economic development and the attendant epidemiological transition. 
It is becoming evident that social patterns of disease are epidemiologically 
stage specific. In a population with a recent history of rapid economic 
development we examined social patterns of all-cause and cause-specific 
mortality over time to elucidate how economic development impacts disparities in 
health. We used concentration indices to provide a summary measure of 
disparities by income in potential years of life lost (PYLL) for the Hong Kong 
population from 1976 to 2006. For all-cause mortality and for each of the 
specific causes considered the concentration curve in 2006 dominated the 1976 
concentration curve. The concentration index for all-cause PYLL was negligible 
in 1976, but increased over the period. PYLL attributable to injury and 
poisoning was fairly consistently associated with lower income, but PYLL 
attributable to cardiovascular diseases and cancer reversed from an association 
with higher income in 1976 to an association with lower income in 2006. Social 
disparities in health are not universal or homogeneous in origin. Attention 
should be focused on disease-specific causes of disparities, so that 
contextually specific prevention strategies can be implemented. This is of 
particular relevance to China and other emerging economies where there may be a 
window of opportunity to prevent disparities in cancer and cardiovascular 
diseases occurring.

Copyright (c) 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2010.01.015
PMID: 20299139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Microbiology (Reading). 2010 Jun;156(Pt 6):1738-1748. doi: 
10.1099/mic.0.039206-0. Epub 2010 Mar 18.

The high-adhesive properties of the FimH adhesin of Salmonella enterica serovar 
Enteritidis are determined by a single F118S substitution.

Grzymajło K(1), Kuźmińska-Bajor M(1), Jaworski J(1), Dobryszycki P(2), Ugorski 
M(3)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of 
Veterinary Medicine, University of Environmental and Life Sciences, C. Norwida 
31, 50-375 Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Division of Biochemistry, Institute of Organic Chemistry, Biochemistry and 
Biotechnology, Wrocław University of Technology, Wybrzeże Wyspiańskiego 27, 
50-370 Wrocław, Poland.
(3)Department of Glycobiology and Cell Interactions, Ludwik Hirszfeld Institute 
of Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish Academy of Sciences, R. Weigla 
12, 53-114 Wrocław, Poland.

The binding properties of low- and high-adhesive forms of FimH adhesins from 
Salmonella enterica serovars Enteritidis and Typhimurium (S. Enteritidis and S. 
Typhimurium) were studied using chimeric proteins containing an additional 
peptide that represents an N-terminal extension of the FimF protein. This 
modification, by taking advantage of a donor strand exchange mechanism, closes 
the hydrophobic groove in the fimbrial domain of the FimH adhesin. Such 
self-complemented adhesins (scFimH) did not form aggregates and were more stable 
(resistant to proteolytic cleavage) than native FimH. High-adhesive variants of 
scFimH proteins, with alanine at position 61 and serine at position 118, were 
obtained by site-directed mutagenesis of fimH genes from low-adhesive variants 
of S. Enteritidis and S. Typhimurium, with glycine at position 61 and 
phenylalanine at position 118. Direct kinetic analysis using surface plasmon 
resonance (SPR) and glycoproteins carrying high-mannose carbohydrate chains 
(RNase B, horseradish peroxidase and mannan-BSA) revealed the existence of high- 
and low-adhesive allelic variants, not only in S. Typhimurium but also in S. 
Enteritidis. Using two additional mutants of low-adhesive FimH protein from S. 
Enteritidis (Gly61Ala and Phe118Ser), SPR analysis pointed to Ser118 as the 
major determinant of the high-adhesive phenotype of type 1 fimbriae from S. 
Enteritidis. These studies demonstrated for the first time that the functional 
differences observed with whole fimbriated bacteria could be reproduced at the 
level of purified adhesin. They strongly suggest that the adhesive properties of 
type 1 fimbriae are determined only by structural differences in the FimH 
proteins and are not influenced by the fimbrial shaft on which the adhesin is 
located.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.039206-0
PMID: 20299404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Mol Biol Evol. 2010 Aug;27(8):1822-32. doi: 10.1093/molbev/msq079. Epub 2010
Mar  18.

Genome wide analyses reveal little evidence for adaptive evolution in many plant 
species.

Gossmann TI(1), Song BH, Windsor AJ, Mitchell-Olds T, Dixon CJ, Kapralov MV, 
Filatov DA, Eyre-Walker A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for the Study of Evolution, School of Life Sciences, University of 
Sussex, Brighton, United Kingdom.

The relative contribution of advantageous and neutral mutations to the 
evolutionary process is a central problem in evolutionary biology. Current 
estimates suggest that whereas Drosophila, mice, and bacteria have undergone 
extensive adaptive evolution, hominids show little or no evidence of adaptive 
evolution in protein-coding sequences. This may be a consequence of differences 
in effective population size. To study the matter further, we have investigated 
whether plants show evidence of adaptive evolution using an extension of the 
McDonald-Kreitman test that explicitly models slightly deleterious mutations by 
estimating the distribution of fitness effects of new mutations. We apply this 
method to data from nine pairs of species. Altogether more than 2,400 loci with 
