The role of endothelial function and its assessment in rheumatoid arthritis.

Khan F(1), Galarraga B, Belch JJ.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Cardiovascular Research, Ninewells Hospital and Medical 
School, Dundee, UK. f.khan@dundee.ac.uk

Patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a reduced life expectancy when 
compared with the general population, largely attributable to cardiovascular 
disease. Factors that contribute to this increased cardiovascular risk include 
traditional risk factors, which account for only part of the excess, along with 
manifestations of the disease itself. RA is characterized by inflammation, which 
also is a key component in the development of atherosclerosis. Inflammation 
leads to the activation of endothelial cells, which, through an increase in the 
expression of leukocyte adhesion molecules, promotes a pro-atherosclerotic 
environment. Endothelial dysfunction is an early preclinical marker of 
atherosclerosis, and is commonly found in patients with RA. Several methods are 
available for the assessment of endothelial function, such as flow-mediated 
dilatation and laser Doppler flowmetry combined with iontophoresis, each with 
its own advantages and limitations. Studies have shown that endothelial 
dysfunction in RA is closely associated with inflammation, and therapeutic 
reduction of inflammation leads to improvements in endothelial function. As 
such, assessments of endothelial function could prove to be useful tools in the 
identification and monitoring of cardiovascular risk in patients with RA. Given 
the increase in cardiovascular mortality associated with RA, effective 
management must involve prevention of cardiovascular risk, in addition to 
control of disease activity and inflammation.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2010.44
PMID: 20351705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. PLoS Med. 2010 Mar 23;7(3):e1000248. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000248.

The promise of prevention: the effects of four preventable risk factors on 
national life expectancy and life expectancy disparities by race and county in 
the United States.

Danaei G(1), Rimm EB, Oza S, Kulkarni SC, Murray CJ, Ezzati M.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.

Erratum in
    PLoS Med. 2011 Feb;8(2). doi: 
10.1371/annotation/a9616323-4cad-4b65-b792-e0975a536a52.

BACKGROUND: There has been substantial research on psychosocial and health care 
determinants of health disparities in the United States (US) but less on the 
role of modifiable risk factors. We estimated the effects of smoking, high blood 
pressure, elevated blood glucose, and adiposity on national life expectancy and 
on disparities in life expectancy and disease-specific mortality among eight 
subgroups of the US population (the "Eight Americas") defined on the basis of 
race and the location and socioeconomic characteristics of county of residence, 
in 2005.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We combined data from the National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey and the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System to 
estimate unbiased risk factor levels for the Eight Americas. We used data from 
the National Center for Health Statistics to estimate age-sex-disease-specific 
number of deaths in 2005. We used systematic reviews and meta-analyses of 
epidemiologic studies to obtain risk factor effect sizes for disease-specific 
mortality. We used epidemiologic methods for multiple risk factors to estimate 
the effects of current exposure to these risk factors on death rates, and life 
table methods to estimate effects on life expectancy. Asians had the lowest mean 
body mass index, fasting plasma glucose, and smoking; whites had the lowest 
systolic blood pressure (SBP). SBP was highest in blacks, especially in the 
rural South--5-7 mmHg higher than whites. The other three risk factors were 
highest in Western Native Americans, Southern low-income rural blacks, and/or 
low-income whites in Appalachia and the Mississippi Valley. Nationally, these 
four risk factors reduced life expectancy at birth in 2005 by an estimated 4.9 y 
in men and 4.1 y in women. Life expectancy effects were smallest in Asians (M, 
4.1 y; F, 3.6 y) and largest in Southern rural blacks (M, 6.7 y; F, 5.7 y). 
Standard deviation of life expectancies in the Eight Americas would decline by 
0.50 y (18%) in men and 0.45 y (21%) in women if these risks had been reduced to 
optimal levels. Disparities in the probabilities of dying from cardiovascular 
diseases and diabetes at different ages would decline by 69%-80%; the 
corresponding reduction for probabilities of dying from cancers would be 
29%-50%. Individually, smoking and high blood pressure had the largest effect on 
life expectancy disparities.
CONCLUSIONS: Disparities in smoking, blood pressure, blood glucose, and 
adiposity explain a significant proportion of disparities in mortality from 
cardiovascular diseases and cancers, and some of the life expectancy disparities 
in the US. Please see later in the article for the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1000248
PMCID: PMC2843596
PMID: 20351772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


881. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2010 Jul;67(13):2311-22. doi: 10.1007/s00018-010-0342-6.
Epub  2010 Mar 30.

Loss of CD24 expression promotes ductal branching in the murine mammary gland.

Cremers N(1), Deugnier MA, Sleeman J.

Author information:
(1)Medical Faculty Mannheim, University of Heidelberg, Ludolf-Krehl-Str. 13-17, 
68167, Mannheim, Germany.

CD24 is expressed on mammary stem cells and is used as a marker for their 
isolation, yet its function in the mammary gland still needs to be examined. 
Here we show that CD24 is expressed throughout the luminal epithelial cell 
layer, but only weakly in myoepithelial cells. During lactation, CD24 expression 
was suppressed within alveoli, but upregulated post-lactation, returning to a 
pre-pregnant spatial distribution. CD24-deficient mice exhibited an accelerated 
mammary gland ductal extension during puberty and an enhanced branching 
morphogenesis, resulting in increased furcation in the ductal structure. CD24-/- 
mammary epithelial cells were able to completely repopulate cleared mammary fat 
pads and to give rise to fully functional mammary glands. Together, these data 
suggest that while CD24 is expressed in mammary epithelium compartments thought 
to contain stem cells, CD24 is not a major regulator of mammary stem/progenitor 
cell function, but rather plays a role in governing branching morphogenesis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-010-0342-6
PMID: 20352469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Biomacromolecules. 2010 May 10;11(5):1281-5. doi: 10.1021/bm1000668.

Converse piezoelectric effect in cellulose I revealed by wide-angle X-ray 
diffraction.

Gindl W(1), Emsenhuber G, Plackner J, Konnerth J, Keckes J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Material Sciences and Process Engineering, BOKU-University of 
Natural Resources and Applied Life Science, A-1190 Vienna, Austria. 
wolfgang.gindl@boku.ac.at

The converse piezoelectric effect in cellulose I was studied by exposing thin 
pine wood slices to an electric field. Macroscopically, a strong extension of 
wood was observed in its transverse anatomical direction (grain angle 90 
degrees), perpendicular to the direction of the electric field. The same effect, 
albeit to a lesser extent, was observed for specimens with a 45 degree grain 
angle, whereas no measurable dimensional change was observed for specimens with 
grain oriented parallel to the testing direction (0 degree grain angle). The 
measured extension in the transverse direction was proportional to the intensity 
of the applied electric field and amounted to 0.0278% on average at a field 
intensity of 1 MV m(-1), which results in a piezoelectric charge constant of 278 
pm V(-1). At the nanoscale, changes in the cellulose crystallites due to the 
applied electric field were studied by means of wide-angle X-ray diffraction 
using the same specimens as in macroscopic experiments. Significant radial 
shifts of the scattering intensity peak attributed to the cellulose 200 
crystallographic plane toward smaller scattering angles were observed, while the 
electric field was applied. These peak shifts were attributed to an increase in 
the spacing of the 200 crystallographic planes of cellulose I. At an electric 
field intensity of 1 MV m(-1), a crystallite strain epsilon(perpendicular 200) 
normal to the 200 reflection plane of 0.2% was estimated from Bragg's law.

DOI: 10.1021/bm1000668
PMID: 20353195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 May;64(6):775-83. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02349.x.  Epub 2010 Mar 29.

Long-term cost-effectiveness of weight management in primary care.

Trueman P(1), Haynes SM, Felicity Lyons G, Louise McCombie E, McQuigg MS, Mongia 
S, Noble PA, Quinn MF, Ross HM, Thompson F, Broom JI, Laws RA, Reckless JP, 
Kumar S, Lean ME, Frost GS, Finer N, Haslam DW, Morrison D, Sloan B; 
Counterweight Project Team.

Author information:
(1)York Health Economics Consortium Ltd., University of York, UK.

Comment in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2010 May;64(6):828-9.

BACKGROUND: As obesity prevalence and health-care costs increase, Health Care 
providers must prevent and manage obesity cost-effectively.
METHODS: Using the 2006 NICE obesity health economic model, a primary care 
weight management programme (Counterweight) was analysed, evaluating costs and 
outcomes associated with weight gain for three obesity-related conditions (type 
2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, colon cancer). Sensitivity analyses examined 
different scenarios of weight loss and background (untreated) weight gain.
RESULTS: Mean weight changes in Counterweight attenders was -3 kg and -2.3 kg at 
12 and 24 months, both 4 kg below the expected 1 kg/year background weight gain. 
Counterweight delivery cost was pound59.83 per patient entered. Even assuming 
drop-outs/non-attenders at 12 months (55%) lost no weight and gained at the 
background rate, Counterweight was 'dominant' (cost-saving) under 'base-case 
scenario', where 12-month achieved weight loss was entirely regained over the 
next 2 years, returning to the expected background weight gain of 1 kg/year. 
Quality-adjusted Life-Year cost was pound2017 where background weight gain was 
limited to 0.5 kg/year, and pound2651 at 0.3 kg/year. Under a 'best-case 
scenario', where weights of 12-month-attenders were assumed thereafter to rise 
at the background rate, 4 kg below non-intervention trajectory (very close to 
the observed weight change), Counterweight remained 'dominant' with background 
weight gains 1 kg, 0.5 kg or 0.3 kg/year.
CONCLUSION: Weight management for obesity in primary care is highly 
cost-effective even considering only three clinical consequences. Reduced 
healthcare resources use could offset the total cost of providing the 
Counterweight Programme, as well as bringing multiple health and Quality of Life 
benefits.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02349.x
PMID: 20353431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Br J Gen Pract. 2010 Apr;60(573):243-4. doi: 10.3399/bjgp10X483887.

Non-cancer medications for patients with incurable cancer: time to stop and 
think?

Hall PS, Lord SR, El-Laboudi A, Seymour MT.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp10X483887
PMCID: PMC2845486
PMID: 20353669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Clin Nephrol. 2010 Apr;73(4):260-7. doi: 10.5414/cnp73260.

Referral patterns of primary care physicians for chronic kidney disease in 
general population and geriatric patients.

Navaneethan SD(1), Kandula P, Jeevanantham V, Nally JV Jr, Liebman SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology and Hypertension, Glickman Urological and Kidney 
Institute, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Cleveland, OH 44122, USA. 
navanes@ccf.org

BACKGROUND: Late referral of patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) by 
primary care physicians (PCPs) is associated with poor outcomes. We sought to 
assess factors influencing PCPs referral patterns in the general population and 
in geriatric patients, and compared their perceptions to the referral patterns.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 268 patients with Stage 3 CKD (early 
referral) and 280 with Stage 4 CKD (appropriate referral) seen in renal clinic 
and compared them to 268 randomly selected non-referred Stage 4 CKD patients 
from primary care physicians office records. We also surveyed 400 regional PCPs 
on factors influencing their referral for CKD.
RESULTS: Non-referred patients were significantly (p < 0.05) more likely to be 
over 65 years (OR: 3.5; 95% CI: 2.3 - 5.2), females (OR: 1.4; 95% CI: 1.0 - 2.0) 
and of non-white race (OR: 2.6; 95% CI: 1.5 - 4.5) after adjusting for relevant 
confounding variables. Charlson comorbidity index greater than 4 was associated 
with non-referral when the non-referral group was compared to the early referral 
group. Among geriatric patients, women and a higher comorbidity index were 
associated with non-referral. 25% of PCPs completed the survey and 62% PCPs were 
unfamiliar with K/DOQI referral guidelines. Age > 75 years, limited life 
expectancy, patient noncompliance or refusal to consider dialysis influenced 
PCPs decision to refer.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that elderly women, minorities and patients with 
multiple comorbidities are at risk for non-referral for CKD care. Educating PCPs 
on the appropriate referral of CKD patients, especially those at risk for late 
or non-referral to a nephrologist is warranted, as are trials assessing 
different educational strategies.

DOI: 10.5414/cnp73260
PMID: 20353733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Dis Model Mech. 2010 Jul-Aug;3(7-8):415-9. doi: 10.1242/dmm.001040. Epub
2010  Mar 30.

The role of insulin/IGF-like signaling in C. elegans longevity and aging.

Kaletsky R(1), Murphy CT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative 
Genomics, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ 08544, USA.

Aging is characterized by general physiological decline over time. A hallmark of 
human senescence is the onset of various age-related afflictions including 
neurodegeneration, cardiovascular disease and cancer. Although environmental and 
stochastic factors undoubtedly contribute to the increased incidence of disease 
with age, recent studies suggest that intrinsic genetic determinants govern both 
life span and overall health. Current aging research aims at achieving the 
'longevity dividend', in which life span extension in humans is accomplished 
with a concomitant increase in the quality of life (Olshansky et al., 2007). 
Significant progress has been made using model organisms, especially the 
nematode worm Caenorhabditis elegans, to delineate the genetic and biochemical 
pathways involved in aging to identify strategies for therapeutic intervention 
in humans. In this review, we discuss how C. elegans has contributed to our 
understanding of insulin signaling and aging.

DOI: 10.1242/dmm.001040
PMID: 20354111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Med Decis Making. 2011 Jan-Feb;31(1):35-42. doi: 10.1177/0272989X10364849.
Epub  2010 Mar 30.

Treatment evolution and new standards of care: implications for 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Shechter SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Sauder School of Business, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada. steven.shechter@sauder.ubc.ca

BACKGROUND: Traditional approaches to cost-effectiveness analysis have not 
considered the downstream possibility of a new standard of care coming out of 
the research and development pipeline. However, the treatment landscape for 
patients may change significantly over the course of their lifetimes.
OBJECTIVE: To present a Markov modeling framework that incorporates the 
possibility of treatment evolution into the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) that compares treatments available at the present time.
DESIGN: . Markov model evaluated by matrix algebra. Measurements. The author 
evaluates the difference between the new and traditional ICER calculations for 
patients with chronic diseases facing a lifetime of treatment.
RESULTS: The bias of the traditional ICER calculation may be substantial, with 
further testing revealing that it may be either positive or negative depending 
on the model parameters. The author also performs probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses with respect to the possible timing of a new treatment discovery and 
notes the increase in the magnitude of the bias when the new treatment is likely 
to appear sooner rather than later. Limitations. The modeling framework is 
intended as a proof of concept and therefore makes simplifying assumptions such 
as time stationarity of model parameters and consideration of a single new drug 
discovery.
CONCLUSIONS: For diseases with a more active research and development pipeline, 
the possibility of a new treatment paradigm may be at least as important to 
consider in sensitivity analysis as other parameters that are often considered.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X10364849
PMID: 20354228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2010 Apr 15;35(8):848-57. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181d1049f.

Early rehabilitation targeting cognition, behavior, and motor function after 
lumbar fusion: a randomized controlled trial.

Abbott AD(1), Tyni-Lenné R, Hedlund R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden. allan.abbott@karolinska.se

STUDY DESIGN: Open label randomized controlled trial with 3-, 6-, 12-month, and 
2- to 3-year follow-up.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effectiveness of a psychomotor therapy focusing on 
cognition, behavior, and motor relearning compared with exercise therapy applied 
during the first 3 months after lumbar fusion.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Postoperative management after lumbar fusion 
commonly focuses on analgesic pain control and activities of daily living. After 
3 months, exercise therapy is often implemented. No randomized controlled trial 
has investigated early rehabilitation techniques conducted during the first 3 
months after surgery.
METHODS: The study recruited 107 patients, aged 18 to 65 years, selected for 
lumbar fusion because of 12 months of symptomatic spinal stenosis, spondylosis, 
degenerative/isthmic spondylolisthesis, or degenerative disc disease. The 
exercise therapy group received a home program focusing on pain contingent 
training of back, abdominal, and leg muscle functional strength and endurance, 
stretching, and cardiovascular fitness. The psychomotor therapy group received a 
home program and 3 outpatient sessions focusing on modifying maladaptive pain 
cognitions, behaviors, and motor control.Rated questionnaires investigating 
functional disability, pain, health-related quality of life, functional 
self-efficacy, outcome expectancy, fear of movement/(re)injury, and coping were 
assessed at 3, 6, 12 months, and 2 to 3 years after surgery.
RESULTS: Follow-up rates were 93% at 12 months and 81% at 2 to 3 years after 
surgery. Psychomotor therapy improved functional disability, self-efficacy, 
outcome expectancy, and fear of movement/(re)injury significantly more than 
exercise therapy at respective follow-up occasions. Similar results occurred for 
pain coping but group differences were nonsignificant at 2 to 3 years follow-up. 
Potentially clinical relevant higher reoperation rates occurred after 
psychomotor therapy but rates were within normal ranges.
CONCLUSION: The study shows that postoperative rehabilitation can be safely 
implemented during the first 3 months after lumbar fusion and should include 
measures to modify psychological as well as motor functions.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181d1049f
PMID: 20354468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2010 Apr 15;35(8):E285-9. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181c88165.

Analysis of segmental cervical spine vertebral motion after prodisc-C cervical 
disc replacement.

Park JJ(1), Quirno M, Cunningham MR, Schwarzkopf R, Bendo JA, Spivak JM, 
Goldstein JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases, 301 E. 
17th Street, New York, NY 10003, USA. justin.park@nyumc.org

STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective study of patients enrolled in a prospective 
randomized Food and Drug Administration trial with single level cervical disc 
replacement (CDR) with the ProDisc-C (Synthes, Paoli, PA).
OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the segmental range of motion (ROM) in the cervical spine 
pre- and postoperative after CDR.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND INFORMATION: Each cervical level is believed to have its 
own biomechanical characteristics, ultimately leading to different sagittal and 
lateral ROM. Our understanding of the factors that influence motion after CDR 
continues to change and expand.
METHODS: One hundred sixty-four patients with single level ProDisc-C 
arthroplasty were evaluated radiographically using Medical Metrics (QMATM, 
Medical Metrics, Inc., Houston, TX). Pre- and postoperative disc height and ROM 
were measured from standing lateral and flexion-extension radiographs. Of these 
164 patients, 44 had a CDR at C6/C7, 96 at C5/C6, 18 at C4/C5, and 6 at C3/C4. 
The mean follow-up was of 24 months. Statistical analysis evaluated the 
difference in mean ROM between the groups.
RESULTS: Before surgery, C4/C5 had more sagittal ROM compared with C3/C4, C5/C6, 
and C6/C7 (P < 0.001.) Before surgery, C4/C5 also had more lateral ROM compared 
with C3/C4, C5/C6, and C6/C7 (P = 0.015). After surgery, there were no 
significant differences in sagittal and lateral ROM between C3/C4, C4/C5, C5/C6, 
and C6/C7. The delta (difference between pre- and postoperative) proved that the 
C4/C5 CDR actually lost sagittal ROM (-2.5 degrees ) compared with the other 
levels, which gained sagittal ROM, C3/C4 (0.9 degrees ), C5/C6 (1.8 degrees ), 
and C6/C7 (1.6 degrees ); P = 0.037. There was no significant difference in the 
delta lateral ROM between the segments: C3/C4, C4/C5, C5/C6, and C6/C7.
CONCLUSION: CDR approximates the different segmental sagittal and lateral ROM. 
Although C4/C5 had negative delta ROM in the sagittal and lateral planes, it 
provided a satisfactory final ROM. Long-term clinical outcome studies are needed 
to properly evaluate if these differences could ultimately affect the patients 
everyday life.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3181c88165
PMID: 20354472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2010 
May;53(5):498-503. doi: 10.1007/s00103-010-1044-9.

[Theories on aging and health: what do aging and old age mean and what 
constitutes a good life in old age?].

[Article in German]

Wurm S(1), Wiest M, Tesch-Römer C.

Author information:
(1)Deutsches Zentrum für Altersfragen (DZA), Manfred-von-Richthofen Strasse 2, 
12101, Berlin, Deutschland. susanne.wurm@dza.de

The present paper starts by introducing different perspectives of the aging 
process and includes biological, psychological, and sociological theories in its 
scope. The article addresses the issue of when "old age" begins and why a 
distinction is made between the third and fourth age. With increasing age, it 
becomes more and more difficult to differentiate between health-related losses 
due to illnesses or to aging. However, this can be important with respect to 
health behavior and health care. Having the best possible health in old age is 
an important factor for a good life in old age. Over their whole lives, from 
childhood to old age, people can actively contribute to their health in old age. 
But health is not the sole criterion for a good life in old age. Having 
interests and aims are just as important as being integrated in a social 
network. In old age, people often differ greatly and this is why there is such 
variety in what people consider to constitute a good life for themselves in old 
age.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-010-1044-9
PMID: 20354670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Vet Res Commun. 2010 Apr;34(4):307-14. doi: 10.1007/s11259-010-9350-0. Epub
2010  Mar 31.

Evaluation of aging on muscle blood flow in conscious healthy dogs by duplex 
Doppler ultrasonography.

Nogueira RB(1), Muzzi RA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Veterinaria, Universidade Federal de Lavras, 
Lavras-MG, Brazil. nogueirarb@uol.com.br

According to a study conducted on a population of 9,248 subjects, cardiac 
diseases are the second most prevalent cause of death in the dog. During the 
last decades, a common scenario has been the increase on life expectancy of 
dogs. The exact relationship between the negative modifications of 
cardiovascular function and the development of specific cardiovascular diseases 
is difficult to ascertain, and also, the effect of age per se on vascular 
impedance is important. It may result in limited cardiovascular reserve under 
conditions of increase demand in senescent animals. To evaluate the effect of 
age on the peripheral vasculature specifically, the objective of this study was 
to compare parameters of the regional blood flow as well as compliance and 
resistance indexes in the femoral arterial system of younger and older conscious 
healthy dogs by duplex Doppler ultrasonography. The data were collected from 16 
mixed-breed dogs divided into two groups: young and old healthy dogs. In all 
dogs Doppler spectra blood flow patterns of the femoral artery were triphasic. 
Significant differences were not found between the parameters measured for young 
and old groups. Despite this, the average value of femoral flow volume in the 
older group was approximately 50% lower than the younger group. This finding 
could play an important role in limiting exercise response with age. In order to 
validate these speculations, further studies should be performed in aged dogs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11259-010-9350-0
PMID: 20354784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 Jun;43(3):177-9. doi: 10.1007/s00391-010-0101-1.
Epub  2010 Apr 1.

[Importance of molecular diagnostics in Alzheimer dementia. A case report].

[Article in German]

Honneth J(1), Nehen HG, Haseke J.

Author information:
(1)Contilia GmbH, Geriatrie-Zentrum Haus Berge, Elisabeth-Krankenhaus Essen 
GmbH, Essen, Deutschland. j.honneth@contilia.de

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent form of dementia worldwide. The 
increasing incidence of AD is due to the dramatic rise in life expectancy. 
Generally, AD shows a multifactorial etiology and manifests itself only at an 
older age. However, a small percentage of cases have a monogenic cause, are 
inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, and begin much earlier. In these 
cases, molecular analysis and genetic consultation may make sense.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-010-0101-1
PMID: 20354860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. J Sci Food Agric. 2010 Jan 15;90(1):106-11. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.3790.

Expression of the 1Ax1 transgene in an elite Chinese wheat variety and its 
effect on functional properties.

Wang Y(1), Li Y, Zhang L, Gao X, Miao Y, Wang C, Yang G, Shewry PR, He G.

Author information:
(1)China-UK HUST-RRes Genetic Engineering and Genomics Joint Laboratory, Chinese 
MoST International Cooperation Base of Science and Technology (Genetic 
Engineering), Chinese MoE Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics, College of 
Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 
Wuhan 430074, China.

BACKGROUND: The transfer of transgenes from 'model' wheat genotypes into elite 
wheat cultivars using conventional plant breeding is an alternative strategy for 
improving the dough quality of wheat. Thus a cross was made between a popular 
Chinese elite wheat cultivar of the Yangzi River down-central area that 
expresses high-molecular-weight glutenin subunit (HMW-GS): 1Bx7 + 1By8 plus 1Dx2 
+ 1Dy12, and a model transgenic wheat line B102-1-2 which over-expresses HMW-GS 
1Ax1 in an L88-31 genetic background that includes HMW-GS 1Bx17 + By18.
RESULTS: F(1) to F(6) generations of crosses between B102-1-2 (paternal) and 
Emai (maternal) were analysed for their HMW-GS compositions, allowing the 
selection of pure F(6) lines over-expressing HMS-GS 1Ax1 in the presence of the 
endogenous HMW-GS: 1Bx7 + 1By8 with 1Dx2 + 1Dy12, and 1Bx17 + 1By18 with 1Dx2 + 
1Dy12. Analysis of the F(6) lines showed changes in the extensograph parameters, 
with increases in peak area, resistance to extension, and extensibility and peak 
resistance to extension, similar to those observed in the transgenic paternal 
line B102-1-2.
CONCLUSION: This work showed that the expression levels of the 1Ax1 transgene 
and the effects on dough properties were similar in the transgenic parental line 
B102-1-2 and the F(6) progeny generated from a cross with an elite Chinese 
cultivar Emai. The feasibility of using transgenic lines expressing HMW-GS 
subunits in conventional breeding programmes was demonstrated.

Copyright (c) 2009 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.3790
PMID: 20355019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Natl Bur Econ Res Bull Aging Health. 2009;(4):3-4.

Is a poorly functioning health care system to blame for low life expectancy in 
the U.S.?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 20355277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Demography. 2010 Feb;47(1):67-78. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0083.

Facing up to uncertain life expectancy: the longevity fan charts.

Dowd K(1), Blake D, Cairns AJ.

Author information:
(1)Pensions Institute, Cass Business School, City University, 106 Bunhill Row, 
London EClY 8TZ, United Kingdom. Kevin.Dowd@hotmail.co.uk

This article uses longevity fan charts to represent the uncertainty in 
projections of future life expectancy. These fan charts are based on a mortality 
model calibrated on mortality data for English and Welsh males. The fan charts 
indicate strong upward sloping trends in future life expectancy. Their widths 
indicate the extent of uncertainty in these projections, and this uncertainty 
increases as the forecast horizon lengthens. Allowing for uncertainty in the 
parameter values of the model adds further to uncertainty in life expectancy 
projections. The article also illustrates how longevity fan charts can be used 
to stress-test longevity outcomes.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0083
PMCID: PMC3000008
PMID: 20355684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Demography. 2010 Feb;47(1):79-96. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0085.

Obesity and excess mortality among the elderly in the United States and Mexico.

Monteverde M(1), Noronha K, Palloni A, Novak B.

Author information:
(1)CONICET (National Council of Scientific and Technical Research), Argentina. 
montemale@yahoo.com

Increasing levels of obesity could compromise future gains in life expectancy in 
low- and high-income countries. Although excess mortality associated with 
obesity and, more generally, higher levels of body mass index (BAI) have been 
investigated in the United States, there is little research about the impact of 
obesity on mortality in Latin American countries, where very the rapid rate of 
growth of prevalence of obesity and overweight occur jointly with poor 
socioeconomic conditions. The aim of this article is to assess the magnitude of 
excess mortality due to obesity and overweight in Mexico and the United States. 
For this purpose, we take advantage of two comparable data sets: the Health and 
Retirement Study 2000 and 2004 for the United States, and the Mexican Health and 
Aging Study 2001 and 2003 for Mexico. We find higher excess mortality risks 
among obese and overweight individuals aged 60 and older in Mexico than in the 
United States. Yet, when analyzing excess mortality among different 
socioeconomic strata, we observe greater gaps by education in the United States 
than in Mexico. We also find that although the probability of experiencing 
obesity-related chronic diseases among individuals with high BMI is larger for 
the U.S. elderly, the relative risk of dying conditional on experiencing these 
diseases is higher in Mexico.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0085
PMCID: PMC3000005
PMID: 20355685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Demography. 2010 Feb;47(1):97-124. doi: 10.1353/dem.0.0087.

Multivariate analysis of parity progression-based measures of the total 
fertility rate and its components.

Retherford R(1), Ogawa N, Matsukura R, Eini-Zinab H.

Author information:
(1)Population and Health Studies, East-West Center, 1601 East-West Road, 
Honolulu, HI 96848, USA. retherfr@eastwestcenter.org

This article describes a methodology for applying a discrete-time survival 
model-the complementary log-log model-to estimate effects of socioeconomic 
variables on (1) the total fertility rate and its components and (2) trends in 
the total fertility rate and its components. For the methodology to be 
applicable, the total fertility rate (TFR) must be calculated from parity 
progression ratios (PPRs). The components of the TFR are PPRs, the total marital 
fertility rate (TMFR), and the TFR itself as measures of the quantum of 
fertility, and mean and median ages at first marriage and mean and median closed 
birth intervals by birth order as measures of the tempo or timing of fertility. 
The focus is on effects of predictor variables on these measures rather than on 
coefficients, which are often difficult to interpret in the complex models that 
are considered. The methodology is applicable to both period and cohort data. It 
is illustrated by application to data from the 1993, 1998, and 2003 Demographic 
and Health Surveys (DHS) in the Philippines.

DOI: 10.1353/dem.0.0087
PMCID: PMC3000016
PMID: 20355686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Health Technol Assess. 2010 Mar;14(19):1-204. doi: 10.3310/hta14190.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of topotecan for small cell 
lung cancer: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Loveman E(1), Jones J, Hartwell D, Bird A, Harris P, Welch K, Clegg A.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre, University of Southampton 
Science Park, Southampton, UK. hta@hta.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
topotecan as second-line treatment for small cell lung cancer (SCLC).
DATA SOURCES: Bibliographic databases were searched from 1990 to February 2009, 
including the Cochrane library, MEDLINE (Ovid), EMBASE (Ovid), PREMEDLINE 
In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations. Bibliographies of related papers were 
assessed and experts were contacted to identify additional references and the 
manufacturer's submission to NICE was also searched.
REVIEW METHODS: Two reviewers independently screened titles and abstracts for 
eligibility. Inclusion criteria were applied to the full text of retrieved 
papers using a standard form. For the clinical effectiveness review, the studies 
were randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which included adult participants with 
relapsed SCLC who responded to first-line treatment and for whom re-treatment 
with first-line therapy was inappropriate. The treatment was topotecan (oral or 
intravenous, i.v.) compared with one another, best supportive care (BSC) or 
other chemotherapy regimens. Outcomes included measures of response or disease 
progression and measures of survival. For the cost-effectiveness review studies 
were eligible for inclusion if they reported cost-effectiveness, cost-utility, 
cost-benefit or cost-consequence analyses. Data extraction and quality 
assessment of included studies was undertaken by one reviewer and checked by a 
second. Studies were synthesised through a narrative review with full tabulation 
of results. An independent economic model estimated the cost-effectiveness of 
topotecan (oral or i.v.) compared with BSC. The model used survival analysis 
methods to derive estimates of mean survival for patients treated with topotecan 
or receiving BSC alone. These were combined with quality of life (QoL) weights 
to derive estimates of mean quality-adjusted life expectancy for patients 
receiving BSC alone or topotecan plus BSC. Categories of costs included in the 
model included drug use, chemotherapy administration and on-treatment 
monitoring, management of adverse events, monitoring for disease progression and 
palliative care.
RESULTS: A total of 434 references were identified of which five were included 
in the clinical effectiveness review. In these trials topotecan was compared 
with BSC, CAV [cyclophosphamide, Adriamycin (doxorubicin) and vincristine] or 
amrubicin, or oral topotecan was compared with i.v. topotecan. No economic 
evaluations were identified. There were no statistically significant differences 
between groups when i.v. topotecan was compared with either CAV or oral 
topotecan for overall response rate (ORR). Response rate was significantly 
better in participants receiving i.v. amrubicin than in those receiving a low 
dose of i.v. topotecan (38% versus 13%, respectively, p = 0.039). There was a 
statistically significant benefit in favour of oral topotecan compared with BSC 
(HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.43 to 0.87, p = 0.01). Drug acquisition costs for four cycles 
of treatment were estimated at 2550 pounds for oral topotecan and 5979 pounds 
for i.v. topotecan. Non-drug treatment costs accounted for an additional 1097 
pounds for oral topotecan and 4289 pounds for i.v. topotecan. Total costs for 
the modelled time horizon of 5 years were 4854 pounds for BSC, 11,048 pounds for 
oral topotecan and between 16,914 pounds and 17,369 pounds for i.v. topotecan 
(depending on assumptions regarding time progression). Life expectancy was 
0.4735, 0.7984 and 0.7784 years for BSC, oral topotecan and i.v. topotecan 
respectively. Total quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were 0.2247 and 0.4077, 
for BSC and oral topotecan respectively, resulting in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 33,851 pounds per QALY gained. Total QALYs 
for i.v. topotecan were between 0.3875 and 0.4157 (depending on assumptions 
regarding time progression) resulting in an ICER between 74,074 pounds and 
65,507 pounds per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Topotecan appeared to be better than BSC alone in terms of improved 
survival, and was as effective as CAV and less favourable than i.v. amrubicin in 
terms of response. Oral topotecan and i.v. topotecan were similar in efficacy. 
Topotecan offers additional benefit over BSC, but at increased cost. ICERs for 
i.v. topotecan, compared with BSC, were high and suggest that it is unlikely to 
be a cost-effective option. The ICER for oral topotecan is at the upper extreme 
of the range conventionally regarded as cost-effective from an NHS 
decision-making perspective. Further research into the QoL of patients with 
relapsed SCLC could identify the impacts of disease progression and treatment 
response.

DOI: 10.3310/hta14190
PMID: 20356561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Lancet. 2010 Apr 17;375(9723):1365-74. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)62162-0.
Epub  2010 Mar 29.

Age at initiation and frequency of screening to detect type 2 diabetes: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Kahn R(1), Alperin P, Eddy D, Borch-Johnsen K, Buse J, Feigelman J, Gregg E, 
Holman RR, Kirkman MS, Stern M, Tuomilehto J, Wareham NJ.

Author information:
(1)American Diabetes Association, Alexandria, VA, USA. rak6200@gmail.com

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2010 Apr 17;375(9723):1346.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2010 Apr 17;375(9723):1324-6.
    Lancet. 2010 Aug 28;376(9742):683-4.

BACKGROUND: No clinical trials have assessed the effects or cost-effectiveness 
of sequential screening strategies to detect new cases of type 2 diabetes. We 
used a mathematical model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of several 
screening strategies.
METHODS: We used person-specific data from a representative sample of the US 
population to create a simulated population of 325,000 people aged 30 years 
without diabetes. We used the Archimedes model to compare eight simulated 
screening strategies for type 2 diabetes with a no-screening control strategy. 
Strategies differed in terms of age at initiation and frequency of screening. 
Once diagnosed, diabetes treatment was simulated in a standard manner. We 
calculated the effects of each strategy on the incidence of type 2 diabetes, 
myocardial infarction, stroke, and microvascular complications in addition to 
quality of life, costs, and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
FINDINGS: Compared with no screening, all simulated screening strategies reduced 
the incidence of myocardial infarction (3-9 events prevented per 1000 people 
screened) and diabetes-related microvascular complications (3-9 events prevented 
per 1000 people), and increased the number of QALYs (93-194 undiscounted QALYs) 
added over 50 years. Most strategies prevented a significant number of simulated 
deaths (2-5 events per 1000 people). There was little or no effect of screening 
on incidence of stroke (0-1 event prevented per 1000 people). Five screening 
strategies had costs per QALY of about US$10,500 or less, whereas costs were 
much higher for screening started at 45 years of age and repeated every year 
($15,509), screening started at 60 years of age and repeated every 3 years 
($25,738), or a maximum screening strategy (screening started at 30 years of age 
and repeated every 6 months; $40,778). Several strategies differed substantially 
in the number of QALYs gained. Costs per QALY were sensitive to the disutility 
assigned to the state of having diabetes diagnosed with or without symptoms.
INTERPRETATION: In the US population, screening for type 2 diabetes is cost 
effective when started between the ages of 30 years and 45 years, with screening 
repeated every 3-5 years.
FUNDING: Novo Nordisk, Bayer HealthCare, [corrected] and Pfizer.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(09)62162-0
PMID: 20356621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2010 Oct;76(1):71-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.12.003. Epub 2010 Mar 30.

Impact of an all-oral capecitabine and vinorelbine combination regimen on 
functional status of elderly patients with advanced solid tumours: A multicentre 
pilot study of the French geriatric oncology group (GERICO).

Rousseau F(1), Retornaz F, Joly F, Esterni B, Abadie-Lacourtoisie S, Fargeot P, 
Luporsi E, Servent V, Laguerre B, Brain E, Geneve J; Programme d’Action 
Concertée GERIatrie onCOlogie (PAC GERICO).

Author information:
(1)Pilot Unit of Research and Coordination in Geriatric Oncology, Department of 
Medicine, Institut PAOLI CALMETTES, 232 Bd Sainte Marguerite,13273 Marseille 
Cedex 9, France. rousseauf@marseille.fnclcc.fr

BACKGROUND: Elderly metastatic cancer patients typically have short life 
expectancy and frequently suboptimal treatment. Goals of therapy should include 
preservation of functional status as well as clinical response. For elderly 
patients, oral chemotherapy could be a valuable strategy, avoiding the 
constraints and risks of intravenous drugs.
METHODS: This study assessed effect of an all-oral combination of capecitabine 
and vinorelbine on functional status (measured by basic Activities of Daily 
Living [ADL]), toxicity, efficacy and compliance in patients ≥70 years with 
advanced breast, prostate or lung cancer.
RESULTS: Eighty patients were enrolled. After three cycles, 81.8% of patients 
had stabilised or improved ADL, and 8.6% and 42.9% had a response or stabilised 
disease. Compliance was excellent (68.8%). The most common grade 3-4 toxicities 
were haematological (17.9%) and gastrointestinal (7.7%).
CONCLUSION: In elderly cancer patients, an all-oral combination of capecitabine 
and vinorelbine maintains functional status, is well tolerated, and provides 
good disease control.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2009.12.003
PMID: 20356760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Heart Lung Circ. 2010 May-Jun;19(5-6):273-81. doi:
10.1016/j.hlc.2010.02.019.  Epub 2010 Mar 30.

Rheumatic heart disease in indigenous populations.

White H(1), Walsh W, Brown A, Riddell T, Tonkin A, Jeremy R, Brieger D, Zeitz C, 
Kritharides L.

Author information:
(1)Green Lane Cardiovascular Service, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New 
Zealand. HarveyW@adhb.govt.nz

Rates of acute rheumatic fever and chronic rheumatic heart disease in Aboriginal 
people, Torres Strait Islanders and Māori continue to be unacceptably high. The 
impact of rheumatic heart disease is inequitable on these populations as 
compared with other Australians and New Zealanders. The associated cardiac 
morbidity, including the development of rheumatic valve disease, and 
cardiomyopathy, with possible sequelae of heart failure, development of atrial 
fibrillation, systemic embolism, transient ischaemic attacks, strokes, 
endocarditis, the need for interventions including cardiac surgery, and impaired 
quality of life, and shortened life expectancy, has major implications for the 
individual. The adverse health and social effects may significantly limit 
education and employment opportunities and increase dependency on welfare. 
Additionally there may be major adverse impacts on family and community life. 
The costs in financial terms and missed opportunities, including wasted young 
lives, are substantial. Prevention of acute rheumatic fever is dependent on the 
timely diagnosis and treatment of sore throats and skin infections in high-risk 
groups. Both Australia and New Zealand have registries for acute rheumatic fever 
but paradoxically neither includes all cases of chronic rheumatic heart disease 
many of whom would benefit from close surveillance and follow-up. In New Zealand 
and some Australian States there are programs to give secondary prophylaxis with 
penicillin, but these are not universal. Surgical outcomes for patients with 
rheumatic valvular disease are better for valve repair than for valve 
replacement. Special attention to the selection of the appropriate valve surgery 
and valve choice is required in pregnant women. It may be necessary to have 
designated surgical units managing Indigenous patients to ensure high rates of 
surgical repair rather than valve replacement. Surgical guidelines may be 
helpful. Long-term follow-up of the outcomes of surgery in Indigenous patients 
with rheumatic heart disease is required. Underpinning these strategies is the 
need to improve poverty, housing, education and employment. Cultural empathy 
with mutual trust and respect is essential. Involvement of Indigenous people in 
decision making, design, and implementation of primary and secondary prevention 
programs, is mandatory to reduce the unacceptably high rates of rheumatic heart 
disease.

Copyright 2010 Australasian Society of Cardiac and Thoracic Surgeons and the 
Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2010.02.019
PMID: 20356783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Br J Psychiatry. 2010 Apr;196(4):302-9. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.074211.

Burden of chronic physical conditions and mental disorders in primary care.

Fernández A(1), Saameño JA, Pinto-Meza A, Luciano JV, Autonell J, Palao D, 
Salvador-Carulla L, Campayo JG, Haro JM, Serrano A; DASMAP investigators.

Author information:
(1)Sant Joan de Déu-SSM, Fundació Sant Joan de Déu, Research and Development 
Unit, Dr. Antoni Pujadas, 42, 08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. 
afernandez@sjd-ssm.com

BACKGROUND: The World Health Organization (WHO) has stated that the three 
leading causes of burden of disease in 2030 are projected to include HIV/AIDS, 
unipolar depression and ischaemic heart disease.
AIMS: To estimate health-related quality of life (HRQoL) and quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) losses associated with mental disorders and chronic physical 
conditions in primary healthcare using data from the diagnosis and treatment of 
mental disorders in primary care (DASMAP) study, an epidemiological survey 
carried out with primary care patients in Catalonia (Spain).
METHOD: A cross-sectional survey of a representative sample of 3815 primary care 
patients. A preference-based measure of health was derived from the 12-item 
Short Form Health Survey (SF-12): the Short Form-6D (SF-6D) multi-attribute 
health-status classification. Each profile generated by this questionnaire has a 
utility (or weight) assigned. We used non-parametric quantile regressions to 
model the association between both mental disorders and chronic physical 
condition and SF-6D scores.
RESULTS: Conditions associated with SF-6D were: mood disorders, beta = -0.20 
(95% CI -0.18 to -0.21); pain, beta = -0.08 (95%CI -0.06 to -0.09) and anxiety, 
beta = -0.04 (95% CI -0.03 to -0.06). The top three causes of QALY losses 
annually per 100 000 participants were pain (5064), mood disorders (2634) and 
anxiety (805).
CONCLUSIONS: Estimation of QALY losses showed that mood disorders ranked second 
behind pain-related chronic medical conditions.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.109.074211
PMID: 20357307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Oncology. 2010;78(2):87-93. doi: 10.1159/000306137. Epub 2010 Mar 30.

Individual life expectancy estimation using validated prognostic scores for 
patients with cancer of unknown primary.

Ferté C(1), Penel N, Bonneterre J, Adenis A.

Author information:
(1)Département de Cancérologie Générale, Centre de Lutte Contre le Cancer Oscar 
Lambret, Lille, France.

PURPOSE: To implement 3 published prognostic scores in an independent set of 
patients with cancer of unknown primary (CUP), and compare their performance on 
individual life expectancy prediction.
PATIENTS AND METHOD: The survival of 430 consecutive patients with CUP was 
measured after they had allocated to their prognostic group (good prognosis vs. 
poor prognosis) according to each prognostic score. Using a 2 x 2 contingency 
table, we measured the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) 
and accuracy of each score in predicting individual outcome (survival <90 days 
or >180 days).
RESULTS: The median overall survival was 189 days (1-4,801 days). Survival was 
<90 days in 143/421 cases and >180 days in 208/413 cases. The three PPVs were 
within the same range for prediction of survival <90 days (from 43 to 49%) as 
well as for prediction of survival >180 days (from 70 to 80%), and underestimate 
individual life expectancy of 40-50% of the patients. None of the 3 scores 
appeared significantly better.
CONCLUSION: The main finding of this retrospective analysis is that the 
published prognostic scores cannot be used for rational decision making.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000306137
PMID: 20357516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Oncology. 2010;78(2):103-14. doi: 10.1159/000306139. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

Acquired resistance to temozolomide in glioma cell lines: molecular mechanisms 
and potential translational applications.

Zhang J(1), Stevens MF, Laughton CA, Madhusudan S, Bradshaw TD.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biomolecular Science, School of Pharmacy, University of 
Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.

Treatment for glioblastoma multiforme includes the alkylating agent temozolomide 
combined with ionizing radiation. Persistent O6-guanine methylation by 
temozolomide in O6-methylguanine methyl transferase negative tumors causes 
cytotoxic lesions recognized by DNA mismatch repair, triggering apoptosis. 
Resistance (intrinsic or acquired) presents obstacles to successful temozolomide 
treatment, limiting drug efficacy and life expectancy. Two glioma cell lines, 
SNB19 and U373, sensitive to temozolomide (GI(50) values 36 and 68 microM, 
respectively) were exposed to increasing temozolomide concentrations (1-100 
microM). Variant cell lines (SNB19VR, U373VR) were generated that displayed 
acquired temozolomide resistance (GI(50) values 280 and 289 microM, 
respectively). Cross-resistance to mitozolomide was observed in U373VR cells 
only. In clonogenic and MTT assays, methylguanine methyltransferase (MGMT) 
depletion using O6-benzylguanine sensitized U373VR cells to temozolomide, 
indicating the resistance mechanism involves MGMT re-expression. Indeed, Western 
blot analyses revealed MGMT protein in cell lysates. In SNB19VR cells, 
down-regulation of MSH6 message and protein expression may confer temozolomide 
tolerance. Inhibition of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (a key base excision 
repair (BER) enzyme) partially restored sensitivity, and DNA repair gene arrays 
demonstrated up-regulation (>5-fold) of BER gene NTL1 in SNB19VR cells. In 
conclusion, we have developed two glioma cell lines whose distinct mechanisms of 
acquired resistance to temozolomide, involving expression of MGMT, or 
inactivation of DNA mismatch repair and recruitment of BER enzymes, are 
consistent with clinical observations. These cell lines provide valuable models 
for the development of strategies to combat temozolomide resistance.

Copyright 2010 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000306139
PMID: 20357518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Orthopade. 2010 Apr;39(4):432-6. doi: 10.1007/s00132-009-1575-7.

[Instrumental fixation in spinal surgery. Particular characteristics in patients 
