to triamcinolone hexacetonide alone for the treatment of knee synovitis in 
patients with rheumatoid arthritis at 1 y of follow-up.

DOI: 10.1590/S1807-59322009001200008
PMCID: PMC2797587
PMID: 20037706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2010;8(1):1-5. doi: 10.1007/BF03256161.

Considering the value associated with innovation in health technology appraisal 
decisions (deliberations): a NICE thing to do?

Green C.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03256161
PMID: 20038189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Ann Oncol. 2010 Jul;21(7):1448-1454. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdp561. Epub 2009
Dec  27.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvant docetaxel for node-positive breast cancer 
patients: results of the PACS 01 economic study.

Marino P(1), Siani C(2), Roché H(3), Protière C(4), Fumoleau P(5), Spielmann 
M(6), Martin AL(7), Viens P(8), Le Corroller Soriano AG(4).

Author information:
(1)Institut National pour la Santé et la Recherche médicale, unité 912, 
Marseille; Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille. Electronic address: 
patricia.marino@inserm.fr.
(2)Research Center in Knowledge Engineering (ERIC, EA3083), University of Lyon 
(University Claude Bernard Lyon 1), Lyon.
(3)Institut Claudius Régaud, Toulouse.
(4)Institut National pour la Santé et la Recherche médicale, unité 912, 
Marseille; Aix-Marseille Université, Marseille.
(5)Centre Georges-François Leclerc, Dijon.
(6)Institut Gustave Roussy, Villejuif.
(7)Fédération Nationale des Centres de Lutte Contre le Cancer, Paris.
(8)Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, France.

BACKGROUND: Using data from the PACS 01 randomized trial, we evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of anthracyclines plus docetaxel (Taxotere; FEC-D) versus 
anthracyclines alone (FEC100) in patients with node-positive breast cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Costs and outcomes were assessed in 1996 patients and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were estimated, using 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) as outcome. To deal with uncertainty due to 
sampling fluctuations, confidence regions around the ICERs were calculated and 
cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were drawn up. Sensitivity analyses were 
also carried out to assess the robustness of conclusions.
RESULTS: The mean cost of treatment was 33% higher with strategy FEC-D, but this 
difference decreased to 18% at a 5-year horizon. The ICER of FEC-D versus FEC100 
was estimated to be 9665euro per QALY gained (95% confidence interval 
euro2372-euro55 515). The estimated probability that FEC-D was cost-effective 
reached >96% for a threshold of euro50 000 per QALY gained. If the price of 
taxane decreased slightly, the ICER would reach some very reasonable levels and 
this strategy would therefore be much more cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: The sequential use of FEC100 followed by docetaxel appears to be a 
cost-effective alternative, even when uncertainty is taken into account.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdp561
PMID: 20038515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Eur Spine J. 2010 Feb;19(2):215-22. doi: 10.1007/s00586-009-1252-x. Epub
2009  Dec 29.

Review of metastatic spine tumour classification and indications for surgery: 
the consensus statement of the Global Spine Tumour Study Group.

Choi D(1), Crockard A, Bunger C, Harms J, Kawahara N, Mazel C, Melcher R, Tomita 
K; Global Spine Tumor Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The National Hospital for Neurology and 
Neurosurgery, London, WC1N 3BG, UK. david.choi@uclh.nhs.uk

Choosing the right operation for metastatic spinal tumours is often difficult, 
and depends on many factors, including life expectancy and the balance of the 
risk of surgery against the likelihood of improving quality of life. Several 
prognostic scores have been devised to help the clinician decide the most 
appropriate course of action, but there still remains controversy over how to 
choose the best option; more often the decision is influenced by habit, belief 
and subjective experience. The purpose of this article is to review the present 
systems available for classifying spinal metastases, how these classifications 
can be used to help surgical planning, discuss surgical outcomes, and make 
suggestions for future research. It is important for spinal surgeons to reach a 
consensus regarding the classification of spinal metastases and surgical 
strategies. The authors of this article constitute the Global Spine Tumour Study 
Group: an international group of spinal surgeons who are dedicated to studying 
the techniques and outcomes of surgery for spinal tumours, to build on the 
existing evidence base for the surgical treatment of spinal tumours.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-009-1252-x
PMCID: PMC2899817
PMID: 20039084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Med Klin (Munich). 2009 Dec 15;104(12):931-46. doi:
10.1007/s00063-009-1192-6.

[Hereditary hemochromatosis].

[Article in German]

Niederau C(1).

Author information:
(1)Katholische Kliniken Oberhausen gGmbH, St Josef-Hospital, Klinik für Innere 
Medizin, Akademisches Lehrkrankenhaus der Universität Duisburg-Essen, 
Duisburg-Essen. claus.niederau@st-josef.de

Genetic hemochromatosis is classified into four subtypes of which only type 1 is 
of clinical importance in Caucasians. Type 1 is due to an autosomal recessive 
inborn error of metabolism; the homozygous C282Y mutation of the HFE gene on 
chromosome 6 accounts for more than 90% of the clinical phenotype in populations 
of Celtic origin. The mutation leads to an inadequately high intestinal iron 
absorption which may finally cause iron overload in and damage to various 
organs. Type 2 is the juvenile form of iron overload which leads to a severe 
phenotype prior to age 30 with cardiomyopathy and hypogonadism. The 
corresponding mutations are located in the hemojuveline and hepcidin genes. Typ 
3 has mainly been described in Italian families and refers to mutations in 
transferrin receptor 2 gene. Histopathologic and clinical consequences of type 3 
hemochromatosis are similar to those seen in type 1. Types 2 and 3 are autosomal 
recessive traits. Type 4 hemochromatosis follows an autosomal dominant trait; 
the corresponding mutation affects the basolateral iron carrier ferroportin 1. 
Diagnosis of hemochromatosis is based on determinations of serum ferritin and 
transferrin saturation with the latter being more sensitive and specific. In 
case of a homozygous C282Y gene test, liver biopsy is not required for 
diagnosis. Liver biopsy is, however, recommended in C282Y homozygotes at 
ferritin values > 1,000 ng/ml because of an increased risk for liver fibrosis. 
Phlebotomy treatment is the standard care to remove iron in genetic 
hemochromatosis. Patients treated in the early noncirrhotic stage have a normal 
life expectancy. Thus, future efforts should aim at early diagnosis. Iron 
removal also improves the outcome in cirrhotic patients. Liver carcinoma may 
develop in cirrhotic patients despite iron depletion. Liver cancers without 
cirrhosis are so rare that screening is only recommended in cirrhotic patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00063-009-1192-6
PMID: 20039160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. J Surg Oncol. 2010 Mar 1;101(3):228-32. doi: 10.1002/jso.21463.

Surgical management for a malignant bowel obstruction with recurrent 
gastrointestinal carcinoma.

Amikura K(1), Sakamoto H, Yatsuoka T, Kawashima Y, Nishimura Y, Tanaka Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterological Surgery, Saitama Cancer Center, Saitama, 
Japan. kamikura@cancer-c.pref.saitama.jp

BACKGROUND: A malignant bowel obstruction (MBO) is a common clinical 
complication in patients with recurrent gastrointestinal carcinoma, which has a 
poor prognosis and a limited life expectancy. This study considered the 
effectiveness of surgical management for MBO.
METHODS: This study reviewed the clinical course of 70 patients who underwent 
surgery for MBO and compared the outcomes in three groups: patients with (A) 
peritonitis carcinomatosis without manifest ascites, (B) peritonitis 
carcinomatosis with ascites, (C) local recurrence without peritonitis 
carcinomatosis.
RESULTS: The 1-year survival rate and median survival time (MST) in the patients 
in group A were 33.3% and 228 days, which was statistically longer than those 
(6.7% and 46 days) in the patients in group B (P = 0.026). The rate of the 
patients with possible oral intake of solid meals for 6 months and median oral 
intake periods were 45.4% and 161 days in patients in group A and 28.0% and 93 
days in patients in group C. In contrast, 66.7% in group B could not take solid 
meals for more than 1 month, and five patients could not take solid meals at 
all.
CONCLUSION: Palliative operations for the patients with manifest ascites of MBO 
are risky and rarely effectively improve oral intake, but this is not considered 
to be a contraindication for surgical management. Informed consent is therefore 
important in the surgical management of MBO.

(c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.21463
PMID: 20039277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Br J Gen Pract. 2010 Jan;60(570):e20-7. doi: 10.3399/bjgp09X482312.

Cost-effectiveness of shared pharmaceutical care for older patients: RESPECT 
trial findings.

RESPECT Trial Team.

Collaborators: Bojke C, Philips Z, Sculpher M, Campion P, Chrystyn H, Coulton S, 
Cross B, Morton V, Richmond S, Farrin A, Hill G, Hilton A, Russell I, Wong IC.

BACKGROUND: Pharmaceutical care serves as a collaborative model for medication 
review. Its use is advocated for older patients, although its cost-effectiveness 
is unknown. Although the accompanying article on clinical effectiveness from the 
RESPECT (Randomised Evaluation of Shared Prescribing for Elderly people in the 
Community over Time) trial finds no statistically significant impact on 
prescribing for older patients undergoing pharmaceutical care, economic 
evaluations are based on an estimation, rather than hypothesis testing.
AIM: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pharmaceutical care for older people 
compared with usual care, according to National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) reference case standards.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was undertaken in which NICE reference case 
standards were applied to data collected in the RESPECT trial.
RESULTS: On average, pharmaceutical care is estimated to cost an incremental 10 
000 UK pounds per additional quality-adjusted life year (QALY). If the NHS's 
cost-effectiveness threshold is between 20 000 and 30 000 UK pounds per extra 
QALY, then the results indicate that pharmaceutical care is cost-effective 
despite a lack of statistical significance to this effect. However, the 
statistical uncertainty surrounding the estimates implies that the probability 
that pharmaceutical care is not cost-effective lies between 0.22 and 0.19. 
Although results are not sensitive to assumptions about costs, they differ 
between subgroups: in patients aged >75 years pharmaceutical care appears more 
cost-effective for those who are younger or on fewer repeat medications.
CONCLUSION: Although pharmaceutical care is estimated to be cost-effective in 
the UK, the results are uncertain and further research into its long-term 
benefits may be worthwhile.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp09X482312
PMCID: PMC2801802
PMID: 20040164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. JAMA. 2009 Dec 23;302(24):2686-94. doi: 10.1001/jama.2009.1871.

Medical care for the final years of life: "When you're 83, it's not going to be 
20 years".

Reuben DB(1).

Author information:
(1)David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Department of Medicine, Division of 
Geriatrics, 10945 Le Conte Ave, Ste 2339, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1687, USA. 
dreuben@mednet.ucla.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2009 Dec 23;302(24):2701-2.
    JAMA. 2009 Dec 23;302(24):2703-4.

The case of an 83-year-old man who has had a fall-related injury and continues 
to be the sole caregiver for his wife who has dementia exemplifies a common 
situation that clinicians face--planning for the final years of an elderly 
individual's life. To appropriately focus on the patient's most pressing issues, 
the approach should begin with an assessment of life expectancy and 
incorporation of evidence-based care whenever possible. Short-term issues are 
focused on efforts to restore the patient to his previous state of health. 
Mid-range issues address providing preventive care, identifying geriatric 
syndromes, and helping him cope with the psychosocial needs of being a 
caregiver. Long-term issues relate to planning for his eventual decline and 
meeting his goals for the end of life. Unfortunately, the workload and 
inefficiencies of primary care practice present barriers to providing optimal 
care for older patients. Systematic approaches, including team care, are needed 
to adequately manage chronic diseases and coordinate care.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2009.1871
PMCID: PMC2822435
PMID: 20040557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. JAMA. 2009 Dec 23;302(24):2703-4. doi: 10.1001/jama.2009.1900.

Clinical care in the aging century--announcing "Care of the aging patient: from 
evidence to action".

Landefeld CS, Winker MA, Chernof B.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2010 Feb 3;303(5):422.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2009 Dec 23;302(24):2686-94.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2009.1900
PMID: 20040562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Rejuvenation Res. 2009 Dec;12(6):469-70. doi: 10.1089/rej.2009.0976.

Life extension from a Christian point of view.

Sørensen LM.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2009.0976
PMID: 20041741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Med Food. 2009 Dec;12(6):1199-205. doi: 10.1089/jmf.2009.0113.

Persimmon oligomeric proanthocyanidins extend life span of 
senescence-accelerated mice.

Yokozawa T(1), Lee YA, Zhao Q, Matsumoto K, Cho EJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Natural Medicine, University of Toyama, Toyama, Japan. 
yokozawa@inm.u-toyama.ac.jp

The anti-aging activities of persimmon oligomeric proanthocyanidins (POPs), 
reported to improve life span and behavioral characteristics associated with the 
aging process, were investigated using the senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) 
P8, which is a good model for studies on aging-related behavioral changes as 
well as life span. We demonstrated that the administration of POPs extended the 
life span of SAMP8. In addition, POPs elevated Sirt1 expression, which is 
recognized as an essential factor for life span extension in the brain. On the 
other hand, the administration of POPs did not induce stereotypical behaviors 
such as rearing, jumping, and hanging from the lid of a cage, whereas food 
restriction increased these frequencies without a significant change in motor 
function. The present study suggests a promising role of POPs as anti-aging 
agents to extend life span, although further studies elucidating their 
anti-aging mechanisms acting are needed.

DOI: 10.1089/jmf.2009.0113
PMID: 20041772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Colorectal Dis. 2011 May;13(5):519-25. doi:
10.1111/j.1463-1318.2009.02183.x.

Age at death of patients with colorectal cancer and the effect of lead-time bias 
on survival in elective vs emergency surgery.

MacDonald AJ(1), McEwan H, McCabe M, Macdonald A.

Author information:
(1)Lanarkshire Colorectal Study Group, Monklands Hospital, Airdrie, UK.

AIM: Colorectal cancer survival depends on stage at presentation, and current 
strategies aim for improvements through early detection. Previous studies have 
demonstrated improved survival from diagnosis but not increased life expectancy. 
While lead-time bias may account for variations in known prognostic indicators 
and also influence screening programmes, only age at death provides a true 
representation of the effectiveness of an intervention. We aimed to compare age 
at death for patients with colorectal cancer presenting on an emergency or 
elective basis.
METHOD: Patients presenting with colorectal cancer (2000-2006) were entered into 
a prospective database (analysis 1 December 2008). Fields included age at death, 
emergency/elective presentation, palliative/curative intent and disease stage.
RESULTS: One thousand six hundred and fifty patients (922 men) were identified. 
Elective patients presented younger than emergency patients (67.9 vs 70.6 years; 
P < 0.005). Dukes B patients presented older than Dukes D (P = 0.02). Mortality 
was 41% at time of analysis; no difference was seen in mean age at death between 
emergency and elective presentation (72.8 vs 72.0 years; P = 0.379) or 
palliative and curative intent (72.0 vs 72.5 years; P = 0.604).
CONCLUSION: Colorectal cancer is common in a population where actuarial life 
expectancy is limited. Current colorectal cancer early detection strategies may 
improve cancer-specific survival by increasing lead-time bias but do not 
influence overall life expectancy.

© 2011 The Authors. Colorectal Disease © 2011 The Association of Coloproctology 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1463-1318.2009.02183.x
PMID: 20041912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Water Res. 2010 Mar;44(6):1841-52. doi: 10.1016/j.watres.2009.12.008. Epub
2009  Dec 16.

Valuing the subsurface pathogen treatment barrier in water recycling via 
aquifers for drinking supplies.

Page D(1), Dillon P, Toze S, Bixio D, Genthe B, Jiménez Cisneros BE, Wintgens T.

Author information:
(1)CSIRO Water for a Healthy Country, Private Bag No. 2, Glen Osmond, SA 5064, 
Australia. Declan.Page@csiro.au

A quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) was performed at four managed 
aquifer recharge (MAR) sites (Australia, South Africa, Belgium, Mexico) where 
reclaimed wastewater and stormwater is recycled via aquifers for drinking water 
supplies, using the same risk-based approach that is used for public water 
supplies. For each of the sites, the aquifer treatment barrier was assessed for 
its log(10) removal capacity much like for other water treatment technologies. 
This information was then integrated into a broader risk assessment to determine 
the human health burden from the four MAR sites. For the Australian and South 
African cases, managing the aquifer treatment barrier was found to be critical 
for the schemes to have low risk. For the Belgian case study, the large 
treatment trains both in terms of pre- and post-aquifer recharge ensures that 
the risk is always low. In the Mexico case study, the risk was high due to the 
lack of pre-treatment and the low residence times of the recharge water in the 
aquifer. A further sensitivity analysis demonstrated that human health risk can 
be managed if aquifers are integrated into a treatment train to attenuate 
pathogens. However, reduction in human health disease burden (as measured in 
disability adjusted life years, DALYs) varied depending upon the number of 
pathogens in the recharge source water. The beta-Poisson dose response curve 
used for translating rotavirus and Cryptosporidium numbers into DALYs coupled 
with their slow environmental decay rates means poor quality injectant leads to 
aquifers having reduced value to reduce DALYs. For these systems, like the 
Mexican case study, longer residence times are required to meet their DALYs 
guideline for drinking water. Nevertheless the results showed that the risks 
from pathogens can still be reduced and recharging via an aquifer is safer than 
discharging directly into surface water bodies.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.watres.2009.12.008
PMID: 20042212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Med Decis Making. 2010 May-Jun;30(3):409-14. doi: 10.1177/0272989X09349960.
Epub  2009 Dec 30.

Life expectancy in individuals with type 2 diabetes: implications for annuities.

Price HC(1), Clarke PM, Gray AM, Holman RR.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Trials Unit, Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and 
MetabolismUniversity of Oxford, Oxford, UK. Hermione.Price@dtu.ox.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Insurance companies often offer people with diabetes ''enhanced 
impaired life annuity'' at preferential rates, in view of their reduced life 
expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the appropriateness of ''enhanced impaired life annuity'' 
rates for individuals with type 2 diabetes. Patients. There were 4026 subjects 
with established type 2 diabetes (but not known cardiovascular or other 
life-threatening diseases) enrolled into the UK Lipids in Diabetes Study. 
Measurements. Estimated individual life expectancy using the United Kingdom 
Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes Model.
RESULTS: Subjects were a mean (SD) age of 60.7 (8.6) years, had a blood pressure 
of 141/83 (17/10) mm Hg, total cholesterol level of 4.5 (0.75) mmol/L, HDL 
cholesterol level of 1.2 (0.29) mmol/L, with median (interquartile range [IQR]) 
known diabetes duration of 6 (3-11) years, and HbA(1c) of 8.0% (7.2-9.0). 
Sixty-five percent were male, 91% white, 4% Afro-Caribbean, 5% Indian-Asian, and 
15% current smokers. The UKPDS Outcomes Model median (IQR) estimated age at 
death was 76.6 (73.8-79.5) years compared with 81.6 (79.4-83.2) years, estimated 
using the UK Government Actuary's Department data for a general population of 
the same age and gender structure. The median (IQR) difference was 4.3 (2.8-6.1) 
years, a remaining life expectancy reduction of almost one quarter. The highest 
value annuity identified, which commences payments immediately for a 60-year-old 
man with insulin-treated type 2 diabetes investing 100,000, did not reflect this 
difference, offering 7.4K per year compared with 7.0K per year if not diabetic.
CONCLUSIONS: The UK Government Actuary's Department data overestimate likely age 
at death in individuals with type 2 diabetes, and at present, ''enhanced 
impaired life annuity'' rates do not provide equity for people with type 2 
diabetes. Using a diabetes-specific model to estimate life expectancy could 
provide valuable information to the annuity industry and permit more equitable 
annuity rates for those with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X09349960
PMID: 20042534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. MMW Fortschr Med. 2009 Nov 12;151(46):22-3.

[Vaccines, molecular scissors, fusion inhibitors. What does HIV therapy of the 
future look like?].

[Article in German]

Warpakowski A.

PMID: 20043388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Practitioner. 2009 Nov;253(1723):27-30, 3.

HIV testing in primary care will help improve early diagnosis.

Palfreeman A(1), Fisher M, Stewart E.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals, Leicester.

HIV is now a treatable medical condition and the majority of those diagnosed 
with the virus remain fit and well on treatment. Patients living with HIV may 
well now have a near-normal life expectancy with antiretroviral treatment. In 
all, 77,000 people are known to be infected with HIV in the UK. However, 28% are 
unaware of their infection and are therefore unable to access treatment. Late 
diagnosis is the most important factor associated with HIV-related morbidity and 
mortality in the UK. The RCP guidelines recommend that GPs should offer an HIV 
test to patients: from communities or geographical locations where HIV is 
common; who present with a medical condition in which HIV might be implicated; 
with a medical condition compatible with AIDS or with any HIV indicator disease. 
GPs should also consider offering an HIV test to new patients who register with 
the practice in areas where diagnosed HIV prevalence in the local population 
(PCT/LA) exceeds 2 in 1,000. The pre-test discussion should cover: an 
explanation of why the test is recommended; the benefits of testing to the 
individual; details of how the result will be given; confidentiality and 
informed consent. The need for a repeat HIV test, if the patient is still within 
the window after a specific exposure, should be discussed.

PMID: 20043507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Przegl Lek. 2009;66(7):403-5.

[Influence of anticoagulants on the appearance of chronic subdural hematoma].

[Article in Polish]

Krupa M(1), Moskała M, Składzień T, Grzywna E.

Author information:
(1)Z Kliniki Neurotraumatologii CM UJ w Krakowie. krupa@cm-uj.krakow.pl

In recent years in the Department of Neurotraumatology in Cracow it has been 
noticed the frequent connection between appearance of chronic subdural hematoma 
(CSDH) and treatment by anticoagulant medications. The aim of this study is to 
draw attention to the problem of insufficient control of anticoagulants 
consumption, especially by patients treated for cardiovascular system diseases 
that increases the risk of bleeding and CSDH development. The paper is based on 
data from questionnaires that was sent to patients with CSDH, cured in the 
Department of Neurotraumatology form 2004 to 2005. Analyzed was the group of 51 
patients with chronic subdural hematoma; 37 individuals (72.5%) confirmed taking 
acetylsalicylic acid in the period of 3 months before admission to the 
Department, 9 (17.6%) patients answered that they were taking low-molecular 
weight heparin. One patient (1.9%) was taking chronically derivative of cumarin. 
The authors would inform that anticoagulant treatment might favour increase of 
chronic subdural hematoma incidence. It's especially important, because the 
average life expectancy has been prolonged in Poland and there are more people 
taking acetylsalicylic acid. This can be an epidemiological problem in future.

PMID: 20043584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Vaccine. 2010 Feb 17;28(7):1726-31. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.12.019. Epub
 2009 Dec 29.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatitis A vaccination for individuals with chronic 
hepatitis C.

Chapko MK(1), Yee HS, Monto A, Dominitz JA.

Author information:
(1)Hepatitis C Resource Center, VA Puget Sound Health Care System, Seattle WA 
98101, United States. chapko@u.washington.edu

The incidence of hepatitis A infection in the United States has decreased 
dramatically in recent years because of childhood immunization programs. A 
decision analysis of the cost-effectiveness of hepatitis A vaccination for 
adults with hepatitis C was conducted. No vaccination strategy is cost-effective 
for adults with hepatitis C using the recent lower anticipated hepatitis A 
incidence, private sector costs, and a cost-effectiveness criterion of 
$100,000/QALY. Vaccination is cost-effective only for individuals who have 
cleared the hepatitis C virus when Department of Veterans Affairs costs are 
used. The recommendation to vaccinate adults with hepatitis C against hepatitis 
A should be reconsidered.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2009.12.019
PMID: 20044051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2010 Nov-Dec;51(3):277-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2009.11.019. Epub 2009 Dec 30.

Safety and efficacy of radiotherapy treatment in elderly patients with localized 
prostate cancer: a retrospective analysis.

Fiorica F(1), Berretta M, Colosimo C, Berretta S, Ristagno M, Palmucci T, 
Palmucci S, Lleshi A, Ursino S, Fisichella R, Spartà D, Stefanelli A, Cappellani 
A, Tirelli U, Cartei F.

Author information:
(1)Division of Oncology Radiotherapy, Arcispedale S'Anna Universitary Hospital, 
C.so Giovecca 203, I-44100 Ferrara, Italy. francesco.fiorica@unife.it

The purpose of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and the activity of 
radiotherapy treatment in patients aged ≥75 with prostate cancer (PC). From 
January 2000 to December 2007, 107 consecutive patients aged ≥75 years received 
radiotherapy with radical intent for PC. Eighty-one patients received 
radiotherapy in combination with a 6 months androgen suppression therapy. 
Variables considered were age, stage, co-morbidities according to the adult 
co-morbidity evaluation index (ACE-27) and performance status (PS). The median 
age was 79.1 years (range 76-87). The 23.4% of patients showed no 
co-morbidities, while the 46.7% had mild, 23.4% moderate, and 6.5% severe 
co-morbidities, respectively. All patients completed the planned radiation 
treatment. At a median follow-up of 37.8 months, the 5-year overall survival 
rate was 78%. There was a better survival for patients with no or mild 
co-morbidities (p<0.0001) and a good PS (p=0.009). The actuarial disease-free 
survival at 60 months was 75.8%. Difference in acute and late toxicity rate was 
detected between ACE-27 classes for diarrhea and marginally for urinary 
toxicity, but no difference was detected for different age. We conclude that 
compliance with radiotherapy is good and rate of toxicity is acceptable in 
elderly patients. Increasing severity of co-morbidity may sufficiently shorten 
remaining life expectancy to cancel gains with radical radiotherapy. Further 
prospective trials are needed to confirm these results.

Copyright © 2009 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2009.11.019
PMID: 20044153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2010 Mar;10(1):16-24. doi: 
10.2174/187153010790827957.

SIRT1, a calorie restriction mimetic, in a new therapeutic approach for type 2 
diabetes mellitus and diabetic vascular complications.

Kume S(1), Uzu T, Kashiwagi A, Koya D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Shiga University of Medical Science, Otsu, Japan.

The rising incidence of diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and subsequent vascular 
diseases is now a major public health problem in industrialized countries. New 
therapeutic strategies to prevent these diseases are urgently needed worldwide. 
It is well known that calorie restriction (CR) can retard the aging process in 
organisms ranging from yeast to rodents, and delay the onset of numerous 
age-related diseases including diabetes. Molecules that mimic CR metabolically 
are therefore potentially new therapeutic targets for age-related diseases. 
Silent information regulator 2 (Sir2) is an important player in CR-mediated life 
span extension. There is also increasing evidence that one of the seven 
mammalian sirtuins, SIRT1, is involved in regulating cellular processes such as 
apoptosis. SIRT1 has also been implicated in glucose homeostasis and lipid 
metabolism in various tissues including adipose tissues, liver, pancreas, and 
skeletal muscle. This review summarizes current understanding of the biological 
functions of SIRT1, and discusses its potential as a pharmacological target for 
fighting metabolic and vascular diseases.

DOI: 10.2174/187153010790827957
PMID: 20044906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Toxicol Appl Pharmacol. 2010 Mar 1;243(2):125-33. doi: 
10.1016/j.taap.2009.12.020. Epub 2010 Jan 4.

Regulatory aspects of oncology drug safety evaluation: past practice, current 
issues, and the challenge of new drugs.

Rosenfeldt H(1), Kropp T, Benson K, Ricci MS, McGuinn WD, Verbois SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Drug Oncology Products, Food and Drug Administration, 10903 New 
Hampshire Avenue, Silver Spring MD, 20993, USA. hans.rosenfeldt@fda.hhs.gov 
<hans.rosenfeldt@fda.hhs.gov>

The drug development of new anti-cancer agents is streamlined in response to the 
urgency of bringing effective drugs to market for patients with limited life 
expectancy. FDA's regulation of oncology drugs has evolved from the practices 
set forth in Arnold Lehman's seminal work published in the 1950s through the 
current drafting of a new International Conference on Harmonization of Technical 
Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH) safety 
guidance for anti-cancer drug nonclinical evaluations. The ICH combines the 
efforts of the regulatory authorities of Europe, Japan, and the United States 
and the pharmaceutical industry from these three regions to streamline the 
scientific and technical aspects of drug development. The recent development of 
new oncology drug classes with novel mechanisms of action has improved survival 
rates for some cancers but also brings new challenges for safety evaluation. 
Here we present the legacy of Lehman and colleagues in the context of past and 
present oncology drug development practices and focus on some of the current 
issues at the center of an evolving harmonization process that will generate a 
new safety guidance for oncology drugs, ICH S9. The purpose of this new guidance 
will be to facilitate oncology drug development on a global scale by 
standardizing regional safety requirements.

DOI: 10.1016/j.taap.2009.12.020
PMID: 20045015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Eur J Cancer. 2010 Mar;46(4):735-43. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2009.12.013. Epub
2010  Jan 4.

Clinical assessment of patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
eligible for second-line chemotherapy: a prognostic score from individual data 
of nine randomised trials.

Di Maio M(1), Lama N, Morabito A, Smit EF, Georgoulias V, Takeda K, Quoix E, 
Hatzidaki D, Wachters FM, Gebbia V, Tsai CM, Camps C, Schuette W, Chiodini P, 
Piccirillo MC, Perrone F, Gallo C, Gridelli C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Unit, National Cancer Institute, Napoli, Italy.

PURPOSE: Knowledge of prognostic factors for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) patients eligible for second-line treatment is scarce. The aim of this 
study was to assess the prognostic role of a number of routinely collected 
clinical variables and to provide a summary index to discriminate patients 
according to probability of survival.
METHODS: Individual data from nine randomised trials of second-line treatment in 
advanced NSCLC were analysed. Primary end-point was overall survival (OS). Cox 
model, stratified by trial, was used for multivariate analyses, and a prognostic 
index was provided and validated according to an internal/external procedure.
RESULTS: Out of 1239 patients, 1197 patients (97%) had complete information. 
Median OS was 7.4months. At multivariate analysis, prognosis was significantly 
influenced by gender (worse in males), performance status (PS), tumour histology 
(worse in squamous and other histology versus adenocarcinoma), stage (worse in 
IV versus IIIB), type of previous treatment (worse for patients pretreated with 
platinum) and response to first-line (worse for patients not obtaining objective 
response). Prognostic score values range from 0 to 14. When three categories 
were derived, median overall survival values were equal to 11.6, 7.5 and 
3.0months for best (<5), intermediate (5-9) and worst (>9) categories, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Prognosis of patients eligible for second-line treatment of advanced 
NSCLC is significantly conditioned by gender, PS, histology, stage, previous use 
of platinum and response to first-line. A prognostic score was derived that 
discriminates well subjects with a relatively more favourable prognosis and 
those with very short life expectancy.

Copyright 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2009.12.013
PMID: 20045311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. BMC Public Health. 2010 Jan 4;10:3. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-3.

A randomised controlled trial and cost-effectiveness evaluation of "booster" 
interventions to sustain increases in physical activity in middle-aged adults in 
deprived urban neighbourhoods.

Hind D(1), Scott EJ, Copeland R, Breckon JD, Crank H, Walters SJ, Brazier JE, 
Nicholl J, Cooper C, Goyder E.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trials Research Unit, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 
Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK.

BACKGROUND: Systematic reviews have identified a range of brief interventions 
which increase physical activity in previously sedentary people. There is an 
absence of evidence about whether follow up beyond three months can maintain 
long term physical activity. This study assesses whether it is worth providing 
motivational interviews, three months after giving initial advice, to those who 
have become more active.
METHODS/DESIGN: Study candidates (n = 1500) will initially be given an 
interactive DVD and receive two telephone follow ups at monthly intervals 
checking on receipt and use of the DVD. Only those that have increased their 
physical activity after three months (n = 600) will be randomised into the 
study. These participants will receive either a "mini booster" (n = 200), "full 
booster" (n = 200) or no booster (n = 200). The "mini booster" consists of two 
telephone calls one month apart to discuss physical activity and maintenance 
strategies. The "full booster" consists of a face-to-face meeting with the 
facilitator at the same intervals. The purpose of these booster sessions is to 
help the individual maintain their increase in physical activity. Differences in 
physical activity, quality of life and costs associated with the booster 
interventions, will be measured three and nine months from randomisation. The 
research will be conducted in 20 of the most deprived neighbourhoods in 
Sheffield, which have large, ethnically diverse populations, high levels of 
economic deprivation, low levels of physical activity, poorer health and shorter 
life expectancy. Participants will be recruited through general practices and 
community groups, as well as by postal invitation, to ensure the participation 
of minority ethnic groups and those with lower levels of literacy. Sheffield 
City Council and Primary Care Trust fund a range of facilities and activities to 
promote physical activity and variations in access to these between 
neighbourhoods will make it possible to examine whether the effectiveness of the 
intervention is modified by access to community facilities. A one-year 
integrated feasibility study will confirm that recruitment targets are 
achievable based on a 10% sample.
DISCUSSION: The choice of study population, study interventions, brief 
intervention preceding the study, and outcome measure are discussed.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials: ISRCTN56495859; 
ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00836459.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-3
PMCID: PMC2819992
PMID: 20047672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Eur Heart J. 2010 Feb;31(4):416-23. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehp575. Epub 2010
Jan  4.

Risk stratification of patients with aortic stenosis.

Vahanian A(1), Otto CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Service de Cardiologie, Bichat Hospital, 46 Rue 
Henri Huchard, Paris 75018, France. alec.vahanian@bch.aphp.fr

Aortic stenosis (AS) is now the most common indication for valve replacement in 
Europe and North America, with an ever increasing disease prevalence due to the 
ageing population (Iung B, Baron G, Butchart EG, Delahaye F, Gohlke-Bärwolf C, 
Levang AW, Tornos P, Vanoverschelde JL, Vermeer F, Boersma E, Ravaud P, Vahanian 
A. A prospective survey of patients with valvular heart disease in Europe: the 
Euro Heart Survey on valvular heart disease. Eur Heart J 2003; 24:1231-1243). 
The recent introduction of transcatheter aortic valve implantation has renewed 
interest in the optimal approach to patient management. Decision making in 
valvular heart disease necessitates a careful evaluation of the risk-to-benefit 
ratio, considering both the results of intervention and the severity-adjusted 
risk of adverse outcomes without intervention.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehp575
PMID: 20047994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Health Aff (Millwood). 2010 Jan-Feb;29(1):136-40. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0912.

Raising the standard: palliative care in nursing homes.

Meier DE(1), Lim B, Carlson MD.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York City, USA. diane.meier@mssm.edu

More than two-thirds of long-stay nursing home residents suffer from dementia. 
This illness has a variable and unpredictable course that renders it a poor fit 
for the six-month life-expectancy requirement of the Medicare hospice benefit. 
Palliative care-a form of treatment that strives to match care to patient goals, 
relieve pain, and improve quality of life for people with chronic or 
life-threatening illnesses-should be the standard of practice for all elderly 
dementia patients in nursing homes, regardless of prognosis. Similar principles 
could apply to other long-term residents with underlying chronic diseases who 
would benefit from palliative care. Indeed, we would argue that the growing 
acceptance of the culture-change movement centered on elder-directed goals in 
nursing homes is promising evidence of the goodness-of-fit of palliative care 
principles in the long-term care setting.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0912
PMID: 20048372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Health Aff (Millwood). 2010 Jan-Feb;29(1):207-11. doi: 
10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0783.

Foundation work in long-term care.

LeRoy L(1), Treanor K, Art E.

Author information:
(1)Grantmakers In Health, Washington, DC, USA. lleroy@gih.org

Health foundations have invested in services, research, and advocacy to improve 
the financing and delivery of long-term services and supports. This article 
describes some of the broad array of approaches they have taken--in such areas 
as aging in place, assisted living, "culture change" in nursing homes, quality 
improvement, augmenting the workforce, and paying for care.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2009.0783
PMID: 20048379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Environ Public Health. 2009;2009:107927. doi: 10.1155/2009/107927. Epub
2009  Dec 2.

The potential to forgo social welfare gains through overrelianceon cost 
effectiveness/cost utility analyses in the evidence base for public health.

Cohen DR(1), Patel N.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Policy Research Unit, University of Glamorgan, 
Pontypridd, CF37 1DL, UK. dcohen@glam.ac.uk

Economic evaluations of clinical treatments most commonly take the form of cost 
effectiveness or cost utility analyses. This is appropriate since the 
main-sometimes the only-benefit of such interventions is increased health. The 
majority of economic evaluations in public health, however, have also been 
assessed using these techniques when arguably cost benefit analyses would in 
many cases have been more appropriate, given its ability to take account of 
nonhealth benefits as well. An examination of the nonhealth benefits from a 
sample of studies featured in a recent review of economic evaluations in public 
health illustrates how overfocusing on cost effectiveness/cost utility analyses 
may lead to forgoing potential social welfare gains from programmes in public 
health. Prior to evaluation, programmes should be considered in terms of the 
potential importance of nonhealth benefits and where these are considerable 
would be better evaluated by more inclusive economic evaluation techniques.

DOI: 10.1155/2009/107927
PMCID: PMC2798564
PMID: 20049165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Wiley Interdiscip Rev Nanomed Nanobiotechnol. 2009 Sep-Oct;1(5):540-52. doi:
 10.1002/wnan.47.

Nanotechnology in joint replacement.

Torrecillas R(1), Moya JS, Díaz LA, Bartolomé JF, Fernández A, Lopez-Esteban S.

Author information:
(1)CINN-CSIC, Universidad de Oviedo, Parque Tecnológico de Asturias, Llanera, 
Asturias, Oviedo, Spain. r.torrecillas@cinn.es

This paper reviews the most relevant achievements and new developments in the 
field of nanomaterials and their possible impact on the fabrication of a new 
generation of reliable and longer lasting implants for joint replacement. 
Special emphasis is given to the role of nanocomposites with different 
microstructural designs: micro-nano composites, nano-nano composites, 
macro-micro-nano composites as well as bioinspired hierarchical composite 
materials. These nanostructured materials have opened up an exciting avenue in 
the design of non-metallic biocompatible, crack growth resistant, tough, and 
mechanically resistant implants with a lifespan close to the life expectancy of 
the patients.

Copyright (c) 2009 John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/wnan.47
PMID: 20049816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Int J Cancer. 2010 Sep 1;127(6):1437-45. doi: 10.1002/ijc.25153.

Cancer incidence in people with AIDS in Italy.

Polesel J(1), Franceschi S, Suligoi B, Crocetti E, Falcini F, Guzzinati S, 
Vercelli M, Zanetti R, Tagliabue G, Russo A, Luminari S, Stracci F, De Lisi V, 
Ferretti S, Mangone L, Budroni M, Limina RM, Piffer S, Serraino D, Bellù F, 
Giacomin A, Donato A, Madeddu A, Vitarelli S, Fusco M, Tessandori R, Tumino R, 
Piselli P, Dal Maso L; Cancer and AIDS Registries Linkage Study Cancer; AIDS 
Registries Linkage Study; Lise M, Zucchetto A, De Paoli A, Intrieri T, Vattiato 
R, Zambon P, Puppo A, Patriarca S, Tittarelli A, Autelitano M, Cirilli C, La 
Rosa F, Sgargi P, Di Felice E, Cesaraccio R, Donato F, Franchini S, Zanier L, 
Vittadello F, Vercellino PC, Senatore G, Contrino ML, Antonini S, Palombino R, 
Maspero S, La Rosa MG, Camoni L, Regine V.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico IRCCS, 
Aviano, Pordenone, Italy. polesel@cro.it

People with HIV/AIDS (PWHA) have increased risk of some cancers. The 
introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapies (HAART) has improved 
their life expectancy, exposing them to the combined consequences of aging and 
of a prolonged exposure to cancer risk factors. The aim of this study was to 
estimate incidence rates (IR) in PWHA in Italy, before and after the 
introduction of HAART, after adjusting for sex and age through direct 
standardization. An anonymous record linkage between Italian AIDS Registry 
(21,951 cases) and Cancer Registries (17.3 million, 30% of Italian population) 
was performed. In PWHA, crude IR, sex- and age-standardized IR and age-specific 
IR were estimated. The standardized IR for Kaposi sarcoma and non-Hodgkin 
lymphoma greatly declined in the HAART period. Although the crude IR for all 
non-AIDS-defining cancers increased in the HAART period, standardized IR did not 
significantly differ in the 2 periods (352 and 379/100,000, respectively). 
Increases were seen only for cancer of the liver (IR ratio = 4.6, 95% CI: 
1.3-17.0) and lung (IR ratio = 1.8, 95% CI: 1.0-3.2). Age-specific IRs for liver 
and lung cancers, however, largely overlapped in the 2 periods pointing to the 
strong influence of the shift in the age distribution of PWHA on the observed 
upward trends. In conclusion, standardized IRs for non-AIDS-defining cancers 
have not risen in the HAART period, even if crude IRs of these cancers 
increased. This scenario calls, however, for the intensification of 
cancer-prevention strategies, notably smoking cessation and screening programs, 
in middle-aged HIV-patients.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.25153
PMID: 20049835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Hastings Cent Rep. 2009 Nov-Dec;39(6):20-2. doi: 10.1353/hcr.0.0206.

Lessons from abroad.

Schmidt H(1), Kreis J.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics.

DOI: 10.1353/hcr.0.0206
PMID: 20050367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. J Food Prot. 2010 Jan;73(1):53-61. doi: 10.4315/0362-028x-73.1.53.

High-pressure treatment for shelf-life extension and quality improvement of 
oysters cooked in a traditional Taiwanese oyster omelet.

Lai KM(1), Chi HY, Hsu KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Diet and Restaurant Management, Chung Shan Medical 
University, No. 110 Sec. 1. Jianguo N. Road, Taichung 40242, Taiwan, Republic of 
China.

Whole oysters were processed using high-pressure (HP) treatment at 250 and 300 
MPa for 0 to 10 min and stored at 4 degrees Celsius for up to 28 days. 
HP-treated oysters and untreated oysters were evaluated for lipid oxidation, 
growth of microorganisms, and sensory characteristics after cooking at 160 
degrees Celsius for 90 s. Microbial counts after HP treatment revealed that the 
bacterial load was initially reduced at all pressures. HP-treated oysters had 
significantly higher pH and moisture (P < 0.05) relative to control (untreated) 
oysters during storage. HP treatment increased lipid oxidation with unpleasant 
odor during storage compared with the control. HP treatment decreased redness 
but did not significantly affect the brightness and yellowness of cooked 
oysters. From tests of mechanical properties, 300 MPa-treated oysters after 
cooking had significantly increased toughness as measured by cutting force. 
HP-treated oysters after cooking received higher quality scores than did the 
control during the storage trial. Results indicated that 300 MPa for 2 min is 
the optimum HP treatment that results in oysters most acceptable for oyster 
omelets during storage at 4 degrees Celsius, and this treatment may extend the 
shelf life of these oysters to 21 days.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028x-73.1.53
PMID: 20051204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. BMJ. 2010 Jan 5;340:b5493. doi: 10.1136/bmj.b5493.

NICE and new: appraising innovation.

Ferner RE(1), Hughes DA, Aronson JK.

Author information:
(1)West Midlands Centre For Adverse Drug Reactions, City Hospital, Birmingham 
B18 7QH.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.b5493
PMID: 20051468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. JAMA. 2010 Jan 6;303(1):35-6; author reply 36. doi: 10.1001/jama.2009.1937.

Process measures, outcome measures, and heart failure.

Loeb JM, Foster N.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2009 Aug 19;302(7):792-4.

