
Author information:
(1)Dr Baker & Partners, Morriston, Great Britain.

BACKGROUND: Published analyses have demonstrated that the lidocaine (lignocaine) 
plaster is a cost-effective treatment for postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) relative 
to gabapentin or pregabalin. However, these analyses have been based on indirect 
comparisons from placebo-controlled trials, and there is evidence of a 
discrepancy between the outcomes of direct and indirect analyses. Fortunately, 
recent publication of the results of a head-to-head trial comparing the 
lidocaine plaster and pregabalin in patients with PHN or diabetic polyneuropathy 
allows customization of the existing model to more accurately reflect the 
relative cost effectiveness of these two products.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the lidocaine 5% medicated 
plaster compared with pregabalin for the treatment of PHN in the UK primary-care 
setting.
METHODS: A Markov model has been developed to assess the costs and benefits of 
the lidocaine plaster and pregabalin over a 6-month time horizon for the 
treatment of patients with PHN who are intolerant to tricyclic antidepressants 
and in whom analgesics are ineffective or contraindicated. The model structure 
allows for differences in costs, utilities (derived from published data and from 
the head-to-head trial) and transition probabilities between the initial 30-day 
run-in period and maintenance therapy, and also takes account of add-in 
medication and drugs received by patients discontinuing therapy. The calculation 
was based on data from the recent head-to-head trial described above. Additional 
data sources included published literature, discussions with a Delphi panel, 
official price/tariff lists and national population statistics. The study was 
conducted from the perspective of the UK National Health Service (NHS).
RESULTS: The base-case analysis (1.71 lidocaine plasters per day used in the 
head-to-head trial for the PHN population) indicated that the total cost of 
treating PHN patients for 6 months with the lidocaine plaster was pound 980 per 
patient treated, compared with pound 784 for pregabalin (year of costing 2009). 
Costs for 1 month without pain and intolerable adverse events (AEs) (modified 
TWIST analysis) were pound 126 for the lidocaine plaster relative to pregabalin. 
The average patient treated with the lidocaine plaster experienced 0.321 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over the 6-month period modelled compared 
with 0.254 QALYs for pregabalin. Quality-of-life benefits were attributed to the 
favourable AE profile of the lidocaine plaster. Subsequently, the lidocaine 
plaster cost pound 2925 per QALY gained relative to pregabalin. However, patient 
level longitudinal data have shown that the actual clinical usage of the 
lidocaine plaster is 1.1 plasters per day. If this more realistic assumption is 
used in the model, the total cost for a 6-month treatment period was pound 756 
for the lidocaine plaster, which dominated treatment with pregabalin. Scenario 
analyses and sensitivity analyses had minimal impact on the results, confirming 
the robustness of the study. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios for the 
lidocaine plaster remained well below pound 35,000 per QALY gained in all 
analyses.
CONCLUSION: This analysis showed that the lidocaine 5% medicated plaster is a 
cost-effective method for obtaining sustained relief of localized neuropathic 
pain associated with PHN compared with pregabalin in a UK setting, in terms of 
both the cost per QALY gained and the cost per additional month without 
symptoms, when used for patients who do not experience sufficient pain relief 
from standard analgesics.

DOI: 10.2165/11533310-000000000-00000
PMID: 20067326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Clin Drug Investig. 2010;30(2):133-42. doi:
10.2165/11531910-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of atorvastatin in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus: a 
pharmacoeconomic analysis of the collaborative atorvastatin diabetes study in 
the belgian population.

Annemans L(1), Marbaix S, Webb K, Van Gaal L, Scheen A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus have a high 
risk of developing cardiovascular (CV) disease. The clinical benefit of use of 
statins in patients with type 2 diabetes has been demonstrated in several 
randomized, controlled trials, including the CARDS clinical trial. Based on the 
clinical CARDS data, the favourable cost effectiveness of atorvastatin 10 mg in 
patients with type 2 diabetes has been demonstrated in countries such as the UK 
and France. This study aimed to estimate the cost effectiveness in the Belgian 
setting of atorvastatin 10 mg compared with no treatment for the primary 
prevention of CV events in type 2 diabetes patients without a history of CV 
disease.
METHODS: A Markov model with 1-year cycles was developed to simulate the CV 
event and death risk according to the therapeutic approach initiated. The 
transition probabilities for CV events in the 'no statin treatment' group were 
derived from the risk equations reported from the large UKPDS. Risk reductions 
from the CARDS clinical trial were used to adjust these CV event probabilities 
in the atorvastatin 10 mg treatment group. The characteristics of type 2 
diabetes patients without a CV history were derived from the Belgian OCAPI 
survey. The public healthcare payers' perspective was taken into account for 
costing. The direct medical costs of CV events were based on the Public Health 
Authorities' hospital database for acute care costs and on the literature for 
the follow-up costs. The impact on the reimbursement system of generic entry to 
the market was considered in the drug cost. Costs were valued as at year 2009; 
costs and outcomes were discounted at 3% and 1.5%, respectively.
RESULTS: Based on a 5-year time horizon, atorvastatin was demonstrated to be 
cost effective with an incremental cost/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of 
euro 16,681. Over a lifetime horizon (25 years), atorvastatin was demonstrated 
to be a cost-saving therapeutic intervention. At a threshold of euro 
30,000/QALY, atorvastatin had a 98.8% probability of being cost effective.
CONCLUSION: Compared with 'no treatment', use of atorvastatin 10 mg as a primary 
prevention intervention in Belgian type 2 diabetes patients not only improves CV 
outcomes, but also appears to be cost saving over a lifetime horizon.

DOI: 10.2165/11531910-000000000-00000
PMID: 20067331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Pharmacoeconomics. 2010;28(3):175-84. doi: 10.2165/11530650-000000000-00000.

Healthcare rationing by proxy: cost-effectiveness analysis and the misuse of the 
$50,000 threshold in the US.

Bridges JF(1), Onukwugha E, Mullins CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA. jbridges@jhsph.edu

The application of cost-effectiveness analysis in healthcare has become 
commonplace in the US, but the validity of this approach is in jeopardy unless 
the proverbial $US50,000 per QALY benchmark for determining value for money is 
updated for the 21st century. While the initial aim of this article was to 
review the arguments for abandoning the $US50,000 threshold, it quickly turned 
to questioning whether we should maintain a fixed threshold at all. Our 
consideration of the relevance of thresholds was framed by two important 
historical considerations. First, cost-effectiveness analysis was developed for 
a resource allocation exercise where a threshold would be determined 
endogenously by maximizing a fixed budget across all possible interventions and 
not for piecemeal evaluation where a threshold needs to be set exogenously. 
Second, the foundations of the $US50,000 threshold are highly dubious, so it 
would be unacceptable merely to adjust for inflation or current clinical 
practice. Upon consideration of both sides of the argument, we conclude that the 
arguments for abandoning the concept for maintaining a fixed threshold outweigh 
those for keeping one. Furthermore, we document a variety of reasons why a 
threshold needs to vary in the US, including variations across payer, over time, 
in the true budget impact of interventions and in the measurement of the 
effectiveness of interventions. We conclude that while a threshold may be needed 
to interpret the results of a cost-effectiveness analysis, that threshold must 
vary across payers, populations and even procedures.

DOI: 10.2165/11530650-000000000-00000
PMID: 20067332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Int J Soc Psychiatry. 2011 May;57(3):277-83. doi: 10.1177/0020764009356839.
Epub  2010 Jan 12.

Are elderly dependency ratios associated with general population suicide rates?

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ethnicity and Mental Health, University of Central Lancashire, Preston, UK. 
ajit.shah@wlmht.nhs.uk

BACKGROUND: The elderly population size is increasing worldwide due to falling 
birth rates and increasing life expectancy. It has been hypothesized that as the 
elderly dependency ratio (the ratio of those over the age of 65 years to those 
under 65) increases, there will be fewer younger people available to care for 
older people and this, in turn, will increase the burden on younger carers with 
increased levels of psychiatric morbidity leading to an increase in general 
population suicide rates.
METHODS: A cross-national study examining the relationship between elderly 
dependency ratios and general population suicide rates was conducted using data 
from the World Health Organization and the United Nations websites.
RESULTS: The main findings were of a significant and independent positive 
correlation between elderly dependency ratios and general population suicide 
rates in both genders.
CONCLUSION: The contribution of cross-national differences in psychiatric 
morbidity in younger carers on general population suicide rates requires further 
study. The prevalence of psychiatric morbidity in younger carers of older people 
should be examined by: (i) cross-national studies using standardized measures of 
psychiatric morbidity that are education-free, culture-fair and language-fair; 
and (ii) within-country longitudinal studies with changing elderly dependency 
ratios over time.

DOI: 10.1177/0020764009356839
PMID: 20068022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Orig Life Evol Biosph. 2010 Jun;40(3):273-302. doi:
10.1007/s11084-009-9188-z.  Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Concentration of specific amino acids at the catalytic/active centers of 
highly-conserved "housekeeping" enzymes of central metabolism in archaea, 
bacteria and Eukaryota: is there a widely conserved chemical signal of prebiotic 
assembly?

Pollack JD(1), Pan X, Pearl DK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Virology, Immunology and Medical Genetics, The 
College of Medicine, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210, USA. 
pollack.1@osu.edu

In alignments of 1969 protein sequences the amino acid glycine and others were 
found concentrated at most-conserved sites within approximately 15 A of 
catalytic/active centers (C/AC) of highly conserved kinases, dehydrogenases or 
lyases of Archaea, Bacteria and Eukaryota. Lysine and glutamic acid were 
concentrated at least-conserved sites furthest from their C/ACs. 
Logistic-regression analyses corroborated the "movement" of glycine towards and 
lysine away from their C/ACs: the odds of a glycine occupying a site were 
decreased by 19%, while the odds for a lysine were increased by 53%, for every 
10 A moving away from the C/AC. Average conservation of MSA consensus sites was 
highest surrounding the C/AC and directly decreased in transition toward model's 
peripheries. Findings held with statistical confidence using sequences 
restricted to individual Domains or enzyme classes or to both. Our data describe 
variability in the rate of mutation and likelihoods for phylogenetic trees based 
on protein sequence data and endorse the extension of substitution models by 
incorporating data on conservation and distance to C/ACs rather than only using 
cumulative levels. The data support the view that in the most-conserved 
environment immediately surrounding the C/AC of taxonomically distant and highly 
conserved essential enzymes of central metabolism there are amino acids whose 
identity and degree of occupancy is similar to a proposed amino acid set and 
frequency associated with prebiotic evolution.

DOI: 10.1007/s11084-009-9188-z
PMID: 20069373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):413-24. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9584-x.

Creating and using the CDC HRQOL healthy days index with fixed option survey 
responses.

Zullig KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)West Virginia University, Morgantown, West Virginia, USA. kzullig@hsc.wvu.edu

PURPOSE: "Healthy days" are calculated by adding the number of poor physical and 
mental health days and subtracting the total from 30 days using the US Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) scale. 
This study sought to compute the index with forced responses and hypothesized 
significant HRQOL differences with demographic and risk behavior variables would 
be observed.
METHODS: Using the 1997 South Carolina YRBS and a 2007 university data set, 
variables were created based on the averages within each response option from 
the index items (e.g., 1-2 days would assigned as 1.5 days, etc.). Then the 
greater of the two values in each respective cell (poor physical or mental 
health days) was chosen for the analysis.
RESULTS: Although some differences existed between the two samples, the same 
general pattern of responses was established. Significant HRQOL differences were 
observed among selected demographic, substance use, weight perception, and 
self-rated health variables (P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Preliminary evidence suggests the "healthy days" calculation is a 
valid approach with fixed option responses.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9584-x
PMID: 20069376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Mol Cells. 2010 Jan;29(1):93-8. doi: 10.1007/s10059-010-0040-0. Epub 2010
Jan 8.

Blood-brain barrier defects associated with Rbp9 mutation.

Kim J(1), Kim YJ, Kim-Ha J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, College of Life Sciences, Sejong University, 
Seoul, 143-747, Korea.

Rbp9 is a Drosophila RNA-binding protein that shares a high level of sequence 
similarity with Drosophila elav and human Hu proteins. Loss of function alleles 
of elav are embryonic lethal causing abnormal central nervous system (CNS) 
development, and Hu is implicated in the development of paraneoplastic 
neurological syndrome associated with small cell lung cancer. To elucidate the 
role of Rbp9, we generated Rbp9 mutant flies and examined them for symptoms 
related to paraneoplastic encephalomyelitis. Although Rbp9 proteins begin to 
appear from the middle of the pupal period in the cortex of the CNS, the Rbp9 
mutants showed no apparent defects in development. However, as the mutant adult 
flies grew older, they showed reduced locomotor activities and lived only 
one-half of the life expectancy of wild-type flies. To understand the molecular 
mechanism underlying this symptom, gene expression profiles in Rbp9 mutants were 
analyzed and potential target genes were further characterized. Reduced 
expression of cell adhesion molecules was detected, and defects in the 
blood-brain barrier (BBB) of Rbp9 mutant brains could be seen. Putative 
Rbp9-binding sites were found in introns of genes that function in cell 
adhesion. Therefore, Rbp9 may regulate the splicing of cell adhesion molecules, 
critical for the formation of the BBB.

DOI: 10.1007/s10059-010-0040-0
PMID: 20069381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Prog Mol Subcell Biol. 2010;49:25-45. doi: 10.1007/978-3-642-02421-4_2.

Metabolic regulation and gene expression during aestivation.

Storey KB(1), Storey JM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel By Drive, 
Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, K1S 5B6. kenneth_storey@carleton.ca

The biochemical regulation of aestivation, a state of aerobic hypometabolism, 
achieves actions including strong overall suppression of metabolic rate, 
reprioritization of energy use by diverse cell functions, and enhancement of 
defenses such as protein chaperones and antioxidants that aid long-term life 
extension. This is accomplished by mechanisms that include differential action 
of intracellular signaling cascades, reversible protein phosphorylation to alter 
the activity states of multiple enzymes and functional proteins, global 
suppression of transcription and translation, and selective gene upregulation. 
Recent advances in understanding the regulation of aestivation are discussed 
with a particular emphasis on land snail and anuran models.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-02421-4_2
PMID: 20069403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Biotechnol J. 2010 Jan;5(1):113-28. doi: 10.1002/biot.200900218.

PEGylation of therapeutic proteins.

Jevsevar S(1), Kunstelj M, Porekar VG.

Author information:
(1)Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d., a Sandoz Company, Biopharmaceuticals, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia. simona.jevsevar@sandoz.com

Since the first PEGylated product was approved by the Food and Drug 
Administration in 1990, PEGylation has been widely used as a post-production 
modification methodology for improving biomedical efficacy and physicochemical 
properties of therapeutic proteins. Applicability and safety of this technology 
have been proven by use of various PEGylated pharmaceuticals for many years. It 
is expected that PEGylation, as the most established technology for extension of 
drug residence in the body, will play an important role in the next generation 
therapeutics, such as peptides, protein nanobodies and scaffolds, which due to 
their diminished molecular size need half-life extension. This review focuses on 
several factors important in the production of PEGylated biopharmaceuticals 
enabling efficient preparation of highly purified PEG-protein conjugates that 
have to meet stringent regulatory criteria for their use in human therapy. Areas 
addressed are PEG properties, the specificity of PEGylation reactions, 
separation and large-scale purification, the availability and analysis of PEG 
reagents, analysis of PEG-protein conjugates, the consistency of products and 
processes and approaches used for rapid screening of pharmacokinetic properties 
of PEG-protein conjugates.

DOI: 10.1002/biot.200900218
PMID: 20069580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Value Health. 2010 Jun-Jul;13(4):346-57. doi:
10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00676.x.  Epub 2010 Jan 8.

An evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of rituximab in combination with 
chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
in the UK.

Ray JA(1), Carr E, Lewis G, Marcus R.

Author information:
(1)F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Ltd., Basel, Switzerland. joshua.ray@roche.com

OBJECTIVES: In this study, the cost-effectiveness of rituximab was evaluated in 
comparison with commonly used chemotherapy regimens for patients with advanced 
follicular lymphoma (FL), from the perspective of the UK National Health Service 
(NHS).
METHODS: Results from four randomized controlled trials comparing the addition 
of rituximab to chemotherapy regimens: mitoxantrone, chlorambucil, and 
prednisolone (MCP); cyclophosphamide, vincristine, and prednisolone (CVP); 
cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisolone (CHOP); or 
cyclophosphamide, etoposide, doxorubicin, prednisolone, and interferon alpha 
(CHVP + IFNalpha) versus chemotherapy alone were used to develop a Markov model. 
The rates of disease progression and the duration of treatment effect were 
obtained from the trial data. Treatments were compared in two ways: 1) an 
individual comparison of rituximab + chemotherapy versus chemotherapy and 2) a 
multiple treatment comparison using league tables. Economic and clinical 
outcomes (quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs)) were estimated over patient 
lifetimes and discounted at 3.5% per annum.
RESULTS: In the individual comparison, the addition of rituximab increased QALYs 
by (mean, 95% confidence interval) 1.174 (1.02-1.30), 0.909 (0.79-1.01), 0.823 
(0.71-0.91), and 0.453 (0.40-0.50) for MCP, CVP, CHOP, and CHVP, respectively, 
compared with chemotherapy alone. The incremental costs per QALY gained were 
pound7474, pound8621, pound10,732, and pound8551, respectively. Sensitivity 
analyses indicated that rituximab plus chemotherapy was a cost-effective 
treatment option, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios below a threshold 
of pound30,000 per QALY gained. When compared across the chemotherapy regimens, 
rituximab plus MCP appeared to be the single most cost-effective treatment 
option, but further randomized trials are required to substantiate this.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of rituximab to chemotherapy in advanced FL was found 
to be highly cost-effective in the UK.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2009.00676.x
PMID: 20070643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2010 Mar;39(3):266-70. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2009.12.023. Epub 2010 Jan 13.

Natural history of thoraco-abdominal aneurysm in high-risk patients.

Hansen PA(1), Richards JM, Tambyraja AL, Khan LR, Chalmers RT.

Author information:
(1)Edinburgh Vascular Surgical Service, Clinical & Surgical Sciences (Surgery), 
University of Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2010 Mar;39(3):271-2.

INTRODUCTION: There is considerable interest in the role of novel endovascular 
techniques for the treatment of patients with complex aneurysms who are 
unsuitable for standard interventions. Knowledge of the natural history of these 
lesions, as well as other co-morbidities, is required in order that these 
techniques may be applied correctly in this high-risk group.
METHOD: This study reviews the outcome of patients deemed to be unfit for 
surgery following assessment under the Scottish National Thoraco-abdominal 
aneurysm service (TAAA) service (2002-2008).
RESULTS: Of 216 patients assessed, 89 (41%) patients were considered to be unfit 
for intervention. The median (interquartile range, IQR) age of patients was 75 
(70-80) years and there were 39 men (44%). Median (IQR) aneurysm size was 6 
(5.6-7.0) cm. The median (IQR) follow-up time was 12 (7-26) months. There were 
49 (55%) deaths during the follow-up period of which 23 (47%) cases were due to 
ruptured TAAA and 26 (53%) were not aneurysm-related. Comparing patients with 
aneurysms <6 cm (33 patients) with those aneurysms > or =6 cm (56 patients) 
there was no difference in aneurysm-related death (p = 0.32) or all-cause 
mortality (p = 0.147).
CONCLUSION: Aneurysm-related mortality amongst patients unsuitable for open TAAA 
surgery is considerable and evolving endovascular techniques may permit 
intervention in selected patients. However any intervention can only be 
justified if the patient's life expectancy is sufficient to allow benefit to 
accrue.

Copyright 2009 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2009.12.023
PMID: 20071200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. JAMA. 2010 Jan 20;303(3):275-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2009.2025. Epub 2010 Jan
13.

Fifth phase of the epidemiologic transition: the age of obesity and inactivity.

Gaziano JM.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2010 Jan 20;303(3):242-9.
    JAMA. 2010 Jan 20;303(3):235-41.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2009.2025
PMID: 20071469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Atten Disord. 2011 Jan;15(1):79-91. doi: 10.1177/1087054709356173. Epub
2010  Jan 13.

Effect of micronutrients on behavior and mood in adults With ADHD: evidence from 
an 8-week open label trial with natural extension.

Rucklidge J(1), Taylor M, Whitehead K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Canterbury, Christchurch, New 
Zealand. julia.rucklidge@canterbury.ac.nz

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of a 36-ingredient micronutrient formula 
consisting mainly of minerals and vitamins in the treatment of adults with both 
ADHD and severe mood dysregulation (SMD).
METHOD: 14 medication-free adults (9 men, 5 women; 18-55 years) with ADHD and 
SMD completed an 8-week open-label trial.
RESULTS: A minority reported transitory mild side effects. Significant 
improvements were noted across informants (self, observer, clinician) on 
measures of inattention and hyperactivity/impulsivity, mood, quality of life, 
anxiety, and stress all with medium to very large effect sizes (all ps < .01); 
however, the mean of inattention remained in a clinical range whereas the means 
on measures of mood and hyperactivity/impulsivity were normalized. Follow-up 
data showed maintenance of changes or further improvement for those who stayed 
on the micronutrients.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this study, as an open trial, does not in itself prove 
efficacy, it provides preliminary evidence supporting the need for a randomized 
clinical trial of micronutrients as treatment for the more complex presentations 
of ADHD.

DOI: 10.1177/1087054709356173
PMID: 20071638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Phys Med Biol. 2010 Feb 7;55(3):873-81. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/55/3/021.
Epub  2010 Jan 14.

Stereotactic fields shaped with a micro-multileaf collimator: systematic 
characterization of peripheral dose.

Taylor ML(1), McDermott LN, Johnston PN, Haynes M, Ackerly T, Kron T, Franich 
RD.

Author information:
(1)School of Applied Science, RMIT University, GPO Box 2476, Melbourne, Victoria 
3000, Australia. michael.taylor@rmit.edu.au

Despite the highly localized doses that may be delivered via stereotactic 
radiotherapy, a small dose is nonetheless delivered to out-of-field regions, 
which may cause detriment to the patient. In this work, a systematic set of dose 
measurements have been undertaken up to a distance of 45 cm from the isocentre, 
for stereotactic fields shaped by a BrainLAB mini-multileaf collimator (MMLC) 
mounted on a Varian 600C linear accelerator. A range of treatment parameters 
were varied so as to determine the factors of greatest influence and establish 
relationships with dose. The commercial treatment planning software (TPS) 
miscalculates the dose to out-of-field regions. Measured dose decreases 
consistently out to 45 cm, whereas the TPS decreases out to 10-15 cm, at which 
point the predicted dose is constant. At the 5-10 cm off-axis distance (OAD), 
measurements indicate doses of about 5-10% of the dose at the isocentre, 1% at 
15 cm OAD and 0.1% at 45 cm OAD. There are several observed trends. Greater MMLC 
field sizes (with static jaw) result in higher out-of-field dose, as do 
shallower depths. The source-to-surface distance does not greatly influence 
peripheral dose. However, the results given in this work do indicate that simple 
treatment arrangements, such as preferable collimator rotation, would in certain 
cases reduce out-of-field dose by an order of magnitude. Peripheral dose raises 
questions of treatment optimization, particularly in cases where patients have a 
long life expectancy in which secondary effects may become manifest, such as in 
the treatment of paediatric patients or those with a non-malignant primary. For 
instance, for a 20 Gy hypo-fractionated treatment, dose to out-of-field regions 
is of the order of cGy-a substantial dose in radiation protection terms.

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/55/3/021
PMID: 20071767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Tijdschr Gerontol Geriatr. 2009 Dec;40(6):228-36. doi: 10.1007/BF03088516.

[Compression of morbidity: a promising approach to alleviate the societal 
consequences of population ageing?].

[Article in Dutch]

Klijs B(1), Nusselder WJ, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Afdeling Maatschappelijke Gezondheidszorg, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam. 
b.klijs@erasmusmc.nl

There is an urgent need for strategies that alleviate the societal consequences 
of population ageing. A possible strategy is aiming for compression of 
morbidity. Some of the initial conditions for a compression of morbidity have 
been invalidated. This is, the life expectancy has shown a much stronger 
increase than was expected and the modal age at death has exceeded the age of 
85. Additionally, trend studies have found no consistent evidence for a 
compression of morbidity. At the department of Public Health, we aim at 
identifying entry-points for a compression. For example, an analysis was 
performed on potential contributions of changes in exposure to life style 
factors (smoking, hypertension, physical inactivity and overweight/obesity) to 
compression of cardiovascular disease, using multi-state life tables with data 
from the Framingham Heart Study. It was shown that smoking and physical 
inactivity increased the incidence of cardiovascular disease, as well as 
mortality with and without cardiovascular disease. Hypertension and overweight 
mainly increased the incidence of cardiovascular disease and were associated 
with a shorter lifespan and more years with cardiovascular disease. 
Interventions on the latter risk factors will therefore increase the life 
expectancy, but will also result in a compression of morbidity. For policymakers 
and researchers it is important to find a mix of interventions that lead to a 
comparable overall effect.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03088516
PMID: 20073271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. J Spec Pediatr Nurs. 2010 Jan;15(1):72-83. doi: 
10.1111/j.1744-6155.2009.00220.x.

Evaluation of technology to identify and assess overweight children and 
adolescents.

Gance-Cleveland B(1), Gilbert LH, Kopanos T, Gilbert KC.

Author information:
(1)Arizona State University, College of Nursing and Health Innovation, Phoenix, 
Arizona, USA. bonnie.gance-cleveland@asu.edu

PURPOSE: The current obesity epidemic has produced a generation of children that 
may be the first to have a life expectancy shorter than their parents. To 
address the obesity epidemic, experts have published recommendations for 
providers. Research suggests the publication of guidelines may not change 
provider behavior.
DESIGN AND METHODS: This study evaluates computer assistance for implementing 
obesity guidelines in school-based health centers.
RESULTS: Significant improvements in identification and assessment of obesity in 
children with technology support were noted.
PRACTICE IMPLICATIONS: Computer decision support shows promise for promoting the 
implementation of current recommendations by supporting providers in 
identifying, assessing, and providing tailored recommendations for children at 
risk of obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-6155.2009.00220.x
PMID: 20074114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Int J Immunopathol Pharmacol. 2009 Oct-Dec;22(4):1135-41. doi: 
10.1177/039463200902200432.

Life expectancy of women with lupus nephritis now approaches that of the general 
population.

Stratta P, Mesiano P, Campo A, Grill A, Ferrero S, Santi S, Besso L, Mazzucco G, 
Rosso S, Spitale A, Fop F, Ciccone G.

Immunosuppressive treatment has changed the prognosis of Lupus nephritis over 
time, but improvement in prognosis is difficult to analyze in different 
historical periods, and should be better demonstrated in comparison with life 
expectancy of sex-and age-matched people. Long-term patient and renal survival 
of 90 patients diagnosed with Lupus nephritis at our center from 1968 to 2001 
with a follow-up time of 14+/-8 years was retrospectively evaluated. Patient and 
kidney survival significantly increased over time. Multivariate analyses show 
that risks of patient and renal death decreased by 8% at each year of follow-up, 
and increased by more than 5 time in patients aged > 30 years at diagnosis. As 
only 14 patients were men, relative survival as compared to that of the sex- and 
age-matched general population of the Piedmont Region was calculated for the 76 
women. Improvement in the survival of the cohort of women was seen at any time 
of follow-up: in particular, it was sharply lower in the first period (relative 
survival at 5, 10 and 15 years = 0.784, 0.665, and 0.620, respectively) and 
increased in the second (relative survival at 5, 10 and 15 years = 0.939, 0.921, 
and 0.850, respectively) nearly approaching that expected for the general 
population, i.e. 0.993, 0.983 and 0.967, respectively. Taken together, our data 
allow us to draw the conclusion that life expectancy in women with Lupus 
nephritis has improved over time, paralleling an improved awareness of the 
disease and a significant increase in steroid pulse therapy as 
induction/remission phase. Improvement in survival is for the first time 
demonstrated to cover the gap with life expectancy of the general population for 
women with Lupus nephritis.

DOI: 10.1177/039463200902200432
PMID: 20074480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Int J Immunopathol Pharmacol. 2009 Oct-Dec;22(4):1147-52. doi: 
10.1177/039463200902200434.

The economic burden of biological therapy in rheumatoid arthritis in clinical 
practice: cost-effectiveness analysis of sub-cutaneous anti-TNFalpha treatment 
in Italian patients.

Benucci M, Li Gobbi F, Sabadini L, Saviola G, Baiardi P, Manfredi M.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), with a prevalence of 0.46%, is found in about 272,004 
patients in Italy. The socioeconomic cost of rheumatoid arthritis in Italy in 
2002 has been estimated at Euro 1,600 million. Cost-effectiveness evaluations 
have been based on the concept that, with treatment, patients will not progress 
to the next level(s) of disease severity or will take a longer time to progress, 
thus avoiding or delaying the high costs and low utility associated with more 
severe disease. Many cost-effective studies have been based on the variation of 
Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ) in clinical trials. The objective of this 
study is to perform a cost-effective analysis of 86 patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis in therapy with adalimumab 40 mg every other week and etanercept 50 
mg/week for two years in a population of patients observed in clinical practice. 
The group of patients in therapy with adalimumab had also taken methotrexate, 
mean dose 12.4+/-2.5 mg/week (22 patients) or leflunomide 20 mg/day (16 
patients). The group of patients in therapy with etanercept had also taken 
methotrexate, mean dose 11.7+/-2.6 mg/week (24 patients) or leflunomide 20 
mg/day (24 patients). Incremental costs and QALYs (quality adjusted life years) 
gains are calculated compared with baseline, assuming that without biologic 
treatment patients would remain at the baseline level through the year. 
Conversion HAQ scores to utility were based on the Bansback algorithm. The 
results after two years showed: in the group methotrexate+adalimumab the QALY 
gained was 0.62+/-0.15 with a treatment cost of Euro 26,517.62 and a QALY/cost 
of Euro 42,521.13. In the group methotrexate + etanercept the QALY gained was 
0.64+/-0.26 with a treatment cost of Euro 25,020.96 and a QALY/cost of Euro 
39,171.76. The result of using etanercept in association with methotrexate is 
cost-effectiveness with a QALY gained under the acceptable threshold of Euro 
50,000. These are important data for discussion from an economic point of view 
when we choose a biologic therapy for rheumatoid arthritis in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1177/039463200902200434
PMID: 20074482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Cell Metab. 2010 Jan;11(1):35-46. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2009.11.010.

Mechanisms of life span extension by rapamycin in the fruit fly Drosophila 
melanogaster.

Bjedov I(1), Toivonen JM, Kerr F, Slack C, Jacobson J, Foley A, Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Department of Genetics, Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, UK.

The target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is a major nutrient-sensing pathway that, 
when genetically downregulated, increases life span in evolutionarily diverse 
organisms including mammals. The central component of this pathway, TOR kinase, 
is the target of the inhibitory drug rapamycin, a highly specific and 
well-described drug approved for human use. We show here that feeding rapamycin 
to adult Drosophila produces the life span extension seen in some TOR mutants. 
Increase in life span by rapamycin was associated with increased resistance to 
both starvation and paraquat. Analysis of the underlying mechanisms revealed 
that rapamycin increased longevity specifically through the TORC1 branch of the 
TOR pathway, through alterations to both autophagy and translation. Rapamycin 
could increase life span of weak insulin/Igf signaling (IIS) pathway mutants and 
of flies with life span maximized by dietary restriction, indicating additional 
mechanisms.

2010 Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2009.11.010
PMCID: PMC2824086
PMID: 20074526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Am J Public Health. 2010 Oct;100(10):1917-23. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.158485.
 Epub 2010 Jan 14.

Impact of cognitive impairment on screening mammography use in older US women.

Mehta KM(1), Fung KZ, Kistler CE, Chang A, Walter LC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco, and the San 
Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA. 
kala.mehta@ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVES: We evaluated mammography rates for cognitively impaired women in the 
context of their life expectancies, given that guidelines do not recommend 
screening mammography in women with limited life expectancies because harms 
outweigh benefits.
METHODS: We evaluated Medicare claims for women aged 70 years or older from the 
2002 wave of the Health and Retirement Study to determine which women had 
screening mammography. We calculated population-based estimates of 2-year 
screening mammography prevalence and 4-year survival by cognitive status and 
age.
RESULTS: Women with severe cognitive impairment had lower rates of mammography 
(18%) compared with women with normal cognition (45%). Nationally, an estimated 
120,000 screening mammograms were performed among women with severe cognitive 
impairment despite this group's median survival of 3.3 years (95% confidence 
interval = 2.8, 3.7). Cognitively impaired women who had high net worth and were 
married had screening rates approaching 50%.
CONCLUSIONS: Although severe cognitive impairment is associated with lower 
screening mammography rates, certain subgroups with cognitive impairment are 
often screened despite lack of probable benefit. Given the limited life 
expectancy of women with severe cognitive impairment, guidelines should 
explicitly recommend against screening these women.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2008.158485
PMCID: PMC2936976
PMID: 20075325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Circ J. 2010 Mar;74(3):449-55. doi: 10.1253/circj.cj-09-0586. Epub 2010 Jan
14.

Mid-term results and costs of coronary artery bypass vs drug-eluting stents for 
unprotected left main coronary artery disease.

Shimizu T(1), Ohno T, Ando J, Fujita H, Nagai R, Motomura N, Ono M, Kyo S, 
Takamoto S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, The University of Tokyo, Japan. 
tshimizu-cvs@umin.ac.jp

Comment in
    Circ J. 2010 Mar;74(3):426-7.
    Circ J. 2010 Oct;74(10):2244; author reply 2245.

BACKGROUND: The optimal revascularization strategy for unprotected left main 
coronary artery (ULMCA) disease in the era of drug-eluting stents (DES) has 
become more controversial between coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Since April 2004, 89 patients underwent CABG, including 82 
(92.1%) off-pump procedures and 63 patients underwent PCI with DES for ULMCA 
disease. Major adverse cardiac and cerebrovascular events (MACCE: death, acute 
myocardial infarction, stroke and repeat revascularization) and hospitalization 
costs were compared. Patients in the CABG group were likely to have multivessel 
disease and higher euroSCORE. The mean follow-up was 2.2+/-1.1 years in the CABG 
group and 1.6+/-0.8 years in the DES group (P<0.001). The overall survival rate 
did not differ (P=0.288) between the groups (CABG: 93.4% and DES: 91.9% at 2 
years). The MACCE-free survival rate was better (P=0.033) in the CABG group 
(CABG: 82.2% and DES: 62.6% at 2 years). Total hospitalization costs were lower 
(P=0.013) in the CABG group (median: 3,225 thousand yen) than in the DES group 
(median: 4,192 thousand yen).
CONCLUSIONS: CABG might be associated with cost-effectiveness and could be still 
the first revascularization strategy for ULMCA disease.

DOI: 10.1253/circj.cj-09-0586
PMID: 20075560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Curr Opin Hematol. 2010 Mar;17(2):125-32. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e3283366c59.

Systemic mastocytosis in adults: a review on prognosis and treatment based on 
342 Mayo Clinic patients and current literature.

Pardanani A(1), Tefferi A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota, USA. pardanani.animesh@mayo.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Systemic mastocytosis is a neoplastic disease of mast cells 
that often harbors a KIT mutation and involves the bone marrow. The current 
review provides an update on prognosis and treatment of systemic mastocytosis, 
including investigational drug therapy.
RECENT FINDINGS: We have recently examined survival data and treatment outcome 
in 342 adult patients with systemic mastocytosis seen at our institution. Life 
expectancy in indolent systemic mastocytosis was not significantly different 
than that of the control population; however, prognosis was not as good in the 
WHO indolent systemic mastocytosis variant of smoldering mastocytosis. Prognosis 
in systemic mastocytosis associated with another myeloid malignancy was 
significantly better in the absence of morphological features of myelodysplasia 
or monocytosis. On the contrary, although prevalent, eosinophilia had little 
prognostic impact. Cladribine and interferon alpha were therapeutically the most 
effective drugs. Current experience suggests limited treatment success with 
either imatinib mesylate or other anti-KIT D816V kinase inhibitors. TET2 
mutations have recently been described in approximately 29% of patients with 
systemic mastocytosis, but their pathogenetic or treatment relevance is unknown.
SUMMARY: Primary data from a large series of patients have enabled delineation 
of well defined prognostic groups in systemic mastocytosis and clarification of 
the merits of conventional drugs for aggressive systemic mastocytosis.

DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0b013e3283366c59
PMID: 20075725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Nurse Pract. 2009 Apr;34(4):11-3. doi: 10.1097/01.NPR.0000348315.45989.d5.

Achieving developmental milestones in a chronically ill patient.

Jansen MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Adult Pulmonary Clinic, University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics, 
Madison, WI, USA.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NPR.0000348315.45989.d5
PMID: 20075796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Eur J Popul. 2007 Mar;23(1):33-69. doi: 10.1007/s10680-006-9104-4. Epub 2007
Mar  1.

Assumptions for long-term stochastic population forecasts in 18 European 
countries: Hypothèses de projections stochastiquesàlong terme des populations de 
18 pays européens.

Alders M, Keilman N, Cruijsen H.

The aim of the 'Uncertain Population of Europe'(UPE) project was to compute 
long-term stochastic (probabilistic) population forecasts for 18 European 
countries. We developed a general methodology for constructing predictive 
distributions for fertility, mortality and migration. The assumptions underlying 
stochastic population forecasts can be assessed by analysing errors in past 
forecasts or model-based estimates of forecast errors, or by expert judgement. 
All three approaches have been used in the project. This article summarizes and 
discusses the results of the three approaches. It demonstrates how the-sometimes 
conflicting-results can be synthesized into a consistent set of assumptions 
about the expected levels and the uncertainty of total fertility rate, life 
expectancy at birth of men and women, and net migration for 18 European 
countries.

Le but du projet ‘Uncertain population of Europe’(UPE) était de calculer des 
projections de population stochastiques (probabilistes)àlong terme des 
populations de 18 pays européens. Nous avons développé une méthodologie générale 
pour construire des distributions prédictives de fécondité, mortalité et 
migration. Les hypothèses sous-jacentes aux projections stochastiques de 
populations peuvent être élaborées en analysant les erreurs de projections 
passées, en effectuant une modélisation pour estimer les erreurs de projection, 
ou par un jugement d’expert. Les trois approches ont été appliquées dans le 
projet, et leurs résultats sont résumés et discutés dans cet article. Nous 
démontrons que les résultats, parfois contradictoires, peuvent être synthétisés 
pour former un ensemble cohérent d’hypothèses concernant les niveaux attendus et 
l’incertitude autour de l’indice synthétique de fécondité, de l’espérance de 
vieàla naissance des hommes et des femmes, et de la migration nette dans 18 pays 
européens.

DOI: 10.1007/s10680-006-9104-4
PMCID: PMC2798034
PMID: 20076758


319. Qual Life Res. 2010 Apr;19(3):339-49. doi: 10.1007/s11136-010-9586-8.

Are youth BMI and physical activity associated with better or worse than 
expected health-related quality of life in adulthood? The Physical Activity 
Longitudinal Study.

Herman KM(1), Hopman WM, Craig CL.

Author information:
(1)School of Kinesiology & Health Studies, Queen's University, Kingston, ON K7L 
3N6, Canada. 5ch3@queensu.ca

PURPOSE: Body mass index (BMI) and physical activity (PA) affect health-related 
quality of life (HRQL); however, the long-term impact of youth BMI and PA on 
adult HRQL is unknown. We investigated the relationship of youth BMI and PA to 
adult HRQL 22 years later.
METHODS: Subjects included 310 participants aged 7 to 18 in the 1981 Canada 
Fitness Survey, followed up in 2002-2004. The associations of youth BMI and 
leisure time PA to adult HRQL were examined, comparing to age- and sex-adjusted 
Canadian SF-36 norms.
RESULTS: Bivariate analyses revealed positive associations between youth 
overweight and mental aspects of adult HRQL, but little association with 
physical aspects. In logistic regression adjusting for adult BMI and other 
covariates, overweight youth were 7 times more likely than healthy weight youth 
to score at/above the norm on both mental health (MH) and bodily pain, and 
almost 18 times more likely on the mental component score (MCS). Youth BMI was 
also positively associated with general health (GH), social functioning, and 
role emotional. Removing adult BMI from the models led to attenuated 
associations with mental HRQL and no association with GH. Longitudinal BMI 
status change was explored, and findings supported the main regression results. 
Youth PA was not associated with adult HRQL.
CONCLUSIONS: Youth overweight conveyed a long-term positive impact on several 
aspects of adult HRQL, and this impact may be both direct and indirect through 
BMI change and the effect on adult BMI. Youth PA had no long-term impact on 
adult HRQL.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-010-9586-8
PMID: 20077141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Res Gerontol Nurs. 2009 Apr;2(2):128-36. doi: 10.3928/19404921-20090401-02.

Ethical considerations regarding the use of technology for older adults. The 
case of telehealth.

Demiris G(1), Doorenbos AZ, Towle C.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing, University of Washington, BNHS-Box 357266, Seattle, WA 
98195-7266, USA. gdemiris@u.washington.edu

Life expectancy increases and ongoing growth of the population older than 65 
have led to new models of aging research aimed at promoting independence and 
empowerment of older adults. Advances in information technology have introduced 
numerous ways to enhance or expand health care and support service research and 
development. The purpose of this article is to discuss ethical considerations 
associated with the use of technology with older adults in research and practice 
and to present a framework for such ethical parameters. Specifically, we focus 
on the case of telehealth and discuss examples from the Native People for Cancer 
Control Telehealth Network to exemplify the framework. The proposed framework 
includes the concepts of privacy, informed consent, equity of access, 
patient-provider communication, and usability. These issues constitute a roadmap 
for researchers, practitioners, system designers, policy makers, and 
administrators who aim to conduct ethical research that results in improved care 
and support services to older adults and increase health care access for rural 
and underserved populations.

Copyright 2009, SLACK Incorporated.

DOI: 10.3928/19404921-20090401-02
PMID: 20077974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2009 Dec;33(6):544-50. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2009.00451.x.

Avoidable mortality trends in Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal populations in the 
Northern Territory, 1985-2004.

Li SQ(1), Gray N, Guthridge S, Pircher S, Wang Z, Zhao Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Gains Planning, Northern Territory Department of Health and Families, 
Casuarina, NT 0811. shu.li@nt.gov.au

OBJECTIVES: To analyse rates of avoidable mortality in Aboriginal and 
non-Aboriginal residents of the Northern Territory (NT) from 1985 to 2004, in 
order to assess the contribution of health care to life expectancy improvements.
METHODS: Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) death registration data for NT 
residents were used to identify 'avoidable' deaths, with further separation into 
three categories of conditions amenable to either medical care or health policy, 
and a category for ischaemic heart disease (IHD). A Poisson regression model was 
used to calculate the average annual change in avoidable mortality by sex and 
Aboriginality in the NT compared with Australia as a whole.
RESULTS: In the 20 years between 1985 and 2004, avoidable mortality rates fell 
18.9% in NT Aboriginal people, 61.1% in NT non-Aboriginal people and 59.5% in 
Australians overall. NT Aboriginal people continued to experience higher 
avoidable mortality than other Australians and the disparity increased over 
time. Most of the decline in avoidable mortality for Aboriginal Territorians 
occurred for conditions amenable to medical care.
CONCLUSION: Medical care has made a significant contribution to improvements in 
Aboriginal life expectancy in the NT; however, reductions in avoidable mortality 
from IHD and conditions amenable to health policy have been variable.
IMPLICATIONS: The results highlight the need for ongoing investment in 
comprehensive programs incorporating appropriate health policy interventions and 
management of chronic diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2009.00451.x
PMID: 20078572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Eur J Cancer. 2010 Mar;46(5):920-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2009.12.028. Epub
2010  Jan 14.

First-time-in-man and pharmacokinetic study of weekly oral perifosine in 
patients with solid tumours.

Unger C(1), Berdel W, Hanauske AR, Sindermann H, Engel J, Mross K.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Tumorbiologie an der Albert-Ludwigs Universität, Freiburg, 
Germany. unger@tumorbio.uni-freiburg.de

AIM: To identify the maximum-tolerated dose (MTD) and pharmacokinetics of oral 
perifosine.
METHODS: Patients with solid tumours received perifosine at dosages ranging from 
100-800mg/week. Eligibility criteria included life expectancy>12weeks, WHO 
performance status2, normal blood, liver and renal functions and no recent 
anticancer treatment. Drug concentrations were analysed by HPLC-MS/MS.
RESULTS: Thirty six patients were recruited (75% males, mean age 54.7years, 
performance status 1 in 72.2%). Adverse events included nausea (69.4%), 
diarrhoea (55.6%), vomiting (52.8%) and abdominal pain (13.9%). Antiemetic 
regimens including glucocorticoids, dopamine antagonists and 5-HT3-antagonists 
were used as treatment and/or prophylaxis in 50% of the patients. Though MTD was 
