cost-effective was greater at a threshold of 30 million KRW per QALY (93.7%) 
than at 20 million KRW per QALY (53.8%).

Copyright 2009 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.12.013
PMID: 20110032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Clin Ther. 2009;31 Pt 2:2398-415. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.11.016.

Cost-effectiveness of pentostatin compared with cladribine in the management of 
hairy cell leukemia in the United Kingdom.

Guest JF(1), Smith H, Sladkevicius E, Jackson G.

Author information:
(1)Catalyst Health Economics Consultants, Northwood, Middlesex, United Kingdom; 
Postgraduate Medical School, University of Surrey, Guildford, Surrey, United 
Kingdom. julian.guest@catalyst-health.co.uk

OBJECTIVE: This article assesses the cost-effectiveness of pentostatin compared 
with cladribine in the management of hairy cell leukemia (HCL) in the United 
Kingdom.
METHODS: A systematic literature search for papers on HCL was performed using 
MEDLINE, EMBASE, Current Contents, NHS Economic Evaluation Database, and the 
Cochrane computerized database. Search terms were HCL plus 1 of the following: 
incidence, prevalence, epidemiology, cladribine, interferon, pentostatin, 
rituximab, splenectomy, utility, quality of life, cost-effectiveness, 
cost-utility, resource utilization, economic, or cost. Published clinical 
outcomes and estimates of health care resource use obtained from 10 consultant 
hematologists across the United Kingdom were used to construct a 5-year Markov 
model depicting the current management of HCL in the United Kingdom. Utilities 
for health states in the model were obtained from the general public using 
standard gamble, time tradeoff, and visual analog scale techniques. The model 
was used to consider the decision by a clinician to initially treat an HCL 
patient with either pentostatin or cladribine and to estimate the relative 
cost-effectiveness of pentostatin over 5 years (at 2007/2008 prices) from the 
perspective of the UK's National Health Service (NHS).
RESULTS: According to the model, 64% of all pentostatin-treated patients are 
expected to be in relapse-free remission at 5 years compared with 49% of 
cladribine-treated patients (P = 0.04). Repeat treatment of initial partial 
responders, nonresponders, and those who relapse during the 5 years is expected 
to result in complete remission in 92% of pentostatintreated patients and 90% of 
cladribine-treated patients at 5 years. Using pentostatin instead of cladribine 
is expected to lead to a minimal cost increase (from 21,325 pounds to 21,609 
pounds) and an improvement in health status (from 3.64 to 3.77 quality-adjusted 
life-years [QALYs]) over 5 years. Hence, the cost per QALY gained from using 
pentostatin is expected to be 5000 pounds. Moreover, pentostatin has a 0.90 
probability of being cost-effective for a threshold of 20,000 pounds per QALY. 
Accordingly, using pentostatin as a first-line treatment for patients with HCL 
is an effective use of NHS resources.
CONCLUSION: Based on current practice, this model predicts that pentostatin is a 
cost-effective treatment compared with cladribine in the management of HCL from 
the perspective of the UK's NHS.

Copyright 2009 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2009.11.016
PMID: 20110049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. J Biol Chem. 2010 Mar 26;285(13):9357-9366. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M109.089987.
Epub  2010 Jan 28.

Direct interaction between quorum-sensing regulator SmcR and RNA polymerase is 
mediated by integration host factor to activate vvpE encoding elastase in Vibrio 
vulnificus.

Jeong HS(1), Kim SM(1), Lim MS(1), Kim KS(2), Choi SH(3).

Author information:
(1)National Research Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Toxicology, 
Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Center for Agricultural Biomaterials, 
and Research Institute for Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 151-921, South Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science and Interdisciplinary Program of Integrated 
Biotechnology, Sogang University, Seoul 121-742, South Korea.
(3)National Research Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology and Toxicology, 
Department of Agricultural Biotechnology, Center for Agricultural Biomaterials, 
and Research Institute for Agriculture and Life Sciences, Seoul National 
University, Seoul 151-921, South Korea. Electronic address: choish@snu.ac.kr.

It has been suggested that quorum sensing is an important signal transduction 
system regulating the expression of numerous virulence genes in bacterial 
pathogens. We previously revealed that SmcR, a LuxR homologue of Vibrio 
vulnificus, activates promoter S, an RpoS-dependent promoter of vvpE encoding a 
potential virulence factor elastase and binds in vitro to a binding site 
centered at -196.5. In this study, chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and 
promoter deletion analyses demonstrated that SmcR binds to the vvpE regulatory 
region in vivo and directly interacts with RNAP for activation of the vvpE 
expression. A search for regulatory genes involved in the regulation of elastase 
production singled out ihfA, which encodes for a subunit of integration host 
factor (IHF). Levels of both elastase activity and vvpE transcript decreased 
significantly as a result of inactivation of ihfA, and primer extension analyses 
demonstrated that IHF regulates the vvpE transcription by activating PS. Direct 
binding of IHF to the two distinct binding sites centered at -174 and -131, 
respectively, was determined using an electrophoretic mobility shift assay and a 
DNase I protection assay. Chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that the 
interaction of SmcR with RNAP in vivo was mediated by IHF. Collectively, the 
results proposed a model whereby IHF positions SmcR to contact RNAP by looping 
the vvpE regulatory DNA, thus allowing precise control of the expression level 
of VvpE during the pathogenesis of V. vulnificus.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M109.089987
PMCID: PMC2843184
PMID: 20110369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Diabetologia. 2010 May;53(5):907-13. doi: 10.1007/s00125-009-1650-y. Epub
2010  Jan 29.

Independent effects of weight gain and fetal programming on metabolic 
complications in adults born small for gestational age.

Meas T(1), Deghmoun S, Alberti C, Carreira E, Armoogum P, Chevenne D, 
Lévy-Marchal C.

Author information:
(1)INSERM Unité U690, Hôpital Robert Debré, 48 Boulevard Sérurier, 75019 Paris, 
France. taly.meas@lrb.aphp.fr

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Insulin resistance (IR) and the metabolic syndrome (MS) have 
been reported in adults as a consequence of being born small for gestational age 
(SGA). The process seems to be initiated early in life; however, little is known 
about the progression of MS and IR in young adults. We hypothesised that being 
born SGA would promote a greater progression over time of IR and MS, reflecting 
not only the gain in weight and fat mass but also the extension of the fetal 
programming process.
METHODS: Participants were selected from a community-based cohort and born 
full-term either SGA (birthweight <10th percentile) or appropriate for 
gestational age (25th < birthweight < 75th percentile). A total of 1,308 
individuals were prospectively followed between the ages of 22 and 30 years.
RESULTS: At both ages, individuals born SGA were more insulin-resistant and 
showed a significantly higher prevalence of MS. Over the 8 year follow-up, the 
risk of developing MS was twofold higher in those SGA, after adjustment for gain 
in BMI, whereas the progression of IR was not significantly affected by the 
birth status.
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Our data suggest that metabolic disorders in SGA 
individuals are amplified by the weight gain with time when adults, both 
probably resulting from fetal programming. Moreover, the modest increase in IR 
contrasts with the constant and much higher prevalence of MS.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-009-1650-y
PMID: 20111856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Int J Cancer. 2010 Nov 1;127(9):2147-58. doi: 10.1002/ijc.25211.

The health and economic effects of HPV DNA screening in The Netherlands.

Berkhof J(1), Coupé VM, Bogaards JA, van Kemenade FJ, Helmerhorst TJ, Snijders 
PJ, Meijer CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical Centre, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

We studied the health and economic effects of human papillomavirus (HPV) DNA 
testing in cervical screening using a simulation model. The key data source was 
a Dutch longitudinal screening trial. We compared cytological testing with 
repeat cytology (for borderline/mildly abnormal smears) to HPV testing with 
cytology triage (for HPV-positive smears), combination testing (combined HPV and 
cytology) and cytological testing with HPV triage (for borderline/mildly 
abnormal smears). We varied the screening interval from 5 to 10 years. The main 
outcome measures were the number of cervical cancer cases, the number of 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER). The base-case estimates were accompanied with ranges across 118 
calibrated parameter settings (calibration criteria: cervical intraepithelial 
neoplasia 2/3, cancer and mortality rates). In comparison to 5-yearly cytology, 
5-yearly HPV testing with cytology triage gave a reduction in the number of 
cancer cases of 23% (range, 9-27%). The reduction was 26% (range, 10-29%) for 
combination testing and 3% (range, -1 to 8%) for cytology with HPV triage. For 
strategies with primary HPV testing, the model also estimated a reduction in 
cancer cases when the screening interval was extended to 7.5 years. Five-yearly 
cytology with HPV triage and 5 to 7.5-yearly HPV testing with cytology triage 
were cost effective for the base-case settings and the majority of calibrated 
parameter settings (ICER below Dutch willingness-to-pay threshold of 
euro20,000/QALY). Our model indicates that HPV testing with cytology triage is 
likely to be cost effective. An extension of the screening interval may be 
considered to control costs.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.25211
PMID: 20112339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Md Med. 2009 Autumn;10(3):6-8.

What's wrong with American medicine? Popular myths, fables, fantasies and 
delusions.

Gershen BJ.

Comment in
    Md Med. 2010 Spring;11(2):5.
    Md Med. 2010 Winter;11(1):5; author reply 5-6.

PMID: 20112765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. BMC Public Health. 2010 Jan 29;10:45. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-45.

Burden of injury in childhood and adolescence in 8 European countries.

Polinder S(1), Haagsma JA, Toet H, Brugmans MJ, van Beeck EF; EUROCOST and 
APOLLO reference groups.

Collaborators: Bauer R, Larsen C, Lyons R, Magee H, Laursen B, Wiik J, Toet H, 
Misins J, Nadrag P, Simon MR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Centre, University Medical 
Centre Rotterdam, The Netherlands. s.polinder@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: Injury is the major cause of death and suffering among children and 
adolescents, but awareness of the problem and political commitment for 
preventive actions remain unacceptably low. We have assessed variation in the 
burden of injuries in childhood and adolescence in eight European countries.
METHODS: Hospital, emergency department, and mortality databases of injury 
patients aged 0-24 years were analyzed for Austria, Denmark, Ireland, Latvia, 
Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia and the United Kingdom (England, Wales). Years 
lost due to premature mortality (YLL), years lived with disability (YLD), and 
disability adjusted life years (DALYs) were calculated.
RESULTS: Differences in the burden of injury in childhood and adolescence are 
large, with a fourfold gap between the safest countries (Netherlands and UK) in 
western-Europe and the relatively unsafe countries (Latvia and Slovenia) in the 
east. Variation between countries is attributable to high variation in premature 
mortality (YLL varied from 14-58 per 1000 persons) and disability (YLD varied 
from 3-10 per 1000 persons). Highest burden is observed among males ages 15-24. 
If childhood and adolescence injuries are reduced to the level of current best 
injury prevention practices, 6 DALYs per 1000 child years can be avoided.
CONCLUSIONS: Injuries in childhood and adolescence cause a high disability and 
mortality burden in Europe. In all developmental stages large inequalities 
between west and east are observed. Potential benefits up to almost 1 million 
healthy child years gained across Europe are possible, if proven ways for 
prevention are more widely implemented. Our children deserve action now.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-10-45
PMCID: PMC2824737
PMID: 20113463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2010 Jan 29;5:2. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-5-2.

Rothmund-Thomson syndrome.

Larizza L(1), Roversi G, Volpi L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Surgery and Dentistry, University of Milan, Italy. 
lidia.larizza@unimi.it

Rothmund-Thomson syndrome (RTS) is a genodermatosis presenting with a 
characteristic facial rash (poikiloderma) associated with short stature, sparse 
scalp hair, sparse or absent eyelashes and/or eyebrows, juvenile cataracts, 
skeletal abnormalities, radial ray defects, premature aging and a predisposition 
to cancer. The prevalence is unknown but around 300 cases have been reported in 
the literature so far. The diagnostic hallmark is facial erythema, which spreads 
to the extremities but spares the trunk, and which manifests itself within the 
first year and then develops into poikiloderma. Two clinical subforms of RTS 
have been defined: RTSI characterised by poikiloderma, ectodermal dysplasia and 
juvenile cataracts, and RTSII characterised by poikiloderma, congenital bone 
defects and an increased risk of osteosarcoma in childhood and skin cancer later 
in life. The skeletal abnormalities may be overt (frontal bossing, saddle nose 
and congenital radial ray defects), and/or subtle (visible only by radiographic 
analysis). Gastrointestinal, respiratory and haematological signs have been 
reported in a few patients. RTS is transmitted in an autosomal recessive manner 
and is genetically heterogeneous: RTSII is caused by homozygous or compound 
heterozygous mutations in the RECQL4 helicase gene (detected in 60-65% of RTS 
patients), whereas the aetiology in RTSI remains unknown. Diagnosis is based on 
clinical findings (primarily on the age of onset, spreading and appearance of 
the poikiloderma) and molecular analysis for RECQL4 mutations. Missense 
mutations are rare, while frameshift, nonsense mutations and splice-site 
mutations prevail. A fully informative test requires transcript analysis not to 
overlook intronic deletions causing missplicing. The diagnosis of RTS should be 
considered in all patients with osteosarcoma, particularly if associated with 
skin changes. The differential diagnosis should include other causes of 
childhood poikiloderma (including dyskeratosis congenita, Kindler syndrome and 
Poikiloderma with Neutropaenia), other rare genodermatoses with prominent 
telangiectasias (including Bloom syndrome, Werner syndrome and 
Ataxia-telangiectasia) and the allelic disorders, RAPADILINO syndrome and 
Baller-Gerold syndrome, which also share some clinical features. A few mutations 
recur in all three RECQL4 diseases. Genetic counselling should be provided for 
RTS patients and their families, together with a recommendation for cancer 
surveillance for all patients with RTSII. Patients should be managed by a 
multidisciplinary team and offered long term follow-up. Treatment includes the 
use of pulsed dye laser photocoagulation to improve the telangiectatic component 
of the rash, surgical removal of the cataracts and standard treatment for 
individuals who develop cancer. Although some clinical signs suggest precocious 
aging, life expectancy is not impaired in RTS patients if they do not develop 
cancer. Outcomes in patients with osteosarcoma are similar in RTS and non-RTS 
patients, with a five-year survival rate of 60-70%. The sensitivity of RTS cells 
to genotoxic agents exploiting cells with a known RECQL4 status is being 
elucidated and is aimed at optimizing the chemotherapeutic regimen for 
osteosarcoma.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-5-2
PMCID: PMC2826297
PMID: 20113479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. BMC Cancer. 2010 Jan 29;10:26. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-10-26.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of pemetrexed versus docetaxel in the second-line 
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer in Spain: results for the non-squamous 
histology population.

Asukai Y(1), Valladares A, Camps C, Wood E, Taipale K, Arellano J, Cassinello A, 
Sacristán JA, Dilla T.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, 7 Harewood Avenue, NW1 6JB, London, UK. yasukai@uk.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND: The objective of this study was to conduct a cost-effectiveness 
evaluation of pemetrexed compared to docetaxel in the treatment of advanced or 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients with predominantly 
non-squamous histology in the Spanish healthcare setting.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed consisting of stable, responsive, 
progressive disease and death states. Patients could also experience adverse 
events as long as they received chemotherapy. Clinical inputs were based on an 
analysis of a phase III clinical trial that identified a statistically 
significant improvement in overall survival for non-squamous patients treated 
with pemetrexed compared with docetaxel. Costs were collected from the Spanish 
healthcare perspective.
RESULTS: Outcomes of the model included total costs, total quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), total life years gained (LYG) and total progression-free survival 
(PFS). Mean survival was 1.03 years for the pemetrexed arm and 0.89 years in the 
docetaxel arm; QALYs were 0.52 compared to 0.42. Per-patient lifetime costs were 
34677 euros and 32343 euros, respectively. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
were 23967 euros per QALY gained and 17225 euros per LYG.
CONCLUSIONS: Pemetrexed as a second-line treatment option for patients with a 
predominantly non-squamous histology in NSCLC is a cost-effective alternative to 
docetaxel according to the 30000 euros /QALY threshold commonly accepted in 
Spain.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-10-26
PMCID: PMC2841662
PMID: 20113499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Lancet. 2010 Jan 30;375(9712):371; author reply 372-4. doi: 
10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60158-4.

Did mass privatisation really increase post-communist mortality?

Gerry CJ, Mickiewicz TM, Nikoloski Z.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2009 Jan 31;373(9661):399-407.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(10)60158-4
PMID: 20113817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2010 Feb;30(1):1-15. doi: 
10.1016/j.iac.2009.11.005.

A history of bone marrow transplantation.

de la Morena MT(1), Gatti RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Internal Medicine, Division of Allergy and 
Immunology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center in Dallas, 5323 
Harry Hines Boulevard, Dallas, TX 75390-9063, USA. 
maite.delamorena@utsouthwestern.edu

Republished in
    Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2011 Feb;25(1):1-15.

The last 40 years has seen the emergence of hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation as a therapeutic modality for fatal diseases and as a curative 
option for individuals born with inherited disorders that carry limited life 
expectancy and poor quality of life. Despite the rarity of many primary 
immunodeficiency diseases, these disorders have led the way toward innovative 
therapies and further provide insights into mechanisms of immunologic 
reconstitution applicable to all hematopoietic stem cell transplants. This 
article represents a historical perspective of the early investigators and their 
contributions. It also reviews the parallel work that oncologists and 
immunologists have undertaken to treat both primary immunodeficiencies and 
hematologic malignancies.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.iac.2009.11.005
PMID: 20113883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Gend Med. 2009 Dec;6(4):544-54. doi: 10.1016/j.genm.2009.12.001.

Health-related quality of life in Swedish men and women with early rheumatoid 
arthritis.

West E(1), Wållberg-Jonsson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, University Hospital of Umeå, Umeå, Sweden. 
elisabet.west@vll.se

BACKGROUND: Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory joint disorder 
that may adversely affect health-related quality of life (HRQoL) both in 
established and early disease.
OBJECTIVES: In patients with recent onset (<12 months) of RA, this extension of 
a previous study assessed HRQoL and the effect of disease activity over time.
METHODS: Consecutive patients with recent onset of RA between March 1996 and 
November 1998 were followed for 6 years at the Department of Rheumatology of the 
University Hospital of Umeå in Sweden. Patients were requested to complete the 
36-item Short Form (SF-36) Health Survey at 0, 24, 48, and 72 months. Gender 
differences were examined, and correlations between the SF-36 scales (with 
higher scores indicating better HRQoL) and data reflecting disease activity were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Fifty-one patients, 34 women and 17 men (mean age, 50.6 years; range, 
20-78 years), participated in the study; in all, 41 patients completed the SF-36 
at both 0 and 72 months. At inclusion (0 months), women reported significantly 
higher scores for physical role functioning, bodily pain, and social functioning 
compared with men (all, P < 0.05). At 72 months compared with 0 months, women 
reported significantly better mental health (P < 0.05), whereas men reported 
significantly better physical role functioning (P < 0.05), bodily pain (P < 
0.01), mental health (P < 0.01), and vitality (P < 0.01). Additionally, at 72 
months, the entire patient group rated physical role functioning and social 
functioning (both, P < 0.05), bodily pain and vitality (both, P < 0.01), and 
mental health (P < 0.001) as significantly better compared with the inclusion 
assessment. Overall improvement with time was significantly better for men than 
for women (P < 0.05). There were limited correlations between SF-36 point 
disease activity parameters and the SF-36 scores at 0 months (erythrocyte 
sedimentation rate vs physical functioning, mental health [both, P < 0.05], and 
bodily pain [P < 0.01]; 28-joint Disease Activity Score vs bodily pain [P < 
0.05] and emotional role functioning [P < 0.01]) and at 72 months (C-reactive 
protein vs physical role functioning [P < 0.05]). Most of the physical subscales 
at inclusion correlated with the physical component summary (PCS) of the SF-36 
questionnaire at 6 years.
CONCLUSIONS: At disease onset, women with early RA reported better HRQoL than 
did their male counterparts. After 6 years, women and especially men both 
experienced better HRQoL, and no significant gender differences remained in any 
of the SF-36 scales or values for disease activity parameters. The PCS score at 
disease onset was the best predictor of the PCS score after 6 years.

Copyright 2009 Excerpta Medica Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genm.2009.12.001
PMID: 20114005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Curr Biol. 2010 Feb 9;20(3):249-52. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2009.12.031. Epub
2010  Jan 28.

Moribund ants leave their nests to die in social isolation.

Heinze J(1), Walter B.

Author information:
(1)Biologie I, Universität Regensburg, 93040 Regensburg, Germany. 
juergen.heinze@biologie.uni-regensburg.de 
<juergen.heinze@biologie.uni-regensburg.de>

Comment in
    Curr Biol. 2010 Feb 9;20(3):R104-5.

Animal societies provide perfect conditions for the spread of infections and are 
therefore expected to employ mechanisms that reduce the probability of 
transmitting pathogens to group members [1-4]. Death in nature rarely results 
from old age but commonly results from diseases. Leaving one's group to die in 
seclusion might be an efficient way of minimizing the risk of infecting kin. 
Anecdotal observations of moribund individuals deserting from their groups exist 
for several species, including humans (e.g., [5]), but have rarely been 
substantiated by quantitative analysis. Furthermore, to confirm that dying in 
solitude has evolved because of its altruistic benefits requires refuting the 
alternative explanation of pathogen manipulation of host behavior. Here we show 
that workers of the ant Temnothorax unifasciatus dying from fungal infection, 
uninfected workers whose life expectancy was reduced by exposure to 95% CO(2)[6, 
7], and workers dying spontaneously in observation colonies exhibited the same 
suite of behavior of isolating themselves from their nestmates days or hours 
before death. Actively leaving the nest and breaking off all social interactions 
thus occurred regardless of whether individuals were infected or not. Social 
withdrawal might be a commonly overlooked altruistic trait serving the inclusive 
fitness interests of dying individuals in social animals.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2009.12.031
PMID: 20116243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Am J Kidney Dis. 2010 Mar;55(3):431-40. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2009.11.011.
Epub  2010 Feb 8.

Patient views about treatment of stage 5 CKD: a qualitative analysis of 
semistructured interviews.

Morton RL(1), Devitt J, Howard K, Anderson K, Snelling P, Cass A.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. 
rachaelm@health.usyd.edu.au

BACKGROUND: How patients choose between alternative treatments for kidney 
failure is poorly understood. Recent studies of chronic kidney disease report 
that clinical outcomes, such as life expectancy, are rarely reflected in a 
patient's decision for type of treatment compared with nonclinical outcomes, 
such as time on dialysis therapy, convenience, or impact on the family.
METHODS: A qualitative analysis using thematic synthesis of patient views about 
renal replacement therapy (RRT) was undertaken. As part of a national study of 
patients and renal health care providers, we interviewed 95 Australian dialysis 
and transplant patients to explore how they perceive these alternative 
treatments.
RESULTS: 52 patients were on satellite hemodialysis therapy, 8 patients were on 
incenter hemodialysis therapy, 8 patients were on continuous ambulatory 
peritoneal dialysis therapy, 5 patients were on automated peritoneal dialysis 
therapy, 4 patients were on home hemodialysis therapy, and 18 patients had a 
functioning transplant at the time of interview. Freedom, convenience, 
self-care, effectiveness, and simplicity were commonly cited positive 
characteristics, whereas confinement, risk, family burden, pain, and time 
commitment were negative characteristics associated with RRTs. Characteristics 
were not specific to dialysis modalities, and some (eg, self-care) were seen as 
both positive and negative. A limitation of the study was that only 17 of 77 
(22%) dialysis patients interviewed were on a home-based therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients preferred RRTs that enhanced their freedom and autonomy 
and were convenient, effective, and simple. Treatments that minimized 
confinement and risk also were viewed positively. Our analysis suggests that 
patients might choose between therapies based on their perception regarding 
which therapy most embodies particular characteristics that minimize impact on 
their lifestyle. Presentation of information regarding RRTs should focus on 
these characteristics and the potential impact of alternative treatments on the 
patients and how they wish to lead their lives.

Copyright 2010 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2009.11.011
PMID: 20116914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. Mech Ageing Dev. 2010 Mar;131(3):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.01.007.
Epub  2010 Feb 1.

Dominant-negative Dmp53 extends life span through the dTOR pathway in D. 
melanogaster.

Bauer JH(1), Chang C, Bae G, Morris SN, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Division of 
Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, USA.

Expression of dominant-negative (DN) versions of the Drosophila ortholog of the 
tumor suppressor p53 extends fly life span in a Calorie Restriction (CR) 
dependent manner. DN-Dmp53 expression furthermore leads to reduction of 
Drosophila insulin-like peptide (dILP) 2 mRNA levels and a decrease in 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor-signaling activity (IIS) in the fly fat body. 
It is unclear by which mechanisms DN-Dmp53 extends longevity, and whether 
modulation of insulin-signaling activity plays a pivotal role in life span 
regulation by Dmp53. Here we show that life span extension due to DN-Dmp53 
expression is likely due to reduction of Dmp53 activity and that decreased Dmp53 
activity does not extend life span when dILP2 is concomitantly over expressed. 
Furthermore, extended longevity due to DN-Dmp53 expression does not further 
extend the life span of flies over expressing the IIS associated transcription 
factor dFoxO, indicating that DN-Dmp53-dependent life span extension may be 
related to IIS. However, reduction of dFoxO levels does not decrease 
DN-Dmp53-dependent longevity extension. Interestingly, when DN-Dmp53 is 
expressed in flies lacking the translation initiation controlling factor 
Thor/4E-BP, the downstream target of dTOR signaling, no increase in life span is 
observed. Taken together, these data suggest that Dmp53 may affect life span by 
differentially engaging the IIS and dTor pathways.

2010 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mad.2010.01.007
PMCID: PMC2988653
PMID: 20117129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Am J Prev Med. 2010 Feb;38(2):138-44. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.09.043.

Trends in quality-adjusted life-years lost contributed by smoking and obesity.

Jia H(1), Lubetkin EI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. hj2198@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) use preference-based 
measurements of health-related quality-of-life (HRQOL) to provide an assessment 
of the overall burden of disease using a single number.
PURPOSE: This study estimated QALYs lost contributed by smoking and obesity for 
U.S. adults from 1993 to 2008.
METHODS: Population HRQOL data were from the 1993-2008 Behavioral Risk Factor 
Surveillance System. The QALYs lost contributed by a risk factor is the sum of 
QALYs lost due to morbidity in the current year and future QALYs lost in 
expected life-years due to premature deaths (mortality). Premature deaths were 
estimated from the National Health Interview Survey Linked Mortality Files and 
mortality statistics.
RESULTS: From 1993 to 2008, the proportion of smokers among U.S. adults declined 
18.5% whereas the proportion of obese people increased 85%. The smoking-related 
QALYs lost were relatively stable at 0.0438 QALYs lost per population. In 1993 
the QALYs lost were much smaller for obesity compared to smoking, with obesity 
contributing about 0.0204 QALYs lost. However, as a result of the increasing 
prevalence of obesity, the contribution of obesity-related QALYs lost increased 
consistently and had increased by 127% in 2008 when obesity resulted in 0.0464 
QALYs lost, slightly more than smoking did. Smoking had a bigger impact on 
mortality than morbidity, whereas obesity had a bigger impact on morbidity than 
mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: This study estimated the overall burden of smoking and obesity over 
time and results indicate that because of the marked increase in the proportion 
of obese people, obesity has become an equal, if not greater, contributor to the 
burden of disease than smoking. Such data are essential in setting targets for 
reducing modifiable health risks and eliminating health disparities.

Copyright 2010 American Journal of Preventive Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2009.09.043
PMID: 20117569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Pediatr Neurol. 2010 Feb;42(2):151-3. doi:
10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2009.07.020.

Schmid-Fraccaro syndrome: severe neurologic features.

Romagna ES(1), Appel da Silva MC, Ballardin PA.

Author information:
(1)Family Physician Ambulatory, School of Medicine, Lutheran University of 
Brazil, Canoas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. elisasfoggia@yahoo.com.br

Schmid-Fraccaro syndrome is a rare genetic disease, characterized by 
modifications of chromosome 22 (partial trisomy or tetrasomy), accompanied by 
eye abnormality (coloboma) and anal atresia. Clinical and phenotypic features 
are variable, and neurologic disturbance with delays of mental, psychologic, and 
motor development may be present. Its definitive diagnosis is based on 
karyotype. We report on a 17-year-old girl with Schmid-Fraccaro syndrome and 
severe cognitive deficits and motor deficits, who presented at our healthcare 
unit for a medical consultation. Her physical examination was remarkable for 
bilateral coloboma of the iris, hypertelorism, bilateral preauricular tags, 
scoliosis, and cardiac systolic murmur. After her birth, she was evaluated for 
anal atresia and congenital cardiac disease, which led to a genetic 
investigation and a diagnosis of Schmid-Fraccaro syndrome. Life expectancy in 
Schmid-Fraccaro syndrome depends on the number and variety of malformations, but 
in most cases the prognosis is favorable.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2009.07.020
PMID: 20117756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):972-3; discussion 974-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.034. Epub 2010 Feb 1.

Pharmaceutical innovation: can we live forever? A commentary on Schnittker and 
Karandinos.

Lexchin J(1).

Author information:
(1)York University, School of Healthy Policy and Management, 4700 Keele St., 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. jlexchin@yorku.ca

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 2010 Apr;70(7):961-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2009.11.034
PMID: 20117868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Adv Emerg Nurs J. 2009 Oct-Dec;31(4):323-36. doi:
10.1097/TME.0b013e3181bd2a67.

5-year survival of geriatric patients following trauma center discharge.

Criddle LM(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR 31772, USA. 
criddlel@ohsu.edu

Little is known about the impact of trauma on geriatric injury survivors' life 
expectancy. Does trauma in older adults influence time to death? What key 
patient and injury variables can predict 5-year postdischarge survival? This 
retrospective study used Cox proportional hazards models to quantify seniors' 
risk for death within 5 years of injury and identify variables associated with 
life expectancy. The hazard ratio for death in subjects versus matched controls 
was 6.26. Six patient and injury variables were identified that predicted 5-year 
vital status in the final multivariate model. There is an ongoing relationship 
between injury and shortened lifespan in geriatric trauma survivors. This 
relationship appears to be largely influenced by host factors, rather than by 
injury variables.

DOI: 10.1097/TME.0b013e3181bd2a67
PMID: 20118886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Popul Trends. 2009 Winter;(138):7-21. doi: 10.1057/pt.2009.43.

National statistician's annual article on the population: a demographic review.

Matheson J.

This is the third in a series of annual demographic reports of the UK, providing 
an overview of the latest statistics on the population. This year's article also 
includes a short section on economic recessions, and a summary of migration 
following the enlargement of the European Union (EU) in May 2004. In addition to 
providing a statistical summary of the impact of migration from the 'Accession' 
countries, mention is made of flows during the current recession. There is 
discussion of how this complex recent migration has challenged traditional 
definitions of migration, and how this impacts on the need for ONS and other 
government agencies to measure these flows accurately.

DOI: 10.1057/pt.2009.43
PMID: 20120247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Popul Trends. 2009 Winter;(138):50-4. doi: 10.1057/pt.2009.47.

An estimate of the veteran population in England: based on data from the 2007 
Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey.

Woodhead C(1), Sloggett A, Bray I, Bradbury J, McManus S, Meltzer H, Brugha T, 
Jenkins R, Greenberg N, Wessely S, Fear N.

Author information:
(1)Academic Centre for Defence Mental Health, King's College London.

BACKGROUND: The health and well-being of military veterans has recently 
generated much media and political interest. Estimating the current and future 
size of the veteran population is important to the planning and allocation of 
veteran support services.
METHODS: Data from a 2007 nationally representative residential survey of 
England (the Adult Psychiatric Morbidity Survey) were extrapolated to the whole 
population to estimate the number of veterans currently residing in private 
households in England. This population was projected forward in two ten-year 
blocks up to 2027 using a current life table.
RESULTS: It was estimated that in 2007, 3,771,534 (95% CI: 2,986,315-4,910,205) 
veterans were living in residential households in England. By 2027, this figure 
was predicted to decline by 50.4 per cent, mainly due to large reductions in the 
number of veterans in the older age groups (65-74 and 75+ years).
CONCLUSION: Approximately three to five million veterans are currently estimated 
to be living in the community in England. As the proportion of National Service 
veterans reduces with time, the veteran population is expected to halve over the 
next 20 years.

DOI: 10.1057/pt.2009.47
PMID: 20120251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Scand J Work Environ Health. 1979 Sep;5(3):297-303. doi: 10.5271/sjweh.3105.

Defining expected mortality in occupational studies.

Vinni K(1), Hakama M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland.

The mortality in a reference population for specific occupations was evaluated 
by means of occupational studies of different designs. The data originated from 
a random sample of 19,862 persons from among the total Finnish population. The 
age standardized mortality for those who had at any time belonged to the active 
work force in Finland was estimated to be 10% less than the average mortality 
for the total population. The difference was 20% if the currently active work 
force was compared with the total population. The standardized mortality ratio 
was 70% for those who had stayed for less than 10 years within the same 
occupational category and 80% for those with more than 10 years' work within the 
same occupational category. The expected mortality varied up to 50% depending on 
the broad occupational category and on the occupational history when compared 
with the total mortality in Finland.

DOI: 10.5271/sjweh.3105
PMID: 20120579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Soc Secur Bull. 2009;69(4):65-81.

Social Security in a changing environment: findings from the Retirement Research 
Center at the National Bureau of Economic Research.

Wise DA(1), Woodbury RG.

Author information:
(1)Harvard University, USA.

PMID: 20120703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Environ Sci Technol. 2010 Mar 15;44(6):1888-94. doi: 10.1021/es902909k.

Options for achieving a 50% cut in industrial carbon emissions by 2050.

Allwood JM(1), Cullen JM, Milford RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, Trumpington Street, 
Cambridge CB2 1PZ, United Kingdom. jma42@cam.ac.uk

Carbon emissions from industry are dominated by production of goods in steel, 
cement plastic, paper, and aluminum. Demand for these materials is anticipated 
to double at least by 2050, by which time global carbon emissions must be 
reduced by at least 50%. To evaluate the challenge of meeting this target the 
global flows of these materials and their associated emissions are projected to 
2050 under five technical scenarios. A reference scenario includes all existing 
and emerging efficiency measures but cannot provide sufficient reduction. The 
application of carbon sequestration to primary production proves to be 
sufficient only for cement The emissions target can always be met by reducing 
demand, for instance through product life extension, material substitution, or 
"light-weighting". Reusing components shows significant potential particularly 
within construction. Radical process innovation may also be possible. The 
results show that the first two strategies, based on increasing primary 
production, cannot achieve the required emissions reductions, so should be 
balanced by the vigorous pursuit of material efficiency to allow provision of 
increased material services with reduced primary production.

DOI: 10.1021/es902909k
PMID: 20121181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Rural Remote Health. 2010 Jan-Mar;10(1):1259. Epub 2010 Feb 2.

Justifying local empowerment to address rural-urban health inequalities in 
Sub-Saharan Africa.

Umunna AO.

PMID: 20121319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2010 Feb;10(1):25-35. doi: 
10.1586/erp.09.72.

Modeling healthcare expenditures: overview of the literature and evidence from a 
panel time-series model.

van Elk R(1), Mot E, Franses PH.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis, Den Haag, The Netherlands. 
r.a.van.elk@cpb.nl

The rapid growth of healthcare expenditures in the past 40 years in many 
industrial countries has contributed to an improvement in life expectancy and 
the quality of life, but has also jeopardized the sustainability of public 
budgets. For the future, it is important to get more insight into the 
determinants of this growth. Factors, such as aging, income growth and 
technological development have been discussed extensively. In this review, we 
want to pay attention to a somewhat neglected factor: the increase in the 
relative price of healthcare. Owing to the Baumol effect, healthcare tends to 
become more expensive over time. How does the demand for healthcare react to 
this price increase?

DOI: 10.1586/erp.09.72
PMID: 20121562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Hum Gene Ther. 2010 Mar;21(3):241-50. doi: 10.1089/hum.2010.014.

Clinical impact of suicide gene therapy in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell 
transplantation.

Lupo-Stanghellini MT(1), Provasi E, Bondanza A, Ciceri F, Bordignon C, Bonini C.

Author information:
(1)Hematology and Bone Marrow Transplantation Unit, Division of Regenerative 
Medicine, Gene Therapy, and Stem Cells, Program in Immunology, Gene Therapy, and 
Bioimmunotherapy of Cancer, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 20132 Milan, 
Italy.

Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) from an 
HLA-matched related or unrelated donor is a curative option for patients with 
high-risk hematological diseases. In the absence of a matched donor, patients 
have been offered investigational transplantation strategies such as umbilical 
cord blood SCT or family haploidentical SCT. Besides the activity of the 
conditioning regimen, most of the antileukemic potential of allo-SCT relies on 
alloreactivity, promoted by donor lymphocytes reacting against patient-specific 
antigens, such as minor and major histocompatibility antigens, ultimately 
translating into cancer immunotherapy. Unfortunately, alloreactivity is also 
responsible for the most serious and frequent complication of allo-SCT: 
graft-versus-host-disease (GvHD). The risk of GvHD increases with the level of 
HLA disparity between host and donor, and leads to impaired quality of life and 
reduced survival expectancy, particularly among patients receiving transplants 
from HLA-mismatched donors. Gene transfer technologies are promising tools to 
manipulate donor T cell immunity to enforce the graft-versus-tumor effect, to 
promote functional immune reconstitution (graft vs. infection), and to prevent 
or control GvHD. To this purpose, several cell and gene transfer approaches have 
been investigated at the preclinical level, and are being implemented in 
clinical trials. Suicide gene therapy is to date the most extensive clinical 
application of T cell-based gene therapy. In several phase I-II clinical studies 
conducted worldwide this approach proved highly feasible, safe, and effective in 
promoting a dynamic and patient-specific modulation of alloreactivity. This 
review focuses on this approach.

DOI: 10.1089/hum.2010.014
PMID: 20121594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Am J Transplant. 2010 Mar;10(3):619-27. doi:
10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02984.x.  Epub 2010 Jan 29.

Harm and benefits of primary liver resection and salvage transplantation for 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Cucchetti A(1), Vitale A, Del Gaudio M, Ravaioli M, Ercolani G, Cescon M, 
Zanello M, Morelli MC, Cillo U, Grazi GL, Pinna AD.

Author information:
(1)Liver and Multiorgan Transplant Unit, University of Bologna, Italy. 
aleqko@libero.it

Primary transplantation offers longer life-expectancy in comparison to hepatic 
resection (HR) for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) followed by salvage 
transplantation; however, livers not used for primary transplantation can be 
reallocated to the remaining waiting-list patients, thus, the harm caused to 
resected patients could be balanced, or outweighed, by the benefit obtained from 
reallocation of livers originating from HCC patients first being resected. A 
Markov model was developed to investigate this issue based on literature data or 
estimated from the United Network for Organ Sharing database. Markov model shows 
that primary transplantation offers longer life-expectancy in comparison to HR 
and salvage transplantation if 5-year posttransplant survival remains higher 
than 60%. The balance between the harm for resected patients and the benefit for 
the remaining waiting list depends on (a) the proportion of HCC candidates, (b) 
the percentage shifted to HR and (c) the median expected time-to-transplant. 
Faced with a low proportion of HCC candidates, the harm caused to resected 
patients was higher than the benefit that could be obtained for the waiting-list 
population from re-allocation of extra livers. An increased proportion of HCC 
candidates and/or an increased median time-to-transplant could lead to a benefit 
for waiting-list patients that outweighs this harm.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-6143.2009.02984.x
PMID: 20121741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2009 Nov;57 Suppl 2(0 2):S246-9. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2009.02503.x.

Geriatric assessment in oncology practice.

Hurria A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology and Therapeutics Research, City of Hope, 
Duarte, CA 91010, USA. ahurria@coh.org

There is no standard tool for assessing the "functional age" of an older adult 
with cancer, although it is widely recognized that chronological age does not 
capture the heterogeneous physiological and functional status of older adults. 
Integrating a "geriatric assessment" into oncology research and clinical 
practice would help fill this void. Geriatric assessment covers factors that 
predict morbidity and mortality in older adults, including functional status, 
comorbidity, cognition, psychological state, nutritional status, and social 
support. This assessment provides a broader overall understanding of individual 
characteristics that affect life expectancy. In addition, this assessment 
identifies areas of vulnerability in older adults for which further evaluation 
or intervention is indicated. This article will address the utility of a 
geriatric assessment in oncology practice, review data that attest to the 
benefits of the assessment, and issue a call for further research into how this 
assessment can be integrated into oncology care. Doing so will help develop 
targeted interventions and optimize cancer outcomes in this rapidly growing 
population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2009.02503.x
PMCID: PMC3845875
PMID: 20122022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2009 Nov;57 Suppl 2:S250-2. doi: 
10.1111/j.1532-5415.2009.02504.x.

Clinical management update: evaluation and management of older patients with 
breast cancer.

Owusu C(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Case Comprehensive Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve 
University, Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology and Oncology, 
Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. cynthia.owusu@case.edu

Recent gains in life expectancy, coupled with aging as a risk factor for breast 
cancer, make breast cancer primarily a disease of older women. Evaluation of the 
biology of breast cancer according to age has suggested that estrogen 
receptor-positive, low-S-phase, low-tumor-grade, and human epidermal growth 
factor receptor 2-negative tumors are more common in older than younger women. 
However, this has not translated into any major survival advantage for older 
women with breast cancer over their younger counterparts. Several reasons, 
including undertreatment and underrepresentation in clinical trials, may account 
for this age-related disparity. In this brief review, recent practice-changing 
breast cancer updates of relevance to the care of older patients with breast 
cancer are discussed and summarized. Because the population is aging and the 
number of older patients with breast cancer will continue to increase, it is 
imperative that older patients with breast cancer be encouraged to participate 
in cutting edge research and that state-of-the-art oncology care be provided to 
this underserved population.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1532-5415.2009.02504.x
PMID: 20122035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Ann Vasc Surg. 2010 Jan;24(1):100-5. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2009.09.006.

Surgical repair of carotid artery aneurysms: a 10-year, single-center 
experience.

Srivastava SD(1), Eagleton MJ, O'Hara P, Kashyap VS, Sarac T, Clair D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, S40, Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, 
