Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC. 
lisa.higgins@med.monash.edu.au

The demand for intensive care services is growing, and the cost of these 
services is increasing, with newer technologies consuming larger portions of the 
health care budget. We contend that both the costs and benefits of interventions 
must be considered to truly understand their value in critical care. Economic 
evaluations provide an explicit framework to compare the costs and benefits of 
an intervention. If these factors are not considered together, decisions may be 
made that do not result in the most efficient use of constrained resources. 
Despite limitations arising from variations in economic evaluation methodology, 
logistical complexity and problems of generalisability, the Australian trial 
environment provides an ideal opportunity to obtain robust economic data to help 
decision-making. Here, we outline the rationale for conducting economic 
evaluations in the critical care setting and argue that these evaluations need 
to be routinely incorporated into all large-scale clinical trials.

PMID: 20196716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. BMC Biotechnol. 2010 Mar 2;10:19. doi: 10.1186/1472-6750-10-19.

Anti-tumor therapy with macroencapsulated endostatin producer cells.

Rodrigues DB(1), Chammas R, Malavasi NV, da Costa PL, Chura-Chambi RM, Balduino 
KN, Morganti L.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Biotecnologia, Instituto de Pesquisas Energéticas e Nucleares, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Theracyte is a polytetrafluoroethylene membrane macroencapsulation 
system designed to induce neovascularization at the tissue interface, protecting 
the cells from host's immune rejection, thereby circumventing the problem of 
limited half-life and variation in circulating levels. Endostatin is a potent 
inhibitor of angiogenesis and tumor growth. Continuous delivery of endostatin 
improves the efficacy and potency of the antitumoral therapy. The purpose of 
this study was to determine whether recombinant fibroblasts expressing 
endostatin encapsulated in Theracyte immunoisolation devices can be used for 
delivery of this therapeutic protein for treatment of mice bearing B16F10 
melanoma and Ehrlich tumors.
RESULTS: Mice were inoculated subcutaneously with melanoma (B16F10 cells) or 
Ehrlich tumor cells at the foot pads. Treatment began when tumor thickness had 
reached 0.5 mm, by subcutaneous implantation of 107 recombinant encapsulated or 
non-encapsulated endostatin producer cells. Similar melanoma growth inhibition 
was obtained for mice treated with encapsulated or non-encapsulated 
endostatin-expressing cells. The treatment of mice bearing melanoma tumor with 
encapsulated endostatin-expressing cells was decreased by 50.0%, whereas a 
decrease of 56.7% in tumor thickness was obtained for mice treated with 
non-encapsulated cells. Treatment of Ehrlich tumor-bearing mice with 
non-encapsulated endostatin-expressing cells reduced tumor thickness by 52.4%, 
whereas lower tumor growth inhibition was obtained for mice treated with 
encapsulated endostatin-expressing cells: 24.2%. Encapsulated 
endostatin-secreting fibroblasts failed to survive until the end of the 
treatment. However, endostatin release from the devices to the surrounding 
tissues was confirmed by immunostaining. Decrease in vascular structures, 
functional vessels and extension of the vascular area were observed in melanoma 
microenvironments.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicates that immunoisolation devices containing 
endostatin-expressing cells are effective for the inhibition of the growth of 
melanoma and Ehrlich tumors.Macroencapsulation of engineered cells is therefore 
a reliable platform for the refinement of innovative therapeutic strategies 
against tumors.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6750-10-19
PMCID: PMC2845092
PMID: 20196841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Ann Trop Paediatr. 2010;30(1):19-26. doi: 10.1179/146532810X12637745451870.

Ocular manifestations of sickle cell disease.

Fadugbagbe AO(1), Gurgel RQ, Mendonça CQ, Cipolotti R, dos Santos AM, Cuevas LE.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, UK.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is the most common genetic disease worldwide. The 
increase in life expectancy of SCD patients in recent years has led to the 
emergence of more complications of the disease, e.g. ocular, which in the past 
were uncommon. This review describes current knowledge of the ocular 
manifestations of patients with SCD. SCD can affect virtually every vascular bed 
in the eye and can cause blindness in the advanced stages. The most significant 
ocular changes are those which occur in the fundus, which can be grouped into 
proliferative sickle retinopathy, and non-proliferative retinal changes based on 
the presence of vascular proliferation. This distinction is important because 
the formation of new vessels is the single most important precursor of 
potentially blinding complications. Although various systemic complications of 
SCD are known to be more common in patients with the Hb SS genotype, visual 
impairment secondary to proliferative sickle retinopathy is more common in 
patients with the Hb SC genotype. There is also an increase with age in the 
incidence and prevalence rates of all ocular complications of SCD. It is 
therefore recommended that all patients with SCD undergo periodic 
ophthalmological screening from the age of 10 years.

DOI: 10.1179/146532810X12637745451870
PMID: 20196930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. J Endocrinol. 2010 Jun;205(3):201-10. doi: 10.1677/JOE-09-0431. Epub 2010
Mar 2.

The GH/IGF1 axis and signaling pathways in the muscle and bone: mechanisms 
underlying age-related skeletal muscle wasting and osteoporosis.

Perrini S(1), Laviola L, Carreira MC, Cignarelli A, Natalicchio A, Giorgino F.

Author information:
(1)Section of Internal Medicine, Endocrinology, Andrology and Metabolic 
Diseases, Department of Emergency and Organ Transplantation, University of Bari 
School of Medicine, Piazza Giulio Cesare, 11, I-70124 Bari, Italy.

The widespread increase in life expectancy is accompanied by an increased 
prevalence of features of physical frailty. Signs and symptoms may include 
sarcopenia and osteopenia, reduced exercise capacity, and diminished sense of 
well-being. The pathogenesis of age-associated sarcopenia and osteopenia is 
multifactorial, and hormonal decline may be a contributing factor. Aging is 
associated with a progressive decrease in GH secretion, and more than 30% of 
elderly people have circulating IGF1 levels below the normal range found in the 
young. GH acts directly on target tissues, including skeletal muscle and bone 
among many others, but many effects are mediated indirectly by circulating 
(liver-derived) or locally produced IGF1. Aging is also associated with reduced 
insulin sensitivity which, in turn, may contribute to the impairment of IGF1 
action. Recent experimental evidence suggests that besides the age-dependent 
decline in GH and IGF1 serum levels, the dysregulation of GH and IGF1 actions 
due to impairment of the post-receptor signaling machinery may contribute to the 
loss of muscle mass and osteopenia. This article will focus on the molecular 
mechanisms of impaired GH and IGF1 signaling and action in aging, and their role 
in the pathogenesis of sarcopenia and osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1677/JOE-09-0431
PMID: 20197302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. J Clin Invest. 2010 Mar;120(3):768-77. doi: 10.1172/JCI39569. Epub 2010 Feb
8.

Loss of the BMP antagonist USAG-1 ameliorates disease in a mouse model of the 
progressive hereditary kidney disease Alport syndrome.

Tanaka M(1), Asada M, Higashi AY, Nakamura J, Oguchi A, Tomita M, Yamada S, 
Asada N, Takase M, Okuda T, Kawachi H, Economides AN, Robertson E, Takahashi S, 
Sakurai T, Goldschmeding R, Muso E, Fukatsu A, Kita T, Yanagita M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, Japan.

The glomerular basement membrane (GBM) is a key component of the filtering unit 
in the kidney. Mutations involving any of the collagen IV genes (COL4A3, COL4A4, 
and COL4A5) affect GBM assembly and cause Alport syndrome, a progressive 
hereditary kidney disease with no definitive therapy. Previously, we have 
demonstrated that the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) antagonist uterine 
sensitization-associated gene-1 (USAG-1) negatively regulates the renoprotective 
action of BMP-7 in a mouse model of tubular injury during acute renal failure. 
Here, we investigated the role of USAG-1 in renal function in Col4a3-/- mice, 
which model Alport syndrome. Ablation of Usag1 in Col4a3-/- mice led to 
substantial attenuation of disease progression, normalization of GBM 
ultrastructure, preservation of renal function, and extension of life span. 
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that USAG-1 and BMP-7 colocalized in the 
macula densa in the distal tubules, lying in direct contact with glomerular 
mesangial cells. Furthermore, in cultured mesangial cells, BMP-7 attenuated and 
USAG-1 enhanced the expression of MMP-12, a protease that may contribute to GBM 
degradation. These data suggest that the pathogenetic role of USAG-1 in 
Col4a3-/- mice might involve crosstalk between kidney tubules and the glomerulus 
and that inhibition of USAG-1 may be a promising therapeutic approach for the 
treatment of Alport syndrome.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI39569
PMCID: PMC2827946
PMID: 20197625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Acta Neurol Scand. 2010 Jun;121(6):406-12. doi: 
10.1111/j.1600-0404.2010.01342.x. Epub 2010 Mar 1.

Lacosamide as treatment of epileptic seizures - cost utility results for Sweden.

Bolin K(1), Berggren F, Forsgren L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
kristian.bolin@nek.lu.se <kristian.bolin@nek.lu.se>

OBJECTIVES: To calculate cost per additional quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
for lacosamide as adjunctive treatment for patients with uncontrolled 
partial-onset seizures as compared to no adjunctive treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A decision-tree simulation model was constructed to 
calculate the number of seizures and health-care utilization for treated and 
untreated with lacosamide, respectively. Prices from 2007 were used for all 
costs.
RESULTS: All results were calculated for a 24-, 18-, 12- and 6-months follow-up. 
The cost per additional QALY was estimated to euro 27,641 (24 months). Using a 
willingness-to-pay threshold for a QALY of euro 50,000 the net marginal value of 
using lacosamide was estimated to about euro 850,000 per 1000 patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimated cost per QALY gained falls within the range of 
reported estimates of the willingness-to-pay for an additional QALY. The results 
imply that lacosamide is cost-effective in the treatment of uncontrolled 
partial-onset seizures (1 euro approximately 9.6 SEK).

DOI: 10.1111/j.1600-0404.2010.01342.x
PMID: 20199516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2010;19(1):1-7.

Economic analysis of a diabetes-specific nutritional meal replacement for 
patients with type 2 diabetes.

Randolph S(1), Mustad VA, Lee J, Sun J.

Author information:
(1)Altarum Institute, 10001 Reunion Place, Suite 200, San Antonio, TX 78216, 
USA. steve.randolph@altarum.org

This study extends nutritional intervention results reported by short-term 
clinical trials of a diabetes-specific nutritional meal replacement by assessing 
the ten-year impact of the interventions on patient outcomes and costs compared 
to usual care. We developed and validated a computer simulation of type 2 
diabetes based on published data from major clinical trials. The model tracks 
patients through microvascular and macrovascular health states and reports 
cumulative costs and quality adjusted life years. We modeled different scenarios 
that include a diabetes-specific nutritional meal replacement as part of a 
structured lifestyle intervention, and also as the only difference between the 
intervention and usual care treatment groups, and compared them to usual care 
with diet and physical activity recommendations. We used sensitivity analysis to 
explore the robustness of results. When a diabetes-specific nutritional meal 
replacement is the only treatment difference and is considered an equal cost 
meal replacement, the diabetes-specific nutritional meal replacement 
interventions are less costly and more effective than usual care. As an added 
cost meal replacement, the diabetes-specific nutritional meal replacement has an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio between $50,414 and $55,036 depending on 
improvement in percent glycated hemoglobin. A hypothetical lifestyle 
intervention using a diabetes-specific nutritional meal replacement has an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $47,917. The diabetes-specific 
nutritional meal replacement was found to be cost-effective under the various 
conditions simulated.

PMID: 20199981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. CA Cancer J Clin. 2010 Mar-Apr;60(2):70-98. doi: 10.3322/caac.20066. Epub
2010  Mar 3.

American Cancer Society guideline for the early detection of prostate cancer: 
update 2010.

Wolf AM(1), Wender RC, Etzioni RB, Thompson IM, D'Amico AV, Volk RJ, Brooks DD, 
Dash C, Guessous I, Andrews K, DeSantis C, Smith RA; American Cancer Society 
Prostate Cancer Advisory Committee.

Collaborators: Wolf AM, Baquet CR, Chodak G, Cook J, D'Amico AV, Etzioni RB, 
Fogel TD, Godley PA, LeBlanc CM, Mason T, Master V, Salner AL, Simons VH, 
Thompson IM Jr, Wender RC.

Author information:
(1)University of Virginia School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

Comment in
    CA Cancer J Clin. 2010 Mar-Apr;60(2):68-9.

In 2009, the American Cancer Society (ACS) Prostate Cancer Advisory Committee 
began the process of a complete update of recommendations for early prostate 
cancer detection. A series of systematic evidence reviews was conducted focusing 
on evidence related to the early detection of prostate cancer, test performance, 
harms of therapy for localized prostate cancer, and shared and informed decision 
making in prostate cancer screening. The results of the systematic reviews were 
evaluated by the ACS Prostate Cancer Advisory Committee, and deliberations about 
the evidence occurred at committee meetings and during conference calls. On the 
basis of the evidence and a consensus process, the Prostate Cancer Advisory 
Committee developed the guideline, and a writing committee drafted a guideline 
document that was circulated to the entire committee for review and revision. 
The document was then circulated to peer reviewers for feedback, and finally to 
the ACS Mission Outcomes Committee and the ACS Board of Directors for approval. 
The ACS recommends that asymptomatic men who have at least a 10-year life 
expectancy have an opportunity to make an informed decision with their health 
care provider about screening for prostate cancer after they receive information 
about the uncertainties, risks, and potential benefits associated with prostate 
cancer screening. Prostate cancer screening should not occur without an informed 
decision-making process. Men at average risk should receive this information 
beginning at age 50 years. Men in higher risk groups should receive this 
information before age 50 years. Men should either receive this information 
directly from their health care providers or be referred to reliable and 
culturally appropriate sources. Patient decision aids are helpful in preparing 
men to make a decision whether to be tested.

Copyright 2010 American Cancer Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.3322/caac.20066
PMID: 20200110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. N Engl J Med. 2010 Mar 4;362(9):855-6; author reply 856-7. doi: 
10.1056/NEJMc1000079.

Effects of obesity and smoking on U.S. life expectancy.

Peto R, Whitlock G, Jha P.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2009 Dec 3;361(23):2252-60.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1000079
PMID: 20200394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2010 Feb;1186:24-36. doi:
10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.05384.x.

Socioeconomic gradients in health in international and historical context.

Dow WH(1), Rehkopf DH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health, University 
of California, Berkeley, CA 94720-7360, USA. wdow@berkeley.edu

This article places socioeconomic gradients in health into a broader 
international and historical context. The data we present supports the 
conclusion that current socioeconomic gradients in health within the United 
States are neither inevitable nor immutable. This literature reveals periods in 
the United States with substantially smaller gradients, and identifies many 
examples of other countries whose different social policy choices appear to have 
led to superior health levels and equity even with fewer aggregate resources. 
The article also sheds light on the potential importance of various hypothesized 
mechanisms in driving major shifts in U.S. population health patterns. While it 
is essential to carefully examine individual mechanisms contributing to health 
patterns, it is also illuminating to take a more holistic view of the set of 
factors changing in conjunction with major shifts in population health. In this 
article, we do so by focusing on the period of the 1980s, during which U.S. life 
expectancy gains slowed markedly relative to other developed countries, and U.S. 
health disparities substantially increased. A comparison with Canada suggests 
that exploring broad social policy differences, such as the weaker social safety 
net in the United States, may be a promising area for future investigation.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1749-6632.2009.05384.x
PMID: 20201866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Apr;64(5):584-93. doi:
10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02361.x.  Epub 2010 Feb 19.

Long-term safety, tolerability and efficacy of fesoterodine treatment in 
subjects with overactive bladder symptoms.

Van Kerrebroeck PE(1), Heesakkers J, Berriman S, Padmanabhan Aiyer L, Carlsson 
M, Guan Z.

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Maastricht, the Netherlands. p.vankerrebroeck@mumc.nl 
<p.vankerrebroeck@mumc.nl>

Comment in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2010 Apr;64(5):528-9.

AIMS: The aim of this study was to assess the long-term safety, tolerability and 
efficacy of fesoterodine treatment in subjects with overactive bladder (OAB) 
symptoms.
METHODS: This was an open-label extension study of a 12-week, double-blind 
fesoterodine study. During open-label treatment, all subjects received 
fesoterodine 8 mg for an initial 4 weeks, after which subjects could elect dose 
reduction to 4 mg or subsequent reescalation to 8 mg during clinic visits (dose 
reduction and reescalation each permitted once annually). The maximum allowable 
duration of open-label fesoterodine treatment ranged from 24 to 32 months across 
study sites. Safety and tolerability were evaluated via discontinuations, 
fesoterodine exposure, treatment-emergent adverse events (TEAEs) and 
subject-reported treatment tolerance. Three-day bladder diaries and other 
patient-reported outcomes (PROs) were assessed during the first 24 months of 
open-label treatment. PROs included evaluations of health-related quality of 
life [HRQL; King's Health Questionnaire (KHQ), and International Consultation on 
Incontinence Questionnaire-Short Form (ICIQ-SF)], severity of bladder-related 
problems and treatment satisfaction. Subjects completed 3-day diaries before 
open-label baseline and months 1, 4, 8, 12 and 24; the ICIQ-SF and measures of 
bladder-related problems and treatment satisfaction at open-label baseline and 
months 4, 12 and 24; and the KHQ at open-label baseline and months 12 and 24.
RESULTS: Of the 417 eligible subjects who enrolled in the open-label extension, 
61% continued fesoterodine treatment for > or = 24 months and 71% elected to 
maintain the fesoterodine 8-mg dose throughout treatment. No unexpected safety 
signals were observed. Most subjects rated treatment tolerance as at least 
'good' throughout the study (> or = 88%). Dry mouth was the most commonly 
reported TEAE (34%) during open-label treatment, resulting in discontinuation in 
2% of subjects (n = 8). Improvements from open-label baseline in OAB symptoms, 
HRQL and bladder-related problems were statistically significant at the earliest 
point measured and maintained through month 24. Treatment satisfaction rates 
were high throughout the study (> or = 84%).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term fesoterodine treatment was well tolerated and associated 
with sustained improvements in OAB symptoms and HRQL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1742-1241.2010.02361.x
PMID: 20201992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Obes Rev. 2010 Dec;11(12):895-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2010.00717.x.

Interventions to promote healthy eating habits: evaluation and recommendations.

Traill WB(1), Shankar B, Brambila-Macias J, Bech-Larsen T, Aschemann-Witzel J, 
Strand M, Mazzocchi M, Capacci S, Verbeke W, Perez-Cueto FJ, D'Addesa D, Saba A, 
Turrini A, Niedźwiedzka B, Kozioł-Kozakowska A, Kijowska V, Piórecka B, Infantes 
M, Wills J, Smillie L, Chalot F, Lyle D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Agricultural and Food Economics, University of Reading, 
Reading, UK. w.b.traill@reading.ac.uk

Although in several EU Member States many public interventions have been running 
for the prevention and/or management of obesity and other nutrition-related 
health conditions, few have yet been formally evaluated. The multidisciplinary 
team of the EATWELL project will gather benchmark data on healthy eating 
interventions in EU Member States and review existing information on the 
effectiveness of interventions using a three-stage procedure (i) Assessment of 
the intervention's impact on consumer attitudes, consumer behaviour and diets; 
(ii) The impact of the change in diets on obesity and health and (iii) The value 
attached by society to these changes, measured in life years gained, cost 
savings and quality-adjusted life years. Where evaluations have been inadequate, 
EATWELL will gather secondary data and analyse them with a multidisciplinary 
approach incorporating models from the psychology and economics disciplines. 
Particular attention will be paid to lessons that can be learned from private 
sector that are transferable to the healthy eating campaigns in the public 
sector. Through consumer surveys and workshops with other stakeholders, EATWELL 
will assess the acceptability of the range of potential interventions. Armed 
with scientific quantitative evaluations of policy interventions and their 
acceptability to stakeholders, EATWELL expects to recommend more appropriate 
interventions for Member States and the EU, providing a one-stop guide to 
methods and measures in interventions evaluation, and outline data collection 
priorities for the future.

© 2010 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2010 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1467-789X.2010.00717.x
PMID: 20202134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2010 Apr;14(4):471-81.

Cost-effectiveness of QuantiFERON-TB test vs. tuberculin skin test in the 
diagnosis of latent tuberculosis infection.

Deuffic-Burban S(1), Atsou K, Viget N, Melliez H, Bouvet E, Yazdanpanah Y.

Author information:
(1)Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale (INSERM) U795, 
Faculté de Médecine, Lille, France. sylvie.burban@yahoo.fr

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the tuberculin skin test (TST), 
the QuantiFERON-TB Gold test (QFT) and a combination of TST and QFT (TST+QFT) 
for diagnosing latent tuberculosis infection (LTBI) in France in a bacille 
Calmette-Guérin (BCG) vaccinated population.
METHODS: A decision analysis model evaluated three strategies among simulated 
adults in close contact with tuberculosis (TB). We calculated direct lifetime 
medical costs, life expectancies and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs).
RESULTS: The discounted direct medical costs of care per patient of no testing, 
TST, QFT and TST+QFT were respectively euro417, euro476, euro443 and euro435, 
while discounted life expectancies were respectively 25.030, 25.071, 25.073 and 
25.062 years. TST had higher costs and lower efficacy than QFT; TST+QFT was 
associated with an ICER of euro560 per year of life gained (YLG) compared to no 
testing, and QFT was associated with an ICER of euro730/YLG compared to TST+QFT. 
The only scenario where QFT was associated with an ICER of >euro75 000/YLG was 
when the prevalence of LTBI around TB was low (<5%) and TST specificity high 
(>90%).
CONCLUSIONS: In France, for the diagnosis of LTBI after close contact with TB, 
the TST is more expensive and less effective than QFT. Although it is more 
expensive, QFT is more effective and cost-effective than TST+QFT under a wide 
range of realistic test performance scenarios.

PMID: 20202306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2010 Feb;36(1):1-13, vii. doi: 
10.1016/j.rdc.2009.12.005.

Changing worldwide epidemiology of systemic lupus erythematosus.

Vasudevan A(1), Krishnamurthy AN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, 450 Clarkson Avenue, 
Box 42, Brooklyn, NY 11203, USA. archanarvas@gmail.com

Developed countries have better systemic lupus erythematosus survival rates than 
developing countries, or countries with lower economic performance. This is in 
part because of a higher human development index, defined by standard of living 
(a marker for gross domestic product), literacy rates, and life expectancy, with 
contribution from ethnic variations within individual countries, and unique 
environmental factors.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rdc.2009.12.005
PMID: 20202588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Plant Cell Physiol. 2010 Apr;51(4):596-609. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcq025. Epub
2010  Mar 4.

Functional characterization of phytochrome autophosphorylation in plant light 
signaling.

Han YJ(1), Kim HS, Kim YM, Shin AY, Lee SS, Bhoo SH, Song PS, Kim JI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Kumho Life Science Laboratory, Chonnam 
National University, Gwangju 500-757, Korea.

Comment in
    Plant Signal Behav. 2010 Jul;5(7):868-71.

Plant phytochromes, molecular light switches that regulate various aspects of 
plant growth and development, are phosphoproteins that are also known to be 
autophosphorylating serine/threonine kinases. Although a few protein 
phosphatases that directly interact with and dephosphorylate phytochromes have 
been identified, no protein kinase that acts on phytochromes has been reported 
thus far, and the exact site of phytochrome autophosphorylation has not been 
identified. In this study, we investigated the functional role of phytochrome 
autophosphorylation. We first mapped precisely the autophosphorylation sites of 
oat phytochrome A (phyA), and identified Ser8 and Ser18 in the 65 amino acid 
N-terminal extension (NTE) region as being the autophosphorylation sites. The in 
vivo functional roles of phytochrome autophosphorylation were examined by 
introducing autophosphorylation site mutants into phyA-deficient Arabidopsis 
thaliana. We found that all the transgenic plants expressing the 
autophosphorylation site mutants exhibited hypersensitive light responses, 
indicating an increase in phyA activity. Further analysis showed that these phyA 
mutant proteins were degraded at a significantly slower rate than wild-type phyA 
under light conditions, which suggests that the increased phyA activity of the 
mutants is related to their increased protein stability. In addition, protoplast 
transfection analyses with green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused phyA constructs 
showed that the autophosphorylation site mutants formed sequestered areas of 
phytochrome (SAPs) in the cytosol much more slowly than did wild-type phyA. 
These results suggest that the autophosphorylation of phyA plays an important 
role in the regulation of plant phytochrome signaling through the control of 
phyA protein stability.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pcq025
PMID: 20203237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2010;661:475-90. doi: 10.1007/978-1-60761-500-2_31.

Pharmacological targets for pulmonary vascular disease: vasodilation versus 
anti-remodelling.

Thomas M(1).

Author information:
(1)Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research, Respiratory Disease Area, 
Horsham, UK. matthew.thomas@novartis.com

Two gross mechanisms of pathology are central to pulmonary arterial hypertension 
- increased pulmonary vascular tone and remodelling of the pulmonary arteries. 
These pathologies can be caused by a variety of aberrant processes, and combine 
to cause an increase in pulmonary vascular resistance and consequent right 
ventricular hypertrophy, eventually leading to dysfunction and death. Current 
therapeutic strategies have focused on altering the vasoconstrictive elements of 
the disease. Whilst improvements in life expectancy have been observed, current 
therapies have not managed to halt or reverse progression of the disease. Here 
we discuss said unmet medical need and postulate as to the impact on disease 
anti-remodelling therapy might provide. The mechanisms of remodelling in 
pulmonary arterial hypertension are reviewed, and leading examples of potential 
targets within such mechanisms are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-60761-500-2_31
PMID: 20204750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Psychol Health. 2010 Apr;25(4):491-506. doi: 10.1080/08870440802688588.

Living with type 1 diabetes: a by-person qualitative exploration.

Watts S(1), O'Hara L, Trigg R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychology, Nottingham Trent University, Nottingham, NG1 4BU, UK. 
simon.watts@ntu.ac.uk

Type 1 diabetes is a chronic condition which places enormous demands on the 
individual diabetic. A strict care routine is necessitated, yet even the most 
controlled and disciplined diabetic is likely to experience associated health 
problems and automatically faces a reduced life expectancy. The current study 
explores the psychological repercussions of this situation via a small scale 
qualitative study which focuses on the very different viewpoints and experiences 
of four adults living with Type 1 diabetes. A new and original form of by-person 
(or by-case) qualitative analysis is employed in order to capture, in a rich and 
holistic fashion, each participant's current relationship with their condition, 
their experience of living and dealing with diabetes and the ways in which 
diabetes is integrated within their lives and identities. The findings have 
implications for, and are discussed in relation to, issues of control, regimen 
adherence, and what it means to be a 'good' or 'successful' diabetic. The 
conclusion is drawn that the satisfaction of personal goals and a focus on 
psychological as well as physical health may be very important if positive 
quality of life outcomes are to be attained in the context of Type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1080/08870440802688588
PMID: 20204938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Mol Nutr Food Res. 2010 May;54(5):719-25. doi: 10.1002/mnfr.200900382.

Vitamin E supplementation and mammalian lifespan.

Banks R(1), Speakman JR, Selman C.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Aberdeen, 
Aberdeen, UK.

Vitamin E refers to a family of several compounds that possess a similar 
chemical structure comprising a chromanol ring with a 16-carbon side chain. The 
degree of saturation of the side chain, and positions and nature of methyl 
groups designate the compounds as tocopherols or tocotrienols. Vitamin E 
compounds have antioxidant properties due to a hydroxyl group on the chromanol 
ring. Recently, it has been suggested that vitamin E may also regulate signal 
transduction and gene expression. We previously reported that lifelong dietary 
vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) supplementation significantly increased median 
lifespan in C57BL/6 mice by 15%. This lifespan extension appeared to be 
independent of any antioxidant effect. Employing a transcriptional approach, we 
suggest that this increase in lifespan may reflect an anti-cancer effect via 
induction of the P21 signalling pathway, since cancer is the major cause of 
death in small rodents. We suggest that the role of this pathway in life span 
extension following supplementation of vitamin E now requires further 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1002/mnfr.200900382
PMID: 20205192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Drugs. 2010 Mar 5;70(4):479-88. doi: 10.2165/11204580-000000000-00000.

Tadalafil: in pulmonary arterial hypertension.

Croxtall JD(1), Lyseng-Williamson KA.

Author information:
(1)Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@adis.co.nz

Tadalafil is a selective cyclic guanosine monophosphate-specific 
phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitor that is effective in improving exercise 
ability, the time to clinical worsening and health-related quality of life 
(HR-QOL) scores in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). In a 
large, 16-week, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, phase 
III trial (PHIRST) in patients aged >or=14 years with PAH (WHO group I), 
tadalafil 40 mg once daily (the recommended dosage) significantly increased the 
mean placebo-corrected 6-minute walk distance (6MWD) by 33 m from baseline 
(primary endpoint). In treatment-naive patients, tadalafil 40 mg once daily 
significantly increased the mean placebo-corrected 6MWD by 44 m at week 16, 
whereas in patients receiving bosentan 125 mg twice daily as background therapy 
there was a mean change of 23 m, which was not significant. Both the time to the 
first occurrence of clinical worsening and the incidence of clinical worsening 
were significantly reduced in recipients of tadalafil 40 mg once daily compared 
with recipients of placebo. Furthermore, at week 16, tadalafil improved most 
HR-QOL outcomes from baseline to a significantly greater extent than placebo. 
Preliminary data from an extension of the PHIRST trial suggest that the 
improvements in 6MWD are maintained for up to 1 year in recipients of tadalafil 
20 or 40 mg once daily. Treatment with tadalafil was generally well tolerated, 
with adverse events that were transient in nature and of mild to moderate 
intensity.

DOI: 10.2165/11204580-000000000-00000
PMID: 20205489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Am J Manag Care. 2010 Mar;16(3):e75-e85.

Economics of influenza vaccine administration timing for children.

Lee BY(1), Tai JH, Bailey RR, Smith KJ, Nowalk AJ.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Computation and Operations Research (PHICOR) Group, University 
of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. byl1@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Am J Manag Care. 2010 Aug;16(8):628-9; author reply 629-30.

OBJECTIVES: To determine how much should be invested each year to encourage and 
operationalize the administration of influenza vaccine to children before 
November and how late the vaccine should be offered each year.
STUDY DESIGN: Monte Carlo decision analytic computer simulation models.
METHODS: The children's influenza vaccination timing model quantified the 
incremental economic value of vaccinating a child earlier in the influenza 
season and the incremental cost of delaying vaccination. The children's monthly 
influenza vaccination decision model evaluated the cost-effectiveness of 
vaccinating versus not vaccinating for every month of the influenza season.
RESULTS: Getting children vaccinated by the end of October rather than when they 
are currently getting vaccinated could save society between $6.4 million and 
$9.2 million plus 653 and 926 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
third-party payers between $4.1 million and $6.1 million plus 647 to 942 QALYs 
each year. Decision makers may want to continue offering influenza vaccination 
to children at least through the end of December. Vaccinating with trivalent 
inactivated virus vaccine was more cost-effective than vaccinating with live 
attenuated influenza vaccine for every month.
CONCLUSION: Policymakers could invest up to $6 million to $9 million a year to 
get children vaccinated in September or October without expending any net costs.

PMCID: PMC3763213
PMID: 20205492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosure: The authors (BYL, JHYT, RRB, 
KJS, AJN) report no relationship or financial interest with any entity that 
would pose a conflict of interest with the subject matter of this article.


670. Brain Res Bull. 2010 Apr 29;82(1-2):7-17. doi: 
10.1016/j.brainresbull.2010.02.013. Epub 2010 Mar 3.

Lipid rafts: keys to neurodegeneration.

Schengrund CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, The Pennsylvania State 
University College of Medicine, Hershey, PA 17033, United States. cxs8@psu.edu

The increase in life expectancy seen in many countries has been accompanied by 
an increase in the number of people living with dementia and a growing need for 
health care. The large number of affected individuals emphasizes the need to 
identify causes for the phenotypes associated with diseases such as Alzheimer's, 
Parkinson's, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's, and those caused by 
prions. This review addresses the hypothesis that changes in lipid rafts induced 
by alterations in their ganglioside and/or cholesterol content or the 
interaction of mutant proteins with them provide the keys to understanding the 
onset of neurodegeneration that can lead to dementia. The biological function(s) 
of raft-associated gangliosides and cholesterol are discussed prior to reviewing 
what is known about their roles in lipid rafts in the aforementioned diseases. 
It concludes with some questions that need to be addressed in order to provide 
investigators with the basis for identifying small molecule agonists or 
antagonists to test as potential therapeutics.

Copyright 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brainresbull.2010.02.013
PMID: 20206240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Rev Esp Geriatr Gerontol. 2010 May-Jun;45(3):136-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.regg.2009.12.005. Epub 2010 Mar 4.

[Aging and ovariectomy cause a decrease in brain glucose consumption in vivo in 
Wistar rats].

[Article in Spanish]

López-Grueso R(1), Borrás C, Gambini J, Viña J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fisiología, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad de Valencia, 
Valencia, España.

INTRODUCTION: The life expectancy of the population has been increased steadily 
over the twentieth century in both genders. The survival of women has always 
been higher compared to men and these differences in longevity are reproduced in 
other animal species such as rats. There must be some biological basis to 
support the differences in longevity between males and females. Differences can 
be explained by the effects of estrogens because ovariectomy cancels out the 
benefits shown in females compared to males.
AIM: Our aims were to study the cerebral glucose consumption in vivo in young 
and old female Wistar rats and evaluate the effect of ovariectomy on the brain 
glucose uptake.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We used female Wistar rats, divided into young (4-7 
months), young control (Sham) and ovariectomized (3 or 6 weeks) and old (22-24 
months) groups. After intravenous administration of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) 
the cerebral glucose uptake was measured in vivo by Positron Emission Tomography 
(PET).
RESULTS: There was a significant decrease in cerebral glucose consumption in old 
rats compared with young rats. Similar results were found in glucose uptake when 
comparing control rats with ovariectomized rats, i.e., ovariectomy significantly 
reduces the brain glucose consumption.
CONCLUSIONS: Aging causes a decrease in cerebral glucose metabolism. Ovariectomy 
reduces cerebral glucose consumption significantly compared to control rats and 
is similar to the old group.

2009 SEGG. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regg.2009.12.005
PMID: 20206415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Clin Ther. 2010 Feb;32(2):275-92. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.02.003.

Measuring social functioning with the personal and social performance scale in 
patients with acute symptoms of schizophrenia: interpretation of results of a 
pooled analysis of three Phase III trials of paliperidone extended-release 
tablets.

Patrick DL(1), Burns T, Morosini P, Gagnon DD, Rothman M, Adriaenssen I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services and Seattle Quality of Life Group, University 
of Washington, Seattle, Washington, USA. donald@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: The safety and efficacy of paliperidone extended-release tablets 
(paliperidone ER) in patients with acute symptoms of schizophrenia have been 
described in 3 randomized, double-blind, 6-week, placebo-controlled, fixed-dose, 
Phase III clinical trials. The validity and reliability of the Personal and 
Social Performance (PSP) scale, both in patients with acute symptoms of 
schizophrenia and those with stabilized symptoms, have also been reported.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this work was to estimate the treatment benefit of 
paliperidone ER compared with placebo in terms of improvements in personal and 
social functioning as measured by the PSP scale in 3 controlled clinical trials.
METHODS: Data were derived from 3 paliperidone ER multicenter Phase III pivotal 
studies of patients with acute symptoms of schizophrenia. Each study included a 
randomized, double-blind, placebo- and active-controlled, parallel-group, 6-week 
treatment period with an open-label extension of paliperidone ER treatment. 
Patients were randomized to receive paliperidone ER, olanzapine 10 mg, or 
placebo once daily. Paliperidone ER doses were 3, 9, and 15 mg/d in 1 study; 6, 
9, and 12 mg/d in another; and 6 and 12 mg/d in the third. Collectively, 1306 
intent-to-treat patients received placebo or paliperidone ER in these 3 trials. 
Most (61.7%) were white; 21.6% were black, 8.8% were Asian, and 7.9% were of 
another race. The mean age ranged from 36.3 to 39.4 years across treatment 
groups. Multiple analyses were applied to PSP data (for which higher scores 
indicate better personal and social functioning) from these paliperidone ER 
studies: between-group minimum important difference (MID) estimates; responder 
analyses; between-group cumulative frequency comparisons of PSP change from 
baseline to end point; and number-needed-to-treat (NNT) estimates.
RESULTS: Standardized differences and effect sizes between paliperidone ER and 
placebo in PSP mean change from baseline to end point ranged from 0.52 to 0.85 
for all paliperidone ER doses. Observed between-group differences (paliperidone 
ER minus placebo) in PSP mean change from baseline to end point exceeded the 
between-group MID of 7 points at all paliperidone ER doses. The percentage of 
patients achieving at least one 10-point category improvement in the PSP was 
higher with all paliperidone ER doses (range, 49.6%-63.6%) than placebo (33.1%) 
(P < 0.005). Across the distribution of all possible PSP scores, the percentage 
of patients achieving any level of change appeared to be greater for 
paliperidone ER than for placebo at all doses. Derived NNTs for improved 
personal and social functioning based on paliperidone ER trials ranged from 3.3 
to 6.1. The improvement in personal and social functioning achieved by patients 
receiving paliperidone ER during the double-blind studies was maintained 
throughout the 52-week, open-label extension studies, as assessed using multiple 
definitions of response; subjects in the placebo arm during doubleblind 
treatment appeared to achieve and maintain improved functioning when switched to 
paliperidone ER for the extension studies.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that paliperidone ER had a meaningful 
treatment benefit with respect to improving personal and social functioning in 
these patients with acute symptoms of schizophrenia.

Copyright 2010. Published by EM Inc USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.02.003
PMID: 20206786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Clin Ther. 2010 Feb;32(2):311-26. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.01.029.

Economic evaluation of intensive chemotherapy with prophylactic granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor for patients with high-risk early breast cancer in 
Japan.

Ishiguro H(1), Kondo M, Hoshi SL, Takada M, Nakamura S, Teramukai S, Yanagihara 
K, Toi M.

Author information:
(1)Outpatient Oncology Unit, Kyoto University Hospital, Kyoto, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: This study assessed the cost-effectiveness and budget impact of 
third-generation chemotherapy regimens with prophylactic granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) relative to second-generation regimens without 
prophylactic G-CSF for patients with high-risk early breast cancer in Japan.
METHODS: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis with Markov modeling and 
calculated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for the comparison 
between second-generation regimens without prophylactic G-CSF and 
third-generation regimens with prophylactic G-CSF. The comparisons consisted of 
fluorouracil, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide, a second-generation regimen, 
versus docetaxel, doxorubicin, and cyclophosphamide (TAC) with G-CSF, a 
third-generation regimen; and doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, and paclitaxel 
(AC-T) q3wk, a second-generation regimen, versus dose-dense (DD) AC-T q2wk with 
G-CSF, a third-generation regimen. Patients were stratified by the age at which 
chemotherapy was started into cohorts aged 35, 45, and 55 years. Outcomes were 
estimated in terms of life-years (LYs) and quality-adjusted LYs (QALYs). ICER 
calculations were done from a societal perspective. We also estimated the budget 
impact, which included the additional public medical expenditures that would 
cover all subsequent changes after the additional cost of choosing 
third-generation regimens if G-CSF were approved for use in third-generation 
regimens for breast cancer. Costs were calculated using prescription drug prices 
as of 2006.
RESULTS: Estimated ICER values for TAC with prophylactic G-CSF were 
yen956,471/LY and yen919,443/ QALY for age 35 years, yen1,125,540/LY and 
yen1,078,967/QALY for age 45 years, and yen1,302,746/LY and yen1,224,896/QALY 
for age 55 years. Values for DD AC-T q2wk with prophylactic G-CSF were 
yen291,931/LY and yen311,232/QALY for age 35 years, yen357,354/LY and 
yen380,148/QALY for age 45 years, and yen377,011/LY and yen399,761/QALY for age 
55 years. TAC or DD AC-T q2wk with prophylactic G-CSF would yield cost savings 
compared with the respective second-generation regimens if the per-dose cost of 
G-CSF decreased from yen31,355 to yen15,700 (TAC) or to yen24,300 (DD AC-T). The 
estimated budget impact is yen9.5 to yen11.0 billion per year for the next 5 
years.
CONCLUSION: According to a Markov model for patients with high-risk early breast 
cancer in Japan, third-generation regimens with prophylactic G-CSF will yield 
improved outcomes at a greater cost, but estimated ICER values are still less 
than the suggested cost-effectiveness threshold value of yen6 million (US 
$60,000, assuming US $1 = yen100) for a gain of 1 QALY.

Copyright 2010. Published by EM Inc USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2010.01.029
PMID: 20206789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2010 Mar;202(3):209-11. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2010.01.031.

What is the value for money of prenatal carrier screening for spinal muscular 
atrophy? Too soon to say.

Grosse SD.

Comment on
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2010 Mar;202(3):253.e1-7.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2010.01.031
PMID: 20207235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2010 Mar;202(3):253.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2010.01.032.

The cost-effectiveness of prenatal screening for spinal muscular atrophy.

Little SE(1), Janakiraman V, Kaimal A, Musci T, Ecker J, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA, USA.

Comment in
    Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2010 Mar;202(3):209-11.

OBJECTIVE: We sought to investigate the cost-effectiveness of prenatal screening 
for spinal muscular atrophy (SMA).
STUDY DESIGN: A decision analytic model was created to compare a policy of 
universal SMA screening to that of no screening. The primary outcome was 
incremental cost per maternal quality-adjusted life year. Probabilities, costs, 
and outcomes were estimated through literature review. Univariate and 
multivariate sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness of our 
model to changes in baseline assumptions.
RESULTS: Universal screening for SMA is not cost-effective at $4.9 million per 
quality-adjusted life year. In all, 12,500 women need to be screened to prevent 
1 case of SMA, at a cost of $5.0 million per case averted. Our results were most 
sensitive to the baseline prevalence of disease.
CONCLUSION: Universal prenatal screening for SMA is not cost-effective. For 
populations at high risk, such as those with a family history, SMA testing may 
be a cost-effective strategy.

Copyright 2010 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2010.01.032
PMID: 20207244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Stat Med. 2010 Jul 10;29(15):1622-34. doi: 10.1002/sim.3874.

A comparison of United States and United Kingdom EQ-5D health states valuations 
using a nonparametric Bayesian method.

Kharroubi SA(1), O'Hagan A, Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of York, York, UK. sak503@york.ac.uk

Cost-effectiveness analysis of alternative medical treatments relies on having a 
measure of effectiveness, and many regard the quality adjusted life year (QALY) 
to be the current 'gold standard.' In order to compute QALYs, we require a 
suitable system for describing a person's health state, and a utility measure to 
value the quality of life associated with each possible state. There are a 
number of different health state descriptive systems, and we focus here on one 
known as the EQ-5D. Data for estimating utilities for different health states 
have a number of features that mean care is necessary in statistical 
modelling.There is interest in the extent to which valuations of health may 
differ between different countries and cultures, but few studies have compared 
preference values of health states obtained from different countries. This 
article applies a nonparametric model to estimate and compare EQ-5D health state 
valuation data obtained from two countries using Bayesian methods. The data set 
is the US and UK EQ-5D valuation studies where a sample of 42 states defined by 
the EQ-5D was valued by representative samples of the general population from 
each country using the time trade-off technique. We estimate a utility function 
across both countries which explicitly accounts for the differences between 
them, and is estimated using the data from both countries. The article discusses 
the implications of these results for future applications of the EQ-5D and for 
further work in this field.

Copyright 2010 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.3874
PMID: 20209481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Adv Gerontol. 2009;22(3):387-400.

[The issue of feasibility of a general theory of aging. III. The theory and 
practice of aging].

[Article in Russian]

Golubev AG.

An analysis of demographic data about human mortality and lifespan carried out 
according to the complete Gompertz-Makeham model mu = C+ lambda x e(gamma x t) 
shows that, over the last 100 years, lifespan expectation increased almost 
exclusively because the Makeham parameter C decreased. The often reported 
apparent changes in the demographic aging rate gamma and in the initial 
vitality, which is proportional to -Inlambda, are likely to be largely an 
artifact of the attempts to decompose mortality data that are related to 
